PAGE TWO

Fraternities In Danger?

Rush week is over, its memories are rapidly slipping into the background, and in many respects, it was just like all the other rush weeks that the present generation of Davidson students have known. There is a difference this year in regard to the pledge period, however, that everyone who has had his eyes and ears open this year fully realizes. That is, of course, the fact that with the entire freshman class taking all their meals in the College Union, the new pledges will be thrown with their respective brothers less often than in the years preceding. Due to the very nature of the fraternity system at Davidson, this means that for the time being, at least, the new members will be somewhat slower in becoming a part of their fraternities. For though fraternity men do not always like to admit it, the greater part of fraternity life here on campus revolves around the boarding houses, where three times a day the brothers get together for fellowship as well as food.

Last week in this column we took the position that though fraternities would be at a definite disadvantage in integrating their new members into their midst, this need not constitute a disaster of major proportions. We still believe this. Nevertheless, during the first semester, there could arise a very definite threat to fraternities individually and to the fraternity system as a whole. Almost every year pledges are broken, but these instances are scattered and many times work out for the best. This year, however, with the link between fraternity and the pledge necessarily weaker than in the past, there is the possibility of a tremendous increase in the number of men who will pick up and leave one fraternity to join another. Though this sort of thing might lead to the temporary advantage of one group over another, it is easy to see what the result would be for fraternities as a whole should it become the practice for the various groups to practice piracy on each other’s pledge classes.

Perhaps the threat of such a thing seems remote today, for certainly we do not believe that any fraternity would sanction or condone such a policy. But this sort of thing could easily start with individuals and continue until the fraternities themselves would be swept into the stream of events, if for no other reason than self-defense. It would follow, therefore, that it is the duty of each individual, as well as of each fraternity, to see that such a thing does not begin. If it did, the tendency would be for it to snowball. In the long run, no one would profit, and the fraternity system as we know it here at Davidson, with rivalry on a relatively friendly basis, would most assuredly be wrecked.

The Venerable Court

In the years past, the Court of Control has sometimes been a source of something approaching terror to the greener freshman, and occasionally the instrument of practical jokes for the upperclassmen. But through the passage of time, the Court, as it is more commonly referred to, has become a very real part of Davidson and what the more eloquent might call the Davidson heritage. The Court has been much discussed, and quite a few times voices have been heard crying in the wilderness for its abolition. Just in the past few years, however, it has become apparent that the court is here to stay, and that it can function as something considerably more than a kangaroo court whose sole purpose is to subject any and all members of the freshman class to various forms of persecution.

Whatever the court may do, one thing is fairly certain, and that is that it plays more than a token part in instilling in the new student what might best be called the “Davidson Attitude.” At many institutions, there is a minimum of pressure on the new student to conform to established patterns of behavior. On this campus, however, the pressure toward a certain amount of conformity is greater than many realize. Undoubtedly a large number of boys just coming to Davidson, because of their background, seem to fit into campus life with very little difficulty. In some cases, however, a change is judged to be in order. Now, one may debate the merits of a campus where the individual is under a certain amount of social pressure to conform to a standard based largely on tradition. But one cannot debate the important part the court and the threat of the court play in shaping the boy to fit the college. The blatant braggart and the “high school Harry” are the most frequent visitors to the court where they are reoriented so that they may see themselves in the proper perspective. The freshman who starts out on the wrong foot is shown the path he must tread to get along best at Davidson. It is doubtful whether the court plays a vital part in shaping character, but it, together with other forces, has repeatedly inculcated in the freshmen that have paraded be-

(Continued On Page Four)

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Several days ago in Chambers Auditorium, the student body spontaneously applauded a very sterling performance of the prelude by the chapel organist, and thereby set off the sparks of what has in the past week grown into a campus-wide controversy on the subject of chapel conduct. Many members of the faculty, and particularly the faculty committee on chapel, have become increasingly concerned about the lack of reverence at these daily exercises, and several are definitely said to be in favor of strict disciplinary action if the student body does not improve in its conduct.

Extreme Measures Rumored

Some professors are rumored to be in such a state of consternation that they would actually advocate such extreme measures as having monitors report students guilty of bad behavior in chapel to the Dean of Students, who would be required to punish those students; rumor even has it that one professor would actually be in favor of abolishing the IFC dances if behavior doesn't improve. It seems to me that the professors who are so concerned are trying—if I may be excused from using an old, but fit analogy—to clamp a lid on a boiling pot which has been at least simmering for a long time. I wonder if it has ever occurred to the college authorities that the trouble might lie at the base of one of Davidson's oldest institutions?

Conduct Not At Lowest Ebb

Students have been going to chapel at Davidson for a long time—because they have always been required to go to chapel. I cannot speak with authority as to the behavior of students at chapel farther back than the past decade, but I do not believe that it has during the last ten years been any better than it is at the present time. On the contrary, during the post-World War II years when the Veterans virtually ruled the campus, chapel conduct was reputedly notorious. Although I do not condone such irreverent displays as the prelude on Saturday, the lowest form of animal life on the Davidson campus attains the status of a visiting dignitary who is to be favorably impressed. One of the things that immediately strikes the freshman is the variety of ways, and varied approaches used by the fraternities to accomplish their end. All methods of influencing the rushee have the definite purpose of showing him the fraternity in a favorable light. To form a preference, and to make a choice, provided there is one, the rushee must try to see the true faults as well. Several methods present themselves with varying degrees of merit. Bull sessions are a source of information, but often undependable. The fraternities may indirectly indicate

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE

COLLEGE YEAR

CHIEF Moody

MANAGER Charles Siasty

ASSOCIATE EDITORS Jim Moore, Dick Roper

Assistant Editors Bob Crutchfield, Charles Hassell, Buddy Lamon, Bob Owen, Hunter Strader

Managing Editors Henry Brockmann, Floyd Feeney

Sports Editor John Handley

News Editor Austin Strand

Feature Editor T. A. Williams

Price Face, Friskerhotf, Dy Simons

Asst. Business Manager Ed Nicholson

Advertising Manager Tommy Taylor

Circulation Manager Dick Little

Collections Manager Tommy Douglas

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1879.

Freshmen Views Rush Week

From the end of Orientation Week until the pledging period itself, in actual contact with the brothers, that much can be discerned. One particular thing that I looked for, that some may not have considered, is the way in which rushees who are, in some way, not considered material for a certain fraternity are treated. This seems to be a good indication of whether or not the brothers are true gentlemen. I was impressed with the handling of this delicate problem in almost every instance. The general atmosphere of the houses, their various accomplishments in fields of sports, leadership, and studies, and who else is planning to join are of course of paramount consideration also. I think that on the whole everyone here at Davidson, brothers and rushees alike, realize the methods of obtaining good behavior in chapel as mentioned above, they can and certainly will. I do not believe Davidson, which is a liberal college in most respects, will ever come to that. It is altogether possible that someone may come up with a solution to the problem, but as it looks from here the college has only two reasonable and sensible alternatives: Either tolerate present chapel conduct, or else abolish com-

OFF-MOORINGS:

Antiquated But Bookstore Outdated,

By JIM MOORE

As beautiful as the modified Georgian architecture of its design will allow, as expensive as the college dared let it be, and as cleverly appointed to be as superficially restful as one could hope, still the College Union has its shortcomings. Eleven o'clock aching bones are beginning to wish, after less than two weeks of the new snack bar, that the old broken down stud was back. Doug’s place at least called a sandwich a sandwich and didn’t begin slipping hints and blinking lightsTwo hours before quitting time, an incident will serve to show the attitude and the poorly acclimated actions of those who attempt to serve student culinary requests at the snack bar. A student began at 11:15 one night this past week to get served at the snack bar. At 11:23, the woman behind the counter took his order, which was for a sandwich and milk. At 11:28, he was asked again what he wanted and, on re-ordering, was told that the grill would be closed in two minutes and didn’t have time enough to fill his orders. Sure enough, by the time he had gotten through haggling over the sandwich and asking for the milk again, it was time to close, and he didn't even get his cow nectar. Admittedly, the old stud had limited food facilities, and service entailed only the dispensing of packaged articles. This made the waiting jobs much simpler, even though the snack bar and student store were combined into one enterprise. The doors stayed open till midnight, and students actually got what they wanted until that time. Perhaps the new establishment is too intricate to maintain service past 10:00, in which case we suggest someone put rollers on the Union and the Broken Anchor and have them switch locations. The Davidson student, we are told, should consider it a privilege to have such fine facilities for pleasure, but to put those facilities in motion sometimes requires the patience of Job or the exasperation of Tantalus.

The Year Ahead

By way of explanation as to this corner of the editorial page, we'll brief you on what is planned. No “Friendly Philosopher” or “Free Lance” here, only the most honest appraisal of the Davidson scene as this writer considers himself capable will you see. You may naturally expect some ranting and raving as would be expected of the most calm semi-idealistic Davidsonian journalist. As well, you may see more experimentation in broader fields of the journalistic arts than has been hitherto found on these pages.

Any Old Books?

The news that Davidson students now have one-third of their number earning their education through scholarships places us in a percentage-wise class with the English University of Oxford in this field. As the Alumni News of last year was eager to point out, the rising costs of living since the war have not been matched by an equal rise in the cost of Davidson’s education. Any college students of but a few years, however, will tell you that the costs of going to college have been increasing and that not one of the least of these increasing costs is that of books. With changes in texts from year to year, and the frequent necessity of having for a course more than one book, the prospects are slight for any huge reduction in the costs of buying textbooks. The large number of courses that have books that do not change so frequently and the inadequate system of selling old books now found on the campus provide an almost astonishing number of books that are literally going to waste. There is an available and ready supply of used books here that if arrangements could be made for sale from year to year, departing seniors as well as returning students could realize some gain from texts which all too frequently will be destined to end in many an undusted box in a grad’s attic. It would seem that the Davidson Book Store had a snobbish attitude toward the students’ problems with books, for there is not even so much as a return privilege allowed on any book once it has been paid for. Further, when the situation of book rentals, buying, and selling is regarded in other schools and compared to our antiquated methods, the obvious illogicality (and financial loss) of the situation blatantly presents itself. Chapel Hill has a book store, naturally larger than ours, but which has the unique system of allowing students to sell books back to it once they have been used. The constant turnover is not only efficient but also it’s profitable. One might ask why our Book Store does not deal in used books. Too much trouble? Would it require so many more paid helpers as to be unprofitable? Perhaps all this is true. The Book Store does seem to be determined, as certainly indicated by past policy, to remain aloof to students’ needs in this area, and little help as far as rectifying the problem? The plan set in motion last spring by the now defunct Alpha Phi Omega, Boy Scout fraternity, seemed to work well as long as it lasted. But APO is no more and so is near-efficient old book selling. With some improvements and greater student participation, an equitable system could be worked out which could save many a student money and provide the sponsor with a small profit. Last year’s plan leaves itself to student appreciation. The missing link now is the sponsoring organization—Student Council, ODK, D Club, or some other service organization on campus. Barring these possibilities for someone to do the necessary work, the student store might well organize the entire used book business on the campus and even make some profit at it. Carolina annually makes thousands of dollars on its book store and uses the money to establish and maintain student scholarships. Is it not time we caught up with the collegiate world in an area where student leadership will benefit students’ welfare?

A Carnation For Genius

By R. S. HAYES

As I came out of the apartment and quietly closed the door behind me, the morning struck me as only a morning in Paris in early summer can. And when I walked onto the Champs de Mars and the trees opened up to the sky, I knew that this was the kind of day all who know Paris grow to love. Stopping and sitting in one of the rickety chairs, I thought simply—if he were here again to walk under the Tower towards Trocadero, would the smallest child know that under his massive impression lay a heart as pure as the Paris snow he loved so well. Moving slowly towards the Ecole Militaire, many thoughts of his life passed through my mind, along with a wonder at what I would find that could show me a little of this man, once despised but now by many revered. All these thoughts and many more surged through my consciousness as I descended into the Metro at LaMotte-Picquet-Grenelle. Dubodubondubonnetdubodubon-dubonnetdubo—NEARER and nearer—I wondered but then remembered his cognac and the Hotel d’Alsace where he looked out upon a courtyard that had become almost his only refuge during the scant few months of life remaining to him—And I wondered at man’s inhumanity to man. “For no one will listen to me now — —” Pere Lachaise. Lourdes holds nothing for me; for there is much for me here — — — but most of all, one. The watchman knew well the directions I asked: by Rothchild, Heloise and Abelard, Chopin and Bernhardt. Though I kneel before Chopin and know his peer lies here —my pilgrimage has not ended. My pilgrimage? His very life was a pilgrimage—perhaps the longest a man of pure heart ever taken, for I knew well no Christian fought longer and harder than he, no man had attempted to climb Parnassus as alone as he — — — It is a simple monument, lifetime, there could be no appeal.” As the watchman rang the curfew, I wept, for I too saw the shallowness of man as I lay a carnation at the foot of genius.