GIRL’S GUIDE OF GABBY GAMBITS (C. P., Page 2) ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS (Page 4)

Starts Tonight

This beautiful girl, Eileen Rodgers, will be the star attraction of Charlie Spivak’s Orchestra as they return for Mid-

MISS EILEEN RODGERS

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 1953

Faculty Men

A large number of changes in the faculty have been affected which will change greatly the status of the men
involved. Dr. G. R. Vowles and Dr. E. F. Shewmake are both to retire at the end of the college
year. Dr. Vowles, having attained the retirement age of 70, is automatically retiring. Dr. Shewmake, ranking member of the faculty
in point of years of service — having taught since 1919 — has asked to be retired. Professor Iain Wilson
M.A., B.D. is being promoted from Assistant Professor of Bible to Associate Professor. Professor Donald B. Plott B.M., M.M., has
been promoted from Assistant Professor of Music to Associate Professor and made Director of the Music Department. Professor Edward O.
Guerrant,

This marks the third straight year that Charlie has appeared on the Davidson campus. With Charlie and his band are
his lovely song stylist, Eileen Rodgers, and his baritone, Joe Tucker.

Week-end’s Schedule

The final program of events for the week-end is as follows:

Four charter members of the honorary forensic fraternity, which has recently been initiated into the national organization of Tau Kappa
Alpha by the Duke chapter, are:

Decision Now Lies Entirely In Hands Of The Faculty

The Trustees voted to refer the College administration and Faculty with power to act. This was decided upon the recommendation
of the Executive Committee of the Trustees which met Tuesday. (Ed. Note: The Davidsonian appreciates the co-operation of the Administration
in supplying a full report released by Dr. Cunningham.)

Dr. Cunningham's Statement

(left to right) Buddy Hubert Cannon, Will Terry, and advisor Raymond Tyson. A chapter of the national honorary forensic fraternity,
Tau Kappa Alpha, is to be established on the campus, Professor Raymond Tyson announced this week. Hubert Cannon, Harry (Buddy)
Lamon, Will Terry, and Professor Tyson, faculty advisor, are the charter members of the Davidson chapter. The formal initiation is
set for March 12.

Selective Service To Give Test Soon

All eligible students who intend to take the Selective Service College Qualification Test in 1953 should file applications at once
for the April 23 administration, Selective Service National Headquarters advised today. Tau Kappa Alpha is organized to promote interest in
forensic activity among college students and in the general public; to stimulate activity; and to create greater respect and appreciation
for the right of freedom of speech.

Mr. Hengeveld’s office will supply all those interested with information and application for the test. Following the instructions in the
bulletin, the student should fill out his application immediately and return it in the envelope provided. Applications must be postmarked
no later than midnight, March 9, 1953. Early filing will be greatly to the student's advantage. Results will be reported
to the student’s Selective Service local board of jurisdiction for use in considering his deferment as a student, according to
Educational Testing Service.

In order to be elected to TKA, a student must have demonstrated superior ability in two years of inter-collegiate debating,
and must be in the upper 35% of his class scholastically.

“The Executive Committee of the Trustees gave full consideration to the question of Freshman Feeding in the Union Cafeteria at
their meeting Tuesday afternoon, February 17. At that time the President of the College invited Mr. Lawrence Erwin and other
representatives of the fraternities to come into the meeting to present their points of view on the subject. The Executive
Committee were fully aware of the problem through the reading of The Davidsonian. Their action, after full discussion, was to
express informally that negotiations between the Faculty Administration group and the Student representatives would issue in a wise and equitable
conclusion of the matter. Their formal action was to recommend to the Trustees that the subject be referred to the
Administration and Faculty with power to act. The Trustees at their full meeting on February 18 gave the better part
of an hour to the discussion of this subject. A minority sentiment was favorable to further study and final reference
back to the Executive Committee of the Trustees.

Musicians to Give American Concert

Phi Mu Alpha’s annual American Concert will be presented by its members in the College Union Ballroom this Wednesday, Feb.
25, at 8:15 P.M. As previously announced in THE DAVIDSONIAN, the program will be entirely devoted to the presentation of
music by American composers and will include works by George Gershwin, Edward MacDowell, Idabelle Firestone, and others. Appearing on the
program will be William Crymes, piano; Leonard Geiger, tenor; Owen Leland, piano; Thornwell Frick, baritone; and William Porter, piano. Herbert
Russell will accompany. A cordial invitation is extended to all who wish to attend; there will be no admission charge.

Trustees At the full meeting of the Trustees on Wednesday, it was

Union subject to the Administration

NO. 1 Problem

Societies Seeking Literarians Now

Both the Philanthropic and Eumanean literary societies met last Monday night each for the purpose of getting new members.

EUMANEAN

The Eumanean society opened its program with an inaugural address by the president in which he stressed that knowledge is
no good if it can’t be expressed. Papers were read by the following: John Reid, “Golf;” Archie Joyner, “Inspiration and
Miracle In the Old Testament;” Maurice Crouse, “Allegory;” and Joe Connaroe, “The Importance of Fleeing Ernest.”

PHI

The Phis initiated 29 new members into their society while the Eus heard papers read from four prospective members. The
method of electing new members into the Phi society has been changed this year. A list of students who possessed
literary talent was gotten from the English Professors and bids for the society were selected from the list. The students
that accepted bids had to write a paper to be read and passed by the society. Later in the semester
the Phis will hold a creative writing contest which will cover essays, poetry, and short stories.

The new members of the Philanthropic society are as follows: D. H. Stewart, Jr., J. R. Holshouser, J. E. Holshouser,
J. W. Regen, Holmes Ralston, G. M. Sharp, W. J. Coleman, T. S. W. Taylor, R. C. Bankhead, Jack Sadler,
Pat Miller, B. B. Mack, W. F. Hardin, J. D. Armistead, K. E. Spicks, J. B. Goerhing, J. S. Miller,
R. R. Pyle, B. B. Massagee, S. O. Nunn, Dick Morehead, R. P. Rice, W. C. McKenzie, G. A. Stovall,
F. F. Jordan, R. C. Garrison, F. H. Robertson, Rich Steck.

LIBRARY DISPLAYS RARE BOOKS NOW

Campus bibliophiles will be interested in seeing the unusual collection of first editions and rare bindings currently on displayIn Union
There are 88 active chapters of Service, which prepares and administers the College Qualification Test. Tau Kappa Alpha in the
nation today. Davidson will become a member of the Southern Region, which includes Duke (the only other institution in the
state having a chapter), Emory, Florida State, Louisiana State University, University of Tennessee, Southern Methodist, Vanderbilt, and others. The Davidson
group hopes to participate in the annual regional debating tournament next year.

BULLETIN

The vesper offering last Sunday amounted to $269.11, which will go to the several countries ravished by floods and gales
during the past few weeks.

Three to the Administration and Faculty with power to act. The discussions revealed gratification of the Trustees that such matters
could be discussed in a free and friendly manner by the Faculty and the Students. “There was a strong sentiment
that the over-all good of the institution was the end to be desired. Considerable emphasis was placed upon the aid
of giving opportunity within each Freshman Class and the development of more class spirit and unity than has prevailed in
recent decades. The interests of the non-fraternity students were stressed.

The hours of the College Union during the dance weekend will be the same as the hours used at fraternity
court, according to the Union committee. On Friday night the Union will remain open until three, and on Saturday night
until one-thirty. Refreshments, in the coke-coffee-doughnut class, will be available.

Indianapolis Symphony To Play Here Next Friday

The Indianapolis Symphony Orchestra will play in the Auditorium next Friday, Feb. 27, with Fabien Sevitzky conducting. The Orchestra has
been awarded the singular honor of being declared among the “Top Ten” orchestras of the country by Deems Taylor, the
renowned music critic, in the March 1951 Holiday magazine.

In Booth Tarkington's “Story of the Orchestra,” she says of the conductor Fabien Sevitzky, “A young guest conductor not very
long out of Russia took the baton on an evening in 1936 and electrified not only the audience but the
orchestra itself. His name was Fabien Sevitzky. He'd already had a career. A member of the Russian Imperial Orchestra in
Moscow, he had remained for some time after the Revolution but, already an ardent American at heart, he contrived an
escape to the land of his desire where, after many ups and downs, triumphs and disappointments, he approached his period
of high musical adventure. When he arrived in Indianapolis he was best known as conductor of the exquisite ‘Simfonietta’ in
Philadelphia, and in 1937 when he officially undertook the transformation of the Indianapolis Orchestra into a great national instrument, it
was immediately conveyed by the orchestra itself.”

It would seem that Miss Tarkington's 1943 prediction has come more than true as it is today acclaimed throughout the
country as a musical organization characterized by brilliance. In recognition for the work Dr. Sevitzky has done for American music,
he was awarded the degree of Doctor of Music by DePauw University in 1941 — only the third such degree
bestowed by that university in more than a century. In June of 1949, he received his second doctorate in music
from Illinois.

BALACK MASQUERS ANNOUNCE ENTIRE CAST FOR "LABURNAM GROVE"

When the first curtain goes up on the forthcoming Red and Black Masquers production of J. P. Priestley's comedy Laburnum
Grove, several new faces as well as some familiar ones will be seen among the cast members.

The play, which will be presented March 6th and 7th at 8:30 P.M. in Chambers Auditorium, is a story of
money, lots of money, and a few people who don't quite know what to do about it, whether to spend
or save it. Making his first appearance on the Davidson stage since last year’s production of Ten Little Indians is
Gordon Hurst, who appears as Harold, a not-so-true lover. Gordon, who played the male lead last year in Ten Little
Indians, comes from Durham and is a sophomore and a member of Kappa Sigma Fraternity.

A newcomer to the Davidson stage, Fred Summers, plays the role of Joe Fletten, a friend of Mr. Radfern, whose
frequent visits are slightly more than the social calls they appear to be. In fact, the two men have slightly
more than an agricultural interest in greenhouses. Fred is a member of the sophomore class and a Pi Kappa Alpha.

Mrs. Tom Daggy returns to the Masquers production after having been in the cast of last spring’s production of Macbeth.
Daggy, while making only her second appearance at Davidson, has done a great deal of work in the theatre, having
studied at Indiana University, and also is very interested in the field of radio.

Due to inclement weather, the operations were called off. The operations here were supervised by Capt. Hatch and Capt. Sowell.
Tom Ligon, who was chief watcher, said that about 50 planes were observed and many are providing the cast of
“Laburnam Grove” with more than the social calls they appear to be.
