PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF ........................................ Frank Haashaw
BUSINESS MANAGER ................................ Jack Hobson
ASSISTANT EDITOR .................................. John Ottley
Associate Editors ........................................ Brinkley, Harter, Hope, Myers, M. G., Moylan, D.H. Hassell, J. M. Moore, Owens
Dick Roper
Feature Editor—T. A. Williams
Assignments—Strand.
Managing Editors ........................................
Sports Editor
News Editor—D. M. Smith
Arts Editor—Mahy
Photographer ........................................ Simons
Assistant Business Manager .......................... Poston
Advertising Manager .................................. Hasty
Circulation Manager .................................. Nicholson
Collection Manager .................................. Douglas

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897.

Orchids To Lawrence Erwin For Programs Well Conducted

The past three weeks have probably been routine for the average Davidson student with little or no excitement other than a few reviews, the thought of an approaching dance weekend, or some comment over the College Union issue.

But there is one man who we feel merits special mention for his very capable handling of three recent difficult programs. This man is Lawrence Erwin, president of the Inter-Fraternity Council, who has been faced with the College Union situation affecting the fraternities, Greek Week, and the Mid Winter Dances, all within a three-week period. He has shown a sincere desire to approach the administration in the proper way in respect to the union issue, and we feel that the student body appreciates the vast amount of time put into the presentation of arguments by the members of the steering committee representing the fraternities. This writer feels that it was not only the wise approach to take, but the right one. This mature approach has gained more consideration by the Trustees and Administration for student body feeling than any violent or radical action could have hoped to bring.

Greek Week has gained more support and interest this year from the student body as its good points are being realized. A great deal of planning was undertaken by the IFC in the various committees in attempting to improve each phase of the Greek Week activity. Quite a bit of experience has been gained from the past two years and a steady improvement in the all-round program should be forthcoming each year if more student support can be gained.

No comment is needed about this gala Mid Winters weekend which features Charlie Spivak along with our best date. The IFC has certainly picked the tops in bands this year with Morron Spivak and Anthony high on our list for the best in entertainment.

Then it’s orchids to Lawrence Erwin for bringing meaning to an office which has in the past so often seemed only empty.

In the midst of hysteria or confusion, we are often reminded by men of stability and objectivity that we have exaggerated something into the shadow of a monster that is really just a moth on the light. Such was the case when Franklin Roosevelt reminded us that all we had to fear was fear itself. Such also was the case when British statesman, Lord Milner urged us to “look at the bigger matters.” Taken alone this advice seems nothing unusual; in fact, we probably like to think we are already following it. As Americans, we traditionally take for granted that everything we do is right since we lead the world in most every way imaginable.

The words of Lord Milner, however, reminded us how warped and distorted our beliefs and attitudes can be at times. When we are in the midst of spy trials, “unAmerican” activity investigations, and accusations ad nauseum, it’s not just a reminder but a shock to hear a Britisher tell of how they laugh at the Communists in Britain, how they want to foster trade with Russia because closer contact will promote peace! And yet when we ponder this attitude we wonder if the price we have had to pay for our Red Scare doesn’t reveal our own blindness by comparison to the British. They, as demonstrated by Lord Milner, have somehow maintained a balance, a perspective despite the pressure, despite the fear psychosis narrowing the world’s vision. The British are faced with espionage, with treason, with more war problems than we, but they can still laugh at the Communist because they know his creed is helpless against such faith as theirs, a philosophy which beats the Communist to the reforms and outdoes him on the stump. We among many would question a claim that the British are unbiased, but no one can deny that they have had more experience with world problems and more time to sift the important from the sensational. The result is that they defeat the Communist by keeping their heads when he strikes and by refusing to fall victim to his tricks. We have not matched that psychology because we have been blinded by the smaller things, by things which were brought so close to the light as to cast a monstrous shadow.

Thus our speaker was not only urging a more objective appreciation by Americans of someone and something besides themselves, but also an objective approach to the world’s problems, whatever they are, based on the unbeatable partnership of our two nations. We would do well to take this advice to “look at the bigger matters” and not only keep our heads at home but never forget the “common belief in God” which binds us to allies like Great Britain. The loyalty of free men and the preservation of true liberty might depend on it.

G.A.B.

There are not enough bon mots in existence to provide any industrious conversationalist with a new stock for every social occasion.

The Editor’s Mailbox: Gay Questions

(Ed. Note: The following are excerpts from a letter from Bob Gay ‘51 in answer to the Davidsonian’s appeal for alumni correspondence regarding the fraternity eating question. The entire letter has been placed in the hands of Dr. Cunningham).

To Whom It May Concern:

I appreciate the invitation of the Davidsonian to me and other alumni to answer with overt testimony our opinions concerning (the fraternity eating question). I write as an alumnus who is interested in Davidson’s growth in the direction of the best possible school. . . . And if this problem (the fact of there having to be a larger number of men eating at the union to make it financially self-supporting) were contemplated, how is it that the students and fraternities were not contacted before the Student Union was established? There is evident a superficial concern for the fraternities if willingly the administration creates a problem and tosses it off on the fraternities and students to solve at their own cost.

The second consideration (that of building more class spirit) . . . seems to be an effort to justify a pre-established means. It is quite obvious that the values of fraternity life for the freshmen have been excused. One value of this unity after college will be for alumni contacts. This... can be used for achieving support that should flow from the alumni for deeper and more basic reasons. The considerations are, to me, more basically material-centered and expedient actions than student-centered and principle-motivated. Assuming the college could adopt the scholarship aids that are offered by the fraternities, are they to assume that the college is going to allow each fraternity to designate the men who shall receive these scholarship aids? I doubt if the college (would) see its way to doing this. Will the college promote drives to compensate for the (Continued On Page Four)

The Editor’s Mailbox: Rural Culture Defended From “Undergraduate Iconoclast”

Dear Editor,

“The Free Lance,” otherwise known as “the undergraduate iconoclast,” in last week's Davidsonian deplored, among other things, the lack of conflict here at Davidson. We hope that this letter will somewhat alleviate the situation by offering a bit of criticism of some of the implications of that column last week. We do not object if Mr. Ottley wishes to call the Davidson students “boobs,” “rubes,” “hicks,” and “apes,” if he has good reasons for doing so, but we do object strongly when he uses, as he did last week, such words as “rural,” “country,” and “farm,” as being synonymous with the above-mentioned terms. This reveals, we believe, a pitiable ignorance of country people and country mores. We contend, perhaps surprisingly to Mr.

THE CABBAGE PLANTER: The First Annual Party Girl’s Primer of Piquant Palaver

By T. ALDEN WILLIAMS

he meets you at the bus and folds you in his arms murmuring something about “My little kitten!” Be ready with, “Did you know, my darling, that about 90 per cent of all white Persian cats are deaf? Deafness and albinism are associated with all animals. The absence of any pigment, for some unknown reason, affects unfavorably not only the vision of the animal but the hearing as well. Some cat fanciers say that purebred white Persian cats with two blue eyes are generally stone deaf, while those with one blue eye and one pink eye usually can hear.” Will he be impressed!

Perhaps you will be lucky enough to go on a picnic Saturday afternoon before the dance. He will be doing his best to conjure up a romantic setting, even going so far as to memorize that stuff about a “jug of wine and thou.” Look up into his eyes and whisper softly, “Rubaiyat, pronounced roo-bye-yaht with the accent on the last syllable, is

The Success

centered and principle-motivated. Assuming the college could adopt the scholarship aids that are offered by the fraternities, are they to assume that the college is going to allow each fraternity to designate the men who shall receive these scholarship aids? I doubt if the college (would) see its way to doing this. Will the college promote drives to compensate for the (Continued On Page Four)

The Editor’s Mailbox: Rural Cultural Defended From “Undergraduate Iconoclast”

Dear Editor,

“The Free Lance,” otherwise known as “the undergraduate iconoclast,” in last week's Davidsonian deplored, among other things, the lack of conflict here at Davidson. We hope that this letter will somewhat alleviate the situation by offering a bit of criticism of some of the implications of that column last week. We do not object if Mr. Ottley wishes to call the Davidson students “boobs,” “rubes,” “hicks,” and “apes,” if he has good reasons for doing so, but we do object strongly when he uses, as he did last week, such words as “rural,” “country,” and “farm,” as being synonymous with the above-mentioned terms. This reveals, we believe, a pitiable ignorance of country people and country mores. We contend, perhaps surprisingly to Mr.

THE FREE LANCE: Analysis of World Tremor Begun By Local Experiment

By JOHN OTTLEY

the mere ability to breathe out which the exhalers possessed. For a while there was thought of using the group as a test itself because of this dissension, but those in the education department found that there were not sufficient funds for such a test.

Murmurings of discontent began to rumble from the philosophy department who wondered if the public should be allowed to believe the results of Stink since they were based entirely on metaphysical subjectivism, which meant that they were possibly inadequate, ontologically speaking. But the philosopher is concerned with pure science and it is not for him to delve into the

Item: “(for bad breath) . . . it’s all to no avail totake Clorets or the like.” — Davidsonian, Feb. 6. This inclusive conclusion was the result of months of Operation Stink conducted by two students of psychology in the local department. The brief notice given it in this paper does little justice to either the work of the individuals concerned or the rather startling consequences which have come about since its completion. On dreary afternoons when most of us were doing such useless things as reading Plato or the Romantic Poets, a group of handpicked men were busily exuding onion-laden breaths into a megaphone for testers to sniff for degree of stink. Art turned its vindictive fury against the perpetrators of the great green hoax and the petty realm of public opinion and influence. 

Of course, the reader will see that these were only the secondary effects of this announcement on page one of this paper. The two students were given $5000 for the copyright by the AP who considered it one of the biggest scoops of the year. A day later the news was splashed over the fronts of nearly every major publication in the country. The streets of America and its possessions became a mass of humanity screaming for revenge upon World Chlorophyll Enterprises which had dealt them such an obvious wrong by its advertising. Men were shooting themselves because the Davidson report did not name specifically the “other brand” which did stifle bad breath. 

With hair-trigger timing and incredible accuracy, the experiment stages were carried out for nearly the entire first semester. A new circle of intimates was formed on the campus of men who had sniffed and those who had exhaled. The relative social values within the group were even drawing the eyes of the sociology department. It was interesting to see how the more carefully chosen exhalers tended to be snobbish to the sniffers. It was the ancient battle of skills versus general knowledge which uprooted the American college scene not so long ago — the testers claiming their know-how in the rating was of superior value to the petty realm of public opinion and influence.

DAVIDSONIAN ABROAD: Going To Europe? Organized Tours Serve As Wonderful Vacations Summer Months By JACK SFIRD

For many weeks the “Davidsonian” has been proud to present for your reading enjoyment a series of articles based on the actual experiences of the various writers as they toured Europe. The opportunities to make a trip to this historically rich continent are very numerous and can be done today at a minimum of cost. It is the purpose of the next few articles to appear on this page to familiarize the student with the various ways by which he can visit Europe and to stimulate a desire in him to make his plans as soon as possible.

For a person who is unaccustomed to travel, and in particular foreign travel, the best means of seeing Europe is by going as a member of an organized tour. The number of the companies who organize these tours is far too numerous to mention; however, my material for this article comes from my experiences on a tour of the Students International Travel Association (SITA). This company has many features which make it outstanding. It offers tours exclusively for college students at low prices; it also makes available scholarships, grants-in-aid, and study trips with college credits.

One of the major considerations which must be looked into in preparing for foreign travel is the cost. The biggest sum will be trans-Atlantic fares which are a minimum of $160 one way on regular passenger ships. Some transportation for $120-$40 less may be obtained on so-called student ships, but these are old, small, crowded, and inadequate. The majority of them are forbidden entrance to the port of New York, so they use Montreal as their home port. As a general rule, U.S. and Dutch ships are the best as to cleanliness, food, and facilities. British and French ships tend to be less clean, and Italian and Greek ships should be definitely avoided for numerous reasons.

SITA tour prices range from $475, including ocean fare for a sixty-day, five-country tour; up to $1,000. These prices are below those charged by other companies because the tours are not designed for people interested in “luxury” alone, in eating only American food, and in meeting only other tourists. They also take advantage of lower prices on reductions offered for students. When going on a tour you pay one lump sum to the company which includes all transportation, lodging, and food. The company takes care of the so-called “headaches of travel” by arranging for your eating, sleeping, and traveling. The tour takes you to the usual tourist cities and to the more typical towns of a country’s life. If traveling alone you are apt to miss many places of both types, because you don’t get transportation or lodging or because you think it is out of the way in your circle of traveling through Europe. Sixty-five to seventy-five day tours start in England — then travel through Belgium, Holland, Germany, Switzerland, Italy, and France in that order with Paris visited last. In this way, you get a touch of foreign travel while in England, but can still understand the language in most cases. Foreign travel makes such an impression on you the first few days that you hardly have time to notice the food. The best food is on the continent. With Paris as your final stopping point, you always have the biggest and best experiences to look forward to. Perhaps the worst thing to do would be to start in Paris and finish in England. Extension tours may be gotten to Scandinavia and the Near East.

By being on a tour, you have the companionship which is lost when traveling alone. This is especially true when your entire tour is made up of college students where girls usually outnumber the boys, 2-1 as in my case. On other tours where ages range from sixteen to sixty, you don’t get the same type of companionship nor do you all have the same interests. If anyone is interested in going to Europe this summer, please feel free to contact any of the various writers of these articles for any additional information that may be desired.

THE EDITOR’S MAILBOX: New Union Cafeteria Shocks D.C. Status Quo; Affect On Fraternities Seen To Be Good

Dear Editor,

Now that fortune has smiled on the benighted Davidson Student Body in the form of a new College Union, the status quo has been rather shockingly upset. At least the new order seems to be “shocking,” judging from the wails emanating from many students since the recent announcement that the fraternity system here may be in for a good shaking up. But is that bad?

The College Union has to be supported — this is obvious. The money can come from one of two places: either the Union Cafeteria can be made to operate efficiently; or the College Union fee will have to be raised far above that it would ordinarily be. The College has chosen the former means, and intends to effect its program by requiring enough students to eat at the Cafeteria to guarantee financial success. Thus, the freshman class will probably be required to eat at the Union next year.

How will this affect fraternities at Davidson? In the first place, it will undoubtedly make them smaller. This in itself is probably a good thing — a well-integrated group of forty or forty-five brothers has a far better chance of developing real fraternal spirit than the unwieldy eating clubs that exist today. The loudly prated rumor that cutting fraternity sizes would result in the bankruptcy of the several boarding houses is a dangerous oversimplification. This is a possibility, yes; but so long as the size of the student body is maintained at around 900 students, it is far from being an absolute certainty.

The greatest good that could come from this program, however, would seem to be sophomore-year rushing, whereby each prospective fraternity member would really have the time to get to know the fraternities at Davidson, and vice-versa. There would be a whole year in which to choose carefully which fraternity to join, and which men to bid; and most of the dissatisfaction, tacit and expressed, that exists under the present “grab-bag” system would be eliminated.

In this letter we have not attempted to cover all the many facets of the question. We feel, however, that the statements made herein point out that the situation is not entirely bad. In fact, the College, caught with its hand in fraternity pockets, might be prevailed upon to make a number of important concessions: a central purchasing agency for boarding houses; assurance that board at the Union will not undercut fraternity board; and physical improvements (Continued On Page Four)

Sincerely,
Andy Courts
Lewis Baker