FRIDAY, APRIL 17, 1953 DAVIDSON THEATRE THE DAVIDSONIAN By Mike Myers

Iain Wilson Talks C. Elections To S. C. Students

PAGE FOUR

SENIOR SKETCH NO. 6: engineering, damage control and operations. To qualify for line officer's candidate school, a person must be a college graduate, be between the ages of 21 and 26, and pass a rigid physical examination.

Four D. C. Alumni Complete Course In Naval O. C. S.

Village Machine Again Controls D.

“As the village goes, so goes the college.” Wade Hampton had his machine in S. C. and Huey’s boys were the terror of the South. But these machines were simple tools compared to the steamroller known as “Village Syndicate.” The V-S is one of Davidson's oldest traditions, having been handed down now for some six generations, all of which have taken the oath to “combat inefficiency and graft.” Their method of accomplishing this end is simple: they control our elections. A candidate not backed by V-S has never gotten as far as speech-making. A backed man who bucks the machine at the last minute is taken for a ride with pressure applied. A notable example was recently entered in the V-S books in red ink as “H. Ward — candidate ‘decided’ to withdraw after refusing to pay weekly protection dues and short talk from the boys — at last minute the machine swung to Williams, a member in good standing.” All such entries are handled through Mayor Dick Perkins who is noted for his short-sightedness in handling such cases. “The boys” are composed of head muscle man, Dan Glenn known as “musclehead” at the police force, and vice chairman George Thomas who arranges the V-S's vice.

SPONSORS FOR DAVIDSON SPRING FROLICS

Shown above are the young women who will be sponsors for the annual Spring Frolics, sponsored by the Interfraternity Council of Davidson College tomorrow evening and Saturday evening, in Johnston Gymnasium at Davidson. Ray Anthony and his orchestra will play for the two affairs, the chief social event of the year at Davidson. Jo Ann Greer will be the featured soloist with the orchestra. A formal dance is planned for Friday evening, a concert Saturday afternoon and an informal dance Saturday evening. The sponsors shown are (left to right), top row, Miss Betty Bowen of Tallahassee, Fla., for Charles Cousar, Phi Delta Theta; Miss Betty Kate Jones of Thomasville for Jack Ruth, Beta Theta Pi; Miss Gena Faires of Stanley for Mercer Kepler, The Campus Club; Miss Joan Rogers of LaFollette, Tenn., for Allen Vance, Kappa Alpha; second row, Miss Barbara Kirkley of Cheraw, S. C., for Dick Keller, Sigma Alpha Epsilon; Miss Marlene Hedrick of Lenoir for Joe Neisler, Sigma Phi Epsilon; Miss Lou Pasley of Decatur, Ga., for Harold Duke Fowler, Alpha Tau Omega; Miss Betty Jo Banks of Charlotte for Lawrence Erwin, Pi Kappa Phi; third row, Miss Mary Jane Bowers of Richmond, Va., for Malcolm Doubles, Phi Gamma Delta; Miss Betty Hoover of Concord for Rodney Howell, Pi Kappa Alpha; Miss Nancy Barnhardt of Lenoir for Charlie Simmons, Kappa Sigma. Lawrence Erwin of Morganton is president of the Interfraternity Council; Dick Kelley of Hartsville, S. C., is secretary; and Allen Vance of Bristol, Tenn., is treasurer. Not shown in the picture is Miss Olivia Bishop of Montreat College, sponsor for John LaMotte, Sigma Chi.

The Big Three — Perkins, Thomas and Glenn — sit behind identical desks answering phones, compiling lists and checking results. Until 9:00 at night they arrange campaigns for their men, select cannon fodder to be thrown into the elections to enhance their men’s chances, call on unpredictable seniors whose votes cannot always be successfully predicted. At 9:00 sharp the interviews begin. A meek underclassman, who has previously requested an appointment, is led in and thoroughly examined to see if his policy closely follows the one outlined for him. He is then voted on. Next he must (Editors note: At this point Mr. Myers’ report is incomplete. He has been missing for two days and is believed to be in the hands of V-S. The last paragraph of his interview has been stamped through with black ink, “Unfit for Publication.”)

Next week: John Mason.

John M. Brown... (Continued From Page One) and physically. Under the spell of his conversational oratory his listeners are usually raring to go out and build a theatre with their bare hands by the time the lecture is over. The theatre, however, is only one of his many interests, and his audiences find him touching on any and every phase of the current scene. Davidson College students will be admitted on presentation of their I.D. cards.

Spaniards... (Continued From Page One) ta Rotary Scholarship, and Jinks Jervey. Following that, Argerie and a friend of hers, Carolyn LeGette, also of Queens, sang a duet, Guaria Morada, one of the best known of the Costa Rican songs. Next Argerie spoke in Spanish to tell of her native country, Costa Rica. She proved to be a very talented speaker as well as a very charming person.

Eight Fraternities . . . (Continued From Page One) worthy usher Alexander McGeachy, worthy sentinel Charles Lambert, keeper of annuals Andy Simons, boarding house manager Phil Koonce, IFC representative Marshall Pitts, and sports manager Bob Stewart. Members of Sigma Phi Epsilon have elected the following officers: president Fred Stowe, vice-president Vince Gould, secretary Henry Brockman, treasurer Jess Lockaby, and IFC representative Joe Neisler. Newly elected president of Pi Kappa Alpha Fraternity is Milton Craig. Others holding offices include: vice-president Fred Summers, treasurer Ricky Benton, secretary Buck Reinhardt, and IFC representative Bob Owens. Vance Rountree is new president of the Campus Club, and Clark Reed is vice-president. Dewey Herring is treasurer, Leighton McCutchen was elected secretary, and Al Wells is IFC representative.

Watkins... (Continued From Page One) Under the direction of Lt. Col. Eugene A. Dees, chief of the Third Army ROTC branch, the inspections will be conducted by 13 teams of officers and will cover 105 ROTC and ROTC-affiliated units in seven southeastern states. The inspections are designed to determine the efficiency of the unit, the unit’s role in the life of the school, and the efficiency of the utilization of government property.

CAMP CAROLINA FOR BOYS - located in the mountains of North Carolina needs counselors for cabin duties and to assist in tennis, golf, boxing, archery, or other camp sports and activities. Apply to Richard R. Bernard, 163 Ridgewood Avenue, Hamden 14, Connecticut.

Rev. Iain Wilson, Professor of Religion will be the principal speaker when the students from

Sam D. McDaniel, Jr., Ramon R. Hart, Philip M. Zibby, Jr., andSouth Carolina colleges met at Camp Long near Aiken on April 24-26 for the annual spring conference of the South Carolina State Student Christian Association. The State SCA represents the combined efforts of the Student Christian Associations and “Y” groups in South Carolina colleges. Mr. Wilson was the principal speaker at the University of South Carolina's Religious Emphasis Week during 1951. The author of numerous articles on religion, short stories, and poetry, Mr. Wilson is married and has three children. In addition to his teaching duties in the Department of Religion at Davidson College, Rev. Mr. Wilson is presently serving as the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Davidson YMCA.

During the three-day meeting at Camp Long, Mr. Wilson will address the student delegates four times, using as his general theme the study of the Holy Bible. His addresses will be “Why Read The Bible? — A Study in Incentives,” “God’s Word in History,” “God's Word in Individual Life,” and “God’s Word in Jesus Christ.” In addition to Rev. Mr. Wilson's addresses, which will come during the morning and evening worship periods, the weekend will consist of numerous workshop or study groups and periods of recreation.

Richard B. Barnwell recently graduated from the U.S. Naval Officer Candidate School in Newport, Rhode Island. These men are recent-year graduates of Davidson. Over one thousand persons watched the impressive ceremony as Captain Harold O. Larson, USN, Assistant Chief of Naval Personnel for Education and Training, made the presentation of diplomas. These new officers will join other OCS graduates already serving on every type of combatant and non-combatant ship in the fleet. In four months of intensive study and training, these men have covered the same naval subjects that college NROTC students do in four years. Foremost in their study was gunnery, navigation, seamanship, and other essential naval skills.

Aviation Cadet Training offers opportunities for those who meet specific criteria. Candidates must have completed a minimum of 60 semester hours or 90 quarter hours toward a degree, be between the ages of 19 and 26½ years, unmarried, and in good physical condition. Training lasts 60 calendar weeks, culminating in a commission as a 2nd Lieutenant and the coveted silver wings of the United States Air Force. Training includes pre-flight at Lackland Air Force Base, San Antonio, Texas, and primary, basic, and advanced training at various Air Force bases. Cadets receive $109.20 a month pay, uniforms, flight clothes, equipment, food, housing, medical and dental care, and insurance—all free. After commissioning, a 2nd Lieutenant earns $5,300.00 a year with opportunities for advancement.

Aviation Cadets can choose between becoming a Pilot or an Aircraft Observer, with training in navigation, bombardment, radar operation, or aircraft performance engineering. Observer Cadets receive approximately 200 hours of “in the air” instruction. Pilots and Observers fly jets and other advanced aircraft. Graduates receive Reserve commissions and may apply for a regular Air Force Commission after 18 months of active duty. The service commitment is three years, with opportunities for recreation and leisure during training.

For more details, visit your nearest Air Force Base, Air Force Recruiting Officer, or Air Force ROTC Unit, or write to AVIATION CADET, HEADQUARTERS, U.S. AIR FORCE, Washington 25, D.C.