PAGE TWO THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, MAY 1, 1953

A Sad Commentary?

This past week the attention of the Davidsonian has been called to what appears to be a rather sad commentary on the Honor System, or at least on the reliability of the Davidson Student. The case in point concerns the sale of coffee and doughnuts in the College Union. This semester coffee and doughnuts have been sold in the union on an honor basis, the student taking what he wants, and assuming the responsibility for leaving the money in a cash box placed in the kitchen. Since this system has been in operation, the union has been taking a rather steady loss every day, the cost of providing the coffee and doughnuts not being covered by the amount of money left in the box. The daily cost runs from about 15 to 17 dollars, and the daily receipts only from 11 to 12 dollars. Now, assuming that the price is sufficient to cover costs, the only remaining conclusion is obvious: Somebody hasn’t been paying for what he has been eating and drinking. Now it is exceedingly hard for us as Davidson students to admit that there is even an outside chance that any of us are, or might be, a shade dishonest, even in the smallest degree. We hope and believe that this is not the case. It is very easy to drink a cup of coffee on the house and plan to pay for it “next time”. But it is equally easy to forget about it completely as soon as you leave the union. We pride ourselves on our maturity and integrity, especially do we give tribute to these qualities, and attribute them to ourselves when we think that the faculty and administration are treating us like children. The honor system in regard to coffee and doughnuts may seem a trivial thing, but more important things are often merely the agglomeration of trivialities. It is a small thing to ask for prompt payment before leaving the servery or kitchen, but it is important if the present service is to be continued.

Revision of Class Elections

The present method of electing the president, vice-president, and secretary of the various classes presents some seeming discrepancies that should be considered by next year’s class officers before the next class elections in the spring of 54. Under the existing setup all three officers are nominated and elected simultaneously, which means that a man nominated for one of the offices is automatically prevented from running for another. This system undoubtedly is the simplest from the purely administrative point of view, and is time-saving. But the men defeated in the presidential and vice-presidential voting is left out in the cold as far as his chances for holding one of the lesser offices are concerned. An idea we believe worth considering would be to nominate men for class president first, and after the election of the president, nominations would be opened for vice-president, or the closest runner-up for the top office could automatically become the Veep. There is no reference in the constitution to the procedure to be used in class elections, so any desired change could be brought about with a minimum of difficulty and red tape. At any rate we feel that this subject merits consideration, and that perhaps the whole procedure of class elections should be incorporated in the constitution.

Union Post Office

Quite a bit of controversy has recently arisen over the question of whether or not a Post Office in the College Union would be a desirable thing. At present it appears that at least a small majority of the student body is in favor of such a move. At least such a preference was indicated in the recent Davidsonian poll taken in Chapel. On the surface, it appears that the Post Office in the Union would have many advantageous points. This granted, it seems to us that such a Post Office might prove to be a needless luxury, or that it in long run might prove less convenient or less efficient than the downtown station. We are still open to persuasion on this issue, but at present are in doubt both as to the need and to the desirability of setting up a Post Office in the Union when the present one is located practically on the campus.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

Moody Smith
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF

Charlies Hasty
BUSINESS MANAGER

Jim Moore, Dick Roper
ASSOCIATE EDITORS

Bob Crutchfield, Charles Hassell, Buddy Lamon, Bob Owen, Hunter Strader
Assistant Editors

Henry Brockmann, Floyd Feeney
Managing Editors

John Handley
Sports Editor

Austin Strand
News Editor

T. A. Williams
Feature Editor

Don Mahy
Art Editor

Andy Simons
Photographer

Blake Brinkerhoff
Assignments

E24 Nicholson
Asst. Business Manager

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897.

(All Unsigned Editorials Are From The Editor-in-Chief)

THE FREE LANCE:

It is a rather moot question what course the term “value” itself is vague in almost any sense in which it is used. Nevertheless we would contend that one of the most useful kinds of exposition is that involving human nature.

By JOHN OTTLEY

Moulin Rouge Accurately Portrays Enigma of Artist

With a combination of casting, photography, and script like unto that of few cinemas we have seen, the life of Toulouse-Lautrec serves as a prototype of the painter. Notice we did not say Moulin explains the enigma, for there are few indeed who even attempt to do this with any trace of rightness. The artist is a man who is not really himself at all times. There are momentous drives which clutch at him and force him to create. Lautrec was also subject to the unrelenting grip of alcohol, yet despite this and the pain in his legs he drove himself at his painting. It was like a silent taskmaster ever at his back, ever commanding in his ear.

An artist is seldom understood by his contemporaries since he seldom fits the mold men make for themselves. Lautrec painted what he felt he had to and bothered with little else.

Texas Ranger Scores Reaction, Plugs College Humor Theme

By T. ALDEN WILLIAMS

The honorable speaker in vespers Sunday night did an unusual thing — he came quite close to putting across a philosophical truism to a Davidson College audience. One of his conclusions was that too often men explain away their actions with a tautology. “God is God” implies “Love your neighbor,” a relatively universal concept, but it also implies to some that “God is white,” or “God is Phi Beta Kappa.”

(in line with our policy of bringing to light significant thought from other schools on problems that concern us during these four years, we are reprinting in part an article, “College Humor,” by Editor Bobby Jones of the Texas Ranger. We disagree with some of it, but it is a thoughtful piece, and reflects the thought and attention given this original and wealthy brother in the field of college publications. TAW.)

By BOBBY JONES

There appear to be doubts and confusions rife about the present state of humor in our generation and time. On several hands you can hear national humorists bemoan the fact that talented writers — the Robert Benchleys, and other humorous essayists — have become exceedingly dearth. The heck of the thing is, the wailings have started up on the college level, too. In fact, a former contemporary of ours, the Princeton Tiger, has found out, and is now attempting to correct, such a closed corporation can lead to dangerous stagnation. The old Ivy League format was good for the first twenty years, but now it is ready for some freshening up. That, I should say, is where people are getting the idea that college humor is moribund. The real seat of the trouble is just the fact that the old leaders have suddenly felt their formula going stale on them, and realized that that unstable thing, humor, had gone flux on them unawares ... other college magazines were mixing and mingling, and, in the strange alchemy of the student press, gradually developing a freshness and originality with which to steal their thunder. Of course, there is an awful lot of drivel printed which bears the name of college humor, but in the midst of all that shine such magazines as the Arizona Kitty Kat, the Ohio State Sundial, the Columns, from the University of Washington, the Michigan State Spartan, and the Syracusan, from Syracuse University.had gone further in; the necessity for so doing has been olegy such as “Business is business.” He suggested that this is the essence of the drive to explain the slothfulness involved in the use of tautology, illustrated by the foregoing examples. The Editor’s Mailbox: To Have or Have Not ~ College Union P.O.? To the Editor: There are several reasons, strong, logical ones, that lead me to believe that Davidson College and the Student Union would be better off without a post office. (1) However good or poor you may think the service is at the downtown post office, it stands to reason that the new post office’s service would not be as good. Mail comes in and is sent out five or six times per day on weekdays and once on Sundays. The Union post office would have only two mails a day and none on Sunday, as proposed. It would not handle parcel post, neither sending nor receiving. Stamp and envelope buying would also be another problem. Would the Union post office handle these items? It boils down to this. If you had a letter, airmail or regular, that you really wanted to get on its way, you'd end up taking it downtown. (2) Advocates of the new post office use the convenience factor as a talking point. I'll have to admit that the Student Union is closer to the living quarters of the majority of the students than the present post office is, however, these two short distances are relatively insignificant. It’s not much more than a city block from Chambers to the P.O. I might add, that our present post office is not as far from most of the students as many of the campus P.O.’s are at a large number of the colleges and universities in the country. (3) Some say that more of the students should use the Student Union, and that the new P.O. would cause a big increase in traffic. Just wait until next year, when the cafeteria and stud are in operation over there. About two-hundred fifty boys will be trooping into the Union regularly three times a day. Believe me, those along with the present users will keep the Union pretty well occupied. (4) Where in the Union would the P.O. be located? There is no over-abundance of space there, you know. Actually the plans had to be changed, at a tremendous cost, when the kitchen and storage space was found to be inadequate. They say a fool can ask more questions than a wise man can answer. No wonder so many of us flunk our exams! (5) Let’s face the situation from a purely economic point of view. Every year the United States Post Office Department operates at a deficit in the mail handling business. Why should we go into such an unprofitable business? If we get this post office, I doubt seriously that operation expenses at the downtown P.O. would be cut one penny. We, as taxpayers, would be the victims of a “double take.” Demand for personnel in most of the natural sciences has increased greatly in recent years, particularly in fields related to defense production and research and development. However, personnel are also needed in other kinds of scientific work such as administration and technical sales. The demand for personnel in the natural sciences as a whole is expected to exceed the supply for several years as the defense program continues; the need will be most intense for workers with graduate training or considerable experience. However, opportunities for persons with only a bachelor’s degree will continue to remain good, particularly in view of the declining numbers of graduates with bachelor’s degrees. Chemists are in greatest demand in such manufacturing industries as chemicals, petroleum, rubber, food, and paper. Educational institutions and government also employ a substantial number of chemists. They are also in demand in consulting laboratories, nonprofit research institutes, hospitals, and mining companies. Though the need for persons with graduate training is greatest, those with only a bachelor’s degree will find numerous opportunities in educational institutions. Chemists with a Ph.D. earned $6,000; in 1951 was in Hazel: “The same thing you are, sweetness.” Chris: “Then I'll race you to the icebox.”