FRIDAY, DECEMBER 11, 1953

“Draught Ends On Davidson Desert,” thus read the headlines of Wednesday evening's Charlotte News. Much to the pleasure of an
overjoyed student body, the event that this head was heralding was, of course, the Red and Black cagers’ victory over
South Carolina on Tuesday night which ended Davidson's 33-game major sports victory famine. The Cats did themselves proud and bore
no resemblance to the team which provoked such a tirade of dissenting comments last week. When things started to turn
in Davidson’s favor midway in the second stanza of Tuesday’s encounter, this reporter was delighted to discover that there still
is that old Davidson spirit which has become almost a myth remaining on “Davidson’s Desert.” The high-spirited response that the
win produced was not only enough to rock the gym, but pretty well rocked the whole campus before the evening
was over. One student, upon digging out from under his stack of books in the library and stepping outside for
a breath of air, was greeted with such a roar from Johnston’s win-starved walls that he knew that the Cats
must be pulling the impossible—a win for Davidson. At game time, the stands were sparsely populated with an only about
half-capacity crowd, but as the cheers of these (Continued On Page Four)

WILDCAT OF THE WEEK: Keith Found ‘Eye’ Against SC Birds

There he goes into that ball game... he fires five times and five times he connects before he misses a
shot... before the evening is over, the baffled opponents see 18 points beside his name... the result—Davidson’s first major athletic
victory since last spring! The opponent—South Carolina; the sport—basketball; the player—Graeme Keith, our Wildcat of the Week.

By JOHN HANDLEY

Playing what was easily the best game of his career, Graeme looked sharp as his ever-present scoring ability in practice
sessions finally showed itself in a game. Inserted at a crucial moment by Coach Miller, this lean senior center sunk
his first attempt and then was off to the races as he kept the scorekeepers busy. Keith also turned in
a fine performance in helping to control the backboards for the Cats. These two things, coupled with his fine defensive
showing, made our choice of this week's W of W easy. Graeme is by no means a one-sport man, however,
as he leads the Davidson linksmen in the spring. Proclaimed by Coach Elgin White to be one of the finest
collegiate golfers in the South, Keith will serve as the team’s captain next spring. The popular senior has been very
active in campus affairs during his three years here at Davidson, especially on the Interfraternity Council. Keith will be among
the starters as Davidson takes the floor against VPI tomorrow night, and you can watch for his name throughout the
season as one of the main sparks in the Cat attack.

THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

Gobblers Here Tomorrow Much Improved Wildcats Open Conference Action

SAEs Cop Swimming Crown In Close Win

After trailing far behind the Sigma Chis and Phi Delts in the early part of the meet, the SAEs took
three 1st places and two 2nd places in the last five events as they jumped into the lead. They were
still one point behind going into the final event, with the Phi Delts in front and the Sigma Chis tied
for the second position. Four new records were set in this year’s meet, which had eight events. This easily indicates
the caliber of the swimmers in the meet. In the first event, the 150-yard Medley Relay, the Sigma Chis set
a new record of 1:33.65. The old record of 1:37.7 was set by another Sigma Chi team in 1951. In
the 75-yard Free Style, Billy Carrell, who just recently pledged Sigma Chi, broke the record set in Monday’s time trials
by Rivers (Phi Delt). Carrell’s time was 41.7, chopping 1.6 seconds from the old record. Carrell also set a new
record in the 75-yard Individual Medley. Abernathy (Kappa Sigma) set the old record of :50.3 just last year. Carrell’s time
was :48.4. The SAEs broke the record set last year by the Phi Delts in the 200-yard Free Style Relay.
The old record was 1:50.3 and the SAEs cut .3 seconds from it. In the 50-yard Breast Stroke, Edwards (Beta)
edged out Trotti (KA) for first place. Pressly (Sigma Chi) and Norton (SAE) tied for first place in the 50-yard
Back Stroke, which was the closest event of the evening. Ed Spiers (SAE) won the 50-yard Free Style and 25-yard
Free Style. In Monday night’s time trials, three records were set. Rivers (Phi Delt) set a new record in the
75-yard Free Style (however, this lasted only until Wednesday). In the 50-yard Back Stroke, Ed Spier set a new record
of :25.3. In the 50-yard Back Stroke, Norton (SAE) and Pressley (Sigma Chi) tied in setting a new time of
:33.5.

Frosh Schedule

The remainder of the season is:
Dec. 12—Hall’s (Charlotte) at Davidson.
Dec. 15—Kannapolis, at the Kannapolis YMCA.
Jan. 8—Wingate J. C. at Wingate.
Jan. 9—Charlotte College at Davidson.
Jan. 11—UNC Freshmen at Davidson.
Feb. 6—Kannapolis YMCA at Davidson.
Feb. 9—Charlotte College at Davidson.
Feb. 9—Charlotte College at Charlotte.
Feb. 19—Pfeiffer Junior College at Misenheimer.
Feb. 22—Gardner-Webb J. C. at Davidson.

DISTINCTIVE GIFTS FOR MEN PRICED UNDER $10.00

SPORT COATS

Tailored to perfection of superb English tweeds. These jackets feature the matchless ease and distinction of Superflex tailoring by Southwick.
Exclusive with Jack Wood Ltd. $55

Jack Wood Ltd.
“It Costs No More to Dress Correctly”
233 SOUTH TRYON ST.

Senior stalwarts who are leading the Wildcat effortsin the AAU tonight include (left to right): Charlie Murray, Don Reid, Willie
McElveen, Coach Parker, and Bill Coe.

AU Wrestling Finale Scheduled Here Tonight

Again this year, the Carolinas A.A.U. Wrestling Championships will be held at Davidson, December 10th and 11th. The preliminary will
start at 8:00 p.m. Thursday, with the semi-finals at 2:00 p.m. Friday, and the finals at 8:00. Weighing in will
be from 5:00 p.m. until 6:00 p.m. on Thursday, and again between 12:00 and 1:00 on Friday. Consolation matches will
be run off at 7:30 p.m. Friday.

Since last year’s Camp Lejeune Marine champions will not defend their title, both Cherry Point and Davidson, last year's runner-ups,
will have a good chance at the team title. Davidson will enter both a varsity and a freshman team, about
25 men all told. Cherry Point is bringing 19, the High Point YMCA 12, and 1 comes from the Charleston
Naval Base. Last year, Bobby Joe Key and Kerry Spiers finished in that order at 114.5, Charles Murray was fourth
at 136.5, and second, third, and fourth at 191.5 went respectively to Dave Burns, Nabby Armfield, and Henry Faison for
Davidson. David Brown, who wrestled as an independent last year in the 161.5 class, will be one of the top
contenders for the team.

Under the Olympic Wrestling Rules, bouts will be 10 minutes in length. If, after four minutes, one wrestler has at
least a two-point advantage, he can choose whether or not to go the remaining six minutes without interruption, or to
split the remaining time into three two-minute periods. If no one has the two-point advantage, the three-period alternative is taken.
Perhaps the chief difference between collegiate rules and the Olympic rules is the definition of a fall. In this tournament,
it is necessary only to force the opponent’s shoulder to touch the mat. Regular college rules say that the shoulders
have to be held there for two consecutive seconds.

Next to Bank

CHRISTMAS GIFTS
For Dad, Brother, Uncle, or Cousin
We have just the right thing
Wilson’s Men’s Shop
“COLLEGIATE FASHIONS”

By BUDDY LILES

Buddy Brown had nine points and seven rebounds.

The Wildcat cagers, fresh from a sparkling win over the powerful University of South Carolina’s Gamecocks, will be host to
a very strong V.P.I. team on Saturday night. The Wildcats, after taking their first win in four starts, will be
out to take the game but will definitely be the underdogs. A packed house is expected to witness the Cat
Southern Conference debut.

Keith Big Gun

The man who will be carrying most of the hopes of the Cats in their Saturday night tilt is big
Graeme Keith. Graeme missed the games with Wake Forest and State and didn’t start in the South Carolina game due
to illness. However, when the occasion arose in the second quarter, Graeme replaced Melton and began hitting. With amazing accuracy,
he hit on eight of twelve shots and racked up eighteen points for the night to give the Cats the
punch they needed for their first victory of the season.

It was not a one-man show, however, while Keith was setting the pace, Ish Bennett hit five out of eight
shots and collected thirteen points to rank second in the scoring. Hobby Cobb dropped in twelve points and collected ten
rebounds.

Defense Was Key

The performances of Brown and Cobb on the rebounding along with a tight defense by the team as a whole
were big factors in the victory. South Carolina, who had beaten Georgia Tech and Georgia while losing only to Maryland
by three points, was baffled by the defense until the last quarter when they cut the Wildcats’ lead in half.

Fine Team Effort

It was a fine team effort for the Cats who immediately began working for the VPI encounter with a stress
on the free throw line. The Cats were weak at the line in the second half and this was one
of the factors in the slicing of their lead. With the Gamecocks trying to break the Cats’ defense and a
press employed in the last quarter, the Cats had seventeen attempts at the line in the second half and only
hit on eight.

The same starting team composed of Buddy Brown and Ish Bennett at guards, Hobby Cobb and Ray Harding at forwards,
and Captain Graeme Keith at center is slated to open against the Gobblers tomorrow night.

SEND THE DAVIDSONIAN HOME

When you pause...make it count...have a Coke

BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD, N. C.
“Coke” is a registered trademark. © 1953, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY

How the Peay stars got started...

Tyrone Power says: “I had it tough bucking ‘tradition’ to get into movies. First, a famous great-grandfather actor, same name.
Grandfather and Dad, too — both big in the theatre. I was barker at a Fair before anyone gave me
a chance. Then, bit player, understudy, hard work and eventually I made it!”

Start smoking Camels yourself
Smoke only Camels for 30 days and find out why Camels are first in mildness, flavor, and popularity! See how
much pure pleasure a cigarette can give you!

for Mildness and Flavor
CAMELS AGREE WITH MORE PEOPLE THAN ANY OTHER CIGARETTE!

“TRIED CAMELS FOR 30 DAYS... THEY HAVE THE MILDNESS I WANT AND THE RICH FLAVOR THAT SUITS ME TO A
T! THEY'LL SUIT YOU, TOO!”

CHOICE QUALITY
