PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Frank Hanshaw

BUSINESS MANAGER
Jack Hobson

ASSISTANT EDITOR
John Ottley

Associate Editors
Brinkley, Harter, Hope, J. Myers, M. G., Moylan, D.H.

Managing Editors
Hassell, J. M. Moore, Owens

Sports Editor
Dick Roper

News Editor
M. Smith

Feature Editor
T. A. Williams

Arts Editor
Mary

Assignments
Strand, Simons

Advertising Manager
Hasty

Collection Manager
Douglas

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N.C., under the Act of March 3, 1897.

Great by the howling of indignation in November when certain articles in the Harvard Crimson treated us as if we were rather deluded hicks in a purposefully quiet and non-infectious environment. From the ranks clad in blue jeans and brogans came the righteous cry “What right do those guys from Harvard have to talk like that? Who do they think they are, anyway?”

We thought at the time that a more effectual attitude of the students would be to question the Crimson’s accuracy rather than its falsity. Nothing was said at the time in this paper for several reasons.

Later, when the word “provinciality” was met with a Bull Durham-chewing, country boobs when they see a little flesh at a side show, we thought it might be closer to the truth than the sophisticated Harvard writer's entitled wit. Being cast in this role does not help the guiding lights of Davidson.

Rare are the moments when one encounters an opinion different enough from the rather well-established school beliefs to make good conversation. This is not healthy. The solution lies in a great many directions, but we wanted to show that the screeching in chapel at a simple point of college wit gives the men of Harvard and maybe Prep School boys the right to regard us as small in size and small in scope of mind. They woo our individualities and them to be like theirs.

INTERFRATERNITY COMMITTEE REPORT: Why Proposed Changes Not Felt

In submitting this report we realize that any action that the faculty and administration takes is in the interest of a better Davidson. With greatest respect for your judgment, we present these points for your consideration:

1. If the proposed action is taken, there will be a decrease in counseling and guidance, and the whole corrective program of the fraternities. This would lead to the decline of the quality of the Davidson man over a period of years. This action will take its toll on the maturity, scholarship, and character of the freshmen.

2. The fraternity scholarship supervision would be seriously hampered. Since the pledges will not be around the fraternity houses as much, fraternities will demand more time of the freshmen which will decrease the freshman’s time for studying. It is assumed that there will be a decrease in the number of pledges. This will reduce the number of boys having incentives to make good grades in order to be initiated into a fraternity.

3. At present, fraternities provide over $15,000 in aid to boys, for example, waiting tables and fraternity administration. This amount will be decreased by over $5,000 if this action is taken.

4. Closer contact between freshmen than between pledges and brothers will increase the number of pledges broken. This will lead to the breakdown of inter-fraternity spirit, and an increase in hostilities among fraternities.

5. The large percentage (82%) of fraternity men at Davidson, itself an admirable feature, will be seriously reduced, because fraternity expenses will be increased and the advantages of the fraternity system will be diminished.

On Wednesday of this week the Student Committee met once again with Dr. Cunningham to re-discuss the possibilities of working out an equitable compromise in regards to the proposed plan of requiring freshmen to eat in the cafeteria. They presented some new points which, they felt, showed that the plan would have a detrimental effect on the college as a whole, and not just the individual fraternities. The consensus of opinion is that Dr. Cunningham showed himself to be agreeable to the compromises if they could be worked out, financially and otherwise, in a logical, effective manner.

Firstly, the committee proposed that if the profit margin of the cafeteria was higher than the operating expenses, the profit margin would be applied to defray the loss incurred during the second semester, after the freshmen had moved out.

Secondly, the committee proposed competition between the four classes, both in sports and in year-long projects, to stimulate class spirit. As a corollary of this, there would be dances and functions sponsored by each of the classes, and other activities calculated to instill a unifying spirit among the students.

All this is a tentative program as of now, and there is no assurance that it will be accepted. A radical, head-on approach would probably have failed, as it did at Christmastime. The big trouble was that the howling was not just the boorish noise of some of the more rural gentlemen, but it was an indication of the small-time atmosphere here at stolid old Davidson. Too many of us come from the same type of bourgeois home and idea backgrounds. Too many of our faculty are ex-students. We are soluble cubes dipped in a jar of purest white salve and there we dissolve until we are not separate from the salve.

Every May dabs of the salve are spread over the land which make attractive gobs of goo to those who idealize them as the one remaining type of Victorian slush left in a world of modern slushes. Farce of the week is the proposition that things are not so bad for Harry and his obese spouse because the nation hadn’t forgotten them as it would have been to say that things are not so bad for the nation now that the little man from the farm has gone back to a little life for which he is vastly more suited.Two main points in favor of the proposed plan are: 1st, to make the Student Union a self-supporting plant, and 2nd, to generate a stronger class feeling among the incoming freshmen. In their report, the Committee offered these compromises which would generally solve the two main points. The freshmen would eat in the cafeteria the first semester and would be charged the same amount that the upperclassmen were paying, on average, at their boarding houses. Since this would be the case, the magnification of the position of the freshmen through his separation with upperclassmen will be a dangerous incentive for an increase in hazing in future years. Fraternity membership will appear to be relatively diminished.

Admittedly, it does not solve the problem of instilling the traditions and adherence to the honor system, which mostly by promise. In the past, fraternity hazing at Davidson College has fit the ridiculous tricks. There was very little abuse, save an occasional wielding of a well-fashioned paddle. Mostly the neophytes were subjected to treatment that was beneath their dignity as individuals and beneath the professed ideals of the College. Even that rather mild form of “hell week” has gone. The old forms of hazing contributed nothing to the individual, to the fraternity, or to the general welfare. It was a tradition, with origins in antiquity, a tradition without meaning or purpose, an anomaly at an institution with the high intellectual standards of Davidson College. We’re happy to see it go, and we make our manners to the new and useful outlet for the energies of its fraternity men.

This week Davidson fraternity pledges opened the new “Greek week” with a book drive for a Mecklenburg County Home library. Afterwards, their chapters assigned them tasks. Some worked at the Charlotte Rescue Mission, the Phi Gams applied their efforts to repairing the school track, the Phi Deltas worked on Erwin Lodge, the Pi Kappa Phis and SAE’s built ping-pong tables for use in the Welfare Dept.'s program for delinquent boys and girls, and on down the line.

CHARLOTTE NEWS:
DAVIDSONIAN ABROAD:
The German Spirit Rallies Her Country

By DON BAUCOM

There were probably not more than a few up early enough to see as none can. From the edges of the castle to the outlying residential areas, bombs wrought such havoc as everywhere. Seek and find great happiness in life itself. From the garden to the home, one finds even that rather mild form of “hell week” has gone. There was very little abuse, save an occasional wielding of a well-fashioned paddle. Mostly the neophytes were subjected to treatment that was beneath their dignity as individuals and beneath the professed ideals of the College. Even that rather mild form of “hell week” has gone. The old forms of hazing contributed nothing to the individual, to the fraternity, or to the general welfare. It was a tradition, with origins in antiquity, a tradition without meaning or purpose, an anomaly at an institution with the high intellectual standards of Davidson College. We’re happy to see it go, and we make our manners to the new and useful outlet for the energies of its fraternity men.

This week Davidson fraternity pledges opened the new “Greek week” with a book drive for a Mecklenburg County Home library. Afterwards, their chapters assigned them tasks. Some worked at the Charlotte Rescue Mission, the Phi Gams applied their efforts to repairing the school track, the Phi Deltas worked on Erwin Lodge, the Pi Kappa Phis and SAE’s built ping-pong tables for use in the Welfare Dept.'s program for delinquent boys and girls, and on down the line.

The old forms of hazing contributed nothing to the individual, to the fraternity, or to the general welfare. It was a tradition, with origins in antiquity, a tradition without meaning or purpose, an anomaly at an institution with the high intellectual standards of Davidson College. We’re happy to see it go, and we make our manners to the new and useful outlet for the energies of its fraternity men.

We are again approaching Brotherhood Week, February 15-22, which is annually observed by more than 7,000 communities from coast to coast. We believe it only fitting to have an opportunity to restate our faith in a principal the world so desperately needs to grasp—the brotherhood of man.