PAGE FOUR Phi Beta Kappa

SENIOR SKETCH NO. 3 (Continued From Page One)

and his hometown is Burlington, N. C. Gary Daffin, also from Marianna, Fla., is a business major who plans, after
he graduates in 1954, to go on to graduate school in business or economics. A Sigma Alpha Epsilon brother, he
is also a member of Eumanean Literary Society.

Bill Hood, from Wallace, North Carolina, is one of the juniors elected to Phi Beta Kappa. He is on the
editorial staff of Quips and Cranks, a member of Eumanean Literary Society, and a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon social
fraternity. During his years here, he has been outstanding in YMCA work.

Buford Price, a physics major and Baker Scholar, ended the last semester with a 3.25 average. He is a member
of Phi Delta Theta social fraternity, Sigma Pi Sigma, the honorary physics society, and Eumanean Literary Society. This year he
has been secretary-treasurer of Delta Phi Alpha, the honorary German society.

Lee Seagle, a junior who is leaving next year without graduation to enter Duke Medical School, has won several previous
awards while at Davidson. In his fraternity, Sigma Phi Epsilon, he has taken the Clifford B. Scott Scholastic Award twice,
as well as winning his freshman year the Alumni Award and the Chemistry Award. Lee is a member of Alpha
Epsilon Delta, Gamma Sigma Epsilon, and Eumanean Literary Society.

Igor Speaks (Continued From Page One)

Arabs; he also emphasized that the British had promised Palestine to both groups and then left them to fight it
out just as they did with the Moslems and Hindus in India. The personable young foreign student also pointed out
that the Arabs had an intense hatred for us, since during the Truman administration we sent strong aid to the
Jews, but that now the Eisenhower policy seems to be favoring the Arabs.

At the conclusion of his informative talk concerning the land in which he lived for several years, Igor answered questions
from the members on such topics as: the assassination of Count Bernadotte, the extent of the industrial and agricultural development
in Palestine, the relative wealth of the manufacturing Jewish elements who control the strategically vital Mediterranean coastline as against the
generally more indigent agrarian Arabs, the manpower and strength of these two groups, and other pertinent questions.

CAT TALES: Continued From Page 3

The Anchor boys decided to make it a clean sweep (or rather, to “Down Them Every One,” as a certain
song goes) last Saturday night, and patron Sigmon was there that night to see his team win the tournament by
whipping Morganton’s Union Hardware team 54-52 in a close one. They got Sig out on the floor to accept the
trophy that night, and he had the added gratification of seeing two of his club — Jimmy Smith and Moose
Lazenby — make the all-tournament team. It should be added that the Anchor boys won the tournament with only one
real follower, he being “Diamond Jim” Carr, Davidson, class of '52, who is currently in the merchandising business. Senior Lawrence
“E” Erwin, also of Morganton, was also there every night, but didn’t get as enthusiastic about the situation as follower
Carr. Since most of the Anchor team will graduate this year, it is doubtful that they will be able to
do a repeat performance next winter. But the foot-high trophy out at the Broken Anchor will always remain a tribute
to one Davidson team — or rather, team of Davidsonians — that went through a “season” with an unscarred record.

Rotation Plan

The Rotation Plan provides that all freshmen will eat in the College Union Cafeteria until Oct. 1. Beginning then, each
fraternity will have one-half of its pledge class eating in the boarding house and the other half in the Cafeteria.
At the end of a certain period (15 days or one month), the freshmen will rotate. After the first rotation
period, each half of each pledge class will be divided for the next rotation period, thereby ensuring that each member
of the pledge class will eat with every other member of his class. This plan would last for the entire
year.

The greatest advantage of this plan is that the Cafeteria and the boarding houses would have approximately the same number
throughout the year. This would mean a great saving for both. The main objection to this plan is that there
would be a great amount of administrative work for the treasurer's office as well as for the fraternities.

The Fraternity Committee advised the Student Committee to have a written statement stating that if one of the alternate plans
is adopted, it will be acceptable to the student body and that they will cooperate to the utmost in making
it a workable solution. It should also be understood that the College reserves the right to review the workings of
the plan after one or two years to see if it is operating acceptably, with the understanding that if it
is not, the College may make changes without breaking faith.

all people have weaknesses, and Jimmy Eller is no exception. Back in 1931, the doctor told Mrs. Eller Jimmy would
be along on January 2, so on that date she went to the hospital. But Shady didn’t get here until
four days later, and he’s been keeping people waiting ever since.

Shady is late to meals. Shady is late to classes (just ask Dr. Johnston). Shady is late for dates —
everything. He was nicknamed ‘Shady’ because he looks shady (see cut). He looks tired and gives the impression that his
blood is tired. His senior placement sheet says his hobbies are tennis, golf, and hunting. Frankly, I think it’s confined
to the card games that start in his room every night about 1:00 A.M. Cop Linker often drops in to
watch and is amazed how he and his roommates (Ralph Holt and John Cathcart) can get so excited over a
hearts game. He’s also interested in their unique system of keeping score with little red, white, and blue discs.

Yet Jim points with pride to the un-lazy schedule of classes he has worked out for himself. “Some seniors make
it easy for themselves their last year, but I realize this might be my last opportunity to gather knowledge.” ‘Knowledge’
is surveying, phys. ed., music appreciation, astronomy, and Eco 22. I asked him what he has against Fine Arts and
he told me he had that last semester. Again through diligent work, assiduous study, earnest effort, and hiring Professor Moose
to paint his portrait he came through with a flying B, high for Shady's educational career.

This Winston lad is a born organizer. He belongs to four honorary fraternities, all of which he helped found. These
include The Garry Moore Fan Club, the Peon's Army (‘tell them we won’t march until the weather gets warmer”), Order
of the Deerhead, and the Davidson Fencing Club. He brieflywith the Student Body. The two points were put before all
the fraternities at their weekly meetings last night. The results were 10 to 1 in favor of the alternate plans.

Mr. LeGette Blythe, author of Miracle in the Hills, was honored last Tuesday evening at a reception sponsored by the
Eighteen Century Book Club of the College Union. Dr. Mary T. Martin Sloop, co-author and central figure of Mr. Blythe’s
newest book who is daughter and sister of former Davidson presidents, was unable to attend due to illness. Others pictured
are, left to right, Mrs. Frontis Johnston, Mrs. Walter L. Lingle, Mr. Blythe, Mrs. Archibald Currie, and Miss Letitia Currie.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

By Mike Myers

Summer Session

O.D.K.’s Biggest Mistake: J.C.E. entered politics when he ran for YMCA president, but political pressure was too great. Jim has
a deeply-founded love for the beauty of our campus. Any weekend will find him here maybe strolling down Elm Row
or perhaps catching a symphony in Phi Hall. More of us should adopt his ‘why-go-elsewhere-when-home-is-best’ attitude.

There is a chance that Shady is suffering from transoculus, a rare disease where the patient sees more clearly at
nighttime than daytime, often confusing the two. Here’s the way one Eller day might go: Sleep till dinner, then preside
over G-M Club: 2:00-4:00 bull session anywhere with anyone; 4:00-5:00 practice fencing positions before a mirror; 5:00-6:00 file fingernails; after
supper, go to movies; 9:00-12:00 senior study at B.A.; 12:00-1:00 file fingernails; 1:00-3:00 hearts; 3:00-3:05 study if review next day
— then sleep until 12:30. Occasionally an ugly ole class messes up this precise schedule.

Since Bill Pharr graduated, Shady is the only boy around who writes with a stacked deck. He neatly summed up
his whole philosophy: “College is not entirely a scholastic endeavor.” There’s probably more, but I couldn’t wait for him to
finish filing his nails.

First Student (Continued From Page One)

fraternity, or club to combine their votes with another group or organization, or form a clique.

Section 10 — It shall be illegal for any person, group, organization, fraternity, or club to solicit votes for a
candidate for office.

Section 11 — It shall be illegal for any person, group, organization, club, or fraternity to use any expense whatsoever
in electing any candidate. Any person or group guilty of actions included in Sections 9-11 shall be formally penalized according
to the discretion of the Election Board and Student Council.

WHAT'S GOING ON? See Scripts and Pranks Wednesday.

Drink M. O O R’ QUALITY MILK Mooresville Creamery, Inc.

DAVIDSON THEATRE

Thurs.-Fri. March 12-13 “THE HAPPY TIMES” Charles Boyer, Louis Jordan

Saturday, March 14 “THE PATHFINDER” George Montgomery Helen Carter

Mon-Tues. March 16-17 “NIAGARA” Marilyn Monroe, Joseph Cotton

Wednesday, March 18 “CARRIE” Lawrence Oliver, Jennifer Jones

(Continued From Page One)

and six-hour courses will be offered, and classes will meet on all Saturdays except August 1 and 15. By enrolling
on June 4 and remaining through July 22, a student may take a total of 14 semester hours credit. By
enrolling on June 10 he may receive only 12 hours credit. All students who live in the college dormitories must
take full-time work. Students who live in their own homes will be permitted to take part-time work at the discretion
of the dean of students. A student who attends both sessions of summer school must pass a total of six
hours work in order to be eligible for admission to Davidson in September. Six-hour courses meet twice a day for
seventy-five minute periods during the term of thirty days. Eight-hour courses cover their work in forty days. Students in residence
will take their meals in the college cafeteria or in the college dining hall. Registration will be Thursday June 4,
from 11:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. for science lab courses. Classes will begin the same afternoon at 2:00. Registration for
six-hour courses of the first term will

Preliminary Bouts (Continued From Page Three)

have 15 contestants in the match, are considered to be the team to beat. The Marines were second only to
Appalachian last year and Appalachian is not sending a team this year which makes the “leathernecks” top seeded in the
tournament. Davidson’s list of entrants now reads as follows: Kerry Spiers and Bobby Joe Key, 114-pound class; Dave Jones, 125;
Gene Craven, and Charlie Murray, 136; Stan Topple, 146; Nabby Armfield, Bill Coe, and Henry Faison, 160; Monty Littlejohn, and
Bill McElveen, 177; and Dave Burns, Roger Wright, and Phil McGill in the 191 lb. class. Weighing in of all
contestants began today afternoon and the first round is slated for 7:30 tonight. The Semi-finals will be at 2:00 tomorrow
afternoon with the final matches beginning tomorrow night at 8:00.

FRIDAY, MARCH 13, 1953

Mr. D. Grier Martin, College Treasurer, watches the landscaping work which has provided a better parking area behind Duke Dormitory.
This was undertaken as a part of the grounds improvement program of the College.

Robert Frost (Continued From Page One)

is the chance of success or failure, he felt, is there any real motivation to write.

“As for the ‘good life’,” he continued, “that is to be able to take success and failure evenly... not to
be made a fool of by failure ... or by success,”

SEND THE DAVIDSONIAN HOME

NEW CARS DRIVE-IT-YOURSELF Dial 3-4513 212 W. Fourth Charlotte

It’s the size of the fight in the man!

That’s right! In the U. S. Air Force, it’s not the size of the man in the fight—it’s the size
of the FIGHT IN THE MAN! And Aviation Cadets must have plenty of it. For Cadet training is rugged. If
you're good enough... tough enough... smart enough... if you can take it while you’re learning to dish it out, you
can have one of the most fascinating careers in the world. You'll be equipped to fly the latest, hottest planes.
You'll be prepared to take your position as an executive, both in military and commercial aviation as well as in
industry. And while you're helping yourself you'll be helping your country.

WIN YOUR WINGS! It takes little over a year to win your wings as a Pilot or Aircraft Observer (Navigator,
Bombardier, Radar Operator or Aircraft Performance Engineer). But at the end of your training you graduate as a 2nd Lieutenant
in the Air Force, with pay of $5,300.00 a year.

ARE YOU ELIGIBLE? To qualify as an Aviation Cadet, you must have completed at least two years of college. This
is a minimum requirement it’s best if you stay in school and graduate. In addition, you must be between 19
and 26½ years, unmarried, and in good physical condition.

New Aviation Cadet Training Classes Begin Every Few Weeks!

HERE'S WHAT TO DO: 1. Take a transcript of your college credits and a copy of your birth certificate to
your nearest Air Force Base or Recruiting Station. Fill out the application they give you. 2. If application is accepted,
the Air Force will give you a physical examination. 3. Next, you take a written and manual aptitude test. 4.
If you pass your physical and other tests, you will be scheduled for an Aviation Cadet training class. The Selective
Service Act allows you a four-month deferment while waiting class assignment.

WHERE TO GET MORE DETAILS: your nearest Air Force Base, Air Force Recruiting Officer, or your nearest Air Force ROTC
unit. Or write to: Headquarters, U. S. Air Force, Washington 25, D. C.
