PAGE FOUR

Fraternities To Run United Appeal Drive

Dr. W. M. Docherty is shown above talking to Rev. Sam Magill and President J. R. Cunningham of Davidson during his visit here for Fall Services. Dr. Docherty, pastor of the New York Avenue Presbyterian Church of Washington, D.C., spent three days on the campus, delivering a series of five sermons centering around the general topic “Concerning the Faith.” He left immediately after his sermon Tuesday night to return to his parish.

Rev. Thomas Allan To Speak To Student Body

The Reverend Thomas Allan, M.A., will speak to the student body in Chapel Tuesday. He is to be in Mooresville as the Ashlin White Lecturer for the First Presbyterian Church. Rev. Allan was born at Newmilns, Ayrshire, Scotland. He graduated from Glasgow University in 1938, with the degree of M.A., with First Class Honors in English language and literature. In 1939 he decided to enter the ministry and enrolled at Trinity College, Glasgow. In 1940 he entered the R.A.F. as a combatant. Two years later he was commissioned and served in the Intelligence Department, in SHAEF, Paris, directly under Air Commander Tedder and General Eisenhower. To quote Mr. Allan: “I do not feel that I will be a stranger in the States. During the war it was my privilege to be on President Eisenhower's staff as an Intelligence Officer, and it was through an unknown (to me) American Negro soldier singing a spiritual at service in Reims that I was called back to the Faith after years of wandering in darkness and doubt.”

Mr. Allan returned to his theological studies at Glasgow in 1947. Upon completing his divinity course he was called as minister of the Church of Scotland to the North Kelvinside Parish, Glasgow. North Kelvinside was a congregation of some 400 and a parish consisting of tenements and working-class people. His aim was to be the minister of the parish and to train the laity to be the striking force through prayer, Bible study, fellowship, and action. His efforts have produced a congregation of 1300 today. As of the first of September, 1953, Mr. Allan has been called by the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland as Evangelist for the Church of Scotland. According to Mr. Allan, this is a three-year appointment, in which his main concern will be to prepare the ground in Scotland for a national movement of Protestant Churches of Scotland, the “Tell Scotland Movement” scheduled for 1955-56, in which all the resources of the Churches and the British Broadcasting Corporation will be used to bring the challenge of the Gospel to the people of Scotland in every department of their national life. As a member of the Preparatory Study Commission on Evangelism, he will attend the next World Council of Churches Assembly at Evanston, Illinois in the summer of 1954. He has specialized in the New Evangelism Movement in the Church of Scotland and is an authority on parish missions and missionary methods of the Churches of Europe. His book on this subject will be published early next year by the Student Christian Movement Press. Mr. Allan comes to Davidson highly recommended by Dr. George M. Docherty, our Fall Services speaker.

For the Best in Cleaning Dyeing - Hats Blocked

Sigs Clinch First... (Continued From Page Three)

Delt attack. Bill Hanna was the spark for the Pikas.

Pika 35, Phi Gam 26

Bill Hanna and Bob Owen combined their speed and passing ability to lead the Pikas to a 35 to 26 win over the Phi Gams. Homer Phiefer, Charles Hall, and Don Reid stood out for the Phi Gams in the high-scoring battle.

SPE 21, ATO 18

Extra points mean the difference in the battle between the ATOs and the SPEs. Charlie Butler and Baylass Mack stood out for the SPEs while Charles Efird excelled for the losers.

Off-Moorings... (Continued From Page Two)

overcome this condition if we are determined to do so. We will soon have presented to us as students the opportunity to reassert our modern-day belief in the good of traditional values—by readopting our rightful diploma.

Officers Named... (Continued From Page One)

Kappa, national leadership society. He is a Kappa Sig. Tapped into associate membership in the society were Captain Russell Hatch and Captain Walter P. Blanton. Colonel E. H. Davis is also an associate member of the society. Company B officers for 1953-54 are Buddy Lamon, president; Tom Ligon, vice president; Charlie Hasty, secretary; and Bill Morris, treasurer. In order to be eligible for membership in Scabbard and Blade a cadet must have an overall average of B in ROTC.

NOTICE

Mr. J. B. Bowman, State supervisor with Alcoa, will be on the campus Monday, Nov. 2, to talk with students who are interested in part-time work. Those interested in a little extra income may contact Mr. Bowman from 10:30 a.m. to 3 p.m., in the Green Room of the College Union.

Drink ‘M O O R Mooresville Creamery, Inc.

In 1952, the United Community Services, of which the United Appeal is a committee, was established. The United Appeal Committee sponsors the annual campaign for the gathering of funds for the various community services, such as the American Red Cross, the American Heart Association, the Mecklenburg Association for the Blind, and many other such indispensable services. Rather than have a separate drive for each of the 42 agencies represented, a single, all-inclusive campaign is held, thus saving both money and time on the campaigns, in addition to the convenience to the individual. This year, the appeal will be operated through the fraternities. Although an individual solicitation will not be made, the non-fraternity members of the school will be given an opportunity to give to the fund.

BULLETIN

College Union officials announced that lockers on the third floor of the Union are available to student organizations which desire them. These lockers are suitable for storing almost any kind of material or equipment. The president of each organization may draw the locker key from Mrs. French in the Union.

Patton’s Line... (Continued From Page Three)

fensive capabilities, Bob has also performed well on offense. Particularly adept on trapping plays, he has led the way for many a Davidson gain. We can certainly feel confident that Bob will have his position well filled in tomorrow's game with Washington and Lee, and know that he will continue the sterling play which he has given the Wildcats this year.

Converse Stormed... (Continued From Page One)

From all accounts, the Converse listeners apparently enjoyed the performance as much as the performers did. Professor Moore stated, “It's the best thing that’s happened to the band since Peter Stuart Ney left.” The band had 100 percent attendance at rehearsal Wednesday night.

Freshman Harriers... (Continued From Page Three)

in the season. However, Davidson's Pete Ashcraft was right behind Beaty, finishing only 24 seconds behind the highly touted runner. Pete also broke the old record. The other men who scored for Davidson in the Carolina meet in the order of their finishing were: Ted Baker, Gordon Bondurant, Steve Huntley, and Joe Brown. After today’s meet the frosh have only one remaining regularly scheduled meet before the Carolina’s AAU meet on the 21st. That meet is with the Burlington Running Club which will come to Davidson next weekend to meet the Kittens.

SEND THE DAVIDSONIAN HOME

DAVIDSON THEATRE

THURS.-FRI., NOV. 5-6 “RETURN TO PARADISE” (Technicolor) GARY COOPER

SATURDAY, NOV. 7 “ALL ASHORE” (Technicolor) MICKEY ROONEY

MON.-TUES., NOV. 9-10 “THE MOON IS BLUE” WILLIAM HOLDEN DAVID NIVEN

WEDNESDAY, NOV. 11 “FORT ALGIERS” YVONNE DeCARLO

THUR.-FRI., NOV. 12-13 “GENTLEMEN PREFER BLONDES” (Technicolor) MARILYN MONROE JANE RUSSELL

SATURDAY, NOV. 14 “JACK McCALL DESPERADO” (Technicolor) GEORGE MONTGOMERY

THE DAVIDSONIAN Movement Started Psychology Defended In After VesperGroup This Sunday Night To Oust Diplomas

Dr. J. M. Bevan, assistant professor of psychology, will lead a student discussion this Sunday after Vespers on the topic “Christianity and the Masses: A Psychological Approach.” The subject has been chosen as a “follow-up” to Dr. Docherty’s remarks on psychology and psychiatry, and his comparison of the psychological and “uniquely Christian” approaches to human problems and behavior.

Dr. Bevan, a graduate of Duke University, has taken degrees in both psychology and theology and is therefore well-equipped to serve as leader and mediator for the discussion. Students interested in taking part, or in merely sitting in, should gather in the Student Union immediately after Vespers. Refreshments will be served.

Since the school year of 1950, the senior classes have had the problem of trying to have the old-style diploma reinstated in place of the presently used one. This old-style diploma was used from 1840 up until 1929, a period of eighty-nine years. The senior classes of two previous years, in trying to bring about this desired change, have been denied the old-style diplomas by two factors.

First, the diplomas had already been purchased, leaving that senior class no alternative except to use them. The following year, after a change to the desired diploma had already been approved, the treasurer of the college informed the student body that the cost of the diploma was entirely prohibitive. The executive committee of the faculty determined that, in order to bring about any change in the diploma, it would be necessary that two-thirds of the total membership of the upper three classes must vote in its favor. With this fact in mind, the student body must note that if this change is to be made, it must be done this year. The college, in order to change the type of diploma, must make a new five-year contract with the printing company this year. If this is not done now, the five following senior classes must receive the presently used diplomas.

Marine Officer To Be On Campus Nov. 19

The Marine Corps Officer Procurement Officer, Captain F. S. Hittinger, Jr., USMC, will be on campus on Thursday, Nov. 19, to interview men who are interested in qualifying for one of the Programs leading to a commission in the Marine Corps Reserve. Captain Hittinger emphasized that there is no interference with regular academic studies or campus activities. Summer training for the Platoon Leaders Class consists of two six-week classes at Quantico, Va., with the rank and pay of a corporal, $149 for the first year, and sergeant, $163 for the second year. PLC’s are draft deferred so that they may graduate from college and receive their commission.

NOTICE

There will be a meeting of the French Club at the University on Saturday, October 31. Professors Causey, Peake, Goldiere, and Jones of Davidson attended the session. Professor Jones read to the American Association of Teachers of French a paper on Voltaire.

AT COST PRICES ON SPORT SHIRTS — SWEATERS SPORT SLACKS ARGYLE SOCKS — Nylon or Cotton THE STUDENT STORE

BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD, N. C. “Coke” is a registered trademark. © 1953, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY

Generals Favored... (Continued from Page Three)

Rowland-Thacker TD

A Bill Rowland-Jim Thacker pass play accounted for the only Davidson score of the game. Rowland heaved the ball to Thacker, who gathered it in and went all the way, with the play covering fifty-five yards. Other than the scoring play, the Davidson offense was held well in check by the Harvard team. The Wildcats could manage only six first downs against the Crimsons’ line.

Washington and Lee’s championship team of several years ago is gone, and they have had rough going on the gridiron this season. The Generals won their opening game of the season, taking a decision over Shepherd State. Since then, the team has lost to Maryland, North Carolina, West Virginia, Richmond, Virginia Tech, and George Washington.

Lost to Colonials

Last Saturday, the Washington and Lee team gave George Washington a real battle for three quarters, leading 7-6 in the third period. But the Colonials turned on the steam in the final minutes to win, 25-7. It was another of the last-half losses that have plagued the Generals this season. They have played fine football in the first half of their games, only to lose when their lack of depth began to show. Injuries which have hounded the W&L team have made this more noticeable.

Washington and Lee has a big team, especially from tackle to tackle. Captain Bill McHenry, a 215-pound center, has been a standout in the line, while Joe Lindsey has shown up well for the Generals in the quarterback slot and should do a lot of throwing tomorrow.

Important Annual Meeting Sun. Night

Quips and Cranks will have an editorial staff meeting in the Green Room of the College Union this Sunday night, November 8, immediately after Vespers. All members of the student body who have signed up for work with the editorial staff are requested to attend. The purpose of the meeting will be to acquaint staff members with the general layout of the 1954 Quips and Cranks and to outline the work that the staff has to do in the coming months.

Chapel Furore... (Continued From Page Two)

There is no indication that any action will be taken concerning chapel policy. But it is true that the members of the faculty and administration are thinking seriously about the problem, and some of them are entertaining the idea of making changes in policy. Whether or not changes are to come, no one can say. It does seem, however, that some sort of revision of chapel policy is highly desirable, that something should be done in an attempt to enable the students to get more out of meeting together five times every week.

CATTALES...

With 8 of the 10 conference teams participating, we see a good possibility of the Cats traveling into the hills come next March. On the casual glance, however, the Wildcat prospectus for the coming season might still be considered very dismal. With the leading scorer gone and no new men whatsoever on a squad which could manage only four wins last season, one might be led to forecast another victory-starved Davidson team.

Seasoned Team, Better Schedule Boost Cat Hopes

However, Coach Miller expresses great enthusiasm over this year’s prospects. With a lighter load as far as the schedule goes and some great improvement on the part of the boys, optimism is the word around the Johnston Gym boards. “The boys have the seasoning and experience they lacked so much last year and should be about due,” comments Miller. “Last year we ran up against so many tough teams that no matter how much we talked to the boys they knew how the score stood and you can’t win ball games if you don’t think you have a chance.” The Millermen of last season could never be labeled as loafers, however, and that same old password “hustle” will be Coach Miller's theme again this year. Throw this in with a little experience and basketball know-how and a more Davidson-level schedule and who knows—anything can happen.

THE BEST IN THE WORLD FOR THE AMERICAN MAN OF THE WORLD!

WORSTED-TEX® BRITISH LOUNGE MODEL

The British Lounge Model...a Worsted-Tex exclusive...is the most astounding accomplishment in men’s clothing construction. Through the technique of scientific tailoring, the British Lounge Model adds the look of added height, tapered waist and hips and smartness to every man’s appearance. You can enjoy the advantages of the British Lounge Model in your favorite model—a single- or double-breasted—in a variety of exclusive 2-ply 100% virgin worsteds and wools featuring the newest patterns, weaves, and shades.

CHARLOTTE,