FROM THE EDITORS: A Course of Action

The editors of the Davidsonian recognize the seriousness of the current situation brought about by the faculty fraternity committee recommendation. In order that we all might form a more valid opinion on the matter, it is indeed necessary to weigh the arguments and opinions from all sides, for this is certainly no clear-cut issue. It has been our aim in this paper to present a representative sample of views from all fraternities and from the administration. It is strongly urged that all interested parties—Faculty, Administration, Students, Alumni, and Trustees—read the editorial page in its entirety and, in consideration of all the facts, be more fully qualified to take a definite stand on the matter. Let us proceed with reason as well as emotion.

FROM THE PRESIDENT: An Observation

We are now engaged within the College in an effort to reach an important decision which concerns the entire community. The unsettled consideration has to do with Freshmen feeding in the Cafeteria of the College Union. Fraternity and non-fraternity interests are involved. Faculty and Student relations will display themselves. Trustees and Alumni both now, and in the future, are to be considered. The social and economic life of the College is a part of the entire picture. Though the Fraternity Committee has made recommendations, no final conclusions have been reached. Careful study by duly appointed groups has been, and is being, made. The practices and experiences of like institutions are being taken into account. No hasty decisions will be satisfactory. Here is an opportunity for the exercise of mutual understanding and confidence. The values of the fraternity system to the institution are not in question. Their protection is essential. The best interests of the entire student body are of transcending concern. The overall good of the College, both now and in the future, is paramount. We may now learn a far-reaching lesson in group relations. It is the wisdom we look for in government, in management-labor relations, in statecraft, and in the Church. A suggestion has been made to the various groups concerned that representative committees be appointed to study, confer, and recommend. The hope entertained by us all is that in the end a conclusion may be reached which will have the manifest marks of wisdom and Christian spirit.

J. R. Cunningham

FRATERNITY COMMITTEE: Two Considerations Given Why Freshmen Should Eat At Union

Based on the following two considerations, the Fraternity Committee recommends that, beginning with the 1953-54 college year, all members of the Freshman Class be required to eat together in the Cafeteria at the College Union Building:

1. The recognized need for a central dining facility at the college and the belief that it should be self-supporting. To operate such a dining room on a self-supporting basis will require a regular boarding group considerably larger than the group which would normally eat at the college cafeteria.
2. The conviction that such an arrangement will promote a class unity and spirit which will be beneficial to the class and to the college.

Certain benefits as well as certain problems will result from such a program. Among the benefits are:

1. The College Union Fee, which will be added to the Student Activities fee for 1953-54, will be considerably less for each student if there is a profit instead of a loss in the cafeteria operation.
2. Accommodations for fraternities and other groups can be handled more efficiently and at lower costs to these groups with the better personnel set-up and the more economical operation possible under this arrangement.
3. The College can make it possible for the fraternity boarding houses to buy a large part of their food requirements at lower wholesale prices through a central purchasing arrangement which will be handled by the manager of the Cafeteria.

The College recognizes that it will be necessary for the fraternities to make certain adjustments in their plans for food service as a result of the requirement that Freshmen eat at the Union Cafeteria. It is prepared to cooperate fully with the fraternities in making this transition as smooth as possible. It is important that one point be recognized by all.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF .................. Frank Hanshaw
BUSINESS MANAGER ............ Jack Hobson
ASSISTANT EDITOR ............ John Ottley
Associate Editors .......... Brinkley, Harter, Hope, Myers, M. G., Moylan, D.H.
Managing Editors .......... Hassell, J. M. Moore, Owens
Sports Editor .......... Dick Roper
News Editor .......... D. M. Smith
Arts Editor .......... Mahy
Feature Editor .......... T. A. Williams
Assignments .......... Strand
Photographer .......... Simons
Assistant Business Manager .......... Poston
Advertising Manager .......... Hasty
Circulation Manager .......... Nicholson
Collection Manager .......... Douglas

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N.C., under the Act of March 3, 1897.

The issue of the day facing every Davidson student was exploded by the administration in a meeting with fraternity presidents this past Monday. The question is, in essence, what would be the consequences of requiring all freshmen next year to eat their meals in the soon-to-be-opened College Union dining hall. Our letters-to-the-editor department got a sampling of the general student attitude in this week's mail and we have included herein excerpts of letters from the various fraternity representatives and other interested parties.

CAMPUS CLUB

... I feel somewhat like the proverbial Philistines among the Hebrews. The problems which confront the fraternities concerning the boarding houses would not apply to the Campus Club, as we have not maintained a boarding house of our own since 1950. Yet there are some aspects of the new system that would cause new problems for the Club, but perhaps end a few old ones. The assumption generally made by the Interfraternity Council representatives and fraternity presidents is that the new system would necessitate postponed rushing. The effects of such action on the fraternities would be immediately felt in increased cost per man for social functions, more and larger assessments for operative expenses, higher dues, and increased cost of board at fraternity-run houses. All but the last named would also be true of the Campus Club. As an organization that stresses economy as a by-word, anything that would tend to increase cost per man is viewed with alarm by the Club. ... I do not feel, however, that all the effects will be detrimental, either to the Campus Club or the fraternities. The class spirit the college hopes to inculcate in the freshmen might eventually improve the college and possibly result in a gain for all concerned.

Ed Blanton, President.

SIGMA CHI

... From observation of the administration’s actions in the past and examinations of the motives for this action I am still uncertain whether or not the original recommendation will be passed by the faculty. Students have responded in the past with objections and alternatives to proposed actions detrimental to student aims. We can both, but I believe the positive advantages the faculty will find will outweigh our arguments. Probable consequences of action:

1. Reduce size of fraternities:
   a. immediate reduction of 1/3 to 1/2
   b. long-term reduction in upperclassmen fraternity members due to experience of 1 year as independents, decreasing activity of fraternities due to financial loss. (A possible alternative favored by some faculty members is 100% memberships in upper classes.)
   c. smaller, closer-knit groups, more “fraternity spirit,” less activity.
   d. combination of boarding houses.
   e. possibility of division of student body into “fraternity blocks” and independent blocks in social and political areas.

2. Set freshmen apart:
   a. increase class spirit.
   b. encourage hazing.
   c. retard adaptation of freshmen to college tradition and life, growth by intimate contact with older boys in fraternities.

... Assuming this plan passes, these, among other steps must be insisted upon as compensation for the shifting of the financial burden of the Union to the fraternities:

1. College should guarantee not to charge less than the average of fraternity board. Some system must be devised.
2. Fraternities must be allowed to serve independents where desirable.
3. Independents should be excluded from the cafeteria to make it strictly a freshman class project.
   a. Transfers should be allowed, but not required, to eat in the cafeteria during the first year.
4. Buying plan advanced should be accepted.

But still, any solution seems lacking.

John LaMotte, President.

BETA THETA PI

... We have found, upon thorough consideration of the recommended change in Freshman dining regulations, that, if the new program is adopted, our fraternity would be seriously affected in its activities and practices. The initial change would be financial. The fixed costs of board per man per month on the basis of 70 men and 9 months is $11.59 out of $45.00; a loss of 20 men would necessitate a monthly increase of $4.64 per man (minimum). This does not include the added cost of feeding a smaller number of men (as fixed costs would remain the same). For the same reason, we would have to drop one out of 4 waiters, meaning a loss of $45.00 a month, or $405.00 a year, in student aid per waiter. From a scholastic viewpoint, we feel that the chapter could not watch over its pledges and aid them to cultivate proper study habits. Although nightly study halls could still be enforced, we would have little knowledge of their afternoon or weekend activities until grade deficiencies appeared. Perhaps primary among our objections to this program is that of its being a tremendous handicap to the entire pledge training program. We feel that it is mostly just before, during, and after meal time that we get to know our pledges best, and thus are capable of advising them on their problems and straightening out many of their difficulties. The proposed limitations on our contact with freshmen would restrict this type of training and thus the quality of the fraternity brother, or sound student, would be seriously affected. Furthermore, we would like to point out that the absence of Freshmen brothers second semester would cause them to miss many current activities, such as announcements, organization of sports, etc., which fact would have a tremendous demoralizing effect on the fraternity spirit as a whole.

Bill Russell, Boarding House Mgr.
Dave Robinson, President

PHI GAMMA DELTA

... At the time of the Union construction and planning, means for financing the proposed cafeteria system must certainly have been considered. Why is it now suddenly sprung upon us without any warning or consultation? ... the present system was decided upon, fraternities should have been notified then! Our objections to the present proposal is that a resulting drop in fraternity membership is inevitable ... this would ruin boarding houses. Also, rent on lodges would ruin fraternities if they become smaller and the rent remains the same... If the administration has made a mistake, why should fraternities be made to pay for it? It seems one of the school’s main arguments is a weak cheer for the resulting increase of school spirit ... I say school unity will be hurt. Freshmen will not know seniors. Freshmen will eat with friends anyway, form blocks, and will pledge a fraternity in groups. There will be more late pledging and broken pledges than ever before. This isn’t unity ... Freshmen should have the right to choose their own eating place. This might be a bit extreme, but it’s entirely possible: fraternities could become merely rich men’s clubs. This would lead to much adverse criticism and even fraternity wars ... The least we can hope for is that the plan will not further destroy fraternal unity to the extent that the present set-up (which we consider excellent) is destroyed. If they need financial aid, we suggest ... raising College Union fees... keep a small staff; let fraternities provide help for special occasions ... charge a nominal fee to social fraternities for use of ballroom and facilities when acting as a group... sell the automatic curtain puller (to be used in 1967) to help defray expenses. If class unity is the problem, have class dances, banquets, parties, intramurals, and competition ... We never noticed this lack of unity.

Malcolm C. Doubles.

PHI DELTA THETA

A Financial Analysis of the Phi Delta Theta Boarding House.

The average cash outlay per month $2,892.00.
The total fixed expenses per month $606.60.
Total variable expenses per month $2,285.40.
The total cost of fixed expenses prorated among an average of 65 boys $9.33.
The total cost of fixed expenses prorated if 18 of the average 65 boys ate at the College Union $14.00.
This leaves 47 eating at the boarding house. Thus, to meet expenses, board would have to be raised a minimum amount of $5.00 ($14.00 less $9.00). This would raise our board from $45.00 per month to $50.00. Under the proposed Central Food Purchasing Agency, what percentage of saving would it require to offset the estimated $5.00 per man increase in cost of operation due to the decrease in the number of boarders? If all variable expenses could be channeled through the agency, a 10% discount could possibly offset the loss of boarders; however, not all of our variable expenses are foodstuffs and also it is highly improbable that we could satisfactorily buy 100% through the agency. Therefore, my estimate is that a 15% discount through a central purchase agency could offset our financial loss. This is a very conservative estimate. The above figures are to the best of my knowledge correct and the estimates are figured without bias.

PHI DELTA THETA BOARDING HOUSE, FletcherBright. The purchasing agency referred to by Fletcher was proposed by the administration in Monday’s meeting. It was their plan that all fraternities would buy from one school-sponsored agency and thus, because of the quantity involved, afford each fraternity a reduction in buying cost.—SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON ... This proposal, as outlined by the faculty committee, if adopted would present the fraternities and the student body with several problems. The most acute of these, but probably the one which could be most easily solved, is that of financial adjustment which could be accomplished through combination. This in itself has certain disadvantages, but would enable the fraternities to maintain operations of boarding facilities. The other problem is on the social side, and I feel would have a much greater and more lasting effect upon the fraternity system and the personality of the student body as a whole. I think that everyone will agree that the large majority of a man's fraternity experience centers in the boarding houses. Because of the absence of the freshmen, they would be deprived of the benefit of the close association with upperclassmen which is fostered in the boarding houses. The upperclassmen would not have an opportunity to as closely observe, correct, and encourage the freshmen in their adjustment to college life, and I am afraid that this would greatly hinder their assimilation into the student body. This would also make the pledge training programs and criticisms ineffective. After serving on the Court of Control it is my opinion that the fraternities in their pledge training and corrective programs have a much greater effect on the personality and character of the freshman class than does the Court. The effectiveness of the fraternities along this line would be greatly decreased if the proposal were adopted, and I do not believe that their present effectiveness. As an eventual result I can foresee the possibility that the quality of the so-called “Davidson Gentleman” could be lost. I do not feel that this is the time for a general uprising against the administration nor that we should debate and argue merely for the sake of argument. Nor do I think that we should seek to strengthen or prevent the weakening of the fraternity system on the campus. Rather, I feel that we should think in terms of long-run results and the effect that such a move would have on Davidson five or ten years from now. With this in mind, we should strive for a stronger and better Davidson, even at the expense of the proposal will result in a stronger and better Davidson. Ernest H. Barry, President. ALPHA TAU OMEGA Alpha Tau Omega is concerned for the finances of the Student Union because it is a wonderful facility, but we are also concerned with our own finances. We have invested several thousand dollars in a boarding house that operates on a break-even basis. If the number would be reduced below the number necessary for practical operation at the present standard, we stand either to be penalized by having to pay a drastically higher board or give up the boarding house. We pay $100 a semester now which is high enough; a greater charge would be a burden many could not bear, and our numbers would be even further reduced. Giving up the house would mean the sale of equipment at the usual loss of money. Also, there is the loss of jobs to 15 persons each of whom depends greatly on fraternity jobs. But in addition to matters of money and jobs, the loss of that house would mean the loss of a great part of the fraternity’s identity, the loss of a common enterprise which brings its members together more often than any other factor. It would mean in short that the fraternity would be reduced to another meeting once a week. We live in dormitories; now we shall eat in a cafeteria. It would be superfluous to state here the disadvantages this would mean for us in the fraternity system. Even the alternative of combination with other fraternities would mean a greater loss than just the loss of money and jobs for us. We would not place our fraternity above the good of the freshman class or the Student Union, but to sacrifice one for the other is needless. Fraternities as they are set up at Davidson are not a hindrance but an advantage to freshmen and a source of personality development. If class spirit is important, we suffer from great disillusionment. If the Union becomes a burden on the students or the fraternities it is not serving the end for which it was intended. For us, then, it becomes a matter of sacrifice which we have been given no reason to believe justified. George Brinkly, President. KAPPA SIGMA Our fraternities were limited a few years back to merely eating and meeting together, but through a coordinated intramural program and two social functions a year they still were able to retain the intangible spirit and value of the fraternity idea. Now the freshmen are to be removed from the boarding houses. We see two inevitable conclusions: first, there will be a reduction in the number of annual fraternity pledges; second, reduction will make boarding house rates prohibitive for remaining members. The College Union is a perfect fraternity house. It boasts more magazines than anyone could read in two months; coffee on tap, doughnuts, Cokes; an extensive record collection; game room; comfortable furniture; television; musical facilities; and theater attractions. In short, it adds to existing fraternity advantages many features which the administration would not allow a fraternity to build. It is questionable whether the College Union can add adequate and just athletic and social opportunities to fill the needs of the inevitable increase in non-fraternity men. It is certain that not enough class spirit and unity can be generated through the proposed plan to provide the individual counseling, companionship, and development that accompany the earning of a fraternity pin. The proposed freshman boarding plan appears to me to be a camel's head in the tent that can't be ignored. Slowly but inevitably we shall find the camel all the way in the tent. I oppose the infliction of this legislative slow rot on an institution that has no recourse to legislation—in fact, whose greatest strength lies in its unwritten values. I would rather have my fraternity killed outright than see it slowly die. Clay Evatt, President. SIGMA PHI EPSILON Pi KAPPA ALPHA We propose to investigate the financial point of view. One thing, which must be realized is the fact that fraternity boarding houses contribute highly to helping the student finance by supplying jobs as waiters, washers, boarding house managers, etc. To cite an example of one of the many boarding houses, let's look at the Co-op (PIKA-SPE). This boarding house alone provides 14 part-time jobs for students plus two full-time managerial jobs. This benefits those working a total of $2,475 per school year. Assuming there is a similar situation in the other boarding houses, we can estimate about $15,000 is provided by the fraternities for student help. Incurring further deficits? We do not think so. College dining hall does employ waiters, students as well, but the number of dishwashers and boarding house managers would be done away with and waiters’ jobs greatly decreased. In addition to this, many of the boarding houses which are not co-ops could not operate at all because of lack of income and the high cost of maintenance for a smaller group. Under these circumstances, student help would be entirely done away with unless some other arrangement could be made. Can the college make reservations for the decrease in student help? Can the total profit of the College Union offset the total combined loss of the fraternities? Can the college honestly and sincerely feel that their proposed plan is for the benefit of the Davidson student? Can the college feel that justice is being done by causing fraternity boarding houses to sacrifice in order to overcome unnecessary college deficit, and in essence cause the decline of the naturally excellent fraternity system we now have? ? ? ? Horace Ball, Pres. SPE. Frank Hanshaw, Pres. P KAPPA ALPHA There is now no doubt in anyone's mind but that the existing conditions have necessitated some sort of change and also that all the reasons tendered to substantiate alternate changes are at best speculations. With these facts in mind, I believe that a better plan would require the freshmen to eat together for one semester and would entail an increased pro-rata second-semester Union fee in order to realize the balance of potential cafeteria revenue. Under this proposal class spirit, it seems to me, would be manifested in two ways: first, through the semester spent eating together; and secondly, through a program to be initiated this Spring by the Y. M. C. A. This program which encompasses class functions and projects is a proposed stepping stone to future successful class activity. If class spirit still fails to appear in any appreciable degree, then the supplementary idea of freshmen dorms merits consideration. Let me say quite frankly that I can see shortcomings in this proposal as I can in each suggested remedy. The question has resolved itself into another question: Which series of disadvantages would be most advantageous for both Administration and fraternities? In backing the Administration's proposal I believe there are several awesome possibilities which could tend toward the eventual decline of the fraternity system. I have no doubt that membership will be reduced. If this reduced membership takes away the friendly rivalry; if it heightens the minimum exclusiveness and cliquishness; or if in any way it detracts from Davidson's present individuality of system, then I feel the plan is bad. While the financial issues could perhaps be weathered in a desperate and barren three-year period, the more important cumulative series of underlying possibilities could wreck the whole system. Let me close now with a seeming about-face. I believe that the conviction and unquestionable integrity of the Administration and fraternity committee lends weight to their proposal. I recognize that the entire college family (which includes students) shares a mutual aim and that is to better Davidson. And so it seems to me that the thing to do is to recognize the situation, to analyze and evaluate the plans, to attempt to anticipate the possible pitfalls, some of which approach monstrous proportions, and then to work together in effecting those decisions. Robert M. Henry, President. PI KAPPA PHI If the proposed freshman dining hall plan is approved, it will be financially impossible for the Pi Kappa Phi boarding house to continue independent existence. Due to the resulting cut in our boarding membership, we will be forced to close our boarding house or have them close down to join us. In either case, we will put five people out of jobs and deprive a student of his room. Both fraternities will lose all that an independent boarding house means to fraternity fellowship and spirit. Both will suffer in attempting effective pledge training. Both must expect a definite lack in use of the fraternity house by freshman pledges they may have. The boarding house is an institution within the unique Davidson fraternity system. However, the freshman is to have no part of it. Fraternity life could hardly be for the Davidson student before his sophomore year. I think it is commonly agreed that we wish to prevent a loss of one year of fraternity life by the Davidson man (such as by withholding rushing for one year). The freshman will find that in most cases the major use of the houses results directly from going to and coming from boarding house meals via the frat house. But the boarding house is not for him! Where else then will pledge-brother fellowship exist, since the location of freshman meals will provide no en route stops at the frat house? It would appear that the detrimental consequences of running a college dining hall are being transferred to the fraternity system. Several questions come to our minds concerning the overall plan: 1. If the administration feels in forcing (sometimes expressed as “requiring”) men of the freshman class to dine in a specified location, do we have absolute assurance that such a mandatory policy will not be later extended to other members of the student body (whom the college supposedly is training to be mature MEN thinking and acting for themselves in this world)? 2. How does this program justify the consequent idleness of our costly Chambers dining hall and kitchen? 3. Is the administration confident that the contributors to the Ovens College Union fund would be indifferent to their gift being used to create such a serious detriment to the Davidson students’ fraternity life? 4. If this plan has been in mind for considerable time, why is it now presented without prior consultation with, or warning to, fraternities, causing it to seem to take the form of an ultimatum? Mitchell Patton, President. These notes make it plain: the Davidson student, cloistered by his own choice from the commerce and crisis of society, has been presented with a different sort of question. It is ostensibly an emotional one—the loss of his least expensive and most enjoyable resource as well as the intangible meaning of “fraternity” cannot, however, be put down on paper. Even if it were, it would be accorded adolescent impulsiveness. More important and more pertinent, it is a question of economics. Here the question exceeds our cloisters and calls for consideration as sober and judgment as mature as any we shall achieve after graduation. From you who have already graduated—Faculty, Trustees, Alumni—we implore the same consideration and judgment that we feel we have given to a question both emotional and economic.