FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1953 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

The casual observer of the Davidson Wildcat football scene would probably see little to be happy about or to express any enthusiasm over either now or in the future. However, a little closer inspection might reveal to the gridiron prophet a little brighter outlook for next season’s Wildcat participation in intercollegiate football when September 1954 rolls around.

By JOHN HANDLEY

There’s quite a difference between having good chances of winning and producing a winning margin for the record books, but the Cats, on paper at least, are looking forward to a much more successful season next year. As we pointed out last week in relation to this year’s basketball team, next year’s football team will face a little more Davidson-size opposition in a much improved schedule over this year’s tough one. The Cats will drop four of the powers who are constantly pouring more and more into their football participation to play teams of a little more the size and budget of Davidson. The Cats will not face Georgia Tech, Richmond, Harvard, and George Washington, while picking up VMI, Florida State, and Wofford. The Red and Black will meet the Citadel, Presbyterian, N.C. State, Furman, and W.&L. in traditional contests. This lineup, it seems to this writer, is much more in keeping with the spirit of the Davidson athletic system and should prove more satisfactory for the Cats.

Not Many Lost to June Graduation

Then we might examine the graduation list to determine what key men on this year’s squad will receive their sheepskins (whether block or script Latin) come next June. In the ball-carrying department, there is the bright prospect of not losing a single first stringer. Both Henry Brown and Bill Rowland at the quarterback spot will return next season for another year’s action, while Jimmy Thacker and Harley Smith will be back in their usual halfback posts and big Leroy Fargason will return to the power slot. Other backfield performers such as Jimmy Shelton, Tal Broughton, and Dave Hambrick will also return to next year’s action.

In the line, the story is a little sadder with the losses of such men as the Captain, Alternate Captain combo of Ben Craig and Neil Graham at the tackle posts going out with the June graduates. Sturdy Bob Patten at guard will also be sorely missed next season. Bill Acker at center will be missed along with Dan McCall at an end. However, from this report, one might notice that Coach Dole has men to fill each of these positions next season. Jim Patterson, Charlie Cousar, Jimmy Davis, and Corky King will return at the ends. Perhaps the tackle spots will be the hardest to fill with Tom Owen the only regular to be back next year. Gene Davis, Dickie Davis, Bill Abernathy, and Harold Davis will all return at the guards, while Harry Petersen and Don Moore will be back at center. In the backfield, as we pointed out earlier, each of the regulars will return.

Freshman Team Could Mean Difference Next Year

Then glancing at Coach Dole’s pride and joy, the freshman team, we see another encouraging front. With such names as Dyke Little, whose passes have been the difference in several games for the frosh, Gregg Poole, Don McCree, and Ken Conger in the backfield, prospects for some good varsity material are good. In the line, such men as Bill Gramley, Lyle Llewelyn, and Tom Lee should reinforce Davidson's forward defenses for next season’s action. All the prospects are bright for the Cats for next season and if Coach Dole can continue to produce such freshmen teams as this year’s version, Davidson football fortunes are definitely on the upgrade. In only his second year at Davidson, Coach Dole has brought some fine men to the campus and his building program is about to pay off.

Wrestling Tourney Opens Wednesday For Greeks

With the close of the football season, all the sports-minded Greeks are turning to wrestling as the next big sports event. The tournament will be held in Johnston Gymnasium on November 18 and 19. There will be nine weight classes, beginning with 123 pounds and going to the heavyweight or unlimited class.

A lot of the stars of last year's tournament are either ineligible because of winning a letter or have graduated. This leaves the field wide open and from the looks of the number of boys each afternoon “sweating it out” on the mat, the competition will be keen again this year.

Drink ‘M O O R? Mooresville Creamery, Inc.

The defending champion Phi Gams are expected to field the team to beat. Leading contenders are last year’s runner-ups, John Flintom at 147 and Monty Littlejohn in the 191 class. Freshmen Joe Whitesell and Johnny Grey are expected to be strong men in their classes. Second-place last year, the SPEs lost several top men but will rest their hopes on Jim Patterson and Joel Blackwelder. Third-place Kappa Sigs appear to have a good lineup headed by Eddie Powe at 137 and Johnny Smith at 147. Dave Burns, a strong contender last year, will shoulder the SAE bid along with Henry Faison. Dickie Webb in the 123-pound class, and Larry Wright will team up with Bill McElveen for the Betas.

The next sporting event on the Greek calendar after the wrestling tournament will be the swimming tournament followed by the ever-popular basketball season. Both these events are slated to begin in December after the return from the Thanksgiving holidays.

Geo. Washington invades Tomorrow

Varsity Runners Vie For So. Title

The Davidson cross country harriers will travel to Williamsburg, Va., for the annual Southern Conference cross country meet to be held on the William and Mary Campus on Monday. The locals are figured to place third behind West Virginia and Virginia Military Institute.

Yesterday afternoon Davidson's Red and Black varsity distance men met the Blue Devils of Duke University in a duel affair which found the Cats on the losing end of a close 25-31 count. Homer Sparks, captain of the 1953 Wildcat harriers, took first place in the meet with a 21:10 time for the 3.8-mile Duke course. The race was close all the way and could easily have gone either way. Coach Whittle expressed his enthusiasm over the Cats showing and felt that it would help the team in the conference meet on Monday. The other scorers for Davidson were Floyd Feeney, Andy Turner, Dick Lovette, and Paul Alexander. Feeney placed third in the meet.

Duke Substitute

The Duke meet was substituted at the last minute for the State meet, which was postponed to the same date of the Southern Conference meet, making it impossible for the Cats to compete. West Virginia will be favored to take the Conference meet with very little trouble. They won the conference duel meet trophy this year, having defeated William and Mary, Richmond, and VMI for a 3-0 conference record. They also defeated several top-notch Pennsylvania teams.

VMI Strong

VMI is expected to place second followed closely by Davidson, Washington and Lee, VPI, Richmond, and William and Mary. The Cats, although figured to come in behind VMI, have a slim chance of upsetting the Keydets to take second place. VMI defeated the Davidson team during the regular season by a high score, but in comparing the times, the meet was closer than the score indicated.

Sparks Leads

Captain Homer Sparks will lead the locals in the meet. Sparks placed in the top twenty-five in last year's meet to be Davidson's only trophy winner. Sparks has placed first for Davidson in all their meets thus far this season and took meet first honors against Maryville, Richmond, and Duke. Sparks will be followed closely by Floyd Feeney, Andy Turner, and Dick Lovette. All three have run well this year and should finish in the top twenty-five in the conference meet. John Handley, Paul Alexander, and Herschel Allen compose the remainder of the team. Much is depending on the showings of these men as to the team’s placing at Williamsburg.

(Continued on Page Four)

Davidson’s freshman cross country team closes out its schedule with a busy weekend. They are: 1st row (1. to r.): Joe Brown, Ted Baker, John Holshouser, Gordon Bondurant, Frank Kiker, and Pete Ashcraft: 2nd row, Jerry Pietenpol, Mgr., Bill Jackson, John Hill, Steve Huntley, Roy Robinson, Sam Magill, coach.

Frosh Gridders Success-Runners Wind Up Monday

By JIM HOLSHOUSER

This weekend marks the close of fall action for Davidson’s successful freshman teams. The frosh Harriers will wind up their activities over at Raleigh on Monday, while the gridders boosted their final total.to 3-1 last Saturday with an upset over the favored Citadel Bullpups. The freshman runners face the Burlington Running Club tomorrow morning on the local course to start the busy weekend before traveling to Raleigh for the State meet Monday to cap off their regular season's activities. They will, however, participate in the Carolina’s AAU cross country meet here next Saturday. The Burlington club is coached by the famed “Hard Rock” Simpson, Burlington's running mailman, who holds many phenomenal records for distance running. The club will bring a strong team to oppose Sam Magill's sterling frosh squad. Monday the frosh cross country team runs against the representatives of North Carolina, N. C. State, and Duke. It is a meet to decide the freshman championship of the state. The top five men on the freshman team will represent Davidson in the meet. Last Friday, the frosh runners downed the strong team from Lees-McRae in a close meet, 29-27. Pete Ashcraft again paved the way for the win, taking first place in the meet. Gordon Bondurant came in third. The frosh runners have now won meets with Pheiffer Junior College (twice) and Lees-McRae. The North Carolina University freshman runners have been the only one capable of downing the Wildkitten runners. Last Saturday, the freshman gridders won their third game in four starts as they downed the Citadel frosh, 19-0. It was the final game of the current season for the Kittens, and they came through in fine style. Donnie McRee was the big gun in the Davidson attack. He scored all three touchdowns in the game and gained a big hunk of the Davidson yardage. The local frosh outplayed the Citadel team in every department, (Continued on Page Four)

DELTS TIE -- “STARS” PICKED

By BUDDY LILES

Two major events spotlighted this week’s Greek tag football loop action. These two important happenings were the winding up of this year’s season with the Phi Delts and the Sigma Chis tying for the first slot and the selection of the coveted All-Fraternity team berths. Kappa Sig junior, Corky Clark, was named captain of the mythical seven as he piled up the most number of votes among the league's players. The Phi Delts dominated the first team in having their top performers, Ish Bennett and Max Devane named in the top seven. The Phi Delts downed the SAEs and cinched a tie for first place in the Greek League. Scoring freely and playing good defensive ball, the Phi Delts moved into the first place tie with the Sigma Chis. Each team has a record of nine wins and one loss. Listed below are the players of the first and second teams of the 1953 All-Fraternity voting:

Corky Clark, Kappa Sigs
Corky Clark was selected as captain of the all-campus squad. Corky was the leading scorer of the runner-up Kappa Sigs. He was a mainstay on defense and one of the favorite targets for the passes of Eddie Powe.

Ray Harding, Sigma Chis
Ray Harding, despite the fact that he didn't play in the past few games due to basketball practice, was nominated to the all-star team. Ray was the spark of the co-champion, Sigma Chis. His running, passing, and kicking was the big factor in the success of the champs, who were also champions in '52.

Bill Hanna, Pikas
Bill Hanna, whose Pika team ended the year with an even record, was the main reason for their moments of glory along with Bob Owen who secured a position on the second all-campus team. Bill's speed and maneuverability made him one of the most dangerous threats in the league.

Fred Stowe, Sig Eps
Fred Stowe proved his ability other than legal by directing the SPEs to several upsets and making them one of the toughest teams in the league. It was his passing which accounted for most of their scoring.

(Continued On Page Four)

Crosby-Squares Cordovan
Foremost of Leathers
Plain Toe and Wingtips
17.95 - 18.95
Wilson’s Men’s Shop
“COLLEGIATE FASHIONS”
Next to Bank
Davidson, N. C.

‘Colonials Are Strongest Since Ga. Tech’-- Dole

By BILL HESTON

Richardson Field will be the stage for the Davidson Wildcats’ second home encounter of the season when they meet the Colonials of George Washington tomorrow at 2:30 p.m. The Cats will be fighting a very strong eleven from Washington who have proven their capabilities thus far this season by defeating VMI, North Carolina State, and Washington and Lee.

Colonials Strong
Coach Dole believes the Colonials will be the strongest team the Cats have met this year since their defeat by the Yellow Jackets of Georgia Tech. The team spirit seems to be very good, however it will take every man playing at his “tops” if the hometown boys are to come out on the winning side.

Looked Good Against Terps
Last week George Washington met the mighty Maryland machine in Washington, D.C., in what proved to be a hard-fought contest, however, the magnificent line play of Maryland led them in the second half to a 27-6 victory. When the whistle blew for the ending of the first half George Washington left the gridiron with the Terrapins leading only 7 to 6. The Colonials held the big line of Maryland and only gave up 59 yards rushing to them in the first period.

(Continued on Page Four)

Basketball Schedule
Dec. 2—Guilford at Davidson.
Dec. 4—Wake Forest at Wake Forest.
Dec. 5—N.C. State at Raleigh.
Dec. 8—S.C. at Davidson.
Dec. 12—VPI at Davidson.
Dec. 15—Duke at Durham.
Dec. 16—VMI at Lexington.
Jan. 5—Newberry at Davidson.
Jan. 4—McCrary Eagles at Asheville.
Jan. 9—The Citadel at Davidson.
Jan. 11—UNC at Davidson.
Jan. 16—W&L at Lexington.
Jan. 18—VPI at Blacksburg.
Jan. 30—Charleston at Davidson.
Feb. 2—S.C. at Columbia.
Feb. 6—VMI at Davidson.
Feb. 12—Charleston at Charleston.
Feb. 13—Citadel at Charleston.
Feb. 16—UNC at Chapel Hill.
Feb. 22—NC State at Davidson.
Feb. 26—Furman at Greenville.
Feb. 27—Clemson at Clemson.

*Editor’s note—We are reprinting this schedule due to several errors contained in the schedule we printed several weeks ago. The above schedule is official and complete.

MILLER PLEASED AS CAGERS PREP FOR EARLY OPENER

By ARCHIE JOYNER

“Mighty hopeful!” Ask Coach Miller what the prospects are for his cagers this year, and you will get the same answer. “An interesting” year is expected to develop into one of Davidson’s more thrilling and successful basketball seasons. With the Southern Conference narrowed down to ten teams, Coach Miller is expecting a bid to the conference tournament this year—he pessimistically asserts his chances as “fair.” The deciding point will probably lie in the outcome of the games between the Virginia teams.

Miller Picks
Miller picks West Virginia, Furman, George Washington, Richmond and William and Mary as sure contenders, but says that it will be a scrap for the other three spots. His returning players who comprised a wholesome part of his last year’s team, with added experience, should prove to be the main stepping stone into the conference tourney.

Starters Indefinite
No definite team has been selected so far, but if the starters in the varsity-freshman scrimmage are any indication, Hobby Cobb, Ish Bennett, Grahame Keith, Dick Adams and Buddy Brown should see a great deal of action this year. Also high up on the roster are Pappy Fowle and George Melton. Melton and Keith will support the center slot this year. These seven will be the backbone of the team, though there is hope that experience will produce a potent reserve. Ed Weeks and Ray Harding are the chief hopefuls, but lately they have been on the sick list.

BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD, N. C.
“Coke” is a registered trademark. © 1952, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY