PAGE FOUR

The sponsors for the Interfraternity Council representatives for the Mid-Winters Dances are: Miss Barbara Kirkley of Cheraw, S. C., with Dick Kelley of Sigma Alpha Epsilon; Miss Mary Lou Pasley of Decatur, Ga., with Duke Fowler of Alpha Tau Omega; Miss Louise Harvin of Jacksonville, Fla., for Grier Williams, Phi Delta Theta; Miss Betty Jo Banks of Charlotte, with Lawrence Erwin, Pi Kappa Phi; (second row) Mrs. William Stewart of Concord, with William Stewart, of Sigma Chi; Miss Betty Kate Jones, Thomasville, N. C., for Jack Ruth, of Beta Theta Pi; Mrs. Dave Montgomery, of Charlotte, with Dave Montgomery, of Pi Kappa Alpha; (third row) Miss Sis Burns, of Knoxville, Tenn., for Allen Vance, of Kappa Alpha; Miss Rose White, of Charlotte, with Dick Liteg, of Phi Gamma Delta; Miss Martene Hedrick, of Lenoir, with Joe Neisler, of Sigma Phi Epsilon; Miss Ann Bowman, of Montgomery, Ala., with Charles Simmons of Kappa Sigma.

Kappa Alpha, Beta (Continued From Page One)
afternoon, following the formal initiation. Pledges becoming brothers were: John McLaughlin, Harold McKeithen, Jack Still, Harry Brownlee, Hugh Malone, Larry Parrott, Charles Mauney, Joe Conarroe, Nelson Grice, Arthur Martin, Bob Alexander, Hugh Stevens, Bob Hayes, Bill McNair, Jim Seabury, Archie Joyner, Jim Morrill, and Jeff Smith.

PIKA
Pi Kappa Alpha initiation ceremonies were held Thursday night when C. F. “Buck” Reinhardt, Dale Freeland, Joe Billy Pharr, David Holloman, Ed Davis, Mickey Cannon and Bill Johnston were received as active members of the chapter. Mid-Winters plans for the Pikas include a Saturday evening buffet supper, and a party at dance intermission when the Dr. George Summey best pledge award will be made.

Dance Weekend (Continued From Page One)
engagements. Other notables in Spivak’s musical belt are 20th Century-Fox's “Pin Up Girl,” starring Betty Grable and “Follow the Boys” for Universal. A highlight in his career was the award by Downbeat Magazine as the top sweet band. With the current vogue for sweet music gaining favor each day, Charlie Spivak and his band are more popular than ever.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Sixteen Play Bridge/SENIOR SERIES: The Cabbage Planter (Continued From Page Two)
ties.” Run your hand up and down his lapel while you say this and he'll be hard to control. Be clever like this with his fraternity brothers, too, and soon he'll suggest sitting out the next dance on the terrace. Snuggle up close and tell him in a low throaty tone that Ben Jonson, the English poet and playwright, was buried in a sitting posture because the plot in Westminster Abbey was not large enough for the corpse to be placed in the grave horizontally.

In Nat'l Tournament
Sixteen Davidson students participated in the National Intercollegiate tournament in competition with 110 colleges and universities throughout the nation Thursday night, Feb. 19, at the College Union. All of the schools in the tournament played a pre-arranged group of set hands. The winners will be determined by ranking players as to proficiency in playing the same hands. Professor Watt, who was in charge of the tournament at Davidson College, announced that the winners will be determined in about two weeks. There will be national winners, regional winners, and also winners on each campus.

Water Safety To Be Demonstrated in Pool
There will be a water safety demonstration in the college pool on this coming Monday. This demonstration will include, besides several girls, personal safety skills, elementary forms of rescue, swimming strokes, boat and canoe safety, and artificial respiration. An added feature will be Mr. Bob Paysour, the fireman from Gastonia who recently attempted to swim the English Channel. He will discuss his preparation for this feat and will demonstrate the strokes which he used in his attempt. This demonstration, which is being sponsored by the Mecklenburg County Red Cross, will also have a light touch of fancy and comic diving. All members of the student body are not only invited but urged to attend.

Gay Questions (Continued From Page Two)
attraction that the fraternity now has for students (which) will be lost because of the limitations for service that the change will inflict? Can the college (other than feel for the groups) compensate the additional cost per member in the membership fees, etc., that will accumulate as the result of the inevitable decrease in size? Does the college have a solution for the additional problems of rushing that will accumulate as a result of the clique system that is a possibility of the change? Can the college solve the problem that the fraternities face of making the brotherhood a part of one’s schooling that grew up with him, or are the fraternities to become more of an extra than a (real) part of the total student life?

These questions must be answered if the proposed changes are to be successful. The college administration and the fraternities must work together to ensure that the transition is smooth and that the benefits of fraternity life are preserved for future students.

In Armed Forces
Pvt. Robert J. Cashion, '54, of Davidson, has returned to his home station in Austria after 10 days in the field with “Exercise Frosty.” He entered the Army in November 1951 and is a member of the Judge Advocate Section, 762nd Headquarters Company.

Indianapolis Symphony (Continued From Page One)
Illinois Wesleyan University, June, 1952, he received his third doctorate from Indiana University. Dr. Sevitzky believes that America has come of age musically; that the newness, fire and life that is today has found expression in the works of our modern composers. He wants America to appreciate American music. To this end he tries to include at least one American composition in each program he conducts.

Black Masquers (Continued From Page One)
Grove Mrs. Daggy appears as Mrs. Radfern, a wife and mother with the utmost faith in her husband, in fact too much faith. As Inspector Stack of Scotland Yard, Mac Doubles makes his fourth appearance while a Davidson student. Mac has appeared in Command Decision as the tough top Sergeant, in Julius Caesar he appeared as a murderer and in Macbeth he appeared in several roles. Mac is a senior, a member of the Red and Black Masquers and Alpha Psi Omega. He is President of the drama club and has been active in many productions during his time at Davidson.

Follow this guide faithfully, and you and your date will have a weekend that you'll never forget. We must realize, though, that your man may not have the intellectual curiosity that you had hoped. It is all too common a notion that the woman has no cause for recrimination, being always the one to adjust, on a blind date or anywhere else.

With this article, associate editor Mike Myers begins a series of sketches of senior characters on the Davidson campus.—Ed.

The years around 1895-32 were hot years for the scientifically conscious world. The question of the day was the question of all time: was evolution of the species a possibility? A man named Charles Darwin thought so. He had developed selective breeding of sheep and cattle to a fine art... heredity could be selective, he proved. He then spent the better part of his life and wealth searching Buenos Aires and the Galapagos Islands for some trace or clue of this missing link between the fossils and modern man in his evolution theory. But Darwin never definitely found the answer. The truth was the answer hadn't yet been born. Darwin was 95 years too early and thousands of miles off base. Monk McGill first saw daylight in Fayetteville about 1930 (no exact records of his youth were kept.) The people of Fayetteville were amazed at how quickly he caught onto human habits and as a joke entered him in a school. He's been there ever since. This year, with the grace...of Hengeveld, he graduates with a political and economics major but not after sparking up the campus for four long years. Be with Monk for five minutes and his hobby will speak for itself. Link With FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 1958 The Past ....MONK McGILL He has developed an uncanny skill for talking without stopping for breath. He’s never at a loss for paragraphs and his record of talking 9 straight minutes underwater goes without challenge. The topics vary directly with his gaze and indirectly with the patience of the listener. “Yet you can’t help but like Monk,” is the way he so quaintly puts it. “I just wish everyone could have the wonderful opportunity Horace Ball has had.” Monk goes on to say his roommate, Horace, has just one fault... “He tries to keep up with me socially, and it just can't be done.” When Monk isn’t reading sex-books, being the “best catcher in the softball league,” or winning ‘worst I.D. card’ contests, one can find him sitting in a group of S.P.E. pledges spinning yarns about you-know-who. In a few minutes one might pick up such tidbits as the time he caught his foot in a subway as it was pulling out in New York last year, or the time at White Lake he dived off a boat with a friend to swim to shore before he remembered he couldn't swim. He still can't. Next, he might be coaxed into telling about his early dancing and voice lessons, or with a choke in his voice recall the death of Gargantua. He never misses a Cheeta picture, but is a bit jealous of his accent (“obviously put on”). Talking to Monk was one of the most delightful 4 hours and 47 minutes I've ever spent. Yes, Darwin, you were 95 years too soon. I think we've found your man. (next week: Howard Proctor) “Cheeta would make a monkey of himself trying to do this trick!” babbles D.C.’s own Monk McGill in the tongue he very successfully imitates. Davidson owns the only one known to exist. Payne Didn’t Ask For Money: Friendly Philosopher Returns To Campus; Revalues What Davidson Meant To Him By NAT DANIEL Once upon a time a young Southern Presbyterian went to Davidson. The first year he got oriented. The second year he joined a fraternity. The third year he did nothing. The fourth year he started studying, but by then it was too late. A little Oriental peninsula was swept into the bloody wake of war, and big, bad Draft Boards were reorganized. Our hero joined the Navy, where he serves his Country with a patriotic fervor surpassed only by an uncontrollable desire for an honorable discharge. While he was on leave, he visited Davidson, and after he returned to duty, sat down and penned the immortal lines published below: The best time to revisit the Alma Mater is sometime during the year after you leave. It's your first visit, of course, but besides that, there are several other factors which make a trek to Davidson most delightful. John Payne doesn’t ask you for money, ‘cause he knows you haven't got any yet. He may point out that the Living Endowment got so many thousands, (including Wildcat Club contributions, of course,) but that's just in the way of making conversation. Continually assert your independence. If he needs a rude awakening, be brutal. Snuggle up close, run your fingers through his hair and breathe hard as you pant, “Dunce, meaning a stupid person, is derived from the middle name of John Duns Scotus, a celebrated scholastic theologian and perhaps the greatest of all the British medieval philosophers. “The name Duns became synonymous with caviling sophist or hair-splitter. Gradually the term acquired the meaning of a dull, stupid or obstinate person, or one impervious to new ideas. “... the old barking curs, Dunces disciples and like draff called Scotists, the children of darkness raged in every pulpit against Greek, Latin and Hebrew.” Although Duns Scotus was made to stand as the prototype of all dunces, the verdict of history is that he was a man of broad learning and sound thinking.” See what we mean? Keep him guessing... and good luck. Sincerely, Bob Gay '51. New Union Cafeteria (Continued From Page Two) in the fraternity lodges themselves. The die is cast; we have the Union; it’s up to us to take advantage of the benefits offered by a new era. Tom Abel Bob Crutchfield. BLESSED IS THE THOUGHT... DAVIDSON, 3:35 MONDAY MORNING. KAs Regain Sigma Chis 54; Kappa Sigs 25 The torrid Sigma Chis kept up their red hot pace by swamping the Kappa Sigs 54 to 25. The Kappa Sigs were unable to keep up with the fast-moving Sigma Chis, who are making a determined bid for first place and the championship. Tom Shaw was high man for the winners with 12 points while Johnny Bremer took scoring honors for the evening with 13 points. Betas 59; Pi Kapps 48 The Betas caught fire in the last quarter and pushed through with 22 points to nose out the Pi Kapps 59-48 in a free-scoring game. Bill McNair led the hard-driving Beta offense with a 21-point total. Arnold Whisnant was high man for the losers with 12 points. SAE 36; Pi Kappa Alpha 30 Holding the PiKas’ Lindley Beardsley to only 5 points, the SAEs managed to nose out the PiKas 36 to 30. Harry Peterson scored 11 points to further the SAE victory. Bill Hanna was high for the PiKas with 10 points. Kappa Alpha 66; Phi Gams 41 The KAs showed championship form as they spanked the Phi Gams 66 to 41. Adrian Bowen led the KAs to the victory, which gives them a firm grip on first place, by scoring 17 points. Larry Champion paced the Phi Gams with 11 points. Drink QUALITY MILK Mooresville Creamery, Inc. By the time you've been gone a while, your friends have forgotten most of your bad habits, or at least they know they don’t have to live with ’em anymore. You're flattered because they seem genuinely glad to see you, and they’re genuinely glad to see you, ‘cause they know you won't be around long enough to become obnoxious. So everybody’s happy! Another reason a first-year Alumnus’ visit is so much fun is that he runs into so many of his old classmates. I saw Bill White, Mac McLean, Joe Miller, Francis Pepper, Ralph Roberts, Perry Daniels, Moose Lazenby, Bill McNeely, Bob Grigsby and Ken Boyer. What with Korea, I probably won't see that many members of the class of '52 in the same day for the next ten years. Last, and far from least, you get a look at the Davidson Spirit from a point of view inaccessible to the undergraduate. It's not that you forget the bad things about Davidson; they remain as a challenge to Students and Alumni alike. But from the perspective of a year’s absence, you re-evaluate what Davidson has, and what she has given you, and you come to the conclusion that the good things about Davidson compensate for her faults. You get a feeling in your chest you aren't supposed to have, since in this day and age, a young man isn’t supposed to be sentimental. I planned to leave Davidson at 8:30, the other Saturday morning, but didn’t get away until 11:15. Yipes! I've got to scrub the deck, and I’m almost late, now. Thanks a million for the old D.C. handshake, fellers. It sure was fun! FINE FOODS STEAKS CHICKEN DINNERS FOUNTAIN SERVICE Open Sundays Phone 132 STONESTREET’S Grade A Cafe 418 South Main Street Mooresville, N. C. JACKSON Cleaners CLEARING EVERY JOB A GOOD ONE SKILLFULLY DONE BY PRESSERS WITH YEARS OF EXPERIENCE ALTERATIONS THAT SATISFY ONE-DAY SERVICE AVAILABLE Frank L. Jackson, Jr.