SENIORS’ LAST THEIR BIGGEST BLAST

VOLUME XLI

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C., FRIDAY, APRIL 17, 1953

WELCOME, WOMEN! SPRING’S HERE AND TH’ SAP’S HIGH

NO. 24

Davidsonians In Armed Forces

Ensign Joe B. Morton, ‘51, of Yanceyville, N.C. is at the Gunfire Support School, Little Creek, Va. Joe was the IFC representative for Alpha Tau Omega fraternity, received a B.S. degree in Business.

Capt. Donald Watt, ‘51 of Thomasville, Ga. is flying jets over Korea. His address is Capt. D. D. Watt, AU-836864, 523rd FES 27th FEW, APO 919 c/o Post Master, San Francisco, Calif.

Lt. Hooper Alexander, ‘51, ‘52, Waynesville, N.C. took part in the 82nd Airborne Division's maneuvers, Exercise Snow Storm, at Camp Drum, N.Y. He is a platoon leader of Company K, 505th Infantry Regiment stationed at Fort Bragg, N.C. While at Davidson, Hooper was a Distinguished Military Student, Sports editor of the Quips and Cranks, a member of Scabbard and Blade, Phi Beta Kappa, and Phi Delta Theta social fraternity.

Ramon R. Hert, '52, of Hickory, N.C. has received his commission as an ensign at the U.S. Navy Officer Candidate School in Newport, R.I. At Davidson, Ramon was a member of Phi Mu Alpha and Sigma Phi Epsilon (social fraternity).

John M. Brown To Lecture Next

John Mason Brown, eminent author and critic who has been called one of the five greatest lecturers of all time, will appear on the Chambers Auditorium platform at 8:15 p.m. on Wednesday, April 22 as the last number in the 1952-53 Artist Series. Brown's sparkling performances have won him a reputation as the most entertaining and informative speaker in America.

“A graying, ebullient, high-strung Kentucky thoroughbred, out of Harvard by Broadway,” as the New Yorker describes him, he specializes in literature and the theatre. A former drama critic of the New York Evening Post and the World Telegram, Brown is at present a contributing editor of the Saturday Review, for which he writes a weekly column of criticism called “Seeing Things.” This is also the title of his lecture.

To the chagrin of the lecture-going public and of his booking agent, Brown limits himself to about seventy-five appearances annually. “It would be no trouble at all to line up John Mason Brown for a talk every day in the year,” said a spokesman for the agency recently. “We can’t begin to fill the requests that pour in. Everyone wants him back.” A genius at establishing and maintaining intimate communication with his audiences, Brown pushes himself hard, emotionally.

Vespers & Chapel

Sunday, April 19th, will be the regular semester Communion Service in Vespers to which all students are especially urged to attend. Monday, April 20th, chapel will be conducted by Clay Evatt of the Senior Class. Tuesday, April 21st, Dr. McCutchan will have the chapel program. Wednesday, April 22nd, Bob Poston of the Senior Class will have the short devotional. Thursday, April 23rd, will be YMCA Day as usual, and the Johnson C. Smith Choir has been invited to sing. Friday, April 24th, Dr. A. V. Goldiere will have the devotional.

Scabbard And Blade Taps Eighteen; Plans Laid For Military Ball

The eighteen men tapped into Scabbard & Blade were front row, left to right, Charlie Hasty, Tom Ligon, Martin Foil, H. H. Williamson, Charlie Hull and Don Reed. Second Row, left to right, Dick Hobson, Buist Rivers, Max DeVane, Avery Jones and Ken Brown. Third Row, left to right, Homer Phifer, Bill Morris, Tommy Douglas, Ben Craig, Rusty Goode, Zack Kilpatrick, Sam Wainwright and Sam Sells.

Eight Fraternities Elect New Officers

Seven social fraternities and the Campus Club have recently elected officers. Several more plan to hold elections in the near future.

Charlie Cousar is the newly elected president of Phi Delta Theta. The remaining officers are as follows: Warden and IFC representative Max Devane, reporter Buddy Lamon, treasurer George Whisman, secretary Buford Price, chaplain Herschel Allen, librarian Bill Nelson, and historian Ralph Petree.

Kappa Sigma has elected Johnny Bremer as their president and Tommy Williams as Grand Procurator. Others holding offices are: Buddy Williamson grand master of ceremonies, Leighton Green scribe, Dickie Davis treasurer, and Charles Hassell IFC representative.

B. B. Massagee is the new president of Kappa Alpha Order, and Leonard Geiger is the vice-president. Swain Loy was elected secretary, and Ronnie Wilson is their IFC representative. The other K.A. officers will soon be appointed.

Ed Stuart is president of Beta Theta Pi fraternity and Benny Barker is the new vice-president. Jim Thornton is secretary and Charlie Hasty is the treasurer. Other officers include: IFC representative Graeme Keith, historian Charlie Rankin, and recorder Joe Connarroe.

Dill Garrison is the new worthy master of Alpha Tau Omega, and Linny Baker is worthy chaplain. Other officers include: treasurer Tim Gilley, scribe Scott Downs.

Voting Postponed Until Next Week

Luke Scales, the chairman of the Elections board, announced last night that student body and other elections would be resumed next week. Original plans had been for the candidates for editor of the annual: Bill Hood, Bill Moffett, and Winston Wright, to speak in Chapel last Thursday morning. However, this date was changed to next Monday when it was found that chapel plans already made for Thursday and Friday would conflict.

In the near future elections will also be run for head cheerleader, Freshman Adviser, and the YMCA Board of Directors. One senior and two juniors will be elected to the Y Board. In addition, all class officers and student council representatives will also be elected before the end of the term.

D FOOLIES OPEN BIG WEEKEND

D CLUB PRESENTS VARIETY PROGRAM TONIGHT AT 7:15

By TOM WARLICK

The big 1953 version of the “D Club Foolies” will be roaring down the main line tonight at 7:15 in Chambers Auditorium. “This year's foolies will be the biggest and best ever held. That's all there is to it!!!” was the only reply of the elusive producer-director, Dick Perkins, when he was approached by reporters in his apartment. This is the same director who brought the famous “big top” foolies to this campus in 1952.

Setting the mood for this gala performance will be Roy Palmer and his Dixie-land combo, better known locally as the “five cards from hunger.” Emphasizing the theme of the roaring twenties will be the famous song and dance routine of Proctor and Mizelle, which is slightly reminiscent of the flapper girl era.

For only the fifty cent price of admission, the entire audience will serve as foils to the bum corp of Ben Craig and Dan McCall. Supporting this array of home-grown talent will be professional entertainment brought in from New Orleans, La. Having just completed an engagement at the Roosevelt Hotel, Peyton and Raye, long a big-time vaudeville team, will be the chief attraction for the show. This specialty number features the voluptuous Miss Raye ably assisted by her well-trained cast of canines. When asked about Miss Raye by reporters, director Perkins immediately went off-the-record with a curt “no comment.”

Also featured in the show along with a great cast will be Bill Taylor and Jim Bryan, who will perform great feats of musical versatility, Al “Yogi” Ormond, who will stun the audience during the intermission with his magic tricks, and the “Dixie Dandies,” a group of Davidson students who will present a series of comedy skits.

Davidson College’s sixth annual Festival of Arts will open Sunday at 4 o'clock in the sanctuary of the Davidson College Presbyterian Church with a recital by Peyton and Raye, a noted harpsichordist and head of the music department at Lincoln Memorial University in Harrogate, Tennessee. The recital will feature 16th century compositions.

This year's Festival has for its central theme “The Renaissance,” with most of the programs being devoted to that particular period of endeavor in the various arts. Continuing from April 19 through May 12, the Festival will include a variety of programs which should appeal to all.

On April 22 John Mason Brown will appear in Chambers Auditorium in connection with the regularly scheduled Artist Series. The Davidson College Concert Band will be heard on the 24th at 8:15 p.m. in the David Ovens College Union. A film entitled “The Eisenheim Altar Piece by Grunewald,” accompanied by a recording of “Matthias der Maler” by Hindemith, a composition inspired by the altar piece, along with a second film, “Paintings by Rubens” will be shown on April 27 in the Union at 8:15 p.m. On the 28th Professor J.Wilson PETE BROWN DIES IN FLYING ACCIDENT

her flapper girls, who will present several attractions from their varied repertoire. It promises to be a great show. So come on out to the “Athlete's Arcadia.”

PETE BROWN

Pete M. Brown, a graduate of the 1950 class at Davidson, was killed in an accident which took place at the United States Pre-Flight Naval School in Pensacola, Florida. Coming from Hampton, Virginia, Pete will be remembered only by the junior and senior classes at Davidson this year. During his four years here, Pete contributed largely to the Wildcat teams, not only to the football team but also as a track star. He was a member of Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity. While at Davidson, Pete majored in Business. Due to his prowess on the athletic fields, he was a member of the “D” Club. Phi Gamma Delta fraternity elected him to the office of Pan-Hellenic Representative for his last year here, and during several of these years, he was an active participant on the Rifle Team.

The Scabbard and Blade Spring Tap Day took place at Regimental Parade Tuesday afternoon, at which time two seniors and sixteen juniors were dubbed into the society. The parade was in honor of Colonel J. H. McGee, a member of the G3 section of Third Army, who was guest speaker for Scabbard and Blade that evening. His very informative address on guerrilla warfare in Korea and the Philippines was attended by seventy-five students and members of Scabbard and Blade. Plans have been laid for the Scabbard and Blade Military Ball to be held in the College Union Ballroom on Saturday, May 2. In addition to crowning a “Sweetheart,” there will be entertainment by both faculty and students. The Military Ball will be held in conjunction with an exchange day with a girls' school. Bob Henry, YMCA Social Chairman, will announce the availability of dates in the near future.

Fine Arts Festival will begin this week. McCutchan will lecture on “Literature of the Renaissance” in the Union at 4:00 p.m. Dr. Clemens Sommer of the University of North Carolina will speak on “Paintings of the Renaissance” at 8:15 in the Union on the 29th. The concert by the Davidson College Male Chorus will be featured at 8:15 p.m. on May 1, while on the 5th a concert of Renaissance music will be presented by the Inter-College Chamber Music Guild at 8:15 p.m. Both programs are scheduled for the College Union. Finally, on May 11-12, the Red and Black Masquers will bring the Festival to a close with their production of Hamlet to be presented in Chambers Auditorium.

In addition to the special programs above, a series of exhibitions has been planned to extend from April 19 through May 17. The feature attraction of these exhibits is a series of seventeen paintings on loan from the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City. The collection, valued at $1,000,000, will be shown in the College Union from 9:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. daily and on Sundays from 2:00 p.m. to 10:00 p.m. An exhibition of Davidson student-faculty paintings will be on display in the Chambers Lobby, with a selection of photographs being shown in Chambers corridor. A display of Renaissance jewelry from the Norfolk Museum of Norfolk, Virginia, will be shown in the Union. An incunabula by Aldin, Elzevir, Estienne, and others has been lent by the University of North Carolina for display in the Davidson College Library. Another exhibit will feature books on the Renaissance from the Davidson Library. Professor Kenneth R. Moore is the chairman of the Fine Arts Committee in charge of the Festival. Other members of the committee are Professors Philip A. Moose, James S. Purcell, Pedro N. Trakas, and Raymond W. Tyson.

Four More Davidson Seniors Win Valuable Scholarships

Four more members of this year’s graduating class have recently received scholarships or fellowships for graduate work during the coming year. Larry Dagenhart, Jesse Fisher, Herman Bell, and Harry Hickey have received valuable scholarships enabling them to enter graduate school after graduation from Davidson. Harry Hickey has been offered an eighteen hundred dollar scholarship by the Duke graduate school. The scholarship, which has been set up as a part of a research project being carried on by a major tobacco company, will enable Hickey to further his studies in Chemistry and Physics. Specifically, Hickey will study the chemical aspects of tobacco smoke. He will have nothing to do with the effects of smoke on the human body.

Herman Bell has received a Class of 1898 Fellowship to the Woodrow Wilson School for Public and International Affairs of Princeton University. His fifteen hundred dollar scholarship will enable him to carry on a one-year study in foreign affairs. Jesse Fisher has been offered two Graduate Assistantships, one from Duke University and one from Vanderbilt University. He expects to accept the Duke offer. His scholarship, worth one thousand dollars, will enable him to carry a four-fifths class load while working on his M.A., and to assist professors in their instruction duties. Fisher's Assistantship, though a one-year proposition, may be renewed. Larry Dagenhart has won a Root-Tilden Scholarship to the New York University Law School. His Scholarship, one of twenty-two of its kind given annually in the United States, guarantees him twenty-two hundred dollars a year for three years. It has been awarded to him on the basis of scholarship, extra-curricular activities, and leadership.

Professors Speak For College Day

Davidson College will observe National Christian College Day next Sunday by sending 11 speakers to churches in North Carolina, President John R. Cunningham announced today. The Davidson representatives include Dr. Cunningham speaking at Greensboro; Dr. Spencer at Statesville; Professor Beaty at Asheville; Professor Bevin at Fayetteville; Dean Brown at Kings Mountain; Professor Davidson at Raleigh; Professor McGavock at Salisbury; Professor Pietenpol at Kinston; Professor Schenck at Rocky Mount and Professor Johnston at Gastonia round out the Davidson representation. All will be speaking at the First Presbyterian Church of their respective towns with the exception of Professor Workman who will speak in Concord at the Flowe-Harris Presbyterian Church. The endorsement of National Christian College Day by the Presbyterian Church, U.S. was established several years ago to emphasize more strongly the benefits and contributions of Christian colleges.

ANTHONY TO PLAY CONCERT, DANCES

Perhaps the biggest dance weekend in the history of Davidson dances is on tap this weekend, and the D Club Foolies gets things started at 7:15 tonight. Immediately afterward at 9:30 (which is a slight change from earlier) the sweet strains from “America’s Favorite Dance Band” can be danced to in Johnston Gymnasium. With his favorite “child,” the Bunny Hop, as the theme, Ray Anthony is expected to live up to even the fondest dreams of anyone in giving the campus the greatest dance that he is capable of giving. Mr. Anthony is not bringing Marilyn Monroe, but he is bringing two charming vocalists and the best dance band in the world. Ray has sent along his program for the concert to be presented in Chambers at 3:30 Saturday afternoon and it contains the following fine selections: Bugle Call Rag, Harlem Nocturne, Idaho, Birth of the Blues, Darktown Strutter’s Ball, Perido, Blue Tango, Slaughter on Tenth Avenue, and When the Saints Go Marching In (at which time everyone turns it on). About every third number Jo Ann Greer, Tommy Mercer, The Skyliners, or The Anthony Choir will sing a few selections thus rounding out a program that will be both popular and yet have some of the old favorite boogie and jazz pieces. It should be highly entertaining and will last about two hours. The informal Saturday night dance will begin at eight o’clock and will mark the close, officially, of the dances. The weather is the only question of the entire weekend. The rest is completely planned to be the best dance weekend yet.

WATKINS TO HEAD INSPECTING UNIT FOR SPRING DRILL

The annual inspection of the ROTC unit at Davidson will take place April 20 and 21, culminating in a retreat parade by the Davidson College Cadet Corps. Heading the team to inspect the Davidson unit is Colonel Elliot Watkins, Infantry. Other team members are Lt. Col. Charles D. Cassel, Artillery, and Major Richard F. Baldwin, Artillery. Colonel Watkins is a graduate of the United States Military Academy and is currently assigned as the Senior Army Reserve Instructor in the Georgia Military District. The inspection team will arrive at Davidson on Sunday, April 19. Inspection of the ROTC unit will take place on Monday and Tuesday, when classes will be visited and the retreat parade will be held during the drill period Tuesday afternoon. The inspection at Davidson is part of the inspection program throughout the Third Army Area.

MORE FIRMS SEEK TO SIGN SENIORS FOR VARIOUS JOBS

Burlington Mills and Acme Steel Company will be on the campus next week to interview seniors interested in employment with their firms. These interviews will be the last of the year. Burlington Mills representatives will be in the Blue Room of the College Union all day Wednesday, April 22, to interview men interested in office management, accounting, production management, and industrial engineering. Interviews for sales positions in the Virginia-Carolinas district with the Acme Steel Company will be conducted in the Blue Room of the College Union all day Thursday, April 23. Seniors who are interested in signing up for these interviews should do so immediately at 104 Chambers.