PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Frank Hanshaw

BUSINESS MANAGER
Jack Hobson

ASSISTANT EDITOR
Johan Ottley

Managing Editors
Brinkley, Harter, Hope, Myers, M. G., Moylan, D.H., Hasselt, J. M., Moore, Owens

Associate Editors
Sports Editor
Dick Roper

News Editor
D. M. Smith

Feature Editor
T. A. Williams

Arts Editor
Mahy

Assignments
Strand

Photographer
Simons

Assistant Business Manager
Poston

Advertising Manager
Hasty

Circulation Manager
Nicholson

Collection Manager
Douglas

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897.

We Advocate Fireworks!

We advocate the explosion of fireworks, but not at the discretion of our apparently half-witted scholars. There may be some
sort of vicarious value to these dry runs for Korean combat, but being blasted off his chair several times each
day becomes rather nerve-racking for one who has been upset from a concentrated exam marathon. Also, we should not overlook
the pleasant surprise afforded some unsuspecting student when he gets struck in the face with one of these toys. However,
it’s a great sport to live dangerously by having to dodge these instruments of destruction dropped hourly from our ivy-covered
halls.

It really seems a waste of time, though, to piddle with two or three firecrackers a day. We are therefore
advocating a giant fireworks exhibition to be held in the gymnasium for the best acoustical effect. Admission will be three
“3-inchers,” two roman candles, and six lady fingers. If the current interest is upheld and the entire student body attends,
the grand total of fireworks exploded will be 9,204. This will surely go down on the books as a new
tradition, one at least that has something behind it. The overall effect will be tremendous, even more beautiful than a
night problem of a rifle company in the attack, or more explosive than a TNT bomb flushed down the commode.
The great ethereal and evanescent beauty might command some student at Davidson to write a stirring piece as did Francis
Scott Key.

The real purpose gained would be twofold: first, to rid ourselves of the pent-up tensions acquired during exams and, secondly,
to celebrate New Year's Eve for those men who could not spend it at home. The date will be announced
later. Meanwhile, if anyone wishes to order fireworks, Jack Ruth will order them at a discount for you.

In all seriousness, we gripe about the failure of the college administration to treat us as mature individuals. But as
long as we don't abide by a few simple rules that are for the benefit of all, what else can
we expect? To flunk out of college is a serious thing. The present childish conduct during study hours has made
it impossible to study in several of the dorms. This disturbing conduct is inexcusable. Moreover, the few rules of common
courtesy to our fellow students should be practiced not only during exam week, but throughout the whole school year. Correspondingly,
reform and progress are difficult, if not impossible, as long as immaturity, even among a few students, exists. Let's use
our heads. Until we can act like men, we cannot expect to be treated as such by the faculty and
administration. And not only can we not expect it, but we don’t deserve it.

“Tyranny of the Right Can Easily Become Tyranny of the Left”

The dynamic words of Rev. Frank Price in chapel Tuesday brought sharply into focus one of the most basic problems
of the Western World. That problem for us is not Communism per se, nor any political theory, but the way
that Communism operates, from within. Our greatest danger is not the battlefield—we have demonstrated our ability there—but in our failure
to comprehend the full meaning of Rev. Price’s words, “a tyranny of the right can easily become a tyranny of
the left.”

We have shown a dangerous tendency to let fear of Communism distort our thinking to the point that anything they
are for, we are against. Hence, when they promote world peace for propaganda purposes, we argue that war is better
than letting them win the battle for minds. The farther they move to the left, the more we compromise with
the right. Simply by a well-calculated “Boo” they can lead us into assuming their tactics of guilt by association, suppression
of independent thought by fear of public stigma, etc. In short, we have sacrificed the initiative to become a puppet
geared to react to every move they make.

This is not to say we have exaggerated the threat of Communism, for, as our speaker said, this is a
powerful faith bent on the destruction of its enemies. Our mistake is in underestimating the effectiveness of its tactics. Our
claim to world support is Christian democracy and freedom. If we give up even the smallest part of this to
fight them, they have scored a point. Thus our problem is how to maintain our own equilibrium and yet hit
back.

The first step in the solution of this dilemma is to realize, as Rev. Price said, that the Communist regimes
of such nations as China have many good points on their side. They have to in order to get the
original support of the people. We must learn not to attack them simply for being Communists, for in so doing
we attack their good points as well as the bad: we oppose land reform, social welfare programs, etc., by implication.
To beat them we must not attack by blanket indictment but outdo them at the good and show the world
that tyranny of any kind doesn’t have to be the cost. Once we accept that challenge we will see the
problem much less hysterically. We can fight faith with greater faith, rather than being led by Communist prompting to abandon
our only invulnerable stronghold, Christian democracy—G.A.B.

As we sit in the hot sun overlooking the Riviera waiting for customs to finish their slow inspection, we begin
to think about what lies behind us on the road over which we just have come. Behind us is Italy,
the land which extends southward for seven hundred miles, from the snow-covered Alps to the warm azure Mediterranean. Italy is
a land of history and a land of wealth, past and present. We begin a reminiscence of the events that
have happened during the last two weeks.

Our first day in Italy was spent in Milan, second only to Rome since the days of the Roman Empire.
We saw the famous cathedral, the third largest church in the world with its countless turrets, pinnacles, and over 4000
statues. We saw Leonardo Da Vinci's “The Last Supper,” which was almost destroyed during the last war. All that saved
this fading masterpiece were sandbags piled high to the ceiling protecting the wall on which it is painted.

After Milan, our bus rode over the rough narrow roads through the northern towns of Verona and Padua to Venice,
the city without an equal of its kind in the world. The city is built on a group of islands
rising out of the eastern limit of the Po River. For streets, there are interwinding canals spanned by more than
four hundred bridges. If one doesn't ride in a gondola or motor launch, he walks, because there are no wheeled
passenger vehicles in the city. The walks are narrow, dark, and twisting throughout the city. The only open place in
the area is St. Mark's Square.St. Mark's Plaza where people gather to shop, talk and eat. At night after the
gaiety and noise of the Plaza has died out, all one can hear in the quietness of the Adriatic are
the lapping of the water along the canals and the yelling of hundreds of cats which wander along the empty
walks. During the day when walking one easily can get off the main thoroughfares and find oneself away from the
crowds along. Only time will tell...

More people smoke Camels.

This queen of the Adriatic once ruled the Mediterranean from the coast of North Africa to the Bosphorus. Now it
is a town which we remember from our history books. Leaving Venice we traveled through Ferrara and Bologna along one
of the most modern highways in the world to Florence, artistically one of the most famous cities in the world—the
cradle of the Renaissance. Throughout the many museums are famous works of Botticelli, Titian, Leonardo, Giotto, Michelangelo, and many others.
Among the city’s illustrious sons are the Medici, Dante, and Machiavelli. Florence is a city which well deserves its place
high in the art world.

After a ride through the hill towns of the Apennines, we arrived at the fabulous Italian capital of Rome, a
city both ancient and modern. We can see the witnesses to the passing of centuries: The Colosseum, the greatest amphitheater
in antiquity; the Circus Maximus,

(Continued On Page Four)

THE FREE LANCE: FRIDAY, JANUARY 16, 1953

Union Disappointingly Ideal With One Gustatory Flaw Only

With the critic’s typically bloodshot eyes and shifty glances we crept warily into the Student Union this week. Beady orbs
darting from corner to corner, we wondered just where to start ripping the place apart. Surely if it existed on
the Davidson campus it could have no iota of good. “Lights are pretty bright in here,” we mused. They were
until we sat down to read some of the magazines and found they were incredibly well suited for this purpose.
“Looks as if they actually spent some time designing this illumination system,” we grudged. We had expected the interior furnishings
to compare with those of other campus buildings, but noticed with glee the modern motif. We have to hand it
to the keepers of the union—they kinda got the idea about furniture. The stuff is made to be comfortable. We
did have to emit an honest chuckle at the inevitable sign advertising proposed future construction. Is there a college in
this fair land which does not have such a sign posted for eternities? We rather feel that this one means
more than “Look, alumni, progress with a big P.”

What were those sounds permeating the atmosphere? Huh, sounded almost like soothing music. In fact... well that is quite unusual,
but how in the world do they expect us to concentrate? This question died on our lips as we found
ourselves doing just that on our column. When told of the student office space upstairs we snorted in disbelief. “Even
if they have them they won't contain enough floor space.” Then we looked and found more than enough room to
beat around in even in the office allotted to this weekly effort. We realized this latter was the supreme test
since on make-up Wednesday nights we seem to need half a gridiron and six layers of sound-proofing. Things were looking
darker, not for the union but for our reputation as trouble shooter. In a previous article we had intimated that
after all this time the union had better be good and horror of horrors it was. “Place probably isn’t well
run,” we muttered in desperation. This lasted as long as it took us to see the up-to-date bulletin boards, duty
maintaining a rare bit of dignity in sensible coat and tie, and most of all the business-like countenance of the
director. Stepping into the spotless servery by way of an elegant dining room we were overwhelmed by the all-day coffee
service. Casting our tuppence into the appropriate jar we decided to lose face and sit down to enjoy the union.
The first sip of the great American bean juice brought a flash of joy and relief. Even as we grimaced
and hurriedly spat out this product of a used locomotive boiler we were smiling within, for we had found something
here to denounce. We even got reckless and gave it a chance by adding three large helpings of sugar and
quantities of condensed milk. No change. It wasn’t that we minded its eating into our clothing so much; it was
just that we were in them at the time. Aye, the brew would have made Faustus wince and Long John
Silver apply for VA hospitalization. At least we could go home and sleep well this night knowing the latest night
hours of any campus facility except the student union had not stooped to finding anything here all good.

Has The True Purpose and Function Of Davidson’s Honor System Fallen Short?

Anyone who has ever gone through Orientation Week will remember, with some trepidation, the stress which was laid upon the
honor system as it operates at Davidson, and the admonition that all of us would be expected to uphold and
preserve this system by adhering to it. We were told that our fullest co-operation would be needed to make this
a workable system. This we accepted, realizing that it would be impossible for an honor code to function properly if
only 50 per cent of the students subscribed to it.

In retrospect, however, it seems that the honor system has fallen far short of what its primary function should be—that
of engendering in each man a sense of personal honor; or, an honest desire on the part of each man
to guard his integrity. As it stands now, the honor system has degraded to where it is no more than
a stick wielded over our heads, requiring us to turn in anyone we see cheating, under penalty of expulsion. It
is a system of fear rather than honor; we refrain from cheating, not so much because of the moral issue
involved, but rather because we do not want to be expelled or to incur the social disapproval and stigma which
would follow as corollaries of expulsion. The emphasis has shifted to the consequences which would follow a breach of the
honor system, rather than being on the individual development of a sense of honor in each student.

The Administration must bear part of the blame for this conception of the honor as it now stands, for in
many cases they do not respect the integrity of the students. A number of men went into Mrs. Dagay's office
to get the record straightened out about cuts they had taken over Christmas to work, and ran into a snag.
Their word wasn’t enough; she had been instructed to get a written note from each of the employers vouching that
each of the men had worked in his place of business during the holidays. If there is a mistake in
the cuts credited to a student, he must get the signature of his professor before the records in the office
can be straightened out. Except for Chapel and Vespers, when, as a sop, we can exercise our own honor, a
student’s word must be verified by someone of authority. Finally, although we supposedly have an honor system, there is a
pledge at the end of each written review and exam which must be signed. It's obvious that anyone who will
cheat on a piece of work will certainly have no qualms about signing his name to a worthless pledge.

The whole problem stems from an inadequate, unbalanced, interpretation and application of the honor system. As long as the honor
system is interpreted to be a restraining agent whereby each student is played off against his neighbor in an effort
to preserve honesty, there will be no development of personal integrity in the individual. And until the Administration sheds its
paradoxical manner in dealing with students, the honor system will be honor in name only. A system such as ours
can be an excellent system if it is run by the volition of those under its auspices. If, however, it
serves only to regiment and coerce people into conforming to its tenets, the main purpose for its existence, that of
creating personal integrity, has been lost.
