eco wave BLOOD DRIVE THURSDAY-FRIDAY | VOLUME XLI The Davidsonian ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C.,
FRIDAY, APRIL 3, 1953 EASTER SUNRISE SERVICE SUNDAY Geo. Heaton To Speak | Faculty Vote ODK SPONSORS BLOOD DRIVE THURSDAY
For Spring Services For Semester Dr. George D. Heaton, pastor of the Myers Park Baptist Church of Charlotte, N. C.,
will be the principal speaker for the 1953 Spring Services. The services will take place from April 12 through April
15. Dr. Heaton will deliver four messages upon “Social Ethics of a Christian,” beginning at vespers on April 12, and
continuing through Wednesday, April 15, in chapel. His theme will complement Dr. W. M. Thompson’s Fall Services, which had the
theme, “Personal Ethics of a Christian.” There are to be dormitory counselors in each dormitory during these services as in
previous years. They will carry on bull sessions at 10:00 on Sunday, Monday, and Tuesday nights. At 7:00 on Monday
and Tuesday evenings there are to be formal discussions on specified topics in the Ovens College Union. YMCA Conducts Morning
Service The Y. M. C. A. Committee on Special Services has arranged an early morning Easter Service in commemoration of
the Resurrection of Christ. The service will take place on the golf course below the upper tennis courts at 6:30
Sunday morning, April 5. The direction of the program for the service will be in the hands of several Davidson
students. There will be two readers, Will Terry and Charlie Williams. Leighton McCutchan will lead the singing of hymns, and
Don Crosby will be soloist. The program will be similar to the Christmas Vesper Service program. There will be no
formal address, but rather the reading of scriptures of the Easter Story, the singing of appropriate hymns, and prayers. In
case of rain Sunday morning, the service will be held in Lingle Chapel of the church. Since the service will
be of some duration, the committee has asked those who attend to bring dew-resistant seating facilities. Everyone is urged to
attend this service to start a day of joy and devotion in an atmosphere of worship and praise. Dress for
the service will be informal. Lt. Dan McKeithen, ‘51 Grad, Is Killed In Korean Fighting The name of Dan I.
McKeithen, Jr. must now be added to the list of Davidson graduates who have given their lives in the Korean
conflict. Lt. McKeithen graduated from Davidson in the class of ‘51. During his senior year he was president of Kappa
Alpha Order and a member of Scabbard and Blade. Those who knew Dan McKeithen remember him as one of the
great contributors to the heritage that is Davidson. His death came only twenty-four days after he risked his life to
recover a fallen comrade’s body and got this taunting Red warning: “Get wise... Don’t die for big shot. Get out
of this war the best way you can.” That Ash Wednesday rescue of a battle-slain sergeant’s body had been hailed
as one of the most dramatic incidents of the war. The Feb. 28 edition of the Washington (D. C.) Times-Herald
told the story of the prayer-launched mission which Lt. McKeithen led to recover the Communist-desecrated body of the dead American
sergeant. McKeithen and a squad of five enlisted men set out in broad daylight, under threat of Communist fire, to
recover the body, beside which flew a Communist flag emblazoned with this warning: “It’s a pity to die so young.
Life is more precious than gold. Don’t die for Ike. Demand peace, stop war.” There was the strong possibility that
the sergeant’s body had been made into a booby trap, but Lt. McKeithen decided the risk had to be taken.
The small group knelt and prayed before setting out on the mission. Reported the Times-Herald: “Into the bristling valley of
Communist rifles the six men wriggled on their bellies, along the winding route of a stagnant canal... “To the rear
of that pathetic procession, their buddies waited for the hills to fall in on them with all the thunder that
accompanies a barrage. Three and one-half hours of deathly silence later, McKeithen and his men reached the sergeant.” McKeithen cut
the barbed wire surrounding the body, lifted it gently on a litter, and the procession began the slow trek back
to the American lines. It was later that Lt. McKeithen found the scrawled Communist warning on white cloth attached to
the sergeant’s body. The dead man’s money and valuables were untouched, but his pockets were filled with Red propaganda leaflets.
That was February 18. On March 14 Lt. McKeithen died. He is survived by his parents, Mr. and Mrs. D.
I. McKeithen, of Bethesda, Md. and one sister, a member of the staff at Cornell University, Ithaca, N. Y. Wachovia,
Others Offer Students Jobs Wachovia Bank & Trust Co. will be here Wednesday, April 8, to interview freshmen, sophomores, and
juniors interested in summer employment with their organization. A representative of Wachovia will conduct a group interview at 8 a.
m. and then be on the campus all day to hold individual interviews. Anyone interested in signing up for individual
interviews may do so after the group interview next Wednesday. Everyone who is interested in a position with Wachovia is
urged to attend the 8 a. m. interview. Men who have first period classes will get out of the group
interview in time for their class. Provident Life-Insurance Co. will be on the campus Wednesday and Thursday of next week
to interview seniors who are interested in a position of underwriting, selling, claims, actuary, and office management training courses. Colgate
Palmolive-Peet Co. will be on the campus on Friday, April 10, to interview men for positions with their firm. The
positions are mainly in the nontechnical field. Rating Plan In a meeting on Thursday, March 26, the faculty overwhelmingly voted
in favor of the recommendation of the committee on fraternities to the effect that all freshmen would be required to
eat in the cafeteria of the College Union during the first semester. Lawrence Erwin, president of the IFC, along with
Dave Robinson and Mitchell Patton appeared before the faculty to restate student arguments as well as to answer faculty questions
concerning student feelings and opinions on the matter. Dr. Cunningham commended the student committee on the excellent spirit and manner
in which it had undertaken the task of representing the student body. The recommendation of the committee on fraternities was
stated as follows: “That all members of the Freshman Class shall be required to eat in the cafeteria of the
College Union during the first semester. This regulation shall go into effect in September of 1953. “Furthermore, it is understood
that this arrangement is an experimental one to see if such a plan will bring about the desired results, and
that the faculty retains the right to alter the plan if after a year or more, it is found that
these results are not being satisfactorily accomplished.” The results referred to above are mainly (1) satisfactory financial support of the
Union, (2) a bolstering of class and college spirit and unity, and (3) a lessening of the distinction between fraternity
and non-fraternity men. Barry Is Nominated As S & B Scholar Three national scholarship awards to recognize the most outstanding
cadet officers in the Reserve Officers Training Program in colleges and universities of the United States have been established by
the National Society of Scabbard and Blade, honorary ROTC military fraternity. First place cash award is $300. Second and third
places are $200 and $150, respectively. According to Captain Hanshaw of B Company 5th Regiment, selection for the awards will
be based on achievement in army science, general academic record, and demonstrated qualities of leadership in all activities. The selection
from the Davidson Corps is Ernest Barry, as Dean Bailey, Lt. Col. Davis, and Capt. Martin decided in their capacity
as review board. Candidates are limited to active members of Scabbard and Blade, who thus may be college juniors or
seniors. Each company may submit one candidate. He must be endorsed by his PMS&T, and Dean of Men or comparable
academic official. The three national winners will be chosen by a three-man committee appointed by the National Officers of the
Society. Entries are to be sent to the National Headquarters in West Lafayette, Indiana, and must be postmarked not later
than April 1. Recipients of the awards will be announced on or before May 1. Scabbard and Blade is an
all-service honorary military fraternity composed of outstanding juniors and seniors enrolled in Air Force, Army, and Navy ROTC units in
117 American colleges and universities. It was founded at the University of Wisconsin in 1904-05. Present National Officers are Colonel
Alexander, E. Lawson, Division Commander, Springfield, Illinois; Lieutenant Colonel Mario G. Paolini, San Francisco, California; and Major Thompson S. Crockett,
Executive Officer, West Lafayette, Indiana. NOTICE Seniors who wish extra graduation invitations should see Lefty Vance in Duke before April
20. BULLETIN All students desiring to apply for grants-in-aid must file applications no later than April. Application blanks are available
in Chambers. Seniors and rising seniors are reminded by Doug Rice, student manager, that class rings should be ordered immediately
for their arrival in June. * * By MOODY SMITH, Student Body Elections during the past week resulted in the
election of Lyman Kiser as President of the Student Body, Leighton McCutchen and Charlie Cousar as First and Second Vice-Presidents,
and Linny Baker as Secretary-Treasurer. YMCA elections will be held next week. Election proceedings continued in Chapel this morning with
nominations being taken for president of the YMCA and for the two vice-presidents. After these officers are elected the editors
of the three publications will be chosen. Kiser, a native of Raleigh, was chosen on the final ballot Wednesday morning
following speeches by the candidates last Tuesday in Chapel. He has served as secretary-treasurer and first vice-president of the student
body. In addition, he is a member of the Y Cabinet and of Kappa Sigma social fraternity. McCutchen, who is
from Nashville, Tenn., was secretary-treasurer this past year. He is a member of the Male Chorus, and president of the
Westminster Youth Fellowship. Cousar is from Chattanooga, Tenn. He has played varsity football for two years, and has been president
ofthe junior class. Recently he was also elected president of Phi Delta Theta social fraternity. Baker is a rising sophomore
from Kannapolis, and a member of Alpha Tau Omega social fraternity. He gained the distinction first semester of having the
highest scholastic average in the freshman class.

Saturday Movies Added at Union

Saturday nights will find some type of entertainment, either movies, informal dances, or exchange programs with girls’ schools, at the
Student Union in the future, according to Director C. Shaw Smith. Playing tomorrow night will be “Arabian Nights,” starring Jon
Hall and Maria Montez. This technicolor movie is being put on by the Social Committee of the Y.M.C.A. The movies
already scheduled for the next weeks are: “Phantom of the Opera,” with Claude Raines, on April 11; “The Beach Comber,”
with Charles Laughton, on April (Continued On Page Four).

Concert

Campus concert-goers are in for an extra musical treat this Monday night, April 6, at 8:15 p.m. when Richard Flewell,
rising young American concert pianist, appears in Chambers Auditorium. Richard Flewell, a graduate of the University of Minnesota, will appear
here under the sponsorship of the local chapter of Phi Mu Alpha National Honorary Music Fraternity. Himself a member of
Phi Mu Alpha, and a former pupil of Gudrun Hansen Schultz, Mr. Flewell has played the Schumann piano concerto under
the baton of Dimitri Mitropoulos, with whom he has also studied. He has appeared in many successful solo recitals and
with orchestras in Minnesota and Michigan; he is also an accomplished accompanist. At present Flewell is on a southern tour,
having just last month appeared at Washington & Lee University where he was loudly acclaimed. As a result of his
concert appearances throughout Germany in 1951, the press referred to him as “an American pianist of rank” blessed “with polished
technique and a fine musical instinct” whose “clear, transparent playing, expression, and poise immediately marked him as a fine pianist.”

Tickets for the concert may be purchased from any member of Phi Mu Alpha, from the Music Department office, or
at the door before the concert.

Gunn Wins Mention In Essay Contest

Dr. Charles G. Gunn, Jr., a student here at Davidson, was recently awarded honorable mention in the National Council of
Jewish Women’s nationwide essay contest on “The Meaning of Academic Freedom.” Students from over two hundred colleges throughout the country
participated in this contest, the first prize of which was $2,500 cash. The winning essays were chosen by a Board
of Judges headed by Supreme Court Justice William O. Douglas. The awards were made at a luncheon meeting on March
18.

Virginian To Be Visiting Professor

Dr. James Southall Wilson, formerly Edgar Allen Poe Professor of English and Dean of the Department of Graduate Studies of
the University of Virginia, will be visiting professor at Davidson College, North Carolina, for the academic year 1953-54. When Professor
Wilson retired from the University of Virginia, the faculty of the Schools of English issued a testimonial volume of English
Studies in Honor of James Southall Wilson, to set forth publicly their esteem and respect for his scholarship and guidance.
Professor Wilson was also a member of the summer faculty of the Breadloaf School of English and last semester, was
visiting professor at Louisiana State University. He was editor, and is now an advisory editor, of the Virginia Quarterly Review,
member of the Modern Language Association and Phi Beta Kappa. He is the author of several volumes on Edgar Allen
Poe and co-editor of “The Enchanted Years.” Professor Wilson’s current address is 1815 Rugby Place, Charlottesville, Virginia.

Workman Speaks To Campus Club

Dr. Workman as guest speaker at the Campus Club last Thursday night, gave a discussion type talk of psychology in
general. He was, as he stated, “out drumming up business.” He recounted the weak beginning and slow acceptance of the
psychology department at Davidson. He remarked that it would be desirable to have a three or four man department. As
his main theme, Dr. Workman presented some of the needs and some of the purposes of psychology, in connection with
which he related some very interesting incidents of his early career.

Kiser Heads Student Government

Nominations For Y President Taken In Morning's Chapel

Omicron Delta Kappa, national leadership fraternity, is sponsoring the Red Cross Spring Blood Drive, April 9-10, on the campus and
in the Davidson community in conjunction with the Women’s Civic League. Co-chairmen for the drive Ernest Barry and Larry Dagenhart
have set the goal at 510 pints for the college and community to bring the total to 1000 pints for
the school year. In a statement to the Davidsonian, the co-chairmen said that they hoped that the Spring Drive would
not only top the December college donation record of 5650, but that it would far surpass a 60% mark. This
blood will continue to be sent to Korea where it is especially needed due to the recent violent outbreak of
hostilities. The blood will also be used here at home to produce gamma globulin, a new polio vaccine, which gives
protection against polio for a six to eight weeks period. It should be made clear that the Red Cross does
not make money from the sale of blood. The bloodmobile will use the facilities of Johnston Gymnasium. Donations will begin
at 11:00 a.m. on the 9th and continue until 5:00 p.m. The next morning the doors will be open at
11:00 a.m. and remain open until 5:00 p.m. Release forms have been distributed by ODK to all members of the
student body and the fraternities with 100% participation will again receive recognition certificates from the Red Cross. Appointment sheets will
be handled through the fraternities and independents may sign up at the ROTC building at their convenience. Release forms will
be available to students at the gym. Men under 21 years of age are reminded to take the forms home
over the weekend for parents’ signature and witnessing. It is highly recommended that the student body see “Battle Circus” co-starring
Humphrey Bogart and June Allison playing at the Davidson Theatre next Monday and Tuesday. It gives a vivid explanation of
how blood is used in Korea.

Will Call For Blood

PHILIP MORRIS’ JOHNNY

Johnny Jr. of Philip Morris fame and fortune will appear as a special attraction on April 9 in conjunction with
the Spring Blood Drive. He will arrive at the Student Store at 10 a.m. accompanied by his chauffeur in a
special car, and his schedule includes an appearance in chapel at 10:30 a.m., a visit at the “Stud” from 10:00-11:00
a.m., and the Union 12:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m. Johnny comes to Davidson through the courtesy of J. E. Beamon,
Area Rept., and J. C. Inman, Division Mgr. of the Philip Morris Company.

Baker Scholarships Named

The Baker Scholarship Committee announced today that several Baker Scholarships have been awarded to six entering freshmen and one member
of the Class of 1956. In addition, Davidson Honor Scholarships were granted to four other finalists who competed in the
round of examinations and interviews last Friday and Saturday. Baker Scholarships, worth up to $4,800, were awarded to: Linny M.
Baker, Kannapolis, N.C., a member of the Class of 1956. James K. Batten, Holland, Va., twice president of his class,
State champion in public speaking, captain of the basketball team and a letterman in three sports, and the highest ranking
student in his class. James C. Brice, Jr., of Easley, S.C., president of his student body, president of the Youth
Council of this Presbytery, letterman in football, and an A student. Edwin Lancaster Bryan of Bessemer, Ala., president of the
student body of Bessemer High School, president of the Youth Fellowship of Birmingham Presbytery, active in various student organizations, and
a high ranking student. He is the brother of James A. Bryan of the senior class. Carl Lloyd Cooper of
Durham, N.C., president and vice-president of various organizations at Durham High, second ranking student in a class of 267, letterman
in basketball and tennis. Philip F. Kukura of DeLand, Fla., an A student who has been active in student organizations
while regularly employed during the school year. Thomas S. Morgan, Jr., of Jack- (Continued On Page Four).

Living Endowment Completes 13th Year

The Living Endowment and Alumni Fund has completed its thirteenth year with a total of $61,463.70 donated by loyal alumni
and friends of the college. Launched in 1939 by then treasurer F. L. Jackson, '06, the fund has grown rapidly
to meet the increasing needs of the college. For the current year, Dr. Harry M. Moffett, '31, is the fund
chairman, and S. M. Nickey, ‘34, vice-chairman. Other members of the Living Endowment Committee are F. L. Jackson, ‘06; J.
P. Hendrix, ‘25; C. E. Neisler, '16; E. A. Beaty, 21; R. U. Woods, '23; J. I. Smith, '24; E.
L. Douglass, ‘28; H. W. McKay, ’06; C. M. Norfleet, '33; W. O. Nesbit, '28; L. Richardson, Jr., '45; and
J. S. Love. J. L. Payne, fund director, has announced that the officers and members of the executive committee will
meet at the college on Thursday evening, April 9 to complete plans for the enlargement of the program for the
current year.

Spaniards Conduct Play and Program

On Friday, the thirteenth of March, in the ballroom of the Student Union, the Spanish Club and the Spanish fraternity,
Sigma Delta Pi, put on their best program of the year. Its feature attraction was a play in Spanish adapted
by Professor Trakas from an old piece of Spanish prose. The play was a dramatic production of the story from
which Shakespeare drew his idea for “The Taming of the Shrew.” The characters represented were played by Mrs. Daggy, Mrs.
Gehring, Miss Della Shore, Tommy Douglass, Bill Hardin, and Jinks Jervey, with stage direction by Professor P. N. Trakas. Following
that a Spanish song was featured by the charming dual performance of Miss Delta Shore and Mrs. Gehring. Hobart Martin
then provided a (Continued On Page Four).
