OTTLEY IN PRAISE OF MOULIN ROUGE See Page 2

VOLUME XLI

NEW Y CABINET

Standing on the patio of the College Union are members of the newly appointed Y Cabinet. From left to right
are: Bill Scholl, Hunter Strader, Cortez Cooper, Bob Crutchfield, Austin Strand, Lyman Kiser, Will Terry, Charley Williams (Y President), Leighton
McCutchen, Homer Sparks, and Swain Loy. Several members were absent when the above photo was taken.—(Photo by Andy Simons).

Band Concert Features Student Arrangements

Two Davidson students displayed their talents at musical arrangements last Friday night at the band concert. Grier Williams was soloist
in his own arrangement of Haydn's Trumpet Concerto, and John Shannon's arrangement of Haydn's Canzon was played. Both men are
music majors here at Davidson and plan to do graduate work in music after graduation. Williams, a senior, is vice-president
of the band and plays trumpet in both the band and the brass ensemble. Shannon, a junior, plays the oboe
and organ. While at Duke last semester he took a course in Renaissance music which helped him to make the
arrangement of Obrecht’s work.

The main problem faced by the arranger is that of interpretation. Having only the original score, he must try to
make the piece sound as the composer would have written it for modern band instruments. Frequently problems arise from instruments.
Williams’ arrangement of the third movement of Haydn's concerto came about because of a relative lack of music written for
trumpet and band. Nineteenth-century trumpet virtuoso solos were available, but they were not well-suited for the band program. The Haydn
concerto was originally written for trumpet and orchestra and was adapted by Williams for wind instruments. It was played on
the band tour and also on a broadcast.

Instrumental music was rare before the Renaissance; most music was written only for voice. The piece that Shannon arranged was
written simply “for instruments” without orchestration. Shannon arranged it for modern wind instruments. The Canzon has also been arranged for
chamber music and will be presented at the chamber music program Monday night in the College Union ballroom. It should
be interesting to compare this arrangement with Shannon's arrangement adapting light string music to band for band.

Pastor Sends Davidson Woodrow Wilson Relics

To Speak on Wirt

Dr. James H. Taylor, pastor at Central Presbyterian Church, in Washington, D. C. has forwarded to the Davidson College Library
a number of interesting articles concerning Mr. Woodrow Wilson, Davidson's most distinguished alumnus.

The material consists of a number of cards addressed to Dr. Taylor’s church which came with flowers which the Wilsons
sent to the church each Sunday. The flowers were from the White House gardens. The only name on the cards
is Mrs. Woodrow Wilson’s, the others had only, “The President,” engraved on them.

EBERHARDT SPEAKS AT COMMENCEMENT

Dr. Eberhardt announced today that he will speak at the commencement services of Columbia Theological Seminary in Decatur, Georgia. The
title of his commencement address has not yet been chosen, but he will “endeavor to give an apologetic account for
the Biblical literature, answering, ‘Why should preachers speak from the Biblical literature?’"

Another interesting item is a hymn book which was in the President's pew. This hymnal was for use of Mr.
Wilson’s guests when they sat in the pew with him. His own hymnbook was given to the Historical Foundation at
Montreat. The book is “The New Laudes Domini,” with responsive readings. It was not generally used by the President. There
are also three folders of assorted material concerning Woodrow Wilson. The first contains Sunday pamphlets such as church programs in
which the service was dedicated to President Woodrow Wilson. Others contain: an address at the tomb of Wilson on Armistice
Day, 1934, by Dr. Taylor; a memorial service in honor of President Wilson; prints of several speeches before Congress pertaining
to Woodrow Wilson; and several other similar pamphlets. The second folder contains several pictures of the Central Presbyterian Church and
the pew in which Wilson sat. Numerous newspaper clippings were contained in the third folder. (Continued On Page Four)

Dr. Chas. R. Eberhardt

Last February Dr. Eberhardt was elected to full professorship of Bible, having been here six years. He considers himself ‘a
true southerner,” not by accident of birth, but by conscious choice of the South as a wonderful place in which
to live and to work.

ECONOMICS PROFS. TO TAKE VACATION

Two members of the Davidson Faculty, Mr. F. S. Morton, Associate Professor of Business, and Mr. C. E. Ratliff, Assistant
Professor of Economics, will be away from the campus next year on leave of absence in order to do further
graduate study.

Prof. Morton will return to the Harvard School of Business in June. He will remain there until January 24, returning
to Davidson to resume his teaching duties second semester of next year. During his stay at Harvard Prof. Morton hopes
to complete his work for the degree of Doctor of Commercial Science. His Business 41 course will not be given
in the fall, but will be offered in the spring together with Business 42, the finance course and Business 62,
investments. Business 43, the new course in production, will not be offered until next year.

Prof. Ratliff will return to Duke to complete work on his Ph.D. in Economics. He will be away all next
year, returning for the 1954-55 session. In his absence, a temporary replacement will be hired.

Roberts of Coker

President Joseph C. Roberts, of Coker College, will deliver the annual Phi Beta Kappa address on Tuesday evening, May 5,
1953, at 8:15 o'clock, in the ballroom of the David Ovens Student Union. Dr. Robert has chosen as his subject:
“William Wirt: the ‘Syllabub Genius’.” William Wirt was a Cabinet officer, and one of the ablest and most eloquent in
the county. From 1817 until 1829 Wirt was Attorney-General of the United States. In 1832 he was the Anti-Masonic candidate
for President, and received seven electoral votes. Wirt settled in Richmond in 1806, and became distinguished the following year as
one of the foremost lawyers in the country in the trial of Aaron Burr for treason. Even better known than
his addresses and essays were his “Letters of the British Spy,” and his “Life of Patrick Henry.” Members of the
faculty and student body, residents of the community, and all friends of the college are cordially invited to attend this
lecture.

Eumanean Society Elects New Officers

Will Terry was elected President of Eumanean Literary Society last Monday evening. Jim Thornton was elected Vice-President; Harold McKeithan, secretary;
and Tom Ligon, Treasurer at this meeting held in Eu Hall. These officers, with the exception of the treasurer, who
is elected for a term of one year, serve for one semester. They will begin their term of office at
the next bi-monthly meeting.

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C.,

Johnson To Lead Seniors; 1953-54

The Davidsonian

UNHERALDED PAPER BOYS FEATURED ON PAGE FOUR

FRIDAY, MAY 1, 1953

NO. 26

GRADUATION PLANS COMPLETED

Elections Proceed

Social Fraternities

Four Named To Be

Charlie Johnson was elected president of the rising senior class in the elections held today in Chapel. The vice-presidency of
the rising senior class will be between Herschel Allen and Johnny Bremer. Buford Price and “ToTo” Williamson will be listed
in a run-off of the secretary-treasurer slot.

The rising junior class elections were narrowed down considerably in today’s voting. Cortez Cooper, Floyd Feeney, and Charlie Rankin remaining
in the voting for the presidency. The vice-presidency candidates still in the running are Zack Kilpatrick, Swain Loy, and Clark
Reed. Corky King and Austin Strand remain in the balloting for the secretary-treasurer of rising junior class.

Charlie Johnson, who was president of the junior class this year, will continue serving on the Student Council. During his
three years here Charlie has been president of the junior class and secretary-treasurer of the sophomore class. He is a
Sigma Chi from Greenville, South Carolina.

The rising sophomore class balloting started with rather large fields, and no results were obtainable at the time this paper
went to press.

Dean Weaver Speaks At ODK Tapping Monday In Chapel

Omicron Delta Kappa will hold its Spring Tap Day Exercises at Chapel on May fourth. Featured as speaker will be
Dean Fred Weaver of the University of North Carolina. Initiation for those men tapped in the morning will be held
at 6:00 Monday evening, and an informal initiation banquet is scheduled for 6:30 with Dean Weaver again as speaker.

Qualifications for membership are: one full academic year of residence in the institution where elected; the candidate must be either
a junior or a senior and must rank in the highest thirty-five percent in scholarship in his class in college,
to be based upon the record of the immediately preceding full academic year or upon the whole preceding academic year.

Dean Weaver graduated from U. N. C. in 1937, and returned there in 1946 to teach Economics following a tour
of duty in the Navy Air Corps. He took over his duties as Dean of Students the following July. As
an undergraduate at the University Weaver was prominent in student activities, being a member of the Student Council, the Golden
Fleece and the Order of the Grail, two top-ranking Honorary Organizations, and was elected permanent President of his class.

In January, 1952, he was awarded a Carnegie Corporation traveling fellowship to visit universities and colleges throughout the country for
the purpose of studying undergraduate student life. His traveling took him to the East and South, the Middle West and
the West Coast.

Invitations to the banquet Monday evening have been extended to all ODK alumni in this area.

For Coming Year

Four social fraternities have recently elected new officers. Pi Kappa Phi fraternity has elected Clarence Baker — president. The other
officers are as follows: Treasurer — Bob Southwell, Secretary — Clark Remsburg, Warden — Willis Briley, Chaplain — Perry Biddle,
IFC Representative — Winston Wright, Rush Chairman — Winston Wright, and Historian — Charles Murray.

Charlie Johnson is the new president of Sigma Chi, and Charlie Williams is vice-president. Other officers are: IFC Representative —
Bill Shipley, Rush Chairman — Tom Shaw, Tribune — Pat Miller, Treasurer — Bob Mitchell, Annotator — Norman Johnson, and
Historian — Bob Garrison.

Phi Gamma Delta has elected Hunter Strader — president, and Dick Roper — IFC Representative. Others holding offices are: Corresponding
Secretary — Kiki Lewis, Historian — Charlie Hall,Treasurer — Mike York, and Recording Secretary — Maynard Bellamy. Bill Hood is
the new president of Sigma Alpha Epsilon and Sonny Green is vice-president. Other officers are: recorder — Dee Helms, IFC
representative — Dave Burns, treasurer — Curtiss Ellison, and correspondent — Ray Lilly.

ARTS FESTIVAL ENDS WITH PLAY, CHORUS

The annual Fine Arts Festival which began on April 19 continues with three events yet to be held. The Male
Chorus will present a program of Renaissance and lighter American music on Friday, May 1. On Tuesday, May 5, the
Inter-College Chamber Music Guild will present Renaissance string selections. Music will be played on an ancient flaubocolce, a Flemish flute-like
instrument which is better known as a recorder, and a Harpsichord, the forerunner of the piano. The String Ensemble will
play, among other compositions, Obrecht, a piece of Renaissance music which the Band played at their concert last week.

The location for the Chamber Music Concert has been changed from the College Union. The concert will still be held
at 8:15, and will probably be held in one of the church parlors. The culmination of the Fine Arts Festival
will be the Red & Black Masquers production of Hamlet, which will conclude the Festival. Hamlet marks the third Shakespearean
production which Professor Tyson has directed for the Fine Arts Festival. Julius Caesar was the 1951 production; in 1952, Macbeth
was presented.

The cast for Hamlet includes: Tad Currie as Hamlet; George Walker as Claudius, the king; Mrs. Daggy as Gertrude, the
Queen; Ophelia, Peggy Whittle; Polonius, Vance Mizelle; Laertes, Bob Crutchfield; Guildenstern and Rosencrantz, Dick Little and Jinks Jervey respectively; Grave-digger,
Fred Summers; Osric, Luther Yawn; Horatio, Mac Doubles; Ghost, Bob Crosby. Others in the cast are Dunbar Ogden, Swain Loy,
Chuck Babcock, and Mary Beaty. Production Manager is Bob Mims. The play will be presented on May 11 and 12.

By GILBERT GRAGG

Keen interest centers in the announcement made this week by Mr. John Dillon and Dr. S. R. Spencer, Jr. concerning
the new Union Carbide Scholarships which are being given for the first time this year. Two students from the freshman
class have been chosen on the basis of outstanding merit and financial need along with two incoming freshmen next year.

Perrin H. Anderson of Union, South Carolina is one of the freshmen designated for this highly prized scholarship. During his
first semester at Davidson, Perrin has maintained a B average, was a member of the Varsity Basketball squad and participated
actively in intramural sports. He is a member of the Philanthropic Literary Society and has recently been named the outstanding
pledge of Sigma Chi fraternity. In high school, Perrin was President of the Student Body, best all-round in the Senior
Class, a member of the National Honor Society, President of the Synod of South Carolina, and participated in athletics. During
the summer of 1952, he worked as a textile worker for the Excelsior Mills of Union and has also worked
as a salesman for Tinsley's Jewelry of Union.

Joel O. Conarroe of West Bradenton, Florida, is the other freshman to be named a Carbide Scholar. Joel is a
B student and a member of Beta Theta Pi and the Eumenian Literary Society. While participating actively in intramurals, Joel
has also been a member of the Varsity Basketball squad.

Modern Painters Depict Sea Scenes In Coming Exhibit

Twenty reproductions of paintings of the Sea by 19th-century European and American artists will be shown at Davidson College from
April 28 through May 27. Included are painters such as Van Gogh, Seurat, Monet, Gauguin, Homer, Marin, Hartley, Blume, Kokoschka,
Matisse, Miro, Dufy, and Klee. Life on the beach and under water and the sea itself in all its moods
are recorded in a lively and diverse manner.

The Modern works included are representative of characteristic trends in contemporary painting and mark a significant departure from the approach
of the 19th century. While in the latter the painter tended to concentrate on the representation of the subject and
its atmosphere, the painter today often subordinates these to the structure of his composition, often weaving them into a merely
formal pattern. He may elaborate on certain aspects of the theme or isolated elements as is seen in Klee's Around
the Fish or Miro’s Summer. Others convey mood by the use of color rather than the subject matter itself. For
example, the dark green-blue in Tailleux’s Lobster suggests the ocean's depth from which it hails; while the strong reds and
yellows in Desnoyer’s Port d’Alger indicate the hectic activities associated with a busy harbor.

After its showing at Davidson, the exhibition will continue its tour throughout the country under the auspices of the Museum
of Modern Art, New York.

Davidson Makes Booklet On Anniversary Of ’28

The 25th anniversary of the Class of 1928 will be celebrated this commencement. It has turned out to be a
class of many distinctions and the “old boys” are planning to whoop it up at the end of May. Professor
Chalmers Davidson is the historian of the Class and has prepared a booklet on the accomplishments of his classmates entitled
Mid-Point for ‘28. The “Mid-point” refers to their halfway period as Davidson alumni — not to their physical properties, a
point of present concern, says Dr. Davidson in his preface, to many of the Class. “Some have more than they
want, others have less. It depends on how you measure.”

The Class of '28 has already furnished nine sons to Davidson College, those at present among the undergraduates being: Pete
Ormsby, Ed and Tommy Douglas, Joe Hall, Charley Hall, Davey Jones, and Harry Peterson. Only three sons of ‘28 have
reached college age and matriculated at other institutions.

Three members of the present class have been awarded Rhodes Scholarships.

Exercises Are Planned

Dr. Marshall Dendy will deliver the Baccalaureate Sermon Sunday morning, May 31, at 11:00 in the College Church. Dr. Dendy
is a native of Lavonia, Georgia, and is the present executive secretary of the Board of Christian Education of the
Presbyterian Church, U. S. He received his B.A. degree from Presbyterian College, his master’s degree from the University of Tennessee,
and did graduate work at the University of Edinburgh. Dr. Dendy has been moderator of both the South Carolina and
Florida Synods. His last pastorate was at Orlando, Florida. He is a past chairman of the Religious Education Field Council
and is now serving as a trustee of Agnes Scott College and as a member of the board for Women’s
Work, Presbyterian Church, U. S.

On Monday, June 1, Mr. E. H. Little will deliver the Commencement address at 10:30. A native North Carolinian, Mr.
Little was born at Huntersville, only seven miles from the College. He joined the Colgate organization as a salesman in
1902 and became district sales manager in 1906. Affiliating with the Palmolive Company in 1914, he served as district sales
manager at Los Angeles and New York and as assistant general sales manager of the company. Mr. Little was general
manager in charge of foreign operations of the Palmolive Company at the time of the merger with Colgate in 1928,
and was elected a vice-president of Colgate-Palmolive-Peet in 1933. He became president of the company in 1938 and was named
chairman of the board this past spring.

In addition to the graduation exercises, the Commencement program will also feature the awarding of honorary degrees to six religious
leaders, educators, and statesmen. The Alumni Office urges all seniors to make reservations for the event.

Quips and Cranks

Scabbard And Blade Names New Leaders

Scabbard and Blade met on April 28 to elect officers for the coming year and to initiate nineteen new members.
The officers elected by the group were: Captain, Buddy Lamon; First Lieutenant, Tom Ligon; Second Lieutenant, Bill Morris; and First
Sergeant, Charlie Hasty. Due to an overall lack of interest, the group canceled the Scabbard and Blade dance scheduled for
this weekend. Captain Martin and Frank Hanshaw were recognized at the meeting for their outstanding work in the group this
year.

Series Celebrities For Coming Year Named By Plott

Prof. Donald Plott announced today six performances and dates of the 1953-54 artists’ series, combining the formerly separate artist and
lecture series. Claude Rains, noted actor, will open the series on Oct. 14, with readings from well-known sources, and James
Wolfe, pianist, will perform on Nov. 13. On Dec. 4, Irene Jordan, dramatic soprano, will sing. Isaac Stern, violinist, will
perform on Feb. 13, followed by Euzkadi (Basque singers and dancers) on Feb. 24. Jan Peerce, noted Metropolitan Opera tenor,
will sing on April 19. Several more attractions will be added and announced later according to Prof. Plott, chairman of
the artists’ series committee.
