FRIDAY, APRIL 3, 1953

Tomorrow afternoon down on Richardson Field, Davidson’s 1953 track team will open its season against Roanoke. There will be no
crowd on hand and the event will make no banner headlines in the Sunday morning papers. But tomorrow’s track meet
will have a special significance for Pete Whittle, who will be beginning his twentieth season as coach of the Wildcat
cindermen. Whittle is something of a curiosity at Davidson, being the only coach here who can claim a consistently winning
record. As a matter of fact, Pete is presently able to boast 13 winning seasons as headmaster of track. Yet
the engaging Mr. Whittle seems intent only on getting his boys to do their best and forgetting about spilt milk.

THE SPORT'S THE THING

After years of being exposed to the elements while giving instructions to his track or cross-country teams, the dean of
the Davidson Coaching staff has a tanned, almost leathery face like a naval officer who has put in many hours
watch on the bridge of a ship. The passing of time may have put a few wrinkles in his face,
but it has not done anything to the jauntiness of his step or the quickness of his smile. Not bothered
by any pressure to field a winning team, Whittle has been able to enjoy life and do the thing which
he seems to love most — making better athletes out of good ones, and trying to make athletes out of
the boys who are just out for his sport.

That Whittle should be able to tell his boys how it should be done, no one can deny. Pete entered
Davidson in 1926, went out for track, and excelled as an all-round athlete in his four years here, making the
national athletic fraternity, Sigma Delta Psi in 1929, and also being elected to ODK before he graduated. In his senior
year, he was the scourge of the freshman class, serving as Judge of the Court of Control, and also as
Vice President of the Senior class.

PETE WAS ONE OF DAVIDSON’S BEST

While at Davidson, Pete made a name in track as one of the most outstanding athletes this college ever had.
He set a new school record for both the high and low hurdles, and reached the high point of his
athletic career when he tied the world record for the 70-yard indoor low hurdles at the West Virginia Indoor Games
in 1929.

Whittle graduated in the depths of the Great Depression, but was fortunate enough to find a place for himself right
at his Alma Mater. Pete came back to Davidson as Director of Intramural Sports — which position he still holds
— and freshman track coach. Only four years after he graduated, Whittle took over as head track coach when Captain
Norton Pritchett left Davidson, and Pete has been around D. C. ever since.

THE RICH REWARDS OF COACHING

Whittle has had some extremely gratifying experiences as a coach, one of the most outstanding in his memory being the
development of Charles Brenizer of Charlotte, who entered Davidson several years ago. Brenizer had never participated in a track meet
before in his life, but he decided he’d like to try it here. He didn’t even make the team in
his freshman year, and didn’t do much when he got on the squad the next season. It was all he
could do to earn his letter as a junior, but Brenizer went like the proverbial house afire in his final
year, breaking the college record in the broad jump and finishing as high scorer for the team. It is experiences
such as that that make coaching the great profession it is for Whittle.

The 1953 Davidson track team will break few records this year. But if Pete Whittle can get his boys to
do their best and enjoy the thrill of competition, he will undoubtedly consider that he has done a good job.
And he’s lucky enough to be coaching a sport which still belongs to the participants, so that no heads will
fall if he should fail to produce another winner.

By DICK ROPER
THE DAVIDSONIAN

PAGE THREE

Baseballers, Netmen See Action Tomorrow

Seek First Win From Ohio University Club

By JOHN HANDLEY

A twice-beaten Wildcat baseball team will meet Ohio University’s nine here tomorrow at 2:15. Lindley Beardsley is the probable starting
hurler for the Davidson club.

GRAEME KEITH

Wildcat of the Week: Keith’s Low-70 Scores Set Pace For Golfers

Two 71s, a 74, and a 77. That’s the record which makes Graeme Keith the undisputed choice for Wildcat of
the Week honors this week. Davidson team came off with their second win and Keith's second 71. Against Duke last
Saturday, the Cats absorbed their first loss, but Keith came through again with a sparkling two-over-par 74. And then against
Ohio University last Wednesday, Graeme still managed to beat his man, even though he “slipped” to a 77. Lanky Graeme
is by no means finished yet.

McKee’s Club Meets Powerful Dartmouth On Davidson Courts

By MOODY SMITH

Davidson’s tennis team will see action for the fifth time this week when they collide with Dartmouth’s racquet-swingers on the
local courts tomorrow afternoon at 2:00. The Dartmouth squad is making a swing through the South as many of the
stronger northern tennis teams do each year. The Northerners are reputed to be fairly strong, despite the 9-0 shellacking they
recently absorbed at the hands of Presbyterian, one of the stronger college teams in this area.

Played Eight Matches

At press time, scores from only six of the eight matches that the Cats have played this season were available.
The remaining two matches were Thursday and today with Harvard and Sewanee respectively.

On their holiday swing through the south, the Cats met with considerable success, whitewashing Jacksonville State Teachers College, the University
of Alabama, and Mercer University all by scores of 9-0. At the Pensacola Naval Air Station, the Cats ran into
much stiffer opposition, but managed to eke out a 5-4 victory. There they ran into an old enemy in the
person of one Frank Spears, who for the past three years was the mainstay of the P.C. team. Spears defeated
Lacy Keesler in the number one singles match. Pensacola also won the two and three singles, but Davidson came back
to take the last three singles matches and the two doubles matches to win the meet.Two of the doubles matches
to win. Luck Turns Last Monday afternoon, however, luck began to take a decided turn for the worse against Coach
Dick McKee’s team. On Monday they were soundly trounced by Michigan State, and Wednesday saw them bowing in defeat to
a revenge-hungry Harvard team that had not won a match on the Davidson courts in several years. The scores were
8-1 and 5-4 respectively. In the Harvard match, Davidson won four of the six singles, but the Crimsons swept the
field in the doubles matches and walked off with the laurels. A bad omen for the future was seen in
the Michigan State defeat, since P.C. had just defeated them previously. So when the Wildcats and the Blue Stockings meet
on the courts this season, the Cats will be definite underdogs for the first time in quite a while. More
bad news for the home (Continued On Page Four)

CINDERMEN RUN ROANOKE HERE IN SEASON OPENER By JACK BIRD Coach Whittle’s runners open their outdoor track season this Saturday
afternoon at 1:30 on the home grounds when they face a good Roanoke College team. The Virginia opponent has one
of its best teams in recent years and is expected to put up a tough fight in the Wildcats opener.
In the recent Southern Conference Indoor Meet at Raleigh, the Virginians showed up very well and were close to the
top in the final point total. This season the Cats don’t have as well-balanced or experienced a team as they
have in the past, but after this meet, more information can be gathered as to future prospects.

Several Lettermen Returning veterans from last year's team are Frank Mitchener in the 100 and 220, Bill Shipley and J.
V. Howell in the 440, Captain Bob Henry in the 880, Bill Russell and Homer Sparks in the mile, Floyd
Feeney in the two mile, Roy White in the hurdles and broad jump, Bob Poston in the pole vault, and
Don Lazenby in the discus and shot put. These seasoned men probably will be the backbone of this year’s team,
however, several newcomers may very well break into the spotlight.

Davidson’s Entries The following will be participants in the opener: 100 yards — Mitchener, Morris, Koonce. (Continued On Page Four)

Although Coach Clements hasn’t decided definitely on his starting lineup, it will probably run about the same as in the
two previous games. Clements has shifted his lineup frequently, hoping to hit on the right combination. In their first two
appearances of the season, the Cats came out on the short end of 11-2 and 16-7 scores against Duke and
Williams. The best play thus far has centered around some of the returning stalwarts from last year’s club and a
fine group of freshman infielders. Although he went hitless against Duke, left fielder Fred Stowe came through with two hits
against Williams and played well in the field.

Whiz Going Great Another of the good returning lettermen from last year’s squad is first sacker Arnold “Whiz” Whisnant who
has rapped out two hits in each of the games to date. “Whiz” is a good fielder and has turned
in flawless performances around the initial sack. Possibly the most outstanding and the most promising of the freshman prospects is
Billy Morris who has really done a fine job at third. Bill has made some excellent plays at “the hot
corner” and needs only a little experience to make one of the finest fielding third sackers in the league.

Frosh Look Good Two other promising freshmen, both infielders, are Buzzy Holt and Jim Teeter. Both these boys looked good
in the two games thus far and Coach Clements has great hopes for this shortstop-second base combo. Another keystone combination
which will see a lot more action before the season is over is that of Max Devane and Johnny Gray.
Gray's arm is just getting back its normal strength after the football injury sustained last fall and when it’s completely
well Johnny will see plenty of action. Thus far the pitching problem has been Clements’ biggest worry as the hurlers
have not hit their stride as yet. Returning letterman Jimmy Smith was ineffective against Duke last Saturday as was Johnny
Smith. Ish Bennett and Roger Little have turned in the best performances before they tired. Corky Burdette is one of
the most promising of the freshmen hurlers, but he too had trouble finding the range.

Overall Standings Show Phi Delts, Kappa Sigs Pacing Interfrat Loop Phi Delta Theta held the lead in the Interfraternity League
as volleyball and tennis got under way this week. Their smashing victory in the recent track meet gave the Phi
Delts a small lead over the Kappa Sigs, who are 21 points behind with a 635 total. There is a
sizeable drop to the third-place Sigma Chis, however, who have amassed 592 points in the year’s competition. Unless one of
the lower-ranking teams can pull off some real upsets, it appears that the race will now be decided among the
top three, since the fourth place SAEs are some 150 points behind the Sigma Chis. Here are the standings through
Wednesday's games:

Volleyball Phi Delts 3-0 KAs 3-0 (Continued On Page Four)
