KEEP COOL VOLUME XLI

Editor Myers In $50,000 Libel Suit

Playboy Michael Gohegan Myers was arrested March 24 on his return from a very exclusive tour of east coast Florida.
The warrant was presented and the arrest made by Chief Honeycutt of this city. Myers, being sued for libel for
the recent article in Slime Magazine concerning Editors Hanshaw and Patton, was released by Judge John Marshall of the Mecklenburg
County Court of Inquisition on $50,000 bond. Notorious local attorney Fred S. Morton will handle the case for the defendant,
while the well-known law firm of Goldberg, Feinstein, and O’Mallory will bring suit for the plaintiffs. The case is docketed
for June 31.

In an interview with Mr. Myers, he stated frankly and we quote, “I ain’t got nothin’ to say! Morton’s my
mouthpiece.” Editors Patton and Hanshaw, investigating Myers' accusations in Slime Magazine and his recent conduct and expenditures in Florida, have
released the following statement:

Since Mr. Myers has violated all ethics of the publications profession by publishing erroneous statements which defamed our character and
endangered our fine reputations and good standing in the eyes of the student body, faculty, and patrons of Davidson College,
we have no other course of action but to sue him for libel. We hereby publicly deny his libelous remarks
concerning the disposition of Quips and Cranks funds, the alleged framing of the freshmen feeding controversy, and other derogatory remarks.
We feel that we should bring to light certain facts known to us concerning his many shady dealings, particularly in
his recent trip to Florida. Judging from the disparaging content of the most recent attempt to produce a magazine, we
can see why it was wise to leave town five days before Slime was issued to the student body.

There was something much dearer than friendship to Dave Robinson, business manager of the Quips and Cranks, who accompanied Myers
on his 12-day extravaganza in Florida. He found, as was expected, that the incidental expenditures credited to Editor Patton were
but a mere pittance compared with what he saw Myers squander on his trip. Mr. Robinson’s confidential report listed the
following as Myers' expenditures at Daytona: $8400 for a Buick Skylark, $553.82 lost in a poker game with Johannes under
the fishing pier, $2301.12 bet on a motorcycle race, $600.03 for three nights at the Sheraton Plaza. Expenditures elsewhere: $1200
for initiation fee at Bath and Tennis Club, Palm Beach, $312.15 for set-ups at Red Barn in Miami, $1200 for
an overnight trip to Nassau, $1010 for bets at Hialeah (no returns), $738.63 for a houndstooth suit, green suede shoes,
and a hand-painted tie at Bardine’s.

Now from whence did all this money come? We have absolute proof that it came from a student publication. It’s
a well-known fact that Quips and Cranks hasn’t had any money since last Spring, and that Hanshaw is holding every
penny that he can to tide him over during Shaw Smith's proposed campus-wide boycott of the Davidsonian. So it all
adds up! The student body deserves an explanation! Myers will be held accountable in court for his actions and will
certainly receive no less than 20 years for conduct unbecoming a “Davidson Gentleman.”

Editors Absence Explained

Frank Hanshaw, Editor of The Davidsonian, is currently in New York consulting with his attorneys in connection with the legal
action which he and Mitchell Patton, Quips and Cranks Editor, have recently instigated against Michael G. Myers, erstwhile editor of
Slime Magazine. Myers, a filth-sifting egomaniac of a journalistic age which we (ugh!) had believed dead, last week slandered Messrs.
Hanshaw and Patton with bold frontal attacks launched on the pages of his aforementioned scum sheet. Howard Proctor, Monk McGill,
and Shady Eller have accompanied our editor to New York in the hope that they may be able to lend
testimony to the case which will lay open the doors of justice. All three were recently slandered in personal attacks
printed furtively on these pages by Myers. It would be pressing journalistic prerogative to call Myers what he truly is,
but suffice it to say that this perverted evil-genius will be roundly punished for his crimes against humanity.

This edition, in the absence of our editor, was not edited by anyone. However, as is true with all great
institutions, the Davidsonian being a great institution, the powerful journalistic excellence which is seen on these pages sprang forth under
its own initiative from the well-spring of creativity, which spring has long been fed by droplets of brilliance falling from
these pages. Slime slides slowly by, but the Davidsonian drags on forever.

THE FREE LANCE: Iconoclasts Beware! Tradition to Triumph

By JUAN

The recent action of the Davidson administration in advocating the abolition of compulsory Chapel is undoubtedly the most dastardly display
of unbridled totalitarianism which our dastardly and totalitarian administration has ever had the audacity to promulgate. If the brass in
the South end of Chambers get any asinine ideas about flushing Chapel down the drain without virulent protest on the
part of the mature, metropolitan, Davidson student body, they are in for a sad disappointment. We cannot sit idly by
while these anarchic bureaucrats destroy the moral fiber which binds our little community together. Now is the time to act:
we must put our noses to the grindstone, our shoulders to the wheel, our hearts to the task at hand,
as we grit our teeth, take our stance, and press resolutely onward, throwing caution to the wind and flinging out
the bloody banner in defense of our cherished traditions.

Do the moguls of the Davidson hierarchy think they can force this bitter pill down the throats of us Davidson
gentlemen without threat of regurgitation? Do they imagine that their fiendish scheme for submerging our highest ideals in a morass
of unrestrained licentiousness will succeed? It is our duty and our privilege to resist this atrocity to the death.

The student committee which recently appeared before Dr. Cunningham has presented the following ten-point protest, which demands the attention of
every Davidson student:

1. Compulsory Chapel is necessary to develop that class spirit which is so essential to a proper feeling for the
college as a whole.
2. Compulsory Chapel is an old Davidson tradition.
3. Compulsory Chapel provides several jobs for student monitors, who would have to receive aid from some other source if
Chapel is abolished.
4. Compulsory Chapel is an old Davidson tradition.
5. Compulsory Chapel prevents serious hazing of the freshmen by channeling the fun-loving frolics of the student body to a
brief period just before, during, and after the Chapel exercises.
6. Compulsory Chapel is an old Davidson tradition.
7. Compulsory Chapel provides stimulating and cultural contacts for the student body with old Davidson grads and with those faculty
members who bother to attend.
8. Compulsory Chapel is an old Davidson tradition.
9. Without compulsory Chapel, Davidson students would have nothing to do between 10:20 and 11:00 every morning.
10. Compulsory Chapel is an old Davidson tradition.

Kappa Beta Phi Favors Campus With Chapter

On March 13 and 14, a chapter of Kappa Beta Phi, national, honorary, Bacchian fraternity, was established here at Davidson.
Johnny Walker, national Grand Toaster, and P. M. Smirnoff, the Old Grand-Dad of Kappa Beta Phi, journeyed from Lodi, California
for the purpose of initiating the new chapter officers. The individual names of the new officers have been withheld for
security reasons. Several members of the faculty were also initiated into honorary membership, one of which later stated: “I am
gratified that such a national organization feels Davidson worthy of the establishment of a chapter of Kappa Beta Phi. This
fraternity will add a real spirit which needs to be nurtured on this campus. It is, therefore, with a peculiar
pleasure that I welcome Kappa Beta Phi.”

ALENDA LUX UBI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C.

Holidays Spent By Greek God In Home Country

Lawrentius Erwin, King of the Greeks, returned to his native Athens during the recent vacation period. The purpose of his
trip was to introduce to the educators and students of his land a program called Freak Week, of which the
Almighty Erwin has become a nationally recognized leader here at home. Being the only red-headed Greek in existence, Erwin was
well qualified for his mission. His plans included an undisclosed hazing program and road trips to Istanbul. While at home,
Greece's Gift to D.C. enjoyed an eventful celebration in his honor. He took part in the chariot races and was
awarded the “Spirit of Sparta” trophy for winning his heat in a photo finish. The next day he conferred the
world-famous honorary Degree of E on three of his loyal subjects who had successfully blown up the Athens Union Building
(Erwin disclosed the reason for this destruction, but merely stated, “Lis Aiden Sun Adelphos,” or “Boys will be boys.”). Having
introduced to this country the game of Pythias’ Pill (knownIn this country as “golf”), which he learned as a boy
in Greece, Erwin took the Athens Open, and was thereby accorded the title of “Pride of Athens.” While in Greece,
he was able to sign with Ralphos Flanagius for the annual Mid-Exam Frolics in May. “Anything for the boys,” stated
Erwin, who is known far and wide as “the student’s friend.” Two of Erwin’s immigrant centurions, Laertes Vanee and Orantas
Darius Kelley, accompanied His Majesty on the trip.

NOTICE
Governor James F. Byrnes of South Carolina has requested that Davidson students who plan to attend the Camden Races this
year make their hotel reservations early as his car will not be available for their sleeping convenience. The Dean's Office
has announced that owing to administrative difficulties no cut cards will be sent out for the remainder of the year.
He has asked that students observe the basic tenets of good taste and morality in connection with this matter.

ORTA LIBERTAS. WEDNESDAY, APRIL 1, 1953

Union Operators Announce Staff
The Internal Committee of the CSGLO (Collectivist Society of Greek Letter Orders) announced today that the following positions have been
filled to ensure effective operation of the New CSGLO Union.
Housemother — Smith.
Chief Boytender — Ray Lilly.
CSGLO Publications — Frank Hanshaw, Mitchell Patton.
Copy boy — Mike Myers.
Pin boy for bowling alley — C. Shaw Smith.
Pin boy’s assistant — Mike Myers.
Projection room — C. B. DeMille.
Popcorn — Mike Myers.
Social Chairman — Bill Bledsoe.
Janitor — Mike Myers.
Brainwashing faculty — Jim Speed.
S. W. soap holder — Mike Myers.*
*He needs work.

Show Robeson Replaces Laughton In Artist Series
Paul Robeson, the celebrated American singer and actor, will replace Charles Laughton in a chapel concert Thursday as the fifth
attraction of the 1952-53 Artist Series. The noted star of Othello is jointly sponsored at Davidson by the YMCA and
Alpha Phi Omega, ex-Boy Scout fraternity. His appearance here will be the climax of an extended tour of military camps
and veterans’ hospitals. Robeson is best known for his roles in The Commissar Jones and Greener Pastures. In addition to
his concert renown, Robeson is noted as a widely-read speaker, and as a former president of the National Association of
Manufacturers and past commander of the American Legion.

INTERFRATERNITY UNION
Plott, Male Chorus Grab Loyola Offer
DAVIDSON — Donald Plott, former director of the Davidson Male Chorus, sent notice here yesterday that he has consented to
stay on at Loyola University in New Orleans to become Director of Musical Activities there. After much debate, the entire
Male Chorus decided to follow Plott, and transcripts of their records are to be mailed today in order that they
may enroll for the coming quarter at Loyola. The big decision was reached while the chorus was on tour in
New Orleans, but the news has been withheld pending final arrangements. During a half-hour interview this morning Mr. Plott refused
to discuss the question of salaries, but it was reliably reported that the New Orleans Catholic school has offered at
least twice the pay which Plott has received at Davidson. “I realize this is a big jump,” Plott stated, “but
those people down there are terribly nice. I’ve been hamstrung at Davidson by academic standards and rules about subsidization. Last
year our first-string tenor flunked out just as our big spring tour was getting under way. We had to reshuffle
the whole bass section at the last minute, and our contrapuntal attack was all fouled up. I’ve been assured that
adequate scholarships will be available at Loyola, and that we'll be able to use the four-part harmony system, regardless of
the recent change in national rules.” Asked when the Chorus was planning to leave, Herb Russell reported, “As soon as
possible; the boys are already getting their stuff together, and we should be there by Saturday.” First tenor Vance Mizelle
probably expressed the sentiments of the entire chorus when he said, idly fingering a rosary, “Where Don goes I go.”

Wildcat Gridders Open 1953 Season With Mich. State
The Davidson College football schedule was announced today by athletic director Paul K. Scott. The team will follow the alumni
and faculty plea for more emphasis on football by playing a thirteen-game intersectional and international schedule. The faculty has graciously
consented to give free cuts to any members of the student body who incur absences while following the team on
trips. The schedule is as follows:
Sept. 19 Mich. (home).
Sept. 26 Duke (Durham).
Oct. 3 Notre Dame (South Bend).
Oct. 10 Alaska U. (Fairbanks).
Oct. 17 P.S.C. (home).
Oct. 24 Ga. Tech (Atlanta).
Oct. 31 Maryland (home).
Nov. 7 Russia U. (7).
Nov. 14 Queens (Charlotte).
Nov. 21 S. Calif. (home).
Nov. 28 Texas (Dallas).
Dec. 5 U. N. C. (Chapel Hill).
Dec. 12 Elon (home).

APRIL FOOL | No. 21

FRATERNITIES PURCHASE COLLEGE PLEASURE PALACE
Smith Remains As Interfrat House Mother
It was announced today by the administration of Davidson College that a combine of fraternities, referred to in the communique
as “The Collectivist Society of Greek Letter Orders” has agreed to purchase the newly completed Pleasure Palace, located across the
street from Richardson Field on the Davidson College Campus. Final negotiations are under way and transfer of title will be
consummated this afternoon at a special meeting of the Board of Trustees, Administration, Fraternity Representatives, and Officers of the Wildcat
Club. C. Shaw Smith, former coordinator of student activities and director of the College Union will remain as housemother to
the interfraternity group. In a terse communique released to a select group of newsmen in his luxurious offices this morning
Dr. J. R. Cunningham stated: “It is a very real gratification to the Administration of Davidson College that we are
able to announce the sale of the newly completed Pleasure Palace to The Collectivist Society of Greek Letter Orders.” When
asked if the new group would have representation on the Board of Trustees, his reply was a crisp “no comment,
gentlemen.” In a subsequent interview with members of the internal committee of the CSGLO it was learned that the Interfraternity
Union building will be open twenty-four hours a day and will be strongly fortified. Any faculty members caught on the
premises will be interned in the ingenious “Finishing Room” on the second floor, designed with a French Curve instead of
a T-Square, where they will suffer the ultimate in brainwashing techniques. It was also revealed that Mother Smith's salary will
be determined on a sliding scale based jointly on the daily fluctuations of the New York Stock Exchange and proceeds
realized from the hourly contributions of the Wildcat Club. In a short interview, Mother Smith expressed deep appreciation to the
CSGLO. Referring to the students, he smiled. “They're all my boys.”

CARTOON OF THE WEEK
