Erwin Gives Ideas For Greek Week

To THE STUDENT BODY:

As we approach the beginning of our second Greek Week, I would like for you to understand the purpose behind
it. To present it in the clearest manner, let us consider the problem from several aspects.

First, let us look at some specific incidences that have occurred in the past few years. Several years ago, two
University of California students received fatal burns from some nitrate during a fraternity initiation. At Dickinson College, a boy died
of blood poisoning after an initiation. In 1949, at Brown University, Hell-Week ended in a free-for-all with two students dead
and many hospitalized. A student at the University of Alberta was dragged along corridors, beaten severely, and held under a
cold shower. He became hopelessly insane as a result of this hazing. This list could be supplemented by a few
incidents that have occurred on this campus. Is this your idea of mature, well-rounded fraternity men? Is this your idea
of testing a pledge to see if he can take it, to see if he is worthy to become a
brother?

Let us consider next the effects of Hell-Week, first on the pledge. The main purpose of Hell-Week as I see
it, is to climax his entire pledge training period—the final test before he becomes a brother. But in most instances
what does our Hell-Week really test: whether he can steal or not, how long he can go without sleep, how
much physical punishment he can take? Don’t get me wrong, I think some of the things that the pledges go
through during this week are helpful and constructive, but I am definitely opposed to those things which are detrimental to
the pledge and destructive in nature.

Next let us consider the effects of Hell-Week on the general public. For the past several years, one of the
main topics of discussion at the National Interfraternity Conference has been that of public relations. A survey of fraternity publicity
in the leading papers in this country showed that 80 percent of it was unfavorable. The majority of these stories
and articles had to do with initiations and Hell-Week. A questionnaire was sent to 40 newspaper editors in 40 major
cities and to 10 papers located in smaller college towns. Seventy percent replied that fraternities in their area were not
showing greater maturity or a sense of responsibility, and 81 percent said that fraternities were of little importance one way
or another in their community. From these statistics you can see what sort of an opinion the general public has
about fraternities.

What can we do to provide a more practical and more fitting climax to pledge training? What can we do
to better the final test of the pledge? What can we do to correct this bad impression the public has
about fraternities? The answer is very simple: Institute a Greek Week. The idea started at the University of Indiana in
February, 1949, by the pledge master of the local ATO chapter. The new twist to Hell-Week spread to the other
fraternities on the campus and with the help of the merchants of Bloomington, and civic and charity organizations, they made
a tremendous success. They did such things as paint the community house, help needy families, and repair many homes. The
idea spread to other Midwestern colleges and now evidence of its presence can be found in almost every college and
university in America.

The spirit of Greek Week shouldn’t end or begin with any specific week, but should be continuous throughout the year.
Participation should be by the brothers as well as the pledges. I ask you, as mature fraternity men, to think
about this problem, to weigh the issues carefully, and if you feel as I do, to resolve to do everything
you possibly can to make this coming Greek Week an overwhelming success.

—LAWRENCE ERWIN.

Quips and Cranks

Union Committee Goes To Meet

To Use Full Names

Following the policy of many annuals of the past, the 1953 Quips and Cranks staff will this year use students’
full names, unless individual students request otherwise. The main reason for using the full name, rather than initials, is that
this has been found best for recollection and identification of classmates by name in the yearbook several or more years
after graduation. This policy also provides for uniformity of names throughout the book. The staff will be glad to make
exceptions for anyone wishing to be listed in Quips and Cranks in another form. Students wishing to be listed by
other than their full names should notify Managing Editor Jim Speed in room 108 West. Such arrangements must be made
by the beginning of the second semester.

Mr. Shaw Smith, director of the College Union, and several members of the David Ovens College Union Committee attended a
conference at the University of Georgia in Athens, Ga., last Friday and Saturday. At this conference were delegations from UNC,
N.C. State, Davidson, University of Georgia, University of Florida, Auburn, and WCUNC. The conference was held in order that members
from the various colleges would be able to exchange ideas as to their own union operation, organization, costs, and programs
with other members. This exchange of ideas took place on Saturday afternoon. The conference ended with a dance in the
University of Georgia’s Memorial Hall Saturday night. The Davidson delegation returned to Davidson immediately following the dance.

James Hyun Gives Opinions On Frats, Sports, Davidson

By MIKE MYERS

(This is the second of two articles concerning exchange student James Hyun. The first was of a biographical nature. —Ed’s.
note.)

It's refreshing to find a Davidson student who isn’t 100 percent satisfied with our little world here, especially a foreign
student. James Hyun is a modest person, and it doesn’t take much talking to realize he’s a smart one. His
insight is at times amazing. “Fraternities seem to me to be a bunch of men who realize they can do
more socially as a unit,” he says, and that would be hard to improve on.

And James is conscientious too. He wants to know what the students think of him and how well he’s fitting
in here. But I was more interested in what he thinks of us. I asked James how he liked Davidson
and had already written a nice little statement for him to make, but he surprised me with a lukewarm “Pretty
good.” He realizes he is lucky not to be (Continued On Page Four)

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

VOLUME XLI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, JANUARY 16, 1953 No. 13

Greek Week In February; IFC Lists Pledge Events

At one of the planning sessions of the fraternity pledge masters and IFC representatives for Greek Week are: Center, Lawrence
Erwin; left to right, Allen Vance, George Bason, Dick Liles, Seymour Simmons, Larry Dagenhart, Mercer Kepler, Max Devane, John Livingston,
Dick Kelley, Pete Ormsby, James Harper, Duke Fowler, Gail Averette, and Winston Wright. (Photo by Simons)

Starting next year Honorary Scholarships will be given to incoming freshmen at Davidson. At a recent meeting of the faculty
it was decided that Davidson needed more scholarships in order to undergird the Baker Scholarships. The point was made that
in view of rapidly increasing scholarship opportunities at other institutions, Davidson needs such scholarships in order to ensure the flow
of top-quality students to the campus. These new scholarships are subject, of course, to the approval of the persons donating
them. In practice, the scholarship funds of the college have been pooled for investment purposes and have been used almost
exclusively for grants-in-aid in which need rather than merit has received the primary emphasis. The program that will now go
into effect will set aside part of these funds, a maximum of $5,220, out of a total of $15,000, for
genuine scholarships in which merit will be the primary emphasis. As with the Baker Scholarships, however, need will be considered,
and for this reason, the amount proposed for each of the Honor Scholarships is specified as “up to” $435.00. The
memorial scholarships chosen for this program are those earning enough income to cover at least one full tuition grant. The
$15,000 listed above does not include $23,000 in remissions nor athletic grants of $29,000. The Committee on Scholarships and Loans
submitted a proposed plan to the faculty at their last meeting and the plan was unanimously approved. The memorial scholarships
chosen for the Davidson College Honor Scholarships are in memorial to the following persons: William Perry, Robert Phifer, W. A.

Garrison High Man As Marksmen Whip Virginia Military

The Davidson College rifle team, with Capt. Walter Blanton as its officer-in-charge, and Sgt. John Butts as coach, took a
close decision from VMI Saturday in a shoulder-to-shoulder match. Highest individual scorer in the match, which marked the ninth shoulder-to-shoulder
match for the Davidson team this year, was Bob Garrison of Davidson with a score of 376. Other top scorers
for Davidson were Pete Robertson with 371; Bill Keiter, 370; Dick Hobson, 366; and Lee Scott with 362 points. Ten
men shoot for each side in each match, but only scores of the top five are given. The final score
gave Davidson 1845, while VMI's total was 1841. This was the first time Davidson's rifle team had defeated VMI, and
it left the team with a record of three wins in five shoulder contests, and 12 wins in 14 postal
matches.

Spanish Societies To Add Members

The Spanish Club and Sigma Delta Pi, the honorary Spanish fraternity, are making plans for the election of new members
after the beginning of the second semester. Ordinarily, Spanish students making B or better are eligible for election to the
Spanish Club, while only outstanding students in advanced courses are eligible for Sigma Delta Pi. (Continued On Page Four)Wood, R.
M. Miller, Jr., J. Edward Johnston, James Sprunt, W. E. McElroy, and J. R. and Mrs. Annettie J. Brown.

Honor Scholarship Program | Scabbard & Blade To Augment Frosh Finance

Re Announces Its Semester Program

Second semester programs and activities of Scabbard and Blade were announced at Tuesday’s meeting by the program chairman, Preston Chaney.
Dr. Tai Wilson will be the guest speaker at the February 10th meeting, speaking on Nazism and the attempted assassinations
of Hitler. On March 10, Dr. C. A. Eberhardt will speak on Palestine, Egypt, and the Middle East situation. These
two talks will be open to all ROTC students.

The spring Military Ball is tentatively scheduled for the first weekend in April in conjunction with the Salem-Davidson activities. Col.
Carl McGee, G-3 of Third Army, will visit the fraternity to speak on the very current subject of guerrilla and
anti-guerrilla warfare in Korea. He is an expert in this field and has just recently returned from the battlefront.

Spring Tap Day will be held on April 21 at a regimental parade. At this ceremony, the ROTC students in
the junior and senior classes who have qualified themselves for membership will be tapped.

(Continued On Page Four)

IPC President Lawrence Erwin revealed on Monday that Greek Week would be held during the second week of February on
Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday, the 10th, 11th, and 12th, with all eleven fraternities and the Campus Club taking an active
part in the program. This is the second year that such a program has been attempted on the Davidson campus.

The announcement came following the second of two important joint meetings of the Inter-Fraternity Council and the pledge masters of
the respective organizations. The plans have received the wholehearted approval of these two groups who have worked together in order
to offer a better and more instructional program for all involved.

Erwin stated, “The IPC regrets that the schedule of Greek Week will conflict with the band tour, but with the
many other scheduled college events it was impossible to avoid some conflict. It is hoped that the student body will
participate in this event 100 percent, and if anyone has any suggestions or criticisms, please make them known before the
Week begins in order that they may be judged and evaluated.”

Included in the “Week” will be activities of interest to both brothers and pledges. It is hoped in this manner
to foster a more successful program than was carried out last year, with emphasis being placed not only on the
will to work together, but also on the ability to work as individual pledge classes.

Following ROTC drill on Tuesday afternoon, the pledges will begin a systematic collection campaign, canvassing Davidson and the immediate surrounding
areas for books and magazines to be contributed to the Mecklenburg County Home. This combined project is felt to be
one that is worthwhile and extremely adaptable to Greek Week.

Exchange suppers will be held at the boarding houses with pledges paying a half-hour visit after sup-

(Continued On Page Four)

Coffee During Exams

Coffee and doughnuts will be served at the Student Union from 9 to 12 p.m. throughout the examination period under
the joint sponsorship of the Union and the Y Cabinet. A minimum charge will be made for the service. Earnest
Barry, member of the cabinet, urges the student body to pay for the coffee and doughnuts in order to make
the proposition pay for itself and to enable its continuance.

Anna Russell, Comic Star, To Mimic Opera

A resident of Toronto, born in London, a graduate of the Royal Academy of Music, Miss Russell brings to Davidson
a supreme sense of the ridiculous that satirizes the solemn, the pompous, the pretentious to the delight of her audiences.

Continuing this year’s artist series, Miss Anna Russell, international concert comedienne, will appear in Chambers auditorium Friday night, February 6,
at 8:15 p.m. She has won such great acclaim of late that she is now appearing regularly on the Fred
Waring Show on television, and will be guest artist with the Cincinnati Symphony Orchestra and others this summer, in addition
to her concert and lecture tours in all major cities.

Although doing take-offs on serious concert singers at the present time, Miss Russell herself is an accomplished singer and has
a wide background of musical training. Born in London, she was educated at the Royal Academy of Music. Today she
finds valuable use for her exacting training in the world of serious music as a basis for spoofing the long-haired
music world.

The versatile Miss Russell still appears on radio, in straight dramatic roles, in various night clubs, and in concerts with
major symphony orchestras.

FOUNDER OF DAVIDSONIAN RETURNS

Looking over the Communist newspaper, The Shanghai News, Alumni Secretary John Payne chats with Frank Price, who had just finished
speaking to the student body.

Price Describes Life In Red China

Dr. Frank W. Price, nationally known figure in the Chinese mission field, returned to Davidson Tuesday after many years of
absence to speak to the student body. While attending Davidson his many activities included founding the Davidsonian in 1915, and
Sigma Upsilon. He was also president of the YMCA.

Dr. Price has just recently returned from Red China where he was confined by the Communist Government for three and
a half years. He recounted his many experiences with the Communists and spoke of their attitude and dealings with him
and other American and Chinese missionaries. He told of the tactics of mass education and reorganization that accompanied the new
form of government. The Red Government had begun many worthwhile and beneficial projects to raise the standard of living, but
had sought to destroy the individual freedom of action and thought. He said that the Communists had not entirely prohibited
the religious worship services and he saw no immediate danger due to the vast number of Chinese Christians in the
country.

Born of missionary parents at Kashing, Chekiang province, China, he spent his boyhood there, studying at home and in Chinese
schools. He came to the U.S. at the age of 15 where he received an A.B. at Davidson, B.D. at
Columbia University, and a Ph.D. at Yale University.

He has been a Presbyterian missionary to China since 1923 serving as professor at Hangchow Christian University for two years
and at Nanking Theological Seminary for 18 years. In China during the war against Japan, he was engaged in liaison
service between the Chinese Government and the AAF in China. He served as assistant to the Chinese delegation at the
UN in 1945 at San Francisco. On returning to China in 1948, he took up the new work as a
missionary secretary of the Church of Christ in China. He is the author of numerous books and articles, the latest
being “China: Twilight or Dawn.”

Notice

Special attention is called to those wishing to book Erwin Lodge that Mr. Smith is in charge of this. College
Union phone number is 7901.

Wilson Speaks On Nazi Germany

There are certain elements in the political life of the U.S. which, if unchecked, could lead to a dictatorship like
that of Nazi Germany according to Prof. Iain Wilson. Prof. Wilson, who has had contact with Germany as student, soldier,
and reconstructor, presented this analogy in a talk at a recent meeting of the International Relations Club.

Prof. Wilson bases this opinion on his impression that in recent years there has been a growth of aggressive nationalism
in some areas of American life. Nationalism of this type was certainly a main resource of the Nazis in their
mastery of Germany.

Speaking on “The Fall of Nazi Germany,” he gave an account of the rise of Hitler and

(Continued On Page Four)
