PAGE FOUR

Shown above is a scene from the first Monday afternoon of rush week, as fraternity men confirmed dates with rushees and posted them on the master chart in Chambers Building.

Erik Ruud Of Norway Studies At Davidson
By TOM WARLICK

Early in September 1952, a young Norwegian named Erik Ruud applied for a scholarship for a year's study in the United States. He was one of more than 3,000 who responded to the same newspaper announcement. Out of this group, 25 were selected by the Norwegian government, among them Erik Ruud. They were selected for their ability to speak English and their knowledge of American History. These 25 men were then processed by the State Department, which in turn selected ten of them, one to go to each of the ten colleges at which arrangements had been made for the students.

As has been the custom for the past few years, some fraternity here has sponsored a student's visit on the campus. This year the Phi Delta Theta fraternity assumed that responsibility. They are paying for Erik’s room, board, and books. The college in turn is paying tuition and laboratory fees.

Erik has been in this country for nine weeks. His first six weeks were spent at Yale University, where he took introductory courses in American Sociology, Architecture, Literature, and History. As part of his indoctrination, he was taken on a number of tours in New England. When he arrived here, he had never heard of Davidson, and he had heard very little about North Carolina. He knew very little about American History or Geography. Having landed in New York, he was immediately impressed by the city and especially Times Square. He had never seen so many people at one time. Although Oslo, his hometown, has a population of 500,000, it is the largest city in the world in land area.

One of the first things that he noticed here was the marked similarity between all American cities whether in New England or in the South. He was struck by the uses to which neon lights are put here. In Norway, they are considered very ugly, and their use is restricted by municipal ordinance. Despite the similarity between the physical appearance of the towns, he feels that life is considerably slower in the South than in the North.

Lutheranism is the official state religion in Norway. It is for this reason, he feels, that so little emphasis is placed on religion. Practically no one attends church there. He was deeply impressed and surprised by the emphasis placed on church-going here and the large number of denominations.

At present, Erik is an economics major. He is planning to go either into banking or the shipping business when he graduates. Although only 18, he is classified as a junior here. He will be at Davidson for one year, and if his progress and grades warrant it, possibly two. Upon his return, he will serve one year in the Universal Military Training System of Norway. He hopes to be an English interpreter.

His comparisons of the American and Norwegian educational systems are interesting. A boy first attends seven years of elementary school followed by five years of high school. Study of English is begun in the sixth grade. Their high schools are considered so good that Davidson College accredited him for one year of college work. Following high school, he attended the Oslo Commercial College for one year. It is considered average for a student to attend classes 40 hours a week. In general, he considers European colleges to be harder than those here. There is no social or extra-curricular life. One goes to school for study and nothing else. There are no dormitories. Students stay in fixed classes with the teachers rotating. Original and independent thought is especially stressed and is absolutely necessary for a high grade. Here he finds that you can study if you want to. He was impressed by the social life, the gym, athletics, and fraternity life. However, he would not commit himself on whether he considered the American system better than the European.

In Europe, there is no time during terms of school for any work at all. However, it is the custom for boys to get summer jobs. He has worked as a longshoreman, waiter, porter, and in a tobacco factory. He also served as an interpreter for the 1952 Winter Olympics. A wage of 70 cents an hour is considered high in Norway. Soccer, skiing, and ice hockey are the three main sports there. It is not unusual for snow to be on the ground from November to March, or to have snow six feet deep, or a temperature of —20 degrees F. An average fall day here compares with the hottest summer day there.

Although there is no television in Norway, he was impressed by the poor technical quality of our television as compared with that of England. Nevertheless, he enjoys watching the programs, as well as drinking Coca-Colas. He particularly appreciates all of the goodwill and understanding that has been shown him while at Davidson.

THE VENERABLE COURT.... (Continued From Page Two)

...fore it the type of friendly but somewhat restrained veneer that generally typifies the Davidson man. Regardless of how skeptical the man who has been here three or four years may be about the trite-sounding concept of the Davidson Gentleman. The truth is that there actually is such an animal, and the Court of Control, directly or otherwise, plays an active part in the spawning of the species.

OXFORD — no longer a one-collar style shirt! It’s a bright era for oxford fans. For this rich soft shirting now comes in many smart new collar styles, three of which are illustrated below, in addition to the ever-popular button-down. All handsome and long-wearing—with Manhattan’s traditional tailoring detail subtly present in every stitch. Why not see them today, at your nearest Manhattan dealer.

REED—tobless tab, short point round collar.
MANROL BUTTON-DOWN—bendless, permo-roll wide spread collar.
DRESS 'N’ PLAY—convertible bondless collar, angle stays.
BURT—regular “soft-roll” button-down collar.

©1953. THE MANHATTAN SHIRT CO., 444 MADISON AVENUE, NEW YORK, N.Y.

Ticket Brokering . . . (Continued From Page One)

...expect to pay almost exactly the same as last year, with each dance costing approximately the same amount. Independents will also have a section on the dance floor set apart for them this year. The Council is seeking more interest in the school dances on the part of independents. All members of the Campus Club and all independents should contact Clark Reed of the junior class to purchase their tickets. The IFC spokesman urged that all fraternity men and independents cooperate in this move to prevent a hike in assessments.BLEED FOR THE LADY, PLEDGE

Campus Magazine...

Washington Study... (Continued From Page One)

enjoyment from Scripts ‘n Pranks,” the balding editor promised, “is to make sure your girl has a subscription. If you’ve missed a double meaning,” he avowed, “she’s bound to find it.”

“We don’t claim Cupidity as one of our services,” sighed Williams modestly, “but couples who have found a warmth, companionship, and community of interest in the magazine form the backbone of our society.”

“In fact, people have told us,” he added, blushing, “that a joint subscription to Scripts ‘n Pranks is the best ice-breaker since orchids were invented.”

“Of course, we don't believe that, but a joint subscription is much less expensive. And nobody has kept this quarterly Valentine in the refrigerator yet!”

In addition to the reduced prices offered girlfriends and parents, soldiers will receive the magazine for half price. Free subscriptions will be given to anyone who turns in 150 pounds of old Davidson yearbooks or, as an alternate, 6500 pounds of old Davidsonians.

Editor Williams announced that a meeting will be called for all those interested in filling the openings in the business, editorial, and photography staffs of the magazine.

British to Grant... (Continued From Page One)

are distinction of intellect and character, as shown by scholastic attainment and other activities and achievements. Preference will be given to candidates who combine high academic ability with the capacity to play an active part at the university of their choice.

Under the terms of the awards, each of four regional committees in the United States—East, South, Middle West, and Pacific—will select three candidates every year, with three in reserve. These names will be forwarded for approval to the Advisory Council in Washington, which consists of six distinguished Americans who will assist the British Ambassador, Chairman of the Council, in reviewing and approving the candidates.

The closing date for the applications for 1954-55 scholarships is November 1, 1953. For further information, prospective candidates should write to British Information Services (Marshall Scholarships) 30 Rockefeller Plaza, New York, 20, N.Y.

Davidson Debaters... (Continued From Page One)

and beyond the Forensic Council is Tau Kappa Alpha, the national honorary forensic fraternity. To be selected for membership in Tau Kappa Alpha one must meet the following requirements: (1) participate in two years of intercollegiate debate; (2) be in the upper one-third of one’s class scholastically; (3) and to have displayed an active interest in attaining the qualities necessary for good public speaking. Tau Kappa Alpha is selective, and provides a challenge to all debaters.

Camera Club... (Continued From Page One)

already painted its darkroom in the basement of Watts Dormitory, and is looking forward to a very successful year. The officers for this year are Andrew Simons, Jr., President, and Sam R. Sells, Secretary-Treasurer. The regular meetings are held on the first and third Tuesday of each month at 8:15 p.m. in the Union.

SEND THE DAVIDSONIAN HOME (Continued From Page One)

studies. Davidson College is allowed to nominate four students for this next spring term. The program is limited to those who have had at least one course in Political Science and a good overall academic record. Nominations by the college must be made by November 15. All those interested in receiving more information about the Washington Semester program or in making application should contact Professor Edward O. Guerrant in Room 301, Chambers Building.

Maxin Assists... (Continued From Page One)

cert. At the age of eighteen he made his debut tour. After two national tours he was awarded a scholarship at the Philadelphia Conservatory of Music where he studied for four years under the pianist and teacher, Edward Steverman. While studying Maxin continued his concert activities. His musical talent was further recognized by a grant from the Olga Samaroff Memorial Foundation.

In May of 1953, Jack Maxin was chosen from among thirty pianists to appear with Eugene Ormandy and the Philadelphia Orchestra during the current season. After his return from the University of Colorado, where he spent the summer as a visiting lecturer, Maxin was selected by Claude Rains. We are looking forward to hearing Jack Maxin on Claude Rains’ dramatic program of “Words and Music.”

Uniform Pics, Names In Quips and Cranks

The student body voted in the recent chapel election concerning the wearing of coats and ties for the individual annual pictures, in the affirmative by a margin of 103 votes. The proposal to advance the second semester fee 75 cents so that the owner’s name might be stamped upon his annual cover in gold letters, was also adopted. First prints will be shown on Tuesday for some of the members of the senior class in the Charter room of the College Union.

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1953

Dr. Charles G. Reigner, former secretary to Woodrow Wilson, and speaker in Tuesday's chapel, is shown chatting with several members of the faculty before delivering his address to the student body. From left to right they are: Prof. Henry Bauman, Prof. Henry Lilly, Prof. Tom Daggy, Miss Virginie Lawson, assistant librarian, and Dr. Reigner.

Getting settled in their rooms, the boys will meet their dates for a supper hike up one of the mountain trails where a picnic supper will be enjoyed by one of the refreshing mountain streams.

Perhaps the highlight of Montreat-Davidson day will be the big party planned to be held in Howerton Hall following the supper hike. There will be ample opportunity for round dancing, square dancing, and folk games.

The program for Sunday morning includes worship services in the impressive Gaither Chapel. After lunch the homeward journey will begin so that the students will get back to the campus in plenty of time for Vespers.

Montreat-Davidson Day First ‘53-54 Exchanges

For about fifty students the first weekend in October will mean a weekend in Montreat. Whether they are going to see the colorful turning of the mountain leaves, to enjoy fun with the fairer sex, or just to see the Presbyterian summer conference site, the group that leaves from the Student Union at 2 o'clock tomorrow afternoon will have a fun-filled weekend.

Lodging has been secured for the Davidson boys in Montreat’s Assembly Inn where they will have Sunday lunch and breakfast. Immediately upon arriving and getting settled in their rooms, the boys will meet their dates for a supper hike up one of the mountain trails where a picnic supper will be enjoyed by one of the refreshing mountain streams.

SMOKERS BY THE THOUSANDS NOW CHANGING TO CHESTERFIELD

the ONLY cigarette ever to give you...

PROOF of LOW NICOTINE HIGHEST QUALITY

The country’s six leading cigarette brands were analyzed—chemically—and Chesterfield was found low in nicotine—highest in quality.

A PROVEN RECORD with smokers

Again and again, over a full year and a half a group of Chesterfield smokers have been given thorough medical examinations... the doctors’ reports are a matter of record, “No adverse effects to the nose, throat and sinuses from smoking Chesterfields.” A responsible independent research laboratory supervises this continuing program.

Copyright 1952, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.