PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

Moody Smith ... Charley Hasty
Jim Moore, Dick Roper
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF BUSINESS MANAGER ASSOCIATE EDITORS

Assistant Editors
Bob Crutchfield, Charles Hassell, Buddy Lamon, Bob Owen, Hunter Strader

Managing Editors
Henry Brockmann, Floyd Feeney

Sports Editor
John Handley

News Editor
Austin Strand

Feature Editor
T. A. Williams

Art Editor
Ed Price

Photographer
Andy Simons

Assignments
Blake Brinkerltoff

Asst. Business Manager
Ed Nicholson

Advertising Manager
Tommy Taylor

Circulation Manager
Dick Little

Collections Manager
Tim Cooper

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897.

Please, Don’t Freeze Us!

This might be considered a sort of open letter to whoever turns the heat off and on, up and down,
in the houses around fraternity court. It has been the considered observation of men who frequent a number of the
fraternity houses that with the coming of cooler days and nights to the local campus there has failed to be
a corresponding increase in the amount of heat emanating from around the radiators in their houses. While this complaint has
not been universal perhaps, it has certainly been widespread. We are fully aware that the college has most of its
millions tied up in investments and real estate which cannot immediately be turned into warm air in cold fraternity houses.
Nevertheless, it would not seem unduly expensive or unreasonable for the administration in this instance to bow to the students’
request and start letting out a little heat. No kiddin’, we're freezing!

Two-Thirds Vote Required

To many people who read this page it may seem that sufficient comment about the question of a change in
diplomas has been made already, and that the need for further editorializing here or elsewhere is virtually nil. Perhaps many
will maintain that the question itself is not worth the effort that has been given it; in fact, one faculty
member is said to have referred to the whole question as intellectual “tiddly-winks” on the part of some members of
the student body. Despite the fact that the first reaction to the whole affair among many students now is the
perfectly natural one that “as long as I get one, I don’t give a flip what it looks like,” that
attitude might well change when the time actually arrives for the sheepskins to be distributed. When commencement arrives it will
be too late to do anything about what the diploma looks like. Monday the whole business will be settled for
the next five years at least by the members of the upper three classes. We will not give any free
advice here about what should be done. But whatever is done we feel that everyone in the three classes should
have a hand in it—in other words that everyone should at least take the trouble to vote on the question.
A person not voting in effect casts a ballot against a change back to the traditional-type diploma, which numerous students
have been advocating, because a two-thirds majority of the total enrollment of these classes is necessary to effect a change.
Again we emphasize that we are not presuming to attempt to swing student opinion to any side, but only advising
that if you want to return to the traditional diploma—vote.

Letter To The Editor: Mitchell Pleads

THE DAVIDSONIAN

South Can Solve Its Own

By DICK ROPER

In the United States Supreme Court today lies the power to cause the greatest social revolution in the South since
the Civil War. The nation’s highest tribunal is now in the process of deciding whether the segregation of the white
and Negro races in the South’s public schools amounts to a violation of the fourteenth amendment to the Constitution, which
says in part that “No state shall . . . abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens of the United
States . . . nor deprive any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws.”

The principle upon which the present dual system of public schools is founded is the “separate-but-equal” doctrine established by the
1896 Supreme Court decision in the case of Plessy vs. Ferguson. Since that decision the Southern states have managed to
avoid having both white and Negro children attend the same schools by providing separate facilities from the first grade through
high school. But it is no secret that the schools provided for Negroes through the years have in most instances
been far inferior to those provided for white students.

Movement for Equal Rights

The South is currently supporting two school systems. But as I have asserted, they are far from being equal. Recent
federal court decisions, however, such as the Clarendon County (S.C.) case in 1951, have made it mandatory that Negro facilities
be brought up at least to the par of white schools. Thus it is obvious that the handwriting is on
the wall for all Southern counties with unequal facilities. As this equalization process goes on all over the South, what
will be the inevitable result? When the Southern taxpayer begins to have to shoulder the burden of increased taxes to
pay for a dual system of public schools which are really equal, he is going to begin to complain. This
is already happening in South Carolina, where an extensive school improvement program is now under way.

Taxpayers Dilemma

What will happen, in short, is that as the burden on the Southern taxpayer increases, he is going to begin
to ask himself one question more and more frequently: Is it worth it? Is it worth higher taxes to me
to avoid having to send my children to school with Negroes? At first, it is to be expected that the
idea of having his children sit in the same classroom with Negroes will be far too distasteful to let him
even consider voting for a single school system. But as time goes by, and better Negro schools begin to turn
out better educated, and (it is to be hoped) more morally principled Negroes, the white taxpayer who has been mulling
the question over and over in his mind will some day find his sense of values changed.

In recent years, however, the belief has become widespread through the country that Negroes should have equal rights in fact,
as well as by law. And in the South we have seen organizations for the promotion of Negro interests working
harder than ever for schools which are actually as good as those provided for white children. At the same time,
these groups—most notably the NAACP—have been maintaining that segregation in itself constitutes a deprivation of equal rights. This is the
issue that is currently being fought before the Supreme Court. I am a Southerner, having lived twenty of my twenty-one
years in this region, but I cannot find it in my heart to deny the Negro at least an equal
opportunity to learn. For this I think we American Negroes have fought and died in World War II and the
Korean War for the same freedom and privileges which are afforded whites, and I do not think their children should
be denied this basic American privilege.

Eventual Decision

Thus it can be seen that he will eventually decide it is far less important to him to maintain segregated
schools than to reduce his tax burden, so that finally he will decide that a single school system is preferable.
The assertion that the South can solve its own problems is probably not always true, but I believe that in
this instance it is definitely applicable. With some gentle but firm prodding from the federal courts on the equalization process,
I believe the South can and will solve its own segregation problem—in the public schools, at least—if it is only
given the chance by the Supreme Court.

Segregation Should Stay For While

On the other hand, I emphatically do not believe in sending the children of both races to school together at
any time in the immediate future, since I do not believe the Negro in the South is ready for such
a step. Furthermore, I do not see any contradiction or inconsistency in the two aforestated beliefs. It is my contention
that if the Supreme Court will abstain from forcing a social revolution in the South by declaring its public school
system illegal, this problem will be solved by an evolutionary process.

How is this to come about? The question here revolves about the Southern taxpayer's basic sense of values, as I
shall try to point out.

Courts Move In

Basically the problem is now one of decision, one that will be presented to us on Monday in chapel. The
alternatives have been narrowed to two, rather than the several mentioned by Buddy Lamon in his editorial in last week's
Davidsonian. We will either continue to have the 1930 diploma for the next five years or we will have the
original 1840 diploma, in use for nearly a century, and which was mysteriously changed in 1930 with no explanation offered.

A display in the Union now graphically shows to all those who are interested in the development of the diploma,
and it is suggested that a fuller picture can be gained by viewing the exhibit.

The opinions here expressed cannot be assumed to be the entire opinion of the three upper classes which will vote,
but certain care has been taken to select men to write who represent a wide variety of interests and experience.

FOR THE SENIORS

In four years at Davidson I have seen three efforts on the part of the seniors to return to the
original diploma turned down by the administration. In these three years the administration has witnessed several changes, but the attitude
of the seniors with respect to the diplomas has remained the same. This is our chance to have what Davidson
graduating classes have wanted for many years, a diploma in keeping with Davidson College tradition.

OFF-MOORINGS: School Segregation Problem

This week's column is an attempt at a survey of some representative student views on the diploma question.

We now have a mean between a modern type, which doesn’t fit Davidson, and some other type, which doesn’t fit
anything. We should eliminate this hybrid and establish either a modern diploma or a traditional diploma. Davidson is modern in
the sense that it fills the present day needs of a student, but it is founded on tradition.

Letter To The Editor: “Classical” Mahy Doesn’t Want Change

Dear Editor:

In last week's Davidsonian were two articles proposing a change from the present Classical style diploma to the “Traditional” style
diploma which was given at Davidson in the last century. Although not a crusader myself, I am not opposed to
the spirit of those who are excited bythis sort of thing, and if I were not to be affected by
the proposed change I would willingly consent to any change for a more sentimental diploma, even to the extremes of
a diploma with pink cupids, blue ribbons, and etchings of General William Lee Davidson and Marshall Peter Ney. However, since
I am to receive either the Classical diploma or the “Traditional” one, I feel, purely from a selfish standpoint, that
I must at least make an effort to impede the crusade for the “Traditional,” or Victorian diploma, so that I
will not have one of these ridiculous scrolls presented to me next June.

Dear Editor:

It is my good fortune this year to room with the noted Davidson cartoonist, Don Mahy. I would personally like
to vouch for his character. He is really a good boy! Don makes a lot of money each year lettering
the Classical style diplomas (note Ed Price's cartoon), and though he is very modest, he is actually quite proud of
his lettering ability. More than that, he is proud of his pay check. He has spent a lot of time
composing the letter above—he did it to cover up for the fact that he is actually a poor boy. He
does not want to run up to everyone and say, “Please help me, I am a poor boy.” So he
wrote a letter.

Therefore, I think we should help Don by not changing the diploma. Gee, fellows, let's all help Don! Let’s vote
down this nasty plot against him. We like Don!

—BOB MITCHELL.

EDITOR'S NOTE

The cartoon on the left, by Ed Price, and the letter by Bob Mitchell expose what are alleged to be
the ulterior motives of Don Mahy in opposing a change back to the traditional diploma. On the right above is
Don Mahy’s own cartoon and his able defense of the present “classic” diploma.

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1953

By JIM MOORE

Examine what they used to give us and you will see that we need the change. A vote of two-thirds
of the student body is all we need to recapture what was taken away from us and provide us with
a diploma we can be proud of. This is the ruling as set down by the Executive Committee and it
is necessary for this reason that every member of the student body votes for this issue. If you think this
is a trivial matter, drop by the Union and examine the diploma display. Try to imagine what this would look
like as it would hang in your office. Are you satisfied with what you see? I don't think you will
be. Take a minute in chapel on Monday and vote for the change. You will be glad someday you did.

—BUDDY WILLIAMSON.

FOR THE JUNIORS

Perhaps many of you feel as I do about the diploma situation that has arisen this year—your only desire is
to get that “sheepskin” and of what sort it is really does not matter. Since very few of us are
Latin scholars and can read the inscription, it is all just “so many words,” except for the fact that it
represents four years of hard work and study. The important thing is the attainment of it and not the texture
of the paper or the type of script. Since, however, we do have to pay a fee for it and
the choice is ours, it stands to reason that we should investigate and determine which one is most suitable. Copies
of the old diploma originally used and the new one which has been given in recent years have been in
the Union for the past few days. Viewing them strictly as a neophyte, I have found the older of the
two much more desirable than the new one simply because the script used is more appealing. As to their history
and sentiment I am entirely ignorant; however, it is a significant fact that three previous senior classes have desired the
original diploma and have gone so far as to petition the faculty for a change.

—CHARLIE COUSAR.

The Serendipity of the Sanctified Sheepskin

It comes to the attention of the author that the campus is about to erupt into one of its periodic
disgorgings during which times we are spattered with the frenzied mouthings of the various crusaders for the particular cause. Ordinarily
this foolishness is of only limited duration, and we are soon permitted to wash the slush from our ears and
resume our business. The debate which is about to burst upon us may seem to many to be merely another
of the misbegotten tempests in a Student Union coffee cup that is destined to have its moment as the foil
in the perpetual student-administration fencing exhibition, then be buried aside David Yonan in the local plot for lost causes. But
to those whose personality, like that of Davidson College, gives great import to tradition, this is a serious matter. Shall
the graduates receive a diploma that is the diploma of Davidson from 1840, or shall it be a piece of
paper devoid of personality though perhaps attractive in configuration?

The subject of this impending crisis is whether the students want to take sufficient action to return to the original
diploma. If not, the present model shall continue. Though it must seem a trivial matter to many professors, the faculty
has announced that the students must vote two to one in favor of the original diploma if its use is
to be resumed. This is a very interesting pronouncement. Why is the faculty making it so difficult for the student
body to get this proposed change? It would seem to this writer that the faculty is putting us to a
little test. Can the student body act together? The faculty doubtless remembers the seemingly unified cry that arose upon the
freshmen-eating-Union proposition. They must also remember that despite unanimous voicing of seemingly sincere mouthings of a student strike, etc., against
the proposition, the opposition faded away when the so-called “compromise” was announced. The faculty must suspect that there is little
unity between the students and their officers when the one group talks in one way about the chapel situation and
the other group acts in the opposite manner. Thus it seems obvious that this matter is designed to determine whether
the students have the unity of purpose necessary to obtain something which many students favor and which no one seems
to really oppose. The faculty wants to learn if there is enough leadership in this body of 850 men to
overcome its native inertia. If the student body wants to make itself effective on more weighty matters, it must show
that it can develop a united front on this minute matter.

A second point that recommends voting for the traditional promotion certificate is that it is senseless to deny the most
cherished wish of the traditionalists when the non-traditionalists do not give a damn about the thing in the first place.
Let’s go along with those who are infatuated with the old and at the same time show the faculty that
we are capable of an affirmative action.

—MALCOLM WILLIAMSON.

Monday’s chapel will see the diploma problem presented to the student body. Both sides should be aired—unlike most chapels—to enable
the student body to examine its attitudes as to the nature of the diploma. To hold the opinion that upper
classes have a monopoly on foresight should not outweigh the fact that the freshman’s diploma will also be affected and
he therefore should be allowed a vote. The nature of the diploma—the symbol of tradition—aptly advocated by Jim Moore in
his last column is the attitude I believe the student body will express. Like the senior ring and the fraternity
pin, the diploma’s purpose is rather symbolic than utilitarian. To one who regards well his class and his fraternity so
also will tradition be the symbol of one who regards well his college. And as for modernizations, let us, the
student body and the faculty, leave the Victorians in their graves, or in this case, on the library walls.

—DON MAHY.
