FROSH PARENTS COME TO DAVIDSON FOR GRID FINALE

VOL. XLII ORTA LIBERTAS DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C., FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 1953 The Davidsonian ALENDA LUX UBI) NO. 9

FRANTIC FEMALE FAIRMONT FLUTERS FIT FOR FIASCO

Final Preparations Made For Laughton Appearance

By JOHN T. HARMON

Charles Laughton, among the best-loved actors of the modern stage and screen, will present one of the outstanding numbers of
this year’s Davidson College Artist Series when he gives his performance, “An Evening With Charles Laughton,” in Chambers Auditorium on
Tuesday, December 1, at 8:15 o’clock.

Tickets for this performance must be obtained from the office of Mrs. French in the College Union before the Thanksgiving
holidays or else be forfeited. No seats will be reserved.

Beginning his dramatic career in his native England, Laughton first won recognition by gaining the attention of George Bernard Shaw
when he received the Bancroft gold medal from the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art. Breaking headlong into a field traditionally
reserved only for those of handsome face and well-favored figure, Laughton rocketed to stardom by captivating audience after audience with
his versatile acting.

After many theatrical successes in England, the United States, and France, Laughton found that his real interest lay in giving
readings, the field from which he gained the greatest inner enjoyment. Using this new medium of the theatre, Laughton collaborated
with agent Paul Gregory to produce and direct the First Drama Quartette in its performance of Shaw's “Don Juan in
Hell.” Even greater success followed when Laughton directed Benet’s “John Brown's Body” with such stars as Tyrone Power, Raymond Massey,
and Judith Anderson.

Combined with his amazing erudition, phenomenal memory, and universal interests is an informality that is the keynote of each of
his readings. He is equally versed in Plato, James Thurber, and Mark Twain, and can quote the Bible and Shakespeare
verbatim for whole chapters and acts on end.

Laughton had planned to come to Davidson last year, but for reasons of health the performance was cancelled. As he
planned his present tour, he was particularly desirous to fill the engagements which had been cancelled in the 1952-53 season.

CONCERT BAND STARS FAMED SAXOPHONIST

The Davidson College Concert Band will present Sigurd Rascher, world-famous saxophonist, in its annual winter concert on Friday night, December
4, at 8:15, in Chambers Auditorium. This represents the first attempt of the Davidson Band to secure a nationally famous
soloist for one of its concerts. Plans are now being made to bring a well-known soloist or guest conductor to
the campus each year.

Mr. Rascher has played in every musical center of America and Europe. He has been the first saxophone soloist to
play with such organizations as the Boston Symphony, the New York Philharmonic, and the Royal Philharmonic of London. Rascher has
developed a range of four octaves on the standard, factory-made instrument and mouthpiece, which are normally confined to only two
and one-half octaves.

Mr. Rascher will appear in a series of three concerts with the Davidson Band. The first will be at the
Mooresville High School on Thursday afternoon, December 3, at 2:00. Another Thursday concert will be presented at Appalachian State College
in Boone at 8:00 that night. The final appearance of the series will be here on Friday night.

Rascher will play two solos in accompaniment with the concert band. The first is “Introduction and Samba,” an original composition
for saxophone and band by Whitteney. The second movement, “Samba,” uses the rhythmic devices of the popular South American dance
of the same name. His second piece will be “Concerto for Saxophone.” This was originally written for orchestra by Glazunov
and transcribed for band by Russell Howland of Fresno State College.

The opening piece of the concert here will be Mendelssohn's “Overture for Band.” This will be followed by “Death and
Transfiguration” by Strauss and “Introduction and Samba.” Next will be “Commando March,” a concert march for band by the American
composer Samuel Barber. An original composition, “Fugue for Band,” by a faculty member of the University of North Carolina will
be conducted by Mr. Satterfield. Rascher will then play his second solo, “Concerto for Saxophone.” The program will end with
two stirring marches by Sousa, “Fairest of the Fair” and “King Cotton.”

R.O.T.C. TO OCCUPY NEW DORM SPACE

New life will be added to the ROTC department when the proposed Belk dormitory is completed. As present plans stand,
the two terrace floors, below ground level from the front, will house the military department. Special features include a rifle
range on the first floor of the right wing, sound-absorbing ceilings, and folding doors to vary the size of the
classrooms. There will be five rooms available for lectures, an operations room for demonstrations, an armory, and office space.

Of interest to those students directly above the first two floors is the eight-inch thick concrete floor with sound-absorbing material
on the bottom. This is guaranteed to lessen the clatter of training films. For those who are still confused as
to the location of the dorm, it will be placed between and about seventy feet in back of West and
Watts. The rear will be about even with the laundry. The two wings will be parallel with the north side
of Chambers, thus being at a slight angle to West and Watts.

Contrary to popular belief, the old ROTC building is not to be used as firewood or given over to the
rats but rather it will serve as a shop and storage space for the maintenance department. D. Grier Martin informed
the Davidsonian that several thousand dollars are being spent to move the building.

GRADUATE SCHOOLS TO REQUIRE TESTS

The Educational Testing Service has just announced that beginning with the academic year 1953-1954, a group of business schools and
divisions will require applicants for admission to graduate study in the fall of 1954 to take the Admission Test for
Graduate Study in Business.

Among these institutions are the graduate business schools or divisions of the following universities: Columbia University, Harvard University, Northwestern University,
Rutgers University, Seton Hall University, University of Chicago, University of Michigan, University of Pennsylvania, and Washington University (St. Louis).

A candidate must make separate application for admission to each business school or division of his choice and should inquire
of each whether it wishes him to take the Admission Test for Graduate Study in Business and when. Since many
business schools and divisions select their entering classes in the spring preceding their entrance, candidates for admission to the 1954
classes are advised to offer the February test, if possible.

The Admission Test for Graduate Study in Business is not designed to test specific knowledge in specialized academic subjects. Normal
undergraduate training should provide sufficient general knowledge to answer the test questions. Sample questions and information regarding registration for and
administration of the test are given in a Bulletin of Information. The tests will be administered on February 6, 1954,
and May 13, 1954. Applications and fees must be filed with the Admission Test for Graduate Study in Business, Educational
Testing Service, 20 Nassau Street, Princeton, New Jersey, at least two weeks before the testing date desired in order to
allow ETS time to complete the necessary testing arrangements.

BULLETIN

Mrs. R. A. Little, supervisor of the dormitories, has announced that the dormitories will remain open during the Thanksgiving holidays
to accommodate those students who will remain on campus. She requests that those students who will be here at that
time please inform their janitors of that fact.

CHAMPION TWIRLER, FLASHY ACROBATS SET FOR SAT. GAME

Toni Gill, the North Carolina state champion baton twirler for 1953, will appear at the half of the Citadel game
tomorrow to do a baton routine. She will be presented by the Davidson College Football Band during their halftime show.

Also on the same program, the Davidson Cheerleaders will perform a short acrobatic show accompanied by the football band. This
halftime show should have more student interest than any other presented this season.

Representing The Citadel will be the Fairmont High School Band under the direction of L. D. Atkins. Mr. Atkins is
an alumnus of Davidson, class of 1950.

WRIGHT ANNOUNCES Q.C. BEAUTY CONTEST

Winston Wright, associate editor of Quips and Cranks, would like to begin receiving pictures from members of the student body
for the beauty section of the 1954 annual. Last year’s beauties were picked by Cecil B. De Mille. This section
of the annual was a success largely because of the response of the student body in submitting many pictures. An
outstanding personality is expected to judge this year’s contest.

Pictures should be turned in to Winston Wright, 303 Village. The prints must be in glossy finish and should be
turned in as soon as possible.

TRADITIONAL WINS

The 1840 P. S. Ney diploma was selected in student voting this morning by a huge majority—431 for change, 63
against. Charlie Johnson announced that this well assures satisfying the Executive Committee requirement of a two-thirds vote in favor of
the change by the total membership of the three upper classes. Two-thirds of the three classes is 371 of 557
students. There were 36 absences in today’s chapel and 27 abstentions from voting.

ONE MAN BAND HERE TOMORROW NIGHT

Ronnie Raydeck and his elec-Tronic orchestra, presenting the only act of its kind in the world, will be the star
feature of the College Union Saturday at 8:15. Mr. Raydeck brings with him an electro harp, which is a new
and different full-harmony instrument with qualities of the harp and Hawaiian guitar. He is known to many as a one-man
band presenting a program which includes popular, standard, semi-classical, and novelty music. Ronnie Raydeck is also a ventriloquist and fills
his programs full of comedy. Mr. Raydeck plays six instruments at the same time which should provide a very interesting
evening. NBC television has featured Mr. Raydeck on a number of programs and he has appeared in leading clubs from
Maine to California. Everyone, including students, children, and adults, is invited to this free attraction at the College Union.

LE CERCLE FRANCAIS MEETS AT HOME OF PROFESSOR GOLDIERE

A reading of the play “La Farce du Cuvier” featured the last regular meeting of Le Cercle Francais, which was
held at the home of Professor Goldiere. Taking parts were Earl Lewis, Bill Kuykendall, and Charles Harris. Norman Johnson presided
over the business session during which Charles Harris was elected a member of Le Cercle. Program chairman Fred Summers presented
a program which included, besides the play, four original French poems by Fred Myers, former member Gordon Scott’s colored slides
of scenes in Paris and the provinces, and a number of French songs. The hosts served refreshments after the program.

Shown above surrounding the ODK key are the men tapped last Tuesday to Omicron Delta Kappa. Starting at the top
and going clockwise they are: Ben Craig, Alden Williams, Hunter Strader, Fred Stowe, Homer Sparks, Buddy Lamon, Charlie Hassell, Max
Devane, and Bob Crutchfield.

Davidsonians Back From U.N. Seminar
By GILBERT GRAGG

Ten tired but contented Davidson students returned to the campus early Monday morning after an informative and exciting weekend in
New York, November 13-15, at the United Nations Seminar for College Students. This seminar was sponsored by the National Student
YMCA and YWCA. The seminar opened on Friday morning with the registration of over 300 students from all over the
country at the Grand Central Branch YMCA on 47th Street. After a devotional and introductory remarks of explanation, the group
went on to the United Nations grounds where they spent the rest of the day learning about international affairs. Perhaps
the highlight of the day's activities was attending the General Assembly meeting and seeing the various representatives from sixty of
the world’s countries. Interest was especially focused toward the Russian delegation and Vishinsky who debated vehemently for about an hour
against control of atomic weapons. Delegates to the conference had earphones, and by turning a dial could listen to the
proceedings either in English, German, Chinese, Russian, or Spanish. Some of the students also sat in on sessions of the
various committees such as the Human Rights or Technical Assistance Branches which are very important parts of the United Nation’s
work.

Friday afternoon the program was interesting and varied. First, the conference was addressed by two of the United States workers
in the United Nations, who explained America's policies on certain important matters and how the non-Communist countries look to ours
for leadership. Then came an address by Mr. Arthur Liveran of the Israeli delegation in which he stressed the mistreatment
of the Zionists in the Holy Land. Immediately upon conclusion of this speech, the conference group heard the other side
of this controversial question, which is one of the major problems now facing the UN, skillfully presented by Dr. Zeineddin
of Syria. The afternoon’s program was concluded by two discussion groups on India and Yugoslavia, which are hotspots in the
world today.

(Continued On Page Four)

LOCAL NEGRO HUT GETS STUDENT VOTE FOR Y GIFT FUND

Three projects for this year's YMCA Gift Fund were presented for student consideration on Wednesday. The vote was decidedly in
favor of the local project which was to provide a hut for wholesome recreation to be used by the Negro
community. The cost involved for this plan includes from $600 to $700 to improve the hut, $500 to move it
to a new lot, $600 or $700 for more equipment, and $3,000 for an endowment for maintenance and a permanent
director.

A second project suggested concerned the need for a first-rate hospital in Portugal. A letter from Herb Meza, one of
the first Protestant missionaries to Portugal and a former president of the Davidson YMCA, was read. It stated that funds
are desperately needed for equipment, since disease is widespread and there is much discrimination against Protestants which retards progress there.

The third project that was presented emphasized the needs of the Glade Valley School near Roaring Gap.

Freshman Parents Invade DC Saturday

Between 150 and 200 parents of members of the Freshman Class are expected to arrive tomorrow morning for the Freshman
Parents Day. Registration at the College Union will start at nine o’clock and continue until eleven. During these hours there
will also be informal tours of the campus. From eleven to twelve there will be a conference on freshman problems
in the College Union Ballroom, led by Dean John C. Bailey and other college officials. Lunch will be served in
the cafeteria from twelve till two, and the parents will eat with the members of the Freshman Class. The parents
will sit in the student section as guests of the college at the Davidson-Citadel football game which starts at 2:30.
The purpose of the Freshman Parents’ Day is to give the parents an opportunity to become acquainted with the college,
to meet and talk with the faculty and staff of the college, and to meet their sons’ friends and their
parents. The officials of the college hope that the Parents’ Day will become an annual event.

OMICRON DELTA KAPPA SELECTS NINE SENIORS
PUCKETT ADDRESSES STUDENTS AT CHAPEL
By TOM WARLICK

During the chapel period Tuesday, Delta Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa held its fall tapping exercises. The main speaker for
the occasion was Dr. W. O. Puckett of the Davidson College faculty, who presented a talk on the history and
ideals of Omicron Delta Kappa. Following Dr. Puckett’s speech, nine seniors, Max Devane, Bob Crutchfield, Alden Williams, Hunter Strader, Fred
Stowe, Homer Sparks, Buddy Lamon, Charlie Hassell, and Ben Craig were tapped by student members of the society.

Dr. Puckett in his speech described the founding of Omicron Delta Kappa and the part that Davidson played in its
conception. Dr. Puckett told that Omicron Delta Kappa was founded at Washington and Lee University on December 3, 1914 by
Dr. Henry Lewis Smith. Dr. Smith, a former Davidson student, came back to Davidson in 1901 as a professor of
physics. Having exemplified the principles of leadership, he was chosen a few years later as President following Dr. J. B.
Scherer. It was a few years later that he accepted the presidency of Washington and Lee.

“It was felt by Dr. Smith and his associates that some group should be established for the recognition of leadership,”
continued Dr. Puckett. Starting with four circles of which the Delta Circle was the fourth, the fraternity has grown until
there are now over 75 circles. The speaker closed by pointing out that there are five prerequisites for membership in
the society. They are character, leadership, scholarship, fellowship, and consecration to democratic ideals.

MAX DEVANE

Max Devane from Jennings, Fla., is majoring in history. He is the Freshman Advisor, Regimental Commander of the ROTC and
Interfraternity Council Representative of the Phi Delta Theta fraternity. He is a member of Le Cercle Francais, the Student Council,
Scabbard and Blade, and is on the YMCA cabinet. He is also a member of the “D” Club having lettered
in varsity baseball.

BOB CRUTCHFIELD

Bob Crutchfield is a Baker Scholar from Orangeburg, S. C. Bob is doing honors work in history. He is a
member of the Male Chorus; Alpha Psi Omega, honorary theatrical society; the Red and Black Masquers; Sigma Upsilon, honorary literary
fraternity; and the YMCA cabinet. He is president of the Philanthropic Literary Society and serves as pledge trainer for the
Sigma Chi fraternity.

(Continued On Page Four)

Masquers To Present Everyman And Chronicle Of Joe Dec. 14, 15
By MAURICE CROUSE

The Red and Black Masquers’ productions of “Everyman” and “The Chronicle of Joe” will be presented on December 14 and
15 in the ballroom of the College Union. Rehearsals of the two plays are already under way. “Everyman” is the
modern professional dramatic version, written by Hugo von Hofmannsthal, of the older English morality play which is studied in English
literature here at Davidson. Basically it is the same theme, but von Hofmannsthal has expanded many of the ideas presented
in the earlier play. The play is a psychological drama of man’s experience with reality and the changes which result,
a theme which is timeless, being just as applicable today as when first used.

Fred Summers will play in the title role as Everyman. Others in the cast include Buddy Beehler, Bob Dunbar, Tom
Morgan, Kerry Spiers, Ed Hadley, Albert Harris, Willis Briley, Bill Berryhill, Tom Estes, Phil Kukura, Harold Hall, Jack Graham, Allie
Cone, Mrs. Howard Lamar, and Mrs. Tom Daggy. Swain Loy is director of the play, and Sam Sutton and Boyce
Martin are on the production staff. “Everyman” will be presented as a modern play, using the semi-round technique in which
the audience sits on three sides of the stage. Dress will be modern except for the ultra-symbolic characters. There will
be no scenery—lighting effects will be used instead.

Coupled with “Everyman” will be “The Chronicle of Joe,” a tragedy and semi-morality play, written and directed by Fred Myers.
It differs from the morality play in that it has real characters as well as abstract ones. Joe is a
department store worker who is trying rather unsuccessfully to get ahead. The drama deals with his attempts to make a
fresh start before it is too late. The character of Joe will be played by Prof. Benjamin Wilson. The cast
includes Dunbar Ogden, Willis Briley, Bob Haywood, Ed Hadley, Phil Lee, Alden Williams, Herb Russell, Mrs. Sam Magill, and Mrs.
Bill Dole. The method of staging “The Chronicle of Joe” will be the same as for “Everyman,” except that the
costuming will be entirely modern.

This is the first time that student directors have been used for Masquer productions. Professor Raymond Tyson will work in
an advisory capacity, assisted by Bob Mims.
