PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, JANUARY 9, 1953

S. Korean Student Likes Campus Life
By MIKE MYERS

(This is the first of two articles dealing with exchange-student James Hyun. In this first article, Mike Myers has written a biographical sketch of the South Korean. Next week he will give us an insight into the Korean mind and way of life—Ed. note.)

If you would stop for a moment and think back to where you were prior to June 25, 1950, it might be interesting to compare our drab existence with that of James Hyun. I was safely at home, just through with my frosh year at college. My biggest problem was getting to the beach before I missed too much fun. James, who is two years my senior, was in his second year at medical school in the Orient’s most beautiful city, Seoul. And his problems, too, were trivial. I got to the beach. But on the 26th James’ world changed. Before that night was over his hometown changed hands and he himself was awakened by his father so he could hide in a nearby tree and escape the North Koreans who were recruiting boys, giving them a rifle and pushing them on to the front lines to shoot their own people.

James Hyun is another of Davidson’s special students, this one a full-fledged doctor. The surprisingly tall South Korean is quietly absorbing the American way of life and liking every minute of it. He has put in more TV hours than most fraternities. He eats ice cream by the quart. He writes more girls than is healthy. (One, a Bryn Mawr student, sent him an expensive stethoscope for Thanksgiving.) But don’t think he’s not taking college seriously. His brother-in-law in Richmond arranged through Dr. Cunningham for James to come here on scholarship. He arrived in October, a month late for the opening of college, and Dr. Spencer advised him to wait around until the second semester. But James gave it a try, made good on his English, Genetics, and Histology, so is now an enrolled student. From here he plans to intern for 4 or 5 years, then return home and work as a U.N. doctor.

On the morning of the North Korean attack mentioned earlier, the town of Seoul was caught off guard. Some had foreseen the possibility but for days the government radio had blared “Seoul is safe.” The last of the four times Seoul changed hands it was little more than level land. Of the 160 students in James’ medical class, 100 were dead or missing. Proportionally that would be 500 of our student body. James served in the South Korean navy during this period and his family evacuated on foot to the port city of Pusan. In normal times Pusan has a population of 400,000. At this time the dirty city was crammed with 1,500,000 people. Now his family has returned to their looted home and are living under comparatively normal conditions, awaiting the return of their son who had an opportunity and took it.

That is the factual life of James Hyun. But what he thinks of us is not as flattering as we Americans would like. (Continued next issue.)

Westminsterials Elect Officers

Leighton McCutchen was elected president of the campus Westminster Fellowship last Sunday evening. Charles Williams was elected vice-president of the group, and Howard Wall secretary-treasurer. These officers were chosen to serve for a two-semester term, beginning after a service of installation and dedication, which will be held next Sunday evening at 6:15. All students, of course, are invited to attend this service.

MRS. NASH ... (Continued From Page One)

terest in marriage and its preparation, especially in educational institutions. The point of difficulty, she said, is to translate the knowledge now available on sex and marriage into workable wisdom. Dividing love into the three Greek categories of the word—eros, sensual love; philos, companionship; and agape, disinterested love—she concluded that all three are necessary for a vital and happy marriage.

Dr. and Mrs. Nash are making an around-the-world tour beginning in June and ending next March. On it, he will lecture on “Christianity and Higher Education,” and she on marriage counseling. They will spend six months in India and from there they will tour the South and North Atlantic countries. Mrs. Nash is the author of the book “With This Ring,” “Association Press,” and the official pamphlet of the Episcopal Church on marriage, “Marriage, a Christian Perspective.” Educated at the University of Liverpool, Yale University, and the University of North Carolina, Mrs. Nash is the mother of two boys, aged ten and sixteen, and she, with her husband, reside in Chapel Hill, N.C.

FREE LANCE... (Continued From Page Two)

Nothing wrong so far—until—(no eligibility rules) Ex Officio: The Scholarship Committee; and Goldiere, those memories get the best of us. The human memory is a treacherous thing and will inevitably retain only the best impressions of said females. For one reason or another, the lovely things are always able to write the most convincing letters, letters which seem certain authentications of our mental images. One of two situations often then occurs. The warmth of the summer fades into winter's cold and we make that weekend trip to see her. Somehow it just isn’t the same girl with no bathing suit. The alternative is that stripped of her colorful winter garb and false fronts and eased into a swim suit, again it isn’t the same. In the best Davidson tradition of gentlemanliness we are at least polite to the babe much to her amazement because of the previous postal passion. It is a long drag back to school. Experience, however, seems to be the worst of instructors and the hopeful campus heart is soon again laboring under an illusion of “The perfect girl, I mean a real queen.”

INTERFRAT ... (Continued from Page Three)

a well-balanced team is the best team as they were easy 38 to 23 victors over the Phi Gams. The winners exhibited an excellent defense that held Larry Champion, the Phi Gams’ top scorer, to six points. Very little can be said about the relative merit of the various teams until the rest of the fraternities see action, but it looks as if a close race is in the cards this year.

MALE CHORUS STARTS...

University of North Carolina, Mrs. Nash is the mother of two boys, aged ten and sixteen, and she, with her husband, reside in Chapel Hill, N.C.

PRESIDENT, WIFE... (Continued from Page One)

Under his guidance, the college launched an extensive building program, over-subscribed a 2½ million dollar development program, increased the student body, and added some three million dollars to the endowment.

That is the factual life of James Hyun. But what he thinks of us is not as flattering as we Americans would like. (Continued next issue.)

461 STUDENTS... (Continued from Page One)

He formerly held pastorates in Grenada, Miss., Gainesville, Fla., Bristol, Tenn., and Winston-Salem, N.C. He was president of the Louisville Presbyterian Seminary from 1930 until 1936, served as head of the Presbyterian Synod of Kentucky in 1936, and was moderator of the General Assembly of the Presbyterian Church to World Conference on Life and Work, Oxford England, the Conference of World Peace at Cambridge, England, and the Amsterdam Conference World Council of Churches in 1948.

The new Association president is a graduate of Westminster College and the Louisville Presbyterian Seminary, and has received honorary degrees from Westminster, Kings College, Duke University and Wake Forest College, and the University of North Carolina.

FOR SALEa| 1940 Hudson 2-door sedan. Clean. Call Prof. Gehring, 6041.

Campus capers call for Coke
The accent’s on hi-jinks at the Winter Carnival and a happy part of the occasion is refreshment... with delicious ice-cold Coca-Cola.
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD, N. C.
Coke” is a registered trademark. © 1952, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY

(Continued from Page One)
Religious music will dominate the program. Leighton McCutchen, Leonard Geiger, and Alan Sparks are to be the featured soloists. A barber shop quartet, composed of chorus members, will add to the program a bit of lighter music. Donald B. Plott will direct the musicians, and Hubert Russell will provide the accompaniment.

FACULTY GROUP...
(Continued On Page Two)
Professors Abernethy, Gallent, Cumming, Thompson.
Scholarship Committee: (must be full professor or associate professor) Professors Thompson, McCutchan.
Athletic Council: (member may not succeed himself until after the lapse of one year) Professors C. K. Brown, McGavock.
Admissions Committee: (no eligibility rules) Professors McGeachy, McGavock, Ostwalt.

The semi-annual meeting of the Executive Committee of the Trustees was held on December 10. A preliminary report was made by Mr. Elden Shoupe of the Cresape, McCormick, Paget Management Engineers firm which recently conducted a survey of the college. A more complete and full report of this survey will be made to the entire body of trustees at the annual meeting in February. It is expected that those parts of the report not confidential will be available for publication in the Davidsonian. Reports by the President, Dr. J. R. Cunningham, and D. G. Martin as Treasurer were also presented at this meeting of the executive committee.

FORMER ORGANIST...
(Continued From Page One)
invited to attend an organ class conducted by Mr. Noehren in the church sanctuary at two o'clock this afternoon. Mr. Noehren showed slides demonstrating organs he has played throughout Europe. Out-of-town college students were invited to attend a dinner given for Mr. Noehren at 6:30 tonight.

CHARLIE SPIVAK...
(Continued from Page One)
Spivak got his first big engagement at the Glenn Island Casino. He was so successful that the Casino, traditionally a summer spot, broke a precedent by keeping the doors open for the winter season to accommodate Spivak’s drawing power. Spivak came to the Cafe Rouge of the Hotel Statler shortly thereafter, and broke Glenn Miller's and Jimmy Dorsey's records. Charlie Spivak is no stranger to Davidson College, for it is he who gave fine music for the Midwinters Dances just one year ago.

News Item
(Continued From Page One)
their pledges. The gift fund this year was in the form of a rehabilitation program for Korean amputee civilians. Sponsored by the Board of World Missions of the Presbyterian Church, U.S., and by Church World Service, the project will provide money to be used in securing artificial limbs and in vocationally rehabilitating Korean civilians. A great deal of statistical work remains to be done. The statistics of the drive, when completed, will show the total amount per class, amount per capita, the percentage of students participating, and the percentage in each class. These figures will be given to the Davidsonian for publication when available.

CAGERS TAKE ON...
(Continued from Page Three)
J. V. Howell -... 11 9 38 5.2
George Melton -. 15 1 31 52
Hobby Cobb .... 8 5 21 3.5
“Ish” Bennett -- 6 8 20 3.5
Buddy Brown -. 5 10 20 3.3
Scott Reams --.. 3 7 13 2.5
Ed Weeks .... 3 2 10 1.7
Corky Burdette... 2 3 7 1.4

PARKER & COMPANY...
(Continued From Page Three)
Monty Littlejohn, heavyweight.

Remainder of Schedule
Jan. 12—N.C. State at Raleigh
Jan. 17— W&L at Lexington.
Feb. 7—Duke at Davidson.
Feb. 21—The Citadel at Davidson.
Feb. 28—VPI at Blacksburg.
Mar. 5-6—Conference Meet—Site to be selected.

NEW UNION GIVES...
(Continued From Page One)
Spencer, Mr. C. S. Smith, director of the union, Mr. Goldiere, Mr. Morton, Mr. McCutchan, Bob Henry, Bob Mitchell, representing the YMCA, and the vice presidents of the three upper classes, Allen Vance, Don Mahy, and Austin Strand.

“THEY SATISFY-AND HOW...in school and out, I’ve been a Chesterfield smoker for 5 years,” says John B. Boyce, financial analyst. “They've got what it takes to give me what I want in a cigarette."

“Should the Negro be admitted to Southern colleges?” will be discussed after vespers this Sunday night with Dr. Workman assisting.

YMCA GIFT FUND...
before Saturday, January 10. Students are reminded to remember serving was in charge of Mrs. James Best for Aviation Cadet.

Requests Papers
Interviews Wed.
Freshman Class to Eumanean Literary Society will take place in February. Students interested in applying for membership must submit an original paper to be read before the Society for approval. In conjunction with the approval of the applicants by the Society, the papers will be judged by writers and faculty members. The winners will receive the Eumanean Key. Members of the Freshman Class who are interested should contact Will Terry, 111 West, or Buford Price, 9 Georgia, for further details.

An Air Aviation Cadet Selection team will be at the ROTC Building on January 14 from eight to five-thirty. Increased pilot and aerial observer output resulting from expansion of the Air Force to 143 wings has required a simpler and more direct method of processing applications. The applicant chooses a date to report to the Aircrew classification Testing Detachment at Moody Air Force base, Valdosta, Georgia, for thorough mental and physical testing. Transportation to and from Moody Air Force Base, from the Air Force recruiting station nearest the applicant’s home, is paid by the government. If applicants qualify for training they will receive a four-month draft deferment while waiting for assignment to a class of pilot or observer trainees at one of more than 10 Air Force Bases. To apply civilian men must be unmarried U. S. citizens between 19 and 26½ and must have at least 60 semester or 90 quarter hours of college. Officials said they primarily are interested in enrolling college graduates or men who will finish college this semester but will take applications from men with two years of college.

CANNON GOES...
(Continued From Page One)
vice-president of the Eumanean Literary Society, of Le Cercle Francais, honorary French fraternity, and is a member of Omicron Delta Kappa, national honorary leadership fraternity, and is listed in “Who’s Who in American Colleges and Universities.” Also, a former Davidson student, Walter R. Coppedge, who transferred to the University of Mississippi, won a Mississippi Rhodes Scholarship from the university. He is now a graduate student at Princeton.

JACKSON Cleaners
CLEANING EVERY JOB A GOOD ONE
SKILLFULLY DONE BY PRESSERS WITH YEARS OF EXPERIENCE
ALTERATIONS THAT SATISFY
NEW OVENS UNION ...
(Continued From Page One)
were invited. Guests were greeted into the luxurious and bright new lounge by a reception committee composed of Mrs. Little, Miss Shinn, Allen Vance, and Austin Strand. Also to greet the visitors was soft music which added to the friendly and welcome atmosphere. As visitors proceeded to the “ball room” they could notice Mr. Graham Goodrum, head janitor of the union, proudly bedecked in his new white coat and tie, which are provided for him by the union to be worn on special occasions. Refreshments, which were brick ice cream and iced cakes, were supervised by Mr. Spence, while ONE-DAY SERVICE AVAILABLE
Frank L. Jackson, Jr.

YOU! -And First to Present this Scientific Evidence on Effects of Smoking
A MEDICAL SPECIALIST is making regular bi-monthly examinations of a group of people from various walks of life. 45 percent of this group have smoked Chesterfield for an average of over ten years. After eight months, the medical specialist reports that he observed... no adverse effects on the nose, throat and sinuses of the group from smoking Chesterfield.

CHESTERFIELD—FIRST and only premium quality cigarette available in both regular and king-size.
BETTER TASTING—COOLER SMOKING
CONTAINS TOBACCOS OF BETTER QUALITY AND HIGHER PRICE THAN ANY OTHER KING-SIZE CIGARETTE
Copyright 1952, LIGGETT & MYERS TOBACCO CO.