FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 1953

There is an old saying about it being An Ill Wind Which Blows Nobody Good. Davidson and Coach Danny Miller
will have to double that in spades after last weekend’s action on the hardwood, during which the Cats finally rose
from the doldrums and played some real basketball. It was really ebb tide when the news got out that Guard
Jerry King had decided to leave school last Wednesday. Jerry, dissatisfied with his status generally, couldn’t really be blamed. Because
of scholastic deficiency, he couldn’t make any road trips with the team, and he also had a hankering to get
back to his native Ohio. This misfortune for the Cats came practically on the heels of another stroke of bad
luck, the failure of little All-American Darrell Floyd to make the scholastic grade at Davidson. The skies, to say the
least, were black.

SOUTH CAROLINA REALLY PUSHED

But things must have cleared up when Miller’s team made their little jaunt down into the Palmetto state last Friday,
because they pushed a strong South Carolina five to the limit before bowing 77-69. The Cats even led USC by
one point at halftime — a prelude of things to come. Probably the happiest man on the court — even
if his team did lose — was Coach Miller, who had just seen an untouted freshman step into the void
left by King and score 20 points for the night. That was freshman Hobby Cobb, a boy who had broken
into the double-figure class only once before in the entire season, that being a ten-point effort against Duke several weeks
ago. But Cobb’s success was only one reason for Miller’s elation. Ish Bennett, who had been playing only mediocre ball
all season after posting a fine record as a freshman last year, came through with 16 points against the same
team he failed to even score against when the Gamecocks played up here earlier this season.

Then there was steady Joe Dudley, the “Needle” who had been keeping the Cats in the game for practically the
whole season. Joe poured 17 through the hoop that night in making the South Carolina club sweat for their victory.

CITADEL WIN ENDED VICTORY DROUGHT

But the best was yet to come. It was against The Citadel Saturday night that The Cats finally broke out
of the gloom and into the win column again. Hobby Cobb put 19 points through the hoop in that fracas,
Dudley had 17 again, and Ish Bennett added 18 more to help break the Davidson team’s nine-game losing streak. The
Citadel win wasn’t enough to enable the Cats to whip Tennessee's powerful quintet, but again Miller’s team pushed their opponents
hard before dropping the game. And by this time Danny had two new playmakers in the persons of freshmen Ray
Harding and Dickie Adams. Both showed up well in the Saturday night game with the Keydets, and continued to sparkle
against Tennessee Monday. The significant fact about last weekend’s games seems to be that Coach Miller has at last found
a combination that can click. The Dudley-Cobb-Bennett trio is capable of shouldering the bulk of the scoring responsibility, and should
get plenty of able assistance from Ray Harding, Dickie Adams, Pappy Fowle, J. V. Howell, and others. But the remainder
of the schedule shows some tough ones coming up. After McCrary on Monday, the Cats will play The Citadel, Furman,
Clemson, Duke, and Virginia Tech. They should be able to take at least two of those, possibly more.

GOOD PROSPECTS FOR NEXT SEASON

It’s always easy to take a leaf from the book of the Brooklyn Dodgers and give out with that old
“Wait ’till next year” cry, but it definitely appears that the Cats can and will come out of the basketball
doldrums by the 1953-54 season. Only two men will be graduating this year — Dudley and J. V. Howell. Admittedly,
Dudley is currently an indispensable asset to the Cats, but if freshman Cobb and soph Ish Bennett continue to improve,
they should be able to take up the slack. And another thing. Davidson’s basketballers were, in case you didn’t notice,
heavily overscheduled this year. The unofficial word is that the Cats will still have a full schedule again next winter,
but it shouldn’t be nearly as rough.

(Continued On Page Four)

JUST RECEIVED
SILVER GREY FLANNEL SUITS
$47.50
Wilson-Wright's “Collegiate Fashions”
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Off-Season Work Scheduled to Last Freshman Cobb Sparkled As With Semi-Pr THE DAVIDSONIAN Winter Football Drills To Begin Monday Afternoon
CATS HOST TO CLEMSON HERE TONIGHT --WILDCAT OF THE WEEK— For 30-Day Period! Cats Came Out Of Doldrums Winter practice
for Davidson’s 1953 football team will begin Monday afternoon and Head Coach Bill Dole hopes to see a large number
of new candidates out when the 30-day off-season drills open up. With 28 men returning from last fall’s team which
won two and dropped seven, Dole hopes to get an overall picture of the Cats’ prospects for the coming season,
and get a smooth working combination as a basis for a tentative starting lineup next season.

NCAA Rule Helps

Dole expects the new NCAA ruling which forbids mass substitutions to help Davidson next season. Most of the other teams
the Cats will play will have more manpower, but will have to wait until the beginning of the second and
fourth quarter to make whole team substitutions. A bright spot in the future for Dole’s '53 team is the possibility
that three former Wildcat stalwarts may be back from military service in time to play next season. Back Bill Rowland,
Guard Jim Fasul, and Center Bill Acker are all planning to return to Davidson if they are discharged in time
to enter next fall. Coach Dole particularly expressed the hope that former high school football players now in school who
have not yet come out for the Varsity will do so. The Wildcat roster will be a small one again
next year, and more men are needed to field a strong team in the fall.

There was naught but gloom in the Wildcat camp about this time last week, just before Danny Miller’s luckless basketball
team took off for Friday night's tiff with South Carolina. Gerry King, who with center Joe Dudley had been accounting
for over half of the Cats’ scoring in the eleven games already played, had just left school in the wake
of the Darrell Floyd debacle, and spirits were at an all-time low. That’s where Hobby Cobb stepped into the picture.
And in a big way.

Cobb Takes Up Slack

The serious, eager Charlotte freshman had been plugging all season at his substitute forward task, coming through in almost every
game with a few points. But when Coach Miller inserted him into the lineup down at Columbia Friday night, Hobby
more than took up the slack left by King’s departure. He fired in 20 points against the Gamecocks, who had
to work hard to get by the Davidson five by a 77-69 score. The next day the Cats motored on
over to Charleston to play The Citadel, and freshman Cobb again came through, this time with 19 points, and winning
high scoring honors for Davidson for the second night in a row.

Scored 12 Against Vols

Against Tennessee last Monday, the points didn’t come quite as often,but Hobby still managed 12 against the fourth-ranking team of
the Southeastern Conference. That (Continued On Page Four)

In Interfraternity League Scrapping

Phi Delts Climb Into Lead

By BUCK REINHARDT

A rampaging Phi Delta Theta team took over first place this week with an impressive 50-19 victory over the Phi
Gams, while the KAs dropped a close decision to a spirited Sigma Chi five. The win for the torrid Phi
Delts gave them their sixth victory as against one defeat. The KAs also have dropped only one game while winning
five. In the remaining weeks of the season, it looks like a neck and neck race between the Phi Delts
and KAs. However, the ATOs (5-2) and the Sigma Chis (4-2) are still very much in the running and with
a few breaks, either one could make a lot of trouble for the leaders.

SPEs 29; Campus Club 23

In an all-out defensive game, the SPEs gained a 29-23 victory over a hard-fighting Campus Club team. Jim Teeter supplied
the punch for the SPEs in the low-scoring contest, with 7 points. Skipper Hall was high for the Campus Club
with 8 points.

ATOs 39; PIKA 32

The ATOs remained in the thick of the race as they handed the Pikas their third defeat. Linny Baker led
the winners with an 18-point total. Lindley Beardsley took high point honors for the slumping Pikas, with 14 points.

SAEs 35; Betas 28

With Harry Peterson leading the way with 14 points, the SAEs won a close victory over the Betas, by a
35-28 count. The win puts the SAEs in position to put on the steam and cop the championship from the
outside. Charlie Hasty, scoring 9 points, led the Beta offense.

Sigma Chis 48; Kappa Alpha 41

The Sigma Chis pulled the biggest upset of the year and opened the door for the Phi Delts to glide
smoothly into first place with a surprise 48 to 41 over the seemingly invincible KAs. Tom Shaw contributed 15 points
to the Sigma Chi cause to lead his team to their well-deserved victory over the masterful KAs quintet. Adrian Bowen
led the KAs with a 16-point total.

Phi Delta Theta 50; Phi Gams 19

With high point man Ted Oldenburg scoring 22 points, the Phi Delts had little trouble in downing their opponents. Joe
Sugg was high man for the overwhelmed Phi Gams with 6 points.

Pi Kapps 52; Campus Club 43

The Pi Kapps defeated the Campus Club handily, being responsible for their sixth straight loss of the season.

THIS KID'S GONNA BE A GREAT PHOTOGRAPHER. SOMEDAY! HE'LL MAKE A FORTUNE TAKING LITTLE SHOTS OF BIG SHOTS!

More People Smoke Camels THAN ANY OTHER CIGARETTE!

(Continued On Page Four)

HOW CAN THEY TELL SO SOON? LEAVE US AWAIT DEVELOPMENTS!

PAGE THREE

Hit Road Tuesday For Tiff With McCrary Team

By JOHN HANOLEY

A much-improved Wildcat quintet took on Clemson here tonight in a Southern Conference game, with the visitors rated slight favorites
in pre-game estimates. Clemson, like Davidson, hasn't done much winning in the conference with most of her wins coming against
weak non-conference opposition. Perhaps the Tigers’ best night of the season came against the William and Mary five when they
took the Indians by a 10-point margin.

Clemson Hot And Cold

One of their most recent defeats came at the hands of little Pelzer when they took a 101-89 licking. Clemson
has played hot and cold basketball all season and the Cats are out to make it one of their cold
nights. The Cats have another busy week next week as they face the always powerful McCrary Eagles at Asheboro next
Tuesday before returning to the local floor to tangle with the Citadel next Thursday night.

Cobb, Sennett Hot

In dropping two of the three games they played last week, the Cats sported some new names in the double-figure
scoring column. While dropping to South Carolina and Tennessee, the Cats walloped The Citadel for their third win of the
long campaign. In these games, Center Joe Dudley came through with his usual good performances and a fine average, but
two new scoring lights made the future look a lot brighter for the Cats in the persons of Hobby Cobb
and Ish Bennett. Both Hobby and Ish have hit in the double-figure column in the past three encounters. Coach Miller
was well pleased with the showings of these two performers as he sought to fill the spot on offense left
vacant when Jerry King left school last week.

Closer Scores

In each of the last three encounters, the Cats have either won or pulled to within 10 points of the
opposition. An increased amount of hustle and drive have been the key to the Cat improvement. The ever-improving young Cats
played well on offense against Tennessee, but were unable to throttle the Vols’ sizzling fast break. With the season heading
down the home stretch, Miller's Cats will be out to add a good finish to a (Continued On Page Four)

W&L Swimmers Face Catfish In Afternoon Meet

By CAM CRIDLEBAUGH

Davidson's swimming team met Washington and Lee in the local pool here this afternoon. Coach Carroll Hambright’s men were handicapped
by the absence of George Crone who usually handles the breaststroke event. Crone has been out with flu all week,
but expects to see duty next week when the Catfish round out their regular schedule with three meets.

New Lineup

The new lineup, which Manager Louis Nelson said was very effective in the USC meet, was used this afternoon. Bryan,
Abernathy, and Cole handled the 300-yard relay, while Ormond and Parrott swam the 220-yard freestyle. The 50-yard freestyle was held
down by Patton and Haigh. Abernathy and Cole swam the individual medley, and the diving was placed in the capable
hands of Charlie Hull and Jeff Smith.

Backstroke Outstanding

Golding and Patton were assigned the 100-yard freestyle. One of the outstanding events of the afternoon was the 200-yard backstroke
participated in by Jim Bryan and Al Ormond. The 200-yard breaststroke entrants were Hull and Nicholson, and Al Ormond along
with Phil Hicks swam the 440-yard freestyle. The final event of the afternoon was the 400-yard relay in which Patton,
Golding, Bryan, and Cole took part.

Sunday the Catfish leave for Blacksburg, Va. where they will swim VPI Monday afternoon. Next Thursday will find Hambright's tankmen
playing host to Clemson. The final meet of the regular season will be held here with the Citadel on Saturday
of Midwinters dance weekend.

Only time will tell how good a tyro photographer will be! And only time will tell about a cigarette! Take
your time... Test CAMELS for 30 days for MILDNESS and FLAVOR!

THERE MUST BE A REASON WHY Camel is America’s most popular cigarette—leading all other brands by billions! Camels have the
two things smokers want most—rich, full flavor and cool, cool mildness... pack after pack! Try Camels for 30 days and
see how mild, how flavorful, how thoroughly enjoyable they are as your steady smoke!
