FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 1953 THE DAVIDSONIAN

CITADEL BULLDOGS HERE FOR Carolina Distance Event Slated Here Tomorrow

Tomorrow morning at 11 a.m., Davidson’s cross country team will close its season with the Carolina A.A.U. meet on the local 4-mile course. They will be favored to place second behind the A.A.C. champions, N.C. State. Shockley of State, who tied for first place in the State meet last week with Sawyer (setting a new course record), will be favored in the meet, but will be pushed by Davidson’s Homer Sparks. Sawyer of State, one of the nation’s top runners, is not entered due to the fact that he is running in the National Intercollegiates this weekend.

Trophies Presented

A team trophy will be presented to the winning team, and individual medals will be awarded to the top fifteen runners. The other teams represented along with Davidson and State are North Carolina freshman, Burlington Running Club, Davidson Basketball Squad Shows Improvement As Opener Nears

By BUDDY LILES

Coach Danny Miller's Wildcats have been working long and hard for their opening game with the Guilford College Quakers on December 2. The Wildcats are hosts to the Quakers in the inter-conference tilt. The Quakers are one of the most dangerous teams in the North State Conference. Although they aren't always in the top bracket, Guilford has upset some of the leading teams in the year’s past.

Harding, Weeks Ailing

The Wildcats are looking for height and some more reserve power. The team has rounded into good shape, stressing speed and ball-handling and with the exception of Ray Harding and Ed Weeks will be at their full strength. Buddy Brown is also on the injured list, but will be ready by the 2nd. Coach Miller has mixed in some scrimmage games with North State Conference teams in the practice sessions. The Cats looked only fair in the first game but since then have shown much improvement and should be hard to beat by the opening game. The starting lineup cannot be determined this early but several boys have looked sharp in practice and will probably get into action against Guilford. Ish, “the swish,” Bennett and Hobby Cobb loom as the big scoring threats, at forward, and guard, respectively. Big George Melton and Grahme Keith are Freshman, Lees-McCrae College, Pfeiffer College, Duke and Belmont Abbey.

Beaty Tough

North Carolina's freshmen will bring their top contender, Jimmy Beaty, to the meet and he is expected to finish near the top in the rugged 4-mile competition. Pete Ashcraft, Davidson’s freshman ace, will try for the third time this season to best the speedy Tarheel, having lost twice to Beaty during the regular season. Duke's Blue Devils will enter five men, three varsity and two freshmen, and should have several good contenders for one of the 15 (Continued On Page Four)

Last Monday at Williamsburg, Va., four cross country runners brought Davidson her highest conference standing in recent years as they copped third place and four trophies. They are: Floyd Feeney (14th), Homer Sparks (2nd), Andy Turner (19th), and Dick Lovette (13th).

Cross Country Runners Claim Four S.C. Trophies

In placing third in the annual Southern Conference cross country meet last Monday, Coach “Pete” Whittle’s harriers brought four conference trophies back to the local campus. In leading his teammates to their best showing of the season, Captain Homer Sparks took second place in the meet. Dick Lovette, Floyd Feeney, and Andy Turner also brought back trophies for finishing in the top twenty-five in the conference. Favored West Virginia took first place with 22 points (low score wins) followed by V.M.I. with 59, and Davidson with 72. Washington and Lee, William and Mary, and Richmond finished in this order behind Davidson.

W. Va. Tops

West Virginia also won the dual meet trophy, finishing with a 3-0 conference record. Davidson's Homer Sparks ran one of the best races of his career to place second behind West Virginia’s Dick Thoburn. Sparks was one second off Thoburn’s winning time of 25:25.

Sparks Consistent

Sparks has been a consistent runner all year and has proven to (Continued On Page Four)

Chesterfield Contest

The football game this week with The Citadel brings the current Chesterfield contest to a close. However, due to the great amount of enthusiasm shown for the contest, another similar one will probably be held some time later in the year. Last week's contest was without a doubt the closest and most heavily entered of the entire year. Any number of predictions were within a few points of the actual 33 to 0 score, but again Carl Jackson came the closest with the score of 32 to 0. Since this is the last week of the contest, entries will be coming in fast and furious, but remember, your chances of winning are increased every time you put a score in the box at the student store, and the number of scores is unlimited as long as each is on a separate Chesterfield wrapper along with name and room number.

THESE ARE STRINGERS END COLLEGIATE CAREERS TOMORROW

DAN McCALL

JOHNNY GRAY

BEN CRAIG

Pictured above are the five stellar first stringers of the Davidson varsity who have ended their collegiate football careers already because of injuries or who will turn in their Wildcat uniforms for the last time tomorrow. Dan McCall, Neil Graham, and Bob Patton are expected to be in the thick of tomorrow's Citadel action while Ben Craig and Johnny Gray will be on the sidelines due to previous injuries.

NEIL GRAHAM

BOB PATTON

PHI DELTS TAKE WRESTLING TOURNEY

Wildkitten Cagers

(SAE’S Capture Second Honors In Greek Event

By JIM HOLSHOUSER

The annual Inter-Fraternity wrestling meet was held working for the center spot. The other guards who are likely to see action are Dickie Adams and Pappy Fowle. At the forward slot, Buddy Brown and Ray Harding are looking good.years as each worked hard to make a career. Finally, Gower, back from Service, “teamed up” with Marge. After months of strenuous rehearsal, they were a sensation, creating original “dance stories” for TV, movies, and stage. They are now Mister and Missus.

Prepare For Pfeiffer Opener On Dec. 2nd

As freshman basketball practice moves into the fourth week before the Thanksgiving layoff, Coach Miller has expressed his approval and has great hopes for their season, which opens on the same December 2nd date as the varsity opener. The Wildkittens will face Pfeiffer Junior College on that date. Pfeiffer sports one of the finest teams in its history and is a tough one for the Kittens’ opener, but Coach Miller expressed the opinion that the speedy little Kittens will give the Pfeiffer crew a good scrap and it should turn out to be one of the better games of the season.

The frosh schedule stands as follows:
Dec. 2—Pfeiffer—here.
Dec. 8—Wingate—here.
Dec. 15—Kannapolis Y—there.
Jan. 8—Wingate—there.
Jan. 9—Charlotte College—here.
Jan. 11—UNC Freshmen—here.
Feb. 6—Kannapolis Y—here.
Feb. 9—Charlotte College—there.
Feb. 19—Pfeiffer—there.
Feb. 22—Gardner-Webb—here.

All home games will be preliminaries to varsity encounters. The boys who will probably start against Pfeiffer are: At guards, “Buster” Jenkins and Richard (Continued On Page Four).

Wednesday and Thursday in Johnson Gymnasium. When all the groaning ceased, the Phi Delts had emerged as the victors with a total of 39 points. It marks the second win in three years for the victors, who also won the meet in 1951.

This year’s meet showed a big improvement over last year's competition. The caliber of wrestling was much higher, and the pairings turned out a lot of interesting matches. It was the points won by runners-up that gave the Phi Delts the win. Four Phis came in second in their weight divisions. The SAEs came in second with a total of 27 points. The Phi Gams (last year’s champion) and the Betas tied for third. A small team of independents turned in a surprising performance to place fifth.

In the 123-lb class, Jones (KA) pinned Hunter (Phi Delt) late in the second period of the championship match. Thornton (Betas) and Spiers (Pika) placed third and fourth respectively. Jordan (Ind.) won the championship in the 130-lb class with a decision over Schoenberger (KA). Price (Phi Delt) defeated Ingram (Kappa Sig) in the battle for third place. In the 137-lb class, Gray, a Phi Gam frosh, pinned Neale (Ind.) in the second period of the championship match. King (Kappa Sig) defeated Robinson (SAE) for the consolation honors.

Larry Wright of the Betas decisioned Joe Greer of the Phi Delts in a close match for the 147-lb championship. Baker (SAE) took third place with a win over Query (Phi Gams). David Brown, Phi Delt freshman sensation, won the 157-lb class as he took a close decision over Faison (SAE). This was probably the best match of the evening, with both boys evenly matched and showing a knowledge of wrestling skill. Snyder (Beta) took a win over Flintom (Phi Gam) for the third place honors.

In the 167-lb class, Sonny Kincey (SAE) defeated Scott Ball (Phi Delts) to win the championship. Whitesell (Phi Gam) defeated Little (Beta) in the battle for third place. Van Julian and Richard Holshouser met in the finals of the 177-pound class, and Julian (Beta) decisioned Holshouser (Sigma Chi) for the championship. Cathey (Kappa Sig) defeated Nelson (Phi Delt) (Continued On Page Four).

WILDCAT GRIDDERS HIGHLY SPIRITED FOR LAST CHANCE
By JOHN HANDLEY

Tomorrow afternoon at 2:30, Davidson’s football Wildcats of 1953 take the field for the last time this season when they meet the Bulldogs of The Citadel in a conference affair at Richardson Field. Both teams have yet to take the measure of a conference opponent this season and the conference cellar will be decided by the encounter. Although failing to win in the conference, the Bulldogs have managed to take the measure of the Presbyterian Blue Hose for their only win this year. Presbyterian, of course, took the measure of the Wildcats to the heartbreaking tune of 19-18 at homecoming.

Cellar Struggle

Both teams are struggling in one of the poorest seasons in recent years; however, the Cats’ spirit and morale seem to have been little affected by the whitewashing they have received in their first 8 starts. The Cats have worked hard this week in preparation for the encounter and though they are in poor physical shape due to several injuries, they are really fired up to win this last one. The Cats have shown fine spirit, hustle, and determination all through the season though they have failed to win. Last week in the George Washington encounter, even though trailing by over 3 TDs, the Cats showed fine spirit against the tough Colonials.

Many Injuries

Out of the action for this week's encounter will be all three of the leading fullbacks, Leroy Fargason, Tal Broughton, and Jim Shelton, who have sustained injuries in recent weeks. Lineman Tom Owen will also miss the finale because of an arm injury received in practice early this week. Ben Craig and Johnny Gray are, of course, still out of action and they will be sitting on the sidelines as three of their classmates who will receive their diplomas next June. The three senior first-stringers who will complete their collegiate football careers tomorrow for Davidson against The Citadel will be Alternate Captain Neil Graham, defensive signal caller Bob Patton, and pass snagging Dan McCall.

Graham Aggressive

Graham, one of the toughest competitors on this year's squad, has served as the captain of the team from his guard position since the injury of Captain Ben Craig. Neil has been outstanding on both offense and defense all year and has been one of the leading tacklers for the Cats. (Continued On Page Four)

Start smoking Camels yourself! Smoke only Camels for 30 days and find out why Camels are first in mildness, flavor, and popularity! See how much pure pleasure a cigarette can give you! CHOICE QUALITY THAN ANY OTHER CIGARETTE