PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

Frank Hanshaw
Jack Hobson
John Ottley
Brinkley, Harter, Hope, Myers, M. G., Moylan, D.H.
Hassell, J. M.
Moore, Owens

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
BUSINESS MANAGER
ASSISTANT EDITOR
Associate Editors
Managing Editors
Sports Editor
Dick Roper
News Editor—D. M. Smith
Feature Editor—T. A. Williams
Arts Editor—Mahy
Assignments—Strand.
Photographer—Simons
Assistant Business Manager—Poston
Advertising Manager—Hasty
Circulation Manager—Nicholson
Collection Manager—Douglas

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897.

Opportunity Of Selflessness Presented To Davidson Again

Thursday and Friday of next week the Davidson Student Body will have its second opportunity this year to donate blood.
The outstanding record of nearly 500 pints contributed by the college and community last December showed what this writer believes
to exemplify the real Davidson spirit. The need for blood was recognized and that need was fulfilled. The Christian ideal
of doing something beneficial for others was put into practice resulting in the most successful blood drive thus far completed.

But we certainly do not expect to rest on our laurels. The need is still very real. During the past
two weeks two Davidson men have been killed in the service of their country bringing the total to seven during
the Korean conflict. Several others have been wounded. Many of us knew these men personally. For each of us to
give a pint of blood seems the very least we can do.

Blood is also needed to fight polio which reaches out every year to claim thousands of victims. At last a
new drug is being developed for protection against this dread disease. The vaccine is known as gamma globulin. Stockpiles are
being built, but the anticipated need for blood is far from being filled.

Although the blood drive is an old thing to most of us as drive chairman Dagenhart pointed out, we cannot
afford to become complacent. If this drive is to be a success, it will depend on the student body getting
squarely behind it. This tradition of recent origin, the selflessness exhibited by the student body in giving their blood to
so worthy a cause, is being put to the test again. Will you continue to do your part?

Sunrise Easter Service Sunday

On Sunday morning at 6:30 a voluntary service of worship consisting mostly of Scripture and prayer will be held on
the golf course. This is primarily a time for withdrawing and in the calm and freshness of an early dawn
remember what Easter signifies, what God did for man in Christ. The worship is being planned and presented by members
of the student body under the direction of the Y.M.C.A. and is open to all who are willing to interrupt
a morning’s rest and join with one another to commemorate this stupendous event in history. Mary Magdalene found a risen
Lord that first Easter morn, but she had first to experience an empty tomb. Christ comes to those who earnestly
seek Him.—C.W.

Faculty-Student Committee Report: Plans Laid By Committee For Better Co-ordination of Events

The Faculty-Student Committee met Tuesday afternoon, March 31 in the College Union for its second regularly scheduled meeting. The main
topic of discussion was the co-ordination of college activities so as to cut down the number of conflicts of events
throughout the school year. Many conflicts have arisen this year in sports activities, artist and concert series, dance weekends, fraternity
functions, and review period schedules. Meeting with this committee on this matter were Dr. Spencer, Mr. Scott, Col. Davis, and
Lawrence Erwin.

An explanation of schedule policy was presented by various departments of the college. Dr. Spencer stated that a log was
kept in his office to list all activities through the school year and should be consulted before dates are chosen
for events. He pointed out that with only 180 school days conflicts of one kind or another are bound to
arise with all the college activities. But, this log should be used by all organizations to keep conflicts at a
minimum.

Mr. Scott, explaining the situation in the athletic department, said that all sports schedules must be arranged far in advance.
It is definite that there will be football games every weekend from the third week in September until the third
week in November. Basketball schedules are arranged for the following season at the Southern Conference meeting at Raleigh every March.
Thus a twenty-game season will have to include Friday and Saturday night games, some of which fall on dance weekends.
This points out the problem of fitting the sports program into the college calendar, for games must be arranged to
fit in other college schedules as well as Davidson's schedule.

Col. Davis said that the ROTC Department was primarily concerned with the blood drives and the rifle matches. Although blood
drive dates are selected several months in advance for a week when the calendar is apparently light, the week is
filled by the time the blood drive arrives. The rifle team schedule is made up in September and October for
matches from November through March. When four or five schools participate, it is difficult to set a date that will
suit all concerned.

Mr. Plott, chairman of the artist series committee, reported that the series must be arranged in the Spring for the
following year. The set review periods are adhered to as far as possible, but sometimes an artist can only appear
on a certain night due to a planned tour. The Male Chorus trips are also scheduled to try to prevent
conflicts with reviews and other activities.

The review period schedule was discussed at some length, enumerating the problems it caused in trying to schedule events during
the school year. A recommendation will be made concerning the review periods at the Faculty meeting either in April or
May. Dr. Beaty suggested that the fraternities keep a central booking system for the year's activities to provide for better
co-ordination of events. Dates of rush week were discussed with recommendations to the I.F.C. Next year in order to prevent
conflicts, representatives of the (Continued On Page Four)

THE RED FIG

A DAVIDSON STUDENT BLOATED WITH BLOOD

THE DAVIDSONIAN

MEDIEVAL BLOOD-LETTING GIVES YOU NEW SPARK

LISTLESS? SLUGGISH? Your CIRCULATORY SYSTEM IS PROBABLY "WOBBLY." DONATE BLOOD! THE RED CROSS OFFERS NEAT AND SANITARY BLOOD-LETTING. MAKE YOUR
APPOINTMENT TODAY.

THE FREE LANCE: FRIDAY, APRIL 3, 1953

Sees A Need For Realism In Candidates’ Promises

“And furthermore I promise we will have free beer in every room and women for all...” We yawned. People all
around us were yawning. It was in the senior section at chapel. The time of year? Spring and with it
the inevitable elections. Inevitable. Is that a proper term to use when describing the most cherished institution of democracy? It
isn't for all elections, but does not come far from missing the mark in speaking of Davidson elections. We could
imagine less experienced faces light up with glee as the speaker droned on with his absurd promises. It wasn’t hard.
We had done it ourselves on past occasions. Yeah, unlimited cuts. Tell those trustees.what to do. Great. It’s a frightening
fact, but nonetheless a true one that wild promises like many of those we heard during the recent race for
student body president are wishful thinking. Better almost to have voted for the man who promised least, for that is
in a way an indication of his realizing the reality of the situation. If, for example, the college is straining
its innards to make financial ends meet and is forced to put three men in almost every room, how could
Winter Ends; Spring’s Sprung; Reviews Have Again Begun By RONALD WILSON Well, it’s here. After dragging itself through many months
of rain, wind, and bitter chill, Spring has finally staggered in through the back door here at the convent. Now
one can see green splotches hither and thither upon the great brown desert stretching between the dorms and Chambers, and
in some places the red mud has dried into red clay. An occasional tree hardily disregards the prospect of a
late frost, and manages to bear a few blooms for the waiting world. But the biggest battle of all was
won last Wednesday; the harbingers of Spring besieged the ROTC building and triumphed — the OD’s have been exchanged for
khakis. Manifestations of the equinoctial transition stand out all over the place. Pete Whittle’s voice echoes up and down between
the dorms as he calmly advises his track team, and is matched by the roaring of engines as the daily
race begins for the Mooresville links. The seersucker suit begins to appear in store windows, complemented by the standard array
of white bucks and ventilated shirts. And everyone is waiting for the local sect of Sunshine and Health to make
their first outdoor appearance of the year and artlessly wallow about on blankets and towels, absorbing a dose of Vitamin
D into their winter-faded skin. One of the peculiarities of nature is the inverse proportion of the state of dormancy
between animals and the other inanimate living objects of Nature. When the sap starts to rise, the vigorousness of the
human begins to wane. Progressively more and more reason is found for doing less and less until there is all
the reason in the world for not doing anything. It takes so much exertion to turn around and stare out
the window that most students prefer just to JACKSON Cleaners CLEANING EVERY JOB A GOOD ONE SKILLFULLY DONE BY PRESSERS
WITH YEARS OF EXPERIENCE ALTERATIONS THAT SATISFY ONE-DAY SERVICE AVAILABLE. Frank L. Jackson, Jr. go to sleep in classes. Stimulus
for study has suffered a severe setback. And any excuse whatsoever is explored to the fullest to keep from compromising
one’s self and hitting the books. Wednesday night Moose Lazenby's spirit was buried on the west side of Duke, complete
with a cross, wreath and the words “Rest In Peace.” A prosperous hour and a half were spent in this
operation. The Toilet-Paper Brigade is on the warpath again too. Several of Mrs. Little’s 1000 sheet Double Strength rolls had
wandered in various directions over the dorm floors. It's fascinating artistically, but somewhat aggravating to the individual who goes to
the head with a specific purpose in mind. As we said before, the equinox has passed. It is more than
welcome, after three months of constant precipitation. But by the beard of Abdullah, how does one get rid of this
insidious Spring Fever when he has 5 reviews coming up? FINE FOODS STEAKS CHICKEN DINNERS FOUNTAIN SERVICE Open Sundays Phone
132 418 South Main Street STONESTREET'S Grade A Cafe Mooresville, N. C. DAVIDSON THEATRE THURS.-FRI.-APRIL 2-3 “RUBY GENTRY” JENNIFER JONES,
CHARLTON HESTON SAT.-APRIL 4 “ROGUES MARCH” PETER LAWFORD, JANICE RULE MON.-TUES.-APRIL 6-7 “BATTLE CIRCUS” HUMPHREY BOGART, JUNE ALLYSON WED.-APRIL 8
“GOLDEN HAWK” RHONDA FLEMING, STERLING HAYDEN CHESTERFIELD contains tobaccos of better quality and higher price than any other king-size cigarette...
the KING-SIZE CIGARETTE By JOHN OTTLEY they possibly give up the use of a room on each hall in the
dormitories for study purposes? It sounds like a superb idea, but is rather unrealistic. Of course it may be argued
that when man has ceased to try he should not speak at all. The fight’s the thing. Well, it’s part
of the thing. Results are also the thing. And knowing what is the status quo. It makes good copy to
read about the young man who goes out unarmed to fight the dragon. We seldom read of the man who
studied the dragon's habits, went out with proper weapons and just as much zeal, and killed the thing. Yet we
seem willing to vote for the former man. This is not intended as a personal slant at any candidate. It
is a hope that both speeches and the attitude of the voters will take on a more intelligent aspect. In
the logic text used by the college, there is a section on emotive terminology. How interesting and at the same
time sickening it is to hear man after man make an emotive appeal for his election no matter whether he
realizes it or not. “Friends we all know that (but are we sure we all know it?) so and so
needs illumination. If elected I will see that this is improved (just what does he mean by improvement?), and that
so and so is remedied (what constitutes a remedy in his mind?).” All these words and scores like them do
not represent clear cut ideas, but emotive responses. We do not think when we hear them, but we merely feel.
It follows that the man who uses the most words which bring a good feeling will win the election. Of
course this doesn’t happen. He must be popular and the “right” kind of boy. This would all be very well
and good if we were selecting the man whom we liked most of all the boys on the campus. Some
will argue that, in light of the vacuum of issues in this academic paternocracy, this is all we are doing
anyway. Every so often some minor matter is in the students’ hands and on those occasions we need a man
with a grasp of the situation and something resembling a mind. A speech by this type is usually marked by
specific and realistic suggestions and feasible promises. There are many underclassmen who will find reason to denounce bitterly the seniors’
attitude toward student body elections. If they seem lack- (Continued On Page Four) WHEN you are asked to try a
cigarette you want to know, and you ought to know, what that cigarette has meant to people who smoke it
all the time. For a full year now, a medical specialist has given a group of Chesterfield smokers thorough examinations
every two months. He reports: no adverse effects to their nose, throat or sinuses from smoking Chesterfields. More and more
men and women all over the country are finding out every day that Chesterfield is best for them. Enjoy your
smoking. Try Much Milder Chesterfield with its extraordinarily good taste.
