PAGE FOUR

IT TAKES a good, tough, serious guy to wear the gear of an Aviation Cadet. But if you can measure up, here’s your chance to get the finest in aviation training—training that equips you to fly the most modern airplanes in the world and prepares you for responsible executive positions, both in military and commercial aviation. It won’t be easy! Training discipline for Aviation Cadets is rigid. You'll work hard, study hard, play hard—especially for the first few weeks. But when it’s over, you'll be a pro—with a career ahead of you that will take you as far as you want to go. You graduate as a 2nd Lieutenant in the Air Force, with pay of $5,300.00 a year. And this is only the beginning—your opportunities for advancement are unlimited.

ARE YOU ELIGIBLE?

To qualify as an Aviation Cadet, you must have completed at least two years of college. This is a minimum requirement—it’s best if you stay in school and graduate! In addition, you must be between 19 and 26½ years, unmarried, and in good physical condition.

If you can make the grade, you can fly the latest, hottest, fanciest jobs in the air—and do it within one year.

YOU CAN CHOOSE BETWEEN PILOT OR AIRCRAFT OBSERVER

If you choose to be an Aircraft Observer, your training will be in Navigation, Bombardment, Radar Operation, or Aircraft Performance Engineering.

New Aviation Cadet Training Classes Begin Every Few Weeks!

HERE'S WHAT TO DO:

1. Take a transcript of your college credits and a copy of your birth certificate to your nearest Air Force Base or Recruiting Station. Fill out the application they give you.
2. If the application is accepted, the Air Force will arrange for you to take a physical examination at government expense.
3. Next, you will be given a written and manual aptitude test.
4. If you pass your physical and other tests, you will be scheduled for an Aviation Cadet training class. The Selective Service Act allows you a four-month deferment while waiting for class assignment.

Where to get more details: Visit your nearest Air Force Base or Air Force Recruiting Officer. Or write to: Aviation Cadet, Headquarters.

Last weekend the KA’s opened their bi-annual “Old South Ball” with Secession proceedings and an attack on the College Union. At upper left is a scene at the Secession meeting at Fraternity Court. In the center shot, General Beauregard Wilson arrives bringing word of the breakdown of negotiations. At upper right, the KA's march toward the Union. Lower left shows Shaw Smith surrendering and revealing his true colors. Lower right is a shot from inside the Union showing the KA’s attacking. —(Photo by Andy Simons.)

Johnson, Bremer . . . (Continued From Page One)

...dent of next year’s junior class. He is a member of the Campus Club and track team. Rounding out the new slate of officers for the sophomores is Corky King, a Phi Gam from Lexington, North Carolina. Jim Daughdrill is the newly elected president of next year’s sophomore class; he was named the outstanding pledge of Phi Delta Theta and has been extremely active in intramurals as well as maintaining a B average. The freshmen chose Hobby Cobb, recently named the outstanding freshman athlete, of Charlotte as their Vice President for next year. Hobby is a member of Kappa Sigma. The new secretary, Joe Conarroe of Bradenton, Florida is a member of Beta Theta Pi and has recently been awarded a Union Carbide Scholarship.

Quips And Cranks... (Continued From Page One)

...desk looking through the Quips and Cranks beauty entrants. Members of the staff received refreshments and thanks from Mitchell Patton and from business manager Dave Robinson for the year’s work, as they looked at the book in a sneak preview Thursday night. A few pictures of beauty contest entrants have not yet been picked up from Bill Bradford in 127 Duke. Dave Robinson, business manager, is in charge of distribution of the books. If any extra copies are available, they will be sold in the order for which they are requested.

Expert On Korean... (Continued From Page Two)

...see the Secretary of State and make such news known. Even the most credulous would think twice before swallowing such a story. Men in political office just do not ignore individuals who control such a vast amount of financial power. It is comparable to President Eisenhower refusing to see Henry Ford. Personally, we'd like to learn more about the enigmatic diplomatic career of James H. R. Cromwell.

Cindermen, Linksters . . . (Continued From Page Three)

Bill Shipley and Bob Henry will make up the...mile relay for the Cats. They set a new school record this year with a 3:28.5 against the Citadel and South Carolina in a triangular meet. Last week against State they missed this mark by a half second. The Golfers finished their season with an 8-8 record. They beat Florida State, Furman (2), Wofford (2), South Carolina, and Clemson. They lost to Duke, Ohio, Florida, Clemson, and South Carolina. Graeme Keith and freshman Larry Parrot will be the top men representing the Cats in the tournament. These two have put in top performances all year and should be in good form. Also entered are Captain Lew Barnes, Mickey Cannon, Tom Abel, and Joe Jenkins.

BULLETIN

Wallace Abbott, class of 1952, has recently been elected president of the student body at Harvard School of Business. The School of Business, part of the Harvard graduate program, has a student enrollment of some 1500 men.

Two Spanish Groups Close 1952-53 Year With Joint Meeting

On the night of the eighth of May in the ballroom of the Student Union, the final joint meeting of the year was held for the Spanish Club and Sigma Delta Pi, national Spanish fraternity. Installation of the incoming officers occupied the main part of the business affairs. The officers for the approaching year will be: President, Tommy Douglass; 1st V. President, Dan McCall; 2nd V. President, Charlie Hooper; and Secretary, Bill Hardin.

The following program was then given: Presentation of a skit by Dan McCall and Bill Hardin; vocal by Thorny Frick; interpretation of a Spanish Donald Duck by Bill Rogers; game for guessing most Spanish edibles and toastables, won by Bill Hardin; Spanish love song and scene enacted by Betty Gehring and Jinks Jervey; baby drama adaptation, written and produced by Nabby Armfield, and starring Nabby and Betty Gehring; and an original Spanish-American song sung by Elgin White.

After the program was ended, recognition was given to Mr. Goldiere, who is resigning this year as treasurer, for his incalculable service in the past. Mr. Causey, Mr. Trakas, Mr. Peak, and the faculty wives and helpers who have assisted tremendously in programs during the year were then given thanks for their interest and support. As a finale, the ones present were awarded certificates as active members of the Spanish Club.

FRIDAY, MAY 15, 1953

A.E.D. Initiates... (Continued From Page One)

Duke University, Dr. C. C. Carpenter of Bowman Gray, and Dr. E. W. Hedgepeth of the University of North Carolina visited the campus in this connection. Officers for the coming year are Hunter Strader, president; Bill Hood, vice president; Al Blount, secretary; Maynard Bellamy, treasurer; Jim Jackson, historian; and Bill Johnson, editor.

Graduation Weekend... (Continued From Page One)

Presbyterian Church, U.S., as well as a trustee of Agnes Scott College and a member of the board for Women’s Work, Presbyterian Church, U.S. Dr. Dendy holds degrees from Presbyterian College and the University of Tennessee, and has done graduate work at the University of Edinburgh.

E. H. Little, chairman of the board of Colgate-Palmolive-Peet Company, will deliver the Commencement address to the 150 graduating seniors at 10:30 a.m. Monday morning. Mr. Little is a native of North Carolina, having been born at Huntersville. He joined the Colgate organization in 1902, became vice-president of the merged Colgate-Palmolive-Peet Company in 1933, president in 1938, and was named chairman of the board this past spring.

The Commencement program will also feature the awarding of honorary degrees to six religious leaders, educators, and statesmen, in addition to the bachelor's degrees to the seniors of 1953.

THE QUALITY CONTRAST between Chesterfield and other leading cigarettes is a revealing story. Recent chemical analyses give an index of good quality for the country’s six leading cigarette brands. The index of good quality table—a ratio of high sugar to low nicotine—shows Chesterfield quality highest—15% higher than its nearest competitor and Chesterfield quality 31% higher than the average of the five other leading brands.

First to Give You Premium Quality in Regular and King-size... much milder with an extraordinarily good taste—and for your pocketbook, Chesterfield is today’s best cigarette buy.

A Report Never Before Made About a Cigarette. For well over a year a medical specialist has been giving a group of Chesterfield smokers regular examinations every two months. He reports... no adverse effects to nose, throat and sinuses from smoking Chesterfield.

U.S. Air Force, Washington 25, D.C.