FRIDAY, APRIL 8, 1952 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE FOUR

ROTC 32s PLACED

The ROTC Department announced recently the placements of this year’s ROTC 32 class, in accordance with its branch general program.
Adjutant General Corps, Chemical Corps, Corps of Engineers, Medical Service Corps, Ordnance Corps, and Signal Corps each got one member
of the junior ROTC Class. Two men will go to both the Transportation Corps and the Quartermaster Corps, while nine
others to the Artillery. The remainder, some thirty men, will be placed in the Infantry upon graduation from Davidson.

Send Two To National Meet

Omicron Delta Kappa, national leadership honor society, will hold its regular biennial convention in Roanoke, Virginia, April 16, 17, and
18. Headquarters for the meeting will be in the luxurious Hotel Roanoke. The Davidson College ODK circle will be represented
by Professor Goldiere, who is the alumni adviser, and Mac Bulgin, who will serve as official student representative. Other representatives
are eligible, but because the meeting date conflicts with that of the Spring Frolics, many of the members of this
circle had already made other plans.

SENIOR SKETCH NO. 4

Caution and Dignity: If you have some spare time on your hands first thing in the morning, drop by 204
East and you may get there at feeding time. You'll see little bottles of all shapes and sizes — green
ones, brown ones, clear ones — and all with pills in them that a man eats. Some are to grow
hair and lubricate the fingernails. Some guard against distemper and tapeworm while others counteract an insufficient charcoal content in the
human body. To run down the complete list would be like citing a medical journal. The man never says a
word . . . just pops them in his mouth and swallows. All the while his roommate looks on in
amazement.

By Mike Myers

Avery Jones has a theory that candlelight is bad for your complexion and has joined the Army so he won't
have to worry about the future. But once his caution backfired. This happened on the Florida trip at the dog
races. As the night progressed Avery paid no attention to the races because he was studying the form for the
last big race. Finally, after checking the weights, times, etc., he bet on his choice for the race. His hound
broke well, took a few steps, stumbled to his knees, rolled over, then lay down on the grass and watched
the other dogs run around the track.

But such mishaps are rare in this well-calculated life. Jones has earned him the nickname of ‘Shaky’ along with his
rather obvious one, and the more quotable ‘vitamin.’ Avery has had a long and varied love life . . .
he terms his type “platonic lover.” Currently, he is spending a few nights a week at Queens proving his platonicity
by taking his date in the parlor and playing parlor games by the hour. Their favorite is “logic,” a game
where you try to guess what the other is thinking — or something. They say he’s a whiz at it,
too.

Take the trunk of Avery's car as an arbitrary example. In it is a $110 outboard motor he bought during
the holidays in Florida. Now the point is Avery doesn’t own a boat, doesn’t have a friend that can lend
him one, but in case he ever finds a boat or wins one Avery will be ready for it. Avery
has moved his bed away from the radiator for fear that it might be struck by lightning. He refuses coffee,
but from that moment on it’s a 33⅓ RPM record run at 78 RPM. Avery's life seems to center around
an innate desire for security. ‘Caution’ is his key word, and his life is governed by the Boy Scout motto.
The vitamins are only a part of it.

Baker Scholars

(Continued From Page One)

The one that isn’t saying anything is Charlie Hooper, who demonstrated his skill in handling the Spanish language and consequently
took the Premio Gordo. To finish off the occasion in grand style, Gregory Dimijian polished the ivories with his version
of “Malaguena.”

A student who has also been regularly employed during the year. Davidson College Honor Scholarships were inaugurated this year to
supplement the Baker Scholarship program. These scholarships are worth up to full tuition for four years, and were awarded to:

VITA-CRAFT SALES DIRECTOR COMING FRIDAY OFFERING JOBS TO STUDENTS

The possibility of jobs, either part-time or summer vacation employment looms for students of Davidson College when the national sales
director of the Vita Craft Corporation pays the campus a visit on Tuesday of next week. He will be in
Room 209 of Chambers Building at 3:30 p.m.

Plans Laid By Committee

The advance agent for the organization was on the campus last week, and he pointed out that his corporation will
offer students a chance to make as much as $100 per month for part-time work during the school year and
up to $75 per week during the summer with all students who will take part-time work guaranteed summer jobs. The
company also offers a scholarship plan that will net from $1 to $250 per year. It was pointed out that
experience is not necessary, since each person employed will get a complete training course. The representative also stated that persons
doing well this summer will also have jobs through the next school year if they desire. He stated that 75
percent of the regular sales force of the company today started work while in college.

(Continued From Page Two)

Departments of the college and student organizations will meet in September to draw up a tentative school year to be
published in the master schedule of events for the Davidsonian. Monthly supplements will be added during the year. All activities
should be listed in the log of events kept by Mr. Smith at the College Union. If an organization plans
an event on a particular day they can definitely see the number of other activities that are to be held
on that day and will possibly desire to choose a better time.

—F. H. Sec'y.

McKee’s Team

(Continued From Page Three)

The team came Wednesday when Johnny Bremer suffered a badly sprained ankle in his match against Charlie Ufford of Harvard.
Bremer went on to finish the match and win, but he may be lost to the team for several days.GIVE
AIRY “SCREEN-WEAVE” COOLNESS TO.... SPORT COATS of Crisp, Smart

Be casual and carefree in VARSITY-TOWN’S Water Mill tweed sport coat. Styled in the popular 2 button model with side
vents, ticket and flap pockets — 35.00. Contrasting slacks to go with your sport coat... tropical worsteds, sheen gabardines or
worsted flannels. All popular colors — 13.25 to 20.00.

THE LABEL OF DISTINCTION
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Button-down collar sport shirts 3.95 to 5.95

Michael Fennegan, Fairmont, N. C.; James G. Martin, Winnsboro, S. C.; William F. H. Page, Statesville, N. C.; Alvin P.
Perkinson, Callie School.

Saturday Movies. (Continued From Page One)
25; and “Bridge of San Luis Rey” on May 9. The movies, as well as the other events, are sponsored
by the social committee of the YMCA. Additionally, in compliance with students’ request, the Union has recently purchased a large
number of classical records. The Union will be glad to have suggestions about record purchases, and will get the records
when possible. Among the new albums are: Beethoven's First and Second Symphonies by Toscanini, Tchaikovsky's Nutcracker Suite, Romeo and Juliet,
Scheherazade, and many other fine works.

The Free Lance (Continued From Page Two)
If it’s idealistic, it’s because they see the hopelessness of making a number of idealistic promises and have heard the
same emotive terms quite a number of times. Too many times to be moved to exceptional enthusiasm by boyish zeal
glazed with this idealism. It takes more. We forgot for a moment. This is Davidson. That is the Davidson man.
Who else could fill the job, but a Davidson man? Where in the alphabet would you like us to start
naming?

Overall Standings (Continued From Page Three)
SPEs 30
Phi Gams 21
Sigma Chis 21
Pikas 12
Betas 12
SAEs 12
Kappa Sigs 12
ATOs 12
Pi Kapps 03
Campus Clubs 03

Tennis
Phi Delts 20
Kappa Sigs 20
SAEs 10
KAs
Betas 20
Pikas 11
ATOs 60
SPEs
Campus Clubs 01
Phi Gams 00
Sigma Chis 02
Pi Kapps 02

Cindermen (Continued From Page Three)
200 yards — Mitchener, Breeden, Koonce.
440 yards — Shipley, Howell, Alexander.
880 yards — Henry, Jenkins, Reed.
One mile — Russell, Joyner, Sparks.
Two miles — Feeney, Turner, Gooding.
Low Hurdles — White, Morris, Robinson.
High hurdles — White, Robinson.
Pole vault — Poston, McNair, Speed.
Broad jump — White, Huffaker, Koonce.
Shot put — Lazenby, Petree, Peterson, Long.
Discus — Lazenby, Petree, Peterson, Gilley.
Javelin — Gilley, Coe, Hoover, Mann.
Relay — Howell, Henry, Russell, Shipley.

IF YOU CAN WEAR THESE WINGS YOU CAN EARN OVER $9,000 A YEAR AFTER GRADUATION

Important facts about the opportunities for YOU as a Commissioned Officer—Pilot or Aircraft Observer—in the United States Air Force

Must be a college graduate to take Aviation Cadet Training? No. But you must have completed a minimum of 60
semester hours or 90 quarter hours toward a degree. In addition, under the new Aviation Cadet training program, you must
be between the ages of 19 and 26½ years, unmarried, and in good physical condition—with high requirements for eyes, ears.

How long before I get my commission? 60 calendar weeks. You will receive the finest aviation training in the world—training
that not only equips you to fly modern military aircraft but prepares you for executive and administrative work as well.
At the completion of your training, you will have acquired a commission as a 2nd Lieutenant and the coveted silver
wings of the United States Air Force.

Where do I take my training? Pre-flight training will be at Lackland Air Force Base, San Antonio, Texas. Primary, basic
and advanced training will be taken at any one of the many Air Force bases located throughout the South and
Southwest.

What happens if I flunk the training course? Every effort is made to help students whose progress is unsatisfactory. You
can expect extra instructions and whatever individual attention you may require. However, if you fail to complete the course as
an Aviation Cadet, you will be required to serve a two-year enlistment to fulfill the minimum requirement under Selective Service
laws. Veterans who have completed a tour of military service will be discharged upon request if they fail to complete
the course.

What pay do I get as an Aviation Cadet? And after? As an Aviation Cadet you draw $109.20 a month
pay. In addition, you get summer and winter uniforms, flight clothes, equipment, food, housing, medical and dental care and insurance—all
free. After you are commissioned a 2nd Lieutenant you will be earning $5,300.00 a year—with unlimited opportunities for advancement.

Are all Aviation Cadets trained to be Pilots? No. You can choose between becoming a Pilot or an Aircraft Observer.
Men who choose the latter will become commissioned officers in Navigation, Bombardment, Radar Operation, or Aircraft Performance Engineering.

Do Aircraft Observers get flying training, too? Yes. Aircraft Observer Cadets receive approximately 200 hours of “in the air” instructions.
The primary phase of Aircraft Observer training is the same for all branches (navigation, bombardment, etc.). The basic and advanced
phases of training vary, depending on the specific course you pursue.

What kind of airplanes will I fly? You will fly jets. The Pilot Cadet takes his first instructions in a
light, civilian-type plane of approximately 100 horsepower, then graduates to the 600 horsepower T-6 “Texan” before receiving transition training in
jets. You then advance gradually until you are flying such famous first-line aircraft as F-86 Sabre, F-89 Scorpion, B-47 Stratojet,
B-50 Superfortress. Observer Cadets take flight instructions in the C-47 Dakota, the T-29 Convair, and the TB-50 Superfortress before advancing
to first-line aircraft such as the F-89 Scorpion, B-47 Stratojet.

Will my commission be in the Regular Air Force or Reserve? Aviation Cadet graduates, both Pilots and Aircraft Observers, get
Reserve commissions as 2nd Lieutenants and become eligible to apply for a regular Air Force Commission when they have completed
18 months of active duty.

How long must I remain in Service? After graduation from the Aviation Cadet Program, you are tendered an indefinite appointment
in the United States Air Force Reserve and are called to active duty with the United States Air Force for
a period of three years.

What recreation and leisure time will I have as a Cadet? Discipline will be rigid—especially for the first few weeks.
However, it is not all work. You'll find swimming pools, handball courts, movies and other forms of recreation on the
post.

Where will I be stationed when I get my commission? You may be stationed anywhere in the world... Hawaii, Far
East, Europe, Puerto Rico, elsewhere. During your tour of duty, you will be in close touch with the latest developments
in new flying techniques. You will continue to build up your flying experience and later should have no difficulty securing
a CAA commercial pilot or navigator rating.

Your future is assured if you can qualify! Here's what to do:
1. Take a transcript of your college credits and a copy of your birth certificate to your nearest Air Force
Base or Recruiting Station. Fill out the application they give you.
2. If application is accepted, the Air Force will arrange for you to take a physical examination at government expense.
3. Next, you will be given a written and manual aptitude test.
4. If you pass your physical and other tests, you will be scheduled for an Aviation Cadet training class. The
Selective Service Act allows you a four-month deferment while waiting class assignment.

WHERE TO GET MORE DETAILS
Visit your nearest Air Force Base, Air Force Recruiting Officer, or your nearest Air Force ROTC Unit. Or write for
AVIATION CADET, HEADQUARTERS, U. S. AIR FORCE Washington 25, D. C.
