PAGE FOUR

Gragg Blasts... (Continued From Page Two)

"born great, some achieve greatness, and some have greatness thrust upon them.” We happen to be one of those who
believe Lincoln had the inherent characteristics of greatness and would have achieved it despite the “War Between the States;” many
others also feel that this historical event was not responsible for thrusting greatness on him, for our country always needs
men of such character at any time and would probably be in a better position today if more of our
leaders and citizens had “the spirit of Lincoln” where he walks by day or night!

To those students who are proud of their forefathers, not to the extent of worship but of just veneration and
respect, and who take their Christianity seriously, it was heartening to learn that many of the sentiments expressed in the
speech were not original with Dr. Johnston as he vaguely intimated at the outset of his address. Indeed, Dr. Johnston
is so brilliant an historian and exceptional lecturer that one is prone to forgive such a speech as that of
last Tuesday; it is hoped that he will realize just how what he said affected some of his listeners, even
if it afforded amusement to the majority, and think carefully before delivering it again in another three years for around
the fifth time. It is also hoped that he will share with the students his magnificent ability as an informative
and entertaining speaker again in the near future with an original subject more worthy of his splendid talents.

Bates Cleaners
For the Best in Cleaning
Dyeing - Hats Blocked

SEND THE DAVIDSONIAN HOME
SPECIAL DISCOUNT ON TEXTBOOKS
Books and Temporarily located in our Downstairs Store
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Efird's Book Shop
Books You Want in or Out of Print. We'll Get Them For You!
Stationary

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Scholarships Offered...

The faculty committee in charge of graduate scholarships today announced eight additional graduate scholarships and fellowships available to college seniors
here. They include the following:

The Charles and Julia Henry Fund announces four Henry Fellowships which provide a year’s study at Oxford or Cambridge for
American students during the year 1954-55. Each fellowship carries a stipend of £700. Candidates must be unmarried American citizens and
must present a definite scheme of study or research to be carried out at Oxford or Cambridge. Applications must be
submitted by January 15, 1954. Application blanks may be obtained by writing to the office of the Secretary of Yale
University, New Haven, Conn.

The University of Alabama is offering twenty University scholarships to students of exceptional ability. These scholarships carry a stipend of
$500 and free non-resident tuition. Graduate assistantships with compensation ranging from $750 to $1500 are available in various departments. Furnished
or unfurnished apartments on the campus are available to married students at a cost of $27.50 to $35.00 a month.

NOTICE
Give generously to help those who need it: Give to the Christmas Gift Fund!

FINE FOODS
STEAKS
CHICKEN DINNERS
FOUNTAIN SERVICE
Open Sundays
Phone 132
418 South Main Street
STONESTREET’S Grade A Cafe
Mooresville, N. C.

IVEY'S IN CHARLOTTE
HANDSOME
Your Best In-VEST-ment in good appearance
SPORT VESTS 8.95 to 15.00
College men of today really go for these handsome Vests... they give extra smartness at most every occasion. Our collection
includes all-wools, corduroy, tattersalls and checks, paisley and mosaic effects as well as velvets and flannels. Single breasted and reversible.

Cashmere Sweaters 29.00
Stunning cashmere sweaters by Bernhard Altmann... full fashioned... completely light weight yet comfortably warm. Beautiful colors of Carolina blue, natural,
black, oxford grey or navy... sizes 38 to 46.

Further information about graduate study opportunities at the University of Alabama may be had by writing to the Dean of
the Graduate School, University of Alabama, University, Alabama.

The Basic College of Michigan State College announces a number of Graduate Teaching Assistantships for 1954-55. These assistantships carry a
stipend of $1,400 plus tuition fees for graduate work. One-half of the assistants’ time will be devoted to participating, under
the supervision of an experienced faculty member, in the instructional program of the Basic College. Applications must be received not
later than March 1, 1954. Applicants must be accepted for graduate work before their applications for teaching assistantships will be
considered. Blanks may be secured by writing the Dean of the Basic College, Michigan State College, East Lansing, Michigan.

The Graduate School of Arts and Sciences at Harvard University is offering approximately 300 schol-Scholarships and non-teaching fellowships for the
year 1954-55. Stipends of these scholarships and fellowships vary with the terms of the gift and ordinarily with the need
of the recipient. All applications for these awards must be completed by February 8, 1953. For more detailed information and
application blanks, interested seniors should write to the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, Harvard University, 24 Quincy Street, Cambridge
38, Mass.

The Columbia University Graduate School of Business has announced the annual competition for five Samuel Bronfman Fellowships in Democratic Business
Enterprise. These fellowships carry a stipend of $2,000 and are available to students seeking the Master’s degree in business. The
criteria of selection include: qualities of leadership, initiative, intellectual capacity, good judgment, and sympathy with the aim of furthering the
development of business enterprise in democratic society.

The Graduate School of Business also announces two fellowships with stipends of $200 each sponsored by the Seaboard and Western
Airlines, Inc., for students who wish to pursue graduate study in the fields of Economic Geography, International Business, Marketing, and
Transportation. Information about these and other types of fellowships may be secured from Dean John E. Orchard, Graduate School of
Business, Columbia University, New York 27, N.Y.

The Virginia Polytechnic Institute is offering a large number of graduate assistantships in various departments. These appointments carry stipends of
either $1085 or $1200 for twelve months of service. Further information may be obtained by writing the Director of Graduate
Studies, Virginia Polytechnic Institute, Blacksburg, Virginia.

The Daniel and Florence Guggenheim Foundation has made an announcement of a special group of fellowships for advanced training in
the field of jet propulsion at the California Institute of Technology and Princeton University. The stipends for these fellowships range
from $1000 to $2000. More detailed information and application blanks may be obtained from Professor Abernethy.

The Oak Ridge Institute of Nuclear Studies has invited applications from college seniors for the Atomic Energy Commission Fellowships in
Radiological Physics. The fellowships pay $1600 for 12 months plus tuition fees and allowances. The applicant must have full security
from the Atomic Energy Commission. Further information may be obtained from the Fellowship Office, Oak Ridge Institute of Nuclear Studies,
Oak Ridge, Tenn.

Seniors who expect to take the Graduate Record Examination in January should make application at once to the Princeton, New
Jersey office of the Educational Testing Service. Further information may be secured from Professor Abernethy.

Drink ‘MOOR’ QUALITY MILK
Mooresville Creamery, Inc.

DAVIDSON THEATRE
WED.-THUR.-FRI., DEC 9-11 (3 Big Days)
“SHANE”
ALAN LADD
JEAN ARTHUR

SATURDAY, DEC. 12
“BEWARE MY LOVELY”
IDA LUPINO
ROBERT RYAN

MON., TUES., DEC. 14-15
“ARROWHEAD” (Technicolor)
CHARLTON HESTON

WEDNESDAY, DEC. 16
“PORT SINISTER”
JAMES WARREN

THURS.-FRI., DEC. 17-18
“CRUISIN’ DOWN THE RIVER” (Technicolor)
DICK HAYMES
AUDREY TOTTER

SATURDAY, DEC. 19
“VICKI”
JEAN PETERS
JEANNE CRAIN

FRIDAY, DECEMBER 11, 1953

CATTALES... (Continued From Page Three)
Elated fans reached out over the campus, the stands began to fill until at the game’s end a nearly packed
house was on hand. As the final buzzer brought one final roar of approval from the crowd, the floor was
thronged as congratulations and approvals were stacked upon players and coach. Very reminiscent of the early season victory over Furman
last year, we feel it is an indication of brighter things to come this season. You will remember that the
Furman win last year was about the only bright star in Davidson’s cage heaven, but last Tuesday the endurance five
of Graeme Keith, Hobby Cobb, Ish Bennett, Ray Harding, and Buddy “Goose” Brown played steady, level-headed basketball which can be
reproduced in the future, rather than a one-night “over-their-heads” phenomenon.

Tomorrow night the Cats make their Southern Conference debut against VPI on the local boards. The Gobblers have one of
their stronger teams in recent years and another exciting contest seems in the making. Fan support has a lot to
do with basketball victories—Johnston Gym should be packed for tomorrow’s encounter. BEAT VPI!

AL's Grade ‘A’ Restaurant
Specializing in CHARCOAL STEAKS
Private Dining Room for Parties (Seating Capacity—40)
YOUR PATRONAGE IS ALWAYS WELCOME AT AL'S
A. J. BISTANY, Proprietor
TEL. 2-9451
MOORESVILLE, N. C.

FOR THE FIFTH STRAIGHT YEAR, CHESTERFIELD IS THE LARGEST SELLING CIGARETTE IN AMERICA’S COLLEGES... by a 1953 survey audit of
actual sales in more than 800 college co-ops and campus stores from coast to coast. Yes, for the fifth straight
year Chesterfield is the college favorite.

CHESTERFIELD IS THE ONLY CIGARETTE EVER TO GIVE YOU PROOF OF HIGHEST QUALITY—LOW NICOTINE
Change to Chesterfield today — get smoking pleasure all the way!
