TRITE, MAYBE, BUT TRUE ... THE LIFE YOU SAVE MAY BE YOUR OWN. Last weekend Bob Bourne’s Oldsmobile wrecked on
the Charlotte-Davidson road. Though the car was badly damaged, no serious injuries resulted. Two serious wrecks in a period of
a few days marked the pre-exam weeks last Spring. Above is the demolished car of Clyde Long, in which Bill
Gentry was badly hurt.

Automobile Wrecks Main Cause of College Deaths

In November this car was involved in an accident beside fraternity court. No one was hurt, but both cars were
damaged badly.

The Davidsonian

VOL. XLII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C., FRIDAY, DECEMBER 11, 1953 NO. 11

Charlotte-Davidson Club Holds Election; Plans Christmas Dance

The Charlotte-Davidson Club today announced that it will hold its annual Christmas dance on Christmas night. Billy Knauff has been
signed to play for this yearly affair. As yet a place has not been named for the dance, although an
announcement should be forthcoming within the next few days. As usual, the dance will last from nine till one.

At its first meeting last week, the club elected Floyd Feeney, president; Tom Shaw, secretary-treasurer; and Roy Palmer, dance committee
chairman. Tommy Thompson will be in charge of publicity, and Buddy Brown, Lacy Keesler, Henry Faison, and Harry Brownlee make
up the remainder of the dance committee. The dance is one of the big functions of the club each year
and has always been very much of a success in the past. Generally, quite a few non-Charlotte students attend and
about 150 couples are expected this year. Dance invitations are now on sale by officers and members of the dance
committee; they may also be purchased at the door.

As a result of today’s balloting, Ben Craig was elected student representative on the Athletic Council.

One Special Service Is Passed For 1954-55

The YMCA Board of Directors passed this week on a decision by the Special Services Committee of the YMCA to
have only one special service during the school year of 1954-55. The Special Services Committee plan, as passed by the
Board of Directors, will involve having a religious emphasis week of concentrated services during early February of 1955.

Leighton Green, chairman of the Special Services Committee, said that there should be several advantages in having one service instead
of the traditional two. In the first place, he said, it would enable concentration of time, effort, and money into
attaining one effective week of services, with more adequate preparation and follow-up. Second, he expressed a hope that the committee
can get help in planning the services from the University Christian Mission, a national organization designed for the purpose of
assisting in college Christian emphasis weeks. Green said that above all, these services, placed at the early spring so that
students would not be crowded for time, should be conducted with the single purpose of bringing the Gospel to Davidson
students in such a way as to deepen their spiritual life and give them incentive to study the Christian faith.

PEERCE’S CONCERT HIGHLIGHTS SERIES

The Metropolitan Opera’s noted American tenor Jan Peerce will appear in Chambers Auditorium on December 16 at 8:15 p.m., it
was announced by Donald Plott, head of the Music Department. Peerce’s concert here, one of 45 he will give this
season in the U.S. and Canada, is sponsored by the Davidson College Artist Series.

Born in New York City and entirely American-trained, Peerce has shattered the belief that an Italian tenor must come from
Italy. He is that rare singer whose versatility makes him equally at home in French and Italian opera, oratorio, German
lieder, and popular ballads. Upon graduation from college, Peerce decided to embark upon a musical career. Following his first concert
with Toscanini in 1938, Peerce sang the special performance of Rachmaninoff’s “The Bells” with the composer conducting. In a remarkable
debut with the Metropolitan in 1941, he was hailed as the first all-American contribution to the great tradition of operatic
voices. Star of opera, concerts, television, radio, RCA Victor recordings, and five motion pictures, the noted vocalist holds an honorary
degree from the New York College of Music. The first singer in the 75-year history of the school to receive
such an honor, Peerce stands in worthy company. Other recipients of the degree have included Fritz Kreisler and Jascha Heifetz.
Admission to the performance of Toscanini’s “favorite tenor,” the last concert of the series for 1953, is free to all
students upon presentation of their identification cards. No seats will be reserved.

ROTC Gets ‘Superior’ In Latest Inspection

A rating of superior, the highest ever received in the twenty-three year history of the unit, was awarded the Davidson
ROTC Department in the annual inspection conducted the first of last week. Col. Jesse E. Graham, Chief of the North
Carolina Military District, headed the inspection team and was accompanied by a team of two officers. Administration, training, and supply,
as well as the appearance and drill of the Cadet Corps, were covered in the thorough inspection. The cadre officer
instructors and the cadet officers' conduct of the drill were singled out for special praise by the inspecting officers.

Highway 21 Bypass

A safe road to Charlotte to be built next year.

Final determination of the route of the Charlotte-Mooresville highway, bypassing Croft, Huntersville, Cornelius, and Davidson on the west and costing
approximately $1 million, was announced this week by the State Highway Department. This route will take the place of the
narrow and ragged U.S. 21N, known as the Charlotte-Davidson road. There have been many accidents involving Davidson students on the
old road, the most recent of which was the one involving Bob Brown and the boys riding in his car.
This old road passes through the four north Mecklenburg towns and is badly overloaded with traffic. The plan for the
new 21N calls for acquiring right-of-way for a four-lane highway, but the initial project will provide only two traffic lanes,
according to M. E. Beatty, engineer for the 10th North Carolina Highway Division. Construction will begin on the northern section
of the road lying in Iredell County. There will be seven miles in Iredell and 14 in the Mecklenburg end.

4 Miles North

The new road leaves the present 21N four miles north of Charlotte at the Hutchison homestead and angles westward along
the edge of the Brockenbrough Airport. It completely bypasses Croft, Huntersville, Cornelius, and Davidson. In Iredell, the new route connects
with N.C. 150 outside Mooresville and therefore, actually, bypasses the Iredell town. The highway authorities expressed the hope that the
first contract for the grading and structures on the northern end of the road may be let by January or
February with the work to begin as soon in the spring as weather permits. The decision to lay out an
entirely new route for the highway

“Everyman,” “A Chronicle of Joe” To Be Presented

Drama comes to Davidson Monday and Tuesday, Dec. 14 and 15, when “Everyman” and “A Chronicle of Joe” are presented
by the Red and Black Masquers. Final rehearsals this week concluded four weeks of practice. The double performance will utilize
techniques similar to those used last year in the Masquers’ production of T. S. Eliot’s “Murder in the Cathedral.” Both
plays will use lighting effects rather than scenery and most props will be left to the imagination. The dress will
be modern. “Everyman,” however, uses color as symbols to portray the character of some of its abstractions. “Everyman” has a
psychological theme of man’s experience with cold reality. A modern version, an adaptation by Hugo von Hofmannsthal, will be used.
The new version is somewhat longer than the original English morality play, and one major difference in the theme itself
is that both Faith and Good Deeds go with Everyman, and not Good Deeds alone. Everyman will be played by
Fred Summers. The rest of the cast includes: The Devil, Buddy Beehler; Death, Tom Morgan; Friend, Kerry Spiers; Paramour, Mrs.
Lamarr; Everyman's Mother, Mrs. Daggy; Workman, Jack Graham; Steward, Phil Kukura; War, Harold Hall; Mammon, Allie Cone; Good Deeds, Page
Hucklebee; Faith, Ed Hadley; Prologue, Tom Estes; Lord God, Bob Dunbar; Debtor, Bill Berryhill; Thin Cousin, Willis Briley; and Fat
Cousin, Albert Harris. Swain Loy is the director of Everyman.

“A Chronicle of Joe,” written and directed by Fred Myers, will be presented following “Everyman.” The theme of “A Chronicle”
is the futile attempts of a little man with a small personality trying to get ahead in the brutal competition
of the business world.

Solicits New Ideas

At an organizational meeting last Tuesday night, the members of the Student-Faculty Conference Committee outlined the group's objectives for the
year. The members hope to make the committee one which will enable students and faculty members to cooperate in working
out specific problems pertaining to the college life and program. The committee is seeking ways of increasing opportunities for student-faculty
contacts. It is believed that more contacts between students and faculty members will result in a better understanding of their
mutual problems related to the college. As another of its objectives, the committee wishes to serve as a means for
student expression on various issues concerning student life. Dr. Jay H. Ostwalt, the chairman of the committee, stressed that the
group will welcome suggestions, opinions, and ideas from any member of the student body. Any student who has ideas to
contribute, or perhaps some project to suggest, is urged to contact some member of the committee. Besides Chairman Ostwalt, the
committee is composed of Professors Ernest Beaty and Donald Plott; Lyman Kiser, president of the student body; Charlie Johnson, president
of the senior class; Floyd Feeney, president of the junior class; Jim Daughdrill.president of the sophomore class; and Max DeVane,
freshman adviser. Jim Daughdrill was elected secretary of the group and the next meeting was set for January 8th. At
that time, definite projects on which the committee will work this year will be discussed.

This came about because the present route lies through sections which have become densely populated, and also because the road
is closely paralleled on the east by the Southern Railway.

It illustrates what goes on in the mind of the little man when he reaches the inevitable limit to his
capacity. In Joe’s case, his natural timidity blocks any attempt to relieve his frustration. These heavy themes are relieved somewhat
by humorous scenes and by the love story interwoven into the plot. Joe will be played by Professor Ben H.
Wilson, and abstractions representing Joe’s self-confidence are played by Dunbar Ogden, Herbert Russell, Bob Haywood, and Ed Haley. Another abstraction
(who might easily be a real character also), Pam, Joe’s girlfriend representing happiness, is played by Mrs. Sam Magill. The
tragedy is Joe’s irrevocable loss of self-confidence and happiness.

“A Chronicle” also has real characters: a milkman played by Willis Briley; Phil Lee as a taximan; a New York
matron, played by Mrs. Dole; and Alden Williams as Joe’s employer. In a sense, Williams represents the “villain” in the
play; yet none of the characters, abstract or real, are all black or all white.

The production staff, working under the direction of Bob Mims, president of the Red and Black Masquers, includes—lighting: Buddy Beehler,
John Horne, Boyce Martin, Lawton Posey, Gwynn Griffin, Jack Pietenpol, Gent Davis, Frank Renfrow; costuming: Martin McGirt; properties: Sandy McGeachy,
Luther Yaun; make-up: Henry Parrish, Bob Crutchfield; sound effects: Bill Berryhill; publicity: Tom Estes, Gwynn Griffin, Tom Tennent; program: Tom
Dove. The joint production will be presented at 8:15 Monday and Tuesday nights in the Union Ballroom. Admission is 50
cents and no seats will be reserved.

Motor vehicle accidents caused more deaths in 1943 than any other type of accident among persons of college age. Out
of the 28,600 persons in this age group who died last year, 7,800 died in motor vehicle accidents. Twice as
many people died from motor vehicle accidents as from any other type of accident, there being 4,200 deaths from other
accidents.

Marlin Announces European Tour Plans

A great deal of interest in the European tour being conducted next summer by Mr. and Mrs. Grier Martin has
been shown by students at Hollins, St. Mary’s, and Sullins as well as Davidson. This Southern College Tour is managed
by the Brownell Travel Bureau, the oldest tour service of its kind in America. The tour group of 25 to
30 students sails from New York on the Italia on June 4 and returns by the same liner to New
York on July 28. Travel in Europe is by private motor coach which permits a better opportunity to see the
native homes, farms, villages, and out-of-the-way places on the way to and from the great cities. It is planned that
the same type of tour will be conducted during the summer of 1955 by Dr. and Mrs. S. R. Spencer.

Eight countries are visited on the tour, with four days being spent in London, four in Paris, and three each
in Rome, Florence, and Lucerne. A professional tour director stays with the group throughout the European trip, providing effective arrangements
for living quarters, meals, and other services necessary to the comfort and convenience of the group. Full sightseeing trips are
provided for in the overall cost of the tour, which is lower than any other tour offering equal benefits. The
tour group will consist of a maximum of 30 college-age boys and girls. Ten places have been assigned to Davidson
and these must be reserved by January 15, 1954, or they will be subject to use by any of the
travel agencies representing Brownell throughout the country. Further information about the tour, including a fully descriptive itinerary, may be secured
from Mr. Martin or Dr. Spencer.

The second ranking cause of accidental death among those of college age was drowning, claiming 1,650 victims. Among diseases, which
claimed 16,500 victims, tuberculosis was the leading cause of death, taking 2,420 lives. This is less than a third of
the victims claimed by automobile wrecks. The second leading life-taker among diseases in the college age group was cancer with
1,980 deaths. This leaves 11,100 deaths caused by other diseases. These figures show one fact clearly, that motor vehicle accidents
are far and away the leading cause of death among those of college age.

Here at Davidson, the ratio of deaths caused by motor vehicle wrecks in relation to other causes is infinitely greater.
According to information released by Dr. J. B. Woods, Jr., college physician, five or six Davidson students have died in
motor vehicle wrecks within the last 10 or 15 years. During that time, no Davidson student has died from any
other cause.

In connection with The Davidsonian safety issue, Lyman Kiser, student body president, has made the following statement: “We have been
fortunate in having no one killed recently at Davidson College, but there have been several accidents that were very serious
and caused many heartaches. As we leave for the holidays, let’s try to make safety a New Year’s resolution.”

During the past year, Davidson College students have had one close shave after another. Next time we may not be
so fortunate. Now is not too soon to begin to look out for the other fellow and for yourself. The
young mind is quick, but death can be much quicker.

Mary Sloop, Blythe Given Literary Award

By DICK MOREHEAD

During the past week, North Carolina’s highest literary award, The Mayflower Cup, was awarded to an already distinguished writer, Dr.
Legette Blythe, and to Dr. Mary T. Martin Sloop for their book, “Miracle in the Hills,” a colorful story which
is intimately associated with Davidson College. The Mayflower Cup is given by the Society of Mayflower Descendants for the best
book of non-fiction published by a North Carolinian during the year. This cup has been presented annually since its inception
in 1931 when it was given for the best-judged work from the entire literary field. Since then it has developed
into the highest literary award for non-fiction writing in North Carolina.

“Miracle in the Hills” is the lively personal story of Dr. Sloop, her dedicated life, and unique crusade in the
hill country of North Carolina. She is a native of Davidson, her father having been a professor of chemistry here.
Her brother, Dr. Wm. J. Martin, ably served as president of the college in its era of expansion from 1920
to 1929. She attended Davidson as one of its first co-eds. When she was a girl, she had always desired
to be a missionary to China, but after earning her medical degree, she saw as great a need for medical
missionaries in the mountains of North Carolina as in China. Immediately after her marriage to Dr. Estace Sloop of Mooresville,
she and her husband left for the mountain country. They began their service in our state when they rode on
horseback into Crossnore, Avery County, North Carolina. From the primitive conditions, the poverty, “moonshining,” and “lack of larnin’” which she
found there, a clean, forward, thriving community has developed largely through her untiring efforts. She and her husband reinvigorated the
weaving trade, built a modern hospital and a new church, and spearheaded a movement which resulted in a modern 25-building
school. This woman who spent over forty of her now 79 years in this isolated community, was honored with the
coveted American Mother of the Year Award for 1951.

The author or compiler of the book, Dr. Legette Blythe, graduated from UNC with high honors, having distinguished himself in
writing and dramatics. After graduation, his varied life included teaching in Greensboro, serving on both the Observer and News staffs
of Charlotte, organizing and editing a small weekly newspaper, The Mecklenburg Times, and a period of travel and study in
Europe. He began his creative writing while working for the Observer. Among his earlier successes are: “Marshal Ney: a Dual
Life,” “Bold Gallilean,” “Life of Wm. H. Belk,” and “A Tear for Judas.” He has also written several locally-produced plays.
Dr. Blythe is now a very active and prominent citizen of Huntersville, N.C., where he has devoted his full time
to creative writing since 1950. Davidson College recognized his outstanding achievements by bestowing the honorary degree of Doctor of Literature
upon him in 1950.

The story of Dr. Sloop as compiled by Legette Blythe is in the anecdotal vernacular of the Southern Mountains of
its setting and is full of the wry wit, steadfast faith, and untiring service of its worthy subject. There is
a copy of the book on the alumni shelf in the Davidsonian Room of our library.
