MAHY REFUSES TO GO VICTORIAN

VOL. XLII

Fraternities' Fall Functions

This weekend will set off the round of annual fall fraternity dances, banquets, suppers, and masquerades, which will be held
in various places on weekends from now until the Christmas holidays. Everything from gangsters to French peasants are to be
the themes of the various masquerades, and formality will reach both extremes before the season is over. At least six
different banquet halls will be used by the different fraternities.

The Kappa Alphas will open the social season with their semi-formal banquet and dance at the Red Fez Club Saturday
night. A local orchestra will provide music, and entertainment will be in charge of the pledge class.

Several fraternities will hold their functions on November 21. The Sigma Chis will deck themselves out as French peasants for
a banquet and dance. The ATO’s banquet and dance will be at the Policeman's Club in Charlotte, and members will
come dressed as gangsters. Charlie Friar’s orchestra will supply music and pledges will entertain. The Kappa Sigs, a little more
on the serious side, will have their annual Black and White Ball. The Campus Club on this same weekend will
have a hayride and supper.

On December 5, the Phi Gams will have dinner at Kuester’s in Charlotte, and then will have a formal pledge
dance in the ballroom of the Barringer Hotel. Ray Barrier and his orchestra will provide the Phi Delts with music
for their Suppressed Desire masquerade ball and banquet at the El Morocco Club. The SPEs will have an informal banquet-dance
at the Policeman’s Club. The Pi Kappa Phis will have their annual Founder’s Day Ball, which will be a formal
dinner and dance, at the Selwyn Hotel. A pledge skit will provide entertainment, and the naming of the Fraternity Rose
will highlight the evening.

Away from Charlotte, the Bi Kappa Alphas will have a masquerade ball and buffet supper at the VFW Hut in
Mooresville. The highlight of the evening will be the presentation of paddles by the pledges to the senior brothers. The
SAEs will have a costume ball, banquet, and dance, at the Selwyn Hotel. Plans by the Betas are still incomplete,
but the party will probably be held during the first weeks in December.

Several of the fraternities still have some details to complete before their weekends, but this year’s variety and plans appear
to add up to an exceptionally bright social season for the fraternities at Davidson.

Deadline Extended For Frosh Contest

Scripts 'n Pranks will make its next appearance during the first week in January, announced Editor Alden Williams today, adding
that the deadline for the Freshman Prose Writing contest has been extended two weeks until November 23.

“For purposes of definition,” Williams said, “the second issue will present a somewhat more serious approach, and we hope will
be an example of the finest type of college fiction being written today.” The winning freshman entry will be judged
by the editorial staff of the magazine and will be a feature of the January issue.

Commenting on the manuscripts received so far, the editor praised the work of the more than a dozen contributors and
expressed hope that the deadline extension would yield a similarly encouraging return. “At the same time,” he stated, “may I
urge upperclassman writers—not only in prose fiction and non-fiction, but also in plays and poetry—to let their work be known
to one of the editors.

“It is high time that the undergraduate writers here stop hiding their candles under curricular bushels. We needn't play second
fiddle to any school in this field.” Freshman contest entries or upperclassmen’s manuscripts may be turned in at the office.

AID BIBLE SPEAKER

Davidson College organizations and personnel have largely contributed to the success of the annual Ashlin White Bible Lectures this week
at the First Presbyterian Church in Mooresville. The Reverend Thomas Allan from Glasgow, Scotland, has been this year’s outstanding lecturer.

The Davidson College Chapel Choir under the direction of Mr. Donald B. Plott with Herbert Russell as accompanist, presented a
quarter hour of sacred music by English composers. The choir made a hit with the congregation and particularly Mr. Allan
who complimented them highly, and thanked Mr. Plott and Mr. Russell for the inclusion of a “night of beautiful English
music.”

Thornwell J. Frick represented the Davidson College Male Chorus as soloist on Thursday night's musical program, singing Scott’s “Repent Ye!”
The Reverend Samuel Newell was the guest minister participating in the “Davidson College Night” on Tuesday at the lectures.

Mr. Allan was tremendously impressed by the beauty of Davidson’s campus, the wonderful reception and response by the student body,
the majestic, simple beauty of the new church, and stated to Tuesday night’s congregation that “the men of Davidson ...
are the future leaders in our great cause of Christianity.”

PROFESSORS REALLY HAVE IT ROUGH

It may be illegal for folks to use the billiard tables for easy chairs, but coats cover signs, and Professor
Frederick Morton must needs forget economic theories and all else as he lines up that expert shot. Faculty and students
alike have found David Ovens College Union a place for relaxation and pleasure. People are beginning to wonder how people
got along before it came to campus.—(Photo by Andy Simons.)

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C., FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1953

“CLASSIC” VS. “TRADITIONAL”

General Electric Co. Announces Contest For Fellowship Men

The General Electric Company's Educational and Charitable Fund has announced the annual competition for the Charles A. Coffin and Gerard
Swope Fellowships. Successful candidates may use the fellowships for graduate study in the fields of the Physical Sciences, Engineering, and
Industrial Management. Each holder of a fellowship receives a stipend of $1400 a year while the graduate school of his
choice receives a grant to cover his tuition, fees, and equipment. Interested seniors should see Professor J. B. Gallent at
once.

The Tulane University College of Law offers to an honor graduate of Davidson College a tuition scholarship valued at $450
a year for three years. The award is based on scholastic attainment, character, and apparent promise. It may be awarded
to a student entering military service for use upon completion of his tour of service. Additional information about the scholarship
may be secured from Professor F. S. Morton.

Washington University announces a large number of fellowships in various departments. These fellowships carry stipends of $1100-$1500 and do not
require teaching or laboratory duties. A number of tuition scholarships for graduate study are also available. Interested seniors may secure
more information by writing to the Office of the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, Washington University, St. Louis, Mo.

DR. CALVIN G. DAVIS TO SPEAK SUNDAY

The Vespers speaker for this Sunday, Calvin G. Davis, Th. D., D.D., is not only an alumnus of Davidson, but
also one of its trustees. Born in Wilmar, Arkansas in 1906, he began his higher education at Hendrix College. Entering
Davidson in 1924, Dr. Davis was a student here until receiving his A.B. degree in 1927. Princeton Theological Seminary was
next, followed by the Union Theological Seminary, where he received his B.D., Th. M., and Th. D.

Dr. Davis began his career as a minister when he served as assistant pastor at the Grace Covenant Presbyterian Church,
Richmond, Va., in 1931, and continued there until 1933. Until 1938, he was pastor of the Second Presbyterian Church in
Norfolk, when he moved to Asheville, N.C., to become pastor of the First Presbyterian Church there. He was married during
his stay in Norfolk, and now has two sons. Not only Davidson, but Montreat College and King College benefit from
his services in the capacity of trustee. In addition, he is president of the Ministers’ Association, director of the Community
Chest, and was Moderator of the Synod of Appalachia in 1952 and the Asheville Presbytery in 1939. In recognition of
the fine service rendered by this man, both Davidson and Tusculum College awarded him Doctor of Divinity degrees in 1943.

Union Movie Stars Radford, Seton, Lacy

“Tight Little Island,” is the movie to be shown on Saturday in the College Union, with two features beginning at
7:00 and 9:00 p.m. It is a very funny English film which depicts the wartime sufferings of a community of
Scots when the famous oil product of the country is cut off. By luck, a ship burdened with many cases
of this product is presently wrecked off the shores of this dry island. The picture from here on occupies itself
with efforts to frustrate officials, none of whom understand the situation, into obtaining the pleasures this product has to offer.
They finally wind up where they started—even after having success in getting it. The cast includes Basil Radford, Catherine Lacey,
Bruce Seton, and Joan Greenwood.

STUDENTS TO VOTE ON HOT DIPLOMA ISSUE

Immediately following Monday’s Chapel services there will be an important meeting of the upper three classes to decide the type
of diploma to be received by graduating classes for the next five years. A two-thirds majority of the total membership
will be necessary to change from the present type. In order for these seniors, juniors, and sophomores to come to
a decision about which type to vote for, it is suggested that each one go by the College Union and
look at the display there. There are four different types of diplomas shown, and from these one will be chosen
Monday. One of these is an original diploma, given to a member of the graduating class of 1840. Another is
one received by a student graduating in 1929, the last year in which this type was used. There would be
an increase in cost over the present type if either of those two were used. The third is the type
given at present, begun in 1930. And there is a new type of diploma which is an artist’s conception of
the diploma of 1840-1929. This one is the same size as the present 1930 diploma and would cost no more
than the present type of diploma.

Charlie Johnson, president of the senior class, has led the move to change the diploma and it was he with
Buddy Lamon, also of the senior class, who went before the Executive Committee last Wednesday, November 4, to present the
proposal.a number of writers on this week’s editorial page, and there are representative views from both camps—the advocates and the
opposition. Soon after the voting on Monday, a decision will be announced and the matter finally decided by the vote.

The Mavbidsonian

OSTWALT HEADS MODERNIZED STUDENT AID PROGRAM

NO. 8

MARGARET VARDELL | November 21

Chosen TO GIVE RECITAL

The Davidson College Department of Music will present Miss Margaret Vardell, head of the Organ Department of Salem College, in
the first of five organ recitals on the Schlicker organ in the Davidson College Presbyterian Church at 4:30 p.m., this
Sunday, November 15.

Miss Vardell is a graduate of Salem Academy and College in Winston-Salem, and received her Master of Music degree from
Eastman College in Rochester where she studied composition under Dr. Howard Hanson and organ under Harold Gleason. She has given
outstanding recitals in past months, having just recently played at Chapel Hill and Winston-Salem.

Composer

Not only a top-rate organist, Miss Vardell is also an outstanding composer, having written the Overtures for the first and
second acts of Paul Green's “The Common Glory.” Her compositions have been successfully performed by the Rochester Civic Orchestra, Harrisburg
Symphony Orchestra, the North Carolina Symphony and the Oberlin Conservatory Orchestra.

Before joining the Salem College faculty, Miss Vardell taught organ at the University of Texas and Oberlin College. She follows
in the musical footsteps of her parents, Dr. and Mrs. Charles Vardell, Jr. Her father, a famous organist and composer,
is now head of the Department of Music at Flora Macdonald College of which her paternal grandfather, Dr. Charles Vardell,
Sr., is president-emeritus.

More Recitals

Other organ recitals to be presented will be on January 17 by Mrs. Mildred Hendrix, Duke University organist; Henry Cook,
organist of St. Philip’s Episcopal Church in Durham on February 14; Arthur Poister, famous concert organist, March 1; and by
Philip Gehring, Davidson College organist, on May 9th. There will be no admission charge for this series, but a silver
offering will be received at each recital.

Color Slides Feature Meeting of Le Cercle

Le Cercle Francais met with the incoming members for the first time Tuesday night at the home of Prof. A.
V. Goldiere. Norman Johnson, the incoming president, presided. Fred Summers, vice president; Gregory Dimijian, secretary, and Prof. Goldiere, treasurer round
out the 1953-1954 slate of officers. Bruno Eynard, Davidson's Italian exchange student, attended as a guest, and led an informal
discussion after the meeting.

As Frosh Parent Day

It was announced Wednesday that Saturday, November 21, will be Freshman Parents’ Day. The parents of all freshmen have been
sent a letter by Max Devane, freshman adviser, inviting them to visit the school on that day. A full schedule
of events has been planned for the visitors. In the morning they will register and go on informal tours of
the campus. From eleven to twelve there will be a conference in the Union with Dean Bailey and other college
officials on problems confronting freshmen. Following a dinner in the cafeteria, the parents will attend the Davidson-Citadel football game as
guests of the college. College officials state that they hope as many parents as possible will take advantage of this
opportunity to visit the campus, meet members of the faculty, and make the acquaintance of their son’s friends and their
parents. Due to the lack of accommodations in Davidson, students whose parents plan to stay overnight are advised to find
places for them in Charlotte or other nearby towns.

First Music Concert Given Next Tuesday

The season's first concert of chamber music at the College Union ballroom, on Tuesday, Nov. 17, at 8:15, will offer
Haydn’s “Horseman” quartet, the Trio for clarinet, violin and piano by Khachaturian, a Sonata for unaccompanied cello by Bach, and
a Trio Sonata by Telemann. In addition to Davidson faculty members, Mr. and Mrs. Gehring and Mr. and Mrs. Moore,
guest performers, will include William Tritt, violinist, and Mary Ann Ashe, violist. Admission is free and all students, faculty and
friends are welcome.

The Court of Control Cans Fourteen ‘Men’

Fourteen boys were called before the Court of Control this past week. The usual charges made against freshmen this week
include disrespect to upperclassmen, cocky attitude, making unnecessary noise in the dorms, and other offenses. Warner Hall walked down the
aisle for the third time, although no decision was made at his trial. Bill Martin, Jack Trawick, J. K. Williams,
Jim West, Ervin Walter, Guy Hunt, Reid McGehee, Mack Hamor, Lawton Posey, Bill Cunningham, Bob Blythe, Sonny Kincey and Ed
Campbell were also told to appear before the court.

TO PRESENT PROJECTS

By MAURICE CROUSE

The YMCA Gift Fund Committee will present to the student body on Thursday in chapel three projects for consideration. Leighton
McCutchen will present all of them and will explain the needs and merits of each. One of the three will
be selected by the students as the Gift Fund project for this year, and all the money raised will go
to that project. The goal for the fund will be announced after the selection, so that financial need will not
be a factor. The projects were chosen by the YMCA Cabinet from several which were suggested and considered. A community
committee composed of Dr. and Mrs. W. P. Cumming, D. Grier Martin, Dr. J. M. Bevan, the Reverend Sam Newell,
and Sam Magill investigated the local project.

Each one of the three projects is different in its scope and nature, one being local, one being state, and
the third international in scope.

Aid Local Community

The local project suggested by the YMCA is the moving and repair of the YMCA Hut in the Negro community
of Davidson. The hut, built over 10 years ago, is now located on the Negro School grounds and must be
moved to a new lot. It also needs considerable repair work. The lack of recreational facilities in the Davidson Negro
community is great, and some of the money would go for the purchase of a piano, a motion picture projector
and screen, and other such recreational equipment. Any surplus which might be left after the moving of the hut and
purchase of the recreational equipment would be used for future maintenance of the hut. This project would provide an opportunity
for Christian service here in the town of Davidson.

Help to Glade Valley

The state project suggested concerns the Glade Valley School. Located northwest of Statesville, this high school was founded in 1911
for the education of boys and girls in Alleghany, Ashe, Stokes, Surry, and Wilkes counties. The school is now under
the care of the Orange and Winston-Salem Presbyteries and receives some financial support from them. Other income is from Sunday
School and church gifts, gifts from individuals, sales of products made at the school, and tuition. The school budget is
quite small. Recently the boy’s dormitory burned, leaving the school without full facilities, and a campaign is now under way
to raise funds for rebuilding. The Davidson contribution would go into this building fund if the project is selected.

Hospital in Portugal

The third project, the Protestant hospital in Portugal, is international in its scope. Protestants are the minority in Portugal and
suf-

(Continued On Page Four)

Bevan Talks to Phi; Change Constitution

An interesting speech by Dr. J. M. Bevan of the Psychology Department was the highlight of the meeting of the
Philanthropic Literary Society this past Monday night. Dr. Bevan's topic was “Spiritualism and Seances.” During the business meeting, at which
President Bob Crutchfield presided, the organization adopted a new constitution to replace the original one which was adopted in 1893.
A regular meeting will be held Monday night, November 16.

EUMANEAN SOCIETY INITIATES MEMBERS

At the meeting Monday night of the Eumanean Literary Society, three prospective members—Charlie Lambert, Gilbert Gragg and Fred Myers read
papers. Four other papers were submitted to be read later. With President Will Terry presiding, there was a brief discussion
of the various plans for a change in the school diploma.

Extensive Counselling Is Offered To All D.C. Men

By SWAIN LOY

During the past spring and summer, the college carried out an expansion program for the student counseling and guidance aspect
of the school’s facilities. This program had long been in the making but just this past year was it put
into effect. This expansion of facilities and scope of the student guidance work has been for the most part completed,
according to Dr. Ostwalt, the director. In a tour of the facilities now ready for use on the second floor
in the north end of Chambers, Dr. Ostwalt pointed out the personal interview room and secretary’s office, a classroom which
is used for administering tests and classes, a reading room which contains information about nearly every type of vocation a
person could be interested in, Dr. Ostwalt’s office, a test supply room equipped with a good stock of varied tests,
and one other room which has not yet been completed but will soon add a great deal to the effectiveness
of the program. These expanded facilities offer a fuller counseling program for the students.

Varied Counseling

The Student Counseling Department has been provided for the students to satisfy many needs heretofore neglected. In addition to the
more evident needs for counseling such as academic failure and difficult emotional problems, this guidance center offers a great deal
of help for minor troubles in studies, minor emotional difficulties, and vocational guidance. For students who wish to improve the
quality of their work by eliminating specific academic deficiencies in such subject matter fields as mathematics, English, and reading, there
are ample opportunities in the counseling program to aid them. Tests can be administered and interpreted to aid the student
in choosing a vocation, and also interviews with a trained advisor may be arranged. Thus the three problems are met—the
academic, the vocational, and the personal.

Procedure

The procedure for taking advantage of these services is simple. First the student contacts the counseling office and presents the
problem in which he desires aid. After the initial interview it is decided if, what, and how many tests are
to be administered in the case. The tests are given; those for vocational guidance being cost free. These tests are
checked and interpreted and then in another interview the student is given the results, and these are discussed toward a
possible solution to the problem. When this procedure is completed the case may be terminated; however, should there be more
work to be done on the problem, follow-up interviews are held. There may be more tests administered and interpreted. There
also might be some remedial work done, especially in the case of academic troubles. This department of the school’s work
can and should be used by many more students than are now taking advantage of the department’s facilities. Whereas in
the past the work was fairly limited, the scope of the work of the Student Counseling Department has been so
enlarged that it might more adequately fill the needs of more students.
