PAGE TWO THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 1953

Football Squad

MEMBERS AND COACHES OF THE 1953 FOOTBALL SQUAD AT PRACTICE SESSIONS

Halfback Harley Smith, left, talks over the situation with Davidson's head football coach, Bill Dole.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
BUSINESS MANAGER
ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Assistant Editors
Moody Smith, Charles Hasty
Jim Moore, Dick Roper
Bob Crutchfield, Charles Hassell, Buddy Lamon, Bob Owen, Hunter Strader
Henry Brockmann, Floyd Feeney
Sports Editor
John Handley
News Editor
Austin Strand
Feature Editor
T. A. Williams
Art Editor
Don Mahy
Photographer
Andy Simons
Assignments
Blake Brinkerhoff
Asst. Business Manager
Ed Nicholson
Advertising Manager
Tommy Taylor
Circulation Manager
Dick Little
Collections Manager
Tommy Douglas

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897.

Managing Editors

Letter From The Editor

If there will be an abundance of anything available to the incoming freshman during this period of orientation it will be free advice. On the whole, most of it will be very good advice. Some of it you may take and profit by, a lot you will probably have to learn by experience, and as the old adage goes, that can be a very dear school. So it will very likely pay you to absorb as much as you can during these few days, and save yourself a great deal of inconvenience later on.

You can, of course, divide it all roughly into two categories: first, how to get along with your school work, and second, how to get along outside of the classroom, or the library, or wherever you do your studying. It stands to reason that your first concern will be with your studies and the things that go along with them. That sounds trite enough, perhaps, and you may have heard words to that effect many times—undoubtedly you will hear more. But it stands to reason that unless you do acceptably well, you won't be around Davidson long enough to worry about whether or not you make the other “adjustments” to college life.

This doesn’t mean that you come to college merely to bury your nose in a book for a period of four years after which time you emerge from the cocoon with a mind full of information and a personality full of maladjustments and short of practical experience that can stand you in good stead in the outside world. It simply means that you’ll be a lot happier while you’re here if you realize that Davidson is a pretty hard school by most standards, and that there is no shortcut to success outside of hard work. Unless a student is unusually blessed he simply cannot make progress toward his diploma without some “grind.” Some of you will want to work harder than others at the books. That will be pretty much your own business, because nobody is going to make you do anything. What you get you pay for, and it's a good idea to decide now how much you are going to pay. Better be willing to pay a good price, because it's very discouraging to find that the price you were offering was not enough to get you through exams and into the second semester.

Well, after you've taken care of your academic problems you can think about a lot of other things involved in having what you will hear called a well-rounded college life. This includes just about everything from athletics and extracurricular activities to dating. You could probably write a few volumes with a lot of specific advice about how to get along as a freshman at Davidson College, but you might sum most of it up in just a few words. The idea is not to try to set the place on fire within the first few weeks after you get here. If you go out to impress everybody in a hurry, the chances are the impressions you make will be bad ones. If you have the goods people will find out about it in their own good time, no sooner. So above all things, work hard, or as hard as you feel you should, get to know people, do things, never forget what you're here for, and the rest will take care of itself.

Sincerely,
THE EDITOR.

Hard for Tech

Jim Patterson Injured In Wednesday’s Practice

By JIM MOORE

Summer heat, three-a-day practices, and even injuries haven't slowed the Davidson football team in preparing for their nine-game season that starts with the mighty Yellow Jackets of Georgia Tech on September 19. The standout event of the preseason training will occur this Saturday afternoon when the gridders take on the Mountaineers of Appalachian in a two-hour practice session. Frosh will be taking tests and hearing speeches during the playing time and will thus not see it.

In a strong effort to have his team in top physical condition and the best running order, offensively and defensively, Coach Dole has been running the men at three practices a day for this entire week. Now that school will soon be beginning for all students, the regular schedule of one workout a day will start next Wednesday.

All-Star Jimmy Thacker will be leading the pigskin-haulers into Atlanta’s Grant Field and the game could well develop into a duel by another Thacker-size back who is somewhat better known nationally—Leon Hardeman. Other standout backs who promise to do stellar duty this year are: quarterbacks Henry Brown and Johnny Gray, halfbacks Harley Smith and Jim Shelton, and fullbacks Leroy Fargason and Tal Broughton.

In the line, a starting team now would probably include these men: center Harry Petersen, guards Dickie Davis and Bob Patten, tackles Ben Craig and Neil Graham, and ends Dan McCall and Charlie Cousar.

Fall Practice

Arriving on the campus ten days before even the freshmen began coming to the Hill for orientation, the Wildcats have been hard at work under the skillful eyes of

THE SCHEDULE

Patterson Hurt

Most strongly felt loss to injuries is that of starting right end Jim Patterson who sprained his ankle in the Wednesday afternoon practice of this week. Jim will miss the Saturday scrimmage with Appalachian but is due to be ready for the Atlanta trip next weekend. Another slightly out of place injury was Harry Petersen’s cauliflower ear, usually more common to boxing than football. Also on the injured list this week is Bob Patten who badly sprained his elbow in practice Wednesday, but he expects to be well enough to be hitting again by next week.

Captained this year by two starting tackles, Ben Craig and Neil Graham, the Wildcats will for the first time in the last two seasons be deprived of the use of freshmen on the varsity, as the Southern Conference rule which allowed them to enter varsity participation expired.this year.

Freshman Practice
The Athletic Department will be on the orientation program for Monday night and Coach Dole said that he would announce then when freshman football practice will begin. This year’s Wild Kittens will play several home and several games away. Coaching will be done by the football staff. In addition to losing the freshmen to varsity competition, play this year will be characterized by the loss of the two-platoon system as it had been played for the past two years. Davidson never was entirely successful in fielding two entire offensive and defensive clubs, so the changed style will not affect the team so much as it will some other clubs. The draft breathed heavily on the neck of dame fortune for the football squad this summer when two of its outstanding backs were lost.

Flashy halfback Jimmy Thacker, left, and Quarterback Henry Brown talk with their backfield coach, Tom Fetzer. Ben Craig, co-captain of this year’s squad, will have a tough job as tackle.

Introducing Your Davidsonian
The Orientation weekend is a period in which everyone who knows anything about Davidson tries to let the freshmen know it too. Lectures, bull sessions, or leisurely gabs over cups of coffee add up and up in the frosh mind till he becomes a veritable well of jumbled information. We felt it very proper, therefore, to acquaint you with your campus newspaper by eulogizing it in good black print, so that when this Orientation period is gone, you can still read and get oriented to the Davidsonian and its purposes.

The Davidsonian is a weekly newspaper which usually runs four pages. It is due in your room shortly after supper on Friday—except on dance weekends when you'll be lucky to see it, and it you. The paper aims at keeping every student posted on everything going on in the college. It is, through letters to the editor and editorials themselves, a voice for opinions. It constitutes the life of any organism, and we of the Davidsonian feel that it is a very live organism. The Davidsonian is a student-operated newspaper, and the freshmen are to it, as to any other branch of college activity, life blood. You’re welcome to throw in a hand to help in publication. Men of every ability work on the paper, so your help will be a welcome addition.

NOTICE
Col. E. H. Davis, PMS&T, announced this morning that Max Devane, a member of the senior class, and freshman adviser, has been appointed the cadet commander of the Davidson College ROTC Cadet Corps. Devane, from Jennings, Fla., is a member of Phi Delta Theta fraternity, and has served as president of his sophomore class, and 2nd vice-president of the student body.

Twenty Advisers...
(Continued From Page One)
Austin Strand of Greensboro, is Y Cabinet head of Boy Scout work. He is a junior, and was president of his sophomore class. News editor of the Davidsonian, he is a Phi Delt. Charlie Williams is president of the YMCA. A Sigma Chi senior from Rocky Mount, N.C., he is a member of Omicron Delta Kappa. Mike York is on the Y Cabinet in charge of Community Work. He is a Phi Gam from Kernersville, N.C. He is a senior and this is his second year on the Y Cabinet. Will Terry is on the Y Cabinet. He is a senior from Durham, N.C. President of the Eumanean Literary Society, he is a member of Phi Gamma Delta. Freshmen are required to speak to all men they meet on the campus and tip their hats to the members of the faculty.

WELCOME!! Freshmen and Transfers
Monday and Tuesday, Sept. 14 and 15, We Have an Opening For You! Come In And Put Your Name In The Pot

Head Coach Bill Dole since September 1, and indications are that this year’s team will prove worthy of some of the faith that the head mentor has for two years placed in his boys. This year’s edition of the Wildcats are thus far 32 strong, but injuries have already begun to take their toll. Dave Hambrick, transfer junior fullback from Lees-McRae, received a cracked rib in the first week of practice and has been walking the sidelines in civilian clothes ever since. The doctor got red under authority of the Coca-Cola Company by COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO., CONCORD, N.C. "Coke" is a registered trademark. © 1933, THE COCA-COLA Company

EDUCATION AT DAVIDSON IS NOT CONFINED EXCLUSIVELY TO THE CLASSROOM
DAVIDSON CATALOG, p. 549

Court of Control...
(Continued From Page One)
6. Each freshman shall have his own placard with his name inserted in the proper place, hanging in a conspicuous place in his room throughout the year.
7. Freshmen are required to attend all pep meetings and be on time.
8. Freshmen are required to attend all major athletic events fifteen minutes early, sit together, and remain through the entire contest.
9. Freshmen are required to wear YMCA nameplates until October 16.
10. Freshmen must carry to all athletic contests and pep meetings the megaphones prescribed for them by the Court of Control.
11. Freshmen are required to sit in their chapel seats until all upperclassmen have cleared the room.

Drawing for SPORT COAT, SPORT SHIRT, SLACKS, DRESS SHIRT, SWEATER, 2 Pr. Wool Argyles, AND OTHER ITEMS
Wilson's Men’s Shop “Collegiate Fashions” (Next to Bank) Main Street Davidson, N.C.