SOUTH KOREAN LIKES DAVIDSON (Page Four) The Davidsonian ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS CHARLOTTE NEWS SALUTES DAVIDSON (Page Two) VOLUME XLI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, JANUARY 9, 1953 NUMBER TWELVE Charlie Spivak’s Band To Play At Midwinters By HENRY BROCKMAN Charlie Spivak, the man who lives up to his reputation as “The Man Who Plays the Sweetest Trumpet in the World,” will bring his top-flight orchestra to Davidson College for the Midwinters Dances on February 20 and 21, 1953. Spivak is the leader of a nine-year-old band which rocketed to top-flight stature so rapidly that it now ranks among the kings in the entertainment world. This year he is placing more emphasis on soft danceable melodies than ever before. Interfraternity Council President Lawrence Erwin has recently announced the probable program of events for the weekend. An informal dance will be held on Friday, February 20, from nine till one. The Midwinters formal will be held on Saturday, February 21, from eight till twelve. Erwin has also announced that there will probably be a concert Saturday afternoon as well as a late afternoon tea dance. Born in New Haven, Connecticut, Spivak got his first trumpet while in grade school. He studied trumpet throughout his early life, and was at an early age a member of the Dorsey Brothers Orchestra, where he played alongside such musicians as Glenn Miller, Skeets Herfurt and Bob Crosby. When Ray Noble came to America, he asked Miller to help him organize a band, and the first musician to be signed was Spivak. When Spivak left to try his musical wings on his own, he became the highest paid freelance trumpeter in radio, playing on the Ford Symphony Hour, Kate Smith and Fred Allen broadcasts. When he felt ready to organize his own band, a lot of encouragement came from Glenn Miller who told him he had all the ingredients necessary for a winning combination. (Continued on Page Six) Bulletin Charles Laughton has canceled his southern tour due to illness. Laughton was scheduled to appear here on January 20. Davidson College plans to drop this date from their series for the present, however, they will make this date up later in the spring. Dr. Spencer requests student suggestions for an artist to take his place. Charlie Spivak and his orchestra will play a return engagement for the Mid-Winters Dances of February 20-21, Lawrence Erwin, IFC president, has announced. Foolish Frosh Freed From Fanatics As Rough Regulations Released Ernest Barry freed the frosh from their binding chain of freshman regulations today as he called it quits for the 1952 Freshman Court of Control. Using language that forced this paper to seek a dictionary, he told the Davidsonian reporter that he now felt the freshmen had caught on to the Davidson spirit. Possibly an example of this spirit was exhibited by the freshmen before Christmas when they hung a likeness of Barry, dressed in appropriate clothes and accompanied by appropriate signs, on a tree in front of Chambers. Barry stated that he had hopes that the freshmen realized the court was an organization for the guiding of freshmen, not necessarily for their punishment. He also stated that he hoped any lessons learned would stick with them throughout their remaining years at Davidson. VESPERS AND CHAPEL Sunday, January 11th, Vespers will be conducted by the Rev. Roy Watts, D.D., pastor of the First Presbyterian Church in High Point, North Carolina. Monday, January 12th chapel will be conducted by Dean J. C. Bailey. Tuesday, January 13th, Dr. Cunningham will be in charge of the program and will present Dr. Frank Price, missionary to China, to address the student body. Wednesday, January 14th, Professor E. E. Brown will be in charge of the program. Thursday, January 15th, will be under the direction of Mr. Melvin Sipe of the Music Dept., who will play his violin. Friday, January 16th, will be student day, and the devotional will be led by Mr. F. L. Jackson, former treasurer of the college. Male Chorus Starts On Weekend Tour The Davidson College Male Chorus will leave the campus Saturday to present concerts at Carolina Beach, Clinton, and Wallace, N. C., over the weekend. Their formal concert at Carolina Beach is scheduled for Saturday night. In Clinton and Wallace the Chorus will sing at Sunday church services. (Continued On Page Four) Former Organ Professor To Give Recital Here Tonight Mr. Robert Noehren, Head of the Organ Department and College Organist, University of Michigan, was formerly organist and faculty member of the Davidson College Music Department before his appointment to Michigan. Robert Noehren, University of Michigan organist, will present an organ recital at the College Presbyterian Church tonight at 8:15 p.m., Donald B. Plott, chairman of the music department, announced today. Mr. Noehren, recognized as one of the country’s outstanding concert organists, was organist and professor of music at Davidson from 1946 until 1949. His playing has brought him high critical acclaim both in America and Europe. “The most formidable organist on the American scene today... the more difficult the score, the more convincing he became... the most outstanding young organist now recording... unfailingly expressive and interesting... a magnificent recital which revealed a great organist” were typical comments from critics in London, New York, Jacksonville, Washington and Brussels. Mr. Noehren’s Davidson recital will include selections by Bach, Dupre, Brahms and Langlais. Students and townspeople were (Continued On Page Four) Cannon Goes To Oxford As Tenth Student Hubert Cannon of Lancaster, S.C., stepped into the footprints of a long line of distinguished statesmen, ministers and educators last month when he was named as winner of a Rhodes Scholarship from Davidson College. The personable young senior is the tenth — a number which few Southern colleges or universities can match — Rhodes Scholar from Davidson since one of its students first won the honor in 1903. The Presbyterian institution has had a particularly outstanding record during the past four years with three winners and one finalist in the competitions. Cannon will use the $2800 scholarship for two years study at Oxford in the honours School of Philosophy, Politics and Economics. He will work toward a master of arts degree during his two years of study in England and then return to this country to study law. Davidson's latest winner of the coveted scholarship is one of the outstanding student leaders on the campus. He holds one of the highest offices on the campus, president of the YMCA, is also president of the Forensic Council and the Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity, (Continued On Page Four) 461 Students In Blood Drive Final figures on the Red Cross Blood drive conducted on the Davidson campus and in the local community have been computed and were released to the Davidsonian late yesterday afternoon. They reveal a total contribution of 461 pints and a percentage of 56 per cent for the student body. Buddy Lamon, chairman of the drive for Scabbard and Blade, Col. Ernest H. Davis of the Davidson ROTC unit, and officials of the Charlotte Red Cross have expressed their complete satisfaction with the results. Chairman Lamon has addressed the following letter of thanks to the student body for their cooperation in the drive: “On behalf of Scabbard and Blade, I would like to thank the student body for the outstanding interest and participation which were displayed in the recent Blood Drive. I think that we can all be proud of a job well done.” Three fraternities had perfect records in the interfrat competition, with all members contributing or (Continued On Page Four) Notice Student Body President Jack Ruth has announced that the lost and found department has been moved to the College Union. Articles should be turned in or claimed at the desk at the main entrance. Mr. Shaw Smith, director of the College Union, desires to talk with any student who would be interested in doing sign painting work for the various Union activities during the year. Dr. Cunningham Is Elected To Association Presidency YMCA Gift Fund Collects $4,505 To Exceed Goal By MAURICE CROUSE As the Davidsonian goes to press it seems evident that contributions to the YMCA gift fund will exceed the goal of $4500. Latest figures give the total in pledges and donations as $4504.93. Many who are returning from the Christmas holidays will be surprised to know that the goal has been met. Students who left school a few days before the holidays saw that the total was about $400 short of the quota. Ernest Barry, chairman of the gift fund committee, had left school on Wednesday and did not know the quota had been reached until Hubert Cannon, president of the Y, informed him by mail. The goal was met only through the efforts of President Cunningham and Jim Speed and theGenerosity of the Davidson student body. At the chapel exercises on the last day of school before the holidays, President Cunningham reminded the students that Davidson students had always met the goals they set. He expressed hope that something might happen before the day was over to send the fund over the goal. Something did happen. The students were already filing out of the auditorium at the close of chapel when Jim Speed mounted the stage and made an appeal for more donations. Speed reminded the students that an extra dollar from each person would send the fund well over its quota. Then students began literally fighting their way back to the front to make their donations. Dollar after dollar was placed on the scales which represented the progress of the campaign until the weight of them balanced the scales and finally overbalanced them. In the confusion that resulted, the members of the committee were unable to give an accurate count, although it was evident that the goal was nearly reached. Tabulations made after the return from the Christmas holidays show that gifts of $2671.68 in cash and just short of $1800 in pledges had been made, making the total $33 short of the goal of $4500. The committee reports that additional gifts and pledges have been coming in to such an extent that there is no question but that the goal will be met. Canvassers are now collecting the pledges which are due on or (Continued On Page Four)

More Students Seek To Enter Davidson

Applications for entrance to Davidson for the 1953-54 term have surpassed all previous records for this time, Mr. F. W. Hengeveld, registrar, reports. He says that the number of applications is already greater than the number of openings for next year. It was also pointed out that usually the majority of applications do not come in until later in the Spring. Approximately 250-275 new students will be admitted, maintaining the present overall enrollment of 825 students. Professor B. D. Thompson has revealed that interest in the Baker Scholarships is also very high this year. Over 50 percent more applications have been returned than was the case last year. It was pointed out that the deadline for filing an application is February 1. Selections for the awards are made during the first week in April.

Dr. John R. Cunningham has added to his and Davidson's fame by being elected this week to the national presidency of the Association of American Colleges. Opening and closing hours for the new David Ovens College Union were announced today. Opening hour for the Union Monday through Saturday will be eight-thirty o'clock; closing hour will be twelve midnight. On Sunday the Union will open at one o'clock and remain open until seven-fifteen, at which time it will close until the end of vespers, when it will reopen and remain open until twelve midnight. The hours that the Union should be open were decided at a meeting of the David Ovens College Union Committee on last Wednesday at four o'clock pm. The committee stressed that the hours of the Union at this time are merely tentative, pending the use of the building by the student body during the hours of the day and night. At this meeting, it was disclosed that a candy vending machine will soon be installed in the Union's second-floor servery beside the coke machine. It was decided by the committee that a trial idea of serving coffee at the Union during all its open hours would be tried with the students using the small dining room as a place to sit, drink coffee, and talk. This idea is also tentative and pending on the use of the convenience by the students. The David Ovens College Union Committee is composed of Dr. (Continued on Page Six)

President, Wife Vacation Before Returning Home

Dr. John R. Cunningham, President of the College, was elected on Wednesday of this week national president of the Association of American Colleges at its annual meeting in Los Angeles. Dr. Cunningham replaces Dr. M. E. Sadler, president of Texas Christian University, as head of the educational organization which represents several hundred colleges. Dr. and Mrs. Cunningham flew to Los Angeles on Friday, Jan. 2, and before they return, they plan to take a short holiday. From Los Angeles, they will travel by train to Chicago, from which point they will fly to Charlotte, arriving on January 20. Last year Dr. Cunningham served as vice president of the group and during one full day's session in that capacity, he presided over the assembly. A native of Williamsburg, Mo., he has also been a member of the executive committee of the Association for several years. Dr. Cunningham became Davidson's 13th president in 1941, succeeding Dr. Walter L. Lingle. (Continued On Page Four)

College Union Adds Books, Magazines

In order to provide as many variations in entertainment as possible, the new College Union will subscribe to many of the nation’s leading periodicals and also obtain a wide variation of books which will fill the bookcases in the new lounge. So that the books and magazines obtained might be the ones of most interest to the students, a bookshelf committee, made up of college students, has been appointed. Each professor in the departments of English, history, and philosophy, was asked to appoint one student from his classes who he thought had good ability at choosing reading material of interest. Students serving on the committee are Chuck Millard, Mike Myers, Larry Dagenhart, Rich Steck, Mac Bulgin, Bob Mitchell, George Bason, Tom Abel, T. A. Williams, and Paul Alexander. Dr. W. P. Cumming is serving as faculty advisor. An executive committee composed of Abel, Bulgin, and Dagenhart will, with the help of Dr. Cumming, deal with initial details of the bookshelf committee. The purpose of the committee is to decide which books and magazines the College Union should buy. Committee members will welcome suggestions from students on books they would like to see on the bookshelves in the Union.

Mrs. Nash Holds Marriage Conference For Second Year

Charming and witty, Mrs. Ethel Nash made on Thursday of this week her first return to the Davidson scene in a forum on “Marriage Relations.” The Y-sponsored speaker led off her double-jointed junket into marriage and its various aspects with a talk in chapel on Thursday. The last half was concluded in a two-hour session in the Ovens Union on the night of the same day from eight to ten. The engaging Mrs. Nash, whose husband, Dr. Arnold Nash, is the James Grey Professor of Religion at the University of North Carolina, was outspoken yet tactful in her open discussion of a subject that proved most interesting to the Davidson students. At least some 225 of them voluntarily turned out for the night session in the Union where the discussion got down to brass tacks. Explaining attitudes and inaptitudes in subjects ranging from sex standards, the engagement period, the teaching of medical and ministerial schools on sex, the sex relations during engagement, the biological surety of intercourse, some standards for selecting a mate, birth control, the validity of Freud, the Christian concept of sex, and numerous others, Mrs. Nash found an appreciative audience. In her chapel talk, the marriage counselor showed how more and more there was a widening in. (Continued On Page Four)