WELCOME! ORIENTATION NEW DAVIDSONIANS

FRESHMAN BUILDING $700,000 STRUCTURE HONORS EXECUTIVE

Davidson College will begin construction on a new $700,000 dormitory immediately, President John R. Cunningham revealed today. The long-contemplated dormitory
will house more than 300 students when completed. Thompson and Street, contractors of Charlotte, have set a completion date of
late next year.

Dr. Cunningham said the new structure would be named the W. H. Belk Hall in consideration of the long service
of the late Charlotte business executive as the senior trustee of Davidson and of the gifts of his family and
business associates. The new dormitory has been in the active planning stage since the mid-forties. A large, modern dormitory was
given top priority along with a new gymnasium, church, and increased endowment during a 2½ million dollar Development Program in
the late forties. Davidson’s gymnasium was dedicated in 1949 and the church in 1952.

In naming the new structure the W. H. Belk Hall, Davidson is recognizing one of its most faithful and loyal
trustees in history. The late W. H. Belk, founder of the Belk Department Store organization, served as a trustee of
Davidson almost constantly from 1928 until his death last year. Davidson awarded Mr. Belk an honorary Doctor of Laws degree
during the 1950 Commencement exercises. His family and business associates have contributed a substantial portion of the $700,000 required to
build the dormitory.

H. Raymond Weeks of Durham, architect for the new dormitory, said the building would feature a main center hall and
two wings. It will be the central structure in Dormitory Row and will dominate that end of the campus. Its
total capacity of 304 students will house more than a third of Davidson’s present student body and will exceed the
total combined capacity of the two largest dormitories, East and West. The new hall will also provide quarters for the
ROTC department. Georgia Dormitory, built in 1910, will be torn down when the new structure is completed.

Court Of Control Lists Regulations

Fred Stowe, Judge of the Court of Control, has stressed the importance of a good start in college to the
Freshman Class of 1953. The Freshman Regulations will go into operation the first day of school, and each member of
the Class of 1987 will be expected to respect them. Especially important in the early days of school are regulations
two and nine, regarding the requirements that freshmen know the college yells and songs by the seventh day after school
opens and that freshmen wear their identifying nameplates. Lists of regulations and freshmen caps, required for all freshmen, are available
at the Student Store. It is imperative that all freshmen secure both immediately. The regulations as found on pages 18
and 19 of the Wildcat Handbook are as follows:

1. Freshmen shall show respect to upperclassmen at all times.
2. Freshmen must know college yells and songs by the seventh day after school opens.
3. Freshmen must wear, at all times, the caps prescribed for them by the Court of Control.
4. Freshmen shall not walk on the grass of the Davidson campus.
5. Freshmen shall remain in (Continued On Page Two)

Belk Dorm Advances D. C. Building Program

Belk Dormitory will constitute the fourth major addition to the Davidson College campus within the past five years. The Johnston
Gymnasium, the new church, and the David Ovens College Union were all dedicated between 1948 and 1952. Although no definite
date has been set for the dedication of the new dormitory, it will very likely occur before the end of
1954, unless unforeseen difficulties arise.

Davidson is fortunate in having an excellent college plant, surpassed by few comparable schools. The size and appearance of the
campus and buildings are rather impressive for a school with a student body of 850 or less. For example, Chambers
building, where most of the classes are held, could easily accommodate an increase of several hundred above the present student
body. Of course, the construction of the new gym, church, and college union have greatly enhanced both the appearance of
the campus and the operation of the college.

The gymnasium, completed in 1949 at a cost of approximately $750,000, is, for its size, one of the best-equipped at
any college or university. Naturally, it is smaller than many, but it is more adequate for the needs of the
Davidson student body. It has virtually all types of facilities that might be found in any comparable athletic plant with
three regulation basketball courts, folding stands to accommodate over 3,000 spectators when a varsity game is in progress, a regulation
size swimming pool, handball courts, a wrestling room, an exercise room with various types of exercising apparatus, etc.

The Davidson College Presbyterian Church, at the southwest corner of the campus, was completed and dedicated in 1952. It is
used by the student body, but also has a regular congregation consisting of residents of the local community. Vesper services
are held there each Sunday night during school. Sunday morning services, at which students of all denominations are welcomed, are
also conducted regularly by the pastor, the Rev. Sam Newell, a graduate of Davidson himself.

Perhaps the center of attraction for students, new and old, is the Ovens Union, which incidentally, is a “College Union”
rather than “Student Union,” according to Director Shaw Smith who prefers the former term because it is in accord with
the recent practice of identifying the union with the entire college community rather than with the students alone. This procedure,
says Mr. Smith, will in no way imply that the students’ use of the building should in any way be
curtailed. It was dedicated in 1952, but only this year began full operation when the cafeteria, snack bar, and other
downstairs facilities were completed. On the second floor of the union, which is actually the third if the cafeteria level
is considered the first, are located meeting rooms and offices of the student council, YMCA, and college publications.

When the new Belk Dormitory is finished, it will house at least a third of the student body.

COME TO D.C. FROM EUROPE

Davidson College, in cooperation with two local chapters of social fraternities, is again sponsoring two foreign students who will enter
Davidson this fall. The two are Bruno Eynard of Rome, Italy, and Erik Ruud of Oslo, Norway. Eynard is the
son of Bishop Clio Eynard, President of the Waldensian Theological Seminary in Rome. Ruud comes to Davidson after having attended
the College International of Cannes, France, and the Oslo Commercial College. As a rule, there are two foreign students on
the campus each year. They are usually classified as special students and attend Davidson only one year. Some, however, have
remained for longer periods. The college contributes the tuition and room, while the fraternity concerned supplies meals and necessary expense
money.

Dr. C. R. Eberhardt Becomes a F.R.G.S.

Dr. Charles R. Eberhardt, colorful Davidson professor of Bible and authority on Palestine, was named a Fellow of the Royal
Geographic Society of London, England, during the summer months. The genial and energetic professor was honored principally for the contributions
he has made in the field of biblical geography. With his election as a Fellow of the Society, Dr. Eberhardt
joins a distinguished company. Among those who have been associated with the society are former President Herbert C. Hoover, the
noted explorers David Livingstone, Sir Hubert Wilkins and Lincoln Ellsworth, and the Maharaja of Nepal and Hogarth of Arabia. Queen
Elizabeth II is patron of the Royal Geographical Society. Election to the Society must be unanimous and follows the personal
recommendation of two Fellows and the careful composition and subsequent submission of a candidate's academic and professional history.

Of particular interest in the recommendation of Dr. Eberhardt’s membership in the Society was his extensive color photographs of the
ancient city of Petra, located above the Jordan Valley of Palestine on the edge of the Arabian Desert. The Davidson
professor is one of the few people who has color-photographed the entire city, which was by-passed by Western civilization for
more than a thousand years.

An extensive traveler, noted lecturer and author of a book on biblical interpretation, Dr. Eberhardt’s most recent trip abroad was
to the Middle East in 1950-51. A native of Fordham, N.Y., he performed his undergraduate work at New York University,
received both the S.T.B. and S.T.M. degrees from the Biblical Seminary in New York, and his Ph.D. degree from Drew
University. He also performed graduate work at the University of Edinburgh, Scotland, and the University of Basel, Switzerland.

Scott Discloses Test Schedule; PT Courses

Coach Scott has announced the schedule of physical fitness and swimming tests for incoming students. On Tuesday, September 15, the
last day of orientation, all new men will have swim tests in the gym. Physical fitness tests, consisting of tests
in sit-ups, dips, hurdle runs, shuttle runs, broad jumping and medicine ball putting, will be given to new students at
their regular gym classes Wednesday through Saturday. These physical fitness tests will determine whether or not new students must undergo
a period of basic physical training. Classes in P.T. for upperclassmen will begin the Monday after school starts. Fall sports
offered in the classes will be archery, golf, handball, swimming, tennis, volleyball, and wrestling.

Thirteen Students From Frosh Class Get Scholarships

No less than 13 members of the incoming freshman class are holders of scholarships whose total value runs high into
the thousands of dollars. These grants come from suchLarge scholarship funds such as the Baker and Union Carbide, as well
as smaller ones, are available. All the above-mentioned scholarships are non-athletic in nature but are often awarded based on all-round
achievement, including athletics. Perhaps the largest single scholarship source outside of athletic scholarships is the George F. Baker Trust Fund,
from which the Baker scholarships are drawn. Baker scholarships are awarded to representative colleges and universities in the United States,
including Vanderbilt, Sewanee, and Davidson in the South. These scholarships are awarded based on merit in scholarship, personality, character, athletic
achievement, etc. Typically, about five or six members of each incoming freshman class have been Baker scholars since the program
started in 1948. The value of the awards is determined by need, with the honorary scholarship covering the cost of
tuition. If the applicant can show evidence of need, the scholarship value may be increased to as high as $1200
per year.

The Union Carbide Scholarships are worth $600 per year and are annually awarded to two members of the incoming freshman
class who intend to pursue a career in business or industry. These scholarships are awarded by the Union Carbide Company
and are available at many other schools besides Davidson. Last year, two Union Carbide scholarships were also awarded to two
members of the present sophomore class.

Winners of the Baker awards are: James K. Batten of Holland, Va.; James C. Bryce of Easley, S.C.; Carl L.
Cooper of Durham, N.C.; Philip F. Kukura of Deland, Fla.; and Thomas S. Morgan, Jr., of Jackson, Miss. Union Carbide
winners for this year are William E. Gramley of Winston-Salem, N.C., and F. Leon Howell of Copperhill, Tenn. Honor scholarships
given by the college are held this year by Michael Fennegan of Fairmont, N.C.; James G. Martin of Columbia, S.C.;
and Alvin P. Perkinson of Chattanooga, Tenn. The Bristol, Va.-Tenn., alumni scholarship went to John C. Gilmer of Bristol, Tenn.
The Newton alumni scholarship was won by Don McRee, and Thomas E. Campbell of High Point, N.C., won the H.
E. Fulcher Jr. scholarship.

Dr. C. J. Pietenpol has been named acting dean of the faculty at Davidson College, replacing Dr. C. K. Brown,
who resigned as dean at the close of the 1952-53 term. A former dean of the faculty and acting president
of Washington and Jefferson College, Dr. Pietenpol has been a professor of physics at Davidson since 1946. He organized the
school of engineering at Washington and Jefferson, served as dean of the faculty from 1943 until 1946, was special assistant
to the president from 1943 until 1945, and was appointed acting president during 1945-46. A native of Leota, Minn., he
received the B.S. degree from the University of Pittsburgh, a master’s degree from the University of Colorado, and his Ph.D.
from New York University. In addition to Washington and Jefferson, he also formerly taught at the University of Wisconsin, Yale
University, and Long Island University. Dr. Pietenpol is the author of the book “Laboratory Physics,” is a member of the
American Physical Society, American Association for the Advancement of Science, Sigma Xi, Sigma Pi Sigma, and is listed in “Who’s
Who in America” and “American Men of Science.” Dr. Cunningham said that Dr. Pietenpol would assume his new duties immediately.
It is anticipated that the trustees will make a permanent appointment for the position later in the year.

The 1953 Orientation Program began this morning as some 275 new students gathered for assembly in Chambers Auditorium. Max Devane,
freshman adviser, followed the devotional service with a word of welcome to the new students. The day's activities began with
psychological testing under Professor J. H. Ostwalt, followed by talks by Student Body President Lyman Kiser and by Lt. Col.
E. H. Davis, Davidson College ROTC PMS&T. Heavy activity continued through the afternoon with chest X-rays, payment of fees, physical
examinations for most groups, conferences with faculty advisors, and snapping of ID photographs. After supper, the main program was that
of acquainting new students with the library, its open stack system, and its use.

Tomorrow promises to be another busy day of orientation with reading tests and more talks in the morning, followed by
registration for courses. The afternoon's English test will end the orientation mental testing. It will be followed by a talk
on the Davidson fraternities by Dr. W. G. McGavock. The traditional reception for new students by the faculty on Saturday
night will provide a welcome break in the business of orientation. It will be followed by a dance at which
new students from Queens College will be guests of the new Davidson students.

The program for Sunday, September 13, rings a note of tradition. Its activities will be those of the usual Davidson
Sunday, with the morning Bible class in the Student Lounge of the Church, led by Mr. John Payne, director of
alumni and public relations, and with the regular morning worship service at the College Church by Rev. Sam Newell. Sunday
night H. M. Moffatt, Jr., D.D., will preach at the vesper service. Afterwards, the orientation groups will visit the homes
of their faculty counselors.

Monday will be primarily a day of discussions. The bookstore will be open from three to five in the afternoon.
Tuesday is a half day, with physical education department tests for all new students and with the issuing of ROTC
materials in the morning. The Orientation Program will end at lunch. The old Davidson students will begin to arrive en
masse on Monday, with registration of sophomores. Tuesday, juniors and seniors will register for classes. The school year opens with
the beginning of classes Wednesday morning.

According to Dean John C. Bailey, the major objectives of the Orientation Program are as follows:
1. To give us an opportunity to give you a physical examination and certain psychological and subject matter tests before
the college opens for regular work. The results of these tests will help us to guide you in arranging your
program for the year.
2. To give us an opportunity to give you some acquaintance with the program of the college: its courses of
study, its staff, its extra-curricular activities, its regulations, and its traditions.
3. To give you an opportunity to become somewhat acquainted with the buildings and the general physical setup of the
campus, to select your courses of study, and to meet some of your advisers before the upperclassmen return and work
begins.

The freshman class is divided into groups of about fifteen men each. Each of these groups has two advisers, a
faculty adviser, and a student adviser from one of the upper classes. The student adviser will work with his group
constantly throughout the orientation period. The faculty adviser assists in selecting a program of study and will register students for
courses. He will continue to act as adviser through the first semester of the second year. Special advisers are provided
for transfer students.

Student advisers to incoming Davidsonians met for a pre-orientation session on Thursday evening to complete the planning of the Orientation
Program. Leaders of the twenty groups are under the direction of freshman adviser Max DeVane and Dean J. C. Bailey,
faculty head of the Orientation Program. The student counselors come from widely varied home towns and from every phase of
activity at Davidson. Counselors represent all three upper classes.

Herschel Allen is a Phi Delt from Monticello, Georgia. He is a Y Cabinet member in charge of Spiritual Life.
He is on the Y Board of Directors and the Student Council. He is a senior. Cortez Cooper of Thomasville,
Georgia, is Second Vice-President of the YMCA. He belongs to Kappa Alpha Order and is a member of the baseball
team. He is a junior. Jim Osughdrill of Atlanta is President of the Sophomore Class. He is a Phi Delt
from Atlanta, Georgia. Floyd Feeney of Charlotte is President of the Junior Class. A Kappa Sig, he is one of
the managing editors of the Davidsonian. Leighton Green is a Kappa Sig from El Paso, Texas. A Baker Scholar and
member of the tennis team, he is First Vice-President of the YMCA and is in charge of special services. He
is a junior. Bill Hood earned both Phi Beta Kappa and Omicron Delta Kappa in his junior year and is
at present the only man on campus who belongs to both honorary fraternities. He is editor of Quips and Cranks,
the college yearbook. Charlie Johnson is President of the Senior Class and was President of his Junior Class. He is
a Sigma Chi from Greenville, S.C. Buddy Lamon is a Baker Scholar from Macon, Georgia. He is Treasurer of the
YMCA and a member of the Y Board of Directors. He belongs to Phi Delta Theta social fraternity. He is
a senior. Bob Mitchell of Goldsboro is a Sigma Chi. He is former Vice-President of the YMCA. He is a
senior. Bill Scholl is a member of the YMCA Cabinet, being in charge of Deputations. He is a K.A. junior
from Charlotte. Bill Shipley of Asheville is an outstanding track and cross-country man. He is a member of the Y
Cabinet in charge of Social Life. He is a Sigma Chi, a senior. Moody Smith of Spartanburg is a Kappa
Sig. He is editor of the Davidsonian and a member of Omicron Delta Kappa. He is a Baker scholar and
a member of the Y Board of Directors. Homer Sparks of Anniston, Ala., is this year serving his second year
on the Y Cabinet. He is in charge of Boys Work. He is a K.A. senior. Hunter Strader is President
of the Honorary Fraternity Council. An assistant editor of the Davidsonian from Burlington, he is... (Continued on Page Two)
