1953-54 DIRECTORY EDITION VOL. XLII

SPIVAK RETURNS FOR HOMECOMING

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C., FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 1953

BEAT RICHMOND!

NO. 1

D.C. PMS&T Appoints Cadet Corps Leaders

Col. E. H. Davis has released the entire list of the officer appointments for the Davidson College Cadet Corps for
the 1953-54 school year. As previously reported, Cadet Colonel Max DeVane has been appointed Regimental Commander. Appointed as Cadet Lt.
Colonels are Cadet William N. Graham, Executive Officer, Cadet Millard H. Coe, 1st Battalion Commander, and Cadet Ben T. Craig,
2nd Battalion Commander.

Those appointed to the rank of Cadet Major are Cadet William L. Morris, III, Regimental S-1, Cadet Thomas J. Ligon,
Jr., Regimental S-3, Cadet John L. Kiser, Regimental S-4, Cadet Martin B. Foil, 1st Battalion Executive Officer, and Cadet William
C. Glidewell, 2nd Battalion Executive Officer.

Receiving the rank of Cadet Captain are Cadet Zachary M. Kilpatrick, 1st Battalion S-1, Cadet Norman M. Johnson, 1st Battalion
S-3, Cadet Harris H. Williamson, 2nd Battalion S-1, and Cadet Robert S. Sutton, 2nd Battalion S-3. Included in this group
also are Cadet Timothy A. Williams, Band Commander, and Cadets John H. Bremer, John G. Smith, George L. Rivers, Homer
C. Phifer, Jr., Graeme M. Keith, and William P. McAllister, Company Commanders.

Cadet 1st Lieutenants for the year 1953-54 are Cadets Hagen D. Pfaff, Seddon Goode, Jr., Samuel R. Sells, George D.
McCall, Charles R. Hasty, Thomas G. Douglass, and Charles H. Johnson. Appointments as Cadet 2nd Lieutenants were given to Cadets
James W. Cannon, Robert O. Southwell, Edwin L. Douglass, Jr., Jesse M. Henley, Johnny L. Gray, Winfield S. Downs, Jr.,
Henry M. Wiggins, Haven A. Green, William N. Reese, Clyde C. Long, Jr., William P. Alexander, Clarence K. Baker, Cecil
K. Brown, Jr., William L. Nelson, Andrew J. Courts, James M. Craig, Jr., Charles C. Hull, James K. Wilson, Jr.,
Boyd B. Massagee, Jr., Robert K. Mitchell, Don D. Reid, Richard G. Robinson, Jr., William H. Terry, and Cyrus M.
York.

CONSTRUCTION WORK FOR BELK DORMITORY TO BEGIN SHORTLY

Construction on the new $700,000 W. H. Belk Hall will begin in the very near future, according to a recent
statement by Dr. Cunningham. More than three hundred students will be able to be housed in this new dormitory that
will be constructed between Watts and West in the area which the ROTC Building now occupies. Thompson and Street, contractors
of Charlotte, have set a completion date of late next year for the building.

Dr. Cunningham said the new structure would be named the W. H. Belk Hall in consideration of the long service
of the late Charlotte business executive as the senior trustee of Davidson and of the gifts of his family and
business associates. In naming the new structure the W. H. Belk Hall, Davidson is recognizing one of its most faithful
and loyal trustees in its history. The late W. H. Belk, founder of the Belk Department Store organization, served as
a trustee at Davidson almost constantly from 1928 until his death last year. Davidson awarded Mr. Belk an honorary Doctor
of Laws degree during the 1950 commencement.

(Continued On Page Three)

Cabinet Sponsors Blood Drive Soon

A Blood Drive to be held October 7 and 8 is being sponsored for the fall semester on the campus
by the YMCA. Blood is needed now as always even though the Korean crisis has subsided. Besides the usual need
for routine transfusions, there is an urgent need to refill the blood banks which were drained last summer during the
polio siege. Now that gamma globulin is believed to be a temporary immunity to polio, the blood donor program has
an almost unparalleled need for blood. Last summer the gamma globulin supply was not large enough to meet demands and
only critical areas could inoculate their youth. One of those areas was in Western North Carolina. In other less serious
areas there were instances of picketing in an attempt to get gamma globulin.

The Davidson student body has always vigorously supported the drive. It is held twice each year with a different campus
organization sponsoring it. Definite organizational plans for the drive will be made this Sunday, September 27th, when the YMCA cabinet
retreats to the Cumberland Presbyterian Lodge for the day.

PIETENPOL APPOINTED ACTING DEAN

Dr. C. J. Pietenpol, former acting president of Washington and Jefferson College, has been named acting dean of faculty at
Davidson, replacing Dr. C. K. Brown who resigned as dean at the close of the 1952-53 term. Dr. Pietenpol has
been a professor of physics at Davidson since 1948. He organized the school of engineering at Washington and Jefferson and
served as dean of the faculty there from 1943 until 1946. In 1946 he was named special assistant to the
president at Washington and Jefferson and served in that capacity from 1943 until 1945, when he was appointed acting president
during the 1945-46 term.

A native of Leota, Minn., he received the B.S. degree from the University of Pittsburgh, master’s degree from the University
of Colorado, and his Ph.D. from New York University. Dr. Pietenpol formerly taught at the University of Wisconsin, Yale University,
and Long Island University in addition to his posts at Washington and Jefferson. Author of the book, “Laboratory Physics,” Dr.
Pietenpol is a member of the American Physical Society, American Association for the Advancement of Science, Sigma Chi, Sigma Pi
Sigma, and is listed in “Who's Who in America” and “American Men of Science.”

Dr. Cunningham said that Dr. Pietenpol would assume his new duties immediately. It is anticipated that the trustees will make
a permanent appointment for the position later in the year.

Musical Recordings Given To Union

An excellent selection of musical recordings has been given to the David Ovens College Union. John Brown Goehring graciously offered
the selection to the Student Union and it included the following titles: the complete opera Brigadoon by the original cast;
Vagabond King; Rose Marie; The Desert Song; Stabat Mater (Rossini); Tonight We Sing. Others include, The New Moon; Showboat; Kiss
Me, Kate; Theme Music From Great Motion Pictures, and three Gilbert and Sullivan operas, Ruddigore, The Mikado, and the Gondoliers.
These 33 r.p.m. recordings feature such artists as: Al Goodman, Ezio Pinza, Nelson Eddy, D’Oyly Carte Opera Company, and the
Vienna State Opera Orchestra.

Vespers & Chapel

Monday, Sept. 28
Dr. Lewis Schenck will be in charge of the devotional.

Tuesday, Sept. 29
Dr. Charles Reigner of Baltimore, Maryland, will speak. Dr. Reigner has spent his life in the field of business education
as a teacher, author, and publisher. He is a liberal benefactor of the Davidson College Library.

Wednesday, Sept. 30
Professor H. E. Fulcher will have charge of the devotional.

Thursday, Oct. 1
The YMCA will continue the presentation of its program for the year.

Friday, Oct. 2
Not determined.

NEWELL TO PREACH AT SUNDAY VESPERS

This week's speaker for the Sunday night Vesper Services is a familiar figure around the Davidson campus. The Rev. Samuel
W. Newell has been a member of the college faculty since assuming the duties of the pastor of the College
Church last March. A former Davidson student, Rev. Newell came to the Davidson campus from Mullins, S.C., where he was
pastor of the Mullins Presbyterian Church. Born in Jackson, Miss., in 1917, Newell entered Davidson in 1935 and was graduated
in 1939. While at Davidson he was an outstanding student in the classroom and in extra-curricular activities. In addition to
other offices, Newell was vice president of Omicron Delta Kappa, a member of the YMCA Board of Control, and president
of his senior class.

After graduation from Davidson, he taught English for two years at Battleground Academy in Franklin, Tenn. After leaving B.G.A. he
entered Emory University in Atlanta, Ga., where he received his Master’s Degree in English in 1942. From 1943-46 he was
in the Intelligence Service of the Army. In the fall of 1946 he entered Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, Va.
While there he established an outstanding record, being chosen president of the Student Body. He received his Bachelor of Divinity
degree in 1949. Just recently Rev. Newell completed his thesis for a Doctor of Theology Degree at Union. He will
receive the degree in June of 1954. With the acquisition of this honor, Newell will have compiled the enviable sum
of four degrees, an A.B., M.A., B.D., and a Th.D.

Returning for the second year with Charlie Spivak’s band will be his attractive songstress Eileen Rogers.

Freshmen Cringe As Court Opens

Fred Stowe, judge of the Court of Control, announced Wednesday that the court will open 1953 sessions next Friday in
chapel with the issuing of subpoenas to frosh violators, who will be tried the following Monday night. The seven stern-faced
members of the court were introduced to the not-so-humble freshmen Wednesday morning after chapel. In explaining the court's purposes and
procedures, Stowe told the freshmen, “You may think the court is only a joke organization, but the things the court
will enforce will help to make you a better Davidson man.”

The Court of Control works under the auspices of the Student Council, being established by an amendment to the Constitution
in 1923. Its purpose is to deal with charges made by upperclassmen against freshmen. Those convicted by the court are
sentenced with penalties, usually flunky-work for student organizations. So far, three freshmen have been reported to the court as a
result of a recent hat check in assembly. Regular meetings are scheduled.For Friday mornings in assembly with judgments to be
held Monday nights in the Phi Hall courtroom. Members of this year's court include Bill Shipley, Bill Nelson, Dan McCall,
Harry Petersen, Frank Mitchener, Dickie Adams, Jim Shelton, and Judge Fred Stowe.

W. V. Porter, D. H. Pfaff, Leonard Geiger Head Davidson Music Groups

Newly-elected officers of Davidson College’s three music organizations for the current school year were announced today by Donald B. Plott,
chairman of the music department. William V. Porter, Jr., of Charlotte will serve as president of the local chapter of
Phi Mu Alpha, national honorary music fraternity. Other officers of the fraternity include William W. Johnston, Mt. Holly, vice-president; P.
Richard Morrow, Mooresville, secretary; Owen P. Leland, Charleston, S.C., treasurer; Charles L. McElveen, Jr., Kingstree, S.C., historian; and Jack T.
MacQueen, Dunn, alumni secretary.

The Concert Band will have David H. Pfaff of Winston-Salem as president, Fred M. Hudson, I, Miami, Fla., will be
vice-president; John D. Fite, Sanford, Fla., will serve as secretary. C. Leonard Geiger, Panama City, Fla., was elected president of
the Male Chorus. Other officers include Thornwell J. Frick, Spartanburg, S.C., vice president; Arthur M. Martin, Jr., Winnsboro, S.C., secretary,
and Robert S. Crutchfield, Orangeburg, S.C., chaplain.

Dr. George H. Maxwell, composer of words and music of Davidson’s alma mater, “All Hail, O Davidson,” died Wednesday at
age of 78 in the Veterans Hospital in Roanoke, Va.

DANCES AFTERNOON CONCERT TO FOLLOW P.C. GAME

Charlie Spivak and his orchestra will return to Davidson again this year to play for the IFC Homecoming Dances October
16 and 17, Inter-fraternity Council President Charlie Hassell announced today. An added treat for the weekend will be Spivak’s concert,
to be held in Johnston Gym immediately after the game with Presbyterian College.

Third of Students Get Scholarships

Davidson College will have almost a third of its student body on some form of scholarship aid during the current
school year, Dr. Samuel R. Spencer, Jr., assistant to the president, announced today. Dr. Spencer said that of the 825
members of the present student body some 260 will receive scholarship aid ranging from $100 to $1200 annually. The 260
scholarships will total approximately $80,000. Forty-two of the students are winners of special scholarship awards such as the Baker, Union
Carbide and Honor Scholarships. Approximately 75 students will receive grants-in-aid on the basis of need and merit, some 45 have
been selected for athletic grants and more than 100 will receive remissions on the basis of their status as ministerial
candidates or sons of ministers.

The Baker Scholars include Linny M. Baker, Kannapolis; James K. Batten, Holland, Va.; James C. Brice, Easley, S.C.; Carl L.
Cooper, Durham, R.S. Crutchfield, Orangeburg, S.C.; L. Maxwell DeVane, Jennings, Fla.; Thomas C. Dove, Monroe; J. Leighton Green, El Paso,
Texas; Philip K. Kuhura, DeLand, Fla.; W. H. F. Kuykendall, Charlotte; H. V. Lamon, Macon, Ga.; J. Harold McKeithen, Winston-Salem;
J. B. Marshall, Clarksville, Tenn.; Arthur M. Martin, Winnsboro, S.C.; P. D. Miller, Jr., Atlanta, Ga.; Thomas S. Morgan, Jr.,
Montgomery, Ala.; Fred G. Myers, Spartanburg, S.C.; Paul B. Price, Rock Hill, S.C.; C. O. Robinson, Jr., Raleigh; D. Moody
Smith, Spartanburg, S.C.; T. Alden Williams, Montreat.

The four Union Carbide Scholarship winners include H. Perrin Anderson, Union, S.C.; Joel O. Conarroe, Bradenton, Fla.; William F. Gramley,
Winston-Salem, and F. Leon Howell, Jr., Copperhill, Tenn. Six students will be studying under the Honor Scholarship program which was
inaugurated by the college last year. They are Eugene P. Bargeron, Savannah, Ga.; Michael Fennegan, Fairmont; Lawrence W. McIntosh, Hapeville,
Ga.; James G. Martin, Columbia, S.C.; Alvin P. Perkinson, Jr., Chattanooga, Tenn., and Ernest Taylor, Williamston.

Spivak, billed as “the man who plays the sweetest trumpet in the world,” will play from nine until one for
the formal dance Friday night. The informal on Saturday will last from eight to twelve. Featured vocalists with Spivak’s orchestra
are lovely Eileen Rodgers and baritone Joe Tucker. Spivak, who played for the Midwinters Dances here last year, is the
musician whose fresh and original idiom in trumpet playing is described as “honey in the horn.” He is the leader
of a great all-time band which rocketed to topflight stature so rapidly that it now ranks among the kings of
the entertainment world. Notches in Spivak’s musical belt are 20th Century Fox’s “Pin-Up Girl,” starring Betty Grable, and “Follow The
Boys” for Universal and a flock of box office records created at the Paramount in New York, The Hotel Statler
in New York, the Palladium in Hollywood, and other top spots. Spivak's music-making is so solidly established for its individuality
that it can be identified whenever and wherever it is played as “indubitably Charlie's.”

Born in New Haven, Connecticut, Spivak got his first trumpet while still in grade school: a tiny instrument with the
first valve practically on top of Charlie’s nose. He went to Hill House School in New Haven, studying the trumpet
on his own time with George Hyer, who is a member of the New Haven Symphony Orchestra. Spivak's family had
chartered out a medical career for him, however, one of the country’s outstanding bandleaders offered him a job, he signed
up and remained with the outfit for five years. He next joined the Benny Pollock Band, another number one outfit,
and his next step was the Dorsey Brothers Orchestra, where he played alongside such musicians as Glenn Miller, Skeets Herfurt
and Bob Crosby. When Ray Noble came to America, he asked Glenn to help him organize a band, and the
first musician to be signed was Spivak. When Spivak left to try his musical wings on his own, he became
the highest paid freelance trumpeter in radio, playing on the Ford Symphony Hour, Kate Smith and Fred Allen broadcast. When
he felt ready to organize his own band, a lot of encouragement came from Glenn Miller who told him he
had all the ingredients necessary.

(Continued On Page Three)

Laughton, Peerce, Stern, Sandburg To Highlight D. C. Artist Series

Such names as Charles Laughton, Jan Peerce, Isaac Stern, and Carl Sandburg will highlight the 1953-54 Davidson College Artist Series.
Nine outstanding personalities and groups will appear during the year, bringing the best in music, drama, and lectures on the
campus. The series will open Wednesday, October 14, when Claude Rains, the distinguished star of stage and screen, will present
“Great Words with Great Music” in Chambers auditorium at 8:15 p.m.

James Wolfe, brilliant young pianist, will appear on Friday, November 13. Mr. Wolfe has played many recitals in North and
South America in addition to appearances with the Philadelphia Symphony and the Denver Symphony, all with enthusiastic acclaim.

“An Evening with Charles Laughton,” Tuesday, December 1, will be the third attraction in the series. Mr. Laughton, one of
the foremost actors of our time, was scheduled for an appearance in last year’s series, but had to cancel his
tour because of illness. The Artist Series committee is happy to announce that Mr. Laughton was anxious to fulfill his
commitment by appearing on this year’s series.

America’s greatest tenor, Jan Peerce, will make his appearance on Wednesday, December 16. He has won the admiration of critics
and fellow musicians and has acquired a large and devoted public.

Isaac Stern, recognized as America’s foremost violinist, will present a concert on Saturday, February 13, 1954. Mr. Stern has played
with every major symphony orchestra in the country and is well known through his recordings of the world’s violin classics.

Something different in the entertainment field will be presented on Wednesday, February 24, when a festival company of Basques will
present an evening of colorful pageantry under the title, “Euzkadi!” The company consists of fifteen talented singers and dancers, and
their performance will present a view of a unique and intriguing culture.

The distinguished Princeton scientist, Dr. Hubert Alyea, will present his highly interesting and entertaining lecture on Atomic energy on Wednesday,
March 10. Throughout the talk he will illustrate the various reactions with many chemical experiments and demonstrations which were described
recently in Life magazine.

On Wednesday, March 31, the two-time Pulitzer Prize winner, Carl Sandburg, will give a reading of his poetry and will
comment upon the literary scene. He is known as America’s “most truly native poet,” and his appearance will mark a
literary highlight of the year.

Closing the series on Friday, April 30, will be Irene Jordan, soprano. Miss Jordan has a dramatic soprano voice with
coloratura facility which critics describe as “reminiscent of the great voices of the golden age.” After making her Metropolitan Opera
debut in 1946, she impressed the public so that she is now widely acclaimed as one of the nation’s top
sopranos.

This will mark the first season that the heretofore separate music series and non-music series are combined into what is
now known as The Davidson College Artist Series. Five hundred season tickets will be available to the general public, and
single admission tickets will be sold for all individual performances. There are no reserved seats. All performances will begin at
8:15 p.m., and will be held in Chambers Auditorium. Information and tickets may be obtained by writing to: Artist Series,
Davidson College, Davidson, N.C.
