PAGE TWO

Bad Manners Are Not Excusable

The student body of Davidson College often likes to think of itself as being pretty sophisticated. It has outgrown the use of certain words which were all right for Sunday School, but which just don’t mean anything to college men. It can, for instance, find a great deal of humor in a speaker's reference to Davidson students as “gentlemen”; it can be pleasantly amused at the naivete of her definition of the word. Explainable, it finds any serious reference to the hackneyed old term “honor” just a little too much to take with a straight face. These two words, which may have once carried a great deal of meaning, are now dead and gone, and the ideas they used to convey are left searching for a new place to sit down. Meanwhile, we are snug in our sophistication.

But not entirely so. For where imagination fails, sophistication breaks down; and when we can’t think of an effective way to register disapproval of compulsory chapel, we are reduced to the rather naive expedient of forgetting our manners. Bad manners can be explained but not excused; a breach of good manners is the result of ignorance or lack of concern for human personality. And when there is not even a practical reason for the breach, there isn’t much left. To speak plainly: our bad manners in chapel are gaining us nothing but a rather wide reputation of not being able to behave as well as most high school student assemblies.—R.S.C.

Council Interprets Honor; All Work Considered Pledged

In line with the recent emphasis of the Student Council on personal honor, The Davidsonian publishes below Section 2 of the Article on the Honor System in the Student Body Constitution, together with the resolution passed by the Council in regard to its interpretation. Though recently we questioned the wisdom of the present interpretation of “any other pledged work” and still consider our criticism valid, we wish to commend its spirit and that of the Council in vigilantly seeking to guard what is probably the most essential part of the Davidson tradition.

Section 2: “Every student shall be honor bound to refrain from cheating either on recitations, reviews, examinations, or any other pledged work.”

Whereas the spirit and purpose of the Honor System, including this section, is for the protection and preservation of honor at Davidson, the Student Council interprets the phrase “any other pledged work” to mean any written work handed in to a professor as one’s own work. The only exceptions to this statement are cases in which the instructor shall specifically announce that the work in question is not to be considered pledged. The Student Council recommends that the customary Honor Pledge be used on pledged work, or simply the word “Pledged” and the student’s signature; but the Council does not consider these words essential for work to be pledged work.

In making this interpretation, the Student Council acts on two premises: first, that the term “cheating” refers to any deliberate and willful attempt by a student to deceive an instructor in order to receive a better grade or to give aid for such a purpose; second, that such a concept of plain honesty ought not to be bounded by any legalisms or loopholes which may be fabricated to thwart the spirit of the Honor System. The Student Council earnestly requests the cooperation of the faculty in eliminating any vagueness or misunderstanding concerning the Honor System by making specific announcements to their students when any work is to be written.

Newsweek Comes Through

Many of the popular magazine articles on college life, especially in the more lurid periodicals, tend to play up the college generation as thrill-mad and hell-bent for destruction. It is refreshing to see in one of the foremost news weeklies, Newsweek, an attention-holding, but nevertheless, sane and sober coverage of a representative portion of college students. The current edition of Newsweek, now on sale at newsstands, without a doubt presents one of the most realistic attempts to interpret the aims, interests, and pastimes of the American undergraduate that we have ever seen. Newsweek sees the typical collegian as a person who is still able to have a good time, but whose deepest interests are in the more lasting pursuits. Drinking, sex, studying, and politics are included among the topics that are handled frankly but with discretion. In preparing this report, Newsweek interviewed students at seven representative institutions: Vassar, Northwestern, U.C.L.A., Howard, Georgetown, Princeton, and Georgia Tech.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF: Moody Smith
BUSINESS MANAGER: Blake Brinkerhoff
ASSOCIATE EDITORS: Buddy Lamon, Bob Owen, Hunter Strader
Assistant Editors: Henry Brockmann, Floyd Feeney, John Handley, Austin Strand
Feature Editor: T. A. Williams
News Editor: Ed Price
Photographer: Andy Simons
Circulation Manager: Dick Little
Collections Manager: Tim Cooper

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897.

Permanent Farm Subsidization Unfair To Other Tax Payers

Back in 1928, before this generation’s Davidsonians were born, a newly elected senator from the predominantly agricultural state of Minnesota stated when he came to Washington: “I am here primarily to lead the farmers up to the Treasury trough.” To say that the farmers of America have succeeded in finding their way to the “Treasury trough” would be a masterpiece of understatement today. The farmers presently enjoy a subsidy from the taxpayers like no other economic group in this country. And yet when they are caught in today’s cost-price squeeze just like everybody else, they want still more from the government in the way of high, rigid price supports.

Why Are Farmers Privileged?

The farmers have been subsidized in America for so long that most of us don’t even give the matter a second thought. But it seems to me that when they clamor for more subsidy when the taxpayer is already faced annually with a higher bill from Uncle Sam than ever before in history, it is time to consider why this one group is entitled to such a continuing prop from the rest of society.

Government intervention into farm problems began as far back as 1929, in the dark days of the Great Depression when emergency measures were vitally necessary to keep the farmers on their feet. This developed further into a regular government policy in 1933, when the New Deal began to pay farmers for not producing so many crops in order to prevent the glutting of the market by those individuals who sought to find their way out of their dilemma by producing more.

Now Permanent Policy

But what started out to be an emergency measure began to develop into regular government policy in 1938 when the New Deal government decided to make outright price-support purchases of dairy products, vegetables, fruits, and other farm commodities. And this policy has been continued down through the war days (when it was not even needed) to the present time, so that most of us don’t even think anything about it. Thus we can see that what started out to be a temporary crutch has become a permanent prop, at a high cost to the American consumer-taxpayer.

As a college senior and a city dweller, I do not pretend to know all the ins and outs of the problem or even to be very close to the problem itself. But it seems to me that all of today’s college students—who will, after all, be the taxpayers of tomorrow—should be concerned with this continued high subsidizing of one economic group in the country.

Farmer A Businessman

The farmer is basically a businessman, just like the manufacturer or the store owner. But what happens when any other businessman incorrectly evaluates consumer demand? When he fails to make a profit, or at least break even, he is forced out of business. Nobody is going to give him a subsidy so that he can continue in business, when it is obvious his service is not desired and/or needed.

But this is where the farmer is set apart from any other businessman. When he has raised too big a potato crop and the market price is forced down, the government pays him the difference between the price he gets from the wholesaler and “parity” (defined by Webster as a “balance between the prices received by the farmer for his products and the prices he has to pay for labor and for equipment, necessities, and comforts”).

Resources Not As Mobile

It is certainly true, as the farm spokesmen maintain, that the farmers’ resources are not nearly as mobile as those of the manufacturer or the store owner, and that it would take a lot longer and be much more difficult for him to divert his resources to another line of work than it would the former two types of businessmen. This argument is a good one for temporary aids to farmers who are in bad shape, but as your sophomore economics book will tell you, “by maintaining an artificially high price for farm products, resources normally lacking in mobility are further encouraged to remain in agriculture.” In other words, instead of being convinced he should go into another line of work when he loses money, the farmer is continually given a yearly reprieve by the government in the form of subsidy.

Competitive Solution

The competitive solution, of course, would be to let some of the country’s farmers, in view of the low return from their efforts, be forced into other occupations. But as long as they have the blessing of the government—or rather the politicians who are the Government—they will continue to live off the taxpayer.

The situation, then, is this: there are too many farmers in America today, producing too much. Therefore, the price is low, and the government makes up the difference between this price and parity. And in the process, the taxpayer is getting the raw deal of the artificial situation.

It is evidently too much to hope that these high, rigid price supports for farm products will ever be discontinued, and any more reasonable and fair policy be substituted. But it is to be hoped that voters and taxpayers of America, who by now are used to partially subsidizing the farmers, will at least let the Administration know how they feel on the subject when such groups as the cattlemen make a pilgrimage to Washington to get more aid in the form of price supports. Temporary aid in the form of loans and disaster relief funds, yes; but permanent subsidization, a very firm no.

EXCHANGE NOTES: Blind Man’s Bluff

Provincialism has moved in—and with what a vengeance—on the University of Maryland. Dean of Men George Eppley, in a new quest for conformity on our contemporary, has destroyed several hundred copies of Maryland’s student newspaper, the Diamondback. This is a courageous extension of a trend which seems to have become fashionable in the American publications atmosphere—the trend of censorship. The State Department, of all groups, started the ball rolling this summer; now, in the Maryland instance, it seems to be snowballing. First, it was the burning of books. Now the burning fad has lit upon articles and pictures for newspapers. As The Daily Tar Heel understands it, the battle at Maryland began when the Diamondback and its editor, Miss Elin Lake, planned to publish a picture showing an empty seat at a student council meeting, and a story about the dean ofwomen’s being connected with a traffic violation. But Mr. Eppley and his dean of women stamped out the revelations. We do not believe censorship in any form is permissible or advisable. For that matter, neither did those gentlemen who wrote “Congress shall make no law . . . abridging the freedom of the press.” We hope Miss Lake keeps her quill sharp and her objectives true. And may the offended Mr. Eppley and the dean of women show a greater understanding of the public’s right to know.—Daily Tar Heel.

Cause For Thought

There are educators who tell us that students who come to college are hampered in their thinking because they have spent too much time just learning to spell. These same educators say our language should be simplified in its spelling, so that everyone would have an easier time of it. We agree. If our teachers had not spent so much time on spelling and such things, we could have learned more about aesthetics and culture and the like. May we suggest that those in Olde South who are paid to consider such things consider such things—Daily Tar Heel.

OFF-MOORINGS: FRIDAY, OCTOBER 30, 1953

“Courteous, Truthful, Reverent, And Above All, Honorable...”

“Courteous, truthful, reverent, and above all, honorable”—these words described for Emily Butler, our visiting Woman's College speaker in Wednesday's chapel, the gentlemanliness of the Davidson students. These are high ideals and represent a way of thinking about ourselves that is not infrequently misinterpreted. It is often supposed that merely by being at Davidson, one immediately has bestowed on him those qualities of honor and integrity that we so frequently are told we have. Nothing quiets the chapel service more than for a speaker to pat the student body on the back and tell us what good fellows we are. There is an outright acceptance of our goodness that reveals our over-willingness to believe we are better than we are. Nothing could possibly be more natural, for we do like to hear good things said about ourselves. But do we deserve these attributes? And do we live up to what is said and supposed of us?

Dr. McGavock, in a chapel speech last year, made the observation that we express ourselves in a wide variety of gentlemanly contacts, social and intellectual, in the classroom and out. He went on to say, however, that taken together there is a great lack of gentlemanliness among students, especially in chapel. There are a few who see us for what we are. Many another example of our lack of consideration for others and what must be called outright childishness are available. The morning of Homecoming, Saturday, October 17, some pranksters were having their full delight as they went up and down the halls of several dorms shouting, “Get up fellows! Beautiful day out today. Ought to get up and see the bright sunshine!” The calls between the dormitories serve to let off the steam of pressure built up studying. This is also designed as the perfect way to end other men’s quiet and study.

Dr. Blackburn on Sunday night said, “What we are is what we do.” Using this as a criterion of logical judgment, where then do we find ourselves? Does not the assumption of our goodness point its way to the increasing revelation of our “thinking better of ourselves than we ought to think?” Isn’t that another way of saying we are hypocritical in our self-understanding? We ought to recognize that we are still young—generally between seventeen and twenty-one years old—that we are undergoing the powerful tests of studies, life away from the security of home, and the necessity of proving ourselves without outside support. Being youths we have youthful inclinations and are in all likelihood more unrestrained, more influenced by our emotions, and more idealistic than other segments of society. The point is that we should recognize ourselves for what we are. Let us see our position for what it is rather than letting the dictates of what Davidson once was or is now supposed to be blind us to the realization of our present situation. It would be far wiser perhaps to say, “There is among the Davidson students gentlemanliness in every sense of the word. There is courteousness, truthfulness, reverence, and above all, honor.” All these qualities are found in varying degrees in all students, but not fully exemplified in any one and certainly not typical of all.

HOW MATURE?

Closely allied with the subjects already dealt with is that of the maturity of the Davidson students. Much has been said and written about this maturity ranging from attacks on childishness to the assumption that all students are mature and have arrived at their peak of development. Now maturity is relative, and there is no quick and easy way of determining whether an individual or a group of individuals is mature or immature. Some characteristics of maturity are definable for determining the question and can be applied to our situation. The important thing among students is not so much to be mature before a person’s age permits, but to be making progress in the right direction and to achieve a reasonable correlation between the calendar age and the rest of an individual’s development. It may be expected that some discrepancy between calendar age and relative maturity is normal, provided that it is not too pronounced. Maturity depends in part on habit patterns, in part upon the physiological and psychological equipment with which an individual is born and the growth pattern by which it develops. Most important of all is the desire to be mature. This requires that we realize our inadequacies and try to overcome them in the light of this analysis. This is not intended as a full analysis of Davidsonian maturity. It takes in only some of the peripheral areas of the subject, suggesting possibly that there is a broader basis for discussion than the snap judgments of the past have implied.

WHY NOT REGIMENT HONOR?

Davidson College has the reputation, at least within a two-block radius of Chambers, of being a prep-type school, a school where conduct is dictated from above and enforced by a group of popularly elected policemen, known as the Student Council. This has been true for many years in several areas of student life. Compulsory chapel attendance has been required by the school administration, and attempts to maintain decorum therein have been led by the students’ choice. In the area of drinking, the dictum is imposed by the administration and by tradition, and the Student Council is relegated to the often embarrassing status of an inquisitor. Prior to the incumbent council, however, there was one field in which the student made his own decision. That was in a particular section of our renowned honor system, specifically the cheating code. To be convicted of cheating undoubtedly has been the blackest mark that could be imposed on the record of any Davidsonian. Why should one be so dishonored when caught for cheating when the equally punishable offenses of gambling or drinking do not carry such a stigma? Perhaps the main reason that the student body regarded this offense to be so serious is that the student had to deliberately perjure his honor. Before the New Interpretation last spring, a student was guilty of nothing when he copied an answer from someone else’s paper. He made himself liable to expulsion when he signed the pledge on such a piece of stolen work. Simply, it was impossible to break the honor code in regard to cheating without making a premeditated decision to lie on one’s honor and thus risk being expelled. For the few who have done it, it must have taken a lot of guts to write the pledge on a piece of work that was not entirely his own. Honor was a positive action on the part of the student, but since last spring’s ruling that all work is automatically pledged unless exempted by the instructor, compliance with the honor code is forced upon the student who has no choice to make. Honor has become negative. I am not saying that previously a student could cheat and not suffer a penalty. But prior to last spring, at least theoretically, the instructor would request that a paper be pledged if he so desired, and an unpledged paper would be graded zero. Zero would seem to be a sufficient penalty for someone who has cheated in a moment of weakness but who has not gone so far as to lie in an effort to receive unearned credit. Now this right has been taken from the student by its own officers, perhaps acting freely, perhaps not. Now there is but one penalty for cheating regardless of how immediate might be the student’s regret. In order to cheat, it is no longer necessary to watch one’s conscience. It is only necessary to watch those who might see you. It is for this reason that there is drinking among the Davidson student body, whereas there has been a negligible amount of cheating. The student who wants to take a drink does not feel that he is tearing down the honor system which he has been taught to respect. He does not feel this because he has no part in the enforcement of the anti-drinking regulations. He is not compelled to make an affirmative statement that he has not taken a drink as he once was required to swear that he had neither given nor received aid. If he wants to take a drink, he feels that he must only be careful of who might see him. Will this become the case when one has the urge to get an answer from someone else? It could easily become so since the conditions of each type of violation are now the same.

Thus far I have been discussing honor as the principle involved, affirmative honor versus assumed compelled honor. But this question also has some very practical applications. What about a short essay on some problem in history? Can two students cooperate on getting the relevant information from the book? The professor may have said nothing about the paper being considered pledged work. It may not even be designed to be handed in but merely for class discussion. Under the New Interpretation a la Kiser this paper would be under the honor system even if the professor did not care whether it was individual work or not. And the students would not be given the privilege of refusing to sign the pledge. They would be just as guilty of cheating as someone who stole a page out of someone else's exam and added it to his own. And what about laboratory courses? It is when there is such confusion of right and wrong easily possible that a system of law begins to break down. This confusion is apparent now in the classes of many professors who still ask for the written pledge, though it is (Continued on Page Four)

THE YOUNG MEN’S SHOP OF MOORESVILLE, N. C.

Is Happy to Announce Their Fall Showing of the Latest Styles In College Fashions

At The Student Union ON TUESDAY AND WEDNESDAY NOVEMBER 3rd and 4th Registration On Both Days!

A Drawing Will Be Held Wed. at 10:30 p.m. PRIZES GIVEN AWAY INCLUDE:
- Nunn-Bush Shoes
- Hubbard Pants
- Wilson Sport Shirt
- Cuff Links

Come Down and Browse Around

The Young Men’s Shop North Main Street Mooresville, N. C.