FRIDAY, OCTOBER 30, 1953 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

Cross Country Runners Meet Generals, Keydets

Coach Pete Whittle’s Harriers will meet V.M.I. and Washington and Lee in a triangular cross country meet tomorrow at Lexington, Va., in what may prove to be one of the top meets in the Southern Conference this year. This meet will be an important test as to what can be expected from the locals in the Southern Conference meet two weeks off. Both Washington and Lee and V.M.I. have strong teams and sport good conference records. Davidson defeated Washington and Lee in their only win last year. Washington and Lee is greatly improved over last year's team, and has been a big surprise. They've defeated Richmond, William and Mary, and V.P.I., while losing to West Virginia and Bridgewater.

VMI Strong

V.M.I. downed the Cats last year and will be out to do the same this year. V.M.I. is well balanced, and has just tasted defeat once to strong West Virginia. Last week they were second behind the Quantico Marines in the Virginia A.A.U. meet. If the Cats take this meet, they could easily cop the Southern Conference dual meet championship. They have defeated Richmond and William and Mary in the conference this year, and if they take W. and L., and V.M.I., it will leave them with a clean conference slate.

Sparks Leads

Captain Homer Sparks is scheduled to lead the Cats tomorrow. Sparks has proved to be a consistent winner this year, and will be one of the favorites in the Conference and state meets. Along with Sparks will be Feeney, Turner, and Lovette. Lovette turned in his best showing of the year last week against W. and M., and State. Herschel Allen, John Handley, Archie Joyner, and Paul Alexander make up the remainder of the team. Each of these has been working hard, and the outcome of tomorrow's meet could easily be determined by their showing.

State Shows Power

The Harriers continued in their winning ways last week as they defeated W. and M., but lost to N.C. State, one of the top teams in the country, in a triangular meet. Sawyer led the strong State team and turned in one of his best showings of the year. Sparks was first for the Cats, but finished fifth in the meet behind four State runners. Following tomorrow's meet, Davidson will run in the State meet at Raleigh against Duke, U.N.C., and N.C. State. Davidson has never climbed out of last place in this meet, but this year it has a good chance of taking second or third. After the State meet, they travel again to Williamsburg for the Conference meet in which they will be the dark horse contender for the championship. The following week, they will participate in the Carolina’s A.A.U. here at Davidson.

Gray Ended Davidson Career With Furman

By JOHN HANDLEY

Last week’s Furman encounter marked not only a humiliating loss for the Cats as far as the score was concerned, but more important, the loss of the offensive sparkplug, Johnny Gray. The slim speedster made his last appearance in a Wildcat football uniform as a leg injury put him out of action for the rest of the season. There have been many “ifs” in Davidson football talk in the past, but here one might well be added. Had Gray’s early injury against the Hurricane last weekend not occurred, there might well have been a considerable difference in the score. During the last two years of his Davidson football career, Gray has been the guiding light of the offense and one of the best safetymen in the business. During this season especially, Johnny has proved to be the sparkplug of the team.

Switched to Offense

Gray was used mostly on defense during his first two years on the squad, but after his performance in the State encounter last year, he has been an offensive regular. He played at the halfback spot last year until Jack Ruth was sidelined at which time he moved in to show his worth under the center. He has played quarterback consistently this season.

JUST ARRIVED —

JOHNNY GRAY

His loss hurt Wildcat hopes in the remaining four games. A leg injury at Furman on the opening kickoff ended his college career. All during his offensive career, (Continued On Page Four)

AT Wilson's Men's Shop

Just Arrived: New BANTAMAG Suede Jackets in CHARCOAL, NAVY, TAN, CAMEL, and BLUETONE. Also, imported GOATSKIN JACKETS in WHITE and RAWHIDE. See them soon at Wilson’s Men’s Shop “COLLEGIATE FASHIONS” Next to Bank in Davidson.

Pictured above is the 1953 Davidson cross country team. They carry an undefeated record within the conference into the W&L-VMI encounter. Right to left are, first row: Mgr. Don Stewart, Herschel Allen, John Handley, Dick Lovette, Joe Caudell, Floyd Feeney, and Mgr. Dill Garrison; second row: Archie Joyner, Paul Alexander, Homer Sparks (Capt.), Bill Shipley, Andy Turner and Coach Whittle.

TIE MARKS TAG LOOP

Delt Win Brings Freshman Runners Three-Team Tie

The Phi Delts knocked the Kappa Sigs out of the unbeaten ranks and moved both teams into a three-way tie with the Sigma Chis. Each of the teams now sport a six won, one lost record. The Sigma Chis won three more games during the week, while the Phi Delts won two and the Kappa Sigs were winning one and dropping one. The Betas move up into fifth place behind the KAs and have shown the most improvement since the first of the season. The ATOs won their first game of the year and moved into a three-way tie for last place with the Phi Gams and Pi Kapps. The results through Wednesday's games are as follows:

Phi Delts 46, KAs 12

The Phi Delts moved into a tie for first place by defeating the KAs 46 to 12. Buddy Brown and Ralph Petree sparked the winning attack while Pappy Fowle kept the KAs alive with his passes.

ATO 48, SAE 12

The ATOs moved into the winning side with an impressive win over the SAEs. Clifford Deal stood out for the ATOs, while Steve Norton, quarterbacked the SAE team.

Sigma Chi 50, KA 20

Perrin Anderson and Ray Harding sparked the Sigma Chis to a victory at the expense of the KAs. “Pappy” Fowle’s passing was not enough to match the scoring ability of the Sigma Chis.

Beta 26, Phi Gam 0

Graeme Keith led the Betas in their shut-out win over the Phi Gams. Tommy Lamb stood out defensively along with Charley Hasty. Charles Hall was the main threat of the Phi Gams.

New Chesterfield Contest To Open With Next Game

Many of you remember the Chesterfield Sports Quiz that was run in The Davidsonian in years past. This week Charlie Hall, the representative for Chesterfield cigarettes on the Davidson campus, announced that a new Chesterfield Sports Contest is now under way. Hall stated that this contest is in the form of a guessing game whereby the Davidson student body will be given a chance to predict the score of Davidson's football game for that week with a carton of Chesterfields going each week to the owner of the correct or nearest correct prediction. Hall stated the rules for the contest as follows: Each score prediction to be written on an empty wrapper from a pack of Chesterfields, either regular or king size, along with the contestant’s name and room number and deposited in the Chesterfield box in the Student Store of the College Union. Each week’s contest will be open until 12 o’clock Saturday, with the winner being given his Chesterfields on the following Monday. In case of a tie, duplicate prizes will be given. Each Friday the winner from the previous week will be announced in this column along with any news of the outcome and progress of the contest. Davidson vs. Harvard—What's your prediction?

SPE 12, Pika 6 (Overtime)

In a fast and exciting game the Sig Eps edged the Pikas by the score of 12 to 6. Joe Pharr was the big man in the Pika attack while Fred Stowe and Bill Marable led the winning attack.

Kappa Sigma 27, Phi Gam 7

The Kappa Sigs defeated the Phi Gams bythe score of 27 to 7. Corky Clark and Lacy Keesler sparked the Kappa Sig attack. Watt Moore was the standout for the Phi Gams.

Sigma Chi 34, Pika 18
The Sigma Chis rolled to another victory in a very fast game as they downed the Pikas 34-18. Big Ray Harding again led the Sigma Chis with his passing and running. Bob Owen and Bill Hanna paced the Pika attack.

KA 26, SPE 20
“Pappy” Fowle directed the KAs to a close win over a strong SPE team. Allan Harless turned in several nice runs for the winners. Bill Lay led the SPE attack.

SAE 21, Pi Kappa Phi 19
The SAEs downed the Pi Kapps in a very close game as extra points meant the deciding edge. The freshman-studded SAE team (Continued On Page Four)

W&L, Harvard Hosts To Cats Tomorrow
CATS READY FOR TOMORROW'S IMPORTANT MEET

Footballers Hit Crimsons In Intersectional Clash
By JIM HOLSHOUSER
Davidson’s winless Wildcats run up against another tough customer tomorrow when they meet Harvard’s powerful Crimsons at Cambridge, Massachusetts. The intersectional clash pits the Cats against one of the best teams in the Ivy League. The Davidson team has worked long and hard in practice this week in preparation for the game. The injury of Johnny Gray on the kickoff at Furman last week will keep him out for the rest of the season.

WILDKITTENS HOST TO GEORGIA TEAM IN LAST ‘AT HOME
The Davidson College freshman football team will be hosts to Gordon Military College of Barnesville, Georgia, this Saturday afternoon in what promises to be a real battle. The whistle will blow for the kickoff in the local stadium at 2:30 p.m., and the Kittens will be gunning for their second win of the season after losing to Furman in their last encounter. Gordon Junior College will bring to Davidson a very strong and determined squad. They have had a very good season so far this year, downing McCallie 13 to 7, and they are reported to have edged Georgia Military Academy, 12-7. The contest should prove to be a rugged battle as both teams will be “up” for the game.

Coach Hambright feels that his squad is in wonderful spirit, but he believes it will take sixty minutes of smart playing by each of his men to play Gordon a good game. The team has greatly improved in the last two weeks and seems to be in good physical shape for the encounter. The two ends, Tom Newton and Bill Gramley, have been catching the passes and tackling much better in the past few practices. Also, the tackles, Brewer and Lawing, have been charging much faster and hitting more viciously as well as fine performances from Lewyllen and Hatcher at the guard positions. The freshman center Randy Johnston has a broken finger, but is eager to play and will be ready for the opening kickoff. The Kitten backfield has been fighting for extra yardage during practice sessions and have been hitting very hard; they looked more polished this week than they have all season. After the Kittens meet Gordon tomorrow, they will journey to Charleston, S.C., to close the season by playing The Citadel on November 7. This should prove to be a real battle for Hambright’s men since The Citadel freshmen tied Furman, 7-7.

The loss of Gray has left the Wildcats with only one experienced signal-caller, Bill Rowland. Henry Brown, who played the post frequently in the early part of the season, will probably be moved back to quarterback in tomorrow’s game when Rowland needs a rest. Last week, Furman took a 34-0 victory over the Cats, as they scored in every period except the second. The Davidson eleven never got rolling, and the Purple Hurricane showed why they are fifth in the nation in rushing offense as they ground out 504 yards on the ground.

Impressive Record
Harvard has won three of its four contests this season and looked very impressive in doing so. The Crimson's only loss was at the hands of Columbia, 6-0. They have taken victories over Ohio University, Colgate, and Dartmouth. Harvard sports one of the finest tailbacks in the country in Dick Clasby. Clasby was selected for All-American honors on many pre-season polls. He is also captain of the Harvard eleven. The Crimsons will not be taking tomorrow's game lightly. Undoubtedly, they still have visions of last year’s game which almost turned into a nightmare. Cambridge newspapers had predicted an easy win, with the Harvard substitutes playing most of the game.

Repeat Performance?
Instead, a fired-up bunch of southerners out-played the Crimsons and almost won the game. After trailing the Wildcats for three quarters, the Harvard team barely squeaked by with a one-touchdown victory. With the exception of Gray, the Wildcats will be at full strength tomorrow. Co-Captain Ben Craig has returned to the team workouts this week, but the extent that Coach Dole will use him is uncertain. Coach Dole and his staff have worked hard with the team this week (Continued On Page Four)

Volleyball Tourney Slated For Davidson Early Next Spring
The Southeastern U.S. Intercollegiate Volleyball Tournament is set to be played here on the Davidson College campus early in March. This will be the initial college tournament of its kind for this general area of the U.S., and the invitations to play in this tournament will be sent to all schools of the area. Florida State University of Tallahassee, which last year was fourth in the national volley finals, will definitely participate in the contest here on the local courts. Mr. Paul Scott, chairman for the event, recently announced that Davidson's team will be determined after tryouts which will be held in December. All students, including freshmen, are eligible to compete for the team and represent the Cats in this Southeastern tournament. This year the Volleyball team will not be considered as a regular intercollegiate team such as basketball, therefore no letters or awards will be given. It is purely an opportunity for those interested in playing to get on a well-organized team and represent the college in outside competition. However, in the future it may be included as an intercollegiate sport.

How the stars got started
ANNE JEFFREYS dreamed of being an Opera star, studied long and hard. BOB STERLING could have been a pro athlete, but chose the long, hard path of acting. Both eventually won good parts on stage, radio, and TV. They met on a TV show, sang an impromptu duet, became Mr. & Mrs. in real life, and now star as “Mr. and Mrs. Kerby” on the new “Topper” program!

WE'RE THANKFUL SO MANY OF OUR THEATRE FRIENDS TOLD US TO TRY CAMELS. TO ME THEIR MILDNESS IS TOPS—AND BOB MUCH PREFERS CAMELS' FLAVOR. PURE PLEASURE FOR BOTH OF US! YOU OUGHT TO TRY THEM!

More people smoke Camels than any other cigarette!
Find out for yourself! Smoke only Camels for 30 days and find out why Camels are first in mildness, flavor, and popularity! See how much pure pleasure a cigarette can give you!