ALENDA LUX UBI! Ian GRTA LIBERTAS @ British ig lagging

Lord James Milner, former Deputy Speaker of the House

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 1953

Politician Son Call To DC Church U. for Officer of Commons, will deliver a lecture, “How Strong is Britain,” at Candidates at Newport, R. I. in the College Union on February 17th at 8:15 p.m. He was cheerleader, vice president of the junior and senior class, manager for the tennis team, and a member of Kappa Sigma fraternity.

The vacant pastorate of the Davidson College Presbyterian Church has been filled by the acceptance of a call by the Reverend Samuel W. Newell, present pastor of the Mullins (S. C.) Presbyterian Church.

By DICK LILES

Reidsville, N. C. has been serving with the 25th Infantry in Korea and is returning to the U. S. under the Army’s rotation program. Comer was with the Chatman Manufacturing Co., N. C., before entering the service.

Reverend Newell is well qualified to be the minister of the Davidson church, because he is a former Davidson student, familiar with the campus, its students, and its traditions.

Born in Jackson, Mississippi in 1917, Sam Newell entered Davidson in 1935 and was graduated in 1939. While in Davidson he was an outstanding student in classroom and extra-curricular activities.

By far more successful than last year’s attempt, this year's IFC-sponsored Greek Week has just come to a close with a bevy of the finest skits witnessed by this student body in a long time. The skits and a fine social hour at the Ovens Union featuring “Anne Clark and Her Queens Cuties” climaxed the three-day “week” of the Greeks. The Alpha Tau Omega pledges won the fine cup for the best pledge skit with their rendition of “Armpit.”

The Sigma Chis came in second with a pantomime of one of Spike Jones’ classics and the Betas and Kappa Sigs tied for third place. The Betas took the audience behind the scenes of a movie set while the Kappa Sigs presented Bill (Victor Borge) Taylor on the piano.

At the Union, Anne Clark and her three helpers put on a very fine and effective program of vocal selections. The girls showed real talent in their harmonizing and brought down the house several times with their “novelty” numbers. Anne is a regular comedienne anyway, and she was very effective in mentioning several of the students in connection with some of the numbers.

Seniors interested in taking the Graduate Record Examination, next to be given on April 17-18, should see Professor Ostwalt by March 4. Many graduate schools require a satisfactory showing on this test for admittance.

Professor Ostwalt emphasized that if as many as ten students desired to take the exam, arrangements can be made to have Davidson declared a special testing center. The exam, administered by Educational Testing Service of Princeton, consists of three parts. First, there is a “Profile Test” questioning the student on general information; then a Special Aptitudes Test which indicates aptitude for graduate work. Finally, the Advanced Test examines the student on the fields in which he has specialized.

The first tests were given in January when eighteen students were tested at Davidson. If less than ten students want to take the exam, they will have to take it with other centers.

Lord James Milner

As Deputy Speaker for eight years in the House, Lord Milner was at the rudder of British Politics, and is an acknowledged master of the complex British Parliamentary system. He has been in the House since 1929. In 1947 he was created a baron, and in the House of Lords there is independence of judgment, a strong sense of fair play, and an exact knowledge of parliamentary procedure.

Lord Milner’s experience and knowledge thus make him particularly well qualified to tell the fascinating story of British parliamentary democracy in action. In 1928 he became Lord Mayor of Leeds, Yorkshire. Born in 1889, at the age of 21 Lord Milner took his place as a partner in his father’s law firm of which he is now the head. He served in World War I, was wounded, captured, escaped and was recaptured.

Lt. Richard Stockton, '52, of Winston-Salem, N. C. has completed the associate infantry company officer course at Fort Benning, Ga., and is now stationed at Camp Rucker, Ala. Dick was IFC president, a member of ODK, Who’s Who Among Students in American Colleges and Universities, Co-Captain (along with his twin brother Tom Stockton) of the Cross Country team, a member of the Beaver Club and Kappa Sigma social fraternity.

He was vice-president of Omicron Delta Kappa, president of Sigma Upsilon, and was on the Y. M. C. A. Board of Control. He was president of his senior class and an officer in his social order, Kappa Sigma.

Sigma Upsilon held its January meeting at the D. Grier Martin’s home, with the program being presented by student members and faculty members. The purpose of this combination social-literary meeting was to acquaint the new members with the older members and to discuss the plans for the coming year.

The entire report was given in the editorial column of the Davidsonian, but the remaining points were not thought to be entirely valid arguments. Not feeling that the Monday meeting had evolved satisfactory progress, the committee continued its deliberations.Requested by the faculty members’ wives, the result was the establishment of a used books collection but not sold at another conference Wednesday with Sigma Upsilon. The first portion of the program was presented by some of the faculty wives.

Mrs. Goldiere greeted the group with a humorous poem of welcome. Mrs. McCutchan gave a witty sketch of the different members of the faculty greeting their wives. Mrs. Johnson presented a short story on the trials of the hostess of an undergraduate’s date on a dance weekend. Mrs. Martin gave a study of a six-year-old stage-struck girl.

Davidson students will get their opportunity to help the Dutch people, who have been badly stricken in the recent gale on the European coast, through their vesper offerings. Johannes Miedema in Friday's chapel explained his people's plight, which includes 1,400 killed, 300,000 people who lost everything, 1,000,000 homeless, and 25% of the country flooded. Johannes said that the Dutch papers had mentioned the American aid very favorably because of their practical aid and quick assistance.

Any students having books that were not returned should contact Earnest McCutcheon, Fred Strand in order to obtain the books. Any books not called for within the next two weeks will be given to Professor Cumming who will ship them over to the Christian College in Japan. At this college, the books will either be put into the library or used by the students of the college.

Meeting with Drs. Cunningham and McGavock for two hours, they again discussed the six points in the committee report. At first, no suitable agreement was seen, but then several alternative plans were proposed by the committee for each of the two points originally presented by the administration — financial and class spirit.

To improve class spirit, there could be class dances and functions, increased class intramurals, yearly projects by all four classes, and possibly freshmen dorms. To satisfy the financial problem, the freshmen might eat one semester in the Union cafeteria. A substantial change in College Union membership fees must be worked out to be satisfactory.

The contributions from both groups were original. The works were openly criticized following their presentation.

Charlie Spivak, “the man who plays the sweetest trumpet in the world,” will appear here with his orchestra on February 20 and 21 for the mid-winter dances. Appearing along with Spivak are his song stylist, Irene Day, and his saxophonist, Joe “The Indian” Dasilva. A special attraction this year will be a concert by the group in Chambers Auditorium from 3:30 till 5:30 on Saturday afternoon.

Spivak has appeared at most of the nation’s top hotels and show places including the Shamrock in Houston, the Hippodrome in Baltimore, the Palladium in Hollywood, and the Commodore and Statler Hotels in New York. Although the Spivak band has always been noted for its sweet music, Charlie is placing more emphasis now than ever before on soft, danceable melodies. Charlie’s virtuosity, which has become known as “honey in the horn,” is due partially to his lip and breath control. He never uses a mute, even while playing the bell of his trumpet only two inches from the microphone.

After graduation from Davidson, Newell taught for two years at Battle Ground Academy in Franklin, Tennessee, where he made such a fine record that the headmaster of B.G.A. later wrote to Davidson to see if “Davidson could send him another teacher like Sam Newell.” Newell left B.G.A. to enter Emory University, where he received his Master’s degree in English in 1942. He married Miss Martha Daniel of Atlanta in 1943, after he had taught English as an instructor at Georgia Tech. He went on to serve two years with the Intelligence Service of the Army during the late Second World War. Sam Newell entered Union Seminary after the Second World War to study for the Christian ministry. His original plans had been to enter the University of North Carolina to start work on his Ph.D. in English, but as he was unpacking his work at Chapel Hill he felt a call to the ministry.

Phi Mu Alpha national honorary music fraternity in cooperation with the Music Department will present an organ recital in the College Church this Sunday afternoon. The artist will be Prof. John T. Fesperman, head of the organ department at Catawba College. Mr. Fesperman, a well-known musician and an active participant in the Intercollege Chamber Music League, is a native North Carolinian and a graduate of Davidson College. He served as President of Phi Mu Alpha here from 1946 until his graduation in June of 1948 with a B.A. degree.

Davidson is one of the 110 colleges which will compete in the 1953 National Intercollegiate Bridge Tournament. Between February 19 and 21, more than 3,000 men and women undergraduates throughout the United States will play on their own campuses the hands which have been prepared and mailed to them. This is the first such tournament ever taken by a state in this country. The colleges winning the national titles will be awarded cups, one cup for the college of the pair scoring highest on the East-West hands and one cup for the college of the North-South hand winners. Each college competing in the tournament will receive a copy of the hands played by the national champions.

Among the other schools in this zone against which our team will be competing are: Alabama, Centre, Duke, Florida, Georgia Tech, Kentucky, Mississippi, North Carolina, Rice Institute, Houston, Texas, and Middlebury College, Middlebury, Vermont, runner-up. Directing the tournament here is Prof. Watt.

A current development in art on the state and national scale is the recent purchase by the State of North Carolina of one million dollars worth of old masters. This is the first such purchase ever taken by a state in this country. It is expected that the legislature will soon have a suitable building in which these paintings may be displayed. Mr. Samuel Kress has also given a collection of early masters that has been valued at one million dollars. These will be added to the state collection.

A full showing of Philip Moose’s recent works is now hanging in Chambers Lobby. Consisting of watercolors and oils, there are some thirty-odd paintings in this collection. Mr. Moose did an illustration for the Ford Times for February 1953, of Jutoculla Rock, “a curiously-carved sandstone monolith in western North Carolina.”

Mitchell Patten could well be dubbed Davidson's Hollywood correspondent due to his recent letter exchange with one of the film capital’s most famous citizens, Cecil B. deMille. Mr. deMille sent Mitchell a personally autographed photograph of himself and a letter in which he said, “I am delighted to have such an outstanding bouquet of American Beauties. However, such a galaxy does not surprise an old Tarheel like me — the girls of North Carolina have always reminded me of these lines: ‘The Beauty which old Greece or Rome sung, painted, or fabled, is but a faint shadow of the living reality in the land of the Tarheels.’”

At a recent meeting of the Honorary Fraternity Council, officers were elected for the ensuing semester. Seated at the helm this semester are: Garrison, president; Bilt, vice-president; and Coomes, secretary.