FRIDAY, OCTOBER 9, 1953

For as long as the present student body can remember and for longer than most avid Davidson fans will admit,
the Wildcats have been winning mostly the so-called “moral” victories and all too few of the type that show in
the record books as actual point-margin victories. In looking over some of the old records of Wildcat football, this writer
felt it might be interesting to look at some of the cumulative statistics in Davidson’s past pigskin parade. The following
facts are what the records show.

By JOHN HANDLEY
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Cats at State Tomorrow
Wildcat Harriers
Wolfpack Is Host
Faced Maryville In Opener Today

By BILL HESTON

This afternoon the Davidson College cross-country course was the scene of Davidson’s first and only home meet of the new
season. The team ran without the able assistance of the fleet-footed senior Bill Shipley who will be missing from the
team for about a week.

Davidson's team, which is very much improved over last year, will be facing the same Maryville team they met last
year. The Maryville team will consist of almost all the men they had last year plus their freshmen who are
running this year. Because of conference rules, we will not be able to have the assistance of our freshmen, however,
Coach Pete Whittle feels we will show up much better.

Tuesday afternoon the team held its first time trials of the season and the result was that the first four
men, Sparks, Feeney, Turner, and Lovette ran the 3-mile course in 16:10. Coach Whittle says the team is almost a
week behind in training because of rush week and the loss of sleep. He feels if they hadn't lost this
time they would have been in much better shape for the meet this afternoon. Also, a few of the men
have been plagued with colds.

Show Improvement

Some of the men who have improved over last year include Floyd Feeney and Andy Turner. Turner, who is a
sophomore, is doing exceptionally well, however, the surprise of the season is Dick Lovette. This is sophomore Lovette's first year
on the team and he is improving very rapidly.

Those who ran in the contest this afternoon for the Wildcats include Homer Sparks, Floyd Feeney, A. Turner, Dick Lovette,
Archie Joyner, Hershal Allen, John Handley, Paul Alexander, Joe Caudell, and Larry McIntosh.

Shipley Out

Bill Shipley did not run this afternoon because of doctor’s orders, however, he will be back with the team in
a week or ten days. The meet which was held this afternoon with Maryville will also count as time trials
for the engagement with Richmond next weekend. The first eight men to cross the line for Davidson will journey to
Richmond and represent the Wildcats there.

Richmond Host

Richmond lost some of their best men last year and Coach Whittle feels we will have a very good chance
against them. The remaining meets are as follows:

October 15 — Richmond at Richmond.
October 24 — William & Mary; N. C. State at Williamsburg.
October 31 — VMI-W&L (triangular) at Lexington.
November 9 — Possible State meet at Raleigh.
November 16 — Conference meet at Williamsburg.

Coach Whittle says this year he will strive to run the men as a team for the first 3 miles
and then everyone will be on their own for the last mile. In this way, he believes the team will
have more spirit and drive, enabling the co-captains, Sparks and Shipley, to keep the team running at a steady pace.

Wildcats First Football Game—1896

The Wildcats entered gridiron competition back in 1896 when they won 2, and lost 2. Davidson has fielded a team
every year since except for the war years of 1944 and 1945 when there was no football varsity at Davidson.
In 1897 and 1898 the Cats faced only two opponents a year, going against UNC and USC in both years.
In both these seasons the Cats downed the Gamecocks and lost to the Tar Heels.

Undoubtedly the best season the Wildcats have ever enjoyed was back in 1907 when they won 5, lost 0, and
tied the University of Virginia. In that year the Cats beat Oak Ridge, VPI, Clemson, State, and VMI. Davidson’s gloomiest
year came during the war years just before the college withdrew from intercollegiate football for two years when the Cats
won 0 and dropped 5. In that year (1943) the team scored only 6 points while the opponents were piling
up 125.

Paradise—No Losing Seasons for 8 Years

For eight years between 1929 and 1937 the Cats enjoyed their longest stretch of winning football fortunes. It was during
this period that the Davidsonians piled up 38 wins as against 30 losses and 7 ties. The worst pounding ever
taken by the Cats came back in 1921 when they were snowed under by, of course, Georgia Tech by a
77-0 margin. There have been brighter days for the Cats against Tech’s vaunted machine for in 1900 and then again
in 1902 Davidson downed the Georgians by 38-6 and 7-5. However, in the 11 times since that the Cats have
met Tech there have been eleven Tech wins.

The worst drubbing ever given any Davidson team was an 87-0 rout of Wofford. The year—1921—just two weeks after they
had taken a 77-0 beating from Tech. Davidson’s first loss came at the hands of Charlotte in a 12-4 decision
and the first win came over Bingham by 12-4 in 1896. Davidson has played Harvard only twice (1937 and 1952)
losing both encounters.

State-D.C. Games Comparatively Low Scoring

The Cats have never scored over 20 points on State in one game in the 43 games between the two
schools, and State has never run up more than 40 points on the Cats. The largest margin of victory for
the Pack came in 1948 when they won 40-0. Davidson’s largest margin came in 1900 when the Cats toppled State
by 17-0. The Cats have beaten State only twice in the last two decades. All this adds up to just
one conclusion which Davidson fans must admit—Davidson has never been a consistent football power. Nor does the school or Coach
Dole ever expect or even want Davidson to be such a power as is Tech or Duke or some of
the big schools. While once talking to the personable head coach this reporter was impressed by his comment that “here
at Davidson football and all the intercollegiate sports activities of the college are kept in the perspective which I feel
is only right for sports in relation to studies. We want to field a good team that will play a
good brand of football, but we never expect or want a perennial title winner. “We're going over to Raleigh to
win!” BEAT STATE!

Frosh Footballers Invade McCallie in Opener Tomorrow

The freshman football team will open its 1953 season by taking on McCallie School on its home field in Chattanooga.
Coach Hambright, who will travel to Chattanooga with the team, has expressed his own awareness of the strength of this
first opponent. The coach

After-Six
Foremost in Formal Wear
“MR. FORMAL”
The Sharpest Tuxedo, both single and double-breasted
Year-Around Weight only $55.00said that the pre-game outlook seems to be a toss-up, although McCallie has a definite advantage of
having played two or three games previous to next Saturday's encounter. On the other hand, Coach Hambright pointed out that
his boys could not possibly be expected to perform in their first game as an efficient, smooth-running machine. However, the
coach continued, after they have played the Furman Freshmen on next Friday, they should be an experienced and well-coordinated team,
and well able to put a successful season into the record books. The probable starters for this Saturday’s opener with
McCallie are: Ends: Bill Gramley and Tom Newton; tackles: Ken Lawing and Dallas Brewer; guards: Adair Hatcher and Lyle Llewelyn;
center: Randy Johnson; fullback: Ken Conger; quarterback: Barney Poole or Dyke Little; halfbacks: Don McRee and Jim West.

Rentals also at Wilson's Men's Shop “Collegiate Fashions” (Next to Bank)

John Wayne says: “My college football coach got me a summer job at a movie studio. I started as a
prop man and stunt man. Afterward, my studio friends inveigled me into acting. I made about 7 Westerns before big
parts came my way.”

INJURED AGAINST RICHMOND
Ben Craig, Wildcat football captain, will be out possibly for the rest of the season on injuries received in the
Richmond game. He will be sorely missed at his tackle position tomorrow against State.

Kappa Sigs Take Lead As Tag Action Begins
By JIM HOLHOUSER

Davidson's inter-fraternity football season opened last Monday, with six members of the twelve-team league seeing action on the opening day.
The defending football champion, the Sigma Chis, won their first game as they edged last year’s runner-up, the Phi Delts,
19-12. In winning, the Sigs established themselves as a prominent contender for the crown. The Kappa Sigs also show promise
of being in the thick of the fight all the way. They have won their first two contests by wide
margins. The football action and standings through last Wednesday are shown below.

SPE 12, Pi Kapps 6
After dropping behind, 6-0, the SPEs fought back to take a close decision from the Pi Kapps last Monday.

Kappa Sigs 34, KAs 19
The Kappa Sigs won their first game of the season last Monday, as they outlasted the KAs in a free-scoring
game.

Sigma Chi 19, Phi Delts 12
Buzz Hope, Ray Harding, and Perrin Anderson led the defending champion Sigma Chis to a close victory over the Phi
Delts on Monday. Dan Leach was the outstanding player for the losers, making several sensational catches.

Pikas 44, Betas 38
In the closest contest of the week, the Pikas edged the Betas, 44-38, in an extra-period game. They outscored the
Betas, two touchdowns to one in the extra period.

SAE 19, Phi Gams 19
The SAEs edged the Phi Gams last Tuesday in a hard battle, which ended in a 19-19 tie. In an
extra period, the SAEs won the game.

THE STANDINGS
Kappa Sigs 2-0
Sigma Chis 1-0
SAEs 1-0
ATOs 1-0
SPEs 1-1
Phi Delts 0-1
KAs 0-1
Betas 0-1
Phi Gams 0-1
In-Campus Club 0-1
Pi Kapps 0-2
Pikas 1-0

*Complete through Wednesday's games.

For Annual Battle
Wildkittens Runners Opened Schedule With Pfeiffer Today

Coach Sam Magill’s freshman cross-country team met their first test this afternoon at 4:30 on the local course when they
faced the Pfeiffer Junior College team. Pete Ashcraft, a freshman from Amherst, Mass., was expected to lead the long-distance Kittens.
Pete set a new course record a few weeks ago in winning the frosh cake race. He has been the
leading runner in all the freshman drills and time trials to date.

Ashcraft First
In a recent two and a half mile trial run, Ashcraft posted a 14 minute 6 second mark. Coach Magill
remarked that this was well-paced for a pre-season drill. Second in the trial was Gordon Bondurant, a Winston lad who
has never run cross-country before, but who is in good shape and should develop into a good runner.

A Reminder...
All Davidson students and faculty members can gain admission to the North Carolina State-Davidson football game in Raleigh tomorrow night
simply by presenting their ID cards. This pass is good only at the East side, South gate. Game time is
8:00 p.m.

Joe Brown, Johnny Holshouser, and Frank Kiker finished next, in that order, and were all considered as good prospects for
this first meet.

Baker Outstanding
Ted Baker, one of the frosh squad's best, did not compete in this particular time trial, but did enter this
afternoon’s race for the Wildkittens. Ted was a track standout and captain of the team at Woodbury Forest, and has
been pushing Pete Ashcraft since finishing second to the blonde-haired freshman in the cake race.

One week from next Wednesday the Kitten harriers will journey to Pfeiffer for a return meet. The next week they
run in a dual meet at Carolina with the Tar Heel frosh and the Little Blue Devils of Duke.

(Continued From Page One)
Senior Neil Graham at the other tackle slot will now take over as captain of the Cat footballers as he
was the alternate captain before Craig’s injury. Graham has been a steady competitor for the last two seasons and is
a valuable member of the forward wall. In the line, Harry Peterson will go at his usual position at center.
Dickie Davis, vying for All-Southern honors, and Bob Patten will hold down the guard positions. Harold Davis has been switched
from guard to tackle to replace Craig. Davis played defense last year in the two-platoon system and has seen considerable
action this year. Neil Graham will be at the other tackle.

Patterson Back
The ends will be well-manned by McCall, Kaiser, and Patterson. Patterson will be playing his first game of this season
tomorrow night against State. He was injured in a pre-season practice and has seen no action.

In the backfield Henry Brown has been switched from quarterback to right-half. Johnnie Gray, along with Rowland, will direct the
attack against State from the quarterback position. “Fleet-footed” Thacker, who copped All-Conference honors last year, will be at his usual
left-half position; and Fargason, big ground-gainer in last week’s freshman-varsity scrimmage, will go at fullback to round out the backfield.
Harley Smith, a transfer student from Alabama, is also expected to see considerable action.

West Sparks
State will be led by the passing of their quarterback Eddie West, and the running of fullback Don Langston. West
passed for 189 yards against George Washington last week. Langston scored State's only tally; he also scored their only touchdown
against Carolina. D’Angelo and Kapp head State’s big line. D'Angelo is also the extra-point man and is vying for A.C.C.
honors this year.

State Favored
State is rated by the majority of the sport-writers as two-touchdown favorites, but the Wolfpack could easily be surprised. Coach
Dole and his team are going to Raleigh with the idea and the will to bring back Davidson's 12th victory
over State in the long rivalry of the two schools.

Probable starting line-ups:
Davidson
LE—McCall
LT—Graham

(Continued On Page Four)

smoking Camels yourself! Make the famous 30-day Camel mildness test... and let your own taste tell you why Camels are
America's most popular cigarette!
