(SEE PAGE THREE) ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS VOLUME XLI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, MARCH 13, 1953

year old Jo Ann Greer. She has sung with Freddie Slack and Sonny Burke, and joined Ray Anthony. Interestingly enough, Miss Greer’s voice was dubbed in for Rita Hayworth in the movie, “Affair in Trinidad.”

RAY ANTHONY

Nominations for the Student Body officers will be taken during the chapel period, Friday morning, March 27. There will be no nominating committee, all nominations being made from the floor in the form of written statements delivered to the chair by those individuals making nominations. Each nominee must signify his willingness to be a candidate for office by signing a statement to that effect before four o'clock, at the office of student government in the Union Friday afternoon, March 27. Voting procedures will begin early in the first week of April.

Members of the Elections Board: Bill Bradford, SAE; Ed Blanton, CC; Jim Bryan, Phi Gam; Marion Clark, SPE; Larry Lagenhart, Student Council; Dick Hobson, Ind.; George Irvin, Student Council; Jinks Jervey, Pi Kap; Buddy McNeill, ATO; John Maynard, PiKA; Dave Robinson, Beta; Luke Scales, Ind. (chairman); George Lippard, KS; Jim Speed, KA; George Nickels, Ind.; Harry Wolfe, SX; Fletcher.

The student government constitution which deals with elections:

Section 6 — Voting procedure for elections in the Student Body is determined by the Student Council and administered by the Elections Board.

Section 7 — The three candidates for the editorship of each of the student body publications will be required to make a campaign speech in chapel of not more than five minutes duration.

Section 8 — In the elections for the president of the Student Body and for President of the Y.M.C.A., there shall be campaign speeches. These speeches shall be made in chapel and shall be of not more than five minutes duration. Only five candidates, or fewer than five, shall speak for any office. If, after the first primary election, the five top men, or fewer than five, shall have received among them over fifty-one percent of the total votes cast, they shall be the ones required to speak. If more than five candidates are required to form a majority of the votes cast, another election shall be held to eliminate all but five or less.

Section 9 — It shall be illegal for any group, organization, fraternity, or individual to campaign for any candidate.

(Continued On Page Four)

Robert Frost awarded the winning manuscript the check for fifty dollars today, Friday, in chapel. Robert Frost, the greatest living poet, here for three days in connection with his Artist Series lecture on Thursday evening which was attended by over eight hundred persons, made the award as a special exception to his usual practice of refraining from judging contests. Second prize in the annual creative writing contest went to Fred Bason, and third prize to Lawrence Erwin.

The Student Steering Committee again met with the Baker Fraternity Committee of the faculty on Tuesday afternoon of this week. The purpose of the meeting was to discuss the two alternate plans proposed by the Student Committee on next year's freshman eating. The two plans that are under consideration are (1) the One-Semester Plan, and (2) the Rotation Plan.

The Faculty Committee plans to meet next week to consider its original recommendation. If it is felt advisable to include one or both of the alternate plans in its report, they will do so. If not, the original recommendation will be presented to the faculty for the final vote. A special faculty meeting is being planned for the near future at which time the question will be definitely decided.

The One-Semester Plan provides that all freshmen will eat in the College Union Cafeteria for the entire first semester. At the end of this period, the pledges of the various fraternities would go to their respective boarding houses to eat for the second semester. The greatest advantage of this plan is that the entire freshmen class would have a common experience for four and one-half months. This would foster class spirit and have a unifying effect. There would be less administrative work under this plan as compared with the Rotation Plan. The greatest disadvantage is that it would be uneconomical for the Cafeteria and the boarding houses, because of the great decrease in the number eating in the (Continued)On Page Four) | Igor Talks To IRC At Monthly Meet | Igor Sviatoslavsky, Davidson's student from the Middle East, gave a talk to the International Relations Club at its regular monthly meeting in the Green Room of the Student Union on Wednesday, March 4th. Taking as his topic “Palestine and The Near East,” Igor gave a vivid description and analysis of the present dilemma in Palestine. After tracing the history of this important land in world affairs from the Turks to the British, he then turned his attention to the controversial Jewish-Arab problem. Igor discussed the terrorism employed by the Jews, such as the Essenes group, especially in 1946, and said that it helped the British decide to leave in 1947. At this time the Jews started coming back by the hundreds to their homeland, and also 500,000 displaced Arabs returned, thus creating an area of high tension where the two groups met around Haifa and Jerusalem. The war between the two has been very bitter, and even the United Nations intervening in the conflict has brought no lasting promise of peace. Igor stressed the fact that the problem is indeed grave because of the intense nationalism of both the Jews and (Continued On Page Four)

Finalists in the fifth annual George F. Baker Scholarship competition were announced today by Professor Thompson, secretary of the Baker Committee. The Baker Scholarships, which range in value up to $4,800, are awarded to high school seniors who have made outstanding records in scholarship, leadership, and personality development. This year the Committee will award not only five or six Baker Scholarships, but for the first time will also award three Davidson Honor Scholarships worth up to full tuition. All are four-year awards. Announcement of the Committee's selections will be made by April 1. The following finalists have been invited to Davidson on March 27-28. One or two others may be added to this list at a later date.

LOCAL WINNER IN

We've all heard the old adage, "like father, like son," but when quizzed on its application to his son, Marion, Professor A. G. Griffin of the business department was prone to believe that most of Marion’s success could be attributed to Mrs. Griffin’s side of the family. Marion Griffin is one of two Mecklenburg County residents who recently received Morehead Scholarships to the University of North Carolina. The scholarships, which are being offered to high school students for the first time this year, are valued at $1250 a year for undergraduates and $1500 a year for graduate students. What has turned out to be a long, but successful road for Marion began when he was nominated by the faculty at North High to enter a county contest in connection with the scholarship. After winning in the preliminary competition, he went on to a district meet, one of six in the state. Six winners from each district then took that all-important trip to Chapel Hill for the finals. After being tested, interviewed, and tested some more by one committee, Marion found himself in the finals with nineteen other high school candidates. The Board of Trustees of the Morehead Foundation made the final selection of the eleven winners.

A Student Leader

Marion Griffin has become a name highly respected on the North High campus, where he was elected president of the student body for this school year. In addition, Marion is a member of the football, basketball, tennis, and track teams, is in the Beta Club and on the debating team. Last year he was a representative at Boy's State. Scouting has received much of Marion’s attention in past years as well as present. He is an Eagle Scout with palms, has served as a councilor at Camp Steer, and attended the Jamboree at Valley Forge. Like many students entering college, Marion has not definitely decided on his vocation, although he has expressed interest in the fields of business and teaching. At any rate, he is a young man who promises to be a credit to his profession, whatever it may be.

Dr. James A. Jones Speaks Tuesday

Dr. James A. Jones, pastor of the Myers Park Presbyterian Church in Charlotte, will speak on “Africa” at 7:15 Tuesday night in the Ballroom of the Student Union. Dr. Jones is being brought to the Davidson Campus by the Student Volunteer Movement, but students and others interested are invited to attend.

They are: John Henry Baker, Aiken, S. C.; James Knox Batten, Holland, Va.; Robert M. Bethea, St. Simons Island, Ga.; James C. Brice, Easley, S. C.; Edwin L. Bryan, Bessemer, Ala.; William M. Burke, Winston-Salem, N. C.; Carl Lloyd Cooper, Durham, N. C.; Michael Fennegan, Fairmont, N. C.; John C. Gilmer, Bristol, Tenn.; Philip F. Kukura, DeLand, Fla.; Howard Ledbetter, Shelby, N. C.; James Martin, Winnsboro, S. C.; William Paul Melton, Winnsboro, S. C.; Thomas S. Morgan, Jr., Jackson, Miss.; William F. Page, Statesville, N. C.; Alvin Perkinson, Chattanooga, Tenn.; John Hampton Stennis, Washington, D. C.; Samuel B. Sutton, Bryson City, N. C.; Leon E. Thompson, Timmonsville, S. C.; Robert Young, Jr., Reidsville, N.C.

MARION GRIFFIN AWARDED MOREHEAD; KEEN COMPETITION

John Mason Brown, author, lecturer, and critic, is to replace Mr. Charles Laughton in the Lecture Series. Mr. Laughton is unable to come due to illness. Mr. Brown, besides being a famous lecturer, is Associate Editor of the Saturday Review of Literature. It is said of him that he is a prodigiously learned man who has apparently read everything, seen everything, and forgotten nothing. He is a man of conscience—modest and hospitable, but adamant about everything in art and life that affects the public interest. During World War II he served in the Navy as Lieutenant on the staff of Admiral Alan G. Kirk, participating in the Sicilian and Normandy invasions. After the war he returned to America to become Associate Editor of the Saturday Review of Literature, to which he contributes a weekly column called “Seeing Things.” He is the author of numerous books and is acclaimed as being one of the top critics in America today. His lecture is expected to be intellectually stimulating, inspiring, and of significant import. Mr. Brown will lecture in Davidson on the night of April 22.

Hubert Cannon, from Lancaster, S. C., will be a Rhodes Scholar next year. Since his coming to Davidson he has been president and vice president of the YMCA, a member of ODK, and a member of Who’s Who. Last year he was the president of Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity, and this year he has been active in debating, Sigma Upsilon, and Eumanean Literary Society.

A TAPS TWELVE

Allen Garrison, another physics major who plans to go to graduate school, probably Duke, is a Baker Scholar whose home is Lake Wales, Florida. President of Sigma Pi Sigma, the Honorary Interfraternity Council, and the Band, he is also a member of Phi Mu Alpha, a brother in Kappa Alpha social fraternity.

Hubert Hodges of Marianna, Florida, is a Sigma Alpha Epsilon brother who claims medicine as his life’s work and next year will enter Emory Medical School. He is a member of Alpha Epsilon Delta, the honorary medical fraternity, and also subscribes to the roll of the Camera Club.

Holmes Rolston is graduating in three years from Davidson as a physics major who intends to enter graduate school, probably the University of North Carolina.