PAGE TWENTY-FOUR

Last week at the annual meeting of the million-dollar Davidson College Quarterback Club, the center of discussion was the plan
for installing a 10-meter board in the swimming pool in Johnston Gym. Frankly, we think that it is past time
something was done about the diving facilities at our college. To say that the present situation is inadequate would be
the understatement of the year, and why something hasn’t been done sooner to relieve the pressure can only be termed
as an inexcusable blunder.

Some members of the club have actually gone so far as to venture that the Davidson student body does not
need a 10-meter board. Such a statement is absurd and beyond all bounds of practical reasoning, and one who harbors
any such misapprehensions has but to step for a few minutes into the steamy pool room and his mind will
quickly be changed.

Yesterday afternoon, after a heated controversy with one of the members who insisted that we didn’t need the new board,
I suggested that we step for a few minutes into the pool room. The moment we entered, we felt the
tension that gripped the group of boys who were huddled around the edge of the pool while casting resentful glances
in the direction of the present diving board. As we edged closer to the group, we heard one of the
boys tearfully mumble, “We’ll never be normal boys until we have a 10-meter board.”

“I never really realized how pressing the situation was,” apologized the now humble member of the club as we made
our exit. “I only hope I can do my part from now on.”

Several members held that the club could not afford such an expensive undertaking, since first estimates ranged well over a
million dollars. But Elgin White, with the aid of his special staff, has recently recommended a simple plan that will
hold the cost down to slightly over half a million. Instead of raising the whole roof as planned, White's ingenious
plan calls for merely cutting a 12-foot hole in the roof which will allow the divers to spring as high
as they wish without danger. It would also give the fans more of a thrill while they wondered whether or
not the diver would make it back through the hole.

The original plan also called for tearing out the bottom of the pool and making the whole thing deeper, but
according to White, the cheapest thing to do is to deepen the pool in the form of a six-foot circle
directly under the board. This would also add to the spectators' pleasure and amusement as they wagered whether or not
the diver would hit in this area of deep water.

Regardless of which plan is adopted, we think that the time has come when Davidson can no longer afford to
send its graduates into the world without having had the experience and confidence which comes only with perfection on the
10-meter board. Remember, a man can get three hundred and fifty-one inches higher on a ten-meter board than on a
one-meter board such as we now have.

CUSTOM-LIKE QUALITY
CUSTOM-LIKE TAILORING
CUSTOM-LIKE FIT

No other slacks give so much satisfaction. Smart for business or dress wear... comfortable for leisure or sports... Mayfair slacks
give you that feeling of well-dressed ease wherever you are, wherever you go. No other pair of slacks gives you
such all-around satisfaction as our superbly tailored Mayfairs! Come in and see our wonderful selections!

$8.95 to $16.95

The Young Men's Shop
“Clothing For Men”
116 N. MAIN ST.
MOORESVILLE, N. C.
PHONE 2-2371

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Basketball Scandal Hits Campus; Two Wildcat Players Are...

INTRAMURALS TO ADD NEW SPORT

The Interfraternity Sports’ Committee has recently announced that “Wicked Willie” Pharr, who finished Davidson on the five-year plan, and “Hasty
Heath” Whittle of Olympic fame, have approved a new intramural sport which will begin soon. Although Pharr takes no blame,
he admits he learned the sport in southern Tasmania. Censorship prohibits our giving all the details, but Jim Speed can
provide further information.

This enticing sport dates back to 490 B.C. when Pheidippides ran from Marathon to Athens to announce victory. (Eberhardt’s Bible)

Fifty beauties from Vassar, Sweetbriar, and Queens will be turned loose between “Franks” and the “Broken Anchor” (no resemblance to
“Catch the Greased Pig”) and the object is for the male contestants to obtain as many blue garters as possible
from the cuties. Only twenty will wear this color garter, but this should make the spectacle very interesting. The reward
will not be as generous as it is in Tasmania, but the man with the most blue garters will have
his choice: ten dollars credit at “Hugo’s” or at a state store just outside Charlotte.

MATTERS WRESTLE IN JOHNSTON GYMNASIUM SATURDAY

GENE CRAVEN
CAROL COOK MOVING TO NEW VOCATION

Up to 98% Reduction!! At the Student Sell Out Sale!!

Davidson T-Shirts, Sox
Golf Balls, Tennis Balls—Crib
Latest Pocketbooks by Spillane, and Chalmers Davidson
Popular & Unpopular Brand Cigarettes
Sandwiches — Soft Drinks, Borden Ice Cream

The Student Store receives hundreds of letters every week from satisfied customers. A typical unsolicited testimony comes from Dr. J.
R. C. of Davidson, N. C. “My favorite hangout’s at the Stud. Come and entertain your friends there.”too. You haven't
really lived until you've eaten one of the Stud's “deliciously fresh sandwiches and enjoyed a refreshing Cheer-wine.”

SERVICE STATION
DAVIDSON, N. C.

REMEMBER MEN — BRING YOUR GIRL TO THE STUD DURING SPRING FROLICS
Doug Rice, Proprietor

The Student Store
Sheaffer Pen & Pencil Sets
Fraternity Pennants & Crests—Favors
Sir Derrick Barton Tennis Rackets

Involved Canceled Check Links Fix - To N. Y. Gambling Syndicate

Two members of Davidson’s championship basketball team were taken into custody last night by special agents, and according to first
reports at least two more of Coach Danny Miller’s players are involved in what appears to be the top money
sports fix of all time. Chief agents P. Moore and Phil Potts made the arrests at 2:30 last night just
as the two players were leaving the swank El Morron Club in Charlotte in the company of two mink-coated blondes.
The players are being held without bond pending further investigations for accepting bribes which may total more than five hundred
thousand dollars.

Agent P. Moore said his suspicions were first aroused in New York on Jan. 28, the day after a heavily
favored Davidson team, which was supposed to defeat Holy Cross by 30 points, barely slipped by with a twelve-point victory.
On that day one of the Davidson players donated a check for twenty-five thousand dollars to the New York Fund
for Old Cats. “That’s what first tipped us off,” said tight-lipped Moore. “That check was signed by Lou Burdine, notorious
New York gambler. Right then we knew something was wrong. We stayed on the heels of the Davidson team as
they toured from one end of the country to the other and it soon became apparent that in every game
they won by 12 or 15 points less than they were favored to win by, and that after every game
certain players cashed twenty-five thousand dollar checks, all drawn on Burdine.”

Although both players have been undergoing heavy questioning since their arrest, neither has as yet confessed anything. “It’s none of
your business where or why I got that money,” said one of the players. “When my daddy gets here you'll
be sorry for this.”

Sam Fosdick, chief of detectives, praised the work of his agents in conducting the investigation leading to the arrests, and
was particularly high in his praise of Davidson policeman E. N. Linker who gave a superb example of scientific investigation.

OUTSTANDING SERVICES RENDERED
1. Room Service—our specialty is breakfast in bed
2. Two-week Valet Service
3. Bookie Service
4. Glockenspiels Cleaned
5. Bicycles Washed
6. Easter eggs redyed (first week in April only)

Spring Tune-Up!
EXPERIENCED ESSO DEALER
Change Oil, Grease, Drain Anti-Freeze, Flush Radiator, Wash and Wax Service

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 1, 1953

Wildcat of the Week: Launcelot J. Calvin: A Four Letter Winner

Here we are kiddies with this week's number one genuine red-blooded hero — our wildcat of the week! Following the
usual custom, we had planned to display his manly features at the head of this column, but his delicate eyes
prevented our roving cameraman’s efforts to flashbulb him. So, with nothing more than a slight fanfare of the bazooka chorus,
we introduce Launcelot J. Calvin, Davidson’s Wildcat of the Week.

Launcelot earned this accolade by virtue of several outstanding actions during the last few weeks, including setting a new record
in the depth-perception game at the Student Union, (you know-twist the knobs and the little steelie rolls?) as well as
maintaining perfect attendance at the Artist Series, and holding down the no. 2 position on the chess team. Launcelot, or
“Raunchy” as his friends at Ironberry Woods Prep School laughingly called him, is a competitor from way back. He has
won a minor “d” sweater (sleeveless) in four sports, including backgammon, old maid, themewriting, and chapel conduct. He won the
icing in the 1950 freshman cake race and was very brave and stoical about his six-month hospital stay afterward. Raunchy
modestly refused to flex his muscles for this reporter claiming that mosquito bites had faked him so often he hated
to waste the effort of locating the right one.

Launcelot typifies the Wilsonian idea of the Boys’ Town gentleman, down to his plaid jock, without which he never enters
Johnston Gym. He claims to be intimately familiar with the gym, having spent three days wandering around in its depths
when he found himself lost there as a freshman without his glasses. Bulova Black, sports writer deluxe, has given great
play to Raunchy’s rise to stardom, plugging him in the Cornelius Daily Tissue as Davidson's answer to the Dusek Brothers.
“I like Gothic,” giggled Raunchy; “It sends me.” So we left him, oiling his butterfly net on the floor of
his room at Hoke House, and pushed off through the debris, hot on the trail of a reporter’s dream —
rumors that a pineapple chain has bought the Wildcat gridders!

There he is kiddies — L. J. Calvin, Boys’ Town’s Wildcat of the Week! Tune in next week, same space,
for another toenail sketch of one of Our Boys — another rip-snorting, cold-blooded athlete in every sense of the word.
