Dorm Counseling Re-introduced As Dr. George D. Heaton Sets Theme

By CHARLES HASSELL

Dorm counseling will be re-introduced for spring services as Dr. George D. Heaton, of Charlotte, sets the theme for the semi-annual services which begin Sunday sponsored by the YMCA.

Dr. George D. Heaton, pastor of the Myers Park Baptist Church and one of the most widely sought Christian speakers in the South, will be the principal speaker for the annual Spring Services which begin with the vesper service on Sunday and extend through the chapel period Wednesday. The theme for this year’s Spring Services will center around “The Social Ethics of the Christian,” supplementing last fall’s stress on the personal ethics led by the late Dr. W. M. Thompson. Thus the year’s emphasis on Christian ethics will be complete.

A native of Louisville, Kentucky, Dr. Heaton received his formal training at Denison University in Granville, Ohio, and the Southern Baptist Theological Seminary at Louisville. In addition to the degrees of AB and ThM received at these institutions, he holds an honorary DD from Georgetown University.

Dr. Heaton has a wide variety of invaluable experience in the field of social ethics, particularly with relationships of labor and management. His longstanding interest and effective work in this field have led him to be regarded by industry as one of the foremost authorities on the labor-management association. Dr. Heaton’s appeal to the college student is well known to many of the student body. He has been a guest minister of vespers as well as a speaker in chapel. His cordial manner and the sincerity in his vital messages have made him in great demand at colleges throughout the South.

Dr. Heaton's topic for his opening message on Sunday night will be “From Needing Danger to be Good.” His second message in chapel on Monday morning will be entitled “From Owing Thee Yesterday’s Tears Today.” Tuesday morning his subject will be “From Bribing Thee with Alms, to Excuse Some Sin More Burdensome;” and his closing message on Wednesday morning will be “From Tempting Satan to Tempt Us.”

On Monday evening at 7:15 in the College Union ballroom, a student-led panel discussion centering about the “Christian’s Responsibility in the World Today” will be held. The members of the panel will be the Rev. Raymond Kepler and Dr. Geza Soos. Mr. Kepler, presently pastor of the Back Creek Presbyterian Church of Mount Ulla, was for many years a missionary in the Chinese field, returning to the United States just before the Communist capture of Shanghai in 1949. A present member of the Montreat College Faculty, Dr. Soos is a native of Hungary, where for many years he was a leader in the Hungarian Reformed Church and an active judge in a Budapest court. Dr. Soos holds degrees in law and political science from the University of Budapest, and in theology from the University of Geneva. During the years of Nazi domination in Europe, Dr. Soos was one of the leaders of the Resistance movement; today he is one of the only two surviving members of the famed Council of Twelve — the core of the Hungarian Resistance force.

A similar panel will be held Tuesday night, with one of the student moderators presiding. Leading the discussion of “The Christian’s Responsibility in Relations Between Labor and Management” will be Mr. Wilbur Bryant, Industrial Engineer at the American and Efird Mills Inc., of Mount Holly, and Mr. James F. Justice, graduate of the Wake Forest College and Law School and a practicing lawyer in Charlotte.

In addition to the panel groups, dormitory “bull sessions” will be held each night, Sunday through Tuesday, at 10:00 o’clock on the halls of every dormitory and in the Cardboard Village; these sessions will be led by counselors as in past years. In addition to the men already mentioned as counselors — Mr. Justice, Dr. Soos, Mr. Kepler, and Mr. Bryant — will be the Rev. John Smith, Minister of Education at the Myers Park Baptist Church in Charlotte, and the Rev. Samuel Newell of the Davidson Presbyterian Church. Also acting as dormitory counselors this spring will be a number of members of the faculty: Dr. Charles R. Eberhardt, Dr. L. B. Schenck, Dr. C. K. Brown, Dr. J. M. Bevan, the Rev. H. A. Baumann, and the Rev. W. Iain Wilson. The use of faculty members for counselors is by student request and has been very successfully received on other campuses in similar programs.

The Special Services Committee of the Y.M.C.A. has requested (Continued On Page Four)

TWO DAY DRIVE YIELDS 403 PINTS FOR RED CROSS

By HUNTER STRADER

Once again the Davidson student body has answered a call that never ceases to be of prime importance to our nation as a whole. On Thursday and Friday of this week the Mecklenburg County Mobile Blood Unit was set up in Johnston Gymnasium to receive donors both from the student body and from the community itself, and as usual the call was answered. On Thursday 213 persons trooped in to give their pint of blood to save a life in Korea, and up until 5:15 Friday afternoon a total of 403 contributions had been made.

Davidson has achieved the notable honor of standing second in the nation among the colleges and universities for blood contributions. The rating is based on the percentage of the student body contributing. St. John’s University of Brooklyn is the only institution of this nature commanding a better record than Davidson College.

As in most previous blood drives the campaign has been led by a member of the student body. This present drive has been directed by Larry Dagenhart of the senior class. The details of signing up for donations have again been handled very successfully through the social fraternities, with several of the Greeks promising 100% response. Several groups of students were unable to contribute at the present time. Among those were several of the athletic teams which have heavy schedules now. Also the junior R.O.T.C. classes were unable to make donations due to recently receiving shots for summer camp. Dagenhart and Col. Davis both expressed the hope that these (Continued On Page Four)

Ray Anthony To Play Next Week; Frolics’ Concert Set For Saturday

The big Spring Frolics weekend is only a week off now, and excitement on that event is running high. Last-minute dates are being gotten, big plans are being formulated, and everyone is generally looking forward to the appearance for the first time of Ray Anthony's famous band.

Perhaps more than ever before, the concert is bringing much attention for again as during Mid-Winters, it will be held in the auditorium at 3:30 on Saturday afternoon. The program for the afternoon is especially fine for a college audience and will include “Slaughter on Tenth Avenue” and the ever-popular “When the Saints Go Marching In”. Next week in The Davidsonian the complete program will be printed.

As far as the rest of the dances, they will follow the same pattern as Mid-Winters with the formal dance on Friday night from 9 ‘til 1, and the informal dance on Saturday from 8 until 12. Featured with the band will be the popular male vocalist Tommy Mercer, who has worked with Charlie Spivak and Eddie Duchin. The featured girl vocalist will be 22-year-old Jo Ann Greer, who joined Ray at the Palladium in Hollywood. She had been there so that her voice could be used in the picture “Affair in Trinidad”.

BULLETIN

President Lawrence Erwin announced today that an “exciting” female vocalist had decided to accompany Anthony on his Davidson trip. She is a very popular Hollywood star and her name will be announced at the Union next week. Watch for it.

George Brinkley and Mac Bulgin of the Senior Class have won valuable graduate scholarships. The General Education Board has announced that they will receive scholarships for one year toany graduate school in the country. The awards, established by John D. Rockefeller, pay not only the recipients’ tuitions, fees, and travel expenses, but also stipends of $125 per month for nine months. Brinkley plans to enter graduate work this coming year at Columbia University. Bulgin, who has also applied for a Fulbright Award, has not yet chosen his graduate school. Also on the program will be the famous “Skyliners” and the Anthony Choir in addition to the 19-piece band. The theme of the dance will be that of a “Bunny Hop”, which should fit in well with Ray Anthony since he began the craze of the “hop” several years ago in colleges all over the country. Last minute plans haven't been completed as how to carry out the theme to its greatest effect, but decoration will begin to go up this next Thursday.

MISS JO ANN GREER
Anthony's beautiful singer, Jo Ann Greer, is but one of the attractions for a Spring Frolics weekend that promises to be one of the best ever.

Foolies For Frolics
McGee to Address Scabbard & Blade

Scabbard and Blade, national honorary military society, will hear Colonel J. H. McGee Tuesday evening as a special guest of B Company 5th Regiment.

Feature Foul Fun For Fifty Francs

The “D Club Foolies,” Davidson's own home-grown talent array and inhibition destroyer, is bigger and better than ever! That's the word passed on to the student body at large by Dick Perkins, ringmaster and groundskeeper for the annual “Athlete’s Arcadia.” Featuring the clever patter and dance routines of the Proctor-Mizelle combo (the D.C. answer to Yul Brynner and Jerry Lewis) along with genuine Dixieland two-beat laid down by Homer Sparks, Roy Palmer, and Local 65 of the Associated Plumber's Union, the '53 Foolies bids fair to top the records of past performances. Friday night, April 17th, in Chambers Auditorium at 7:15 — that’s the time for the blowout. Make plans now — for 1½ hours of mood-setting for Mr. Anthony's music. Tickets priced at half a buck will be scalped at the door by Big John and Toto. Producer-endman Perkins winked broadly as he furtively whispered this parting shot to the Davidsonian’s theatrical reporter — “Remember, son, Hallett Ward endorsed this show!”

Girl Chorus: Sings Tonight

The Montreat College chorus comes here Friday night, April 10th from the home of the Southern Presbyterian Church at Montreat, N. C., to sing music chosen for the enjoyment of people of every taste. The program, conducted by Francis Green, will be presented at 8:15 p.m., David Ovens College Union Ballroom, Davidson College, Davidson, N. C.

Featured will be “A Ceremony of Carols” by Benjamin Britten, young British composer. The ceremony includes carols for every season and appropriately opens and closes with processional and recessional sung a cappella. Religious works by Bach, Byrd, and Vaughan Williams are heard first on the program by the Montreat girls who will sing the latter’s rarely heard and stirring setting of the hymn, “For All the Saints.” To round out the program Mr. Green has selected “Pueblos” by Burrill Phillips, American composer; a group of Brahms Liebeslieder waltzes; and Swedish, German, and Appalachian folk-songs, “I wonder as I wander”, among these. Francis Green, who is responsible (Continued On Page Four)

Speaking at 7:15 at the College Union, his main topic of discussion will be guerrilla warfare in Korea. All ROTC 31 and 41 students are invited to attend. Col. McGee, who is visiting Lt. Col. E. H. Davis, is in the G3 section of Third Army, Civilian Components Division, Washington, D.C. Speaking at 7:15 at the College Union, his main topic of discussion will be guerrilla warfare in Korea. All ROTC 31 and 41 students are invited to attend.

Sig Eps In Davidson For District Meeting

The annual district convention of the Sigma Epsilon Fraternity will take place at Davidson College on April 11 and 12, 1953, with the Davidson chapter as host. Some forty guests representing the seven active undergraduate chapters in North and South Carolina will arrive Saturday for a weekend of meetings on varied subjects to be held in the Sig Ep fraternity house and in David Ovens College Union. Distinguished guests for the convention will be District Governor for the Fifth District of SPE, Bedford Black, of Kannapolis, and Field Secretary Bill Cross of the National Office. The main group of meetings will be Saturday and Sunday afternoons. Saturday night will be a night of recreation for the representatives as the Davidson chapter treats its guests to a hamburger fry and to an informal discussion on rushing.

Colonel McGee has had an interesting and varied career in the Army. He graduated from the United States Military Academy in 1931. When World War II began he was serving in the Philippine Army as a regimental commander. He was captured by the Japanese and placed on a prison ship. The ship was torpedoed and Colonel McGee escaped. He took command of all the survivors and they operated as a guerrilla unit until the Philippines were recaptured. He returned to the United States and graduated from the Command and General Staff College. Going back to the Southwest Pacific he served as Assistant G-3 Sixth Army and as CO 169th Infantry Regiment. Colonel McGee was assigned to ROTC Duty at the University of Illinois from 1946 to 1949 and then commanded the 8th Infantry Regiment. In August of 1950 he organized the Eighth Army Ranger Training Center in Korea. There he trained the first ranger company to be employed in the Korean War. He later activated and commanded the United Nations Reception Center. Here United Nations units were received, equipped and trained in the use of American weapons before they were placed in the line. From there he went to the G-3 Section 8th Army. Since his return to the United States in July 1951, he has graduated from the Army War College. Colonel McGee is a native of North Dakota.

NO. 23

EDITOR OF PAPER, WILLIAMS THE MAGAZINE

Charles Williams Is ‘Y' President

In balloting in chapel this morning Moody Smith was elected Editor-in-chief of the Davidsonian and T. Alden Williams was chosen to head Scripts ‘N Pranks, the college magazine. Earlier in the week Charlie Williams was elected YMCA president and Leighton Green and Cortez Cooper First and Second Vice-Presidents. Smith, a rising senior from Spartanburg, S. C., has served this year as news editor of the paper. He is a member of the YMCA board of Directors, of Kappa Sigma social fraternity and a Baker Scholar. Alden Williams who is a rising senior from Montreat, was managing editor this year. He has been very active in working with the magazine ever since coming to Davidson nearly three years ago. Alden is also a Baker scholar. Charlie Williams, the new YMCA president is a resident of Rocky Mount. A Sigma Chi, he has for the past year been the Youth Moderator for the Presbyterian Church, U. S. Leighton Green, a Kappa Sig, a member of the tennis team, and a Baker scholar from El Paso, Texas, will be serving in his first official connection with the Y as its new First Vice-President. Cortez Cooper of Thomasville, Ga., the Second Vice-President, has been active in the YMCA’s extension work since coming here two years ago. He is in addition a varsity baseball player. Elections for editor of the annual and other offices will be held after fall services close next week. These other elections will include class offices, and YMCA board elections. The speeches of the candidates for editor of the annual will be the last campaign speeches of the year. Already elected now, in addition to those chosen this week, are the four student body officers: Lyman Kiser, president; Leighton McCutcheon and Charlie Cousar, vice-presidents, and Linny Baker, secretary-treasurer.

BULLETIN

The deadline for contributing to the final literary issue of the college magazine is Friday the 17th. All students are asked to consider and contribute — no partiality in final selections will be shown. Turn your stories in to Mike Myers 215 Duke.