FRIDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1953

Although Davidson's football Wildcats are taking a breather this weekend, there are still plenty of things being said in the
dailies and on the campus concerning their showings in two games which have been played to date. We would like
to pass along one such comment which was made by an observer at the Davidson-Georgia Tech contest. This observer was
none other than the line coach of the Yellow Jackets' mighty football machine, Ray Graves. In a recent issue of
the Atlanta Journal, Graves was asked to pick out the play of the week in Tech football fortunes. That week
happened to be the week of Davidson’s visit to the home of gridiron giants. We would like to quote here
in part this article by Tech’s line mentor:

“The key play must be differentiated from the most spectacular play. The key play may be one so pushed into
the background by more obvious and exciting plays that the layman overlooks it. The key play of a game is
one which may open or close the door to victory.

“In the Davidson game it was virtually impossible to single out any one play as the turning point of the
game. The most important factor in that game came when Georgia Tech registered more and better football players than were
registered at Davidson. I mention this because it will be the last time this season that I will have the
opportunity to say this. WE OUT-MANNED BUT DID NOT OUT-FIGHT A SMALLER DAVIDSON SQUAD.”

Coming from the source that it did, this, it seems to me, is one of the biggest compliments that could
have been paid to the Davidson team. As yet the Cats have not been able to hit their stride, having
dropped the first two, but a good season is still certainly very much possible and probable. Having only three games
in the home stadium this year is naturally a great disadvantage to the Cats’ morale, but they’re still giving it
all they’ve got and are playing some fine football as is attested by Coach Graves’ article.

The 1953 edition of the Davidson Freshman football team was unveiled for the first time here yesterday in a scrimmage
game with the Davidson varsity. The contest ran for approximately sixty minutes and ended with an 18-0 score. The freshmen,
however, gave notice that they will be winning some games this season. Though lacking in experience, they showed a lot
of fight and hustle. The Wildcat varsity, running from the “T” and Notre Dame box formations, showed a new starting
backfield yesterday. Johnny Gray has been moved to his old quarterback post after being shifted to the halfback slot last
week. Jim Thacker, the swift-footed little scooter who won All-Conference honors last year, ran at his usual left halfback post.
Harley Smith, who transferred from Alabama last year, got the nod for the other halfback position. Leroy Fargason completed the
Cats’ new backfield.

After the lay-off this weekend, the Wildcats are pointing for that big contest at Raleigh next Saturday. The game with
North Carolina State is always an important one on the Davidson schedule and one that the Cats would really like
to take. The Wolfpack lost to North Carolina's Tar Heels last week, and they will be out for a win.

One of the highlights of the Freshman play was the punting. West, McCree, and Poole all showed educated toes in
continually getting away booming kicks. West booted a coffin-corner kick out on the Varsity’s one-yard line late in the game.
The Freshmen open their regular season next Friday against McCallie in Chattanooga.

The games remaining on the Varsity schedule are as follows:

At Home
October 17—Presbyterian (homecoming).
November 14—George Washington.
November 21—The Citadel.
(All home games begin at 2:30.)

Away
October 10—N.C. State at Raleigh.
October 24—Furman at Greenville.
October 31—Harvard at Cambridge.
November 7—W. & L. at Winston-Salem.

Davidson's 1953 Wildcats:
1st Row: Fargason, Davis, H., Brown, Craig, (Captain), Graham (Alternate Captain), Thacker, Broughton;
2nd Row: Moore, J., Owen, Rowland, Cousar, Patten, Davis, G., Strosier;
3rd Row: King, Rogers, Jones, Elliott, Smith, Moore, D., Davis, R., Abernethy;
5th Row: Coaches Dole, Parker, Fetzer, Clements, Hambright, and Patterson, McCall, and Davis, J.

INTRAMURALS BEGIN MONDAY
Tag Football Will Open Greek Slate

Eleven fraternities and the Campus Club are getting set to begin the 1953-54 season of Intramural sports here at Davidson
College.

Marriers Prepare For Only At Home

Coach Pete Whittle’s Cross-Country team will open their season against a strong Maryville College team next Friday.

Racketeers Organize For Fall Workouts

Monday afternoon the Davidson tennis team held its first meeting of the season. Coach McKee says his team might not
prove as strong this year as a team but the individuals are looking very good. This year the team will
feel the loss of two very capable seniors, Dudley and Bivins. However, those men returning this year are very much
improved. Corky Johnson, the number six man, was worthy of special praise.

Better Organization

This season the team will be much better organized. During the fall 10 men will be lined up as the
varsity. A man can either advance to number one or fall out of the top ten depending upon his ability
to beat the man preceding him. In this way there will be competition all through the season among the players,
allowing everyone an equal opportunity to win a place on the team. Coach McKee was very pleased with his freshman
prospects. Among them two men, John Robinson and John Thorpe stand out as very good players and possible replacements next
year of Bremer and Johnson. As there will be no J.V. team this year the freshmen will be organized on
the same basis as the varsity. Those freshmen out for tennis include C. L. Cooper, J. C. Winfrey, F. C.
Roberts, J. S. Robinson, J. Thorpe and Mercer Blankenship.

Six Returning Varsity Men

Members of the varsity who will see action again this year include Corky Clark, John Bremer, Lacy Keesler, George Snead,
Leighton Green and Auburn Lambeth Signed By Hamilton in Canadian Loop

Auburn Lambeth, former Davidson football great, has been signed by the Hamilton (Ontario) Tiger Cats of the Canadian Professional Football
League for play this season. While in his collegiate career at Davidson, Lambeth was acclaimed as one of the finest
passers in the nation. He received a national award on this basis. Lambeth hails from Peoria, IL, and entered the
ranks of the Canadian team immediately after his discharge from the service. In an early pre-season exhibition game against Montreal,
the ex-Davidson ace threw the winning touchdown pass for the well-respected Ti-Cats. He stands as their second string quarterback. The
former Wildcat quarterback graduated from Davidson in 1951.Corky Johnson. This season the men who will be CHARCOAL? — We have
it in SWEATERS SLACKS Brown or Grey — Wilson's Men’s Shop “Collegiate Fashions” (Next to Bank)

This fall’s activities will be led off by the traditional tag football season. Three games a day will be played
Monday through Friday, beginning at 4 o’clock in the afternoon. Last year’s football competitions were ended with the Sigma Chis
in first place, Phi Delta Theta in second, and the Kappa Sigs and Pikas tied for third position.

Phi Delts Topped

The final year’s total for the 1952-53 winning Phi Delts was 1138 points, a record which all the teams will
be aiming to top this year. This year a new playing field has been laid out in order to take
the place of Watts field, which will be occupied by the construction of the new dormitory. The new field, number
3, is situated on the golf course, just beyond the creek.

Ten Sports

The same sports will be played this year as in the past: MAJOR—football, basketball, softball, and varsity competition; INTERMEDIATE—wrestling, volleyball,
track, and swimming; MINOR—handball and tennis.

The intramural managers for this year are: Sigma Chi, J. W. Kiser; Kappa Sig, George Crone; Phi Delt, Bill Nelson;
KA, Dave Fowle; Pika, Lindley Beardsley; Phi Gam, Charlie Hall; ATO, Bob Stuart; Sig Eps, Jack Efird; Pi Kapp, Bob
Southwell; Beta, Dan McCall; SAE, Steve Norton.

As has been stressed in the Intramural Handbook, any injuries sustained during contests or practices must be the responsibility of
the individual student, not the Department of Intramural Athletics. It is urged that each student should have some sort of
accident coverage policy during the school year.

Coach Whittle has this to say about intramural sports:

Whittle Co-ordinator

This season, as has been true for several years, Coach Pete Whittle of the Athletic Department will very competently coordinate
the intramural activities for the year. “Every student needs a wholesome outlet for his mental energies through physical exercise, and
we invite you to participate in our program. You will gain a knowledge of, and skill in, several popular sports
by taking an active part in athletic contests. You will be better prepared for recreational participation after your college days
are over. Budget your time and play intramurals as often as you like.”

The Davidson cross-country team will open its season this afternoon at 4 o’clock on the local course. This is their
only home meet of the season. Maryville edged Davidson last year in a triangular affair with Davidson and Tennessee, and
the locals will be out for revenge for that defeat. Maryville will come here with a strong team; they lost
no men from last year's squad.

Four Lettermen

Co-Captains Shipley and Sparks along with returning lettermen Feeney and Turner will lead the team against Maryville. Shipley and Sparks,
trophy winners in the state and conference meets, respectively, should have one of their best seasons this year. Dick Lovette,
newcomer to the team this year, has been doing exceptionally well in practice. He will be depended on heavily, along
with John Handley, also a newcomer. Alexander, Caudell, Allen, McIntosh, and Joyner comprise the remainder of the squad.

Whittle Enthusiastic

Coach Whittle is very enthusiastic over the chances of a fine season. The team won only one meet last year,
but a much-improved record is expected this year. The team is in much better shape than they were at this
time last year, and should hit their usual mid-season stride much earlier. The locals might be considered as a dark-horse
contender in the Conference meet.

Only Home Meet

After the Maryville meet, the Cats will meet Richmond, W&L, VPI, W&M, and N.C. State, all away. They then will
participate in the state and conference meets. The freshman team under the leadership of Coach Sam Magill will also open
their season against Pfeiffer Junior College immediately following the varsity meet. Ashcraft, Baker, and Kiker will lead the team against
Pfeiffer. These boys finished one, two, three in the freshman cake race and will be hard to beat. Gordon Bondurant
has also looked promising and will be depended on for a good showing. The freshmen have another meet with Pfeiffer
and will possibly meet the Carolina and Duke freshmen in a triangular affair. They will also participate in the freshman
state meet, in which Ashcraft stands a good chance of being one of the top men.

The game yesterday was played without kick-offs or tries for extra points. The offensive team was given the ball on
the thirty-yard line. After recovering a fumble early in the game, the Varsity drove to the Frosh one-yard line. Harley
Smith bucked over from there for the initial tally. Later Smith crashed over again for the second TD. Jim Thacker
scored the last touchdown of the afternoon, as he scampered thirty-five yards for the six-pointer. Leroy Fargason, however, was the
big ground-gainer for the Varsity. Time and again the “Fargo Express” ripped through the line for big gains.

The Frosh team had its standouts, too. They have come up with a flock of classy backfield men as well
as some rugged linemen. Barney Poole, a smooth ball handler from Raleigh, looked very good in the quarterback slot. In
future games, keep your eye on Don McCree of Newton, and Jim West of Salisbury. These two boys, running at
halfbacks, picked up a large hunk of the yardage gained by the Wildkittens. Probably the most outstanding fighting for a
standing on the varsity are: Buddy Echols, R. C. Brown, Greer Robinson, S. Ingram, Gene Witherspoon, L. B. Scott, John
Childs, Chick McClure, and Dick Thorpe, back from the service. As yet no fall meets have been planned, but there
is a good possibility of having at least one. The freshmen also will have meets, playing other freshman teams and
probably some high school teams.

SUITS

HOW THE STARS

Patrice Munsel says: “When I was a kid, I wanted to be a lady football player. Then I dreamed of
another career—whistling! Somebody discovered I had a voice, so I took singing lessons. I worked hard at it—then I won
the Metropolitan Opera auditions when I was 17.”

I STARTED SMOKING CAMELS BECAUSE A FRIEND OF MINE ASKED ME TO TRY THEM. NO OTHER CIGARETTE EVER GAVE ME
SUCH PLEASURE. CAMELS TASTE SO GOOD—AND THEY’RE SO MILD!

Start smoking Camels yourself! Smoke only Camels for 30 days and find out why Camels are America’s most popular cigarette.
See how mild and flavorful a cigarette can be!

CHOICE QUALITY AGREE WITH MORE PEOPLE THAN ANY OTHER CIGARETTE!
