THE HOT
Largest Summer Weekly

DAVIDSONIAN
The United States

THURSDAY, JUNE 25, 1953 | No. 45

DANCE SATURDAY NIGHT

There's life around here yet, and no bachelors will be allowed in town Saturday night when the first fling of the summer will take over at the Union.

It's a semi-formal affair (girls love coats and ties) that goes from 8:30 until 12 under a full moon (almost). All the big name bands will be there, Anthony, etc., and features for the evening will be the Bunny Hop and the Hokie Pokie.

Every facility of the Union will be open, from the new Music Room with its high fidelity player to the billiard tables for the more athletic girls.

Everyone is invited! If you have any friends, bring them. Bring your girl's sister too! There'll be no admission charged, and if we support this dance, greater things are yet to come.

It hasn't been decided yet who is to be Master of Ceremonies, but some card is bound to appear for games and variations on dancing. Davidson's the place Saturday night. Up and quit your books!

FELLOWSHIP HOUR

Bill Cunningham, freshman graduate of Darlington School, will be speaker at the Fellowship Hour Sunday night, June 28 on the terrace of the College Union.

The service will begin promptly at 7:00 and will be followed by a social hour at which refreshments will be served.

The youth group from the College Presbyterian Church will attend, as well as the townspeople. Everyone, student and visitor, is cordially urged to attend the weekly hour of fellowship and worship.

SUGGESTIONS FOR WEEKEND ACTIVITIES

For the lonely bookworms who stick around over the weekends (exempting the big weekend to come) there should be some sort of entertainment besides organic chemistry. Mr. Smith, director of the Union and coordinator of just about everything during the summer, wants bright suggestions, specific ones, as to what the Saturday studs would like to do besides study. Do you want movies, dates, or what? ("What" is a kind of chicken pot pie.) This weekend's "Summer Frolics" is the result of a direct request, so let's have more suggestions.

SNACK BAR HOURS

The bar, that is the Snack Bar in the College Union, will have the following hours until further notice:
10:00-11:30 a.m. Mon. - Fri.
7:00-10:00 p.m. Mon. - Fri.

Closed Saturday after lunch and all day Sunday.

GAMES IN UNION

Seditious reports have it that the Bugology labs and the history parallel are keeping students from loafing, but this is a loaf notice in case you have time to read it. There are games in the Union for every mentality, from toy cars to shuffleboard. Everyone else knows about them, but a list of job opportunities in the Union should be helpful to freshmen at least: Dominoes, cards, electric football, shuffleboard, detective games, chess, checkers, Chinese checkers, pool golf, and just plain pool. And the professors don't mind a bit. They may even smile a fiendish smile and sit down to play a hand or two of poker with you.

Games are there for the using, and though there aren't enough of us here to use them all, we may as well try to make the rounds before we flunk out!

By the way, 50 boys can play billiards at one table and still pay "just" sixty shekels an hour.

EMPLOYMENT
MALE

Know how to toss a hamburger, squeeze a lemon? See Mr. Smith quick!

MRS. FRENCH ON DATES

Mrs. French has seen the lonesome faces and has offered to get dates for any boy who wants them with girls about town. She makes no promises, but she is glad to make introductions. I know you're interested, so drop by her office at any time. Even if she can't find a date for you, you'll enjoy talking it over with her.

THE SUMMER SCHOOL SIZZLER

Newspaper work may be a lousy occupation when the product is as it is this week, but we had to find some excuse to keep from boring Bevan and company with long discourses on something we didn't understand anyway.

But we do understand that some of our campus lovers find Davidson in the summer uninspiring. "I'll swear I'll quit," Murr up and yelled in the library last night, but Benny seems to be settled for a year with a home in Davidson.

Gilley has forgotten his worries and organized a little varsity squad whose practice field is the lush green grass of Chambers' front yard.

There are entirely too many people who study around here, though. Gragg is straining for a 103 average, and even the freshmen, Mitchell and Worm included, are getting off to too good a start. Cridlebaugh found time to go to the river for a mad pack beauty treatment Monday, though it was only after he spent the weekend.