PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Frank Hanshaw

BUSINESS MANAGER
Jack Hobson

ASSISTANT EDITOR
John Ottley

Associate Editors
Brinkley, Harter, Hope, Myers, M. G., Moylan, D.H.

Managing Editors
Hassett, J. M. Moore, Owens

Sports Editor
Dick Roper

Feature Editor
T. A. Williams

Assignments
Strand

News Editor
D. M. Smith

Arts Editor
Mahy

Photographer

Assistant Business Manager

Advertising Manager

Circulation Manager
Nicholson

Collection Manager

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897.

Non-Preferred Risks

It is always with a bit of indignation that this writer looks at insurance rates on automobile policies. It is
rather hard to admit that it is a valid generalization that puts all men below age 25 in a higher
rate bracket. It is even harder to pay the difference. The hardest thing, however, is to refute the statistics that
have led to this generalization. The truth that should be drawn from this situation is not that insurance companies have
something against the college-age group. The truth that is rather stark is this: Automobile drivers below the age of 25
have proven themselves poor risks. Nation-wide and percentage-wise the age group of which the Davidson student is a member has
proved itself immature in a life or death issue. In spite of the superiority of youthful advantage in senses and
reflexes, we lead the way in preparing the slaughter situations which destroy and wreck more lives than any of the
wars that we have known. It is sober cause for thought.

There are many cars on this campus. Some will do better than 80 or 90 m.p.h. on a stretch. Some
of the drivers take pleasure in their so doing. There are many boys on this campus who live a considerable
distance from here. It is a matter of real concern to them to break the record of last Christmas’ trip
home. Haste to get home to see family, flame-of-heart, or just familiar landmarks is more than understandable. A desire to
shake the dust of Davidson from heel or bumper is also understandable and natural. But when the waste that results
from haste may be a life... prudence ought to take the better part of speed. With no over-powering mass of
statistics, and with no morbid reminders of the past tragedies... let these lines be a reminder to abide by the
rules of common sense and common safety as the Spring Holidays come nearer. With no cliché clinchers... let me remind
you that... you, too, can bring down the number of obituaries... and perhaps the price of automobile insurance. —D.H.M.

Old Custom of Burning Dorms Revived In East Last Week

Many years ago, it was a custom of students at Davidson to try to burn the dorms down. In the
better Davidson of today, it seems fitting that this tradition be buried. Last week a small fire broke out on
the first floor of East Dormitory. Luckily a student in a neighboring room extinguished the blaze that had been caused
by a lighted match or cigarette in a trash basket. Damage included the burning of several suits of clothing and
an eight-foot area on the floor. Perhaps we would not have been so lucky if the fire had been in
Rumple or Georgia. We have been quite fortunate here at Davidson with respect to fires, but there is no rule
preventing a catastrophe. The danger of fires due to carelessness cannot be overemphasized. In a dormitory where so many men
are housed, tragedy and loss of life could be brought about unintentionally by the mere act of tossing a lighted
match or cigarette into a waste basket or on the floor or even smoking in bed. It is a necessity
that we be reminded often of the danger of fires and asked to include in our smoking habits an ashtray.

Faculty-Student Committee Report: Purposes and Duties Outlined

The Faculty-Student Committee held its first discussion at Chairman Beaty’s office in Chambers Thursday afternoon. The functions of the Committee
were outlined and it was clearly stated this was to be a fact-finding and recommendation group, airing student and faculty
opinion on important matters, and serving as a permanent “clearing house” for faculty and student problems. A definite meeting time
was set for the second and fourth Tuesday of each month. Also, it is hoped that forums on matters of
current interest can be conducted by the Committee. Other faculty committees will meet with this Committee from time to time
to discuss issues on college activity in which they are familiar. Recommendations from the Faculty-Student Committee will be made in
conjunction with other faculty committees and presented to the Executive Committee for definite action. During the discussion, several current problems
were enumerated, but further investigation will take place this spring. At the next meeting on March 31, the problem of
coordination of the college activities calendar will be considered.

THE FREE LANCE: THE DAVIDSONIAN

THE SENIOR OVERLOOKED BY PHI BETA KAPPA:
* DIDN'T WANT ONE ANYWAY

Slime Pits West Of Duke Provide High Adventures

Men living on the west end of Duke tell us they look forward to rain around here. After four years
of hearing nothing but gripes about said precipitation, we wondered if these fellows were quite sane. They mentioned something to
the effect that on rainy days they were able to play their favorite game. Our curiosity got the better of
us and when premature April showers began falling this week, we sauntered to the west exit of the campus maze
to watch men come out for breakfast. Being concerned with seeing the occupants we did not realize we were in
a slime pit and sank to our ankles some 10 feet from the building. A voice came from within the
building saying “That’s two points against you.” Its owner soon emerged and by an intricate series of nimble jumps, skips,
hops, and slides he got to the road behind the dorm without getting his trousers muddy above the knee. It
was then I looked closer at the morass which presented such an obstacle. Where once had been something resembling a
flagstone path was a healthy creek flowing down to the road. The rest of the area reminded us of the
home of Pogo, deep in Georgia's Okefenokee Swamps. Soon other men began to leave the building. Their dexterity was amazing.
All seemed to pick different routes to the parking areas, but even the most skillful was in for a sizeable
cleaning bill. But were these unsung acrobats complaining? Nay. Rather were they smiling, for on a rainy day like this
getting to the parking areas was not just a humdrum affair. Today it was not the same old dry walk.
Today it was high adventure. Today the mark of a man was determined by the number of mud marks on
his pants cuff. We were in the process of congratulating mother nature for providing this glee for them when we
saw something which made us sore of heart. The brutal college had recently spread some kind of ersatz gravel over
part of the area to improve the standing for the automobiles. We would be the last to say that automobiles
did not deserve more consideration than their drivers, but why did they have to ruin the game of the students?
At least there was a little room left in which the students could have their fun. But who knows what
will be the next step of the giant progress, that shapeless leviathan? The ruthless men in office may decide that
a student is here not for play but for work. If that happens they may even direct the spreaders of
gravel to come again to this hallowed playground. Those who direct our college may decide that the cost of that
much extra gravel and labor is negligible and trod with unthinking boots over the last vestige of daring open to

By JOHN OTTLEYstudents. Beware, men of Duke. Spring Madness When the first hint of the universal rutting time is wafted
over the nations’ campi, the thoughts of youth turn in two directions. The first is toward women and the other
is toward what is a trace of the primeval urge to show strength before other eligible males. Ah, the wonder
of civilization that such demonstrations of power consist no longer of mere flexings of muscles and perhaps a light wrestling
match or two, but now call for mob violence. The rate of vandalism always seems to leap as if touched
with a hot wire in the early spring at colleges all over the world. At D.C. we have fraternity riots
and later student riots. Elsewhere there are pantie raids. In Europe there are demonstrations. Though it’s tough on the college
wallet, perhaps it’s not so bad after all. Frankly, we enjoy seeing Davidson men do something heartily which is not
expressly the college bidding. We show ourselves so seldom around here. Just the phenomenon of men getting excited and heightening
the flow of blood in their veins is an encouraging thing around this place which all too often has a
sickening resemblance to a sheepfold. It does not follow that erupting spirits are a sign of erupting intellects, but it
suggests there may be some hope. It won't hurt stolid Davidson to get shaken a bit after her winter's snoring,
and it may stir the minds of her inhabitants. When one has finished a good debate, he has received an
inward stimulation which is indescribable. He has met with others on equal grounds in a battle of minds and words
and he has risen to a new height. Never are two debates alike, for never are two people created alike.
From the experience of debating one receives a great deal of experience in expressing his thoughts clearly and concisely. Today
the knowledge of oneself is imperative for success and all too few are the opportunities which we have to gain
experience in this field. Then there is that process of assimilating knowledge, forming one’s opinion, and preparing to defend the
chosen stand. Nowhere can one develop a greater sense of self-assurance than in knowing that perhaps someday when a really
vital question comes he can rise and defend his views logically and clearly. When debating partners are pitted against two
others, equally as well-prepared speakers and, meeting on common ground, you sharpen wits and match minds. A chapter of Tau
Kappa Alpha, the national forensic fraternity, is being established on the Davidson campus in hopes that debating will be seen
in its true perspective and that participating in the ever-widening forensic program will increase to a greater degree among the
students. We feel that here is truly a splendid opportunity — an important door for many Davidson students to open
while in college.

BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD, N. C.

“Gale” bs @ registered wado-awt.

Campus capers call for Coke. It depends on the point of view, of course, but almost everyone enjoys these antics.
And when there’s a quick need for refreshment — have a Coke!

DAVIDSONIAN ABROAD FRIDAY, MARCH 13, 1953

Voyage Across The Atlantic Provides Thrills To Traveler

The perils of a columnist for the Davidsonian are indeed frightening: one poor soul whose column regularly appears on this
page, for instance, has been accused of such diverse crimes as installing goats in his fellow students’ rooms and setting
telephone booths upside down. We who attempt to improve the morals and manners of our fellow Davidsonians by our utterances
on the editorial page naturally are hurt and discouraged by such unwarranted attacks on the part of the rougher element.
We have not yet progressed very far into the wilds of Europe, and the dear reader may be impatient by
this time to get started on our weekly exploration of English pigeons and Parisian houses of a certain type (this
discreet phrase was suggested by the editor). Patience, lad, we are about to embark! There are very few of the
nations of Europe which have not been mentioned, however briefly, at least once in this column; this time it may
be worthwhile to discuss for a little while the trip across the Atlantic. After all, even if you travel on
the S. S. United States, it will take five days, and that is fully as long a period of time
as most tourists spend in any but the largest cities of Europe. One distressing thing about a sea voyage is
seasickness; even one-hundred percent, red-blooded Davidsonians are liable to fall victim to it. Dramamine tablets are good, even if they
do have a tendency to leave you out cold for the rest of the voyage. But seasickness usually lasts only
a couple of days, anyway, and after that you can enjoy yourself. A more cheerful subject is the fact that
everything on shipboard sells for ridiculously low prices: there are no taxes or tariffs on the high seas, and hence
cigarettes and liquor sell for about half what we have to pay in the good old U. S. A. Girls
on the tourist ships may not be so abundant as they are on student ships, and you may have to
hunt underneath the lifeboats on some dark nights in order to find them, but they can be found. On the
whole, what with dancing and refreshments and movies, in addition to the women, it’s not a bad life at all.
The tourist ships generally have small libraries, filled with detective stories which can be read in an afternoon, and they
are also equipped with swimming pools, deck tennis, card games, and such things, in abundance — all of which is
sufficient entertainment for an afternoon, while most mornings will be occupied with sleeping and bicarb. On the whole, I say,
it’s not a bad life. Nevertheless, it’s always a great thrill to see the ship approaching land, to watch the
process of getting a mighty ocean liner docked, and finally to step out on solid earth once again, to meet
the thrills and perils of a vast, unexplored continent.

Debating Losing Importance As D.C. Activity: Tau Kappa Alpha Seen To Revive Program

Here at Davidson, where so much emphasis is put on so many extra-curricular activities, forensics have been pushed down the
ladder of importance. In the days of Phi and Eu rule on this campus, debating was a major activity and
nearly all students took some part in the forensic program; competition was keen and our hallowed halls rang with verbal
expounding and oratory. Now in the football, basketball, baseball rush, debating has been trampled and left by the wayside. This
writer feels that many students by not participating in the forensic program are missing something which will help them, individually
to a tremendous degree. What is debating and what does it involve? Let us take a look at a typical
debater and trace through the work which he does. Early in the fall a national debating topic is announced; this
year the subject is Fair Employment Practices. The debater immediately begins studying the question and the many approaches which can
be taken to it. He reads what authorities have said and are saying about the question and then decides whether
he is pro or con the issue. He and another who feels the same way about the query begin work
on their case. After much preparing and collection of facts and quotations the two write their case if they have
decided to support the affirmative. If they have decided to take the negative viewpoint on the problem, they prepare to
refute all possible plans and arguments which an affirmative team could produce. The real challenge and excitement come in the
debate proper. You and your partner are then pitted against an opposing team and for an hour you debate, matching
point for point, quotation for quotation, and logic with logic.
