I got a OT =e __THE DAVIDSONIAN Z Resi ag rt ; fy | ge gs where himself the of
his typewriter for the last several days. The recruiting program being conducted by Dole and assistants Clements, Fetzer, and Hambright
is second only in intensity to that of Uncle Sam. If the response is not as it is only because
the 1 is just a tad stiffer days for boys who are especially proficient in the art of blocking and
tackling and running the hundred in ten seconds. Neither is the contract as binding as the Good Uncle can make
them.

HIGH SCHOOLERS ARE FICKLE LADS

And therein lies the rub. High school football players who suddenly find themselves the object of college coaches’ attentions have
a most distressing habit of becoming, on that provocation, as fickle as the proverbial lass in the springtime. Wooed by
glib gentlemen from all over their section of the country — and often from all over the nation — these
lads frequently find themselves saying Yes when they mean Maybe, and Maybe when they most likely mean No. That Davidson
College usually comes out on the short end of this situation will be attested to by any coach who has
ever been associated with this school since the advent of Big Money Football. You go to see a boy, tell
him of the merits and virtues of your school, and maybe he says yes, he'd like to go to your
school. Then a few days later another man from a bigger college walks up, begins speaking more in terms of
the financial angle, and blooie, there you are without the boy you had already counted in the bag.

The result is, around Davidson anyway, that no high school athlete is considered bagged until he arrives for practice in
the fall of his freshman year. “You don’t know ’til September first,” said backfield coach Tom Fetzer, “just who you've
got.” And just last year it was that one of the best prospects Davidson had had lined up for some
time was enticed away by a better offer.

WHY COACHES GROW GRAY

He was a rugged, stocky boy from the North Carolina piedmont, who had been a good if not a flashy
lineman in high school. The Davidson recruiting staff had worked hard, and as the summer drew toward a close he
was planning to come to Davidson. Then they played an all-star game within two weeks of the opening of fall
practice here, and the boy played a brilliant game. The result was that the scouts from the big universities besieged
him, and pretty soon he was no longer planning to go to Davidson. Another offer from a bigger school was
so good that he couldn't afford to turn it down. “He was a good boy,” says Dole, reflectively tipping back
his hat. “Would have been a regular for us, probably. Instead, he’s just one among a crowd of good ones.”
With that, the Davidson head coach breathed a sigh that seemed to say That Is The Way The Ball Bounces.

What is obviously needed is some system to bind a boy to his promise after he commits himself to come
to one particular school. We are certainly not advocating any such system as the professional football leagues use whereby players
are “drafted” by the several pro teams after the college season is over.

By DICK LILES

The story-book rise to success by a freshman basketball player, whose real calling in high school was down the football
line, makes the Wildcat story of the week. Ray Harding came out for basketball a somewhat reserved and stocky guard.
He showed up fairly well, but was placed on the JV Squad to “get some experience”. He immediately took a
first-string job for “Fetzer’s Furies”, and was such a hustler and had such a good eye for the bucket that
he caught the eye of Coach Miller and began dressing for the varsity games after playing full-time for the Kittens.

Ray Was Hustler

Ray was precocious when it came to experience and began getting into the varsity games oftener and oftener. He showed
a spark and fight that came in mighty good toward the end of several games, when the opponents' bench had
completely worn out the local forces. Then when Jerry King left school right after the new semester, Ray really got
his big chance. Ray was the big scoring gun in the McCrary game getting 21 points beside his fine floor
game, but the climax to this story didn’t come until the last game rolled around. By now the stocky Marion
lad had tied down a starting role and really was the whole show in the fray with VPI. Ray fought
from the starting whistle to the...Final gun on the floor and poured 23 points through the hoop. He took up
the slack when Joe Dudley, the usual scoring threat, fouled out in the fourth quarter and sank at least five
or six straight baskets and put on the finest show of keeping the ball in Davidson’s possession in the final
minutes that this writer has ever seen. Ed and Tommy Douglass, Hobby Rott also swinging for starting berths.

Change Home Courses
White’s team will use the Charlotte Country Club as their home course for the '53 season instead of the Myers
Park Course which was used last year. The linksters will be out to improve on the 1952 (Continued On Page
Four)

Hey, Hallett! Looka Here
Hallett Ward and all the other boys around the campus who know how to tear up a dance floor will
be happy to hear of a chance to strut before other square dancing teams from all over the two Carolinas
tomorrow in Greensboro. The Promenaders’ Club of Woman’s College, UNC, will hold their third annual Square Dance Festival.

Even if Ward decides to head a Davidson delegation to W. C. tomorrow, the group wouldn't be up to full
strength. Bud Duncan is no longer with us. Cobb, Alex Hodgin, and Larry Par- high schools sending the largest delegations.
The most formidable group entry so far is the Camp Lejeune Marine outfit. Last year the Marines put up a
stiff fight before bowing to Appalachian State Teachers College, which is not sending a delegation this year.

Weick Competes Again
Former National AAU Champion Bill Weick, a graduate of Iowa State Teachers College, appears the man to beat in the
tournament. Weick, now in the Army, is stationed in Georgia and thus is eligible to compete in this region. The
Davidson entries are as follows: Kerry Spiers and Bobby Joe Key, 114-pound class; Dick Webb and Dave Jones, 125; Tommy
Jordan, Gene Craven, Charlie Murray, and Hugh Neisler, 136; John Buxton, Stan Topple, Scott Ball, and Don Reid, 146.

The director of the Tournament, Nabby Armfield, Bill Goe, and Henry Faison, 160; Monty Littlejohn, Bill McElveen, and Bob Stogner;
and in the 191 class, Dave Burns and Roger Wright. Athletic Director Paul Scott is expecting entries from the high
schools of Salisbury, Statesville, Goldsboro, and possibly High Point, as well as several YMCAs. The NAAU has adopted the International
rules for wrestling (Olympic rules) for conducting its meets, and these are the rules, with some modifications, which will be
used in the Carolinas AAU Tournament.

Olympic Rules Used
The bouts will be of ten minutes in length rather than 15, and an elimination tournament with the contestants defeated
by the two Wildcat acts as host. The Cats finished their regular season’s play last weekend up at Virginia Tech
where they were decisively defeated to end a winless season. They participated in a tough nine-match card. Coach Charlie Parker
took only five entrants as he pulled out for the Virginia city this morning. Coach Parker’s tournament squad includes: Gene
Craven at 137 pounds; Johnny Buxton at 147 pounds; Bill Coe at 157 pounds; Nabbie Armfield at 167 pounds; and
Willie McElveen at 177 pounds.

Craven Top Prospect
The top Wildcat prospect is Steady Gene Craven who returns in this match to his normal 137-pound class. Gene has
lost but twice in the 147-pound class in which he has been working all season. Now as he returns to
the class which is more in his range, Coach Parker expects great things of the scrappy senior. In an interview
before the team left this morning, Coach Parker revealed his high hopes for Gene. Parker stated that since Craven was
runner-up in the 137-pound class in the conference last season (Continued On Page Four).

“Im!” says Captain Gene Craven (right) as Johnny Buxton shows tournament form. He should go far again this year. In
last year’s tourney, the Cats entered with a poor season’s record and pulled some big surprises which had the big
teams sitting up and taking notice. Davidson grappling fans are hoping for a repeat performance.

Parker Praises Buxton
Another man to watch according to Coach Parker is stocky Sophomore Johnny Buxton who wrestles in the 147-pound class. Buxton
has lost but one match in conference competition this year. Johnny was the only Cat winner in last week's loss
to VPI although Don Reid did obtain a draw. Buxton has improved a lot as the season progressed and is
one of the finest wrestlers in his class in the conference and if he can keep up his winning ways
he will go far in the tournament.

In the overall picture of the tournament, Maryland’s Terps loom as the favorites as they boast one of their finest
teams in recent years. Davidson didn’t go up against the power-packed Terps this year but the Marylanders have beaten several
of the teams which beat the Cats. However, in a tournament of this type, comparative statistics aren't worth much as
the Cats proved last year.

WITH A HOUSE LIKE THIS... IT TAKES A HEAP O’ LIVIN’ TO MAKE A HOUSE A HOME!

Only time will tell about an old house! And only time will tell about a cigarette! Take your time... for
30 days for MILDNESS and FLAVOR! THERE MUST BE A REASON WHY Camel is America’s most popular cigarette—leading all other
brands by billions! Camels have the two things smokers want most—rich, full flavor and cool, cool mildness... pack after pack!
Try Camels for 30 days and see how mild, how flavorful, how thoroughly enjoyable they are as your steady smoke!
