FRIDAY, OCTOBER 16, 1956

As the annual Homecoming festivities get underway tonight and the greatly awaited combination home-opener and Homecoming grid scrap comes up tomorrow, the same old question arises that has been asked by Davidsonians for the last twelve years. That question is, of course, can the Wildcats turn the trick and win a Homecoming football encounter?

The old Homecoming jinx has held sway now for twelve years and the Wildcats are hoping that 'ole jinx number thirteen will be a lucky one this time. Actually, the Cats have lost only 10 Homecoming games in the last twelve years as there was no football at Davidson during the war years of 1944 and 1945. Since coming here as president of the college in 1941, Dr. Cunningham has never seen a Wildcat team go on to victory in a Homecoming battle. In the last Homecoming meeting with Presbyterian in 1951, Coach Little was very confident of a win and Dr. Cunningham climbed out on the proverbial limb in predicting a Cat win. The result—the scrappy Blue Hose sawed off that limb to the heart-breaking tune of 14-12.

Centre College Put Hoodoo on Cats

All this Homecoming difficulty began back in 1940 when the Wildcats took their most recent Homecoming win from a small Centre College (Kentucky) team by 27-14. The Presbyterians from Centre were making their third and last appearance on a Davidson schedule. The Kentuckians were famous as the “Praying Colonels” and many an alumnus has been known to remark since that time that the Colonels, though going down to defeat, left their mark on Davidson football fortunes in the form of the Homecoming jinx.

During this period of victory “drought” the Cats have lost some heart-breakers and even some that they were favored to win. The nearest they have come to a win in this period was back in 1947 when they managed a tie with a strong VMI team. Looking at some of the encounters that were “so close, but not quite” one might include such games as those against Richmond in 1948 which went to the Spiders, 6-0; Presbyterian in 1951, 14-12; Furman last year, 14-13. The Cats got one point closer last year than the year before and maybe this year will see them turn the trick and give the victory-starved returning grads a taste of a Wildcat win.

PC-Davidson Take Turns Spoiling Homecoming

Last year Davidson beat the Blue Hose by one point, but romped over them in the statistics department as they ripped 263 yards out of the Clinton turf. This year’s Cats are definitely improved and stand in a good position as far as tomorrow’s game is concerned. Coach Dole is optimistic about this one, but would offer little more than his usual, “We'll be out there with the idea of winning.” With the exception of the loss of their captain, Ben Craig, the Cats stand in good physical shape after three losing efforts to date and have been drilling hard for tomorrow's encounter with the Presbyterians. Johnny Gray, the sly Statesville flash, will be back in the lineup after a slight injury in the State game last weekend and is expected to play a major role against the Hose.

Seriously, however, this is no laughing matter as far as the team and their morale are concerned. The Cats definitely need this win. This is the year for all good Davidson men to come to the aid of the team and give them the backing they deserve and need to clear away this “cloud over Homecoming” and break the jinx of twelve years’ standing. Can 13 be a lucky number? BEAT PC!

Whittle’s Harriers Hit Spiders Yesterday

Coach Pete Whittle’s harriers ran the University of Richmond in a duel cross-country meet yesterday afternoon at Richmond. Last year Richmond edged Davidson in a close meet and the Cats were out to revenge that loss. Homer Sparks, winner of last week’s meet against Maryville, was scheduled to lead the locals against Richmond. Floyd Feeney, Andy Turner, and Dick Lovette, along with Bill Shipley, were expected to be right behind Sparks. John Handley, Joe Caudell, and Larry McIntosh made up the remainder of the team.

Coach Whittle Pleased

Coach Whittle was in high spirits about the locals’ showing in the Maryville meet, and seemed not to expect too much trouble from Richmond in yesterday's encounter. Richmond lost the majority of their better runners of last year’s team by graduation. The harriers tied Maryville last Friday, 26-28. Homer Sparks was first, running the four miles in 29:16 minutes. Floyd Feeney, Andy Turner, Dick Lovette, and Archie Joyner, running fourth, fifth, seventh, and eleventh, respectively, were the other scorers for Davidson.

Triangular Next

Next Saturday Davidson travels to Williamsburg, Virginia for a triangular affair with William & Mary and North Carolina State. State was last year’s Southern Conference champions and will probably be Davidson’s toughest competition all season. After next week’s meet, the Cats meet VMI and W&L in a triangular meet and then they run in the State, the conference, and the Carolinas A.A.U meets. The Carolina’s Cross Country A.A.U. meet is scheduled to be run here on November 21st.

Johnny Guiton Coaching On Carolina FB Staff

Johnny Guiton, former Davidson football star, is now employed on the coaching staff of the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. He works with both freshman footballers and wrestlers as assistant coach. While at Davidson, Guiton played in the Cat backfield and during his senior year he served as the judge of the Court of Control. His best football performance was turned in during his junior year. Johnny graduated in 1952.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Kappa Sig, Sigma Chi Stay Unbeaten

After two weeks of inter-fraternity football, the Kappa Sigs and Sigma Chis remain undefeated. It looks as if it’s going to be a fight to the finish this year as the top four teams look very good on both offense and defense. The results of this week’s games through Wednesday are as follows:

Sigma Chi 58, Phi Gam 0

The Sigma Chis continued their winning by defeating the Phi Gams 58 to 0.

Beta 26, ATO 13

The Betas won their first game of the season by defeating ATO 26 to 13.

SAE 20, CC 0

The SAEs rolled over the Campus Club, 20 to 0, to win their second game of the season.

Phi Delta Theta 21, Pi Kapps 0

It was Ish Bennett's running and passing that led the Phi Delts to victory over the Pi Kapps. Bob Southwell was the outstanding player for the losers.

KA 14, Pikes 13

At half-time the Pikes, led by Bill Hanna, were out ahead of the KAs 13 to 0. During the third quarter, the KAs scored 7 points and in the last two minutes of play, Dave McCaw for the KAs intercepted a pass and the result was a KA victory.

SPE 12, Phi Gams 6

It was the passing combination Stowe to Moffitt which resulted in the win for the SPEs.

Wildkitten Gridders Met Furman Today After Flashy Victory

By BUDDY LILES

The Davidson freshman football team met a strong Furman University freshman eleven at 2:45 this afternoon. The Wildkittens were seeking their second victory in as many starts after they downed McCallie prep eleven in Chattanooga last Saturday by a 20-0 count. The McCallie encounter saw the Wildkittens score the first time they got possession of the ball. Starting on their own 48-yard line, it took the little Cats only twelve plays to tally their first TD. With big Ken Conger taking the ball over on a five-yard jaunt, the Wildkittens were never threatened again. Conger was the leading ground-gainer of the contest for the Davidsonians.

Passes Clicked

Don McCree, a standout in earlier practice sessions, made a sensational catch of a Barney Poole pass in the end zone for theSecond six-pointer. Midway in the fourth period with the visitors leading 13-0, Tommy Newton gathered in one of Dyke Little’s tosses and raced 40 yards for the final tally. Harold Hall added two extra points in three tries. Big Gaylord Walker, Newton, and Hatcher stood out in the big line of the Kittens. The line, averaging almost 200 pounds per man, held the Blue Tornado squad intact and opened big holes for the Davidson backs. Jim West's punting and the passing of Poole and Little were also highly praised by Coach Ham. (Continued On Page Four)

SPE victory over the Phi Gams led by Don Reid. The Phi Gams' only TD was a pass from Reid to Gentry.

Kappa Sig 65, ATO 0
The Kappa Sigs, led by the passing of Eddie Poe, continued their winning by overpowering the ATOs. The outstanding players for the winners were Eddie Poe, Corky Clark, Hobby Cobb, and Corky Johnson.

Sigma Chi 6, Campus Club 0
The Sigma Chis won by a forfeit.

Beta 26; SAE 0
Tom Lamb led the Betas to their second victory of the season, after dropping the opener to the Pikas, by defeating the SAEs 26 to 0.

KA 52, ATO 39
The KAs, after losing their opener to the Kappa Sigs, have come back to win three games. (Continued On Page Four)

Cat Frosh Runners Idle After Impressive Victory Over Pfeiffer
The freshman cross country team rests this week after taking their first meet against Pfeiffer Junior College last Friday. Pete Ashcraft, finishing 12:17.5 minutes after the starting gun, led his team to victory over the strong junior college squad. His time was only 15 seconds off the freshman cross country record and chances are good that he'll break that record before the season is over. Pfeiffer’s number one man posted a 4:46 first mile, 2 seconds ahead of Ashcraft, but the fair-haired freshman soon overcame this margin to win handily.

Show Improvement
Ted Baker finished third and ran well over the entire course. The team ran well as a team considering the fact that this was their first meet of the season. With such men as Bondurant and Huntley, who are improving with every practice and who did well Friday, along with the one-two speed punch of Ashcraft and Baker, the freshmen are developing into a real threat to any of the teams they encounter. Coach Magill remarked after the Pfeiffer meet that his team as a whole had shown great improvement and spirit and the will to win. One surprise of the meet was the running of Bill Jackson, who finished among the first 10, yet was not officially running for the team. Bill did not make the starting team for the first meet, but has shown tremendous promise and should be one of the regulars soon. The little Cats will be out for their second win on Friday, October 23, when they travel to the Pfeiffer home grounds to meet the same team in a return meet.

Welcome Alumni and Friends
Let’s Beat P. C.!
Wilson's Men’s Shop
“Collegiate Fashions”
Davidson, N. C.

JOHNNY GRAY PAGE THREE

Invades for Homecoming
Cats Seek First Win Of Season
By JIM HOLSHOUSER
Davidson's Wildcats join in the celebrating of Homecoming tomorrow when they meet the Blue Hose of Presbyterian College here on Richardson Field. As in any game that pits two Presbyterian schools against each other, it promises to be a close, hard-fought battle. Presbyterian’s gridders will invade Davidson campus fresh from last week's startling 7-6 victory over Wofford’s powerful Terriers. The Presbyterian line made several goal-line stands to stave off desperate Wofford attempts to stop the upset.

Homecoming Spoilers
Two years ago, these same Blue Hose spoiled another Davidson Homecoming, as they eked out a thrilling 14-12 decision. Last year, however, the Wildcats showed the same courtesy to the Presbyterians when they edged the Hose 13-12, in their Homecoming game at Clinton. The Davidson eleven will be giving a little extra tomorrow afternoon for another reason, too. Since Dr. Cunningham's arrival twelve years ago, Davidson has not been able to manage a Homecoming win! There has been one tie, but the rest of the games showed the Cats behind when the final gun sounded. Last year, the Davidson team lost a thriller to Furman University, 14-13.

After First Win
Tomorrow, the Wildcats will be looking for their first win of the current season. They have looked better in each encounter, and last week the team gave North Carolina State the scrap of their lives for three quarters. State's reserve strength finally paid off in the final period, and they scored twice to wrap up the contest. But the Cats played a whale of a ball game, and deserve a lot more credit than the score indicated. Coach Bill Dole had nothing but praise for his team, saying, “The boys played good football and looked like a good football team. The score wasn't indicative of the game, and the movies show that with a couple of changes, it could easily have gone our way.”

“Evenly Matched”
Concerning tomorrow’s game, Coach Dole says, “Presbyterian has a good ball club with a lot of (Continued on Page Four)

Finest 3 ply Australian zephyr wool sweaters — Verelama
A luxurious 3-ply yarn is stronger, more even, more elastic than ordinary yarns. Gives warmth without weight — lightness without bulk. New Aqua-Set pre-shrinking process makes Verelama sweaters shrink-resistant, moth-proof, mildew-proof. Easily washable — holds its shape, too. Truly an exceptional sweater value. Handsome selection of colors in all styles.

Pullover Style 6220 Sizes 34-46 $8.50
Pullover “Longee” Style 6221 Sizes S, M, L $6.95
Coat Style 8220, Sizes 36-46 $9.95
Sleeveless Style 5220 Sizes S, M, L $7.95
Vest Style 7220 Sizes 36-46 $5.95

Wilson’s Men’s Shop
“COLLEGIATE FASHIONS”
Next to Bank
Davidson, N. C.