FRIDAY, JANUARY 16, 1953 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

—WILDCAT OF THE WEEK—

Bright Spot In USC Loss Was Bryan In Backstroke

By DICK LILES

It takes a lot of hard work for a big fellow to make good in the swimming sport, but living proof that it can be done is found in the person of Jim Bryan, the Bessemer, Alabama senior who has been outstanding for the Catfish for two straight seasons. The amiable “Jimbo” captured the only one-man win and was a member of the 300-yard medley relay that won in Tuesday’s meet with the University of South Carolina. Not only did he win the gruelling 200-yard backstroke event, but he shaved four seconds off his personal record in doing it. His time was 2 minutes and 34 seconds.

Consistently Good Performer

It is not only for his efforts in the Carolina meet, but for his consistently good past performances that Bryan hits the “charmed circle” of WOW's. Jim has won his backstroke events in both meets thus far this year, and has been a member of the winning relay team twice. He was second high in total points among his teammates last year with 75 points; just 1 less than freshman Al Ormond. One of Jim’s highest honors among the many honors and positions is the one bestowed on him by the members of the team when they named him captain for this year.

Tankmen Lack Experience

He has been the spark of the tankmen so far this year, and although they have dropped their first two meets, indications are that experience and depth are all that they need to win some of the remaining meets. Jim manages to squeeze in a few hours in the pool every day when he isn’t in the Science Building preparing for a medical career. He plans to attend the Medical School of the University of Pennsylvania after graduation rolls around. Jim is also active in the Male Chorus, holding on to a mellow tenor voice.

Coach Hambright of the Catfish has this to say of Jim Bryan: “He is one of the top three hardest working men on the squad. He has proved to be a wonderful leader, and we just need more like him to win, that’s all.”

Deacs Sport Hot Combination In Williams, Hemric

By JOHN HANDLEY

Wake Forest's Demon Deacons will play host to a slumping Wildcat five tomorrow night as the Cats seek to hit the win column again after five straight setbacks. Tip-off time for the Southern Conference game is 8:15 in Reynolds High gym, Winston-Salem. The game with Wake’s quintet will bring Cat action to a close until January 30, when North Carolina’s Tar Heels come to Johnston Gym. In striving to get off their slump in this last pre-exam encounter, the Cats will again play the underdog role.

The Deacs boast two of the league’s top scorers in the persons of 6'6" center Dickie Hemric and forward Jack Williams. The Deacons are responsible for the only Conference defeat of State's “8th in the nation” Wolfpack. The Baptists are sporting one of the best records and best teams they've produced recently. In their last three outings the Deacs have pounded the Citadel, 96-67, South Carolina, 68-50, and Clemson, 93-66. In the Clemson tussle Wake Forest hit on an amazing 81 percent of their shots in the first half as Hemric poured 32 points through the hoop and Jack Williams hit for 22. Coach Miller will again count on the steady scoring punch of (Continued On Page Four)

Catfish In Charleston, Basketball Coach Danny Miller this week after the luckless Cats had absorbed their fifth straight loss of the season to Carolina Tuesday night. The poker-faced Miller quite understandably evaded that one, but for a man who compiled a 165-39 record at his first coaching job, the new headmaster of the hoop sport seemed remarkably well composed in the face of the present gloomy outlook for his '53 Davidson team. Although Danny has had some very unhappy days this season—most notably the Cats’ 101-71 loss to State recently—he doesn’t seem to be letting it get him down. Miller has learned the facts of life at Davidson (i.e., few scholarships, perennially rough schedule, etc.) in a hurry, and the skies appear indeed bleak for the rest of the season with Wake Forest, Duke, Carolina, USC, Tennessee, et al, looming up on the schedule after exams.

In his opinion, just what is wrong with the present Wildcat Cagers? “We're a young team,” says Miller, “and with only one really experienced, consistently high scoring player (Joe Dudley), we can’t expect to beat teams loaded with veteran players.” What about sophomore Jerry King? “He's hot and cold. Twenty against one team, three or four against another.” With experience, says Miller, King should become another consistently high scorer for the Cats. Danny suffered a real blow when Darrell Floyd, who made little all-American under his tutelage last year at Wingate Junior College, dropped out of Davidson before Christmas. Floyd was one of the few really bright spots in the future for D.C., but scholastic difficulties caused him to withdraw. (Ever heard that one before?)

Miller still has some promising ballplayers. Sophomore Pappy Fowle, the man who brings the ball down the court for the Cats, is a fine ball handler, and has set a shot which is reminiscent of “Dutch” Hengeveld, the guy who plopped ‘em in with astonishing regularity for Davidson a couple years ago. Hobby Cobb is only a freshman now, should be a mainstay of the team in a couple of seasons. Buddy Brown has been showing up well in recent games, and J. V. Howell has been improving in all departments.

There's one weakness of the present Davidson cagers which nothing can remedy. Except for big George Melton, they just didn’t grow tall enough. When the Cats played State last week their tallest regular—Dudley—looked like a grammar school lad among the big boys. How tall is Joe? ‘Bout six-four. Pappy Fowle, who is about average height for an ordinary human being, looked like a dwarf among State’s Bobby Speight, Danny (five o'clock shadow) Knapp, and their stratospheric cronies. Hard work is the only answer to the Cats’ problem, in the final analysis. Work on ball handling, shooting, defense—and possibly the most necessary, foul shooting. They've lost a lot of points in missing from the foul line, and a good average on those shots for a team which is short on height can mean the (Continued On Page Four)

By DICK ROPER

Meet Citadel Tomorrow

By MAC WILLIAMSON

A twice-beaten Catfish swimming team left for Charleston this afternoon to meet The Citadel in the Keydets’ home pool. The Citadel is reported to be strong in all but the distance events, so the Davidson team will have to put forth an all-out effort.

Grapplers Meet Washington & Lee At Lexington

The matmen of Washington and Lee are hosts to Davidson’s winless Wildcat grapplers tonight in Lexington, Va., and Charlie Parker's team will be all out to break out of the doldrums against the strong W&L club. The Wildcat groaners were shaded 14-12 in last Monday's outing against N. C. State. Gene Craven, hampered by an injured shoulder, still managed to win his match in the 147-pound class, and John Buxton, Charlie Murray and Bill Coe all whipped their opponents.

Armfield Loses Tough One

Nabby Armfield, in what proved to be the crucial match of the meet, lost a heartbreaker to State's Tony Leone in the heavyweight event. A hard-fought match all the way, this event was the closest that Davidson lost. Coach Parker, although naturally disappointed at losing such a hard-foughtMatch, was impressed with the improvement in his team, and to win their first meet of the season. In their last time out, the Catfish lost to South Carolina by a 52-32 count. Jim Bryan will swim the backstroke tomorrow, Paul Cole the freestyle distance, Al Ormond and Jeter Abernethy the 150-yard medley, and George Crone the breaststroke event. Bob Patton will handle the 50-yard events. Since the USC meet, the team has been working on turns and concentrating on improving their stamina and general physical condition. Team Manager Dick Morehead said this week that the team should be greatly improved in the second semester due to the fact that at least two good swimmers will be added to the roster. The Charleston trip will be one of the biggest of the season with practically all members of the team going. 

Hopes to give the W&L team a rough time in tomorrow night's action. 

Now Have Lost Five

The Cat wrestlers now have a none-five record, having lost three matches in the four-way meet held before Christmas. The next match on their schedule is on February 7, when they take on Duke here. 

The wrestlers for Davidson to- (Continued On Page Four)

Midyear Standings Show Sigma Chis Leading Way

Sigma Chi leads the way in the standings at present could reshuffle competition for the Interfraternity sports championship this year with a total of 336 3-5 points scored in football, wrestling, and swimming. The Phi Delts are hot on their heels, however, with 334 7-10 points. The perennially high-ranking Kappa Sigs are third with 305 points, and the SPEs and Phi Gams are practically tied for fourth place with 285 1-3 and 285 points respectively.

Top Teams Best Bets

Although the top teams are the best bets for the Interfraternity trophy, there are many sports yet to be played, and a good showing for some of the lower teams in the standings at present could reshuffle the whole arrangement. The present standings for the whole interfraternity league (with point totals to the nearest whole numbers) are as follows:

Sigma Chis .......... 337
Phi Delts ............ 334
Kappa Sigs .......... 305
SPEs ................. 285
Phi Gams ............ 285
SAEs ................. 282
Betas ................. 243
KAs .................. 222
Pi Kappas ........... 206
Pikas ................. 195
ATOs ................. 133
Campus Club ....... 110

Slumping Cats Meet Wake Forest In Winston Tomorrow

KAs Lead Way In Interfrat Basketball, But Race Shapes Up As Close One

By BUCK REINHARDT

Kappa Alpha took the lead in the interfraternity basketball league this week, having compiled a 4-0 record in the first two weeks of play. Several other teams, however, are right behind the KAs, this situation pointing toward a close race for the championship. Upsets have been prominent in the recent interfraternity contests, with the Pi Kapps downing the Sigma Chis 39-33, and the ATOs trimming a favorite Phi Delt team 35-33. The KAs and the Pikas are the only teams which have not suffered a single defeat. Each has won three games without a loss.

Sigma Chis 37; SPEs 19

A well-balanced, sharp-shooting Sigma Chi team had little trouble in downing the SPEs. Tyler Berry led the way for the Sigs, scoring 12 points.

KAs 62; ATOs 36

Proving themselves one of the strongest teams in the league and a definite contender for the championship, the KAs rolled over the ATOs 62 to 36. The high-flying KA offense was led by the constantly hitting George King, who collected 16 points. Murray Page led the ATO attack with 13 points.

Pikas 53; Phi Gams 48

In one of the hardest-fought contests yet, the Pikas outscored the Phi Gams 53 to 48. Lindley Beardsley set the pace for the Pikas with 24 points to give them their second win without a loss. Joe Sugg led the losers with 22 points.

Phi Delts 44; SPEs 32

Displaying a strong attack, the Phi Delts emerged victorious over the SPEs, 44 to 32. The Phi Delts built up an early lead and led at halftime 28 to 8. Ted Oldenburg was high for the winners with 11 points, while Moffatt Ware led the SPEs with 10 points.

ATOs 63; Betas 42

Regaining their high-scoring form, the ATOs stomped the Betas 63 to 42. Linny Baker garnered 22 points and led the ATOs to their second win of the campaign. Bill McNair led the victory-starved Betas with 12 points.

Pi Kapps 39; Sigma Chis 33

The Pi Kappas emerged the victors in one of the biggest upsets of the year, defeating the Sigma Chis 39 to 33. A second-half rally led by Ben Jones, who scored 14 points, was responsible for the Pi Kapp victory. Tyler Berry was tops in scoring for the Sigma Chis with 10 points.

KAs 40; Kappa Sigs 24

With big George King leading the way, the KAs remained undefeated by humbling the Kappa Sigs 40 to 24. Johnny Bremer scored 10 points to lead the losers, while the KA’s King made 18.

Pi Kapps 39; SPEs 31

Netting 29 points in the second half, after a slow start in the first half, the Pi Kapps captured a 39 to 31 victory over the SPEs. Tom Hancock, scoring 12 points, was largely responsible for the Pi Kapp rally that turned defeat into victory. Moffatt Ware was the high scorer for the SPEs with 9 points.

(Continued On Page Four)

CAN you “take it” 6 days a week? For 52 weeks? Can you meet the high standards required to be an Aviation Cadet? If you can—then here's a man-size opportunity! An opportunity to serve your country and build a personal career that will fit you for responsible positions both in military and commercial aviation. It won't be easy! Training discipline for Aviation Cadets is rigid. You'll work hard, study hard, play hard—especially for the first few weeks. But when it’s over, you'll be a pro—with a career ahead of you that will take you as far as you want to go. You graduate as a 2nd Lieutenant in the Air Force, with pay of $5,300.00 a year. And this is only the beginning—your opportunities for advancement are unlimited.

ARE YOU ELIGIBLE?

To qualify as an Aviation Cadet, you must have completed at least two years of college. This is a minimum requirement—it’s best if you stay in school and graduate. In addition, you must be between 19 and 26½ years, unmarried, and in good physical condition.

YOU CAN CHOOSE BETWEEN PILOT OR AIRCRAFT OBSERVER

If you choose to be an Aircraft Observer, your training will be in Navigation, Bombardment, Radar Operation, or Aircraft Performance Engineering.

New Aviation Cadet Training Classes Begin Every Few Weeks!

HERE’S WHAT TO DO:

1. Take a transcript of your college credits and a copy of your birth certificate to your nearest Air Force Base or Recruiting Station. Fill out the application they give you.
2. If the application is accepted, the Air Force will arrange for you to take a physical examination.
3. Next, you will be given a written and manual aptitude test.
4. If you pass your physical and other tests, you will be scheduled for an Aviation Cadet Training Class. The Selective Service Act allows you a four-month deferment while waiting for class assignment.

Visit your nearest Air Force Base or Air Force Recruiting Officer. OR WRITE TO: AVIATION CADET HEADQUARTERS, U. S. AIR FORCE, WASHINGTON 25, D. C.