Page Two

The Grads Come Back

Homecoming is here again, and hundreds of men who call Davidson their Alma Mater will be on hand around the
campus during the weekend. The Davidson that they will see will be in many ways the same place they left
years ago, but in many ways, it will seem quite a different place.

Certainly, the face of Davidson has received considerable lifting in a little more than a decade. A graduate of the
mid-thirties returning to the campus for the first time as an alumnus would probably recognize the place but would certainly
be more than a little aware of the building program that began in the early forties and is still in
progress. Certainly, there are many things that would lead him to believe that this place is quite different from the
college he left 15 or 20 years ago. On closer examination, however, he would most likely come to the conclusion
that though there have been more than a few outward changes here at Davidson, it’s really not much different from
the school he left. The things about Davidson that distinguish it from other schools are still here, though old professors
and old buildings have gone, and new and unfamiliar ones have replaced them.

We like to think of how Davidson has grown, and indeed it has more than kept pace in changing times.
But it is still a small college as educational institutions go, and still has all the advantages, and indeed many
of the disadvantages, of such an institution. We are still proud of many of the same things that the college
took pride in during years gone by. When others deride our athletic teams, which are indeed seldom winners, we point
to the heavy schedule and remind them that Davidson is one of the remaining schools where liberal education is the
primary objective; we bask in the high academic repute in which the college is held, at least in the South;
we point with pride to the many Rhodes scholars she has produced—three alumni are studying at Oxford today; we still
have one of the best honor systems in any school anywhere.

Of course, we still have our faults as well as our strong points. Students say that the college is too
paternalistic, and faculty members answer that the college has to be because students are so immature. We still go to
chapel every day and to church every Sunday night. Lots of people don’t like this, but most take it in
their stride, realizing that in this respect what is true today was true yesterday, and probably will be true tomorrow,
and perhaps it has good points after all. Davidson looks different from the way it used to, true, but fundamentally
it hasn’t changed a bit.

Independence From What?

One of the strangest chapters in the history of student-faculty relationships at Davidson transpired last Monday afternoon at a meeting
of the YMCA Board of Directors held to consider the budget for the present school year. The walls of the
Union’s Blue Room were witness to the unique spectacle of a board meeting in which faculty members were urging greater
student responsibility and independence, while the student representatives were by and large far from being enthusiastic about such prospects.

Upon closer examination, though, the reasons behind the seeming reversal of roles became readily apparent. The topic of controversy concerned
whether or not the YMCA was to assume full responsibility for the salary of the newly-appointed secretary, Sam Magill, or
whether the college itself should relieve the Y of part of this responsibility. As might be expected, representatives of the
college administration, who had assumed the Y would assume the full share of responsibility, were in favor of including that
amount in the Y budget, with the understanding that the college would gladly underwrite the $1,530 deficit this would make
in the tentative budget presented earlier in the year by Treasurer Buddy Lamon. This deficit was entered under income as
gifts from alumni and friends in the budget which was finally approved. Furthermore, the supporters of this plan contended that
it would make the YMCA a more independently operating organization.

We were among those students who opposed this proposition at the Board meeting on the grounds that it would seem
unwise to establish a precedent which would possibly make the Y habitually dependent on aid from outside the campus. It
seemed to us at the time that the YMCA at Davidson is not merely a student organization, but is, and
rightly should be, a college YMCA. Since religious life here centers about the Y, and the college administration is vitally
interested in the religious experience of each student, it appeared reasonable to us that the college administration should assume a
more formal financial responsibility in connection with the Y Secretary. We further failed to see the advantage of freedom from
(Continued On Page Four)

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Moody Smith

BUSINESS MANAGER
Charley Hasty

ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Jim Moore, Dick Roper

Assistant Editors
Bob Crutchfield, Charles Hassell, Buddy Lamon, Bob Owen, Hunter Strader

Managing Editors
Henry Brockmann, Floyd Feeney, John Handley

Sports Editor
Austin Strand

News Editor
T. A. Williams

Feature Editor
Ed Price

Art Editor
Andy Simons

Photographer
Blake Brinkerhoff

Assignments
Ed Nicholson

Asst. Business Manager
Tommy Taylor

Advertising Manager
Dick Little

Circulation Manager
Tim Cooper

Collections Manager
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897.

We Buy — Sell OLD JUNK

“Hey Bud—Who’s Here This Year?”

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Your DECORATING CHAIRMAN

Liberal Trend Evident In Recent Alterations In College Policy?

The recent decision of the faculty to abolish the aggregate limit on cuts came as a welcome relief to students
who have too long been held to a precious few cuts a semester. This move reputedly came because the old
aggregate system entailed too much bookwork and red tape than its usefulness warranted. Viewed out of the context of recent
college policies, this move would seem only the lessening of one of the major evils of the present system of
student regulation. But if I may be allowed to become a little optimistic, it does seem that the abolition of
the aggregation system might be a step—though a very small one—toward a more liberal Davidson.

Other Recent Changes

It is, of course, always easy to see what you want to see—if you look long enough and hard enough.
But two other major changes in policy in the last decade make it seem that college authorities, although certainly not
heeding Alexander Pope’s advice to “Be not the first by whom the new is tried,” are at least following the
later half of that sage gentleman’s advice of, “Nor yet the last to cast the old aside.”

It was not long ago that when the students wanted to have dances, they had to contract for a ballroom
in Charlotte or another of the surrounding towns and then spend the better part of the weekend commuting to and
from Davidson in the wee hours of the weekend mornings. And in the process, they spent a great deal more
on gas and put a lot more mileage on their cars than many fathers could afford. College authorities, seeing the
danger of having to do so much driving, and possibly seeing how behind the times they were, finally consented to
let the dances be held on the campus which of course was the only prudent and reasonable way to handle
the situation. That was only one small move, but it did represent a major change in policy.

Second Major Change

The second major policy change in the last decade came with the faculty decision to let students keep cars on
the campus. The argument against this move, as I understand it, was that the quality of the students’ work would
drop if they were allowed this privilege. In the few years that the new rule has been in operation, I
do not believe it is true that there has been any marked decrease in the work done by students. In
fact, this year’s senior class, which came in right after the new ruling on cars was made, is said to
be one of the smartest at Davidson in years. It goes without saying that should any of these privileges be
really abused, the faculty would be justified in taking them away. (But it is to be fervently hoped that the
Davidson professors who would actually be in favor of having students park their cars on Sunday night and not get
in them until Saturday noon, will not succeed in getting the rules changed because a few students abuse the privilege.)

Presage New Liberalism?

It is perhaps too much to hope that these recent shifts in college policy presage a new liberalism. That, it
seems, is not in the cards for Davidson. But it is to be hoped that as other colleges in the
country move toward more liberal policies, Davidson will realize that there is some value in what the others are doing
and at least go along with the crowd.

In my wildest dreams, it is possible to see Davidson, still as a small, liberal arts school, with a friendly
atmosphere about the campus—yet without the leash of a rigid cut system on the students, without compulsory attendance at worship
service, and without the general paternalism now prevalent on the Davidson campus. But time does change things, and it is
barely possible that the next generation of Davidson students may receive the benefits of a more liberal college.

THE CABBAGE PLANTER

What Makes Astaire A Star?

Davidson Homecoming Guide

Dancing in all its forms cannot be excluded from the curriculum of all noble education: dancing with the feet, with
ideas, with words...
—F. Nietzsche

As Fred so aptly suggests, dancing is too often neglected in today’s curriculum. And, curriculum being restricted largely to dances
and football games, the world has yet to find a complete and authentic guide to curricular dancing. Bascom Lunsford writes
about dancing for squares; Fred Astaire does the ballroom job; the Davidsonian this week brings you those steps Miss Kittredge
Never Mentioned, or Other Foxy Trots.

First, we have the Devil and the Deep Blue Sea Step, mostly for fraternity pledges. It’s one step the girls
don't need to learn. Let's say Pledge A is told separately by Brothers B and C that he is to
date their sisters, fresh out of Kernersville Junior High. Pledge A coughs into the Devil telephone (Brother B’s sister), sneezes
into the Deep Blue Sea phone (Brother C’s sister), tells both of them, “I'd lub to hab you ub for
the dadze,” gets two refusals for sanitation’s sake.

How about, you say, the less-than-fortunate blind daters? How about the fellow who meets his blind date at the train
and finds out his fraternity brothers really do hate him?

Now's the time for the Cincinnati One-Step. Start with your left foot, take one step onto the train she got
off, wave to her, and in a day and a half you'll be in Cincinnati.

With Charlie Spivak's permission, we'd like to introduce the Fort Benning 4-Step this weekend. Done to “The Stars and Stripes
Forever,” it has been carefully outlined by the Department of the Army:

STEP: A step is a step.
(a) 4-STEP: Four steps is six steps.
COMMAND: In two parts:Preparatory command, Detail; command of execution, HUP, TRUP, THRUP, FRUP, HRLUP.

OFFENSIVE MOVEMENTS (Man’s part): Place foot, left, out in a line, straight, parallel with a line, straight, drawn parallel with
pender, sus, left, your. On the command TRUP, extend foot, left. THRUP: extend foot, left. FRUP: you can't stand up,
can you Mister? HRULP: without moving right foot, bring foot, right, upon line with foot, left. I hate to go
out on a limb, guys and gals, but it'll be the rage at the Scabbard and Blade Ball. For you
women, maybe he'll take you out driving after the dance. There’s a figure for that, too, known around the Tri
Delt house as the “Why Did the Chicken Cross the Road” step. Consists of a shift to the right, a
twirl with arms extended, then 182 short steps. The object is to cross the road, and get as far out
of sight as possible before he pries his hand out of the door. Like Fred said, it’s a sad world
that’s forgotten how to dance. Try it soon, this weekend, tonight! Remember now, Havelock Ellis says Dancing... it is life
itself.

OFF-MOORINGS: FRIDAY, OCTOBER 16, 1953

Does Long Ago Carolina Inn Tie Davidson To Hinton Helper

Davidson has not claimed a close association with the man who nearly as much as any single person played a
large part in hastening the Civil War but who once walked near and surely on her campus. What is now
known as Carolina Inn was once a hotel and was owned by this man’s brother, Hanson Pinkney Helper, and was
the frequent place of visiting of Hinton Rowan Helper himself.

Hinton Rowan Helper’s connection with our school is perhaps a bit shadowy to follow and we may be somewhat hard
pushed to pin down any strong claim we might have to him. So we won't press the point, but the
fact that he did visit so close to the campus and his brother once ran a business which was housed
in a building that is now owned by the college, does present a closeness that certainly ties him in our
realm.

In the same year that Davidson opened her doors to the first students, 1837, what is now called Carolina Inn
was constructed. The authority for the date is an inscription on the chimney, “L. Dinkem, 1837,” and sets off in
our minds a moment of great import. The building was not in its present size and shape, for it was
not until 1855 that Hanson Pinkney Helper, one of Hinton's two brothers, bought the place from the Dinkem’s, and later,
in 1860, the Helper Hotel was opened for lodging and feeding accommodations after much expanding the original structure.

Dr. Lingle writes fondly of playing backgammon with Mr. Pinkney Helper while Dr. Lingle was a student here. Most memorable
about the Helper Hotel, as it was known, was the perfectly kept and scrupulously cleaned flower garden of which Mr.
Helper was most proud. The flower garden was to the left of the house, facing the street, and as well
there was a summer house in which Mrs. Helper entertained the girls’ beaus.

In 1902 the place was sold to the Sloans who let it run down from the Helper’s impeccability and who
continued to use it as an inn. In 1946, the college bought the building and property with the intention of
someday turning it into a guest house. Future plans for the inn are indefinite, as the early plans for another
guest house seem unnecessary to college authorities now, and there is a good possibility, or so Dr. Spencer reports, that
a motel may soon be built near Davidson.

Hinton Rowan Helper was a precocious figure for his times. Having received little formal education (it is recorded that he
finished Mocksville Academy which corresponds somewhat closely to our high school) perhaps his greatest apprenticeship to knowledge of the world
came when he worked his way aboard ship around the Cape from New York to California. It was in the
gold state that he saw at first hand the benefits of a non-slavery economy and had such a great impression
made on him by his findings in California.

His first book, “The Land of Gold,” (1855), is alleged to have held some references to his anti-slavery views that
were deleted by the publisher. This was but a portent of what was to come. It was in the following
year that his monumental analysis of the economic structure of the South was published and created such a furor—“The Impending
Crisis.” “The Dictionary of American Biography” has this to say of Helper’s book, “It caused a sensation, one far greater
than “Uncle Tom’s Cabin.” It was furiously attacked in the South but few dared to read it and it thus
remained without an adequate answer.” What Harriet Beecher Stowe lacked of reason was made up by sentimentality, Helper supplied, filled
and overflowed in logic. The Southerner had found their match in the slavery question... and in a Southerner.

The DAB summarizes Helper's argument in this way: “Contrasting the economic condition of the free and slavery states (using as
his text the official census returns), he attributed the backwardness of the South to the impoverishment of free labor by
slavery. There was no trace of interest in the Negro and his real or fanciful wrongs.” He went on to
show that slowly the institution of slavery was strangling the economic strength of the South. Instead of cotton being King,
the hay crop of the North and West were worth more. In the South, valuable timber was rolled into great
piles and burned to clear the land. Most devastating, he revealed that the annual value of Southern exports was steadily
declining, whereas the value of imports annually increasing.

So violent was the reaction in the South against the book that his own state legislature of North Carolina passed
a sedition law making even the possession of the book a felony. In R. C. Lawrence's article, “Ten of Our
Authors” in The State (date unavailable), he writes of a minister who was convicted under this law and who escaped
his prison term only by the expedient of forfeiting his bond and escaping to the protection of a Northern State.
Helper was even forced, for his personal safety, to withdraw himself from the state to New York, soon after the
book was published. “The Impending Crisis,” was adopted in 1860 as one of the official books for the Republican national
campaign. Partly through this backing and partly through the natural interest the book engendered, it gained the widest circulation of
any book in the pre-Civil War era.

How could such a man who did so much to cause the sharpening of the issues for the War have
been so overlooked in history? His point of view was not sympathetic to slave-holding interests in the South, so that
part of his public was lost to him for an honorable memory. Helper never had any genuine sympathy for the
Negro, and so the Northern abolitionists would not completely accept him in their fold. Fortunately for Helper, President Lincoln assigned
him as the American Consul to Argentina in Buenos Aires, during the War. We must as well remember that in
the South possession, much less accurate knowledge, of “The Impending Crisis” was grounds for legal action and undoubtedly social ostracization
as well.

Thus it was that a man who set (Continued On Page Four)

Homecoming!—Decorations, Alumni, Women; With All This, How You Gonna Fight It?

Well, here we sit in the midst of the first official holiday of the year — Homecoming. Invariably, three things
are associated with this Roman Holiday: decorations, prosperous alumni and women. For the freshmen, it will be their primary initiation
into the rigors of a dance weekend, and also they must acclimate themselves to the somewhat traumatic experience of having
a collective group of women on the campus after a month or so of rationing and self-denial. The upperclassmen, knowing
vaguely what to expect, catch up on their sleep as much as possible and make attempts to decorate and tidy
up for the incoming visitors. Many have trepidations about any information arriving suddenly by phone, mail or wire, because the
“flush” is no respecter of age, fraternity or social standing.

When the alumni arrive, they will find many things which certainly have changed since the “good old days.” Last year
the great edifice on the southwest corner of the campus had just been completed; this year the Student Union is
functioning full force, cafeteria and all. In the foreseeable future, the ground for the new Belk dormitory will be cleared
and building will begin. Materially, it is an impressive record. Yet these innovations also bring problems which were nonexistent in
previous years. The fraternities have been strained to accept the method of requiring freshmen to eat in the cafeteria, and
have had to alter their previous programs of working with pledges. To their credit, this transition seems to have been
made with a minimum of friction with either the pledges or the administration.

Lately, a rumor has been floating about that some of the fraternities have been trying to undermine the Union in
the minds of the freshmen. We believe this rumor to be completely unfounded, since no group realizes more fully how
dependent they are upon the good will of the Administration for existence than do the fraternities. Some of the objections
of last year to this system have manifested themselves—others have not arisen. One manifestation—the reaction of the freshmen to the
long lines and limited quantity of food—was completely overlooked last year, but it is making itself felt. This year’s class
spirit—another objective—seems to be as prevalent as any of previous classes, but whether it is being channeled in the hoped-for
direction is questionable. So far, everything is in the experimental, or trial-and-error, stage.

This Homecoming may be the first in the “Age of Transition” at Davidson. As yet, the direction of this transition
is undetermined; whether this is a period of change is even dubious. So, Alumni—we welcome you! But if the facilities
which we have now far surpass anything existent during the old days, so do the problems of finding out how
to deal with them equitably. Women, we welcome you with no reservation whatsoever!
