FRIDAY, MAY 1, 1953

Davidson is recognized as having an outstanding plant for physical development, and the college uses this and the fact that
the intercollegiate Wildcats are members of the overpopulated Southern Conference as big publicity points. For a college its size, old
Davidson does have a tremendous athletic layout and has at least fair facilities for almost every type of athletics. The
Wildcats participate in nine intercollegiate sports, and there is organized interfraternity play in seven different sports. Along with these competitive
sports, there are the various required physical education classes. These include three full quarters of many varied activities such as
basketball, swimming, wrestling, modified football, badminton, tennis, softball, and others.

The college owns some fifty-five acres of Mecklenburg land and has plenty of room to spread out in its athletic
activities. However, the land itself is not enough. The ground has to be cleared, smoothed, and leveled to make it
suitable for use in athletics.

GYM LEAVES LITTLE TO BE DESIRED INDOORS

The two football fields, the tennis courts, and the baseball diamond are the only really improved outside athletic facilities available
on the campus. Of course, there is nothing to be said about the fine facilities of the new modern Johnston
Gymnasium, which is truly a fine athletic plant. Looking around in the fall and in the spring when outdoor athletics
are in vogue, we can hardly find a spot on the campus where some athletic team or interfraternity squad is
not engaged in some phase of sporting activity. To say the least, the place is really crowded with the facilities
which we have this year. Just think what the situation will be next year when a new group of freshmen
move in to return freshman intercollegiate athletics. With freshmen on separate teams from the varsity next year, the question will
arise — where can they practice and where can they play their home games with the varsity and the Greeks
already overcrowding the present spaces.

The major difficulties arise with football and baseball. With the freshmen practicing down on the lower practice football field, that
will force the varsity to run its drills in the stadium. This will not only take away one of the
intramural football fields, but will, of course, put such a strain and a pounding on the already thin Richardson Field
turf that there won’t be much left for the home games the 1954 Football Wildcats will play here on the
campus.

SPRING SPORTS ARE THE MOST CROWDED

Then in the spring, the track squad will be taking up the stadium, and that leaves two baseball teams to
play and practice on the same baseball diamond. If the lower football practice field were to be pressed into service
as the freshman baseball field, two of the intramural softball fields would go by the board.

Over on the tennis courts, we find the same situation exactly. The minimum recommendation of most colleges and universities around
the nation is to have one tennis court for every fifty students. That means that the local courts, which, by
the way, are some of the finest in the South, are still six short of the very minimum requirement for
adequate tennis facilities. Even this year, with the interfraternity competition in progress along with varsity tennis practice and matches, the
courts are full and therefore inaccessible to students who just want to play for the fun of the game, except
in the mornings, when they are clogged by the overcrowded Physical Education tennis classes, and on Saturday and Sunday afternoons.
Here again, there is the space, but no money to make the necessary improvements.

INTRAMURAL FIELDS ARE POOR

The intramural fields, especially in softball, aren't even level and in some cases, not even cleared of knee-high weeds. However,
earth moving and leveling, which would be necessary for any such improvements, is very expensive and therefore at (Continued On
Page Four)

SALE NOW IN PROGRESS
Everything Must Be Sold!
By JOHN HANDLEY
Wilson-Wright's “Collegiate Fashions”
DAVIDSON, N. C.

THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

Cindermen Meet W & L, Furman Tomorrow
McKee’s Netters Hit Miami Today On Local Courts
By JIM HOLSHOUSER

Davidson's tennis squad took on the strong racquet forces of the University of Miami, (Fla.) on the local courts this
afternoon. The Miamians were favorites in the match as they sport one of the strongest teams in the south. Coach
McKee was expected to send his regular lineup (Keesler, Bremer, Dudley, Clark, Sneed, and Bivins or Green) against the powerful
Florida team. Also, the regular doubles combinations were expected to face the Miamians. McKee was forced to shuffle the doubles
combinations last Tuesday against Duke due to the illness of Lacy Keesler. Johnny Bremer and Leighton Green played the No.
1 doubles instead of the normal Bremer-Keesler combination.

The Cats now hold a 10-7 won-lost record, and with only two matches remaining in the regular season after this
afternoon's match, they are assured of at least an even split with the opponents over all the matches played this
year. However, the Cats are heavily favored to down easily the two remaining teams, South Carolina and Wofford. The Cats
took both these teams earlier in the season by 9-0 counts.

The Davidson tennis team, now striving to have a winning season, lost two “Big Five” matches last week by identical
7-2 scores. At Chapel Hill last Saturday, North Carolina whipped the Cats, as they won their fifteenth successive match. Del
Sylvia and Company won all the singles matches in straight sets, with Davidson taking two of the doubles matches. At
Davidson Tuesday, the Cats took it on the chin from Duke’s Blue Devils. The Duke team took five singles matches
and two doubles matches. In the feature match of the afternoon, Lacy Keesler defeated Duke’s ace, Norm Schellenger. Keesler had
to leave his sick bed in order to play the match, but he turned in a brilliant performance.

The Cats took the measure of Washington and Lee’s Generals in an 8-0 whitewash in Lexington last Wednesday. Only two
of the doubles matches were completed.

Only two matches remain on the 1953 Davidson schedule. Next Thursday, the netters meet South Carolina at Davidson, and then
they close out the season’s play at Wofford on Saturday. On May 14, 15, and 16, the Cats will be
the host team for the Southern Conference Tournament.

GOLFERS TO FINISH SEASON THIS WEEK AT CHARLOTTE CLUB
By BUCK REINHARDT

The fairways will be hot Monday and Tuesday afternoons at the Charlotte Country Club as the Wildcats will tangle with
the Clemson and Wofford linksters. The Wildcat golfers met defeat at the hands of the Tigers early this season and
will be out for revenge. However, they took an easy victory from Wofford. The Tigers have one of the strongest
teams in this “neck of the woods,” and the Cats will have to play their finest to topple the fine
play of the Clemson combination.

“The Upset Club”

The Cat golfers, however, are becoming known for their upsets. Last week they stopped a strong bunch of Gamecocks from
South Carolina University, who had trounced them earlier in the season by 15 points. Larry Parrot was the big noise
in Davidson’s surprise win over the Gamecocks, and Larry will be out for a repeat performance Monday to lead the
Wildcats to another win and even the score with the Tigers.

Parrot ‘Plays It Cool’

Larry is one of the coolest players the Cats have been able to put on the greens for a long
while, and with Larry in top form, getting help from capable players like Graeme Keith, Captain Lew Barnes, Mickey Cannon,
Tom Abel, and Joe Jenkins, the Tigers will undoubtedly find themselves in for a rough match. The Davidson squad is
expected to repeat their easy Wofford win (Continued On Page Four)

KAs Lead In Softball At Half-way Point: Delts Lead Tennis
By DON PILKENTON

The second full week of play in the Inter-Fraternity softball league finds the Kappa Alphas have taken the lead away
from the Sig Eps. The KAs are currently batting 1000. By the time this paper goes to press, the game
between the Sig Eps and the KAs will have been played. This game may possibly decide the circuit winner. The
highly favored Sig Eps were spilled from their perch last Tuesday when an underdog Pika team finally came out on
top of a see-saw battle with a final winning score of 15-13.

The battles up to this point have been, on the whole, contests of the sluggers. In many games, however, errors
have played an important role in the mounting scores. The boys are eager to play ball and, no doubt, the
fumbles will diminish more and more as the season rides to completion.

Over in the tennis league, the Phi Delta Thetas are still going strong. Buford Price, undefeated Phi Delt racket-man, was
clipped, 6-4, by alsoUndefeated Gene Witherspoon of the Sig Eps. In spite of this loss, however, the league leaders went
on to down the SPE team and cop another win toward an undefeated season. These are the standings of the
tennis and softball leagues through Wednesday’s games:

Softball
KAs .......... 6-0
Sig Eps ...... 5-1
Phi Gams .... 4-1
Sigma Chis ... 4-2
Pi Kapps ..... 3-2
Phi Delts ..... 2-2
Pikas ......... 2-3
Campus Club . 1-3
Betas ......... 1-3
ATOs ......... 1-4
Kappa Sigs ... 1-4
SAEs ......... 0-4

Tennis
Phi Delts ..... 6-0
Kappa Sigs ... 5-1
Sig Eps ....... 5-2
Campus Club . 3-2
ATOs ......... 3-2
Phi Gams ..... 2-2
KAs .......... 3-4
SAEs ......... 2-3
Betas ......... 1-3
Pikas ......... 1-5
Sigma Chis ... 2-5
Pi Kapps ..... 0-7

Wildcats After Double Win

HOWELL, HENRY, MITCHENER, SHIPLEY showed heels to Gamecocks, Citadel. Wildcats of the Week: Relayers Win Saturday As Local Record Toppled

By JOHN HANDLEY

Last Saturday afternoon three teams pounded the local cinders in the season's first triangular track meet for Davidson’s Wildcats. South
Carolina’s Gamecocks and the Citadel’s Bulldogs had traveled to the campus to join the Cats in what promised to be
a tight struggle. All three had strong teams and all three came on the track with the idea of walking
away with the first place honors. The result — one of the most outstanding track shows ever staged on the
local cinders. The score — South Carolina 50, Davidson 53, Citadel 51.

It was an exciting meet overall, but no part was as thrilling as the final event — the mile relay.
The score entering the relay stood 56-50-48 (South Carolina, Citadel, Davidson).

Pressure Was On

The pressure was all on the Wildcat relay team. They must win to beat Citadel, or at least take second
over the men in blue to even tie the Bulldogs. The preceding week the South Carolinians had run away with
the relay event, beating the Cats by some 50 yards. To add to the pressure, Bill Russell, regular relay man,
was forced to withdraw from the race due to an upset stomach after his mile run win. At the last
minute Frank Mitchener, a dash man, who had never run in a 440 event, stepped in to take Russell’s place.
The odds looked too great.

Broke Local Record

The result — The four Cats, J. V. “Horse” Howell, Bob Henry, Frank Mitchener, and Bill Shipley, put on Mercury's
old mythical winged feet and took off on a mile jaunt which shattered the relay record for the local cinders.
The new record (3:28.5) shaved two seconds off the old one (3:30.5) which was set against Clemson in another thriller
last year. The Davidson team, however, beat even their new local record at the conference meet last year when they
took off on a 3:26.5 trip around the Raleigh track.

Three of our Wildcats of the Week figure prominently in Saturday’s split with their two opponents. Bob Henry, the jovial
Wildcat captain from the hills of West Virginia, placed second in the 880 event. The Sumner, Miss., gift to Davidson
track fortunes, Frank Mitchener, took first in the hundred and second in the 220. Bill Shipley, the Asheville, N. C.,
anchorman, took a second in the 440.

“Horse” Was Sick

“Horse” Howell had an off day as a bad chest cold hampered his usual performance in the 440. The Mars
Hill senior failed to place in the one-lap event. Henry and Howell are seniors while Shipley is a junior and
Mitchener is only a sophomore. Coach “Pete” Whittle had high praises for his relayers and he disclosed that he plans
to take them to Durham to the Southern Conference meet on the 15th and 16th of this month.

The pressure was on them — they had to win and they didn’t let their excited teammates down. Howell, Henry,
Mitchener, and Shipley — Wildcats of the Week.

Campus capers call for Coke

How long can Jack be nimble? Square dancing’s rugged ... better tune up now and then with refreshing Coca-Cola.

BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD, N.C. "Coke" is a registered trade-mark. ©
1952, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY

Sectional Clash

By ANDY TURNER

Coach “Pete” Whittle’s tracksters will meet the Purple Generals in a triangular meet on the local track tomorrow afternoon. The
meet will begin at the usual 1:30 P.M. for the field events and 2:00 for the remaining events. The Cats
will be heavily favored to take the measure of the two teams and should push their won-lost record to a
healthy 5-3 count.

A Real Thriller

Last weekend, in one of the most exciting meets seen on the local track, the Cats were edged by South
Carolina 59-53 in a triangular affair, with the Citadel whose team finished third with 51 points. The Gamecocks took first
and second in the pole vault giving them the victory. Davidson’s mile relay team of J. V. Howell, Bob Henry,
Frank Mitchener, and Bill Shipley set a new school record of 3:28.5, beating the old time of 3:30.5 set by
Davidson against Clemson last year. Mitchener, a dash man, was a last minute replacement for the ailing Bill Russell. Other
Davidson firsts were taken by Russell in the mile, Mitchener in the 100, and Sparks and Feeney (tie) in the
2 mile.

Ruskin Took Three Firsts

Ruskin of the Citadel was high man for the meet with first in the discus, shot put, and the javelin
throw for fifteen points. Frank Mitchener was high for the Wildcats with 9½ points. Furman and Washington and Lee will
come here with rather poor records. Both schools restarted track this year and are not too strong. Furman has been
beaten badly by both Clemson and P.C. and Citadel, while the Generals were routed by both VMI and VPI. Furman’s
strength lies in Mathos who runs the half mile, mile, and two-mile.

Successful Season

Davidson, thus far, is enjoying a successful season. Whittle’s boys hold victories over Roanoke, Mercer, and the Citadel. They have
bowed twice to South Carolina, one of the strongest teams in the conference, and lost to Clemson by one point.
The Cats will be favored to take this one with ease and will also be favored against N.C. State next
week when they close out the season on the local track. If the thinclads can take both of these meets,
they will finish with the best record of any of the other Davidson teams this year.

The Wildcat lineup for tomorrow’s meet is as follows:

100 yd. dash — Mitchener, Koonce.
220 yd. dash — Mitchener, Koonce.
440 yd. run — Shipley, Howell, Alexander.
880 yd. run — Henry, Reed, Gooding.
Mile run — Russell, Gooding.
2 mile run — Sparks, Feeney, Turner.
120 high hurdles — White, Robinson.
220 low hurdles — Morris, White.

(Continued On Page Four)

WILDCATS COMPLETE ‘53 DIAMOND CARD ON NEXT SATURDAY

Davidson’s luckless baseballers go into the final stretch of the 1953 season Tuesday afternoon when they meet South Carolina on
their home grounds. Ish Bennett is scheduled to pitch for the Cats, who dropped a 7-1 decision to the Palmetto
team a few weeks ago. Johnny Smith was slated to do the pitching chores this afternoon against Furman, who also
pasted the Cats earlier in the season.

Finish Season At Home

Coach Chuck Clements’ team finishes up the current season next weekend on the Davidson diamond. The Cats will play N.C.
State a return game Friday afternoon, with Jimmy Smith set to handle the mound duties. Wofford will be the opponent
for the season finale Saturday afternoon.

In losing to South Carolina earlier in the ‘53 campaign, Davidson pitchers were touched for nine hits, but only one
of these was good for an earned run. The Cats committed eight errors that afternoon to hand the game to
the S.C. team.

The probable starting lineup for Tuesday’s game with South Carolina:

C — Sfaelos or Glidewell
1B — Sparks, Whisnant
2B — Gray
SS — James
3B — Morris
LF — Teeter
CF — Stowe
RF — Thomas
P — DeVane
P — Bennett

New! SPALDING GOLF BALLS ARE LIFETIME WHITE

SPALDING does it again! Adds a spectacular new permanent whiteness to the game's greatest golf balls. Now LIFETIME WHITE, exclusive
with Spalding, is the brightest, whitest white ... the toughest, highest gloss white of any ball you ever played. Proven
by “torture tests,” Spalding LIFETIME WHITE resists scuffing, bruises, stains... won’t yellow or chip... keeps its sparkling sheen for life.
There’s a Spalding golf ball for every game and pocketbook. See your golf professional or dealer.
