FRIDAY, MARCH 13, 1953

On the rare occasions when a Davidson team wins a trophy for some outstanding accomplishment, the hardware which does not become the permanent property of the winners is customarily stashed away in the trophy cases in the lobby of Johnston Gymnasium. But the newest addition to the Davidson collection is not to be found within the confines of the Gym. The present location of this gold-plated tribute to Davidson athletic prowess is on a shelf behind the counter of the Broken Anchor Cafe, which is just about two good stones’ throws away from the D. C. campus.

It was due in large part to the generosity of Anchor proprietor Bryant “Sig” Sigmon that Arnold Whisnant’s Cardboard Village boys came off with the championship in the recent Morganton, N. C. semi-pro basketball tournament. Sig was good enough to pay the Broken Anchor brigade's expenses for four round trips to Morganton, and he had the added gratification of seeing his club do better than any team of Davidsonians has done in a while: come off with an undefeated record.

Captain-Manager Whisnant (the Anchor team was a sort of loose organization and wouldn’t say who was the head man, but Whiz seems to be the big organizer), one of the elite over in the Village, is a Morganton native, and when he heard of the tournament sponsored by the City Recreation organization, it seemed like a good chance to win some publicity for the plutocrats of the campus (four rooms to every apartment). So Whiz lined up the formidable combination of George King, Adrian Bowen, Lindley Beardsley, Jimmy Smith, Don Menzies, Moose Lazenby, and a few others, and was off to the races some two and a half weeks ago.

Right away the Anchor team went to work in a winning style. They polished off the dormitory team from Fritz Hall of Lenoir-Rhyne in their first night of play by a 64-52 count, with Jimmy coming through for a 20-point total. Smith eased up to 21 points in the Anchor quintet’s second appearance on the Morganton High School hardwood, as they disposed of Shelby Mills 65-52. Don Lazenby put 16 in the basket that night. As they went into the stretch, proprietor Sigmon’s team found themselves paired with the State Hospital of Morganton, and did away with this crowd fairly easily, winning 64-50. Lazenby came through with 16 again that night.

(Continued On Page Four)

By DICK ROPER

ANCHOR QUINTET WINS MORGANTON TOURNAMENT

The Zip Fit
Fits firmly in Waist and Hips
Six colors $4.95
Wilson-Wright's “Collegiate Fashions”
DAVIDSON, N. C.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Bad Weather Slows Prep For March 20 Opener

By MOODY SMITH

Tennis Coach Dick McKee has been hampered during the past two weeks in holding practice sessions by the current inclement weather, but has nevertheless had his squad working daily in the gym to get in shape. So far McKee does not know what his starting lineup will be, but a safe bet would be that the six singles matches will see Lacy Keesler, Johnny Bremer, Joe Dudley, George Snead, Corky Clark, and Leighton Green in action. Keesler, Bremer, Dudley, and Clark were regulars in singles play last season, while Snead played regularly in doubles only. Leighton Green showed flashes of his real ability on occasions, but was used only as a substitute in both singles and doubles matches. Much of the success or failure of the team this year, however, may depend on whether the scholarly Texan can hit his stride.

Opener Next Week

The team plunges into its 1953 schedule next week as they begin a week-long, five-match swing through Alabama, Florida, and Georgia. The netmen will then return home for a five-match home stand from March 30 through April 5. The slate for the busy first two weeks of the season runs as follows: Starting on Friday, March 20, Davidson plays Jacksonville State Teachers College at Jacksonville, Alabama. Saturday the Cats tangle with the University of Alabama, and then travel to Pensacola, Florida for two matches with the Pensacola Naval Air Station on Monday and Tuesday. Wednesday they play Mercer University at Macon, Georgia, after which they will return to Davidson on Thursday.

Michigan State Tough

Monday, March 31, the Michigan State College team arrives here for the opening match on the home courts. Last year the Michigan Staters were one of the four teams to beat Davidson during the regular season, the others being Duke, Princeton, and Harvard, after the latter had been defeated by the Cats twice early in the season. Harvard’s tennis squad will arrive in town for two matches on the following Wednesday and Thursday. Friday and Saturday will see Davidson playing Sewanee and Dartmouth respectively. Of the eight teams Davidson will face in this two-week period, all except Michigan State and Harvard are new to the schedule this year, and more or less unknown quantities. At present the Michigan boys and the Crimsons appear to be the toughest of the opposition.

Continued rains and cold weather

Hengeveld Playing With Service Team In Far East Theatre

Lt. “Dutch” Hengeveld, class of ‘51, who was a set shot artist on Davidson's 1950-51 basketball team, is still engaging actively in the hoop sport with a service team in Japan. His team won the championship in divisional and regional play, then went on to take top honors in the Central Tournament at Tokyo. If his team can go all the way in the Far East league, Dutch’s team will be sent Stateside to Ft. Meade, Maryland to play for the all-service championship early in April. Dutch writes his father, College Registrar F. W. Hengeveld, that he is averaging about 20 points per game, and that in his league a man plays the whole game until he is “fouled out or knocked out.” If Hengeveld is sent back to this country for tournament play he would probably not return to Japan but be assigned to a unit in this country until his discharge time comes up in July.

Golfers Working Hard For Opener On Holiday Jaunt

By FLOYD FRENEY

The Davidson golf team begins its season with a two-stop Southern tour. March 21 finds the Cat golfers teeing off against an extremely strong Rollins team on the Floridians' home course. The linksters complete their swing south with a match on March 23 at Florida State. Bad weather has hampered the linksters from rounding into top form. At present the race is still wide open for first line positions. Coach Elgin White will probably choose his lineup from such seasoned performers as Captain Lew Barnes, Graeme Keith, Tom Abel, and Lawrence Erwin, and newcomers Joe Jenkins, Mickey Cannon, Ed and Tommy Douglass, Hobby Cobb, Alex Hodgin, and Larry Parrott.

The complete schedule is as follows:
March 21 — Rollins.
March 23 — Florida State.
March 27 — Furman (home).
March 28 — Duke (home).
April 1 — Ohio University (home).
April 4 — Florida (home).
April 6 — Clemson.
April 7 — Wofford.
April 13 — Furman.
April 14 — U. S. C.
April 25 — Clemson (home).
April 27 — Wofford (home).
May 15 — SC Tournament.
May 16 — SC Tournament.
May 17 — SC Tournament.have combined to postpone the interfraternity track meet still another week. Dates for the track event have now been moved up to Monday and Tuesday of next week, interfraternity sports director Pete Whittle said yesterday. The wet weather has also forced the postponement of the Red-Black football game which Coach Bill Dole was planning to end the season with this Saturday afternoon. Now it appears the game will be played Monday or Tuesday of next week. And, as if this were not enough, the current monsoon season has laid Coach Dole up in bed with a case of flu. If he doesn’t recover sufficiently by next week, the closing practices of winter football may have to go on without him. Along the interfraternity line, Coach Whittle has announced that the volleyball season will begin soon after school opens again after spring holidays. Several teams have already begun practice for the approaching season, and the race shapes up as a close one again this year. The interfraternity tennis tourney is also scheduled to get underway soon after the holidays. Pairings for both the volleyball and tennis round-robins have already been posted on the main bulletin board in Johnston Gym.

KAs Place Two On All-Star Fraternity Basketball Team

The league-champion KAs placed two men on the first string of the 1953 all-interfraternity basketball team picked by the players this week to dominate that mythical quintet. Another man placed on the second team to make it three out of ten for the KAs. Adrian Bowen received 31 votes in the balloting, and thus doubles as captain of the all-fraternity five. The ATOs Linny Baker and the Phi Delts’ Ted Oldenburg received 30 apiece, and the KAs’ George King was close behind with 28. Tom Shaw of Sigma Chi made the first five with 24 votes. Lefty Vance of Kappa Alpha was next in the balloting, placing him first on the second team. Others on the second squad were Bill Bivins, Phi Delt; Lindley Beardsley, Pika; Tyler Berry, Sigma Chi; and Harry Peterson, SAE. Receiving the Honorable Mention notice were Larry Champion, Phi Gam; Charlie Hasty, Betas; George Lippard, Kappa Sig; Tim Gilley, ATO; Fred Stowe, SPE; and Clark Reed of the Campus Club. The election of the team is handled through the several interfraternity sports managers and Coach Pete Whittle, supervisor of the interfraternity sports program.

Davidson will be represented in the meet by fourteen competitors in six weights. The number of local entries has dwindled from twenty-three who had originally planned to enter competition as flu and studies take their toll. Prominent among the list of those who will be unable to compete is Johnny Buxton who is in bed with the flu. Johnny took third place in his 147 lb. class last year in the Southern Conference meet at VMI. Buxton won 2 — lost 1 in copping his conference third as he was defeated by the defending champion in his first match.

Craven At 136 Lbs.

The top prospect from the Davidson entrants will be as usual Captain Gene Craven at 136 lbs. Gene made a fine showing last week up at VMI where he won three and lost only one to take third in the conference in his weight. This will be Craven's last appearance as a Davidson grappler and his presence will be sorely missed next season. Gene has been an outstanding wrestler in all competition in his college career with a second last year and a third in conference title matches. Davidson Athletic Director Paul K. Scott revealed that there was a good group of entrants and that the matches should be better than last year’s event. Several of the high schools of the vicinity have submitted entries as have several YMCA’s and independents. The weight classes range from the 114 lb. group up to the heavyweights. Bill Weick, former NCAA and National AAU champion in the 157 lb. class, will show his talents again this year. He will be working in the 160 lb. class in this match. When Weick won these national honors he was representing Iowa State Teacher’s College, but he comes with the Army grapplers this year.

Stiff Competition

Weick will meet some stiff competition in the person of Steve Gabriel, former Appalachian State Teacher's star. Gabriel won the 160 lb. class last year in this tournament and is a strong contender to repeat this honor. The Camp Lejeune Marines, who (Continued On Page Four)

WHITTLE, FULCHER AUTHOR CHANGES IN SPORTS FRAT RULES

Davidson's track coach, A. Heath “Pete” Whittle, has combined brain power with Professor H. E. Fulcher of the College physics department, and the net results of these men and their ideas changed the rules requirements for the high jump tests for membership in the National Sigma Delta Psi Athletic Fraternity. Whittle and Fulcher came up with the idea that the high jump test for membership in this national fraternity should be judged according to height and weight, and after submitting this proposal to the National Fraternity Secretary, Dave Matthews of Bowling Green University, it was voted upon and adopted.

Whittle’s New Scale

The scale runs from a height of 4'3" to that of 6'3", with weight also becoming a determining factor on how high a man should be able to jump in order to pass the test. A man 6'3” tall and weighing 160 pounds has a test level of five feet, three inches to jump, while a man weighing 190 or over in the same height bracket would only have to jump five feet. This new scale submitted by Coach Whittle has been highly praised by the National organization of Sigma Delta Psi, and the secretary ordered all local chapters to put the new scale into use at once. The adoption of this new scale of height and weight is a high honor for Whittle, who says that such a scale could not have been worked out without the great help given by Professor Fulcher. Coach Whittle is the only member of Sigma Delta Psi on the Davidson faculty or coaching staff. Undergraduate members are A. C. Gregg, Don Lazenby, Gene Pierce, and Bill Shipley.