THE HOT DAVIDSONIAN
Largest Summer Newspaper That We Know Of

July 30, 1953

DOES YOUR BACK ACHE? STUDENT:

Do you feel tired, overworked, run down? Don't be too alarmed; other Davidsonians have had the same symptoms. No, we
are sorry we can't guarantee a cure for this dread disease, but we believe the best remedy would be a
COLD SLICE OF WATERMELON.

Come and see if our remedy does not give you a lift. The time is 8:00 p.m. at the Union.

WE AIM TO PLEASE

The Social Committee for this term will be Bill Shipley, Chairman, Charlie Johnson, Guy Hunt, and Will Terry. If you
have any suggestions for activities to stimulate our secluded life, let one of the committee know and we'll try to
do it.

"WE AIM TO PLEASE"

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

NOTICE

There is no suggestion box in the Union, but don't let that stop you. Just come into the office and
talk it over.

NOTICE

The College Union will be closed from 10:00 p.m. Friday, July 31 until Monday, August 2. No meals will be
served in the Cafeteria Saturday or Sunday. The Cafeteria will reopen for breakfast Monday morning.

Dear Editor:

I am in firm belief that those who were in summer school first term will go along with me when
I say that the social committee should be commended. During the first term, there were many activities planned, including the
watermelon feasts and Davidson's first attempt to hold a dance in the Union during the summer.

I think that our thanks should be awarded to the two persons largely responsible for the planning - Alan Sparks
and Bert Downs.

Personally, I think that they were brave to accept such an undertaking; and, on behalf of the students who appreciated
it, I say, “Orchids to you, Alan and Bert!"

Rep. '53

TALK OF THE TOWN

There is a little green Chevrolet crying for an owner. No, it is not that no one will buy it;
everybody wants to buy it. It is getting to be such a struggle to see who the winner will be
that the Administrative wing has a noise similar to the Kremlin - I'll put my money on Helen.

Montreat seems to be the destination of many Davidsonians for the long weekend. Could the 4 to 1 ratio be
the reason?

Thanks to benevolent Uncle Sam, eight of the fellows returned from the salt mines of Belvoir, Sill, and Benning's School
for Boys. The motto of these dens of iniquity is "We have gone all out for troop misery."

If you can add to this gossip column, let us know. We just love scandals.
