Who’s Who Nominates Twelve Davidson Seniors

By MAURICE CROUSE

Twelve Davidson seniors have been chosen to represent the college in “Who’s Who Among Students in American Universities and Colleges.”
Those selected this year include Lyman Kiser, Charles Williams, Alden Williams, Bill Hood, Max Devane, Ben Craig, Bob Crutchfield, Charles
Hassell, Moody Smith, Fred Stowe, Will Terry, and Charles Johnson.

The recognition of outstanding college and university students was begun in 1934 and has continued since that time. Students are
selected with consideration given to scholarship, leadership and cooperation in educational and extracurricular activities, general citizenship, and promise of future
usefulness.

LYMAN KISER is president of the student body and a member of Omicron Delta Kappa, honorary leadership fraternity. He is
also on the YMCA cabinet and is a member of Kappa Sigma social fraternity and Philanthropic Literary Society.

CHARLES WILLIAMS is president of the Davidson College YMCA. He is vice president of the Westminster Fellowship and is active
in Student Volunteer Movement work. In addition to being treasurer of ODK, he is vice president of Sigma Chi social
fraternity, and a member of the Honorary Fraternity Council and Eumanean Literary Society.

ALDEN WILLIAMS is serving as the editor of Scripts ‘n Pranks, feature editor of the Davidsonian, and vice president of
Sigma Upsilon, honorary literary fraternity. He is a member of ODK, Le Cercle Francais, the Red and Black Masquers, and
Philanthropic Literary Society.

BILL HOOD is the editor of Quips and Cranks, president of ODK, president of Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity, and
a member of Phi Beta Kappa.

MAX DEVANE holds the position of regimental commander of the ROTC Cadet Corps and is a member of Scabbard and
Blade, honorary military science fraternity. He is the freshman adviser, IFC representative for Phi Delta Theta social fraternity, and a
member of Le Cercle Francais, the Student Council, the YMCA cabinet, the D Club, and ODK.

BEN CRAIG, member of Kappa Sigma social fraternity, served as captain of this year’s football team and is president of
the D Club. He is a member of ODK, Scabbard and Blade, and is a battalion commander in the ROTC
Cadet Corps.

BOB CRUTCHFIELD, a Baker scholar and Sigma Chi pledge trainer, is also president of Philanthropic Literary Society and an assistant
editor of the Davidsonian. He is a member of the YMCA cabinet, Alpha Psi Omega, honorary theatrical fraternity, the Red
and Black Masquers, Sigma Upsilon, and ODK.

CHARLES HASSELL, Kappa Sigma, is president of the Inter-Fraternity Council, and a member of ODK, the Male Chorus, Alpha Epsilon
Delta, honorary pre-medical fraternity, Delta Phi Alpha, honorary German fraternity, Eumanean Literary Society, and an assistant editor of the Davidsonian.

MOODY SMITH, another member of Kappa Sigma, is editor of the Davidsonian, vice president of ODK, president of the Student
Volunteer Movement, and a member of the YMCA Board of Directors, Eumanean Literary Society, and Phi Beta Kappa.

FRED STOWE, Judge of the Court of Control, is president and boarding house manager of Sigma Phi Epsilon social fraternity,
and a member of the D Club and ODK.

WILL TERRY is president of Eumanean Literary Society, vice president of Tau Kappa Alpha, honorary forensics fraternity, and an assistant
editor of Quips and Cranks. He is active in debating and in Sunday School extension work in the YMCA cabinet.
He is a member of Sigma Phi Epsilon social fraternity.

CHARLES JOHNSON, president of Sigma Chi fraternity, is also president of the senior class. He has been secretary of his
sophomore class and president of his junior class. Charles is a member of the Student Council and of the Student-Faculty
committee.

GIFT FUND TO HELP LOCAL COMMUNITY

VOL. XLII ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C., FRIDAY, DECEMBER 4, 1953

DAVIDSONIANS ENJOY LAUGHTON PROGRAM

In the performance of “An Evening with Charles Laughton,” Davidsonians and many others who were interested in what the star
himself aptly called a “cultural binge” enjoyed one of the most rewarding evenings of the year.

Laughton, the genial, witty, and thoroughly likable performer, provided not a selection of readings but of recitations. So familiar was
he with all the works from which he gave excerpts, that the presence of a printed text served the purpose
of appearance only.

Without any pretense of organization, he rambled from the sublimity of Lincoln’s “Gettysburg Address” to the hilarity of a fable
in the hep style of James Thurber. Laughton set the atmosphere for each of his “readings” not merely by his
preparatory remarks but more importantly by the assumption on his own part of the attitude which made for greater appreciation
of the selection. An element that further endeared him to his audience was his acting out the parts of the
characters whose lips he assumed.

Among those recitations best liked by his hearers were the famous speech of the devil from “Don Juan,” extracts from
Dickens’ “Little Dorrit,” and the story of the fiery furnace from Daniel. These, like the rest of his selections, were
chosen because of the importance of their message to modern society.

After the performance, Laughton maintained the same jovial humor that had characterized him while he was on the stage. As
he chatted backstage with autograph-seekers and faculty members, he showed his interest in them by shaking a multitude of hands
and by seeking information about the (Continued On Page Four)

Eu, Phi Societies Hear Stuart, Wilson

The Eumanean and Philanthropic Literary Societies held their regularly-scheduled meetings Monday night, November 30.

Monday night’s meeting of “Phi” consisted solely of an informative talk by Professor James Southall Wilson about Edgar Allan Poe.
No business was discussed, and no resolutions or appointments were made.

At the “Eu” meeting there were several events of interest. First, Henry Brockmann was appointed critic and reviewer for the
remainder of the semester; then two resolutions, both being rather light, were made; and, finally, Ed Stuart presented the program.

Stuart’s speech, the highlight of the meeting, was entitled “Manure and Tagore,” and it was based on problems in India.
The speech was a contrast of the real and the ideal there, and it brought out the opinions alive today
as to the solution of the problems.

“Eu’s” next meeting was tentatively set for Monday night, December 14, with the election of second-semester officers as scheduled business.

BULLETIN

Fraternity group pictures for six fraternities will be shot in the College Union next Thursday night, Dec. 10. Notices will
be posted on the bulletin boards in the Union and at the north end of Chambers.

THE LOCAL NEGRO HUT

The present exhibition of paintings in the lobby of Chambers consists of a group of twelve paintings by Philip Moose.
These twelve were shown in September in a one-man show of Moose’s work in the Mint Museum in Charlotte. They
represent the various media in which he has worked: oil, watercolor-gouache, and encaustic, the latter a difficult process employing the
use of pigment fixed with hot wax.

Moose is well known at Davidson College for his work in the Fine Arts Department during the past two years.
His work has been seen here in several exhibitions in Chambers during recent years, and in an exhibition of drawings
and watercolors in the College Union last spring.

At present Philip Moose is in Germany on a Fulbright Scholarship, painting and studying at the Munich Academy of Art.
This is the second valuable painting scholarship that he has received for work abroad; in 1948 he was awarded the
Pulitzer Prize for Painting and spent a year in Paris and southern France. He has also spent considerable time painting
and traveling in Mexico and Guatemala.

This young painter lives in Newton, N.C., about 30 miles from Davidson. He received his formal training at Columbia University,
The Art Students League in N.Y., and Skowhegan School of Painting and Sculpture in Maine. His work has been widely
exhibited throughout this state and the South, and in such important national shows as the Corcoran Biennial in Washington and
the 1952 exhibition of American Watercolors, Drawings and Prints by the Metropolitan Museum of Art in N.Y.

Mr. Edwin Shewmake, son of Davidson's Dr. Edwin F. Shewmake, retired professor, will make an informal talk in the ballroom
of the Union on Wednesday, December 9. Mr. Shewmake will speak about art, centering his talk around Chick Young’s comic
strip, “Dagwood,” and the French artist Picasso. He will endeavor to show how even a comic strip can reflect the
age in which we live in the same manner that an artist reflects the life in his age.

Excavation To Begin For Belk Dormitory; Parking Space Cut

Work pertaining to the building of the new Belk Dormitory continued this past week. The ROTC building was moved approximately
60 feet to the east, and about one fourth of the present shop building behind Watts and Georgia Dormitories has
been torn down.

Treasurer D. Grier Martin revealed that excavation for the foundations of the new building is expected to start next week.
The beginning of construction will necessitate the discontinuance of parking behind Watts Dorm.

‘Y’ MUSIC DEPT. PLAN CHRISTMAS VESPERS

Preparations for the annual Christmas Vespers will swing into the final stages next week. The Music Department and the YMCA
have been concentrating their efforts toward making this annual service as successful as in previous years.

Christmas Vespers will be held on Sunday night, Dec. 13, at 7:30, in the church. A committee composed of Professor
R. W. Tyson, Rev. Sam Newell, Professor Donald Plott,Rev. Sam Magill and Dolph Allen recently chose Fred Summers as the
Reader for the service from a group of fifteen applicants. Charlie Williams, president of the YMCA, will preside. Both the
Male Chorus and the Chapel Choir will sing selections during the service. The Chamber Orchestra, conducted by Mr. Kenneth Moore,
and the college organist, Mr. Philip Gehring, will provide instrumental music. Dr. Cunningham will close the service with the benediction.
As in past years, the service will be by candlelight. The reading will be divided into three parts: the Prophecy,
the Birth, and the Adoration. There will be a background of organ music during each section with three choral pieces
following each. The service will be basically the same, but the overall length of it will be somewhat shortened. Beginning
about 7:00 will be the antiphonal playing of Christmas carols by the Davidson College Brass Ensemble under the direction of
Mr. John Satterfield. The group will be split into halves, answering each other from separate parts of the campus. The
offering at Christmas Vespers will go toward several community and campus projects of the YMCA and cover increased operating expenses
of this year. YMCA Secretary Sam Magill issues a cordial invitation to the families, relatives, and friends of the students
to attend this impressive service. The time suggested to get good seats is about 6:45, since seats at Christmas Vespers
are on a first-come-first-served basis.

The Davidsonian

PRESENT ATHLETIC POLICY HOPELESS (Editorial)

NO. 10

5-Year Engineering Study Arranged With Columbia

An agreement between officials of Davidson College and Columbia University’s School of Engineering to enable students to secure degrees from
both institutions in five years was announced here recently by President Cunningham.

SIGURD RASCHER TO APPEAR WITH D.C. CONCERT BAND

The student body will be offered an interesting series of musical programs between now and the Christmas holidays. The series
opens tonight, featuring the Davidson College Concert Band. This evening, at 8:15 in Chambers Auditorium, the Davidson College Concert Band
will make its initial performance for this year on the campus. The Band, called “One of the really outstanding college
bands in the country” by Edwin Goldman, has as its guest soloist for this evening Sigurd Rascher. Mr. Rascher is
considered to be one of the outstanding saxophonists in the world today. He has performed with such distinguished companies as
the Boston Symphony, the New York Philharmonic Orchestra, the Royal Philharmonic Orchestra of London, and the Berlin Philharmonic Orchestra. Several
composers have dedicated works to Mr. Rascher, two of which he will play this evening—“Concerto for Saxophone” by Glazounov and
“Introduction and Samba for Saxophone and Band” by Whitney. Mr. Kenneth Moore will conduct the band in a varied selection
of arrangements, a few of which are “Death and Transfiguration” by Richard Strauss, “Farandole” by Bizet, “Commando March,” a composition
written during World War II by Barber, and “King Cotton March” by Sousa. Mr. John Sat- (Continued On Page Four)

Gift Fund, Town Committee Begin Local Improvement Project

By AUSTIN STRAND

The local Negro community is to gain improvement through the aid of the student body’s Christmas gift fund. For many
years this community has been more or less of a problem to Davidson. Several times the townspeople have gone into
the community in order to aid the people in it and thus to better the town as a whole; each
time they have fallen short of their goal. Now eight hundred students from Davidson, seeing a need that they as
Christians can help fill, have selected to put their efforts into the community in another trial to help the needy
Negro people of Davidson. That sounds like a pretty noble deed, and it is, if the Davidson student body will
fall in behind the Gift Fund and push it over its goal of $5,000 so that improvements can be made.
One wonders exactly what improvements the Y Cabinet had in mind in suggesting this project as one to be considered
for Gift Fund money, and it is the purpose of this article to enumerate the needs of the community.

The Negroes of this community do not have a local theatre which they can attend. In order to go to
the show, they must either go to Charlotte or Mooresville. Mike York has been showing movies at the Y hut,
located in the community, in order to alleviate part of this need for entertainment, but it has been impossible for
him to show them consistently, and funds for renting films have been scarce. It is hoped that all improvement can
be centered around the Y hut, but this hut must be moved to another lot, as it is now on
school property. The Y hut has been an important center of aid to the community for a long time, so
long a time that it is in need of some definite improvements, such as repairs to the building proper (including
painting the ceiling), a floor furnace (it is now heated by one pot-bellied stove), a bathroom (it does not have
one now), hot water, and linoleum flooring. Not only is it hoped that the student body will give enough in
order to make these repairs, but also it is hoped that enough money will be given in order to purchase
a TV set to be put in the hut for the entertainment mainly of the children, but also of the
adults. This is one way the student body can help curb delinquency in the town. Now to express one final
hope that is centered around this year’s Gift Fund—that of money for general repairs and bills of the building in
the future. The way this will be worked is through a fund set up in some bank, the fund to
be drawn on for repairs of the building along with any other special expenses.

The students of Davidson are not the only ones concerned with the conditions “across the tracks.” The people in that
community have selected a committee which has met with the Gift Fund group of the Y in an effort to
figure out where the money could be used best. The Davidson project, then, becomes a great opportunity for the Davidson
student body, a basically Christian student body, to show the true Christian spirit of Christmas by helping those who are
trying desperately to help themselves.

Frats Plan Annual Party For Orphans

The eleven fraternities and the Campus Club will have their annual Christmas party for the children of the Presbyterian Orphan's
Home at Barium Springs on Thursday night, December 17. Approximately one hundred and thirty boys and girls between the ages
of six and thirteen will be in the Barium Springs group this year. They will be brought to the campus
by the orphan’s home bus, arriving at 7:15 Thursday night. After a brief period of welcome in the College Union,
they will go in groups of ten or twelve to the various fraternity houses for a period of games and
songs and refreshments. The climax of the evening will be the appearance of Santa Claus himself, who will be making
his first appearance of the season in Davidson. (In a telephone conversation with Mr. Claus earlier in the week, he
assured this newspaper that there would be a gift for every boy and girl visiting Davidson that night.—Ed.) Although sponsored
by the fraternities and Campus Club, members of the faculty and administration are invited to enjoy and share in the
parties as they have done in the past.

The plan permits a student to attend Davidson for three years, and Columbia's School of Engineering for the last two
years with the combined course leading to the appropriate bachelor’s degree from both institutions. The student electing to follow such
a combined program obtains the advantages of a broad general training in the liberal arts field at Davidson and a
technical education at Columbia through five years of study rather than the longer period that would usually be required if
both degrees were obtained separately. The student is guaranteed acceptance at Columbia provided Davidson recommends him at the end of
his three years here. During the student's three years at Davidson, he will follow a program consisting of basic humanities
and physical science subjects with only a minimum of pre-professional work. Both Davidson and Columbia will appoint a liaison officer
to facilitate the administration of the program. In commenting on the plan, Dr. Cunningham issued the following statement: “Davidson College
feels honored by the invitation to join with another leading educational institution in the combined plan. We feel this is
an excellent program for those students who desire a liberal arts education combined with the engineering training which they will
receive at Columbia.” By accepting the plan Davidson (Continued On Page Four)

INSIDE THE HUT

Inside the hut there is not only a need for repairs, but also for recreational facilities such as a TV
set and movie projector. The goal for this year, five thousand dollars, is higher than the goal last year by
some five hundred dollars. All the money will be used in the local community. —Photo by Andy Simon.
