PAGE TWO

What Price Honor?

Honor is one of those things that it is easier to talk about than to define; and once defined it is even more difficult to draw up a set of rules by which to administer a code based upon it. But for many years the Student Council has been administering, and administering reasonably well, that part of the Constitution, which we call the Honor System. Davidson has gained something of a reputation for the way her Honor System works, and we have every reason to believe that it will continue to work, not just through this year, but as long as there is a college called Davidson.

In the past honest disputes have arisen over the interpretation of the System, for the code itself is, of necessity, broad. Therefore we commend heartily the attempt of this year’s Student Council to present a stricter and more concrete definition of the Honor System than is contained in the Constitution. Nevertheless, we feel compelled to take issue with the Council's interpretation of exactly what comes under the Honor System as pledged work.

According to the statement made by Council Lyman Kiser in the recent meeting of the student body, all written work, pledged or not, which is to be considered as the individual work of the student in question comes under the rules laid down by the Honor System as defined in the Student Body Constitution. Now it cannot be denied that such an interpretation is in accord with the highest concept of what the Honor System should be, but in our opinion, even this interpretation leaves some loose ends. It appears that under this interpretation it would be necessary in many instances for the professor to state whether certain work has to be the student’s own, or whether help was to be permitted, which they are not always in the habit of doing. Of course, in the case of writs, reviews, or exams, no such statement would be necessary, since it has always been assumed that the honor system applies to these.

Would it not be simpler if the professor should merely ask that the pledge be written and signed on all work on which he wishes the students to refrain from giving or receiving aid? The fact that the pledge was not required by the professor would be taken to mean that the Honor System did not apply to that piece of work, and the student could seek help if he needed it. Sometimes professors do not mind in the least if a student seeks help on some written work, especially the sort that is to be done outside of class. In many instances two heads are better than one. On the other hand if it is desirable that a student not get or give any sort of aid, the professor could merely ask for the pledge.

What could be a more straightforward or reasonable interpretation of the Honor System than that it applies only to work on which the pledge is required, and does not apply unless the pledge is requested? This would remove any shadow of a doubt as to where the honor code is in effect, and would prove much less confusing than if the system were applied to all work considered to be the work of only the student in question, with no outside aid. The latter instead of clarifying the Honor System seems to us rather to confuse it.

A Step Forward

The passing of the late and unlamented aggregate cut system should cause little mourning in the rank and file of the student body. It has long been one of the chief points of criticism in the present cut set up here at Davidson, and its removal will without doubt make the entire system considerably more palatable. Certainly the faculty is to be commended for cutting out this seemingly needless appendage which has often been a source of needless red tape and confusion, both to the student and to those who were administering it. In fact, the principal reason given by the dean’s office for its abolition was that it entailed too many difficulties and administrative details to serve whatever purpose for which it was originally intended. Needless to say, many misunderstandings grew out of the difficulty encountered by the person keeping the records in ascertaining whether a violation of the cut system had been committed or was in the offing.

Under the present setup, only first semester freshmen and upperclassmen under the penalty of freshman cuts will have an aggregate cut limit lower than the total number of class cuts. Some of course, will appear to profit more than others, but under the new rule no one stands to lose. We think it’s one of the best things that could have happened to the much-maligned cut system.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Moody Smith

BUSINESS MANAGER
Charles Hasty

ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Jim Moore, Dick Roper

Assistant Editors
Bob Crutchfield, Charles Hassell, Buddy Lamon, Bob Owen, Hunter Strader

Managing Editors
Henry Brockmann, Floyd Feeney

Sports Editor
John Handley

News Editor
Austin Strand

Feature Editor
T. A. Williams

Art Editor
Ed Price

Photographer
Andy Simons

Assignments
Blake Brinkerhoff

Asst. Business Manager
Ed Nicholson

Advertising Manager
Tommy Taylor

Circulation Manager
Dick Little

Collections Manager
Tommy Douglas

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897.

Davidson’s Paternalism Scored; Responsibility Not Developed

It was down behind Johnston Gym a couple of years ago during the Southern Conference tennis tournament that Derrick Barton, the genial Englishman who was then coaching Davidson’s netmen, was talking about the possibility of getting a promising young prep school tennis star to go to school here. Whereupon a bystander, one of the University of North Carolina's players straightfacedly remarked, “Ah, he doesn’t want to go to Davidson, Derrick. The boy’s already been to prep school for four years.”

The assertion that Davidson is only a glorified prep school is one that has been made for years, and there is probably no criticism of this college that arouses the ire of Davidson patriarchs any faster. It is, however, generally the tone of this accusation and not the actual criticism which angers the Through-and-Through-Davidsonian.

Prep School Characteristics

For it is undeniably true that Davidson has at least a few of the strongly paternalistic characteristics of the preparatory school. The prevailing philosophy of this college, it seems to me, is not to develop responsibility in the student by showing him the way and giving helpful hints and guidance as he goes through his four years here, but rather to fasten a leash around his neck and lead him forcibly down the path that the college fathers have decided is the right one. That is a strong charge, but one which I believe can be substantiated by the facts.

To begin with Davidson's cut system is one of the strongest evidences of this paternalistic philosophy. I agree that a boy fresh out of high school, and with no idea of how important regular attendance at class is, should be fairly strictly regimented. But after a boy has been at Davidson for a year, he knows that a student can’t expect to make the grade without regular attendance at class. (If he can do all right without going to class, it seems obvious that the professor is not worth listening to, or that there has been no violation of the honor system.)

Responsibility Not Developed

But instead of trying to develop a sense of responsibility in the student, after his trying freshman year is over, Davidson continues to dole out just a few more cuts to the upperclassman something on the order of a reward to an obedient child. The natural reaction of most students is to seize this privilege and use each of his cuts with great relish, rather than stop to consider whether he really needs to use them.

The compulsory attendance at worship services is another case in point. I do not believe it is possible to drill religion into anyone; most students naturally rebel at this sort of coercion. Yet the authorities become upset when the natural results of such coercion are seen in the lack of reverence at chapel, and to a lesser extent, vespers.

Another Example

The new policy of forcing freshmen to eat in the college union is still another illustration. One of the primary reasons advanced for this policy was to promote class spirit and unity, the value of which I fail to see. When the college takes it upon itself to tell a student where he must take his meals, I hardly see how anyone could fail to see that the prep school regimentation is strongly prevalent.

There are a few other smaller but nonetheless provoking evidences of this secondary school type of regimentation, but these cited above are sufficient, I believe, to prove my point. I do not believe that anyone who honestly and critically surveys the Davidson scene can fail to admit the strongly prep schoolish atmosphere prevalent on this campus. The point at which there is room for argument is that college students need to be led down the path to a diploma rather than shown and advised as to the best route. It seems to me that the former method is quite appropriate for boys still in their early teens, but when a student reaches the college level I believe he should be put on his own to at least a little bit greater degree than this college does.

Necessary for Scholastic Standing?

It will be maintained by College authorities, and it may very possibly be true, that the reason Davidson does have such a good name scholastically is because it follows its present policy. Davidson has for years turned out more than its proportionate share of Rhodes scholars and leaders in the various graduate schools throughout the country. But I believe it is also true that there are many other schools in the country who follow a much more liberal policy than does Davidson, and have just as good a scholastic standing. I hope it will not be inferred that I am advocating a large university type of system, wherein the student is only a number in the crowd and the teacher very seldom has the time even if he has the inclination to give the student individual attention.the desire to give the student the individual attention he gets at Davidson. But I do believe that there is a middle ground between Davidson's extreme paternalism and the liberalism of a large university, which if explored would prove beneficial to future generations of Davidson students.

OFF-MOORINGS: Not wishing to cross pens (or more accurately typewriters) with a fellow writer so soon after the first editorial efforts begin, especially since no offense is intended, I hope the approach this week will not appear to be criticizing another man’s opinion. It is the chapel conduct of the Davidson student, of which I write, and the article on this subject by Dick Roper in last week’s paper. Implied in Roper’s article, as it has been in many another on this disconcerting situation, is the true basis of the problem. The actual roots of this conduct have never been to my knowledge brought into printed light. They now deserve the attention which they demand.

Let us recognize that the students differ as individuals as much as does their individual conduct in chapel. Some sleep, some read, some talk to others, some talk to themselves, some listen, and others just muse. As there is no mold into which all students can be poured as individuals so there is no pattern of action which can be expected of all of them. In chapel, however, the group is led in mass, is influenced in mass, and most frequently reacts in mass; therefore, the problem must be judged as a situation in which individuals are relegated to less importance than that of the group. In other words, you have a mass psychology at work—a mob psychology frequently—and with it the possibility of a mass purpose expressing itself.

Now we ought to look at one other important factor and we'll be ready to understand the Davidson situation for what it actually is. To those who have even the smallest inkling of what Davidson stands for, it is a relatively simple matter to realize that the pressures to conform to the norm are the most powerful forces that are exerted here. We are forced to adhere to a prescribed curriculum that is oftentimes much stricter than that found in similar colleges and universities we know. Even the social life is somewhat determined for us, not only by restrictions of a heavy work schedule but also by the subtle power of ambition to be like those around us. Being confined to a locality which was once aptly called, “A glass of stagnant water,” has its definite drawbacks. Reactions against the pressures are oftentimes so futile and so little recognized by ourselves that we fall easily under the accusation of immaturity and thoughtlessness. Thus failing to understand our motivations, we tend to fall back on the simplest explanation. We follow in paths of action which we can neither understand nor from which we can long deviate. It is here that the root of the rebellion lies. It is through the rudeness, the apparent irreligiosity, the blatant throwing aside of Davidsonian ideals which occur in chapel that we express a frustration with the Davidson system that will not frequently show itself in an individual way. In the mass, as an individualless group, in chapel, the necessity of responsibility for personal action disappears. Who hasn't felt the loss of self in a crowd? When there seems to be no need for accounting for individual action, (when by analysis you are but one of 825) and the powers of personal desires, likes, and dislikes are to a great degree being thrust on you by the group, then there is little wonder that we have the perfect situation for a protest that we have.

There is only one last point that needs to be added to this discussion of the Davidson student in chapel. It is that the protest is heightened by the constant struggle for marks, for passing work, for that Phi Bete key, that we carry on against—whom? The professors are the targets. Not that we dislike them all as individuals. But when one of them stands before us to lead the devotional or give a talk, we are the proletariat rising against the bourgeoisie all over again. The inevitable revolt of the ruled (the students) against the rulers (the professors) expresses itself each time that we show them our ire—our chapel conduct.

“No Spaghetti For Me,” Says Italy’s Bruno Eynard

During the coming weeks Davidson students are going to see quite a lot of a dark Latin named Bruno Eynard. A Fulbright Scholar, this olive-skinned young man of Rome has come to the campus under the joint sponsorship of the college and Pi Kappa Phi fraternity. Already the possessor of an AB degree, he will study English, constitutional law, and American history before returning to the University of Rome for his doctorate in law.

Of particular interest to residents of this vicinity is the fact that Bruno is a member of the Waldensian Church, an organization which has added a unique flavor to the historic tradition of North Carolina. A Presbyterian sect, the Waldensians take their name from Pierre Waldo, a merchant of Lyons, under whose leadership they were founded in Southern France during the twelfth century. Upon becoming a part of the Reformation movement, they were severely persecuted and under violent waves of the Counter Reformation, many were forced to flee their homes and seek refuge in the comparative security of the New World. One such group of emigrants made their homes in the western part of this state, establishing the town of Valdese, known today for its French bread and colorful inhabitants, many of whom still hold to their mother tongue.

It was largely due to his being a member of this denomination that Bruno arrived in America just one month ago today. His father, Dr. Clio Eynard, president of the Waldensian Theological Seminary in Rome, was in this country some months past to teach at Columbia Theological Seminary, where he met Dr. G. B. Watts, professor of French at Davidson. The latter, gathering material for a book about the Waldensians, sold him on the idea of Bruno’s coming to Davidson for a year of American environment, after the example of his brother, who is a ministerial student in Pittsburgh.

Since his arrival on the campus, Eynard has shrewdly observed that the impressions he may gain from his stay at Davidson will not necessarily reflect typical American life, but only a small scene from the panorama of our country. He is equally anxious, too, that Americans not judge his country solely on the basis of the few Italians that they encounter, himself included. He thinks that the majority of Americans invariably associate Italy with the lazy, illiterate spaghetti-eating inhabitants of the southern part of his country, and fail to consider the large middle class population, with which his family may be identified. As a well-educated, liberal, bourgeois Italian, Eynard is justly proud of his people's achievements and regrets the tab that has been placed on Italy by most American tourists. And as for spaghetti—he never has liked the stuff.

The Davidson student finds in Bruno Eynard a very polite, mild-mannered individual—one who is, however, quite willing to share with his new friends his boyhood experiences under the Fascist rule of Mussolini, his recollections of war days and the liberation, and the customs and habits of his people, as well as their way of thinking. He appears to be quite frank in voicing his opinions of his host country, but avoids making any remark which may offend anyone. One senses this immediately in talking with him about the proposal to send an American ambassador to the Vatican, or more recently, the appointment of Clare Booth Luce, a Roman Catholic, as our representative in Rome. While candidly expressing the views of the Italian citizen on these subjects, he wants it clearly understood that he is no political or religious agitator. But in a country where the Roman Catholic Church has not confined itself to religion, but has always exerted a vast political power, no person might be expected to be more biased than the Waldensian in this matter. After seven hundred years of constant Vatican oppression, the inhabitants of the little Waldensian Valley of northern Italy are still vigorous in their struggle for personal liberty, and neither Fascist nor Catholic has ever been able to break their spirit. Bruno, after a lengthy conversation about this subject, remarked that the Roman Catholic Church was most loud in its cry for freedom in those Communist areas where her priests were restricted and her work repressed, but where she herself sat at the helm of power, she offered freedom to none of her rivals. “Where the population is 26 per cent,” said the dark-eyed Italian cautiously, “the Church is like a sheep. Where it is 45 per cent, it is like a barking dog. Where it is 75 per cent, it is like a wolf. No, no,” he corrected himself hastily, “not a wolf,” and then after some reflection, “yes,” he added, “like a wolf.”

Around the Nation: Conference Split Looks Good To George Washington Scribe

(Ed. Note: The following article is reprinted from the George Washington Hatchet.)

In a wholly unsurprising and completely necessary move, the Southern Conference gave birth to the Atlantic Coast Conference. Unlike most nativities, the offspring in this case is much stronger than the parent. All of this is just another way of saying that the seven “big schools” of the Southern Conference broke away and formed a new league.

The names of the schools in the ACC are as well known to the sports fan as the names of lobbyists are known to Congressmen. For the record, the Atlantic Coast Conference is composed of Duke, Wake Forest, South Carolina, North Carolina State, North Carolina, Clemson and that brick giant out at College Park. Rumors have it that the ACC wheels are working on both Virginia and Kentucky to join.

Unlike many reporters, we are not angry at the “Big Seven’s” decision to form their own conference. In fact, we applaud the move. Both the new league and the old SC will be benefitted greatly. It will put more meaning into league standings and group championships.

Let us look a bit closer at the SC as it stands today. The members include West Virginia, William & Mary, Virginia Tech, Virginia Military, Furman, Davidson, Washington & Lee, The Citadel, Richmond, and of course, the University. Many experts have taken to call the SC “The Weak Sisters’ League.” It is true that the “Big Seven” played present SC teams ten times on the gridiron, and the AAC clubs won seven. The three SC wins were chalked up by the Buff and Blue over NC State, W&M over the same team, and West Virginia over South Carolina.

They may call the SC the “Weak Sisters” because of its grid prowess, but the leadership is not weak. The 1953 SC is made up of schools that have chosen “the middle of the road” approach to intercollegiate athletics. Their leaders have decided to follow a sane and sensible path, free of extremes. The new Southern Conference does not suffer from the blind and ruthless ambition of a Maryland, nor does it fall victim to the University of Chicago's thinking. Chicago, you may remember, was once a leader in the Big Ten, and then, about 1940, the (Continued on Page Four)