PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Moody Smith

BUSINESS MANAGER
Charles Hasty

ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Jim Moore, Dick Roper

Assistant Editors
Bob Crutchfield, Charles Hassell, Buddy Lamon, Bob Owen, Hunter Strader

Managing Editors
Henry Brockmann, Floyd Feeney

Sports Editor
John Handley

News Editor
Austin Strand

Feature Editor
T. A. Williams

Art Editor
Don Mahy

Photographer
Andy Simons

Assignments
Blake Brinkerhoff

Asst. Business Manager
Ed Nicholson

Advertising Manager
Tommy Taylor

Circulation Manager
Dick Little

Collections Manager
Tommy Douglas

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897.

(All Unsigned Editorials Are From The Editor-in-Chief)

“Quo Vadis?”

This issue of the Davidsonian marks the initial effort of the new staff and editor. Looking back over the past
few years we see a lot that the Davidsonian has done that should be continued, and looking to the future
we can discern new needs and opportunities which we should strive to fulfill.

In the past, the Davidsonian has done a better than average job of fulfilling the needs and obligations of a
college newspaper. Needless to say, the editors have always had to restrict their opinions somewhat in view of the fact
that, as in most smaller college papers, editorial opinion is of necessity restricted by closer faculty supervision of the student
body in general. It is of course possible to print almost anything within the limits of decency. But in doing
so it is important to heed the reality of the fact that by causing unnecessary hard feelings in higher places
one may in the end defeat rather than achieve his goals.

Men who run college newspapers in situations such as ours are faced with two alternatives. They may be completely unrestrained
and uninhibited in voicing criticism of anyone and everyone. If they follow this course, they must be willing to accept
what may be the consequences, placing their right of absolute frankness above what may be more advisable in achieving their
goals. Though perhaps the above course may be more in accord with some precepts of journalism, it should be remembered
that a paper such as ours is in a far different set of circumstances than an independent newspaper which is
not tied so closely to the welfare of any group as the Davidsonian is to the welfare of the student
body. Therefore, if a paper such as this one is to function to the betterment of the student body as
a whole, it must refrain to some extent from expressing itself in the strongest of words, which some of the
students may feel to be entirely appropriate in controversial circumstances. In following this course, the editors act not out of
desire to protect their own skins, but out of a sincere wish to follow the straightest and surest path toward
their goals. This “give ’em the devil” sort of approach is not always the best — not at Davidson, at
least.

During this year Frank Hanshaw and his staff have, to our understanding, followed a frank but conservative policy, and have
done much more for us as students than if they had gone overboard in an effort to be sensational. Frank
has done a wise and efficient job in handling his position this year and deserves our recognition. It is not
enough for a new editor to stand on the status quo, neither should he destroy gains and achievements already made,
but stand on them and strive for more. This will be our aim. Your suggestions, criticisms, and letters-to-the-editors will be
appreciatively received, and the latter, you may be assured within reason, will be published in the Davidsonian.

Long Delayed Tip of The Hat

It occurred to us after the last dance weekend that it is high time the Davidsonian gave credit where some
credit is certainly due. Often we tend to think of the editorial column as the one place in a paper
where at least an attempt should be made at keen observation, insight, and constructive criticism. Certainly it should, but it
is never improper to tip one’s hat out of respect to a job well done.

For the past several years the responsibility for adequately housing and playing mother to the hundreds of girls that descend
upon our campus for dance weekends has fallen largely on one person, the supervisor of dormitories — Mrs. Little. She
has not only managed the distribution of dates in the two dormitories that are usually opened to house them on
dance weekends, but has taken upon herself responsibility for handling the overflow as well. Mrs. Little has saved countless boys
from despair, so to speak, by assisting in procuring rooms for students who planned to keep their dates in Duke
or Rumple only to find that they had arrived too late and all accommodations had been taken. Since this is
not part of her job, she does it only out of sympathy for the poor guy that got a date
at the last minute or just forgot all about getting his girl a place to stay.

Perhaps we are a little prone to take all this for granted, and we only become aware of the problem
involved when our plans go awry and we find ourselves temporarily without a room for our date. Then the natural
tendency is to look for a scapegoat, and too often the blame has been placed undeservedly on Mrs. Little in
such situations. Of course, no one could run such a complex and indefinite a program without some slip-ups along the
line, but this does not mean that the job is being run poorly by any means. We think the job
is being done as well as we have a right to expect, especially since it is a service that is
rendered to us gratis. Therefore, we would like to be pardonably trite and extend thanks to the good lady for
the unheralded and grossly unappreciated job she does for us three times a year.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Two weeks
Three weeks
Four weeks

CABBAGE PLANTER: Idea 1: Great Ideas Of Western Civilization, Etc.

The solid happiness we prize
Within our breasts this jewel lies,
And they are fools who roam,
The world has nothing to bestow;
From our own selves our joys must flow,
And that dear hut, our home.
—W. Cotton

This small stanza, one of the best that Nathaniel Cotton (1705-1788. Perhaps the W. C. dormitory Cotton, but that doesn’t
have anything to do with this story) ever wrote (come to think of it, if he never wrote anything any
better than that, it’s surprising he had money enough to build a dormitory. Maybe he was caught in there after
12:10 one night) never impressed me with its sensitivity and depth (on the other hand, how could he have been
caught in there if he hadn't built it yet. Maybe he was pulling a Miedema on the front lawn. Oh
well.) until the other day.

The other day, along with Animal Husbandry Journal and the Harvard Lampoon, a magazine called the Blue Quill turned up
in the mail. It was in a plain brown wrapper, so we read it. Here we unearthed a new school
of literature, one we like to call the Droughth to the South school. Naturally, with its editorial staff still in
the metaphysical stage, it wouldn't be ethical to reveal the college’s name, thereby turning the harsh hot glare of international
and everlasting acclaim upon so esoteric a gem of young American literary genius.

We would like, however, without their kind permission, to reprint, in its entirety, a profound piece of prurient prose. It
is signed by one “S.B.,” who according to the masthead, could be Anne Flowe, Marjorie Moeschler, Frances Macpherson, or Susan
Blondell. We will not, naturally, betray her confidence.

Gardens Committee Plans For Campus

There is a war on the — College campus, a botanical battle. The Gardens Committee and the botany students are
marshaled against nature and not a few of the inhabitants of the campus. Mrs. Doak Flintom, an alumna of the
college; Miss Squires, the dietician; and Miss Nooe, Professor of Biology, command the corps known as the Gardens Committee. The
Committee has been tending plants already on the campus and is planting new ones.

Here’s where it gets metaphysical. Some of the college’s trees are dying — three were lost last year; trees often
cannot obtain enough nourishment because pavement has been laid over their roots. They must, therefore, be fed, watered, and protected.
It is heartening to see the Droughth to the South literati adopting a militant maternalism to answer the dastardly threat
of an encroaching urbanization.

Boxwood is planted over the campus grounds. Some of it, especially that in front of the sorority houses, is dying.
The boxwood in front of Morrison is being trampled to death by students taking short-cuts. The clumps of boxwood on
both sides of the door were planted at the same time; yet those on the left side are puny and
yellow while those on the right are strong and green. “Throw out the life line to these plants. Take care
of them, or you won't be able to enjoy them much longer,” says Miss Nooe.

Strong Romantic influence, too. Flowers are still harder to keep alive. They die if they have too little or too
much sunlight. They are crushed by the feet of thoughtless persons. When pipelines for the new heating plant were put
in, many flowers were destroyed. Many plants are destroyed in the Hallowe’en invasions by high school students; dogs and (Continued
On Page Four)

THE PHONETIC COLONEL ON THE BEAUTIFUL BEACH

Item love able yoke peter roger oboe sugar tare roger able tare easy uncle peter oboe nan tare how easy
george love item sugar tare easy nan item nan george sugar able nan dog able nan dog william able tare
charlie how easy dog item tare william item nan dog able sugar fox able roger able sugar tare how easy
easy yoke easy charlie oboe uncle love dog peter easy roger charlie easy item victor easy love item king easy
able george oboe love dog easy nan roger item baker baker oboe nan baker item nan dog item nan george
tare how easy fig able dog easy sugar tare able tare uncle easy sugar oboe fox tare how easy sugar
easy able. Easy able charlie how william how item tare easy charlie able peter peter easy dog george item able
nan tare roger oboe love love easy dog item nan, sugar tare roger item victor item nan george tare oboe
oboe uncle tare dog oboe tare how easy love able sugar tare able nan dog tare how easy nan roger
easy tare roger easy able tare easy dog roger oboe able roger item nan george tare oboe william how easy
nan charlie easy item tare charlie able mike easy. Fare how easy able mike baker easy roger charlie how able
roger item oboe tare william able sugar baker item dog dog item nan george item tare sugar fox able roger
easy william easy love love tare oboe tare how item sugar sugar item dog easy oboe fox item tare sugar
jig oboe uncle roger nan easy yoke, love easy able victor item nan george baker easy how item nan dog
able tare roger able item love oboe fox sugar charlie able roger love easy tare able nan dog baker love
uncle easy dog uncle sugar tare, william how item charlie how sugar easy easy mike easy dog tare oboe sugar
item nan king item nan tare oboe tare how easy dog item sugar tare able nan tare peter uncle roger
peter love easy. Able nan dog tare how easy oboe nan love yoke victor oboe item charlie easy tare oboe
baker easy how easy able roger dog william able sugar tare how easy mike oboe able nan item nan george
roger oboe love love item nan george oboe fox tare how easy william able victor easy sugar able sugar tare
how easy yoke tare how roger easy williamHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

tare how easy mike sugar easy love victor easy sugar item nan able nan dog tare how easy nan dog
roger easy wil- Mam baker able charlie king. Sugar uncle dog dog easy nan love yoke able william how item
tare easy george uncle love love george love item dog easy dog sugar love oboe william love yoke oboe victor
easy roger mike easy, fox love able peter easy dog tare william oboe tare item mike easy sugar, able nan
dog sugar able item love easy dog oboe nan oboe uncle tare item nan tare oboe tare how easy baker
love easy nan dog oboe fox sugar king yoke able nan dog oboe charlie easy able nan. William item tare
how tare how item sugar sugar nan oboe william yoke sugar peter item roger item tare william easy nan tare
mike yoke sugar oboe uncle love —- fox able roger oboe uncle tare ‘tem nan tare oboe easy tare easy
roger nan item tare yoke, william how easy roger easy william easy roger item sugar easy uncle peter able nan
dog George oboe dog baker easy nan dog sugar oboe victor easy roger uncle sugar.

A SUGGESTION... Blood donations at Cambridge University, in England, are being encouraged by a brewer located in the vicinity. The
brewer offered a pint of beer for every free pint of blood.—The Daily Californian.

A definition of the word auditorium is that it comes from the Latin words audio — hear or listen to
— and taurus — the bull.—The Varsity.

THE FREE LANCE: FRIDAY, APRIL 24, 1953

Students Now Love Lindy; What Was Talk All About?
By JOHN OTTLEY

Being Americans first and only the paper which reported only snows deny it, spring is here and regrettably second Davidsonians,
we tend to have a portion of the feeling for fairness which characterizes many of the populace of this country.
We dislike to hear of someone dealing an underhanded blow to a person not deserving it. For this and other
reasons a hushed anger burned in many focal hearts this week as they were told in stentorian tones of what
appears to have been a grossly unjustified series of personal slanders against the name of Charles Lindbergh. It’s unfortunate that
the speaker failed to realize the value and punch of his story and thought he was obligated to add a
neatly packaged if obscure moral lesson to the end of it. Perhaps the fact that it was a chapel exercise
prompted him to commit this superfluity. Like most messages involving morals what was a seemingly accurate portrayal of fact degenerated
into a garbled mess of emotive phrases and confused principles. We were told that we must have “guts” to report
the truth as well as ability. The majority of the facts related had to do with persons who attacked Lindbergh
without knowing the truth. They had little or nothing to do with reporting the truth. It would be assumed from
the moral that the newspapers were to blame for not having the courage to print the news about Lindbergh. Yet
the fact that the speaker drew his material from the files of a newspaper shoots holes in any idea that
newspapers did not have the courage to print the facts which evolved. To have done otherwise they would have had
to manufacture facts of their own which is frowned on by at least the majority of current editorial policy shapers.
Hearst and Pulitzer tried it, but what facts were available, and incidentally provided the speaker with his information, has outlived
and outsold both of those men’s sheets. What we feel the speaker might have been trying to put across was
that it is difficult to know the truth, but until the whole story is known, no criticism should be made.
If he had deleted his Sunday School-isms at the end, he might have carried this point with some clarity. This
is not to deny that a reporter is not faced at times with situations which tempt him to slant his
story. It is to say that it takes no more “guts” (to use the speaker’s quaint terminology) than it does
for a bank veep to refrain from walking off with funds or a math professor from giving a man undeserved
points. One might wonder just why the Lance bothers with such a minute thing as a routine, easily-forgotten chapel talk,
but it is just such things that tend to confuse the public mind on much bigger and significant occasions. A
speaker like Georgia’s infamous, if late, Eugene Talmadge will often direct some fately clear-cut facts at an audience and then
clinch the speech with words which make hazy his objective and real aims while drawing from his audience an almost
reverential response. We must train our ears to listen like hungry tigers for the conclusion which a man draws from
his facts. Of course our chapel speaker was not malicious in his deception — he probably did not even intend
it — but the emotional follow-up to a list of facts is an insidious enemy of the speaker who wishes
to use it.

Knock It Off, Swans

Though wirephotos of northern in addition to the expected amatory excitements comes a mild, but nevertheless ignorant mental condition on
the part of college seniors. One notices the symptoms easily. Men with the most well-worn white bucks take longer and
longer to get to the P.O. They stare up at the regal oaks lining the walks and look with moon
eyes at Old Chambers and even neglect holding their noses when walking past Rumple. They think of the happy little
times they have had here “on the hill,” of the grand old teachers they have studied under, and of the
overall security of D.C. from all intellectual rebellion and-or conflict. Traditionally the ones who disliked the college most when they
came are now the most reluctant to leave via the sheepskin route. The others who have come to love our
tender, parental system of education have their secret little gloatings over their comrades’ capitulation. What's happening is that these men
are suffering from the universal dislike of humans to change environments. The only slimy thing about it is that this
particular unwillingness has been sanctified by legend and song. Many men never do get over it entirely. Of course it
works well to the benefit of college coffers when rotund graduates make their annual homecoming bow to the emotional fetish.
Whatever people are stupid enough to feel is o.k. with us, but we put in a request for calling a
spade something beside an entrenching implement. Even if we do not call it a spade, we should at least see
it without a cloak of romanticism.

“A Foolish Consistency Is The Hobgoblin Of Little Minds” — Emerson, How True!

Last Tuesday Dr. McCutchan had one of the better chapel programs of the year. His example of Colonel Charles Lindbergh
being subjected to censure and calumny is merely a single instance of the sheer stupidity which mankind indulges itself in,
rather than recognize its own mistakes or admit that an intellectual deviate from society’s norms could possibly be right. The
rut of conformity and general agreement has been plowed so thoroughly that the mass of people shuffle along aimlessly, guided
by the social standards which enclose them on all three sides. Yet let one man surmount the barriers, and the
rest condemn him — not because he has violated any basic moral law, but because he has moved into a
region where the mass fears to move, and jealously they attempt to pull him back down to their level.

By RONALD WILSON

Perhaps the greatest molding force of society today is fear: 1st, fear of ostracism from that segment of culture in
which we live; 2nd, fear of not doing what is socially acceptable, i.e., not conforming to the general opinion of
the majority of one’s society, and therefore becoming liable for ostracism; and, 3rd, fear that one cannot live happily unless
he adheres to the standard of the society, and thereby becomes acceptable. The Great American Dream is a prime example
of the importance which we place on social acceptance and recognition. We have established money as the king-pin rung on
the ladder to success; therefore we measure a man’s achievement by the size of his bank account and the number
of dead bodies over which he has crawled to the top of the heap. At 50 years of age, he
dies of ulcers and a heart condition in the arms of his third wife, but to his neighbors he was
a great and glorious man; one to be envied, flattered and imitated. It would seem that mankind spends most of
the time falsely deluding itself into thinking that the “status quo” (except in taxes, prices and the wage scale) is
an infinite, eternal and unchangeable fount of goodness which under no circumstance must be tampered with. The rest of the
time this human inertia of pre-thought and pre-digested concepts is actively combating any change which deviates from the accepted mode
of thinking. A certain amount of this inertia is necessary to preserve the coherence of the social world in which
we live; in extreme doses, however, this inertia is poisonous to individuality and freedom. The process of thinking is much
like learning how to eat. When one is young, he is given baby food which is strained, pre-cooked, especially prepared,
and chosen for the child without any comment from him. As he gets older, he begins to choose his own
food and eat it like a grown human being. Our process of thinking works much the same way. The family,
the church and the school all funnel into us whatever they deem fit for us to know, and we accept
it in toto, simply following the line of least resistance. But by the time we grow up, we ought to
choose and assimilate our thought patterns from concrete facts, rather than accepting and imitating what other people have said. The
premium should be on mental inquisitiveness — not on mental docility.

How To Stay In College

1. Bring the professor newspaper clippings dealing with his subject. Demonstrate fiery interest and give him timely items to mention
to the class. If you can’t find clippings dealing with his subject, bring in any clippings at random. He thinks
everything deals with his subject.
2. Look alert. Take notes eagerly. If you look at your watch, don’t stare at it unbelievingly and shake it.
3. Nod frequently and murmur, “How true.” To you, this seems exaggerated. To him, it’s quite objective.
4. Sit in front, near him. (Applies only if you intend to stay awake.) If you are going to all
the trouble of making a good impression, you might as well let him know who you are, especially in a
large class.
5. Laugh at his jokes. You can tell. If he looks up from his notes and smiles expectantly, he has
told a joke, believe it or not.
6. Ask for outside reading. You don’t have to read it. Just ask.
7. If you must sleep, arrange to be called at the end of the hour. It creates an unfavorable impression
if the rest of the class has left and you sit there alone, dozing.
8. Be sure the book you read during the lecture looks like a book from the course. If you do
math in psychology and psychology in math, match the books for size and color.
9. Ask any questions you think he can answer. Conversely, avoid announcing that you have found the answer to a
question he couldn’t answer, and in your younger brother’s second grade reader at that.
10. Call attention to his writing. If you know he’s written a book or an article, ask in class if
he wrote it. If you want to do some work, bring in controversial and pleasant experience connected with you. Well,
it’s up to the individual. — The Daily Tar Heel, University of North Carolina.
