PAGE FOUR

PRESIDENTS’ SONS ATTENDING DAVIDSON

Shown chatting in the Public Relations office in Chambers Building are five freshmen whose fathers or grandfathers are college presidents.
From left to right are: Bill Cunningham, son of Davidson's prexy; Bill Gramley, son of the president of Salem College;
Frank Robert, whose grandfather was a former president of Davidson; Bill Martin, whose father is president emeritus of Salem; and
Bob Pressley, whose father is president of Coker College. Ed Rondthaler, whose grandfather is president of Peace College, was absent
when the above photo was taken.

SUNDAY VISITING Month Remains... OLD TRADITION HERE

By GILBERT GRAGG

This year's freshman class has heard a lot about some of Davidson's traditions, and one of these is the custom
of students visiting in the faculty homes on Sunday evenings after Vespers. Almost all upperclassmen have taken advantage of this
opportunity at one time or another. The chief reason for visiting on Sunday evening in the professor's homes is not
so much for higher grades, good refreshments, or the like but the excellent opportunity it affords the students to get
to know their teachers and their wives better and to enjoy the fellowship of their home.

In order to let the students know the address of the various homes they wish to visit, there is a
map with a Faculty and Administration Directory in the lobby of Chambers which gives the desired information; a duplicate copy
of this map will soon be put up in the College Union and maybe even in the lobby of the
church.

Since many students have expressed the desire for a complete list of when certain faculty members would hold open house,
the following list is given for all four Sundays during the month in order that students might plan whom they
wish to visit ahead of time. This list is subject to change from time to time during the year for
one reason or another, as some faculty members may not be able to be at home on the evening given,
but this will always be announced at Vespers. On this coming Sunday, Professors Brown, E.E., Purcell, and Peak will not
have open house as listed but will in November.

First Sunday—Baumann, Brown, C. K., Causey, Davis, Johnston, Labban, Magill, McCutchan, McGeachy, Plott, Puckett, Reid, Terwey, Thompson, Wilson, B. H.,
Woods.

Second Sunday—Beaty, Bevan, Brown, E. E., Cunningham, Cumming, French, Goldiette, Griffin, McGavock, Peak, Purcell, Rucker, Satterfield, Schenck, Smith, Trakas, Whittle,
Wilson, J. S., Wilson-Jones.

Third Sunday—Abernethy, Bailey, Blanton, Brown, L. R., Buell, Daggy, Davidson, Erwin, Gehring, Guerrant, Lilly, Logan, Mebane, Miller, Payne, Pietenpol, Spencer,
Workman.

Fourth Sunday—Corriher, Eberhardt, Fulcher, Hatch, Houchens, Kimbrough, Mrs. Little, Lamar, Martin, McGill, Moore, Parker, Scott, Terrell, Thies, Tyson, Vavoulis.

BULLETIN

Dr. C. J. Pietenpol, acting dean of the faculty, announced last week that by action of the faculty taken October
6, 1953, students, other than freshmen, are given until Saturday, October 10, to drop courses without penalty of a grade
of “Failure.” Students wishing to drop courses should do so immediately.

(Continued From Page One)

language assistants in secondary schools. Eligibility requirements for these foreign study fellowships are: (1) United States citizenship. (2) A college
degree or its equivalent at the time the award is to be taken up. (3) Knowledge of the language of
the country sufficient to carry on the proposed study. (4) Good health.

Final selection of Fulbright grantees is made by the Board of Foreign Scholarships appointed by the President of the United
States. The Institute of International Education, central private agency in the U.S. administering programs for the exchange of students, teachers,
and specialists, is the agency designated by the Board of Foreign Scholarships and the Department of State to screen applications.
Under the Buenos Aires Convention, the Institute makes the preliminary recommendation of candidates, with the cooperating countries making the final
selection of candidates for study within their borders.

Fulbright awards are made entirely in the currencies of participating countries abroad. The Fulbright Act authorizes the use of certain
foreign currencies and credits acquired through the sale of war surplus property abroad for educational exchanges. The awards cover transportation,
expenses of a language refresher or orientation course abroad, tuition, books, and maintenance for one academic year. Awards under the
Buenos Aires Convention include transportation provided by the United States Government, and tuition and maintenance allowances provided by the host
governments. Preliminary selections for other Fulbright awards, those for teaching, lecturing, or advanced research abroad, are made by the American
Council on Education.

DAVIDSON THEATRE

SATURDAY, OCT. 10 “MAN FROM TANGIER” ROLAND CULVER

MON.-TUES., OCT. 12-13 “MOULIN ROUGE” JOSE FERRER

WEDNESDAY, OCT. 14 “MARSHALL'S DAUGHTER” KEN MURRAY LAURIE ANDERS

THUR.-FRI., OCT. 15-16 “BAND WAGON” FRED ASTAIRE

SATURDAY, OCT. 17 “GLORY BRIGADE” VICTOR MATURE

January 30 Date Set For Graduate Records

Professor George L. Abernethy has announced that the Graduate Record Examinations will be given to interested seniors at Davidson on
January 30, 1954, and May 1, 1954. These examinations will be given at certain other institutions in the state on
November 14, 1953. Since applications must reach the Princeton office at least 15 days before the scheduled examination, seniors who
expect to do graduate study in the future are urged to find out immediately from the graduate schools of their
choice whether the Graduate Record Examination is required for admission. Application blanks and further information may be secured from Professor
Abernethy.

Crutchfield ... (Continued From Page One)

such other stars as Charles Laughton on December 1, Jan Peerce on December 16, Isaac Stern on February 13, and
Carl Sandburg on March 31. Crutchfield, who holds one of the coveted George F. Baker Scholarships, is an officer of
Sigma Chi fraternity, president of the Philanthropic Literary Society, and a member of the Male Chorus and Alpha Psi Omega.
He has also made a name for himself in campus dramatic productions. Williams, a senior, is editor of Scripts ‘n
Pranks, the college magazine. Bell, a junior, is a member of the magazine staff and of Sigma Chi fraternity, while
Williamson, also a junior, is a member of Kappa Alpha and the Red and Black Masquers. Harmon, a sophomore, is
a member of the Phi Gamma Delta fraternity and of the staff of The Davidsonian, college weekly newspaper. Further information
about the Artist Series, which is open to the public on both season ticket and individual performance basis, may be
had by writing to Artist Series, Davidson College.

Kappa Sigs... (Continued From Page Three)

game by gaining more yardage.

ATOs 26, Ind-CC 6

Linny Baker and Phil Koonce led the way as the ATOs romped past the Independents-Campus Club team, 26-6.

KAs 14, Phi Kapps 2

On Wednesday, the KAs bounced back from their opening loss, as they handed the Pi Kapps their second straight defeat.

Phi Delts 20, SPEs 7

Ish Bennett’s passing led the Phi Delts to their first victory of the season. It was a defensive battle for
the first half, with neither team scoring.

Kappa Sigs 26, Pikas 6

The Kappa Sigs continued on their winning way Wednesday as they overpowered the Pikas, 26-6. At this point, the Kappa
Sigs took over the league lead.

The Southern Conference has never had the honor of having one of their coaches named as “Coach of the Year.”

THE DAVIDSONIAN

WILLIAMS OFFERS TIMELY SOLUTION TO AWKWARD TIMES

Scripts ‘n Pranks, Davidson's noted literary and humor magazine, will be delivered Homecoming eve. Second only to Charlie Spivak’s trumpet
and Southern womanhood as a festivity attraction, the popular Scripts ‘n Pranks will enhance the enjoyment of both, said Editor
Alden Williams in making the announcement.

“Scripts ‘n Pranks finally offers,” Williams stated, “the answer to ‘those awkward times’ when you're alone with her. Who hasn't
known the frustration of hunting a conversation piece risque enough to be inviting, yet subtle enough to save face?”

Highlighted by the famous artwork of Don Mahy, the year’s first issue will feature provocative, pristine, and still prurient prose
and poetry.by veterans Vereen Bell, Ronald Wilson, Mac Williamson, Fred Myers, and Dubar Ogden. “It's the student’s pocket guide to
Weekend Success,” the editor assured. “Let her look through it once. If she doesn't laugh, leave the dance early Friday
night and see if you can get someone else to date her Saturday. “If she starts to chuckle, then blushes,
clasps her hand to her face and turns red all over, then she’s good until 2:30 or 3:00 o'clock both
nights, and worth cultivating for Midwinters. “And if she bursts out laughing and shows it to you,” he concluded, “then
pin her and plan to catch up on your sleep during ROTC drill.” Whether she falls though, he added in
class No. 1, No. 2, or No. 3, she'll want to be sure to get a fresh copy of the
next three issues hot off the press. To make certain of this, he said, Davidson students will be able during
the Homecoming weekend to subscribe to Scripts ‘n Pranks for her at a special 2-for-one, pay-at-your-convenience rate. Further information will
be in next week's Davidsonian.

Student Volunteers Meet Monday Night

Davidson’s Student Volunteer Movement for World Missions will hold its first meeting of the year in the Green Room of
the College Union at 8:15 Monday night. A man who has had considerable experience as a home missionary will speak
to the group. SVM leaders announced that this meeting is for all students interested in evangelical Christian work, and is
in no way limited to those who have previously participated in SVM’s activities.

Leland Voted President Of 1953-54 Chapel Choir

Owen Leland has been elected president of the Davidson College Chapel Choir. Other officers for the 1953-54 season are John
Crymes, vice president; Murray Page, secretary-treasurer; Ed Miller, chaplain.

NOTICE

Mr. Shaw Smith, director of the College Union, announced today that all students interested in work in the Union should
sign an application for a job. They will then be contacted as vacancies arise.

Cots Hit.... (Continued From Page Three)

LG—Patten
C—Peterson
RG—D. Davis
RT—H. Davis
RE—Kaiser
QB—Gray
HB—Thacker
HB—Brown
FB—Fargason

State
LE—Brown
LT—Kapp
LG—Mazgaj
C—Tonn
RG—D’Angelo
RT—Dunnigan
RE—Gebhardt
QB—West
HB—Frauennhofer
HB—Micklem

NEW CARS DRIVE-IT-YOURSELF
Dial 3-4513- 212 W. Fourth Charlotte

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 9, 1953

College Dining Rules Changed To Relieve Congested Conditions

To relieve somewhat the congestion in the cafeteria at the College Union, and in order to give better service to
all the students eating there, Mr. Shaw Smith has asked the students to cooperate with the following requests. All students
who eat in the cafeteria who do not have a fourth period class are urged to begin eating at 12:15
p.m., so that they will be through the line by 1:00 o'clock. The Union is also making arrangements to give
special preference in the line to students who have both fourth and fifth period classes, so that they can get
to class on time. Students concerned should contact Mr. Smith in the office of the Union.

Conference Splits . . . (Continued From Page Two)

school withdrew completely from the sports field. So, we feel, the Southern Conference today has members who chart the middle
way for their schools. It is obvious that four schools will battle it out for the Southern Conference football honors
this fall. William and Mary, West Virginia, Virginia Tech, and the University, we predict, will be the pace setters. The
Buff plays both the Mountaineers and the Indians this season. Thus, the “break up” of the Southern Conference is not
a break, it’s only a realignment of power, a move that makes sense, a move that should have come years
ago.

Cleland Will Speak At Sunday Vespers

By CHUCK WRIGHT

Dr. James T. Cleland of the Duke University Divinity School, will be the speaker in the vesper services Sunday night
at 7:30. Dr. Cleland is a frequent speaker at Davidson and is one of the most popular speakers who has
appeared here. He is ranked as one of the most popular college preachers in the entire country. A Scotsman by
birth, he also received his education in Scotland. He taught at Amherst for several years before joining the faculty of
the Divinity School of Duke University. Dr. Cleland is the preacher in the Duke chapel. The lectern Bible in the
sanctuary of the Davidson College Presbyterian Church was a gift by Dr. Cleland. He has other ties with Davidson, having
received an honorary Doctor of Divinity degree here two years ago.

Workman To Lead Chapel Discussion

The first of a full program of after-vesper discussions will be held this Sunday, October 11, YMCA Forums chairman Ed
Stuart announced today. Dr. W. G. Workman will lead a discussion on a topic of current student interest—“The Chapel Problem.”
Students interested in attending the discussion to be held immediately after vespers in the student lounge of the church, should
sign the list posted in the Union lobby. Coffee will be served.

Twenty freshmen answered roll call in the Blue Room of the David Ovens College Union Monday night as the first
session of the 1953-54 Court of Control began operations. The charges ranged from failure to wear the prescribed freshman hats
to remarks belittling the court. Charged with not wearing their beanies were Bob Moffitt, Synder Garrison, Dick Bunn, Leon Howell,
Don Campbell, and Barney Regen. Jerry Robinson and Jimmy Williams were brought before the court for not wearing their name
tags. Williams was also charged with not speaking to upperclassmen. William Pitzer and Frank Robert were charged with showing general
disrespect to upperclassmen, while R. N. James and W. M. Hagens went up for refusal to go to the stud
for upperclassmen. They were also charged with disrespect toward same. Dan Haley, Buster Jenkins, and Snyder Garrison were turned in
for making unnecessary noise in the dormitory, after having been asked to stop by upperclassmen. Haley was found not guilty.
Walter Pharr was charged with general obnoxiousness, having a superiority complex, and acting as a member of the upper intelligentsia.
Bob Majors was taken before the court for general cockiness, disrespect to upperclassmen, and not speaking to upperclassmen, in addition
to being generally obnoxious, impersonating an upperclassman, refusal to speak to same, and trying to represent a member of the
upper intelligentsia. Tom Sherard was tried for walking on the grass, being generally obnoxious, and showing disrespect to upperclassmen. R.
H. McIntosh was charged with making belittling remarks about the Court of Control. All freshmen being charged with not wearing
their hats or name tags were let off with no punishment as a gesture from the Court to the freshman
class. Punishment for the others included being stud boys for upperclassmen and for the three sections of Duke Dormitory. They
are to report at 10:30 every night except Saturdays. Others were to be laundry boys, or shoe boys for upperclassmen.

Blood Drive... (Continued From Page One)

been fully tabulated. Thus, with a total of 310 pints of blood, Davidson has set a high mark for other
towns and colleges to reach for, and many congratulations go to co-chairmen Cooper and Mitchener and all who participated for
a worthwhile job well done. This year the town of Davidson did its full share in cooperation with the Y
and the Red Cross. Through public announcements and personal canvassing, the community of Davidson far exceeded last year’s donations.

SMOKERS BY THE THOUSANDS NOW CHANGING TO CHESTERFIELD the ONLY cigarette ever to give you...

1. PROOF of LOW NICOTINE HIGHEST QUALITY

The country’s six leading cigarette brands were analyzed—chemically—and Chesterfield was found low in nicotine—highest in quality.

2. A PROVEN RECORD with smokers. Again and again, over a full year and a half a group of Chesterfield
smokers have been given thorough medical examinations... the doctor’s reports are a matter of record, “No adverse effects to the
nose, throat and sinuses from smoking Chesterfields.” A responsible independent research laboratory supervises this continuing program.

© Copyright 1953, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
