FRIDAY, MAY 8, 1953 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Ever since this writer has been connected with the sports life of Davidson College's Wildcats, we have heard from many sources and especially from the past writers of this column of the pitiful situation which prevails concerning athletic subsidization of this school as compared with that of others in the Southern Conference. The cry has many times been voiced for Davidson to meet on the athletic field schools which are more nearly our size and which spend more or less the same amount on putting teams on the field. This is heard especially during the fall and winter seasons when the larger and richer schools leave the Cats badly outclassed.

What if some sort of rearranging or splitting up of the present Southern Conference was to take place? Rumor has it that that is just what is in the wind at the present meeting of the conference officials in Greensboro which got under way today.

PRESENT CONFERENCE HAS MANY FAULTS

In the past few years, there has been growing dissatisfaction all over the conference concerning the present setup and the overcrowded conditions of the league. The league is also too much spread out. It’s a long way from down at the Citadel or Furman up to West Virginia or Maryland or George Washington. The rumor which has come to our attention, which this writer sincerely hopes is not just idle gossip, concerned a meeting of the officials representing Maryland, Virginia, Duke, State, Carolina, Wake Forest, South Carolina, and Clemson which was to be held in Durham last night prior to the conference meeting today. If such a meeting did take place, the only subject which would pull such a group together would be the bolting by these schools of the present Southern Conference and the formation of a new conference.

LEAGUES WOULD BE EVENLY MATCHED

Such a bolt would leave West Virginia, George Washington, Richmond, William & Mary, VMI, VPI, Washington & Lee, Davidson, Citadel, and Furman still in the Southern Conference. West Virginia, whose teams worked under the independent status for many years, might well return to that status.

WOFFORD INVADES AS WILDCATS CLOSE LUCKLESS SEASON

Davidson’s winless baseballers close out the 1953 season tomorrow when they meet Wofford on the local diamond in a contest which affords the “last chance” for a win. Gametime is 3:15. It has been a rough season for Coach Clement's crew with several heart-breaking defeats, but last Tuesday the Cats lost one to South Carolina that really hurt. After trailing the Palmetto club for eight innings, the Wildcats pounded out five runs in the last of the ninth to tie the score. The winning run was waiting on third base, but it never crossed the plate as a strikeout finally halted the Davidson rally.

NETTERS HOSTS FOR ANNUAL CONFERENCE TOURNAMENT

By JOHN HANDLEY

Hofferth Doubled

The South Carolina club came back in the top of the tenth inning to score one run and win the hard-fought contest. A double by shortstop Tom Hofferth brought in the winning tally, as Tunstall held the Cats scoreless in their last chance to tie the score. John Smith, who replaced Ish Bennett in the tenth inning, was the losing pitcher. Special credit is due to the Davidson infield for the sparkling performance they turned in Tuesday. In addition to executing three double plays, they played a brilliant all-around ball game. This afternoon the Davidson nine was scheduled to play the Wolfpack of North Carolina State here at home. The State team, though slightly weak in the pitching department, was favored to win.

Linksters Complete Successful Season

Davidson's strong golfers polished off Clemson and Wofford this week. Coach Dick McKee has big hopes for these Wildcats as they enter the ‘53 tourney. 1st row: Green, Bremer (Capt.), Dudley; 2nd row: Keesler, Bivins, Clark, Sneed, Coach McKee.

Phi Gams Tie With KA’s As Season Nears Close

By DON PILKENTON

The Phi Delts continued their occupation of first place on Monday of this week by downing the Betas. The Phi Gams won the only other game played by beating the Pi Kapps. The tennis standings are incomplete due to the great number of postponed matches.

Sig Eps 5-2
Campus Club 3-2
Phi Gams 3-2
ATOs 3-2
KAs 3-4
SAEs 2-3
Pikas 2-6

The Phi Gams gained a first place tie last Tuesday, on a wet field, by downing the previously unbeaten KAs by a score of 4-3. The game between the two teams was recorded as one of the best and hardest fought games of the season. The game was deadlocked.

Baseballers, Thinclads In Finales Saturday

Cindermen Face State Seeking Sixth Victory

By ANDY TURNER

Coach “Pete” Whittle’s tracksters will close out a successful season tomorrow afternoon on the local track against N. C. State. The meet will begin at the usual 1:30 p.m. for the field events and 2:00 for the remainder. The Cats will be slightly favored and should push their won-lost record to a 6-3 count. Last Saturday the locals routed W&L and Furman in a triangular meet to push their record to five wins and three losses. Davidson scored 80 points to W&L's 37 and Furman’s 35.

Koonce Top Individual

Phil Koonce was top individual scorer with 13 points. He took first in the 100-yard dash and was top man in the broad jump, in addition to a second place in the 220-yard dash. The other firsts for Davidson were taken by Shipley in the 440, Henry in the 880, Mitchner in the 220, and Peterson.In the discus, Feeney in the two miles, and White in the low hurdles. The relay team was also first, but was disqualified. A soft track due to rain the night before held down the times in the running events and considerably slowed up the field events as the footing was uncertain.

Strong In Distance
State boasts two of the best milers in the conference in Sawyer and Garrison. Sawyer also gets below ten minutes in the two mile, along with Miller. Garrison won the mile and Sawyer was second in the two-mile at the Carolina Indoor meet in February. Davidson's strength lies in the sprints and distance events. Coach Whittle will be depending heavily on the showings of Shipley in the 440, Henry in the 880, and Koonce in the 100. The thinclads at present hold the best record of any of the athletic teams on the campus this year.

Finishing touches on a very successful season were put on last week by decisive counts to put the standings of the softball and tennis teams through Wednesday at three scores apiece at the end of seven innings after the KAs had come from behind to tie up the contest. However, the winning run was squeezed home in the first extra inning by the Phi Gams. Inclement weather caused the postponement of all games on Thursday of last week and last Wednesday. Wet fields on Tuesday also prevented games between the Sig Eps and Betas and between the ATOs and the SAEs. In spite of slippery fields and soggy softballs, the other four scheduled games were completed. Similar circumstances affected the Inter-Fraternity tennis circuit this week. Rain on Tuesday made the courts too wet for play and consequently only two games were played.

If such moves should occur, two well-matched 8-team leagues would remain and the small schools would stop having such lopsided records and some really tight races for the respective conference flags would certainly result. As the league now stands, each team meets about half of the other teams in the league and some never meet. That occurs even in basketball where a larger schedule allows more variety of opponents.

TEAMS HAVE NEARLY EQUAL RECORDS
Let us try to picture Davidson in a league with Richmond, William & Mary, VMI, VPI, Washington & Lee, Citadel, and Furman. All these teams have finished at or near the bottom of the standings, with some few exceptions, ever since high subsidization has come into existence. Several of these schools have been stretching and expanding.

(Continued On Page Four)

The standings are as follows:
Pi Kapps downed Wofford 25½-1½ on Monday and Clemson 20½-6½ on Wednesday. Both matches were played on the Charlotte Country Club links. The Cats finished with an impressive 8-5 record which featured a strong start and a strong finish. They copped their first three and their last three matches, while losing four in a row at mid-season. The golfers took the measure of Florida State, the Mt. Plymouth Exhibition, Furman (2), Wofford (2), South Carolina, and Clemson. They lost to Duke, Ohio, Florida, Clemson, and South Carolina. The Wildcats will travel to Winston-Salem Thursday to take part in the three-day Southern Conference Tournament.

Softball
KAs
Phi Gams
Sigma Chis
Sig Eps
Pi Kapps
Pikas
Phi Delts
ATOs
Kappa Sigs
Betas
Campus Club
SAEs

Tennis
Phi Delts
Kappa Sigs

HE MAY DISCOVER one little time will tell about a summer job for the summer. Little time will tell about a cigarette! Take your time... Try CAMELS for 30 days - for MILDNESS and FLAVOR. THERE MUST BE A REASON WHY Camel is America’s most popular cigarette—leading all other brands by billions! Camels have the two things smokers want most—rich, full flavor and cool, cool mildness ... pack after pack! Try Camels for 30 days and see how mild, how flavorful, how thoroughly enjoyable they are as your steady smoke!

WORK AND LOTS FROM OUR FLOOR

More People Smoke CAMELS than any other cigarette.

They have dropped two meets to South Carolina and were edged by Clemson.

McKee’s Netters Hosts For Southern Racquet Tournament
Yesterday afternoon on the local courts, Coach Dick McKee’s tennis squad closed out its regular season with a match against the University of South Carolina. The Cats had taken a 9-0 victory from the Gamecocks in Columbia earlier in the season and were decided favorites in yesterday’s return match. The season’s record, prior to the match yesterday, was ten wins against eight losses. The squad was due to meet Wofford tomorrow, but the match was cancelled early this week.

Cats Hosts
The Cats will be hosts to some 10 Southern Conference tennis teams.

(Continued On Page Four)

SALE CONTINUES
Everything Must Go!
WILSON-WRIGHTS
DAVIDSON, N. C.

COMMENCEMENT AND GRADUATION
Nothing is more appropriate than a Navy Blue suit by VARSITY-TOWN and you may choose ... Sheen gabardine ... worsted. You also have a choice of 2 ... worsted flannel ... or tropical worsted. Single-breasted model with flaps or patch pockets and center vents. Sizes 34 to 42, regulars and longs.

WORSTED FLANNEL ___ 65.00
SHEEN GABARDINE ____ 60.00
TROPICAL WORSTED __ 50.00

THE LABEL OF DISTINCTION
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
VOWLES