FRIDAY, DECEMBER 4, 1953. THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

After drawing a complete blank on the 1953 gridiron and Davidson’s most recent athletic defeat at the hands of tiny
Guilford on the basketball courts, the athletic thought of the Davidson student hit a boiling point after Wednesday night's cage
lid opener. This reporter was bombarded with such a host of comments and proposals that we feel that we cannot
conscientiously overlook the feelings of the students whose printed organ we are pledged to be.

By JOHN HANDLEY

Ever since taking over this post we have listened with growing interest to the various comments and appraisals of the
Davidson situation and recommendations and proposals for its possible betterment. Feeling in the past that to print such usually only
hot-tempered “steaming” would be at the sacrifice of team spirit and morale without actually gaining anything in return.

Not a Criticism, But a Questioning

In reality, our feeling is still much the same and we will recruit your aid in thinking through what seems
to have become a real problem here. We will not here offer any word of criticism for anyone in the
sports setup here at Davidson, not from fear of reprisal from the powers that be, but rather, from the failure
to see any actual rewards to be gained by such action. We wholeheartedly beg your interest in this problem of
Davidson’s thinking toward sports and we would request your writing or talking to us concerning this matter. You will here,
of course, recognize on our part the age-old practice of “passing the buck,” but this results only from lack of
a definite opinion ourselves. We feel certain that some of the members of the student body have given this matter
careful thought and we invite you to air your views and share your views with your fellow students.

Grumbling Isn’t The Answer

Suppressed grumbling and Davidson’s famous griping seems to us to be of little avail and actually to hurt rather than
to help the college community. We would like here to bring to your attention some of the questions which have
come to us for your consideration and thought. Should Davidson continue in its same course in athletics, or should it
go all-out, or should it withdraw in favor of an intensified intramural program? Are sports on the Davidson scene really
“character-building and leadership-building, etc., etc.,” as sports were originally meant to be? Does the problem lie, not within, but without
the local campus? That is, is it the current conception of collegiate sports on a national scene—the pressures, etc.—that are
the underlying causes of these problems? Should Davidson take the lead in any movement to bring sports down out of
their Roman spectacle stratosphere? These may embrace only a few of the questions which you may be thinking about. In
any case, we welcome your opinions and comments and will gladly reproduce here any pertinent, intelligent, and logical comments you
may bring to our attention. We wish to represent the feelings of the Davidson student and it is our sincere
belief that it is time such feelings be aired rather than to continue in the unhealthy situation which prevails at
present.

Davidson’s Old Faithful ‘Doc’ In 20th Year Here

By FLOYD FRENEY

Each year the “D” Club makes an award to a man who consistently contributes a great deal to the Davidson
sports scene. That man is “Doc” White. “Doc” has the official sounding title of equipment manager. He is concerned with
keeping each squad well dressed and well equipped. You can usually find “Doc” in his “office” in the basement of
the gym at any time of day, where he is always busy patching and distributing equipment.

“Doc” has been at Davidson now for twenty years, having first arrived on the campus in 1933. In that time
he has become almost an “institution,” especially to the great number of boys who have been fortunate enough to come
into contact with him.

Still Young

“Doc” is as active as ever at 62 and has plans for many more years at Davidson. He has been
married for the past twenty-seven years. “Doc's” real name is Perry, however, this has been all but forgotten on the
campus where he is never known by any other title than “Doc.” This has become so much a fixture with
him that once a visitor to the school asked for the office of Doctor White.

Friendly Philosopher

“Doc” is always anxious to dispense with a little of his homespun philosophy—one of his favorite topics being why someone
should beat the New York Yankees. But “Doc” doesn't limit himself to one topic and will talk about almost anything.
This soft-spoken little man with his ready smile and friendly word of advice has worked his way into the heart
of every Davidson athlete for the past twenty years, not to mention the many others of the student body who
have come to know and love this wonderful man.

READ CATTALES—ANSWER WANTED

Pictured above are two of Davidson’s cage starters who are scheduled to see a lot of action in this weekend's
action against Wake Forest and N. C. State. Keith is a senior center, while “Ish”Is a junior forward. Swim Meet
Next On Greek Slate After a tough contest on the gridiron and the rugged scraps on the wrestling mats, the
time again draws near for the interfraternity swimming meet to be staged in the local pond. There will be eight
events in the meet, which promises Coach Pete Whittle announced that the preliminaries for the contest will be held on
Monday evening beginning at 8:30 due to the never-ending math tests. The finals are slated for Wednesday evening, starting time
has been set at 7:30 in the Johnston Gym pool. Last year it was the SAEs who swam to the
number one spot followed closely by the Phi Delts and Sigma Chis. Three records were broken last year in the
meet. Charles Haigh of Phi Kappa Phi splashed the previous record in the 50-yard freestyle, and the second place Phi
Delts won the 200-yard relay, slicing off a few seconds on the previous time. Also, Abernathy of Kappa Sigma set
a record time in the individual relay man.

Trials Monday The time trials which will be held on Monday evening will take place in this general order and
time: 8:30—150-yd. medley (50 back, 50 breast, 50 free). 8:45—75-yd freestyle. 9:05—50-yd. breaststroke. 9:20—50-yd freestyle. 9:35—50-yd backstroke. 9:50—25-yd freestyle. 10:05—75-yd
individual medley (25 breast, 25 back, 25 free). 10:25—200-yd freestyle relay (50 yards each). It was announced that interfraternity basketball
will not get underway until after the Christmas holidays.

How the stars got started Lizabeth Scott says: “I got my theatrical training in the school of hard knocks. Summer
stock first. Once I sat for 7 months as an understudy, I stuck it out — studied, posed for fashion
pictures. Then, signed for a tiny film part, I was switched to leading lady. My career had begun!”

Deacons Hosts Tonight, Back Tomorrow Night By JIM HOLSHOUSER Davidson's shaky cagers travel to Wake Forest and N. C. State
this weekend for encounters tonight and tomorrow night respectively. The Cats go up against last year's Southern Conference champion Deacons
tonight before traveling to the Raleigh Coliseum tomorrow.

Wildcat Wrestlers In Triangular Meet For Opening Action By BUDDY LYLES Coach Charlie Parker’s 1963 team will open their season
with a four-way tournament at Auburn University on Friday and Saturday, the 4th and 5th. The other three teams in
this tournament are Auburn, VMI, and Emory. The Cats looked shaky and uncertain in their Wednesday night opener against Guilford
who thumped them to the tune of 63-56. Lack of confidence seemed to dominate the Cats’ play and Coach Miller
expressed the hope that the Cats could “unfreeze their assets” and play the brand of ball they are capable of.

Wake, State Tough Wake Forest and State, though now members of the Atlantic Coast Conference, rather than the Southern, which
they dominated last year, have pretty much the same teams back and will be tough to beat. Dickie Hemric, the
big center from Jonesville, North Carolina, will again be the leading threat on the Wake Forest roster. Last Tuesday night,
Hemric scored 30 points as he led the Wake team to an easy, 82-55, win over Virginia Tech in the
Baptists' opening game of the season.

State’s Sophs Star Tomorrow night the Cats meet what will probably be their toughest opponent of the season, N. C.
State. The State club has all the promise of being a national power this season. With last year’s frosh sensations
Vic Molodet and Ronnie Shavlik giving Dave Gotkin and Mel Thompson a lot of support, the Wolfpack have a combination
which will be hard to stop. The Cats return home to meet South Carolina’s Gamecocks on next Tuesday evening before
making their conference debut against VPI next Saturday.

Kitten Cage Squad Shows Much Promise In Downing Pfeiffer As in football, the focus in basketball seems to be on
a very promising freshman team. Their 78 to 57 victory over Pfeiffer Wednesday night was the only bright spot, as
Guilford squeezed by the varsity 63-56. It was a team win for Coach Fetzer's charges, as all the starting five
hit the double figures. Alec Shepard's 19 and 18 for Gaylord Walker were high for the night, with George Mitchell,
David Shaw, and Buster Jenkins getting 10 each for Davidson. Jenkins and the two Shaw brothers, David and Bob, were
all floor leaders, with David gathering in most of the rebounds. The defensive play was very good, on the whole.
Pfeiffer was held to 28 points, only 15 the whole first half, until they broke loose to score 29 in
the third period. The Wildkittens regained control, however, to end the game going away. Reserves have always been a weak
factor in Davidson athletics as everyone well knows. Coach Fetzer began trying his in actual competition. Although it is too
early to tell for certain, the six that played beside the starters, McSwain, Weeks, Bob Shaw, Haley, Brewer, and Finnegan,
show promise of being able to fit into the first team combination with success. This bench strength will not only
help the freshman team this year, but will also prove invaluable to future varsity squads.

Auburn, the host, will be the heavy favorites, usually having one of the strongest teams in the Southeastern Conference. The
Cadets of VMI and the Wildcats rate about even, with Emory slight underdogs. The Wildcats will be using a different
lineup from the expected one for the season due to Johnny Buxton being out with an injury. This will move
Don Reid up to the 147-pound class and Charlie Murray up to the 137-pound class. Tommy Jordan will replace Murray
in the 130-pound class. The rest of the lineup will be as follows: Bobby Joe Key will hold down the
123-pound entry. At 157 Henry Faison will enter for the Wildcats. Bill Coe will wrestle at 167, and Monty Littlejohn
will tangle in the 177-pound class. At heavyweight, Dave Burns, ineligible last year but showing improvement, will be the starter.
The squad, as a group, are much improved over last year and with

CHRISTMAS GIFTS For Dad, Brother, Uncle or Cousin We have just the right thing . . . Gifts wrapped for
you! Wilson’s Men’s Shop “COLLEGIATE FASHIONS” Next to Bank Davidson, N. C.

Try smoking Camels yourself! Smoke only Camels for 30 days and find out why Camels are first in mildness, flavor,
and popularity! See how much pure pleasure a cigarette can give you!
