PAGE TWO

And The Students Find Room To Fuss About The Sorry Team

Once upon a time, as the fairy tale goes, Davidson was known far and wide for its fighting football teams and its strong school spirit. The fighting football team remains, but the school spirit has long since departed. Last Saturday marked the lowest decline yet as cheering for the boys on the field, once a spontaneous show of student support but now unfashionable among many Davidsonians, was almost non-existent. Only once or twice did the ghost of the now buried but once active Davidson spirit make a showing.

While it may appear to some that we had little to cheer about, we certainly cannot use this as an excuse for our indifference. Anyone in the stands could easily see that each man of our team was putting everything he had into every play, and if the opposing player was a little bigger or a little more rested, it certainly wasn’t his fault. It was equally apparent to all concerned that for the most part no one in the stands cared too much one way or another. Even those who wanted to yell a little were prevented from doing so by the attitude of those around them.

It almost seems as if the typical urbane Davidson gentleman now looks down on his “square” fellow classmate who occasionally has a boorish desire to cheer for his school and his team. Perhaps the day of being enthusiastic over athletic contests has passed or belongs to high schools or maybe even large universities. Perhaps yelling encouragement to that boy who is scrapping every play and getting hit hard in the process is just waving the flag and ought to be stopped completely so that we can enjoy the game. Somehow, however, it just doesn’t seem right.

We have a football team and although they haven't won too many this year, they have generally made a creditable showing despite the scores. It is up to us, the student body, to back them. If we only wanted them to win half as much as they want to win themselves, we would have no trouble in yelling our lungs out through the whole game. We must have some new cheers to replace the weak, worn-out ones we now have. The cheers we now have often kept our cheerleaders from doing their best. They are especially hard on the students who find it difficult to generate any genuine enthusiasm to these pointless inexpressive yells. What we need is a greater variety of short simple cheers. When a team behind five touchdowns can come out of the huddle cheering louder than the student body they represent, it’s time for the students to do something. Cheerleaders can do only so much; we the students must be the ones to back up the team tomorrow and help them beat The Citadel.—F.F.F.

Chapel Problem Should Be Solved With Sense Rather Than Sarcasm

Everybody talks about chapel but nobody does anything about it. This paraphrase on the sage comment about the weather seems to typify the present student attitude toward what has been called the “Chapel Problem,” the “Chapel Furore,” and even worse things. The fact of the matter is that there are plans afoot at present to “do something” toward improving the daily chapel program with an eye toward making them worthwhile as well as encouraging a more favorable attitude among us.

The ideas presented to the Faculty Chapel Committee and Y Board of Directors meetings have included one to have three short chapels per week in the church and hold two student assemblies in Chambers, thus virtually eliminating all long chapels with outside speakers. This seems to us a step in the right direction. There seems to be almost as many ideas as individuals about what should be done, if anything. There is a feeling in some quarters that chapel should be made a more meaningful religious service. We have no quarrel with the intention involved here, but have grave doubts that daily compulsory religious service can be made very meaningful to the student who doesn’t want to go anyhow.

That chapel is far from ideal is certain, but ours is the opinion that as a religious service it can never constitute a real spiritual experience until it is voluntary. Nevertheless, we believe that as long as compulsory chapel is with us, we have an obligation to accept it in a gentlemanly fashion, as one of the duties entailed in coming to Davidson College. By working for a fundamental change in the situation through constructive criticism and utilization of the right to express ourselves in a sincere, discreet manner, we can accomplish much more than by idle griping and thoughtless misconduct.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Moody Smith

BUSINESS MANAGER
Charley Hasty

ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Jim Moore, Dick Roper

Assistant Editors
Bob Crutchfield, Charles Hassell, Buddy Lamon, Bob Owen, Hunter Strader

Managing Editors
Henry Brockmann, Floyd Feeney

Sports Editor
John Handley

News Editor
Austin Strand

Feature Editor
T. A. Williams

Art Editor
Ed Price

Photographer
Andy Simons

Assignments
Blake Brinkerhoff

Asst. Business Manager
Ed Nicholson

Advertising Manager
Tommy Taylor

Circulation Manager
Dick Little

Collections Manager
Tim Cooper

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897.

OPERATION FAR EAST

Look over! BUILDING LEAKS MOVE IS COMPLETED, HAPPY STUDENTS THE DAVIDSONIAN

Fy oe ao VILY TO ONE S102 —STUDENTS SHOW CONCERN RETURN TO DORMS —OVERJOYED.

Brownell’s Charge Proven True; Squabble Did No One Any Good

The current political squabble which has brought former President Harry Truman back into the national spotlight could be called a tragedy of blunders, so serious and damaging have the effects of the issue been to American unity and prestige abroad. It is probably true that nobody except possibly America’s enemies have profited from the controversy between Truman and Attorney General Brownell. It would have been better for the whole country and all parties concerned if the issue had never been brought up. But equally blameworthy, I believe, have been the performances of the two principal characters in this shoddy drama of headlines, floodlights, and microphones.

Brownell to Blame

In the first place, Brownell is to blame for not being more specific about his charge in the first place. When on November 6 he stated that “Harry Dexter White was known to be a Communist spy by the very people who appointed him to the most sensitive and important position he ever held in government service,” the inference generally made throughout the country was that Truman was aiding and abetting subversion in the government. I do not believe the Attorney General would be foolish enough to make that charge unless he had conclusive evidence that such was actually the case. What I believe Brownell meant in the first place to do was to attack the laxity of Truman’s administration in dealing with communism rather than the former President's loyalty. This situation was later clarified by Brownell’s statement that he had no intention of impugning the loyalty of Truman, but the damage was already done.

Truman Clouded Issue

On the other hand, it seems to me, Mr. Truman has clouded the whole issue in reaching for martyrdom in his Monday night speech. His overall record of fighting communism, in the Truman Doctrine and the Marshall Plan, has established him as a firm supporter of measures to stop Russian imperialism. As soon as he realized the true nature of the communist threat, Mr. Truman was also strong in support of the fight to stop subversive action inside America. Instead of citing his record, and admitting that the White case was bungled (thereby missing a chance to take most of the steam from his opponents’ arguments), Mr. Truman reverts to his old role of name-calling politician and thus prolongs the whole issue needlessly.

Ironical Feature

The most ironical feature of the whole incident is that in his Monday night speech Mr. Truman actually confirmed Brownell’s original charge that the very people who appointed Harry Dexter White knew he was a spy. Yet he makes the deliberate statement in that address that “His (Brownell’s) charge was false, and Mr. Brownell must have known it was false at the very time he was making it.” Mr. Truman plainly admits that he learned of White’s subversive activities from the FBI report dated February 6. This was before he finally signed the commission appointing White to the top position in the International Monetary Fund. Yet he made no effort to withhold this commission. “When the results of these consultations were reported to me, the conclusion was reached that the appointment should be allowed to take its normal course.” Thus it is obvious that Brownell’s original charge was true, and that Truman was the one who erred when he called the Attorney General a liar in his Monday night speech.

Other Possible Arguments

These petty arguments over a dead issue could go on. It might be possible to maintain that Brownell’s original statement was an implication that Truman knew White was a spy even before he was ever appointed, and one might successfully maintain that Truman was doing a stupid thing to ignore the FBI's recommendation (made to two cabinet members) that White not be retained. But what does all this prove? The Republicans gained nothing, save possibly one Congressional seat from the election in California which followed Brownell’s charge; surely that was not worth all the bitterness and wrath the issue has evoked. The Democrats, on the other hand, certainly gained nothing by Truman’s vituperative speech of Monday night. The American people have been divided on a dead issue, in a time when unity against the internal and external dangers is vital.

Role of Partisan Politics

It has been said that partisan politics is the heart of American government. Since the time that political parties developed in America from the conflict between Hamilton and Jefferson, charges and countercharges of all sorts have been used to win political campaigns, and almost anything that could be used for political capital has been seized upon. But it is to be sincerely hoped that in the future, people who are in such responsible positions as Attorney General Brownell, will at least think through what the effect of such charges would be and what they might benefit—or lose—before doing anything else of such a nature.

LETTER TO THE EDITOR:

Is Paper Tool Of Tradition?

Dear Editor:

Now that the diploma issue is settled I hope that The Davidsonian will go back to trying to be a newspaper instead of a propaganda machine for the “Baron of the Bookshelves.” This idea of turning over the editorials, columnists, and news columns to intimidate the unthinking Davidson student into more conformity (as if we didn’t have enough!) is a totalitarian and indecent one. I'm not opposed to traditions, but let's have some intelligent ones instead of these phony, perverted Ney ones. Hereafter let's vote yea and not Ney.

DISGUSTED.

Honor In A University

(Reprinted from the Daily Tar Heel)

So I gather the word “honor” has been used to mean quite various things. What might it mean in a University? For although I attach enormous value to merely obeying the code we follow in this University we need as seekers after truth to understand, just as fully as we are able, what the code implies, and what honor essentiallyis. We need to understand what further applications it might have for a community devoted to learning, than we have perhaps made or even thought of making. We need the letter of the code, but we want its spirit too. If we do not, through thinking about it, expand that spirit, then we risk contracting it. I suggest, then, that when our academic forefathers sought to dissociate the idea of honor from the duel and to associate it with truth, they were consciously or unconsciously recognizing that what a university specifically honors is truth, and that truth is not reached through lying or cheating. They then turned the matter of lying and cheating over to the students. And the students decided to eliminate, quietly but promptly, any one of their number found lying or cheating.—Stringfellow Barr.

OFF-MOORINGS: FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 1953

“Which Way Davidson?” Ghost Returns to Campus-Older, Wiser

Back in 1951-52, the editor of this newspaper, Bill White, used to delight in coining a phrase—prosacially and vocally—and expounding on its possibilities. It was, “Which way Davidson?” He was interested in the direction Davidson should take concerning her football program. White followed the trend of the day, and created a trend himself in discussing the issue and bringing it to the attention of students and alumni. In the past year or two public interest among students has not been so strongly presented because (1) last year’s editor said little about the situation, and (2) an attitude of wait-and-see has been adopted by students and alumni.

The essential position is that Davidson wants a football team—for purposes of giving intercollegiate competition, for a means of contact with the alumni, and for allowing students an athletic and social means of expressing themselves. A letter to the editor earlier this year on the subject elicited only sporadic response among students. This is interesting, as the position of the co-authors of that letter was that Davidson should go “all out” in subsidizing football. Their conclusion was that we should no longer remain in our lethargic position and should move to a level of subsidization that would assure us of a winning team. This is a view frequently held by those who want at almost any cost to produce a winning football team and they are willing that we offer more scholarships and make the necessary inducements to get the players here who can win games. The supposition is, of course, that if we get the players, we will win football games. Now is that borne out by the facts? The very truth is that though the recruitment program put on by the athletic office often brings to Davidson players who have played well in high school, many of them fail to remain in school.

There is the other familiar point that the scholastic standards of Davidson are so high that the players who do stay are so buckled by work that they cannot give their due to the sport. This is somewhat the case, and it’s been my personal observation that the players use so much of their energy during the season on the books that they have lost their potential for giving their all to the sport. Far more important than these practical implications is the attitude among students toward the players themselves. The air about Davidson is often one of pessimism, defeatism, and of accepting the situation for what it sadly seems now to be. The players want to give their best, and within their abilities do, but when it seems that they let their fellow students and their school down by not winning, the result is a feeling among the players of inferiority. This is not a result found among all the players, though it has been found in some and there is the strong possibility of it occurring again.

Now let us look at the position in which we find ourselves. It is one that is called middle of the road, and yet we do subsidize football and have a rabid alumni supporting group. It is what Dr. Cunningham called an amateur sport program, and yet the Wildcat Club is there to condition even this. By many faculty members, and was two years ago expounded to me in a slightly different form by our “tiddly winks” professor. “Yes,” said I, “We call the Chapel Hill kettle black and overlook our own hue.” So I began investigating and dug up some facts that led not to the original conclusion but to ones that are both enlightening and suggestive of what the actual situation is.

Dr. Spencer, Mr. Martin, and Mr. Payne have supplied much of the information that follows, and it must be noted that these three have not expressed any of the frequent hysteria and over-apprehension that often follows a student request for financial figures, especially those that concern sports. From the figures given (note box) it can be seen by simple arithmetic that the deficit up to the end of 1952-53 amounted to only $58. Thus is the argument shot? Well, perhaps, but let us examine this year’s outlay. Presently the college is committed by $27,720 for football scholarships and the training table. We may now reasonably ask what the prospects are for reaching this year's goal. With a winless season thus far, and by the time you read this the season will probably be over and the last game decided, the prospects for reaching the goal are, to quote Alumni Director John Payne, “Dim.” Mr. Payne went on to predict that the club will probably not raise over $26,000 this year. That of course would leave quite a deficit—$1,788 if just $26,000 is raised. The same process of offsetting the deficit by raising more money by the Wildcat Club would then be employed as well as cutting down on the number of scholarships. Now all this explanation con- (Continued On Page Four)

Only A Government Which Is Unstable Must Protect Its Beliefs By Force

Last week a group of students met for the purpose of examining the administrative-student relationship in regards to several problems which have been foremost around here for the past few years. This group—chosen as a representative cross-section of the student body—articulated those grievances which have caused the greatest amount of tension and friction between the Administration and the students, either because of their inherent nature or because the students felt that they overlapped into activities which were not within their scope of jurisdiction.

Among the general problems which were discussed was the compulsory chapel and vesper attendance. Chapel especially has become a farce and should be recognized as such. It is a central focal point in which the student body vents its spleen at being required to attend a daily religious service. It is a perennial revolt against authority; a minor rebellion against the enforced plan of Christianity which each man is exposed to each day. The faculty is somewhat hesitant about making an appearance in chapel because of the reception which they generally are accorded, yet the discourtesy is seldom aimed at the individual professor—it is aimed at the authority which he symbolizes when he takes the platform. Basically, enforced chapel and vesper attendance has become synonymous with a denial of the fundamental tenet of Christianity that each man has the right to choose whether he will accept a religion, and the method which he chooses to pursue that religion. Even the usefulness has become enigmatic now. Rather than create an atmosphere of worship, it has become a sounding board for the antagonism and animosity generated towards unnecessary regimentation. Last year a program was conceived to limit chapel to three times a week and have it as a simple liturgical service in the church, but it received little attention. The YMCA is working on a similar plan for presentation in the near future. However, it would appear that the only way to restore any meaning to a daily worship is to do away with required attendance and give the individual the right to make his own choice. Certainly no one has seen the Great Light due to the influence of chapel on his life. It is pure unrealism to delude one’s self into thinking that required religion ever had any meaning to the individuals concerned.

Another subject which got bandied about was the general lack of functioning of the Student Body. They have so little real authority to make any decisions that the offices have become mere figure-heads, filled once a year by electing the most popular men on the campus. What initiative these men have is lost in the dearth of opportunities afforded them to practice real leadership. They may be appointed to student-faculty committees in an effort to give a real voice to the students; however, men that have served on these committees say that the committee never met, or that their ideas were pigeon-holed and forgotten. There is no lever of powerful student government to pry the Administration into taking cognizance of the wishes of the student, and the gentlemen in the front office have evinced little interest in rooting out student opinion concerning basic issues.

One way to instigate more powerful student government might be the addition of politicking in the spring elections. As they now stand, a man is elected almost solely on his popularity with the four classes in session here. He has little time to outline his program and no opportunity to form a solid group among the students who would support his program, which would give him a better stand in any faculty-student relations. One boy said that he never has voted for any student body officer; he has simply voted against the other candidates. This was the general feeling of the group which met the other night and discussed these topics. But any group is powerless to accomplish anything unless the student body is willing to support it. If you are interested or if you’ve got an opinion, cut loose with it. It will take a good deal of concerted action to budge the inertia which faces us.