WILLIAMS, GEORGE FADES “CABBAGE PLANTER” FROM MEMORY OF YOUNGER DAVIDSONIANS RETURNS (On Page Two)

The Davidsonian

ALENBA CUR UB) ORTA LIBERTAS

VOL. XLI- DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C., FRIDAY, OCTOBER 16, 1953

Dances, Concert, Football Game Alumni Day Highlighted By Installation Program

Plans have been completed for the arrival of several hundred alumni on the campus tomorrow for the 1953 Homecoming. The day will begin with the annual meeting of the Wildcat Club at 10:30 a.m., in the ballroom of College Union. Olen W. Nesbitt of Charlotte, president of the group, will preside with the election of new officers and the presentation of reports as the main order of business.

Installation of Officers

At 11:45 a.m. the alumni convocation will be held in the ballroom of the Ovens College Union. Mr. Osborne Bethea, '22, president of the Alumni Association, will welcome the alumni and make his annual report. This will be followed by the installation of the 1954 officers who are Dr. Frank L. Jackson of Davidson, national president, and Dwight Moody Chalmers of Greenville, S. C., national vice-president. Lyman Kiser, president of the student body, will introduce Buddy Lamon of the class of '54, who will speak on Davidson's scholarship program. Selections will be offered by the Davidson College Concert Band under the direction of Kenneth Moore and the Male Chorus directed by Donald Plott.

“Wildcats” Honored

A special event of the alumni convocation will be the presentation of the 1917 football team, who will be honored guests throughout the day. This will be their 36th reunion. They were the original “Wildcats” having been dubbed that name by an Atlanta Journal sports writer. They were also called the lightweight champions of the United States, averaging only 156 pounds. Nevertheless, they compiled an excellent record by beating such teams as Wake Forest 73-7 and Wofford 62-0. The convocation will be closed with the president's report by Dr. John R. Cunningham.

At 1:00 p.m. the annual barbecue luncheon will be held on the South Court. All students, alumni, and their guests will be welcomed. The Homecoming game with Presbyterian, beginning at 2:30 p.m., will complete the day’s activities. Halftime ceremonies will feature two notable events. The 1917 football team, which will sit in a body behind the Davidson bench, will be presented. Recognition will also be given to Capt. James C. Harper, '15, director of the celebrated Lenoir High School Band. This will be their 25th appearance at a Davidson Homecoming game.

DAVIDSON'S GEORGE FADING FROM VIEW

By AUSTIN STRAND
Davidsonian News Editor

The big question around Davidson this year for the upperclassmen has been that of the whereabouts of Davidson’s legendary Beowulf, better known as King George. Moody Smith, editor of this rag, instructed your reporter not to leave a stone unturned in finding out first, if George was alive, and second, why he had deserted the Davidson campus.

George is very much alive, as many of the local curs can vouch for. His owner, Mr. Leroy Kennerly, reported that George is now at the ripe old age of seven. Asked if there were any reasons why George no longer came to Davidson and attended her classes, chapel, and other such meetings, infiltrating all with that delicious aroma that always surrounded him, Mr. Kennerly stated “I reckon George is just getting too old for all that mess.” As to why Davidson has lost her popularity with this delectable beast, there is no doubt but that that question shall go unanswered. Possibly George got fed up with all that bull that got shot, both in lectures and on tests; or possibly he just got tired of being picked on, shoved around, avoided, bathed, and petted. You can still see this old soldier wandering around the town, still being avoided, and it is a crying shame that the freshman and sophomore classes must be without this grand Davidson tradition. The only way to sum up such a report would be to quote the words of the Davidsonian’s first-page man, Henry Brockmann, when he said, on reading this article which is unfit for print, “Well, I’ll be doggoned.”

53 Scholarship Cup Taken By Sigma Chi

According to statistics contained in the annual report of Mr. F. W. Hengeveld, director of admissions and registrar, the all-student average for 1962-1963 was 1.506. Among the classes, the seniors led with 1.86, followed by the juniors, sophomores and freshmen in that order. The all-fraternity average was 1.483, with Sigma Chi nosing out Beta Theta Pi 1.004 to 1.789 for individual honors. The others in order were Phi Gamma Delta, Phi Delta Theta, Kappa Sigma, Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Sigma Phi Epsilon, Pi Kappa Alpha, Kappa Alpha, Alpha Tau Omega and Pi Kappa Phi. The track squad was tops among the athletes, closely followed by the basketball and baseball teams.

Last weekend when the Maryville cross country team arrived on the Davidson campus, on hand to extend a welcome to them was Dickie Davis, president of the Beaver Club. Perhaps better known for his standout performance in the forward wall of the football team, Dickie also was administering his duties as president of an organization of 21 athletically minded juniors and sophomores known as the Beaver Club. The Beavers make a point of seeing that visiting athletic teams are properly greeted and made to feel at home during their stay at Davidson. Aside from this principal function, the Beavers sponsor two worthwhile campus projects each year: a clothing drive for a charitable organization and the traditional senior auction; both of which are non-profit affairs. The Club’s slate of officers for 1953-54 consists of Dickie Davis as president, Frank Mitchener as vice-president with Dickie Adams (Continued On Page Four)

DR. ELFAN REES TO SPEAK TUESDAY

Dr. Elfan Rees, advisor on refugee affairs to the World Council of Churches, and secretary in Geneva, Switzerland, of the Commission of the Churches on International Affairs, will speak to the Davidson student body next Tuesday. Mr. Rees has taken a prominent part in organizing several conferences of refugee specialists, including the Hamburg Conference of 1949, which alerted the world’s attention to Germany's refugee problem, the Salzburg Conference of 1950, another refugee specialist conference, and the Beirut Conference of 1951, which surveyed the needs of more than 800,000 refugees from Palestine.

Mr. Rees was born at Brecon, Wales in 1906. In 1934 he was appointed director of the South Wales Council of Social Service, and for the following four years, he aided in the relief of unemployed Welsh miners. After three years of military service as a Wing Commander in the Royal Air Force, Mr. Rees became in 1944 senior welfare specialist for the Balkan Commission of the UNRRA. In 1947 Mr. Rees was appointed director of the Refugee Division of the World Council Department of Relief and Reconstruction, and in 1949 he became its special adviser on refugee affairs charged with liaison work on behalf of refugees with national and international governmental representatives. Mr. Rees attended, in 1950, sessions of the U. N. General Assembly at Flushing Meadows, New York, as a representative of the Commission of the Churches on International Affairs. Mr. Rees will be in the United States for several months, following April 18, attending UNESCO sessions as a representative of non-governmental organizations on refugee matters.

NOTICE

Davidson's cross country runners yesterday came home with the college's first athletic victory of the 1953 season. The Cats took an impressive 19-37 win over the University of Richmond Spiders. Co-Captain Homer Sparks copped first place honors for the second time in as many starts.

Le Cercle Francais Bids 13 Students

Le Cercle Francais opened its fall activities with a meeting at the home of Dr. and Mrs. A. V. Goldiere on Thursday night, October 9th. Presiding over the business meeting was Norman Johnson, president, and Gregory Dimijian, new secretary. The other officer of the national honorary French club at Davidson is vice president Fred Summers. Professor Jones was in charge of the program. He gave an interesting account of Parisian sidewalk cafes as he had the opportunity to observe them while studying as a Fulbright scholar. Following Mr. Jones’ entertaining talk Gregory Dimijian gave a review in French of a recent article from the Charlotte Observer dealing with the trip of Henri Monte to France. Mr. Monte is the manager-owner of the Chez Montet in Charlotte where each year the group has a banquet. Following the program, the members sang French songs and then enjoyed some refreshments. The next meeting was scheduled to be held on November 10th and all new members are especially urged to be present. The following advanced French students were invited to membership: J. H. Gaskin, J. T. Harmon, W. H. Kuykendal, F. G. Myers, A. B. Brinkerhoff, J. J. Crymes, A. J. Harris, J. E. Lewis, C. H. Rendieman, R. E. Evans, E. L. Chaney. Bruno Eijnard and C. J. Cash, the two new foreign students, were also extended invitations to join the organization.

DRIVE SUCCESSFUL 3 FRATS HAVE 100%

This fall’s blood drive in Davidson ended very successfully, according to the official results released Wednesday. There were 348 pints donated by the students and town members, with from 90 to 100 members of athletic teams excused. The competition among fraternities was quite keen, and three of them had 100 per cent donating. These three are Beta Theta Pi, Alpha Tau Omega, and Pi Kappa Alpha, all of which will receive 100 per cent Red Cross Certificates in chapel in the near future. All of the student body as well as these particular fraternities were praised for doing a great job. Most of the blood donated in this drive will go toward making gamma globulin to fight polio. The rest will be used in Veterans’ Hospitals and in building up the plasma stock of the nation.

Lenoir High School Band Marks Milestone Saturday

Davidson College will pay special tribute to the Lenoir High School Band and its director, Captain James C. Harper, during the college’s 28th homecoming celebration Saturday. The band, and its director, will be marking a milestone tomorrow when they celebrate the completion of twenty-five years of playing for football games at Davidson College. The band, playing out of Lenoir, N.C., will also complete thirty years of continuous operation next March, the string having started back in 1924. Its first appearance at a Davidson football game was on November 17th, 1928, when it played for a game between Davidson and the University of North Carolina. This date also marked the first time any high school band had played at a Davidson game. The next trip to the Davidson campus by Capt. Harper and his musical aggregation was on the succeeding year, November 16. The game this time was also between Davidson and Carolina. During this contest a driving rainstorm came and halted the game for some little time. When it was resumed the director of the Davidson band asked Capt. Harper if he would loan him a group of his first chair players to play some of the pieces that were beyond the ability of his band to play alone. When Capt. Harper obliged the director, it left some of his own members just watching the game. When the college athletic authorities saw them, in uniform, and since the college was paying the expenses of the high school band to come to the game, they thought that Capt. Harper wasn’t playing square with them. So they refused to let the band come back to Davidson for a number of years. Everything was finally ironed out, however, when Capt. Harper explained the situation. And since that time they have played at a great many of the homecoming games. They have played for three additional games between Davidson and North Carolina, three for contests between Davidson and V.M.I., one for Davidson versus Wake Forest, one for Davidson and V.P.I., one for Davidson against Richmond University, one for Davidson and Washington and Lee, one for Davidson and Furman, and one Davidson-Presbyterian game previous to tomorrow's affair. Most of these games have been for homecoming. The Lenoir band has also played for games at all the larger colleges in North Carolina and manyIn neighboring states, Capt. Harper, a graduate of Davidson College in the class of 1915, founded the Lenoir Band in 1924. It is the oldest high school band in the state that has been in continuous operation. Two earlier ones at Winston-Salem and Greensboro later went out of business and were not resumed until many years later, under different personnel. The band and its director also have the honor of being the first high school band to play at any college football game in the state of North Carolina, playing for the North Carolina-Virginia Thanksgiving game in Chapel Hill in 1927. The high school organization recently received another honor when Governor Umstead officially named them ambassadors of good will to the State of Maryland. They played at Annapolis for Gov. Theodore R. McKeldin, who afterwards signed a proclamation making all the members of the group honorary citizens of the state. So when the Lenoir High School Band parades onto the field at halftime in tomorrow’s game, be sure to take a good look. You're watching a real group of musicians.

No. 4 To Highlight 1953 Homecoming

Homecoming festivities get off to a fast start tonight at nine when Charlie Spivak and his orchestra will take the bandstand in Johnston Gym for the formal dance of the two-night set. Spivak, billed as “The man who plays the sweetest trumpet in the world,” will play until one for tonight’s dance.

CHARLIE SPIVAK . . . plays tonight

Alumni and other visitors will be treated to a luncheon tomorrow at one, and will have time to take a tour of Fraternity Court's traditional Homecoming decorations before the game with Presbyterian College at 2:30.

Saturday Concert

Another highlight of the weekend program will be Spivak’s concert in Johnston Gym immediately following the P.C. game. The informal dance from eight until twelve tomorrow night will round out the festivities for the weekend. Any student or alumnus who has not bought a ticket may still secure one from any member of the IFC or pay at the door.

Unusual Decorations

Hoping to give the student body something new and original in decorations for Spivak’s performances, the IFC has spent a great deal of time in working out new lighting schemes, color arrangements, etc., as an experiment. Spivak and Company, rated as one of America’s top bands, will arrive in Davidson late this afternoon. He returns after his engagement here for the Midwinters Dances last year. Always a sweet band and winner of the coveted Downbeat poll in that category, Charlie's outfit is placing more emphasis on soft, danceable melodies than ever before. Spivak plays plenty of licks for the trained ear. Charlie has come a long way since the days when he was known as one of the greatest jazz trumpeters. He has admittedly gone commercial and if that's bad then money in the bank is also bad. He has established records at New York's Hotel Statler, the top hotel dance spot; and the Paramount Theatre on Broadway, mecca for dancing bands to prove he's in the right groove. One of the managers at the Statler Hotel in New York summed up perfectly when he said, “Spivak blows clear enough for all to hear but people can still carry on a conversation.”

EUROPEAN FEELINGS STRESSED BY WILSON

European criticism of the American economic and foreign policies was stressed by Professor Iain Wilson in his talk before the student body Tuesday. Professor Wilson, just back from a European tour, said that many Europeans could not understand the aspects of American foreign policy, especially the stubbornness of America in not trying to ease relationships with India. He stated that many Europeans do not believe America able to show national flexibility in her foreign policy. According to Professor Wilson, his first impression of his summer trip did not come in Europe, but rather on the boat going across the Atlantic. There were eight hundred students on this voyage, and Professor Wilson took part in the Orientation program, telling the students about the European feelings concerning the United States. Professor Wilson remarked of the great experience in seeing such a cross-section of learning, and he said that it was at this time that he realized the vastness of these United States. The quality of the students on board was extremely high, as they were a uniformly fair-minded group, willing to see the other's point of view.

Unpopularity Rumor False

In his talk, Professor Wilson discouraged the idea of America's unpopularity in Europe by saying that it was a false impression. He said that there is a strong hostility to certain phases of American life, but this hostility is national and therefore not to be counted strongly. After giving the European view of McCarthy and his investigations, Professor Wilson stated that most of the eight hundred students said they had been well received all over Europe.

Britain Sounder

According to Professor Wilson, Britain has improved immensely since he last was there. He said that there is a spirit of optimism. The economic condition is better, and the Britons realize that the foreign policy of the United States brought it on. Prof. Wilson stressed the fact that United States money given to foreign policy in the Marshall Plan has not been poured down the drain. Professor Wilson seemed to think that the Coronation of Queen Elizabeth II brought a new spirit to Britain. Having visited Rome for the first time on this trip, Professor Wilson was enhanced by the beauty of it. He advised any Davidson students visiting Europe to spend a lot of time in a few of the main spots of Europe and not rush madly over Europe in an attempt to see all the sights, “for,” he said, “All your memories will just be a blur.”

Met With Theologians

In closing, Professor Wilson told of his meeting several of the leading theologians preparing the groundwork for the second World Conference of Churches. He met these men in Geneva, Switzerland, and was given the honor of interpreting for them for a short while.

Fraternity Functions Planned For Weekend

All the social fraternities and clubs on the Davidson campus are planning weekend events to entertain and honor their dates and alumni. Each of the groups will have refreshments at the fraternity house during intermission and after the dance tonight. Similar plans have been made for the informal dance tomorrow night. In addition to these social activities, most of the fraternities will hold open house tomorrow afternoon after the Davidson-Presbyterian football game and Spivak concert so that chapter alumni can get together to discuss old times with each other and to meet the younger brothers and their dates. Special fraternity events on Saturday will be an alumni supper by Kappa Sigma fraternity, a buffet supper by Beta Theta Pi, and a hamburger fry by Sigma Phi Epsilon after the concert. Plans have been drawn up by the fraternities to make this the best Homecoming weekend ever as regards social life. This will be the first big college dance for the freshmen and the first opportunity to learn what part the fraternity plays in providing a full social life. Barring the usual downpour of rain that accompanies Homecoming, and even if it should come, this weekend promises to be the first in a series of successful dances this year.

Rains Combines Wit, Knowledge, Farming

By JOHN T. HARMON

Mr. Claude Rains, one of the foremost stars of stage and screen, honored Davidson on Wednesday of this week by giving his long-awaited reading of English poetry to culture-loving Davidsonians. Rains, in the naturalness of a member of the group, commented that this reading tour was a new experience for him, coming as the result of a reading he made to help raise money for a hospital in Pennsylvania. This outstanding personality was besieged by requests for readings and after receiving extremely favorable comments in the Philadelphia Evening Bulletin, he decided to go on an eight-month tour “just to see whether his body could take the strain and irregularity involved.” The principal disadvantage of his tour, according to Rains, lies in the fact that he must continually be away from his Pennsylvania farm where, he chuckled, he enjoys raising barley and hay for his “horsy neighbors.” As to the nature of this program, Mr. Rains said that he was well aware of some disapproval of his selection of “Enoch Arden” because of its “tear-jerking” quality. He added that along with its sentimentalism, the poem also offers deep meaning, excellent description and vivid character portrayals. He hoped that the remainder of his program, which included Chaucer’s well-known prologue to the “Wife of Bath’s Tale,” giving some aspects of a Kinsey Report in East Midland dialect, would serve to counter-balance any dislike of “Enoch Arden.” The naturalness exhibited in public by his walking through the cafeteria line was preserved throughout his personal contacts with members of the Davidson student body and faculty. After a two-hour session of arranging footlights, curtains, etc., Mr. Rains dryly announced that the only reward he should wish for his patience and perseverance was a dry martini. Later, as he gave interviews, he nonchalantly prepared for an afternoon nap and telephoned his wife in Baltimore to inform her, as he said, “of his continued good health and well-being.” Davidson is indeed fortunate to have had such a polished and distinguished celebrity on its campus.