fay ALENDA BUR UB) OGRTA LIBERTAS e Dabidsonian

WHICH WAY FROSH? (Page Four)

PRESIDENT IMPLIES ISSUE UNDECIDED (Page Two)

VOLUME XLI

At its first meeting the Ground Observer Corps of Davidson Lt. George Pifén explains the function of similar groups.

Davidson Begins Air Observer Post

Davidson community is in the process of establishing a Ground Observer Post to provide air defense for this section of Mecklenburg County. The post will be a part of the Charlotte Area Air Defense Program. Manned by townspeople and members of the third year Military Science classes, the post will go into operation February 14 and 15, 1953, when military aircraft will conduct a simulated strafing and bombing attack on Davidson.

On Monday, February 9, the third year Military Science classes will attend a meeting as guests of the Charlotte Filter Center, at which time the Chief Supervisor of that Center will explain to the Davidson volunteer group the workings of the Ground Observer Corps on a nationwide basis. Tom Ligon of the Junior Class is the Chief Observer for the cadets. The Chief Observer for the townspeople has yet to be chosen. Chief Supervisors are Captain Hatch and Master Sergeant Sowell.

Army Sets New Deferment Policy

Colonel Davis of the Military Department has announced a new deferment policy which will enable Government deferments in ROTC to be given only to men who plan to go through basic and advanced courses in Military Science at Davidson with a plan of entering the U. S. Army with a commission following graduation. Davis has stated that there are now two basic requirements which all men must meet in order to be eligible for an ROTC deferment. First, students will be granted a deferment only if they maintain a satisfactory overall course average. Second, students will be granted deferments only on the understanding that they will continue in Military Science through graduation, with plans to enter the Army as a commissioned officer. Causes for this change in deferment policy have been general laxities in the deferment system which have enabled students to obtain military deferments without plans to remain in military when the deferment period ends.

ANNA RUSSELL AND HER "MAD NIGHT" COME TO CHAMBERS

By TOM WARLICK

Anna Russell, famed international concert comedienne, will present one of her “mad recitals” here tonight at 8:15 P. M. in Chambers Auditorium. This brilliant satirist, who has just completed a whirlwind transcontinental tour, is currently appearing as a guest star on the Fred Waring Television show. Her “mad night at the opera” program opens with advice on song selection for concert singers. For loud singers with no brains she suggests “Ah Lover,” from the operetta, “The Prince of Philadelphia.” For singers with tremendous artistry but no voice: “Je n’ai pas la Plume de ma Tante.” Contemporary music for tone-deaf singers: “My Heart is Red.” For the untrained singer: “I Gave My Love a Cherry.” For the dramatic soprano: “Schre-echenrauf.”

TONIGHT FOR SHOW

In addition, the program will include four other skits: familiar pianists, how to write your own Gilbert and Sullivan Opera, intro- (Continued On Page Four)

DAVID: FRATERNITY SYSTEM THREATENED BY 'PROPOSED ADMINISTRATION MOVE

Masquer Play Projects, Social By J. Priestly Mark G. Week Stars Mizelle and Black Masquers production of the three-act comedy, Laburnum Grove, by J. B. Priestly, which will be given March 6th and 7th, was announced this week by Prof. R. W. Tyson.

Mizelle In Lead

Heading the cast will be Vance Mizelle as George Radfern, a man with a rather unusual occupation. Mrs. Tom Daggy will play Mrs. Radfern and Nancy Copeland and Howard Proctor will appear as the sponging sister and brother-in-law, out for all they can get. Mrs. Philip Ghering will play the role of Elsie Radfern and Gordon Hurst her suitor, Harold Russ. Fred Summers plays the mysterious Joe Fletten whose interest in greenhouses isn’t agricultural. Mac Doubles plays Inspector Stack from Scotland Yard and Holmes Rolston is seen as Sergeant Morris. The action of the play takes place in the living room of the Radfern’s home in Ferndale, Laburnum Grove, Shooters Green, a suburb of North London.

Assistant director Tad Currie has designed the set with Henry Parrish, who will also serve as Stage Manager for the production. Dob Mims is in charge of props and Bill Pharr the house. Bill Crymes will do the make-up and Courtney Hill is in charge of costumes.

Immoral Comedy

The play, which is sub-titled “An Immoral Comedy in Three Acts” is concerned with the business of one George Radfern, wholesale paper dealer. Because Mr. Radfern has un (Continued On Page Four)

Bad Breath Boys Facing Foul Fate

Are you a Bad Breath Bob? Do you ever feel the need of chewing that wonderful chlorophyll chewing gum after eating a meal of onions and garlic just before a date with that special one? According to the results of a test made by Professor Bevan and his psycho boys, Proctor and Sparks, it’s all to no avail to take Chlorets or the like. An experiment which demonstrated that chlorophyll gum does little good in putting the skids on bad breath was conducted over the first semester. It was found that one of the major brands of gum without chlorophyll was more effective in eliminating the offensive onion odor than was the gum with chlorophyll. The chlorophyll gum masked (Continued On Page Four)

Societies Elect Spring Officers

At the first second semester meeting of the Eumanean Literary Society officers were elected for the spring semester. They are John Ottley, president; Will Terry, vice-president; Zach Kilpatrick, secretary. Sammy Hope had been elected in the fall to serve as treasurer for both semesters. The other officers for the first semester were Bob Walker, President; Buddy Lamon, vice-president; and Bob Jones, secretary. Buddy Lamon presided in the absence of Bob Walker. After the election of officers, the society discussed their method of bidding new members. A plan of putting the literary societies on a competitive basis by bidding from a common list of prospective members picked by English professors was discussed. It was proposed to reactivate the Freshman Essay Contest with each participant being considered for a bid. The first place winner will have his name placed on the Eumanean cup, and the second place winner receiving a Eumanean key.

PHI

Philanthropic Society held its elections at its last meeting before exams at which Jim Speed was elected president. Other officers are Hunter Strader, vice-president; Ronnie Wilson, secretary; Mac Williamson and Cortez Cooper, supervisors; Herman Bell and Tom Able, critics. At the most recent meeting, on Feb. 2, bids were issued to freshmen and other business was taken up.

Dance Dates Changed

Formal Now Friday

President Lawrence Erwin of the Interfraternity Council announced yesterday that the formal dance of Midwinters will be held on Friday night from nine until one o'clock. The informal dance will be held on Saturday night from eight until twelve. Also a concert has been planned in Chambers Auditorium for Saturday afternoon at 3:30 o'clock featuring a varied program by Charlie Spivak, his trumpet, and orchestra.

Historic Collection Added To Library

Recently there has been added to the college library a completely new collection of books. The collection, which contains 84 volumes, adds a bright new appearance to its shelf, for all of the volumes have varied colors and sizes and also present the latest in printing and binding. These volumes, entitled Great Books of the Western World, contain the works of 50 of the world’s greatest writers. The works are in themselves valuable, for twelve of them have been out of print in the United States for some time now and nine of them have never before been translated and printed in this country. Also included in this set are two volumes called syntopicans. These syntopicans contain the ideas expressed in all of the works of these great authors, and are so arranged so that the reader can quickly see how these great men of the past felt about any one item or idea. The publisher, in reviewing the collection, says, “Works of unquestionable greatness were rejected; only those indispensable to the liberal education of a free man today were chosen.” The collection was made possible by a gift from Dr. Charles G. Reignes, Baltimore, Maryland. Dr. Reignes, although not an alumnus of Davidson College, is a longtime friend of the college library.

Greek Week Plans Announced

By DICK LILES

Plans have been completed for the second annual Greek Week to be held starting next Tuesday and running through Thursday, the 10-12th of February, and all indications are that it will be a varied and highly successful one. The project that has been planned is a very deserving one and should be of interest as well as constructive discussions to the entire student body. The Week gets its official start on Tuesday afternoon right after drill, when the pledges of all fraternities will canvass the town and campus for magazines and books for use in the Mecklenburg County Home. It was learned that the aged and infirmed of this home have no library and very few popular books to helpPass the long hours. In connection with this, students are requested to round up all their old books in the dorms that could possibly be used. This could include anything except math, chemistry, physics, or highly scientific and deep books. Pledges will call at every room for the books or magazines. Wednesday afternoon will find the separate pledge classes working on projects of help to both the college and community as well as various places in Charlotte. The Juvenile Delinquency School at Charlotte will get some ping-pong tables as well as a basketball backboard, the Charlotte Mission will be completely renovated by a group, the fence painted uptown, and the land behind the business district cleaned up.

On both Tuesday and Wednesday nights, there will be the usual “exchange suppers” in which pledge classes switch about to dine with other fraternities and then spend about thirty minutes after the meal in the host's house. This will begin after the meal and last until seven o'clock, thus placing all suppers at six. On Wednesday evening at 7:30, there will be held three discussion groups at various fraternity houses. At the Kappa Sig house, boarding house financing will be discussed as a timely and significant problem; pledge training and scholarship will be aired at the SAE house; and alumni relations will be the docket at the Phi Gam house. It is expected that one member from each fraternity be at each of these groups and further suggested that the member be connected in some way with (Continued On Page Four)

Three Fraternities Elect New Officers

During the past week three of the national social fraternities on the campus held their second semester election of officers. Pi Kappa Phi turned over the reins of leadership to Mitchell Patton with other officers as follows: treasurer, Bob Southwell; secretary, Jinks Jervey; warden, Willis Briley; historian, Lewis Barnes; chaplain, Charlie Murray; alumni secretary, Clark Remsburg; Epsilonian editor, Bill Towe; and cuss-out-reader, Grier Robinson. The leaders of Sigma Alpha Epsilon for this semester are president, Ernest Barry; vice president, Bill Hood; secretary, Gayle Averyt; corresponding secretary, John Stiefel; chronicler, H. A. Greene; warden, A. C. Gregg; herald, Chick McLure; rush chairman, Gayle Averyt; boarding house manager, Dave Burns. Sigma Chi fraternity elected the following officers for the remainder of the school year: president, John LaMotte; vice president, Don Mahy; secretary, Norman Johnson; corresponding secretary, Bob Mitchell.

SON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 1953 NO. 15

Band Begins Tour

Committee Recommendation Requires Frosh Eat In Union With Traditional Driver at Wheel

The annual band tour, which will take in six stops in North Carolina and Tennessee, will begin next Monday, Feb. 9. With a program of varied music that includes works of Wagner, Haydn, Bach, Borodin, Khachaturian, Rodgers, and Sousa, the 47 band members, with Mr. Kenneth Moore directing the group, will travel by bus. The bus driver is a unique person in that he has driven the band on its tours for seventeen years now. Mr. T. C. Ingraham, the driver, says he won't let the band leave without his presence at the wheel and what's more he isn’t officially driving anymore. He has advanced in the bus work to dispatcher position and works as a driver for the Davidson band trips only. Grier Williams on trumpet has the only solo position — playing that part in Haydn’s “Trumpet Concerto”. Officers in the band are: Allen Garrison, president; Grier Williams, vice-president; Bill Crymes, secretary; Raymond Lynch, business manager; Rodney Howell, executive committee member. The places at which the band will play include: Montreat College, Lee Edwards High School in Asheville, Valdese, N. C., High School, Greenville, Tenn., High School, Concord, Tenn., High School and Lookout Mountain, Tenn., High School.

GUEST STARS APPEAR IN FIRST MUSICALE

The first in a series of musical concerts, sponsored by the Inter-college Chamber Music Guild, was presented Monday evening, February 2, in the ballroom of the David Ovens College Union. This first concert featured Mr. Earl F. Berg, baritone, and Mrs. Eunice Plann Berg at the piano. They were supported by the Davidson College Woodwind Quintet and the Davidson College Brass Ensemble under the direction of Professor Kenneth R. Moore. The program included works by Wolf, Brahms, Schubert, Beethoven, Ibert, Dowland, Barber, and others. This series of concerts features artists from Catawba, Davidson, Mitchell, and Queens colleges. Announcement will be made later as to the date of the next program.

Seniors Start Seeking Placement in Companies

Publicity Director John Dillon has announced that seven companies will be on the campus next week for senior placement. On Monday, the Deering-Milliken Co. will be represented. The Buckeye Cotton Oil Seed Co. of Charlotte will be here on Tuesday. On Wednesday, the Armed Forces Security Agency will be represented and the Thursday schedule includes both the Public Health Service and Rich’s Department Store of Atlanta. Placement activities for the week will conclude on Friday, when the Traveler’s Insurance Co. will be on the campus. Placement lists are not closed, but any senior scheduled for graduation in June or August should sign up in room 104 Chambers Building immediately. Approximately 40 men have already signed up for interviews with representatives of the 30 to 35 companies that will be at Davidson this Spring.

By FRANK HANSHAW

An atmosphere of tension hung over the smoke-filled conference room at the College Union last Monday night as Dr. W. G. McGavock presented the Faculty Fraternity Committee recommendation that next year’s freshman class be required to eat in the union cafeteria to forty fraternity representatives. (The entire report is presented in the editorial column on page two). Drs. McGavock, Spencer, Davidson and Mr. Martin talked with the fraternity representatives, who included chapter presidents, IFC members and boarding house managers, for about two and a half hours. The arguments grew more heated as the seriousness of this matter was clearly seen. All eleven national fraternities represented locally and the campus club have consented to present their feelings on the matter in consideration of the Faculty Fraternity Committee’s recommendation. Excerpts from letters written by fraternity presidents to the Davidsonian are presented on page two. Tuesday afternoon a student committee composed of Ernest Barry, Frank Hanshaw and Lawrence Erwin conferred with Dr. J. R. Cunningham to obtain his views on the question. Dr. Cunningham brought out the fact that this move was not meant to disrupt or de-emphasize the fraternity system at Davidson. He stated that the college was very much in favor of fraternity life, and aware of the important part it plays in offering the student a well-rounded education, and in accomplishing much good. He added, however, that a great financial consideration was involved because of the necessity that the College Union be self-supporting. In addition, Dr. Cunningham deplored the lack of esprit de corps among the four classes, the ill effects of which continue after graduation. Another point upon which Dr. Cunningham laid emphasis had to do with the freshman who does not get a bid to a fraternity, or for one reason or another does not accept one. The idea was advanced that a student thus deprived of the opportunities of fraternity life may be hindered seriously in his adjustment to college, and that the recommended change would to an extent remove that disadvantage by giving non-fraternity men the opportunity of close fellowship with their classmates. According to Dr. Cunningham this should allow the freshman to become better adjusted than would otherwise be the case. Dr. Cunningham concluded that he had not definitely made up his own mind on the matter, since as (Continued On Page Four)

Books For Union Sought By Group

Members of the faculty and members of social fraternities and the Campus Club are being asked to contribute either books or money to the College Union Library. The College Union Library is to provide the best available leisure reading and looking (pictorial albums) at the disposal of a limited budget. Members of the faculty were asked, in a letter dated February 2, to give either a book from their respective fields which has accurate information and yet popular appeal or seventy-five percent of its list price in cash. The social fraternities were asked, also in a letter dated February 2, to contribute five dollars towards the purchase of books and magazines for the Union. The goal of these contributions, both faculty and student, will be a fairly complete, varied, and primarily entertaining library in the College Union. In the case of both faculty contributions of books or books bought with cash contributions and books bought with contributions from the social fraternities, the name of the donor will be inscribed on the bookplates of those volumes purchased with the contributions. Members of the College Union Library Committee are: Larry Dagenhart, Alden Williams, Mac Bulgin, Rich Steck, Paul Alexander, George Bason, Chuck Millard, Mike Myers, Bob Mitchell, and Tom Abel.

LAST CHANCE

If you have not taken advantage of the chest X-ray unit, you may do so on Saturday, February 7. The mobile unit will be stationed all day in front of the bank and will be available to all students, as well as to all the townspeople of Davidson. A word to the Davidson student is sufficient — only occasionally. Let's improve the average.

KNIGHT GETS MECKLENBURG-UNION MEDAL AS TWO COUNTIES’ TOP D. C. SENIOR

George W. Knight III of Charlotte last week was awarded the 1953 Mecklenburg Union Medal as the outstanding Davidson senior from the two counties. Knight, who four years ago declined an appointment to West Point to study for the ministry at Davidson, plans to enter a divinity school next fall. He was selected by a faculty committee for the award. Bill White of Charlotte, winner of the award last year together with Mac McLean, made the presentation. White, a former Davidsonian editor, is now a Morehead scholar at the University of North Carolina. During his college career Knight has been president of the Westminster Fellowship, a member of the YMCA cabinet, vice-president of Sigma Pi Sigma honorary Physics fraternity, boarding house manager, representative on the Inter-Collegiate Council, a member of the Spanish Club and a member of the Student Volunteer Movement. In 1949 Knight graduated from Charlotte Central High School and entered Davidson in the same year. The son of George W. Knight Jr. of Washington, D. C., he lives with his grandparents, Mr. and Mrs. Hugh Torrance of Belvedere Ave.