| EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Frank Hanshaw
| ASSISTANT EDITOR John Ottley
Associate Editors — Brinkley, Harter, Hope, Myers, M. G., Moylan, D.H.
Feature Editor — Dick Roper
Assignments — T. A. Williams
News Editor — D. M. Smith
Arts Editor — Mahy
Photographer — Simons
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N.C., under the Act of March 3, 1897.

Village Approves As College Says, “That Mud’s Gotta Go”

On behalf of the students living in the Cardboard Village, the Davidsonian has been asked to extend thanks to Mrs.
R. A. Little, supervisor of the dormitories, and to Mr. D. G. Martin, college treasurer, for taking the recent action
to improve the appearance of the grounds in the Village. It may be of general interest to all students to
know that parking areas and walks are being installed to eliminate the muddy conditions in the Village.

A letter from Mr. Martin to the residents stated that in order to make the improvement, cars must be excluded
from the area within the bounds of the buildings. A parking space is being prepared just west of the village
area. While a parking space might require a few extra steps of walking for those who have cars, the benefit
to them as well as to other residents should be far greater than the inconvenience caused. Flagstone walks running along
the east side of two of the buildings and along the north side of another will be installed. These walks
will be connected in such a way that students can conveniently walk from their rooms to the road, sidewalk, or
parking area without having to walk through the mud. Although this improvement might seem small in itself, it points out
the college’s policy of overall campus improvement from time to time where it is needed.

Is Our Chapel Attendance An Unquestionable Tradition?

There have been several instances during this past week where chapel attendance requirements have been altered at several institutions in
this area. We are not necessarily advocating any change in our present system at this time, but are merely seeking
student and faculty opinion on the matter.

Trustees at Elon College buried a 60-year-old rule demanding that students attend Sunday school and church at that Christian institution
last week. After 60 years of forced attendance, it was discovered that such a ruling violated Christian principles because it
deprives students of their private judgment and liberty of conscience.

There exists little danger that a similar move will pervade the other venerable religiously-affiliated institutions in the state. It would
appear, however, that if Elon apprehended these principles of logic after the relatively short period of 60 years, some of
the other much older institutions might at least give a glance in the general direction. After all, Elon could be
right. Forced attendance at religious functions might really constitute a disregard of Christian principles. But why go against traditions —
even if they are wrong? — Gold and Black, Wake Forest.

University faculty members voted last week to reduce compulsory chapel attendance requirements to three attendances per week for all students.
A notice posted by Dr. Charles T. Harrison, dean of the College, announced, “A total attendance of 35 times each
semester will be interpreted as satisfying this requirement.”

Before the change, University...Regulations required gownsmen to attend 39 daily services each semester and undergownsmen, 52. The revision did not
alter the Sunday attendance requirements. Music the kind you feel. Bill Porter's practiced confidence yielded an obedient keyboard. The second
movement, Andante, fairly breathed the lazy, heavy summer air that we know and await, and conjured up drowsy scenes of
river banks, crickets, a fishing pole, a hot sun, and a heated passion to go out and do Something Big,
but not until tomorrow. Tomorrow comes with the third, Allegro, movement. And whether what one does is big or not
so big, he wouldn't have missed the chance to try, nor the memories of the times he has had doing
it. Rationalization in four flats. Just as America is Clayton, Georgia as well as New York; so an “American Concert”
should contain the simple, surface-emotion music to complement Gershwin’s subjective rhythms. Few better examples of scored simplicity can be found
than Edward MacDowell’s “Woodland Sketches.” A capable artist who made the well-known difficult stroke to produce the simple effect was
Owen Leland. The trilogy included “To a Wild Rose,” the haunting and reminiscent “At an Old Trysting-place,” and “To a
Water Lily.” In themselves well done, they did however point up the almost too-light nature of the program as a
whole. Any cross-section of musical Americana would have to include the grating-metal dissonance that is industry’s theme song. Bill scored
Americans to record solid hit to mind. To wit: Crymes came closest to this in Deems Taylor’s “Poem,” Opus 5.
Like most Stravinsky-Hindemith progeny for this layman, it could have been pastoral, elegiac, or a cacophonous “Song of the Shirt.”
But more credit, then, to Crymes, for his technical facility and interpretation. Although on the same program with Deems Taylor
and Lamar Stringfield’s “Lost Colony” score, Charley Roper’s “Gigue” did credit to itself and its composer. Musically, Roper is probably
known best on campus for his “Angel In the Mist,” with lyrics by George Walker and debuted by Elliot Lawrence,
Homecoming 1951. Plus, of course, his refreshing and easily professional arrangements of such workhorses as “Blue Moon,” and “Body and
Soul.” “Gigue” was naturally more serious, but made the best use of Roper's chord inventiveness. Crymes did a commendable job
of handling the simultaneous ranges on the eighty-eight that Roper is prone to use. It was a thoroughly enjoyable program,
and only too short. We hope that Phi Mu Alpha will make “An American Concert” an annual affair. There Was
A Young Youth Called Marcus And A Sense Of Propriety He By RONALD WILSON Seeing Europe “On Your Own” Many
Thrills Overlooked By Organized Tours.
