AGE TWO

Mail Drop For Union

Last year the majority of the student body did not appear overwhelmingly in favor of establishing a full-scale post office
in the College Union, though a straw vote conducted by the Davidsonian toward the end of the school year showed
that there was considerable student support for such a move. This ballot, however, was not a complete census of the
opinion because many people did not vote. At that time some voices were raised, questioning the practicality of setting up
such a post office. There seems to be considerable grounds for belief that the nearness of the Davidson P.O. makes
the need for another one in the Union very slight. Aside from this, considerable confusion in receiving mail would almost
certainly result for a time, at least. In addition, from what we have heard, the arrival of mail at a
Union post office would be slower and less frequent than at the downtown office. These factors might tend to make
a Union Post Office less attractive to the student body as a whole.

We believe what would best serve our present needs, and would be considerably less expensive to set up and operate,
would be a mail drop located near the information desk at the entrance of the Union. Outgoing mail could be
picked up here several times per day, and students would be saved a longer walk to the downtown post office
just to mail a letter. The difficulties entailed in setting up mail drop service at the Union would be negligible
since there is already a mail slot located near the desk, which was obviously intended for just such a purpose.
There seems to be little reason why the facilities already available could not be put into immediate use. The usefulness
gained would certainly far outweigh the effort spent.

Coffee, Sugar Bowls, Etc.

Previously in this column we have extolled the maturity of the Davidson student, and elsewhere on this page the alleged
paternal attitude of the college has been attacked. Recently, however, a situation has developed in the College Union which could
in time, and in part, refute our contention of maturity, and give factual evidence to those who say that if
the college is paternalistic, it is through necessity rather than choice.

Now, the depositing of chewing gum, cigarette ashes, and coffee and other liquids in the sugar dishes of the cafeteria
and snack bar may seem to be a rather trifling thing. But it is just because it is such a
trifling thing that it is deplorable. Certainly, we cannot denounce such conduct as an infamous attack upon the Union or
the college as a whole. It seems likely that these pranks are the result of thoughtlessness and a sense of
humor that is something less than fully developed. Without making a mountain out of a molehill, we might point out
the fact that the willful spoiling and needless waste of sugar in the dining area of the Union is using
up to 80 pounds of sugar per day, the cost of which will eventually have to be passed on in
advanced prices if these conditions continue. It might also be mentioned in passing that pouring coffee into sugar bowls simply
for the ecstatic pleasure derived hardly speaks well for the wit and intelligence of the student body as a whole,
not to mention the few individuals involved or the cost to the Union.

“All The News...”

In the orientation edition of The Davidsonian, we tried to make it clear to the students entering Davidson that the
newspaper is a student publication designed to voice things of interest to those connected with the college. The staff makes
a real effort to get at least the major part of the college news that is “fit to print.” Without
the direct contributions of the students, however, this is virtually impossible. Things happen around the campus every week that are
of interest to large segments of the student body, yet many of these things fail to reach The Davidsonian. We
want to request, therefore, that if you feel there is news coming from your student organization that we are failing
to get, bring us a run-down on it and we will put it in print. News articles, letters to the
editor, or even occasional features, if they are of general or lasting interest, are welcome. Articles turned in by Wednesday
night of each week at the Davidsonian office in the College Union will be printed in that week’s paper. The
Davidsonian is your newspaper, and it is your privilege, if not your responsibility, to use it—H.B.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

Moody Smith - EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Charley Hasty - BUSINESS MANAGER
Jim Moore, Dick Roper - ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Bob Crutchfield, Charles Hassell, Buddy Lamon, Bob Owen, Hunter Strader - Assistant Editors
Henry Brockmann, Floyd Feeney - Managing Editors
John Handley - Sports Editor
Austin Strand - News Editor
T. A. Williams - Feature Editor
Ed Price - Art Editor
Andy Simons - Photographer
Blake Brinkerhoff - Asst. Business Manager
Ed Nicholson - Advertising Manager
Tommy Taylor - Circulation Manager
Dick Little - Collections Manager
Tim Cooper - Assignments

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March 8, 1879.

One of the largest operations in Davidson history was successfully completed last Sunday as the denizens of both East and
Duke Dormitories moved back into their rooms in the wake of some 350 damsels who occupied them over the weekend.
“Operation Sack," as conceived and executed by Dormitory Supervisor Mrs. R. A. Little, was probably the only logical solution to
last weekend's problem of having many more girls than the private homes in town could take care of. It was
old stuff to the residents of Duke to have to move out, but the boys in East squawked more than
somewhat when they heard the news that they were to vacate for the weekend. At least one guy, it is
known, moved from Rumple to East this year for the express purpose of avoiding having to move out on IFC
dance weekends. By using East instead of Rumple this year, space was found for many more girls, and if the
occupants of that dorm hadn't agreed to move out, chances are Mrs. Little's handsome gray hair would have been standing
on end by Friday afternoon.

The following is an article entitled “Fire! Fire!” which we found printed in a Davidsonian dated in October of the
early twenties. We feel it our duty to present this work for the edification and intellectual enrichment of the present
student body: Also, we feel that the magnificent expression and flowing style herein is unsurpassed to this day in the
creative writing of the Davidson men. A few editorial remarks have been inserted in order to clear up certain rather
obscure passages:

Shhh! A rumor has been spread abroad in the camp. A wild rumor indeed. 'Twas started by a wild dreamer
of dreams residing in the historic (they called it “historic” then!) domicile of Rumple. He dreamed of a conference with...
(the)... Queens College. (Here comes trouble—) After heated argument and much logical proof (This is a Davidson man) on the
part of the dreamer, said the president was convinced and gave consent to the proposition of a special train for
the girls to visit Davidson on Homecoming Day, October 21st. (tut-tut) But just as everything was looking bright for the
dreamer, some horrid creature entered the room. (delirium tremens) The top of him, (The bed was just getting even.) to
find that his fine argument had been only a dream. Though, and now it’s up to the 840 students of
Davidson to use persuasive argument with all the powers that be in an effort to get those Queen girls up
here on October 21st. Say, wouldn't it be great to meet a train-load boy, that would be ‘a grand and
glorious feeling. (The author seems to go hog wild at this point.)

Reflections On Homecoming: Mrs. Little Seen In Finest Hour

The 350 girls who stayed in the dorms was “the largest group of girls we’ve ever taken care of,” said
Mrs. Little. “And the best behaved, and most appreciative group. Also, twice as many chaperones were employed this time,” Mrs.
Little added. But Davidson’s dorm supervisor still sticks by her guns on the subject of the late hours kept on
dance weekends: “I still think it would be better to arrange for earlier retirement for the good of all concerned.”
Hmm. Could be Mrs. Little doesn’t realize that in spite of the large numbers of the fairer sex present on
the campus last weekend, a girl is still a rarity at Davidson, and such occasions call for seeing as much
of the ladies as possible.

No mention has been made yet in print of the fact that the decorations in the gym for the dances
last weekend were the brainstorm of the Interfraternity Council's decorations chairman, Joe Neisler. Joe, serving his second year on the
IFC, decided it would be a good idea to get away from the ancient umbrella idea of streamers coming down
from the top of the gym to the sides. So, along with other IFC members, the canopy for the bandstand
was dreamed up, and streamers were placed down the sides as usual. Another unusual feature, however, was the placement of
several spotlights on the bandstand, which added greatly to the overall effectiveness of the decorations arrangement. The IFC is anxious
to hear student comment on the new look in dance decorations. If the new look was appreciated, they’d like to
know; if it wasn't liked—well, they aim to please.

An interesting sidelight on the Homecoming Weekend was Bandleader Spivak’s announcement at the Saturday afternoon concert that in the twelve
years he’s had a band, he’s always been invited to Davidson. Just as good if not better than ever this
year, Charlie seems to grow mellow without becoming stale as the years go by. He's got variety, pep, and volume,
without having to blast out the eardrums.

(Continued On Page Four)

OUR TROUBLE BEGAN

By DUNBAR OGDEN

That’s what started the rumor, pf FIRE? Oh, if only the man who on Davidson Day in the Queen City
made the remark that he wished he were president of Queens College, that he would allow (Do not give up
yet. He'll finish the sentence in a little while.) Davidson free access to it at all times, (You nasty man,
you!) were really president the difficulty would be solved... (The Queens president)... has proven himself to be a reasonable man
heretofore, however, and it is believed that he will sanction a request to allow his beauties to come and beautify
(hmmm...) the campus for just one short day. Just think what it would mean to the student body, (Give us
the details.) and think how much harder the boys on the team would fight (Go crazy!) with such an audience
of beauty to spur them on. Come on up Queens and give Davidson the “once over.” (That's enough, girls, that’s
enough.)

We might add, in closing, that archeological research has not to date uncovered the least amount of evidence as to
the Queens’ encampment against Davidson. However, from the score of that Homecoming football game—Davidson 7, Virginia Tech 7—we may surmise...

(The following is a letter sent to Dr. Cunningham expressing appreciation for Davidson’s fine participation in the blood drive.)

Dear Dr. Cunningham:

Again, Davidson has made a most generous contribution to the Blood Program, maintaining its standard as having the largest percentage
of donors as a group in Mecklenburg County. The accumulative record of donors from Davidson is one in which you
and the students should feel great pride. The collection of 347 pints on October 8 and 9 brings the total
to 2,690 since October 1950. Colonel Davis and the YMCA Cabinet deserve special recognition for the splendid recruitment job done
for the October visit. Although they were disappointed in falling short of the 492 and 402 collections made in December
and April of the past school year, there was every evidence of sincere effort, intense interest, and well-coordinated organization on
the part of all concerned.Davidsons’ Blood Donors Percentage County’s Highest

Part of everyone concerned. It is hoped that, when the freshman and varsity football teams visit the Blood Center in
December, the figure will exceed 400 pints. As the medical profession discovers new uses for blood and its derivatives in
alleviating suffering and saving lives, the need for civilian use increases. Also, regardless of cessation of hostilities in Korea, Mecklenburg
County still has the same defense quota to meet. Consequently, in order to provide the precious product that only humans
can give, we must continue to make every effort to keep the public aware of the community service they can
render by participating in the program through their Red Cross. We thank you for the privilege of bringing the Red
Cross Bloodmobile to Davidson again. Please express our appreciation to your donors there for their splendid response and participation.

JOHN L. STEWART, Chairman, Mobile Units.

OFF-MOORINGS:

A pilaster state, filled with plaster people, who are housed in plaster homes are the Californians of today. It is
the New America, this vastly growing Southern California that is drawing its picture across the pages of our times as
purely as the northern part of the state did in the gold dust days of the mid-nineteenth century. California grows
more cotton than any other state except Texas. She has the fastest growing population of any state in the Union.
There are more cars per capita in this, the second largest of the forty-eight states, and more paved roads in
her boundaries than in any other state, bar none. She is the second richest state and has probably the highest
standard of living of any. Let us look then at the future America, for it is here that she is
growing fastest economically and sociologically, and it is here that many of the trends in American living and thought are
developing.

Davidsonian Abroad?

This summer I had occasion to live in California for two months and thus have some cause for knowing of
whence I speak. Some may think I am copying last year’s column “Davidsonian Abroad;” others may say I'm introducing a
“Davidsonian Abawdy” element to the paper. Let us look at California.

Hustlers All

There are many interesting aspects to this state and one could write for days about each one—the automobile situation, the
highways, the philosophy of the people, places to visit in and around Los Angeles, the religion of the people, comparing
the West to the East, the women in the West and how different they are from Eastern and Southern belles,
the curious weather, the civilizing of nature that is done, the manner of living of the Californians, and many others.
Any particular civilization or any one part is too electric to dissect and understand in so short a length of
time as I knew it or to explain in such a short space of words as are available, but let's
look at a few quick impressions.

Rare Animals

A rare animal indeed to find in California today is a native-born person there. Everyone, it seems, came in and
a remarkable number have done so in the last thirteen years or so. The phenomenal growth in population of the
Los Angeles area has been due to a great number of contributing factors. The greatest of these have been the
heavy and rapid industrialization caused largely by the War, the development of old and new military bases in the Southland,
the movement of many of the aircraft plants to the Coast, the appealing climate, the attractions that the new economy
have and the easy assimilation into the social system of newcomers. There’s a saying about Californians—"Everyone’s a hustler.” It's true
that more than a few seem overly motivated by materialistic designs and have grown literally dollar-mad. The quirk of the
thing is that they have seen so many get-rich-quick schemes succeed that each person is constantly on the lookout for
the end of his rainbow. Aldous Huxley paints a vivid and realistic picture of the Californians in his book of
the early forties, “After Many a Summer Dies the Swan.” He reveals the genuine ungodliness, the superficiality, and the far-reaching
effects that continued materialism has on people. Huxley is a genius, and I'll second him one on the Californians.

Sunshine Religion

In what is reputed to be the largest Presbyterian (U.S.A.) Church in this country, one would expect to find one
of the country’s best expressions of religion. Hollywood’s sunshine philosophy of constant pursuit of personal pleasure and personal gain finds
some of its best expressions in the Church's fifteen ministers. Hollywood, with its emphasis on sex, money, and all its
other materialistic values has so much stained the character of the entire culture that the pursuit of egotistical pleasures are
set up as the highest aim on this earth and the obvious reward for professing faith in Christianity as well.
An unusual situation has arisen in this way, for many of the same rewards are promised both the Christian and
he who pursues his own personal end.

Pleasure is All

The people support, believe and live the philosophy of personal pleasure. Las Vegas has been described by another Davidsonian who
also recently saw it, as the antipathy of Davidson—no facade, no pretense, no hypocrisy—it is sin, vice and voluptuousness. As
well the place actually goes to a great deal of trouble and expense to tell you as much. The two
cities of the plain—Reno and Las Vegas—have flourished in the postwar era as they never did before and their meteoric
rise seems destined to continue. Las Vegas, the one I saw, is called by many, “Lost Wages,” but be that
as it may, when we entered the town at 3:30 one June morning, it was so well-stocked with hopeful gamblers
that we had trouble finding a parking place. Another favorite place of wining, dining and dancing for the Californians is
the Sunset Strip in North Hollywood. We took in one night the Mocambo—a beautifully over-decorated, over-filled, overrated night club—where Joann
Gilbert was singing. The San Fernando Valley holds Studio City and a place called Larry Potter's Supper Club. I suppose
a few people were eating supper that late at night, but mostly it was the attraction of LiLi St. Cyre
that kept them there. California is certainly far-removed from the Davidson way of life in many ways and its social
structure is far from our ideas. It is the pioneering America, still molding, still growing, and going through its inevitable
growing pains in the process. Perhaps someday it will have its Davidson based on the traditions of a past half-remembered,
on the hardened Presbyterianism, on the semi-celibate life—not today.

Yale Evaluates Present Academic Program Maps Out New Plans For University’s Future

(Because the problems discussed are often raised here at Davidson, the Davidsonian is reprinting an article from the New York
Times about Yale University.)

Since the end of World War II institutions of higher learning in this country have undergone an extensive self-evaluation of
their goals, aims and objectives. The war itself, followed by the influx of veterans to the nation’s campuses and the
demands of changing world conditions since the war, caused many colleges and universities to reconsider their academic programs and map
out new plans for the future. Last week another milestone in this educational analysis took place when Yale University issued
a sixty-page report prepared by its Committee on General Education. The Yale report proposes, in effect, a clean break with
the existing undergraduate college program. The committee makes this basic suggestion: Let us pay less attention to the extra-curriculum—developing educated,
critical-minded, sound-thinking men and women. The suggestions presented by the Yale committee are radical. There are two programs: the first,
a transitional one, to develop a stronger undergraduate course for the freshman and sophomore years; the second, a permanent plan
that would reverse existing college patterns, returning to a larger degree, to the system used at Oxford and Cambridge. The
student would be treated as a thinking, independent individual. His would be the responsibility to study. He would not be
prodded and pushed into an education nor be spoon-fed. The Yale committee takes to task “student immaturity” as expressed in
overemphasis upon extra-curricular activities. A whole community of students finds its academic work secondary in comparison with such “important” items
as sports or the college newspaper. Not that the activities are in themselves a sign of immaturity, the report hastens
to explain. But a majority of the students puts second things first—and the effect of this type of student preoccupation
is at times “both insidious and cumulative.” Immaturity is defined as a failure to recognize the importance of the work
which stands at the center of college life. “This immaturity has many contributing causes—the adolescent compulsion to go the way
of the crowd, for instance, rather than the individual way of learning,” the report says. What does Yale want? To
prepare men with the power to make judgments about complex subjects and to present those judgments coherently and precisely. For,
says the committee, if Yale produces graduates who know all about Spenser or Bismarck, economics or chemistry, but precious little
about the disciplined use of the mind, it cannot honestly claim to call them educated. The Yale committee stresses the
importance of mastering the great areas of knowledge, defined here as the natural sciences and mathematics, the social sciences, history
and the arts. It is essential, the committee holds, to establish a concept which will provide the undergraduate with intellectual
development in a broad and not merely a technical sense. As its immediate aim, the Yale committee would modify the
present curriculum. This plan assumes a five-course program each year for the first two years. Superior high school juniors would
be admitted, so that in some instances the eight-year high school-college course becomes a seven-year program. In essence, the plan
pleads for an education which is “continuous rather than fragmented, co-ordinated rather than merely sequential.” The ultimate goal would be
a far more drastic break with the present curriculum. Instead of a day-to-day or week-to-week concern over the work of
the students, the faculty would place greater responsibility on the men who come to their classes. At the end of
the first two years each student would get a general examination, based on the work that he has taken. There
would be no compulsory attendance or regulations so far as the lectures were concerned. Of course—and here is the nub
of this drastically different approach to learning—if the student just loafed through the first two years, there would be no
third or fourth year for him. Failure on the examination would mean, for the most part, dismissal from the university.
Under the new program, learning would become continuous and meaningful. Students would not be concerned with grades, credits or cramming.
They would be more concerned with gaining a sound knowledge in the important branches of living. The Yale plan comes
as the climax of a series of plans and studies that has appeared periodically during the last ten years. Nor
is the end yet in sight. The University of Chicago pioneered in these educational changes. Under former Chancellor Robert M.
Hutchins, Chicago inaugurated a broad revision of its undergraduate program in 1931 and extended it in 1942. Dean F. Champion
Ward of the University of Chicago, commenting on the Yale plan, observed that “it’s good to have such distinguished company
after all these years.” Dr. Ward pointed out that Chicago has instituted comprehensive examinations to replace course credit and has
adopted integrated courses of a year to three years in length, covering the chief areas of knowledge. Also, he said,
the Chicago plan calls for selected readings and syllabi as course materials, teaching by the discussion method in small classes,
acceleration of students through placement tests, ability to progress according to achievement, and voluntary class attendance. The emphasis at Chicago
has been on the student's ability to make sound and relevant judgments, to think and to think straight. In 1945
Harvard issued its “General Education in a Free Society.” This report outlined (Continued On Page Four)
