FRIDAY, APRIL 24, 1953

True drama in the world of sports, at least in the Davidson world of sports, is something which rarely occurs.
However, last Saturday down at Clinton, S. C., the real thing showed up in the match between the Wildcat racquet-swingers
and the Presbyterian crew. It was a dismal, overcast day and the Presbyterian courts were damp with the intermittent rains
of the morning. The confident Blue Hose fans filled the bleachers and cars were lined up along the remaining exposed
portion of the fences. This was a big day for the P.C. rooters for all their opponents Presbyterians love best
to beat Davidsonians in athletics. But, the feeling was exactly the same on the Cat side of the lineup. The
Cats were keyed up for that match and had worked hard in practice during the preceding weeks, for the sting
of the 7-2 trouncing they had taken at the hands of the Hose some ten days previous still was very
much felt.

DAVIDSONIANS DON'T LIKE TO LOSE TO P.C.

Of all the teams on their schedule the Wildcat netters and the ardent backers of any of the various Davidson
sports would rather see a win over P.C. than any other. The Cat racqueteers well exemplified that feeling as they
literally played like “the team to beat” rather than the underdog last Saturday. Several times the matches were halted because
of the returning rains and the re-finishing of the courts after each shower. Each intermission found the Wildcats ahead in
whatever match happened to be in progress. If the match had been played through without a break, things may have
been different. As it was the netters were in action for four hours from two till six. They lost 5-4.
This sounds like the same old apologizing for the same old moral victories. However, that is definitely not the spirit
in which this article is being written. Rather, it is written in the spirit of praise for a job well
done. Presbyterian is acknowledged as one of the stronger teams in this part of the country and tennis is one
of her big publicity fields. The Cats went into the Saturday meet decided underdogs after having dropped to the Hose
earlier in the season by a considerable margin.

NETTERS DIDN'T PLAY LIKE UNDERDOGS

Saturday the Cats were not the underdogs that the tennis followers and especially the P.C. rooters thought they would be.
The Davidson team entered the match expecting to win and almost swept the surprised Presbyterians off their feet. Lacy Keesler
played his finest match of the season as he dropped a close one to the highly touted P.C. No. 1
man Al Morris, 10-8, 2-6, 4-6. Morris hadn’t been beaten in any set all season before Lacy took the first
set 10-8; Johnny Bremer played the Presbyterians off their feet as he made short work of Jerry Hunt and then
teamed with Lacy to beat Morris and Hunt in the No. 1 doubles. Joe Dudley and Corky Clark also won
in the singles downing Bradley and Thompson respectively.

Coach McKee told this writer that he had never seen his boys play like they did Saturday and that he
had high hopes for the Cats in the future if they continue in that brand of play. He was quick
to assert that he claimed no credit for the Cat surge against the Blue Hose and he had nothing but
praise for his charges. P.C. goes at tennis as a major sport and in all their publicity and in the
attitude of the fans they are expected to win and win easily. They have come to feel such an assurance
in their tennis squad that when Davidson started beating the highly touted Blue Hose the place literally went into an
uproar.

PRESBYTERIAN BECOMING TENNIS SCHOOL

To quote the column of one P.C. sports writer, “PC has always had a number one tennis team and this
year, thanks to Coach Leighton, the tennis team is one of the best teams in PC’s history... Tennis here at
PC is one of the bigger publicity factors of the school. The tennis records are known through the country and
the tours that the teams make attract many people and students to the campus. Let us not underestimate tennis as
an important sport...”

(Continued On Page Four)

Cotton Cords
SLACKS $5.95
Tan, Blue, Grey
SUITS $23.50
Tan, Blue
Wilson-Wright's “Collegiate Fashions”
DAVIDSON, N. C.

THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

Tracksters, Netmen See Action Tomorrow
North Carolina Host For Important Match
By DON PILKENTON

Coach McKee’s netmen are looking forward to a tough battle with the University of North Carolina tomorrow, after suffering a
heart-breaking 5-4 defeat at P.C. last Saturday. The power-packed U.N.C. team entertains the Davidsonians with Southern Conference tennis singles champion
Del Silvia, who is also number one man, and Southern Conference doubles champions, sophomores Brown and Payne. Brown is currently
holding down the number two position while Payne is No. 4 on the team.

High School Champs

A freshman, Bradford is in third position. The school this year has helped to ensure a future winning team by
procuring four of the ten top high school tennis players in the nation. Facing such a battery of men as
these, the Cats will have a rough time coming off as victors. However, because of their continual improvement since the
beginning of the season, and the presence of all their regular team, this match promises to be a hot one.

Steady Improvement

An example of the team’s improvement may be found in comparing scores of the two P.C. matches played this spring.
In the first match the Wildcats bowed to the South Carolina Presbyterians by a score of 7-2. On the other
hand, the second match was much closer and decidedly better played so that only one match decided the winner. In
last Saturday’s match Allan Morris, number one P.C. player, defeated Lacy Keesler by a score of 8-10, 6-2, 6-4. Johnny
Bremer downed P.C. number two man 8-6, 6-4. Joe Dudley set down Bill Toole 6-0, 6-4, and Corky Clark defeated
Ed Montgomery 6-8, 6-1, 7-5. In doubles play Davidson lost two of three matches to the favored Blue Hose. Keesler
and Bremer combined to defeat Morris and Hunt 6-3, 6-4. Bradley and Montgomery downed Clark and Green 6-1, 6-4, and
Dudley and Bivens fell at the hands of Toole and Thompson of P.C. by a count of 6-3, 6-2. With
the results of the last close match still clear in their memories, the Cats will be out Saturday playing for
all they’re worth in order to keep up the record which they have made for themselves in the Southern Conference.

LINKSTERS TO MEET CLEMSON'S TIGERS AT CHARLOTTE CLUB

Davidson's golfers will take on the links forces of Clemson College tomorrow on the home Charlotte Country Club course. The
Wildcats dropped their previous engagement with the Tigers on the Clemson course. The Clemsonians have one of the better teams
in this part of the country and a real battle should be on in Charlotte in the morning. The revenge-minded
Cats are out to even the season’s series and to better their winning record. Last Tuesday the Wildcat linksters met
a South Carolina squad who had beaten them by some 15 points on their Columbia course. The Cats pulled the
most exciting upset.

Winless Wildcats Wearily Wage War With The Citadel
By JIM HOLSHOUSER

Davidson's “still after that first win" Wildcat baseballers take to the road Monday to tangle with the Citadel’s Bulldogs in
Charleston, S. C. They move on to Columbia on Tuesday to battle the Gamecocks of the University of South Carolina.
The Cats took on N. C. State’s apple-knockers this afternoon in Raleigh and Carolina's powerful Tar Heels in Chapel Hill
yesterday. Starting with Monday's Citadel encounter the Cats meet four South Carolina clubs in rapid succession. After being away for
two tilts, the Davidson team meets Furman here on May 1, and play host to the University of South Carolina
on May 5. Then they close out the season with two home contests against North Carolina State and Wofford.

Ninth Inning Rally

The McCrary Eagles snuffed out a ninth inning Davidson rally and won an 8-5 decision over the Wildcats here Monday
afternoon. With two men on base and no one out, McCrary’s Causey bore down and got the next three men
to make easy outs. The Wildcats scored all five runs in a big seventh inning. With the bases loaded Cocky
Burdette singled. Then Buzzy Hope tripled, and Jim Teeter singled to end the Cats’ scoring. Burdette went the distance on
the mound for the home club giving up eleven hits.

Duke Too Strong

Last Saturday, the Wildcats absorbed a 15-4 trouncing at the hands of Duke's Blue Devils. John Smith gave up sixteen
base-hits, including two home runs and four triples. Duke's Carver held the Davidson nine to only five hits as he
won his third victory without a defeat. Clapp led the Duke attack with four hits in five trips to the
plate. The Wildcats have now lost ten straight contests without a victory, pending the games played at Norththe fairway sport
allows. They upset the Gamecocks by a 14-13 count. Freshman Larry Parrot of Charlotte, knowing he had to sink his
last putt on the last green to give victory to the Cats, calmly poked a long, downhill 10-footer into the
back of the cup for the sixth Wildcat victory of the current campaign. Mickey Cannon, Tom Abel, and Larry Parrott
won their matches.

(Continued On Page Four)

Wildcat of the Week: Bremer Was Hot In P. C. Matches

Last Saturday was a big day in Davidson tennis circles and one of the main contributing factors for the Cats
was the performance on the Presbyterian courts of soft-spoken Johnny Bremer. Johnny has played a lot of tennis for the
Wildcats and he is now completing his third year of successful competition. On the rain-soaked P.C. courts, Johnny had what
is perhaps the best day of his career as he downed the highly touted Jerry Hunt 8-6, 6-4 in singles
play and then teamed up with Lacy Keesler to down the No. 1 Hose doubles team of Morris and Hunt
6-3, 6-4.

McKee Praises

Bremer played a sparkling brand of tennis with the hustle, aggressiveness, and assurance of a true champion. His performance was
highly praised by coach Dick McKee as Bremer's best of the current campaign. During his freshman year, Johnny played in
the No. 1 position, but has played No. 2 since his old rival, Lacy Keesler, came to Davidson last year.

(Continued On Page Four)

THIS IS GOING TO BE THE BEST CREW WEEK

Only Time will Tell. Only Time will Tell...

Carolina yesterday and at North Carolina State this afternoon.

Dutch Rejoins Moors After June Discharge

Dutch Hengeveld, former Davidson basketball and baseball star, will soon be shedding his khakis in favor of a baseball uniform.
Hengeveld plans to return to his mound position for the Mooresville “Moors” when the army gives him his walking papers
in June. Hengeveld, while here at Davidson, was a regular guard and was noted for his deadly set shot which
was a real headache for Cat opposition. On the mound for the Cats, he was a regular starter and one
of the most effective of the staff. He is the son of the registrar for the college, F. W. Hengeveld.
Dutch won 12 for the Moors in his first season.

JOHNNY BREMER Really Pounded Hose

WOW! ROW DOWN THE RIVER WITH THEM ANYTIME! WE OUGHTA WIN THE REGATTA!

Seek Revenge Over Gamecocks As S.C., Citadel Invade Local Track

By ANDY TURNER

Coach “Pete” Whittle’s thinclads face the power-packed South Carolina Gamecock tracksters and the strong Bulldogs of the Citadel in the
season’s first triangular meet on the local track tomorrow afternoon. The Cats will be seeking revenge for the thirty-point thumping
they received at the hands of the Gamecocks last weekend. The meet will begin at the usual 1:30 P.M. for
the field events and 2:00 for the remainder.

Phi Delts Leading Interfrat Tennis: Softball Underway

The Inter-Fraternity Softball Season got off to a fast start last Tuesday afternoon. Five out of the six scheduled games
were played. The game between the SAEs and the Pikas was postponed. In the two days during which the season
has been underway, the trend, with a few exceptions, seems to be toward slug-fests at the expense of the pitchers,
with quite a few errors thrown in. However, with a little more experience and practice under their belts, the teams
will probably find these problems to be less and less evident. So far only two games have been postponed. The
SAEs and the Pikas game on Tuesday is to be played at a later date, along with the Betas’ and
Campus Club’s Wednesday game. The tennis season continued this week as usual. All but one game was completed with the
game between the Phi Gams and the KAs being postponed. The previously undefeated Campus Club was downed by the Betas
in a make-up game. Here are the softball and tennis standings through Wednesday's games:

Softball
KAs 2-0
Sig Eps 2-0
Pikas 1-0
Phi Delts 1-0
Phi Gams 1-0
Pi Kapps 1-1
Campus Club 1-1
SAEs 0-1
Betas 0-1
ATOs 0-2
Kappa Sigs 0-2

Tennis
Phi Delts 6-0
Sig Eps 5-1
Kappa Sigs 4-1
Campus Club 3-1
ATOs 2-2
Phi Gams 2-2
KAs 2-3
Betas 1-2
SAEs 1-3
Pikas 1-4
Sigma Chis 1-5
Pi Kapps 0-5

Last weekend the Cats bowed to the strong Gamecocks 81-50. The Gamecocks also hold a similar victory over Citadel, having
beaten them and N.C. State in another triangular meet. In winning last week's meet, South Carolina, led by Bobby Drawdy,
swept 12 of the 15 first places. Drawdy took first place in the 100 and 220-yard dashes and javelin throw.
Homer Sparks, Tim Gilley, and Roy White took Davidson's three first places in the 2-mile run, discus, and broad jump
respectively. Phil Koonce was high point man with three seconds for nine points. Both Bill Shipley and Bob Henry slipped
from undefeated ranks. Shipley placed second behind Wilcher of South Carolina in the 440, and Henry ran third behind two
Gamecock runners in the 880. The mile relay team also met its first defeat in four starts. The Cats will
be striving to get back into the win column tomorrow afternoon against the Citadel and U.S.C. The local thinclads got
off to a fine start by whalloping Roanoke and Mercer University; they then dropped a close one to Clemson and
then bowed to the Gamecocks. South Carolina has possibly one of the best teams in the Southern Conference. They presently
hold a 5-1 win-loss record with victories over the Citadel, Mercer, Davidson, N.C. State, and University of Georgia. They lost
to Duke in an early season meet. Citadel will also come here with a strong lineup. They routed Furman 99-32
last week and finished five points behind N.C. State in a triangular meet (South Carolina was first). Davidson also should
give a better show than they did last week against South Carolina. The Gamecocks meet was the second in three
days for the Cats. After tomorrow's meet, Davidson will take on Furman and Washington and Lee in another triangular affair
and will close out the regular season with N.C. State on successive weekends. Both of these meets will be run
on the local track. On May 15 the Cats will travel to Durham for the annual Southern Conference Meet. Phil
Koonce, startling freshman, remains top point man for the Cats with 35. Roy White is right behind him with 32.

FUTURE HOOPSTERS OPEN SPRING DRILLS UNDER MILLER

By DICK LILES

Although it is not quite in season, basketball is the word down at Johnston Gym these afternoons. Coach Danny Miller
is holding spring practice for the hoopsters and has twelve eager boys out working. Coach Miller is stressing defense in
these early drills using George Melton at center, Hobby Cobb and Buddy Brown at forwards, and Ray Harding and Ed
Weeks at guards. He says the drills are progressing well although he has only 12 to work with and has
to wait for Ish Bennett and Graeme Keith, who are out for other sports.

Lose Only Three

The only losses off last year’s team were that of Captain Joe Dudley, the leading scorer, and J. V. (Horse)
Howell. They both will be lost through graduation. Jerry King, who dropped out of school early after the second semester
started, is the only other loss to this year’s squad. Coach Miller has been contacting some fine junior college men
this winter and is happy over the prospects. Since they are really the only men who can help him, he
has concentrated on recruiting some JC material. He cannot be sure of any of the men yet due to college
requirements and lack of scholarship funds, but is pretty pleased with prospects. Other men who are looking good in early
practice are Jim Faucette, Happy Fowle, and Perrin Anderson.

Lenoir-Rhyne Squad Visits Local Cinders

Lenoir-Rhyne College’s track champions of the North State conference worked out with the Wildcats on the local track last Tuesday
afternoon. Though no actual meet was run, various time trials in most of the events were held. The L-R tracksters
have no home track of their own and participate in only two organized meets during their season. Although track is
not one of their major sports, they managed to take the conference meet.

HOW CAN THEY TELL SO SOON? THAT COXSWAIN MAY SWALLOW HIS MEGAPHONE!

Oh time will tell about a green crew! And only time will tell about a cigarette! Take your time... THERE
MUST BE A REASON WHY Camel is America’s most popular cigarette—leading all other brands by billions! Camels have the two
things smokers want most—rich, full flavor and cool, cool mildness—pack after pack! Try Camels for 30 days and see how
mild, how flavorful, how thoroughly enjoyable they are as your steady smoke!
