THE HOT DAVIDSONIAN
Largest Summer Newspaper That We Know Of

Volume I Number

WATERMELON CUTTIN' Scholarships - cont.
The heat let up just in time for a watermelon feast at the Union tonight (Wed.) at 8:15. Prof. Shaw
Smith has announced that there will also be a surprise stage offering from 8:15-8:30, but he said in his press
statement that the surprise would not include shocks, such as girls. The show and eats will be over by 9:00
in time for those interested to watch the fights on TV.

LETTER TO THE EDITOR
Dear Editors,
It was with great interest that I read last week's letter to the editor, and I must say that it
seemed in many ways to hit the nail on the head. However, I would like to add a few words
to what last week's letter said, in order that freshmen might know that it's not all haircuts and cat pants
that we're concerned about in considering their adaptation to Davidson.

While all the talk about conformity in dress and action seems on the face of it to be the important
thing, it is actually important only in its connection with the more deep-rooted facts about Davidson, Carolina, or the world.
The truth is that when a fellow is new at a job he is expected to listen to those who
are experienced at the ways of the job, and to profit by that experience. So it should be with newcomers
to Davidson. Their job should be to "look on and never make a sound" until the day comes when the
sound they make may add to what good is here, rather than try to change the whole organism to conform
with their first theoretical impressions.

One might read this and crow that "a dangerous conformity is the hobgoblin of little minds," but I would remind
him that Emerson would be equally positive in saying that "a stupid inconsistency is the product of no mind at
all." I feel then that the freshman should look things over well before he begins his personal crusade toward what
he thinks Davidson should be, and when he has seen what is good, what is useless, and what is outdated,
then he can begin to take his part in building upon what we have.

Thank you for your time, Mr. Editor. I believe that if the summer's freshman class could be judged by the
Court of Control, it would be found to be a promising one indeed.

Sincerely,
R.E., #55

SCHOLARSHIPS
For the next school year, a total of 257 students will receive scholarship aid at Davidson. This is an increase
of some 32 scholarships over last year. There will be 23 Baker Scholars, 9 Union Carbide Scholars, 13 special and
honor scholarships, and 47 athletic grants. The Union Carbide Scholarships, given for the first time this year, go to two
sophomores and two freshmen. Joe Cannaroe and Perrin Anderson of the sophomore class will receive Carbide Scholarships, as well as
freshmen Leon Howell of Copperhill, TN, and Bill Granley of Winston-Salem.

In addition to the scholarships mentioned above, 69 students will receive grants-in-aid from the General Scholarship Fund, and 101 students
will receive remissions of half-tuition as minister's sons or candidates for the ministry.

SECOND SESSION COURSES
Mr. Hengeveld has posted the courses and professors for the second session of the 1953 summer school. A list of
courses with professors is found below:

Bible 22-32 Prof. Schenck
Biology 31-32 Prof. Brown
Economics 31-32 Prof. Ratliff
English 61-62 Prof. Lilly
Geography 21-22 Prof. Reid
German 21-22 Prof. Vowles
History 11-12 Prof. McGeachy
Math 11-12 Prof. Terway
Spanish 21-22 Prof. Causey

SATURDAY SHOW
Saturday night's feature for this week will be the first home base flick of the summer session. It will be
THE CORSICAN BROTHERS, and will begin at dusk on the terrace of the Union. There will be dancing if anyone
brings a date.

THE SUMMER SCHOOL SIZZLER
Freshmen who shudder before the Court of Control will soon learn that it has been heaven to one stocky gentleman,
at this point entering his 5th year at Davidson as a student in freshman math. An expert dealer in everything
from dramatics to soft soap, he is at present engaged in the major extracurricular activity of announcing as a staff
member at WAYS in Charlotte. His biggest claim to fame so far has been the annual Soap Box Derby of
Charlotte, and in its strenuous announcing he suffered a breakdown and was sent to Mooresville, a rest resort, to simmer
down.

But Dick Perkins can stay nowhere without winning fame. While at Mooresville he broke the link record on one of
the local courses with a roaring 157. (It was rumored that this was a 9-hole course.)

To escape newsmen eager to hear of his golf experience, Perkins fled to nearby Davidson, secluded from all intruders by
wide miles over which no roads cross.

A long and varied career will end in one more week, however, as the famous Perkins marries a brunette beauty
and leaves the Court of Control forever. In New York collecting major league autographs for Prof. Kimbrough, he hopes they
can bring him at least to the D League as he bows out for a happy home.

TABLE TENNIS AT UNION - 20¢ AN HR. FOR UPKEEP
