Aug 11, '53

Hot Davidsonian

The Largest Summer Newspaper We Know Of

WHY HALL PRAYER MEETING? EDITORIAL CONT.
A Davidson student should always keep his feet on the ground and his head in the sky.

RUSH WEEK HINTS
In a few days, Freshmen will begin to receive dates for Rush Week, which will be September 21-26. A word
of advice about the rushing procedure, which has been set down by the Inter-Fraternity Council.

First, when you receive your date cards, send back to the Rush chairman his copy of the dates (the postal
card) immediately and keep your copy. It will save you embarrassment and the fraternities lots of trouble if you do
not lose your record. Often you will find that the dates conflict with fraternities. It is your privilege to change
the dates to a time which fits your schedule of dates. You are allowed only two dates to a fraternity.
Dates are made for Mon., Tues., and Wed. only.

You will find Rush Week just what the name implies. The fact that you will have a load of school
work makes this week even more miserable. It is most important that you do not get behind these first days
for they are the most important. A good start goes a long way toward a successful college career.

It would be an excellent idea for each Freshman to read the Rules of Rushing in THE WILDCAT HANDBOOK which
he shall receive in a few days.

DAVIDSONIANS ON PAROLE
Another long weekend carries us from the quiet campus to our various havens from toil. Many shall return to Montreat,
others to their homes or the beach. This is our spring holiday of summer school. It promises to be hot,
humid, and FUN.

FREE HOT DOGS TONIGHT
Don't forget the Weiner Roast tonight at 8:30 p.m. There will be plenty of free food for all. If you
by chance have a date tonight, bring her.

ANNOUNCEMENTS
Due to the long weekend, there will be no Fellowship Hour this Sunday night.

The Union plans to purchase new records. If you have suggestions, come by and tell Mrs. French.

Chapel - Thursday, Aug. 13 - Bill Shipley
Chapel - Tuesday, Aug. 18 - Dr. Causey

The Union will close at 7:00 P.M. on Friday, August 15. The evening meal will be served at the Snack
Bar and no other meals will be served until Monday morning breakfast.

SUMMER ATHLETICS AT DAVIDSON
During the summer months, the athletic program is not nearly so varied as it is during the winter, but there
is still some activity for the die-hard muscle man if he looks around a bit.

The tennis courts are open all day and are popular since, with the small summer enrollment, there never is the
old problem of waiting for an empty court.

The gym itself still offers the handball and basketball courts, weight-lifting, and the flying whizzer room (wrestling). The exercise room
is undergoing some sort of face-lifting at the moment but it too should be back in operation soon.

Last but not least on our list is the chlorine dip commonly called the swimming pool. Here, on a fair
summer evening, we may see about six Davidson boys, one sleepy lifeguard, twenty howling children (age three to thirteen), and
five anxious parents shouting, "Come on son, you can make it," or a bobbing head is seen to disappear for
the third time...

To even it up - the fun is here, come on out and have some.

EDITORIAL:
These are times that try men's soles, especially after a hot tiring day of supply and demand curves, sines and
cosines, and the antics of Byron. Yes, nothing would be nicer than to sit down to a cool bottle of
Coca-Cola (fooled you) with one's feet high and lifted up. That's alright with us, just try to restrain yourself until
you are out of Chapel, class, or the Union, to raise those feet above your head. When in your room,
the chest of drawers lifts them higher, the holes in your socks don't show, plus saving furniture.
