?| ey ei’ & 8 a . “ . 28 F il i f il a i . a5 +
> E eft g # Series. One of the foremost symphony orchestras in the nation, Deems Taylor in a 1951
issue of Holiday magazine picked it as one of the top ten. In December of the same year, Sevitzky conducted
the symphony in the nation’s first commercially sponsored telecast featuring a major symphony orchestra. This is the sixteenth season that
Dr. Sevitzky has conducted the Orchestra. As a conductor, he is well-known, both in this country and abroad. Born on
the continent in 1889, Sevitzky came to this country as a visitor some thirty years ago, and liked it so
well he decided to remain. In addition to his love for music, the conductor has one of the biggest and
most complete private collections of firearms in the country. He is also a first-rate amateur painter. Dr. Sevitzky believes that
America has come of age musically, consequently, he wants Americans to appreciate American music. To this end, he tries to
include at least one American composition in each program he conducts. The orchestra has been built wisely and carefully, largely
by Dr. Sevitzky himself. It was organized only twenty-three years ago, making it the very youngest of the leading orchestras.
The average age of the 85 individuals in the symphony is also surprisingly young. This is well exemplified by the
fact that the concertmaster is only 27 years old. His name is Stanley Weiner, and though short in years, he
is long in experience, having served as concertmaster of the New York Symphony several years ago. Included in the orchestra’s
number are eleven women. Booth Tarkington, in writing about the symphony, has said: “In personnel as in its work, the
orchestra is cosmopolitan; but this does not mean that it is not American. Descendants of every European race are among
its membership; but the Indiana audiences (Continued On Page Four)

Five companies will be on the campus next week for senior placement. On Tuesday, March 3, representatives from Kendall Mills
and Hanover Bank and Trust Co. will be here. Kendall Mills is looking for men interested in production supervisory work
or in the administrative division. Hanover Bank is looking for men to go into an executive management training program. On
Wednesday and Thursday, the Chase National Bank will hold interviews. This firm is looking for candidates to fit into their
thorough banking training program. The Prudential Life Insurance Co. will also be on the campus Wednesday to interview those men
interested in administrative, promotion, and investigating jobs. Placement bureau activities will continue as the company is looking for men to
go into their business administration.

The Indianapolis Symphony Orchestra, Fabien Sevitzky conducting, will appear in concert tonight at 8:15 in Chambers auditorium, in the last
and highlight program of the Concert Series. Some 250 North Carolina students will converge on the Davidson College campus Saturday
from 25 high schools for the annual N.C. Vocal and Ensemble Contest. Comprising the western division of the contest, soloists
and ensembles from schools as far west as Waynesville and to Raleigh in the east will compete in the day-long
competition. Each soloist in the competition must perform a printed work from memory. The soloists and ensemble groups are allowed
six minutes. The contestants will receive one of three ratings: good, average, or below average. Judges for the event will
include Mrs. Harriet Boden Brask of Newberry College, O.S. McCullough of Catawba College, and Carl C. Baum. Donald B. Plott,
chairman of Davidson's music department, will direct the contest.

The freshman feeding problem will likely not be brought up at the monthly faculty meeting on Tuesday of next week.
Lawrence Erwin made the above statement on Wednesday of this week after conferring with Professor McGavock, chairman of the committee
on fraternities, who had himself the day before discussed the problem with Dr. Cunningham. The IFC president and head of
the steering committee that has been working to effect some changes in the proposal that would require all freshmen to
eat in the College Union, went on to say that the faculty committee prefers to work on the possibility of
an alternate plan. The final decision will probably be decided at a special meeting of the faculty when more time
can be devoted to a complete discussion of the question, Lawrence added. A definite promise was made as Erwin, in
concluding his prepared statement, said, “The Student Committee will continue to work with the Faculty Committee and some definite solution
will be made as soon as possible.”

Some sort of rotation plan in which half the pledges of all fraternities would eat at the Union and the
other half in fraternity boarding houses is the most immediately acceptable plan now being considered, according to Dave Robinson. Robinson
is another member of the committee.

The Davidson YMCA will soon be sending its deputations to their destinations in a ‘53, four-door, grey, Ford car. The
first week in March, the Y will trade in its '48 Chevrolet for the new automobile, which will serve the
Christian organization as the old one did in the past. Deputations claim most of the time, but it will occasionally
be pressed into service on Y social weekends. The decision to replace the old car was made by a special
committee of the Y Board of Directors. The committee was composed of Bob Henry, Grier Martin, and Gene Craven. The
Board of Directors has for its overall purpose the general direction and guidance of the college YMCA, and this year
its members are: Dr. Cunningham, Prof. Workman (chairman), Prof. Wilson, Prof. Eberhardt, Treasurer Martin, Moody Smith, Gene Craven, Bob Henry,
Herschel Allen, and Hubert Cannon. The Ford costs $1995, $885 of which is accounted for by the trade-in of the
old car, and the remainder has been allotted in the Y budget for the year. The money was saved from
not having a chaplain this year. President of the Y, Hubert Cannon, in his announcement of the new car, said
that for the information of those who would be using the car, there is a governor on it which cuts
the engine off at 60.

Sunday, March 1, Vespers will be conducted by Professor Elton Trueblood, Ph.D., S.T.D., from Earlham College, Richmond, Indiana. Monday, March
2, chapel will be conducted by Professor Trueblood, who will be conducting the annual Otts Lectures Monday and Tuesday nights.
Tuesday, March 3, Professor Trueblood will again be the visiting chapel speaker.

The Coker College Choir, which was to appear here on March 5 in a special concert, has canceled their Davidson
date due to the illness of the director. Sullins will send its Glee Club to Davidson for a singing engagement
on Saturday, March 28, at 8:15 P.M. Montreat College's Glee Club will perform here on Saturday, April 10, also at
8:15. As a special attraction with the Sullins group will be a ballet troupe. It is expected, said a spokesman
for the Music Department, Mr. Kenneth Moore, that on both occasions the girls in the groups will stay over Saturday
night in Davidson. They will probably stay inthe homes of townspeople, Mr. Moore added.

Dr. Elton Trueblood, professor of philosophy at Earlham College, will deliver the 1953 Otts Lectures at Davidson College starting Sunday,
President John R. Cunningham announced today.

One of the most popular public speakers in the country, Dr. Trueblood will speak at Vespers on Sunday evening, twice
each on Monday and Tuesday, and conclude the series with a lecture at the regular chapel service Wednesday morning.

A noted author as well as lecturer, Dr. Trueblood taught at Stanford University before joining the Earlham faculty. His latest
book, "Your Other Vocation," was an October selection of the Religious Book Club.

Dr. J. M. P. Otts, who delivered the first series, founded the lectures sixty years ago this spring and established
a fund for securing distinguished speakers in support of Christian faith. The lectures, delivered every two years, are published in
book form. The most recent, "The Church and State in Eastern Europe," by Dr. J. Hutchison Cockburn, have just come
off the press.

Jobs For Summer

Summer jobs with the N. C. State Park service in various parks throughout the state are now open to applicants.
Some of the positions are lifeguards, chief lifeguards, refreshment stand operators, and park rangers. The salaries range from $130 to
$248 per month. Anyone interested should contact W. W. McIntyre, Jr., assistant superintendent of State Parks, Department of Conservation Development,
Raleigh, N. C.

Spanish Club Adds Ten New Members

A joint meeting of the Spanish Club and Sigma Delta Pi, the honorary Spanish fraternity, was held on Friday the
thirteenth, mainly for the purpose of initiating new members into the Spanish Club.

The following men were brought into the club: Corky Clark, Bob Stogner, Bobby Joe Key, John Woodall, Jack Still, Archie
Joyner, Grier Robinson, John Harllee, Maurice Crouse, and Jim Jackson. Jack Williamson, who was absent at the time, is to
be initiated at a later date.

Following the initiation there was entertainment in the form of a mock radio program given over the station XEW in
Mexico City. The meeting concluded with the serving of refreshments.

Vereen Bell Award To Be Given Soon

Final entry date for student manuscripts in the Vereen Bell Writing Contest is Monday, March 2. There is no limit
to the type of work accepted — poetry, short story, essay, drama. The Vereen Bell Award marks a high point
in the literary doings on the campus and the presentation to the student winner will be made during the Fine
Arts Festival in April.

A recent announcement by Dr. W. P. Cumming, of the English Department, makes clear that each work submitted will be
read and graded by each member of the English Department. The dozen leading entries will then be re-examined by the
Department and the final selection made.

Frost, Final Judge

Each year the local judges give the top entries to a non-resident writer or professor of creative writing for final
decision. Robert Frost, the greatest living American poet, who is coming to Davidson for a lecture on March 12, has
been asked to act as this year’s arbiter. Mr. Frost has taught courses in creative writing at New England colleges.
In the past, the visiting judge has given special interviews to the top finalist; and Mr. Frost may consent to
follow the tradition.

By CHARLES BURNETT

With a little more than a week to go before the opening curtain, the Red and Black Masquers’ cast and
crew are putting the finishing touches on J. B. Priestly’s three-act comedy "Laburnum Grove," which will be given Friday and
Saturday, March 6th and 7th.

The play concerns a little old man and his rather strange announcement that his business dealings aren't all they should
be, that is to say, there might be some question of their legality. Just how this announcement affects his family
and the arrival of an inspector from Scotland Yard adds to the confusion and the ending bears out the fact
that this is, as the author calls it, "An Immoral Comedy."

Vance Mizelle appears in the role of Mr. Baxley. Vance has previously appeared in Biography, Born Yesterday, and The Silver
Whistle. Vance is a member of the Male Chorus and Sigma Chi Fraternity and hopes to enter the field of
the theatre as a profession.

Nancy Copeland returns to the Davidson stage after an absence of two years to play the role of Mrs. Baxley,
the visiting sister. Nancy last appeared as Calpurnia in Julius Caesar. In other Masquer productions she has been in John
Loves Mary and directed The Man Who Came To Dinner. Nancy, who works for an insurance firm in Charlotte, has
also appeared with the Charlotte Little Theatre, appearing in On Borrowed Time and Remember Mama. Several years ago, Miss Copeland
gained some professional experience at the Plymouth Playhouse in Massachusetts.

Playing opposite Nancy as her husband and fellow schemer is Howard Proctor in the role of Mr. Baxley. Howard made
his Davidson debut at the same time as Vance in the role of Beverly Carlton, a prototype of Noel Coward,
in The Man Who Came To Dinner. Howard has also appeared in Ten Little Indians, Macbeth, and Bound East For
Cardiff. Howard is also a member of the Male Chorus and of Kappa Alpha Fraternity.

Betty Ghering makes her first appearance on the Davidson stage as Elsie Radfern with troubles including a young man after
her father’s money. Mrs. Ghering is a graduate of Oberlin College in Ohio and has taken advanced theatre work in
college. She is a member of the Charlotte Symphony and has been in music.
