Just one month from today Davidson's 1953-54 hardwood Wildcats will already have gone up against three opponents and another cage season will be well underway. Some indication of the strength of the Red and Black clad cagers will be known as they hit some top-flight opposition during those first three games. The Guilford opener on the local court on December 2 begins a busy week's action while the Cats hit Wake Forest and North Carolina State on successive nights on that weekend. Of course, the latter two, conference finalists of last year, will be “tough cookies” for the Cats, but the experience with the big teams before they meet any conference opposition may be “just what the doctor ordered” for the Millermen.

Traditional Rivals Stay on Schedule
The Cats will have a very much improved schedule this season, having dropped some of the “giants” who frequented the local courts last season. Several of the traditional rivalries will be maintained with the usual home-and-home scheduling. Among these are the two ACC teams—State and Carolina, both to be met twice. One of the old rivals, Duke, is now scheduled for only one game. Many of the national powers who met the Cats have thus been dropped or reduced to one encounter so as to have the cagers playing more conference games. Of the 22-game card, eight are scheduled with conference opposition while nine are with ACC teams, and five are with non-conference opponents. While the Cats met the other four teams in the state eight times last year they will go up against state opposition only six times this year. Fast-breaking Tennessee has been dropped entirely from the schedule and such teams as Guilford, Charleston (2), and Newberry have been added to the slate.

Eight Teams Go to Conference Tournament
Looking also at the fact that the conference tournament which will be held at Mountaineer field house in Morgantown, (Continued On Page Four)

College Men Who KNOW CLOTHES!
By JOHN HANDLEY

FROSH FOOTBALLERS HIT STRONG CITADEL IN SEASON'S FINALE
Last week the Wildcat freshmen came from behind to turn back Gordon Military Academy 19-14. The Cadets scored first, but behind the brilliant passing of Dyke Little the Kittens came roaring back. Tom Newton and Bill Gramley were outstanding in both defensive play and grabbing Little's aerials. This week the team will be somewhat hampered by the eligibility rule in their effort to gain their third win. Starters Dallas Brewer, Adair Hatcher, Tom Newton and Ken Longro will be badly missed when the frosh meet The Citadel yearlings. The Kittens have lost only to the powerful Furman eleven and have come a long way since that game. The offensive has shown definite improvement, and the defensive play of Lyle Lewelyn has been outstanding. Newton and Bill Gramley, All-American high school players, have proved themselves at the end positions. The Citadel team will go into the game a slight favorite, but the Wildkitten followers can rest assured that the team will be out there trying to overcome the odds of having only half their starting eleven along. This will be the last scheduled game for the freshmen.

Chesterfield Contest
This week the nearest prediction of the Davidson-Washington and Lee football game score will be good for another carton of Chesterfield cigarettes. Last week's contest was extremely close with the guess of 34 to 6 made by Jack Bolen being the nearest to the actual 42 to 6. There were, however, some good guesses that had to be disqualified because they were not written on a legitimate Chesterfield wrapper. Remember, any number of predictions may be submitted as long as each one is on a separate Chesterfield wrapper and in the box at the student store by 12 o'clock Saturday.

Freshmen Harriers Meet Lees-McRae In Dual Meet Today
This afternoon the Davidson Wildkitten cross country team led by Pete Ashcraft met a strong Lees-McRae Junior College team on the local freshman cake course. The path to future success is smoothed by the fact that the Kittens hold one of the few undefeated records on the campus with their mark standing at 2-1 before this season's meet. Last weekend the Kittens dropped a one-sided affair to a very strong Carolina frosh squad by a 48-19 count (low score wins). The Carolinians boast one of the best freshmen runners in this part of the country in the person of Jimmy Beaty who set a new course record in last week’s meet against Davidson which was run on the Carolina course. Beaty toured the 2.2 mile course in 11:56 minutes to break the old frosh records for the Carolina course which he had set earlier (Continued on Page Four)

Come in and see them today—we have a fine selection—and the price tags will never put the slightest strain on your clothing allowance.
© GRAY FLANNELS AND CHARCOAL BROWN, TOO!
© SPORT COATS AND SLACKS
Wilson's Men's Shop

This week the Sigma Chis ended their tag football season with two victories to clinch at least a tie for first honors. The Phi Delts who have one game remaining have also lost only one game and could send the league into a tie with a final win over the SAEs. Upsets marked the windup of the Greek tag football league, as the unheralded Pi Kapps knocked the Kappa Sigs out of first place, and the Phi Gams darkened the hopes of the KAs by downing the rebels 20 to 6. In one of the most exciting games of the year, the Pi Kapps scored with less than a minute to go following a Kappa Sig tally which seemed to wrap the game up. The final score, Pi Kapps 27, Kappa Sigs 25.

The Sigma Chis took possession of first place by virtue of their having played more games. Their record is 9 wins and one loss, while the Phi Delts have only a single loss, they have won only eight. The windup of the league will be next week. Results of the games up until Wednesday are as follows:

Pi Kapp 27, Kappa Sig 25
The Kappa Sigs came from a 14 point margin at half to score 25 points in the second half only to be beaten in the last two minutes, 27 to 25. Bob Southwell sparked the Pi Kapps to their upset win.

Phi Gam 20, KA 6
Henry Ghigo and Charles Hall were the leaders in the upset win.

Phi Delt 26, ATO 19
Dan Leach and Max DeVane sparked the Phi Delts to a 26 to 19 win over the ATOs. Clifford Deal was the leader for the ATO in the fast game.

SPE 13, SAE 0
The SAEs and the SPEs fought to a 0 to 0 tie in the regular game, but Fred Stowe passed the SPEs to two touchdowns in the overtime. Freshmen Dan Haley and Buster Jenkins were the main threats for the SAEs.

Sigma Chi 34, SAE 6
The Sigma Chis combined short quick passes and long runs to down the SAEs 34 to 6.Run in the annual State Cross-Country meet against Carolina, N.C. State, and Duke. The meet was originally scheduled for this Monday but was postponed due to a schedule conflict of Duke and Carolina. North Carolina State, Atlantic Coast Conference champs this year, will be heavily favored to take the meet with ease. They have swamped all the participating teams this year in dual meets; Davidson lost to the ‘Pack in a triangular meet 50-16 (low score wins).

Sawyer Tops

State is led by “Buz” Sawyer who is one of the country’s top runners. Last year he won the State and the old Southern Conference meets, besides placing 5th in the NCCA Intercollegiates. The Cats will be out to improve last week's showing in which they lost to both Washington and Lee and VMI in a triangular meet held at Lexington. They have worked hard this week and have shown considerable improvement.

Maybe Second?

Last year the locals finished behind the big three in the State Meet, but this year they have a good chance of beating Duke, and could upset Carolina to take second place behind State. Captain Homer Sparks, along with Floyd Feeney, Andy Turner, and Dick Lovette, will lead the team in Thursday's run. Each of these runners has shown up well thus far this season and much depends on them in the State encounter. In addition to these top four runners, John Handley, Herschel Allen, Archie Joyner, and Paul Alexander are scheduled to round out the team on the Raleigh trip.

On the Monday following the State meet, the Cats will travel to Williamsburg, Va., for the Southern Conference meet, in which they will rank as “dark horse” contenders for the crown. They will then wind up the current season with the Carolina’s AAU meet at Davidson on November 21.

ATTENTION FROSH!

There are still many vacancies on the freshman wrestling squad, especially in the light weights. All interested freshmen are asked to report to the coach. Coach Parker points out that you don't have to be the Charles Atlas type to be a wrestler. The light weights are just as important and previous wrestling experience is not necessary. You can be a valuable member of this freshman team if you tip the scales between the weights of 115 and 130 pounds.

Generals Favored As Cats Still Seek

The best opportunity of the season to break into the win column presents itself to Davidson tomorrow when the Wildcats travel to Winston-Salem to meet the Generals of Washington and Lee. The two evenly-matched teams will meet in Bowman Gray Stadium in what promises to be a fine ball game.

The Davidson team will be in top shape for tomorrow's contest. Coach Dole has worked the boys hard this week, and they should be ready to really go. Pass defense, which showed up badly at Harvard last week, has received a lot of attention. A lot of work has also been done on fundamental blocking.

Lowenstein Difference

Last week the Wildcats succumbed to Harvard’s formidable Crimsons by a 42-6 count. For the first half, Davidson held its own, even though behind. But the Harvard reserve strength told the story in the second half as the score mounted. Substitute quarterback Carrol Lowenstein was the victors’ star, throwing five touchdown passes, a fast running backfield, and tight defense to swamp the SAEs by the score of 34 to 6. Steve Norton was the offensive leader for the SAEs while Ray Harding and Jimmy Kiser stood out for the Sigma Chis.

Kappa Sig 12, Beta 6

The Kappa Sigs scored in the last 25 seconds to take the nod over the Betas in a thrilling game by the score of 12 to 6. Eddie Powe and Corky Clark were outstanding for the Kappa Sigs while the Betas relied on the passing of Jimmy Martin and Tommy Lamb's defensive play.

Sigma Chi 32; Pi Kapp 19

Perrin Anderson directed the Sigma Chis to another victory at the expense of the Pi Kapps. For the Pi Kapps, it was the passing of Bob Southwell which kept them in the game.

Sigma Chi 14, SPE 7

In a very close and fast game, the Sigma Chis downed the SPEs by the score of 14 to 7. Tom Shaw directed the winners’ attack and sparked the scoring. For the SPEs, Bill Marable was the main threat and accounted for their score.

Phi Delt 33, Pika 19

The Phi Delts continued their bid for first place by defeating the Pikas to the score of 33 to 19. Ralph Petree and Clyde Robinson were the leaders in the fast Phi Delt attack.

(Continued on Page Four)

WILDCAT SPORT
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1953
PAGE THREE

Wildcats To Meet W. & L. In Winston Tomorrow

WILDCAT OF THE WEEK: Patton’s Line Play Tops In D. C.-Harvard Game

By FLOYD FEENEY

Coupling his usual fine offensive game with an outstanding defensive effort in the Harvard game last Saturday, Bob Patten earned Wildcat of the Week honors. Calling defensive signals from his guard position, Bob led the Davidson defense. His quick play diagnosis and hard tackling spilled more than one Crimson back for a substantial loss. Reviewing the game, Coach Dole pointed out that Patten made fewer mistakes in the game than any other player. He termed Bob “one of the real unsung heroes of the line.”

Bob is comparatively small for the college guard spot. He weighs in at about 175 pounds and stands only five feet eight inches tall. However, what he lacks in size he more than makes up for in speed and hustle. Having chiefly played offense in last year’s two platoon system, Bob has done very well in going both ways this year. This is his second year of varsity football. After playing freshman ball during his first year, he sat out his sophomore year without going out for the team. He returned last year to nail down the offensive guard spot previously mentioned.

In addition to football, this soft-spoken senior is an outstanding sprinter on Coach Hambright's swimming team. Bob comes from Winston-Salem where he also played football for Reynolds High School. He is a business major. He has been one of the shining lights throughout this year in Davidson defense. Oftentimes he moves out of his usual guard slot to operate very effectively as a linebacker. In addition to his defensive prowess, he has also been a key player on offense.

(Continued on Page Four)

MORE PEOPLE SMOKE CAMELS THAN ANY OTHER CIGARETTE!

Smoke only Camels for 30 days and find out why Camels are first in mildness, flavor, and popularity! See how much pure pleasure a cigarette can give you!