FRIDAY, DECEMBER 11, 1953

Gragg Blasts Johnston’s Chapel Talk; Hits Christ Analogy

By GILBERT GRAGG

Relics of the Lee cult, his religious mother, etc., which have certainly been as great if not greater than the
myths of Lincoln. It seems to me that tears instead of mirth would have been more in order then, for
many on the campus are members of the “Cult of Robert E. Lee and the Confederacy."

In the second place, the shocking analogy between Christ and Lincoln was not only out of place but completely obliterated
any merit whatsoever that the speech might have had to our mind. The religious cynics seemed to get their biggest
thrill out of this, and the words “Madonna of the Backwoods” were on almost every other person’s lips Tuesday afternoon.
Is our generation at the stage that it can listen to and actually applaud and laugh at such an analogy?
One wonders just how many persons would have ever dreamed of making the comparison about the births and deaths of
Lincoln and Christ? It is beyond comprehension that a supposedly Christian student body has become so cynical that it can
think a parallel to Christ’s agonized words from the cross: “Father forgive them.”

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF: Moody Smith
BUSINESS MANAGER: Charley Hasty
ASSOCIATE EDITORS: Jim Moore, Dick Roper, Bob Crutchfield, Charles Hassell, Buddy Lamon, Bob Owen, Hunter Strader
Assistant Editors: Henry Brockmann, Floyd Feeney
News Editor: John Handley
Feature Editor: Austin Strand
Art Editor: T. A. Williams
Photographer: Ed Price
Assignments: Andy Simons
Asst. Business Manager: Blake Brinkerhoff
Advertising Manager: Ed Nicholson
Circulation Manager: Tommy Taylor
Collections Manager: Dick Little
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897.

However sincere was Dr. Johnston's intention, the general effect of his speech was to produce thoughtless laughter from the students.
For example, the deeply moving spiritual poem, “When Lilacs Last Bloom,” was the facts more minutely before they ascribe greatness
to any other men—certainly many of the listeners will never think so much of Lincoln again despite the efforts in
the last few minutes to retrieve his goodness and nobility! But alas!—the fire had gotten started and a few little
drops of water would not put it out! Probably seven out of ten of the student body members have never
seen the beautiful Lincoln Memorial, and when they do someday there will be no inspiration or thrill for those who
have fallen victims to the cynicism of this speech. Perhaps they will look across the placid water from the “Greek
Temple” where Lincoln proudly sits, to the Jefferson Memorial and Washington Monument. Then they will scoff at those.

After the roars of laughter which rocked Chambers Auditorium around 10:30 Tuesday morning had finally subsided, almost everyone agreed that
it was just about the best chapel program of the year. For at last, it seemed that here was the
one answer to that strange enigma known as the “Davidson Chapel Problem” which seemingly defies solution. Indeed the Scripture was
familiar and short enough so as to merit toleration from that segment of the student body who cynically detest all
religious exercises and rationalize themselves into believing that the compulsory services of this nature at Davidson are responsible for their
own anti-Christian tendencies; they even would like to stretch our credulity by insisting that they were saints before coming to
this monastery, and the change has been the fault of the college! Then, as if this were not enough, they
did not have to listen to a prayer, but repeat half-sleepily the Lord’s Prayer (unbelievably inappropriate for a chapel service
since both have become just routine). On top of this they didn’t.

Don’t Play Fast and Loose With Lady Luck

The fact that no students of this college have been killed in an automobile accident in the last four years
is indeed a remarkable record considering the number of traffic accidents in which they have been involved. Naturally, it is
everyone’s hope that this campus will not be marred by a traffic fatality for an indefinite period. It seems, though,
that luck has been pretty much on our side for these four years, and it is questionable how much longer
the good lady will play along with us. In this period we have had at least one case of critical
injury, several lesser ones, and quite a few wrecks in which the Grim Reaper missed fine opportunities to take its
toll. Though not a hell driver, the average Davidson student behind the wheel does not reflect the staid, Presbyterian conservatism
for which his detractors criticize him in other fields. In short, he, like many another college student, affords an example
of why auto insurance rates are higher for the 19-25 age group than for any other. This is not true
of everyone, but for a sufficient number to cause alarm. We do not mean to be unnecessarily critical, for which
of us has never taken a few chances himself, but to put it crudely, we don’t want to be running
any obituaries after Christmas, or any other time.

Whether There Be Prophecies They Shall Fail...

We hereby renounce all claim to the title of “prophet of doom” we hesitatingly assumed in last week’s editorial. Last
Tuesday night’s victory over South Carolina was certainly the best thing that could have happened to the whole college. Congratulations
are in order for the basketball team that certainly played an inspired game and Coach Danny Miller. This was one
instance when the “venerable” Davidson spirit came through in the best of fashion. We would like to observe, however, that
our situation in regard to athletic policy still has not changed materially. We wish all the luck in the world
to the basketball team, and feel considerably better about their chances, but Davidson is still in the middle of the
road and we are dubious about our chances of winning more than a very few contests in the long run
under present conditions. But for the time being we can enjoy a long delayed exultation at beating the stew out
of somebody who was supposed to rack us.

The Young Men's Shop

Clothing for Men

With the Holiday Season so near, why not visit the Young Men’s Shop and select your gifts for the folks
at home. We have a wide selection of Dress and Sport Shirts, Pajamas, Ties, Slacks, Socks, Gloves, Weskits, Sweaters, Jackets,
Robes, etc., from which to choose. We have a nice selection of Suits and Top Coats in Flannel, Gaberdine and
Tweeds. It will be a pleasure for us to serve you at any time.

PAUL S. CORRIHER AND WALLY ALTRUTZ
116 NORTH MAIN STREET
MOORESVILLE, N. C.

OFF-MOORING: Football Dilemma Not Easy One To Solve; Plan Is Presented

It has been nearly a month since this writer has had anything to say on these pages. Please understand that
though the voice was temporarily silenced, the contemplation of our most current problem—the athletic situation—has continued. In my last column,
there was an approach to the athletic problem that had not been attempted before. Using some of the devices of
the case method now employed in many of our business courses, the financial and fiscal facts were presented. This method
employs full analysis in the light of the actual situation and not the vague generalities and removal from the facts
that the undergraduate mind often uses. That method is not an entirely valid one until the logical conclusions that may
be taken from the facts are elicited. Now let us see what we face. Conclusions among others thus far have
ranged widely. One is, “The ‘worm’ is turning and our athletic fortunes are improving. Just wait and let time change
for the better what it inevitably must.” Yet another runs, “Davidson is so attuned psychologically and emotionally to failing in
sports that it actually forms a great necessity for the present adjustment of the students and the college as a
whole.” Opinions vary on sports as they do on any other subject, and, as Professor Griffin is often wont to
point out, alternatives are the surest points of conclusions in any analysis. In understanding the solution which I will here
give, it would be well for the reader to disassociate the situation from his own prejudices as much as the
writer has tried to do with himself and the subject. Moody Smith calls our present policy “hopeless,” and so it
is when we turn over in our minds the hopes of our athletic endeavors and the returns superficially we seem
to be gaining from the effort expended. Obviously, we are not winning games in football nor in the other major
sports, and theProspects of our breaking even in the future are not so changed by a single basketball victory. The
reaction to that win of Tuesday night illustrates how win-starved we are. The childish way in which some students expressed
their pent-up feelings—in the riot—didn’t stem alone from the defeat of South Carolina but came as well from frustrations reached
in the classroom and elsewhere. One win—or even winning several games—does not alter basically the problem, for though this may
assuage temporarily our appetite for prestige and athletic respectability, it does not alter fundamentally the questions raised by our present
policy. The true purpose of the athletic program, which is the building of the body so that the mind may
best be used, is not being realized today, nor is it the guiding principle on which our entire program is
laid. Players, already injured, are sent into games and they are frequently so out-manned to such an extent that further
injury and defeat are inevitable. Many of these comments have been made before and now the question is, “What can
we do today to improve our situation?”

Last week the editor-in-chief suggested three alternatives that are in themselves not entirely satisfactory. Full subsidization not only violates many
of our moral ideals but also is impossible because the money cannot be raised. Dropping football would remove the school
from its greatest single contact with the alumni, and this would hurt us tremendously as the very existence of the
school depends on financial support by the alumni. Also, there is the loss of contact with prospective students through the
lessened publicity potential and the frequent lack of understanding on the part of high school and prep school students that
intercollegiate athletics play in the make-up of a school. If we decide to reduce our present athletic budget and drop
into a league where we might have better chances of winning, one might ask what league this would be. Even
the North State League, often mentioned in this connection, does more for its teams in a financial way than we
now do. The Sewanee, John Hopkins, Centre system of an unsubsidized program presents us with the problem of how to
pay for equipment, coaches, upkeep of fields, and costs of trips, for in that system there are no gate receipts.

Thus we see that there is no “easy” way out of our dilemma, nor should we try to substitute an
over-simplified way for what must represent a system based on hope rather than our present defeatism; one of an honest
expression of our ideals rather than a compromise situation that attempts to satisfy both the superficial wants of a winning
team and the desire for amateur athletics; and finally one that will be long-lasting and subject only to the necessary
changes of the time rather than one that is dependent on winning seasons for its existence. Therefore, I offer the
following plan of action that is based on both the existing circumstances and my own opinion grounded on four years
of observation and personal belief. (1) Drop football as an intercollegiate sport. (2) Install class or fraternity football competition similar
to that found at Emory University. (3) Place further emphasis on the other intramural sports; and, (4) allow the sports
to dominate that place less emphasis on the spectators and more on the development of the individual participants. The Wildcat
Club should channel its energies and funds in a direction which will be helpful to the entire college, as the
Living Endowment.

NEW CARS DRIVE-IT-YOURSELF Dial 3-4513 212 W. Fourth Charlotte

MARION DAVIS... OFFERS YOU THE VERY LATEST SPORT VESTS Regulars and Reversibles SWEATERS In Dacron and Orlon. Fully washable at
only— 10.95 Large variety of colors Wool and Cashmere, and All Cashmere at prices from— 12.50 to 29.50 SUEDE JACKETS
in 9 wanted colors. Regulars and Longs 19.95 to 26.95 MARION DAVIS CO. 118 So. Tryon St. — Charlotte

...even have to be pained with the singing of a hymn, although one might have suspected the service would have
concluded with “Dixie” and Confederate flag-waving! So there was an omen from the beginning that the cynics and anti-religious boys
were going to have a field day, and indeed they did! Dr. Johnston prefaced his remarks on “The Lincoln Myth”
by saying that it had been misunderstood in the past, but then he proceeded to go on into his speech
and missed a perfect opening to give a much-needed clarification of his real purpose or the way in which he
meant it not to be misunderstood. With this golden opportunity gone he proceeded merrily, if not unknowingly, on his way
leading his cynical listeners in a delightful exercise of their favorite pursuit—satirical prejudiced criticism of Christian nobleness!

Such words need fuller explanation, and this will be the purpose of this article. In the first place, we wonder
why this particular subject was chosen? Was it because most of the students are Southerners and therefore naturally gleeful in
hearing anything disparaging about a Yankee—particularly their renowned leader? Was it chosen in order to give the students an enlarged
appreciation for one of the few really great men our country has produced? Or was it chosen to exploit the
legends and myths that have grown up around Lincoln? If the latter were the purpose, then it seems reasonable to
suggest that if “legends and myths” had to be the subject, then why did not the speaker choose the much
more appropriate figure of Robert E. Lee? Surely there were not many, if any, members of the “Lincoln Cult” in
the audience and many probably viewed him with violent distaste anyway because of the label “Yankee” attached to him. One
wonders if the laughter would have been quite so strong if Dr. Johnston had spoken of “Lee’s Farewell to his
Men" and the veneration given to his horse, (whose bones at Washington and Lee are among the most sacred them
for they know not what they do” could be an occasion for laughter no matter in what context they were
used; these words seemed particularly appropriate in another sense on Tuesday. Even such great cynical writers as G. B. Shaw
may refer to saints and the like, but with all their cynicism they have the good taste to stop and
never to transport the sublime character of Christ, even by analogy, to the pages of their novels or plays. There
is certainly a limit as to how far analogies can go, and a thing of such eternal significance for each
of us as the Crucifixion of our Lord should be spoken of with greatest reverence and realization of its meaning
and not be glibly compared with the death of a man, who did not make his supposed “With malice toward
none . . .” speech on his deathbed, which was the implication of Dr. Johnston's speech and which would have
to be so to make the analogy true.

Indeed, Dr. Johnston, who certainly knows the basic facts of history seems intentionally to have violated at least one of
these facts in order to form an inappropriate and rankly offensive analogy. If we are not mistaken, Dr. Johnston said
Lincoln was shot on Good Friday and died on Easter Sunday, thereby making complete his ill-chosen and of itself illogical
analogy to Christ’s death and Resurrection. To quote Carl Sandburg who, although a fine poet—and this seems lately to be
a questionable virtue to the minds of some—is nevertheless recognized by many as the world’s foremost authority on the known
facts of Lincoln's life: “The last breath was drawn at 21 minutes and 55 seconds past 7 A.M. and the
last heartbeat flickered at 22 minutes and ten seconds past the hour on Saturday, April 15, 1865.” This may be
found in the chapter entitled “Blood on the Moon” from Volume IV of Abraham Lincoln, the War Years by Mr.
Sandburg. Obviously then not much good can come out of such a speech which besides some lapses from good taste
was historically inaccurate.

Best way to make Dad forget those letters you didn’t write is to get him some fine Manhattan menswear. (And
Manhattan makes mighty nice owning, too!) Why not stop in today—and see for yourself, poor misguided souls who actually believe
that these were great leaders of our country and who give them the veneration due them! After all, is it
wrong to be proud of our great forefathers? We are fully aware that they are simply human beings like ourselves
and therefore do not expect them to be divine in actions. It has been said that “some men are (Continued
From Page One)

My ylol Pig PENT DO sd woven with Tussah—rare Wild Silk! THE LIGHTEST TUXEDO EVER MADE! This is the lightest
tuxedo ever made—almost weightless and completely comfortable. Yet because the fabric is woven with Tussah—wild silk—it is strong and full-bodied,
ideal for year-round wear. And it is exceptionally luxurious, too—a luxury enhanced by the rich Honan weave and the natural-shoulder,
shawl collar, center-vent model. In charcoal blue. coat and trousers $90

W. FREEMAN & SON WOVEN BY AMERICAN SILK MILLS, INC.
