PAGE FOUR

SENIOR SKETCH NO. 5: The Lover’s Lover

Jervy, donning a disguise to escape admirers, adds a realistic beer-orange color to his latest abstract.

N. C. SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA TO PLAY IN CHARLOTTE ARMORY NEXT TUESDAY

The famous North Carolina Symphony Orchestra under the baton of Dr. Benjamin Swalin will play its annual Spring concert in Charlotte at the Armory Auditorium next week, on Tuesday night, April 14th. Mr. Donald B. Plott, Director of the Music Department, Davidson College, who is serving as Chairman of the Davidson vicinity membership drive for the Symphony, announced that tickets may be purchased at the Davidson College Music Department Offices prior to the Tuesday night performance.

The bearer of any type of membership in the North Carolina Symphony Society is admitted to all performances given throughout the state during the orchestra’s 1953 Spring Tour. Mr. Plott pointed out that there are seven types of membership tickets on sale, including ones for Elementary-High School age, College students, general admission, active members, donors, patrons, and business-industrial groups.

Dr. Swalin, the conductor of the orchestra, has announced that the symphony will play the following program in Charlotte on Tuesday night: Overture from the Music for the Royal Fireworks by Handel as arranged by Harty; Rachmaninoff’s beautiful Symphony No. 2; the Cavatina from Beethoven's String Quartet in B flat, Op. 103; the Dance of the Shepherd Girl by Alfven; the Roumanian Rhapsody No. II by Georges Enesco; and the well-known Overture to William Tell by Rossini.

Woodwind Quintet to Take Journey

The Davidson Woodwind Quintet will appear on April 13 in Chattanooga, Tennessee, as one of the groups appearing before the Southern Regional Conference of the Music Educators National Association. The members of the quintet, Richard Morrow, flute, Raymond Lynch, oboe, Thornwell Frick, clarinet, David Gordon, horn, and A. K. Garrison, bassoon, have long been in preparation for the event. Included in their program will be a work of Beethoven, a work of the French composer Ibert, and a work by the contemporary American composer, Roger Gaeb.

Library Receives Renaissance Books

In keeping with the theme of this Spring’s Fine Arts Week, which is to emphasize the Renaissance, the College Library has received six books from the Library of the University of North Carolina, which should prove of interest to antiquarians as well as students of Church History. The display in the central alcove of the library will feature two Estiennes, a Latin Bible, published in 1655, and Calvin’s Commentaries, published in 1556, a first edition covering the general epistles. In addition, two Aldines, Cicero’s Epistles (1521) and Caesar’s Commentaries (1547) will be shown, the latter containing some interesting block prints as illustrations. Another copy of Cicero's Epistles (1642) and Cunaei De Republica (1632) are of a later date, but are indicative of the era, and will complete the exhibition.

Diamond Nine...

(Continued From Page Three)

fielding Billy Morris at the hot corner. The outfield will be made up of Fred Stowe, George Thomas, and Jerry Morrow. Shorty Sfaelos will take care of the catching. The probable batters order will be:

Hope or Devane
Gray or Teeter
Stowe
Whisnant
Morrow
Morris
Bennett
Thomas
Sfaelos

(Continued From Page Two)

for Joe — on me.” The light on the machine glimmered and almost went out. “What's this string for?” I asked the machine's companion. “Those are Joe’s wigs. When he wants to be one of the boys, he puts on the fairly tousled one, and whenever he wants to appear aloof and superior, he wears the slicked-down hair.” In this compartment are all of his accessories. Lately Joe has been hiring out to college students running for offices. Here is a pipe so he can be College Joe — Clever, eh? This Bible is to impress the holy boys and this church-key — he uses it when he is one of the gang. These glasses he uses to influence professors — incidentally, he does translate Latin rather well; he wears this D-sweater whenever he is around athletes.”

“Max, get Joe a Scotch on the rocks, will ya?" I spoke to the bartender. “No, no! Thanks, but Joe and I must be going before he passes out. He’s done enough celebrating already.” The machine fell over on its friend and a long sheet of paper slipped out from the top, just under the now extinguished light. It was a roster of the names of all the students from some college, with the first names underlined. The stranger stuffed it back into the machine, as he put one of its “arms” around his own shoulder and paid the bill. “That’s a list of all the names from some boys’ school where Joe is working next. You have to call people by their names to win, you know,” he explained.

“The man half carried, half dragged Joe toward the door. “Wait a minute!” I cried, “A bolt has fallen out of his back-slapping arm.” “Oh no”, laughed the stranger, “At Joe’s next job, in order to be popular, one must have given blood to a blood drive.” He pulled Joe on out and dumped him into the blue Cadillac sitting in front. “Guess who'll win the next election,” I heard him call back as he headed north from Charlotte.

Dorm Council...

(Continued From Page One)

Al Capp would have no trouble finding a suitable name for this week's senior, for “Lovable Jervy” is a natural. This cuddly male takes great delight in upsetting the quoted facts and figures of the N. Y. World Telegram Almanac of 1953: “... in the central coastal states of the south this ratio drops to 2½ males for every female.” There must be at least 3 boys who would like to discuss fair-play with Jinks. To be blunt about the matter Jinks has to fight the women off. And he does it all quite innocently. Take the time he was at the burlesque. His voice gave out so he resorted to clapping the artistic presentation. Jinks is artistic by nature, lists five arts, literature, music and cartooning as his hobbies. (SEE CUT.) From out of nowhere a slinky female hand reached over his shoulder and placed itself between his. This led to conversation with the other end of the hand, but Jinks hardly mentions this incident as it was a too ordinary occurrence.

No class of girl is immune. At the Mexican hotel he once visited, the servants were of the lowest order known above arachnoids. A fat, sloppy maid with skin like a seal and the provocative name of Carmen took a shine to our “Jeenksie.” She was an ex-bullfighter drawing a steady $10 a month. He finally shook her only by locking himself in at night. His irresistibility knows no limits. At home in Greenville, S. C. he once dated a girl who had been married on the sly. Years later when hubby was away she would come by for Jinks in her car. But once again our hero limited his affairs with this maiden to two-handed canasta, deuces wild.

Broadminded James Jervy met, accepted and conquered the challenge at Bob Jones College where the boys can’t talk to the girls after 6:00. He would write notes and deftly flip them to a cute waitress, but even this was soon quelled. Undaunted, he returned in an hour dressed as a girl (pink sweater, bangs, skirt, shaved legs) sat in the soda shop with the girl and got a date. “Lovable”, on several occasions, has given fictitious names to avoid extra persistent pursuers. One Mexican hot tomato is still looking for the Randolph Field who told her such pretty things. “Lovable’s” secret? Well it’s just that — a secret. Every time you try to pin him down he lowers his head and starts mumbling about his Spanish major or his future plans to be a counselor at summer Army camp... anything but why girls find him so lovable. Oh yes. Jinks has one problem: he can’t get a date for Spring Frolics.

Free Lance...

(Continued From Page Two)

though the stories were serious as was the entire magazine. He ponders the fact that perhaps censorship should be clamped on bad literature as a whole whether it is a poorly written serious story or a humorous tale which is out of taste. It seems to him that both leave an equally bad impression of the college on the reading public. But then he catches himself with the remembrance that he is being too logical again. That’s out of style with the inquisition. He remains silent while the charge is voted upon. There is another man who thinks the charge is a bit too generalized. Let’s look into his mind. He asks himself, “Just what is the name of the college? It’s good. At least that’s the impression I get from those with whom I talk. “I wonder why it’s good? According to these men it seems to stem largely around what kind ofpublications we send out to the public. "From all the persons who think highly of the college, I adjudge that we must issue a tremendous number of these spotless publications. Yet that is not the case. Do the men who speak about the 'name' as if it were some absolute, something they can see, really know what is beneficial and what is damaging to it? X seems to know, yet he isn't even at the college. Well, I haven't anything definite I can prove." He also remains silent. So the charge is agreed upon student cooperation with respect and the editor is called in. He is given his little Sunday school lesson and dismissed. An immediate dispatch is gotten off to the GREAT X saying that the matter has been attended to. The inquisition rests confident.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

by Mike Myers/Summer Sessionists

Fraternities Fix Jinks

Students who plan to attend the summer session should return the application blanks as soon as possible, Registrar Hengeveld advises. The schedule of recitations will be determined by the choice of courses by the students as indicated on the applications. Blanks and bulletins are available at the registrar’s office. A list of the courses offered and the professors follows. The courses are described in the Davidson College catalog.

First term: Biology 11-12, Daggy; Chemistry 11-12, Logan; Chemistry 21-22, Watt; Chemistry 31-32, Gallent; Physics 11-12, Fulcher and Pietenpol; Bible 11, 12, Eberhardt; Business 51, 52, Griffin; Economics 21-22, Ratliff; English 21, 22, Purcell; German 11-12, Beaty; History 61, 71, Thompson; Mathematics 11, 12, Kimbrough; Psychology 21, 52, Bevan; Spanish 11-12, Peak.

Second term: Bible 21, 22, Schenck; Biology 31-32, Brown, E. E.; Economics 31-32, Ratliff; English 61, 62, Lilly; Geography 21-22, Reid; German 21-22, Vowles; History 11, 12, McGeachy; Mathematics 11, 12, Terwey; Spanish 21-22, Causey.

Grants Applicants Urged By Spencer To Meet Deadline

All students who plan to apply for Davidson Grants-in-Aid are urged by Dr. Sam Spencer, Assistant to the President, to have their applications in his office before April 15. These applicants include all types of remissions and grants — athletic, scholastic, and need — but they do exclude Baker Scholars and scholarships from sources other than the College. Applications which are turned in after the April 15 deadline will suffer a pecuniary penalty.

NOTICE

The printed material on John Mason Brown's lecture has listed a student-priced ticket. This does not apply to Davidson as the student tax covers this. Admission will be by means of the I-D Cards.

Blood Drive... (Continued From Page One)

able to make donations due to recently receiving shots for summer camp. Dagenhart and Col Davis both expressed the hope that these groups would be able to contribute later on in the month, making the attainment of the 508 pint goal possible. The final total will be announced at that time.

Meanwhile, the copies of the magazine continue to circulate and the letters continue to pour in to the editor saying what a great job he and his staff did on parodying Time. It’s almost comical in a way.

Drink MOORE'S QUALITY MILK
Mooresville Creamery, Inc.

DAVIDSON THEATRE

THURS-FRI-APRIL 9-10
"THE NAKED SPUR"
JAMES STEWART, ROBERT RYAN

SATURDAY, APRIL 11
"CONFIDENTIALLY CONNIE"
VAN JOHNSON, JANET LEIGH

MON.-TUES.-WED-APR. 13-14-15
"IVANHOE"
ROBERT TAYLOR, ELIZABETH TAYLOR

As the spring approaches, the majority of the fraternities on campus are preparing for their off-campus functions. Most of these functions consist of balls with formal attire; however, there are several costume balls also planned.

Kappa Sigma social fraternity will have its functions with a "Come As A Song" theme on May 2. Beta Theta Pi is planning a Bowery Ball to be held at the Officers Club in Charlotte on May 9. The annual Rose Ball of the Pi Kappa Phi will be held at the Policeman Club on May 9. Fleet Green’s orchestra will play at the banquet-dance. Kappa Alpha has been making plans for months for its OLD SOUTH BALL, a KA tradition held every other year, which will be held in the Barringer Hotel in Charlotte on May 9. Pi Kappa Alpha is planning a DREAM GIRL BALL to be held on May 9. Alpha Tau Omega will have its WHITE TEA ROSE BALL at the Barringer Hotel on May 2. The Phi Delta Theta fraternity will have its formal Blue and White Ball at the Red Fez Club on May 9. The Phi Gams are having a Fiji Island costume ball at Stowe's cabin on the Catawba River.

"Just as I’ve told you on two shows, I smoke Chesterfields every day. They're much milder and better for me."

CHESTERFIELD contains tobaccos of better quality and higher price than any other king-size cigarette...the same as regular Chesterfield.

FRIDAY, APRIL 10, 1953

Moose Announces Harris Art Exhibit

An exhibition of 28 watercolors by Kenneth Harris will be on display in the lobby of Chambers Building at Davidson College through April 18th, Philip Moose, director of fine arts, announced today. The exhibition, titled, "Portrait of a City," includes all aspects and views of Norfolk, Va., and its surrounding docks and shipyards. A graduate of Davidson with the class of 1927, Mr. Harris has achieved an outstanding reputation since he started painting seriously during World War II. His first one-man show at the North Carolina State Gallery in 1947 broke the gallery’s 20-year record for both attendance and sales. He has been commissioned to do several series of paintings that are included in the museums of Houston, San Antonio, New Orleans, Atlanta, and Raleigh.

Girl Chorus... (Continued From Page One)

sible for the Montreat Chorus’ outstanding work and repertoire of fine music, is a young man gifted in several directions. Besides being a conductor and bass soloist, he teaches musicology and can build a super record-player with parts gathered here and there. He is a graduate of the University of Delaware and has a master’s degree from the Eastman School of Music in Rochester, N. Y. Both church music and the staging of musical productions are in his past experience.

The Montreat College chorus is composed of 27 young women from North and South Carolina, Georgia, Florida, Virginia, Kentucky, and Alabama.

When you are asked to try a cigarette you want to know, and you ought to know, what that cigarette has meant to people who smoke it all the time. For a full year now, a medical specialist has given a group of Chesterfield smokers thorough examinations every two months. He reports: no adverse effects to their nose, throat or sinuses from smoking Chesterfields. More and more men and women all over the country are finding out every day that Chesterfield is best for them.

Enjoy your smoking! Try Much Milder Chesterfield with its extraordinarily good taste.

Copyright 1953, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

(REPUBLICANS TO HOLD STATE MEETING OF COLLEGIANS IN UNION TOMORROW

Representatives of ten North Carolina colleges will be on the Davidson campus Saturday, April 11, as they attend the annual spring meeting of the Republican College Council. The meeting will get underway at 3:30 p.m. in the Green Room of the College Union and continue until later in the evening. The program calls for a business session under the direction of State Young Republican Vice President Tad Currie, a Davidson senior, and a banquet to be held in the YMCA Guest House with State President Ivan Harrah of Winston-Salem the speaker. Colleges which will send delegations are Davidson, Duke University, Lees-McRae College, Lenoir-Rhyne, Pfeiffer College, University of North Carolina, North Carolina State College, East Carolina College, Women’s College of UNC, and Guilford. About twenty-five North Carolina Young Republican voting delegates are expected. Business to come before the convention will be the approval of a new Constitution, ratification of a revised financial plan, and the election of officers. Delegates to the national convention to be held in Rapid City, South Dakota, during June will also be named. Officers of the Davidson College Young Republican Club, which is the host club, are Tad Currie, president; Mac Williamson, vice president; and Hobart Martin, secretary-treasurer. Any Davidson student interested in attending either the meeting or the banquet are asked to contact any of the officers and make reservations.

CAT TALES: Continued From Page 3

College itself to subsidize more; or else to abolish athletic scholarships and play teams that don’t subsidize. Granted, if we chose the latter course, there would be few banner headlines in the daily papers on Davidson’s athletic events. But for my money, no headlines at all is better than a running stream of headlines proclaiming Davidson “trounced,” “shaded,” “edged,” “walloped,” etcetera. It would be better, it seems to us, because the game would be given back to the boys who play it.