THE HOT DAVIDSONIAN

Largest Summer Newspaper That We Know Of

Volume

AGAIN THE MELONS

Watermelons are on tap again tonight at the College Union for everyone who has time off from studies for some fun. Things will get under way about 8:30, and will continue till the melons are gone. Start off the last week before exams with some refreshments.

EXAM SCHEDULE
9:00-12:00 Wednesday, July 22
Bible 11
Biology 12
Business 51
Chemistry 12
Chemistry 22
Chemistry 32
Economics 22
German 12
History 61
Mathematics 11
Physics 12
Psychology 21

2:00-5:00 Wednesday, July 22
Business 52
English 22
History 71
Mathematics 12
Psychology 52

NOTICE

We hope that this weekly announcement sheet will be coming out second semester of summer school also. If you have any news for it, or time to spare on it, you're welcome.

Dear Henry:

I simply want to thank you on behalf of the students and staff for the good job "The Hot Davidsonian" has done in keeping us all informed of what is going on in the summer school. Our appreciation goes too, to all those who have helped in this project and especially Ernest Brown.

We will miss you next term.

Most sincerely,
C. Shaw Smith

SUMMER SCHOOL SIZZLER

Gentlemen running around the campus are loudly proclaiming that this six-week battle with heat and profs has been "the stupidest thing I've ever done." But it's about over now, and the prospect of approaching exams has made everyone drool for joy.

For those who would study for exams, the only advice would be that from the still shaking Yancy Robertson to stay away from a haunted fraternity row. Since the dormitories are noisy, and the library closed or hot, it looks like nothing is left except to throw in the towel and take a week's vacation before the summer vacation.

Several methods have been discovered for taking advantage of that week's vacation. "Man on the Tight Wire" proved inspirational to some; playing hide-and-seek with Houdini to others. Some just enjoy bull sessions or flashlight duels with Cop.

The eight-hour wonders, though, are still faithful to their jovial dads in the labs, and from them we haven't heard a word in years.

With just six reviews and two exams left to go, we're about through with the session anyway. We hope the professors can be convinced next session that even though a day is a week, it's just twenty-four hours long.