---

Page 2
LIBRARY HOT BUT OPEN

Dusty columns of books are keeping cleaners, if not students, busy at the library during this summer session. Six or eight regular students wander in and out through the day, but most of the time the dormitories, which have fans, are finding more use.

Dr. Davidson has announced, however, that the library is open for the use of those who need to do a day's hard study or research work. Its hours are shortened somewhat, and its night closing time is according to the number of students studying there.

All the facilities of the library are open for the summer months. Freshmen may be interested in wandering around and finding out the geography of the place. The Davidsoniana room on the second floor should be called to special attention for its collections of books, etc.

The Gray Library works on the open stack system, a system which is seldom used in colleges and universities. With it, students may browse at will among the stacks, and may choose the books they check out of their own accord.

Library hours for the summer are as follows:

Monday - Thursday: 9-12, 2-6, 7-11
Friday: Closed at night; Saturday: open in the morning. The library is closed on Sunday.

THE GYM

If you ever get sick of studying and sunbathing, the gym is open for you to tire yourself out in. Open each weekday, with the swimming pool open from two till five-forty-five, the gym provides all its facilities for student use.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

July 2, 1953
THE SUMMER SCHOOL SIZZLER

Tuesday, June last:
We couldn't write that again in ink this morning, because of the beads of summer dew that kept dropping off our nose and smearing the ink, so we proceeded to tell Prof. Ratliff that we needed a suntan so we wouldn't blister this weekend at Myrtle, and to tiptoe out of the room.

We didn't get all the way out of Chambers, though, because we went the wrong way and ended up at a water cooler surrounded by 12 air conditioning systems in what is called the Administration Offices. We had to press on, though, because dinner was near.

Reaching the Oven, otherwise called the College Union, we wondered how in the world it got such a good heating system. The servers of fried shoe sole at Murphey's Turkish Bath wondered how too, especially during the summertime.

The tea had ice in it though, and it and a rack of "billiards" at Joe's Pool Hall cooled things off and got us to thinking about more pleasant subjects.

It sounds like there are going to be about 120 declarations of independence Thursday, July 2, and the new nation will be called Tyrt Drivia, or something like that. The rebels of Davidson to the man have taken the revolutionary motto: "It'll be ours."

A few odd(?) boys will be getting their first vacation from Bagby, Fulcher, etc., Inc., Tailor Superb. Others will just be heading out for another weekend in a home freezer trying to stop feeling like a sun-bleached butter pat.

The summer school's half gone, and the prospects of a weekend of sleeping till noon and swimming till midnight are good. Good luck and good driving (the life you save may be your own). See you Monday morning, bright and early.

Basketballs, footballs, handballs, etc. are all available to be checked out, as well as baskets for each student.