(See Cat Tales)

CONFERENCE SPLIT PLEASES DAVIDSON

The Davidsonian

ALENDA CURRUSBI ORTA LIBERTAS

REBEL INVASION SMASHES D.C. DEFENSES (See Pics., Page 4)

VOLUME XLI

Johnson, Bremer Head Senior Class

With few officers remaining to be elected, the elections for the school year 1953-54 are nearing completion. The junior class has elected Charlie Johnson as its president for the coming school year. This popular president-elect of Sigma Chi, is from Greenville, South Carolina and was also president of his class this year, as well as Secretary-Treasurer of the sophomore class. Johnny Bremer is the new vice-president of next year’s senior class and will be serving as a class officer for the first time. He hails from Wilmington, North Carolina and is also the new president of Kappa Sigma in addition to being one of Davidson’s star tennis players. “Toto” Williamson, Jr. has been elected Secretary-Treasurer of the rising senior class. He is a Kappa Sig from Fayetteville, North Carolina. The sophomores chose Floyd Feeney of Charlotte, North Carolina as their president for next year. Floyd is very active in extracurricular activities including the Davidsonian, “D” Club, and track team. This Kappa Sig is also a B+ student and will do honors work in history next year. Clark Reed of Ft. Lauderdale, Florida has been chosen vice-president.

(Continued On Page Four)

Sig Up Initiates; Has Annual Picnic

Faculty members of Sigma Upsilon, honorary literary fraternity, gave their annual supper for all student members Friday, May 8, at 6:30 p.m. The supper, prepared by le grand chef Dr. Goldiere, consisted of hamburgers, cheeseburgers, coffee, and ice cream; and the place of the feast was the barbecue pit near Erwin Lodge. After the supper, a meeting was held inside Erwin Lodge; and the first business was the initiation of six new members. Those who officially became members by kissing the Scarab are Ronnie Wilson, Norman Johnson, Vereen Bell, Bob Hayes, Moodie Smith, and Mac Williamson. Highlights of the program of the meeting were two short stories by John Ottley and Vereen Bell and an ode to the American farmer, Frank, who had just completed a hard day's work, by Shaw Smith, which was, and we quote, “Frank stank!” New officers were also elected, with the following members winning respective offices: Don Mahy — President, Alden Williams — Vice President, Norman Johnson — Secretary and Treasurer, and at present there is a struggle between Mac Bulgin and Dr. Chalmers for Food Chairman. All members enjoyed the supper, as did Professor Leabengood, retired Master of the graduate school of Princeton University, who was Sig Up’s guest for the supper and the following meeting.

MAN SENDS COLLEGE DAVIDSON’S PISTOLS

By HENRY C. BROCKMANN

Out of the rubbish of a little cared-for historical museum in a Charlotte library a citizen of Charlotte some time ago rescued two pistols, old and worn with the years, reputed to be those of General William Lee Davidson. Recently, knowing of no better place to put the valuable relics for safekeeping, this citizen presented them to General Davidson's namesake, Davidson College. The two pistols, packed away in their ancient holsters, now await an adequate display case in the College's Library. They once had a recorded history in the first Charlotte public library, along with many other famous antiques of colonial and early independent days, but with the passing of years interest waned for the library’s museum, and what records existed were misplaced or lost, and today there is no record to prove the identity of the possessions of the Revolutionary hero. The author, however, asserts that it is very unlikely that the General wore them when he met his death in battle. The British and Tories, after killing the General, are said to have stripped him and left him naked on the banks of the Catawba. The pistols are interesting relics of the Revolutionary days of the late eighteenth century. Their holster was made to fit a horse above the saddle, so that they could easily be reached in an emergency. Dr. Davidson is interested in finding out more about the workings of the pistols. Modern military inventions are strange to our untrained eyes, but the colonials did their part also to make life complicated!

Chief participants in the Commencement weekend Alumni Association President, and Mr. John Payne.

GRADUATION WEEKEND

By MAURICE CROUSE

The 1953 Commencement exercises of Davidson College will be held May 30 through June 1. Highlights of the three-day exercises include Alumni Day and a concert by Gladys Swarthout on Saturday, the Baccalaureate Sermon Sunday morning, and the graduation of 180 seniors Monday. May 30 is Alumni Day, with activities beginning with a meeting of the executive committee of the Alumni Council at 10 a.m. The entire Alumni Council will meet at 11 a.m. Alumni Association President Osborne Bethea will preside over both meetings. At noon, 14 classes and the Old Guard will hold reunions in front of Chambers Building. It will be the Golden Anniversary of 1903 and the Silver Anniversary of 1928. Reunions will be held for the Old Guard (1870-1902) and the classes of 1912, 1913, 1914, 1915, 1916, 1922, 1923, 1935, 1936, 1937, 1938, and 1948. After pictures of the various groups are made, they will adjourn to rooms in Chambers Building to meet old pals and renew old acquaintances. The high spot of the day will be the alumni luncheon at 1 p.m. on the front campus. All alumni, seniors, their parents, faculty and administration members, and guests are invited to attend. The principal speaker will be Dr. John R. Cunningham, President of Davidson College. Other speakers will be Mr. Osborne Bethea, Alumni Association President, and Mr. John Payne.

To Aged Wonders

Bald heads and false teeth scored victory once again, says stalwart Pete Whittle, leader of the aged followers of culture in the senior class in the “Davidson Olympics of 1953.” The stiff-legged crew from the executive offices were granted victory in two of the day’s games with the seniors. In tennis and golf they scraped by victorious with only minor scars. Softball proved a catastrophe for the bearded wonders, and in volleyball they floated into despair as player Chalmers Davidson pooped out in the last two points. Thus the day ended in a tie, at least temporarily. The warring factions joined for a fish-fry. But here a new weapon was introduced, the horseshoe. Here would be the deciding event. But the event was decided the wrong way — the seniors won. The despairing oldsters then resorted to the games of childhood, and in a breath-taking bottle sucking match Master H. Baumann led his faculty comrades to victory. With their false teeth extracted, they swept the field from the handicapped Atlases from the dormitories. But this time the day was not clinched in tie. An immoral victory was claimed by the ancients, who, after

Papacy Tops List Of Alumni Books

Alumni of Davidson College have turned in a variety of subjects in publications during this school year. Of the books published by the alumni, several have vaulted to nationwide fame within a matter of months. To John P. McKnight’s The Papacy went the Mayflower Cup for the best book of the year 1952 published by a North Carolinian. McKnight, a graduate in the Class of 1928, has been a newspaperman most of his life, and was in overseas service with the Associated Press from 1931-1949. The Papacy is the fruit of his final tour of duty with AP, at Rome, where he covered major post-war news issues. He has been writing on his own since 1949. The autobiography of Mary T. Martin Sloop, one of the first women alumnae of Davidson, was published this spring. The life of the famous doctor, who was American Mother of the Year in 1951, has been recorded in Miracle in the Hills. LeGette Blythe, who holds a D. Lit. from Davidson, assisted Dr. Sloop in the writing of the book. Dr. Sloop is the daughter of Col. W. J. Martin, a former Chemistry Professor at Davidson. A book of poetry, Driftwood, unusual for a Davidson man, was released this year by Thomas Burnett Swann of the Class of 1950. Born in Tampa, Florida, Swann attended Davidson and Duke in his undergraduate work, and is now in the United States Navy as a personnel specialist. Philosophies Men Live By came this year from the pen of Robert F. Davidson, a Davidson graduate who has also attended Oxford on a Rhodes Scholarship and Yale University, where he received his Ph.D. in 1937. Shelby T. McCloy, another Rhodes Scholar, of the Class of 1918, has written French Inventions of the 18th Century. He is the author of a number of scholarly works. Mid-Point for ’28, a history of the Class of 1928 for its Silver Anniversary which will be this Commencement, was written this year by Dr. Chalmers Davidson, member of the present faculty and graduate in the Class of '28. Other books published during the course of the year by Davidson alumni are Double-Talk, a Korean-English language book by James Wilson Kerr; History of the Second Presbyterian Church In Charlotte, by Robert H. Lafferty of the Class of 1878; John L. Lewis and the International Union by Rex Walton Lauck of the Class of 1941; and the Harper Handbook of College Composition, by Harry Shaw of the Class of 1926.Such a strenuous day, heartily the chapel program put on by the Spaniards, being featured along with several Davidson students whose names have understandably long since been forgotten. Coach A. H. Whittle had wise words for his brave but vanquished enemy: “This class made it more interesting than $1 and $2.” 

As far as has been ascertained at press time, this is the only case on record of a non-male being initiated into any sort of fraternity at Davidson.

MISS ANNE BROYLES

Something of a precedent was recently broken when the local honorary Spanish fraternity initiated a girl into membership. She is Anne Broyles of Davidson, a student at Davidson College. 

The losers are not without comfort. After all, they will have a chance to get even during exams.

The 1953 Quips and Cranks are shown above. From left to right, they are: Top, President J. R. Cunningham of Davidson and concert singer Gladys Swarthout. Bottom, Mr. G. H. Little, Graduation speaker, Dr. Marshall Dendy, Baccalaureate speaker, Mr. Osborne Bethea.

TO FEATURE SWARTHOUT

Tired Seniors Bow

Quips and Cranks who even had to resort to a diaper delights to beat a versatile afternoon and continuing Saturday given to members of the student body in Award Day Exercises. To Gene Bargeron went the coveted David H. Howard Chemistry Scholarship of $250 for the coming school year. The Mrs. F. J. Hayes Bible Medal was awarded by Professor Charles Eberhardt to Bill Kuykendall of the Freshman Class. The Phifer Scholarship to an Economics or Business Major went to two men this year, Clarence Morrison and Don Reid.

The Agnes Sentelle Brown Award, presented by Dr. J. R. Cunningham to the Davidson man outstanding in personality, character, intellectual ability, and scholarship went this year to Bill Hood of the Junior Class. Joe Dudley, outstanding in athletics during his years in Davidson, won the Tommy Peters Award. This award, named in memory of one of Davidson’s most outstanding athletes, was awarded to Joe for his great record of activity and leadership in Davidson athletics.

To conclude the exercises, the names of outstanding awards given this year were recounted. The Vereen Bell Creative Writing Award went to George Bason of the Senior Class; the Willa Cather Award to John Ottley of the Senior Class; a Baker Scholarship to Linny Baker of the Freshman Class, and Union Carbide Scholarships to Joe Conarroe and Perrin Anderson of the Freshman Class.

BULLETIN

Viewers of Gary Moore's regular mid-day program on last Wednesday saw the likable comedian use the recent SCRIPTS AND PRANKS parody, SLIME, on his network show. After reading a letter from SLIME editors, Moore obliged them and the college by posing before the T.V. cameras with the SLIME issue. 

Friends of the college are urged to attend. The annual Senior Class Day exercises will be held at 4 p.m. in Chambers Auditorium. Gladys Swarthout, the famous mezzo-soprano, will present a concert in Chambers Auditorium at 8:15 p.m. as a special treat for all those attending the Commencement exercises. No admission is to be charged. The Baccalaureate Sermon will be delivered Sunday morning at 11 a.m. by Dr. Marshall Coleman Dendy of Richmond. Dr. Dendy is executive secretary of the Board of Christian Education of the Presbyterian Church.

(Continued On Page Four)

Given At Union

The 1953 Quips and Cranks will be available to students in the Green Room of the College Union beginning at one o'clock Friday morning and Monday afternoon and night. Students and faculty members are urged to pick up their copies at these times. Dedicated to Professor A. G. Griffin, and with a theme that recalls the Davidson of fifty years ago, the annual this year includes a number of additional features over past editions. Junior’s fraternities are listed in that class section, and full names are used in all class sections, with the students’ usual names, not initials, being used in the other sections. For the purpose of greater distinction in membership, no freshmen are included in the honoraries section. Individual names are stamped in gold on the covers, and the annual features an unusual treatment for inclusion of Who's Who members. By delaying for a late publication date, the staff was able to include spring elections to membership in Phi Beta Kappa and O. D. K. Sponsors and beauty queens have their home towns and colleges listed with their names. For organizations having separate officers each semester, both sets of officers were listed. As the book shows, the staff this year has attempted to include as many students as possible in informal pictures and to picture all fraternities equally. The beauty section features a picture of Cecil B. deMille at his

(Continued On Page Four)

HUNTER STRADER

The retirement of two of Davidson’s best-loved professors, Dr. Edwin F. Shewmake and Dr. Guy R. Vowles, was announced to the board of trustees in February. The two educators have a combined total of 59 years of service to the college. Dr. Shewmake, although born in Minto, North Dakota, has lived in the South for all but a few weeks of his childhood. The ranking faculty member from the point of service, he joined the English department in 1919 after some ten years of experience in secondary schools. He received the B.A. degree from William and Mary in 1908, took his master's degree at Columbia in 1914, and was awarded the Ph.D. degree from Virginia in 1920. Dr. Shewmake's ten years of secondary teaching included positions at Newport News High School, Norfolk Academy, and Staunton, Virginia, where he served as principal of the local high school. He is the author of numerous books and articles including “College English Composition”, “English Pronunciation in Eastern Virginia”, “Literature Notebook”, “Standards and Tendencies in American Speech”, “On Class”, “Poetry in Public Worship”, “The Race Question and Southern Youth”, and others. Dr. Shewmake married the former Cornelia Margaret Switzer in 1914 and has two children, Mrs. Elizabeth Harrington, and Edwin Francis, II, ’41.

Dr. Vowles, who is a native of Fargo, North Dakota, joined the Davidson faculty in 1925 as professor of German. A Rhodes Scholar, he studied at Oxford for three years after receiving his B.A. degree from Fargo College. Oxford awarded him a B.A. and M.A. and he received his Ph.D. from the University of Chicago in 1926. Fargo College awarded him an honorary Litt.D. in 1919. Before coming to Davidson, he served as dean of Fargo College, assistant to the president of the University of North Dakota, and as instructor in German at the University of Chicago. Among his literary contributions are several books and numerous articles for the American Oxonian, German Quarterly, Modern Language Journal, Books Abroad, and Classical Philology. Dr. Vowles is a past president of the South Atlantic Modern Language Association and is currently serving as president of the Davidson Lions Club. He and Mrs. Vowles, the former Ella M. Beckman of Moorehead, Minnesota, have one son, Richard Beckman, '38, who is on the faculty of the University of Florida.

Alpha Epsilon Delta, honorary pre-medical fraternity, concluded its yearly activities on Wednesday night with the initiation of new members, Jim Hamilton, Charlie Hassell, Jim Faires, and Lee Scott. These men, all rising seniors, have attained an average of B or better in their science courses as well as in their aggregate average. Under the leadership of president Bob Poston, AED has presented a number of series and lectures which, although primarily offered for pre-medical students, have proved to be in some cases of general interest to the entire student body. The film probably receiving the largest attendance was a technicolor production featuring the debut of four real babes, quadruplets by Caesarean section. On two other occasions films were shown, one on the functioning of the artificial kidney and the other on ulcers of the gastro-intestinal tract. The latter film was accompanied by a lecture by Dr. Gunn in which he illustrated the manner in which a physician could use knowledge gained from pre-med courses in diagnosing such cases. One of the greatest aids to Davidson students who are interested in entering medical schools is the annual program sponsored by AED through which the deans of admission of the three North Carolina medical schools visit Davidson. Students are thus afforded the opportunity of meeting and talking with the men who may later be judging their ability to successfully enter the field of medicine. In addition, such a program lends insight into the very nature of medical schools, their similarities and differences, their general requirements, and the methods they use in evaluating applicants. During this semester Dr. J. E. Markee of

(Continued On Page Four)

Vowles Retire

afternoon, the 26th. The Interfraternity Council expressed its appreciation to the fraternities for considering at length the proposals raised in the past week or ten days. A spokesman for the Council also urged every fraternity man on the campus to familiarize himself with the rushing regulations, to be published soon, as there are a few changes of a minor nature.

TOMMY DOVE GIVEN TRAVELING GRANT

Thomas C. Dove, a member of the present sophomore class, was recently awarded a grant of $300 to use for a European tour this summer. He was one of twenty-one students in the nation to receive such an award, and he was the only representative of the Carolinas. The contest in which he won the grant was the 16th Annual Scholarship Contest sponsored by the Students’ International Travel Association. SITA is a tax-paying New York corporation which operates Educational and Adventure Tours throughout the world, and all of its profits in excess of reserve requirements are allocated to scholarships and educational use through their annual contests.