DIPLOMA DEPLORED IN DERISIVE EDITORIALS VOL. XLII The Davidsonian ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C., FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1953

Officers Named Tuesday For DC Scabbard & Blade
By TOM WARLICK

At a special regimental formation Tuesday, nine seniors, officers in the ROTC, and two cadre officers of the United States Army were tapped for membership in Company B, Fifth Regiment of the National Society of Scabbard and Blade. Seniors tapped were Dan McCall, Graeme Keith, Bill Glidewell, Bill Coe, Johnny Gray, Neil Graham, Don Reid, Mike York, and Lyman Kaiser.

DAN McCALL
Dan McCall from Marion, N.C., is a member of the Beta Theta Pi fraternity. He is a member of the “D” Club, varsity football player, member of Sigma Delta Psi, honorary Spanish fraternity, member of the Court of Control, and a first lieutenant in the ROTC.

GRAEME KEITH
Graeme Keith from Greenwood, S.C., serves as captain of Company E in the ROTC. He is a member of Beta Theta Pi fraternity, which he serves as IFC representative. Having lettered in both basketball and golf, he is a member of the “D” Club.

BILL COE
Bill Coe from Weathersfield, Conn., is an economics major. He holds the rank of lieutenant colonel, serving as commander of the First Battalion. A member of the SAE fraternity, he competes in varsity wrestling and track. He is also a member of Sigma Delta Psi, honorary athletic fraternity.

BILL GLIDEWELL
Bill Glidewell from Mayodan, N.C., is majoring in economics. He is a member of Beta Theta Pi, the “D” Club, having lettered in baseball, and is a major in the ROTC.

JOHNNY GRAY
Johnny Gray, from Statesville, N.C., is a member of Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity. Star quarterback for the Davidson Wildcats, he is a member of the “D” Club and plays varsity baseball.

NEIL GRAHAM
Neil Graham from Hamlet, N.C., is majoring in economics. He is a member of the Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity. He is alternate captain of the football team and a member of the “D” Club. In the ROTC he holds the rank of lieutenant colonel, serving as the regimental executive officer.

DON REID
Don Reid from Winston-Salem, N.C., is also an economics major. He is a member of the “D” Club, having lettered in wrestling and track. He is a member of the Phi Gamma Delta fraternity.

MIKE YORK
Mike York from Kernersville, N.C., is majoring in psychology. He is a member of the YMCA cabinet, president of the International Relations Club, treasurer of Phi Gamma Delta, and business manager of Scripts 'n Pranks.

LYMAN KISER
Lyman Kiser, from Raleigh, N.C., is a major in the ROTC. He is president of the Student Body and a member of Omicron Delta Kappa.

(Continued On Page Four)

Fall ROTC Inspection To Be Held Tuesday

The Davidson College ROTC unit will be visited on Tuesday, November 10, by Major General Edward T. Williams, Deputy Commanding General of the Third Army. General Williams will inspect the ROTC facilities and meet with the President of the College. He will be accompanied by Lt. Col. Emory and Lt. C. H. Childers of the Third Army Headquarters, and Col. H. C. Settle of the North Carolina Military District.

General Williams was born in Michigan and graduated from the United States Military Academy in 1920. He is also a graduate of the Field Artillery School, the Command and General Staff College, and the National War College. Among his decorations are the Distinguished Service Medal, the Legion of Merit, and the Bronze Star.

Westminster Group Makes Church Study; Seeks New Members

Believing that Christianity can best be expressed through a denomination, the members of the Westminster Fellowship are trying to learn how to be good members of their own church. They feel that there is a definite need on the campus for specific outlets for Christian faith, and that being related to a denomination gives them these outlets. They have just completed a series of programs on “What Is a Christian?” and are embarking on a study of the doctrines and governmental structure of the Presbyterian Church.

The members are looking forward to the convention of Presbyterian students in Auburn, Alabama, this coming December 29, through January 1st. They are studying books in preparation for this gathering to which students from all over the South will come to study “The Christian’s Mission.” All Presbyterian students are eligible to attend the convention and can enroll through their home church.

President Leighton McCutchen stressed that the organization has a membership of participation and that any student is welcome to attend and take part in the work. The membership of the organization is divided into five areas of concern: Faith, Witness, Outreach, Citizenship, and Fellowship. The meetings are held on Sunday evenings at 6:30 in the Student Lounge of the Davidson College Presbyterian Church.

Maugham’s “Quartet” Next Flick At Union

Somerset Maugham, master of the short story, receives tribute in the new Eagle Lion Films’ release, “Quartet,” which makes one full-length feature out of four of his most famous short stories, and which will have two showings Saturday in the College Union at 7:00 p.m. and 9:00 p.m.

W. Somerset Maugham’s “Quartet” was adapted for films because, in the words of Sydney Box who produced it for J. Arthur Rank, “I have thought for a long time that writers do not get sufficient prominence on the screen. Stars and directors—not to mention producers—have so far cornered most of the credit. ‘Quartet’ tries to put the writer in proper perspective as the most important single element in picture-making; and what better example could have been chosen than W. Somerset Maugham?”

Many of his novels have been brought to the screen, “Of Human Bondage,” “The Razor’s Edge,” “The Moon and Sixpence” to mention a few—but until “Quartet,” the writer himself has never appeared in a picture. Here he delivers the prologue.

SIGMA UPSILON TAPS; HOLDS JOINT MEET

The Davidson Blue Pencil chapter of Sigma Upsilon, honorary literary fraternity, will hold a joint meeting with the Queens College Cakes and Ale chapter. This joint meeting will begin at 8 o’clock tonight.

Eight budding authors were elected to membership in the organization at the October 29 meeting in the Sigma Chi house. The new members include Dunbar Ogden, Ed Stuart, Fred Myers, Scott Ball, Bob Mims, Paul Pinckney, Adolfo Cash, and Professor Benjamin H. Wilson. In addition to these new members, Professor James Southall Wilson, visiting professor of English, was extended associate membership in the chapter.

At an earlier meeting, October 15, held in the Green Room of the College Union, Malcolm Williamson read his short story, “Excavating on a Greek Ship.” Sigma Upsilon projects include another continued novel, in which a different member of the fraternity writes each chapter. Also on the project list is a booklet to be entitled “Davidson Days of Davidson Greats.” This booklet will describe the Davidson period in the lives of famous graduates and students. Another special event for the Blue Pencil chapter will be the annual meeting with the faculty and faculty wives, to be held later in the year.

WOLFE HERE FRIDAY IN D. C. ARTIST SERIES

James Wolfe, brilliant young pianist, will appear at Davidson, next Friday, November 13, at 8:15 p.m. This program will be the second of the presentations of the Artist Series.

Mr. Wolfe received his early music education in his native Omaha, Nebraska. Later he studied at the University of Michigan where he became a friend of Mr. Donald Plott, Director of Davidson’s Music Department. While on duty with the navy in the Pacific areas during World War II, he was asked to appear with the Honolulu Symphony. His success was so great that he appeared in concert annually in Hawaii for four consecutive years. Later he was commissioned to write the music score for the film, “Father Damien,” a story of the founding of Hawaii’s leper colony.

After his Navy discharge Wolfe returned to the University of Michigan for his Master's degree in music. Shortly thereafter he began an active concert career, appearing as soloist with many of the nation’s outstanding musical organizations. During the past summer he appeared as soloist under James Christian Pfohl at the music festivals in Brevard and Asheville, North Carolina, and recently performed with the Charlotte Symphony.

The program to be given at Davidson will appeal to a large number of people, for included in it are selections by Beethoven, Chopin, Debussy, Villa-Lobos and other equally famous composers.

In the semi-annual tap ceremony of Scabbard and Blade last Tuesday afternoon nine officers were honored. Shown above is a scene from the tap ceremony.

CONVERSE STORMED AS BAND RETURNS FROM FURMAN TILT
By WATT McCAIN

Even after the October 24 half-time performance in Greenville was done, the show went right on—to Converse. Davidson’s sixty sport-coated bandsmen, returning through Spartanburg from the Davidson-Furman game, staged a surprise musical attack, glockenspiel and all, on the serenity of Converse’s autumned campus. And the Muses themselves could not have made more joyous serenades to the delighted young ladies of the college.

Having assembled unusually quietly outside their two Trailways buses, the members blared out with “O Davidson” and paraded over the grounds, fronted by two acting majorettes from Queens, who were being hauled back to Charlotte. Director Kenneth Moore retired to the shade of a tree. The tooters noisily halted in front of the main building where a crowd of amazed females had quickly gathered. With the band’s playing their standard “Dixie,” the girls’ amazement gave way to sheer enjoyment. After a few more marches, Mason Field, Harry Orr, Dave Phaff, Ed Price, JohnShannon and Curtis Ellison gathered round and ad-libbed “The Saints” in their best Carnegie Hall Jazz Concert style. Although the band's repertoire had been exhausted several times, a suggestion that they leave met with squeals of disapproval from the audience. Dunbar Ogden finally realized his wish and the musicians were invited into the parlor for an hour of fellowship. (Continued on Page Four)

STEAM SHOVELS STRANGLE STONY SILENCE

NO. 7

Excavation Begun Wednesday For Construction Of W. H. Belk Dormitory

Students’ sleep might lose out to the awful roar of caterpillar tractors or steam shovels; boys might leave West Dormitory by the caravan; but Belk Hall is under way.

J. A. McGEACHY, SR. | FOREIGN STUDENT

The Davidsonian reports with regret the recent death of John Alexander McGeachy, Sr., father of Dr. McGeachy who teaches history at Davidson. Mr. McGeachy, Sr., died on Wednesday, October 28, after a few weeks illness. The funeral service was held at the Highland Presbyterian Church where he was an elder. Mr. McGeachy was born in St. Pauls, N.C., in 1874. He had two children, a son and a daughter. He had been a retired businessman for several years before his illness. Mr. McGeachy, who was 79, had lived in Fayetteville, N.C., most of his life.

Frosh Campus Ends; Name Tags Removed

According to the judge of the Court of Control, Fred Stowe, the freshman campus from October 26 to November 2, worked effectively. There were, however, several frosh who broke campus during last weekend. Their names were turned in to the court and were dealt with accordingly. Judge Stowe also clarified the policy of the court pertaining to those who were granted leave at some time during the campus. This policy is to have another campus for such individuals. Freshmen name tags were legally removed last Monday, November 2. Judge Stowe and the members of the court are hoping that the court will meet less frequently in the future. The court will not meet every Friday in the future unless the number of charges warrants such action.

Riflemen Meet ORMI; Set Schedule of Meets

The Davidson rifle team will open its 1953-54 season here Thursday with a match against Oak Ridge Military Institute. The forty-two match schedule for the coming year includes six shoulder-to-shoulder and thirty-six postal matches. The team will be led by Captain Bob Garrison and lettermen Lee Scott, L. H. Robertson, George Cousar, and Bill Morris. New additions to the team this year are G. M. Cannon, Don Pilkenton, Bob Alexander, Bob Sloop, and Ben Roper. Last year's team had a successful season, winning 32 of its 43 matches. The Wildcat riflemen also finished fourth in the competition for the Hearst Trophy and fifth in the Third Army Area intercollegiate competition.

DISCUSSION SET

Miss Laura Barney, a representative of the Institute of International Education, New York City, visited Davidson College on November 5. She discussed with foreign students their study programs and their general adjustment to American college life. As a representative of the central private agency in the U.S. in the exchange of students, teachers, and specialists, Miss Barney discussed with college and university personnel the problems of foreign student placement and studied the means of increasing the exchange of students between the U.S. and other countries. The Institute was established in 1919 to promote such exchange in order to further world understanding. Miss Barney, who is head of the European Division of the Institute's Foreign Student Department, is on a field trip through several southern states. At Davidson, she talked with foreign students and with their academic and extracurricular advisers. She also discussed foreign study opportunities for American students. There are two Institute-related students at Davidson College this year. They are Mr. Bruno Eynard of Italy and Mr. Erik Rund.

DR. DEPP RETURNS TO DAVIDSON FOR SUNDAY SERVICE

Dr. Mark Depp is no stranger to the Davidson campus, as he has led special services similar to those just completed as well as regular preaching visits. His extensive formal education culminated with an honorary Doctor of Divinity degree from Allegheny College. Varied church work in Virginia, Maryland, and the District of Columbia was interrupted by his service during the First World War as an Army chaplain. After the war, he served in such large churches as St. Marks in Baltimore, Calvary Church in Washington, and Christ Church in Pittsburgh. In October 1945, Dr. Depp went to Centenary Church, Winston-Salem. Since then he has been active in civic organizations and has been on several committees in this community. The wideness of his appeal is illustrated by the fact that both pastor’s schools, preaching missions, and summer assemblies, such as Lake Junaluska, N.C., and Massanetta Springs, Va., have invited him as guest speaker. We welcome Dr. Depp to our pulpit Sunday night.

CONTRACTORS PLAN COMPLETION IN 1955

By HENRY BROCKMANN

Excavation for construction of the $800,000 W. H. Belk Hall began Wednesday morning of this week. Actual construction is scheduled to begin shortly, and Thompson and Street, contractors, say that the building should be completed in early 1955. The huge edifice, scheduled to house some 300 students, the ROTC Department, and the rifle range, will be located in the area immediately behind Georgia Dormitory. The area between it and Chambers building will form a quadrangle when Georgia has been torn down.

ROTC Building Moves

Before construction work can begin, it will be necessary to move the present ROTC building and the residence of C. W. Stacks, manager of the laundry. The ROTC building will be moved to the present location of the supply building, the supply building being moved 60 feet to the right. In the final plans, these two buildings will serve as shop and storage buildings. The Stack’s residence will be moved across the road to the area adjacent to the laundry. During construction, classes will continue as usual in the ROTC building. Treasurer Grier Martin has announced that Crouch Brothers of Mooresville, experts in heavy moving, will move the ROTC building with little interruption of activities therein. The new dormitory will have four floors. The ROTC department will be located in the first basement with the rifle range in the sub-basement. There will be a lounge on the first floor, and Mrs. Little’s office will be located on that floor. In every dorm room, there will be a lavatory, built-in storage cabinets, two closets, and asphalt tile floors. The architect for Belk Dorm was Raymond Weeks of Durham. He was also the designer of the gymnasium. The contractor, Thompson and Street, also built Duke Dormitory, the Church, Ovens College Union, Johnston Gymnasium, the Science Building, and the Library. The structure is to be named W. H. Belk Hall in consideration of the long service of the late Charlotte business executive as the senior trustee of Davidson and of the gifts of his family and business associates.

Faculty Scholarship Committee Appointed To Assist Seniors

President Cunningham has announced the appointment of a new Faculty Committee on Graduate Scholarships and Fellowships which will coordinate efforts and activities of the college which seeks to assist seniors who are applying for graduate scholarships and fellowships. In the case of scholarships which require that a candidate have institutional approval or nomination, the committee will have authority to make the nominations. At present, the committee is composed of Professors Cumming, Eberhardt, Gallent, Guerrant, Watts, and Abernethy (chairman). This committee will make announcements and dispense information about scholarships and fellowships regularly through the Davidsonian. The following scholarships and fellowships have not previously been announced here:

Undergraduate Research Stipends

The Social Science Research Council (726 Jackson Place, N.W., Washington, D.C.) has announced 40 Undergraduate Research Stipends to be awarded to college juniors who will devote eight weeks or more during the summer between their junior and senior years to research under the guidance of designated faculty supervisors. It is expected that the research will be brought to completion as a part of the student’s work during the senior year. First-Year Graduate Study Fellowships will be offered at the end of their senior year to those holders of Undergraduate Research Stipends who have shown superior promise of making successful careers in the scientific study of human behavior. Normally the holder of an Undergraduate Research Stipend will receive a stipend of $600 plus a possible allowance for research expenses. The faculty advisor will normally receive an honorarium of $600. The stipend for the First-Year Graduate Study Fellowships has been set at $1,500. Further information may be secured from Prof. G. L. Abernethy.

FORD FOUNDATION

For the third successive year, the Ford Foundation is offering a large number of foreign study and research grants to enable younger American men and women of ability to begin or continue study concerning Asia, the Near and Middle East. College seniors are eligible for these awards which will be made for periods of one to three years. Study may be undertaken in this country or abroad. Applications must be submitted before January 8, 1954. Application forms may be obtained from the Ford Foundation Board on Overseas Training and Research, 575 Madison Avenue, New York 22, N.Y. Further information may be secured from Professor G. L. Abernethy.

College Union Buys More New Records

The College Union has recently purchased a group of fine recordings which were chosen by various students. It so happened that every record which was requested by a student was purchased in this last order. Union officials are open for any suggestion that a student might have about records, so make your requests at the desk. Of course, it will be impossible for the officials to buy every request each time, but each suggestion will be given due consideration.