HONORARY | FRATERNITY SCHEDULE (See Page Four) VOL. XLII

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C., FRIDAY, OCTOBER 23, 1953

900 ALUMNI COME

ODK Holds Meeting, Hood Names Editors For Annual; 1954 Quips and Cranks Underway

Selections have been announced for the Quips and Cranks annual staff for the coming year. They are bracketed into three groups: the senior editors, the managing editors, and the photographers.

The board of senior editors this year will be headed by Bill Hood, Editor-in-chief. The two Associate Editors are Bill Moffett and Winston Wright. The four Assistant Editors that round out the staff are Will Terry, Jim Cannon, Tom Ligon, and Kent Mitchell.

BILL HOOD

In the group of managing editors, each class in school is represented. Dunbar Ogden holds the reins for the senior class, and Swain Loy for the juniors. The sophomore and freshman classes are represented by John Fite and Jim Marshall, respectively.

WINSTON WRIGHT

In the feature section of the annual, Dee Helm heads the opening section, Harry Brownlee the activities, Sticky Henson the sports, Gilbert Gragg the honorary fraternities, Leighton Green the social fraternities, and Steve Norton is in charge of snapshots.

Photographers who have previously done work with the annual this year and who will probably continue to do so, are Andy Simons, who is president of the Camera Club, Sam Sells, Jack Scott, and Jim Robinson.

Bill Hood, Wallace, N.C., who is Editor-in-chief, has had many honors bestowed upon him. Perhaps the most outstanding is the fact he is the only present student member on the campus of both Omicron Delta Kappa and Phi Beta Kappa. He is a pre-med major and president of Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity.

BILL MOFFETT

Bill Moffett, Jackson, Miss., one of the associate editors, has been prominent in all three student publications on the campus, in addition to being assistant editor of the Wildcat Handbook. A member of Kappa Sigma fraternity, Bill is a history major.

KENT MITCHELL

Winston Wright, Cramerton, N.C., is the features editor for the annual. He is a member of Pi Kappa Phi fraternity.

Jim Cannon, Hartsville, S.C., is in charge of the fraternities for the coming year. A former business manager for the Scripts and Pranks, Jim has served time on two of the campus publications. He is a Business major and a member of Kappa Sigma fraternity.

WILL TERRY

Tom Ligon, Greenville, S.C., is the head man in the sports department. He is a member of the regimental staff of the ROTC and a member of Sigma Chi fraternity.

Kent Mitchell, New Orleans, La., is this year’s copy editor. A Business major, Kent is also a member of Alpha Tau Omega fraternity.

Will Terry, Durham, N.C., is the class editor. Will is president of the Eu Literary Society and on (Continued On Page Four)

DANFORTH OFFERS GRAD FELLOWSHIPS

The Danforth Foundation of St. Louis, Missouri, invites applications for the third class (1954) of Graduate Fellowships for college seniors and recent graduates who are preparing themselves for a career of college teaching, and are planning to enter graduate school in September, 1954, for their first year of graduate study.

The Foundation welcomes applicants from the fields of Natural Sciences, Social Sciences, Humanities, and other fields of specialization to be found in the undergraduate college.

President J. R. Cunningham has named Prof. G. L. Abernethy as the liaison officer to work with the Danforth Foundation at Davidson on the selection of candidates. These appointments are primarily “a relationship of encouragement,” carrying a promise of financial aid within prescribed conditions as there may be need.

Students with or without financial need are invited to apply. A Danforth Fellow is allowed to carry other scholarship appointments, such as Fulbright, Woodrow Wilson, G.E.B., etc.

All Danforth Fellows will participate in the annual Danforth Foundation Conference on Teaching, to be held at Camp Miniwanca in Michigan next September.

The qualifications of the candidate as listed in the announcement from the Foundation are:

Evidence of superior intellectual ability in college record.
Good record of health and emotional stability.
(Continued on Page Four)

Union Officials In Rage; Lost And Found Piles Up

Union officials are fed up. Claims for articles at the Lost and Found desk are at a standstill. One student suggests that possibly others, like himself, forget what they have lost during review periods. At any rate, Director Smith threatens to dispose of any unclaimed items this weekend, although he has not yet decided how. It is understood that college decorum would not permit three brass balls to be hung outside the Union.

Items range from a blitzed ROTC torch to a gold ear bob. There’s a formal bow tie lost by somebody during last week’s rush, along with a rusty tie clasp, a deck of cards, a high school honor fraternity pin, and numbers of spectacle cases, mechanical pencils, and keys.

TO ANNUAL CONFAB | Plans Year's Projects

The Homecoming events of last Saturday planned for the alumni proved to be a great success, according to Mr. John Payne, Director of Alumni and Public Relations. Over nine hundred alumni and friends of the college were in attendance at the annual barbecue luncheon held on the South Court (back campus) at one o'clock.

The Wildcat Club met during the morning with a large attendance. The president, Olin Nisbet of Charlotte, presided at this meeting. Following this, the meeting of the Alumni Association was held with President Osborne Bethea presiding and installing Dr. Frank L. Jackson of Davidson and Rev. Dwight Moody Chalmers of Greenville, S.C., as the new president and vice president, respectively, of the organization. The president's report to the alumni was given by Dr. John R. Cunningham.

The alumni also attended the football game in the afternoon, and open house at the fraternity houses and faculty homes.

Plans for the year’s work were discussed at a recent meeting of Omicron Delta Kappa, honorary leadership fraternity. Details of the discussion were not made public, but it is understood that no large-scale project will be undertaken this semester. A tentative date for the fall tapping ceremony was set for the middle of November. At that time the eligible members of the senior class will be tapped and handed their scrolls of membership.

To be selected for membership in Omicron Delta Kappa a student must show high character, leadership and service in campus life, scholarship, fellowship, and consecration to democratic ideals.

Student members at the present time are Moody Smith, Bill Hood, Charles Williams, and Lyman Kiser. The active faculty members are professors Goldiere, McCutchan, and Puckett, and Coach Whittle. Officers of the Delta Circle are Bill Hood, president; Moody Smith, vice-president; Charles Williams, treasurer; Professor McCutchan, secretary; and Professor Goldiere, faculty adviser.

‘Y’ Offers A Trip To Attend U.N.

The YMCA Cabinet is offering to interested students the opportunity to attend a long weekend conference on the United Nations in New York City in early November. The Y car will be used as transportation and the expenses of the use of the car will be carried by the Y.

FALL SERVICES BRING DR. DOCHERTY TO DC NOVEMBER FIRST

Davidson’s fall services will be conducted this year by Dr. George Docherty, of New York Avenue Presbyterian Church, Washington, D.C., it was announced Wednesday. The title of the series will be “Concerning the Faith,” and messages are already scheduled for five different times. Sunday night, November 1, Dr. Docherty will begin the series in Vespers; and other sermons will be given in chapel Monday and Tuesday, November 2 and 3, and in the Student Union at seven o'clock on those nights. After the Monday night session, there will be a question and answer period and after the Tuesday night talk, there will be an all-freshman discussion period.

As is the usual case in the fall and spring services, Dr. Docherty will be available for personal conferences while he is here.

Eumanean, Philanthropic Start Yearly Program

“Creative Renaissance" was the theme of Philanthropic and Eumanean Literary Societies as they began their year’s activities with two meetings in October. The societies meet regularly on the first and third Monday of every month.

The Eumanean Society opened its first meeting with roll call and a devotional by Mr. Ligon. The newly installed president, Will Terry, then delivered his inaugural address in which he called upon each member for support and suggestions in revitalizing the structure of the society. A committee was appointed by the president for the purpose of planning a joint meeting with Philanthropic Literary Society to be held early in the school year. The program was given by Mr. Marshall who spoke on the trends of the society in his talk, “A Short History of Eumanean Society.”

In Eu’s last meeting Monday, the president appointed a new initiation committee and formed plans for the coming programs. Mr. Thornton then presented Mr. Howerton who delivered a reading on James Truslow Adams’ “The Mucker Rose.” A short discussion of the program followed with all of the members participating.

In Phi's first meeting of the year, Bob Crutchfield was duly installed as president of the society. He delivered his inaugural address, urging a return to the precepts held by the society's predecessors on writing, rhetoric, and literary appreciation. The members showed their approval by giving him a standing ovation.

The program, presented by Mr. Williams, consisted of a series of heated orations centered around the subject of religion. Speaking were Mr. Dunbar on “Transgression,” Mr. Jones on “Burning,” Mr. Lee on “Prayer,” and Mr. Cooper who voiced his opinions on the pertinent question, “How many Angels can stand on the head of a needle?” Mr. Dunbar’s speech was voted the most outstanding by a panel of selected judges.

The last regular meeting of Phi was held on Monday, Oct. 19. After Mr. Kuykendall’s devotional and several committee reports (including a treasurer's report quoted from the book of Revelations), a new constitution was presented for the society's consideration and approval.

Prefaced by profuse parliamentary proceedings, Mr. Williamson’s program on “Pungent Patriotism,” was then given for the enlightenment of the members.

The National Student YMCA-YWCA United Nations Seminar will be composed of one hundred students from all parts of the country and will be held from Friday, November 13, to Sunday, November 15. The meeting place will be the United Nations Building itself and there are planned discussion groups, tours of the UN, meetings with UN delegates from home and abroad, and opportunity will be provided for seeing New York.

The purposes of the seminar, as set forth in its introductory brochure which is in the Y office here, are to visit the United Nations for close-up observation of its workings, to attend the General Assembly of the United Nations, to learn about the work of specialized agencies.of the United Nations, to interview members of the UN Secretariat, to meet UN delegates from this and other countries, and to share ideas and experiences with students from different parts of this country and the world. Inexpensive accommodations will be reserved at the Hotel Diplomat in the Times Square area for students requesting them. Special seminar rates are $2.50 per student per day. Registration fee, including the seminar dinner, is $7.50, and room and board are estimated to run about $15-$20. It is important that those who are interested in being Davidson's representatives to the seminar get their application in soon, because of the near proximity of the meeting in time and the necessity for making arrangements for transportation. Any student who wishes to go to New York for the United Nations seminar on November 13-15, should contact YMCA Secretary Sam Magill in his office in the College Union as soon as possible.

SENIORS MAY ENTER NATIONAL CONTEST

Davidson College seniors now have the chance to enter a nationwide thesis contest sponsored by the Freedoms Foundation at Valley Forge. Nominations for the College Senior Thesis Awards must be made by April 30, 1954. The Senior Thesis-Academic Awards Program seeks to alert collegiate youth of America to their responsibilities in the maintenance of the principles of this land of God and freedom and to inspire research that will create better understanding of the strength and principles of our political and economic system, based on our Constitution and Bill of Rights. Any college or university senior may submit his thesis of less than (Continued On Page Four)

EDITOR BLASTS MOLASSES BOYS (Editorials) NO. 5

Boarding Houses Unite For Common Frat Action

As a result of the near-crisis arising from the college’s decision last fall to require freshmen to eat in the Union cafeteria this semester, boarding house managers announced this week their plans for a closely knit interfraternity boarding house organization. The need for such an organization, which has been present for several years, was emphasized for the first time this year when the number of students allowed to eat at the boarding houses was cut by college action. Although no official meetings have been held yet, plans have been laid during informal discussions, and Jim Moore, the pro tem chairman, said that the main purpose of the group will be to give the boarding houses a means for concerted action in the future. The organization will be laid with the possibility of forming a voluntary chain, and plans include the setting up of standard wages and accounting procedures. A central purchasing office is possible if the financial pinch caused by loss of pledges to the Union is too great for the individual fraternities. Embryonic growth of the organization began last week when its request that freshmen who ate in the boarding houses during Homecoming be given rebates was granted. About 180 freshmen ate away from the cafeteria, and each was given a $1.50 refund. Credit for this agreement, which shows the willingness of the Union to cooperate with the boarding houses, was given to Mr. Shaw Smith, director of the Union. Mr. Smith emphasized that this agreement was not setting a precedent. Suggested names for the organization are Managerial Association and Inter-Boarding House Council (IBC). Membership will be made up of the boarding house managers, who are: Jim Moore, Kappa Sigma; Phil Koonce, Alpha Tau Omega; Rusty Goode, Beta Theta Pi; Henry Higgins, Pi Kappa Phi; Bob Owen, Pi Kappa Alpha; Fred Stowe, Sigma Phi Epsilon; Jere Witherspoon, Phi Delta Theta; Dave Burns, Sigma Alpha Epsilon; Charlie Hull, Kappa Alpha; Phil Howerton, Phi Gamma Delta; and Don Mahy, Sigma Chi. The first formal meeting of the group will be held next Tuesday night, where more definite plans will be made and officers will be elected.

Initial YMCA Forum On Political Morality In World Scene

Plans for the first major forum of the year are well under way, the chairman of the YMCA Forums Committee announced today. As in the past the objectives of the program are these: to stimulate a more active student interest in current issues that lie “behind the headlines,” to air Davidson opinion on these issues, and to expose this opinion to the challenge of information and thought from other points of view. The role of morality in international political decisions will serve as the general topic for the Fall Forum, to be held probably during the third week of November. The present plan is to hold the body of the forum on one day, utilizing the chapel period and an evening hour for the presentation of opposing principles and viewpoints and for discussion of these as they apply to specific issues confronting us as individuals and as nations. Outstanding speakers from the outside will keynote the alternatives, but students and faculty members will be invited to participate both in a panel discussion with the main speakers and in follow-up discussions subsequent to the forum itself. Typical questions for general discussion will include the following: “Does realistic thought and action on the national level exclude moral considerations?”; “If Christian principles have validity in international politics, how are they to be applied?”; “Is the national interest the most important obligation of a statesman who adheres to a particular code of ethics, Christian or otherwise?”. Specific issues in which these questions are implicit might include the question of the admission of Red China to the U.N., the use of atomic weapons, preventive warfare, liberation of countries under the Soviet heel, and others. The committee urges the student body to bring its questions for placement on the agenda, and to prepare for enthusiastic participation in this first major YMCA forum of the year.

‘Y' BOARD APPROVES EXPANDED BUDGET FOR PRESENT YEAR

At a recent meeting of the YMCA board of directors a Y budget for the present school year was adopted by a six to four vote of the members present. The budget adopted is larger by about $1,500 than the one for the past year. Routine operating expenses of the Y will be covered by the campus tax and other sources, while the Sunday Vesper offerings will be used in the Y's outreach and spiritual life activities. The budget, 1953-54: income Balance Forward (from 1952-53) .. $ 200 Student activities fees 4,000 Vesper Offerings 2,500 Total Income $6,700 Operating Expenses Share of YMCA Secretary's Salary $2,500 Automobile expense 250 Literature 18 National YMCA (Fair Share Plan) 400 Cabinet Retreat 120 Office Secretary 650 Office Expense 300 Conferences 200 General Secretary's Discretionary Fund 75 Total $4,320 Cabinet Expenses Publications and public relations Boy’s Work 15 Chapel 15 Deputations 28 Community work 100 Scouting 30 (Continued On Page Four)

Dr. Glenn Blackburn Vespers Speaker Next Sunday Night

The speaker for Vespers on Sunday evening will be Dr. J. Glenn Blackburn, pastor of the Wake Forest Baptist Church. Dr. Blackburn, a native of West Jefferson, N. C., received his education at Wake Forest College where he earned his A. B. degree, and at Southern Baptist Theological Seminary from which he received his Th. M. and Ph. D. Upon completing his work under a Teaching Fellowship in 1941, Dr. Blackburn became pastor of the First Baptist Church in Lumberton, N. C., in which capacity he served until he was made chaplain of Wake Forest College. Dr. Blackburn at the present time is chairman of the board of directors of the Biblical Recorder.

Costly “Lost Horizon,” Starring Colman, Wyatt, In Union October 24

Columbia Pictures heaped up more than $2,000,000, a million square feet of white plaster, bought a bale of wolfskins and set cameras grinding on “Lost Horizon,” a film version of James Hilton’s fantastic novel. The College Union is proud to announce that this film will be shown Saturday night at 8:15 p.m. Into this film the studio put a fortune, the director and cast put their best talents. No one is going to believe the story for five minutes; it is reasonable to think no one will forget it for hours. It has a curious and haunting quality, fetching deep into the emotions. Ronald Colman supplies another of his customarily able performances in the role of “Conway.” Jane Wyatt is astonishingly lovely as the girl who helped in the plan to bring “Conway” to Shangri-La. They have capable support from Margo, Edward Everett Horton, Sam Jaffe and Thomas Mitchell. “Lost Horizon” is one of the distinguished motion pictures of any year and a steady compelling screen experience. The regular admission of 25 cents will be charged.

SCIENCE FOUNDATION OFFERS SCHOLARSHIPS

The National Science Foundation has recently announced that it plans to award approximately 750 graduate and post-doctoral fellowships for study in the sciences for the 1954-1955 academic year. These fellowships which are open only to citizens of the United States will be awarded solely on the basis of ability. They are offered in the mathematical, physical, medical, biological and engineering sciences, including physical anthropology, psychology, (excluding clinical psychology), physical geography and interdisciplinary fields. Students studying for either their masters’ or doctoral degrees are eligible for graduate fellowships at the first year, intermediate or terminal year levels of graduate study. College seniors majoring in the sciences and who expect to receive a baccalaureate degree during the 1953-1954 academic year are encouraged to apply for the awards. Individuals who have received a doctoral degree or who can produce evidence of training in a field of science equivalent to the training represented by a doctoral degree in science are eligible to apply for a postdoctoral fellowship. The selection of predoctoral Fellows will be based on test scores of scientific aptitude and achievement, academic records, and recommendations regarding each candidate’s abilities. Postdoctoral applicants will not be required to take the examinations. The evaluation of each candidate's qualifications will be made by panels of scientists chosen by the National Academy of Sciences. The final selection of Fellows will be made by the National Science Foundation. The annual stipends for predoctoral Fellows range from $1400 to $1800; the stipend for postdoctoral Fellows is $3400. In addition to providing limited allowances for dependents and travel, tuition and certain required fees will be paid by the Foundation. The tenure of a fellowship is for one year and can be arranged to begin at any time after June 1, 1954, but normally must not be later than the beginning of the 1954-1955 academic year at the institution of the Fellow’s choice. In order to be considered for the 1954-1955 academic years, postdoctoral applications must be received in the Fellowship Office of the National Research Council by December 15, 1953 and graduate applications by January 4, 1954. Detailed information and application forms may be secured from the Fellowship Office, National Research Council, 2101 Constitution Avenue, N.W., Washington 25, D.C.