PAGE FOUR FRIDAY, APRIL 10, 1953

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Frank Hanshaw

BUSINESS MANAGER
Jack Hobson

ASSISTANT EDITOR
John Ottley

Associate Editors
Brinkley, Harter, Hope, Myers, M. G., Moylan, D.H. Hassell, J. M. Moore, Owens

Managing Editors
Sports Editor—Dick Roper
News Editor—D. M. Smith
Feature Editor—T. A. Williams
Arts Editor—Mahy
Assignments—Strand
Photographer—Simons

Assistant Business Manager
Poston

Advertising Manager
Hasty

Circulation Manager
Nicholson

Collection Manager
Douglas

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897.

Union Post Office Question Depends On Student Interest

Last fall the Davidsonian printed an editorial inquiring what provisions had been made for placing a post office in the
College Union. This information was requested as a result of the apparent interest on the part of many students who
sincerely wanted a post office established in the Union. Acting upon student interest, a detailed study of the possibilities of
this service was made by the administration. It was thought, however, that final approval should come from the student body
to show that the greater majority of the students were in favor of the proposal. A vote was taken at
the various fraternity meetings resulting in six favoring and five opposing the idea. We do not believe that this was
a valid count not only because it was taken in the heat of the freshmen eating controversy, but, also, due
to the fact that most men were not sufficiently informed about the matter. It is our desire in this editorial
to enumerate briefly several facts as they pertain to the student body and we recommend that a vote be taken
at the earliest possible date in order to arrive at a more valid and representative decision.

Mr. Martin, in a recent letter to Dr. Cunningham, has pointed out several reasons why a post office in the
Union would particularly benefit the students.

Convenience
It would reduce to a large extent the amount of time required each day for the necessary trips to and
from the town post office. If the mail service were incorporated in the Union, it would be on a direct
route from the dormitories to the fraternity or boarding houses. Students living in the village or in town might have
to walk farther for their mail, but chances are they would be on the campus when mail was delivered.

Mail Service
A suitable mail service would be worked out providing several deliveries each day. Although the mail would have to be
separated at the town post office and then brought to the Union, there would not be a great delay. Mail
would probably be distributed during the first period and would be available at the latest by chapel in the morning.
Another delivery would probably be made around supper. All college and student organizational correspondence as well as that for individuals
would be distributed free at the Union post office.

Finance
Boxes will be rented to the students at the flat rate of fifty cents per semester which is somewhat below
what is now being paid at the town post office. It is necessary that all students have a box in
order that the system function properly. Students may also rent a box in town if they so desire. Tentative plans
would include two additional student jobs each year to sort and distribute the mail. This would be paid for primarily
from the collection of box rents.

Location
The post office would be located in the southwest corner of the Union, with a direct entrance from the south
end of the building. We believe that the student body should seriously consider the advantages of a post office in
the Union not only to fill present needs but also requirements of years to come. As the student store, the
cafeteria, and better programs are incorporated in the Union, it will become more and more a center of student and
faculty activity. The administration has indicated that a post office could be incorporated into the plans if the students showed
sufficient interest.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

CABBAGE PLANTER: Roving Reporter Dials Wrong Number, Gets Phoney Operator

The world was all before them, where to choose Their place of rest, and Providence their guide. J. Milton.

By now most of the seniors have filled out at least one, and probably eight or ten application blanks for
needy companies that have been on the campus this spring. And even those who aren't seniors have surely signed a
deferment agreement for another needy organization, so Davidsonian readers are not unfamiliar with the fine art of futurity form finesse.
You know the type of application. It’s the one they draw up during the office Christmas party with a space
for your name and address like this: and like this for your telephone number: But how many of us, on
the other hand, know what happens to those forms once they have been filed with said needy firms? I didn’t
until the other day when I stopped by the Bell Telephone company in Charlotte to complain about a snippy-voiced operator
who willfully connected me with the Mint Museum of Art instead of Queens four times in a row Friday night.
It was right interesting sitting there in the office watching the operators playing practical jokes on hospital and long distance
calls.

By T. ALDEN WILLIAMS

But then I overheard somebody behind a desk say something about Davidson. There were a couple of boys talking, obviously
employees, one with a cigar and both with “Greensboro H.S.A.A.” in block letters across their sweat shirts. “Say Charley,” one
of them asked, “looka these applications from Davidson. Whadda we do, accept them like usual?” “Naw,” said Charley with the
cigar. “Boss says we gotta read them. We just got one job, and there’s two applications.” No-name counted them carefully.
“Awright, Charley, but you better do it out loud. You know how I am on this reading stuff.” As it
turned out Charley wasn’t too good on this reading stuff either, but he muddled his way through names, addresses and
marital status, Charley looked puzzled when he came to “Degree Received,” under “Education.” “This here B.S.,” he asked No-name, “‘is
that like one of them there M.D.'s?” “What's a M.D., Charley?” Charley read on down to “Employment and Business Experience;
Show any Bell System work.” Charley suddenly burst out laughing. He pushed the application in front of No-name and pointed
to an entry. “Looka here. Under it says ‘Show any Bell System work,’ this guy writes ‘Just press the button.’
Y’get it? See where he just writes ‘Press the button’? Ain’t that a killer?” No-name frowned, then laughed with Charley.
“Yeah, yeah, that’s pretty good. Keep reading, Charley.” Charley came to “Faculty Opinions,” slowed down, and stopped. “Whassa matter?” asked
No-name. “Words too big for ya?” “Naw, can’t read the writing.” Other subtleties, too, escaped Charley, not to mention No-name,
including where one applicant had filled in “Sweetbriar” after the question, “In which of the following broad areas do your
interests lie?” Having at last plowed through both applications, Charley still hadn’t made a choice. He turned to No-name. “You
seen the pictures these guys sent. You got any ideas?” No-name assumed a judicious air. “This first guy, he’s a
square. Y’see where he ain't got but a half-windsor knot in his tie. This other guy, though, he’s got a
double-loop knot — maybe even t’ree or four loops. He’sa guy yu’wanta hire.” This was good enough for Charley, who
stamped the second application “Accepted” and threw the first one away. He got up from the desk and relit his
cigar. “Let’s knock off for the day and shoot some pool. It’s been a tough morning.” “Okay Charley,” said No-name,
“only I don’t unnerstand . . .” “What don’t you understand?” “T still don't understand what he means, ‘Just press
the button.’”

D.C. Candidates Take Notice: Joe Has Answer

By D. H. OGDEN

The day was hotand dry and I ask just what that is, and why

I was sitting in Goomis's having my usual noon-hour lemonade and chatting with Max, who was indolently wiping off several
glasses.

“Who do ya’ reckon owns th’ blue Cadi parked outside?” he asked.

“Darned if I...”

“Hey, two whiskey sours — and make it snappy,” a voice a few seats down from me spoke up.

“Right...”

I saw but one fellow sitting there. When Max brought the sours, the fellow gulped his down and then turned
and poured the second into something on his left. I looked more closely and saw what appeared to be some
sort of metal machine sitting on the stool next to the stranger.

“Two more,” he ordered, whereupon the machine shook a bit and a light glowed on its top.

“All right, give him a sidecar,” our new companion mumbled. He again drank the sour and then poured the sidecar
into a slit on the machine. The light glowed a second time, but a little dimmer. I could not withhold
my curiosity any longer, so I rose and went over and seated myself next to the stranger.

“Pardon me,” I interrupted his pouring another sidecar into the machine, “but might I ask just what that is, and
why you are pouring those drinks into it?”

The small, sallow-complexioned man replied that that was Joe, and that it was celebrating another victory. He then drank about
half of his old-fashioned and turned and looked at me. I could see that he would become more talkative with
plying, so I inquired further:

“Well — ah — what sort of victory did Joe just win?”

“It swept an election on the second ballot not half an hour ago. It’s sorta’ tired and wants to loosen
up a bit.” The light still glowed on the machine, but was becoming fainter with each drink. “I think it
wants to get a little drunk right now.”

With a man pouring drinks down a machine next to me, I could believe almost anything, so I persisted.

“That’s pretty good, but how...”

“I know; you want to know how Joe won the election. Everybody wants to know how Joe won. Well, I’ll
tell you how. It’s a professional election winner...”

I ordered another lemonade.

“All you have to do, if you want to win an election, is hire Joe, an’ it'll do th’ job.
Two more sidecars, Max.”

I slipped off of my stool and walked around in order to get a closer look at Joe. At a
more careful inspection, the thing did have a general appearance of being robotish. Suddenly one of the things which resembled
an arm flopped loosely at its side.

“Better slow down — you're gettin’ looped,” grumbled the man to the machine.

“What is this hinged door for?” I asked, examining the piece of metal a little more closely.

“There is an extra hand in there which Joe uses for shaking people's hands. See his arms?” I nodded dubiously.
“One has a fist attached for pounding desks; the other contains an extra heavy spring for back-slapping.”

“Good idea — what's this?” I urged him on, pointing to what looked like a pair of white upper and
lower plates.

“That, buddy, is Joe’s big smile which he must wear at all times when running for any kind of office.”
He poured another old-fashioned into the election-winning machine, which shook again rather feebly, and continued. “See these records? He has
a speech for every kind of occasion and for every group hidden right in this compartment. He can talk to
the country boys or the preachers.”

“Max,” I said, “Another sidecar.”

(Continued On Page Four)

THE FREE LANCE: Local Guardians of Public Purity
By JOHN OTTLEY

Quick To Chastise

For most of us when it appears, however, one message of dismal tone seldom arises. If X said the student
magazine is a publication of varying delight to be read, perhaps read again and possibly sent home or to the
girl. At times we tend almost to take it for granted — it’s that much a part of Davidson life.
From time to time we may have some mild objection to a story printed in it or something which is
intended to be funny but doesn’t quite make the grade. This lack of student criticism is lamentable, but not a
thing to fret about.

For a certain group here its publication is no such simple matter. It is to them like handling detonators four
times a year. When the Scripts 'N’ Pranks hits the streets, they prick up their moral ears and wait with
nervous countenances. In the process of the mails many letters arrive in this hamlet concerning the magazine. The editor usually
receives many congratulatory notices and other assorted fan letters. In the group there is, however, one message of dismal tone.
It comes from a man whose words are like Olympian thunderbolts to certain folk around here. It is the alarum
bell, the spark which ignites those alerted minds.

What's in this fateful epistle? Is it word from the printers that the magazine still owes money to them? No,
it is a note hinting that there was something in the last issue which was of doubtful morality. For many
nights lights burn late in the offices of the grand inquisition. X has spoken and if he says there is
something off-color in the magazine, there is. Any of the judges who might not have noticed it had better read
it over so they can be of one mind when they put the editor on the grill. Of course, it
might be worth wondering why the editor is not queried until someone writes the inquisition about the issue, but in
this authoritarian paradise such a question seldom arises.

Free! --- Free! it is, it is.

All the members of the court read the issue. Despite the utmost of scrutiny, they have difficulty finding grounds for
a charge.

“Too sexy,” suggests one. Another starts to remind him that charge has been overworked, but hesitates. Another thinks of a
suggestive poster hung on a wall near a drink cooler where many faculty congregate, but hopes it will not be
brought into the case by the editor. “There is a scantily-clad girl there being stared at by a man with
more than her hometown on his mind,” he muses but remains silent.

“Bad for the name of the school,” suggests another. Many agree with the exception of an English professor who wonders
why the inquisition should pick a humor issue for this charge. He remembers several issues which have been mailed out
to the same public with literally lousy stories in them even.

(Continued On Page Four)

STARTING THURSDAY, APRIL 9 AND CONTINUES THRU SATURDAY, APRIL 18

YOUR SPRING ACCESSORIES
Shirts - Ties - Socks

YES—YOU CAN GET THESE ITEMS FREE—WITHOUT EXTRA COST—READ THE PLAN GIVEN BELOW:

With Each Spring or SUMMER SUIT Starting at $34.50, the Customer Will Receive FREE...
ONE $3.95 DRESS SHIRT
1 NECKTIE - 1 PR. SOCKS
HIS CHOICE IN THE STORE

With Each Sport Coat and Trouser Ensemble Starting at $34.50, The Customer Will Receive
ONE $3.95 DRESS SHIRT
ONE NECKTIE
HIS CHOICE IN THE STORE

WITH EACH SPORT COAT STARTING AT $22.50, THE CUSTOMER WILL RECEIVE FREE
ONE SPORT SHIRT
HIS CHOICE IN THE STORE

THIS OFFER STARTS THURSDAY, APRIL 9 AND CONTINUES THROUGH APRIL 18

These Suits, Ensembles and Sport Coats are all new—this season’s merchandise. We ask that you compare the prices with any
suits in town. The value is in the suit. The balance of the ensemble is FREE.

Newest styles in the new all wool Worsteds, Linen Weaves and Orlon, Nylon blends. Colors in light blue, navy, rust
and tan.

The Young Men’s Shop
“Clothing For Men”
116 N. Main St.
MOORESVILLE, N. C.
Phone 2-2371
