FEBRUARY 6, 1953

Just as many comedians long for a chance to play Hamlet, and dance band musicians to do a stint with a symphony orchestra, sports writers also find themselves occasionally wishing for a chance to step out of their own province to have a say on other affairs. So we hope you'll pardon this one concession to impulse while we campus critics add to the discussion on the bombshell dropped by the Faculty Committee on Fraternities last Monday night.

The proposed regulation of that committee which would require freshmen to take their meals at the new College Union cafeteria for their entire first year is calculated—whether or not intentionally—to work a great hardship on all fraternities on the campus, and it could well be the death knell for some of the smaller ones.

TWO MAIN PURPOSES OF PROPOSED RULE

The purposes of this new rule, as we understand it, are twofold: First, to make the College dining facilities self-sufficient; and second, to foster the growth of something called “class spirit” and “unity.” Now it is quite understandable why the College desires to avoid losing any more money on its dining facilities. We understand that they have been suffering a considerable loss on this service in recent months, with only a small number of students eating in the Dining Hall. Now, it seems, the College has figured out a way to avoid this loss—at the expense of the fraternities and their boarding houses.

These boarding houses are, of course, the last thread which holds fraternities together at Davidson. Except for the weekly meetings of the Greeks on Thursday nights, there are no other regular occasions on which all members of the fraternities are gathered together. The College years ago outlawed fraternity houses with living quarters, so we have to resort to the next best thing, which is the boarding house system.

BOARDING HOUSES NEED FRESHMEN

The only thing that makes these boarding houses operable at a reasonable fee to the individual members of the fraternities is the presence of a large group. Without freshmen, many of these boarding houses could no longer operate without charging an intolerable amount. So it seems pretty clear that if this proposed change in the College rules is approved by the Board of Trustees when it meets Feb. 18, the handwriting is on the wall for many fraternities.

Now, as we have said, we recognize the fact that the College is having a tough time financially. But is it fair to impose this burden on the fraternities? Should it have the power to make a freshman pay board to it, whether or not he wants to eat cafeteria food, in a room with two hundred people milling around? The College at present can compel students to be present at classes, chapel, and vespers. But it seems a little too overbearing to dictate to a boy the place he must take his meals for his whole first year in college.

IS “CLASS SPIRIT” NECESSARY?

The avowed purpose of fostering “class spirit” and “unity” may sound somewhat worthwhile at first. But just what is “class spirit”? The phrase implies rivalry. Rivalry between, or among, whom? For what purpose? Is this a necessary thing? Necessary for what? Why should the Class of ’53 be “better” than the Class of '54? School spirit and fraternity spirit we can understand. “Class spirit” not only sounds grammar schoolish but completely unnecessary.

But whatever the purposes or potential effects of this proposed change may be, the fact remains that if it is to be defeated, the impetus will have to come from the student body. If the students want to give up at the start, the measure will almost certainly be passed. The College, in its wisdom, has evidently decided this is the best thing for Davidson, and the Trustees will probably approve it unless the student body, through letters and actual discussions with the members of the Board, can show them what its real effect will be and convince them that the change is undesirable.

SMALL LOT

On Johnston Mats By GEORGE WHISMAN

A powerful Duke Blue Devil wrestling squad that has defeated N. C. State, Carolina, and Washington and Lee will be the opponent as Coach Charlie Parker’s grapplers go after their first win tomorrow afternoon at 2:30 in Johnston gymnasium. Both squads have met Carolina, with Carolina eking out a win over the Wildcats, while Duke beat Carolina, so it looks as if the Wildcats may be in for a lot of grunts and groans.

KEY BACK AT 123 LBS.

Bobby Joe Key, a flashy sophomore grappler and a holdover from last year’s squad will wrestle in the 123-pound division. Getting the assignment in the 130-pound division will be Charlie Murray. Either Ron Reid, junior holdover, or newcomer Hugh Neisler will handle the 137-pound competition. Most experienced of the Davidson wrestlers is senior Gene Craven who will be the Wildcat entry in the 147-pound class. Handling the duties in the 157-pound division will be John Buxton, a sophomore who has flashed signs of brilliance. Bill Coe is the Wildcats’ man in the 167-pound class.

TWO WEIGHTS NOT FILLED

At this time a definite entrant has not been selected for either the 177-pound class or the heavyweight division. In 177 competition (Continued On Page Four)

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Parker's Matmen Will Try Their Luck

Tennessee Here On Monday

By JOHN HANDLEY

A fading Wildcat quintet will go into action against South Carolina’s Gamecocks in Columbia in a Southern Conference skirmish. The victory-hungry Cats will be gunning for revenge for a 66-57 defeat which the Gamecocks handed them on the local floor back in January. The tussle with the South Carolinians starts a busy weekend for the Cats who face The Citadel on Saturday night in Charleston and then return to face a strong Tennessee club on the Johnston Gym boards on Monday night.

South Carolina, which faced State Wednesday night with a 7-8 record, had won three in a row at that point. Their most recent SC victims were Furman and Clemson.

PETERSON GAMECOCK LEADER

The Gamecocks are led by their senior center Johnny Peterson who had been averaging over 16 points a game in the 15-game string before the State encounter. The other four starters for South Carolina are all freshmen and sophomores as Coach Frank Johnson’s team is in a building year.

Saturday's opponent, The Citadel, has faced Southern Conference opposition six times this season and on each outing has been soundly beaten. The Cats hope to keep things this way when the two teams meet for the first time this year.

VOLS INVADE

The Volunteers of the University of Tennessee will visit the local gym with one of the better teams from the Southwestern conference on Monday hoping to make (Continued On Page Four)

King Leaves School, Will Go To Ohio

Davidson lost half of its top scoring combination this week when Guard Jerry King withdrew from school. King planned to transfer to a college in his native Ohio. King averaged a little over 14 points per game for 11 games this year. He and center Joe Dudley were the only consistent scoring combination the Cats had. King plans to enter either the University of Cincinnati or Ohio State University. Jerry has been contemplating the move for some time because he wanted to go to school a little closer to his native Hamilton, Ohio. He will play basketball if he can, but that was not his reason for the mid-year transfer. Coach Danny Miller has not yet decided on any permanent replacement for King. He will try freshman Bobby Cobb inThe guard slot, but plans to keep shifting his lineup till he finds a workable combination.

KAs Remain Undefeated As Season Hits Halfway Mark

By BUCK REINHARDT

The Kappa Alpha five continued to display their superior talent in the past week's interfraternity basketball action. The KAs now are the only team to possess a perfect record, having five victories without a defeat tucked under their belt. However, the Phi Delts are putting the pressure on the KAs for the honor of first place, by gaining undisputed possession of second place with victories over the Pi Kapps and Kappa Sigs in the recent action. These wins gave the Phi Delts five victories with only one defeat, and put the Phi Delts in position to sneak into first place through the backdoor.

Phi Delts 48; Pi Kapps 28

With championship form and an air-tight defense, the Phi Delts started a determined drive for first place with a 48-28 win over the Pi Kapps. Bill Bivins led the victors' attack by contributing 14 points to the Phi Delt cause. Arnold Whistnant was high man for the Pi Kapps with 10 points.

Kappa Sigs 39; ATO 36

The ATOs saw their hopes for the championship fade as the Kappa Sigs handed them their second defeat. George Lippard led the Kappa Sigs to the three-point verdict over the highly touted ATOs with 12 points. The ATOs' Baker was high point man for the game with 15 points.

Phi Gams 46; SPEs 22

The Phi Gams finally started their offense rolling, and they romped to a 46 to 22 victory over the SPEs. Joe Sugg led the Phi Gams, garnering 18 points to take scoring honors for the game.

Betas 48; PiKAs 39

The Betas tasted victory for the first time during the basketball campaign by downing a favorite Pika team, 48-39. Charlie Hasty was high for the Betas, while Lindley Beardsley took high point honors for the evening by scoring 19 points.

Sigma Chis 52; Campus Club 40

By piling up a 19-point lead at halftime, the Sigma Chis were able to coast to an easy win over the Campus Club. Tyler Berry led the winners with 11 points, while Clark Reid racked up 20 for the Campus Club.

KA 42; SAEs 36

It was a fight to the last, but the KAs managed to remain undefeated by downing the SAEs, 42 to 36. George King led the offensive-minded KAs with a 14-point total, while A. C. Gregg collected the same amount to pace the spirited SAEs.

Phi Delta Theta 47; Kappa Sigs 37

The Phi Delts continued their unwavering surge upward by dropping the Kappa Sigs. Although winning by 10 points, the Phi Delts were forced to cop the victory in an overtime by an aggressive Kappa Sig quintet.

THE STANDINGS*
Kappa Alpha
Phi Delta Theta
Pi Kappa Alpha
Sigma Chi
ATO
SAE
Kappa Sigs
Phi Gams
Betas
SPE
Campus Club
*Correct through Wednesday's games.

Wildcats Launch South Carolina Invasion, Against USC, Citadel

Catfish Host To ROTC Marksmen Set This Afternoon

Coach Carroll Hambright’s Catfish swimmers were set to take on N. C. State here this afternoon. Hambright believes his team is in better shape than it was last week when it was defeated by Carolina. Charlie Hull has improved considerably over his previous performances and was set to take over the brunt of the work in this department. Jim Bryan, who has been handicapped with a cold for some time, was expected to be in top shape for this afternoon’s event. Al Ormond swam his fastest laps of the year in last Tuesday’s practice session, and was expected to place high in that event this afternoon. Among the freshmen swimmers, Bo Abernathy has made outstanding progress in cutting his time, while Phil Hicks and Larry Parrott have recently slashed their old marks. The next meet for the Catfish swimmers will be with South Carolina next Tuesday. The USC team beat Hambright's charges in their first meeting of the season.

State Swimmers For Conference Meet

The lead will be flying thick and fast tomorrow afternoon in the ROTC rifle range as teams from all over the State compete for the top honors in the second half of the Southern Conference Rifle Tournament. ROTC teams from Duke, the University of North Carolina, State College, and Wake Forest will be visiting, with Davidson’s aggregation serving as host. The first half of the tournament, fired at Chapel Hill December 6, saw the Davidson team finish a strong third with 1702 points, only 33 behind the leading State Air Force ROTC team. Carolina’s Naval ROTC team now holds second place with 1708 points.

SAME TEAM COMPETES

The same team that fired in the first half of the tourney for Davidson will again go on the line tomorrow. Bill Morris, Bob Wearn, Jack Hobson, Bob Kimbrough, Bill Keiter, and Jim Teeter are the men who'll be depending on their shootin’ eyes to bring home the trophies.

And there’s plenty of hardware waiting to be won. The winning team will become the possessor of a large trophy, which will in turn become the possession of any team which manages to win it three times.

INDIVIDUAL TROPHIES

The high score man in the tournament will become the permanent owner of a trophy for this distinction, and the runner-up will receive a medal. Members of the winning team and also the high score man from each team will be given medals for permanent retention. The standings, as the tournament goes into its final half, are as follows:

Air Force ROTC, State 1735
Naval ROTC, UNC 1708
Army ROTC, Davidson 1702
Naval ROTC, Duke 1683
Army ROTC, State 1681
Air Force ROTC, UNC 1680
Air Force ROTC, Duke 1622
Army ROTC, Wake Forest 1585

The Cat riflemen have a very impressive 18-4 record to date. They have lost but two Shoulder-to-Shoulder matches, these two coming at the hands of VPI and Clemson. The two other losses came in Postal matches to St. Bonaventure and Montana State Universities. The members of the team include: Bob Garrison, Dick Hobson, Bill Keiter, Bob Wearn, L. H. Robertson, Bill Morris, Vic Scott, George Couser, Bob Kimbrough, Don Pilkenton, Jim Teeter, Mickey Canon, and Kenneth Parks.

Shown above are six members of Davidson's ROTC rifle team, which acts as host team tomorrow when the Southern Conference Tournament is held on the ROTC building range. Above, left to right, are: George Couser, Bill Keiter, Bob Wearn, Dick Hobson, Jim Teeter, and Bob Kimbrough.

Test CAMELS for 30 days - for MILDNESS and FLAVOR!

Only time will tell about a cigarette!