PAGE TWO

One Week Night Social Activities?

Since the completion of the College Union, the possibility of student organizations sponsoring social functions there during the week has arisen. At present, purely social gatherings are largely taboo at Davidson on any night except Saturday. Fraternities are also forbidden to schedule official functions during the school week. Naturally, difficulties arise in rulings such as this in regard to what exactly constitutes a social event and what does not. Recently, an honorary fraternity that had scheduled a joint meeting with a similar group from Queens was denied permission to hold a period of informal dancing in the union ballroom following the meeting on the grounds that such action would constitute a social function. Coffee-drinking and chit-chat, however, received administration endorsement.

The drawing of such a fine line of distinction as this appears, on the surface at least, to border somewhat on the ridiculous. But it actually points up the need for revision of the present rules on social gatherings in light of the addition to the campus of the Union. In this case, the administration was merely attempting to enforce to the best of its ability the present regulations. Conceivably, an even stricter interpretation of the present rule might have been given.

A change in the rules on social functions is certainly within the realm of possibility. There seems to be little predisposition either on the part of the faculty or the administration to forbid social activities at the union during the week merely for the sake of tradition or discipline of the student body. The chief bone of contention appears to be the fear that such activities would interfere with the proper preparation of school work. Now, this may be just the other side of the same coin, but we do not think so. If we as students really want a change on this issue, we can get one if we are willing to convince faculty and administration that we are ready to assume the responsibility of preparing school work no matter what is taking place on the campus.

There are those in the aforementioned groups who feel that they should be responsible for seeing to it that there are no distractions from studying at Davidson, or as few as possible. They feel that education is the foremost factor in college, and they are absolutely right in this latter respect. The opinion that introducing social functions, even on a limited basis, would create obstacles to learning is a definite possibility, but not an absolute truth. In our opinion, it is the responsibility of the individual student to prepare his work. If he fails, he and he alone is responsible. The Davidson man should be mature enough in matters of such import to make his own decisions and take the consequences, whatever they may be. The faculty member should not feel at fault if a student fails because he chose to go to a get-together at the union, or to do anything else, rather than study. It is the student who makes the decisions, and he is the one who suffers if he knowingly makes the wrong one.

The learning of responsibility is an important part of education, and the college man should be learning to forsake tempting pleasures when more important duties call. If he does not do this, he will never reach maturity. We do not advocate bringing unlimited social activity to the campus on every weeknight. Some restrictions will naturally be necessary. There are few who would tolerate turning the union into a country club on a night-to-night basis. But we can see no harm in relaxing the present regulations to the point where it would be possible to make use of the excellent ballroom and other facilities on more than one night out of the week if the occasions arose. It seems an economic waste to restrict their use so severely.

In fact, such a relaxation of the rules could conceivably make for the concentration of student life in the college community. We are making no startling revelation when we say frankly that there is no small amount of “goofing off” both on campus and off, during the week and on weekends at Davidson. Davidson students put in more than average time on the books, in comparison with students of other colleges, but there are few that study, or actually need to study, more than four hours a day. The temptation is to spend the extra time at the local flick, in Charlotte, or elsewhere.

In our opinion, it would be infinitely better to offer incentives in the form of social activities during the week occasionally, so that students who had already prepared the next day’s work would spend their time here in wholesome recreation rather than elsewhere in perhaps less healthy environmental circumstances. College is primarily a place to study... to do some hard sweating over the books. A lot of that is done at Davidson. There is also, and should be, some leisure time for recreation. We can think of no more healthy circumstances to spend our spare time than at an informal coeducational social gathering in the ample surroundings of the College Union. Occasional social functions during the week need not interfere with our primary purpose if we are willing to accept our responsibility in the matter. If the administration and faculty will see fit to give us a chance, we believe we will be able to see this point proved.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

Moody Smith, Charles Hasty, Jim Moore, Dick Roper, Bob Crutchfield, Charles Hassell, Buddy Lamon, Bob Owen, Hunter Strader, Henry Brockmann, Floyd Feeney, John Handley

News Editor — Austin Strand
Feature Editor — T. A. Williams
Art Editor — Don Mahy
Photographer — Andy Simons
Assignments — Blake Brinkerhoff
Asst. Business Manager — Ed Nicholson
Advertising Manager — Tommy Taylor
Circulation Manager — Dick Little
Collections Manager — Tommy Douglas

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1807.

CABBAGE PLANTER: In Spring Fancy Turns To...

Summer

A warmhearted and appreciative band of Davidson College students raised grateful voices in an evening-long tribute to friendship Monday. The hours-long demonstration of gratitude started twenty miles away at this county's only four-year men's college and wound up — as such ceremonies will — at Charlotte’s Queens, the area’s only four-year college for women.

A humble handful of students early in the evening grew into an enthusiastic crowd of well over 100 youths who tried in vain to repay the Queens student body for their generous year-in and year-out unrelenting proximity. They were joined by scores of tear-choked city, county, and state police to whom also, the demonstration meant so much.

Authorities agreed the demonstration was spontaneous and could be attributed only to youthful thoughtfulness and a pent-up gratitude which has been building up in Davidson men’s hearts over the years. It was Dr. C. C. Jernigan, president of Queens, who misinterpreted the grateful outburst. “Exuberant,” he called it. “Roisterous, too.”

Seeking earnestly a way to show Dr. Jernigan their sincerity, the exuberant roisterers hit upon a plan, as they termed it later, “to warm his skeptical reserve,” with cold soft beverages. As the doubting president hesitated, the thankful pilgrims mounted the steps of South Hall dormitory, motioned to gain attention, then said quietly: “All right, Dr. Jernigan, you've been fine; now let’s go down to the snack bar and we'll all buy you a Coke.”

The crowd then surged to the snack bar, and after a cold drink and a few administrative “Well, I don’t know...’s” it was all over, including the doubting, about 11 p.m.

Recalls Meccan Jaunts

The demonstration was reminiscent of the annual pilgrimages to Mecca staged by Mohammedans, and excursions to the shrine of St. Thomas a Becket celebrated in early English Book-of-the-Month selections. Last night’s crowd's objective was clear to all but once-bitten Queens authorities. Their incentive, pious Thanksgiving, was sometimes shrouded, however, and at times even rejected as the so-called “panty raids” of recent years.

A grateful committee briefly gained entrance to a girls’ dormitory but left immediately when it appeared that the hour was too late for social calling. “We were so thankful,” said a spokesman, “that I’m afraid we just didn't look at the clock.”

Among the letters in our incoming mail this week, we found this terse note from Queens. The letter also contained a diagram of the Queens campus showing favorable and unfavorable locations for an “attack” similar to Monday night’s. This diagram was very complete, even to the pinpointing of certain windows which would be left open in the event of a raid. Other Davidsonians were also recipients of mail from Queens, among them Lyman Kiser, who received a pair of black silk ? ? ? from an unnamed source. The owner may call at the desk of the Student Union.

This letter does not necessarily represent the opinion of the Davidsonian or its editors.

Dear Davidson Gentlemen,

Congratulations! We didn’t know you had the nerve. Better luck next time. If at first you don’t succeed, try, try again.

P.S. Enclosed is the layout of the campus.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

A Davidson Man’s

By T. ALDEN WILLIAMS

Whether you are a seasoned player, or one who aspires to a better game, put your...Faith in the Spalding Kro-Bat or the Spalding-made Wright & Ditson Davis Cup. These are the traditionally favored rackets wherever fast tennis is played. Made in overall weights, grip sizes, and flexibilities, to fit every player with custom-like accuracy. They are perfect companions to the Twins of Championship tennis balls... the Spalding and Wright & Ditson.

At Davidson, it was reported that a small group started the excursion in a voluntary long chapel after supper, and working through hall prayer leaders, enlisted student and professional help in the dormitories and one of the local theaters, briefly halting traffic to see how Davidson College President John R. Cunningham, who quickly opposed the suggestion of Davidson-Queens consolidation in Huntersville, expressed relief that no concrete steps were taken along this line. “I'm glad it didn’t grow into anything serious,” he said.

At Queens, students had all left campus as the result of an emergency three-day holiday when first reports indicated the delegation to be a rambling and raucous band of N.C. State arithmetic majors. One of them said later: “Oh fiddlesticks — they were all perfect.”

THE FREE LANCE: Hollywood lynch-mob stoppers or by the fact that they were not in the thing from the start is of no importance — the fact which we must recognize is that a small segment of the college tried to quell the mob Monday night, and made fools of themselves in so doing. Perhaps there was an image in one man’s head — an image of a water-drenched student body president standing before the yelling mob one night telling its members to go back to their rooms (after most of them had so done prior to his amateur theatrics). Deep in every man possibly there is some urge to be a hero, but that urge is not enough. One must be a hero at the proper time and in the proper way. As it was there were no grounds on which to appeal to the rioters inasmuch as they had no determined purpose. One man heard two local stalwarts say that there was no use destroying a hundred years’ reputation in one night. Aside from the immediate absurdity of the statement it might be worth our time to examine the nature of a reputation. Is it a living title, a device of 20th Century propaganda? Or rather is it not the impression in a great many minds as to the characteristics of some given feature of reality? It is a varying impression, but is it basically true or false?

For the last several weeks there has been a great deal of discussion and argument concerning the feeding of the freshmen next year. Of course, the Student Union would profit Davidson by serving in this capacity and apparently this centralization of the process of satisfying the thrice-daily food-consuming habit for first-year students would aid in building toward a firmer class unity. This seems quite logical. However, there is being raised a tremendous hue and cry from the boarding houses ‘round about. “We'll go broke!” wailed one of the matrons of these institutions into the ear of this author. Facing the seemingly stark and bitter facts of the matter, there will be a large depreciation in the number of boarders due to the lack of freshman eaters in said establishments. Thus, those who maintain the private eating works claim that there will be such a great deficit in funds that, “We're all gonna’ starve!” Cheer up, ye cooks and boarding house managers. You over-stuffed students can smile also, for we have the solution for the entire problem. One of the major expenditures in our boarding houses is that of meat. Behind the meat counters everywhere, butchers are becoming bankers as they demand more and more per pound for it.

By JOHN OTTLEY
FRIDAY, MAY 8, 1953

Protectors of “Reputation” Make Their Usual Showing

Whether inspired by years of, pose of some few here at old Davidson, Zion of North Mecklenburg, to attempt to mislead the public into thinking we are the best of possible schools amidst the worst of possible younger generations. In so being we are alone qualified to make a whole out of an ordinary young man. Of course, a deluded society is calling for moles on the assumption that, though they be clogged with undigested morals, they are at least better than the amoral youth which roam our nation and quietly gnaw at its moral fiber. The truth hurts and we have sensitive nerves. It is only the most fundamental of reasoning which shows us in a flash that if a riot has been taking place here for the last two springs the student body is potentially riotous. One can call it “youthful exuberance” or childishness or whatever one chooses, but the fact is there nonetheless. Furthermore, it is of facts that reputations are made of. Our reputation is not what we are not. The same holds for the fact that the Union is falling short in its collections for coffee and doughnuts, despite epigrammatic reminder notes and hints of forgetfulness. The fact is there that Davidson is not a nest of impeccable honesties. Reputations are such damnably superficial things. You hear a girl’s name and find to your amazement that she has a keen mind and a sweet personality. You hear of a family’s reputation and then see the most prominent son arrested for maintaining a brothel. Why must we always be fooling ourselves about Davidson? Why make the school out to be so vastly much more than it is? Perhaps it is a basic trait in Americans to think in terms of all perfection and no failure. This is quite nice and reassuring, but sadly unrealistic. It is such a blunt and unperceptive way to think. In the final analysis many of us do not think all things work together for the nice, but what throws us off is that we are trained to think instinctively in the over-optimistic vein. But all of this aside, those plucky souls who made an effort to halt the marching students are those who have gotten the real core of the college indoctrinated in their hearts. They are unsung, but they know within that they alone were right and the rest were “just an awful disgrace” as one put it. We wish the college could single them out to send a personal note to each of the crusaders, but to be a real martyr one must remain unrecognized. If we were in favor of martyrs, we would list some names, but they too often make such dull copy.

OGDEN DISCOVERS “SOLUTION” FOR FROSH EATING PROBLEM

In addition to solving the problem of the approaching boarding-house collapses, and in addition to adding innumerable taste-tantalizing treats to our tables, this extermination of Davidson’s dogs would add all the proper solemnity to our chapel programs, which seem to be continuously interrupted by uncalled-for yips and yowls. Numerous faculty members have complained of these distracting influences which are attracting more and more class window-gazers. One has even stated that the school average for the spring semester could be raised one whole point by the elimination of the Davidson canine element. Even our good PMS&T is heartily in favor of such a move in lieu of the extra hoard of dogs which invades the Tuesday drill field. The Colonel complains: “They just can’t keep in step and they never shine their brass.” If such a plan is carried through in our boarding houses, I too shall join the ranks of such mighty men as Bernarr McFadden, Sir Stafford Cripps, and George Bernard Shaw.

NEW CARS DRIVE-IT-YOURSELF
Dial 3-4513
Charlotte

Call for Coke

Everything’s in high gear at May Fete time... keeps you on the go. Good idea is to pause now and then for a Coke.

BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD, N.C.
“Coca-Cola” is a registered trademark © 1952, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY