PAGE TWO

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Frank Hanshaw

BUSINESS MANAGER
Jack Hobson

ASSISTANT EDITOR
John Ottley

Associate Editors
Brinkley, Harter, Hope, Myers, M. G., Moylan, D. H.

Managing Editors
Hassett, J. M. Moore, Owens

Sports Editor
Dick Roper

Feature Editor
T. A. Williams

News Editor
D. M. Smith

Arts Editor
Mahy

Photographer
Nicholson

Assistant Business Manager
Douglas

Advertising Manager
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897.

Circulation Manager
Collection Manager

A Challenge For 1953

Along with the rest of the world, Davidson students are faced with a new year 1953 and a feeling of uneasiness and insecurity as to the future. There seems to be no immediate solution to the pressing problems of the world about us. With the steady pace of mobilization and the not too colorful aspect of two or more years of military service, it would seem that there should be a general attitude of hopelessness and “what the hell” type of thinking prevalent among the students. But even if the situation is one of uncertainty, the type of attitude mentioned should certainly not be adopted if we expect to succeed in solving the problems facing us whatever they might be. We must face 1953 with an even stronger faith in God, confidence in this nation of ours to meet the crisis, and courage to meet the many tasks that will arise. We are quite familiar with the phrase—if there is any time when clear heads and resolute action is needed, it is now. And that is meant not only for our political leaders and people generally, but it particularly pertains to college students. Our job right now is to put to good use the opportunity that has been granted us for gaining education and training at Davidson. Our leaders have recognized the great need for college-trained men and have made it comparatively easy to obtain deferments. We can only deserve such an opportunity by using it in a manner for which it was granted. To do less is failing to meet our challenge for 1953 and the future.

An article in the current issue of Redbook gave this thought about the future: “Our trust in the future has been forged in the fires of our past, for we have known dark moments and have always risen above them. This year of 1953, with its threshold of hope and threat, is a strange anniversary year for young Americans. It's a time in which to remember the trials that have given us our strength.

“Look back for a moment to 1923 when a foul monster named Hitler spewed out the germs of World War II with his Munich Beer Hall Putsch. This abortive revolt changed the lives of all of us, but we survived the change.

“In 1933, this same Hitler became the Chancellor of Germany, thus opening an era of bloodshed and sacrifice. This has been a proving ground for young Americans. 1933 was also marked by troubles in our own land—a depression, unemployment, poverty, desperation. We came through it though.

"We came through it to find ourselves, in 1943, at war with Germany and Japan. There were 15 million young Americans under arms scattered all across the globe. We won our war. God willing, we'll keep on winning.

“And now it’s 1953. There should be no trembling over what lies ahead. Young Americans will regard the future as a challenge, because that's their nature. By meeting every challenge the past has hurled at them, they are prepared for tomorrow.”

CHARLOTTE NEWS:

Little Davidson Tops The Goliaths

Davidson College has done it again. History Senior Hubert N. Cannon’s selection as a Rhodes scholar brings to 10 the number of Davidsonians who have won the coveted Oxford scholarships. That is a record that no other university in the state, and few in the South, can equal. Recently Davidson has produced Rhodes scholars with almost perennial regularity. Charles T. Davis went to Oxford in 1950, Joseph J. Murray in 1951. John Victor Hunter of Winston-Salem, a finalist for this year's scholarship, missed out in the final selection, but won a Morehead fellowship. The extent of this scholastic accomplishment is realized when one puts together a few statistics. Thirty-two Americans are chosen annually, after rigid, exhaustive, nation-wide tests, as Rhodes scholars. In 1950, 1,560,392 men were enrolled in higher schools of learning in this country. So one man (men only are eligible for the scholarships) out of about every 49,000 students wins the award each year. Davidson, where the enrollment once reached a peak of about 1,000, now has 828 students. Thus, if the law of averages maintained, Davidson would soon be due for its first Rhodes scholarship of the century. That it has instead produced 10 since 1903 is proof a-plenty of its consistent production of well-rounded scholars. For Rhodes scholars must be all-around individuals. Cecil Rhodes, the British statesman-explorer who set up the scholarships, decreed

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Civilian Test

How Tough Is Enough?

By T. ALDEN WILLIAMS

Pauline now no more was there; a definite yes or no when they She burnt from pantalette to hair, But in the place where she had been A heap of ashes could be seen. August Henrich Hoffman.

We of the poker and ice hockey sex don’t spend much time with the women's cosmetics ads. However, we who date the sex that does, might have done well to have scanned a recent two-page effort by the makers of Revlon Lipstick in the November 10 Life. Designed “for you who love to flirt with fire . . . who dare to skate on thin ice...” the ad asked “What is the American girl made of? Sugar and spice and everything nice?” and then answered “Not since the days of the Gibson Girl! There’s a new American beauty . . . she’s tease and temptress, siren and gamin, dynamic and demure. Men find her slightly, delightfully baffling. Sometimes a little maddening. Yet they admit she's easily the most exciting woman in all the world. She's the ‘Fire and Ice’ girl.” Then in parentheses they add, as an afterthought, “(Are you?).”

I haven't dated any girls that sizzled and froze lately but it may be the coming thing, and worth investigating. They offer fifteen questions to determine one's relative fire and iciness. The quiz is much like Reader's Digest “How to Increase Your Word Potency” drills, only aimed, obviously, at another social virtue. For protection, as I say, we ought to know what the womenfolk are reading, and be ready with a definite yes or no when they pop Question No. 11, “Does gypsy music make you sad?”

As a public service, we've chosen eight of the advertisement’s questions for slight revision in the First Annual Davidsonian Quest for the Pipe Smoke and Absorbine Jr. Man.

(1) “Have you ever danced with your shoes off?” This one must reveal something.

(2) “When a recipe calls for one dash of bitters, do you think it’s better with two?” Seriously, how many men can cook?

(3) “Do you secretly hope the next woman you meet will be a psychiatrist?” “Hope” isn’t exactly the word.

(4) “Have you ever wanted to wear an ankle bracelet?” With a chain?

(5) “Do you think any woman really understands you?” “Think” is a poor word choice here, too.

(6) “Would you streak your hair with platinum without consulting your wife?” My wife, yes, but not without a word or two with my banker.

(7) “If tourist flights were running, would you take a trip to Mars?” And get freshman cuts again?

(8) “Do you close your eyes when you kiss?” It’s hard to tell about your eyes, but it’s a good idea to slam the door with your foot.

If you can honestly answer “yes” to at least eight of these questions, then you're made for Pipe Smoke and Absorbine Jr. Keep up with your woman. Wear PS and AJr.Tonight. See what a difference it makes.

AN OBITUARY

On Sunday, January 4, Wooglin went to dog heaven where he can dream of chasing rabbits all day and probably never catch them. He visited this life only long enough to hang up one Christmas stocking, and as champion barkers go he was a failure... white, floppy ears, and his ten weeks old legs all out of proportion. But he didn't mind. All Wooglin asked of life was a few square meals and an occasional pat on the head—maybe a rub behind the ears. In return, he gave his best, always his best. His life seemed dedicated to proving the old saying that man’s best friend is the dog, for Wooglin knew no stranger. And he knew no fear of the brown car.

Writing about a Davidson dog is not a new angle. Many D.C. mutts have wandered out onto the football field, stopped the game, and thus stumbled into newspaper fillers. But Wooglin’s potentialities seemed unlimited. He, alone in the canine world, was the first to participate in a basketball game, helping the JV’s beat Kannapolis YMCA, 63-52. His stay on our campus was short, but pleasant. His memory on our campus will be long and pleasant. Wooglin is survived by 816 students.

—M. G. M.

...pathy for the protection of the weak... and leadership qualities. So, our congratulations to the new Rhodes scholar, and...

REPORTS: Trustee Group, Faculty Meet

At the January 6 faculty meeting, elections were held for faculty standing committees. New members elected are:

Executive Committee: (no eligibility rules) Ex Officio: The President, The Deans of the Faculty and Students; Group chairman: THE FREE LANCE: FRIDAY, JANUARY 9, 1953

Stop Shying From New Writing, Feel Pulse of Modern Thinking

It is both interesting and disheartening to see how far many students of English here miss what is a good attitude toward what they read. A belief in authority and the pattern is very pronounced on this campus, but one cannot successfully prescribe a pattern for literature. For example, a man reads a novel and registers an unfavorable opinion of it because it did not follow the pattern of previous novels he had read. He complains that the work is disorganized. What could be more disorganized than life itself? Should everyone write precisely as his readers want him to do? In making a critical statement about any book one must seek to determine not how much the author succeeded in coddling the reader, but how well he expressed what he was attempting. That is not the sole criterion for judging literature, but an essential one.

At Davidson, many phases of our lives are presented in neatly packaged form. Our morals are more or less prescribed, our study habits, many of our ideas, because of this perhaps we grow accustomed to the package. There is no process of understanding involved, but only of acceptance and memorization. As a consequence, we shudder at a revolutionary style in anything—conversation, painting, or writing. “We don’t understand it!” we say. Surely we cannot be so deluded as to think that life in contemporary society will be packaged. It is a moving thing, hard-hitting. One cannot remain rooted in and hope to keep up with its thought. One need not surrender to its despair or nihilistic tendencies—that much Davidson can do for us, but we must not allow it to make us worshippers of the rut.

There are many who, having found some outstanding opiate, can honestly say they are not interested in keeping up with contemporary ideas. These men have already died—they are shells waiting out their appointed years until some failing of the flesh destroys the mere chemical substance left. Only a few years of productive thought are enjoyed by most men, and already we have dipped into the store. Let us be quick to absorb some of the wildness of the modern writing and some of its introspection and bluntness rather than shy from it because it previews a black and dismal battleground of man’s mind and soul.

A Southern Tragedy

Whether Davidson casanovas like it or not they are definitely in a bad position as far as romance is concerned. With only periodic freedom to dwell in the sparkling company of girls there is a great tendency to go all out for a sweet thing and then harbor memories of her in the ensuing month until...

(Continued On Page Four)

ARE YOU TOUGH ENOUGH FOR...

Can you “take it” 6 days a week? For 52 weeks? Can you meet the high standards required to be an Aviation Cadet? If you can—then here’s a man-size opportunity! An opportunity to serve your country and build a personal career that will fit you for responsible positions both in military and commercial aviation.

It won't be easy! Training discipline for Aviation Cadets is rigid. You'll work hard, study hard, play hard—especially for the first few weeks. But when it’s over, you'll be a pro—with a career ahead of you that will take you as far as you want to go. You graduate as a 2nd Lieutenant in the Air Force, with pay of $5,300.00 a year. And this is only the beginning—your opportunities for advancement are unlimited.

ARE YOU ELIGIBLE?

To qualify as an Aviation Cadet, you must have completed at least two years of college. This is a minimum requirement—it’s best if you stay in school and graduate. In addition, you must be between 19 and 26½ years, unmarried, and in good physical condition.

YOU CAN CHOOSE BETWEEN PILOT OR AIRCRAFT OBSERVER

If you choose to be an Aircraft Observer, your training will be in Navigation, Bombardment, Radar Operation, or Aircraft Performance Engineering.

New Aviation Cadet Training Classes Begin Every Few Weeks!

HERE'S WHAT TO DO:

1. Take a transcript of your college credits and a copy of your birth certificate to your nearest Air Force Base or Recruiting Station. Fill out the application they give you.
2. If the application is accepted, the Air Force will arrange for you to take a physical examination.
3. Next, you will be given a written and manual aptitude test.
4. If you pass your physical and other tests, you will be scheduled for an Aviation Cadet Class. The Selective Service Act allows you a four-month deferment while waiting for class assignment.

Where to get more details:

Visit your nearest Air Force Base or Air Force Recruiting Officer.

OR WRITE TO: AVIATION CADET HEADQUARTERS, U.S. AIR FORCE, WASHINGTON 25, D.C.

...to the institution and faculty members who helped shape his development. May he follow the distinguished tradition of other Oxonians from Davidson, men like Dean Rusk, president of the Rockefeller Foundation and former Assistant Secretary of State; the Rev. Benjamin R. Lacy, president of Union Theological Seminary; Dr. J. McDowell Richards, president of Columbia Theological Seminary and president of Davidson's board of trustees. Little Davidson may bow to the gridiron Goliaths, but it produces outstanding all-around students in numbers that should make the big education mills wince with envy.