PROFESSOR JOHNSTON INVADES TELEVISION VOL. XLII The Davidsonian ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS THE DAVIDSON MAN A GENTLEMAN? (Off-Moorings) DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C., FRIDAY, OCTOBER 30, 1953 NO. 6

At a recent meeting of the Gamma Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa, five seniors, Norman Johnson, Don Mahy, Bob Mitchell, Moody Smith, and John Wise were extended invitations to join the society. At present, three other seniors, Gary Daffin, Bill Hood, and Buford Price are members.

NORMAN JOHNSON
Norman Johnson from Rocky Mount, N.C., is taking honors in history. He is president of Le Cercle Francais, secretary of Sigma Chi fraternity, secretary-treasurer of Sigma Upsilon, member of the Honorary Fraternity Council, and the Philanthropic Literary Society, in addition to being a captain adjutant in the ROTC.

DON MAHY
Don Mahy from Lansdowne, Pa., is doing honors work in English Literature. A member of Sigma Chi fraternity, which he serves as boarding house manager, he is also president of Sigma Upsilon, secretary of the Honorary Fraternity Council, executive editor of Scrips ’n Pranks, and a member of the Philanthropic Literary Society. He was vice president of his class during his junior year.

BOB MITCHELL
Bob Mitchell from Goldsboro, N.C., is also doing honors work in history. A member of Sigma Chi, the Eumenean Literary Society, and Sigma Upsilon, he plans to go to graduate school after finishing Davidson.

(Continued On Page Four)

DEFERMENT TESTS DEADLINE NEARS
Selective Service officials today reminded college students that the deadline for submitting applications for the November 19 Selective Service College Qualification Test is midnight November 2 (Monday) and that applications postmarked after that time cannot be considered. Local boards have an adequate supply of test application blanks on hand for draft-eligible students. Students are to mail their completed applications to Educational Testing Service of Princeton, New Jersey.

To be eligible to apply for the college qualification test a student must (1) intend to request deferment as a student; (2) be satisfactorily pursuing a full-time course of instruction; and (3) must not have previously taken the Selective Service College Qualification Test. Another test will be held April 22, 1954, but students whose academic year will end in January 1954 have been urged to take the November 19, 1953 test so they will have a test score in their cover sheets before the end of their academic year, at which time their boards will reopen and reconsider their cases to determine whether they should be again deferred as students. The present criteria for deferment as an undergraduate student are either a satisfactory score (70) on the Selective Service College Qualification Test or specified rank.

(Continued On Page Four)

DON MAHY
NORMAN JOHNSON
MOODY SMITH
JOHN WISE

DAVIDSON RESERVE PLANS FOR YEAR
The Organized Reserve Corps at Davidson has begun its program for the year under the direction of Prof. Crawford, a lieutenant-colonel in the Organized Reserves. Part of the 108th Infantry Division of Charlotte, the O.R.C. better prepares the members to serve as officers in the regular army. At present time, all undergraduate members at Davidson are also enrolled in the senior ROTC program. Meeting each Wednesday night, Lieut. Col. Crawford is assisted by Col. Little of Lincoln Co., Major Harris of Kannapolis, and Capt. Ormsby of China Grove, all of whom have seen service with the regular army. Membership in the O.R.C. has one very distinct advantage: The men enrolled will be eligible for retirement from the Army one year earlier for each year they serve in the Organized Reserves.

Fraternity Pictures Taken For Annual
The first fraternity pictures for the annual were taken last night in the College Union. The following groups had their pictures made: Phi Delta Theta, Beta Theta Pi, S.A.E., Sigma Chi, A.T.O., and Phi Gamma Delta. All other fraternities will have their pictures taken next Thursday, unless there is a change of plans. The Quips and Cranks staff expresses its hope that each fraternity will cooperate to try to facilitate the making of these pictures. This year group fraternity pictures are being used instead of individual pictures. The staff feels that these group pictures will give the annual a little more variety than it has had in the past.

President John R. Cunningham of Davidson College has attended a study conference on the Churches and World Order in Cleveland, Ohio, which began on Wednesday and concluded today. Dr. Cunningham was a delegate to the national study conference as a special representative of the Presbyterian Church, U.S., and of the North Carolina Council of Churches. The conference was expected to attract some 850 delegates from all Protestant Churches in the country. Mrs. Mildred McAfee Horton, commander of the WAVES during World War II and former president of Wellesley College, was chairman of the conference. Among the speakers were Dr. Frank Graham, former president of the University of North Carolina. Dr. Graham led a discussion on India and Pakistan. The conference was sponsored by the National Council of Churches.

CAMERA CLUB HOLDS REGULAR MEETING IN COLLEGE UNION
The regular meeting of the Camera Club will be held on Tuesday, November 3, at 8:15 p.m. in the Green Room of the College Union, President Andy Simons announced. This is to be an open meeting, and all interested members of the student body and faculty are invited to attend. A discussion will be led by Mr. Bud Davis of Simpson’s Photo Service in Charlotte. Mr. Davis will speak at several Camera Club meetings later this year, and the subject of his talks will be determined by the discussion Tuesday night.

ALL SERVICES WILL BEGIN SUNDAY

Five Seniors Named For Phi Beta Kappa
JOHNSON, MAHY, MITCHELL, WISE, SMITH TAPPED BY N.C. GAMMA

STUDENT COUNCIL EMPHASIZES AIMS
It has always been the policy of the Student Council to stress and uphold the honor system here at Davidson; this is not its only function, however. Lyman Kiser, speaking for the Council, said that he feels that all student problems pertaining to such things as noise in dormitory and damage to school property should be handled by the student government Council. He states that if all such problems can be handled satisfactorily, the student-faculty relationship would be earmarked by an increasing congeniality in cooperation. According to Kiser, if this should be the case, as the council hopes, it could result in improvements both on student and faculty levels.

Twenty Men Apply For YMCA Excursion
Twenty men have made application to represent Davidson at the National Student YMCA-YWCA United Nations Seminar in New York City, November 13-15. Due to the large response, selection is pending on notification from YMCA-YWCA headquarters of a number limit, a report from the Davidson executive committee on the cut situation, and arrangement of transportation. Key speakers for the seminar announced this week are: M. M. Thomas, Indian Student Christian Movement leader, and vice-president of the World’s Student Christian Federation; Frank P. Graham, United Nations representative for India and Pakistan, and former president of the University of N.C.; Mrs. Oswald B. Lord, member of the U.S. delegation to the United Nations, and member of the commission on Human Rights. Other speakers will include: members of the UN Secretariat, staff members of the U.S. Mission to the United Nations, representatives of UN delegations of other countries, and national student YMCA-YWCA staff members. The purpose of the seminar is to give the student first-hand information regarding the function of the U.N. and an opportunity to see the detailed functions of the intricate organizations.

Johnston Moderator For Video
Dr. Frontis Johnston, chairman of the History Department here at Davidson, is currently acting as moderator for a series of WBTV television programs entitled “What Matters Most.” The program, which is broadcast from 8:00 to 8:30 on Monday evenings, is sponsored by the Charlotte Junior League. Each week a panel of prominent citizens discusses subjects related to the underlying theme of “Individual Responsibility.” Dr. Johnston graduated from Davidson, and after earning his master’s degree and doctorate returned here in 1935 as a member of the History Department. Dr. Johnston is regarded as one of the outstanding authorities on American history in the South. Every fall he delivers a series of lectures on American history to the FBI in Washington, D.C. While a student at Davidson, Dr. Johnston was a member of Phi Beta Kappa and Omicron Delta Kappa. He was also outstanding as a member of the basketball team and a tennis player. He graduated with honors in the class of 1931. Dr. Johnston did all his graduate work at Yale University, and has been a member of the Davidson faculty continuously ever since.

ATTEND MEETINGS
Dr. Bevan and Dr. Workman attended conferences at Duke University and North Carolina State College on October 23. The main purpose of the trip was to examine an apparatus which Duke is granting to Davidson. Duke recently enlarged her psychology department, and the changes resulted in a duplication of some very valuable equipment. The duplicated equipment which we are receiving will be in good shape after reconditioning, according to Dr. Bevan. Duke's grant to Davidson is in recognition of potential research which the staff and students of psychology will do. It is also in keeping with the ideal of raising psychology standards in the South — a goal of the Duke psychology department.Presently, most of Duke’s psychology graduate students come from the North, while their graduate department is forced to turn away southern applicants due to their lack of preparation. Dr. Workman and Dr. Bevan also attended an executive committee meeting of the North Carolina Psychological Association in Raleigh. Dr. Bevan, though not a member of this committee, was invited to sit in on the meeting.

GRADUATE SCHOOLS TELL OF NEW AIDS

Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts College, Medford, Mass., announces the establishment of the William L. Clayton Scholarships for graduate study in International Economics and Foreign Relations. These scholarships carry stipends up to $1800. Candidates must have proficiency in one modern foreign language and a broad background in liberal arts with substantial training in Economics or Business Administration.

The University of Wisconsin announces 60 fellowships from $400 to $2,000 and 50 scholarships from $300 to $550. The closing date for applications is February 15, 1954.

Ohio State University announces a large number of graduate scholarships carrying stipends from $600 to $800. Applications for these scholarships must be submitted by February 15, 1953.

Local United Appeal Gets Underway With Union Meeting

The 1953 United Appeal in the Davidson area officially got underway last night as local workers gathered at a dinner meeting in the College Union. The United Appeal is an annual drive in which the solicitations of funds for 25 charitable agencies are combined into one concentrated drive. Dr. Tom Daggy of the Biology Department has been appointed chairman of the Appeal forces in Davidson. He will be assisted by Mr. Tom Sadler, manager of the Carolina Asbestos Company of Davidson, who is acting as chairman for business and industry. Charlie Hassell will head the United Appeal on the Davidson campus. Other appointments are not yet complete and will be announced at a later date. Dr. E. A. Beaty, of the German Department, who headed up the Davidson Drive last year, has also assisted in the mapping of this year’s plans. Davidson has always proved itself exceedingly generous in the past, and this year’s leaders expressed the belief that Davidson will again go all out in support of this outstanding cause.

UNION SUPPER HOURS MOVED TO 5:30-7:00

Beginning last Monday, the supper hours at the College Union have been moved up to 5:30-7:00. According to C. Shaw Smith, the switch was made in an effort to eliminate as much as possible the congestion in the cafeteria at the supper hour and to give students eating at the Union a longer evening. The Union management will welcome all opinions and suggestions from students as to the effectiveness of the new hours.

Vespers & Chapel

Monday, November 2nd, The Reverend George M. Docherty, D.D., will lead the chapel service with the subject, “Thinking Theologically.” Tuesday, November 3rd, “Iona of My Heart” will be the subject of Dr. Docherty. Wednesday, November 4th, will be a short chapel. Thursday, November 5th, will be YMCA Day and Bob Crutchfield will be in charge. Friday, November 6th, will be student day with Professor Peter Terwey as the leader.

Program since his return here. At present, he is president of the local N. C. Gamma chapter of Phi Beta Kappa. Dr. Johnston's TV program has been scheduled to run for twelve weeks. Thus far there have been four programs, starting on October 5. Last week, the panel, including Dr. Robert C. Anderson, executive associate of the Southern Regional Education Board, Dr. Harold H. Hutson, president of Greensboro College for Women, and Dr. J. C. Robert, president of Coker College, discussed “Higher Education.” The subjects for the eight remaining programs of the series are: Nov. 2, “Free Ballot;” Nov. 9, “Freedom of Speech;” Nov. 16, “Individual Ownership;” Nov. 23, “Labor;” Nov. 30, “Management;” Dec. 7, “Good Health;” Dec. 14, “World Leadership,” and Dec. 21.

NOTICE

Students that are living off campus and wish the Davidsonian sent to their post office box should contact Dick Little, circulation manager, at 301 Village.

Rev. George M. Docherty, pastor of the New York Avenue Presbyterian Church, Washington, D.C., who will be at Davidson Sunday through Tuesday conducting Fall Services.

Baptist Convention Of State Colleges Scheduled For Nov.

The 1953 Convention of Baptist Students for North Carolina Colleges will be held November 6, 7, and 8 at the First Baptist Church in Winston-Salem. The theme of the convention will be “Worship and Work.” The main speakers will be Dr. Nels F. S. Ferre, outstanding theologian from Vanderbilt University, and Dr. John Oliver Nelson, professor of Christian vocation, Yale University Divinity School. Delegates will be from the colleges and universities of North Carolina. Registration should be in by November 1, along with the one dollar fee. The first session will be held at 7:30 p.m., Friday, November 6, and will be followed by a number of interesting and important discussions and meetings, the last being the morning worship services on Sunday. Interested students at Davidson are urged to contact Mr. Sam Magill at the YMCA office as soon as possible, so that arrangements can be made as to housing and registration.

‘Harvey’ To Be Seen At Student Union

“Harvey,” the celebrated comedy about a mystical drunk and an invisible rabbit, will be the movie showing in the College Union Saturday, October 31. So that everyone may be able to see this movie adaptation of Mary Chase's Pulitzer Prize comedy, two showings, at 7:00 p.m. and 9:00 p.m., will be made. A continuous evening of movie entertainment is planned. James Stewart, who has also played the role on the stage, gives an able performance. He is backed by the Academy Award winner of the movie, Josephine Hull. Other movies at the Union to look forward to are, “Quartet,” “Tight Little Island,” and “The Suspect.” “The Suspect” stars Charles Laughton and will be shown in connection with the Artist Series.

Sign Painters Named; Ready For Business

Shaw Smith, director of the College Union, announced Tuesday that Swain Loy and Tom Estes have been employed as sign painters and are currently available to the various campus organizations at the rate of $1.00 an hour. Organizations desiring this type of work can secure request sheets at the Union, which is acting as a go-between for the service. Requests for signs and posters must be in at least 48 hours in advance, but if at all possible a week ahead of time.

George M. Docherty To Deliver Sermons Concerning the Faith

By MAURICE CROUSE

The Reverend George M. Docherty, D.D., will deliver the first address in the Fall Services at Vespers Sunday night. Dr. Docherty will speak on “Concerning the Faith” during the services, beginning with the topic, “The Lost Lord.” The purpose of this year’s Fall Services is to set students to thinking actively about their faith. The Fall Services are one of two periods of special religious emphasis sponsored by the YMCA. The services will continue on Monday morning when Dr. Docherty will speak in chapel on the subject “Thinking Theologically.” He will deliver the third address, “Newness of Life,” in the Davidson College Presbyterian Church at 7 o'clock Monday evening. On Tuesday morning Dr. Docherty will again speak in chapel, using the subject “Iona of My Heart,” a relation of his work with the Iona community in Scotland. The services will conclude Tuesday evening with “Mystery and Mysticism.” All evening services will be held in the church, starting at 7 o’clock and lasting not longer than an hour. Fraternities are urged to attend the evening services and sit as groups.

Student-Faculty Cooperation

Student and faculty activities during this period have been coordinated with the services for maximum effectiveness. After Vespers on Sunday night the faculty homes will be open for student visiting as usual, but a special request has been made that discussions center around the sermon. The YMCA Cabinet and the hall prayer meeting leaders will meet after Vespers to discuss how spiritual ideals can be developed, both in private devotions and in public devotions such as the weekly hall prayer meetings. An informal coffee hour has been scheduled after chapel on Monday and Tuesday so that the faculty members can speak with Dr. Docherty. These meetings will be held in the Faculty Lounge of the David Ovens College Union. After the Monday evening service, a question and answer session will be held in the Student Lounge of the church for all those who are interested. This session will begin at approximately 8 o'clock, and freshmen and upperclassmen alike are invited.

(Continued On Page Four)

Russell Announces Library Opening

Herbert Russell of the Music Department announced this week that the college record library and listening lounge in Phi Hall is once again open to students and faculty. With the addition of $150 worth of long-playing records since last spring, the library now boasts a stock of 2500 complete selections. The listening lounge, furnished with easy chairs and a high-fidelity player, affords a comfortable retreat for those who enjoy classical music. Now under the sponsorship of the College Music Department, the library originated with a gift of a set of musical histories and scores and a mechanical record player from the Carnegie Foundation. Although the Library is primarily for music classes, it will be open to other students Monday through Friday from 8 p.m. until 11 and Sunday after vespers. Student attendants are Harry Orr, Bill Bullock, Fielding Russell, and Jack MacQueen.