PAGE FOUR

Senior Sketch No. 1

By BILL MOFFETT

When the faculty less than a decade ago moved to allow students to keep automobiles on the campus, little did
they realize the decision might revolutionize the entire college athletic program. Indeed, but for the exploits of its first speedway
champion, daredevil Bob Bourne, Davidson might have been resigned to following in the dreary convention of football, basketball, and the
rest. However, after viewing Bourne’s remarkable achievements since coming to D.C., college officials have begun to seriously consider inserting some
modified form of racing in the sports curriculum.

The student responsible for all this, despite his phenomenal records in the Morning Boardinghouse Run and the Huntersville-to-Charlotte International, is
actually the antithesis of the boisterous tone usually associated with racing. Most of his spare time is spent calmly before
a TV screen or at one of the flicks on the Mooresville-China Grove-Kannapolis-Concord circuit, where his appearances are as unexpected
as a McGeachy writ. Described by an anonymous fraternity brother as resembling Submariner, “but with an olive-drab effect,” and exuding
a strange, almost Oriental charm, the smooth, soft-spoken Bourne is reputedly a pretty fast man either on or off the
track. As a matter of fact, his somewhat large female following has earned him the dubious title of Ahab the
Arab.

Whatever his other activities, Bourne is at his best behind the wheel of his '98 Olds. The story of his
climb to racing fame begins at the Darlington Speedway where, at the age of three, little Ahab piloted his souped-up
Montgomery-Ward kiddicar to second place in the midget auto race, only to be disqualified for improper registration. Undaunted, he pursued
his first love diligently until today he is one of the most feared drivers since Mauri Rose. At present, he
is a most vigorous exponent for the establishment of auto racing as a major sport at Davidson. Speaking before the
Wildcat Club several days ago, his suggestion for altering Richardson Field to accommodate a midget speedway was highlighted with a
plea for progress, “Why lag behind when such contemporaries as Stetson, Rollins, and Miami are offering degrees as well as
letters in this great American sport? This is Davidson’s greatest opportunity in national sports since 1837.”

A real sportsman (he reads Charles Atlas’ “Dynamic Tension” daily; is reputedly a master of judo and weightlifting), Ahab’s devotion
to automobiles is exemplified in the homecoming incident when he discovered a ping in the motor during a dance intermission
and sacrificed the remainder of the evening to tuning up the motor behind Watts dorm.

Ahab poses modestly in the winner's circle at Indianapolis.

Frosh Gridders...

(Continued From Page Three)

never letting the Cadets penetrate within the fifteen-yard line. They turned in their best performance of the season despite the
absence of six key men who didn’t make the trip because of sub-par grades. In the first quarter, Tom Lee
set up the first Davidson touchdown when he recovered a Citadel fumble. The tally followed shortly when Dyke Little completed
a pass to McRee. In the second period, McRee scored again for the Kittens, this time on a five-yard sprint.
The half ended with Davidson ahead, 12-0. In the final period of play, the Davidson team added another touchdown when
McRee snagged a pass from Dick Bolton. Don Campbell added the extra point, and Davidson led, 19-0.

For the freshmen, the game marked the end of a very successful season. Working together for the first time, the
frosh lost only to the Furman freshman team. They have claimed victories over McCallie, Gordon Military Academy, and The Citadel.
The season has proved profitable in another sense, too. The experience against teams of their own caliber has gotten the
frosh ready for varsity action next year, and has given the coaches a chance to see their potential stars of
1954.

Off-Moorings...

(Continued From Page Two)

faculty, modernize some thoughts, actions, and policies, leaving traditions in such proper places as the diploma. —MICKEY CANNON.

FOR THE SOPHOMORES

There is at the present time a question before the upper three classes of the student body which, although it
may seem to affect only the members of the senior class with any degree of importance, should be of direct
concern to the sophomores as well. The question regards the diploma which will be presented to each graduating senior at
commencement this year and to each of us as we are graduated in the spring of 1956.

Shortly after the founding of our college in 1837, a beautiful diploma, designed by Peter Stuart Ney, was adopted as
the official diploma by the college and was awarded to members of the first graduating class in 1840. In accordance
with trends which were prevalent in 1930, this traditional document was abandoned in favor of a modernized diploma, which has
been used since that time. The 1930 version of the diploma not only lacked the full Davidson tradition but is
also printed upon a sheepskin the size of which is altogether too large for practical purposes. This fact and others
have been realized by a number of members of the student body who are now urging that we adopt this
year a diploma which will bear all of the original tradition of the Ney design and will be printed upon
sheepskin of a more practical size.

In order to accomplish this aim it will be necessary for two-thirds of the potential voters of the three upper
classes to cast a ballot in favor of the change. Each of you will have the opportunity to vote Monday
morning, November 16. This is not so much an effort to solicit your support of the measure, although I personally
feel that the change will be worthwhile, as it is an appeal to you to cast your ballot whether it
be pro or con. You have the opportunity to voice your opinion; make use of it! —HAROLD McKEITHEN.

The YMCA Bible Class which meets each Sunday morning at 10:00 has set up its program a bit differently this
year than in the past. Realizing the need of the students here at Davidson for an interdenominational, voluntary religious service
for Bible study, the Bible Class seeks to offer the students a worship service which they themselves plan and carry
out. At the beginning of the school year the students were presented with several ideas for study material for the
year. It was decided that the class would use Bernard Anderson's “The Unfolding Drama of the Bible” as a basis
for the first part of the year’s study. This guidebook offered a sweeping look at the total message of the
Bible. Various students have spoken on the main ideas of six of the eight lessons and led the class in
a discussion following that. There are two more lessons remaining in this particular series, one concerning the Christian church’s duty
in the world and the other concerning history's finale.

Although a traditional institution here at Davidson, the Bible Class has the aim of presenting its program in a contemporaneous
light, helping with the present-day problems of the students. Would that the students might realize this aim and take an
active interest in the program. The class is always open to suggestions from sincerely interested persons as to its program
and its procedure. There is an active interest on the campus but this interest is stemmed by other situations and
problems. Too much organized worship in a compulsory form is foremost among the problems facing a group like this that
desires to offer voluntary worship and study. The Sunday School, which is an integral part of the church and very
important at all age levels, can be a vital and living fellowship seeking the Christian way of life and its
implications for the individual and society.

We realize that there has been failure in part, at least, of the Bible Class in meeting its responsibility to
the needs of the campus. We believe, however, that there are those who haven't recognized that the Bible Class offers
them an opportunity to present their views and ideas concerning the Christian faith and its relevance to life.

VOICE OF YOUNG AMERICA FOR THE 4TH STRAIGHT YEAR — CHESTERFIELD IS THE LARGEST SELLING CIGARETTE IN AMERICA’S COLLEGES... by
a 1953 survey audit of actual sales in more than 800 college co-ops and campus stores from coast to coast.
Yes, for the fifth straight year Chesterfield is the college favorite.

CHESTERFIELD IS THE ONLY CIGARETTE EVER TO GIVE YOU PROOF OF LOW NICOTINE, HIGHEST QUALITY

The country’s six leading brands were analyzed—chemically—and Chesterfield was found low in nicotine—highest in quality. This scene reproduced from Chesterfield’s
famous “center spread” line-up pages in college football programs from coast to coast.

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1953

BIBLE CLASS CAPTURES NEW EMPHASIS

VOLUNTARY WORSHIP AND BIBLE STUDY

Christmas Seal Fund Will Start Next Monday

“An intensive effort aimed at wiping out tuberculosis—a disease which threatens all of us.” That is the campaign which the
Mecklenburg County Tuberculosis and Health Association intends to carry on with funds from its 1953 Christmas Seal Sale, according to
Mr. Hugo Sapp, Seal Sale chairman in charge of the College Christmas Seal Fund for 1953-1954.Here is the cleaned OCR
text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Here at Davidson and for preparation for their life in the future. It is our hope that others who share
in the idea of an interdenominational, voluntary worship and study group will stop and consider carefully the tremendous potentiality for
a group such as the Bible Class here on the campus. The class welcomes criticism, suggestions, and most of all—persons
who are interested in seeking a more meaningful faith.

Gift Committee . . . (Continued From Page One)

...fer discrimination in many fields, one of which is medical care. This hospital is sponsored by all the Protestant denominations
in Portugal so that non-Catholics can get good medical care and treatment. At the present time, it is the only
such hospital on the entire Iberian peninsula. A group of Protestant doctors have offered their services to the hospital for
a very small salary. Most of the money necessary for the construction of the building has already been raised, and
the Davidson contribution would go for the purchase of equipment. In reality, the Davidson contribution would be larger than the
amount donated because the favorable rate of exchange on the American dollar in Portugal makes it worth more than a
dollar there.

Geo. Washington . . . (Continued From Page Three)

Steve Korcheck, linebacker, and George Dancu were the main defensive standouts for George Washington and are expected to give the
Cats some trouble in the line Saturday.

Good Passing

George Washington has a very good passing attack as evidenced by their encounter last week, excelling Maryland by completing 8
of 19 tosses for 75 yards. Bob Sturn of Muskogee, Oklahoma, a sophomore quarterback, will probably spearhead the Colonials’ attack
along with ends Richie Gaskell and Dick Gaspari.

The Wildcats will start the game tomorrow without the assistance of backs Leroy Fargason and Jim Shelton. Fargason is practicing
with the team, but won't be able to start because of injuries; Shelton, right halfback, is out with a charley
horse. Corky Burdette, who has been improving all through the season, will be a starter against the Colonials tomorrow for
the first time this season.

Citadel Next

The team, after meeting George Washington, will face the Citadel next Saturday in the closing game of the season here
on the Davidson gridiron. The 1954 football schedule for the Wildcats was released Wednesday by Mr. Paul Scott, athletic director.
It was revealed that the Cats will drop Georgia Tech, Richmond, Harvard, and George Washington next year from the schedule,
adding in their place VMI, Florida State, and Wofford. The schedule for 1954 will be as follows:

Sept. 19—VMI ... Away
Sept. 25—(not yet selected)
Oct. 2—Citadel ... Away
Oct. 9—Presbyterian ... Away
Oct. 16—N.C. State ... Home
Oct. 23—Furman ... Home
Oct. 30—W&L ... Home
Nov. 6—Florida State ... Away
Nov. 13—Wofford ... Away

SEND THE DAVIDSONIAN HOME

Spanish Club Meets; Holds Initiation

At the monthly meeting of the Spanish Club, twenty-six members were initiated. Three honorary members, Mrs. Sam Magill, Adolfo Cash,
and Bruno Eynard were taken into the organization. Taken into active membership in the organization were Edwin Spier, Bill Gentry,
Hobby Cobb, John Child, Paul Alexander, Barney Regen, Harley Seaford, John Hunter, Hubert Davis, William Carrell, Albert Aiken, Richard Belton,
Daniel Haley, John Holshouser, Ralph Robinson, William Taylor, Jim Sasser, Erik Ruud, William McNair, Donald Tucker, Edwin Young, Stuart Vaughn,
Jerry Robinson, and George Canon.

The group discussed plans to have a joint meeting with the Winthrop College Spanish Club before the Christmas holidays. The
night’s program consisted of three one-act plays and the singing of popular Spanish songs. Officers of the Club this year
are: President, Tommy Douglas; 1st vice president, Dan McCall; 2nd vice president, Charles Hooper; secretary, Nabby Armfield; treasurer, Professor Peak;
and advisor, Professor Trakas.

BULLETIN

James Wolfe, an outstanding young pianist acclaimed by his native United States and by foreign countries, will present this evening
at 8:15 o'clock in Chambers Auditorium a program for lovers of fine music. Among the selections to be rendered are
“Moments Musicale” by Franz Schubert; “The Fountain” by Maurice Ravel, and “Mephisto Waltz” by Franz Liszt.

Student tickets for the Charles Laughton performance to be given in Chambers Auditorium on Tuesday evening, Dec. 1, must be
picked up from the office of Mr. Shaw Smith in the College Union between Monday, Nov. 16, and Wednesday, Nov.
25, the day before the Thanksgiving holidays. No seats will be reserved.

Delts Tie... (Continued From Page Three)

Ish Bennett, Max Devane, Phi Delts Ish Bennett, and Max Devane were named from the Phi Delt squad which tied
the Sigma Chis for first place. Max served as quarterback and also was a good defender due to his speed.
Ish, another basketball player who didn’t see action in the last games, was a top scorer for the Phi Delts
as well as being an all-round player.

“Pappy” Fowle, KAs

The final position on the dream team is held down by “Pappy” Fowle, the KAs versatile athlete. Until dropping out
due to basketball practice, Pappy ran and passed the KAs into contention for one of the top places. Pappy usually
had a hand in all of the scoring.

The next seven boys in the voting were named to the second string all-campus team. They are as follows: Hobby
Cobb, Kappa Sig, a sophomore, also a varsity basketball player; Grahame Keith, senior standout for the Betas, along with Tommy
Lamb, junior, who excelled on defense for the Betas; Dan Leach, junior, all-around star for the champion Phi Delts; Corky
Johnson, junior, spark for the Kappa Sigs; Eddie Powe, junior, one of the best passers in the Greek league; Perrin
Anderson, sophomore who helped spark the Sigma Chis to first place; and Bob Owen, senior, Pika, formed the scoring punch
for the Pikas along with Bill Hanna.

The two teams were chosen by the voting among the individual players of each team. Each player was entitled to
seven votes with seven players eligible from each of the eleven Greek groups.

Three more games were played this week and their results are as follows:

Phi Delts 41, SAEs 20

The Phi Delts downed the SAEs in their season final by the score of 41 to 20. Max Devane and
Dan Leach were the stars in the Phi Delt attack. Freshmen Dan Haley and Buster Jenkins excelled for the SAEs.

Phi Gams 19; ATOs 12

The Phi Gams, directed by Charlie Hall, overcame a fast ATO team and went on to a 19 to 12
victory. Harold Riley and Watt Moore snagged several passes and did the scoring for the Phi Gams. Don Massey and
Phil Koonce were the chief men in the ATO attack.

KAs 12, Betas 12 (KA win, overtime)

The KAs and the Betas battled to a 12 to 12 tie in the regular game and the KAs won
the game on the yardage in the overtime period. In a fast and exciting game, Rosewell Mallory matched passing ability
with Eddie Schonberger of the KAs as both teams fought evenly all the way with the KAs gaining more yardage
in the overtime period.

FINAL STANDINGS

Sigma Chi
Phi Delt
Kappa Sig
KA
Beta
SPE
Pike
Phi Gam
SAE
Pi Kapp
ATO

---

This cleaned text maintains the original meaning and punctuation as requested.
