—— BEAT N. C. STATE VOL. XLII

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C., FRIDAY, OCTOBER 9, 1953

AUTHOR OF BOOK

Faculty Meeting Tuesday Kills Aggregate Cut Limit

YMCA Blood Drive Closes Successfully, 310 Pints Donated

With the closing of the Bloodmobile doors at 5 o’clock this evening, Davidson gave its answer to the urgent call for donated blood. Yesterday and today, from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m., members of the student body and townspeople filed into Johnston Gymnasium to give blood. According to the latest figures, Davidson gave the very creditable total of 310 pints to this 1953 Y-sponsored campaign.

Throughout the week the need for blood, expressed in the slogan “Gamma Globulin for Polio,” has been echoed and re-echoed many times—in print, posters, various town meetings, chapel, and in door-to-door canvassing. The college and community were reminded that although the war has ceased, the number of wounded veterans requiring transfusions is still very great. The greatest need and use for the blood given in this campaign is in the preparation of gamma globulin for man’s unending fight against polio.

The entire drive was carried to its completion through the services of many local groups and volunteers. The Y, through co-chairmen Corty Cooper and Frank Mitchener, planned the whole program, handled the details, and correlated the functions of the other organizations. The ROTC department furnished personnel and equipment as well as securing helpful publicity. Most of the individual work was done by the fraternities, as each fraternity and the Campus Club appointed its own separate chairman who determined and fully informed all potential donors and circulated the necessary releases. As has been the custom in the past, any fraternity who attains 100 percent donation from its capable donors will receive a congratulatory certificate from the Red Cross. As this paper went to press, however, the total figures for the fraternity certificates had not (Continued On Page Four)

Class Cut System

Dean John C. Bailey announced today that the aggregate cut limit for sophomores, juniors, and seniors has been abolished by action of the faculty, effective immediately. Dean Bailey said that the chief reason for removing the aggregate rule was that it entailed more bookkeeping and other red tape than its usefulness warranted. First semester freshmen will not be affected by the new ruling, and will continue to be subject to an eight-cut aggregate.

The statement of the new regulations released from the faculty through the dean’s office reads as follows:

“On Tuesday, October 6, 1953, the Faculty took the following actions with reference to the absence regulations:

“1. The aggregate limit on class absences for sophomores, juniors, and seniors has been abolished, effective immediately. Only the course limit applies.

“2. There will be no change at present in the absence regulations for freshmen and for upperclassmen who are on first-semester freshman status because of overcutting during the second semester of the past session.

“3. Beginning in September, 1954, the freshmen will have the same course limits for absences from classes during the second semester as they have under the present set-up during the first semester, but the aggregate limit will be abolished for second-semester freshmen.

“4. Beginning in September, 1954, upperclassmen who are placed on first-semester freshman status for overcutting classes will be on first-semester freshman status with reference to absences from classes, chapel, and vespers.”

According to Dean Bailey, Mrs. Juanita Morrow is now handling the absence records in Room 102 between the hours of 2:30 and 4:30 p.m. during the week, and from 10:15 to 12:00 on Saturday mornings. He requested that students inquire about cuts only during those hours.

ARTIST SERIES BRINGS RAINS ON WEDNESDAY

Claude Rains, internationally known for his many fine stage, screen, and television characterizations, embarks upon a new phase of his already famous theatrical career when he presents his new one-man show at Davidson College next Wednesday evening, October 14, at 8:15 p.m.

Speaking “great words to great music” Mr. Rains will be accompanied by pianist Jack Maxin in a varied program of classical favorites from Chaucer to T. S. Eliot. One of the highlights of the program is the reciting of Tennyson's “Enoch Arden” to music especially written by Richard Strauss for dramatic presentation. Strauss wrote this music for “Enoch Arden” thirty years ago for the great German actor, Max Heinrich, who performed it with great success all over Europe.

Following Rains on the Davidson Series will be such distinguished performers as Charles Laughton on December 1, Metropolitan Opera tenor Jan Peerce on December 16, violinist Isaac Stern on February 13, and poet Carl Sandburg on March 31. The Series is open to the public on both season and individual performance basis.

Among the other numbers to be presented by Rains in his new dramatic venture are a modern edited version of Chaucer's “Prologue to the Wife of Bath,” scenes from Shakespeare's “Richard II” and “Julius Caesar,” and “Builders of America” with words by Edward Shenton and music by Harl McDonald.

ACTOR CLAUDE RAINS

Strader Heads HFC; Starts On Schedule

The Honorary Fraternity Council held its initial meeting of the year in the Blue Room of the College Union on Monday, September 28. Hunter Strader heads the slate of officers as president for 1953-1954, with Buford Price as vice president, and Don Mahy serving as secretary of the Council.

This Council serves as a coordinator for all the honorary fraternities, which are composed of select men who are outstanding in their particular field of learning. The honorary fraternities play a very definite and important part in life at Davidson.

In its session last Monday the Council directed each of the fraternities to submit a report at the end of the semester, outlining their activities, and general progress. Also, meeting dates for all of the societies were verified. A complete schedule of the meeting dates will be carried in next week's Davidsonian.

Members who represent their respective fraternities on the 1953-1954 edition of the Council include: Charlie Williams, YMCA; Buddy Lamon, Forensic Council, Tau Kappa Alpha, and Scabbard and Blade; Norman Johnson, Le Cercle Francais; Don Mahy, Sigma Upsilon; Bob Crutchfield, Philanthropic Literary Society and Alpha Psi Omega; and Bill Shipley, Sigma Delta Psi. Other representatives include: Bill Porter, Phi Mu Alpha; Buford Price, Delta Phi Alpha and Sigma Pi Sigma; Charlie Hassel, Interfraternity Council; Andy Simons, Photo Club; Mike York, International Relations Club; Will Terry, Eumanean Literary Society; Tom Douglas, Sigma Delta Pi; Hunter Strader, Alpha Epsilon Delta; Maynard Bellamy, Gamma Sigma Epsilon; Dicky Davis, Beaver Club; Ben Craig, “D” Club; Bob Mims, Red and Black Masquers; and Bill Hood, ODK.

Honor Is Stressed By Student Council

“Personal Honor and Student Representation” is the motto of this year’s Student Council. One of the strikingly distinctive elements of Davidson College is the honor system found here. This year, the Student Council is endeavoring to develop a deeper sense of honor in the life of each student. Plans are being made for guest speakers from other colleges and universities to visit Davidson and talk with the student body in regard to the various systems of honor found elsewhere. Plans are also being made for a bronze plaque which will serve to remind the student of the personal honor, to self, family, and God, which traditionally prevails here.

The other capacity of the Student Council is that of mediator between faculty and student. Problems are voiced, discussed, and judged in the presence of our student representatives. The council therefore welcomes any protests or suggestions that the student body may have.

Vespers & Chapel

Sunday, October 11th, Vespers will be conducted by the Reverend James T. Cleland, D.D., of the Duke Divinity School. Monday, October 12th, Dr. J. C. Pietenpol will have the chapel devotional. Tuesday, October 13th, Professor Iain Wilson will be the speaker. Wednesday, October 14th, Dr. Beaty will conduct the chapel exercises. Thursday, October 15, will be YMCA Day and the visiting speaker will be Dr. J. B. Bisciglia, who is the director of Presbyterian-Italian Missions in Kansas City, Missouri. Friday, October 16, will be student day as usual with Professor Donald Plott in charge of the devotional.

DR. SAMUEL SPENCER

Dr. Spencer Publishes New History

Dr. Samuel R. Spencer, Jr., assistant to the president of Davidson College, is the author of a new book, “Decision for War, 1917,” which will be released this week. Dr. Spencer, who also serves on the Davidson faculty as a member of the history department, deals with American public opinion before World War I and the key factors which influenced opinion against Germany. He cites the sinking of the Cunard liner, Laconia, and the famous Zimmerman Telegram as the two major events which led to unfavorable public reaction toward the Central Powers.

Written for the layman as well as the professional historian, the book is based on extensive research of newspapers and magazines of the time, and the papers of Woodrow Wilson and other public figures. The noted Yale historian Dr. Charles Seymour, wrote the foreword for “Decision for War, 1917.” Dr. Seymour was very complimentary of the new book and wrote in his foreword: “This is an important book, essential to a clear understanding of the factors which brought the United States into the first World War. With admirable objectivity and sense of balance it indicates the various factors which were brought into combination and compelled American intervention.

“The two striking events upon which this book is concentrated ... Clearly tilted the scales of that opinion heavily. It is historically important, therefore, that they should be examined in the circumstances that surrounded them with the careful scrutiny which the author has devoted to their study.”

The book is being published by Richard R. Smith Publisher, Inc., of West Rindge, N.H. A native of Rock Hill, S.C., Dr. Spencer is a graduate of Davidson and received both the M.A. and Ph.D. degrees from Harvard University. He served for more than five years with the Army during World War II and was discharged in 1946 with the rank of major. Formerly with the Vick Chemical Company and Davidson’s department of public relations, he was appointed assistant to President John R. Cunningham in 1951.

‘STUD’ ALTERS HOURS, ORDERS CLASS RINGS

According to Jim Faires, manager of the Student Store, the “Stud” will be open every day of the week, with the exception of Sunday, from 8:00 a.m. until 11:30 p.m. The only time that the store will be closed is during chapel. In addition to all sorts of school supplies and the usual array of Davidson tee-shirts and jackets, golf and tennis equipment, sports shoes, and sport shirts will be sold this year at the store.

As in previous years, all orders for class rings must go through the Student Store. This year both Herf-Jones Co. and J. Jenkins’ Sons rings will be offered. Anyone wishing to purchase a ring may contact the manager at the store immediately after chapel and also from 7:00 until 11:30 p.m. A $10.00 deposit must be made upon ordering a ring, and six to eight weeks allowed for shipment.

AGGREGATE CUTS ABOLISHED FOR DAVIDSON UPPERCLASSMEN

Davidson Meets Pack Saturday

NO. 3 At State’s Riddick Stadium

DUKE, EAST DORMS

Unusual Decorations,

OPEN FOR DANCES

Spivak, And Singer

As has been customary in the past, several dormitories will be cleared for Homecoming to house the influx of females. This year both Duke and East will be used, with a capacity of about 100 and 180 respectively. Men in these dorms will, of course, have first chance at the rooms, as they will be put to the inconvenience of moving.Out. For those who are moved out of Duke and East, beds and furniture will be set up in the old dining room of Chambers and in Johnston Gymnasium. Lists will be posted by Mrs. Little in Duke and East, and will remain there probably next Monday and Tuesday; those wanting to may sign then. Mrs. Little has also suggested that anyone who is not planning to attend the dances should sign up for a bed in one of the other dormitories to escape the noise and confusion. First consideration will be given to these few, but men with or without dates can get accommodations of this type if there is enough room. There are two reasons for signing: to see how many beds will be needed and in case of emergency to get some idea of the whereabouts of everyone. There will probably be a meeting after chapel Friday in order to clear up several matters with inhabitants of Duke and East. Anyone else who has a question can see Mrs. Little in her office on the first floor of Watts.

MONTH REMAINING TO GET FULBRIGHT APPLICATIONS IN

October 31, 1953, is the closing date of the competition for United States Government educational exchange grants for graduate study abroad, it was announced today by Kenneth Holland, president of the Institute of International Education, 1 East 67th Street, New York City. One month remains in which to apply for awards under the Fulbright and Buenos Aires Convention programs for the 1954-55 academic year. An exception is the program for Australia and New Zealand, for which October 15 is the closing date. Scholarship application blanks are available at the Institute or in the offices of Fulbright advisers on college and university campuses. A brochure describing the overseas study awards may be obtained from the Institute. The programs under the Fulbright Act and the Buenos Aires Convention (for the Promotion of Inter-American Cultural Relations) are part of the international educational exchange activities of the Department of State. They will give almost 1000 American citizens the chance to study abroad during the 1954-55 academic year. Since the establishment of the Fulbright Program in 1947, over 2700 American students have gone abroad under its auspices, and 974 have accepted grants for the current academic year. Under the older Buenos Aires Convention Program, sixteen Latin American countries have offered awards to one or two Americans a year since the program's inception in 1937. Countries where U.S. graduate students may study under the Fulbright Program are Australia, Austria, Belgium, and Luxembourg, Burma, Denmark, Egypt, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, India, Iraq, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Pakistan, the Philippines, Thailand, the Union of South Africa, and the United Kingdom. Special provision is made in the program for Germany for twenty-five grants to American graduate students who will serve as English (Continued On Page Four)

Mark Homecoming

Something new and different in decorations is in store for those planning to attend the Homecoming dances next weekend, IFC president Charlie Hassell said today. The IFC has spent a great deal of time on getting some originality into the decorations as a further attraction for Charlie Spivak’s two-night stand here Friday and Saturday and hopes for a large attendance from the student body. Spivak, featuring Eileen Rodgers and Joe Tucker as vocalists, will put in a total of ten hours of entertainment next weekend. The genial bandleader will get the formal dance Friday night underway at nine and sign off at one. After a two-hour concert following the football game with Presbyterian Saturday afternoon, Spivak will play from eight to twelve for the informal dance. Independents who wish to purchase tickets to the Homecoming dances should get them from Clark Reed, Campus Club and Independent ticket representative. Since the recent adoption by the IFC of a rule disallowing the resale of fraternity tickets to non-fraternity men, Independents will not be admitted to the dances on any other than the special independent ticket. Spivak, who played last year for the IFC Midwinters dances, was rated as the most sought-after freelance trumpeter in the country for many years before he formed his own dance band. He played with radio’s leading conductors on the most important programs. Before that time, Charlie was featured with such great bands as those conducted by the Dorsey Brothers, Ray Noble, and Ben Pollack. During his freelance days, he earned more each week than many top-notch bandleaders, but decided to toss his security aside to form his own unit. Bear in mind the fact that though he was well established as America’s finest trumpet player, he had little reputation with the cash customers. To them, fronting his own band, he was a virtual newcomer. But Charlie went and did it, as the saying goes, in spite of all the difficulties and today, his is rated as one of America’s top bands—on records, in the movies, at theaters, and hotels.

Wildcats Are Underdogs For Annual Arch Rivalry

By ANDY TURNER.

The Davidson Wildcats will be out for their first win of the season when they tangle with the favored Wolfpack of North Carolina State tomorrow night at Raleigh. Game time is 8:15. Davidson has not beaten their arch-rivals since 1948, when they won 20-14. State stopped the Cats last year 28-6.

APPLICATIONS FOR QUALIFICATION TESTS AVAILABLE

Applications for the College Qualification Test to be given on November 19, 1953, are available at the registrar’s office now. Applications must be postmarked not later than midnight, November 2. According to the Educational Testing Service, which prepares and administers the College Qualification Test for the Selective Service System, it will be greatly to the student’s advantage to file his application at once, regardless of the testing date he selects. The results will be reported to the student’s Selective Service local board of jurisdiction for use in considering his deferment as a student. The test is administered locally by Dr. W. O. Puckett. It will be given in the Science Building on the morning of November 19th and the time limit will be three hours. Class cuts will be excused. The second and last opportunity for the test during this school year will be April 22, 1954.

CRUTCHFIELD HEADS SERIES COMMITTEE

Robert S. Crutchfield of Orangeburg, South Carolina, a member of the senior class, will head the college student Artist Series committee, Donald B. Plott, chairman of the faculty committee announced today. T. Alden Williams of Montreat, Malcolm Williamson, Jr., of Waynesville, Vereen Bell, Jr., of Quitman, Georgia, and John T. Harmon of Laurens, South Carolina, will assist Crutchfield in promoting the 1953-54 series, which begins Wednesday, October 14, when stage, screen, and television star Claude Rains presents his new show, “Great Words With Great Music,” in Chambers Auditorium at 8:15. The series for this year, announcement of which has already created a demand for tickets over a wide area, will feature “in person” performances by Rains and (Continued On Page Four)

In the long history of the rivalry between Davidson's Wildcats and the Wolfpack of North Carolina State, Davidson has won only 11 times while dropping 26 and tying 6. The Cats will be out for win number 12 in the series and for revenge for the drubbings they have received at the hands of the Wolfpack for the last three years. State also will be seeking their first win of the season, having dropped two previous games to Carolina (6-29), and to George Washington (7-20).

Dole Optimistic

Coach Dole describes State as strong, big, and tough, but he says that the team is capable of upsetting State and will be out there trying every minute of the game. “We'll be outmanned, but we're going to Raleigh to win,” were the fighting words of Dole. The Cats, after a week's rest, are expected to be at top strength with the exception of tackle Ben Craig who will miss the game due to a knee injury received in the Richmond game. It is feared that the big captain of the Wildcats will be out on that injury for the remainder of the season. Craig's loss will be a big blow to the Cat forward wall and he will be sorely missed. (Continued On Page Three)

Movies With Rains To Be Shown Here

In connection with the personal appearance of stage, screen, and radio star Claude Rains on October 14, the College Union will show two of his motion pictures this week. “Mr. Smith Goes to Washington,” starring James Stewart, Jean Arthur, and Claude Rains will be shown on Friday night. “Angel on My Shoulder,” featuring Paul Muni and Anne Baxter will be shown on Saturday night. It is the story of an absorbing fantasy wherein the soul of a gangster hero returns to earth and is merged with the body of a respected jurist, a candidate for governor. Both films will begin at 8:15 p.m. each night. The regular admission price of 25 cents will be charged.

Wilson Has Wealth Of English To Give Aspiring Davidsonians

Dr. James Southall Wilson, visiting professor of English at Davidson for the current year, brings to the campus a wealth of background in English literature which many of the students are already enjoying. And thus Davidson College is added to Dr. Wilson's list of institutions of higher learning with which he has been associated. He completed his undergraduate work at William and Mary, obtained his M.A. degree from the University of Virginia, and received his Ph.D. at Princeton University. Later he was awarded an LL.D. from William and Mary. While an undergraduate at William and Mary Dr. Wilson became a member of Phi Beta Kappa, the well-known scholastic fraternity. His studies throughout graduate schools were directed toward Edgar A. Poe and Shakespeare. After teaching for thirteen years at William and Mary, his alma mater, Dr. Wilson became the Dean of graduate school and occupied the position as the Edgar Allan Poe professor at the University of Virginia. During the summers from 1928 to 1945 he taught at the Breadloaf (Vermont) School of English. Following his retirement from the University of Virginia, Dr. Wilson was selected by the John Hay Whitney Foundation to become a visiting professor in English for some of the schools throughout the country that the foundation had approved. Under this program—first called the “Great Teachers Fellowship Program”—a professor of one of the humanities was selected by the foundation and also a number of colleges and universities were chosen for the program. By mutual agreement between professor and the school, the pairings were completed. During the first year of the program, Dr. Wilson was a visiting professor at Louisiana State University, from which he comes to us for his second year in the program. Dr. Wilson has been the author of several volumes on Poe and was co-editor of The Enchanted Years. He was the founding editor of the Virginia Quarterly Review, a member of the Modern Language Association, and a recognized scholar in his field. The large turnout for his Shakespearean course here at Davidson is not an unusual thing for his classes. It does indicate, however, the anticipation of the student body for the opportunity to study under such a great teacher as he is. Dr. Wilson says that his intentions for his Shakespearean course are to develop a real and keen interest in the students for the great literature which Shakespeare gave the world. His emphasis is on the enjoyment of the literature itself, with whatever necessary information for a greater appreciation of literature secondary and supplementary. Davidson College is indeed fortunate to have this addition to the faculty. Dr. Wilson is both a scholar and a gentleman of the highest caliber.