Aug. 6, '53

Hot Davidsonian

Largest Summer Newspaper

Davidsonians Flee Unto the Hills

Several suffering students smothered by heat took to the hills last weekend to escape the deadly tropical heat wave. The World Mission Conference, where the Social Committee is trying to sponsor new ideas, was in session and was the destination of Stan Topple, Grier Williams, Charlie Murphy, Willis Briley, Ken Boyer, Bill Wall, Red McAllister, and Bob McClure. Ken was there with his family who has just returned from Japan. There were also many other Davidson Fellows there—grads as well as those coming back next year.

Some of our brethren are working at Montreat during the summer. These include Herschel Allen and Corky King.

Not only was there relief from the heat, but the boys were relieved from the womanless life they lead here at Davidson. Yes, it is true that the ratio is 2 to 1 in our favor. Just ask some of the guys who went. With over two hundred young people up there for the World Mission Conference, you can understand. Friday night there was a big get-together, Davidson predominating, in the form of a Watermelon Cutting. Of course, there was folk and square dancing too. Lake Susan provided a wonderful opportunity to get cool, in fact COLD. Mount Mitchell lured a car full of folks Sunday afternoon. Quite refreshing was the whole trip for our galloping guys. It's only a pity they couldn't bring back some of that cool air—among other things.

Bill Shipley and Joe Stephenson had a fine trip to Asheville during the week. Congratulations to Ted Reid on the birth of a 6.3 lb. baby girl born Sunday.

By now most of us are getting tired of watermelon each Wednesday night, so to let each of you know that we are going to have a Weiner Roast with plenty of lemonade to quench our thirst. This is an excellent opportunity to bring a date and get plenty of good food FREE.

Student Store Opens

The Student Store will open today with Benny Barker as the student manager. The hours will be as follows:

10:00-11:30 a.m.
12:00-2:00 p.m.
6:30-7:30 p.m.

The attached sheet lists some of the outstanding values.

Mr. S. H. Magill will lead the Fellowship Hour at the College Union Sunday evening at 7:00 o'clock.

Welcome to the Magills

Monday, Davidson added new names to its list, Mr. & Mrs. Samuel H. Magill. Mr. Magill has come here to be the "Y" Secretary. A graduate of U.N.C., he has just received his B.D. degree from Yale. While at Carolina, among his other activities, Mr. Magill set a Southern Conference record in a 2-mile run. Mr. Magill hails from Morgantown, W. Va., which is the home of W.Va. and Mrs. Magill's Alma Mater. We should like to take this opportunity to welcome you to our campus and look forward to working with you during the coming year.