THE HOT DAVIDSONIAN

Largest Summer Newspaper We Know Of

SUMMER FROLICS

Too old to cut the mustard? Well, come along to the College Union this Saturday night at 8:30 and prove
yourself. The social committee is sponsoring a dance, "Summer Frolics," for the students, their guests, faculty, and staff. Professional music
will be furnished by the Royal Palmers. There will be a charge of 25¢ per couple or stag. Let's make
it a big affair.

EXAM SCHEDULE

Final Examinations for summer school will be held according to the following schedule:

9:00-12:00 Friday, August 28
- Bible 22
- Biology 32
- Economics 32
- English 61
- Geography 22
- History 11
- Mathematics 11
- Spanish 22
- German 22

2:00-5:00 Friday, August 28
- Bible 21
- English 62
- History 12
- Mathematics 12

SUNDAY SCHOOL CLASS

All students are cordially invited to attend the Davidson College Church Men's Bible Class. Coffee and doughnuts are served from
9:30 until 10:00. Dr. Olin Puckett teaches the lesson. If you have any vocal talent, please see Mr. Stacks at
the College Laundry.

FELLOWSHIP HOUR

All students are cordially invited to participate in the Sunday evening Fellowship Hour, at 7:00 o'clock on the College Union
Terrace. Tom Casey, a student at Westminster Seminary and studying at Davidson for the summer, will lead the worship services.

SEE MY BUTTONS

Thursday, August 20, awards were presented to many employees of the College in recognition of their faithful and tireless service
to Davidson. Ike McCorkle was top man on the totem pole for 36 years as a member of the Davidson
family. Awards were given to those with 1 year of service to 30 years of service. Special awards were presented
by Mr. D. Grier Martin, who stated that the purpose of this awards day was: (1) Rewards for service and
an indication of the warm regard the college has for each member of its family, (2) coming together to consider
last year's work and that which is to come. Special awards were made to Dr. Cunningham, 10 years of service;
Mr. W. Sie McGill and Prof. Oscar Thies, 30 years; Mr. Hobart, 25 years; Mrs. Little, 5 years.

After the awards were made by Mr. Hobart, Mr. Murphy, and Mr. Stack to their respective departments, Dr. Cunningham thanked
all of the employees for their services to the college. He indicated the share which the employees had in the
education of the students. The president spoke of the obligation each man has to give his best, with each pulling
his share of the load. The appreciation of their lives was not only held by the administration but also by
faculty, parents, and students. It is hoped that this event will become a tradition of the Davidson campus.

Dr. Walter Lingle, President Emeritus, is in a Charlotte hospital for treatment.

Prof. A. G. Griffin has returned home following an operation and is reported to be making excellent progress.

THE SALE AT THE STUDENT STORE WILL END FRIDAY, AUGUST 28. GET THOSE BARGAINS WHILE YOU CAN.

THE END
