FRIDAY, APRIL 10, 1958 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

Since this is the last week of yours truly’s term as sports editor and teller of Tales on the Wildcats, we hope you won't begrudge us a short valedictory on the subject which we feel most strongly on. Dwight D. Eisenhower won the Presidency of the United States last November principally, it seems, because he was a middle-of-the-roader. Davidson College has been losing athletic events in the major sports for many years now for the same reason.

Davidson has been in a dilemma for some time now as far as athletic policy is concerned. We want to play football and basketball with the big boys, but we’re not as big as the big boys. As a result, the larger schools joy ride over Davidson just about every time they meet.

THE GAME DOESN'T BELONG TO THE BOYS

The logical thing to do, then, would be merely to stop subjecting ourselves to such punishment. But we continually ask for it every year. Why? The answer to that, it seems to me, is because the major sports no longer belong to the boys who play them, but to the fans who plank down $2.50 at the gate, and the alumni who remember the days when Davidson could compete on an even basis with the best of them.

This, then, is a plea to give the games of football and basketball back to the guys who practice hard and play hard and who have to bear the abuse of the crowd when they put on a poor performance. It is a plea, however, that will not be heeded; this piece will soon be no more than a part of the Davidsonian files over in Dr. Davidson’s domain. But it is this reporter’s belief that if enough people continue to holler long enough and loud enough, maybe some things will be changed.

Now, so far we've been speaking in general terms. Saying that we should give the games back to the participants may sound very touching and maybe even rational at the same time. But just what do we mean by it? To this spectator, it means this:

WINNING: THE GOAL OF COMPETITION

When you play a game, you play it to win. Nobody likes to enter into any kind of contest unless he feels like he has at least a fair chance of coming out the winner. But the Davidson policy of athletics doesn’t seem to take this into consideration. So that we can keep Davidson College’s prestige up, we want to be in the Southern Conference. So what happens? Every year we finish up somewhere at the bottom of the pack.

Here is one, at least, who does not believe it is fair to send a boy into a football or basketball game when he knows he hasn’t the proverbial snowball’s chance in the nether regions of winning. It is both unfair and contrary to the nature of competition to do this.

We have seen the sharp contrast between the spectator sports and the participant sports right here at Davidson. Coach Pete Whittle hasn’t had a losing season in thirteen years. How does he do it? Simply by playing teams more on a par with his own. Yet he always schedules a few of the bigger schools, and his teams enjoy the competition whether they win or lose.

THE SHARP AND STRIKING CONTRAST

We have a similar illustration in tennis. In that sport Davidson can compete more on an even basis with the bigger schools because we can get good tennis players here without having to subsidize. Every year we win a few and lose a few, but we can generally manage to hold our own. But come to football and basketball and the situation is quite different. To make the money we want to give the scholarships we need, we want to play the schools who draw the crowds, and we've been doing just that for some time now. But we've been losing just as consistently as the bell in Chambers Dome rings, and as for this observer, nobody is any better off for it.

What to do? There is of course no pat answer to that question. But in short, it seems to me, the decision which should and must be made is either to allow the Wildcat Club to make even greater efforts to subsidize, and to have the (Continued On Page Four)

By DICK ROPER

Thinclads Meet Mercer Saturday Afternoon

Diamond Nine Meets Furman In Greenville

By JACK EFIRD

Coach Chuck Clements’ baseball club travels to Greenville tonight for the second half of a weekend twin bill. The Cats will meet Furman tomorrow afternoon. The home game with the Tigers was rained out Monday so this necessitated the doubleheader. The Cats will be gunning for their first victory, having lost all four of their previous games to Duke 11-2, Williams 16-7, Wesleyan 10-9, and Ohio University 12-4. The Tigers have a good team this year and have lost only to Duke 3-2 and North Carolina 5-4. They recently beat highly regarded N. C. State 7-1. On their squad is sophomore pitcher Billy O'Dell who is rated one of the top players in the South.

Coach Clements hasn’t decided definitely on his pitchers for these three games, but Ish Bennett, Jim Smith, Johnny Smith, and Roger Little probably will see a lot of work on the mound for the Cats. Bennett is finally rounding into form after a slow start. He will be trying to duplicate his last year’s effort against the Tigers when he

PHI DELTS, SPES LEADING LEAGUE IN VOLLEYBALL

By the end of the second full week of the tennis and volleyball seasons, the Phi Delts managed to stay on top. However, they still share the lead in both sports. In volleyball, the Phi Delts and the SPEs are running neck and neck with eight wins apiece. The tennis results show the Kappa Sigs still to be locked in first place with the Phi Delts, each team having played and won one game since last week. Games between the Sigma Chis and Phi Gams, Kappa Sigs and Pikas, and the Phi Delts and Campus Club were postponed Monday because of rain. These are the standings through Thursday’s games:

Campus capers call for Coke

BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD, N.C. “Coke” is a registered trade-mark.

Volleyball
Phi Delts 8-0
SPEs 8-0
KAs 4-1
Sigma Chis 5-2
SAEs 4-4
Phi Gams 4-4
Kappa Sigs 3-3
Betas 3-5
ATOs 2-5
Pikas 2-4
Pi Kapps 1-7
Campus Club 0-6

Tennis
Phi Delts 3-0
Kappa Sigs 2-0
SAEs 1-0
KAs 1-0
Campus Club 1-1
Betas 1-1
ATOs 1-1
SPEs 1-1
Pikas 1-2
Phi Gams 1-2
Pi Kapps 0-3
Sigma Chis 0-3

Win the race, bag the trophy, and dunk the coxswain ... then ease up and enjoy the pause that refreshes with delicious, ice-cold Coca-Cola.

© 1952, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY

after taking on Clemson this defeated them 4-3 on the home diamond. Because of the heavy schedule of games this weekend, Clements may change his line up. The keystone combination probably will be made up of Buzzy Hope and Max Devane at shortstop and Johnny Gray and Jim Teeter at second base. These players have been playing good ball so far both at the plate and in the field. Cleanup batter Arnold Whisnant will be at first base with slick (Continued On Page Four)

Netmen Get Rest, Play N. C. State Tuesday Afternoon

By MOODY SMITH

Coach Dick McKee’s Wildcat Tennis squad isNow looking forward to next Tuesday's match with N. C. State, after breaking even in two matches during the past week. On Tuesday, Presbyterian got some sweet revenge for the numerous lacings she has taken from the Cats on the courts in the past few years by walloping the Wildcats 7-2. But on Wednesday Davidson came back to defeat Kalamazoo College 7-2. Thus far the season's record stands at seven victories and four defeats. In Tuesday's match, Presbyterian showed amazing strength all the way down the line in both singles and doubles. Big Allen Morris, their number one man, had no trouble disposing of Lacy Keesler, 6-1, 6-4. Johnny Bremer won Davidson's lone singles match as he defeated Morris’s doubles partner, Jerry Hunt, in the two singles event. Kalamazoo proved not so strong as in previous years, and the Davidson victory was a comparatively easy one. Only Bremer, who was bothered with an ankle he sprained in a recent match with Harvard, was defeated. Next week, following the N. C. State match, the Wildcats journey to Clinton, S.C. for a return match with the Blue Stockings.

—WILDCAT OF THE WEEK—
Koonce Showed Heels In Cats’ Saturday Win
By JIM HOLSHOUSER

Last Saturday, Davidson's track team opened the season against Roanoke College, and the meet produced a sparkling new performer in the person of freshman Phil Koonce, our choice for the Wildcat of the Week. Phil began working with the varsity track team following spring vacation, having had no experience except the Inter-fraternity track meet this spring. Then, participating in his first inter-collegiate track meet, Phil was the high point-man for the Wildcat cindermen. He placed first in the 100-yard dash with a time of 10.2 seconds, which is good in anybody's league. Phil placed second in two other events which he entered, the broad jump and the 220-yard dash. In the latter, he finished right on the heels of the winner.

Three-Sport Man
Before coming to Davidson, Phil attended high school in Tarboro, North Carolina. While in high school, he played for the varsity in three major sports: football, basketball, and baseball. Coach Pete Whittle has high praise for Phil’s performance last Saturday and has great hopes for him in future meets. Whittle states that Phil is not only a wonderful boy to coach, but that he has great possibilities and will naturally improve as he gets the needed experience. He believes that eventually the time of his “frosh find” will be under 10 seconds in the 100-yard dash, and that he will go over the 21-foot mark in the broad jump. Phil is a member of Alpha Tau Omega social fraternity and has played on the football and basketball teams of the fraternity.

Team’s Spirit High After Flashy Win Over Roanoke
By JOHN HANDLEY

Davidson’s track squad moves into action against Mercer on the home track tomorrow afternoon. The cindermen pounded out an 87-44 rout over a talented little Roanoke College team and will be out to remain the only undefeated outfit on the campus in tomorrow's meet. The event is scheduled to begin at 1:30. Coach Whittle highly praised the efforts of the team in last week’s action as his hopes were heightened for his 14th consecutive winning season. Mercer’s team looked good against Florida State last week and they will definitely put up some good competition for the Cat runners. Davidson beat Mercer last year by a good margin, but they have almost the entire last year’s team still in the lineup.

Koonce Outstanding
The big surprise package of last week’s meet was the emergence of a new star for the Cats in the person of Phil Koonce. Phil is a freshman and last week’s was his first meet, but the individual scoring didn’t show the fact that he was a green performer. Phil took high scoring honors with 11 points. Veteran performer Roy White turned in a nine-point afternoon for the second spot in point totals. Other veterans such as Frank Mitchener, Bill Shipley, J. V. Howell, Bob Henry, Bill Russell, and Bob Poston also looked good for the Cats.

Team Victory
Last Saturday’s victory, however, was definitely a team victory and although some stood out more than others, Coach Whittle praised the fact that each man gave his best. Two other new men who won their events and showed a lot of improvement were freshman Bob Hoover and sophomore Ralph Petree in the javelin and the shot respectively. The following men will participate in tomorrow's meet: 100 yd. dash — Koonce, Mitchener, Morris; 220 yd. dash — Mitchener, Koonce, Breeden; 440 yd. run — Shipley, Howell, Alexander; 880 yd. run — Henry, Reed, Jenkins; Mile run — Russell, Sparks, Joyner; Two miles — Feeney, Turner, Sparks. Javelin — Coe, Hoover, Gilley; High Hurdles — White, Robinson; Low Hurdles — White, Morris, Robinson; Broad Jump — Breeden, White, Koonce; High Jump — Oldenburg, Huffaker. Pole Vault — Poston, McNair; Shot — Petree, Lazenby, Petersen; Relay — Henry, Howell, Russell, Shipley; Discus — Lazenby, Petree, Petersen, Gilley (not definitely decided).

ROAD TRIP NEXT ON AGENDA FOR WHITE'S GOLFERS
By DICK LILES

The golf team, led by thumping Graeme Keith and Lew Barnes, will begin a very busy week Monday when they travel to South Carolina to play Furman on their Greenville course. The linksters will carry a 3-4 record into the match. The Cats took the first meeting from the Purple at the Charlotte Country Club earlier this season. On Tuesday, the linksters whip over to Columbia to meet the University team on their home grounds. This will mark the first meeting between the two clubs this season. South Carolina is reputed to have a strong links outfit and should afford the Cats plenty of competition. On Tuesday of this past week, the Cats took Wofford at Spartanburg by a convincing score. Keith led the locals, shooting another 71. Lew Barnes and Joe Jenkins continue to improve and should mean the difference between a mediocre season and a better-than-average one as is expected. Ed Douglas, Larry Parrott, Hobby Cobb, and Mickey Cannon round out the aggregation of golfers under the tutelage of Elgin White. Coach White uses these men in different order and each week tries to pick the men who are playing the best and so the arrangement is continuously changing. Only another match with South Carolina, one with Clemson, and another with Wofford remain on the schedule. They are all to be played at the Charlotte Country Club. Coach White will also send a four-man team to the National Intercollegiate and the Southern Conference Tournament, which is May 14, 15, 16.

George Crone Named To Captain Swimmers
George Crone, Winston-Salem junior, has been elected to captain the 1954 edition of the Davidson Swimming team. Crone’s event this year was the backstroke.