PAGE TWO THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, APRIL 17, 1953

THE DAVIDSONIAN
PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Moody Smith

BUSINESS MANAGER
Charles Hasty

ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Jim Moore, Dick Roper

Managing Editors
Bob Crutchfield, Charles Hassell, Buddy Lamon, Bob Owen, Hunter Strader

Assistant Editors
Henry Brockmann, Floyd Feeney

Sports Editor
John Handley

News Editor
Austin Strand

Feature Editor
T. A. Williams

Art Editor
Don Mahy

Photographer
Andy Simons

Assignments
Blake Brinkerhoff

Asst. Business Manager
Ed Nicholson

Advertising Manager
Tommy Taylor

Circulation Manager
Dick Little

Collections Manager
Tommy Douglas

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897.

Editor Bids Davidsonian Adieu

It is with a strange feeling that an outgoing editor is about to file his final editorial. That happy thought
of free time again and lack of headaches for the remainder of the year is saddened somewhat by the knowledge
that college days are swiftly drawing to a close. We would like to say that it has been an honor
and a pleasure to edit the Davidsonian this year, and, we feel that it has been one of the most
valuable experiences offered in a college education. This office has presented us a genuine challenge to publish a newspaper that
would command the interest and reading of the student body and the College community. The Davidsonian has endeavored to give
representation to all organizations and groups, to support all College drives, and to present current news and sports, as well
as, interesting and entertaining features. The Orientation, Political, April Fools Editions, and the Barium Springs feature have been a few
of the added attractions this year.

It would have been an impossible task for one man to put out a newspaper. We would, therefore, like to
express our sincere appreciation to the entire staff and to the many other students who have contributed time, interest, and
effort to make this year’s Davidsonian among what we hope has been one of the best in recent years. Our
thanks go especially to Jim Moore, front page editor, Bob Owens, editorial page editor, Dick Roper, sports editor, and Moody
Smith, news editor, for the terrific amount of work they have done on the paper this year; to Jack Hobson,
Charlie Hasty, and the business staff who have managed to keep us in the black; to Tom Able and Hallett
Ward who edited the April Fools edition incognito; and last but not least, to Ed Nicholson and the efficient circulation
staff.

It has been a distinct pleasure to work with the administration and faculty who have always been very interested and
most co-operative in all of our endeavors this year. We want to especially thank John Dillon and members of the
News and Alumni Department for the close co-operation they have given. May we wish Moody Smith the best of luck
with the editorship and we know he will do a fine job with the paper during the next school year.
Thus, we have, in the tradition of past editors, fulfilled our duty with a farewell column. There remains only the
farewell.
—F. H.

Committee Discusses Possibilities Of Social Functions During Week

The Faculty-Student Committee met Tuesday afternoon, April 15, in the College Union for the third regularly scheduled meeting. Drs. Davidson
and Goldiere, representing the Committee on Fraternity and Social Life, met with the Committee. The main topic of discussion was
the existing rule which limits the social activities throughout the school year. This rule states that there can be no
purely social functions on or off the campus except on Saturday night. The rule does not apply, however, to honorary
organizations as literary groups, military societies, etc., who may hold meetings, entertain guests, and serve refreshments during the week. But
no honorary or social fraternity may have a dance or any other type of elaborate function during week nights except
Saturday.

A proposed change in the rule would be that all honorary and social fraternities be allowed to hold on-campus functions
any night of the week providing that all students take the responsibility of having their work complete for the following
day. It was pointed out that on several occasions during this school year and in past years, it has been
embarrassing to various groups who have planned activities during the week and have had to cancel them. It is particularly
desirable that during a fraternity dance weekend some type of social activity take place on Friday night. Also, after concerts
or on weekends of football games, it would be especially desirable for groups to entertain at the Union or fraternity
houses.

The committees did not feel that the number of functions during the week would greatly increase, except perhaps on Friday
night, unless there was a very special occasion during the week. The Committee on Fraternity and Social Life stated that
the greatest handicap to the proposed change was the student who insisted on being excused from preparation of work due
to social or other kinds of activities during the week. If the students would accept the responsibility for keeping up
their work and staying on the job in class, the system might possibly be tried for an experimental period to
see how it would work. A poll of the student body to determine their thinking on the matter will be
taken in the near future. The change will be discussed at the Faculty meeting in May with recommendations from the
Committee on Fraternity and Social Life.
—F. H., Secy.

CABBAGE PLANTER: How to pot studs on a stiff-starched Tux shirt...

From Owing Thee Monday’s Apologies For This Weekend

Once again I think it is taking an awful chance
At a dance
For a Davidson Gentleman (probably while somewhat chloroformory)
To offer his room in a dormitory
Which crumbles
Like Rumbles
To his date.

Although the Supervisor of Dormitories obviously thinks girls rate,
It is a riddle
Why Mrs. Liddle
Subjects our guests to this domestic marathon
And then has the highhanded capitalistic audacity to clap a two dollar tariff on.

One word, fair ladies, before you see your rooms and get mad and go out and sleep on the golf
course in a dither:
We don’t like it either.

Among the top ten Old Davidson Traditions That We Don't Think Maxwell Chambers Had Anything To Do With is this
tri-monthly eviction from Duke and Rumple. What's worse, Ray Anthony is sacked out in the gym and the Science building
smells like all forty-nine, so there isn’t anything we can do about it. Of course, we could arrange for Army
cots, complete with chaperone, out on the seventh green from three o'clock till breakfast but it might rain, and with
three hundred of you girls running around barefooted cussing the administration, there'd be no replacing the divots.

In the first place, what resemblance to anything livable-in have these rooms? For the most part, they're as tasteful as
an elevator with cross-ventilation, a far cry from the chintz and china at Flora MacDonald. Right off on Friday afternoon,
your date — let’s call him Mike — will meet you and carry your bag up to the room, unless
it is heavy, in which case you can carry your own dadgum trunk. Those white splotches on the wall are
nothing important. That’s where he took down some modern art you wouldn’t understand. Mike will probably leave soon after you're
settled, and no matter what he says, he’s not the one you pay the two dollars to. Just tip him
and tell him not to slam the door on his way out. Oh yes. Don’t call him back to remind
him that he forgot his aftershave lotion. Chances are it isn't. And while we're on the subject, don’t fool with
his desk, bureau drawers or closet. A tape recorder is a sensitive machine and easily jarred. Or if nothing else,
you'd find his roommate. Just pull down the shade and iron your dress like a good girl.

This Spartan atmosphere extends to the bathroom. As one Duke man put it in the words of Robert Benchley, “I
like a room in which I can lie in the tub and read until well parboiled, sometimes getting nice big
blisters on the pages with wet fingers, or if very tired, perhaps dropping the whole book into the water. And
on the lack of decorative chintz curtains, “I don’t want to have the feeling, every time I look up, that
I am taking part in the first act of the Ziegfeld Follies with Joseph Urban looking on.” girls slipping on
the wet tiles and falling flat on their faces to put 75 boys out of a home. Come to think
of it, that golf course idea isn’t so bad after all.

DAVIDSONIAN ABROAD: Contrasting Mountains And Valleys Provide Norway With World’s Most Beautiful Scenery

By GILBERT H. GRAGG, JR.

The minute that we stepped onto Norwegian soil at Bergen after a somewhat rough crossing of the turbulent North Sea,
we felt a briskness about us that turned into a sense of quiet assurance in the friendly customs examination which
cleared our tour group into the country. Sightseeing began almost immediately, and there was plenty to see since Bergen with
its two-hundred thousand people is Norway’s second largest city and has been a thriving trading post since 1070. We saw
many evidences of medieval times, as our comfortable open-topped bus drove around the quaint old city and enjoyed riding to
the outskirts of the city which is the gateway to the fjord and mountain country of Norway to see Edvard
Grieg’s simple home with a marvelous view of Troldhaugen. Perhaps the highlight of our stay in Bergen was an exciting
cable car ride to the top of Mount Floyen for a delicious native meal; the view of the city from
here was absolutely wonderful and not soon to be forgotten.

Our ensuing tour of the interior of Norway to see the world-renowned fjords, the sharp inlets that cut through the
cliffs and drive deep into the land, and towering mountains was enough to convince us that Norway probably has the
most beautiful scenery in the world. Everywhere we looked from our bus seat the scenery was unbelievable in marvelous beauty,
and it just continued for miles and miles getting better all the time. We had three grand steamer trips down
some of the lovely fjords designed to give us a cross-section view of the spectacular scenery. As we sat breathless
in our deck chairs the glorious panorama of nature’s wonderland vividly unfolded before us — there were snow-covered peaks with
snow-white waterfalls cascading down their slopes and still more memorable were the farms and houses clustering near the rims of
precipices; it was beyond comprehension to see how people could actually live on those slopes! We knew as we saw
all this, mirrored in the dead calm sea of pureglass, that we were beholding a picture that would indeed be
hard to forget. Staying at picturesque hotels at Flaam and Stalheim was lots of fun, but the two-day stop at
Balestrand, “The Riviera of the North” was the best of all. There was plenty of time to amble around the
lovely lake and gardens of a million different flaming colors outside our hotel, but it was just a little too
chilly for swimming. The small resort town was nestled deep in the heart of the mountains and only accessible by
steamer. It was hard to leave this peaceful spot, but we had even more gorgeous scenery when we boarded the
electric train at Myagdal for an all-day trip to Oslo. The contrasts between valley and mountain, charming gardens and glittering
snow were superb as our train wound its way across the black mountains where nature was wild and barren, through
valleys, narrow and wide, through forests and fertile farmlands to Oslo. Our visit to the capital city of Norway climaxed
the wonderful time spent in “The Land of the Midnight Sun.” Oslo was situated at the bottom of Oslo fjord
and surrounded by wooded hills. We found it held many reminiscences of olden days, but was also a modern city
with open squares, parks, and modern architecture. Visiting the new Town Hall with its indescribable decorations and art collections was
almost as thrilling as seeing Vigeland’s controversial enormous sculpture works in Frogner Park, which depict the life of man from
birth to death in about 50 different magnificent works of sculpture. Other special points of interest in Oslo were seeing
the Holmenkollen Ski Jump where last year’s Winter Olympics were held, the open-air folk museum with its many interesting medieval
buildings from all parts of Norway, the Viking ships and the world-famous “Kon-Tiki” Raft. While in Oslo there was plenty
of time for shopping and casual walking around the city; one of our evenings was spent attending a Norwegian Variety
Show which resembled typical American Vaudeville, except for the fact that Gypsy Rose Lee was the star!

Go easy with Rumple’s cherished and hallowed old termite-ridden walls. You may feel light as meringue, but it takes just
so many...

THE FREE LANCE: Finds More In Donne Than Spring Services Subjects

As well as saying enough epigrams to provide the impetus for Davidson's Spring Services, John Donne also produced some philosophy
which covers this weekend. Urging his reader to go on an extended quest, Donne in his Song charges the sojourner
as follows: “...when thou return’st wilt tell me all strange wonders which befell thee, and swear nowhere lives a woman
true and fair.” Perhaps this is not all it seems to be on the surface which is penetrating enough in
itself. In light of the current re-evaluation of the poet we took at some other aspects of this verse. What
does he mean by a woman true? Any of us who have gotten that last minute sound of rushing water
and found out later there was something big doing at UNC, will interpret the word “true” as being connected with
the opposite of “lie.” Again, he may mean “true” in the sense of real. Many will laugh at this conjecture
asking in effect “What else could a woman be but real?” Certain physicians in Sweden might come up with some
fascinating answers. Just be sure your girl’s name isn’t Christine, buster. O.K. for that. What about this “fair” business? If
it applies to outside appearance there are many who would argue with the poet. On the other hand he may
be referring to woman’s treating man fairly. There are still those who would argue, but they’re all females. Of course
these words be they cautionary or whatnot will fall unheard on the scramble of idealistic freshmen who plan to meet
the mate of their lives and sardonic seniors who are well inured to the double standard. We wonder sometimes just
what goes on in the heads of the girls during these frantic weekends. Are they excited or do they deem
this just another plume in their caps? We suspect the idea of coming to a college dance and being whirled
around a floor is much more than the actual doing. Something there is about women on the campus that drives
men to all sorts of conduct. Anywhere else they're just women, but here they are symbols, even if asymmetrical symbols
in many cases. Here they represent what we ain’t got among other things. They are responsible for monstrous phone bills,
Shakespearean dialogues with the folks to get a car, men stumbling out of phone booths with stupid grins on their
faces while long distance operators valiantly try to collect their overtime fees from these mesmerized swains. Silent couples stroll beneath
the campus oaks whispering not sweet nothings but hopes that there are no birds above. A fever attacks men’s minds,
and they feel compelled to be high school exhibitionists again. Many of the men who are staying up until morning
are the same men who throw in the towel if they have to study for a review after 12 p.m.
A man writing a tome on the gentle art of persuasion could gather material for his second volume here during
a dance weekend. Boys who retched at the sight of poetry are now digging furiously into Herrick and Mrs. Browning
for the same slush the mothers of these girls heard when they were here. (It still works though.) Boarding house
managers are amazed to see tablecloths very much white after meals. Manners resemble something human again. Boys who have spent
hours in philosophy lectures on the nature of knowledge junk it all when they get a smile which can be
read any one of a thousand ways. Girls do make changes here and not all of them good by any
means. You ask why the column is shorter this week? Well, you see, we've got a girl coming in at
the airport and she’s due in an hour.

Attention R.O.T.C.! Beware Operation MESS

“In order to release the t.p.s.s.l.c.l. insert with a mildly furious motion, a hangnail on the fourth finger of the
left hand and...” Suddenly the atmosphere fairly crashed as the sound of a screaming siren pierced the air. I leaped
to my feet and peered down to the road below. The siren’s wail had continued to grow in intensity —
even past the point of endurance — a brownish streak roared into sight. Before I had taken a second look,
an olive-drab Chevrolet came to a tire-burning skidding halt before the white frame building directly across from my dorm. “Gad,”
I thought, “What in the Sam Hill is going on down at the department now?” Then it hit me with
the force of ten hammer blows. This was the day for operation Mess (military expedition of Strayed Students). I looked
back down to the scene below me. The door of the white frame building flew open and eight members of
the U. S. Army piled out, several sprawling headlong on the ground. The door of the Chevrolet sprang open simultaneously
but nothing emerged. Then I saw it. A little being stepped out and walked over to the white frame building.
His dimensions were more spherical than anything else. A pair of brown cavalry boots outlined the position of his legs,
he wore a savage pince-nez, and under his arm was a riding whip. On his shoulders several highly-polished stars flashed
in the sunlight. The commander rushed over, genuflected several times, kissed the newcomer on either cheek, and pumped his hand
until the blood rushed to the starred-one’s forehead. At a snap of the colonel’s fingers, the lesser rankers scrambled back
inside, bowing, and returned carrying many gifts, including a silver M-1, a jewel 60mm Mortar sight, and a perfumed M-6
hand grenade. I turned from the window and with a flying leap landed in my ROTC trousers which were standing
in the corner, amply supported with starch. After slipping into my khaki shirt, the left sleeve of which was weighed
down by service stripes, a ROTC patch, sergeant’s stripes, and a picture of Liz Taylor. “Gentlemen, I want you to
meet General Jerkamer, the originator of operation Mess, who wishes to interrogate the class.” The General waddled in. I shuddered
at the thought of his calling on me to answer any kind of question about organization, map-reading, boot-licking, or weapons.
Gruffly he questioned several members of the class, and shortly squelched each attempt to answer his query. A fresh breeze
danced through my room as I placidly dozed through a brilliant dissertation on the functioning of the trigger pin spring
lever catch latch of the BAR, included in my FM 22-64.37. Each time a name was shouted, I sank a
little closer in my seat, trying to be as inconspicuous as one can on the first row. Suddenly he growled
out my name and peered into the back of the room. I rose automatically and stood there trembling. He was
quite perturbed that I had risen from the position he least expected. “I'll get him” flashed from his beady little
eyes. Triumphantly he roared out, “How many enlisted men in the average rifle company are in Korea today?” I was
in a frozen frame of mind, so when I heard “One hundred ninety-six and a half” I repeated it. “Explain
that ‘half’,” he urged in his melodiously bovine-like voice. “Sir, beats me, sir,” I muttered anxious to sit down again.
“Pigmy? Exactly, exactly! Yes now they are using an average of one pigmy per company in Korea.” He was much
displeased and hurriedly passed on to the next victim. I want to tell you about the drill which followed that
afternoon, but we have neither time nor space to deal with that, so let it suffice to say that when
the good general screamed out of here at seventeen hundred hours that night, old Davidson became a good bit happier
for a large number of students as well as for the army personnel.

Drink ‘M. O O R’ Mooresville Creamery, Inc.

Sensational New Advance in Golf Clubs

Every club has identical contact feel...amazing ease of shot control. They will do more to save you strokes than any
clubs you ever played. Using an entirely new and exclusive scientific formula, Spalding creates these clubs with centers of gravity
in absolutely coordinated sequence. Every wood, every iron, has identical contact feel...gives you amazing ease of shot control! You make
tough shots look easy. Your timing is uniform. You get the ball away straighter. You shoot for the pin instead
of the green. You get lower scores, consistently. See your Spalding dealer or golf professional.
