PAGE FOUR

FRATERNITIES GET BLOOD DRIVE AWARDS

Certificates were presented this past week in chapel to three fraternities who participated 100% in the December blood drive. Pictured
left to right: Buddy Lamon, blood drive chairman of Scabbard-Blade sponsoring military fraternity; Dave Robinson, Pres. Beta Theta Pi; Bob
Poston, Pres. Phi Delta Theta; Horace Ball, Pres. Sigma Phi Epsilon; second row, Mr. C. C. Hope, Jr., chairman of
blood recruitment program in Mecklenburg County; Mr. W. S. Lupo, chairman Mecklenburg County Red Cross; Col. E. H. Davis, PMS&T
and Scabbard-Blade member; Frank Hanshaw, Capt. Scabbard-Blade.

Sam Newell
(Continued From Page One)
marked to his wife that this was not what he really wanted to do.

Greek Week
(Continued From Page One)
The active part of Greek Week was the collection of books and magazines for the County Home. The book drive
was an overwhelming success with several hundred books being collected and a small truckload of magazines going to the old
folks at the home. The pledges did a wonderful job of covering the town and soliciting the books, and the
people at the County Home were especially appreciative of this fine token.

Greek Week got some fine publicity from the Charlotte papers and the “Charlotte News” even printed an editorial commending the
Davidson students on the fine idea and program. They especially liked the book project as well as the individual projects
that the various pledge classes completed. The Charlotte Mission was completely renovated by the ATO’s, several fraternities built ping-pong tables
and basketball backboards, and three frats helped clean up the town of Davidson as well as a project on the
campus. All in all, the Week was a huge success, far beyond the expectations of the IFC and the pledge
masters, who aided tremendously in the carrying out of this project. It is hoped that the fine start will become
one of the established traditions around Davidson.

The Free Lance
(Continued From Page Two)
The freshman “elder statesman” dropped a hint of his world knowledge the other day by disclosing that Russia has no
A-weapons. This was shown to be sublimely false by the head of the AEC soon after. And it is Truman,
the prophet, who says he is going to write history! The point of this is that we feel the American
way in this instance is too generous. After a man is out of office we want to forgive and forget,
but to forget such stupendous inanity as marked Truman’s seven years in Washington is a grave mistake. Let us not
gloss over the most outrageous mismanagement of U.S. public affairs of the Twentieth Century.

Music Fraternity
(Continued From Page One)
B.S. degree in Music. All interested residents of the community are cordially invited to attend. There will be no admission
charge; however, donations toward defraying the expense of the concert will be accepted in the foyer. Prof. Philip Gehring announces
that other organ recitals in the series to be sponsored by the Music Department will be on March 8 by
John Williams and on April 19. Phi Mu Alpha will present Paul Jenkins in recital on May 10. While Mr.
Fesperman’s concert will be at 3:00 P.M., the other three will be at 4:00 P.M. in the College Church.

The Carolinas AAU
Davidson will be host to the Carolinas AAU Wrestling tournament for the third consecutive year, Athletic Director Paul K. Scott
announced this week. Several outstanding amateur teams have already been invited to the tournament, which will be held the weekend
of March 13-14. One of the top wrestling events in the South, the Carolinas AAU show was won last year
by Appalachian State Teachers College, with the Camp Lejeune Marine contingent taking second place.

Marines Favored
Since Appalachian didn’t field a wrestling squad this season, the Marines will be favored in this year’s event, and they
have already indicated that they will send a large contingent. Davidson’s Coach Charlie Parker hasn’t yet decided who his entries
will be, but the Cat grappling squad should offer several contestants. The AAU event is open to all amateur wrestlers
and advance information indicates that several outstanding high school and YMCA grapplers will also be on the entry list.

Moose Works
(Continued From Page One)
art news in the South in a century and praised the state legislature and other interests in the state for
having gone so far in advancing the arts. North Carolina is the only state ever to use tax money to
buy paintings.

For Your Job Printing Call 6651 Davidson

JACKSON Cleaners
CLEARING EVERY JOB A GOOD ONE
SKILLFULLY DONE BY PRESSERS WITH YEARS OF EXPERIENCE
ALTERATIONS THAT SATISFY
ONE-DAY SERVICE AVAILABLE
Frank L. Jackson, Jr.

British Politician
(Continued From Page One)
the city of Leeds. For several years he was chairman of the British group of the Inter-Parliamentary Union, and has
been chairman of the British-American Parliamentary group. He was made a Privy Councillor in 1945, and is a Member of
Council of the Law Society. Lord Milner has known all of America’s ambassadors to England since the time of Joseph
Kennedy. He has family ties in America, many members of the family having come here in the nineteenth century.

Cats Hosts
(Continued From Page Three)
rather poor season. They have only five conference games left on the slate with two non-conference scraps remaining. Of these
seven, only three are home encounters.

THEATRE
THURS.-FRI., FEB. 12-13
Son Of Pale Face
BOB HOPE
JANE RUSSELL

SATURDAY, JAN. 14
Cripple Creek
GEO. MONTGOMERY
JEROME COURTLAND

MON.-TUES., FEB. 16-17
Thunder In The East
ALAN LADD
DEBORAH KERR

WEDNESDAY, FEB. 18
Look Who's Laughing
EDGAR BERGEN
CHARLIE McCARTHY
LUCILLE BALL

Rev. Newell has done additional work there, and he plans to get his Doctor of Theology degree very soon. He
will probably spend two months at Union this summer writing his thesis as the completion of his work. Rev. and
Mrs. Newell have recently visited the Davidson campus and the manse. He, his wife, and their two daughters will move
to Davidson about March 1. He will assume his duties here at that time.MAYFAIR label in a pair of slacks
is your assurance of the finest in tailoring. Designed to the highest, most exacting standards of excellence, MAYFAIR slacks will
give you seasons of wearing pleasure. Our MAYFAIR selections: $12.50 to $18.95. 20% Clearance Sale. Young Men's Shop “Clothing For
Men” - 116 NORTH MAIN STREET PHONE 2-2971 MOORESVILLE.

Freshman Cobb (Continued From Page Three) pretty well clinched the starting job that he’d been working for all season. Hobby
may not hit 20 again this season. But if he can stay in the double-figures, he’ll go a long way
towards giving the Cats the shot in the arm they've been needing all season. BRYAN WENTZ.

COMPANY ‘Clothing For The Man’’ 205 South Tryon St. Charlotte 2, North Carolina.

NOW...10 Months For Chesterfield Cigarettes LIGGETT & MYERS TOBACCO CO.

THE DAVIDSONIAN. The members of the Methodist Student Movement elected new officers to serve for the coming year at a
meeting held Monday after chapel. Bob Mims was elected president of the body and will be assisted by Jim Muir
as vice-president and Clark Reed as sec.-treasurer. These officers succeed Clark Reid, Bill Shipley, and Jeeter Abernathy. The newly elected
officers will decide the policies to guide the M.S.M. on the local campus. This body is open to all Methodist
students and is planning a series of programs which will be of interest to the entire student body. This body
is also sending delegates to the State Convention which is to be held in Greensboro at the West Market Street
Methodist Church from the 13th through the 15th of February. Those members attending are: Bob Mims, Jim Moore, Sills Bunn,
and Clark Reid.

Student Committee (Continued From Page One) investigate more thoroughly the financial aspect of operation of the Union on a one-semester
basis. These proposals were originally presented on the initiative of the IFC committee but as of Wednesday evening they were
approved by the fraternity presidents and IFC members represented. In an interview with Dr. Cunningham, he said that he was
quite pleased with the spirit in which the IFC and student body had approached this matter. He added that very
close consideration would be given to the alternative proposals in the hope that some compromise might be worked out.

U.N.C. Is Rifle Winner in ROTC Meet Here. The second half of the Southern Conference ROTC Rifle Tournament was fired
at Davidson College on February 7, 1953. Of the eight teams participating, the standings are as follows: First place —
Navy ROTC, University of N.C. Second place — Air ROTC, N.C. State College. Third place — Army ROTC, Davidson College.
The individual high score trophy was won by Midshipman Abernathy of the University of N.C. The second place high score
trophy was taken by Midshipman Caldwell of Duke University. Leading the sharpshooters for Davidson was deadeye Bill Keiter who won
the Davidson team high score medal. Returning for a plug at his Alma Mater was Major Frank C. Caldwell, a
former Davidson graduate and football player, coaching the winning U.N.C. team.

Summer School. A bilingual summer school sponsored by the University of Guadalajara in cooperation with Stanford University faculty members will
be held in Guadalajara, Mexico, June 28-Aug. 8, 1952. Offerings include art, folklore, history, language, and literature courses. $225 covers
six weeks tuition, board, and room. Write Prof. Juan B. Rael, Box K, Stanford University, Calif.

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 1953. Examination For Advertising To Be Held At Queens For Those Interested In Field. The seventh nation-wide
examination for advertising will be held at Queens College in Charlotte on February 14 and 21, it was announced today
by the Southeastern Chapter of the American Association of Advertising Agencies. Tread Covington, advertising executive and chairman of the A.A.A.A.
Examination Committee, stated that the tests will be open to all who are considering advertising as a career, including college
seniors. “The examination is given annually throughout the country to attract high calibre young people to advertising,” Covington said. “It
provides a series of aptitude-temperament tests compiled by specialists in personnel testing and a group of tests of practical knowledge
developed by advertising agency executives,” he said. “Through these tests the relatively inexperienced person can see how his abilities compare
with those of more than 4,500 people now employed in advertising. In this way, we hope to encourage and guide
people who show promise for advertising and save others from months, perhaps years in the wrong work.” The aptitude-temperament section
of the examination will be held February 14. Additional tests of practical knowledge for people with training in advertising will
be given February 21. A fee of $20 will be charged to cover part of the cost of the examination.
For additional information and application blanks, write the Advertising Committee, 1022 South Tryon Street, Charlotte, North Carolina.

Cat Tales (Continued From Page Three) will still be games with the other Big Five teams, but there will also
be contests scheduled with teams more on a par with Davidson. That’s unofficial, as yet. But it should prove to
be the case.

Phi Delts Move (Continued From Page Three) the season. Don Menzies led the Pi Kapps with a sparkling 18 points.
Clark Reid collected the same total while being high point man for the hard-fighting Clubmen.

Kappa Sigs 36; Pi Kappa Alpha 24. The Pikas suffered their fourth straight defeat at the hands of a determined
Kappa Sig outfit by a score of 36-24. Al Lippard led the Pi Kapps to the victory over the Pikas,
while the Pikas’ Bob Owens took high point honors for the game with 10 points.

ATO’s 40; SAEs 37. The visions of the championship vanished from the eyes of the SAE five as they dropped
a heartbreaker to the potent ATO five. The ATOs chances for the crown brightened as Tim Gilley threw in 14
points to lead them to their fifth win of the season. A.C. Gregg was high scorer for the losers, dropping
14 points through the nets.

A medical specialist reports that he observed no adverse effects on the nose, throat, and sinuses of the group from
smoking Chesterfield after ten months. The specialist is making regular bi-monthly examinations of a group of people from various walks
of life. 45 percent of this group have smoked Chesterfield for an average of over ten years.

STONESTREET'S Grade A Cafe 418 South Main Street Mooresville, N.C.

CATHEY-HOYLE AMBULANCE — PHONE 2881.

Scientific Evidence. A medical specialist is making regular bi-monthly examinations of a group of people from various walks of life.
45 percent of this group have smoked Chesterfield for an average of over ten years. After ten months, the medical
specialist reports that he observed no adverse effects on the nose, throat, and sinuses of the group from smoking Chesterfield.

STONESTREET'S Grade A Cafe 418 South Main Street Mooresville, N.C.

CATHEY-HOYLE AMBULANCE — PHONE 2881.
