PAGE FOUR

SENIOR SKETCH NO. 7: Egyptian Exchange: In East Dorm hardly anyone has any toothpaste left. To be more exact, in the basement of East no one has any soap or stationery — or cigarettes or chewing gum. These little gems of knowledge and the fact that Peter John Mason rooms at B East have a direct relationship. John would borrow his grandmother's crutch. He’s just one of those people of whom it takes all kinds to make a world. But don't misunderstand, John isn’t tight with his money by any means. It’s true he’s the only boy here who writes one and two dollar checks, but John considers his borrowing all part of his due homage. For John, an exchange student with a figure eight, thinks he is a direct descendant from an Egyptian Nabob. He considers the toothpaste a token of loyalty from his subjects. At first the hall just played along with the joke, but now the thing has mushroomed and he has the whole dorm believing it. Some of his scared freshmen lackeys are beginning to wonder if he’s even a direct descendant. Nabob misses his homeland. Almost every week Professor Eberhardt drops by John’s room where the two will spend hours talking about Egypt. But nothing takes John back to his childhood as well as the safaris he occasionally goes on in darkest Black River. Over the Christmas holidays he went hunting there for three days and all he killed was a sparrow and two fifths. He didn’t mention the other three fifths of the sparrow. It took Nabob quite a while to get used to Davidson — or rather for Davidson to get used to Nabob. At last he says he has the school pretty well organized and regimented. He himself, of course, is the generalissimo. B. T. Craig was harem guard, but just wasn’t cut out for the job and has been replaced by handyman Ashby. D. Davis has been turned out to pasture. Actually, the chain of command has only one link — the generalissimo is all-supreme. Nabob hinted that big plans lie in his future. On his next birthday, he is pretty sure his subjects will give him his weight (220 lbs.) in Ellen notes.

Mrs. French, Smith’s Secretary One Of Union’s Foremost Assets

Perhaps one of the chief reasons students are finding the Student Union a friendlier and more enjoyable place than ever to go and take their friends is an attractive young lady named Mrs. French. She has been serving as the new Secretary-Hostess at the Union since Spring holidays, and her sincere interest in every student who comes in is enough to make her one of the best assets that the Union has. This reporter had only been talking to the lovely new addition to the college staff for a few minutes, when he realized that here was a snappily dressed young woman who combined brains and beauty with flawless manners and a charming personality of extreme graciousness. Despite Mrs. French’s modest insistence that there was nothing of interest to tell about herself, it turned out that she was wrong in this respect. She has lived in Davidson practically all of her life and graduated from high school here. It is rumored that at one time she was one of that small group of co-eds, who were undoubtedly the healthiest segment of the student body. Her background and training for the new job has been very good. Mrs. French attended business school in Charlotte and since then has been employed by several companies and firms, the most recent of which was Ivey’s, where she was Personnel Director, and Lance Incorporated, where her husband is now employed. Already within the relatively short time she has been here, Mrs. French has been praised greatly by faculty members and visitors for the fine way in which she is serving as official hostess at the Union. Davidson is indeed fortunate to have her on its staff and welcomes her most cordially.

Sigma Upsilon... (Continued From Page One)

Last fall the fraternity added the names of Bob Mitchell and Dr. B. D. Thompson to its roll, and they are also to be initiated at this time. Election of officers for 1953-54 will take place on May 7, as this is the last planned meeting of the fraternity for this year. Composed of student, faculty, and administration men, Sigma Upsilon meets every other week in the school year and has been this year under the leadership of Mac Bulgin as president. During the course of its meetings, the members hear and criticize original works of literature and have as another of its main functions constructive and disinterested observation of the Davidson scene.

Mrs. French has become a welcome asset to the campus. She is shown above as she works at her desk outside Shaw Smith's office.

Campus capers call for Coke

In the Spring, young folks’ fancy lightly turns and turns and turns. Right now—refreshment’s in order. They'll have a Coke.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Cabbage Planter... (Continued From Page Two)

winter weather kill yet more. Another enemy of the flowers is the paper thrown into them by people. The lost plants must be replaced, and the new plants must be taken care of. Soon to be featured by the Container Corporation of America in their “Great Ideas of Western Civilization” series. Many things are being done this year for campus beautification. New students in September, for one thing. Many afternoons this year a person walking through the college grounds might see Miss Nooce and Louis Brown, who is the official gardener of Davidson and who is popularly known as “Shorty,” working. With them would be a little red wagon used to transport tools. They would be feeding, watering, and pruning plants. They have planted flowers, for the most part pansies, around Diana’s Pool. They have put azaleas, camellias, and onions (the inedible variety) in the plot of ground to the left of Diana’s Den. They have kept a continual watch over the safety of the plants. A student remarks, “If Drink ‘MOOR’ QUALITY MILK Mooresville Creamery, Inc.

DAVIDSON THEATRE

THURS.-FRI., APRIL 23-24 “MY COUSIN RACHEL” OLIVIA de HAVILLAND, RICHARD BURTON

SAT.-APRIL 25 “THE JUNGLE” ROD CAMERON, CESAR ROMERO, MARIE WINDSOR

MON.-TUES.-APRIL 27-28 “I LOVE MELVIN” DONALD O'CONNOR, DEBBIE REYNOLDS

WED.-APRIL 29 THROUGH SAT., MAY 2 “GREATEST SHOW ON EARTH” BETTY HUTTON, CORNEL WILDE, CHARLTON HESTON, DOROTHY LAMOUR, GLORIA GRAHAM, JAMES STEWART

BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD, N.C.1952, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY

CAT TALES: FRIDAY, APRIL 24, 1953

Continued From Page 3

BROWN SAYS WRITERS

Tennis is no longer a minor sport as is recognized by the fact that the bigger universities and colleges and even a few of the smaller ones with a lot of money are building terrifically large and expensive tennis setups and are playing up the sport. Taking a look at the Cats' opponent tomorrow on the courts over at Chapel Hill, we see some of the most expensive tennis setups anywhere in this part of the country. The setup is much the same at P.C., Duke, Miami, and many others of the Cats’ opponents. We're not crying about the usual old gripe around Davidson of lack of subsidization, but are merely seeking to point out the fact that the Wildcat Tennis squad is really doing a great job and are due a lot of praise. Only one of the Cats has any kind of financial help from the college. They have really been putting out a brand of tennis in the last few matches which is something to watch and the fans can count on the same kind of matches in the future. In the next couple of weeks, the Cats face some mighty tough competition here at home in the regular season and will take part in the Southern Conference tournament here on the 14th, 15th, and 16th of next month. We would like to take this opportunity to say to Coach McKee and his team (Keesler, Bremer, Clark, Dudley, Snead, Green, and Bivins) — hats off and we're behind you.

Bremer Showed...

(Continued From Page Three)

year. Lacy defeated Johnny in the finals of the North Carolina Interscholastic tournament in both Bremer’s junior and senior years. The likable president of the Kappa Sigma fraternity hails from Wilmington, N. C., where he attended New Hanover high school. Though he played tennis all through high school he has never had a private lesson. All the tennis Johnny knows has either been picked up through his school coaches or through his own hard work.

SEEK TO FIND TRUTH

The next time Vance Mizell introduces a speaker, he certainly won't let the gentleman know he is from Georgia. John Mason Brown seemed to think that “the fuzz must have worn off the Georgia peach” after leaving Mizell’s not-too-southern brogue. Such a statement was typical of the manner in which Brown expressed himself Wednesday night in Chambers Auditorium before one of the largest crowds that has attended a lecturer this year. As the central theme for his talk, Mr. Brown kept coming back to the fact that great writers are always seeking a means of giving expression to truth. One of his early points was that an artist must stick his neck out in order to get anywhere in interpreting truth, whereupon Mr. Brown stuck his own neck out with the comment that, “Writers may even be members of the human race.”

To John Mason Brown, there are four recurrent themes in all great literature — themes which also repeat themselves daily in real life — They are:
I. How man must find some way of living with himself.
II. How man must find some way of living with his neighbor.
III. How man must find some way of living with the world beyond his neighbor.
IV. How man must find some way of living with his God.

Today we find one further theme:
V. How can man in these uncertain days maintain his inner serenity and at the same time his outward dignity.

Mr. Brown then spoke of several contemporary works which he believed best lent expression to these questions and sought some reasonable answer. George B. Shaw's “Don Juan in Hell” drew his most favorable comments — particularly as presented by Charles Laughton, Agnes Morehead, Charles Boyer, and Sir Cedric Hardwicke. One of the fallacies of the American reader, according to Brown, is his unfounded belief that reading a book once is enough. To prove his point he brought out the fact that one doesn’t listen to a great musical work just once. Likewise, a good book should be read again and again and again.

Brown expressed his admiration for a college age that goes right ahead with life and work knowing full well, though actually not knowing at all, what lies ahead in this cold-war-hot-peace world of ours. On Senator McCarthy, Brown stated his vehement disapproval of methods of investigation that assumed a man to be guilty till proven innocent. Personally, he believed that our love for this country and its tradition should outweigh our hatred of communism.

Team To Interview...

(Continued From Page One)

draft deferment while waiting for an assignment to a class of pilot or aerial observer training at one of more than ten Air Force bases. If you are interested in aviation or the career opportunities offered as a flying officer, be sure you talk with the members of the Aviation Cadet Selection Team. You will be given complete information.

Don’t you want to try a cigarette with a record like this?

1. THE QUALITY CONTRAST between Chesterfield and other leading cigarettes is a revealing story. Recent chemical analyses give an index of good quality for the country’s six leading cigarette brands. The index of good quality table—a ratio of high sugar to low nicotine—shows Chesterfield quality highest... 15% higher than its nearest competitor and Chesterfield quality 31% higher than the average of the five other leading brands.

2. First to Give You Premium Quality in Regular and King-size... much milder with an extraordinarily good taste—and for your pocketbook, Chesterfield is today’s best cigarette buy.

3. A Report Never Before Made About a Cigarette. For a full year, a medical specialist has been giving a group of Chesterfield smokers regular examinations every two months. He reports... no adverse effects to nose, throat, and sinuses from smoking Chesterfield.

Choice of Young America

A recent survey made in 274 leading colleges and universities shows Chesterfield is the largest seller.