PAGE FOUR

A group of students examine a part of the photography exhibit now on display in the lobby of Chambers building.
The exhibit has stirred widespread interest both among faculty and students.

PHOTO EXHIBITION — The Davidson College Camera Club is sponsoring an exhibit of the finest in international photography, which is
now on display in the lobby of Chambers. This Traveling Salon of Photography Magazine is considered to have the finest
photographs from the work of leading professional and amateur camera artists all over the world. All of the prints exhibited
are prize winners in the $25,000 annual Photography Magazine photo contest, which attracted a record 73,000 entries this year.

IT TAKES a good, tough, serious guy to wear the gear of an Aviation Cadet. But if you can measure
up, here’s your chance to get the finest in aviation training—training that equips you to fly the most modern airplanes
in the world and prepares you for responsible executive positions, both in military and commercial aviation. It won’t be easy!
Training discipline for Aviation Cadets is rigid. You'll work hard, study hard, play hard—especially for the first few weeks. But
when it’s over, you'll be a pro—with a career ahead of you that will take you as far as you
want to go. You graduate as a 2nd Lieutenant in the Air Force, with pay of $5,300.00 a year. And
this is only the beginning—your opportunities for advancement are unlimited.

ARE YOU ELIGIBLE? To qualify as an Aviation Cadet, you must have completed at least two years of college. This
is a minimum requirement—it’s best if you stay in school and graduate! In addition, you must be between 19 and
26½ years, unmarried, and in good physical condition.

YOU CAN CHOOSE BETWEEN PILOT OR AIRCRAFT OBSERVER. If you choose to be an Aircraft Observer, your training will be
in Navigation, Bombardment, Radar Operation, or Aircraft Performance Engineering.

BEN CRAIG ELECTED ‘D’ CLUB PRESIDENT FOR COMING YEAR

At their bi-weekly meeting, Ben Craig became the new president of the “D” Club, to be assisted by Dickie Davis
as vice-president and Steve Gooding as secretary-treasurer. Ben, a rising senior from Gastonia, has been a leading football player in
his years here. He and Dickie Davis, the new veep, are both members of Kappa Sigma fraternity. Dickie Davis recently
won a scholarship for his football prowess during his first two years here. He was an outstanding guard on last
year’s squad. At the Monday night meeting of the “D” Club, several important issues were discussed, but it was decided
none would be released at this time.

Davidson Releases... (Continued From Page One)

Davidson books for 1952-53. The Golden Head was most popular with the men of the faculty, it being checked out
nine times by faculty members.

YMCA Forum... Eleven Men Tapped... (Continued From Page One)

Other offices he has held are treasurer of Sigma Chi and vice-president of the Davidson Male Chorus. Dave Robinson is
president of Beta Theta Pi and a member of Scabbard and Blade. He serves as Business Manager of the Quips
and Cranks and secretary of the Publications Board. Jack Ruth was vice-president of the sophomore class, president of the junior
class, and president of the student body. He represented Beta Theta Pi as Inter-fraternity Council representative this year. Who's Who
recognized this campus leader who has played varsity football and is a member of the “D” Club. Moody Smith is
a Baker Scholar who has been elected recently as editor of the Davidsonian. He is a member of the Eumenean
literary society, the YMCA Board of Directors, Kappa Sigma Social Fraternity, and President of the Student Volunteer Movement. Charlie Williams
is president of the YMCA, program consul of Sigma Chi fraternity, vice-president of the Westminster Fellowship, and a member of
Eumenean literary society. One honorary member was taken into ODK. This was Coach Paul K. Scott, a graduate of Cornell.
There he was captain of the football team, captain of the wrestling squad, President of the Junior Class, and Representative
Man Junior Class. More recently Coach Scott’s activities have included President of the NCAA Cross Country Coaches (1946), National A.A.U.
Wrestling Rules Committee. This year he is vice-president of the Carolina’s A. A. U. Ass'n. Outgoing officers are Bob Henry,
President; Larry Dagenhart, vice-president; Prof. McCutchen, Secretary; Frank Hanshaw, treasurer; A. V. Goldiere, Alumni Secretary. New officers will be elected
early next week.

CAT TALES: Continued From Page 3

“to keep up with the Joneses” of the league and have been spending more than they feel necessary for intercollegiate
sports and would probably be very agreeable to set some conference limit passed by all members. If you can make
the grade, you can fly the latest, hottest, fanciest jobs in the air—and do it within one year. New Aviation
Cadet Training Classes Begin Every Few Weeks!

HERE'S WHAT TO DO: 1. Take a transcript of your college credits and a copy of your birth certificate to
your nearest Air Force Base or Recruiting Station. Fill out the application they give you. 2. If your application is
accepted, the Air Force will arrange for you to take a physical examination at government expense. 3. Next, you will
be given a written and manual aptitude test. For more details: Visit your nearest Air Force Base or Air Force
Recruiting Station. Or write to: Aviation Cadet, Headquarters, U.S. Air Force, Washington 25, D. C.

Entered as second-class matter.test. 4. If you pass your physical and other tests, you will be scheduled for an Aviation
Cadet training class. The Selective Service Act allows you a four-month deferment while waiting for class assignment.

Magill Accepts (Continued From Page One)

Though at the present time he is identified with the Congregational Church in White Plains, New York, he is a
product of the Student YMCA Movement, having served with distinction as a student leader at the University of North Carolina
and in the intercollegiate work of the South.

(Continued From Page One)

Korean-American Council. On Wednesday night, May 13, at 7:15 o'clock in the ballroom of the Ovens College Union, a panel
discussion will be held. Participating will be Mr. Rupert Gillett, Thomas Glasgow, Jr., and the Honorable J.H.R. Cromwell. Dean C.
K. Brown will serve as moderator.

Served in War

Mr. Rupert Gillett was born in Texas but was reared in New Mexico. He returned to Texas to take the
degrees of B.A. and M.A. at the University of Texas. He served in World War I with the 90th Division,
participated in the St. Mihiel and Meuse-Argonne operations, and was with the Army of Occupation in Germany. He did graduate
study at the Sorbonne in political economy and in the diplomatic and political history of Europe since 1870. After returning
to the United States, he was telegraph editor successively of the Fort Worth Record, the Beaumont Journal, the Nashville Tennessean,
and the Miami Herald. He was on the copy desk staff of the Cleveland News before coming to North Carolina
in 1929 as financial editor of the Charlotte Observer. He became assistant news editor in 1936, news editor in 1943,
and associate editor in 1946. He is a member of the Academy of Political Science, the American Academy of Political
and Social Science, and the American Society of Newspaper Editors.

Glasgow Davidson Alumnus

Mr. Thomas Glasgow, Jr. is an alumnus of Davidson from Charlotte. He has recently returned from Korea where he served
as a company commander.

FRIDAY, MAY 8, 1953

On Thursday, May 14, Brig. General Bonner Fellers will conclude the forum with a talk in chapel entitled “Korea from
1945 until Today.” General Fellers, a World War II veteran of the African Desert and the Pacific Campaigns, has made
more than 100 speeches and written widely on our National Security. His articles—“How We Can Lick Stalin” in Collier’s, September
16, 1950; “Lessons of Korea” in The Freeman, October 3, 1950; “How We Can Make The Russians Revolt” in the
November 1950 issue of Coronet; and his book Wings for Peace, attracted nationwide attention.

On MacArthur's Staff

A Regular Army officer, Fellers was on the staff of Gen. Douglas MacArthur in Australia in 1943 and continued as
a member of that staff until his return to the U.S. in August 1946. In 1940-42, he served as U.S.
Observer of Combat Operations with the British Forces in the Middle East. His reports on desert warfare, noted for their
clarity and accuracy, won him the Distinguished Service Medal and promotion to Brigadier General. In early 1943, he served on
the planning group of OSS. Later that year, he was sent to join MacArthur in Australia. There, Fellers was in
charge of GHQ planning; then he set up the Civil Affairs Division for the Philippine liberation and, in addition, was
psychological warfare officer against Japan for which he was awarded the Oak Leaf Cluster to the DSM. In the Philippine
campaign, he was MacArthur’s personal combat observer at the front. From January 1946 until his return to the U.S., he
was Secretary General to the Allied Council for Japan.

(Continued From Page Three)

Squads on next Thursday, Friday, and Saturday as the Conference Tournament takes place on the local courts. Coach McKee has
announced that any player who advances as far as the semi-finals will be eligible to enter the N.C.A.A. tourney which
will be held soon. Lacy Keesler and Johnny Bremer are the chief Davidson hopefuls and both are expected to be
in top form for the weekend tournament.

DAVIDSON THEATRE

THURS.-FRIDAY, MAY 7-8
“THE STOOGE”
DEAN MARTIN, JERRY LEWIS

SATURDAY, MAY 9
“GREAT WHITE HUNTER”
GREGORY PECK, JOAN BENNETT

MON.-TUESDAY, MAY 11-12
“TALL TEXAN”
LLOYD BRIDGES, MARIE WINDSOR

WEDNESDAY, MAY 13
“TAXI”
DAN DAILEY, CONSTANCE SMITH

Don’t you want to try a cigarette with a record like this?

1. THE QUALITY CONTRAST between Chesterfield and other leading cigarettes is a revealing story. Recent chemical analyses give an index
of good quality for the country’s six leading cigarette brands. The index of good quality table—a ratio of high sugar
to low nicotine—shows Chesterfield quality highest... 15% higher than its nearest competitor and Chesterfield quality 31% higher than the average
of the five other leading brands.

2. Choice of Young America

A recent survey made in 274 leading colleges and universities shows Chesterfield is the largest seller.

3. First to Give You Premium Quality in Regular and King-size... much milder with an extraordinarily good taste—and for your
pocketbook, Chesterfield is today’s best cigarette buy.

4. A Report Never Before Made About a Cigarette

For well over a year, a medical specialist has been giving a group of Chesterfield smokers regular examinations every two
months. He reports no adverse effects to nose, throat, and sinuses from smoking Chesterfield.

Copyright 1953, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
