TC Department. The Ten O’Clock Club has no secret handshake or ritual, and very little formality, but there is one inviolable rule of must be ready by ten without fail. Cak Davis also plays a vital part in the Ten O'Clock Club, performing daily the duties of event coordinator. Although the Wildcat coach, who in the 60-Yard Dash, Frank Mitchener, Bill Morris, Roy White, and Van Julian will probably be named. Coaches Cle- ments and Parker alternate as Dish Washers, although a glance at the meeting table would assure a visitor that the latter are more than somewhat lax in their duties. Amidst scrapbooks, filing cabinets, weeks-old newspapers and clippings, and pictures of past Davidson athletic greats, the members of the Ten O’Clock Club get down to serious discussion, which can be and usually is any subject which comes to anybody’s mind. If Davidson has played a game in any sport the day before, the conversation usually turns to that. Other campus topics are frequently discussed, but the subject matter is not limited, and may range anywhere from the Korean War to Marilyn Monroe.

The Ten O’Clock Club has no set time limits for its meetings, but since one pot of coffee will only fill so many cups, the group usually breaks up sometime before the beginning of the third period. The Ten O’clockers don’t claim to be an exclusive organization, but the size of the Club is limited to the number of members, which is not many. The Ten O’Clock Club is not worried by the opening of the College Union with its lavish facilities for brewing and serving great Brazilian bean juice. “We coaches are happy in our own province,” says Chief Brewer Scott, “and I trust that the Union will not take away our two congenial members, Col. Davis and Capt. Martin. I would say that the Ten O'Clock Club has a very promising future in spite of the new competition which it is facing.” On the contrary, the Ten O’clockers, chartered only this year, have already lured the History Department’s Dr. Frontis Johnston down from his own third-floor Chambers coffee house for at least one visit. If this trend continues, pre-eminence on the campus is not far off for the Ten O’clock Club.

The versatile White will probably be the Wildcat entries in the broad jump. Steve Gooding, Andy Turner, and Homer Sparks will run the strenuous two-mile event. The mile relay team will be comprised of Bob Henry, Bill Russell, Bill Shipley, and John Regen. The regular track season gets under way April 4 when Roanoke College comes to Davidson. Including that event, the season will include seven meets with only two away from home. The Southern Conference meet will be run May 15-16 at Durham.

With The Citadel
By ANDY

Coach Charlie Parker’s Wildcat team has had a tough season. Before the Citadel match, the Cats’ record stood at a poor 0-7 mark. However, Parker believes his team is looking much better than at the first of the season and is now in the best shape of the year. Bobby Joe Key, a flashy sophomore, went on the mat for Davidson.

KAs Move Up In Interfrat Race
By BUCK REINHARDT

A high-scoring Kappa Alpha five regained first place in the interfraternity basketball league this week, displacing the Phi Delts who have dropped to third. The Sigma Chi quintet moved into the second place slot as the season moved into its final quarter.

Phi Gams 70; Campus Club 32
The Phi Gams easily defeated the Campus Club by a 70 to 32 count. Champion was the whole show for the Phi Gams as he kept the nets hot with an amazing 40 points. Larry’s total for this game stands as the highest individual score in one game so far this season.

Kappa Alpha 58; Pi Kapps 35
The KAs moved back into first place as a result of their 58-35 win over the Pi Kapps and the Phi Delts’ loss to the Pi KAs. Lefty Vance led the KA attack with 14 points while getting good support from teammate George King who contributed 13 points to the win. Arnold Whisnant scored 11 points to lead the Pi Kapps.

Betas 61; S.P.E. 52
Building up a 29 to 17 lead at halftime, the Betas were able to ward off a SPE rally and grab a 61 to 52 victory. Charlie Hasty was the mainstay in the Beta attack as he hit for nine field goals and 4 charity shots for a 22 point total. Fred Stowe collected 20 points for the losing SPEs.

Sigma Chis 51; Betas 34
The fast-breaking Sigma Chis had a little too much steam for the Betas, and finished with a 51-34 win. Tom Shaw was high man for the winners with 12 points while Charlie Hasty led the Betas with the same total.

Pi Kappa Alpha 35; Phi Delts 33
A fighting PiKa five toppled the Phi Delts from first place as they upset the favorites 35-33. Lindley Beardsley supplied the scoring punch for the PiKAs with 20 points. Ted Oldenburg led the Phi Delts, putting 17 points through the nets.

S.A.E. 52; Kappa Sigs 31
With Harty Peterson paving the way, the SAEs defeated the Kappa Sigs 52-31.

THE STANDINGS:
W. L.
Kappa Alpha
Sigma Chis
Phi Delta Theta
SAE
ATO
Pi Kappa Alpha
Kappa Sigs
Betas
Phi Gams
Pi Kapps
SPE
Campus Club

Correct through Wednesday’s games.

Stop Selvy, Gordon
By JOHN HANDLEY

Danny Miller’s Wildcat cagers face Furman tomorrow night in Greenville, S. C., hoping to even the score after the Cats’ 71-67 victory over them earlier this season. Furman, which boasts the nation’s highest percentage-wise scorer in flashy Frank Selvy, will be out for conference win number nine. After getting off to a very poor start, the Purple Hurricanes have really been pouring on the steam in their recent games. What they have in mind for Davidson may be illustrated by the shellacking that they gave South Carolina this week. Furman poured it on the Gamecocks to the tune of 105-68 with Selvy racking up 37 points. South Carolina had beaten Furman early in the season by a two-point margin.Point man with 21 points, the SAEs downed the Kappa Sigs 52 to 31. Taylor was high point man for the Kappa Sigs with 15 points.

Sigma Chis 53; ATO 40
ATO dreams for a championship seemed to fade as they went down to the hot Sigma Chi five. Stuart Summer was high man for the winners with 11 points, although 9 of his teammates broke into the scoring column. Linny Baker was high for the ATOs with 11 points.

Wildcat of the Week: Ormond Churned Way To Acclaim
Next week, the Cats will finish out their current season, facing three conference teams in six days. Monday night they will try their luck against Clemson in the rubber game with that team. Tuesday they go against powerful Duke in the local court finale, and finally, they travel to Blacksburg, Va. to close out the season against VPI.

Played Citadel Yesterday
The Cats faced The Citadel last night as they went after their fourth win of the season. In bowing to the semi-pro McCrary Eagles Tuesday night, the Cats found new scoring potential in freshman Ray Harding, who scored 21 points in the 74-64 contest.

As the season heads down the home stretch, the Cats hold an unimpressive 3-13 record (last night's game not included) as they have suffered one of their worst seasons in recent years. Nevertheless, the Cats have shown some sparkling play, and with the loss of only two seniors, have high hopes for the future.

Davidson at present stands 13th in the conference with the standings as follows:
N. C. State 12-3
North Carolina 15-4
Wake Forest 11-3
Maryland 11-3
West Virginia 9-3
Duke 9-3
Furman 11-5
George Washington 8-3
Richmond 11-5
Clemson 5-7

Picking the Wildcat of the Week is never an easy job, and this week it was even more difficult. Standing high on the list of prospects was freshman Ray Harding, who capped a rapid rise to prominence on Danny Miller’s basketball team with a 21-point splurge against McCrary Tuesday night. Then there was Charlie Murray, the junior who hadn't lost a wrestling match since the four-way meet early in the season.

But the guy who seemed to have come through in the biggest way during the past week was a sophomore who churned his way to three first places in last Friday's swimming meet with Washington and Lee. It was Al Ormond, the Akron, Ohio native who copped firsts in both the 200 and 400-yard freestyle events, and then went on to win the individual medley. And even though the Catfish still fell short of winning the meet (Final score: 55-29), Ormond's performance was outstanding.

Catfish Swim Citadel's Team Here Tomorrow
Davidson’s swimming team will meet The Citadel here tomorrow afternoon at two o’clock. According to team captain Jim Bryan, the local tankmen are optimistic as to the outcome of the meet. This attitude can be attributed to three main reasons. First, the Catfish are now back to full strength since the return of George Crone and Budd Montgomery, who will back up the team in the breaststroke events. Second, the Davidson men came closest to victory this season against The Citadel in an earlier meet. Another factor in favor of Davidson is the advantage of being in the home pool.

The Catfish won a smashing victory yesterday in the Johnston Gym pool as they trimmed Clemson by a 55-29 score. Al Ormond won all three of his events, while Bob Patten came in with two first places. Both of the Davidson relay teams won their events, being the 300- and 400-yard distance swims. Jim Bryan, Montgomery, and Jim Golding will handle the 300-yard relay, while Al Ormond and Paul Cole will swim the 220-yard freestyle. The 50-yard freestyle will be held down by Bob Patten and Charlie Haigh. Ormond and Bo Abernethy will swim the individual medley, and the diving will be performed by Charlie Hull and Jeff Smith. Golding and Patten will be assigned the 100-yard freestyle, while Bryan and Abernathy will participate in the 200-yard backstroke. The 200-yard breaststroke entrants will be Crone and Nicholson, and Al Ormond along with Paul Cole will swim the 440-yard freestyle. The final event of the current season will be the 400-yard relay in which Bryan, Golding, Patten, and Haigh will take part.

On Feb. 26-27-28, Davidson will send representatives to the Southern Conference meet at the N. C. State College pool in Raleigh. This meet will mark the end of the 1952-53 swimming season for the Catfish.

Only Time will Tell...
Only time will tell about a new restaurant. And only time will tell about a cigarette! Take your time... Test a Camel. There must be a reason why Camel is America’s most popular cigarette—leading all other brands by billions! Camels have the two things smokers want most—rich, full flavor and cool, cool mildness... pack after pack! Try Camels for 30 days and see how mild, how flavorful, how thoroughly enjoyable they are as your steady smoke!

A revenge-minded Furman team will take the floor against...