PAGE FOUR

Cats Clash With Richmond’s Spiders Tomorrow Night

THE DAVIDSONIAN

FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 1953

Toss-Up Struggle Scheduled As Cats Invade Richmond

Coach Bill Dole’s hustling Wildcats departed this morning for the stamping grounds of the University of Richmond Spiders to meet the Spider footballers tomorrow night. Richmond, one of the Cats’ two victims of last season, are a veteran aggregation, having lost only two men via the graduation route last June.

FLEETEST FIELD FEATURED ANNUAL FROSH CAKE RACE

The fastest field in the history of the Freshman Cake Race finished the grueling 2-mile course last Friday as the old records fell before the present freshman athletes. Pete Ashcraft took first honors in setting a new record of 8:34.5 minutes. Ashcraft shaved almost 20 seconds off the old record held by Archie Joyner of the present sophomore class. Ted Baker, who finished just a few seconds behind Ashcraft’s winning time, also surpassed Joyner’s record. The first twenty-five finishers in order of their position are as follows: Ashcraft, Baker, Kiker, Bondurant, Fountain, Kimbrough, Holshouser, Sharp, Campbell, Mallory, Williams, Brown, Batten, Hunter, Shaw, Hill, McCree, Harless, Rivers, Barringer, Walther, Snider, Brown, Hunter, Jackson.

The Spiders opened their season last weekend by trouncing the Randolph-Macon gridders to the tune of 28-0. The Virginians seem to be much improved this season and all indications point to a close ball game. The Wildcats took the measure of the Richmonders by 38-19 last season for their only “at home” victory of last year’s campaign. Deke Houlgate, “Observer” sports predictioneer, gave the Spiders 6 points over the Cats in his weekend predictions.

Difference in Opposition

While Richmond rolled to victory over Randolph-Macon, the hapless Cats were taking a soggy trouncing at the hands of Bobby Dodd's great Georgia Tech machine. In Coach Dole’s own words to the “Wildcat Club” in its most recent bulletin, “We did receive valuable experience, and the lessons we learned under game conditions will be much more impressive than they ever could have been in practice sessions.”

In the Tech game, Coach Dole divided the squad into two teams with the first-stringers well distributed between the two. This was to avoid the danger of having more injuries to the first team. There were no injuries. Said Dole, “We plan to play our best team from this point on, giving them enough rest with individual substitutions to keep us going at maximum strength for four quarters.”

Spiders Want Revenge

The Spiders will definitely be out for revenge against the Cats and Coach Dole expects a very close battle. This tilt will give Davidson fans some indication of the course of Wildcat football fortunes for the remainder of the year. Leading the way as usual for the Cats will be such stalwarts from last season as Ben Craig, captain, and Neil Graham, alternate captain. Such other linemen as Dickie Davis, Tom Owen, and Bob Patton will brace the forward wall. Such men as Henry Brown, Jim Thacker, Jim Shelton, and Johnny Gray will probably lead the Cat offensive attack.

Frosh Footballers Drill For Opener

Last week Davidson's freshman football squad swung into action with some 50 boys out for the team. As the week's work progressed, that number decreased by ten, but the real football talent of the freshman class is still on the roster. The freshmen have no regular coach with varsity staff members working the coaching on a rotation basis. Coach Carroll Hambright, however, is the game coach for the four games on the frosh schedule. The entire football coaching staff has been well pleased with the turnout and the showing made by the freshmen and Coach Dole, in particular, had some kind words for the frosh. Said the Wildcat mentor, “The fall of ‘54 will see depth in the Davidson football squad—something that is noticeably lacking this year.”

Four-Game Schedule

The yearling team will compete in a four-game schedule this season with their first game scheduled for October 10 against the gridiron forces of McCallie Prep School in Chattanooga. The second game on the slate and the first home game is scheduled for October 16, against the Little Purple Hurricane of Furman University. On October 31, the Wild Kittens go against Georgia Military Institute here at Davidson while they wind up their season with a contest against the freshmen from the Citadel. As was mentioned earlier, Coach Carroll Hambright will serve as coach in all four games.

Work With Varsity

The Little Cats have held several joint dummy scrimmages with the varsity, but during the course of next week, there is a full “live” scrimmage on tap. There has been a great deal of comment about the freshman squad and the coaching staff will back up the delighted words of praise of Davidson fans. The line, for instance, averages almost 200 pounds. The backfield is trim and fast and the quarterback, Barney Poole, has shown himself to be a fine passer. All in all, prospects are good not only for the freshmen to be a great asset to the varsity next year, but for a very successful season for the Little Cats this season.

Here is a list of the men who reported for workouts last week: Belton, Brewer, Brooks, Cathey, Campbell, Conger, Comer, Connell, Campbell, D.M., Firor, Foil, Fretwell, Finnegan, Gramley, Gaither, Hall, Hamor, Hatcher, Hall, W.L., Hood, Johnson, Jarrett, Lawing, Lee, Llewellyn, Little, Martin, B., Martin, J., Middleton, McCree, McGehee, Newton, Powell, Poole, Richards, Reid, Swaim, Wall, Walker, Wilder, and West.

DAVIDSON THEATRE

FRI-SAT. SEPT. 25-26
“CITY OF BAD MEN”
JEANNE CRAIN

MON.-TUES., SEPT. 28-29
“KANSAS CITY CONFIDENTIAL”
JOHN PAYNE
COLLEEN MOORE

WEDNESDAY, SEPT. 30
“LUXURY GIRLS”
SUSAN STEPHENS
ANNA MARIE FERRERO

THURS.-FRI., OCT. 1-2
“SHOOT FIRST”
JOEL McCREA
EVELYN KEYES

SATURDAY, OCT. 3
“BANDITS OF CORSICA”
PAULETTE GODDARD
GYPSY ROSE LEE

Rent A New Car
LOW RATES FOR HOMECOMING WEEKEND
* * *
Drive it Yourself Inc.
212 West 4th
Phone 3-4513
Charlotte

Drink ‘M O O R’?
Mooresville Creamery, Inc.

‘PT’ Testing Plan Used To Correct Frosh Weaknesses

The recent freshman physical tests of the incoming freshmen conducted by the Physical Education Department resulted in the successful completion of the tests by about 50% of the class. This number,Of course, this excludes all those freshmen who are out for frosh football and cross-country. Mr. Paul Scott, director of athletics here at Davidson, recently summarized the department's reasons for administering the test, disclosing that the tests were designed to detect the part of the body of the testee which most needs building up. By studying the various failings of the various parts of the test, the instructors were able to determine what type of class the particular freshman needs.

People have two ideas about a secret. It’s either not worth keeping or it’s too good to keep.—Reporter, Kanawha, Ia.

RECORD BREAKER
Pete Ashcraft approaches the finish line to win the Freshman Cake Race held here last Friday afternoon. Pete is a native of Amherst, Mass.

Ashcraft Sets New Frosh Mark
Hailing from the New England state of Massachusetts, Pete Ashcraft stepped into Davidson’s sports limelight last Friday as he set a new record in the annual Freshman Cake Race. Ashcraft shaved almost 20 seconds off the old record held by Archie Joyner of the sophomore class. Pete's time was 8:34.5 as compared to the old 8:52 mark.

Track and Cross-Country are no new words as far as this friendly frosh is concerned. Pete graduated from Tennessee Military Institute last year where he was one of the most outstanding men on their track squad. During his last year at the Tennessee school, Pete won the Mid-South title in the mile event as well as placing second in the 880-yard run. In his pace-setting mile in the Mid-South meet, Ashcraft was timed at 4:49.5. Pete participated in the 440, 880, and the mile in his prep-school days. Coach Whittle looks forward to the time in the future when the freshman can run with both his varsity harriers and his varsity trackmen. Ashcraft has been a member of the freshman Cross-Country team since he arrived at school and will probably be one of Mr. McGillis’ finest prospects for a successful season for the frosh.

A new feature in Davidson sports life is about to come into existence on the campus in the reality of the much desired and hoped-for putting green for aspiring golfers. Just to the north end of the freshman football practice field, work has begun on the much-awaited improvement. It is now in the process of being grassed and will probably be ready for use sometime next spring. It is conveniently located and is within easy access to the campus. The new green will be a great help to the varsity and the freshmen golf teams when their seasons get underway again next spring. As yet, no work has been done on the proposed driving range which was to be built in conjunction with the putting green. With the golf course in the shape that it is, this is a much-needed and desired improvement.

A careful motorist is one who is driving to court to answer a summons for speeding.—Wall Street Journal.

That’s what we like about running a weekly paper—you get a chance to play up some of the nicer things of life, instead of nothing but violence as is so often the case.—Bulletin.

Manteca Cat Harriers Prepare For Maryville Meet
Coach Pete Whittle’s Cross-Country team has been working out for the past two weeks with several of the octet showing some great promise. The harriers open their season on October 9, when the Maryville College runners journey to the local course. The team will face William and Mary, Richmond, W & L, and VPI before the state and the conference meets, which are all away games.

When asked about the prospects for his squad, Coach Whittle commented very favorably about several of his returning lettermen who compose over half of the squad and revealed that he is very enthusiastic over the Cats’ chances of a fine season. The men who are out for the grueling sport are Bill Shipley, Homer Sparks, Floyd Feeney, Andy Turner, John Handley, Dick Lovette, Joe Caudell, Paul Alexander, and Hershel Allen.

Shipley, Sparks Captains
Bill Shipley and Homer Sparks serve as co-captains and along with Floyd Feeney and Andy Turner comprise the meat of the team. The other four positions on the squad are still, as yet, undecided. Rush week has hampered the workouts of the squad considerably as sleep is an all-important quantity in the endurance sport. Next week will mark the beginning of really steady training to get ready for the first meet coming up soon.

McGillis Coaches
Sam McGillis is the freshman coach in Cross-Country. Mr. McGillis has some fine boys on his squad who Coach Whittle could well use on the varsity squad. First on the list of freshman prospects is Pete Ashcraft who set the pace for the recent Freshman Cake Race. Another boy who has looked good in early workouts is Ted Baker who placed second in the race. Other members of the squad include: Joe Brown, John Hill, Russell Barringer, John Holshouser, Steve Huntley, Bill Jackson, and Gordon Bondurant. Great things are expected of this team who open their season the same day as the varsity.

No habit has any real hold on you, other than the hold you have on it.—Gardner Hunting.

When you smoke Chesterfield it’s satisfying to know that you are getting the one cigarette that’s low in nicotine, highest in quality. A fact proved by chemical analyses of the country’s six leading cigarette brands. And it’s so satisfying to know that a doctor reports no adverse effects to the nose, throat, and sinuses from smoking Chesterfield. The doctor’s report is part of a program supervised by a responsible independent research laboratory and is based on thorough bi-monthly examinations of a group of Chesterfield smokers over a period of a year and a half.

CHESTERFIELD
BEST FOR YOU
LARGEST SELLING CIGARETTE IN AMERICA'S COLLEGES
© 1953, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.