PAGE TWO : THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, MAY 15, 1953

Many Library Books Still Missing; Administration May Act

This editorial might be entitled “A Sad Commentary, Part II.” As we go to press, only about one hundred of the missing library books have been turned in. Most of these were removed from the library after the last inventory was made. Even now, the deadline has passed.

It is obvious that the library, in order to function satisfactorily, must operate within certain rules. These rules seem simple: when you want a book from the library, check it out at the desk before you take it anywhere else. When your two weeks are up, bring the book back and check it in, or get it renewed. What else is there? If we don’t cooperate with the library, it simply cannot operate under the present system.

This leads to the really disturbing factor. If the library is unable to use the open-stack system because we do not deign to be bothered with the onerous chore of signing out for books, then what is the alternative? Right now, it appears to be that the open-stack system would be junked; students would have to see a library helper and get him to get books off the shelves for them; it would be impossible to peruse books in order to find the desired ones, for admission to the stacks would be denied; finally, all the doors in the library would be locked except one, and through this door alone could one enter and leave the library, so that each man would be checked as he left.

We don’t want to see any such regimented system as this used at Davidson. We are sometimes treated as less than men, but we often ask for such treatment. The Davidsonian has learned, for example, that the night of the great panty-raid-that-was-not-a-panty-raid on Queens, and the accompanying festivities, was the night before an issue of some importance to us was taken before the faculty. Largely as a result of the activities of the night before, the matter was shelved at least for the time being. Let’s not give anybody any more excuse to treat us like prep-schoolers.

The solution is simple. We have the books; all that need be done is to take them back now if that has not been done already. We hope that by the time you read this editorial, it will be a dead issue!

Who'll Be Next?

Fortunately, no one has been killed yet, but there have been some very close calls. The Davidsonian is greatly alarmed over the high incidence of traffic accidents involving members of the student body that have occurred in the past month. As is by now common knowledge, there have been no fatalities, but several nasty minor injuries. In one case, a student has been critically injured.

So much is said these days about traffic accidents on our highways and the great number of killed and injured that they annually leave behind, that it appears there is little else for us to say, and that any warning we give may seem timeworn and therefore meaningless. Most of us are prone to believe that if we ourselves just remain within the limits of the traffic laws, we have nothing to worry about. But unfortunately, this is not necessarily the case. Every car that you meet on the highway is a potential menace. The individual never has any means of knowing what kind of drivers are on the highway with him. In many states, physical requirements for a driver’s license are almost a joke, the principal requisite being some degree of sight. Bearing this in mind, it would behoove each of us to drive with the realization that the fellow in the next car may be physically inadequate as a driver, that he may be intoxicated, or that his automobile may be inadequately equipped for safe driving.

It is up to the individual student to assume full responsibility in this matter, not only for himself, but for others who are riding in his car. He must be sure that both he and his car are in proper shape to drive. If one is fatigued from lack of sleep, ill, or for any other reason is not physically up to par for driving, it is his responsibility to himself and to society as a whole to stay off the roads. Probably no one expects to have an accident when he steps into his car and drives off, but somebody always does. Don’t let it be you.

ON COS

Acting on a tip received from one of the members of the faculty, this reporter decided to do a little research on the life history of the Honorable James H. R. Cromwell in hopes of finding something relevant to the position which he now enjoys. After rummaging around in some ancient issues of the Saturday Evening Post, an article turned up entitled “Golden Boy,” which sketched the hard-fought battle Mr. Cromwell waged in the ever-present struggle for existence.

It seems that Jimmy Cromwell's mother was a matchmaker of no mean ability. After the departure of her first husband, she had the good fortune of making the acquaintance of one Mr. Stotesbury; which acquaintance later blossomed into romance and led to the nuptial altar. That Mr. Stotesbury was worth around $50 million is incidental information. Young Cromwell, 15 years old at the time, went off to prep school where he subsisted on a $300 monthly allowance. Upon graduation, he entered the University of Pennsylvania, struggling with a $6000 pittance per annum, out of which he was forced to buy his own Stutz Bearcats.

Moving in the elite social circles of Long Island and Palm Beach, he finally met the daughter of Horace Dodge, fabulously wealthy owner of the Dodge Corporation. Delphine and Jimmy were a charming pair, and after his return from the Armed Services, they were wedded and moved into a $375,000 establishment on Long Island. The fat years followed; Jimmy formed the Dodge-Cromwell Enterprises which financed all Dodge-made cars east of the Mississippi, and before long the Enterprise was showing a gross income of $30,000,000 a year.

Unfortunately for Jimmy, he liked to speculate. Florida beckoned with an enticing finger, and he undertook a vast development plan there which he called Floranada. Like other speculators, he lost his shirt in the hurricanes and came back home $6,000,000 poorer. During the boom years of '27, '28, and '29, he was constantly fighting lawsuits arising from the fiasco in Florida, and enviously watching his friends clean up on the Stock Market. Delphine picked this time to take a legal leave of absence from her husband. Dejected and discouraged, he hit the nightclub circuit with great exuberance, and earned the title, “The Millionaire Playboy.” Before long, even this avocation wore thin, and Jim Cromwell began to be socially conscious. He studied economics books to discern a better method to alleviate the suffering and poverty of the masses during the depression; he made radical talks to the elite clubs with which his mother was affiliated, condemning the rich for their inconsideration of the poor. During the height of his social fervor, he met Doris Duke, followed her to Europe, married her, and launched off on a round-the-world honeymoon. Jimmy had just associated himself with another $100 million. Upon their return, they moved out to Doris’ 60-room hideaway.

(All Unsigned Editorials are from the Editor-in-Chief.)

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Moody

BUSINESS MANAGER
Charles Smith

ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Buddy Lamon, Bob Owen, Hunter Strader

Managing Editor
Henry Brockmann

Sports Editor
Jobe Hendley

News Editor
Austin Strand

Feature Editor
T. A. Williams

Art Assignment
Stukerhott, Simons

Asst. Business Manager
Ed Nicholson

Advertising Manager
Tommy Taylor

Circulation Manager
Dick Little

Collections Manager
Tommy Douglas

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1879.in Hawaii for Jim to finish his book. He finished his book, “In Defense of Capitalism,” in which he propounded a theory of Synchronization, including, among other things, birth control and government loans on which the government would pay the recipient 6% interest for the privilege of lending him the money. Having failed to interest Roosevelt or any of the New Dealers in his plan, he was appointed as Minister to Canada. Later, as he informed us last Wednesday, he became American advisor to Syngman Rhee and chairman of the Korean-American Council. In this capacity, he apparently became aware of the Communist threat in China, Korea, and the Far East. Yet it seems inconceivable, if he had such knowledge, that a man with his financial and political power could not get in to (Continued On Page Four)

College Communists

(The following is the result of a special inquiry at the University of Kansas and was originally printed there in the Daily Kansan. We reprint it here in an effort to eliminate subversives on this campus. Eds.)

Attention Joe McCarthy: If you want to know the secret behind Communism in the colleges, seek no further. Here is the answer. Teachers may be divided into five classifications:

1. Those who give you A’s—Good, red-blooded, 100 per cent Americans.
2. Those who give you B’s—have good standing in the community, vote the Republican ticket.
3. Those who give you C’s—caution, there may be infiltration here. These are common, ordinary men with the usual weaknesses.
4. Those who give you D’s—definitely socialistic, have shady pasts. A thorough investigation should begin with these men.
5. Those who give you F’s—catch these quick. They're not only tainted red, they have definite ringleader tendencies.

Simple, isn’t it?

Campus capers call for Coke

Commencement’s a big day—so get off to the right start. Pause for a frosty bottle of delicious Coca-Cola and be refreshed.

THE FREE LANCE: Davidsonian’s “Quiet Men” Are Well Prepared For Life

Today ends an era for this writer. At least it ends for a while. Seldom in the world of men can anyone proceed to write the truth or even the truth in language straight from the shoulder. Seldom are a man’s responsibilities so little that he can be relatively free from fear of retribution. As one assumes the burdens of keeping a salaried position, of maintaining a household, of feeding many mouths, one’s powers of speech are progressively limited.

Here at Davidson the only recourse is for a man to write a letter to the editor or call a man before a board of the faculty. Here we are not faced with the heartbreaking connotations of the word “tact.” The term “academic freedom of speech” means little to the average student here. He has the right to talk back to his professors, but he either deems it impolite or realizes that the answer which the prof might give would be just as monotonous as his lecture. The result is that both professors and students grow dull and inexorably inculcated with the Davidson system of memorizing notes and then quoting them on reviews so as to be able to write home about what wonderful grades one is making.

Perhaps it is well that many of us learn that it is wrong to argue with our elders. Well because the greater part of us go forth at one time or another bound to live up to the nebulous conception the public has of “The Davidson Man.” If we were excessively aggressive, it would be bad on those who made a fetish of docility. If we went about life with anything but gaping mouths crying to be fed, it might give a different impression of our prep school.

Perhaps it is well that we are quiet men. There really isn’t much to disagree about, though, is there? We all believe, and love, and hope. Our folks before us did. Our teachers do. Why argue about things which are obvious from the day we enter?

Bravo, Masquers

According to local euphemist Michael Myers, the score usually reads “Students play Hamlet. Hamlet loses.” We feel that this was very definitely not the case with this week's drama. Though Mizelle came close to stealing the show, Currie held down the lead in his best appearance on the local stage so far. A fitting bow out to college dramatics. Miss Whittle was obviously frightened, but did not muff her lines, and made up for a noticeable Southern accent with a very good portrayal of Ophelia insane. A young man worth the attention of the Masquers is Fred Summers. He captivated the first night audience with his handling of the gravedigger. Not often can a college man catch the spirit of Shakespeare’s humor and get the audience to chuckle at it. Summers exhibited a fundamental grasp of the playwright’s intention as well as some honest hard work at learning his part. The staging was quite good and we thought especially worthwhile the mist effected at the play's opening and once later.

With A Bang

It might be expected that the Free Lance would slip into the typical gibberish which is expected of many men who leave positions of one kind or another, or that it might boast. Such is usually accompanied by an idea in the writer that he has been wrong all along and that he loves Davidson as much as the next fellow—deep underneath. If this had ever been the case with us, we doubt if we would have been able to write a single column. When a man begins such an enterprise as this has been, he is in complete control of his thoughts and is more or less free to say anything he wishes. We feel this is a good situation from which to write. To slobber would be to say that we had not been in control of our thoughts. Thus we end not with a whimper but with a bang.

Why make ourselves unhappy with questions? Davidson is a quiet place for your son, for our sons. News of a new highway promises to make it quieter. It may some day become North Carolina’s biggest little place to come and die. Come when the noise of life to which we never grew accustomed becomes a bit too grating on our ears. Come back within the walls.

The Free Lance has erred. It is not memorable that we who leave are entering on a life of society-enforced silence. It is nothing new. We have been well prepared for life in the midst of bosses and foremen. Let them be leaders who know best how to follow. We follow with amazing dexterity.

Hark Philanthropists

For those who feel morally obligated to contribute funds to the college after graduation, a kind of bonus plan has been devised to make it easier and something of a business venture. It hopes not only to bolster the college’s coffers, but to stimulate more alumni interest in the old school on the idea that most men are concerned with what is done with their money. This is inadequate thinking, but no great crime has been committed in telling men such is the case. Interest, we believe, has a dower price on its head than actual greenbacks. It is a weird sort of bargain this trading money for an idea that Davidson has made us supermen, and rather discounts the fact that we have been shelling out some $1500 each year in the way of a service fee. But a bargain is a bargain to many of us.

HOME BY GREYHOUND

CHARLOTTE, N. C. .... 50
WINSTON-SALEM, N.C. $1.60
ROCK HILL, S.C. ...... $1.20
GREENSBORO, N.C. .... $2.00
ATLANTA, GA. ......... $6.90
RICHMOND, VA. ........ $7.15

Plus U.S. Tax. Save an EXTRA 10% Each Way With a Round Trip Ticket.

C. S. GOODRUM, Agent
Atlantic Greyhound Lines
Davidson, N. C.