FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 1953 — THE DAVIDSONIAN — PAGE THREE

Wildcat Baseballers Open 18-Game Season With Duke March 28
By BILL MORRIS

Candidates for Davidson's 1953 baseball team begin workouts Monday for a long, 18-game season, which opens March 28 with Duke. Coach Cluck Clements, who coached baseball and football at Gastonia High School before coming to Davidson last spring, will be assisted by Cage Mentor Danny Miller in night sessions in Johnston gym until winter football practice is over.

Last year the Cats won one game each from Springfield, The Citadel, Clemson, and Furman while losing 13. Returning from the '52 team will be Fred Stowe, who roamed the outer gardens and batted .457 for the season, high in Southern Conference standings, Outfielder Jerry Morrow, Arnold Whisnant at first base, and pitchers “Ish” Bennett, Jim Smith, Andy Courts, and Johnny Smith. Freshman prospects appear to be Catcher Ray Harding and Corky Burdette.

The complete schedule for the coming season follows:
March 28 — Duke University at Davidson
April 1 — Williams College at Davidson
April 2 — Wesleyan University at Davidson
April 4 — Ohio University at Davidson
April 6 — Clemson at Clemson
April 10 — Clemson at Greenville
April 11 — Furman at Davidson
April 13 — University of N. C. at Durham
April 18 — Duke University at Davidson
April 21 — McCrary Eagles at Davidson
April 23 — University of N. C. at Chapel Hill
April 24 — N. C. State at Raleigh
April 27 — The Citadel at Charleston
April 28 — University of S. C. at Columbia
May 1 — Furman at Davidson
May 2 — University of S. C. at Davidson
May 8 — N. C. State at Davidson
May 9 — Wofford at Davidson

Johnny Gray may be shifted from shortstop to second base because of the shoulder injury he sustained in football and to fill the void created by the graduation of Johnny Guiton. The absence of Jack Branch, who also graduated, will be felt in the outfield. Coach Clements remarked today that since he is new to the squad he considers each position “wide open” and is looking for “nine hustling ball players.”

Matmen At VPI For Last Dual Meet Of ‘53 Season
By ANDY TURNER

A win-starved Wildcat wrestling team will meet VPI's strong grapplers at Blacksburg tomorrow afternoon. Davidson goes into the meet with an 0-8 record.

24-Match Slate Set For Netmen This Season

Davidson's 1953 tennis team will be the most cosmopolitan group on the campus by the time the coming season is over. The Wildcat netmen will travel all over the eastern part of the country, playing matches as far north as Dartmouth, in New Hampshire, and Williams, in Massachusetts, to Kalamazoo, in Michigan, and as far South as Miami University in Florida. The 24-match season gets under way during spring vacation on March 20, when the team will play Alabama Teachers College at Jacksonville, Fla.

The complete schedule is as follows:
March 20 — Alabama Teachers College at Jacksonville, Fla.
March 21 — University of Alabama at University of Alabama
March 23 — U. S. Naval Air Station at Pensacola
(Continued On Page Four)

VPI ranks high in the Southern Conference, right behind Maryland and West Virginia. They have a good, fast team and will almost be too much for Coach Charlie Parker’s boys. VPI has beat both Washington and Lee and Duke who both have topped Davidson.

Coach Charlie Parker will be minus the services of Gene Craven and therefore the lineup won't be as strong as usual. Capable Stan Topple will replace Craven in the 147-pound class. Bob Key will again handle the 123-pound class while Charlie Murray and Don Reid go in the 130 and 137-pound classes respectively. John Buxton and Bill Coe are scheduled for the 157 and 167-pound classes, and either Bill McElveen or Nabby Armfield will go in the 177-pound division. Roger Wright will take his usual place in the heavyweight competition.

The win-hungry wrestlers, without Craven, will depend heavily on John Buxton and Charlie Murray who have been coming along very well. Both have just one defeat in conference play.

Conference Meet Next Week

Next Friday and Saturday, Davidson will compete in the Southern Conference Meet.

Bantamac’s “Closure Cloth”
Guaranteed Washable Watertite
Light Blue, Tan, Navy
“Collegiate Fashions”
Davidson, N. C.

Cagers Close Season With VPI Tomorrow; Swimmers, Cindermen In Conference Meets
State, UNC Are Host Teams

By MING COBB

Two Davidson varsity teams are competing in Southern Conference meets this weekend. Coach Carroll Hambright’s Catfish swimmers finish the second round of a three-day meet in N. C. State’s pool tonight, while Pete Whittle’s indoor track team journeys to Chapel Hill to see action there tomorrow.

For Hambright’s swimmers, this weekend’s tournament is the climax of the season. After a disappointing season during which they won only one meet, the Catfish hope to make a fine showing against the best of the Southern Conference. The ‘fish will have to win whatever honors they can minus the services of sprinter Bob Patten, who is currently in the infirmary with flu. Patten was one of the big reasons for the team’s smashing 55-29 win over Clemson here last Thursday. With Patten out, the Catfish will rely primarily on high point man Al Ormond, who will swim the 1500-meter, the 220 and 440-yard freestyle events, and Captain Jim Bryan, who will be the Davidson entry in both the 100 and 200-yard backstroke events. Bryan was also set to handle the backstroke in the 300-yard medley relay. George Crone will swim the breaststroke lap of the medley relay, and the regular 200-yard breaststroke event. Jim Golding, stepping in for Patten, is the likely choice for the 100-yard freestyle and the 400-yard freestyle relay. Paul Cole will handle the 220 and 440-yard freestyle events, while Charlie Haigh will swim one lap of the 400 freestyle relay and the 50-yard freestyle dash.

Eleven Men To Run

Up in Chapel Hill, Coach Pete Whittle will be counting on eleven Wildcat trackmen to win honors for Davidson tomorrow. Frank Mitchener, Bill Morris, Roy White, and Van Julian will run the 60-yard dash for Whittle’s team. These boys have had the benefit of no regular indoor track on which to practice, so Whittle doesn’t expect great things of them. Whittle will enter no one in the high hurdles event, but has Bill Morris and Roy White in shape for the low hurdles. John Regen, a freshman, and the versatile White will be the Wildcat entries in the broad jump. Steve Gooding, Andy Turner, and Homer Sparks will run the strenuous two-mile event. The mile relay team will be comprised of Bob Henry, Bill Russell, Bill Shipley, and John Regen.

The spring track season gets under way April 4 when Roanoke College comes to Davidson. The schedule for the coming season is as follows:
April 4 — Roanoke College at Davidson
April 11 — Mercer Univ. at Davidson
April 15 — Clemson at Clemson
April 18 — Univ. of S. C. at Columbia
April 25 — Univ. of S. C. at Davidson
May 2 — Washington & Lee at Davidson
May 9 — N. C. State at Davidson
May 15-16 — Southern Conference Meet at Durham

Dudley Paces Cagers In Scoring; Cats Enter Finale

Captain Joe Dudley leads the Wildcats in the point department with but one game left on the 1953 basketball card with a grand total of 360 markers in 20 games for a very impressive 18 point average. Lanky Dudley has put 35% of his shots through the hoops from his center spot. Joe has already surpassed the total amassed by last year's leading scorer Bill Brooks who racked up 316 points for a 13.2 average.

The individual scoring and fouling is as follows:
PLAYER FG FT PF TP
Dudley 127 106 80 360
King 53 47 30 153
Cobb 45 31 42 121
Bennett 45 28 38 118
Howell 39 39 63 117
Melton 37 25 33 30 83
Fowle 25 30 27 80
Harding 13 17 19 43
Brown 9 1 26 35
Weeks 11 12 17 34
Adams 5 10 12 20
Reams 8 2 7 18
Keith 3 3 9 9
Burdette 1 3 2 5
Faucette 0 1 0 1
Anderson 0 0 0 0
Glidewell 0 0 0 0

Wildcat of the Week: Joe Dudley

For the second time since the beginning of the basketball season, the Wildcat of the Week is the captain of the Davidson cagers, Joe Dudley. The Winston-Salem standout wins this distinction largely by virtue of his brilliant 28-point performances within the last week against Furman and Clemson. Dudley, as any devotee of Davidson basketball will tell you, has been the mainstay of the team all season. Through that game, he had scored 360 points in twenty games for an average of 18 per game.Davidson basketball can tell you, is a rather tall slender young man who stands nearly 6’5" and weighs by his own admission something more than 150 and something less than 200. Actually, the best guess is about 170. This season he has constituted the only consistent scoring punch that Davidson has been able to present. Since the departure of Jerry King, he has carried the brunt of the Wildcat offense. Last Tuesday night Dudley made his last appearance for the home folks on the local court against Duke. Joe made 14 points in that game, but everybody said he was off, which is something of a tribute in itself. It is very true how.

Fourth in Big Five
This puts Dudley fourth in the Big Five in scoring, bowing in this department only to the Wake Forest double-barreled scoring punch of Hemric and Williams. Ironically (Continued On Page Four)

KAs Edge Out Sigma Chis For Interfrat Basketball Title
By BUCK REINHARDT

With a one-point verdict over a strong Phi Delt team, the KAs climaxed a very successful season that brought them the interfraternity basketball championship for the second straight year. The KAs compiled 10 victories against one defeat to clinch the first place berth. Their nearest rivals, the Sigma Chis (9-2), got off to a slow start at the beginning of the season but improved greatly and took second place while giving the champs a real scare. A strong Phi Delt team (8-3) had to settle for third place in the standings, due to being the victim of upsets over the course of the season. In winning the championship, the KAs displayed a furious fast break with exceptionally good shooting. Their team unity and never-flagging spirit also contributed a great deal to crowning them 1953 Interfraternity Basketball Champs.

Sigma Chis 43; SAE 37
The Sigma Chis, who were far down in the race earlier in the season, climaxed a great comeback by topping the SAE’s 43 to 37, and ending in second place in the standings. Tom Shaw was the big gun for the Sigma Chis with 12 points while A. C. Gregg led the losers with 14.

Kappa Alpha 46; Phi Delta Theta 45
In a breathtaking game, the KAs clinched the league championship by nosing out a hard-fighting Phi Delt five. The Phi Delts were trailing by 5 points starting the last quarter when they started narrowing the KA margin. Their rally, however, fell short and the KAs grabbed a one-point verdict and the championship. The combined efforts of Bowen (15) and King (14) gave the KAs the spark to take the victory. Ted Oldenburg led the Phi Delts and took scoring honors for the night with 17 points.

Pi Kappa 55; ATO 45
The Pi Kapps turned in the biggest upset of the week by tripping the ATO’s 55 to 45. Arnold Whisnant turned in a sparkling 27-point performance to lead the Pi Kapps to their surprise victory. Tom Page was high for the losers with 13 points.

SPE 39; Kappa Sigs 34
With Horace Ball scoring 13 points, high for the game, the SPE’s nosed out the Kappa Sigs 39 to 34 in a hard-fought contest. Johnny Bremer paced the Kappa Sigs with 8 points.

SPEs 48; Pi Kappa Alpha 40
A PiKa rally fell short as the SPEs came out on top 48 to 40. The SPEs took the lead at the start and were never headed although their lead was threatened by a surging PiKa rally early in the fourth quarter. Moffat Ware led the SPEs to victory with 18 points. Lindley Beardsley led the victory-starved PiKas with 12 points.

Phi Gams 44; ATO 42
It was neck and neck to the last whistle which found the ATOs on the short end of a 44 to 42 score as the Phi Gams won their final game of the season. Once again it was Larry Champion who led the Phi Gams to victory with 23 points. Page and Gilley were high for the losers with 10 points each.

Campus Club 46; Betas 42
The Campus Club for the first time this season outscored their opponents but it made no difference as the Betas won the game on forfeit. Brown led the Clubmen to the imaginary win with 16 points. Bill McNair was high for the Betas with 18 points.

ATOs 49; SPE 47
With a rally late in the last quarter, the ATOs managed to nose out the SPEs 49 to 47. Murray Page led the ATO offense, scoring 10 of his 15-point game total during the fourth quarter rally which decided the closely contested game. Moffatt Ware was high man for the SPEs with 17 points.

KAs 73; Campus Club 41
Hitting on a high percentage of their shots and displaying an unbeatable fast break, the KAs swamped the Campus Club 73-41. George (Continued On Page Four)

JOE DUDLEY
Fourth best in the Conference. With 4-17 Record
By JOHN HANDLEY

Coach Danny Miller’s Wildcat Cagers wind up their 1953 season’s activity tomorrow night in Blacksburg, Virginia, as they tangle with a vastly improved Virginia Tech quintet. The battle with Tech's Gobblers will mark the close of one of the Cats’ poorest seasons in several years. As they go into this encounter with the Techmen, the Wildcats hold a 4-17 record. VPI last week was in 14th place in the Southern Conference, while the Cats held 13th, so tomorrow's game would appear to be a tossup.

The VPI cagers haven't been world beaters either, however, and they also own a very lopsided record. The Gobblers got off to a very poor start in this year’s campaign as they lost to such teams as High Point, Elon, and Marshall. They went for eight straight games without a win before taking the measure of Washington and Lee's last place Generals. However, the young Gobblers, who like Miller’s Cats are in a building year, have improved as the season progressed. On Monday night they took the measure of William and Mary’s Indians who are coached by Boyd Baird, Wildcat coach for the three previous years.

Gobblers Want Revenge
In taking three decisive poundings in as many outings in the past week, the Cats will be out to wind up the season’s activities on the same winning note on which they began way back in December. VPI took a 67-58 pounding from last year's Cats and they will be after revenge. Two Wildcat stalwarts will take the floor for the last time in a Davidson uniform against VPI tomorrow night in the persons of Captain and center Joe Dudley and forward J. V. “Horse” Howell. Both these men have figured prominently in Cat basketball this year. Dudley sports the Cats’ highest individual scoring average with a healthy 17 points per game mark.

This has been Coach Miller's building season as was easily seen in the Duke game last Tuesday. In that game at times the lineup featured four freshmen and one junior and other combinations of returning material for next year's team.

Broken Anchor Five Plays At Morganton
Ten Davidson students are in Morganton, N. C., this weekend to participate in that city’s semi-pro basketball tournament. Sponsored by the “Broken Anchor,” local cafe, the Davidson aggregation will compete against teams from all over this area. The Broken Anchor squad is comprised of Arnold Whisnant, Jim Smith, Adrian Bowen, Don Lazenby, Lindley Beardsley, Don Menzies, and George King. The team will play in the Morganton High School Gymnasium.

J. V. HOWELL
The Horse bows out tomorrow.

Winter Practice Seen Progressing Satisfactorily
Winter football practice has been progressing “satisfactorily,” Coach Bill Dole said this week after the squad had completed seven of its 20 planned sessions. So far Dole has been running T-formation plays only, while gradually rounding his squad into shape. There are now 36 men practicing. Sophomore Henry Brown has been working in the quarterback spot vacated by the graduating Jack Ruth, and seems to be taking to his new job well. Also working at the QB slot are Bobby Amos and Johnny Gray. Another important switch has Harry Peterson working at offensive center, moving in for Arnold Whisnant, who graduates this spring. Gene Davis, Bob Loy, Bill Elliot, and Bill Taylor have also been working in the pivot man’s spot.

The complete squad for the winter practice sessions is as follows: Corky King, Jim Patterson, Jimmy Davis, Harry Petersen, Bob Loy, Ben Craig, Gene Davis, Neil Graham, Chuck Mauney, Bob Strozier, Bill Taylor, Dick Jones, Dickie Davis, Charlie Cousar, Tom Owen, Bob Patten, Jim Moore, S. H. Wainwright, Bo Abernathy, Harold Davis, (Continued On Page Four)

Campus capers
A call for Coke
Parties click when the mood is right. With enough Coke on hand you can set the scene for a gay session...

BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD, N. C.
“Coke” is a registered trade-mark. © 1952, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY