PAGE TWO THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1968

Diploma: Old or New?

Since 1980 each successive class as it rounded the corner to the senior year has been faced with the question as to the advisability of a change from the diploma which is now being used back to the original 1840 diploma. It is true that some may say, “I don’t care what kind of a diploma I get as long as I get one.” But does this kind of lackadaisical reasoning actually reflect the general attitude of the Davidson student? This question can only be answered by the student himself.

In order to provide a background for a reasonable discussion of the diplomas, it is necessary to understand what the proposals are and why a change has been considered for the last few years. The diploma which the college has used since 1929 is a compromise between the traditional and the modern type of diploma. It is 13½ x 16½ inches in size and is engraved in block Latin on sheepskin. It is adequate as a diploma from many standpoints, but not from the one standpoint which is the most important—what sentimental value does it hold for the Davidson graduate? Primarily, a college diploma is a symbol that should be indicative of the traditions and values of the institution which it represents. If the present diploma does not perform this function, a change would be highly desirable.

There are two possible alternatives; either to change back to the traditional 1840 diploma or to keep the present diploma. Assuming that the first alternative is desired, there are three possible choices which should be considered: (1) to adopt the 1840 diploma in its original size (18 x 22 inches) at an increased cost of $2.75 per diploma; (2) to adopt the 1840 diploma in a slightly smaller size (15 x 20 inches) at an increase of $2.00, or (3) to adopt an 11 x 14 version of the 1840 diploma with no increase in cost. Any one of the diplomas would be more in keeping with the traditional ideals and values of Davidson College than the diploma we now have.

In a recent faculty meeting the matter of diplomas was turned over to the Executive Committee for final action. The Committee, feeling that since the College is, this year, awarding a five-year contract to the manufacturer of the diplomas and seeking to settle the matter conclusively, decided that a two-thirds vote of the total membership of the upper three classes would be required in order to effect the change. After four years at Davidson, a graduate wants something that he can proudly show for his effort; something with historical significance. We feel that the present diploma is not such a document, and that now is the time when a change can and should be made, if it is to be made at all.—H.V.L.

Panel or Group Pics?

Recently, on hearing that the Quips ’n Cranks was considering printing group pictures of the fraternities rather than the individual panel shots which have been used in the recent past, a cry of protest went up from some of the Greeks. At present some of the fraternities seem to be getting ready to issue a sort of formal protest to the annual editors.

The Davidsonian deems it a matter of discretion to remain as neutral as possible editorially on this issue. When the annual editor was elected by the senior class, the implication seemed to be that decisions of make-up, policy, etc., would be left up to him, and his decisions would be final. We feel that this is the way it should be. It seems to us a bad precedent would be established if the editor were constantly subjected to petitions and the like from the student body. But on the other hand, the feelings of the students ought certainly to be taken into consideration in making up such parts of the yearbook in which so many students are concerned.

If group pictures are to be made, it must be remembered that it is much easier to get large groups together in theory than in practice. Regardless of the personal responsibility of the individual to report at the proper place and at the proper time for a group shot, people are notoriously forgetful of such things, but resent it when they are not included. It might take considerable effort to get an entire fraternity group together at the same place at the same time. Another difficulty seems to be the antipathy which some of the fraternity men hold for having their fraternity pictures made at the Union. In fact it does seem more appropriate that group pictures of the fraternities be made in or in front of their respective fraternity houses. If this were done, we believe that a great deal of the fraternity opposition would evaporate. In addition it would be easier to enlist the aid of fraternity officers in getting their men together for the pictures, as well as making each fraternity picture more distinctive than if they were all taken in the College Union.

As to the relative merits of group pictures and individual pictures, we feel that it is simply a matter of taste, and that group pictures could be made palatable to the majority of fraternity men, depending largely on where and how they were taken. As we mentioned earlier, however, the affair is in the hands of the annual editors.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

Moody Smith
Charley Hasty
Jim Moore, Dick Roper
Bob Crutchfield, Charles Hassell, Buddy Lamon, Bob Owen, Hunter Strader
Henry Brockmann, Floyd Feeney
Sports Editor — John Handley
News Editor — Austin Strand
Feature Editor — T. A. Williams
Art Editor — Ed Price
Photographer — Andy Simons
Assignments Editor — Blake Brinkerhoff
Asst. Business Manager — Ed Nicholson
Business Manager — Tommy Taylor
Circulation Manager — Dick Little
Collections Manager — Tim Cooper

Entered as second class matter March 3, 1879, at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of Congress.

Chapel Furore Over, But Faculty Working on Solution to Problem

The recent furore over chapel has subsided somewhat in the last few weeks, but it should be gratifying to the student body to know that the faculty committee on chapel has spent quite a few hours recently in discussing the matter, and it is possible that in the foreseeable future some definite—if not radical changes will be made in the College's policy on chapel. This committee, composed of Professors Workman, Bevan, McCutchan, Morton, and Schenck, Dr. Cunningham, YMCA Secretary Sam Magill, and Dr. Spencer, seems about to come around to the viewpoint that instead of expecting “cooperation” from the students on the College's chapel policy (i.e., “compliance” with their viewpoint), the committee may decide to start from scratch and call student body leaders into committee session to re-examine present chapel policy.

Betterment of Services

This, however, definitely does not mean that the ending of compulsory chapel is being seriously entertained by any member of the chapel committee or of the faculty in general. What the chapel committee is concerned with, however, is the betterment of the daily services in general, and an improvement of the student attitude toward these services.

Several attitudes seem at present to prevail on the subject of chapel policy. For some time now the policy has been to try to divorce secular subjects from chapel as much as is possible, and to let short chapels predominate, thus placing the emphasis on the short devotional exercise.

Chapel Only Drudgery

But what this policy and practice has done has been to take away all opportunity for students to blow off steam, as they used to be able to do at some of the very good pep meetings or at one of the sessions of the Cripple Creek Boys. It used to be that students came into the auditorium with hopes of such a silver lining in the cloud of compulsory chapel, but now, it seems to me, chapel is regarded by most students as only a part of the daily drudgery of school life. You go into the auditorium now with the fervent hope that the service will be short and you can get a cup of coffee afterwards or study for that third period writ.

One alternate proposal that is being entertained by some members of the faculty is that all of the five weekly chapel services be cut short, as the Monday and Wednesday services are done now, and have in addition to chapel, one or two student assemblies a week, probably with compulsory attendance. This, however, would only have the effect of increasing the burden of compulsory attendances the student already must comply with.

Few Secular Speakers

What the College has done in divorcing the secular from the religious in chapel has, I believe, had the effect of depriving the student body of the opportunity of hearing speakers and enjoying good entertainment of a secular nature which could certainly be made to have educational value. At present we are preached to on Sunday night at length, and for shorter, sometimes periods just as long during the week. Surely it must be obvious that good speakers on secular matters are just as important in their own way as speakers on religious subjects.

It seems a lot to hope for, but might it not be possible to compromise between secular and religious programs? Instead of having six religious services a week (including vespers), why not have purely secular student body assemblies on say, Tuesdays and Thursdays? These two assemblies should be compulsory, just as the other four, but they would give thestudents a chance to hear good political speakers, businessmen, doctors, or entertainment from student body members. It would afford a chance for the student body to transact business when necessary, and for the college authorities to discuss important and topical subjects with the student body when they so desire.

Effect of This Proposal

Under such a set-up, the student body would have an outlet for expression of both emotion (which, as Davidsonian columnist Jim Moore recently pointed out, is a crying need) and ideas about any facet of school life which it might be desirable to discuss. And at the same time, the three religious services would be uncontaminated by secular matters, and would, it is to be hoped, be of the more effective, short type.

As stated at the first of this column, there is no definite in-
(Continued On Page Four)

$1 Million Home-Improvement And Construction Work Started

It was with some trepidation that we heard the rumblings of the wheels of progress commence to the north of Duke Dormitory, making preliminary preparations for the new Belk Dorm. Once again the heartless Age of Improvement is replacing them with the impervious facade of stone and steel. Already the Stud has been vacated; no more shall the Riders of the Night gather for their evening drink in the comfort of pajamas or BVD's. And that long, low building situated on a 90-degree azimuth from the ROTC domicile must also be exposed to the embarrassment of a precipitate move. Nobody seems to know exactly what function the building serves—some say that John Heath holds prayer meetings there every Wednesday night, but not too much stock can be put in this report.

The “coup de grace,” however, is the demise of the ROTC building. For many years the citizens of Davidson hoped that it could be of service to the community by being conspicuously absent when the Black Hole of Calcutta burned, but thus far the taxpayer’s money has been poured down a rathole. It still lists at the same angle it did 20 years ago (approximately parallel to the set of steps on the left side of Rumple), and none of the local Town of Davidson officials are willing to gamble life and time by approaching the building closer than five feet and tacking a “condemned” notice on it. It's going to require some shrewd engineering to hoist that building and move it. As soon as the fly-paper is taken off the walls, there will be nothing left to brace it.

It is altogether fitting and proper that an honor guard should be present when this replica of 1812 is finally laid to rest. After years of outdoor practice, they will have to learn how to use indoor plumbing for the first time. It means the passing of a great early morning rejuvenator. In the old days, more than one boy was seen with an oversize Mongolian blue-spot covering the better part of his “gluteus maximus” on early mornings. Well, this too must pass away.

In retrospect, this is a prelude to a future based on values that do not change. Yet in one public, and totally unnecessary way, we deny all connection with the past that made Davidson great. I refer to our college diploma, a small thing itself, but a representation of things much larger. The diploma we now receive has no connection with Davidson traditions, it is in dubious taste and, according to many members of the past four classes which have tried to change it, is one of the greatest disappointments a senior has thrust upon him. It is in Latin, which is proper for a school of our type, but the Latin is no longer printed in graceful flowing script but in block style of recent adaptation. This may not be “pig Latin” to the grammarian, but it is pig Latin to those who had it thrust upon them, for the students had nothing to do with the present diploma. True, the present diploma has the Davidson seal. But look at the seal. As it is now printed on the finished product, it more nearly resembles a Good Housekeeping Seal of Quality or a stamp from a third-rate law firm than the seal of a century-old college. Originally, the seal was affixed with wax with the presentation of the Student Council’s interpretation of Section 2 under the article on the Honor System in the Student Body Constitution. There has been a great deal of discussion of the subject inculcating a large amount of adverse criticism which this writer, as a layman in our Student Government, feels is misdirected and to a certain extent unfounded. At times, “Our honor system is falling apart,” echoes in the halls of Davidson. Do such comments have substantial bases?

Honor stands at the apex of our constitution's structure. It is that within one that makes him act with integrity and morality of purpose; true honor is not impelled by external forces such as rules and regimentation. It is that personal uprightness that distinguishes a really mature and honest person from the mental adolescent. To this writer, there appears to be a basic incongruity in the reasoning of so many who shout, “Davidson is a prep-school,” and then face about and demand that the honor system be more closely defined so that they may know exactly how far they can go before crossing the line between honor and dishonor.

Section 2 says that “Every student shall be honor bound to refrain from cheating...” and then goes on to list school work including recitation, reviews, examinations, “... or any other pledged work.” The large majority of professors ask that a pledge be signed in some manner on such work. The interpretation written last year says that any work which one hands to a professor must be his own work whether or not a written pledge is presented unless the instructor specifies differently. Wherein lies any essential change? We feel that this merely places the Davidson student on a level above that of a pledge-signer and a cop-watcher. This interpretation recommends that the professor make clear the difference between pledged and unpledged work. How do we know what unpledged work is? Ask the instructor if in doubt. Certainly, the Student Council cannot and will not attempt to take each professor and each course and define the pledge-unpledged-work line. This sort of thing belongs at Hometown High, not here.

The question of two students using the same book for reference work on a pledged research paper has been brought up. Can two men study Bible 21 and use different textbooks? This reasoning was brought down to laboratory courses in what seems to us to be false reasoning. The working out of data is the important thing in laboratory courses and where a question of exactly what should be one’s own initial work is left again to the discretion of the professor. The chief argument against one’s being honor bound not to cheat without constantly placing it in writing is that previously one could cheat, have his conscience bother him, and turn in a paper sans a written pledge for a zero grade without fear of being called up for dishonesty. Has our constitution ever said anything like this? Absolutely not. Then the controversy lies in the procedure of a student who has cheated and who feels that he must make it known to his professor. As before, the decision then is left to the instructor’s discretion as to whether he will give the student another test, give him a zero, or turn him over to the Student Council. Obviously, the latter is not probable in the case of one who has voluntarily admitted cheating. If one will pledge in writing that the work he turns in is his own, will he not also falsify when questioned about it by the Student Council if he has been deliberately dishonest?

“Honor was a positive action on the part of the student but since last spring's ruling...” Honor still is a positive action placed on the plain of Davidson College men. Finally, let us say that a student who does not sign a written pledge which is requested by his instructor is turning in work which he is saying is his own if he signs his name to it. What reason could one have for not signing a requested pledge? Is he trying to see how far he can go before he breaks a rule and how much he can get away with? If that is the case where honor is concerned, then he does not belong here.

In summary, there has been no change in our constitution. The only difference from the days of old is in the interpretation of “pledge work” as work that one hands in as his own whether or not a definite honor pledge is written out. The professor is to draw the line between what is pledged and what is not. This is as it should be. Honor is a much-used term and it is well that it should be for it is the foundation of real intellectual achievement beginning on personal grounds. In reality, the question of honor is up to the individuals that make up Davidson, not the Student Government. When honor at Davidson falls, the real soul of our college crumbles.

LETTER TO THE EDITOR: Student Scores Chapel

tirades of the speaker, without offering any protest. The college is inconsistent in that it expects the students to be mature, intellectually capable gentlemen, and yet does not treat them as such. A mature, intellectually capable gentleman is not required to attend divine services or to hear speakers, he is offered the opportunity to go if he wishes. The students are, as a matter of fact, rather benevolent to many speakers, because of their age or their sincerity, speakers who otherwise have nothing attractive or interesting to offer the assembly. A good speaker is never treated badly in the Davidson chapel. And so the administration and those in authority among the students must furnish us with speakers who have something relevant to say and who can say it effectively, or take the consequences.

A. J. McKELWAY.