VOLUME XLI | Student Council — Clarifies System

In last Friday’s chapel, President of the student body Jack Ruth presented the student council’s interpretation of the honor system as it pertains to pledge work. Here is the prepared statement from the student council:

“The following is the Student Council's interpretation of the section of the Constitution dealing with ‘pledged work.’ We have adopted it as our policy to be followed by this policy.

“We, the Student Council, feel that this is no change in the Constitution. It is merely a clarification of the interpretation of Section 2, as we see it. We have adopted this policy for the rest of the year and we will decide any controversy of section by this policy.

“This policy will be presented to the Student Council next year and if they wish to follow the same policy, they will announce it to the Student Body.

“Our purpose is to try to let the Student Body know exactly how the Council feels about cheating and pledged work, and to try to clear up any haziness which students or faculty members may have about this section.”

Davidson has been selected as one of twenty-four colleges in the country to provide undergraduate scholarships each year in a manner similar to the Baker Scholarships, Dr. John Cunningham announced here today. See Editorial Column.

Luke Seales, the Chairman of the Election Board for this year, presided over the first meeting of that group on Wednesday of this week. The board, which is composed of 17 student members of which each fraternity has a representative, and four independent student members, with two from the Student Council.

Their first official action was to decide to have the first nominations for student body offices after the spring holidays. This will allow the first elections to begin in early April, thus cutting down on the possibility of the elections running so near to the end of school as was the case last year.

A discussion was held on the subject of continuing the current method of nominations and the conclusion was that last year’s newly adopted method would be enforced this spring. Under this plan, there will be nominations from the elections committee prepared prior to the day of nominations.

John Ottley made a clean sweep of the awards in the Willa Cather Writing contest today in chapel as the senior writer took all three prizes in the contest. The Willa Cather Award was established by William C. Doub Kerr, who attended and later taught at Davidson, and is open to all undergraduate members of Sigma Upsilon, the Honorary Literary Fraternity. Ottley took the third, second, and first prizes, all books, with “The Newspaper,” “The Pool,” and the poem “Flight,” in ascending order. Professor Wilson McCutchan, of the English Department, made the presentation.

Professor Kerr, who is a world-traveled lecturer-teacher, is intimately associated with the Blue Pencil Chapter of Sigma Upsilon, having been made an undergraduate member himself at Chapel Hill and working diligently to establish a chapter at Davidson. The entered manuscripts were sent to Professor Kerr, who is the sole judge for the contest, in California.

Tonight, March 6th, marks the opening night for the Red and Black Masquers’ third production of the year 1952-53, Laburnum Grove. Tad Currie and Mr. Raymond Tyson, pictured above, have been instrumental in bringing the play to its present consummation. The curtain is scheduled to go up at 8:15 tonight, and tomorrow night also, for J. P. Priestly’s amusing, if slightly confusing, comedy.

Robert Frost, one of America’s most revered poets, will appear at Davidson on March 11 and 12 in the College Artist and Lecture Series. The scheduled program will be presented at 8:15 p.m. on the 12th in Chambers Auditorium. Besides the regular lecture, Mr. Frost will speak to various classes and informal groups on the campus. A special meeting of Sigma Upsilon will be held on the 11th with Mr. Frost as a guest. Thus the student body will be able to meet and talk personally with Mr. Frost in addition to hearing his regular program, which usually includes readings of poetry along with a running lecture.

Frost, who was born in San Francisco in 1875, moved to New England where he intermittently attended Dartmouth and Harvard, worked in a textile mill, taught school, and wrote for a newspaper. It was during his stay in England from 1912 to 1915 that Frost first gained recognition as a poet.

Representatives of three national companies will be on the Davidson campus within the next week for interviews with seniors interested in joining their firms, it has been announced by Mr. John Dillon, director of the placement bureau. On Monday, March 9, a representative of the Connecticut General Life Insurance Company will meet with any men interested in their executive training program. The agent will also see men interested in selling insurance.

On Tuesday, March 10, at 8:45 A.M., a group interview will be held for men wanting sales and business positions.

Tomorrow will be another day of music on the Davidson campus when 250 high school and junior high school students meet at Shearer Hall for instrumental solo and ensemble contests. There will be 185 events, with 30 schools being represented. Judges will be Nicholas Erneston of Appalachian State Teachers College, Herbert Carter of Eastern Carolina College, and David M. Arner of Greensboro. The Davidson band, brass ensemble, and woodwind quintet will present a short concert during the noon break for students and directors.

This contest covers the western half of the state, the schools in the eastern half going to Duke University for the competition. In last Saturday’s events, 17 soloists and four ensemble groups won the rating of superior, and 20 soloists and 11 ensemble groups received an excellent rating out of 300 students represented. Judges for that competition were Mrs. Harriet Beden Brask of Newberry College, O. J. McCullough of Catawba College, and Carl C. Brumbach of Guilford College.Nominations will be heard from the floor in a student body meeting. Further planning may be expected from this official group which has as its function the orderly and proper running of the elections each year, Chairman Scales said.

Fraternities Finish Formalities Finally
The last initiations of the national social fraternities will take place next week as the Phi Delta Theta and Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternities conclude their pledging periods. The Phi Delt pledges will go through an informal initiation from March 8 to March 14, after which they will be formally initiated on March 15-17. March 7-13 will be the informal initiation period for the SAE pledges and Friday, March 13 is the date of their formal initiation.

Frenchmen Hear Charlotte Professor
Le Cercle Francais met Tuesday night, March 3, at the home of Dr. A. V. Goldiere with Professor Jean Adam as the guest speaker. Professor Jean Adam is of the French department of Johnson C. Smith University of Charlotte. He gave a talk on the life of Corneille and his works, and discussed Corneille’s play, Cid. Following the talk, Professor Adam answered the questions of the students. In the absence of President Mac Bulgin, Vice-President Norman Johnson presided.

Basic requirements for applicants are those of good character, grades, and personality. They must intend to enter business or industry. Dr. Cunningham expressed the joy of the College at being chosen to participate in this program and added his conviction that the program will benefit not only the sponsor but will perform a real service in helping capable high school seniors to attend college. President Cunningham concludes his statement, “We are grateful to the Union Carbide and Carbon Corporation and look forward to a very pleasant relationship with this great company.”

“Renaissance Paintings,” a group of seventeen framed pictures from 14th, 15th, and 16th century Italy will be the main feature of the sixth annual Fine Arts Festival at Davidson College in April. These pictures, including works by Tintoretto and Veronese, are on loan from the Metropolitan Museum in New York and will be displayed in the Ovens’ Student Union from April 18 to May 18. For the first time painting is being emphasized during Fine Arts Week, rather than music. Prof. Philip Moose, who was responsible for procuring this display, worth an estimated million dollars, announced that the Renaissance with emphasis on art would be the theme of the 1953 Fine Arts Festival.

Amy Deferment Tests On April 23
National Headquarters of Selective Service today reminded college students that applications for the April 23, 1953 Selective Service Qualification Test must be postmarked not later than midnight March 9. The deadline is necessary to allow the administrators of the test, the Educational Testing Service at Princeton, N. J., time to process the applications and assign each applicant to the testing center, of which there are 1,000, requested by the student or to the closest possible alternative center.

An exhibition of Renaissance jewelry will also be displayed under glass at the union, on loan from the Norfolk Museum, directed by John Davis Hatch. Prof. Moose commented: “This is a fine exhibit of strange Renaissance jewelry and we are extremely lucky and happy to have it along with the very valuable ‘Renaissance Paintings’ for display.”

Dr. Mary Sloop’s Life in N.C. Hills Is Subject of Blythe's New Book
By HENRY BROCKMANN
The colorful life of Dr. Mary T. Martin Sloop, lifetime missionary in western North Carolina, and chosen in 1951 as Mother of the Year for the United States of America, has been written into LeGette Blythe's latest book, which is to be released on March 9. Miracle in the Hills is indeed an appropriate title for a book whose story centers about a person who with her family has, through no end of plain hardness and toil, made a thriving community from a hopeless chaos of backwardness and misery.

Dr. Sloop is a native of Davidson, her father having been president of the College. She attended Davidson College as one of its first coeds. When she was a girl, she had wanted to be a missionary to China, but when she had earned her medical degree, she saw as dire a need for medical missionaries in the mountains of North Carolina as in China. And so came her lifelong service in this state, for immediately after her marriage to Dr. Estace Sloop of Mooresville, she and her husband left for the mountain country and Crossnore, Avery County, North Carolina. There the Sloops have spent their lives.

Male Chorus Prepares To Tour 2200 Miles Through Six Southern States
According to director Donald B. Plott, a tour will take them through eight southern states. The choir will cover approximately 2,200 miles via Trailways Bus Lines. Plott expressed the hope that popular T. C. Ingram would be their driver. On Wednesday, March 11, the chorus will sing at the First Presbyterian Church of Franklin, Tenn. for a Saturday night engagement. On March 12, they will sing at the Highland Presbyterian Church of Louisville, Ky., and will move from there to the First Presbyterian Church of Pensacola, Fla. on Monday evening. On Tuesday, March 17, the choir will be at Dillard University in New Orleans. The appearance at that Negro institution comes as the result of an exchange agreement. It is hoped that Dillard's fine choir will visit Davidson this spring. The schedule for the week concludes with a performance at the Napoleon Avenue Presbyterian Church of New Orleans on Wednesday, and a Thursday engagement.