‘Young organists of the University of Michigan and Oberlin Music recently took first place in a performance contest sponsored by the Organists. The remaining concerts of the series will be on Sunday, March 8, at 4:00 p.m. at Flora McDonald College. The program will include Fantasie and Fugue in G minor (Bach), the Ninety-fourth Psalm (Reubke), and several shorter works. There is no charge for admission, but an offering will be taken at the close of the recital. The final concerts of the series will be on April 19 and May 10.

The Literary Society at its last meeting on March 2 required an original paper in some literary form, usually an essay or short story, from all who seek membership. Those reading and their readings are as follows: Jim Holshouser, “Brown Mountain Lights;” Jim Armistead, “Homecoming;” Bill Hardin, “Life in the Infirmary;” Bob Bankhead, “Essay on Education;” Bill Kuykendall, “Ph.D;” Phil Rice, “The Boy Who Didn't Belong;” Cary Spiers, “Mardi Gras;” and Bayles Mack, “Wit and Humor.” New officers of Phi for this semester are: Jim Speed, president; Hunter Strader, vice-president; Don Mahy, treasurer; Ronnie Wilson, secretary; and Mac Williamson and Cortez Cooper, supervisors.

FINE FOODS
STEAKS - CHICKEN DINNERS
FOUNTAIN SERVICE
Open Sundays
Phone 132
Grade A Cafe
118 South Main Street
Mooresville, N.C.

Dr. Mary Sloop (Continued From Page One)
The town's society was married at fourteen. The state of the town then and now leaves little room for doubt that Dr. Sloop and her husband “got tough” and spent their lives so. Medical attention and education came by force; threats and coercion became the policy of the missionaries as they went about their work. And the force paid off, for today Crossnore has been brought from the superstition and illiteracy of a century ago to a modern community with a hospital, school, and up-to-date inhabitants. LeGette Blythe’s Miracle in the Hills will be released on March 9 in celebration of Dr. Sloop’s eightieth birthday. Blythe is to be honored at an open house at the College Union on the night of March 10. Mr. Blythe will speak at 9:15.

Mooresville Creamery, Inc.
Want to travel and study abroad? See. Take a university-sponsored tour via TWA this summer and earn full college credit while you travel. Visit the countries of your choice and study from 2 to 6 weeks at a foreign university. You can do both on one trip when you arrange a university-sponsored tour via TWA. Itineraries include countries in Europe, the Middle East, Asia, and Africa. Special study tours available. Low all-inclusive prices with TWA’s economical Sky Tourist service. For information, write: John H. Furbay, Ph.D., Director, Air World Tours, Dept. CN, 80 East 42nd St., New York 17, N.Y. Be sure to mention the countries you wish to visit.

THE DAVIDSONIAN (Continued From Page Two)
When they put a new College Union on the campus, they also required the freshmen to eat as a group by themselves. During that period, the administration found that the honor system was completely breaking down, and that men expelled for cheating came predominantly from the freshmen class. There were almost five times as many men expelled from the freshmen class for cheating as there were from the combined undergraduate and graduate classes at the University. They were forced to discard the plan of having new men eat together in order to salvage the honor system. This is not hearsay or rumor, but is substantiated by the man who was president of the student body at the University of Virginia during the year that this new rule went into effect. There is no reason to think that the same thing would not happen here.

The Administration is now faced with an either-or proposition. Either the class of 1957 and those following them will eat in the College Union, with the chance that the honor system, the fraternities, and the school will suffer, or the Administration will have to find some new way to finance the Union's upkeep. They have shown us statistics taken from other schools which seem to bear out their points that the fraternities will not suffer; that the college will benefit; that it is impossible to operate a successful Union without a cafeteria, and that scholastic and intramural activities will be expedited. These statistics must be tempered by the fact that many of the analyses came from universities which already have a 40% to 60% independent faction on the campus, and not 18% such as we have. Furthermore, these campuses have more students available to use a cafeteria.

Works And Life (Continued From Page One)
His disbelief in prize contests and the fact that he has never entered any sort of literary competition. But nevertheless, he has been awarded the Pulitzer Prize for the best book of poetry of the year no less than four times — in 1924, for “New Hampshire”; in 1931, for “Collected Poems”; in 1934, for “A Further Range”; and in 1943, for “A Witness Tree”. He has received honorary degrees from a host of colleges and universities including Columbia, Dartmouth, Yale, and Harvard.

Those who hear Frost when he speaks at Pyne College on March 11 and 12 will soon become aware of the fact that these honors did not affect the man or his work. The quiet strength, the deep convictions, have remained unshaken in the person as well as the poetry. The last lines of the first poem in Frost’s first book have taken on a prophetic conclusiveness: “They would not find me changed from him they knew— Only more sure of all I thought was true.” In his poetry, Frost has undoubtedly captured the heart.of New England and with it the love and admiration of all America. His poetry has never failed to warm the hearts of those who know the common man — his life — his sorrows and his joys. Why has he become the living example of a vibrant, yet homespun philosophy of American life? Perhaps his own new plan would necessarily affect. To use these statistics as a criterion to judge the adaptability of a plan into a college where the conditions are quite different from the original model is to distort the resultant assumptions. Our concern is how this will work on the Davidson campus. Our fraternity system is unique, as are many of the traditions and practices.

The Student Council earnestly requests the cooperation of the faculty in eliminating any vagueness or misunderstanding concerning the Honor System by making specific announcements to their students when any work is to be written. 

Don't Scrap It; That Postcard Can Mean Extra Smokes

“There are free smokes in the Chesterfield campus representative, who says he has mailed postcards to every student on the Davidson campus announcing the offer of two extra packs of Chesterfields, free with the purchase of a carton of Chesterfields, either regular or king-size during the period March 1st. This is of interest to the Davidson student body since this is the first time such an offer has ever been made on a college campus, and Davidson was selected as the college at which to “test run” the program. If it is a success here, Hall states that the same offer will be made at colleges across the nation.

Frost To Give (Continued From Page One)

Va. Barter Theatre Plays In Mooresville

The Barter Players will present a production of “The Virginian,” a play based on the famous novel by Owen Wister, in the Mooresville High School auditorium on March 17. Robert Patterson, the founder and director of the Players, will play the leading role. In addition to Patterson, other players appearing will be: Owen Phillips, who has appeared in several Warner Bros. movies; Leo Chalzel, a veteran of 30 years in the theater; and Dorothy Lavern.

Frost came to the attention of the literary world with the publication of his books, “A Boy’s Will” and “North of Boston”. The first of these was almost entirely lyrics and the second what the poet himself called “a book of people”, foreshadowed much of Frost's later work. They are written in a language close to that of common rural New England, dealing realistically with the New England scenes and people that have been the subjects of most of Frost's work. Since then he has taught at several colleges, has had nine books published, and produced a wealth of poetry that has made him one of America’s most read poets. In addition, Frost has been awarded the Pulitzer Prize for poetry four times.

Golfers To Open (Continued From Page Three)

Those planning to attend are reminded that guest tickets for the faculty or date tickets are $1.00, general public $2.00, and no seats are reserved. On March 18 the Cat golfers pack their clubs and tee off for Florida where they will match strokes with some of the strongest golf teams in the country. Starting with ritzy Rollins on March 21 the linksters run through a 13 match season, concluding with the Southern Conference Tournament, May 15-17.

Entries Pouring In (Continued From Page Three)

The preliminary bouts will begin at 7:30 Friday night, and will be followed by the semi-finals at two o’clock Saturday afternoon. The finals are set for eight o’clock Saturday night. The cost for a faculty member or student's tournament ticket — good for admission to all three sessions — will be one dollar.

Free Lance (Continued From Page Two)

But the time is running out. HOLD THE SINGING

There is a little song from The Wizard of Oz which many of us are prompted to sing. It goes “Ding Dong, the witch is dead.” But unlike the witch in the ditty, the witch in Moscow carries a lot more influence. She may die, but the thing she thought and spread through the world will not be so ephemeral as we would like. A man may personify an idea or train of thought, but it is only a personification. If this were the case secret agents could have effected Stalin's decease long before this.

My object in living is to unite My avocation and my vocation As my two eyes make one in sight. Only where love and need are one, And the work is play for mortal stakes, Is the deed ever really done, For Heaven and the future’s sakes.”

TWEED TO PUT YOU IN A GAY MOOD FOR YOUR SPRING HOLIDAYS

This VARSITY-TOWN Sport coat is casual and comfortable. Smartly styled with semi-natural shoulders, 2 buttons, single-breasted, narrow lapels, flap pockets, ticket pocket and side vents. Sizes 34 to 42, regulars and longs. 35.00

Contrasting slacks in flannels, worsted flannels and sheen gabardines. 15.00 to 20.00

SPECIAL

Dupont is making regular bi-monthly examinations of a group of people from various walks of life. 45 percent of this group have smoked Chesterfield for an average of over ten years. He observed no adverse effects on the nose, throat and sinuses.

Thurs.-Fri. March 5-6 “THE FOUR POSTER” Rex Harrison, Lilli Palmer

Sat. March 7 “ANNIE OAKLEY”