CHAPEL TALK DRAWS DUAL FIRE See Page 2

VOLUME XLI

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C.,

FRIDAY, APRIL 24, 1953

NO. 25

FOR SENIOR SKETCH OF JOHN “SARGE” MASON See Page 4

Davidsonians In Armed Forces

H. B. (Blake) Bradley, ‘51, Decatur, Ga. is in Washington, D. C. for further study of Chinese in preparation for duty in the Far East. Blake was on the track and cross country teams, a “D” Club member, and vice-president of Kappa Alpha social fraternity.

Wm. C. Cumming, '51, of Henderson, N. C. is at the U. S. Fleet Sonar School in San Diego, Calif. Bill was on the Davidsonian staff, a member of IFC, Sigma Upsilonian, Sigma Delta Psi, and Pi Kappa Alpha fraternities.

Lt. Philip A. McVener, '51, Little Rock, Ark., is at Wright Patterson A.F.B., Dayton, Ohio. While at Davidson, Philip was a member of Beta Theta Pi social fraternity.

Lt. Edward T. West, '51, of Johnson City, Tenn. is now Communications Officer for the 1st Battalion of the 7th Regiment, 3rd Division in Korea. Ed was wounded on Christmas day by Chinese mortar fire but is back on duty now after being at a rest camp. He was secretary of the IFC and a member of Scabbard and Blade, Sigma Delta Psi, and Kappa Alpha fraternities. His address is Lt. Edward T. West, ORC 0200 3033, 7th Regt. Headquarters Co., 1st Btn., 3rd Division, APO 368 c/o Postmaster, San Francisco, Calif.

WAYS To Discuss D. C. Blood Drives

Radio Station WAYS in Charlotte will broadcast a documentary type program on Saturday, April 25, at 5:30 p.m. The program will feature the story of the recent blood drive conducted on the Davidson campus and features an interview with Leroy Mims, a member of the senior class and Col. Davis, PMS&T of the college.

The program which was written and produced by Tad Currie, a member of the senior class and an announcer for WAYS, tells of the need for human blood and how the people of Davidson have been meeting this need through their annual blood drives. The main feature of the program is an on-the-spot recording of a person actually going through the process of blood donation and of their reaction to the entire process.

The broadcast is noteworthy in that it comes at a time when the Charlotte Blood Bank has sent out an emergency call for blood since its entire supply was shipped to Dillon, S. C. to be used in the train wreck that killed four and injured over one hundred and twenty-five. The broadcast will also salute the ROTC Department, Scabbard and Blade and Omicron Delta Kappa for the work that they have done to make these blood drives so successful.

Williams Selects Y.M.C.A. Cabinet

YMCA president Charles Williams announced today the completion of the Y cabinet for next year with the exceptions of the Social Life and Freshman Adviser positions. He also announced that both old and new cabinet members will meet this weekend at Montreat.

Lyman Kiser, in his position as president of the student body, receives the Student Government post in the cabinet. The Bible Class position will be held by Swain Loy, who was elected to that office Sunday by the college Bible class. Ed Stuart, absent from the Davidson scene this year, takes over the Forum department in the Y when he returns in the fall. Sunday School extension work will be directed by Will Terry, and Bill Scholl is the new Deputations appointee. Jim Moore, Publications head, will prepare the Y handbook and other publications. Leighton McCutchen will be in charge of the Advancement phase of Y work. Bob Crutchfield will prepare the YMCA chapel programs. The Special Services position in Williams’ cabinet will be held by Leighton Green. Hunter Strader will direct the Gift Fund next year, and Herschel Allen will hold the Spiritual Life post. Boys Work projects will be directed by Homer Sparks. Austin Strand will hold the Community Work position, which also includes Boy Scout work. The Freshman Adviser has not yet been elected by the rising senior class, and the Social Life appointment has not been made.

Members of both the old and the new Y cabinets will hold a retreat at Montreat from Friday night through Sunday afternoon. The purposes of the retreat, according to Williams, are to acquaint the new men with their jobs, evaluate the program of the current year, and make plans for next year's activities.

Union Plans Dance With Queens Girls

Two sororities from Queens will be hostesses for an informal dance and light refreshments after a film at the college union tomorrow night entitled “The Beachcomber”, starring Charles Laughton. The Sororities to be present on the campus are Alpha Delta Pi, Xi Omega.

May 2 will see an exchange day with Woman’s College, located in Greensboro. The activities of the afternoon will center around a triangular track meet with Washington and Lee and Furman. Many special events will be revealed in the evening festivities, including two inimitable bands — The Cripple Creek boys and Eberhardt’s Troubadours.

SCHOLARSHIP MAIN TOPIC AT NATIONAL O.D.K. CONVENTION

Dr. A. V. Goldiere served as official Davidson representative to the national convention of Omicron Delta Kappa. He made his report to the local chapter at its last meeting. The convention was held at Roanoke, Virginia, and was attended by 276 members, 50 of which were faculty members. The session began at 2:00 p.m. Thursday afternoon, April 16, and was adjourned Saturday afternoon.

Serving as principal speakers for the occasion were Dr. J. C. Baker, President of Ohio U., Dr. F. P. Gaines, President of W. & L., and Dean Marten ten Hoor of the University of Alabama. All three stressed leadership.

Besides the full convention meetings, the delegates were divided into eleven committees in order to permit more thorough discussion of different problems and practices. Dr. Goldiere served on the Policy and Law Committee out of which came the convention's main topic of discussion. Many of the delegates wanted to tighten up the scholastic requirement for membership that states that a member must be in the upper 35% of his class. This requirement is necessary in order for the organization to remain in the National Association of Honorary Fraternities. Although no definite action was taken at the convention, a by-law for stricter scholastic qualifications will be circulated among the local chapters for approval.

Vespers & Chapel

Sunday, April 26th, Vespers will be conducted by Rev. Arnold S. Nash, head of the Department of Religion at the University of North Carolina. Monday, April 27th, the chapel devotional will be conducted by Bob Wearn of the senior class. Tuesday, April 28th, Rev. Samuel W. Newell, Jr., pastor of the First Presbyterian Church in Davidson, will address the student body. Wednesday, April 29th, chapel will be in charge of Mercer Kepler of the Senior class. Thursday, April 30th, will be YMCA day as usual. Friday, May 1, Professor J. M. Bevan will lead the short devotion.

Standing outside Chambers Building are the five outstanding Campus leaders for the coming school year. From left to right they are: Linny Baker, Secretary-Treasurer of the Student Body; Charles Williams, President of the YMCA; Lyman Kiser, Student Body President; and Student Body Vice Presidents Leighton McCutchan and Charlie Cousar.

Hassell Named Chief of IFC

Wednesday night Charles Hassell was elected President of the new Interfraternity Council. Other officers include Bob Owens as Treasurer and Joe Neisler as Secretary. The biggest problem facing Charlie and the new council will be that of setting up a rushing program to go along with the new rule of freshmen eating in the College Union for the first semester.

At the present time, four solutions are in sight, but no definite one has been decided upon. Rushing could start the Monday before the opening of school, that is, a few days after the beginning of Orientation for freshmen, or the fraternities could continue with the same program that was set up by Lawrence Erwin and his council last year. Another solution would be to have second semester rushing, but this program is very debatable as to the good that it will do the fraternity and rushing systems. A new idea into this field is that of having divided rushing such that fraternities split up the rushing days over a period of several months, having one or two rushing days a month.

Hassell comes from Charlotte, and during his three years here he has been a member of the Y Cabinet, being head of the committee on publications. He is a member of the Male Chorus and Eumenean Literary Society, and is the Interfraternity Council representative for Kappa Sigma social fraternity. Charlie stated that next year he hopes to have several planned meetings with the faculty committee on fraternities in order to promote a better understanding between faculty and fraternity members.

Seniors Plan Study Abroad

Professor G. B. Watts, Fulbright Advisor for Davidson College announced today that he had received a letter from David Wodlinger, Director of U. S. Student Program of the Institute of International Education giving the names of the Davidson graduates who have been nominated by the National Selection Committee to the Board of Foreign Scholarships. Mac Bulgin, Herman Bell, James Jervey, David McElroy, and Charles Davis received word today that they had been nominated for Fulbright Scholarships in foreign countries next year.

Mac Bulgin was nominated for the United Kingdom, and had the additional honor of being the first choice of the North Carolina State Committee. Herman Bell received the Germany offer, with Jinks Jervey to be his alternate. David McElroy was named alternate for Austria, and Charles Davis was nominated to go to Italy. Two of these men have already received tempting offers of scholarships from other bodies, due to the long lapse of time between the completion of recommendations by the National Selection Committee and the final announcement by the Board of Foreign Scholarships. Mr. Wodlinger wrote Professor Watts on April 8, 1953, telling him that the chances of all these Davidson candidates are “excellent.” He went so far as to say that Mr. Bulgin has already been “placed by the United States Education Commission in London.”

Sig Upsilon Adds More Members

Sigma Upsilon bid six new undergraduate members to its roster in its bi-monthly meeting last Thursday, April 16. These men will be initiated in a formal ceremony that will be held at Erwin Lodge on May 7. The new members are: Vereen Bell, Bob Hayes, Norman Johnson, Moody Smith, Mac Williamson, and Ronnie Wilson. The first meeting which these men will attend is that of Thursday, April 30. The May 7 initiation ceremony will be preceded by the annual Faculty Feed and will be an outdoor picnic supper that is prepared by the faculty members.

(Continued On Page Four)

EDIT YEARBOOK

Bill Hood to Edit Quips and Cranks For Coming Year

The junior class this week elected Bill Hood editor of the Davidson College annual, Quips and Cranks. Hood won over two opponents, Bill Moffet and Winston Wright. All three, who were managing editors of the ‘52-53 yearbook, spoke in chapel on April 20, after which the voting took place. Beginning April24, class officers will be elected, beginning with the junior class. The class elections are carried on by the current class presidents, and not by the elections board. The president of each class, when elected, will serve on the student-faculty committee. Also to be elected are the head cheerleader, the YMCA board of directors, and the athletic representative.

Scabbard and Blade To Sponsor Dance

The Military Ball, a festive spring dance sponsored by Scabbard and Blade, will be held Saturday night, May 2 in the College Union Ballroom, highlighting a full day of events. Girls from Women's College, U.N.C. will be the guests for W.C.-Davidson Day and will arrive by bus at 1:00 p.m. The Davidson, Furman, Washington and Lee track meet will begin at 1:30 p.m. Several of the boarding houses will remain open Saturday night to serve dinner. The Ball will begin at 7:30 p.m. and end at 11:00 p.m. In addition to the regular orchestras, there will be a novelty act by members of the faculty, a magic show, Fletcher Bright and his hillbilly band, and refreshments will be served. The Scabbard and Blade Sweetheart will be crowned at the Ball. The dance is informal and no admission will be charged. Scabbard and Blade members will wear their summer uniforms. The entire student body is invited to participate in the events of the day. You may get dates from Bob Henry, “Y” Social Chairman, who is in charge of arrangements for the W.C.-Davidson Day.

PHI ADDS FIVE; ELECTS OFFICERS

The regular bi-monthly meeting of the Philanthropic Literary Society was held last Monday for the purpose of initiating new members and electing commencement marshals and new officers. The new members are Charlie Hull, Bill Stewart, John Harmon, and Albert Simpson. Don Mahy and Hunter Strader were chosen commencement marshals. The new president of Phi is Bob Crutchfield. Other officers are: Malcolm Williamson, vice-president; Al Simpson, secretary; Stein Wilson, treasurer; 1st critic, Alden Williams; 2nd critic, Norman Johnson; first supervisor, Si Nunn; second supervisor, Dick Morehead. The elections were enlivened by the disenfranchisement of Bob Henry. Additionally, Herman Bell “moved Phi to tears” with his presentation in Latin of Catullus’ 101st Ode on the death of his brother.

Band Concert Ends Festival Week

Concluding the first week of the sixth annual Fine Arts Festival, a concert by the Davidson College Concert Band will be held tonight at 8:15 o’clock in the David Ovens Union.

College Union Displays Art By Italian Painters

On display in the College Union until May 17 is a collection of sixteen rare paintings of the Italian Renaissance. These valuable paintings have been loaned to Davidson for the Fine Arts Festival by the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York. Perhaps the most outstanding picture of the group is a portrait of Benedetto Varchi, the Historian, done by Tintoretto in 1518. Tintoretto is noted as the man who painted the world’s largest picture, “Paradise,” which is 84’ by 34' and hangs in the Doge's Palace in Venice. Contemporary with Tintoretto was Veronese. The subject in his “Portrait of a Woman” on display here is in typical Venetian Renaissance dress with many jewels and rings. Veronese’s love for the ornate caused him to be called before the Inquisition for painting religious subjects in too gaudy a fashion. Another Venetian, Lorenzo Lotto, is outstanding in the exhibition for his “Portrait of a Man.” Besides being supreme in portraiture, the artist is noted for his pious conservatism, for Lotto would paint no one who did not have a respectable character.

In connection with Renaissance Art, the Art Department will present two films in the Union Monday night at 8:15. The first, a color film on the Eisenheim Altar Piece by Grunewald, will be accompanied by Hindemith’s “Matthias der Maler,” a composition inspired by the altar-piece. The second is “Paintings by Rubens.” Additionally, on Wednesday night at 8:15, Dr. Clemens Sommer, art historian at the University of North Carolina, will speak on art of the Renaissance and show slides.

BEAVER CLUB PLANS NEW CLOTHES DRIVE

Plans for this year’s senior auction and another clothes drive were announced yesterday by Herschel Allen, president of the Beaver Club. The tentative date for the auction was set for Thursday, May 14, and all articles to be put up for auction may be presented to either Dickie Davis or Ben Craig. A spring clothes drive will probably be carried out during exams, with the hope of bettering the results of last fall’s drive. Seventy-five pounds of clothes from that drive have been sent to the Philippines; and one hundred pounds have already arrived in Korea, with another fifty pounds on the way.

Team To Interview Students For Pilots

An Aviation Cadet Selection Team will visit Davidson College on May 6, 1953 to give information about the Aviation Cadet Training program. It will be located in the ROTC Building from 8:30 a.m. until 2:30 p.m. This team will be here to assist all interested students in accomplishing an application for pilot or aerial observer training, providing they can qualify. Making an application for this training does not mean the individual is enlisting in the Air Force but only taking the preliminary steps to determine whether or not he is qualified to continue with the type of training that he may choose. The applicant chooses a date to report to an Aircrew Classification Testing Union for thorough mental and physical testing. Transportation to and from this unit, from the Air Force recruiting station nearest the applicant’s home, is paid by the Government.

TO BE QUALIFIED FOR THIS TRAINING, AN APPLICANT MUST: be between the ages of 19 and 26½ years of age, completed at least sixty semester or ninety quarter hours of college work, and be able to successfully pass the physical and mental standards as prescribed by the Air Force. If applicants qualify for training, they will receive a four-month (Continued On Page Four) Union. The band, under the direction of Kenneth R. Moore, will feature Grieg’s “Piano Concerto” with Hans Hiedeman of the Salem College faculty as soloist, and Haydn's “Trumpet Concerto” with Greer Williams, senior music major, as soloist. In keeping with the Fine Arts Festival theme of “The Renaissance,” selections by Monteverdi, Hassler, and Obrecht will be played in addition to more modern works. Other selections will be offered by the Brass Ensemble and the Woodwind Quintet.

The Festival will open for the second week with the showing of two art films Monday night, April 27, at 8:15 o’clock at the College Union. The first, a color film, is “The Eisenheim Altar Piece” by Grunewald. This painting is listed as number five among the ten greatest masterpieces of art in the world. The movie is accompanied by a recording of “Matthias der Maler,” a composition by Hindemith which was inspired by the “Eisenheim Altar Piece.” A second film entitled “Rubens” which depicts the major works of the great Flemish artist will also be shown. Tuesday at 4:00 p.m. in the College Union, Dr. J. Wilson McCutchan, professor of English, will lecture on “Literature of the Renaissance.” A second lecture will be delivered Tuesday night at 8:15 o’clock at the Union by Dr. Clemens Sommer of the University of North Carolina. His subject will be “Paintings of the Renaissance.” Friday night at 8:15 p.m., the Davidson Male Chorus will be heard in a concert at the Union with Donald B. Plott conducting. The highlight of the entire Fine Arts Festival is the million-dollar exhibition of Italian Renaissance paintings which will be on display in the ballroom of the College Union through May 17. Represented in the exhibition are paintings by such masters as Sebastiano del Piombo, Tintoretto, Veronese, Barocci, and Rimini. All of the paintings are original oils. Other exhibitions include Renaissance jewelry at the Union, several outstanding books of the period at the Grey Memorial Library, and a photography display in the Chambers Building dining room. The Arts Festival will close on May 11-12 as the Red and Black Masquers present “Hamlet” in Chambers Auditorium.

NINE FRATERNITIES NAME BEST PLEDGES

Nine social fraternities have recently made outstanding pledge awards. Each fraternity had its own basis and standard for judging the pledges. Joe Billy Pharr was given the honor of outstanding pledge at the annual Hobo Ball of the Pikas in November. Joe has been an active member of the fraternity and has helped it in sports and scholarship. His name was inscribed on a plaque which has the form of a paddle and contains names of other outstanding pledges of past years. John McLauchlin was tapped as outstanding pledge of the Betas at a fraternity banquet following initiation. John has been active in playing basketball for the fraternity and has been recently elected headwaiter of the boarding house. The annual Pig Dinner of the Phi Gams was a grand occasion for Bill Gentry when he was named outstanding pledge. Bill has taken a part in interfraternity sports and other activities. The SAEs named Steve Norton as their outstanding pledge at the Founders Day Banquet on March 15th. Steve has participated in sports and has worked for a place on the freshman basketball team. Perrin Anderson was chosen outstanding pledge of the Sigma Chi fraternity at the Sweetheart Ball on March 28th. Perrin was president of the pledge class and took an active part in the sporting events. Linny Baker was announced as outstanding pledge of the ATO fraternity at the Midwinters dance. Linny holds the highest average in the freshman class and has taken a great part in interfraternity sports. Jim Daughdrill and Jim Ensign were named as outstanding pledges at a banquet on March 17th. They have been active pledges of the fraternity participating in sports and other affairs. The Kappa Sigs chose John Child as their outstanding pledge at a senior banquet before the informal Spring Frolics dance. John has shown much fraternity spirit and a friendly attitude, which were qualities recognized by this honor. Jack Taylor’s name was placed on the plaque of outstanding pledges at the Midwinters Dance of Kappa Alpha Order. Jack has been active in interfraternity sports and many events of the fraternity. The Pi Kapps and the SPEs are the only fraternities which have not made their choice. The Pi Kapps will announce their choice at the Rose Ball on May 9th. The SPEs will also announce their decision at the Queen of Hearts Ball on May 16th.

NOTICE

Shaw Smith, director of the college Union, has expressed his regret that due to the fact that the sound system in the union is being adjusted, the playing of recorded music has been temporarily discontinued. Mr. Smith said that the system was being worked on in order to improve fidelity of tone, and that it should be ready again shortly. Movies which operate on a different sound system are not affected.

“Science and Religion” will be the topic at a discussion led by Dr. Puckett Sunday night in the Student Lounge at 8:30. Coffee will be served.

On Tuesday, April 21, the Davidson R.O.T.C. Unit stood for the annual Federal inspection. Included in the photo above are principal figures for the occasion. Left to right, Inspecting Colonel Watkins, Colonel Davis, Cadet Colonel Bob Henry, and Cadet Captain Harold Gilliland.