PAGE FOUR

YMCA Mid-Term Reports Vigorous

This is a mid-term report of the YMCA that has been prepared from the minutes of the verbal reports of the members of the Y Cabinet. President of the Y, Hubert Cannon, prepared a report, from this report, in the form of a speech and gave it to the trustees at their recent meeting.

Gene Craven, Treasurer, had this report to make. The Y.M.C.A. budget for the year 1962-63 is $11,800.00. In general, the Cabinet posts have spent approximately half of their budgets for the year, or somewhat under. One-half of the benevolent fund has been assigned. General operating expenses have been less than the budget for the first semester. An item of $2,250 was set aside for part of the salary of the Y Secretary. Since this amount was not used this year, one-half of this amount was applied to a new car for Y.M.C.A. use. Another item of this budget is $4,600 for the Y.M.C.A. Gift Fund.

24-Match Slate (Continued From Page Three)

March 24 — U. S. Naval Air Station at Pensacola.
March 25 — Mercer University at Macon.
March 30 — Michigan State College at Davidson.
April 1 — Harvard University at Davidson.
April 2 — Harvard University at Davidson.
April 3 — University of the South at Davidson.
April 4 — Dartmouth College at Davidson.
April 7 — Presbyterian College at Davidson.
April 8 — Kalamazoo College at Davidson.
April 14 — North Carolina State College at Raleigh.
April 17 — University of South Carolina at Columbia.
April 18 — Presbyterian College at Clinton.
April 25 — University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.
April 28 — Duke University at Davidson.
April 29 — Washington and Lee University at Lexington.
May 1 — Miami University at Davidson.
May 7 — University of South Carolina at Davidson.
May 9 — Wofford College at Spartanburg.
May 14 — Southern Conference Tournament at Davidson.
May 15 — Southern Conference Tournament at Davidson.
May 16 — Southern Conference Tournament at Davidson.

FINE FOODS
STEAKS
CHICKEN DINNERS
FOUNTAIN SERVICE
Open Sundays
Phone 132
STONESTREET’S
Grade A Cafe
418 South Main Street
Mooresville, N. C.

THEATRE

THURS.-FRI., FEB. 26-27
“SUDDEN FEAR”
JOAN CRAWFORD
JACK PALANCE

SAT., FEB. 28
“BRIGAND”
ANTHONY DEXTER
JODY LAWRANCE

MON-TUES., MARCH 2-3
“AFFAIR IN TRINIDAD”
RITA HAYWORTH
GLENN FORD

WED., MARCH 4
“CAPTAIN PIRATE”
LOUIS HAYWARD
PATRICIA MEDINA

Program Going On

The income has followed the budget. The financial condition of the Y.M.C.A., therefore, is excellent and at the end of the year we should have a surplus of approximately $1,000.00.

Bob Mitchell, Second Vice-President, has served as Secretary of the Cabinet and has represented the Y on the College Union Committee. Pictures have been made for the Y scrapbook and clippings have been kept.

Homer Sparks, in charge of Boys Work:

In this field the following activities have been carried on this year: (1) Football teams — (2) Basketball teams — (1 girls’, 1 boys’) (3) Regular help during the Davidson School physical education periods. Charlie Johnson and Corty Cooper have carried the work at the school and have done a very good job. Tom Lamb has the basketball team and Buddy Whitlock and others helped with the boys’ football team. Coach Whittle and Mr. Scott have been very helpful. Forty-seven students signed up to help with this work at the beginning of the year. All forty-seven have been contacted at least twice. About twenty-nine have helped. We plan to organize baseball teams in the proper season and to continue the present work. About $35.00 of the budget has been used in this program.

Lyman Kiser, leader of the College Bible Class:

Attendance at the class averages around forty students a Sunday at present. The teachers have been dependable. Offerings have amounted to $221.69. Of this, $86.57 has been spent for operating expenses ($6.14 average per Sunday), and $110.00 given to Paul Reid's tuition at Johnson C. Smith. Operating expenses should decrease now that the class has been set up.

(Ed. Note: Due to limited space and the unusual detail of this report, it will be concluded next week.)

Service Column (Continued From Page One)

Lt. William T. Cassels recently arrived in Japan. He flew there via Alaska and the Aleutians, arriving in Japan January 8th, after having been snowed in in Alaska for two days. His address: Casual Personnel Section; APO 613, c/o PM; San Francisco, Calif.

Lt. Sibley Dorton, Jr. recently reported to Camp Rucker, Ala., where he is attached to a Field Artillery unit temporarily as an instructor. He is instructing basic training courses to recruits. His address: “C” Battery, 188th F.A. Bn., Camp Rucker, Ala.

Wildcat of Week (Continued From Page Three)

Dudley was not considered good enough by one of the Carolina’s leading newspapers for even a second team berth on that publication’s All-State (Big Five) squad. Before coming to Davidson, Dudley attended Reynolds High School in Winston. His senior year the team took the state championship, but Joe was only an obscure second-stringer. As a freshman, he failed to show much sign of promise, though some improvement was shown the following year. Last season he began to come into his own and to show flashes of the brilliance he has displayed so consistently this season.

After the VPI game tomorrow night there will be no more college basketball for Joe. But he hopes to play on the Med school team of the University of Pennsylvania where he is already enrolled. There he will follow in the footsteps of Buddy Cheek, an all-time Davidson great, who is graduating from Penn Med school this spring.

Blythe Introduces (Continued From Page One)

The student body are invited to the Union Ballroom for this event. The Sloops, upon arriving at Crossnore, built a hospital and immediately began work in improving the community in and around Crossnore. Soon they built a school and a church for the mountain people of that area. This family single-handedly has brought health and education to this small needy community. The book is to be released on Dr. Sloop's eightieth birthday. It is the seventh book of Mr. Blythe, and has been selected by the Family.

Matmen At (Continued From Page Three)

Davidson will be at VMI for the Conference meet. Strong entries are expected from Maryland, dual meet champions, West Virginia, W. & L., VPI, and Duke. Davidson surprised last year and showed up well, and could possibly do so again this year. The following weekend the Carolinas AAU meet will be held here. No teams are allowed to enter, but any individual amateurs can compete. All of the Davidson wrestlers are expected to enter.

Frosh Feeding (Continued From Page One)

The Student Committee and was with Erwin as he appeared before the trustees last week. The trustees at that time voted to let the faculty and administration decide the freshman feeding question. It has not been definitely decided by what method the cafeteria will be run, especially under the proposed method, and Robinson added that every effort is being made to meet the needs and wishes of the college both now and in the future.

Want to travel and study abroad?

Take a university-sponsored tour via TWA this summer and earn full college credit while you travel. Visit the countries of your choice ... study from 2 to 6 weeks at a foreign university. You can do both on one trip when you arrange a university-sponsored tour via TWA. Itineraries include countries in Europe, the Middle East,Asia and Africa. Special study tours available. Low all-inclusive prices with TWA's economical Sky Tourist service. For information, write: John H. Furbay, Ph.D., Director, Air World Tours, Dept. CN, 80 East 42nd St., New York 17, N.Y. Be sure to mention countries you wish to visit. —TWA

Unfortunately, no one has yet invented a machine that will mass-produce an education. —Daily Tar Heel.

Davidsonian Abroad
(Continued From Page Two)

In short, I would rather be my own boss because I believe that I could save money that way, that I would have a closer contact with the people and the country in general. Then, too, I had rather decide how I should spend my time. On a whirlwind tour you will see all those things that you see on postcards, but little more. If you just want to travel with a group of Americans, the best place is in America. But if you want to see Europe and to know Europeans, remember the old saying, “When in Rome, do as the Romans do,” and travel on your own.

Vereen Bell
(Continued From Page One)

His unfortunate death was considered one of the best of America’s young authors and was a regular contributor to many of the outstanding publications of the South and the nation, as well as an author of fiction and non-fiction longer works. His life was cut short at the height of his career when, during the Battle of Philippine Sea in the last war while serving in the Navy, he was killed. A recent honor that has been paid to the memory of Vereen Bell has been titling the highway through his beloved Okefenokee Swamp, the Vereen Bell Memorial Highway.

NOW...10¢ For Chesterfield

KA’s Edge
(Continued From Page Three)

King led the fast and furious KA attack with 21 points. Al Wells scored 20 points for the Campus Club, but to no avail, as the Clubmen were no match for the powerful KA quintet.

Sigma Chis 38; Pi Kappa Alpha 23
Displaying an excellent defense that held PiKA star Lindley Beardsley to 6 points, the Sigma Chis kept up their winning ways, dropping the PiKAs 36 to 23. Phil Blatt was high scorer for the well-rounded Sigma Chi attack, bucketing 8 points.

Kappa Sigs 51; Pi Kapps 34
With George Lippard leading the way with 16 points, the Kappa Sigs easily downed the Pi Kapps 51 to 34. Al Moreau threw in 11 points to lead the Pi Kapps in a rough battle that saw two of the Pi Kapps leave the game on fouls.

Phi Delts 54; SAEs 34
The SAE defense held the Phi Delts' Ted Oldenburg to only 11 points, but Bill Bivins pumped 15 points through the nets to give the Phi Delts an impressive 54 to 34 win over a strong SAE five. A.C. Gregg led the SAE offensive attack with a 16-point total to take scoring honors for the game.

Winter Practice
(Continued From Page Three)

Dan McCall, Jim Thacker, Bobby Amos, Tal Broughton, Bob Renn, Henry Brown, Leroy Fargason, Jim Shelton, Larry McIntosh, Harley Smith, Tommy Hancock, Don Swicord, Ken Bumgardner, and Bill Elliott.

Book Shelf
as its June or July selection. The Family Book Shelf is one of America's outstanding...

JACKSON
Members of the family of Mrs. Sloop have had a connection with the history of Davidson College for over half of its existence, with the two presidents that came from that family, also Mrs. Currie and Mrs. Frontis Johnston.

CLEANING
EVERY JOB A GOOD ONE
SKILLFULLY DONE BY PRESSERS WITH YEARS OF EXPERIENCE
ALTERATIONS THAT SATISFY
ONE-DAY SERVICE AVAILABLE
Frank L. Jackson, Jr.

QUALITY MILK
Mooresville Creamery, Inc.

CIGARETTES
Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

Bedford King
KING-SIZE CIGARETTES

SENIOR SKETCH
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 1958
By Mike Myers

Howard Proctor: Davidson's Answer To The Microphone
Some people are born with a silver spoon in their mouth. Howard Proctor chose a brass ladle. He’s best known around here not so much for the quantity and regularity of his word output, as for the volume. Howard’s whisper has been known to break delicate wine glasses and chandeliers. The odd part is, Howard usually has something to say worth hearing. He knows what he wants to do, and usually does it. Right now his far-reaching aim is psychology graduate school, and his B+ average will help get him there. The follow-up is to be an industrial psychologist. If that’s what he wants, you’d be foolish to bet he won't make it.

Howard’s overflow shuts off almost completely when the conversation works around to his personal life. There’s a girl in it somewhere, a Tallahassee lassie, and Howard is shyly giving odds that he'll be pinned inside of two weeks. She was here for the dances and Howard (with Monk McGill) took her back to Atlanta to catch a bus back to Florida. That was Sunday at 2:00 P.M. They ended up taking her all the way back to school (never underestimate the power of a woman), came rolling into Davidson just in time for Monday classes with some noisemakers they had bought in a restaurant that didn’t have any bathroom. I didn’t quite get this, but I laughed politely and got him started on his theater love. In the next production he’s to be Baxley, a bum who sponged off of his wife's sister’s husband. He gave me a few lines such as “Give Me Adventure!” with gusto in his unique timbre, and leaves fell off nearby trees. I think if he had a cavity in a tooth he would talk with an echo.

When the time for cheerleader elections came last year, the Greenville, N.C. KA’s name was the first to be handed in. “I was just making sure nobody would misspell my name,” he now admits. The election was as one-sided as Stalin’s...

“Spontaneity... spontaneity... spontaneity. There — I've said it and I'm glad.” put the DeMille touch in cheerleading. There was the reincarnation of Felix, the gangster entrance, the Cathey-Hoyle sales promotion stunt, the Alenda Lux boogie and the acrobatic tricks. Remember his speech right before the Furman game? “The key element to football cheering is spontaneity...” that’s as far as he got. “The rest was unprintable anyhow,” he says.

His reputation is not only as an undergraduate that can spout 5-syllable words, for Proctor's zeal and imagination have carried over into other phases of D.C. life. He led the KA’s to the Interfraternity Sing title by putting the monotone bows in the Chambers windows instead of the chorus. Adrian Bowen, George King and Caypee Corners put up with Howard and his amateur radio hobby most of the time. They live at Mrs. Little’s where Proc is now busy making plans as head of the Steering Committee for the Mass Movement of D.C. to the Azalea Festival and Camden Cup Races. All interested see him.

But Proctor won't be doing any more traveling for quite a while. He got in some minor trouble a while back and the dean made him promise not to leave campus for a month. “I asked him if he didn’t want me to stand in a corner too... which didn’t go over too well with the Deanie.” Then Howard saw a friend halfway across the campus and yelled to him. Leaves fell and Howard was off, probably on another wild scheme.

Symphony to Give
(Continued From Page One)

that sit before them at their concerts are not more what is called typically American than are the musicians themselves.”

There Was a Young
(Continued From Page Two)

“Oh, I believe, my father. Help thou my unbelief,” replied Marcus, and he muttered to himself... “And there is plenty of the latter to help.”

SPECIALIST is making regular bi-monthly examinations of a group of people from various walks of life. 45 percent of this group have smoked Chesterfield for an average of over ten years. After ten months, the medical specialist reports that he observed... no adverse effects on the nose, throat and sinuses of the group from smoking Chesterfield.

MUCH MILDER CHESTERFIELD FOR YOU
Copyright 1951, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.