PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN

SELECTIVE SERVICE

Phi Delt Freshmen Fold Davidsonians

By JIM MOORE

Of all the many, oftentimes unromantic, jobs in journalism, perhaps the one that outdoes any other for humdrumness and hard work is that of the men who fold and distribute the paper. Theirs is a peculiarly thankless job, at least at Davidson, and it is one that requires as much time and effort as any other but which is of necessity carried out in such an unassuming manner that the due that is justly theirs is rarely paid.

Ed Nicholson, Circulation Manager, and his staff of Phi Delt pledges have taken over the task of folding and distributing the Davidsonian this year and with but few omissions have stuck to it with a commendable doggedness. There were times when the Editor-in-chief himself had to double on folding and putting the papers in the dorms on some Friday nights, but in the main the Phi Delts stuck by their journalistic guns and saw every paper deposited in each student’s room. On dance weekends the problem was particularly acute and at Mid-Winters some help was garnered from several PiKA pledges who came to the local print shop to fold while they were still dressed in tuxes. At Spring Frolics a couple of Kappa Sigs pitched in to see that the Davidsonian was out on time as its editor had promised it would be.

All in all these men have performed a work that has not been enjoyable, although they managed to make it more so by singing and mixing horseplay with folding. Nor even has there been the occasional compensation of knowing that what they were doing was appreciated. Maybe, in a small way, this will change some of that and let you who read the paper each week know that there are actually many men at work to bring you your student newspaper.

Twelve hundred or more Davidsonians are hand folded each Friday night, and the boys who do the job left to right, are the Phi Delt folders for 1952-53, Circulation Manager Pat Grayson, Ted Hardsock, John Reid, David Regen, Jim Holshouser, Eddie Nicholson, Jason McManus, Bert Eyster, and Clyde Robinson.—(Photo by Andy Simons).

In talking with Mr. Paul Scott, director of athletics, this reporter was impressed with the fact that Mr. Scott is proud, justifiably so, of the existing athletic plant, but wholeheartedly shares this writer's views on the cramped condition which already exists and which will become even more acute in the near future. Mr. Scott pointed out that everything possible is being done to improve the athletic condition here on the campus. During the coming summer new work will be instituted on the golf course with a putting green (grass, not sand) and approaches and a driving range being constructed and ready for use next fall. New fields and new backstops have been put in for the present softball season and everything possible with the existing funds is being done to improve things. We can offer no possible solutions or list any possible sources of funds, but can merely observe the unfortunate fact that there is plenty of space for much-needed athletic improvement and yet nothing with which to make them.

LAMON VOTED HEAD OF TKA FOR 1953-54

Buddy Lamon was elected president of Tau Kappa Alpha, honorary forensic fraternity, last Wednesday at the organization’s regular monthly meeting. Will Terry is the new vice-president, Roy Davis is treasurer and debate manager, and Mac Williamson is secretary. TKA is a society for advanced debaters. It augments rather than replaces the Forensic Council which is the organization of which all men engaged in debating are members. Requirements for TKA membership include two years of college forensic experience, demonstration of superior ability, rank in the upper 35 percent of scholarship, and election by three-fourths vote of the chapter.

Davidson Makes...

(Continued From Page One)

faculty are of this Class: Dr. Elmer Brown, Dr. Chalmers Davidson, and Dr. James Reid. There was one other, Dr. David Howard, the Valedictorian of the Class, who taught Chemistry at Davidson for several years after his graduation and died while here as a young man. A fifth, Colonel Howard Arbuckle, was P. M. S. T. at his Alma Mater shortly after World War I. Mr. Olin Nisbet of Charlotte is a trustee. The class is chiefly distinguished by its material prosperity. According to statistics, over 10% of the graduates are now enjoying incomes of over $25,000 per annum. Only a very small percentage are making less than $5,000 a year. It is perhaps surprising that there are more members of country clubs amongst the graduates than there are deacons and elders. Several of the alumni have achieved distinction as authors, Professor Davidson's historical works are well known and Mr. John McKnight won national acclaim with his book, The Papacy, published last year. Others have published sermons, medical or scientific papers. Of the fourteen ministers, three have been awarded honorary D.D. degrees. The book is not for sale. It was printed by the Davidson Printing Company on a pre-publication subscription basis. Only enough were printed to supply the surviving members of the class.

Professor George B. Labban said today that Greek 61, Classical Mythology, will be offered the first semester of the coming 53-54 school year. It will not be a pre-requisite for 62, Greek Literature in English Translation, although it is strongly recommended that it be taken if the student plans to take 62. Both 61 and 62 will prove of special benefit to English majors and can be counted toward the student's minor in that subject. Fine art students will also find these courses of great value and are strongly urged to give their close consideration. No knowledge of Greek or Latin is required. The courses are done in translation. If any student should like any information other than that contained in the catalogue of the content and objectives of the courses, he should contact Professor Labban in his office at 416 Chambers.

Cabbage Planter...

(Continued From Page Two)

color joke — there will be such magazines as the University of Alabama's Rammer Jammer, the Stanford Chaparral, the North Carolina Tarnation, and, to be sure, the good old Illinois Shaft, doing their best to gratify it. In place of the sharp raillery and satirical twist of the Ivy League writing, there is the gently ironical, almost casual, laughter, and nonsensical absurdities of a new school of humorists — writers who play with puns, Irish bulls, paradoxes, and who look at their world with wondering amusement. And coupled with this humor is a vein of seriousness, displayed by feature articles treated in a thoughtful, though lighthearted manner. It is a gradual change in viewpoint, but even the casual New Yorker has discarded some of its raillery in favor of it. So that’s what I mean when I say college humor isn’t ready for the grave yet. It’s just undergone change, and I think it was a change for the better.

Graduation Plans...

(Continued From Page One)

themselves, their parents, and their guests for the Alumni Luncheon of Saturday, May 30. Mrs. Blackwell will make reservations in the Alumni Office. She will also furnish Commencement programs upon request.

Simons And Sells

The Camera Club elected its new officers for the coming school year at its last meeting, held April 21. Andrew Simons, Jr., was elected president and Sam R. Sells was elected secretary-treasurer. During Fine Arts Festival the club is presenting an exhibition of black and white and color pictures taken by its members. This exhibit will be placed in the college dining hall. The club has also obtained a national traveling salon from Popular Photography Magazine which includes pictures from the 1951 contest conducted by that magazine. The time and place of this exhibit will be announced later.

Cats After...

(Continued From Page Three)

Robinson. Broad jump — White, Koonce. Shot put — Peterson, Petree, Lazenby. Discus — Peterson, Petree, Gilley. Javelin — Coe, Hoover, Gilley, Mann. High jump — Oldenburg, Huffaker. Pole vault — Poston, McNair. Mile relay — Henry, Howell, Russell or Mitchener, and Shipley.

Four Named...

(Continued From Page One)

member of the Junior Varsity Tennis team. In high school he had an impressive list of activities including Student Council, President of the Glee Club, President of his Church Group, a participant in three operettas and school plays, a member of the National Honor Society, “Most Outstanding Senior”, captain of the tennis team, and winner of several writing awards. Last summer he was head waiter and director of social activities at the Glenwood, a resort hotel in Mill Rift, Pennsylvania.

Bill Gramely of Winston-Salem, North Carolina is the brother of Hugh Gramely of the sophomore class and is one of the incoming freshman recipients of this scholarship. Bill has a straight “A” record in high school, was co-captain of the Football team, member of the Track team, President of the Key Club, secretary of his class, President of the Moravian Youth Fellowship, member of Hi-Y, and was a winner of first and second prizes in the high schoolClassification for oil paintings in the city-wide art contest last year. He has worked as a part-time clerk in the A. S. Beck Shoe Company and has done work as a painter during the summers. He was one of the outstanding high school football players in the state and was state champion in the shot-put. The fourth new holder of a Carbide Scholarship is Leon F. Howell, Jr. of Copperhill, Tennessee. Leon is valedictorian of his class, winner of two essay awards, the Science Medal, and a Citizenship award; Captain of the Football and Basketball Team; President of the Baptist Youth Organization; Co-Editor of the Annual; Vice-President of the Dramatics Club, and has been extremely active in Scout Work. For four years he has worked on Saturdays and after school hours at a Service Station and has also been a counselor in a summer camp.

TO REPEAT EXAM

Major General Lewis B. Hershey, Director of Selective Service, has reminded college students that applications for the May 21 Selective Service College Qualification Test must be submitted to the Educational Testing Service, Princeton, New Jersey, not later than midnight May 11. The May 21 test is primarily for students prevented by illness or other emergencies from taking the test April 23, but General Hershey emphasized that this did not bar any qualified student from taking the test if his application is mailed before the deadline. He also stressed that students who have a certificate of admission for the April 23 test which they failed to use on the assigned date must submit new applications if they wish to take the May 21 test. The old certificates, he pointed out, will not admit a student to the May 21 test. General Hershey said the May 21 test will be the last test this school year. Students may obtain a new application from Mr. Hengeveld’s office.

All of these pertain to Wilson’s place in the church. They are found in such papers as the District of Columbia Evening Star, and the New York Times. Other articles on the President were contained in the Literary Digest and the Christian Observer. President Woodrow Wilson was a member of the Central Presbyterian Church from March 9, 1913, to February 3, 1924; served as an Elder of the church and was very active in it. Dr. James H. Taylor was pastor of the Central Presbyterian Church from 1906-1943. Dr. Taylor is to be heartily thanked for his fine contribution to the Davidson College Library.

Job Outlook... (Continued From Page Two)

...those with a master’s degree, $5,400; and those with a bachelor’s degree, $4,900.

Golfers To Finish... (Continued From Page Three)

...on Tuesday. The Cats enter this week's matches sporting a 6-5 won-lost record and could clinch a winning season by downing the Clemsonians tomorrow.

FRIDAY, MAY 1, 1953

New and Old Y Cabinets Hold Meet At Montreat

Members of both the old and new Y.M.C.A. cabinets met in Montreat, April 24-26, in order to evaluate this past year’s work and to make plans for next year. Past president Hubert Cannon opened the retreat with an informal business session Friday night in which each of the different leaders of this year’s posts conferred with incoming cabinet members of their respective positions. Saturday morning the business meeting was turned over to an intensive and very thorough discussion of each post by the entire group. This proved extremely valuable, as the ideas of all provided varied insights into the problems of each post, and how these problems could be met and solved. It was the general feeling of all present that a definite lack of proper publicity had greatly hindered the Y.M.C.A. work this past year and had, in turn, left the student body without a reasonable acquaintance with this work which affects more aspects of the life at Davidson than any other organization.

Although over two hundred men participated in Y.M.C.A. work this year, it is the intention of the cabinet that this participation grow and that the Y.M.C.A. may be the vital part of the student body it should be. In the short duration of the retreat, much was accomplished. A new presentation of the potentiality for good to the student body by the Y.M.C.A., coupled with more student interest, will prove to make the coming year a real success.

SPANISH FRATERNITY HOLDS CHILE DINNER

On April twenty-eighth Sigma Delta Pi, the national honorary Spanish fraternity, gave its annual Chile Supper at Erwin Lodge. A number of girls from Queens and Winthrop were guests, and the meal was prepared by faculty wives. After the supper, the group moved to the ballroom of the Student Union, where the Mexican movie, Lluvia Roja, was shown.

IF YOU CAN WIN THESE WINGS YOU CAN EARN OVER $5,000 A YEAR AFTER GRADUATION

Important facts about the opportunities for YOU as a Commissioned Officer—Pilot or Aircraft Observer—

Must I be a college graduate to take Aviation Cadet Training? No. But you must have completed a minimum of 60 semester hours or 90 quarter hours toward a degree. In addition, under the new Aviation Cadet training program, you must be between the ages of 19 and 26½ years, unmarried, and in good physical condition—with high requirements for eyes, ears, heart, and teeth.

How long before I get my commission? 60 calendar weeks. You will receive the finest aviation training in the world—training that not only equips you to fly modern military aircraft but prepares you for executive and administrative work as well. At the completion of your training, you will have acquired a commission as a 2nd Lieutenant and the coveted silver wings of the United States Air Force.

Where do I take my training? Pre-flight training will be at Lackland Air Force Base, San Antonio, Texas. Primary, basic, and advanced training will be taken at any one of the many Air Force bases located throughout the South and Southwest.

What happens if I flunk the training course? Every effort is made to help students whose progress is unsatisfactory. You can expect extra instructions and whatever individual attention you may require. However, if you fail to complete the course as an Aviation Cadet, you will be required to serve a two-year enlistment to fulfill the minimum requirement under Selective Service laws. Veterans who have completed a tour of military service will be discharged upon request if they fail to complete the course.

What pay do I get as an Aviation Cadet? And after? As an Aviation Cadet, you draw $109.26 a month pay. In addition, you get summer and winter uniforms, flight equipment, food, housing, medical and dental care, and insurance coverage. After you are commissioned a 2nd Lieutenant you will be earning $5,300.00 a year—with unlimited opportunities for advancement.

Are all Aviation Cadets trained to be Pilots? No. You can choose between becoming a Pilot or an Aircraft Observer. Men who choose the latter will become commissioned officers in Navigation, Bombardment, Radar Operation, or Aircraft Performance Engineering.

Do Aircraft Observers get flying training, too? Yes. Aircraft Observer Cadets receive approximately 200 hours of “in the air” instructions. The primary phase of Aircraft Observer training is the same for all branches (navigation, bombardment, etc.). The basic and advanced phases of training vary, depending on the specific course you pursue.

What kind of airplanes will I fly? You will fly jets. The Pilot Cadet takes his first instructions in a light, civilian-type plane of approximately 100 horsepower, then graduates to the 600 horsepower T-6 “Texan” before receiving transition training in jets. You then advance gradually until you are flying such famous first-line aircraft as F-86 Sabre, F-89 Scorpion, B-47 Stratojet, and B-50 Superfortress. Observer Cadets take flight instructions in the C-47 Dakota, the T-29 Convair, and the TB-50 before advancing to first-line aircraft such as the F-89 Scorpion and B-47 Stratojet.

Will my commission be in the Regular Air Force or Reserve? Aviation Cadet graduates, both Pilots and Aircraft Observers, get Reserve commissions as 2nd Lieutenants and become eligible to apply for a regular Air Force Commission when they have completed 18 months of active duty.

How long must I remain in Service? After graduation from the Aviation Cadet Program, you are tendered an indefinite appointment in the United States Air Force Reserve and are called to active duty with the United States Air Force for a period of three years.

What recreation and leisure time will I have as a Cadet? Discipline will be rigid—especially for the first few weeks. However, it is not all work. You'll find swimming pools, handball courts, movies, and other forms of recreation on the post.

Where will I be stationed when I get my commission? You may be stationed anywhere in the world... Hawaii, Far East, Europe, Puerto Rico, or elsewhere. During your tour of duty, you will be in close touch with the latest developments in new flying techniques. You will continue to build up your flying experience and later should have no difficulty securing a CAA commercial pilot or navigator rating.

Your future is assured if you can qualify! Here's what to do:

1. Take a transcript of your college credits and a copy of your birth certificate to your nearest Air Force Base or Recruiting Station. Fill out the application they give you. If the application is accepted, the Air Force will arrange for you to take a physical examination at government expense.

2. Next, you will be given a written and manual aptitude test.

3. If you pass your physical and other tests, you will be scheduled for an Aviation Cadet training class. The Selective Service Act allows you a four-month deferment while waiting for class assignment.

WHERE TO GET MORE DETAILS

Visit your nearest Air Force Base, Air Force Recruiting Officer, or your nearest Air Force ROTC Unit. Or write to AVIATION CADET, HEADQUARTERS, U. S. AIR FORCE, Washington 25, D.C.