THE DAVIDSONIAN
FRIDAY, MAY 14, 1964
PAGE TWO

Sports Editor _____ Jim Holshouser
Feature Editor _____ Dick Morehead
News Editors — John Hiers, Watt McCain
Editor — John Harmon
Editor — Ed Price

The Davidsonian
Published Weekly Throughout the College Year

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Y BROCKMANN
BUSINESS MANAGER TIM COOPER
ASSOCIATE EDITORS Lloyd Feeney, John Handley, Austin Strand
Assistant Joe B.
Photographer Hank Daniel
Sec. von Grad, Swain
Assignments — Jim Bice
Jim Gaskin, Jim Marshal, Stan Miller, Bill Stewart

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N.C. under the Act of March 3, 1897

Assistant Business Manager __Tommy Taylor
Advertising Manager __ Larry Parrott
Collections Manager __ John Smith
Circulation Manager __ Bob Carmichael

An Open Letter To The Board of Trustees

Reverend J. McDowell Richards
President, Trustees of Davidson College
Davidson College, Davidson, N. C.

Dear Sir:
May 11, 1954

I am writing on behalf of the Student Body to commend the Trustees for their action in guaranteeing $35,000 in athletic grants for the coming year. Several weeks ago in a campaign speech I promised, if elected, to do this. I have discussed this problem with a number of students and feel it is one with which they are concerned. I believe the student body is in favor of an athletic policy which will enable Davidson to compete on an equal basis with the schools of the Southern Conference and with its natural rivals. I think the student body feels that in this guarantee the Trustees have taken a realistic step toward bettering Davidson athletic policy. During the past year Davidson has made a good showing in the new Southern Conference and I feel certain that next year will be even better. A winning football team in the future will do much to improve the present low morale of the student body. With the interest and support exhibited by the Trustees I feel sure that we can have an athletic policy which will allow Davidson again to hold its head up in athletic circles. By continuing to give scholarships to the type athlete that Davidson traditionally caters to, Davidson can never go wrong.

Sincerely,
FLOYD FEENEY
President of the Student Body.

Yo Ho Ho, We Hate Thee; But Little Brown Jug

Once upon a time there was a little boy—little in the sense of maturity. He had his own way generally as he “grew up.” When he graduated from high school, it was only natural that he be sent to the nearby college—because it was such a fine college. This was a Christian college, a college devoted to the matter of practicing the teachings of Christ while “educating” its students. The little boy’s parents sent him there because its degree would be such a good recommendation for his later business life. If times should be hard, i.e. if his father should die and the boy have to work for himself and not move into an assistant vice-presidency, he would have that Devastating College diploma. So the little boy went to the college. It was apparent when he got there that this was the place for him. He got into the big fraternity easily, found out how to go about getting this “education” most easily. His college life was largely that of the “maturing of a young gentleman.” Occasionally, however, to use a trite expression, it did seem that his studies were interfering with his education. He graduated. Of course his dad had arranged for his excuse from armed services duty. He had had a wonderful time at Devastating, he often remembered later those times he had so cleverly cheated on the math reviews, the nights his brothers (all dedicated to fine ideals) had carried him to his room, and on and on. But then, we all have to have some fun sometimes. Yes sir. He was really proud of that Devastating diploma in his office. He had really gotten a lot when he was there. Of course it had been hard work; but his parents were more than satisfied when he made grades good enough to be Phi Bete, even if he had cheated; and naturally he got ODK, since he was elected president of his literary society for his remarkable ability to write such keen, satirical attacks on the pre-min’s. Some of those Phi Betes and ODKs had really worked, too, the fools. And now he was just as good as they were! His son would have to go there. No other place. Hard, yes; but mighty rewarding. Really turn you out a Christian gentleman; all you had to do was soak up four years of that atmosphere. You don’t want to get too serious about things there, though. You don’t want to study too much, or think about very deep things. Have to watch that. And the little man was happy.

—W. F. S.

The Collegiate Ideal?

The quaint thing about Davidson during the 1963-64 school year seems to have been that no one likes anything or anybody here. To grumble has been to gain the approval of cohorts in the ideal school of cynics and sour stomachs. Everyone has ranted that the status quo, whatever that is, be immediately smashed, and that the whole Davidson way of life be turned inside out in order that persecuted students might once again gain their rightful power on the local scene. Why change the status quo? That is, what is the use of changing for the sake of change; of blowing a mighty blast of air in no particular direction. To alter one’s course with no goal in mind seems not only a waste of time but of human energy. Where then is the goal of the student here? What is the mark by which he sets his daily course of thought and action? Is he interested in college for the knowledge he hopes to gain there; that is, has he come for the scholastic opportunities offered, and for the human relations he will thrive on, or has he come for one of many reasons of which he is so often accused: because his parents did, because it is necessary for business opportunity, because it is “the thing to do” in his social class. Why? By their fruits ye shall know them, it is recorded in a widely read publication here. Can it be that the unprecedented chaos of idealess moving on the part of the student body is the fruit of disinterested men who are here but to complete one link in the mighty chain which makes up a mechanical life. Those who are here to follow a pattern of economic life, or to maintain their hometown position with the least possible effort and the greatest possible pleasure might well prove to be the clogging glue which puts the stipend of “glorious mediocrity” on the College. To them college is a necessary and unpleasant evil, and to stretch the mind is an absurdity when the TV machine is showing the curvy dame or the D. A. Life can very pleasantly be a chain of nickels and neckings with little effort, and many seem to be out to make the best of this with their parent’s money and their own time. There was a day when the student entered college with the prospect of getting a degree and using it the rest of his life. Perhaps that day is still with us, concealed beneath an ever thickening veneer of fraternity life, formal dances and football games. If it is, it must be that the student body members are capable of goals located somewhere beyond their noses. The thing to do when they realize this is to look at those goals, and to shape their course of action accordingly. If they have no love for Davidson nor any goal for themselves except a diploma why do they clamor for college revisions and football subsidy? Any action to be worthwhile must have a purpose, and it is a good time for the student to realize that one purpose of college life is to teach thought and understanding, not conformity with a groundless fluctuation, whether that fluctuation be against the school or for football subsidy. Why do we fail to stop and think why we act as we do, believe as we believe. Perhaps it is because we are afraid to. Perhaps it is because we have indeed lost the horizon of life's meaning in a blur of Cadillacs and piggy banks.

—N. L. C.

OFF-MOORINGS: Unfulfilled Goals Set Forth In Parting “Swan Song”

By JIM MOORE

The end of the school year is a time of summing up, a time for sour grapes or fermented ones, and a time for counting noses and licking wounds. The columnist also comes to the end of his journalistic row. After a year of being the campus iconoclast, it will be a pleasure this summer to slip quietly into the role of shavetail, sea-roving naval officer. There at least you don’t have to step on every highly glossed toe that comes along. Matter of fact, you better not. The goals which this column has pursued might have seemed to have been those of a spur of the moment compulsion to gripe, to blast off at anything and everybody. The writings might have appeared to come from a personal cynicism that was nurtured in an entirely negative approach to life and Davidson. I hope that the motivations have been actually as honorable and as good in the long run as a genuinely loyal student could compose. There ought to be room for a loyally dissident voice at Davidson. Oftentimes the means used to arouse readers to thought and action have been strong medicine and even a bitter pill to swallow for some. Your writer will be quick to point out that in many cases before he wrote he first concluded that the end justified the means employed. The point has been to arouse students and other readers from their general apathy and to ire them so that they voice an opinion of at least some kind or other, preferably one free from bias and to the point. This isn’t to say that the means were less than honorable ones. It means that I have used every journalistic means at my disposal to get my point across. At one time this column attempted to set forth its aims. This proved a mistake; for when in the course of time, the aims were not fulfilled, then it might have appeared that the writer had failed. The aims are still valid ones and they are still open to anyone garrulous and tenacious enough to pursue them. It just happened that more pertinent topics arose with time.

The Market Place

One who stands in the market place of ideas and throws bricks must be reasonably prepared to get a few in return. Dorothy Parker, that scathingly witty critic for the New York Times in the roaring twenties and the deflated thirties wrote in 1937, “I heard someone say, and so I said it, too, that ridicule is the most effective weapon... Well now I know... ridicule may be a shield, but it is not a weapon.” Neither as old, as wise, as brilliant, nor as witty as Miss Parker, this writer has some of the same feelings at the end of a year of ridicule, attack, and idealism as that literary lady found after twenty-odd years of writing. So you are going to conclude immediately that I have gone soft at the last. Don’t be misled by last-minute explanations of lasting conclusions. The Davidson scene is ripe for critical analysis and constructive criticism. The sources for the most incisive discussion have only been touched on, and there is tremendous room for more extensive study. The first most important point for a student journalist to take into account is...For him to decide that he himself, and his writing, can withstand the critical light when it is thrust on his own work and oftentimes into his own life. It is almost necessary to admit that I have not always been right or to say that everything in this column has been mature and as well thought out as it might have been. Nonetheless, it would be an understatement of major proportions to say that I have not tried always to present a courageous, honest point of view that cared not on whose toes it happened to tread.

Goals
For those who want to continue the tradition of examining issues, customs, and morals at Davidson which need the light of public appraisal, I give these suggested topics:
(1) Investigation into the drinking rules and the drinking situation itself. An honorary fraternity council poll two years ago showed that over fifty percent of the students at Davidson drink occasionally. Are we pursuing our goals under false pretense?
(2) A reexamination of Davidson’s educational goals in the light of her current and continuing needs. It is significant that the courses offered and the scholastic requirements have not been altered materially in over twenty years.
(3) A long look into better student-faculty, student-administration, student-trustee relations. It seemed a shock on the Senior-Faculty Day to find out what a good bunch of fellows the faculty actually has in it.
(4) A continuation of interest in Davidson’s athletic situation.

(Continued On Page Four)

THROUGH THESE TND, WITH YOUR HELP, WE’LL SAIL TURBULENT SEAS TOGETHER TO THE PEACEFUL WATERS BEYOND, AND... ETC.

Fifth Amendment Seen As Answer To Appalling Student Council Impotence
The proposed amendments to the Student Constitution have but one purpose, a more effective student government. To this end, two factors alone can contribute: realistic and workable rules, penalties, and procedural machinery; and enthusiastic student support. And these two are interdependent and inseparable, as a moment’s thought will indicate.

Let me insist that an underlying unity be recognized in the amendments, and suggest that a useful perspective for the careful analysis they require may be gained by focusing our attention upon the most “controversial” of them all—the Testimony Amendment. The other five, we might say, are “oil for the works” of student government machinery without which it lumbers and wheezes along, but testimony is the vital current without which it does not move at all. It is the sine qua non of responsible student control of student affairs upon which the others stand or fall. We have seen all too clearly that our form of student government cannot work without the cooperation of those upon whom it calls for help.

The Fifth Amendment
The passage of Amendment Five will be an emphatic assertion of our conviction that student government is to be, as far as possible, a “government of laws, not of men,” an institution not to be stymied by the duty dilemmas of unfortunate students, the confusion of a particular student council, or the misbegotten good intent of a faculty committee. Our failure to pass it will be our tacit affirmation that student government should be a game in which we dare the leaders to catch us if they can. But surely a game in which the losers may be subjected to arbitrary judges who do not understand their problem, in which faculty-student relations may be irreparably torn, and in which student government itself may very well be wrecked is a game that can only have fascination for the morbid or the immature.

Let us weigh this issue carefully. What are the rational objections to testimony if we have the best interests of student government at heart? The “Fifth Amendment” argument has neither force nor application here, as has been pointed out elsewhere. Nor can testimony in answer to relevant and specific questions concerning others suspected to be involved in rule infractions about which we are believed to have knowledge be construed as “squealing” or “ratting” on our roommates. Indeed, the passage of the amendment can be a healthy step toward a student government so just, so effective, so respected, that a complete loyalty to its merit and its letter will embody automatically the greatest kind of loyalty to those who are our friends, our roommates, our fraternity brothers.

Judicial Procedure
If we do not trust the wisdom and discretion of our self-elected judges and fear misuse of the power which this amendment would confer upon them, we may insist that a specific pattern of questioning be worked out in order to avoid the dangers of arbitrary interrogation. But these are details, albeit important ones, for our judges in consultation with us to decide upon. The point here is that the amendment must be passed if we are to have competent judicial bodies. Without the amendment, we may be faced with new nocturnal sessions of an Executive Committee whose every move seems destined to be interpreted as inspired of the Devil himself, however absurd this is. Without it, we may, as some of our recently elected representatives have suggested, be faced with arbitrary edicts from an impotent student government suddenly confronted with a problem for which it has no precedent and no machinery.

If there are other objections, let them be heard. The results of required testimony may at times seem harsh, but justice is often unpleasant. Speaking personally, I prefer the sharp, clean knife of justice to the cruel cat-o’-nine-tails of bungling and indecision. The amendment is strong, yes, but only with it can student government be strong. In short, our voting on the Testimony Amendment, standing as it does, not only as the crux of the proposed amendments, but at the heart of student government itself, is basically a decision between childishness and maturity. It can be a declaration of attitude more far-reaching than Amendment Four, and more of an assertion of responsibility.

(Continued On Page Four)

Dabney, Trotti Blast Graggism’s New Spirit Of Humble Optimism
Dear Mr. Gragg:
It has been said that you, in your latest venture, used “clever satire and appealing description,” and had “something worthwhile to say.” These observations were made by the editor at the time the article appeared; it is his right to express his attitude toward Graggism, as it is his responsibility for allowing your outpourings to be printed.

Eagerly scanning the article for satire (clever or otherwise), we at last found that, amid other attempts, you had called chapel “the mid-morning siesta.” This was very clever and witty. We appreciate your sincerity, and it must be admitted, in all fairness, that you have considerable descriptive skill. Whether or not one finds it “appealing” would depend (as you have repeatedly said), on one’s attitude. Some people like Liberace. Some like Norman Vincent Peale. Some find twaddle pleasing to their state of mind. Some admire Graggism.

You may very well have come as a bludgeon with which to enforce a personal predilection. Christ said that people should come to Him as a little child, but anyone who approaches Davidson self-righteousness as a little child is not optimistic, only complacent; not an idealist, only a fool.

We close with a quotation from George Bernard Shaw: “The reasonable man adapts himself to the world; the unreasonable one persists in trying to adapt the world to himself. Therefore all progress depends on the unreasonable man.”

DICK DABNEY
HUGH TROTTI