THE HOT DAVIDSONIAN

Volume 2, Number 1

SOUTHERN SCANDAL
Well, here we are for another summer session at D.C. The campus has been somewhat enlightened by the addition of
the coeds. The science students arrived a few days earlier and happily(?) committed themselves to their tasks. Seen trudging daily
(and on Saturday, yet) to their lab courses are these poor slaves who can't call their souls their own. Ronnie
and Luke go 48 hours without sleep studying for their organic review. Both fall asleep in class and flunk their
review.

Clyde Robinson practicing his deadly shot from the corner...
T. Hall and his gang picking up some moon--er--sunshine at the beach...
12-year-old lad upsetting Southern Conference doubles champ Sneed...
Shaw Smith receiving new magic tricks (with directions) in the Saturday mail...
Clark Reed preaching and Professor Labban presiding in Sunday Service (was this why you spoke in Greek Sunday, Clark?)...
Dick Lovette coaching ping pong in his spare time...
Luke and Sonny Greene preaching in nearby churches...
Foil and Criddlebaugh taking weight lifting courses...
Charlie Johnson shooting for a late Phi Beta Kappa key...
Bill Cunningham having trouble with Southern Bell telephone company...
Jack Graham sleeping through his 8 o'clock class...
Ed Douglas busting up happy Charlotte romances...
Al Aiken planning next year's political platform for Dick (Lyman) Adams...
"Beton" searching for fossils to disprove Sneed's theory of evolution...
Frank Shaw and Buddy (I'm a Jack Woods man, myself) Biggers coming out of lab are surprised to see the
new union about which they had heard so many rumors, began to come quite natural to us.

Dr. Ken Younger edits new trig book...
Ray Harding and the latest "Sweetheart of Sigma Chi" (J.V.) advancing the cause of learning by working together...
John Fite's psychological experiments on us poor neurotics.

Rumor has it that a local Flicks Anonymous has been established. The first meeting is to be held at the
local flick Friday night.

Bill, Elliot P., and the old Citeeck gang shining...
Blake E. Kincaid wishes to remind those who have entered the tennis or ping pong tournaments to play off their
respective rounds. He has tentatively planned bridge and pool tourneys to be held in the near future.

Dick Thorne reported to be dodging his roommates...

And that's the very end, you know???

Y.M.C.A. Song Service Sunday Night 7:30 P.M.
Front of the Union
June 23, 1951

CAMPUS CO-ED CORNER
OUR FIRST IMPRESSIONS

"Fabulous", of course, was Teensie's famous first word about the Davidson College boys and campus.

"Fifty to one!", Jeannette is still saying it.

Janet's first and constant expression is "Isn't it a shame that I have to study at a place like this!"

"But Mother, I'll be well chaperoned", Virginia coyly remarked.

Could it be that you all had never seen girls before or was it just that our table manners were
a little on the rocks that first night at dinner? But after a few encouraging words from Bill Watt (Gimme
your meal tickets, girls), everything was O.K.

Boy, was it hard that first day having to get up in the middle of the night in order to
get to that 8 o'clock class, because we knew that it would take us hours to find Chambers and then
that hard task of finding our classrooms. Gallent, McGeachy, and Mebane really have our votes for being able to adjust
to the slight differences in their pupils so quickly.

Next came our first seated chapel. Gosh, the Davidson alphabet doesn't quite correspond to the one we all learned at
the age of six, because the female letters S, V, F, and H all came at the very end, so
there we sat on the very last row. Then with the aid of our high-powered binoculars we didn't have a
bit of trouble taking it all in. Did our ears deceive us? No, we learned to our amazement that we
were members of the Y.M.C.A. Oh, there is one other little detail that they mentioned--we are required to conduct ourselves
as gentlemen at all times. Of course, it was a little odd at first, but after opening doors for the
boys, lighting their cigarettes, and dragging them gently out on the dance floor, it all began to come quite natural
to us. They did make one exception for us, no coats or ties.

In all seriousness, we are really glad to be here and "thanks" fellows for making us so very welcome.

SATURDAY, JUNE 26th

UNION MOVIE: "CAPTAIN KIDD"
STARRING: CHARLES LAUGHTON
8 P.M. . 25¢

SOUTH SIDE TERRACE

During the summer a series of Wednesday night programs is to be held in the College Union each week. These
programs are designed for informal attendance and they will begin at 9 o'clock P.M.

This week we are planning to have a watermelon cutting which will take place on the patio. In case of
rain, this event will be held in the union.

In regard to these social affairs, we are still searching for ideas and suggestions. If you have any of either,
see...
