Ti “OT DAV-DSOLTIA.

clume a

SOUTER SCAIDAL TE KUFUS Ken

_ Wd, here we are at the end of another RM. DANCE WIE.

summer session at D.C. Some of us have had a good time, others of us have studied like mad in an effort to make the last minute date and secure appointments for the next term. Let’s remember these things...

Al Aiken "tales of the folks around Greenville"... "Summer memories" to be held here on the campus.
Gene "Vernon and his 4 slugs in Biology. "Gosh, do you think she'd really come if I'd ask her?"
Belle Crinkerhoff's ping pong champion-ship. "But who wants to get all dressed up in a coat and tie in weather like this?"
Henry Reelmann's sports articles... "Let's just wear jeans and a tee shirt and stand outside and listen to the music."
Harry Trommice's Piss... "These were some of the comments that have been made by some of the boys. Join us, let's see them. The co-eds have to come to the dance."
Joe Campbell in chemistry lab... "Golly, I thought he'd never ask me."
Kenny Concer's walking shorts... "But mother, I've just got to have a new dress, 'cause I can't wear any of my old clothes."
All of Cap Criclebaugh's bright red suspenders... "I can hardly wait, because after all I do have the cutest date on campus" (as the co-eds fall into a debate over that last statement).
MAYKS... "What could be more exciting than studying for my Saturday review, after all who wants to go to the dance? Oh, darn it!!"
Jake's ice cream on a night well spent... "It’s been rumored that the music is going to be really great, so fellows and co-eds come on. After all, can you think of a better way to end summer school than by having a dance? See you there."

JHESHRRHERE ENE EAB

STALL COE ss...

This Friday night on the terrace of the Union, the festivities commence at 8:00 PM. The party will be semi-formal, with music provided by the "Morrowmen". At this Semi-Formal Dance, girls will wear either party dresses or formals. The men, coats and ties will be the dress code. Tickets may be obtained from Mary Lee Harding, Couples $1.00; Singles $0.75. Come and bring a friend.

RAY HARDING'S team who captured the summer softball championship yesterday by defeating Bernie Webster's team 11-3. The team had an outstanding season with a 7-0 record.

IC NN IERIERUIER KR IIR Sd

Other participants who deserve mention are:
Jean Bindle, who managed under severe conditions.
Don Mitchell, having to get some vines.
Lois Pesh, nearly every morning.
For those who have to see the text and leave a message.
Is it, kids? I wake this morning to find my cat gone for water. I sob their love gone this summer.
Thanks for your (the readers) comments—do good. And remember, it's your paper. See you next term.

The last res will be served at the College Union Dining Hall.

Now that the summer session has almost come to a close, the YWCA recognizes the helpful assistance that its participants have given to the program. Our sincere appreciation goes to all who have had a part in making our campus life during one summer both meaningful to ourselves and to others.

The Y appreciates all the suggestions that have been made to make its program more effective and wishes each of you a very enjoyable summer.

(Dick Lovette's sing-along contract has been renewed for next summer by popular acclaim.)