WILDCAT SPORTS -----~---=-- THE HOT DAVIDSONIAN-----~—

TEAMS ONE AND TWO LEAD SOFTBALL LEAGUE

With the beginning of the intramural softball Monday afternoon, the summer sports season got off to a hot start.

In Monday's game, Ray Harding's Team Number Two romped over Tommy Hall's Team Number Three in a 21-9 victory on
the lower athletic field.

Fans saw the game start fast with home runs by Harding and first bagger Dick Lovette in the first inning.
The third inning saw the entire second team batting order revolve as seven big runs crossed the plate.

From there on, it was a close battle as the Team Three men came back to score all of their
nine runs in the fading innings.

Outstanding for Team Two besides Harding and Lovette were catcher Richard Makepeace and pitcher Ken Conger. Fielders Montgomery, Lane, and
Hart turned in excellent performances. The losers saw fighting Charlie Johnson stop everything that came third base way. Second baseman
and captain Tommy Hall also made a fine showing.

Team One = 12
Team Three = 10

Tuesday marked one victory in as many starts for Benny Webster's Team Number One, as southpaw Johnny Baker hit to
the bushes of right field and brought in five runs to help his team edge Tommy Hall's hapless Team Three
12-10 in a late inning thriller.

Hall's nine got off to a fast start in the first inning behind a first bat home run by Bill
Shuford. The whole batting order saw action and brought home five runs. Webster's nine struck back in the second and
third innings, things getting started when Team Three pitcher Blake Brinkerhoff walked Bob High and gave up a pair of
two-baggers to Max Barker and John Baker.

The second inning found the Webster boys trailing by 5-3, but in the third they pulled into the lead by
a score of 6-5.

Things moved for Team Two again in the fifth inning behind the bat of Allen Fry, who brought in two
runs to give him a total of four for the game in RBIs. The score stood at 9-6 as the
Hall men threshed back in the bottom of the sixth for four runs. But John Baker put the game on
ice in the top of the seventh as he led the Webster men with a home run with one man
on base. The Hall team couldn't come back, went three-up, three-down in the bottom of the seventh, and gave up
a heartbreaker.

Bill Shuford was outstanding for the losers, accounting for one run and fielding five outs, three in the sixth. Pitcher
Brinkerhoff of Team Three gave up four walks and had one strikeout. Pitcher Hinson of the Webstermen got one triple
and accounted for two RBIs.

Sonny Sanders and Jim Foil turned in excellent performances for the losers, Sanders getting a homer. Bub Patterson and Diehl
Sluss turned in outstanding records for the winners.

The next game is scheduled for Thursday, July 1, when the two winning teams, Webster's Number One and Harding's Number
Two, will meet at 3:30 on the lower field.

PING PONG AND TENNIS TOURNEYS UNDERWAY

The ping pong tournament has started with hot competition so far. With matches being played each day, the tournament promises
an exciting climax within two weeks.

Tennis matches started this afternoon under Coach Diehl Sluss, and competition promises to be keen with the appearance of outstanding
netmen.

BRIDGE TOURNEY SLATED FOR COMING WEEKS

There has been talk of a bridge tournament for the summer school students. Widespread interest has led the YMCA to
sponsor the tourney, which will start in the College Union after examinations next week. Later in the week, a blank
will be posted in the Union for partners to sign up on.
