“THE ‘WORRY CHRONIC” By T. ALDEN WILLIAMS

VOL. XLII

BOARD OF TRUSTEES ELECTS NEW DEAN AT WED. MEETING

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C., FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 1954

Crack Drill Platoon Formed Here by ROTC

An ROTC honor platoon has recently been chosen. This platoon consists of twenty-two sophomores, being trained and led by two juniors, Sergeants Stogner and Abernathy. The purpose of the honor platoon is to form a superior drill unit, marching separately and leading all parades. This newly formed unit will take its place next to the regimental commander and review all parades, conducting separate close order drill in front of the regiment. A total of sixty-two men volunteered for the unit, of which twenty-five were chosen, an extra three acting as alternates.

Dr. C. J. Pietenpol was appointed the official Dean of Faculty at the meeting of the Board of Trustees here on Wednesday.

DR. PIETENPOL

At the beginning of the present college year, Dr. Pietenpol was appointed acting Dean of Faculty, replacing Dr. C. K. Brown who resigned at the close of the 1952-53 term. Dr. Pietenpol is a former acting president of Washington and Jefferson College and has been a professor of physics at Davidson since 1946. He organized the school of engineering at Washington and Jefferson and served as dean of faculty there from 1943 to 1946. In 1943 he was named special assistant to the president at Washington and Jefferson and served in that capacity from 1943-45. A native of Leota, Minn., he received the B.S. degree from the University of Pittsburgh, master’s degree from the University of Colorado, and his Ph.D. from New York University. Dr. Pietenpol formerly taught at the University of Wisconsin, Yale University, and Long Island University in addition to his posts at Washington and Jefferson. Author of the book, Laboratory Physics, Dr. Pietenpol is a member of the American Physical Society, American Association for the Advancement of Science, Sigma Chi, and is listed in “Who’s Who in America” and “American Men of Science.”

Marines to Require Longer Tour of Duty

All newly enrolled Marine officer candidates will be required to serve an extended period of active duty after being commissioned, according to General Lemuel C. Shepherd, Jr., Commandant of the Marine Corps. Current and future officer requirements of the Marine Corps, as they are presently indicated, make desirable longer periods of active service for all newly commissioned reserve officers, General Shepherd said this week. The Marine Corps has completed plans to make certain that a college man who enrolls in the Platoon Leaders Class after July 1, 1954, will be required to serve three years of active commissioned service, instead of the present two-year tour. Officer Candidate Course candidates enrolled subsequent to February 1, 1954, are subject to this new policy change now. This new obligated active duty service does not apply to OCC and PLC candidates who are currently enrolled or whose applications are waiting approval; nor does it apply to reserve officers now on active duty.

REFRESHMENTS

Following the EUZKADI concert Wednesday night there will be a reception for faculty members and their wives, and students with dates. Refreshments will be served and there will be informal dancing if desired.

Eu Sees ‘Julius Seesher’ Phi Initiates New Group

By BILL BUCK

Both the Eumenean and Philanthropic Literary Societies held their regular meeting this past Monday night. Eu opened with a devotional by Henry Brockmann, followed by the roll call and business. The President first brought up the subject of a combined society banquet between Eu and what was referred to simply as “the society across the way.” The second item of business consisted of appointing a committee to revise the present constitution and naming new members who will read their first papers before the society at the next meeting. Maurice Crouse was appointed critic for the second semester. The most enjoyable part of the evening was spent listening to a well-received production entitled “Julius Seesher” by Davidson's poet-playwright, Fred Myers.

The Phis were by no means inactive while their fellow literary geniuses were giving forth. Following the devotional by Sandy McKelway, an impressive candlelight ceremony was held to initiate new members. These men were: Fred Teal, Tommy Ratchford, Harry Antrim, Zell McGee, Bob Beall, John Huffaker, Joe Garrison, J. L. Brooks, Joe Brown, John Gilmer, Mac Calcote, James Brice, J. W. Flynt, Robert Klugh, Basil Sharp, Roswell Mallory, Gene Bargeron, Buddy Dye, Lawrence Trotti, Jack Trawick, Richard Hall, Jim Kuist, Thomas Estes, Jerry Pietenpol, Robert Majors, Tommy Griffin, John Trotti, Robert Presley, Charles Robinson, and John Davis.

Next on the agenda was the installation of officers. These officers and their offices were: Bob Dunbar, President; Swain Loy, Vice-President; Dick Morehead, Secretary; and Stein Wilson, Treasurer. Critics were Dave Jones and Paul Pinkney, supervisors were Richard Holshouser and Pat Miller. The agent is Gilbert Gragg. The President gave a short speech commending the past president, Bob Crutchfield, for a job well done and pledged to do his best for this semester. The program consisted of a travelog on the Keys in Florida, followed by a short program by Gilbert Gragg that received high praise from the critics. The President next appointed two co-chaplains, Ken Lewis and Bob Pulliam; a program committee, and a secretary and resolution committee.

INTRASQUAD GAME SET FOR MARCH 6

Davidsonians and boosters of Davidson athletics will have an opportunity to preview the 1954 version of the Wildcats on Saturday afternoon, March 6, at Richardson Field. For the first time, the “D” Club is sponsoring this intra-squad game in an attempt to revive the Red and Black contest at the end of spring practice each year. The squad will be divided up and a regulation game will be played, probably beginning at 2 p.m. Dan McCall is in charge for the “D” Club. Admission will be $0.25 for students and $0.50 for adults. On Saturday evening following the Red and Black contest, the YMCA will sponsor a dance at the College Union.

Dr. Frank W. Price, Presbyterian Head To Speak at Vespers

Dr. Frank W. Price, Moderator of the General Assembly of the Presbyterian Church, U.S., will speak this Sunday night, February 21, at Vespers. Sunday is Universal Day of Prayer for Students which will be observed at Sunday night's Vesper service. Dr. Price was born in Chekiang Province of missionary parents and spent the first fifteen years of his life in China. His father was Dr. P. Frank Price, who later in 1926, was Moderator of the General Assembly of the Presbyterian Church, U.S. In 1911 Dr. Price came to America, where he received his B.A. degree here at Davidson, his M.A. from Columbia University, and his B.D. and Ph.D. from Yale University. Dr. Price and his wife returned in 1923 to China and there he spent nearly thirty years as a missionary. In China he taught for a time at Hangchow Christian University and was for eighteen years a professor of Nanking Theological Seminary. From 1949 to 1950 he was Missionary Secretary of the Church of Christ in China. Throughout World War II, Dr. Price was head of the West China Unit of Nanking Theological Seminary. Also during the war he was engaged in liaison service between the Chinese government and the American Armed Forces. Dr. Price has been a close friend of Generalissimo and Madame Chiang Kai-shek for over twenty years and was the Generalissimo’s personal representative, and Assistant to the Chinese Delegation, at the United Nations Organization Conference in San Francisco in 1946. Two times during his years of missionary service, Dr. Price saw China conquered, the second time by the Communists in 1950. When it was no longer possible to carry on missionary work, Dr. and Mrs. Price applied for exit permits to leave the country. Dr. Price has been described as “a brilliant and inspiring writer, a forceful and dynamic lecturer, and a translator of note.” He has written many books including Religion and Character in Christian Middle Schools of China, China Rediscovers Her West, We Went to West China, several translations of well-known Chinese books, and other books in Chinese. He delivered the Sprunt Lectures at Union Theological Seminary in 1948 which were later published as “As the Lightning Flashes.” Dr. Price was elected Moderator of the General Assembly at the Assembly’s meeting in Montreat the past June. Since September of last year, Dr. Price has been pastor of the New Monmouth Presbyterian Church near Lexington, Va.

EUZKADI! a Basque Troupe Will Appear Here Feb. 24

On Wednesday, February 24, at 8:15 p.m., the curtain in Chambers Auditorium in Davidson will rise to reveal one of the most amazing numbers ever offered by the Artist Series; EUZKADI! This performance by the Basque troupe is unique in every respect. What makes EUZKADI different from all other concert attractions is the surging vitality of the singing and dancing, the re-creation in music of the village and mountain life of the Basques themselves, and the skillful interplay between group and soloists which permits changes of pace and mood to proceed without interruption. The name of this fascinating group is the collective term the Basques use to describe their land, the land of the “most exciting people in the world.” Their homeland lies both in France and Spain, but the cry of EUZKADI! reveals a sturdy love of independence that has never been quenched. The Basques have resisted assimilation by adhering to a unique folk culture, different entirely from all others and charged with an almost incredible vitality. Their program is as unusual as the Basque peoples themselves. All of its music and dances are combined into a dramatic whole, an unforgettable pageant that reveals the life of the Basques in its varied aspects. The Basque dances are different in every detail and are often characterized by truly astonishing energy and virility. The singing of the Basques is marked by a haunting quality of almost unearthly beauty. The costumes and musical instruments add greatly to the fascination of EUZKADI! The performance of Juan Onatibia, director of the group, upon the txistu (the Basque flute) is enough in itself to warrant one’s attending the program. Students are admitted to the unusual attraction of EUZKADI! upon presentation of their identification cards.FULBRIGHT AWARD To Give Pygmalion TRYOUTS TO BEGIN — THE DUBLIN PLAYERS

The Dublin Players, an outstanding theatrical group, will present the play Pygmalion by George Bernard Shaw in Chambers Auditorium on March 3. This group, made up of the leading actors from the Gate and Abbey Theatres in Dublin, is the spiritual descendant of the Abbey Players, who toured this country several years ago. The Abbey Players had as one of their leading actors Barry Fitzgerald, who is now acting in America. Eddy Dowley, a Broadway critic, said that this is “one of the finest dramatic groups ever to come to the United States.”

Tickets for the performance, which will be at 8:15, will vary in prices according to the reserved seats. Select seats will sell for two dollars, while other seats will cost $1.50 and $1.00. There will be a special price of $1.00 for faculty members, students, and dates. These seats will be of the variety sold at $1.50 to the general public.

(Continued On Page Four)

Competitions for the 1954-55 academic year for the Fulbright awards will open on May 1, 1954, and close on October 31, 1954. The following countries are participating in the program: Australia, Austria, Belgium, Burma, Ceylon, Denmark, Egypt, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, India, Iraq, Italy, Japan, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Pakistan, Philippines, Sweden, Thailand, Union of South Africa, and the United Kingdom. In addition, sixteen South and Central American countries are participating under the Buenos Aires Convention.

The requirements are: United States citizenship, a college degree at the time the award is taken up, knowledge of the language sufficient to carry on the proposed study. Awards are in the currencies of the participating countries abroad. They cover transportation, expense of a language refresher course, books, and maintenance for one academic year. The awards for transportation for the Buenos Aires Convention program are provided by the United States government.

Applicants for a Fulbright award may apply for only one country. Applicants for Buenos Aires Convention awards are invited to propose study projects for two countries if they wish. The award of a United States government grant carries with it no assurance of deferment from military service. Notification of the decision of the Board of Foreign Scholarships will be sent approximately six

(Continued On Page Four)

New Economics Club To Hear Businessmen

Three prominent Charlotte businessmen will be featured at the first programmed meeting of the newly-formed Business-Economics Association Thursday, Feb. 25. They are Mr. Joseph Robinson, Vice President of Wachovia Bank & Trust Company; Mr. Edwin S. Dillard, President of the Old Dominion Box Company; and Mr. Thomas L. Robinson, publisher and owner of the Charlotte News. They will present fifteen-minute talks on the general topic “Business Opportunity—Not Security.” These men are highly successful in their respective business fields and their addresses should be both interesting and beneficial to all present, club president Bob Owens stated.

All interested members of the student body and faculty are invited to attend this program. The meeting will begin at 8 o’clock Thursday night and will be held in the ballroom of the College Union. After the talks, the audience will divide into three panel discussion groups to talk about subjects closely related to the topic of the program and other business questions. Coffee and refreshments will be served at this time, compliments of the Business-Economics Association.

Monday night the association held its first meeting, having both its founders and new members present. Bob Owens, President and Chairman of the Board of Directors, previewed the plans that have been made for this semester. The response to this meeting was enthusiastic; fifty-eight out of sixty-six members were present.

Poister To Conduct Master Organ Class On Tuesday, March 2

Mr. Arthur Poister, Professor of Organ at Syracuse University, will conduct a master-class for organ students on Tuesday, March 2nd, at 3:30 in the main sanctuary of the church. All students interested in music or organ are invited to attend this class. Mr. Poister will discuss matters of technique and interpretation in organ playing. People from surrounding communities have shown an interest in this class, and registrations have already been received. College students are admitted free with no prior registration necessary, but for others attending the class, a fee of $1.00 is charged with registration.

Vereen Bell Award Deadline Is March 1

Deadline on entries for the Vereen Bell award is March 1. They may be turned in to any member of the English Department. The award is made annually for the best piece of creative writing submitted by a student of Davidson College. Submitted work must be typewritten and double spaced. It may be of any length, in any style, and on any subject. The submitted paper is not to bear the name of the writer, but is to be accompanied by a sealed envelope bearing the writer’s name and title of the manuscript. From the manuscripts submitted, the English Department will select the few best and turn these over to a judge or committee of judges for the final decision. This final committee will not be from the faculty of Davidson College. The award for 1954 will be a fifty-dollar prize chosen by the committee and the winning author in consultation.

PRE-MED POTENTATE: KEN PARKS SENIOR SKETCH NO. 15

1954 ABW RS WEEKEND GETS UNDERWAY Crowning of Midwinters Queen Highlights Dance

Ralph Marterie and his nationally famous orchestra will let out all the stops to get the Midwinters weekend underway tonight in Johnston Gym. An added attraction will be the crowning of the Queen of Midwinters at the conclusion of the figure at the formal dance tonight, which will last from 9 until 1. The Queen was selected by a student committee from fraternity nominations. Marterie and Company will set usually somber Chambers Auditorium jumping tomorrow afternoon at three-thirty when the traditional weekend concert begins. The IFC-sponsored weekend will be climaxed tomorrow night with the informal dance of the two-night set. The Saturday dance will begin at eight and end at midnight.

Bandleader Marterie, who has rocketed to fame in only three years, will be making his first appearance at Davidson this weekend. A musician's son, Ralph Marterie was playing professionally at the age of 14, and at 17 he had settled down to regular studio work with the networks in Chicago, playing with such famed leaders as Paul Whiteman, Percy Faith, Russ Case, John Scott Trotter, Frank Black and others. During the war, he did a stint with the Navy, organizing a crew which was known as one of the top service musical units. After this stint, he returned to radio work and had his own network show from Chicago in 1949. About that time Mercury Records was seeking a band which could provide instrumentals which would prove a hit on long-playing platters. Marterie contacted Art Talmadge, official of the Mercury firm, with some masters he had cut with a studio crew for his own amusement. Talmadge was impressed, and Marterie has been a Mercury artist since that time. Getting into the popular band business meant giving up studio work which was bringing him about $1,000 a month. There was a definite demand for his modern, clean arrangements with the individual trumpet flavorings.

Monday Last Chance For Beauty Entries

Monday will be the last day for turning in pictures for the beauty section of this year's Quips & Cranks. Freshman members of the yearbook staff will circulate through the dormitories between 10:30 and 11:30 on Monday night to pick up any pictures that were missed on their previous rounds.

Drinking Rule Defined By Faculty Committee

According to Dean John C. Bailey, the faculty rule on drinking is still, for all practical purposes, in a state of transition. For many years the faculty ruling on drinking has stated that students found guilty of drinking or possessing intoxicating liquors on or off the campus would be dismissed from school. Dean Bailey said the faculty felt that this rule as stated implied that the administration presumed to police the Southeast in order to uncover violations. Since this has never been the administration's intention, he said that the faculty decided a change in the wording of the rule would be desirable.

Over a week ago a new rule was passed and subsequently amended by the faculty stating in effect that students found guilty of drinking, possessing, or being under the influence of alcoholic beverages in the town of Davidson or at any off-campus function in any way connected with the college would be suspended from school. The rule defined off-campus functions in connection with the college so as to include most of the organizations in any way connected with Davidson. Presumably this would include such events as fraternity functions, athletic contests, etc. This new rule, however, is still subject to change. The faculty committee that formulated the rule and presented it for consideration has since met again and voted to request that the faculty review the new rule with the possibility of rewriting it. Dean Bailey said that he felt that any drinking rule should make it clear that the college was not attempting to escape responsibility for the off-campus indiscretions of Davidson students, or condoning off-campus drinking.