Davidson's 1984 Cats are continuing to rack up the “firsts” in Davidson grid history and can make a major gain on past records if they can turn out a win over Elon tomorrow. Last Saturday night, the Wildcats edged Wofford’s Terriers, keeping up with Davidson's never-lose-to-Wofford policy. In a series of seventeen games, Wofford has managed one tie that is the lone mark against an otherwise perfect record. It was the first time this season that a Terrier opponent had stopped the scoring punch of the South Carolina crew, and that in itself was an accomplishment. Though the Davidson team drove within the Wofford 20-yard line on several occasions, the lack of scoring punch forced the Cats to pull out the win on the toe of Bob Talbert. It was the first time in history that Davidson has won a football game by a field goal, and Coach Dole couldn’t have chosen a more appropriate time to try one. Of the five times that Davidson had the ball within the 20, there were three times that Cat players fumbled the ball, and Wofford recovered each time, once on the one-yard line. How much does it take to make a coach tear out his fast-graying hair?

1926 MARK GOES ON THE LINE

When the Wildcats take the field tomorrow against Elon’s Fighting Christians, they have the opportunity to come up with the best season’s record since 1907. The 1926 Davidson team which won the State Championship had a record of seven wins, two defeats, and one tie, and if the Cats win the Elon battle, they will surpass that mark with a record of seven wins and two losses. The 1907 club won five, lost none, and tied one, setting the all-time record for Davidson clubs. For the second time this season, the Cats have the opportunity to become the first Davidson team since 1926 to win four straight contests. After winning the first three games this year, the Cats muffed the chance when Presbyterian pulled a 10-7 upset. After losing to Furman, Davidson got back on the winning track and has now won three straight again. It may take quite an effort to get that fourth, however, since Elon is no push-over. The Wildcats remain a three-touchdown favorite and will have an added incentive since the parents of many players will be sitting in the stands as part of the Parent Day program. The Fighting Christians will be out to give Davidson its first licking in a long series, and this year’s team will be one of the best Elon has ever thrown at the Cats. Last week Elon beat Lenoir-Rhyne by the same one-touchdown margin that Wofford beat the Bears. They'll be rough!

The ’54 Cats go into their last game with an impressive list of statistics which include three wins in which their opponents were held scoreless (V.M.I, Citadel, and Wofford). The Cats have averaged 19.2 points per game and have held opponents to a 7.7 average. On five occasions, the Davidson club has scored in the double figures, with the 53-6 rout of West Virginia marking the high point of the year.

SENIORS TO DON PADS FOR LAST TIME

Though the next issue of The Davidsonian will have a feature on the seniors on this year’s football squad, we still feel the need of saying a word about the boys who are playing their last football game for Davidson tomorrow. There are eight seniors on the team, and their absence next year will indeed be felt. Corky King and Charlie Rankin are Wildcat ends who will be graduating, and Harry Peterson is the lone graduate in the tackle position. Dickie Davis, Captain of the Cats this year, will be playing his last game, and Jim Fasul may be doing the same, though the Fayetteville guard has another year of eligibility left. In the Wildcat backfield, Bill Rowland joins Fasul on the uncertain list, but Jim Thacker and Henry Brown will be putting on the Davidson pads for the last time tomorrow.

BAN TAMAC
Suede Jackets
Regulars & Longs
Black, Camel, Navy, Light Blue, Dark Brown, and Charcoal
$24.95 — $27.50
Wilson-Wright’s Inc.
“COLLEGIATE FASHIONS”
Next to Benk
Davidson, N. C.

DICKIE DAVIS

Davis And Talbert Key Men In Cats’ Big “3”

Angle, the long-striding VMI star, won the race by several yards over the Davidson hope, Pete Ashcraft. In a field of 52, this was a fine performance for Pete and Davidson was proud of its fourth-place finish against seven good teams. The coaches voted to select an All-Conference team based on season performances at each meet and this year's squad included Ashcraft. This group also awarded next year’s meet to Davidson, to be held on the third Monday in November. Saturday morning at 11 a.m., the Carolina’s AAU meet will be held here at Davidson. Several good teams will be brought down, with the University of North Carolina being favored. A plaque will go to the winning team and fifteen medals will be awarded to the leading runners.

Senior Gridders To Be Featured In Next Issue

The next issue of The Davidsonian will have a special feature honoring the seniors on the 1954 football team. The seniors play their last game of the season tomorrow against Elon, and a post-season tribute will be well-deserved. The seniors will leave Davidson's football fortunes, having seen the best season since the war, and certainly they have played a tremendous part in that performance.

BOB TALBERT

As the whooping and hollering died away at Spartanburg last Saturday night, Davidson fans were singing the praises of Dickie Davis and Bob Talbert, the key men in the series of plays which brought Davidson’s only score against the Terriers. In the second quarter of a scoreless contest, Davis scooped up a Wofford fumble on the Wofford 26-yard line after Wofford had stopped a Davidson drive and was starting to roll. It seemed that the little guard's effort might have been in vain as the Cats moved to the Wofford 7-yard line but stalled there. With fourth down coming up, Talbert came into the contest to attempt a field goal. The try was to be from the Wofford 15 at a slight angle, and Talbert booted the ball through the uprights for the only score of the night. It was the first time this season that Davidson had attempted a field goal, and Coach Bill Dole’s strategy paid off. Davis, Captain of the ’54 Cats, played his best game of the current season and was the sparkplug of the Davidson defense. From his linebacker’s post, Dickie recovered two Wofford fumbles, intercepted one Terrier pass, and was a demon at stopping the running game of the highly-rated South Carolina crew. Talbert has received his share of notice this season since he is the first Davidson player in quite a while who has been able to kick the points-after in consistent fashion, but Saturday night’s performance put him in the spotlight. Playing before a hometown crowd in Spartanburg, Bob made the first field goal attempt of his life. Though he had been kicking extra points since his high school days and had practiced field goals, this was the first time he had been put to the test in a game.

Tough Contest Expected

BY JOHN JOHNSON

The Fighting Christians of Elon invadeDavidson tomorrow to play the Wildcats in the final game of the season for both teams. The contest, starting at 2:15 p.m., will be held at Richardson Stadium. Despite the bad weather, Coach Don Comer (25) leads the way, Henry Brown is shown carrying for a first down in the second quarter of last week's scrap with Wofford. The Cats won 3-0, assuring the best Davidson season record since 1933.

BY BOB PULLIAM

Davidson College, famous for its scholars, came up with an “educated toe” last Saturday night and won their sixth game of the season as they downed the Wofford Terriers, 3-0. Ironically enough, the boy with the educated toe, Bob Talbert, is from Spartanburg, home of the Terriers. Dickie Davis, senior Cat guard, recovered a Wofford fumble with less than six minutes remaining in the second quarter, and with only four minutes left in the first half, the winning goal was kicked.

Davidson and Wofford gained almost the same amount of yardage on the ground, although bristling line play for both teams far out-shadowed the usual, hard-running attacks of both clubs. The Cats had a large edge on the passing side of the ledger, completing eight of nineteen for 129 yards, while Wofford completed only three of fourteen for 59 yards.

The Terriers had a first-quarter touchdown play called back because of an off-side penalty, and never again were they able to penetrate deep into Davidson territory. Wofford entered the game as a slight favorite, but with the exception of the first-quarter surge which carried to the Davidson four-yard line, the Terriers were kept in their own territory most of the time by the charging Wildcats. The Cats, driving deep into Wofford territory time after time, lacked that punch necessary to score as they were hurled back by the powerful Terrier line or fumbled the ball away.

Typical of line play by both teams was the fact that Joe Hazle and B. B. Stevens, Terrier halfbacks who had run rampant over all previous foes, were held to less than 50 yards net rushing by the Cats. Trying to pick an individual star is sometimes difficult and when the Cat line did so well, everyone is to be congratulated. Dickie Davis and Harold Davis played exceptionally well, and Harold stopped Lawrence on that first Wofford scrimmage play which went almost all the way. Henry Brown and Don McKee moved the ball well for the Cats. McRee, one of the fastest runners in the Davidson backfield, almost broke away on one occasion, but was tripped just as it appeared that he might go all the way.

The Wofford-Davidson series began in 1904, and with the exception of a 7-7 tie in 1948, Davidson has won every game (the record is 16 wins and one tie). Saturday's contest marked the first time this season that Wofford had been held scoreless. The Citadel, the only team to whip the Terriers prior to the Davidson game, could only take a 14-13 win over the Gold and Black.

DAVIDSON THEATRE

All Pictures Will Be Shown On Our New P-A-N-O-R-A-M-I-C WIDE SCREEN

THURS.-FRI. — NOV. 18-19
“LIVING IT UP”
Dean Martin - Jerry Lewis

Coach Dole worked his boys hard this week in preparation for the battle. He is taking no chances on this game and even drilled the squad in Tuesday’s rainstorm. The team is in good shape and will be at full strength for the contest. Elon has a 5-1 conference record and has clinched second place in the North State Conference. The Christians proved to have a strong defense by holding bigger and more experienced Eastern Carolina, last year’s North State Champions, to only 85 yards rushing and by intercepting five passes. The Christians also outplayed the Citadel but lost the game when the Bulldogs scored two quick touchdowns in the final three minutes. Elon beat Lenoir-Rhyne by the same six-point margin that Wofford did, and the Christians ran up a greater score against Catawba than did Davidson.

Elon saw a rather poor season last year, when they had to rely heavily on the untried sophomore and freshmen members of the team, but now these men have gained experience and have played some excellent football. Coach Varney, with sixteen lettermen, will be able to field a complete team of monogram-wearers. At the ends for the Fighting Christians will be Chuck Michaux, who for two years has served as a back, and Captain J. C. Disher. Although the tackle position was weak last year, it is strong now with six husky 200-pounders from which to choose. Coach Varney gave the starting assignments to Bob Kopko and Ed Davidson. At guards will be lettermen Chuck Maynard and Glenn Varney, a younger brother of the Elon coach. Homer Hobgood, a light but fighting junior, will hold down the center spot. In the backfield, Bill Snyder and Jerry Akromas will alternate at the quarterback position. Bob Stauffenberg will be the fullback, and Whitney Brodham and Paul Watts will be the halfbacks. Break-away runner Kerry Richards will also add speed to the Elon backfield.

In the fifteen years of competition, the Christians have been able to score only two points against Davidson, and the Cats are favored to win this one. Elon, however, has one of the best teams that they have fielded in many years. The probable starting lineups are:

Pos. — Elon — Davidson
LE—C. Michaux — Patterson
LT—Bob Kopko — Petersen
LG—Maynard — D. Davis
C—Hobgood — Al
RG—Varney — Fasul
RT—Davidson — H. Davis
RE—Disher (Capt.) — Rankin
QB—Snyder — Roland
LH—Bradham — Thacker
RH—Watts — Smith
FB—Stauffenberg — Brown

Cagers, Matmen Continue Work As Season Nears

Davidson's basketball and wrestling squads are hard at work in preparation for the opening of their respective seasons which begin in early December. The teams have been working almost continually since practice started on November 1, and the clubs should be physically ready to go by the time that the opening whistle blows. Coach Charlie Parker's wrestling crew opens the 1954-55 slate at Lexington, Va., with a quadrangular match with Auburn, Marshall, and V.M.I. also participating. The match will be held on December 3.

(Continued On Page Four)

Information Given For Greek Meets

Coach Pete Whittle has released advance information concerning the annual Inter-fraternity swimming and wrestling meets which will be held just following Thanksgiving holidays. The Inter-fraternity swimming meet will come first on the docket, being scheduled at present for November 30 and December 1. There will be eight events in the meet, beginning with the 25-yard freestyle and ending with the 150-yard medley relay. Other events which will be held in the meet are: the 50-yard freestyle, 75-yard freestyle, 50-yard backstroke, 50-yard breaststroke, 75-yard individual medley, and 200-yard relay. There will be a limit on the participation of individuals this year, with one swimmer being allowed to swim in only 2 events and one relay.

The Inter-fraternity wrestling meet will be held on December 7 and 8. The following weight classes will be used: 123, 130, 137, 147, 157, 167, 177, 191, and heavyweight. There will be a three-pound allowance on weight (a man in the 123-lb. class is able to weigh in at 126). Weigh-ins will be held from 8:30 to 4:00 on Tuesday, December 7. Since the first Varsity wrestling meet will be held on December 3 and 4, eligibility officials have ruled that men who wrestle with the Varsity will not be allowed to compete in the Inter-fraternity meet. The committee based its decision on the fact that one of the major purposes in the meet is to find material for future Varsity competition, and Varsity grapplers do not need to participate since they are already on the squad.

SATURDAY, NOV. 20
“BLACK DAKOTAS”
Gary Merrill

MON.-TUES.-WED. Nov. 22-23-24
“GONE WITH THE WIND”
Clark Gable - Vivian Leigh

THURS.-FRI. — NOV. 25-26
“BRIGADOON”
Gene Kelly - Van Johnson

SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 27
“TARZAN ESCAPES”
Johnny Weissmuller

DRINK
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD
“Coke” is a registered trademark. © 1952, The Coca-Cola Company