COLUMNISTS FAVOR NEW AMENDMENTS VOL. XLII

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C., FRIDAY, APRIL 23, 1954

NO. 22

IRENE JORDAN

Irene Jordan to Sing In Concert Next Week

Irene Jordan, brilliant young American soprano, hailed by conductors and critics alike as an artist in the great classic tradition, will sing in Chambers Auditorium, Davidson College, on Friday evening, April 30, at 8:15 p.m., in the last concert of the 1953-54 Davidson College Artist Series.

From the time she began studying music at the age of 3½ until her Metropolitan Opera debut in 1946, she has aimed for learning rather than limelight. Born in Birmingham, Alabama, Irene Jordan was one of ten children in a completely musical family. “My father was a music teacher and my mother a violinist,” she says. “All the children played instruments. We were practically an orchestra just in ourselves. I was the pianist.”

During the two seasons following her Metropolitan Opera debut, Miss Jordan sang regularly over the NBC radio network. In 1947 the singer had a successful season with the Opera Nacional in Mexico City. She retired temporarily from public concerts in order to develop her superb upper range, and this year she emerged as a new operatic and concert star. As of this season Miss Jordan is singing as a soprano, rather than a mezzo-soprano. Kirsten Flagstad made this same change in the midst of her career and both critics and audience, upon hearing Miss Jordan’s new voice, feel that she might very well equal, if not surpass, the great Flagstad’s success.

Highlights of Irene Jordan's concert in Davidson will be “Man is for the Woman Made” arranged by Benjamin Britten, “Have You Seen But a Whyte Lillie Grow,” a group of German lieder by Richard Strauss and Wolf, “In the Silence of Night” by Rachmaninoff, and arias from “Ernani” by Verdi and from “The Abduction from the Seraglio” by Mozart.

1954 Fine Arts Festival To End On Thursday

The 1954 Fine Arts Festival, which had a successful first week, has three very promising programs remaining to fill out the festival. Both attendance at most programs and the audience participation at many were the healthy results of a well-planned festival by Mr. Moore and the Fine Arts Committee.

On Monday, April 26, Louise Nelson Pfohl, a member of the faculty of the Davidson College Music Department will be presented in a concert in Chambers Auditorium at 8:15 p.m. by the Gamma Kappa Chapter of Phi Mu Alpha Sinfonia, national honorary music fraternity. Mrs. Pfohl will play a Haydn “Sonata in D Major,” the Brahms’ “Variations and Fugue on a Theme by Handel, Op. 24,” a group of Chopin “Etudes,” and the “Nocturne in F-sharp Major, Op. 15, No. 2.” Included on the program will be compositions of Rachmaninoff, and contemporary numbers by Vittorio Giannini and Paul Hindemith.

A charming and gracious artist, Louise Nelson Pfohl has appeared in concerts with the Michigan Symphony, the Charlotte Symphony, Transylvania Faculty Orchestra and Concert Band, Davidson College Concert Band, and has appeared in numerous solo and ensemble programs throughout the South. Louise Nelson Pfohl is the wife of James Christian Pfohl, conductor of the Charlotte and Jacksonville Symphony Orchestras.

On Tuesday night, April 27, Mr. Harry Davis will present an informal lecture on Contemporary Drama in the College Union Ballroom at 8:15 p.m. Mr. Davis is professor of Dramatic Art at the University of North Carolina and is the Associate director of the “Playmakers.” The brilliant directing which he has applied in producing “Unto These Hills” has established him as “America’s outstanding director in the field of outdoor drama.”

The Fine Arts Festival will (Continued On Page Four)

Le Cercle Francais Holds Tuesday Meet

Le Cercle Francais, the honorary fraternity for students especially interested in French, held its monthly meeting on Tuesday, April 13. The meeting was opened by the roll call and reading of the previous meeting's minutes. Norman Johnson, president of the fraternity, then presided over the discussion of business, the main item of interest being a proposed dinner at Chez Montet in Charlotte. A committee was appointed to look into the matter and to pick a date which would be convenient for most members. There was a possibility that the dinner would be the concluding meeting of the school year.

The program began with readings of French poetry by members of the French 32 class. Students taking part in the readings were Bill Kuykendall, Joe Gaskin, Earl Lewis, Jack Crymes, John Harmon, and Fred Myers. Bob Crutchfield then gave an interesting account of his trip to Europe in the summer of 1953. His talk was complemented with some beautiful slides in full color which he took while in Europe. The meeting was concluded by various French songs, refreshments prepared by Mrs. Watts and Mrs. Goldiere, and informal conversation among the members.

Eumanean Society Sets Election Date

The Eumanean Literary Society held its regular bi-weekly meeting Monday night in Eu Hall. Henry Brockmann, vice president, led the group in a short devotional, after which President Charlie Hasty presided over the business session. Mention was made of the coming function with Phi Society and of the Eumanean diplomas to be awarded to graduating members in good standing. Tommy Thompson was welcomed as a new member by the society. President Hasty announced that officers for the fall semester will be elected at the meeting of May 3, and expressed his hopes for a sizeable attendance that night. Martin Foil and Henry Brockmann were elected marshals to represent the society in the approaching commencement activities.

The program for the evening consisted of the presentation of papers by two of the recent initiates, John Hiers and Bill Martin. Hiers’ discourse concerned some of the traditional grievances of the Davidson student, while Martin offered a short short-story, Seaburg’s Politics. Zack Kilpatrick rounded out a stimulating evening with an impromptu presentation of one of his most recent achievements in the realm of biological sciences.

Green, Gray Take Top Annual Awards

Johnny Gray and Leighton Green captured the highest honors at the annual Awards Day ceremony in chapel Tuesday morning. A number of other students also were recognized for outstanding work in scholarship, athletics, and religion.

Gray was presented the Tommy Peters Memorial Award by Prof. H. E. Fulcher for best typifying the spirit of Davidson. Tommy Peters, during his brief pre-World War II college career, was recognized as one of the outstanding athletes and campus leaders in Davidson history. He was killed during the war, and the award was established to recognize the spirit which he exemplified. President Cunningham presented the Agnes Sentelle Brown Scholarship to Leighton Green for showing outstanding promise in leadership, scholarship, and character. Green, president-elect of the YMCA, was also one of two juniors admitted to Phi Beta Kappa.

A $400 economics scholarship, based on character, scholarship, and leadership, was awarded to Cortez Cooper by Prof. A. G. Griffin. Outstanding in the field of science were sophomore Brown Goehring and freshman Jerry Pietenpol. Goehring received the David Howard Chemistry Award, valuing $250, for superior work in that department, from Dr. John Gallent. The Physics Award for the outstanding freshman went to Pietenpol. Prof. G. W. Crawford made the latter presentation. Dr. Chalmers Davidson presented to Henry Brockmann, new editor (Continued on Page Four)

Controversial Section Of Proposed Changes Amended this Week

A substitute amendment has been presented to the Student Council by more than fifty signers of the original amendments to the Student Body Constitution. The amendment, which is to be inserted in place of Amendment I of the petition of April 9th, reads as follows:

“In all matters arising under the Honor System or the Student Body Regulations, the Student Government shall have complete jurisdiction to try all cases. It shall be illegal for the Student Government to refer any such matter to any other authority.”

It was discovered in after-vesper discussions by the proponents of the amendments that some changes were needed in Amendment I. The substitute amendment more clearly brings out the fact that it is not in contradiction to the by-laws of the trustees, and also makes clear that appeal to the faculty is not denied. The controversial amendment formerly read as follows:

“In all matters arising under the Honor System or the Student Body Regulations, the Student Government shall have final and complete jurisdiction. It shall be illegal for the Student Government to refer any such matter to any other authority. If the actions of the Student Government in any such matters should be reversed by any other authority, it shall be mandatory for the (Continued on Page Four)

SCABBARD AND BLADE TAPS TWENTY-ONE DURING PARADE TUESDAY AFTERNOON

Davidson’s company of Scabbard and Blade, national honorary military fraternity, announced this week selection of twenty-one new members. Nineteen juniors and two members of the cadre were officially tapped in exercises held during Tuesday’s parade. Cadet Buddy Lamon, captain of the local company, directed proceedings in the presence of the assembled regiment. The entire parade was given in honor of Scabbard and Blade.

Selection of Scabbard and Blade members is based on the cadet’s military leadership and overall scholastic average. Formal initiation will be held in the Quadrangle Room of Chambers Building next Tuesday night. Following initiation ceremonies next semester’s officers will be selected.

New members include T. E. Andrae, Orangeburg, S. C.; G. O. Averyt, Columbia, S. C.; J. S. Buxton, Sumter, S. C.; J. L. Green, El Paso, Texas; J. F. Archer, Mooresville; and F. D. Benton, Norlina. Also, L. W. Bostian, Valrico, Florida; R. T. Crawford, Roanoke; F. F. Feeney, Charlotte; J. S. Lockaby, Gastonia; A. C. Strand, Greensboro; and C. F. Swofford, Wilkesboro. Also, C. A. Cooper, Thomasville, Ga.; T. E. Cooper, Charlotte; F. M. Hudson, Miami, Fla.; S. B. Ingram, Winston-Salem; J. R. Stogner, Hartsville, S. C.; R. T. Davis, Spindale; and A. H. Smith, DeFuniak Springs, Fla. Members of the college ROTC Department selected to be associate members are Captain L. R. Brown and Captain H. H. Lamar.

Dr. James H. Robinson, Top Negro Church Leader, Will Speak at Vesper Service

Dr. James H. Robinson will speak at the Vesper Service on Sunday evening, April 25. He has a national reputation as aHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

popular speaker in civic and educational gatherings. Dr. Robinson was born in Knoxville, Tennessee, and graduated from Lincoln University, Pennsylvania, at the head of his class in 1935. He was president of the class of 1938 at Union Theological Seminary, New York City, from which he received his B.D. degree. After being ordained into the ministry, he founded the Church of the Master and the Morningside Community Center in Harlem. He started with a nucleus of fewer than fifty Negro Christians, and gradually he has built up the institution until it now provides religious guidance and practical assistance to 2,000 people. Their program includes two interracial camps, a psychiatric clinic, a nursery, a recreation center, a credit union, and a co-op store. In 1951 the Presbyterian Board of Foreign Missions sent Dr. Robinson on a special six-month mission to students in Europe, the Near East, and Asia. He made this trip in order to encourage ecumenical thinking and action among Christians at home and abroad. Dr. Robinson is noted as a consultant on racial problems. He spends a part of each year on American campuses giving religious emphasis programs. He has received numerous awards and citations from community service organizations, and the honorary degree of Doctor of Humane Letters from Lincoln University and from the New School of Social Research, New York. He has also received the degree of Doctor of Divinity from Wooster College, Wooster, Ohio. In 1950 Dr. Robinson’s autobiography, entitled Road Without Turning, was published.

AFTER-VESPERS DISCUSSION

“America’s Race Problem in International Affairs” will be the subject of an after-vesper discussion this Sunday night led by the vesper speaker in the student lounge of the church. Those who know Dr. Robinson have often noted that he is even more powerful and instructive in a small discussion group than in the pulpit. All students are urged to take advantage of this rare opportunity to meet and talk informally with Dr. Robinson after vespers. Coffee will be served.

WILL GIVE CONCERT TOMORROW AT 2 P.M.

Spring Frolics get under way tonight as Ray Anthony takes the bandstand in Johnston Gymnasium for the formal dance, which will last until one o'clock.

RAY ANTHONY

Anthony will take his nationally popular band outdoors tomorrow afternoon for a two-hour concert between Phi and Shearer halls. Concert time is 2:00. In the event of rain, Anthony will move into Chambers Auditorium. The final event of the weekend will be the informal dance in Johnston Gym, beginning at eight and lasting until midnight. The Interfraternity Council began decorating the gym Wednesday night in preparation for the return of the popular Mr. Anthony, who was an overwhelming success in his first appearance at Davidson at last year’s Spring Frolics. Anthony, who received the unqualified stamp of approval from last year’s spring dance crowd with his renditions of “When the Saints Go Marching In,” “Slaughter on Tenth Avenue,” and the “Bunny Hop,” should be able to do a repeat performance this weekend with no trouble. Still one of the top dance bands in America, Anthony has continually broadened and expanded his repertoire to include many more instrumentals, as well as good danceable music. Featured vocalists in Anthony’s band are Marcie Miller and Tommy Mercer, with the Skyliners and the Anthony Choir also getting a high rating in this department. Anthony, billed as the “Young Man with a Horn,” is one leader who believes in strict discipline for his bandsmen, musically and otherwise, while they are on the job. Like the late Glenn Miller, who gave him his first important job in 1940 when he was only 18, Ray is of the opinion that a band must do more than just play music if it is to achieve top success. Because the unprecedented high overhead of today makes the band business big and precarious, maestro Anthony rehearses his musicians hard and forbids such commonplace occupational practices as drinking and smoking on the stand, “because when you're working you've got to work.” Surprisingly, the resultant music is more spirited than in many less formally managed bands; less surprisingly, the ensemble work of the Anthony band is crisper and more precise than the concerted efforts of musicians whose leaders believe that nature should be allowed to take its course. Even the appearance of the Anthony aggregation reflects the discipline set forth by its leader. A Hollywood radio announcer once called it “the best-dressed band in the land.”

Ten New Members Named To Phi Beta Kappa Tuesday

By JOHN HARMON

The Davidson chapter of Phi Beta Kappa, the oldest of Greek letter fraternities, elected ten new members to its elite group, Dr. J. Wilson McCutchan, secretary of the chapter, announced recently. Phi Beta Kappa was established at Davidson in 1923 and since that time it has elected those students who have proved themselves outstanding in scholarship during their years at Davidson. Eight of the initiates are from the senior class. A brief list of extra-curricular activities is included in order that the list may have human interest. Those initiated are:

E. P. BARGERON

E. P. Bargeron, a chemistry major from Savannah, Ga. Gene is a member of Gamma Sigma Epsilon, Delta Phi Alpha, and is the recipient of two awards for excellence in chemistry. He is secretary of Sigma Phi Epsilon social fraternity. Gene’s especial preserve is thought, not speech.

L. S. CHAMPION

Larry S. Champion, an English major from Shelby, North Carolina. Larry is a member of the concert and football bands, the Spanish Club, vice president of Sigma Delta Pi, honorary Spanish fraternity, and Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity. Larry, Davidson's No. 1 flute player, specializes in social activities.

J. M. EFIRD

J. M. Efird is a preministerial student from Kannapolis, N. C. He commutes to Davidson from Kannapolis. He is majoring in history.

J. L. GREEN, JR.

J. L. Green, Jr., a history honors major from El Paso, Texas. Leighton was recently elected as president of the YMCA for the coming year. He is the recipient of the Agnes Sentelle Brown award, a member of the tennis team, associate editor of the annual, vice president of Kappa Sigma social fraternity. Leighton, during his freshman and sophomore years, went to bed at 11:30 p.m., but now he retires at 12:00 p.m. or thereabouts. He takes advanced ROTC.

J. G. JACKSON, JR.

J. G. Jackson, Jr., is a pre-medical science major from Gastonia, N.C. Jim is a member of Alpha Delta, Delta Phi Alpha, and Gamma Sigma Epsilon fraternities. In addition, he is active in the Order of Kappa Alpha and in the Spanish Club. Jim spends his spare time mostly in Charlotte or in the newly-renovated mansion behind Chambers building.

W. W. JOHNSTON

W. W. Johnston, a biology and chemistry major, is from Mt. Holly, N.C. Bill is vice president of Phi Mu Alpha, vice president of Delta Phi Alpha, a member of Alpha Epsilon Delta, and a member of Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity. He is well known for his versatility at the organ. He plays preludes for chapel that are good enough to be applauded.

H. V. LAMON, JR.

H. V. Lamon, Jr., history honors major from Macon, Georgia. Buddy is president of Scabbard and Blade, vice president of Phi Delta Theta social fraternity, a member of Omicron Delta Kappa, president of the Forensic Council, and is on the YMCA cabinet. Buddy’s hobby used to be weight-lifting. He now smokes Pall Malls instead.

P. J. PINCKNEY

Paul J. Pinckney, history honors major from Tampa, Florida. Paul is a member of Scabbard and Blade, Sigma Upsilon, the Male Chorus, the Forensic Council, and Sigma Chi social fraternity. In addition, he is first critic of the Philanthropic Literary Society, and first art critic for 201 Village.

H. G. STRADER, JR.

H. G. Strader, Jr., pre-medical science major from Burlington, N.C. Hunter is president of Alpha Epsilon Delta, of the Honorary Fraternity Council, and of Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity. Also, he is a member of Omicron Delta Kappa and of the YMCA cabinet. Hunter once placed second in a ping pong tournament.

E. C. STUART

E. C. Stuart, history honors major from Bartow, Florida. Ed is president of Beta Theta Pi social fraternity, a member of Phi Mu Alpha, of Sigma Upsilon, and of the YMCA cabinet. He is on the swimming team and is a member of the “D” Club. Ed, an international socialite and world traveler, was a squad leader in the Davidson ROTC unit his sophomore year.

Formal initiation for the newly elected members will take place on May 3, immediately prior to the annual banquet at which out-of-town members of the fraternity are expected. Following the banquet there will be an open address by Dr. Urban Holmes (not to be confused with Altavista) of UNC. As the public is invited, it will be necessary for all those who wish to hear the address to arrive at a very early hour.