EDITOR IN-CHIEF: HENRY BROCKMANN
BUSINESS MANAGER: TIM COOPER
ASSOCIATE EDITORS: Floyd Feeney, John Handley, Austin Strand
Asst. Editors: Joe Burroughs, Gilbert Gragg, Swain
Managing Editors: Blake Brinkerhoff, Maurice Crouse, Tom Warlick
Sports Editor: Jim Holshouser
Feature Editor: Dick Morehead
News Editors: John Hiers, Watt McCain
Copy Editor: John Harmon
Photographer: Hank Daniel
Assignments: Jim Brice
Editorial Consultants: Joe Gaskin, Jim Marshal, Stan Miller, Bill Stewart
Assistant Business Manager: Tommy Taylor
Advertising Manager: Larry Parrott
Collections Manager: John Smith
Circulation Manager: Bob Carmichael

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N.C., under the Act of March 3, 1897

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 8, 1954

The Davidsonian
Published Weekly Throughout the College Year

PAGE TWO

Orators Or Editors?

Elections came and went last spring with the usual quips and cranks and wanton wiles used by the various candidates
in trying to outdo each other with speeches. Spring breezes did what they could to waft much of the hot
air out of Chambers windows, but as the days wore into weeks, and as the two presidents were elected and
the next series of men came up for the races, i.e. the editors, speech making and speech auditing became increasingly
difficult.

To present a platform in such a way as to make yourself public without making yourself a public nuisance and
your opponent a public scandal was the primary purpose of setting up the speech making as such in the spring
elections. This system has worked out very well in elections for the two presidents (YMCA and Student Government), but as
concerns the election of publications editors it seems to be both misplaced and useless. It is with this and the
current Constitutional revision by the Student Council in mind that we propose to abolish speech making on the part of
candidates for the editorial offices, replacing them with a better mode of presentation of editorial platforms.

We propose this abolition and change for the following reasons:

1) Editors are first writers and men of the printing trade, not orators. The proof of their ability should be
not in the number of laughs and claps they can get before the Student Body but in written form showing
first their ability to present their platform and second their knowledge of the trade which they must master as editor.

2) Elections are much too long, and there is at present concentrated effort to shorten them. Foregoing of speeches by
the candidates would provide a cutting by days or even weeks from the present schedule.

The question remains of what could take the place of speeches. The following suggestion applies to The Davidsonian and might
apply also to the other two major college publications. We would like to suggest that an editorial by candidates stating
their platform in black and white be published in the Davidsonian on the Friday before elections for the respective editorships
take place on Monday. The entire editorial page would be given over to the candidates of the publication, and students
could spend the weekend examining the platforms, the style and experience of writing, and the knowledge of the mechanics of
printing exhibited by the candidate in his platform. This method would save time and be fairer to the candidates involved,
and, much better for the student body as a whole the candidate's platforms would be preserved in The Davidsonian for
handy reference at later dates. The only drawback seen would be the possible drawback of past qualifications for the job.
On the paper many candidates have done much more work and are more familiar with journalism than others. Speeches are
utterly useless in presenting the knowledge of the mechanics of publication, and even editorials could do little better. The Student
Body itself would have to be responsible for learning qualifications relating to experience.

One suggestion as to stating of qualifications of each candidate, the outgoing editor could give a short statement on each
man on the morning of election or on the previous Friday.

A fairer selection of editors and a speedier election period are what is aimed at by the above propositions. We
hope that the Student Body will take these suggestions, think them over, and present personal opinions of them to the
present editors. We also hope that the Student Council will keep them in mind while working toward a revision of
the constitution this fall.

Rubes, Boobs, Country Bumpkins....

It is written that “The Court of Control was founded by an amendment to the Student Constitution in the spring
of 1923 for the purpose of investigation and dealing with charges made by upperclassmen against freshmen who exhibited improper conduct,
broke the hallowed traditions of the college, or violated the Freshman Regulations.” (The Wildcat Handbook, Vol. 46, p. 11)

“Improper Conduct” is much too mild a term for the boorishness exhibited during the court meeting last Friday by the
members of the upper three classes. The student body acted like a mass of idiots turned loose to stage a
vast sitdown riot, and the whole fantastic affair made the Court meeting look to the freshmen like a time that
the upperclass children set aside to have some fun. There is no room for such conduct on the part of
the student body if the Court is to have any effect. The Court is neither a hazing nor a penal
body. It exists to help freshmen who cannot adjust to life here, learn how to fit in their proper place.
If the upper classes make the court a laughing stock on the days it meets, those freshmen who are supposed
to improve by its actions will listen to its advice with the ears of a cynic senior during a two-hour
sermon on the eschatological meaning of II Thessalonians 4.

When the time arrives for the Court to meet again we hope things will have improved. Getting freshmen started here
is serious business, but it begins to appear now as if a new court will have to be organized to
take care of sophomores, juniors and seniors, whose place seems of late to be little above the monkeys and much
lower than the angels.

..And Freshman Prigs

Davidson’s most hallowed tradition is its friendliness. When the present Senior Class entered college its members were astounded during the
Orientation Period by the careless friendliness that they met everywhere as they got to know the campus. Everyone in the
college has agreed during the past years that if there is one Davidson tradition which needs preserving it is the
tradition of friendliness.

The men in the red caps this year do not seem to agree. We have noticed during the past few
weeks that if this year’s freshmen are outstanding at all it is their cold stares and unreturned greetings that make
them so. Recently on a morning walk from the post office we decided that we would take an informal count
of responses to Davidson’s trademark saying, “Hey, how’re you?” We passed at least twenty freshmen on the return trip, and
about five upperclassmen. We received five responses.

If the Court of Control is unable to hammer the cockiness out of the 1954 freshmen, we hope that it
will at least be successful in talking them into civility if not amiability. Perhaps their natural position is so far
above the rest of the school that they cannot be approached or talked to by their vassals in the upper
classes. They will have to prove this, however, and they certainly haven't taken many steps in that direction so far.

Just A Benign Despotism ... Why There’s No Real Student Government

BY LEIGHTON McCUTCHEN

I wish that I could honestly say that we had student government here at Davidson. Now the students that drew
up the present constitution and student regulations had it, and I think that we could have it if we dared,
but at present we do not. You see, they drew up the present system of rules in answer to problems
which they felt needed to be answered. We, on the other hand, have simply accepted those answers. We understand neither
what situations they were meant to answer, nor why they were considered to be answers at all. We really aren’t
governing ourselves, but are being governed by our predecessors.

Reporting Violations

For instance, most of them thought that drinking on the campus was a problem. Most of us will go along
with that. But they thought that the answer to that problem was to keep alcohol in any form (either possession
or consumption) strictly off of the campus. Many of us disagree. The best way to do what they wanted done
was to expel offenders, and the only way to do that was to report violations of the rule. Therefore most
of them agreed to report violations and even called it their “duty” to do so. Now we do not report
violations (with notable exceptions). We even expect boys not to accept this “duty” even though it is in black and
white. Nevertheless we stupidly keep the law on the books; nominally holding that an alcohol-free campus is what we want,
but really not wanting to do the only thing to keep it alcohol-free—i.e. report violations.

The reason that such rules as the drinking rules are flouted is that they come down to us as answers
to problems that are not real to us. For instance, we picture the “drinking problem” very differently than did our
fathers. Yet, we as a student body haven't squared off with each other—some believing that drinking is morally bad, and
some thinking that it is not a question of morals at all—and asking “Shall we or shall we not control
ourselves on this matter? If so, how shall we go about it?”

A Benign Despotism

If we did that, following the idea of majority rule, then we would become a self-governing body again. As it
is, we claim to be a democracy when really we are under a sort of benign despotism to rules created
by our fathers for themselves.

What then is the answer? How do we become self-governing again? Well, it is not by just passively accepting the
Student Council revision of the constitution. They certainly need to be revising it, but so do we! If we just
accept it, when the new rules are not a real expression of the majority of this student body, then we
are advanced not one whit in becoming democratic. Rather, you've got to answer such questions as these:

1) What areas of this community’s life need to be controlled by the whole community?—the drinking habits of individuals? noise
in the dorms? cheating in studies? scalping on your girl's football ticket? etc.

2) What specifically am I willing to give up for the community’s well being?—private friendship? practices sanctioned by my family?
the hurt of one boy for the betterment of many? etc.

3) How shall we carry out the solutions we do decide on?—by negative means such as the threat of expulsion,
fines or suspensions? or by positive means such as individual persuasion, influence and exemplary action? or by combining both ways?

The sooner we all start answering these questions, first individually and then as a group, the sooner we will have
student government again.

This is a hard job. It is far easier to pretend we can have “all this” (i.e. letting everybody do
as they darn well please).and being a good Joe about it all) and “heaven too” (i.e. a set of rules
that looks like democracy and are morally tidy to boot). It is harder to govern ourselves than to be governed;
that’s for sure. The question is, is it not better? Isn’t it better in the same way it is better
for a thirty-five-year-old adult to control himself rather than to be controlled as he was when he was two years
old. Some of us look like mature individuals. Now let’s see if we can act like mature individuals.

New “Spirit Of Extroverted Pessimism” Galloping. Gripism Hits Graggism Hard
BY DICK MOREHEAD AND JOHN FITE

(Editor’s note: Mr. Morehead and Mr. Fite here present a stream-of-consciousness editorial parodying Mr. Gragg’s now old “spirit of humble
optimism.” This essay attempts to illustrate, by use of stark realistic details, how the “other half” of the Davidson student
body live. This editorial is, in effect, an answer to Graggism which has been slowly sweeping the campus since its
inception last spring. Let’s look in on the Davidson scene as they trace a morning from hangover to chapel fiesta.)

The shrill sound of the alarm clock shook me into pseudo-consciousness Monday morning after the irredeemable Spring Frolic's blast had
sunk into history. I was lousier than usual, and the stabbing shafts of sunlight shot through the window as I
staggered toward the half-cocked shade which was still at half-mast in honor of the nights before. I stumbled to the
beckoning basin to renew my acquaintance with H2O and dismally dreaded this dark day which dared to dawn.

Breakfast

As I gaily walked to my breakfast of Sugar Crisps, Puritan Puffed Wheat, prune patties, and malted maltese, with the
sweet, fragrant yellow zephyrs of the alluding April morn carelessly caressing my face, the lilting, luxurious blades of soft green
grass nestling seductively beneath my feet, and the odious blue ozone over my head, I felt a deep sense of
jubilant joy for being alive (7) on this disparaging day. Slumping down in my chair another student darkened my doldrums
with a shrieking “Good morning. Isn’t it a lovely day?” My retort was slow and smoldering: “Huh?” Immediately came the
backblast “from the still small voice,” “Glorious day, isn’t it? Glorious, simply glorious, is it not?” Mustering all energies: “H—,
no!” What's with this simple schitz? Was he dating Monroe or Plato this weekend? This square is strictly from nowhere.
Having psychoanalyzed this schmoo I once again regressed to my fetal position when my spine suddenly disintegrated beneath the well-aimed
blows of a pulverizing paw and my ears fatally reverberated to a blast from above:

To The Post Office

Finally reaching fresher air I aimed my rotting ROTC ramblers, regulation X-69-69, in the direction of the United States Postal
Receiving and Dispatching Depot. Upon entering the pungent P. O. I endeavored to sort my miscellaneous mail. After filing away
my lawsuit from the Religious Book Club, my cut cards from last year, my free soap coupons, my engraved invitation
from the Dean's receptionist, and the Mudsink Hollow church bulletin, I relaxed to note that the folks were still unaware
of the tragic fate of the family car or of their life’s savings formerly dedicated to the education of their
son. Then the 33 claps from the Chamber's carillon persistently announced the arrival of the voluntary chapel fiesta. As I
slunk into the CinemaScopic setting with its Panoramic pulpit and Stereophonic sermons I was hoping that the hymn would be
“Are Ye Weary? Are Ye Languid?” Instead, I was greeted by the crashing crescendos of “Joyful, Joyful.” The sermon at
last underway, I reflected upon my morning in the monastery, still seeking an answer to the age-old question: “What's good
about the morning?”

Riots, Disorder, And Noise Are Student’s Favorite Diversions

No doubt you have heard or even been involved in current riots and general disorder in some of the dorms
on the campus. Authorities (seniors) say that the uprisings are rapidly approaching the consummate standards of misbehavior set by infamous
amalgamations of the past. Even though you might be familiar with the incidents, perhaps a few should be recorded, lest
our posterity forget.

The inmates of Georgia have arrived upon an innovation. The more adventurous of that dorm frequently have shaving cream fights.
Weapons are cans of compressed shaving cream, usually “Rise” or “Rapid Shave.” Occasionally a few drops are spilt here and
there, but that doesn’t dismay these lads. In fact, recently, the fight became quite violent and shaving cream was smeared
all over the stairwell. It enhanced the appearance of the dorm. The place looked as if Picasso might have done
a mural in green and white before he turned cubist.

A favorite form of entertainment is pillow fights. They sometimes develop into full-scale wars, involving nearly all the occupants of
a floor. Several nights ago, two pillows burst, and the hall of 4th floor West was covered with a beautiful
hoary carpet of feathers. Unfortunately, all the feathers did not find their way to the floor, for two boys had
to have feathers removed from their lungs. The incident is of little consequence, however, as both happened to be “party”
majors.

Water fights are considered to rate very high on the “lists.” Accepted containers include everything from Coke bottles to wastebaskets.
The game is usually played in this wise: a referee stands at the end of the hall and calls out
two room numbers. The combatants, clad only in underwear, sally forth from their rooms to do battle. The object is
to see which can pour more water on his opponent. The fights sometimes lead to very messy floors, but thus
far, the janitors, not wanting to deprive the boys of any fun, have been cooperative about cleaning up the water-ravaged
dorms.

What the students enjoy most is the jazz concerts, usually beginning at 11:30 or 12:00 p.m. The trumpet player lives
in West and the trombone player in Georgia. They play whatever comes to mind, which is usually a cavalry charge,
“souppy,” or reveille. The fact that both are novices makes no difference, as most of the pleasure is derived from
hearing loud noise. It must be admitted that there are a few who protest the unorthodox concerts. Intermittently they yell
little admonitions and warnings to the participants, but they are only as one tree in a forest.

Some of the witty members of our Student Body enjoy making conversation between the dorms, East and West in particular.
The conversants talk in an unintelligible cant, and for that reason few are able to participate in the tremendous fun
that it seems to conjure. It appears that they make jokes about some Julius or somebody, but the language scholars
of the school, who have been trying to decipher the verbal code, have been able to make no progress in
the case.

The unique dormitory pastime is a game named “Call Your Shot.” In this game there are four players, each with
a number 3 iron and a golf ball. Having chosen a spot at about the middle of the hall, one
of the four predicts which window he will send his ball through. If his ball goes through the chosen window,
the other players must give him a dime. (Freshmen have been retrieving the balls). Then the other three must try
to put their shots where the first man put his, and if they make it, the first man gives each
back his dime. The procedure is repeated until all the windows on that particular floor are broken, and then they
move to another floor. This game is constructive in that it improves the player’s accuracy in golf and, most important,
it helps ventilation, especially needed on these hot nights.

Other Diversions

There are other interesting dorm diversions such as throwing firecrackers out windows in order to shock that prig below you,
throwing toilet paper into trees, seeing who can flush the commode the most times in one minute, hall football, and
track, which all adds up to “solid enjoyment” for the Davidson Student.

It is anticipated that some narrow-minded reader will reprove these activities by saying that they are immature and inconsistent with
the term “Davidson Gentleman.” The writer believes that no defense is necessary, but he challenges the skeptic with one demand:
show us one student who has a police record.

A GLANCE AT DC FROM THE OUTSIDE

The following is a letter from Jim Kuist’s (by whose courtesy it is used) mythical brother now in prep school.
He has been reading the Davidsonian and forming ideas on student conduct.—Ed.

Dear Brother,

While reading the Davidsonian I was especially taken by the Student Conduct Regulations on page five. Gee, it must be
good to live at Davidson, where doing anything bad is against the rules. Of course, cheating, stealing, gambling, lying, drinking
and pets should be against the rules. But there's so much else! Damage, for example. I too, think that damage
should be a serious offense. And using the college buildings as stops for baseballs or tennis balls could really be
dangerous!

In some ways your rules are like ours, only on a more mature level. For instance, we can’t smoke at
all. We have to sign out when we take trips, too. And, like you, we have to be careful about
what we wear. (By the way, what's P-R-O-P-R-I-E-T-Y?) It is a healthy sign that you are all so proud of
your school, its name, and its reputation. You can see that in your rules. Things like being a gentleman, especially
around girls. That’s important.

I was kind of confused by this matter of passing students back and forth over your heads in assemblies. Do
you usually do that? I was sort of disappointed to see a limit on parades.

That's about all. How are you? I'm o. k.

Thanks again,

Your younger Brother
