FRIDAY, MAY 14, 1954

Davidson has made tremendous strides in the athletic world in the past months, as the Southern Conference golf and tennis championships this spring indicate. Another win could possibly come this weekend in track. One phase of the athletic program is not keeping pace with the progress of the other sports. We have a new gymnasium with all modern facilities, our tennis courts are so fine that they are the scene of the Southern Conference Tennis Tournament and the Southern Junior and Boys Tournament, and so on down the line. But the Davidson track facilities are not on par with those of the other sports. True, the track situation has greatly improved in recent years, but much work is still needed. The track has only four lanes on the side next to the East stands, and this does not provide enough room for the runners in a large meet. When Davidson’s opportunity comes to have the Southern Conference Tournament on the campus, athletic officials must decline the honor. There would simply not be enough room.

The present situation in the jumping events is another point which could be improved without much trouble. As it is now, two adjoining pits serve for the pole vault, the high jump, and the broad jump. It is very disconcerting to visiting teams who are not used to it. For example, a Central broad-jumper forfeited one of his jumps because he had to stop when a high-jumper landed in the pit just before the broad-jumper prepared to leave the ground. It is only one of many complaints. Many vaulters from visiting schools have complained that the pole which holds the public address speaker is too close to the runway. It forms a psychological barrier for vaulters who have not gotten used to it. This could be easily corrected by moving the pits to other places on the field. These improvements would cost a considerable amount, but the prestige of the school would be increased, and it would be worth the money in the long run. The athletic office is definitely in favor of the changes, and the go-ahead from the administration is all that remains in the way.

By JIM HOLSHOUSER

FOR YOUR RECORDS — IT'S — PARKER-GARDNER
118 W. Trade — Charlotte
Phone 2-8257

SUMMER WORK $75.00 Per Week
All men who are interested in summer employment are invited to attend a group interview Thursday, May 20, in the Private Dining Room at the College Union.

THESE ARE THE
The Tennis Twins (Spalding-made) are unmatched in their record in top tournament play. And here is the clinching proof: The Wright & Ditson is the only official tennis ball used in all U.S.L.T.A. National Championships (since 1887). Official, too, in all U.S. Davis Cup Matches. Official adoptions of its twin, the Spalding, in other leading tournaments assure their championship stature in American tennis. Play the championship twins to your own advantage.

SPALDING
Sets the Pace in Sports

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Meet Ends Davidson Spring Sports Card

Coach Whittle’s varsity track team is in Blacksburg, Va., this weekend, representing Davidson in the annual Southern Conference track meet. Action was to be run in the track and field events today and tomorrow, with the winner being announced tomorrow afternoon. Both the freshman and varsity track teams wound up the season in winning style, adding another notch to the list of victorious years. Coach Whittle’s tracksters turned in a record of four wins and no defeats, placing second in two triangular meets. On the list of beaten foes were Mercer, Washington and Lee, N.C. State, and Furman. High scoring honors at the end of the regular season go to Phil Koonce, who has racked up 106½ points, while still having the conference meet to add to his total. Billy Shipley is second with 52½, and Frank Mitchener is third with 4½.

In the last encounter of the season, with the N.C. State Wolfpack, the Wildcats trounced the Atlantic Coast Conference team by the score of 86½ to 41½. Led by Phil Koonce, who took first place in the 100 and 220-yard dashes and placed second in the broad jump for 13 points, Davidson completely dominated both the track and the field events, taking 11 of the 15 first places and 11 second places. VMI and VPI are the strong teams to watch in the conference meet this weekend at Blacksburg. Johnny Mapp will lead the VMI team as it fights for first place honors, and VPI could show up very well against the Cadets. Right behind the two Virginia teams on many prediction lists are the Wildcats, and a good day could see them in a second place spot.

The freshmen ended the regular season with a record of five wins and one loss. Leading the team in scoring were Pete Ashcraft, Bill Gramley, and Roswell Mallory, in that order. Ashcraft finished with 76½ points, nosing out Gramley who had 70, while Mallory had 56. A great deal of credit is due to the two coaches, Sam Magill and Carroll Hambright, who worked with the team, Hambright coaching the field events and Magill coaching the track events. The team was led by such outstanding performers as Bill Gramley, who after setting records in the discus and shot put in the IFC meet, was undefeated in these two events. Pete Ashcraft was undefeated in the mile, and Roswell Mallory did not lose a 440-yard dash or an 880-yard run. John Robison was undefeated in the high jump in regular season competition. Such top-flight performers should bolster varsity ranks for Coach Whittle next spring.

The freshman baseball team had a brief season as a result of three games being rained out, but four games were played and three of them won. Victories were gained over Salisbury High School, Harding of Charlotte, and the strong Kannapolis Y team, after suffering an earlier defeat from the latter. Dick Belton was perhaps the outstanding player, for, as the number one pitcher he worked 34 innings, striking out 57, while yielding only 16 hits. Belton, infielders Dyke Little, Don Comer, Bob Campbell, outfielders Lyle Llewellyn, Jim West, Don McRee, and catcher Ken Lawing should see action on the varsity squad next year.

The freshmen golf team, coached by athletic director Paul Scott, played seven matches against some of the toughest opposition in the state and was unable to gain a victory. The team suffered tremendously from the loss of Russell Barringer, Buster Jenkins, and Ed Bell, all of whom were ineligible. Two matches were played with N.C. State. A second match with State was scheduled for last Tuesday but was postponed. Stuart Vaughn, George Scott, Bob Armfield, Dan LaFar, Tom Brewer, Fred Teal, and John Maltsby carried the load for Coach Scott's linksters.

The freshman tennis team, while defeating North High and losing two matches to Myers Park of Charlotte, uncovered some boys who should strengthen Coach McKee’s Southern Conference champions next spring. John Thorpe and John Robinson were undefeated in doubles play, and Thorpe won all of his singles matches this season in the number one spot. Following him were Robinson in the number two position, Tom Lee, Carl Cooper, Huger King, and J.C. Winfrey.

Cat Baseballers End Improved Season

Davidson's varsity baseball team has completed its 1954 season, and the season’s record is definitely an improvement over last year’s mark. Coach Chuck Clements’ boys have come a long way and appear to be on the road to better times next season. The Wildcats finished the current card last Saturday at Lexington, Va., against VMI. It was a rough weekend in the Cavalier state. They lost decisions to both VPI and VMI by lopsided scores. The losses dropped the Cats to seventh place in the Southern Conference, but the action of other teams this week may put them higher in the standings by the time that final results are posted. The Cats won but five contests this season, but the wins included decisions over the semi-professional McCrary Eagles and The Citadel's fine team. Next season, with the help of the freshmen, the baseballers should break even for the first time in many years.Many lettermen are returning to the varsity squads next year, and with the added strength and depth from this year’s freshman teams, Davidson can look forward to a brighter future in athletics.

Spring Frosh Teams End Successful Season

Davidson's freshman teams have completed a successful season in spring sports, and many frosh players have shown enough skill to assure varsity play next season.

All-Fraternity Team Named for Volleyball

The All-Fraternity Volleyball Team has been selected by the representative vote of all fraternities. The results were tabulated by Track Coach A. Heath Whittle and released last Friday. The Phi Gams and SPEs placed two men on the first team. Homer Phifer and Larry Champion of the Phi Gams were chosen, and the SPEs placed Vince Gould and Lee Scott on the top roster. The first and second teams are as follows:

First Team
Tom Lamb, Beta (Capt.)
Vince Gould, SPE
Larry McIntosh, KA
Buddy Brown, Phi Delt
Lee Scott, SPE
Homer Phifer, Phi Gam
Larry Champion, Phi Gam
Linny Baker, ATO

Second Team
T. Shaw, Sigma Chi
S. Norton, SAE
McLaughlin, Beta
J. Regen, Phi Delt
C. Hasty, Beta
C. Hall, Phi Gam

One of the most outstanding freshman track teams to run the cinder paths in recent Davidson history was coached by Carroll Hambright and Sam Magill this spring. The frosh thinclads compiled an impressive 6-1 record, boasting wins over Myers Park, North and East High Schools in a quadrangular meet, and Charlotte Central, Asheville School, Lees-McRae, and Lenoir Rhyne College in dual meets. The only loss was at the hands of Mars Hill Junior College.

Football Schedule Now Completed

The football schedule for Davidson’s 1954 Wildcats has been completed, and it is quite different from Davidson schedules of recent years. Several major changes have been made, although most Southern Conference opponents of this past season remain on the new card.

The Cats will open the season against a rough customer in league circles on September 18. They will meet VMI, Furman, The Citadel, and Washington and Lee in conference competition. Harvard, Georgia Tech, and N.C. State have been dropped from the schedule and are to be replaced by Stetson, Catawba, and Elon. Catawba and Elon are members of the fast North State Conference, while Stetson will come from Florida to invade the campus for the Cats’ second contest.

The 1954 football schedule is as shown below:

Sept. 18—VMI at Lexington
Sept. 25—Stetson at Davidson
Oct. 2—*Citadel at Charleston
Oct. 8—*Presbyterian at Clinton
Oct. 16—Open
Oct. 22—*Furman at Charlotte
Oct. 30—W. & L. at Davidson
Dec. 6—Catawba at Davidson
Dec. 13—*Wofford at Spartanburg
Dec. 20—Elon at Davidson

*Night game

Greek Softball Race Results Completed

The Interfraternity Softball League standings are now official, and the SPEs have been declared this year’s official champions. The champs ended the season with a 9-1 record to oust the defending champion Phi Gams from the top spot. The Betas put on a last-minute spurt to move into a second-place tie with the Phi Gams and the Pikas. Otherwise, there was little change in the previous standings. The ATOs, the Sigma Chis, the Pi Kapps, and Kappa Sigs finished in a tie for seventh place. The Phi Delts finished in fifth place, losing a crucial contest to the ATOs in the final week of play. The SAEs ended the season in sixth place. The KAs finished in last place.

In interfraternity tennis competition, all matches have been completed, but final results are still incomplete in the tabulations of Coach Whittle’s office. The Phi Delts are the champions, and the Betas have finished second. The SPEs are in third place, but lower places are still unknown.

Track Crew at Blacksburg For SC Meet

The football schedule for Davidson’s 1954 Wildcats has been completed, and it is quite different from Davidson schedules of recent years. Several major changes have been made, although most Southern Conference opponents of this past season remain on the new card.

Cat Tennis and Golf Teams Win SC Crowns

Davidson’s golf and tennis teams have brought the Southern Conference championships to the campus in the biggest step in Davidson athletic prominence in several years. Davidson, led by lefty Lacy Keesler, entered a three-day battle last weekend with high hopes of bringing the championship cup back to the Davidson campus for the first time in four years. During this period of time, the title was held by the tennis forces from North Carolina. The victory on Saturday also marked the first championship for Coach Dick McKee, the former Rice Institute and University of Miami (Florida) tennis star. As it was, unseeded Corky Clark and first-seeded Lacy Keesler moved in an easy fashion. Leighton Green, however, went three sets in upsetting his sixth-seeded teammate, Johnny Bremer. The only other player to reach the semi-finals was Furman’s Cordell Maddox. On Saturday morning, Keesler moved into the finals by trouncing Maddox, 7-5, 6-2, 6-1. In the other bracket, teammates Clark and Green squared off, with the former coming out with a smashing victory, 6-0, 6-1, 6-0. The finals saw a nip-and-tuck battle between Corky Clark and Lacy Keesler. Clark gave Keesler a great match, battling for each point and extending the match to four sets. Keesler won, 6-4, 4-6, 9-7, 6-4. The doubles championship also saw two Davidson teams battle it out for the trophies. The seeded team of Keesler and Bremer met defeat when they matched rackets with fellow Davidsonians, George Snead and Corky Clark. The scores in the stunning upset were 3-6, 8-6, 6-2, 7-5. It was a fine end to a season for Davidson which saw losses only to Presbyterian, North Carolina, Duke, and Miami. This has truly been a banner year for Coach Dick McKee and the new Southern Conference tennis champions, the Davidson Wildcats.

The golfers, though not having the low-score man in the field, carried off the championship cup. Joe Jenkins was runner-up to Bill Wood of VMI in individual play, but since team score was based on the performance of each team’s top four men, Davidson edged William and Mary’s runner-up team, 630-651 (low score wins). Jenkins,

(Continued On Page Four)

For Fellowship...High Adventure...and a proud mission... wear the wings of the U.S. Air Force!

In days gone by, man ruled the air in frail craft. Today, a new kind of airman rules the sky. They are America’s Knights of the Sky, the Aviation Cadets! They rule from on high, in flashing silver-winged Air Force jets. As an Aviation Cadet, your kingdom is space—a jet is your charger and your mission is the highest. You are a key defender of the American faith, with a guaranteed future both in military and commercial aviation. Join America’s Knights of the Sky, new men of a new age. Be an Aviation Cadet!

WHERE TO GET MORE DETAILS: Contact your nearest Aviation Cadet Selection Team, Air Force R.O.T.C. Unit, or Air Force Recruiting Officer. Or write to: Aviation Cadet, HQ., U.S. Air Force, Washington 25, D.C.

UNITED STATES AIR FORCE