THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE VOL. XLI

R. O. T. C. Dept. Names Distinguished Students

The Davidson College ROTC Department, with the concurrence of Dr. John R. Cunningham, College President, announced the designations of eight
members of the senior class as Distinguished Military Students for the 1984-1985 school year. Receiving this honor are Cadet Colonel
Cortez A. Cooper, Jr., of Thomasville, Ga.; Cadet Lt. Col. John L. Green, of El Paso, Texas; Cadet Lt. Col.
Theodore E. Andrae, III, of Orangeburg, S. C.; Cadet Lt. Col. James R. Stogner, of Hartsville, S. C.; Cadet Major
LeRoy H. Fargason, of Daytona Beach, Fla.; Cadet Major Alfred H. Smith, of DeFuniak Springs, Fla.; Cadet Capt. Gayle O.
Averyt, of Columbia, S. C.; and Cadet Capt. George M. Canon, of San Antonio, Texas.

In order to qualify for this designation, senior ROTC Cadets must meet requirements outlined by Department of the Army Special
Regulations. Those requirements include: (1) possession of outstanding qualities of leadership, high moral character, and definite aptitude for military service;
(2) demonstration of leadership abilities through achievements while participating in recognized campus activities; (3) and attainment of an academic standing
in the upper half of the senior class of the institution they are attending.

Cadets who are designated as Distinguished Military Students become eligible to apply for a commission as a Second Lieutenant in
the Regular Army. Those who continue to maintain the required standards are designated as Distinguished Military Graduates upon graduation.

Eu Society Chooses Dick As Treasurer

Monday night, November 1, marked the second meeting of the Eumanean Literary Society this year. After the roll call, which
brought many humorous and enlightening quotations, and reading of the previous meeting's minutes, a new treasurer was elected. Henry Brockmann
was compelled by a conflicting schedule to relinquish his duty as treasurer. Tony Dick replaced Brockmann as treasurer.

Tim Cooper, president of the society, delivered his opening address expressing appreciation for the support given to him in electing
him president. Promising effective leadership, Cooper outlined briefly his plans for a more enlightening and cultivating program for the society.
He called for support of every member to enhance the benefits of this new program.

The program for the meeting included Tom Morgan’s reading of “The Disappearance of Liberal Education,” an essay by Robert Hutchins.
The members divided then into two groups to compete in an “Old Fashion Spelling Bee.” The evening was concluded with
the spelling bee, as the teams fought to a draw.

UN SEMINAR TO BE HELD NOV. 26-28

All students planning to attend the United Nations Seminar in New York Nov. 26-28 should have their applications in to
Sam Magill no later than next Thursday. The Seminar, which is open to all Davidson students, will afford an excellent
opportunity for learning about the United Nations and seeing the sights in New York.

The cost of the three-day meeting will be 25 dollars, plus a small expense for the transportation which the Y
will arrange. Mr. Magill stated that since the meeting was being held during Thanksgiving Holidays students would not have to
cut any classes in order to attend.

MONDAY NIGHT AT 8

This coming Monday night, Philanthropic Literary Society will hold its third meeting of the school year at 8 o’clock in
Phi Hall. The program will consist of a forum on the topic, “Should Davidson become a pre-professional institution” featuring the
benefits of a four-year liberal arts education as against the three-two professional plan which the college now has with Columbia
University.

Appearing on the panel will be Dr. McCutchan, Dr. Purcell, Gilbert Gragg, Bill Kuykendall, and Roy Davis as moderator. Each
panel member will be allowed five minutes to present his respective views on the subject and then there will be
a brief period of inter-panel rebuttal followed by a question and answer discussion session from the floor.

As this is the first forum debate of the society this year, a large crowd is expected. All members of
the freshman class and others in the student body not active in a literary society are cordially invited to attend
and participate in the forum.

AED INITIATES 18 PRE-MED STUDENTS

Alpha Epsilon Delta, national honorary pre-medical fraternity, held its annual initiation Wednesday, November 3 in the Science Building. New members
include Harry Brownlee, Ernest McCutcheon, Jim Armistead, Curtis Ellison, John Reed, Gene Bargeron, Paul Boyles, Hugh Malone, Joe Campbell, Bubba
Martin, Larry Parrot, Bill Morris, Linny Baker, and Billy Gentry were also brought into the group.

A technicolor movie of the delivery of quadruplets by Caesarian Section is scheduled for Wednesday, November 11, at 7:30 o'clock
in the Science Building. This film (Continued On Page Four)

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 1954

UNION BULLETINS

John Harmon, chairman of the Record and Television Committee of the College Union requests that records be played only in
the private listening room or other facilities of the Union. Records are not to be taken from the building.

Typewriters

Two rental typewriters are in the College Union for the convenience of students who need typing work done. The machines
operate on the “coin vendor” basis and operate for 30 minutes on ten cents. One machine is in the lobby
and another is on the second floor in the charter room.

Show Boat Varieties

Tommy Windsor, novelty entertainer, will present his “Showboat Varieties” Saturday night in the ballroom of the Union. Mr. Windsor’s show—billed
as the funniest and cleverest novelty show of the season—will precede the movie “Gentleman's Agreement.”

Quadwranglers Wives

Monday night in the Green Room of the College Union there will be a social meeting of the Quadwrangler’s Wives
for the purpose of introducing the new club members. Each new member will present a brief autobiographical sketch.

DEPP WILL SPEAK AT VESPERS SUNDAY

The Reverend Mark Depp, D.D., pastor of the Centenary Methodist Church, Winston-Salem, N. C., will be the speaker this Sunday
at Vespers.

Dr. Depp, a native of Pennsylvania, is known throughout the South as an outstanding speaker and minister. He serves as
pastor of one of the largest Methodist churches in the country. Dr. Depp graduated from Allegheny College and completed his
seminary training at the Boston University School of Theology. He served as chaplain during the First World War and afterwards
held several pastorates in Pennsylvania and Maryland before coming to Winston-Salem.

No stranger to Davidson, Dr. Depp proved himself a stimulating and inspirational speaker when he spoke at the 1950 Fall
Services on the theme “Faith That Lives.”

Miss Deneke Visits Cummings’ Tonight

Margaret Deneke, Choirmaster at Lady Margaret Hall, Oxford, and at one time on Albert Schweitzer’s staff, will be entertained at
the home of Mrs. W. P. Cumming on the night and evening of Friday, November 5. Miss Deneke is on
her sixth annual speaking tour of the United States in behalf of the building fund of St. Ann’s College, Oxford,
of which Mrs. Cumming is an alumna. A pianist of quite some distinction, Miss Deneke received a very valuable collection
of music manuscripts from the Mendelssohn family as a tribute to her work in behalf of music.

Murray Wins Oxford First Honors

Joseph J. Murray, Davidson '51, and a Rhodes Scholar, graduated with first class Honors in the School of Zoology at
the end of Trinity term last summer. He is at present on a British expedition in Nepal, exploring the approaches
to a new peak in the Himalayas.

Murray’s achievement in making a first class at Oxford is impressive, since very few Americans and no other Davidsonians (so
far as local records show) have made that rank. An Oxford saying is “Firsts are born, not made;” a very
able student, by steady application, can make a second, but firsts are given only to those who have demonstrated on
their final examinations a special quality of brilliance. Oxford and Cambridge form the apogee of the educational system of the
British Commonwealth of half a billion people and have no parallel in the American pedagogical structure.

At Davidson, Murray not only was an excellent biology student but also showed virtuosity in such subjects as the poetry
of Housman and folk balladry of the Appalachian mountaineers, which he had made the subject of first-hand study.

The following account is taken from The American Oxonian, October 1954, page 255:

“Jim Murray performed the prodigious feat of rowing for Merton in Eights Week, getting a first in Zoology, and setting
off immediately with the Oxford University Expedition for Nepal. The primary object of the expedition is to study the approaches
to Mt. Saipal, exploring territory never seen by a foreigner until this Spring. Murray expects to return by November, in
time for the December quota of the Lexington, Virginia, draft board.”

Murray’s reputation as an intrepid and skillful climber is indicated by the following extract from a letter written to Davidson
from a fellow-student at Oxford recently:

“Jim has received national fame, incognito. As you know, Tom Tower of Christ Church has always been the Everest of
Oxford. Well, Jim and an English student climbed it during vacation. Jim put a small Confederate flag there.

“Since there are University regulations against climbing the buildings, not too many people know who did it, but the feat
itself was proclaimed in several newspapers and over BBC. I understand that one of the men who assisted Hunt on
Everest failed in an attempt when he was an undergraduate here and later said that it was impossible to climb.”

Court Cracks Down On Disobedient

Harry Petersen, judge of the Court of Control, announced this week a Court decision to restrict 200 members of the
freshman class to the campus for seven days beginning next Monday. The order came as a result of the poor
showing made by freshmen on the recent test of the student body constitution and freshman regulations. This test was given
by the freshman advisors, who subsequently turned the failures over to the Court of Control.

A retest will be given on Saturday night during the “campus” period at 9 PM at the College Union for
all freshmen who flunked the previous test. Repeat failures will be dealt with strongly by the Court.

All freshmen except those few who received a passing grade on the first test will be required to remain on
the campus from 9 a.m. Monday, November 8, through the following Monday, November 15. Petersen pointed out that the “campus”
includes only the grounds of the college. Any freshmen found off the campus other than at the Post Office, which
they are allowed to visit twice daily, will receive stern punishment from the Court.

Freshmen tried in Monday night's Court session and found guilty of failure to know the freshman regulations, of not wearing
beanies, and of other offenses have been required to wear plaques.

Freshman-Parents’ Day Here Tomorrow

The second annual Freshman-Parents’ Day will be observed at Davidson tomorrow, November 6. Registration will take place in the lobby
of the College Union between the hours of 9 and 11 in the morning. Parents will secure meal tickets and
name tags, which will also serve as tickets for thefootball game in the afternoon. Students will be available to take
parents on tours of the campus, if they desire such service. At 11 o'clock, freshmen and parents will assemble in
the ballroom of the Union. Dr. Cunningham will welcome the guests to the campus, after which members of the administration
and faculty will be introduced, and the male chorus will render several selections. Dean Spencer will talk to the group
about “Problems of College Freshmen,” and a question and answer period will follow this address. Lunch will be served in
the Union between the hours of 12 and 1:45, and the next item on the program is the football game
between Davidson and Catawba. Parents will sit with their sons in the student section during the game. After the ball
game, a Faculty-Parent reception will be held in the Ballroom of the Union. This reception is the last item on
the program.

Arrangements have been made to provide lodging for those parents who wish to spend the night. The entire program has
been arranged by freshmen under the leadership of Mr. Shaw Smith. Lloyd Chapin of Atlanta, Ga., is serving as chairman
of the committee. Bill Pomeroy, Waycross, Ga., is in charge of invitations; Jim Jones, Charlotte, is in charge of publicity;
Mike Martin, Davidson, is in charge of lunch and lodging arrangements.

Episcopal Students Invited To Services in Mooresville
St. Matthew’s Episcopal Church of Mooresville is cordially inviting Episcopalian students on the campus to worship with them in their
Sunday morning services. Lt. Col Sapp of Davidson is arranging transportation to these services and any student desiring a ride
should contact him. Services are temporarily being held at the War Memorial Building in Mooresville at 11:15 A.M. each Sunday,
while a new church building is being constructed.

Scripts 'N Pranks is currently sponsoring its annual freshman creative writing contest. A prize of 10 dollars awaits the writer
of the short story, essay, or other type of prose literature which, in the opinion of the judges, is best
of those entered in the contest. Any freshman may submit as many samples of his writing as he wishes. To
be accepted for consideration, all entries must be given to a member of the editorial staff of the magazine by
November 9. Several writings besides the prize winner will be printed in Scripts 'N Pranks. The judges have requested that
entrants keep this in mind and make their entries of a length suitable for publication.

Freshmen bearing the offense, to wear name tags, to remain on the campus, to wear coats and ties, and to
write themes ranging from 175 to 3200 words concerning the freshman regulations. The purpose of the latter punishment, Petersen said,
is to get an indication of the freshman attitude toward the regulations and general policy of the Court. The judge
commented, “So far, the response in these themes has been very good and the majority have felt the regulations have
a good point and are necessary.” The Court of Control reminds freshmen that all rules are still to be strictly
obeyed. Petersen said members of the Court are attempting to rigidly enforce the regulations; he continued, “With the cooperation of
the entire student body the Court can develop a good freshman class.” Members of the Court request that charges by
upperclassmen against freshman violators be turned to them as quickly as possible. Any report will be considered at once; the
Court meets about twice every ten days. Judges of the Court of Control and their campus addresses are: Chief Judge
Harry Petersen, 111 West; Recorder John Buxton, Village; John McLaughlin, “A” West; Dick Belton, 307 East; Henry Brown and Harley
Smith, 8 Georgia; Dickie Adams, 22425 Duke.

Davidson’s Delta Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa named eight outstanding seniors to membership in chapel ceremonies Tuesday morning. John Buxton,
Gayle Averyt, Frank Mitchener, Ronnie Wilson, Austin Strand, Corty Cooper, Jim Thacker, and Corky King were tapped as Leighton McCutchen,
president of the Davidson chapter, presided over the annual fall service. The aims of Omicron Delta Kappa, an honorary leadership
fraternity which is national in scope, were pointed out by Dr. C. K. Brown, the speaker for the occasion, who
observed that its prime purpose is “to encourage development of the powers of leadership.” Dr. Brown differentiated between various kinds
of leadership and warned the student body of “counterfeit” and “mad” types of leadership, giving his own criteria for true
leadership. Initiation of the new men took place in the Green Room of the Union Tuesday night.

Hailing from Sumter, Carolina, John is perhaps one of the outstanding grapplers to appear on the Davidson wrestling scene in
several years, and has captained the varsity matmen for his junior and senior years. He is a Kappa Sig, serving
as their vice-president this year and is a member of Scabbard and Blade, the “D” Club, and the Court of
Control. In addition, he is on the Board of Directors of the recently organized Business-Economics Association.

A recent initiate into Phi Beta Kappa, Gayle is an SAE from Columbia, South Carolina, and is serving his fraternity
as boarding house manager. Excelling in the military, he is a Distinguished Military Student and a Cadet Captain in the
local ROTC unit. He also gained the signal honor of being named outstanding cadet in his company during his stay
at Fort Bragg this summer. Gayle is a member of Scabbard and Blade and president of the Business-Economics Association.

Well-known to all on the Davidson scene, and especially to the Class of 1958, “Corky” is from Burlington, North Carolina.
Besides holding down the important post of Freshman Adviser, he is on the “Y” Cabinet and Board of Directors. A
member of the Student Council, Hardin also plays a lot of football at end for the rejuvenated 1954 Wildcats and
is a member of the “D” Club.

Ronnie Wilson
Another to recently join the ranks of Phi Beta Kappa, Ronnie holds the vital office of president of the Interfraternity
Council, which is largely responsible for the planning and execution of the famed Davidson dance weekends. A member of the
Kappa Alpha Order, he has been active in campus publications work and is a member of Sigma Upsilon, Sigma Delta
Pi and the Phi Literary Society. In addition, Ronnie is a Distinguished Military Student. Originally from Miami, Florida, he lives
with his young bride in Davidson during the school year.

Cortes Cooper
Personable “Corty” Cooper from Thomasville, Georgia follows a long list of worthy predecessors as Cadet Regimental Commander of the Davidson
ROTC. He is secretary of Scabbard and Blade, vice president of Kappa Alpha, and serves as treasurer and on the
Board of Directors of the YMCA. A varsity baseballer, Corty is treasurer of the Business-Economics Association and winner of the
A. K. Phifer Memorial Scholarship for his senior year. He was also recently named to Phi Beta Kappa.

Austin Strand
This veritable man-mountain is a Phi Delt from Greensboro. Especially active in “Y” work, Austin has made a decisive contribution
to the advancement of Boy Scouting among the youth of the Davidson area. He is treasurer of Scabbard and Blade
and associate editor of the Davidsonian.

Frank Mitchener
Hailing from Sumner, Mississippi (pop. 622), Frank is a member of Phi Delta Theta, serving as their rush chief this
fall. An outstanding dash man, he has contributed heavily to the Wildcat track fortunes, lettering for three years. Frank was
secretary-treasurer of his sophomore class, is a member of the “D” Club, and co-chairman for YMCA Blood Drive.

Jim Thacker
Davidson football fortunes and the name of Jim Thacker, from Rome, Georgia, have been closely intertwined of late. Thacker’s brilliant
performances over the past four years have won him the acclaim of his teammates, opposing players, fans and sportswriters throughout
the Southern Conference and the entire Southeast. He is the co-captain of the 1954 Wildcats. Aside from his grid feats,
Jimmy is treasurer and was rush chief this Fall of his fraternity, Pi Kappa Phi. He is also a “D”
Club member and a Cadet Captain in the local ROTC unit.

Union To Present Darryl Zanuck Film
“Gentleman's Agreement,” starring Gregory Peck and Dorothy McGuire, is this week's Union Movie attraction. Showings are set for 9 p.m.
tonight and Saturday night. Admission is 25 cents. The 25 cents paid tonight will also serve as admission to Tommy
Windsor’s “Showboat Variety” presentation, which will begin at 8 p.m. “Gentleman's Agreement” received high praise from critics for both story
and acting. Moss Hart wrote the screenplay, with Darryl Zanuck producing and Elia Kazan directing. Newsweek praised John Garfield and
Celeste Holm for their excellent supporting roles.

Closed Meeting Of Student Body Set For Next Friday
Student Body President Floyd Feeney this morning called for the first closed meeting of the Student Body to be held
next Friday in chapel. The meeting is being held so that the Student Body may more actively participate in student
affairs. Designated as a clearing house for student ideas and complaints, the meeting seeks to bring student government to the
students. In previous years this type of meeting has served not only to let the students know what is going
on, but also to effect changes in the Student Body Constitution and other improvements around the school.

Teacher Exams Will Be Given February 12
Princeton, N. J.—The National Teacher Examinations, prepared and administered annually by Educational Testing Service, will be given at 200 testing
centers throughout the United States on Saturday, February 12, 1955. At the one-day testing session, a candidate may take the
Common Examinations, which include tests in Professional Information, General Culture, English Expression, and Non-verbal Reasoning; and one or two of
nine Optional Examinations designed to demonstrate mastery of subject matter to be taught. The college which a candidate is attending,
or the school system in which he is seeking employment, will advise him whether he should take the National Teacher
Examinations and which of the Optional Examinations to select. Application forms and a Bulletin of Information describing registration procedure and
containing sample test questions may be obtained from college officials, school superintendents, or directly from the National Teacher Examinations, Educational
Testing Service, 20 Nassau Street, Princeton, New Jersey. Completed applications, accompanied by proper examination fees, will be accepted by the
ETS office during November and December, and in January so long as they are received before January 14, 1955.
