FRIDAY, OCTOBER 8, 1964 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Last week's victory over The Citadel brings several interesting points out of Davidson football records. Checking back into the record
books, we found that it had been seven long years since a Wildcat club had won three games in a
row. Back in 1947, the Davidson team finished the season by winning its last three contests. The '47 squad has
the best record of any post-war Davidson outfit, winning 6, losing only 3, and tying one. It looks as though
that record may be broken this season, though the end is still a long way off.

Checking even further back into the dust-covered books, we discovered that if the Cats pull out a victory over Presbyterian
tonight, it will almost make history. The last time that a Davidson club won four games in a row was
back in 1927 during the “Era of Champions.” So there has been a period of over twenty-five years in which
no Davidson outfit has been able to win four straight. In 1926, when the Wildcats were the State Champions, they
won a record five-in-a-row.

Another interesting fact about the Wildcats this season is that after three games, the Davidson defense has allowed only two
touchdowns to the opposition, and in conference play, the Red and Black remains unbeaten, untied, and unscored-on. It’s quite a
change from last season. After three contests, the '53 Cats had allowed 12 TD’s, including eight given up to Georgia
Tech in the opening game. Davidson had only scored one time in three games, compared to the eight markers thus
far this season. The Cats have already won more games this year than the teams of the past two seasons
combined, and it appears that this year’s record might be the best ever.

Tonight’s game with Presbyterian will mark the fourth consecutive time that the meeting of the Wildcats and the Blue Hose
has been a Homecoming game for one of the schools. Starting in 1951, with the Wildcats being the home club,
the two Presbyterian teams have taken turns spoiling alumni day for three seasons. On all three occasions, the decisions have
been made on the accurate toe of an extra-point kicker. Last year, Davidson missed all three tries and lost, 19-18.
The fact that Davidson is considered by many as PC’s “rich uncle” of the Presbyterian institutions always gives the South
Carolina boys an added incentive to take the measure of the Wildcats. Certainly, the battle between the two teams is
always as hard-fought as you'll see anywhere, and occasionally the spirited competition results in a flare of temper, though it
comes in the stands more often than on the field. But the Davidson coaches recognize the fact that the Blue
Stockings would rather beat the Wildcats than any other team, and the Cat mentors have worked hard getting the team
to realize that.

The last time that Davidson visited Clinton, the Cats edged the Blue Hose, 13-12, in a real thriller. Presbyterian had
the ball on the Davidson 10 yard-line with less than four minutes to play in the game, and it looked
like the PC alumni would be going home happy that night. But the Wildcat defense stiffened and held the South
Carolinians, and Davidson took over and ran out the clock. No doubt, the Presbyterian crew remembers that game and is
waiting for revenge. Tonight, the Red and Black rates the favorite’s role as a result of three straight victories and
PC’s record of two losses in their last two outings. But when these two clubs tangle, past records and odds
might as well be thrown out the window.

REVOLUTION! More and more men are rebelling against the discomfort of heavy-feeling tuxedos. They're switching to the modern, lightweight “MR.
FORMAL” by After Six that’s turning troublesome formal festivities closer to a Turkish delight than a Turkish bath! “MR. FORMAL”
TUXEDO $55.00 Wilson-Wrights Inc. “COLLEGIATE FASHIONS” Next to Bank Davidson, N. C.

PHI DELTS, KAs PACE GRID ACTION

Interfraternity competition began for the school year as the flickerball season opened last Monday. The number of close games indicates
a tough scramble for the championship. On Monday, the opening day, the S.A.E.’s and the Kappa Sigs clashed in a
defensive battle which revealed two well-matched teams. However, Corky Clark scored early in the game to give the Kappa Sigs
a 7-0 victory. The K.A.’s proved to be too much for the Campus Club, who used a no-kick strategy. On
the last play of the game, the Rebels turned a pass interception into their third touchdown and won 20-0. The
Phi Delts, last year’s co-champions, downed the Sigma Chis, also defending co-champs, 14-13, in the day’s closest game. The two
point-after-touchdown passes, both caught by Doug Andrews, gave the Phi Delts the victory. During the last few minutes of the
game, the Sigma Chis were within one yard of scoring territory but lost the ball on downs when they were
unable to push across the goal line.

On Tuesday, the A.T.O.’s beat the Pi Kappa Phis, 20 to 6. Charlie Gribble sparked the victors to the win
over the hard-playing Pi Kapps. The Pikas overcame the Phi Gamms by five points as Joe Billy Pharr caught the
final touchdown pass that brought the winners from behind and gave them the 25 to 20 victory. The S.P.E.’s scored
two six-pointers and a safety, but lost to the very fast Beta team, 20-14. The Betas made an impressive showing.

On Wednesday, the Sigma Chis swamped the Campus Club, 47-0 with the victors exhibiting a tricky and smooth working offense.
By defeating the S.A.E.’s, the K.A.’s won their second straight game of the season. The score, 14-7, revealed how close
the game was. The Phi Delts outscored the Pi Kapps, 30 to 24, in an offensive battle and won their
second straight game, too.

Phi Delt 30—P. Kapp 24.
K.A. 20—Campus Club 0.
Phi Delt 14—Sigma Chi 13.
Kappa Sig 7—S.A.E. 0.
A.T.O. 20—Pi Kapp 6.
Phi Gams 20—Pika 25.
S.P.E. 14—Beta 20.
Sigma Chi 47—Campus Club 0.
K.A. 14—S.A.E. 7.

ATTENTION

Coach Dick McKee has announced that there will be a meeting of all students interested in trying out for the
varsity tennis team next Monday afternoon in the sports publicity office of Johnston Gymnasium. The meeting will be to arrange
for fall practice and to get a list of all who will try out for the team.

DAVIDSON THEATRE

All Pictures Will Be Shown On Our New P-A-N-O-R-A-M-I-C WIDE SCREEN

THURSDAY-FRIDAY 7-8
“Rose Marie” ANN BLYTH

SATURDAY 9th
“Outlaw Stallion” PHILIP CAREY

MONDAY-TUESDAY 11-12
“Student Prince” CinemaScope

WEDNESDAY 13th
“Racing Blood” GENE PORTER

THURSDAY 14-15
“Knights Of The Round Table” ROBERT TAYLOR AVA GARDNER

SHOWING HEELS TO REST OF CONFERENCE

13-0 Win Over Citadel

BY BUNNY PERKINSON

As the result of a tight defense and the ability to capitalize on breaks, Davidson’s Wildcats downed the highly-rated Citadel
Bulldogs by a 13-0 count in Charleston last Saturday night. The hard-charging ’Cats’ line limited the Cadets to 126 yards
rushing; and only once did Duby Rierson, the pre-season pick of many for All-Southern Conference honors at quarterback, get far
into the secondary. That play covered 16 yards, the longest single gain the Citadel made all night.

While the Cats’ defense stood firm, the offense kept constantly on the move, amassing 210 yards rushing and 113 yards
via the air. Forty yards in penalties slowed the 'Cats at times, but it was always only temporary, as the
backs put on a splendid display of running ability. Coach Dole labeled each back who played, outstanding.

During the first few minutes of the game, it looked as though those people who called the game a toss-up
were exactly right. However, this feeling was dispelled in the second period, as the ’Cats drove 65 yards in 14
plays to the Citadel 5 yard-line, only to lose the ball on a fumble. The end of the half saw
Dyke Little completing two consecutive passes, the first to HarleySmith and the second to Greg Poole, each for 27 yards.
However, the clock ran out before another play could be run, and the score was still knotted at 0-0. Soon
after the second half kickoff, Henry Brown snared a Rierson pass and headed down the sidelines, being run out of
bounds on the Citadel 36-yard line. A few plays later, Brown rammed it over from the two, Bob Talbert booted
the extra point, and Davidson led, 7-0. The third quarter ended shortly thereafter. Early in the fourth period, a Bulldog
punt was taken by Jimmy Thacker in Davidson territory and returned to the Citadel 46. A pass and several blasts
through the line moved the ball inside the Cadets’ 10. Harley Smith carried to the goal line, but a penalty
nullified the gain; so, running the same play, he bulled to the one. Bill Rowland sneaked over from that point.
Talbert's kick was wide, thus ending the scoring for the night. To point to any single player as outstanding would
be a near-impossible task, so well did the entire team perform. However, it should be mentioned that Don McRee led
Davidson's ground gaining with 61 yards in 11 carries, and Dyke Little, in addition to his two 27-yard tosses, completed
a 15-yarder to Tom Newton for a total of 69 yards. In the line, there was not a man who
did not play exceptionally well, and one platoon was as strong as the other. A similar display of defensive strength
and offensive punch should be enough to stop Presbyterian tonight.

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Cats At PC’s Homecoming Tonight

Red And Black Rolls To

Davidson Continues To Pace Conference

For the third straight week, Davidson’s Wildcats lead the Southern Conference, and though only five of the nine conference teams
have seen action with other conference opponents, only three conference clubs can boast an unblemished record in overall play. Davidson,
V.P.I., and West Virginia all remain undefeated, with Davidson and V.P.I. having won three, and West Virginia winning one. West
Virginia opened its season last Saturday by trouncing South Carolina, of the Atlantic Coast Conference, 26-6. V.P.I. won its third
straight game over ACC foes as they downed Clemson 18-7. Previously, the Gobblers had beaten N.C. State and Wake Forest.
Davidson, by virtue of a 13-0 win over The Citadel, pushed its conference record to two wins and no losses.
The Cats have only one more league foe to play this season. They meet Furman in Charlotte on October 22.
This weekend finds only two conference contests on tap. Richmond opens its conference season by traveling to Charleston to meet
The Citadel, and West Virginia plays host to George Washington in the other family affair.

Conference standings:
Team Davidson V.M.I. V.P.I. West Virginia Furman William and Mary Richmond The Citadel George Washington

All Games:
Team Davidson V.M.I. V.P.I. West Virginia Furman William and Mary Richmond The Citadel George Washington

Chiseling on the highway puts names and dates on tombstones. A highway menace is the dope who thinks everything over
carefully ten minutes after he’s done it.

CATS HANG UNBEATEN RECORD ON LINE AGAIN

Presbyterian Foes Clash With Davidson Favored

Davidson's winning Wildcats move to Clinton, South Carolina, tonight where they will meet the Blue Hose of Presbyterian College in
a game which promises to have all the usual fireworks that come when the two Presbyterian schools clash in any
way. Riding the crest of a three-game winning streak, the Wildcats rank a two-touchdown favorite, but there are several factors
which may change matters considerably. The major point is that the game is to be played before a Presbyterian homecoming
crowd, and the P.C. team will undoubtedly be “up” for the contest. The South Carolina school always manages to play
one of their best games against Davidson, and the natural rivalry produces very close battles most of the time. Presbyterian’s
great left-handed passer, Harry Hamilton, will be ready to sling for the Blue Hose, and those who saw last season's
contest remember how he ripped the Wildcat pass defense to shreds. Last season, he completed 72 of 176 tosses against
P.C. foes and ranked high in national ratings. The Davidson-Presbyterian series started back in 1919, with the first game ending
in a scoreless tie. Since then, the two schools have met twelve times with Davidson taking seven wins and Presbyterian
salvaging five. The lone tie came in the first contest. The series has always had close games, and the greatest
margin of victory for either team came in 1950, when the Wildcats racked up a 24-0 decision. Since then, the
games have been decided by extra points. In 1951, the Hose edged Davidson in a Cat Homecoming game, 14-12. In
1952, Davidson turned the Presbyterian Homecoming by winning, 13-12, and last year the Blue Stockings returned the medicine again by
beating the Cats, 19-18, at Davidson’s Homecoming. Last week, Presbyterian met Furman’s Purple Hurricane and came out on the short
end of a 27-0 score. However, the game was much closer than the score indicated, with Furman capitalizing on the
breaks to win. The Blue Hose almost matched Furman in first downs, and the first-string lines looked almost even. Davidson
will be at near-full strength for the game, though a couple of men will be noticeably missing. Jim Fasul, first-string
guard, will be sitting out the battle, after suffering a pulled leg muscle early this week. His absence will be
partly offset by the return of Harry Peterson. “Pete” saw limited action against The Citadel and will be ready to
go full steam against Presbyterian.

The probable starting line-ups:
Davidson Presbyterian
LE—Gramley Jackson
LT—Lee Frierson
LG—Llewellyn Warren
C—Abernathy Boulware
RG—Owen Shealy
RT—Davis, H. Harrington
RE—Rankin Counts
QB—Rowland Hamilton
LH—Thacker Webb
RH—McRee Mavromat
FB—Brown Carter

"I STARTED SMOKING CAMELS 24 YEARS AGO. YOU CAN’T BEAT ‘EM FOR FLAVOR — AND BELIEVE ME, CAMELS ARE REALLY
MILD!" — Rear Admiral, U.S.N. (Ret.) Commander of the first Nautilus, submarine which sank Japanese carrier at Battle of Midway;
awarded three Navy Crosses; today, a Baltimore chemical company executive. — R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, Winston-Salem, N.C.

Start smoking Camels yourself, start the 30-Day Camel Mildness Test. Smoke only Camels for 30 days — see for yourself
why Camels’ cool mildness and rich flavor agree with more people than any other cigarette!

SUCCESS STORY

Camels — America’s most popular cigarette ... by far!

CAMELS AGREE WITH MORE PEOPLE THAN ANY OTHER CIGARETTE!

AND HOW IT STARTED...

ADMIRAL BROCKMAN says: “I prepped at Baltimore Polytech, found I liked math and electrical engineering — required subjects for a
Navy career. But it was getting licked in lacrosse by the Navy plebes that got me interested in Annapolis. My
break on an appointment came when two ahead of me failed.”
