Speaking of Sports
By JIM HOLSHOUSER

In February of 1965, Davidson's Board of Trustees will meet again to determine policies and steps for improvement of the college. A major part of the discussion in this meeting will probably deal with Davidson’s athletic program and policies. This subject has been a problem at Davidson, and opinion is quite varied as to the solution. We've talked to a number of students about this matter, and the majority of them have ideas along this line: Davidson “needs” good athletic teams; it would be a big booster to student morale which has been consistently crushed by many losses; it would be fine to have good teams but we don’t want “tramp athletes”; a non-subsidization program would be harmful because some of our best leaders come from the athletic ranks, and many potential leaders will go to other schools where they can get an athletic scholarship; athletic scholarships are a good thing because they will enable some boys to attend Davidson when they could not otherwise because of financial difficulties.

A FEW FALLACIES

Davidson is a member of the Southern Conference and plays about four or five conference foes each year. All conference schools, with the exception of Washington and Lee, subsidize pretty heavily. Davidson is usually near or at the bottom in amount of subsidizing, and our teams finish at the same level. When the athletic scholarship amount was raised last year, our football team promptly finished in the first division for a change. The difference?—Simply better football, the type that fans want to see and the type in which students can take pride. And our better players weren't gangsters or anything like that. The boys who were on the team certainly ranked favorably with the rest of the student body in that general class known as the “Davidson Gentlemen.” There are no “hoods” on the squad as a result of careful screening by the coaches who scouted the players. This screening is the policy of Davidson coaches, and as long as this continues, there will be no complaints about Davidson’s having “tramp athletes.” An increase in subsidization will not mean Davidson will have lower-quality boys coming here.

A common fallacy in the ideas of those against athletic grants is the idea that by having good football players and a good team, Davidson scholastic standards will be lowered. A look at past records will quickly disprove this. Last year, for instance, the average of the football team was well above the student body average and was above the average of eight of the campus fraternities. Our athletes, it seems, are actually better scholars than most of the Davidson students. In reaching a decision on athletic policy, it is only fair that the trustees know how the students feel. Facts like those above should show them that though Davidson “could” begin a non-subsidization program, there are better reasons for giving athletic aid, bringing Davidson better football and better men.

NON-SUBSIDIZATION IDEA CRITICIZED

The Davidsonian

CAGERS TO HIT DUKE NEXT TUESDAY

FRIDAY, DEC. 10, 19: THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

Kappa Sigs Place Three On Stars All-Fraternity Squad Selected For Football

BY BUNNY PERKINSON

Of the three sports considered major sports in the race for Intramural Athletics Championship Trophy, perhaps the one which excites most interest is the tag football league. Those who have seen or taken part in any of the games are well aware that the term “tag” is very deceiving and that one would often be safer while engaging in a little head-on tackling or some two-on-one with half a dozen Larry Petersons. The contests are always marked by an exceptional display of spirit, but the bumps and bruises are forgotten in the heat of battle. Each year, after the smoke clears, an all-star team is picked by the participants. The season ended a few weeks ago, and since that time a group composed of seven members from each squad has voted and come up with an all-interfraternity team as usual, placed Perrin Anderson, star performer of the Sigma Chis, at the top of the heap. “P.A.” edged out Larry McIntosh of the KA’s for the top spot by a single vote, 37 to 36. Both these boys were undoubtedly the sparkplugs of their teams, and each still has another season. The closeness of the voting is illustrated by the fact that there was a three-way tie for the sixth place on the select first team, with the result that eight men were selected instead of the usual seven. Four seniors and four juniors made the first team.

FIRST TEAM
Name - Fraternity
Perrin Anderson - Sigma Chi
Larry McIntosh - K. A.
Corky Clark - Kappa Sig
Phil Koonce - ATO
Joe Billy Pharr - Pika
Frank Mitchener - Phi Delt
Johnny Smith - Kappa Sig
Lacy Keesler - Kappa Sig

SECOND TEAM
Name - Fraternity
Dan Leach - Phi Delt
Don Massey - A.T.O.
Dick Makepeace - Kappa SigShorty Sfaelos .......... Beta
Doug Andrews .......... Phi Delt
Buzz Hope .......... Sigma Chi
Tom Lambe .......... Beta

New filter cigarette brings flavor back to filter smoking!

THEY ARE THE BEST .... JERRY SPEAKS

Babbling Brooks
BY JERRY BROOKS

A football player’s statement concerning subsidization: “They ought to go ahead with it or drop it. They shouldn't try to stay in the middle of the road. I try to look at it from the coach’s standpoint. Undoubtedly, he would like to have the money to get good men. There is no reason to think that higher subsidization should lower the academic standards the school tries to maintain. After all, it has been proven that all good football players are not dumb. And to have good men and a good team would reflect highly upon the school as an outstanding institution.”

A note of commendation to Bill Carrell, Ed Speir, and Basil Sharp for their outstanding showing as the swimming team opened its 1954-55 season with a victory over Eastern Carolina, Friday. Sharp placed first in the diving, Carrell placed first in both the individual medley and 220-yard freestyle, and Speir took two firsts in the 50 and 100-yard freestyle races. It appears that this year’s swimming team is potentially the best on the campus in several years. Much of this victory may be accounted to Coach Carroll Hambright, who, in the words of one swimmer, “is a hard driver and diligent worker.” It is the idea of this reporter that more support would also help the swimming team’s efforts. For those of you who have never seen a swimming meet, it can be most exciting.

Congratulations to Hobby Cobb (Continued On Page Four)

CAT SQUADS OPEN IN MAT AND SWIM MEETS THIS WEEK
BY CHARLES McGIRT

Both the Wildcat wrestling and swimming teams began this season with great fury and a strong determination to win. The wrestlers won one of a four-way meet while the swimmers defeated their foe by a large margin. Coach Charles Parker's wrestling team met VMI, Marshall College, and Auburn in Lexington, Virginia, Friday night. Davidson beat Marshall 21-11. VMI left the ’Cats with a 24-8 defeat, while Auburn took a mat victory of 22-8. Outstanding for Davidson was Captain John Buxton who won all three of the first places in the 157-pound class. The next meet will be held Saturday night in Greensboro against UNC. Sonny Kincey will be unable to make the trip but the other eight members will endeavor to stop Carolina. They are: Henry Griffen, Bill Warlick, Ritzel Snider, John Buxton, Henry Faison, (Continued On Page Four)

Eligibility Rules Stated: Some Changes Proposed

(The inter-fraternity eligibility rules have been the subject of wide-spread discussion in the past few weeks, and in keeping with its “keep the students informed” policy, The Davidsonian is publishing the essential parts of the rules governing eligibility.)

Davidson’s Inter-fraternity Athletic system is governed by the By-Laws and rules set up each year by sports managers of the fraternities. There are rules which some students think the managers could improve, and student suggestions are called for in these cases. For any that you disagree with or heartily approve of, the managers will be glad to hear suggestions (not complaints without solutions, though). The rules are printed below.

(1) A student who has received the varsity award at Davidson College or elsewhere, or earned five points or more, shall not be eligible to compete in that particular sport.
(2) A student who has received a Freshman Numeral at Davidson or elsewhere may not compete on a team in that particular sport until after one school year of non-participation in that intramural sport.
(3) A student who has received a varsity award in cross-country shall be ineligible for track.
(4) Freshmen Cross-Country numeral men are not allowed to participate in running events in the intramural track meet.
(5) No individual who reports for a freshman or varsity sport’s squad through a period of twenty calendar days of that activity may participate in intramural activities during the dates applying to that sport, should he drop from the squad on his own volition. The individual becomes immediately ineligible for the intramural activity in progress through the established dates for the sport he is affiliated with after participation in any regularly scheduled contest regardless of whether he drops from the squad on his own volition or is cut from the squad by the coach.
(6) A team shall forfeit any contest in which it uses an ineligible player and the ineligible man shall be barred for further competition in that sport for that season.
(7) Out for an intercollegiate sport: Any student, varsity or (Continued On Back Page)

Phi Delts Winners In Greek Wrestling

Though laying claim to only one individual championship, the Phi Delts won the Inter-fraternity Wrestling crown last Wednesday night. The tournament was held in Johnston Gymnasium on Tuesday and Wednesday nights, with the finals being held on Wednesday. The Phi Delts had one champion, Bill Warlick in the 130-pound class, but they had 14 falls to their credit, and this matched with their showing in the consolation bracket was enough to win. The winners had a total of 32 points to their credit, three above the second-place SAEs. The runners-up had three champions, while the rest of the crowns were divided among other entries. In the team scoring, the tally went as follows: Phi Delts-32, SAEs-29, Phi Gams-24, Betas and Kappa Sigs-22 (tie), Sigma Chis-19, SPEs-14, ATOs-8, Pikas-3, Pi Kapps-2, and KAs-0. Individual finishing by weight classes is given below with the first four men in each division being named. In the 191-pound class, there was a double forfeit in the consolation bracket, therefore there were no third and fourth places awarded.

123—Keiter (ATO), Allen (Phi Gam), Strand (Phi Delt), Spears (Pika).
130—Warlick (Phi Delt), Irvin (Beta), Hill (Pi Kapp), Bright (SAE).
137—Robinson (SAE), Hoagland (Sigma Chi), Montgomery (Phi (Continued On Page Four)

FINER FLAVOR! Winston tastes good—like a cigarette should!

Now there's a filter smoke college men and women can really enjoy! It’s Winston, the new, king-size, filter cigarette with real flavor—full, rich, tobacco flavor! You're bound to enjoy Winston’s finer flavor. And you're sure to appreciate Winston’s finer filter. This exclusive filter is unique, different, truly superior! It works so effectively—yet doesn’t “thin” the taste. Winstons are king-size for extra filtering action. Easy-drawing, too—there’s no effort to puff! Try a pack of Winstons—the filter cigarette that brings flavor back to filter smoking!

Select a pair of argyles, a sweater, or a pair of imported flannels from our many colors.

Save That Vacation Time For Livin’ It Up
Do Your Xmas Shopping Before You Go Home

Wilson-Wright’s Inc.
“COLLEGIATE FASHIONS”

WINSTON ... the easy-drawing filter cigarette!
R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO., WINSTON-SALEM, N. C.
NEXT DOOR TO BANK
DAVIDSON, N. C.