FRIDAY, SEPT. 24, 1954

THE DAVIDSONIAN

The gates of Richardson Field open to the public for the first time tomorrow, and for most fans, a first look at the '54 version of the Davidson Wildcats will be in the making. Many are eager to see if last week’s upset win over V.M.I. up at Lexington was just one of those occasional slip-ups which happen every so often. Some are still skeptical that a Davidson ball club can be a winner. But it appears that Coach Bill Dole has the formula for success on the gridiron. This year’s squad has the makings of a fine machine, and with the fine spirit that the players are showing, things are definitely “looking up” in Davidson football fortunes.

When we speak of the spirit shown by the team, we're not just talking about the intangible thing frequently associated with Davidson athletic teams. That is around, too, but there is also a spirit which can be seen clearly from the sidelines. Coach Dole’s squad is three-deep at every position, and the fighting for that top spot can be seen any day of the week on the practice field. The players are hitting very hard in practice and frequently tempers flare. When the spirit of a team is as high as this, opponents better watch out.

Last week’s win was accomplished without the services of two of Davidson’s sparkplugs, Jimmy Thacker and Harry Peterson. When it was announced that neither would play against the Keydets, groans were heard on all sides. But the sophomores on the squad plugged the big gaps in fine style. This Saturday Thacker returns to the line-up, and Peterson should be ready to go next week. Their added support will make the ‘Cats a hard combination to stop.

In Charlotte last night, the Charlotte Quarterback Club honored Gene McEver in the first meeting of the season. McEver is a former coach in addition to being an All-American fullback at the University of Tennessee. The reason for the celebrating was that McEver was recently voted to football's Hall of Fame. It is an honor which comes to few, and we extend our congratulations to Mr. McEver.

The fraternity sports managers meet Monday to decide the schedule of events for this year’s inter-fraternity athletic program. One of the most probable changes is one concerning tennis. As fraternity tennis players will tell you, the situation of the past year was not very good. Play in the competition was carried on over several weeks and each player played every other fraternity representative. Play was slow, and at the end of the time limit, only about half of the matches had been played. Very few players are satisfied with the present situation, and most agree that some sort of change must be made. Last spring, The Davidsonian presented a plan for a tennis tournament to be held over a two-day period (or perhaps three days). Since that time we have received several replies from players who are in favor of the idea. Most players are in favor of a tourney similar to the one now held in wrestling competition. That is, with each advance, a player would pick up a certain number of points. An advance into the semi-finals would be worth more points, and so on with the winner getting the highest score.

Holding off a last-minute spurt by Gerald Wilson, John Patterson won the freshman cake race here last Friday. Clocking a time of 8:59.7, only about 20 seconds short of the record set last year by Pete Field to win. Wilson was the runner-up and came close to winning as he put on a fine finish. The rest of the first ten cake-winners were: Buddy Weathers, Harry Heinitsh, Mike Martin, Dan Woods, Bruce Shipley, Phil Diuguid, Andy Hamilton, and Bob Baker.

This year's cross country has started workouts, and several of these boys are looking good in early practice. Coach Whittle has Floyd Feeney (the team captain), Dick Lovette, and John Handley as his only returning lettermen from last year’s squad. Ashcraft, Jackson, Huntley, and Bondurant are members of last year's frosh squad who are working out with the team.

A five-meet schedule, with two multiple-team meets, has been announced by Coach Whittle. The State meet at Raleigh and the AAU meet here will involve several teams. The complete schedule is listed below.

Oct. 8—Maryville (away)
Oct. 16—Richmond (here)
Oct. 22—William & Mary—N.C. State (at Raleigh)
Oct. 30—V.M.I.—Washington & Lee (here)
Nov. 8—State Meet

The Stetson team invades the campus as an “unknown quantity.” The Hatters have had no previous contests and have sent no advance information about their squad, other than the usual roster. With an entirely new coaching staff handling the Florida boys, anything can be expected. The Stetson crew may give local fans a sample of the “spread” formation which is so popular in the Southwest, since the Hatters’ new Head Coach is a former line coach at Texas Christian University.

The Davidson Club is rated as the favorite, though the margin is small. The Hatters have a big team, and could prove to be a stronger club than most students anticipate. In the Davidson backfield, Jimmy Thacker will return to the line-up. Thacker missed last week's contest due to a bruised shoulder. Harry Peterson remains on the injured list, and will see limited, if any, action tomorrow.

Sparkling play in last week's game has promoted several members of the squad to roles as starters. Coach Bill Dole has announced six changes in the starting line-up, with five sophomores now in the top positions. Bill Gramley, Bob Campbell, TomLee, Adair Hatcher, and Don- Nov. 15—V.M.I. (away). Nov. 20—AAU (here).

QUALITY MILK

Coach “Pete” Whittle has announced that there will be a meeting of all the fraternity sports managers at 7:30 p.m. on Monday night. The meeting will be held in the Trophy Room at the gymnasium, and all fraternities are requested to have a representative present.

Mooresville Creamery, Inc. To Be Host To First Home Game

Davidson's winning Wildcats will play host to the Hatters of Stetson University here tomorrow in a contest which marks the opening of the Davidson home schedule. The game is set for 2:30 p.m., and a large crowd is anticipated, largely due to the fine game played by the Wildcats against V.M.I. last Saturday.

V. M. I. SCHEDULE SET

A three-game schedule for the Davidson Junior Varsity has been announced by Athletic Director Paul Scott, and several more contests are being planned. Donnie McCree will be the starting sophomore quarterback against McCallie. Other games are against the Lenoir Rhyne Junior Varsity and Gordon Military, with these contests being played away. The “J.V.s" will be coached by Bill Acker, a 1953 Davidson standout, Leroy Fargason, and Charlie Cousar. Fargason and Cousar are being used as coaches, since both were hurt in past games and are not able to play on this year's squad.

The Junior Varsity is composed primarily of freshmen and sophomores who need more experience before being moved up to the varsity. Being given a chance to play regularly is what the coaching staff feels will make these boys into top-flight material.

Sparked by the passing of sophomore Dyke Little, Davidson’s Wildcats opened their 1954 gridiron campaign by taking a 19-0 win over V.M.I. last Saturday. Coach Bill Dole’s charges pushed across a TD just before the first half ended and then racked up two tallies in the last half, upsetting the favored Keydets. Little threw two scoring passes, one to Tom Newton and the other to Donnie McCree. Don Campbell, fleet-footed sophomore halfback, scored the other Davidson touchdown. Campbell intercepted a Keydet pass and scampered 35 yards to score.

The probable starting line-ups for the two squads are listed below:

Stetson
LE—Hoffard
LT—Kammer
LG—Hill
C—West
RG—Siekaniec
RT—Gerding
RE—Shamrock
QB—Semanie
LH—McBryde
FB—Marks
RH—Henry

Davidson
LE—Adair
LT—Hatcher
LG—D. Davis
C—Price
RG—Fasul
RT—Lee
RE—Campbell
QB—Rowland
LH—Thacker
FB—Brown
RH—McCree

GREEK FOOTBALL TO BEGIN ON MONDAY, OCT. 4

Davidson's Inter-fraternity athletic program will get under way on Monday, October 4, it has been announced by Coach “Pete” Whittle. On that date, the first of the football series will take place. Though the sports managers of the various fraternities have not met with Whittle, it is certain that football (the non-contact version, that is) will continue on the program. Whittle states that most of last year’s sports will be included in the schedule for this year. One major change may be the establishing of a tennis tournament, instead of play held over several weeks. The drawn-out tennis program has proven ineffective in past years, and it is probable that the sports managers will change this feature of the year's program.

Coach Dole, when questioned about the win, gave three reasons for the Wildcats’ surprising showing. He said, “The efforts of Coaches Clements and Hambright, the fine team spirit, and the excellent physical condition of the squad were largely responsible for the victory.”

Mooresville, N. C.

THE CONNOISSEUR
A Place of Fine Foods for any taste in Eating — Specializing in Steak, Seafood, and Chicken Dinners. Phone 3-2861

"I started smoking in college. For 17 years I've enjoyed Camels' smooth mildness and good rich flavor. You ought to try Camels."

Douglas Leigh says: “After leaving the University of Florida (where I'd sold yearbook ads), I had big, crazy ideas about making new kinds of spectacular displays. So I bought a Brownie and went to New York to photograph rooftops. My first sign was a huge, steaming coffee cup on Broadway. At age 23 I was starting to learn an exciting business!"

Mooresville’s Finest Store

Student Union
Tuesday and Wednesday (all day long)
September 28 and 29

START SMOKING CAMELS YOURSELF! Make the 30-day Camel Mildness Test. See how Camels give you more pure pleasure! See for yourself why Camels’ cool mildness and rich flavor agree with more people than any other cigarette!

R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, Winston-Salem, N. C.

Featuring Famous Brands
Buy for Cash, Lay-a-Way or Charge Accounts
Our Store Located Only 6 Miles North of Davidson College

SUCCESS STORY: Camels — by far AGREE WITH MORE PEOPLE THAN ANY OTHER CIGARETTE