THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE VOL. XLII

Che Dauvidsonian

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, NOV. 19, 1954

Gift Fund Choice Will Come Monday Y Meeting At 10:20 To Select ‘54 Project

BY ED LEWIS

On Monday, November 22, 1954, at 10:20 a.m., a meeting of the membership of the Davidson Y.M.C.A. will be held in the ballroom of the College Union for the purpose of selecting the Y Christmas Fund project. The freshman chapel which usually meets at this time has been canceled so that all interested men can attend this meeting.

Each year the student body contributes to a Christmas Gift Fund which is given to some worthy project chosen by the students. Last year the fund went to move and rebuild the Negro Community Center here in Davidson. In other years it has been designated for various foreign projects.

Suggested Projects

A committee chosen from the student body has studied the project suggestions received from various organizations and would like to submit the following four for the consideration of the membership of the Y.M.C.A:

1. Church teams working in war-torn Greek villages need funds for the reclaiming of land and raising the standard of living in rural areas. Technicians are working in these areas and need funds for materials and equipment.
2. World University Service has suggested to us the establishment of a student health ward in the Tjisarua Sanatorium in Indonesia. Disease is not uncommon among students in this area of the world, and facilities for them are very limited.
3. The Central School for Missionary Children in Lubondia, Africa, is in need of a station wagon. The school has grown recently, and transportation has become a major problem.
4. Funds are needed to support the work of Dr. Nicholas Goncharoff, an ex-Red army tank commander, who is doing research on the whole question of the Christian alternative to communism. He is creating propaganda material to be used in Africa and Southeast Asia.

All students are urged to attend this membership meeting and in so doing share in the promotion and execution of the work of the Y.M.C.A.

Junior Class

Mr. Bass, the representative of Herff Jones will be at the student store Monday, November 22, from 8 a.m. to take orders for college rings.

ROBERT S. HENRY JAMES F. PINKNEY

"Truckers vs. Railroads” Is Debate Subject For Business-Economics Association Meet

Henry And Pinkney To Be Opposing Speakers

On Monday evening, December 2, the Business-Economics Association will present a program of interest to the entire Davidson College student body and faculty. Two prominent speakers from Washington, D.C., will visit our campus as guests of the association and will be opposing speakers at 8 o’clock in the College Union ballroom. Mr. James F. Pinkney represents the American Trucking Association and Mr. Robert S. Henry speaks for the Association of American Railroads.

Robert S. Henry

Robert S. Henry is Vice President in charge of Public Relations of the Association of American Railroads. For the last 33 years Mr. Henry has been in railroad service. Prior to this he was a newspaperman and lawyer in Nashville, Tennessee. Mr. Henry is the author of books on transportation and history, including “This Fascinating Railroad Business,” “Trains,” “Portraits of the Iron Horse,” and in the field of history, “The Story of the Confederacy,” “The Story of Reconstruction,” and “The Story of the Mexican War.”

James F. Pinkney

Mr. James F. Pinkney graduated from Davidson College in 1927. While here he was president of the student body, a star end on the 1926 state champion football team, a 440 dash man, and a member of Omicron Delta Kappa and Beta Theta Pi. He graduated from the University of Colorado Law School and practiced law in Denver from 1930-34. From 1935 to 1941 he was with the legal department of the Interstate Commerce (Continued On Page Four)

ROTC Unit Readies For N. C. Inspection

The Davidson R.O.T.C. unit is busying itself this week for an inspection of the outfit. Colonel Henry C. Settle, Chief of the North Carolina Military District, will be the inspecting officer. Colonel Settle is to arrive at the college on Tuesday, November 23, 1954, for a “look-see” into the organization, operation, administration, and drilling ability of the Davidson regiment. He will inspect both the cadre and cadet set-ups, with emphasis on the cadets. He is to make it a day-long visit, and in addition to the inspection tours, he will lunch at the College Union with President Cunningham, Dean Spencer, Colonel Sapp, Davidson PMS&T, and other members of the faculty.

Colonel Settle took over command of the North Carolina Military District this past June when Colonel Graham left. He was an enlisted man in the Army from 1927-32, and was given his 2nd Lieutenant’s commission in 1933. He became a full Colonel in 1952.

The R.O.T.C. unit has been working toward this inspection ever since the first drill in September. According to comments of officers of the unit, the regiment this year is in better shape for the inspection than it has been in the past several years. With the new policy of student cadet officers instructing the lower classes, a more homogeneous attitude and willingness toward harder work have been evident so far this semester.

MOREHEAD POLL: Student Opinion On Drinking Analyzed

In the past two weeks the Davidsonian through the feature department conducted the second in a series of monthly student opinion polls on national and local issues. These polls are not designed to influence opinion or prove theories but rather to register student thought and action on subjects of importance and interest to the college.

The poll this month was conducted by 24 representatives from all four classes; gathered cross-section views from 55 percent (458) of the student body, and covered all six dormitories, the Guest House, Carolina Inn, The Village, and five boarding house residences.

Question No. 1. Do you approve of drinking for yourself?

Yes No Total
45.2% 54.8%
Freshman 36.7 63.3
Sophomore 45.7 54.3
Junior 53.0 47.0
Senior 52.4 47.6

It was emphasized by those registering votes that these questions applied to drinking outside of the college. This poll was not concerned with drinking at Davidson.

Question No. 2. Do you approve of drinking for others?

Yes No Total
70.7% 29.3%
Freshman 67.1 32.9
Sophomore 66.4 33.6
Junior 76.5 23.5
Senior 78.7 21.3

Though opinions were not requested many volunteered their thoughts on the subject. It was the general consensus of opinions expressed that drinking was a matter of individual conviction — and as a result a mild indifference was shown to this (No. 2) question.

Question No. 3. Do you drink?

Yes No Total
44.2% 55.8%
Freshman 34.8 65.2
Sophomore 43.3 56.7
Junior 50.1 49.9
Senior 52.6 47.5

It was quite evident throughout the poll that students expressed their own thoughts freely and without influence from others. Of opinions expressed the majority came from the negative rather than the affirmative side. Many ideas were given in regard to the drinking rules here at the college, but these were not relevant to this poll.

This poll was taken by: J. Trawick, B. Daniel, B. Gallier, G. Rob- (Continued On Page Four)

ASSOCIATED COLLEGIATE INTERCOLLEGIATE PRESS NUMBER 9

Forum Presents Segregation Issue “Problem Considered On National, Local Levels

Special to the Davidsonian

The thorny problem of segregation came to the fore for all of Davidson Wednesday in a series of three addresses by Dr. James McBride Dabbs of Mayesville, S.C. and the Reverend Beverly Ashbury of Zebulon, N.C. For the first time this college year students and townspeople were presented with the facts and cases of the current controversy which is rocking the south and border states.

Dr. James M. Dabbs is shown here as he delivered the opening lecture in the YMCA Forum on segregation. —(Staff Photo by Daniel).

D.C., Ga. Tech. Arrange Joint Study

By ED SPEIR

Dr. John R. Cunningham, president of Davidson College, and Dr. Blake R. Van Leer, president of the Georgia Institute of Technology, announce a college program jointly adopted by the two institutions to train future engineers. The Georgia Institute of Technology agrees to accept students, with the recommendation of the administration of Davidson College, who have completed a three-year liberal arts course at Davidson. They will be accepted as junior students in one of the Institute’s eight engineering departments.

The students will be granted degrees in engineering upon the satisfactory completion of individual programs of work. The programs will be six quarters each, totaling not less than 114 quarter hours.

Pre-Requisites

The details of these programs are to be decided by the Dean of Engineering and the Curriculum Committee of the Georgia Institute of Technology. The programs will include the bulk of the work of the last two years at the Institute. However, they may also include a small amount of freshman and sophomore prerequisite work not given at Davidson College.

The details of the three-year liberal arts program as given in the 1954-55 Davidson College catalog are as follows:

First Year

Bible 6, English 6, Mathematics 6, Foreign Language 6, Physics 8, ROTC 3;Total 35. Second Year: English 6, Mathematics 6, Foreign Language 6, Chemistry 6, History 6, ROTC 3; Total 33. Third Year: Mathematics 6, Bible 6, Physics 8, Physics or Chemistry 8, Drawing and Descriptive Geo. 6; Total Students preparing for Chemical Engineering, Ceramic Engineering, or Textile Chemistry will take two years of Chemistry and two years of Physics. All others will take one year of Chemistry and three years of Physics.

Two Degrees
Students entering the joint program, effective immediately, will study three years at Davidson, then go to Georgia Tech for two years in one of the eight engineering courses there. Upon graduation, they will receive both the bachelor of arts and engineering degrees in five years instead of the six years normally required to earn the two degrees. Davidson has a similar affiliation with the Columbia University School of Engineering. This program was initiated in 1953 and is now in effect.

One Of First Programs
Georgia Tech is one of the first engineering schools in the South to adopt this new three-two educational program. Davidson and Southwestern University are at present the only two institutions to be selected for affiliation with Georgia Tech to enable students to obtain two degrees in a liberalized course. The objective of the three-two plan, by the integration of a three-year liberal arts course and a two- (Continued On Page Four)

Drinking Rule Stated, Provisions Explained
At the closed meeting of the Student Body last Friday, a student raised the question of interpretation of the drinking rule. The following is a discussion of the drinking rule. Article VIII, Section 2: No student shall be guilty of drinking alcoholic liquors, being under the influence of, or having the same in his possession, on the campus. Members of the Student Council are honor bound, and members of the Student Body duty bound, to report violations of the above-stated rule. The smelling of alcohol on the breath is considered by the Council to constitute “under the influence of” as far as members of the Council are concerned. This student rule is administered completely by the Student Body and the Student Council. The faculty rule concerning drinking is as follows: A student will be suspended from Davidson College if he is found guilty of drinking, possessing, or being under the influence of an alcoholic beverage while within the town limits of Davidson, or while attending any off-campus event sponsored entirely or in part by Davidson College or any organization connected with Davidson. The enforcement of this rule lies with the college and not with any student organization.

Docherty To Speak In Chapel Dec. 2
On December 2, Dr. George M. Docherty will speak in chapel. Dr. Docherty has spoken here many times before and his coming is anticipated with interest. He was born in Glasgow, Scotland, and for many years has been pastor of the New York Avenue Presbyterian Church in Washington. He will conduct a series of services at the First Presbyterian Church in Charlotte during that week. Dr. Docherty was the speaker at the fall services of Davidson last November. His topic was ‘Concerning the Faith.’ His it was to leave many Davidson students with a deeper feeling of meaning concerning their faith.

History of the Case
Beginning the series of forum addresses in chapel Wednesday morning, Dr. Dabbs traced the history of the segregation problem from its ‘beginning’ in 1896 with the Supreme Court decision in the case of Plessy vs. Ferguson through 58 years to the inevitable decision made this past spring. On May 17, 1954, Chief Justice Earl Warren of the United States Supreme Court gave the decision which put an end to the concept of separate but equal segregation which has been in effect since the 1896 decision of Plessy vs. Ferguson. The Plessy case, coming at the end of a long period of reconstruction and compromise following the Civil War, was the final gasp of the Negro in his losing effort to maintain himself on the ground of equality that he had taken such great advantage of in the years following the Civil War. By it, the Supreme Court pronounced that there was no violation of the “equal protection” clause of the Fourteenth Amendment in segregation so long as the Negro was given equal facilities. Thus, in effect, the Court signified that the United States was ready for the South to attempt to solve its own problem of race. For over thirty years following this decision little was said of the race issue. At the polls and in social life the Negro was in his place in the South. Segregation, however, has been a rising issue since 1930. The “separate but equal” ruling began to lose effect on the one hand, and on the other the people of the States began to sense an existing inequality in everything, including opportunity, in the South. With the change in public opinion new cases regarding segregation began to appear before the Supreme Court at about the same time that cases came to the Court involving the right of Negroes to suffrage. Cases in 1935, 1938, and 1950 regarding the right of Negroes to attend graduate schools of state universities resulted in a progression of decisions which stated first that Negroes must be admitted to the state law school if one of equal caliber is not provided in the state for Negroes, second that Negro law schools could be judged inferior on the basis of “intangibles,” i.e., prestige of the school, quality and variety of curriculum, breadth of opportunity, etc., and finally that segregation of a Negro in a white school was also unconstitutional (Continued On Page Four)

Who’s Who Selects Thirteen Davidson Seniors
By AL MYERS
Thirteen outstanding seniors were chosen to be in Who's Who Among Students in American Universities and Colleges. These are Gayle Averyt, Vereen Bell, Henry Brockmann, Corty Cooper, Charlie Cousar, Dickie Davis, and Floyd Feeney. Leighton Green, Corky King, Swain Loy, Leighton McCutchen, Fred Summers, and Ronnie Wilson.

Gayle Averyt
A new member of Phi Beta Kappa, Gayle serves his fraternity, S.A.E., as Boarding House Manager. He is a Distinguished Military Student, a Cadet Captain in the local R.O.T.C. unit, and a member of Scabbard and Blade. He is also President of the Business-Economics Association.

Vereen Bell
Vereen, a member of Sigma Chi social fraternity, is editor of the Scripts ‘n Pranks. He is also a member of Sigma Upsilon, Phi Literary Society, and the Red and Black Masquers.

Henry Brockmann
Well known to all on the Davidson scene, Henry serves as Editor of the Davidsonian, chairman of the Publications Board and Editor of the Wildcat Handbook. Being recently elected into Phi Beta Kappa, he is also a member of Omicron Delta Kappa, Sigma Upsilon, and Eu Literary Society.

Cortez Cooper
Serving as Cadet Regimental Commander of the Davidson R.O.T.C., Corty has distinguished himself in the military. He is a member of Phi Beta Kappa, O.D.K., and vice-president of Kappa Alpha. Corty plays varsity baseball and serves as treasurer of the Board of Directors of the Y.M.C.A. and the Business-Economics Association.

Charlie Cousar
A member of the Student Council for several years, Charlie is in the Phi Delta Theta Social Fraternity. He is active in the Beaver Club and the “D” Club, and is President of the Senior Class.

Dickie Davis
Dickie, a member of O.D.K., is a captain of the 1954 Wildcats. Besides being a Cadet Captain in the local R.O.T.C., he is in the “D” Club, Beaver Club, and Kappa Sigma Fraternity. He also serves on the “Y” Cabinet.

Floyd Feeney
This outstanding senior holds the important office of President of the Student Body. Floyd is also a member of Omicron Delta Kappa, the “D” Club, the Beaver Club, and Kappa Sigma Fraternity. He participates in track and cross country.

Leighton Green
This outstanding tennis player is a member of the honorary fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, and Phi Beta Kappa. Leighton is also active in Kappa Sigma. He is President of the YMCA.

Corky King
Besides being Freshman Advisor, Corky is on the “Y” Cabinet and Board of Directors for the Y.M.C.A. He is a member of the Student Council, Omicron Delta Kappa, and the “D” Club. Corky also plays end for the Davidson Wildcats.

Swain Loy
This witty senior serves on the Student Council and as Editor of the yearbook, the Quips and Cranks. Swain is President of Kappa Alpha, a member of O.D.K., Philanthropic Literary Society, and the Red and Black Masquers.

Leighton McCutchen
Leighton serves on the Y Cabinet as chairman of the Campus Life Committee. He is a former Student Council member, President of the National honorary fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, and an outstanding singer in the Male Chorus.

Fred Summers
President of Pi Kappa Alpha, Fred holds the important post of chairman of Deputations on the Y Cabinet. He is President of the Honorary Fraternity Council.

Ronnie Wilson
A recent initiate into Phi Beta Kappa and Omicron Delta Kappa, Ronnie holds the important office of President of the Inter-Fraternity Council. He is a member of Kappa Alpha Social Fraternity, Sigma Upsilon, Sigma Delta Pi, and Phi Literary Society.