PAGE FOUR

SERGEANT SKETCH SPC. L. O. WERNOWSKY

Sergeant First Class L. O. Wernowsky, of the Davidson College R.O.T.C. Department, entered the Army in June, 1941, at Fort Snelling, Minnesota. He took his basic training at Camp Callan, California, where he remained until September, 1941. During September, Wernowsky departed for Hawaii to join the 97th Coast Artillery. He was stationed there during the attack on Pearl Harbor and remained there until October, 1943, when he was transferred to Baker Island. After an eight-month stay on Baker Island, Sergeant Wernowsky returned to Hawaii, where he remained until February, 1945. At this time, he returned to the United States and was discharged from the Army one month later.

In June, 1947, at Fort Sheridan, Illinois, Sergeant Wernowsky re-enlisted in the Army and was sent to Fort Knox, Kentucky for a refresher course. A few weeks later he went to Italy for occupation duty with the 88th Division but returned in December, 1947. After a year’s experience in the 82nd Airborne Division, Sergeant Wernowsky reported to Camp Gordon, Georgia, with the Signal Corps, where he remained until 1951, at which time he applied for R.O.T.C. duty. He was sent to Davidson College where he serves as clerk typist for the R.O.T.C. Headquarters. Sergeant First Class Wernowsky presently resides between Davidson and Concord with his wife and two daughters.

UNION PLANS FILM FOR HOMECOMING

Mr. C. Smith Shaw announced today that a film would be shown Saturday night after the informal Homecoming Dance. The movie will begin right after the dance, and afterwards there will be light refreshments served. The admission price will be 25 cents per couple. The movie is being sponsored by the Union Social Committee and everyone is cordially invited to attend. The name of the movie will be announced in next week’s Davidsonian.

Ogden Nash... (Continued From Page One)

that in a moment of desk doodling one day he came up with the first sample of Nashism:
I sit in an office at Madison Avenue,
And say to myself ‘You have a responsible job, Havenue?’

Some dozen volumes of his verse have made Ogden Nash the comic “poet laureate” of the United States. He wrote the lyrics and was

YMCA COMMITTEE PLANS LATE SOCIAL

The Y.M.C.A. Social Committee is making final plans for an “After the Dance Social” to be held on Friday night of Homecoming. The Social will be held at Erwin Lodge and will begin immediately following the Dance. Informal dress will be in order and both hot dogs and cold drinks will be furnished. Several entertaining features are being planned. All members of the Student Body are cordially invited to come. Those who are interested are urged to contact either Sandy McGeachy or Diehl Sluss before October 28.

SCRIPTS 'N PRANKS ANNOUNCES CONTEST

Scripts 'N Pranks is currently sponsoring its annual freshman creative writing contest. A prize of 10 dollars awaits the writer of the short story, essay, or other type of prose literature which, in the opinion of the judges, is best of those entered in the contest. Any freshman may submit as many samples of his writing as he wishes. To be accepted for consideration, all entries must be given to a member of the editorial staff of the magazine by November 9. Several writings besides the prize winner will be printed in Scripts 'N Pranks. The judges have requested that entrants keep this in mind and make their entries of a length suitable for publication.

DAVIDSON ALUMNUS ENTERS SEMINARY

Edward Milner has entered The Chicago Theological Seminary to work toward his Ph.D. degree. Mr. Milner is a 1951 graduate of Davidson College with a B.S. degree and a 1954 graduate of the Columbia Seminary in Decatur, Georgia, with his B.D. degree. His parents are Mr. and Mrs. Benjamin Charles Milner of Atlanta, Georgia. The Chicago Theological Seminary is one of four Federated Theological Schools at the University of Chicago. It will celebrate its 100th year of service to the churches in 1955.

Freshman Fellowship Groups To Organize

The Freshman Council is organizing Freshman Fellowship Groups, which will be groups of from ten to fifteen students each with one upper class adviser. These groups will meet once every two weeks at a place designated by their upper class adviser. The purpose of these groups is fourfold. The first purpose is to help in the betterment of faculty-student relations. The second purpose is to provide leadership training for those who take part. The third, and probably the most important, is to promote fellowship among the students. The final purpose is to acquaint the Freshmen with some of the problems they will face and try to offer some solutions to them, through informal discussion groups on suggested topics. Some of these topics include: dating, religion, vocations. All Freshmen interested in this program may sign up in the YMCA Office.

Committee Presents ‘La Boheme’ Sunday

“La Boheme” will be Sunday’s Abernethy, the Liaison Officer.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

CORRECTED YMCA BUDGET FOR 1954-1955

Cash Balance $ 473.37

Income
Student Activities Fees $4,138.00
Vesper Offerings 2,600.00
College Contribution 1,941.63
Total Assets $9,153.00

Expenses
Operating Expenses
Salaries $5,063.00
Automobile Expense 50.00
Automobile Depreciation 300.00
Literature 50.00
National Student Y.M.C.A. (Fair Share Plan) 400.00
Cabinet Retreats 50.00
Office Expenses 325.00
Telephone 473.00
Conferences 300.00
General Secretary’s Discretionary Fund 50.00
Sub Total $6,988.00

Cabinet Expenses
Publications and Public Relations $ 820.00
Boys’ Work 75.00
Chapel 10.00
Deputations 50.00
Community Work 75.00
Scouting 200.00
Social Life 200.00
University Christian Mission 700.00
Hall Services 15.00
Commission on Effective Citizenship 100.00
Commission on Campus Life 100.00
Sub Total $2,165.00

Total Expenses $9,153.00

Phi Beta Kappa... (Continued From Page One)

in Modern Literature. This busy senior, active in literary circles, is an assistant editor of both the Davidsonian and Quips and Cranks and an associate editor of the Scripts 'N Pranks. Last year's third prize winner in the Vereen Bell Contest, he is also Vice-President of Westminster Fellowship, Secretary of the International Relations Club and a member of Sigma Upsilon and Philanthropic Society. Gragg, a pre-ministerial student, is a candidate for a Fulbright and Rhodes scholarship.

Bob Hayes

This talented senior is from Fayetteville, North Carolina, and has the rare distinction of combining a scientific pre-med major with an Honors in English course. Bob is the capable historian of Beta Theta Pi, and his entertaining reports keep the members convulsed with laughter. He has been a member of the Scripts 'N Pranks Staff and at present is serving as secretary of Sigma Upsilon. Bob is a member of Alpha Epsilon Delta and Gamma Sigma Epsilon. Continental, Hayes loves traveling and hopes to journey to Harvard, Columbia, or Pennsylvania on a nice scholarship for his M.D. next fall.

Danforth... (Continued From Page One)

the same time for a Danforth Fellowship. If a man receives the Danforth appointment, together with a Rhodes Scholarship, Fulbright Scholarship, or Woodrow Wilson Fellowship, he becomes a Danforth Fellow without stipend, until these other relationships are completed. All Danforth Fellows will participate in the annual Danforth Foundation Conference on Teaching, to be held at Camp Miniwanca in Michigan next September.

The qualifications of the candidates as listed in the announcement from the Foundation are: men of outstanding academic ability, personality congenial to the classroom, and integrity and character, including faith and commitment within the Christian tradition. All applications, including the recommendations, must be completed by February 15, 1955. Any student wishing further information should get in touch with Dr.

Top-Ranking Seniors At NYU Get Unlimited Number Of Class Cuts

New York, N. Y.—(LP.)—High-ranking senior students of the University College of Arts and Science at New York University are free to skip classes without penalty, according to a new ruling announced by the faculty. They voted to allow unlimited absences from classes for seniors on the dean’s list. The list comprises students with a scholastic average of 85 percent or more. Honor seniors will still be required to take examinations and fulfill such obligations as class speeches, papers, and other assignments. Otherwise, “they will be allowed to attend classes, both laboratories and lectures, at their own discretion.” The only exceptions are students in military science courses and G.I. Bill students, whose attendance is governed by Federal regulations.

Proponents called the measure an incentive to scholarship in the true sense of the liberal arts. Scholastically superior students, it was stated, will not squander time taken off from formal classes. In most cases, a student will elect not to at-

Ronnie Wilson

This versatile Miami, Florida, senior has the honor of being the only married newly-elected Phi Bete. Ronnie represents Kappa Alpha on the Interfraternity Council, of which he is the President. He is also an active member of Sigma Upsilon, Philanthropic Literary Society, the HonoraryFraternity Council, and has been prolific in writing for the Davidsonian, Quips and Cranks, and Scripts ‘N Pranks. Ronnie is another psychology major and plans to attend graduate school on a fellowship this fall. A grammarian says the article “a” always means “one.” How mistaken he is! For example, note the article “a” in this sentence: “And now we have a word from our sponsor.” tend a certain class because he feels he can better advance himself by independent study, some members of the faculty believe.

NIAN FRIDAY, OCTOBER 22, 1954

Abernethy Tells Of Four Scholarships Available To Davidson Students This Year

Professor George L. Abernethy has announced that the Graduate Record Examination will be given at Davidson on January 27, 1955, and April 30, 1955. It will also be administered at Duke and Woman's College on November 20, 1954. Completed applications for any of these administrations must be received in the Princeton, New Jersey, office of the Educational Testing Service fifteen days prior to the scheduled administration. Seniors who expect to attend graduate school are urged to find out immediately whether the graduate school of their choice requires the Graduate Record Examination for admission. Application blanks and further information may be had from Professor Abernethy.

Business Test Announced

The Educational Testing Service announces a new admission test for Graduate Study in Business which is now being required by the Graduate Schools of the following universities: Columbia University, Harvard University, Northwestern University, Rutgers University, Seton Hall University, Syracuse University, University of Chicago, University of Michigan, University of Pennsylvania, and Washington University. The test will be given at Chapel Hill on February 3, 1955, and May 14, 1955. Further information about application procedures and fees may be had from Professor G. L. Abernethy.

Guidance Program

(Continued From Page One)

his shortcomings. These tests are offered to any Davidson student, free of charge, and are available to him Monday through Friday from two to four p.m.

A farmer told his hired man to drive into town for some supplies. The hired man returned a full hour later than he should have. He protested to the raging farmer, “No, sir, I wasn’t wastin’ time at the saloon at all. It’s just that I picked up the parson down the road about three miles and from then on them pesky mules couldn’t understand a word I said.”

Abernethy Announces Graduate Exams

Dr. G. L. Abernethy announced this week four scholarship opportunities available to Davidson seniors this year.

Harvard

Harvard University Graduate School of Arts and Sciences is offering fifteen Prize Fellowships of $2,000 each to qualified applicants for the academic year 1955-56. In addition, approximately 300 scholarships and non-teaching fellowships will be awarded in the various departments and divisions of the university. The closing date for completed applications is February 8, 1955. Seniors should write immediately for application blanks to the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, 24 Quincy Street, Cambridge 38, Massachusetts.

Research Council

The Social Science Research Council has announced 50 Undergraduate Research Stipends open only to college juniors for a research project under faculty supervision during eight weeks of a summer and continued during the senior year. The summer work carries a stipend of $600. At the conclusion of his senior year, the student may receive consideration for a graduate fellowship carrying a stipend of $1,250. Applications must be completed by January 1, 1955. Further information may be had from Prof. G. L. Abernethy or by writing the Social Science Research Council, 726 Jackson Place, N. W. Washington 6, D. C.

Tulane

Tulane University School of Law is offering one of its regional scholarships to an honor graduate of Davidson College. If the recipient of the award is called into military service, the scholarship may be postponed until the completion of military service. Further information may be had by consulting Professor Fred Morton of the Department of Business Administration. Prompt application is important in all cases in order that full consideration may be granted to all applicants.

Princeton

Princeton University is offering ten Princeton National Fellowships for entering graduate students in the Humanities and Social Sciences. Each of these fellowships carries a stipend of $2,000. They are to be awarded to outstanding students who possess the highest qualities of intellect, character, personality, and proficiency in their chosen areas of study. Unsuccessful candidates will be considered for other Princeton awards. Princeton is offering also a large number of awards for entering graduate students in the natural sciences and engineering. These awards carry stipends ranging from $1350 to $1850. Completed application blanks, together with supporting documents, must reach the Graduate School Office at Princeton before March 2, 1955. A catalogue and application blanks may be had by writing to the Dean of the Graduate School, Princeton University, Princeton, New Jersey.

R.O.T.C. Dept.

(Continued From Page One)

play is to permit parents to see their sons’ R.O.T.C. requirements and obligations. The display will be shown during the morning hours of October 30 and that afternoon until the football game begins. It will also be exhibited on Parents’ Day, November 6, for the benefit of those who fail to see it during Homecoming.

Drink ‘M O O R’ QUALITY MILK

Mooresville Creamery, Inc.

At the meeting of the Red and Black Masquers Monday night, freshmen were auditioned for possible participation in dramatic productions which will be announced later. At present there have been no definite plans concerning the first play to be produced. This will be chosen from a group of three that have been tentatively selected. Again this year Professor Raymond Tyson will be the advisor of the Masquers and director of the plays. He has served in this position for the past seven years. The female roles this year will again be played by the wives of professors and students. If there are any wives of students who would like to participate in the dramatic productions this year, they are asked to contact the president of the Red and Black Masquers, Fred Summers.

DAVIDSON THEATRE

All Pictures Will Be Shown On Our New P-A-N-O-R-A-M-I-C WIDE SCREEN

FRI.-SAT. OCT. 22-23 “THE LONG WAIT” ANTHONY QUINN PEGGIE CASTLE

MON.-TUES. OCT. 25-26 “MAN WITH A MILLION” GREGORY PECK

WEDNESDAY, OCT. 27 “HOBSON CHOICE” CHARLES LAUGHTON

THURS.-FRI. OCT. 28-29 “SEVEN BRIDES AND SEVEN BROTHERS” JANE POWELL HOWARD KEEL

GET MUCH MORE FLAVOR MUCH LESS NICOTINE!

co-author with S. J. Perelman of the musical, “One Touch of Venus.” Another of his ventures as lyricist onto Broadway was the production of “Two's Company” starring Bette Davis. In 1950 Ogden Nash was commissioned to write his peculiar brand of verse for a Columbia recording of Saint-Saens’ “Carnival of Animals,” which was presented here in part years ago by the piano team of Nelson and Neal. presentation by the College Union. Music and Television Committee. The recorded performance will begin at 2 p.m., Chairman John Harmon announced. All students and faculty members are invited. Cokes will be served for refreshments.

A.E.D. WILL INITIATE NEW MEMBERS NOV. 3

Alpha Epsilon Delta, national honorary pre-medical fraternity, will hold its annual initiation ceremony Wednesday, November 3. 

THE CONNOISSEUR

A Place of fine Foods for any taste in Eating — Specializing in Steak, Seafood, and Chicken Dinners. Mooresville, N. C. Phone 3-2861

It’s the FILTER that Counts and L&M has the Best! Such collections as Parents Keep Out (Elderly Poems for Youngerly Readers), Family Reunion, Good Intentions, Many Long Years Ago, and Everyone But Thee and Me have endeared Ogden Nash to thousands of Americans. For the past several seasons Mr. Nash has been warmly treading the lecture platform with much success. Life Magazine invited him to speak out in his own words on the subject of lecturing and he wrote: “For the past several seasons I have hoisted on the platform...”

PARKER GARDNER

CHARLOTTE 2, N. C. 118 West Trade Street Phone ED. 2-257