EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Joe Brockmann

BUSINESS MANAGER
Tim Cooper

ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Lloyd Feeney, John Handley, Austin Gragg, Swain Boyd

Managing Editors
Blake Brinkerhoff, Maurice Crouse, Tom Warlick

Sports Editor
Jim Holshouser

Feature Editor
Dick Morehead

News Editors
John Hiers, Watt McCain

Copy Editor
John Harmon

Art Editor
Ed Pri

Photographer
Hank Daniel

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 29, 1954

The Davidsonian
Published Weekly Throughout the College Year
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N.C., under the Act of March 3, 1897

PAGE TWO

Student Apathy To Artist Series True Picture Of Davidson Culture

A recent editorial in the Furman Hornet decried what it referred to as “a cultural lag at Furman” in the failure of the University to present a full series of well-known artists for the benefit of the students during the college year. The University, stated the editorial, sponsors but two programs this year, these being lectures by John C. Caldwell, diplomat, and John Mason Brown, critic. The only other chance for Furman students to attend cultural performances is through the Community Concerts, and tickets to these concerts at a special student rate are limited to only 100 of Furman’s 1400 students, these students being channeled to the balcony for the performance.

In referring to the advantages that the cultural programs of other colleges have over Furman, the editorial made the following statement: “Take note of such collegiate culture programs as those at Clemson and Davidson.” Furman University at Greenville has recognized a need in their cultural lag which Davidson students in their richness of cultural opportunity seem totally unaware. Furman looks upon Davidson with envy because, to her mind, we have an outstanding artist series program. Yet the students at Davidson, who have neither to pay special prices nor to sit in the balcony, are utterly blind in their failure to take advantage of the artist series. Indeed, if it were not for the townspeople and people from Charlotte who journey miles to see famous personalities and organizations, it is beyond speculation that during certain presentations the performers would outnumber the audience. Such a situation is not only abominable but is a direct reflection upon our present-day society.

Furman might be jealous of Davidson for the artist series which our college makes available for her students, but Davidson might well be jealous of Furman for appreciating the fact that college is more than a round of bookmarks and weekends, that it is the only period in life when one has time to take advantage of culture, and that since this is true every effort to give that culture to him should be employed. Perhaps we should send our artist series south. It would be more appreciated.

The Student Manifesto: To Look On And Never Make A Sound

Perhaps those who return this weekend to Davidson for the first time in a year or more wonder as they look about them what the student mind thinks now, whether or not the men in college fatigue clothes who pass them on the way to the library or those who pass them in tux on the way to the dance think as they did those years back when... We must be frank in stating that we do not know, for from where we stand we cannot measure the minds of men twenty years ago except in the scanty way of recalling the social history of the time.

We remember from our history, or perhaps from Frederick Lewis Allen, that when many of you were students the cold tones of the saxophone blared out into an age when everybody questioned everything, when girls were demanding rights and tearing into the old mores to a degree to make their Victorian parents wince, and when roadsters and Fatimas and lipstick and beauty parlors and dressmakers and prohibition and boom were the words of the day.

If we stretch ourselves back into dim boyhood most of us who are students can remember the days of the ’30s. Everything cost less but no one was as rich as today. There was that brief period of boyhood when we played with tin soldiers and took summer trips, but all that was soon swept away in something that also swept away tin cans, sugar, coffee, and our older brothers or fathers. For the next four years we grew, contenting ourselves with plastic toys and pictures of “Mustangs” and “Corsairs,” till the war was over and everyone said things would get “back to normal.”

It is of this period of getting “back to normal” that today’s Davidson students are a product. You who graduated in years past might want to know just what sort of a product that is, and it is interesting for us to find out ourselves, for ours has been a strange age of unparalleled richness and danger. We grew up in a time when day after day we heard the hue and cry of all the world dangers on the one hand while on the other our homes, towns, and persons were stacked high with the material benefits following the war. On one side, then, we have been faced with nebular thorns in the flesh to such an extent that we have ceased to prick up our ears every time Uncle Sam cries “wolf!”, while on the other side we have drunk deep of the waters of material benefits, and as we forgot the major problems of life we have filled the vacancy left in our unthinking minds by television screens, hamburgers, dime magazines and novels, flicks, whisky, beach vacations and a thousand other little things to get our attention off anything but the present.

Living in a generation when no one is sure what will happen, we have tried to put off any decision by forgetting the problem. The result has been a perfect apathy, as we coolly argued about putting coffee in sugar bowls, whether freshmen should wear name tags till November 1, why we ought to have free cuts, or what professor gives the least trouble on reviews; while around the world nations are reverberating and continents are seething with a steam which will eventually blow the face off civilization; while new and more powerful bombs are developed daily, and while streaks across the sky tell us that they may be delivered to us without the slightest warning.

Religion is no longer the opiate of the people, if it ever was. No, to the present-day student at Davidson religion pleads for an awakening to the important things of life: for a regard for the people of the world; for a faith that governs life; for awakening people who will reach out in love to save civilization before the strife-ridden elements destroy it. But the opiates other than religion are ever stronger, and the lethargy was never more profound, for who wouldn't rather watch television than read the great authors who had ideas, and who wouldn't rather salve their consciences with some of the current sugared-up gospels of the business economy than walk through the strait gate described by Christ.

Here we stand, unbloodied as yet, but completely bowed. It is much easier to go with the tide than to stand alone. Why should we have a purpose? Why should we fight for a belief when we have learned that all are “purely relative” anyway? It is so much easier to be a hollow man among hollow men than to be a martyr. We have learned that there is a current unpopularity of martyrs anyway.

To you who are alumni we extend a welcome, and say that it is still up to those who have gone before us to prove to us that life is more than rounds of business deals, conventions, and golf.

“Great To See You Again!”
“Hello Bill! How’s the drugstore in Nashville?” (Tom—Series Foods in Charlotte)
“And—Fine! You still in the bank at Richmond?” (Jim—Series Foods in Concord)
“Tell me, how are Helen and the kids?” (Tom—Married, same offspring)
“Great! And yours?” (Jim—Confirmed bachelor)
“Sure remember your great touchdown against State!” (Tom—Avid fan)
“And your sprint record in track!” (Jim—Chess)
“Those were the days. Well, so long, Ed.”
“See you later, Sam.”

FOR HOMECOMING $61,000! It’s Well Worth Every Thousand That We Spend Of It

It has been estimated by a scholarly inquirer that this weekend in progress will drain assorted pocketbooks of the sum of $61,000 in frigid currency. In the polled opinion of most believers, homecoming weekend is worth every thousand of it—and more. Let us gaze at some of the facts.

There were the long weeks of preparation: cars polished to perfection by pledges’ voluntary efforts; the hours of daydreaming and meditation on Esquire editorials; diligent study and memorization of the best of Playboy and other literary editions; the midnight ride of Lady Shaftesbury; endless searching for a sack, transportation, date, etc.; preparation of the room for the coming attractions; how to get eight human beings in one coupe without wrinkles; long hours of “lodge decorations;” and finally the evacuation.

Then—wham!—the indescribable invasion of skirts from the outer world. There follows the hour of charm with Ogden (“God in His wisdom made the fly, and then forgot to tell us why”) Nash with his 8634 verses of wit, humor, and clever critique. Then to the dance floor where amid the gay and suggestive decorations the twirling mass continues its fun, frolic, and festivity to the rhythmic swing of Smilin’ Sam Donahue and orchestra.

GRAGGISM HIT TOO BY DICK MOREHEAD

First in 14 Years

On Saturday comes the muscle match between the up-and-ready Wildcats and John L. Lewis’ Golden Bears with its flag waving, loud music, decorative mums, shouting and buttons portraying the hard fact that this is the “first in 14 years.” There will be no button burning Saturday afternoon!

Always the boarding house fiasco where brothers make profuse apologies concerning the abominable selection of condiments while restraining themselves from their first square meal in months. But the inevitable end—and the morning after: with the extended physiognomy, well-developed eye sockets, and the mopey blues; that trembling touch on the PO box, hoping that headquarters hasn't uncovered the blasted bank balance or the slightly tired condition of the community car; the re-orientation into education—and the memories.

Beware!

A word of caution, however, to the southern belles; “Her mother never told her, the things a young girl should know; about the ways of college boys, and how they come and go—” Beware of the educated freshman—who subtly maneuvers you into a dark corner, snuffs out the last remnant of light, tenderly presses your palm, and then proceeds to expound on the horrors of stud duty, the low life of a pledge, the impending doom of a theme paper, or his unbounded courage in facing the miseries of the freshman race. He may have the wrong idea.Beware of the pegged prancer — who jogs over to your corner, asks if you would care to “dig the next frantic jive” and then proceeds to whirl you through a jolting jumbo of the Birmingham bounce, Mambo, Beetle’s Bop, and the Shady Boogie. You may not make it to Sunday School the next morning. Beware of the “men” who do but shouldn’t, the ones who never stagger or fall. There may not be a pledge around to play chauffeur (or any wood alcohol). Beware of the enthusiastic astronomer who invites you to span and speculate upon the celestial bodies. It may be a cloudy night. Beware of ‘Cop’ Linker. He has a flashlight. Beware of the senior... Remember, he has been here some three years, experienced nine “big” weekends, some six minor blasts, numerous deputations, enlivened bull sessions, and one “Y” exchange day dance. He may be dangerous. Beware of the former grad who belabors the glory of the “good old days.” We have just as much to shout about — $61,000 — it’s worth every thousand of it.

Laundry And Student’s Servants Defended; Little Mencken Hit

BY ERNEST TAYLOR

It has been the resolve of The Davidsonian to serve as the promulgator of legitimate, constructive criticism, a resolve which it has creditably realized. However, The Davidsonian is not the place for such cheap journalism as the petty, gratuitous diatribe which Little Mencken launched against the college laundry in last Friday's publication. Whether our Little Mencken is sincere in his criticism or his talents, I do not know. What I do know is that his denunciation is the extreme in hyperbole, unfair to the laundry, and anything but amusing.

Were the employees of the laundry as indifferent to their jobs and as negligent as Little Mencken insinuates, they would all have been replaced long ago. Furthermore, I know that they are rather conscientious about their duties; and were I an employee of the college laundry, I would resent and be deeply hurt by such a categorical damnation. I, too, have suffered a few lost buttons, found my khaki pants sometimes too stiff to don, and grumbled over the slight discoloration of my socks and underwear. Such occurrences are, I believe, exceptional and are not any indication of the generally adequate job realized in the laundry, which I contend is doing a creditable, though far from perfect, performance.

Then why must our Little Menckens consistently carp at the laundry and at other services rendered by the college? Perhaps it is because they are the product of the upper-middle and lower-upper classes, extolled by these complacent exponents of Graggism, individuals who have never known what it is to perform a manual or mental task and who probably never will. There is in the student body this small segment that will be adversely critical of everything that is done on this campus and will gripe and grunt regardless of what the school authorities do. I doubt if God Himself could placate the grumblings of these pseudo-perfectionists, who, between you and me, are the most pitiable of creatures.

I am among those who work in the Union (if you will allow me the liberty of the use of the term “work” to describe what we do). Our main interest is in the contents of our pay envelopes, and we are sometimes guilty of glaring slovenliness and inefficiency, though generally we attempt to execute our jobs conscientiously and effectively. We are grateful that most of the student body attribute good intentions to our efforts and overlook our faults. They realize that we are in a dilemma in trying to fulfill the exacting demands of the employer, as well as the equally exacting demands of the students. (It is the former, of course, whose demands we meet.)

Since I have been at Davidson, I have been so satiated with this damnable querulousness that I wish I were able to belch every iota of it from my system. As a last resort I would almost succumb to Mr. Gragg’s simple philosophy of humble optimism (which has now been modified to realistic optimism).

In his article, Little Mencken urges us not to “pity ourselves or languor because of our misfortunes...” because “...someone has more troubles than we.” Would that all our Little Menckens had some real problems.

JOES: HOLY AND OTHERWISE

A Search For Our Personal Motives

BY LEIGHTON McCUTCHEN

To be labeled a “Holy Joe” is a severe condemnation. As I understand it, a “Holy Joe” is one who thinly disguises his self-pride within a claim to be upholding righteousness. He refuses to associate or “pulls away” not only from wrong-doing, but from the wrong-doer. He is not really interested in the one that he condemns, but in his own purity and the “standards of rightness.” In the name of the highest of disciplines — Christianity — he practices its antithesis, i.e. a devotion to his own importance.

An “Unholy Joe”? Although there are some “Holy Joes” here on this campus, they are not in the majority. Rather most of us tend to follow a variation on this theme and are what might be called “Unholy Joes.” Anyone who refuses to identify himself with a person who is odd or different, pulling away from him, and pointing at him the finger of scorn or derision is really an “unholy Joe.” This Joe doesn't use the cloak of religion to mask his pride. He hides it behind standards of humor, or of social conformity, or the god of normality. Essentially however he does the same thing as the “Holy Joe,” that is he pulls away not only from the act which is incompatible with his set of values (or just plain goofy), but pulls away from the person acting as well.

A Better Way To you who say: “But I thought we were to maintain certain standards, and not to follow the crowd always.” This is the question—why are you maintaining those standards: to show God how good you are or to show people how good God is? If it is the latter, then look at your method again. For Jesus never used it. Rather than point down at people, He identified Himself fully with all men—the “worst” and the “best”—and pointed them to God. He didn't live by just condemning wrong, but by associating with wrong-doers and loving them away from their shabby lives. Not that He was sentimental about it; dying on a cross is not the way of a sentimentalist. “He hated sin, but loved the sinner,” for He saw what each person could be after being loved.

A Searching For Motives To you who are incensed by “Holy Joes”: look deep into your motives. If you are angry at hypocrisy and choose to heap scorn on it, then you are using a method followed by Jesus, for he said his bitterest words against hypocrisy. But if you are mad at somebody for showing up one of your pet faults and thereby trying to look better than you, check carefully. He may be really concerned more with your growth than you are—i.e. he may love you in the best sense. If you let the sting of truth blind you to real goodwill, then you have fallen into a trap patented by the Chief Unholy Joe himself. He loves self-esteem more than the light of revealing love. In fact he calls genuine love blasphemy so as to keep it from changing his values based on devotion to himself. They crucified a certain Jesus for blasphemy. Was it because he loved them far better than they even loved themselves? How can you love somebody, and hate some of the things that he does?

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Court Of Control Failing In Its Duty; Possible Solutions Proposed

Dear Editor: In writing this letter, I am not attacking the character or personality of any individual member of the Court of Control. Since the discontinuance of its meetings in chapel, there seems to be little interest on the part of the upperclassmen as to what the freshmen do. In my two years on this campus it has been the custom of I feel that the court is falling short of its duties. There have been fewer hat-checks in chapel. And if one isn't a member of the court or a freshman appearing before the court, one does not know who has been called before the court or what the individual's punishment is. I see three possible solutions to the problem of keeping the upperclassmen informed: 1) having an announcement of what has gone on in the Friday chapel; 2) printing a “Black List” in the Davidsonian each week; or 3) restoring the court to its normal position in chapel.

Sincerely, Jerry Helms

DC Paper Should Carry National, Foreign Opinions

Dear Editor: Don’t you think it would be a momentous and thrilling idea to carry the scope of your newspaper beyond the “1-mile” problems we have here at Davidson and include some of the 2,500 miles of problems faced by this world? Doesn't somehow the fact that two-thirds of the people of the world go to bed hungry every night arouse greater feeling in you than the naughty conduct of students in chapel? Don't get me wrong. I wouldn't for a minute suggest that you forsake our many Davidson problems (which we all strive so nobly to bear), but maybe sometime if you had a quarter of a column to fill, rather than extending “Caton’s Crud Corner” or “Gilbert's Gibberish,” why not throw in some random article on the U. N., S.A.T.O., the forthcoming elections, Pres. Eisenhower's prestige, or hurricane Hazel? Last week's article on segregation was a much needed step in the right direction.

Sincerely, Tom

Duke Numbering System Suggestion

Dear Editor: I'm certain that the architects of Duke dormitory had some room numbering system in mind when they planned the various sections. What the numbers were to be, however, must have been placed in the cornerstone along with the blueprints, because it is evident to anyone who has ever tried to find a certain room that absolutely no sane system exists which will make it easy to find the desired room.

A Modest Proposal I don't see why something can’t be done to relieve this situation. There are probably any number of solutions however, until they are forthcoming, I would like to offer the following modest proposal: Third floor Duke—Begin on the west side and number directly across, e.g., 301, 302, etc. West side of Duke (first two floors)—W101, W102, etc.; W201, W202, etc. for the second floor of the West section. East side of Duke (first two floors)—E101, E102, etc.; E201, E202, etc., for the second floor of the East section. Center section of Duke (First two floors)—C101, C102, etc.; C201, C202, etc. for the second floor of the center section.

Sincerely, John Fite 116-17 Duke (Guess where that is)

Question Of Duty

Dear Editor: Is it more important to fulfill a duty to a college rule made for the benefit of all, or to fulfill a duty of love to a fellow human being?

Sincerely, Jack Bolen