AN THE DAVIDSONIAN By BEALL

Ph nior} to the view of the student a very) many similar dances at several sur- callie Gus rts Siemens cake Ge aan” Ge dife Committee |he delegates to the Y each year. A new and already popular af. parking area in back of| second recone given. io done Hi-Y work| At all of the social functions given| fair by the Social Com- Ss at eek cae ee ae wrought a back-|thus far by the Y, all of the ex-| mittee this semester is the in- —e gg once = cigs gg nse? Fon personal experience and | pense for orchestras, food, decora- social held after each — he & mG. dip ie 66 ies into the| tions, and overhead has been paid! Artist Series concert. These events Georgia and Florida. They had|Palm Beach. After the concert : out of the Y budget. In contrast| are open to all couples and faculty ce tot tee ie oe ee eee Bill has cast| with last year, however, the stu-| members and include some type-of ing and had been on the road|ception and dinner given at the his into| dent has been given free choice of| refreshments and dancing if de- constantly since then Everglades Country Club. the field of bus-| whom he wishes to date, blind|sired. The remaining informal one hour lunch stop Beach Bums iness with an| dates being exempt except for the|of this variety will be held on Georgia. The band members enjoyed economical eye| first two exchange dances. Chair-| April 30. The tour had started themselves the: ment Giy on: the set upon being a|man Shipley has also arranged| Plans have been made to have | ceding Monday, when beach and in the town—there- had salesman. Giv-| transportation to and from these| more dances which will be open to the trailer drawn by John Shan-| been no concert scheduled for that ing all inter-| various functions. the Student Body and will be non's car were completely loaded,| day. Several of the members are viewers an equal| The activities of the Social Com-| similar to the one held on January and T. C. Ingram conducted still able to feel their blistered) and fair chance| mittee began with the Queens-Da-|29th. Plans have also been dis- a om poe ar ‘0 far, he hopes| vidson Freshmen Orientation dance | cussed for having some type of eighteen years. see tome We ee to start work on| at the beginning of the school| informal social event on the patio The first stop was headed toward Tampa, the world this| year, followed a few weeks later|of the Union this May with an Georgia, where the first Gopres Gordian. tm: Tange, tee] anne for cindy of laleseiell samaser afier ctossing over: thelr ie eee cee et ante ad nee was to be given at the Seuin past of the pregranba, the| psychology at North Carolina State| marital bridge in July, im the esthetic mountains around| sponsored by the Y and Union. '| Tow was able to get the same howl ag ae papal Ap Weeviously sanounced, Dest! and’ cross country teens, Bill line| boys. wore venturing, on this ex-|Y fee for summer students, the ‘|of the week with a the Knight agg nk te Moby will sttend: Weshington: Usi-\ consistently teolle the tape for|change trip, spgremimatcly 200) social committee carried on a player. eta men eg on” | versity, in St. Louis, Mo., to study| Davidson in his college running| flocked to the metals ef queens| very active and. successful pro- played iy. the pom ep English Literature of the Renais-| career. He is president of Sigma| fora dance given the same week-| gram during summer school. These The concert selections ‘atau sance. He has received a Woodrow | Delta Psi, and a very active mem-| end, also sponsored through the Y. various functions included water. Concerto for Trombone and Band _ ee to} Wilson Fellowship and a Henrietta! her of Interfraternity Council, the| Many of the functions of the Y|melon feasts every Wednesday, he Rielly Sieneniew, a ihe last| Hermans Fellowship. Mahy will| P club, the Economics and Bust-| Son Committee have been| lemonade and hot dog affairs on Hudson as trombone soloist; Fairest ogee say nag receive $1775 for a year’s study. ness Club, the Y Cabinet, and the| planned and carried out under|the patio of the Union, and a of the Fair March by John Philip/ concert was: given. ( be The Committee on Fellowships| Sigma Chi social fraternity. the co-sponsorship of the social| rousing dance which featured Roy re however, there was 4 stop. made/ for the Vanderbilt-Peabody Mas- The Social Committee committee for the Student Union.| Palmer and the Royal Palmers. Leroy Anderson, with Mason Field|so that a tour of Silver Springs| .°. of Arts in Teaching, has| The Social Committee ers! Bill Shipley is also chairman of " Also included were Flute Cock-| The — = it as ~—_- Vane: sind Scott: Downs. The ‘1 all — om na en , tail, by Harry Simeone, featuring|L. G. W , who played Davidson i j the flut sections: Dick Morrow,| French horn. L. G. is a student at FR Fg geo agg - (Continued: rom Page Two) | He, Year to all who signed up for DAVIDSON Larry Champion sad eb Beall; High Point High: School where Ne) ic, ana is cosponsored bor|Giline Gur probtome, cttatae cau) Suet: week. There have been sev- THEATRE It intention of studying biology and/| and Stars and Stripes Forever, by|is principal player of the french Vanderbilt University and George | reasons, predict opposition, find al-| °™@! semeral “scope eg - that a serious omission has been| anthropology in order to disprove| Sousa, with Larry Champion play-|horn section. He is considering | peabody College for Teachers. , present our plan, andj {*" but the majority of « se All Pictures Will Be Shown made this year in the selections|the Darwin theory which had been ing the piccolo. While these Sousa| Davidson as his choice for college discuss openly and intelligently the| °° Work has been done by Ge: Gur Maw for Who's Who at our fair insti-| giving him so much discomfort.| selections were being played, his| and hopes to major in music after| _. consequences. We must com- Mann, Dave Hood, Zell McGee, Mac pP A N -O-R A M | Lc tution. Although they picked such|Dejected by his findings, Ape, as| daughter was in the audience. he finishes high school next year. Fine Arts gies promise. Dagenhart, Tom Estes, and Diehl -A- -A-M- notables as Freshman Advisor and| he is affectionately called, turned (Continued From Page One) We are now choosing leaders for| 5/5 iii sell WIDE SCREEN the: editor of this rag, somehow| to alchemy. Crutchfield Seeks with this provision shall be re-| Dances. Ray Anthony and his.or-| the coming year. Some have been required to withdraw from college.

The first social of the year on the campus was left out. In an effort to rectify this error, and to publicly make his achievements known, this space is devoted to the exploits of Wild Bill Elliott, President of the Leisure Class.

Elliott, a four-year member of the YMCA and past president of the local Phi Beta Kappa chapter, has been very active in international affairs, serving two years as Procurator of the Canadian Club. In addition, he is well known for his sterling (hasn't scratched yet) grid record.

But he is perhaps most widely heralded for his vigorous attempts to establish a Davidson College Parent Teachers Association, which floundered only when his mother refused the presidency. Later he turned to campus politics and was elected President of the Leisure Class, primarily due to his outstanding oratory and platform which included the American Federation of Arts (Brooklyn chapter).

Despite the slight by Who's Who, Wild Bill's indomitable courage will overcome the disappointment. "Shucks," he shrugs, "him who laughs last, laughs best." And what's more, it probably will.

When he entered Davidson it was with the words "Student Council," wherever they appear.

Some have been elected and have presented good ideas. It now resides with the student body to determine these leaders' success. There is a challenge—how are we represented in the question of freshmen eating at the Union next year? What is the graphic representation of our Y-dollar? (How many of us know that we give a few boys—the debating team, some $800 to travel luxuriously over the country?) Why does the paper not cover the student council as it was proposed last year?

The Davidsonian should be the voice of constructive student criticism. Contrary and controversial opinions can be presented here. Faculty and Administration opposition to our proposals should be made public in the student paper. It will require work, but improvements initiated by us should be worthwhile.

The first social of the year was one of the biggest of the big ones. The Student Union was held in the ballroom of the Union on January 20th, with the expense, approximately $80, being shared by both UPS. A three-piece combo, acquired through the influence of Mr. Murphy, furnished the downbeat for the fifty couples in attendance. Another social was held later in the year with fair attendance, though in competition with other events.

Due to miscalculations of one kind or another, he will not graduate until after three and one-half weeks of summer school, but plans are underway nonetheless to make it a gala occasion. Following a commencement address by Bertrand Russell in the Green Room of the Union, Elliott will be treated, together with one other Boy Scout, to an exciting, healthy, all-expenses-paid trip to a sheep ranch in the Sierras by famed philanthropist and "reclaimer of prodigal sons," Mr. John Dallavaux, lately of Winninger’s Clinic, Chicago.

While in the West, Elliott hopes to visit Tijuana, Mexico, in order to procure more prize photos for his already famous art collection. Despite the slight by Who's Who, Wild Bill's indomitable courage will overcome the disappointment. "Shucks," he shrugs, "him who laughs last, laughs best." And what's more, it probably will.

April 25: Vesper program. Selections from contemporary sacred music by Professor and Mrs. Philip Gehring, organ and violin.

April 26: Chambers. Piano recital by Mrs. Louise Nelson Pfohl.

April 27: College Union. Mr. Harry Davis, professor of dramatic arts, assistant director of the "Playmakers," University of North Carolina; also he is director-producer of the historical pageant, "Unto These Hills," will lecture on contemporary drama.

April 28-29: College Union. Red and Black Masquers’ presentation of "Where the Cross is Made."

THURS.-FRI., APRIL 8-9
"NAKED JUNGLE" (Technicolor)
CHARLTON HESTON
ELEANOR PARKER

SATURDAY, APRIL 10
"LAST POSSE" (Technicolor)
BROD CRAWFORD

MON.-TUE., APRIL 12-13
"SHE COULDN’T SAY NO"
ROBERT MITCHUM
JEAN SIMMONS

WED.-THUR., APRIL 14-15
"SABRE JET" (Technicolor)
ROBERT STACK

FRIDAY & SATURDAY
"FROM HERE TO ETERNITY"
BURT LANCASTER

AMENDMENT II. ARTICLE VIII, Section 2
1. "It shall be the duty of the Student Council to strive at all times for the improvement of conditions upon the campus; to try all cases involving breaches of the Student Body Regulations; and to have appellate jurisdiction over all cases on appeal from the Honor Court. Appellate jurisdiction shall be interpreted to mean the authority to investigate and act upon the legality of trial procedure of the Honor Court, and not the authority to reopen or re-try the case.
2. "The Student Council shall have the authority, acting by committees, in cooperation with faculty advisers, to administer and appropriate the funds collected by the Treasurer of the College designated as 'Student Activity Fees.'"

AMENDMENT III.
"There shall be an Honor Court of six members, consisting of three seniors, two juniors, and one sophomore, elected by the student body. It shall be the function of the Honor Court to receive, prefer, and try all cases involving breaches of the Honor Code."

AMENDMENT V.
"Any student found guilty of violating these provisions shall on the first offense be placed on strict campus for three months by the Student Council. The student shall be required to sign an honor pledge that he has kept his campus, and the sentence shall be administered and carried out by the Student Council. Failure to comply with the campus regulations shall result in dismissal from college.
2. "A student found guilty for a second time shall be suspended from college."

AMENDMENT VI.
"A two-thirds vote of the entire Student Council shall be required to amend these regulations."

PHILIP T. HOWERTON.