PAGE FOUR

Politics And Morals; YMCA Forum Set For February 9

Ed Stuart, chairman of the YMCA Forum Committee, announced today that plans for a February 9th campus-wide forum are being completed, and preparations are well underway. The one-day forum entitled “Power Politics and Moral Responsibility” will include a chapel program, afternoon discussion groups, and an evening forum patterned on the “Town Hall” radio series.

Mr. Ernest Lefever, associate executive director of the National Council of Churches’ Department of International Justice and Good Will, will advocate the position that morality has a vital role to play in international politics. Opposing him, Dr. Paul H. Clyde, historian and expert on international relations from Duke, will argue the “realistic” viewpoint that “power politics” is the predominant factor in foreign policy and international affairs. Two well-known Davidson professors will serve as seconds to the principal speakers.

Is the wisest approach to policy and politics that of expediency, of the “national interest,” that position advocated by such “new-realists” as Dr. Hans Morgenthau and Mr. George Kennan, men who recognize pure power as the only valid instrument for negotiation and the only guide to policy and action? Although there are diverse points of view within the general framework of the “power-politics” position, many of its exponents condemn concepts of world government under international law, or guidance in foreign policy by some criterion of supra-national morality as the dangerous and idealistic confusions of sentimentalists and dreamers. Is national policy to be guided by the realists, perhaps ultimately the more practical, the more “wise”? This position is that of Dr. Abraham Feller, perhaps that of Mr. John Foster Dulles, and certainly that of many churchmen. Is it not the position in which are anchored the principles of the United Nations and similar organizations?

Is principle a factor as well as power? Can there exist, in opposition to Hobbes, law and morality outside and above the state? Can there be a reconciliation between what Dr. Morgenthau calls the “Hamiltonian” and “Wilsonian” approaches to foreign policy, the latter condemning a policy based exclusively on the national interest as short-sighted if not immoral?

In the student discussions, of course, the issues will be brought to specifics. A survey is being taken in the fraternities and other campus organizations to determine particular topics for discussion in the Forum framework—for example: “Should Red China be admitted to the U.N.?” “Is coexistence between Democracy and Communism possible?” “What is our reply to the Marxian analysis of capitalism and imperialism?” The most popular topics will be sent to the leaders in advance of the Forum.

Fraternity and Campus Club discussions, a chapel program February 8th, and special meetings of Eumanean and Philanthropic societies, and of the International Relations Club will be devoted to student preparation for the Forum. In addition, study material for interested students will be available from the Forums Committee. Roy Davis is in charge of Forum publicity, Dunbar Ogden is serving as study chairman, and McWilliamson will handle the mechanical aspects of the Forum presentation. The Davidsonian will announce full details of the program in its February 5th issue. In the meantime, the Forum Committee urges the student body at large to do some thinking in advance along the lines of the topic, and to plan now for participation on February 8th.

Additional Scholarships (Continued From Page One)

George Washington University Law School

The George Washington University Law School invites applications for seven scholarships, each of which will provide a full three years’ tuition. Candidates must rank in the upper fifth of their class, and have demonstrated qualities of leadership. Successful candidates will be required to maintain a “B” average each year as a condition of retention of the scholarship. Applications must be made before February 1, 1954. Further information may be secured from the Dean of the Law School, George Washington University, Washington 6, D.C.

Foreign Study

Opportunities for foreign study in fifteen countries are listed in Fellowships Abroad for American Students, 1954-55, a pamphlet published today by the Institute of International Education, 1 East 67th Street, New York City. Study awards at the University of Ceylon and the Free University of Berlin are described, as well as other awards administered by the Institute. Universities, private groups, and governments in Europe, Asia, and Latin America have offered fellowships to American students for the 1954-55 academic year. More detailed information on these grants is available from the offices of the Institute. The earliest deadline for applications is January 15 for the two awards at the University of Ceylon and for four awards offered for advanced study in Brazil. Closing dates of other competitions are in February, March, April, and May.

General eligibility requirements for the fellowships and scholarships, designed mainly for graduate students, are: U.S. citizenship; proof of good academic record and capacity for independent study; ability to read, write, and speak the language of the country of study; good character, personality, and adaptability; and good health. A private donor will give five grants for study in Spain. Other countries in which awards are available are Austria, Brazil, Ceylon, Cuba, Denmark, Great Britain, France, Germany, Iran, Italy, Mexico, the Netherlands, Sweden, and Switzerland. The largest number of grants is offered by the French government. Forty assistantships and thirty-five fellowships are offered. February 1 is the closing date for these awards. Under the French government assistantship program, Americans will teach English conversation classes in French secondary schools and teacher training institutions of higher learning.

Summer school opportunities include eight awards for the University of Vienna Summer School and several partial grants toward tuition and maintenance at the English and Scottish summer school courses at the Universities of Oxford, Edinburgh, London, and Birmingham. A course on Shakespeare and Elizabethan drama is held at Stratford-on-Avon. Among the specialized grants are four labor scholarships given by the Transatlantic Foundation for study in Great Britain. Open only to candidates from the labor union movement, three awards are given at Ruskin College, Oxford, and one at Coleg Harlech in Wales. Woolley Foundation awards will be made to four candidates for the study of art and music in Paris. A limited number of social work fellowships are available to experienced American social workers for work, study, and observation in France. Successful candidates will have an opportunity to get practical knowledge of the various kinds of social work in France—work with delinquents, group work, public welfare, medical social work, and factory welfare.

In addition to a listing of available awards, the Institute pamphlet suggests fields of study in the countries where awards are offered. Suggested fields are languages and cultures, fine and applied arts, sciences, government, and

Four Davidson Men... (Continued From Page One)

journed, a constitution for future conferences was adopted and a chairman and vice-chairman of next year’s conference elected. John Tester from State defeated Anne White from W.C. for the chairmanship, and Samuel Washington from South Carolina A and M defeated Austin Strand from Davidson for the vice-chairmanship.

Colleges attending the conference were: Davidson, W.C., N.C. State, University of North Carolina, University of Richmond, South Carolina A&M, Florida A&M, Duke, Auburn, and the University of Florida.

Off-Moorings... (Continued From Page Two)

earnest-minded students. Perhaps it is true, as I said earlier, that we, as realistic observers of life, are twenty years behind our times. Still, the impression pushes us on that our school is two or more steps behind us—still unrealistic and still uncomprehending.history, social sciences, and philosophy and theology. The Institute of International Education is the central private agency in the U.S. in the exchange of students, teachers, and specialists. Each year approximately 4,000 persons from 80 countries study or train in a country other than their own under its auspices.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

HERE'S A LETTER FROM THE BRAN

RDSED tr plac! I's Davidson Graduate...

(Continued From Page One)

...of Negro Liberation,” by Benjamin Davis, he said. Clontz said the director of curriculum, who told him what courses to take, was Doxey Wilkerson, a former youth worker for the Federal government who once taught—he thinks—at Howard University in Washington. Howard is a Negro school. Clontz said he and other students of the Jefferson School taught illiterate voters on the East Side of New York to write in the name of ex-Congressman Vito Marcantonio on the ballot for Congress.

The lawyer said that when he returned to Charlotte after his August 1950 course in New York, Scales and Henry Farash, organizer for the Communist Party in that state, asked him to be an undercover Communist. He said Farash told him the party would need lawyers when the revolution came. Clontz said he never was a counsel for the Communists, but made economic studies of the corporate structure of the Cannon and Erwin Mills and wrote a Ku Klux Klan article for the Daily Worker. He said he got the KKK material by covering a meeting in Horry County, S.C., in October 1950.

Cover Job

In that month, he said, the FBI asked him to go back to New York as an agent. So he contrived to get a “cover” job with an insurance company in New York, and attended other sessions of the Jefferson School in 1951 and 1952. He said he has had no contacts with the Communists for about a year.

Clontz said he noticed, upon his return to the school, that security measures were much more strict. He said the classrooms were checked before each meeting, and the stairs to Wilkerson’s office were barred; it could be reached only by elevator. Clontz said Communist Party cards were abolished by 1951 and he carried, as identification, a receipt signed “J. Scales” dated March 3, 1951. He said he carried it in his wallet from that time until last Friday when he gave it to Ralph J. Edsell, Jr., counsel for the Justice Department in the pending case. The receipt was entered as an exhibit. Edsell told reporters the FBI has in its files all the reports Clontz gave them. Edsell said Clontz was called to testify when the Justice Department opened its case against the Jefferson School.

Surprise

Clontz said he was born in Charlotte and has lived in Wilmington and Whiteville, N.C. His parents, the Rev. and Mrs. Ralph Clayton Clontz, Sr., live in Davidson, N.C. Clontz said he attended the Darlington School for boys in Rome, Ga., then entered Davidson College. He interrupted his education to serve in Europe during World War II, and finished his course at Davidson in 1947.

FRIDAY, JANUARY 15, 1954

NAVY ROC PROGRAM OFFERS COMMISSIONS

One Summer Session Scheduled For 1954

The Naval Reserve is again offering college students the opportunity to earn Reserve Ensign commissions through its summer officer program, the Reserve Officer Candidate Training or ROC. To be eligible for the training a male student must be a member of the Naval Reserve in drill or non-drilling status. The Naval Reserve Training Center nearest Davidson is at 725 W. Sixth Street, Charlotte, and its inspector-instructor, Commander Micken, is urging that interested Davidson students get in touch with him at once. The deadline for filing for this summer’s school is February 20. ROC school will be held this summer for a period of eight weeks at Naval Station, Naval Base Newport, Rhode Island. Last summer the training was conducted at Long Beach, Calif.

The ROC training takes two summers to complete and an applicant must be able to complete the two eight-week summer training periods not later than the summer immediately following college graduation. Thus men in the freshman, sophomore, and junior classes are eligible to apply for the program.

To Get In

To become a Naval Reservist (requisite to applying for ROC), a man must be between the ages of 17 and 18½ and not classified 1-A by the draft board. Meeting the physical requirements of the Naval Reserve as well as the moral and educational standards is necessary before a man may be sworn in.

Another officer program open to college graduates is the Officer Candidate School also at Newport, Rhode Island. Commander Micken also has information on this for interested college students.

A ROC is paid not only for the period of training itself but also for the period of travel to Newport, and back to his hometown. Meals are as well paid for by the Navy during travel time. Pay is at the rate of his rate in the Navy unless the man is a Seaman Recruit, the lowest Navy rate, in which case he is temporarily upped in rate one grade to Seaman Apprentice.

In order to apply for the ROC Program, a student must not only be physically qualified by the standards set for midshipmen but also must not be pursuing a degree leading to a (1) Theological degree, or preparation therefor, (2) a Medical degree, or preparation therefor, or (3) a Dental degree, or preparation therefor.

A ROC graduate is obligated to serve on active duty with the Navy for a period not to exceed three years, though the actual time to be served will depend on the needs of the Navy.

The Draft

There are certain draft advantages which being a member of the Naval Reserve and especially the ROC program that will be of particular interest to college students. While membership in the Naval Reserve itself does not exempt men from selective service nor does application to ROC training, acceptance in the ROC program insures exemption from the draft so long as he remains in the program. One may become disenrolled from the program for Naval reasons, for not remaining in good standing with his college, or for falling below the physical requirements of the Training.

For further information on the program, contact Jim Moore or David Burns, two Davidson students who are already in the ROC program. In the last three years twelve Davidson graduates have received their Naval Reserve Ensign’s commissions through the Reserve Officer Corps Training. In the training, a ROC studies, marches and comes to know fellow college and university students from all over the United States, Alaska, the Hawaiian Islands, and Cuba.

NOTICE

Mildred L. Hendrix, organist, will present an organ recital in the College Church on Monday, January 16, at 8:15.

Bates Cleaners

For the Best in Cleaning Dyeing - Hats Blocked

Drink ‘M * OQ Oo R’? Mooresville Creamery, Inc.

YOUNG AMERICA GOES ‘aRFEIE!-D — CHE : FOR THE FIFTH STRAIGHT YEAR CHESTERFIELD — IS THE LARGEST SELLING CIGARETTE IN AMERICA’S COLLEGES ... by a 1953 survey audit of actual sales in more than 800 college co-ops and campus stores from coast to coast. Yes, for the fifth straight year Chesterfield is the college favorite.

CHESTERFIELD IS THE ONLY CIGARETTE EVER TO GIVE YOU PROOF OF HIGHEST QUALITY —LOW NICOTINE

Change to Chesterfield today — get smoking pleasure all the way!

During the Christmas holidays the administration decided to conduct a one-term summer session at Davidson instead of the two-term session usually held. This session will include seven weeks for sciences and six weeks for other courses. Sciences will begin June 3, while other courses will commence June 9. All courses will close July 21. Further plans for the summer session are to be announced at a later date.