Asst. Editors Joe
Managing Editors Merrice Crouse, Tom Warlick
Sports Editor Jim Holshouser
Feature Editor Dick Morehead
News Editor Watt
Copy Editor

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 1954

The Davidsonian
Published Weekly Throughout the College Year

John Harmon
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office of Davidson, N.C., under the Act of March 3, 1879

BUSINESS MANAGER TIM COOPER
Jim Brice, John Handley, Austin Strand, Hank Daniel
Assignments
Editorial Consultants Joe Gaskin, Jim Marshall, Stan Miller, Bill Stewart
Assistant Business Manager Tommy Taylor
Advertising Manager Larry Parrott
Circulation Manager Bob Carmichael

PAGE TWO

Tuesday’s Election And The Future Of Our Country

Last Tuesday witnessed the mid-term election throughout this country, but Tuesday aroused no greater speculation in the Davidson student body
than whether or not drill was to be called off. Some forty-five million Americans went to the polls with men,
events, and issues in mind; while we plodded to class with no higher thought than an impending review or an
unfinished translation. While we bided our time in class, the men who will shape the future of this country and
the world were chosen. Granted not all of us could have voted, but how many of us were at all
familiar with the national political scene and its important issues beyond those of the races of Jonas vs. Sedberry, Scott
vs. West, and Thurmond vs. Brown?

The personal effects of politics are real, yet seldom considered. Lower taxes (leaving our parents more money), and the avoidance
of a major world conflict (which would draw us into service) are but two examples of the practical side of
politics as it directly concerns us. In a few years we will be leaving this cloister to enter a world
largely shaped by the men elected last Tuesday; therefore, it seems that we should be acquiring a knowledge of politics
as well as studies.

A little less related, yet of significance to us, is the interpretation of the election outcome on national and international
levels. A Republican victory would primarily constitute a vote of confidence for Ike. Our economic equilibrium would be maintained with
some unemployment yet with high production even without a war market. The trend will continue from government domination of large
enterprises toward more private business. If the Democrats win, Ike's prestige will suffer a blow that may influence him not
to run in 1956, leaving the way open for Stevenson. Foreign relations should show little change, but domestic issues may
bog down. Such projects as Missouri Valley Authority will again be proposed. The world, generally speaking, looks on a Republican
victory as providing greater assurance for stable foreign relations. In addition, our economy will be less likely to fluctuate with
a Republican congress; therefore, making our foreign aid flow steadily. However, a Democratic majority in Congress is looked on with
favor by many Europeans because it would remove McCarthy from his committee chairmanship.

Let us as college students, make use of our freedoms of speech—in bull sessions—press—in publicly stating our views, and voting
above all, so that there never will be a time when we are without these privileges.—T.F.

A: Consideration of the Davidson Gentleman

Unfortunately, the term “Davidson gentleman” has lost its real meaning to most of us and has become a rather glib
term of derision of a sort. The two words apparently connote the catch-all phrase to be used in punishing some
misdemeanant whose conduct cannot be placed categorically in the grasp of one of the copious supply of rules under which
we here live. This writer is opposed to the idea of having such numerous and petty rules disgracing our code,
but he is even more appalled at the adverse reflections that many of these cast upon the student body itself.
Would rules be formulated if there were not offenses with which to be dealt? Time and again we hear criticism
for treating the Davidson students as being more immature than we really are. The sad part of this criticism in
the mind of this writer is that it is essentially true, but under our present government do we act always
with a reasonable amount of maturity?

The problem is a lack of respect, toleration, and consideration on the part of some for the rights and privileges
of others. This is immaturity—immaturity which the large majority of adults retain. These particular incidents epitomize some of the reasons
for our having so many petty regulations which should not have to be. The actions of a few can, and
do, affect the majority.

Perhaps part of the answer to so many of the student’s criticisms of the Davidson system lies in our re-evaluation
of the term “gentleman.” Readily we admit that our democratic society does not tend to produce what is known as
the English gentleman, but then our term “gentleman” does not imply high breeding, etc., but rather respect for another’s ideas,
toleration for his beliefs, and an attempt at understanding. The freshman “speaking rule” has not been incorporated as a method
of hazing, but to teach an outward manifestation of a real gentleman—friendliness. Our nation needs more gentlemen and a great
many less boors; perhaps Davidson could do with the same thing.—D.H.O.

Omicron Delta Kappa

Omicron Delta Kappa is said to recognize men who have attained a position of conspicuous leadership on the campus during
their first three years here. It naturally follows that those who have secured the highest offices in the student body,
such as those of President of the Student Body or of the Y.M.C.A. should be taken into Omicron Delta Kappa.
Beyond a few top men in top offices, however, there begin to rise in the minds of some students the
questions of what a man must do to be chosen for Omicron Delta Kappa. Must he have a certain number
of points as added up in accord with an outmoded article of the Constitution? The choosing of leaders must be
a much more vague thing, and it is this which can lead to many demands for a certain scholastic average,
without which no man can be tapped. There has been some misunderstanding of this in times past, but it is
a fact that is strictly adhered to in the nominating of new members for the society.

Further, ODK has no method of judging between the ability or the worth of men for membership beyond the associations
with those men during the past years and their activity on the campus. Often a man is involved in many
activities for which he gets very little or no recognition. This, strictly speaking, is not conspicuous leadership. But who can
deny that it takes leadership to work well behind the scenes in college, where so much emphasis is laid on
the strutting and fretting in front of the multitudes. Herein ODK finds its true strength as a leadership organization. It
is not an organization to honor those who stand out above all the rest but also those who spend their
lives here working for the betterment of the college and of their fellow students, but who by chance or choice
seldom mount the rostrum of fame. Recognizing students as such ODK becomes an active organization on campus, working through its
members for the betterment of the college.

The Gadfly And His Larvae: Graggism Is Defined, Attacks Taylorism and Firorcity; Defends Catonism and Gilbert’s Gibberish

BY GILBERT GRAGG

It is always dangerous to put persons or groups and try to fit them into certain categories of thought. Throughout
history, philosophers as rationalists or empiricists; theologians as fundamentalists or modernists; politicians as liberals or conservatives; writers as realists or
romantics; and so on down the list. Actually, few persons would fit into exact classifications, and even fewer could offer
definitions of their own beliefs. I was faced with this question, for the first time, before the enigma of such
labels in relationship to the term “Graggism” when I met several alumni who asked me to explain just what the
word meant. They obviously took our illustrious weekly and have seen such recent headings as “Graggism Again,” and “Galloping Graggism
Hits Campus.” Then on blue Monday as I sat down at breakfast with a freshman whom I did not know,
he popped up: “Oh, so you're the one everybody is talking about.”

Then I finally got around to reading the Davidsonian and was greeted with Ernest Taylor's interesting defense of the working
man (a defense of “Taylorism”?) and Firorcity. It is a difficult question, for the perplexed freshman, as the result of
an attack on an article I wrote last year. I admittedly overdid some passages and was too extreme in its
Pollyanna optimism. It was not nauseatingly “unrealistic” as the thoughtless staff member who headlined it seemed to think; rather, it
was written in an extremely optimistic vein in order to help start a reaction against the cynical criticisms of everything
and of everyone which flooded the editorials last year.

What is Graggism? Our attitude toward life is one of realistic optimism. This, the original meaning of Graggism, was lost
in sentimentality and description.

“Catonism”

But now Mr. Taylor has a third definition of “Graggism” and I quote, “... those individuals who have never known
what it is to perform a manual or menial task and who probably never will.” How ridiculous when Mr. Caton,
“a complacent exponent of Graggism,” works regularly in the Union. I do not know Mr. Caton, and thus I have
been able to enjoy his controversial editorials without a personal bias for or against him, but I fear that “Catonism”
is headed for four years of notoriety. In my case the charge is also a little exaggerated after spending a
summer working in a settlement house in the Bowery (it was fun!) in New York City. I believe some of
the tasks that I had would qualify as menial, but then, who is to say?

Another Cult

Also in last week's paper, Mr. Taylor's article was headlined “Gilbert’s Gibberish.”(Oh boy! New labels to use!) We have more
of an international scope to our editorials. I am certainly concerned that two-thirds of the world go to bed hungry
every night, Mr. Firor, but I, along with 849 other students, am enjoying my prosperous middle-class existence too much to
worry about the volcano that is already beginning to simmer and will be boiling over on our children in Asia
or Africa. How many students really know or care what is happening “out there” and are informed enough about U.N.,
U.S., & international factions, etc. to read an editorial on them, much less write one? I am certainly as guilty
as everyone else. I agree that our editorials need broadening and will be looking to more “Firorcity” and the penetrating
and thought-provoking writings of some other well-informed analyst of the current scene. Indeed, it is the desire of the staff
for as many students as possible to contribute editorials or letters to the paper, as certainly the overworked regular columnists
do not have especially relevant material each week. Let’s do away with the cults of “tema,” however, so that anyone
who is brave enough to express an idea in print will not immediately have his last name lengthened. McCarthyism is
having its dying gasp, so let us allow these local cults to have a quiet demise and evaluate future editorials
in light of their ideas and not judge on personalities.

Present Duke Numbering System Explained: Response To Fite

Dear Editor:

Contrary to the opinion expressed by Mr. Fite in last week’s Davidsonian, there is some degree of reason in the
numbering of rooms in Duke Dormitory. While it may serve as a first-these buildings which demand our reverence and respect,
it should: in the wise and thoughtful generosity of the donor.” It behooves the College to help it bear its
witness to this generation.

Sincerely,
In The Dark

The numbering system was not designed specifically for those purposes. Mr. Fite’s error is not in wishing for a sane
numbering system—he fails to see that one already exists and would be perfectly intelligible if it were explained. His proposal
to use W, C, and E to designate the west, center, and east entrances is redundant because those entrances are
indicated in the room numbers.

How System Works

For the benefit of all the Duke-dizzy people on the campus, here is the numbering system as I have deduced
it. Rooms with numbers 1 through 20 are located on the third floor and can be reached from both east
and west entrances. Those numbered 1 through 10 are on the west side; 11 through 20 are on the other
side of the curious horseshoe bend in the hall. All rooms with three digits use the following system: the first
digit indicates the floor, the second is the entrance number (1 is west, 2 is center, and 3 is east);
and the third is the room number, beginning at the left of the stairs. Thus it is obvious that Mr.
Fite’s room is on the first floor, west entrance, and is a suite of rooms on the right of the
stairs (double numbers such as 116-17 indicate suites and 7 is the maximum number of rooms in the end sections).
The system is there: it just hasn’t been recognized for a long time.

Sincerely,
Maurice Crouse

Are Our Public High Schools Really Preparatory Schools?

Editor’s Note: This article is a theme prepared by English II. It is submitted through the courtesy of the author
and his instructor, Professor Benjamin Wilson.

I am greatly dismayed at the lack of college preparation one receives today in the public high schools. Not too
long ago, my father and I were discussing the education of his father. Although my grandfather never went any farther
than the eighth grade, I would be willing to wager that, at the end of his schooling, he was as
intelligent as the average high school student is today. Many people today will argue that back in those days the
practical things were not taught. These people are prone to forget what one goes to school for. School is the
developer of the mind. Two generations ago, boys did not have to go to school in order to learn how
to drive; driving was taught by their fathers. They went to school in order that they might develop their minds.
In those days a highly developed mind was the highest ambition of a boy. It is a known fact that
well-educated people are, by far, the most successful people.

Driver Training Courses

My grandfather studied English rhetoric, Latin, and physics. There is a trend today, Modernism, which teaches that, instead of these
things, the practical things in life ought to be stressed. We might consider one practice in this trend to be
driver training courses. This trend is changing the whole purpose of school. It does not take a highly developed mind
to drive a car; often this is very evident in many of the drivers we meet on the road. So
why should our time in high school be wasted in practice? There is a difference between practicing until you succeed
and studying until you understand. Therefore these practical courses, such as driving and typing, do not require study, they merely
require practice. Practice of physical skills improves the body; study improves the mind. There must be a revival in learning
if our public high schools are really going to prepare their graduates for a college career. If a student takes
the easiest courses in high school, and makes straight A’s, he has not actually prepared himself for college. The average
high school student should have an understanding of the whole text. If high school students of today had the type
of schools that prepare the student’s mind instead of his body, in my opinion, this will raise the intellectual standard
of high school graduates, thus better preparing them for college work.

Food From Faculty

Proper Techniques Outlined For Grad School Recommendations

On my desk lies a typed sheet of paper which a student handed me last week. On it he has
written briefly and clearly his name, class standing, major subject, scholastic honors, student body offices, athletic and extracurricular activities. Also,
he has stated his professional school objectives and his vocational aim. A few weeks before giving me this information he
asked me if I would be willing to give him recommendations when he applied for a fellowship or position. This
paper, to which I have referred, might well serve as a model of proper procedure for all students who, during
their senior year or at any other time, call on their instructors for this service. I might add that it
is a procedure more often honored in the breach than in the observance. This student is not bragging or “tooting
his own horn.” He is making readily available to me the details which I shall need in order to write
the kind of reference I want to give him. This thoughtfulness will save me many minutes, possibly even hours, of
poring over catalogues, transcripts, and annuals.

Four O'clock Deadline

An actual experience stands out as a contrast to this man’s modus operandi. This incident occurred on the Davidson campus.
About three o’clock one afternoon, a senior who had done distinguished work with me came to my office and asked
if I would write a recommendation for him. I agreed and asked when he needed it. He answered, “It has
to be in the mail by four o'clock this afternoon.” I did my best for my young friend, but not
even a professor of English can produce the kind of reference or recommendation he would like to write under time
pressure of this sort. The inconvenience to me in having to lay aside other work was a minor consideration. Far
more important was the fact that the man was hurting himself in not allowing me time to prepare a carefully
worded statement about him and his outstanding talents. Students are a teacher’s product. He is proud of them, or should
be, and he wants to “sell” them in the sense of helping them to secure good scholarships, fellowships, and many
regard a student's request to do this as a privilege and an honor.

The Four Principles

There are a few principles, however, which students should bear in mind, and I address myself to those who will
be requesting this service during this semester and the next.

(1) Mention your intention to the instructor before he suddenly receives the request from an admissions board or scholarship committee.
This gives the teacher an opportunity to recall your best qualifications and “to give you a break.”

(2) Tell the instructor what you are applying for. Sometimes he can give you a strong and favorable recommendation for
an application of one sort when he cannot in one faith recommend you for another. There is no personal prejudice
in this, for it is no favor to a student to “boost” him for a place for which he is
not qualified.

(3) Always allow an instructor ample time to prepare the information he is supposed to supply. If he must rush
to meet a deadline, he cannot do you justice.

(4) So far as you can, be certain that you get the right people to submit the right references. To
know a man’s academic record or to know him in the classroom is one thing; to know what he does
during Christmas vacation or during the summer is another. Do not expect a teacher to guess or use his imagination.
It does the applicant little good for a person whom the applicant has named as a reference to reply that
he does not know the student well enough to have an opinion. Remember that your instructors want to help you
as much as they can. Give them the best possible chance to do it.
