THE DAVIDSONIAN

Forum on Morality and Politics Offers Obligation, Opportunity

Davidson students and other members of the college community have an obligation as well as an opportunity to take part in Tuesday’s YMCA forum on the general subject of the relation of power politics and moral responsibility. Though the college student may consider this remote to his present personal welfare, and something he can influence little, if at all, he should nevertheless remember his responsibilities as a citizen and a potential leader in either secular or religious affairs. These responsibilities include being well informed on current issues and on their deeper implications. If he takes no interest in anything out of reach of his fingertips, he can be sure that others will, and will run domestic and foreign affairs to their own satisfaction. Any person takes a chance with his own future in the long run if he concerns himself with problems of immediate personal interest only, and lets the rest of the world go by.

Notable Progress Marks Y Social Post This Year

It seems to us that the social work of the YMCA has been more than usually successful here this year.

OFF-MOORINGS

(Writer's note: This week's column is the result of an endeavor to discover new depths of opinion and analysis found among fellow students. As well it is the point of departure for a new era of Off-Moorings. The purpose of which will become apparent with time.)

By BILL MOFFETT

Idealists, both those who wish to preserve tradition and those who are attempting to make our school a pleasant place to live and work, have been pleased to regard our collegiate community as “one big family.” Doubtless this has strong appeal for young men entering these halls for the first time. But to those who care to view our community with a critical eye, wise with the wisdom only a Davidson senior can have, the real truth of that description seems often illusory.

A Sustainable Claim

To be sure, there are many reasons why such a phrase might be applied to our liberal arts college, isolated as it is and characterized by those conditions which make for the family complex. It is located in a town with which it is identified by common interests as well as by name. The citizens are linked to the life of the school by innumerable ties, and share their heritage with students and faculty. The alumni maintain a close contact with their alma mater, and last Friday night’s post-examination dance in the ballroom of the College Union met with almost universal approval among those in attendance, and this appears to be a hopeful omen for other such Y-sponsored functions given in conjunction with the Union. We feel that Bill Shipley and his co-workers on the social committee of the Y deserve genuine commendation for making that organization’s social functions a great deal more attractive to students this year than has been the case many times in the past.

By and large, the passing of the “wide-open” exchange days with neighboring girls’ schools is not greatly lamented. Too often these events resulted in numerous blind dates being stood up and the Y social chairman left with a dozen or two unclaimed and rightfully hurt girls in his care, who went away with anything but a favorable impression of Davidson. If the YMCA sponsors occasional affairs such as this, it will find itself meeting a real need as well as gaining a more favorable position in the opinion of many students. Certainly ministering to spiritual needs is an important function of any Christian group, such as the Y, but this need not and, indeed, should not be its only function if it is aspiring to the fulfillment of a more complete ministry.

Adoption of Entrance Tests To Work No Hardship on Frosh

The announcement that beginning in 1955 all prospective Davidson freshmen will be required to take the College Board examinations or similar tests administered by the college before being admitted will doubtless stimulate some unfavorable comment among many parties. A good part of this criticism will probably stem from a prevalent misconception of the purpose of this test and the part that it plays in determining whether a student will be admitted. It is generally thought that the college or institution administering such an examination arbitrarily sets a minimum or cut-off score, and that those students making a score above this margin are almost automatically admitted, while those failing to attain the score are rejected. But Davidson, following the example of most other schools which employ such tests, will use the grades that examinees make only as a complementary factor in determining fitness for admission. There will be no minimum cut-off score beneath which no students will be admitted. To those who do well on the tests will accrue the advantage of having their scores used as an offsetting factor against other less favorable factors in their past records. On the other hand, applicants who make a low score on these tests will not be eliminated, but their score will be weighed against their other qualifications in order to determine whether they will be able to do acceptable work at Davidson College. Thus, no one will be admitted or rejected solely on the basis of this examination, and it will only be used to enable those responsible for admissions to make their decisions on a more intelligent and informed basis. This they could hardly do previously when depending heavily on high school transcripts, the records of which are governed by no set standard.

Davidson joins a small but growing group of colleges and universities in the South which are using the College Board or similar entrance examinations, and is the first school in North Carolina to require the exam of male applicants. At present Duke University requires women applicants to take the examination, and is contemplating requiring it of all prospective students. Other southern schools requiring the test include Washington and Lee and Agnes Scott.

Letter to Editor: Does Chamber’s Have Need For “Money Bags” Plaque?

Dear Editor:

Goodness alive, what's that! The thing competing with the second-floor Chambers’ clock for student attention? Though I don’t pretend to know the background of that plaque, which lists the generous donors to the development drive, it does seem to me that something should give $5.00, the task be just as demanding on the family as a pair of range Wranglers and better dash in the distant doors to chapel exercises. It may be that I'm all wet on getting a little hot about plastering that plaque in the Chambers hall, but at the same time I recognize.

I’d Like to Give You What You Deserve Too, MR. Jones, with ONLY The ORGAN’S GRADING SYSTEM Doesn’t GO THAT LO

Peaceful Coexistence Possible Only With Full Armament

By DICK ROPER

What is “Peaceful Coexistence”? Let us also define “peaceful coexistence.” By this do we mean existence with no friction between the democratic nations and Russia, or do we mean simply existence without an actual state of war? This is not merely splitting hairs. For it should be evident that if we choose the former definition and then declare that peaceful coexistence is possible, then we can begin to seriously consider disarming. But if we decide, on the other hand, that this phrase means only existence without an actual state of war, but still believe coexistence is possible, then we must continue to be armed to the teeth.

To get at the heart of the question, let us suppose, from the ideal Christian viewpoint that it is possible for the democratic nations of the world to exist side by side with Russia with no conflict or friction between the two camps. What evidence do we have to support this contention? As far as I know, all we have to prove this is the constant cry of the Russians for Peace, which they claim is principally being prevented by the United States. But at times they tone down their attacks on the U.S., and actually claim that if the Western world would really support the efforts for world peace, this situation would exist.

Quotes From Lenin

As recently as January 21, Peter N. Pospelov, a top Communist party official in Russia, declared that there was no reason why the two opposing camps couldn't get along with each other, if they would only cooperate. From the extensive writings of Lenin, the founder of the present Bolshevik state, Pospelov chose those which would emphasize most the Soviet Union’s wish for peaceful coexistence with the West, “The Soviet Union is doing everything that is necessary to solve peacefully all outstanding world problems,” Pospelov asserted.

This seems to be the extent of the evidence supporting the Communist claim to being the leading advocates of world peace. On the other hand, what is the evidence proving the contrary assertion, that we can't expect to get along without trouble from Russia? It is, I believe, twofold: in both the principles which Lenin laid down in his writings, and in actual Russian practice since World War Two.

Two Types of Evidence Here

Of the former type evidence—Lenin’s doctrines—there are many examples of the idea that capitalistic democracy and Communism cannot get along with each other. Two of the most illuminating follow:

“As long as capitalism and Socialism remain, we cannot live in peace. In the end one or the other will triumph—a funeral requiem will be sung either over the Soviet Republic or over world capitalism. This is a respite in war.” (Socialism, as far as Lenin was concerned, was of course, only one of the early stages of Communism.)

“We are living not only in a state, but in a system of states, and the existence of the Soviet Republic side by side with other imperialist states for a long time is unthinkable. One or the other must triumph in the end. And before that end comes, a series of frightful clashes between the Soviet Republic and the bourgeois States is inevitable.”

Experience with Russians

As for Russian Communism in practice, we have only to look at the history of the past decade. Since the end of the last war, “is peaceful coexistence between Communism and Democracy possible?” Of all the subjectsOffered for consideration by fraternity discussion groups last night in connection with the YMCA forums on “Politics and Morality,” none is perhaps so directly concerned with the immediate future and eventual fate of we of college age as that question. In attempting to form an opinion on a question of this nature, in which the fortunes and welfare of all of us are vitally concerned, it is always a good deal easier to answer in terms of what we hope is possible, rather than what we might say if we had no stake in the outcome of the current tense international situation.

Definitions Necessary

But before making an attempt to discuss the problem and come to any sort of conclusion, we might do well to first define some important terms in the question at hand. When we speak of democracy, we mean the free nations of the western world, at least in the context of this question. But exactly what do we mean by Communism? It often comes as a surprise to people to learn that the U.S. is actually aiding a country which openly claims Communism to be its ultimate goal—the Balkan state of Yugoslavia, headed by Tito. Realizing this, we should then be able to see that we are...

On Tuesday the YMCA will present a forum on the subject, “Politics and Morality.” As I understand it, the subject is not meant to include problems on the national level—graft, etc. This forum will be concerned with different approaches to the foreign policy of the United States. The moral approach will be handled by a man who is employed by the National Council of Churches and who has taken graduate work in political science. The opposite approach, perhaps cold-blooded is better than immoral, will be supported by the head of the Department of History at Duke University.

I would not attempt to outline the arguments which these speakers will present. But there are a few points on each side about which we could think profitably in order to benefit from this forum. Where the national interest and the morally desirable coincide, there is no trouble. When these two purposes conflict, the differences in opinion can be tremendous. The realist would say that the moral thing to do is that which is in the national interest regardless of ethical concepts. He would believe that the nation should recognize and support any government which will advance its interests. We are following this con...

The realist would advocate the use of preventive war if that seemed in the best interest of the nation. He would intervene in the affairs of other nations to further his purposes. For example, if Great Britain were following this policy today, she would attempt to restart the war between Israel and the Arabs in order to divert Egypt's attention from seizing only one view. He would use it to buy the allegiance of foreign states, and he would make sure that the government once bought would stay bought. In short, this “amoral” view is that of pure power politics. Its main shortcoming from conscientious objections is that it relies...

...sure, it’s nicely divided according to the amount given. Davidson College, and I guess it’s a pretty good-looking thing. Yet I begin to wonder about several things upon coming out of chapel and looking at that bunch of names. Immediately, I wonder how much the erection of the whole works costs. Offhand, I assume that money would help a football player, or pay a hundred or so College Union fees, or help a fellow through this semester of schooling. Secondly, what about the student who has parents incapable of whipping out a thousand or so dollars? I feel that if...

...many. The realist would advocate the use of preventive war if that seemed in the best interest of the nation. He would intervene in the affairs of other nations to further his purposes. For example, if Great Britain were following this policy today, she would attempt to restart the war between Israel and the Arabs in order to divert Egypt's attention from seizing only one view. He would use it to buy the allegiance of foreign states, and he would make sure that the government once bought would stay bought. In short, this “amoral” view is that of pure power politics. Its main shortcoming from conscientious objections is that it relies...

...aside any ten. Charlie Hasty...

ASSOCIATE EDITORS Jim Moore, Dick Roper
Assistant Editors Bob Crutchfield, Charles Hascet, Buddy Lamon, Bob Owen, Hunter Strader
Editors Henry Brockmann, Floyd Feeney
Managing Editor John Handley
Sports Editor Austin Strand
News Editor T. A. Williams
Feature Editor Ed Price
Art Editor Andy Simons
Photographer

The Davidsonian cartoonists are urged to get to work for the issue this Friday night.

...Russia has overrun almost all of Eastern Europe; she has actively aided and abetted Chinese Communist aggression in Korea; she has indirectly aided Communist aggression through the rebel Vietminh force in Indochina; and she has continually provoked the free nations by one or another type of harassing tactics, such as the Berlin Blockade and the failure to agree on an Austrian peace treaty. In short, Russia’s deeds have been like thunder in comparison to her hoarse cries for peace, and I believe that anyone who allows himself to accept at face value the Communist claim to be in favor...

...wrong should guide diplomacy rather than the needs of the moment. The moralist would have a hard time supporting any war, let alone preventive warfare. He would think that the United States had a responsibility to see that foreign nations had the government of their choice. He would...

...FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 1954...

By JIM MOORE

...many of the professors were once students in the same small classrooms over which they now preside. The students, coming as they do from the same strata of society, and sharing the same general background, experience a kindred spirit which is increased through the democratic way in which we live together on the campus. Over all, students, faculty, alumni, college employees, citizens of the community, there exists a spirit of harmony. If, then, these characteristics justify Davidson’s family complex, what advantages might be expected to exist? Certainly they are both numerous and important. For example, the common interests and the absence of hostility on the part of the townspeople affords an atmosphere of friendliness not always known by other schools. Too, the active participation and support of alumni, as well as the fact that many faculty members are Davidson graduates, makes it not unreasonable to assume that the administration has a basic knowledge of student problems, and can follow a policy sympathetic in nature and constructive in design. The paternalistic flavor of the school, of which we sometimes make valid criticism, nevertheless imparts a subconscious and satisfying aura of protection, removing as it does those occasional threats to the student’s sense of security.

By MALCOLM WILLIAMSON

...want to use foreign aid for humanitarian and creative purposes rather than to buy a balance of power. The main fault with this concept is that its principles do not always conform to the national interest, and no foreign policy can succeed when it does not benefit its nation. Our national interest and the moral belief that we should defend nations from aggression coincided in Korea. These two points of view do not always coincide. The moral politician might say that we should have defended Czechoslovakia from Communist penetration, but this was apparently beyond our capabilities or best interest. He might say also that we have no right to stop Britain’s trade with Red China, but he must at the same time deplore our making it possible for war to be continued.

The speakers may at first attempt to present their sides as all white. This is not true, but neither are they all black. The moral point of view has its limitations in that it does not permit us a versatility of policy in different situations and does not permit us to take full advantage of our opportunities. But the other approach does not promote stability and peace in the world unless there is one side which has such overwhelming power as to enforce its views without question. If this forum will help us to find the proper balance between the two extremes, it will make us all better citizens in today’s complex world, despite our relative isolation from it while at Davidson.

...DAVIDSON FAMILY—FACT, FICTION?

Column Embarks on New Era

This feature of the Davidson family is thus not without value, despite the fact that it may give birth to other problems, of which we will speak later. The small and closely integrated campus, its interdependent departments, the small size and informal procedure of the classes—all combine to play down divisions and create a solidified school spirit. The common background of students and faculty, the democratic way in which they operate, and the absence of strong sectional, racial, or class conflict all lend themselves to a unique harmony of interests. Such a harmony fosters cooperation and a sense of responsibility between individuals. One does not sense the attitude of “each man for himself” prevalent where tension and distrust predominate. Rather, our honor system is devoid of suspicion and causes us to relax our guard to the extent that when a thief from the “outside” enters our dormitories, he finds us extremely vulnerable.

Serious Shortcomings

The Davidson family, we say, is a very real thing. There are definite reasons for its existence. There are important and unique results, mostly advantageous. But there are glaring shortcomings which can and ought to be adjusted.

Should Foreign Affairs Be Moral Or Cold-blooded?

...deplore our making it possible for war to be continued.

The speakers may at first attempt to present their sides as all white. This is not true, but neither are they all black. The moral point of view has its limitations in that it does not permit us a versatility of policy in different situations and does not permit us to take full advantage of our opportunities. But the other approach does not promote stability and peace in the world unless there is one side which has such overwhelming power as to enforce its views without question. If this forum will help us to find the proper balance between the two extremes, it will make us all better citizens in today’s complex world, despite our relative isolation from it while at Davidson.

...WAN...

...Lots...

...COVERED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD, N.C. “Coke” is a registered trademark. © 1954, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY