PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 1954

SENIOR SKETCH NO. 2: A Virtuoso's Lament - By BILL MOFFETT

A totalitarian state is one where that is

Strand Makes Plans for Town’s Cubs and Scouts

DAVIDSON . . Roy Palmer

THEATRE

The story of Roy Sebastian Palmer has been aptly called “A Virtuoso’s Lament.” To appreciate fully the appropriateness of this odd appellation, we must return some twelve years to a dramatic scene in which we find little Roy just settling down in a secluded corner with his comic books after a hard day in the third grade. As he turns a page his eye is inescapably drawn to an advertisement picturing a lone youth reading comic books in a secluded corner. “Pal,” reads the heavy print, “are you unpopular? Never date? Never get invited to parties?” The truth was harsh, for Palmer was not particularly popular. As a matter of fact, most people hated his guts. The relevance of the ad prompted a remorseful sigh, and with misty eyes the little fellow read on: “This is your golden opportunity. Write today for the first in an amazingly easy series of piano lessons guaranteed to start you on the road to popularity, parties, and pesos within weeks, or your money back.”

Why not? And as he reached for pen and paper thus was launched the career which was to make the name Roy Palmer to the piano what Glock N. Spiel is to the bell lyre. With determination he mastered the first lesson, and the second, and so on until he had finished the initial course and was advancing rapidly through more difficult training. His every effort was concentrated on his music. He shunned his earlier idols for Rachmaninoff, Tchaikovsky, and Piano Red, hurrying after school to the keyboard, giving up all night life for day after day, until finally he was ready for his musical debut.

No party or dance could possibly be successful without Palmer at the piano. And when he tried his hand at composition, such hits as “Smog Gets In Your Eyes” and “Cringing in the Rain” put him in constant demand. Everywhere people clamored to hear him play, and even today, wherever he goes he is quickly steered to the nearest piano with requests falling thick and fast. An SAE., “Shay, buddy, play ‘Melancholy Baby’.” Ophelia Zilch, “How about ‘Some Erotic Evening’?” His date, “I'm going home with Joe.”

But inevitably he learned the price he was to pay for fame. What red-blooded American girl wants to date a guy who's tied to a piano bench everywhere he goes? And although many an enchanted evening he’s seen intriguing strangers across a crowded room, it's not too easy to get to know them if one has to lug a baby grand around. At this very moment Palmer is probably being led to an upright by some admirer when he would rather be anywhere else.

Concerning this latest venture his mother remarked, “Roy is a good boy.” Said the Dean, “Sleep through that first period again, Mr. Palmer, and you've had it.”

By DICK MOREHEAD

Austin Strand is the Lilliputian Junior capably filling the Gargantuan post as chairman of the Scouting Committee for the Y this year. He is a son of Greensboro, North Carolina, where he was very active in scouting work, advancing to the coveted position of Eagle Scout and acquiring the Bronze Palm. Always stirring in Y work, he has headed up the Negro scout troop in Cornelius for the past two years. Austin is a business major with hopes for becoming an accountant. He plans to donate two years to advanced ROTC and three to graduate school, giving them in a “first come, first serve” order. He hopes to continue work in scouting after graduation, but not in a professional capacity. Austin, a member of the Phi Delta Theta social fraternity, was vice president of his sophomore class and is this year News Editor for the Davidsonian and on the Y Cabinet.

THE SCOUTING COMMITTEE

The field of scouting here covers a wide area of subjects, interests, attitudes, and age levels while keeping within the range of the universal scouting program. This year’s advanced ROTC has necessitated a large active committee with several sub-chairmen as well as the cooperation and efforts of various faculty and community leaders. The Scouting Post of the Y might be divided into two groups—Scouting and Cubbing, the larger of which is the Cubbing group. Cubbing is under the able leadership of Professor B. D. Thompson of the Lions Club. Assisting him as a more or less roving assistant is Bill Kuykendall of the student body, whose function as key coordinator is to realize and provide those things which cubs need and want from cubbing.

The committee began the year with three dens and has since added one on the western side of town. The three former dens are divided into age groups of eight, nine, and ten with den mothers from the community ably assisted by Cliff Deal, J. Barksdale, Joe Hodges and Bob Douglas of the Y. The latter den, composed of all three age groups, was organized in December with Buddy Dye and Bob Shaw as assistants. The aim behind this den was to bring in more boys who really needed cubbing, and it is hoped that this aim can be continued and broadened in future years. These dens meet once a week, having a pack meeting about once every six weeks. They have had various projects so far, such as Christmas decorations and models, and this semester is being devoted to raising money for the trip which should prove to be very educational. Money is raised by paper drives, selling drinks, and raking lawns.

The other troop is a colored one set up in November under the leadership of Mr. Kibler who is very interested in boys and scouting work. He is assisted by Jack Huffaker and Ronnie Whitson. This troop is still in its organization, and so far little advancement has been accomplished. According to the chairman, “The main aim here should be leadership in teaching these boys how to live right rather than straight advancement — we hope to use these aims hand in hand.”

There are two scouting troops for the first of which is a white troop which meets at the Davidson College Church under the leadership of Professor Bevan and assistants Gwynn Griffin, Jack Pietenpol, Tony Dick and chairman Strand. There are twenty-seven boys in this troop. The project planned for the year is one thought up by Professor Bevan — that of taking the boys on a bus trip up through Washington, D.C., at the end of the school year. Most of this semester is being devoted to raising money for the trip which should prove to be very educational. Money is raised by paper drives, selling drinks, and raking lawns.

All Pictures Will Be Shown On Our New P-A-N-O-R-A-M-I-C WIDE SCREEN

THURS.-FRI., FEB. 11-12 “SECOND CHANCE” (Technicolor) LINDA DARNELL

SATURDAY, FEB. 13 “THE BIG HEAT” GLENN FORD

MON.-TUES., FEB. 15-16 “ALL THE BROTHERS WERE VALIANT” ROBERT TAYLOR STEWART GRANGER

WEDNESDAY, FEB. 17 “SAADIA”

Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co. says...

For four years we have maintained in the smoker's interest an intensified larger scale diversified research program. A half-million dollar 30-ton machine, the world’s most powerful source of high voltage electrons, designed solely for our use has tested tens of thousands of cigarettes. This program has already given to us direct and significant information of benefit to the smoking public. Our consultants include Arthur D. Little, Inc. of Cambridge, Massachusetts, “one of the largest and most reputable industrial research organizations in the country” (From Business Week Magazine) and eminent scientists from leading universities. Today the public can confidently choose from a variety of brands—by far the best cigarettes ever made by the tobacco industry. Many scientists within our laboratories are analyzing cigarette tobaccos every day.

Parking, Publicity... (Continued From Page One)

The committee would like to meet with the publicity director sometime in the future if possible. The rest of the meeting was concerned with generalized discussions on other college problems, which the committee hopes to deal with in the future. Students are reminded that since the committee is concerned with student opinion, the committee will appreciate any suggestions by students concerning the many phases of college life. Ideas should be given to either Dr. Ostwalt or Jim Daughdrill, secretary. Those present at the meeting, held in the faculty lounge of the College Union, were Dr. Ostwalt, Mr. Plott, Charlie Johnson, ClarkHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

book. But as he himself puts it, some people just can’t win for losing. In desperation and lonely as ever, he practiced hour after hour, day after day, trying to realize some financial gain for his new love.

THURS.-FRI., FEB. 18-19
“MARRY ME AGAIN”
MARIE WILSON
ROBT. CUMMINGS

SATURDAY, JAN. 20
“WAR PAINT”
ROBERT STACK
JOAN TAYLOR

QUALITY MILK
Mooresville Creamery, Inc.

Guidance Program . . .
(Continued From Page One)
The program is not intended to decide for the individual his particular problem, whether it be of an academic or a vocational nature. The program is concerned rather with providing the student with as much reliable information about himself as possible so that he might be better equipped to make his own decision.

“Any student who would like to take these tests should go by the Vocational Guidance office, Room 31 Chambers, and see either Professor Ostwalt or the secretary, who is there in the afternoons. An interview will then be arranged with Professor Ostwalt, at which time the tests will be arranged for the student according to his particular needs.

The tests, by the way, are given every day, Monday through Friday, from 2-4:30 p.m. After the tests have all been taken, the student is shown his results in another interview; and, if necessary, another set is arranged.

Dr. Watts Returns . . .
(Continued From Page One)
During the summer the Doles, Thompsons, and Abernethys from Davidson took longer trips to Maine, New Hampshire, and Ohio. Dr. Watts moved his headquarters to New York City where he attended a meeting of the secretaries of all the national language associations at the headquarters of the Modern Language Association on November 13th and 14th. From then until Christmas he worked in the New York Public libraries and the Columbia University Library. From December 28th to the 31st he attended meetings of the Modern Language Association and the American Association of Teachers of French in Chicago. There he was elected for the fifth consecutive three-year term as secretary-treasurer of the American Association of Teachers of French.

During January Dr. Watts returned to Davidson, using this as a base from which to visit the University of North Carolina and Duke University libraries. During this period he completed a research paper to be read at the University of Kentucky Foreign Language Conference in April. Dr. Watts is now at his regular teaching position, his place having been filled in his absence by Kenneth Wilson-Jones, who has returned to the University of North Carolina for further study.

Bandleader Marterie, who will put in his first appearance at Davidson next weekend, is definitely a man who aims to please. “The public wants good, sweet, and tastefully arranged music with a danceable beat—that’s what my band is prepared to give them,” says Marterie.

Trumpet playing Marterie, dubbed “The Man Born for the Horn,” is known to popular music fans through his recordings for Mercury and his own radio shows over the ABC network. A veteran of many years of radio work, both in the popular and concert field, Marterie’s working knowledge of his material is veritably encyclopedic. With several hundred arrangements in that band’s “book” or library, the Marterie band is certainly one of the best equipped of the newer bands today. The instrumentation of the Marterie band is made up of four trombones, five trumpets, five reeds, three rhythm, and both a boy and a girl singer.

Linker’s Hunch
(Continued From Page Seven)
On Saturday afternoon, patrolmen J. R. Davis and J. L. Mize arrested Fields at his home for the Davidson robbery. Fields got into the police car with Patrolman Mize, while Patrolman Davis followed in Field’s car. Neither officer was equipped with a pair of handcuffs. Fields then drew the officer’s own gun and fatally shot Davis with one bullet. Patrolman Mize, who was unarmed, fell out of the car several times and was left for dead. Fields then drove on in his own car. This was followed by one of the largest manhunts in Georgia history. Fields was chased for several hours by over 25 cars of varied enforcement bodies. Not to be stopped, Fields had to be chased for six miles on foot through rough Georgia territory. Officers reported that Fields would have been shot dead on the spot if he had not thrown his gun down and turned his back to arresting officers.

Greek Week . . .
(Continued From Page One)
With the time of 1:52 minutes, the Kappa Sigs took second and Sigma Chi took third place. The Betas once again captured first place in the shuttle dash relay with their time being 1.35 minutes. The KAs filled the fourth place spot, and the Kappa Sigs were fifth. The Phi Gams held sixth place, while the SAEs took seventh. The Phi Delts, ATOs, and Pi Kapps all tied for eighth place.

Sigma Phi Epsilon won first place and the trophy last night in the Greek Week Follies to culminate the Greek Week activities sponsored by the IFC. Second and third places were awarded to Kappa Phi and Sigma Chi, respectively. The Alpha Tau Omega performance, rated top by the judges, was disqualified because of outside help.

Midwinters . . .
(Continued From Page One)
The IFC has been working for some time on the Midwinters project and believes it has an attractive motif for the occasion. Independents, alumni, and others who wish to buy tickets to next weekend's dances must follow the same policy set for Homecoming, and buy their tickets from a special representative.

For more than thirty years we have used research day in and day out learning about tobaccos and cigarettes in the public’s interest. Continuously we and our consultants have analyzed, experimented with, and smoked all kinds of tobaccos... especially Southern Bright, Burley, Maryland, and Turkish cigarette tobaccos. Our own cigarettes and competitive brands have been submitted to the most exacting scientific scrutiny including thousands of analyses of millions of pounds of tobaccos. From all these thousands of analyses, and other findings reported in the leading technical journals, our Research Department has found no reason to believe that the isolation and elimination of any element native to cigarette tobaccos today would improve smoking.

Phoenix Group Insurance & Brands
Johnston Building
Charlotte, N. C.

Tested and Approved by Tobacco Research
Copyright 1954, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.