PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN

Professor Recalls Years Of May 20 Celebration

In connection with President Eisenhower’s visit to Charlotte on May 18, to take part in the celebration of the signing of the Mecklenburg Declaration of Independence, Dr. Chalmers G. Davidson has written the following article on the integral connection of the college with this celebration through the years.—Ed.

The students at Davidson College in the old days celebrated the Mecklenburg Declaration with a holiday jaunt to the village of Charlotte. There were no classes on May 20th and both faculty members and collegiates participated in the patriotic festivities. As Davidson was not founded until 1837, it had no part in the great celebrations prior to that date. Those of 1825 and 1835 were especially notable. The mention of the “college green” in these celebrations refers to the old Queens College from which Davidson is indirectly descended, it being to all intents and purposes a Presbyterian school for boys locally supported.

In the days before the War between the States, Davidson was more closely identified with Mecklenburg County than the cosmopolitan institution of today. The early class rolls abound in Alexanders, Brevards, Davidsons, Morrisons, Grahams, Phifers, Irwins, Polks, Reeses, Harrises, and Barrys. These boys had heard from their fathers and grandfathers first-hand accounts of the stirring events of the Revolution. They were familiar with the details of the controversy over the date on which the declaration was promulgated. The newspapers of the time were full of articles on this subject and the State of North Carolina issued an official pamphlet in 1831 publishing all the evidence available with respect to May 20.

Sectional feeling had developed to such an extent that many considered it a matter of patriotism to celebrate May 20th in preference to July 4th, overlooking the fact that the earliest local declaration and the national declaration later contained no point of conflict. As an example of this state of mind, the faculty minutes of Davidson record on July 2, 1860, that Professor Rockwell objected to giving a holiday on July 4th (college then ran through the summer) on the grounds that May 20th had already been celebrated and two holidays were not customary.

The Faculty Resolves

Up to 1858, it appears from faculty minutes that students must make a request for a holiday on May 20th before it was granted, but on November 15, 1858, the faculty “resolved that there be a junior exhibition on the 20th of May hereafter as a regular custom: the exercises to consist of original speeches and declarations, which will be distributed according to scholarships as determined by the preceding semiannual examination in February, original speeches being assigned to those whose standing is 95 or above, the declamation to those between 95 and 92.”

The greatest celebration, of course, was the Centennial of May 20, 1875. In April of that year, the faculty resolved that a holiday be granted and that the students be permitted to assist in the Centennial celebration. Evidently, the local exhibition previously decreed was omitted. The two literary societies, the Eumenean and the Philanthropic, even debated making a financial contribution to the centennial celebration but (these being Reconstruction days) decided that the state of their exchequers was too low to admit it. They did, however, participate whole-heartedly in the revelry. The minutes of the Eumenean Society on the following day (May 21) note that “the speeches showed the result of too great interest in the centennial.” The same society debated a few weeks earlier the question “should the South participate in the Centennial celebration at Philadelphia on July 4, 1876." The result of the debate is not given but it is significant to find students interested in such a topic.

Davidson was very much a school for “southern gentlemen” throughout the nineteenth century. Professor D. H. Hill (who became a

For Straight A's in Style and Comfort

DITTARION GASSMAN

SATURDAY, MAY 8 “MISSION OVER

Belk Home for Weary Continues To Rise

Sixty-one experienced laborers are working feverishly five and a half days a week in order to finish the new Belk haven of rest by the first of February, 1955. Just today 30 all-round handy men, 20 bricklayers, 6 plumbers, 3 electricians, and 2 steel specialists finished pouring concrete for the first floor. As work is now 10 days ahead of schedule, it is believed that 3 stories will be completed in 10 weeks.

The massive structure, which will be six stories high from the laundry angle, will be completely concrete and brick. The ROTC department has reconnoitered the underground areas of this fireproof Triple-A monster, and has decided to occupy these particular floors for its own special purposes.

Luxury-loving Davidson gentlemen will be distressed to learn that the building will have neither elevators, escalators, nor air-conditioning, but they will be relieved to find that there will be two large baths on each floor. One innovation about which the administration is especially ecstatic is battleship linoleum, one-eighth inch in depth, which will be used on all floors. Fun-loving students will enjoy the telephone call system, for it will enable them to play pranks on their friends, and no one will ever know who buzzed.

Anyone who needs to be convinced that work is being carried on at a noisy and accelerated pace has only to try to get an afternoon snooze.On the north end of East, West, Georgia, or Watts dormitories. But a much easier way to be certain that progress is being made is to take a careful look at Mrs. Little. The big smile with which she greets you gives definite proof that Belk is daily coming nearer to completion.

Confederate general) published an Algebra textbook in which there were pointed references to “Yankee Pedlars” and “New England Traitors” in the wording of the mathematical problems. Fortunately, this prejudice passed away before the twentieth century.

The College has a peculiar interest in the Mecklenburg Declaration aside from its library collection. The official seal of the institution contains the motto “Alenda Lux Ubi Orta Libertas” (Light is nourished where liberty has arisen). The seal was designed by the mysterious Frenchman Peter S. Ney, believed by many to have been Napoleon's marshal. The motto, which he composed, is said to have a reference to Mecklenburg’s conspicuous part in proclaiming American liberty.

Today's CHESTERFIELD is the Best Cigarette Vote of Students...

(Continued From Page One)
Amendments are nothing but a “sop for our conscience.” A student legislature or senate was another Lamon suggestion. This senate would not control any judicial power but would be merely a means for the expression and consideration of united student and faculty opinion. The meetings of the senate would be periodic and open to anyone.

Fitzgerald To Be...

(Continued From Page One)
It will be at 11:00 a.m. in the College Church. Faculty homes will be open to seniors, alumni, families, and friends from 8:00 to 10:00 Sunday night. The climax of the three-day commencement exercises will be the graduation exercises on Monday morning, May 31. The academic procession will be at 10:15. Graduation exercises will be held in Chambers Auditorium at 10:30. The graduation address will be given by Chancellor Fitzgerald.

Moore Urges...

(Continued From Page Two)
Organizations and most particularly in the classroom. On a paternalistic basis, you might be able to justify conformity in some areas, but even taking into account the necessary Christian element in our instruction, when conformity frustrates the genuine liberal arts aims of our school, it strikes at the very heart of our educational foundations.

There would appear to be an excellent opportunity for meeting the educational needs of Davidson’s students, both present and future, through the active pursuit of a liberal arts program patterned after that of Princeton. My advocacy is not done merely because Princeton has the program but because my experience and the advice and experience of others have shown it to be an advisable goal.

The Survey of Administrative Management of Davidson College made last year by the management engineering firm of Aesop, McCormick, and Paget, recommended the reorganization of the curriculum along similar lines as I have proposed. Their reasons were not only educationally sound but also would make the faculty more efficient in recognizing its goals and pursuing them to the end of greater student stimulation in scholarship and thinking. This is only one aspect of a broad area on which there needs to be concentrated student, faculty, administration, and trustee investigation and action.

The faculty has had two committees working on the problem for some time, and it will be interesting as an alumnus to look back and see which way Davidson goes in her educational direction.

BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD, N. C. “Coke” is a registered trademark. © 1952, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY

FOR YOUR RECORDS — It’s — PARKER-GARDNER Phone 2-8257 118 W. Trade — Charlotte

PICK YOUR PARTNER... TURN ON THE POWER! ... Power like the two “Panchos,” Gonzales and Segura have demonstrated on their world tour. It’s the high-powered game — at its smashing best. Play it their way this year — with the new Spalding rackets designed by and for these tennis “greats.” Feel that new surge of power, that new sense of control! Man, there'll be no holding you!

Other Models In a Wide Range of prices

SPALDING SETS THE PACE IN TENNIS

“Chesterfields for Me!” The cigarette with a proven good record with smokers. Here is the record. Bi-monthly examinations of a group of smokers show no adverse effects to nose, throat, and sinuses from smoking Chesterfield. The cigarette tested and approved by 30 years of scientific tobacco research. The cigarette that gives you proof of highest quality—low nicotine—the taste you want—the mildness you want.

MON.-TUES., MAY 10-11
“EXECUTIVE SUITE”
WILLIAM HOLDEN
BARBARA STANWYCK

WEDNESDAY, MAY 12
“CHARGE OF THE LANCES” (Technicolor)
PAULETTE GODDARD

THURS-FRI., MAY 13-14
“RED GARTERS” (Technicolor)
ROSEMARY CLOONEY

SATURDAY, MAY 15
“OVERLAND PACIFIC” (In Color)
JACK MAHONEY

Largest Selling Cigarette in America’s Colleges

MEN’S SHOES
Handsome shoes indeed... with the built-in comfort and extra wear for which Crosby Square are noted. In fine white Buck with red or black rubber soles. “A bear for wear.” Stop in and select yours soon! Sizes 6 to 12. Widths A to E.

Copyright 1954, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.