FRIDAY, JANUARY 15, 1954

THE DAVIDSON

One night last week had one of Davidson's loyal basketball fans wandered into Johnston gymnasium about nine o’clock he might
have glanced up at the scoreboard; rubbed his eyes; looked again; and then believing himself to have wandered by mistake
into the Raleigh Coliseum might have turned to leave. Sound strange? Davidson ahead by 50 points! That’s a strange sound
to fans who have watched the Cats in the past! Davidson, a team which dropped its opener to Guilford. Usually,
the holiday layoff hurts the Cats, but not this year. The men of the red and black have looked like
an entirely different ball club since they opened their New Year by dropping to McCrary’s Eagles by only 10 markers.
Since that time they have won two and lost one, looking good in each game. One of those wins, against
the Citadel, was a conference affair, and that puts the scrappy Cats just that much closer to a tournament berth
when the Morgantown affair comes up in early March. We would like to join Professor McGavock in extending a hearty
vote of approval to Coach Miller and his Cat cagers for a job well done. We might add a time-worn
cliché for the Davidson fans, however, WIN OR LOSE, LET'S BE GOOD SPORTS!

Congratulations are in order also this week to Mr. Paul Scott, our Athletic Director, who was named at the recent
meeting of the NCAA in Cincinnati as the District Three (Southeastern U.S.) representative on the Wrestling Rules Committee of the
NCAA. Scott, who has been an amateur enthusiast for quite some time now, led his Cornell wrestling squad to two
national championships in his coaching days before coming to Davidson to take over his present position. He has done much
to promote the sport in this area since arrival on the local campus.

Davidson’s 1954 football Wildcats will have a new look next fall as far as schedule goes. The recent dropping of
the traditional N.C. State clash and the proposed new encounter with Florida State and the adding of Catawba and Elon
besides the changes made when the schedule originally came out will mean a change in the old “bloody, but unbowed”
scheduling philosophy followed for so long. It looks as if it took nine straight defeats to do the trick, but
if it has resulted in the scheduling of a reasonable slate of opponents for the “not that bad” Cats, then
we say it was worth it. Dr. Johnston, head of the faculty section of the Athletic Council, and Mr. Scott,
director of Athletics, assured this reporter that these changes do not indicate any drastic changes like dropping out of the
conference, but rather a recognition of the fact that we have been playing too far out of our situation and
an effort to give the boys a chance.

Wildcat Wrestlers Idle After Stronger Showings
By BILL HESTON

This year’s vastly improved Wildcat wrestlers are now in the annual exam lay-off period after having made fine showings in
the meets to date. Coach Parker started out with almost the same squad he had last season without help of
the freshmen, but he has molded these men into a winning team. It will be after exams when the grapplers
again go into action when they face North Carolina State here on February 2 on the local mats. Coach Parker
believes our Wildcats should give the State men a tough fight and finish on top. The last encounter of the
Cats was with the Blue Devils of Duke who edged them in a tight meet, 17 to 13. However, in
previous meets the Cats tied Carolina and also defeated the “Tea Sippers” of Emory University, 27 to 5.

Much Improvement

Some of the members of the team have shown a great deal of improvement this year. Charlie Murray in the
130-pound class has wrestled 8 times and won 7. He also won in the Carolina AAU by pinning every man
he met and was voted outstanding wrestler in the tournament. Johnny Buxton and Don Reid have also been doing a
lot of good wrestling this season. Buxton has won 5 of his 7 matches so far this year. The meet
on February 2 with State will probably see these men wrestling for Davidson:

Varsity Squad
Bobby Joe Key — 123 lbs.
Charlie Murray — 130 lbs.
Don Reid — 137 lbs.
John Buxton — 147 lbs.
Henry Faison — 157 lbs.
Bill Coe — 167 lbs.
Monty Littlejohn — 177 lbs.
Dave Burns — Heavyweight

Freshman Squad
Box Alexander — 123 lbs.
Evert Price — 130 lbs.
John Grey — 137 lbs.
V. R. Snyder — 147 lbs.
David Brown — 157 lbs.
Joe Whitesell — 167 lbs.
Sonny Vinsey — 177 lbs.
Tom Firor — Heavyweight

The remaining schedule for the Cats is as follows:
State, February 2 (Here)
The Citadel, February 12 (Here)
W. & L., February 18 (Here)
V.P.I., February 22 (Here)

Freshman Cagers Boast Good Record At Half-Way Mark
By JOHN HOLSHOUSER

The Wildkittens, in the midst of a very successful season, gave the student body something to yell about Monday night
as they scrapped the North Carolina frosh until the final buzzer, only to come out on the short end of
a 72-56 score. The freshmen showed a teamwork system to make up for the height advantage held by the Carolina
team and showed a real knack for ball-handling. Gaylord Walker was high man for Davidson with 23 points. Richard Weeks,
hitting with his usual accuracy from the outside, followed with 17.

Five Remaining

The remainder of the schedule consists of five games, including Gardner-Webb, Pfeiffer, Charlotte College, Kannapolis “Y,” and one other game
which will be announced. With the steadily improving shooting and teamwork being evident as the season progresses, the remainder of
the schedule shows good possibilities for some victories for the Kittens.

Gardner-Webb Strong

They have defeated two of their upcoming opponents, Pfeiffer and Charlotte College, without being too heavily pressed, while Kannapolis “Y”
controlled the backboards to defeat the Davidsonians 52-46. Gardner-Webb is new on the schedule and they could furnish some tough
opposition for the speedy Kittens. Thus far into the season, Gaylord Walker holds the scoring lead of the team with
98 points and an average of 12 points a game.

FRAT CAGERS OFF TO HOT START

The interfraternity basketball season got off to a red hot start this week with all indications pointing to a close
and exciting race before the season is over. Three teams emerged from this week’s action with clean slates as some
real upsets marked the 24 games played. The ATOs, Betas, and Phi Gams lead the league after downing two foes
apiece this week. The ATOs showed the most power of the leaders in winning easily in both their games while
both other teams were involved in very close games. The Pikas scored the most number of points in one game
as they downed the KAs by a 55-41 count. Corky Clark of the Kappa Sigs scored the most number of
points for an individual with a 22-point splurge. Murray Page of the ATOs tops the individual scorers for the week,
however, having turned in 19-point performances in each game. Page leads with a 38-point total, Clark is second with 37,
and Lindley Beardsley of the Pikas is third with 29.

Following is a summary of this week’s action:

Betas 43, Kappa Sigs 42

In the closest one of the week, the Betas made a brilliant comeback on the set shots of Billy McNair
to beat the highly touted Kappa Sigs by a one-point margin. Corky Clark of the Kappa Sigs led the individual
scoring with 15 for the losers, while McNair was high for the Betas with 14.

ATO 40, Phi Delts 32

Sparked by the scoring prowess of Murray Page, the league-leading ATOs showed their power as they took the measure of
Phi Delts by a 40-32 count. Ralph Petree was high for the losers with 10 in a game that featured
a slow start—halftime score—12-8.

Phi Gams 33, Sigma Chis 29

Getting their 1954 season off on a winning note, the league-leading Phi Gams took the measure of the Sigma Chis
by a 33-29 count. Champion topped the night’s scoring with 15 while Tom Shaw connected for 10 for the losers.

Pikas 55, KAs 43

In the week’s highest scoring game, the Pikas rolled to a 55-41 victory over the defending champions of the league
as three of their men found the double-figure range. John Handley hit for 17 while Bob Owens got 15, and
Lindley Beardsley got 12. Pete Bridges was high for the losers with 10.Pt Kapps 37, SAEs 31
With Charlie Robinson leading the way with 12 points, the Pi Kapps knocked off the SAEs by a 37-31 total.
Dyke Little hit for 12 for the losers.

Phi Gams 37, SPEs 35
In another thriller, the Phi Gams managed to stave off a last-minute surge by the Sig Eps to down them
by 37-35. Comer led the Phi Gams with 12, while Stowe and Connell each collected 10.

ATOs 53, Pi Kapps 40
In another high-scoring contest, Page and Baker teamed up with 19 and 17 points respectively to lead the powerful ATO
attack to an easy victory. Swain collected 11 for the Pi Kapps.

Phi Delts 37, Pikas 33
The Phi Delts used a fine defense and some cool ball handling to down the Pikas in a game that
was marked by 38 fouls called. The Pikas’ Lindley Beardsley was high man for the night with 17 markers, as
Ralph Petree hit for 8 to lead the victors.

Sig Eps 44, Independents 30
After a slow start, the Sig Eps came back to roll to an easy win over the Independents. Reid topped
the individual scorers for the night as he sank 15 for the Inds. while Connell got 8 for the Sig
Eps.

Kappa Sigs 45, KAs 39
The Kappa Sigs showed their strength as they rolled over the KAs by a 46-35 count. Corky Clark poured through
22 points to pace the Kappa Sigs. Bridges got 9 for the sagging KAs.

Betas 38, Sigma Chis 28
Hitting their scoring stride, the Betas pulled away in the final minutes to down the cellar-dwelling Sigs by a 38-28
margin. Big Tommy Lambe hit for 14 for the Betas as Bob Mitchell got 9 to lead the Sigs.

Independents 40, SAEs 28
With Bobby Brown leading the way with 19 markers, the Independents rolled to an easy victory over the last place
SAEs. Dyke Little again led the SAE attack with 10 points.

THE STANDINGS
ATO
Beta
Phi Gam
Kappa Sig
Pika
Ind.
Sig Ep
Phi Delt
Pi Kapp
Sigma Chi
SAE

Tracksters Prepare For Indoor Meets
The Davidson tracksters began their preparation early last week for the coming indoor track season. Three meets are on the
indoor schedule. The relay team will enter the Winter Relays at VMI on January 30, while the rest of the
team swings into action in late February. The Southern Conference Indoor Meet will be run at VMI on the 19th,
while the Cats will participate in the non-conference division at the Carolina Invitational Indoor Meet at Chapel Hill on the
27th. The Carolina meet is the AAC conference meet.

How the stars got started...
Eddie Sauter and Bill Finegan, leaders of America’s most excitingly different dance band, met in 1939 as struggling young arrangers.
Ed had studied trumpet and drum at college, worked up to arranging for “name” bands; Bill had studied in Paris,
won a spot with Tommy Dorsey. After 13 years of pooling new ideas, they formed their own band. It clicked!

For Mildness and Flavor Camels: America’s most popular cigarette.

W.&L. Hosts to Cats Tomorrow
Face Conference Foes Before Mid-Year Break
By JIM HOLSHOUSER

Davidson’s up-and-coming basketball team travels to Lexington, Va., tomorrow where the cagers make the first stop on a three-day road
trip against Southern Conference opposition in Virginia. Tomorrow night, the Cats meet Washington and Lee’s Generals. After a one-day lay-off
on Sunday, the Davidson club moves to Blacksburg to meet VPI.

Davidson now owns a one-won, two-lost record in Southern Conference play. The Cats have lost to VPI and VMI, while
taking their lone conference decision over The Citadel.

The contest with Washington and Lee may turn out to be a very close one. The Generals are rated a
slight favorite since they are the home club. Last Monday, the W&L outfit lost to George Washington’s powerful team, 84-53.

(Seek Revenge)
Monday night’s tangle with VPI will find the Wildcats looking for revenge for the 68-61 setback they suffered at the
hands of the VPI cagers in a pre-Christmas scrap at Davidson. The Gobblers, however, will be meeting a club which
has improved greatly since the December encounter.

Beginning with a close, 91-81 decision dropped to McCrary Eagles, the Davidson club has averaged 71 points per game in
four battles since they returned from the Christmas holidays. The Cats’ high mark for the season was the 89-point spree
turned in against Newberry last week. The Cats also walloped The Citadel in a Southern Conference scrap, 62-51. The players
have hustled consistently and have usually hit about 40% of their shots from the floor, an average which is very
creditable.

Cat Swimmers Make Slow Start
Davidson’s swimming team finished up their pre-exam activities on Wednesday as they were edged by the University of South Carolina
Gamecock swimmers in the local pool. They had been beaten previously by wide margins by Duke and Carolina.

The Cats showed a lot of improvement in Wednesday's meet in losing by only two points in a real thriller.
The Cats could manage only four first places, but pulled up in the lower places showing a lot of hustle
and determination.

Ormond Tops
Al Ormond, the team's individual high scorer for the past two years, has shown that he’s after that title again
as he has turned in some fine performances in the meets to date. Although Davidson led throughout the first quarter,
Carolina soon went ahead to stay. Jerry Vayda was the leading scorer for both teams with 19 points.

The freshmen have also showed a lot of promise, especially in the persons of Tom Rivers and Bob Carrell who
have been consistent winners for the Kitten swimmers. This duo has been lauded as two of the best swimmers to
come to Davidson in recent years.

Hobby Cobb continues to be the leader in individual statistics. In eleven games, Cobb has grabbed 145 points for a
13.2 average per game. He has also gotten 92 rebounds and leads the team in that department.

The marked improvement by big George Melton is one of the big reasons for the sudden change. Melton has been
hitting with much better consistency and has been getting a large share of those all-important rebounds. Melton’s improvement has enabled
Coach Danny Miller to move Graeme Keith to a forward slot, getting some much-needed height into the line-up.

ATTENTION
The first annual Southeastern United States Intercollegiate Volleyball Tournament will be held at Davidson on February 26 and 27. So
far there have been nine entries turned in with several fine teams represented. Davidson's entry will be picked on a
tryout basis and much student interest in the tournament is expected. Mr. Scott, who is the director of the tournament,
will also serve as the coach of the Davidson team. Mr. Scott has asked that all men interested in trying
out for the Davidson entry meet with him on Monday night at 7 o’clock for a very short meeting in
the trophy room of the gym. This will serve as an organization meeting and Mr. Scott assures all those interested
that it will be very brief. The teams entered thus far are: Appalachian State, Davidson, Elon, the University of South
Carolina, Erskine, Alabama State College of Jacksonville, High Point, Lynchburg, the University of North Carolina (tentatively), and Florida State.

BUDDY BROWN
One of the Cats’ most improved cagers, Buddy has shown good scoring punch and fine rebounding ability in early season's
play.

HOBBY COBB
The Cats’ top scorer and rebounder is forward Hobby Cobb from Charlotte. Hobby scored 145 points in the eleven games
to date for a 13.2 average per game. He has also gotten 92 rebounds as he performs in his sophomore
year in a Davidson uniform.

Deluxe Ice Cream
Mooresville Ice Cream Company
Mooresville, N. C.

Chuiton-Finogan, Orchestra. AMERICA’S NEWEST, MOST COLORFUL DANCE BAND
Bill Finegan, Eddie Sauter

START SMOKING CAMELS YOURSELF!
Smoke only Camels for 30 days and find out why Camels are first in mildness, flavor and popularity! See how
much pure pleasure a cigarette can give you!

WITH ME, CAMELS CLICKED INSTANTLY. THE FLAVOR’S HOW I LIKE IT, THE MILDNESS IS JUST RIGHT.

MORE PEOPLE SMOKE CAMELS THAN ANY OTHER CIGARETTE!
