THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 1954 PAGE FOUR

Institute for World Affairs to be held soon at Chapel Hill. Dr. Guerrant has written a book on South American relations, and earlier in the year led an afternoon Vesper discussion on the forum. Noted for his eloquence, he is in wide demand for speaking engagements. Dr. Clyde and Mr. Lefever will lead a discussion of United States foreign policy—past and present, principle and practice.

ABERNETHY ANNOUNCES SCHOLARSHIPS DEADLINE NEARS ON MANY IN FEBRUARY

Professor George Abernethy has announced the following additional fellowships and scholarships which are available to members of the senior class.

The presentation of the Mecklenburg-Union Medal to the outstanding Davidson student from either Mecklenburg or Union County will be a feature of the annual dinner meeting of the Davidson College Mecklenburg-Union Alumni Chapter. The dinner is set for February 16 in the Edenton Presbyterian Church. Yates Faison, president of the chapter, announced that more than 30 alumni are expected to attend the dinner which will be held in honor of the recipient of the annual award last year, Bill White and Malcolm McLean.

Dr. Spencer’s recent book “Decision for War, 1917,” well qualifies him for a spot in the panel. Dr. Johnston, the moderator for the panel discussion, served as master of ceremonies for a series of programs over WBTV early in the fall. He held several teaching positions before coming to Duke in 1937. During the war, he was Air Force Evaluation Analyst for the Pacific Area, and later became academic advisor to the USAF in the European Theater. Having written several books on Far Eastern affairs, he is well qualified for the topics under discussion.

The University of California Institute of Industrial Relations announces a number of graduate research assistantships for students desiring advanced training in one of the basic fields of Arts, Sciences, and Social Studies. Ten special scholarships (plus tuition) are available to first-year graduate students in Economics, Political Science, Sociology, Business Administration, and Statistics. The stipend is $1,440 for half-time work, and tuition fees may be waived for those with distinguished scholarship records. Applications are due February 20, 1954. For blanks, write the Dean of the Graduate School, University of California, Berkeley, Calif., or 100 Business Administration and Economics Building, University of California, Los Angeles, Calif.

Emory University

The Graduate School at Emory University is offering a large number of graduate scholarships and fellowships carrying stipends plus tuition. Application forms may be obtained from the Institute of Industrial Relations, 201 California Hall, University of California, Berkeley, Calif., or 100 Business Administration and Economics Building, University of California, Los Angeles, Calif. Applications, properly filled out, with supporting material, must be received before February 15, 1954. For blanks, write the Dean of the Graduate School, Emory University, Emory University, Ga.

Union Carbide

Mr. C. K. Van Curen and Miss Florence Lassie will be on campus Tuesday, Feb. 9, as representatives for Union Carbide to interview applicants interested in careers with the company.

Stuart Presents Forum Goals For Year; Looks Forward to Tuesday's Main Event

Ed Stuart, who is a product of Bartow, Florida, is well qualified for his position as he brings into the chairmanship a background of travel and experience in this and other countries spearheaded by a deep interest and study in history and political science. He attended the international Christian Youth Conference held in India last year under the auspices of UCYM, continued his stay in India for several months, and finished his junior year at the University of Beirut in Lebanon. This year he was one of several who attended the conferences at the UN.

Another and very important function of the Forum Committee is the After-Vesper discussion group. Six of these panel discussion periods have already been given by the committee. Under the leadership of such competent and qualified professors as Bevan, Workman, Thompson, Guerrant, and Johnston, these smaller forums deal with subjects of particular interest to the student, centered around common college and campus problems. It has been tentatively planned to continue these After-Vesper groups with the presentation of one every other week.

Placement Service...

Although the placement activities are already underway, it is not too late for seniors to sign up with the placement bureau. The Life Insurance Company, Colgate-Palmolive-Peet Company, Hanover Bank, Rich’s Department Store, Sears-Roebuck & Company, Riegel Inc., General Electric Company, Southern Bell Telephone & Telegraph Company, and the National Insurance Agency are among the companies expected to come to the campus. This is only a partial list of the companies. About twenty more are expected to come to the campus also.

Dormitory Gunman...

The pilot training you get in the Air Force is the best in the world. It’s a hard grind, but Cadets fly the latest planes, a Piper Cub, and the more advanced T-28. You’ll learn to fly the fastest, latest planes in the air—and fly them with the finest. You’ll graduate as an Air Force lieutenant, earning over $5,000 a year. Your Air Force wings will serve as credentials for important positions both in military and civilian aviation. The pilot training you get in the Air Force is the best in the world. It’s a hard grind, but Cadets fly the latest planes, a Piper Cub, and the more advanced T-28. You’ll learn to fly the fastest, latest planes in the air—and fly them with the finest. You’ll graduate as an Air Force lieutenant, earning over $5,000 a year. Your Air Force wings will serve as credentials for important positions both in military and civilian aviation.

Most of the amounts stolen ranged from a few dollars to about thirty, with the exception of $126 taken from the room of a fraternity boarding-house manager. Police speculated that the gunman might have purposely disguised his voice to cause confusion. Apparently, when he awoke the occupants of a room when entering, he employed the ruse of pretending to be looking for another student. It seems he talked with several students under this pretext, and even apologized profusely to one for having awakened him.open houses. A History Honors major, he fraternity gatherings, and mass Eu Initiates... is planning to do graduate mobilized movies, the committee (Continued From Page One) work in preparation for the has been seeking a more effective trow, Mack Dagenhart, John Kim- teaching profession. vehicle for its programs. One of brough, Clyde Robinson, Jr., Ste- He wins his wings as an How to qualify for Pilot Training as an —AND A PILOT these in the experimental period wart Vaughn, Larry Parrott, Tim the theft of a watch valued at in campus affairs and is this the fraternity discussion group. Cooper, Leon Howell, Jr., Carl about $100 Aviation Cadet year serving as president of It is felt that the fraternity, being Cooper, Reitzel Snider, Jr., James President Issues Statement To qualify, you must be at the Beta Theta Pi Social fra- a natural for small, friendly dis- Martin, Creighton Peden, II, Wil- Yesterday morning President least a high school graduate. ternity, and is a member of cussions, could air common prob- liam Martin, Jr., William Duke, Cunningham issued the following However, you will be of more the Spanish Club, Sigma Del- lems and topic subjects in a sort John Fenton, James Batten, John statement in regard to the robbery value to the Air Force if you ta Pi, Sigma Upsilon, Phi Mu of “organized bull session” under Robison, Anthony Dick, Jr., and “It has been determined that a stay in college, graduate, and Alpha, International Relations the direction of an informed C. P. Wright, Jr. robber entered several dormitories then volunteer for training. Club, and Eumanean Literary leader. at the college in the early hours of In addition, you must be be- Society. The Forum Committee Fraternities To Start... Thursday morning, and took $353.60 tween the ages of 19 and 26½, and Betas, ATOS (Continued From Page One) and a valuable watch from in top physical condition. If you “To stimulate a more active stu- (Continued From Page Three) several students’ rooms. When think you are at the college in the early hours of Thursday morning, and took $353.60 and a valuable watch from Club, and Eumanean Literary Society. The Forum Committee Fraternities To Start... Betas, ATOS (Continued From Page One) “To stimulate a more active stu- (Continued From Page Three) Tuesday and Wednesday, the de- several students were awakened, dent interest in current issues that tails of which will be worked out he threatened them with a gun, lie behind the headlines; to air by the Greek Week Committee, and managed to escape without Davidson opinion on these issues; and to expose this opinion to the points. For the SPEs, Moffett Ware being identified. challenge of information and think- had 11. held in Chambers Auditorium ing from other points of view.”— And finally, a program to be give you a thorough and serious analysis of the problem in hand. Thursday night, comprised of five- “This is to the college an un- minute skits given by the several precedented experience and one Peaceful Coexistence fraternities and the Campus Club. which we greatly regret. The col- (Continued From Page Two) Chairman DeVane expressed the lege will do all possible, with the are the aims and objectives of the hope that this year’s Greek Week aid and cooperation of the police Forum Committee as they plan will receive full cooperation from department to push vigorously the and initiate their activities through all concerned in order to make it investigation, which we hope will the presentation of campus-wide a success. result in an early apprehension forums and smaller group discussions. According to the chairman, these forums are not designed to provide answers, but rather formu- late questions; not to culminate discussion, but to initiate more tests, you will be scheduled for an Aviation Cadet Training Class. and conviction of the criminal.” way the KAs went into overtime to beat the Phi Gams after the regular game ended in a 37-all tie. Bridges and Inman had 10 points each to lead the winners while Don Comer had 21 points for the losers. Sigma Chi 49, Phi Delts 45 In a close and exciting game to the end, the Sigma Chis defeated the Phi Delts by a 49 to 45 count. Long had 16 for the winners while Thorpe had 15 for the losers. ATO 54, SPE 28 The ATOs continued their win- ning ways by defeating the SPEs by the score of 54 to 28. Murray dropped in 27 points for the win- ner and Stowe and Brown had 10 each for the losers. THE STANDINGS* the eventual self-destruction, it might be added, seem only to re- inforce this conclusion. If we are, then, to exist peace- fully alongside the communists, there is only one way to maintain such a situation; and that is to remain strong and maintain alliances that will enable the Western World to continue as the dominant force in international politics. It is not the ideal way out, but it seems at present to be the only way out. And woe unto the free nation who forgets this and succumbs to the wiles of “peace-loving” Russia. Drink Milk START SMOKING CAMELS YOURSELF! Make the 30-day Camel Mildness Test. Smoke only Camels for 30 days. See for yourself why Camels’ cool mildness and rich flavor agree with more people than any other cigarette! than any other cigarette!