PAGE FOUR

ROBERT STRUBLE DAVIDSON ALUMNUS WINS LAW AWARD

Robert B. Struble of the law firm of McClure & Ramsay in Toccoa, Georgia, is the winner of the first prize of $150 in the Nathan Burkan Memorial Competition for 1954 at the University of Georgia School of Law. Mr. Struble’s prize-winning paper is entitled “Characters and the Copyright Law,” Dean J. Alton Hosch announced. Mr. Struble attended Davidson College in Davidson, North Carolina, prior to entering the University of Georgia School of Law. While at law school, he was Editor-in-Chief of the Student Editorial Board, Georgia Bar Journal; Vice President of the Second Year Class; President of the Morris Case Club; and Justice of Phi Alpha Delta Legal Fraternity. He was also a member of Phi Kappa Phi, and participated in Inter-law School Moot Court Competition. He was graduated from the University of Georgia Law School in June. Mr. Struble is a 2nd Lieutenant in the United States Air Force Reserve, and makes his home with his parents, Mr. and Mrs. Carl K. Struble at 1049 Tugalo Road, Toccoa, Georgia. Senators Walter F. George and Richard B. Russell, and Congressman Phil M. Landrum have extended their personal congratulations to Mr. Struble for his achievement in winning the first prize in the Nathan Burkan Memorial Competition. This Competition is sponsored annually by the American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers in memory of the Society’s first general counsel, who died in 1936. It is designed to stimulate interest in the field of copyright law. First and second prizes of $150 and $50 are offered in each of the leading law schools throughout the nation. After all prize-winning essays have been received from participating law schools, a panel of judges will select the outstanding essay for a National Prize.

SAEs Are Moving To New Boarding House

Members of Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity will begin moving furniture and equipment into their new boarding house tomorrow. The fraternity is leaving their present location on the Concord Road and setting up quarters in the right side of the Old North Carolina Medical College, which is located between the Infirmary and Main Street. The new house has been previously used by the college as a dormitory and more recently as apartments for faculty members’ families. The change came as a result of cramped eating conditions in the present SAE house. Boarding house officials feel that the new house will provide greater dining space and better quarters for a dietician. In addition to a dining room and a kitchen, there will be a comfortable reception room, rooms suitable for several members of the fraternity, and a second-floor apartment for the dietician, including living room, bedroom, and bath. Tommy Humphries, coordinator of moving activities, expects to complete the job within a week using fraternity labor. Plans have been made to begin transferring furniture for the reception room and students’ upstairs rooms tomorrow. Kitchen and dining room equipment will be moved next weekend. Transactions on the new house were made through a local real estate agent and the owner of the building, Dr. Douglas of Charlotte, who is a Davidson alumnus. The present boarding house has been occupied by the SAE’s for about nine years.

Seeking New Talent

The Red and Black Masquers have selected their play for this fall. The Bishop Misbehaves, a comedy, will be given on December 9 and 10. Tryouts for the play will be held Monday, November 8, at 8:00 p.m., in Chambers Auditorium. Those who are interested are urged to come. The Masquers are seeking all the new talent available, freshmen as well as upperclassmen. It should be clarified that this invitation to tryout is open to anyone interested, not solely for the members of Red and Black Masquers.

Harvard Introduces New Study Plan

Cambridge, Mass. (I.P.)—Unusually able and mature students will be encouraged to move into advanced work faster under a Program of Special Standing in Harvard College adopted by the Faculty of Arts and Sciences. The Program seeks to help students avoid duplicating college work they have already done in secondary school; and it will allow unusually able students in college to move ahead into graduate studies before graduation. It is expected, for the present at least, to affect only a small number of students. Beginning with the Sophomore class, Harvard students of superior achievements may be given special freedom to do advanced study or research. This will apply to students who have done unusually well in their first two years of college. Such students will be permitted to substitute for some college credits either studies in Harvard’s Graduate School of Arts and Sciences or special research under the guidance of a faculty tutor. This, it is pointed out, will allow students “to pursue informally work of a broad or specialized character which is of especial interest to them.” For the transition from secondary school to college, the Program offers two additional possibilities which will open to students entering Harvard College in the fall of 1955: 1. Students of superior achievement and maturity who have completed the eleventh grade of secondary school may be admitted to Harvard College. Ordinarily, students enter college after the twelfth grade of secondary school. 2. After completing his twelfth year of secondary school work, a student may apply for Sophomore standing in Harvard College. To do this, a student will have to qualify for Advanced Placement in three or more college courses in the fields of Biology, Chemistry, English, History, Language, Mathematics, and Physics. Advanced placement will be determined by special tests and by study of the student’s secondary school record. The objective is “to place entering students in the most advanced courses for which they are qualified.” When superior achievement in secondary school has given a student a grasp of one or two of the general areas of learning—Natural Science, Social Science, Humanities—he may be permitted to omit one or two of the introductory courses in Harvard’s General Education Program, and take advanced courses instead. The Program will be directed by a Committee on Special Standing, consisting of Dean of the Faculty McGeorge Bundy, as Chairman, Dean of Admissions Wilbur Bender, Dean of Students Delmar Leighton, Dean of Freshmen F. Skiddy von Stade, and five members of the faculty to be appointed by President Nathan M. Pusey.

W.C. To Hold... (Continued From Page One)

Four prominent guests will be panel participants: Margaret Mead, anthropologist and author; Leonard S. Cottrell, Jr., social psychologist and administrator; Klaus Norr, specialist in international economics; and Dana Adams Schmidt, veteran foreign correspondent for the New York Times. Talks and panel discussions are scheduled for Thursday night and Friday morning, informal round tables Friday afternoon, and a final discussion in the evening. Each delegate may choose the round table in which he would most like to participate. Those interested in attending this forum are asked to contact Dr. G. L. Abernathy in order to sign registration forms.

Edmond, Okla. (I.P.)—A survey taken among approximately 300 Central State College students concerning examinations, teachers, absences, and various other questions confronting students here, by a faculty study committee, reveals the following facts: Seventy per cent of those questioned thought that at least 3 to 9 tests should be given during a semester before a semester grade was given. Fifty-seven per cent thought that from 4 to 9 or even more tests should be averaged together to estimate a final grade. Sixty-nine students thought that “pop” quizzes should be given while 272 disagreed. Two hundred and eighteen students considered true-false tests were not adequate type tests to measure the knowledge of a subject, yet 69 students thought they were quite adequate. One hundred and ninety-one students felt that tests frequently given had been written for past classes rather than for the current semester, while one hundred and thirty-six students stated that all tests

Davidson Cagers... (Continued From Page Three)

Dec. 14—Duke, at Davidson
Dec. 16—V.P.I. at Davidson
Jan. 1—McCrary, at Asheboro
Jan. 7—The Citadel at Davidson
Jan. 11—Wofford at Davidsonappeared to] Jan. 14—V.P.I. at Blacksburg be current. Some of the suggestions offered by students were that all true-false questions be eliminated because they were sometimes presented in a tricky manner; study sheets should be given stating the material a test will cover; tests should be given frequently so the students will become familiar with the type of test the teacher gives and will Jan. 29—Charleston at Davidson Jan. 31—Wake Forest at Lexington Feb. 4—Wash. & Lee at Davidson Feb. 5—V.M.I. at Davidson Feb. 10—Furman at Davidson Feb. 17—Furman at Greenville Feb. 21—Catawba at Davidson Feb. 25—Wash. & Lee at Lex., Va. Feb. 26—V.M.I. at Lex., Va. JUNIOR VARSITY SCHEDULE have a better understanding of what to study. Many students stated that they have the tendency of putting their studies off until the last minute and if only one test is given, this can be very harmful to a student’s grade. The survey seemed to reveal that if the instructors would give more tests the students would study for each individual test and thus keep his studies up-to-date.

NILES ANNOUNCES LAW SCHOLARSHIP

Dean Russell D. Niles of the New York University School of Law today (Sunday, October 31) invited outstanding college seniors throughout the country to apply for the School’s $6,600 Root-Tilden Scholarships. Applications for 1955 must be completed by February 15, Dean Niles said in his announcement. Final selections will be made late in March. The Root-Tilden program, designed to help develop potential leaders in public affairs, was inaugurated at NYU four years ago and at present has 53 young men under training for the legal profession. Made financially possible by an anonymous donor, the scholarships are named for two NYU School of Law graduates renowned in American legal history—Elihu Root (1867) and Samuel J. Tilden (1841). In the tradition of the men for whom they are named, Root-Tilden Scholarships are awarded on the basis of superior academic record, potential capacity for unselfish public leadership, and active participation in extracurricular college life.

“A Root-Tilden Scholar will study for his bachelor of laws degree at NYU's $5,000,000 Law Center Building under a distinguished faculty of experts,” he stated. "Individualized instruction in advanced studies allied to the law will give him the best opportunity to develop his public leadership potential and to succeed at bench and bar. In addition, he will participate in a series of special seminars and informal meetings with some of this nation’s prominent lawyers and judges to equip him practically as well as academically with a working knowledge of the law, public affairs, and opportunities for specialized public service.”

A candidate must be at least 20 years of age, but not more than 26, when his law training begins, and he must be an unmarried male citizen of the United States. Each of the scholarships carries an annual stipend of $2,200 to cover tuition, books, and living expenses. Although the award is made initially for one year, it is renewed for the second and third years when the student maintains a high standard in legal and general scholarship. College seniors who wish to be considered for the Root-Tilden Scholarships should apply immediately to: Dean of the School of Law, New York University Law Center, New York 3, New York.

AED Initiates... (Continued From Page One)

was shown last year and there have been many requests for its return. Everyone is cordially invited to this presentation; according to Charles Freed, president of the organization. Another of this year’s varied programs will be a speaker on December 1.

BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD “Coke” is a registered trademark. ©1952, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY

Dec. 6—Kannapolis YMCA at Davidson. Dec. 14—Wingate Jr. Col. at Davidson. Dec. 16—Pending. Jan. 7—Gardner-Webb Jr. College at Davidson. Jan. 11—Appalachian State J.V.’s at Davidson. Jan. 17—Gardner-Webb Jr. College at Boiling Springs. Jan. 29—Pembroke State College at Davidson. Feb. 3—Wingate Jr. College at Wingate. Feb. 4—Kannapolis YMCA at Davidson. Feb. 5—Presbyterian Jr. College at Davidson. Feb. 9—Appalachian State J.V.’s at Boone. Feb. 10—Pfeiffer College at Davidson. Feb. 16—Pending. Feb. 21—Catawba J.V.’s at Davidson.

Drink MOORE’S QUALITY MILK Mooresville Creamery, Inc. Mooresville, N. C.

“I think the Miracle Tip is the most modern filter... and L&M the best-tasting filter cigarette.” No filter compares with KING SIZE FILTERS

Filmdom’s Diana Lynn: “I NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION IS OFFERING FELLOWSHIPS IN SCIENCES

The National Science Foundation is authorized by the National Science Foundation Act of 1950 to award fellowships in the sciences. NSF fellowships are awarded in the mathematical, physical, medical, biological and engineering sciences including anthropology, psychology (excluding clinical psychology), geography and certain interdisciplinary fields. Selections of persons for fellowships will be made from among citizens of the United States solely on the basis of ability. Annual stipends range from $1400 to $3400 per year. The fellowships will also provide the payment of tuition and fees, dependency allowances for married Fellows and limited travel allowances. Fellows electing to study for nine rather than twelve months will receive nine-twelfths of the annual stipend. The closing date for receipt of applications for 1955-1956 will be January 3, 1955, for graduate applicants. Awards will be made on March 15, 1955. Applications will be evaluated by committees of scientists appointed by the National Academy of Sciences; final selection of Fellows will be made by the National Science Foundation. The first year fellowship, with an annual stipend of $1400, is awarded to students entering graduate school for the first time or those who have completed less than one normal year of graduate study as of the beginning of the tenure of their fellowships. Seniors in college who will receive the baccalaureate degree during the 1954-1955 academic year are eligible to apply for these awards. Request for Fellowship application forms should be made to the Fellowship Office, National Research Council, 2101 Constitutional Avenue, N.W., Washington 25, D.C. Those on the Davidson campus who wish further information should contact Professor J. B. Gallent.

Phone 3-2861 CHARLOTTE 2, N. C. Phone ED. 2-8257

Socialite Sportswoman: “I love L&Ms. Wonderful filter — exceptional taste!”

L&M stands out for Quality and Effectiveness. Isn’t it time you tried the cigarette that is sweeping the country... breaking record after record... winning more smokers in less time than any cigarette ever did! Why such success for L&M? It’s the filter that counts, and L&M has the best. You get much more flavor, much less nicotine... a light and mild smoke... because only L&M’s Miracle Tip gives you the effective filtration you need. Enjoy L&M’s king size or regular... both at the same low price. Like thousands, you'll say—“They’re just what the doctor ordered.”

More Flavor — Less Nicotine as Best Filter Cigarette!

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 1954

Cats Back... (Continued From Page Three)

scored more than three touchdowns in a Homecoming game. Jim Thacker returned to his old position of prominence in the Davidson attack as he scored four touchdowns. The freshmen got their first real look at Thacker at his best, and the little halfback regained the respect of opposing defenses, showing that early-season injuries are no longer hampering his running game.

Attention...! Those interested in debating are asked to attend the try-outs to be held in Professor Tyson's office at 3:30 p.m., on Monday, November 8.

DAVIDSON THEATRE

All Pictures Will Be Shown On Our New P-A-N-O-R-A-M-I-C WIDE SCREEN

SATURDAY, NOV. 6 “TARZAN, THE APE MAN” JOHNNY WEISSMULLER

MON.-TUES., NOV. 8-9 “EGYPTIAN” GENE TIERNEY JEAN SIMMONS

WEDNESDAY, NOV. 10 “KHYBER PATROL” RICHARD EGAN DAWN ADDAMS

THURS.-FRI., NOV. 11-12 “BEAU BRUMMELL” ELIZABETH TAYLOR STEWART GRANGER

SATURDAY, NOV. 13 “YELLOW TOMAHAWK” RORY CALHOUN PEGGIE CASTLE