n-6 THE HOT DAVIDSONIAN

Volume 2, Number 2, June 30, 1951

SOUTHERN SCANDAL

Exams have come and gone, leaving their
nasty scars upon our poor, defenseless
bodies. But, buck up, there's always next
semester to get revenge.

Gene Bargeron and Bill Garrison plan
a gigantic trip to Lake Lure. Both are
insistent that they are only going to
enjoy the scenic view...

The river (poor man's Miami Beach) is
constantly visited by such tourists as Norm
Richards, Peck Spayth, Diehl Sluss, Ray
Harding, Sellers Crisp, Julian Weinberg,
Virginia Fuller, and many other carefree
students.

Ollie Cunningham trying to solicit votes
from his frat brothers for a new fraternity
sweetheart...

Bennie Barker continues to master
CHEMISTRY...

Harry Brownlee throws a party at the
rover. Guests surprised that their dates
were not quite as well off as they thought...

Charlie Harris taking extended weekends
in Charlottesville...

Ed (Roundman) Douglas waddling into
Union to eat lunch...

Cheese Lambert wants to know if someone
would "please" help him in his extension...

Dead, Tony, and Thorpe claim late-
lasting Florida trip. "Be Bop" to pilot
a crabber...

Ivy Smith has asked me to tell you that
the last meal at the Union will be served
until midnight, until Tuesday morning breakfast. However, the snack bar will open
Monday night at 6:00 P.M. Also, there
will be no movie shown at the Union Saturday night...

Hope all you kids have a great weekend,
but save up some energy for Tuesday classes.
See you around the campus...

YOUR Y.M.C.A. PROGRAM

Now that we have reached the halfway
mark in our summer school program, I feel
that the Y.M.C.A. should take a glance both
backward and forward. In my own estimation,
the cabinet members have thus far
shown not only a willingness to do their
assigned work in the best manner possible,
but have made many contributions toward
the effectiveness of the Y summer program
as a whole. In the social programs and
feeds that have been a regular Wednesday
night affair, Clark Reece has proven himself
not only a connoisseur of fine foods,
but also an adept organizer. The Y
apologizes for the fact that some of the
latecomers to these feeds have not obtained
enough to eat, but it is a difficult
problem which the social cabinet faces.
They have no way of estimating how many
persons to prepare for each week. The
safest bet is to come as early as possible
to be sure of getting plenty to eat.

In the intramural program, Henry Brockmann
and his committee have worked hard to
present a well-balanced schedule of events.
We would like to encourage entrants in the
various tournaments to play their ping pong
and tennis matches as soon as possible.
Time is rapidly running out and the committee
is anxious to plan other tournaments
as soon as these are completed.

The response that was made as a result of
the first all-prayer meeting of the term
was very gratifying. Clyde Robinson and
the four group leaders are putting much
thought into their discussions; but it is
totally up to the members of each dorm to
contribute toward making 10:30 P.M. on
Tuesday evenings a period of spiritual refreshment. The Sunday Vesper service under
the direction of Allie Cone has also been
an inspirational period of song and devotion.
We hope you will make this service a
regular occasion on your weekend calendar
of events.

Finally, many students who signed the preference
sheets for community and extension
work have no intention of actively taking
part in the program. As of this time, we
have received no calls for supply pastors.
So those who were sincere in signing up for
this phase of Y work have not been called
on. Cheese Lambert, who is in charge of
extension work, would appreciate any assistance
that can be given in order to make
this program more effective.

(continued on next page)
