FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 1954

During the course of the coming week, each of Davidson’s winter sports teams will draw another season to a close with only post-season tournaments remaining on their respective dockets. The basketballers will be the last of the cold-weather groups to close up shop for this year when they travel up to West Virginia University for the Southern Conference basketball tournament on March 4-5-6. The wrestling and swimming squads will wind up their 1954 activities next weekend with their Conference tournies. With these sports about to complete their schedules for this season and the weather turning warm, the season for the spring sports to come into predominance is at hand. Already the football team has half completed its spring training period and Track Coach Whittle’s voice can be heard in the afternoons across the Richardson Field turf urging on his charges. Monday afternoon the baseball team swings into its first practice session and tennis will soon get underway.

Prospects are good for another good track season under the magic touch of “Pete” Whittle who hasn’t had a losing team for the Red and Black in thirteen years. “Pete” has several good men back from last year with a few newcomers stepping in to fill the shoes of last year’s graduates and should come up with another of his fine teams. Coach Dick McKee may be coaching a Southern Conference champion tennis team as May and the end of the season rolls around as this is the year that the Cats have looked forward to with Carolina and Duke in another conference and the men who have been playing the top positions during their first two years at Davidson really coming into their own this season. The baseball team is the big question mark on the spring slate. Last year’s Cat baseballers failed to break into the win column, but with most of the first team back for another year’s action, coupled with a few good breaks, the Cats may come through with a good team.

As the cage season draws to a close, the Southern Conference standing seems to be pointing toward either Furman or Richmond being the Cats’ first-round opponents when they travel up to Morgantown. The outcome of the Furman-Richmond game at Richmond will be the deciding factor. Furman beat Richmond in Greenville earlier in the season.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Cats meet State Here on Monday

Tankmen Meet Wofford Here

Davidson’s Varsity swimmers tangle with Wofford here tomorrow in a meet which will wind up the current season. The team is making final preparations for the trip to Blacksburg, Virginia, next week for the Southern Conference swimming meet. The meet is to be held on February 25-27. The Cat swimmers split decisions in a pair of meets last weekend. On Friday, Davidson Wildcat Gridders edged The Citadel swimmers, 44-40, getting revenge for a loss the Bulldogs handed them earlier this season.

Ormond Sets Records

Al Ormond set two new pool records in winning the 150-yd. individual medley and the 200-yd. backstroke events. Then he teamed with Montgomery and Patton to set a new mark in the 300-yd. medley relay. The 400-yd. freestyle relay, the final event, was the deciding one, and the Cats had what it took in the clutch. On Saturday, the swimmers played host to the swimming team of Emory University. The Emory splashers led most of the way as they took a 46-38 decision. Glancy led the individual scoring as he won three first-place honors for Emory. The Davidson freshman swim team, now sporting a 3 wins-1 loss record, finishes the season at High Point on Wednesday. The team will send six representatives to the Southern Conference meet to compete in the freshman division.

Former frosh cage coach Tom Fetzer has joined golf’s honored few after shooting a 123-yard hole in one on the Mooresville Mills golf course on January 10. Fetzer, who also serves as backfield coach during the football season, performed the golf oddity on Mooresville's fifth hole with a nine iron.

Will Close Practice Sessions With Game

After a very impressive scrimmage last Saturday afternoon, the Wildcat gridders will not scrimmage tomorrow because of the dance weekend break, but go through their paces again next weekend. With seven days remaining to Coach Dole and his Red and Black charges for the spring practice sessions under the NCAA ruling, they will continue their afternoon workouts into the first week of March with the big D Club sponsored Red and Black intra-squad game slated for March 6.

Good Blocking

The team showed good blocking, especially downfield blocking on punt returns as the Blacks edged the Reds 5 to 4. The surprise of the day was frosh halfback Don Comer who tallied three times during the afternoon. Comer ran for two and gathered in a Dyke Little pass for the third. The freshmen from last fall’s sensational team showed up well and Coach Dole expressed his approval of the showings made by the team thus far and expects to get a lot done toward a much improved Wildcat record on the gridiron next fall.

SEND THE DAVIDSONIAN HOME

BETAS TOPS -- KAPPA SIGS HOT

By JIM HOLSHOUSER

The interfraternity basketball race is nearing its end, and the battle for championship honors has been narrowed to two teams. The Betas are still holding down the top slot in the league, but the Kappa Sigs have overcome stiff opposition in the last two weeks to take over the second spot and put themselves in contention for the crown. Barring upsets, these two clubs should continue to set the pace in the league. The Betas are still undefeated and could possibly finish that way if they can get by a tough Pika team. The Kappa Sigs have lost only once—to the Betas. The Kappa Sigs, led by Corky Clark and Johnny Smith, defeated the Pikas and the ATOs to take over sole possession of the second spot from the other two clubs.

Phi Gams 41; Pi Kapps 28

The Phi Gams, sparked by Larry Champion, took a 41-28 win over the Pi Kapps in the opening round of the week. Swain led the losers with 12 markers.

Pikas 41; SPE 27

John Handley and Lindley Beardsley tallied 11 points each to lead the Pikas to a 41-27 victory over the SPEs. Brown got 10 points to pace the SPEs.

Betas 50; Pi Kapps 31

The Betas continued their winning ways this week as they downed the Pi Kapps, 50-31. John McLauchlin pumped in 13 points for the winners, while Swain continued to be top man for the Pi Kapps with 15.

Kappa Sigs 45; Pikas 31

In a battle for control of second place in the league, the Kappa Sigs downed the Pikas, 45-31. Smith, with 15, and Clark, with 16, led the winners. Beardsley laid in 14 points for the losers with Handley close behind with 13.

ATOs 52; Sigma Chi 44

After being behind late in the third quarter, the ATOs pulled away from the Sigma Chis in the final period to win, 52-44. Baker sparked the ATOs with 18 points, while Mitchell got 16 for the Sigma Chis.

KAs 52; Phi Delts 45

June Stallings’ outside shots proved too much for the Phi Delts, as Stallings pushed in 18 points.

THE STANDINGS

Betas
Kappa Sigs
Pikas
ATOs
Sigma Chi
Phi Gams
KA
Phi Delts
SPE
SAE
Independents
Pi Kapps

*Includes forfeit by Independents this week.

KA 36; Pi Kapp 26

The KAs downed the Pi Kapps in a low-scoring game, 36-26. No player scored in the double figures. Hall scored 9 points for the winners, and Swain hit for 8 points for the losers.

Sigma Chis 54; SAE 52

In one of the most exciting games of the season, the Sigma Chis edged past the SAEs, 54-52. An individual scoring battle saw Steve Norton of the SAEs gather in 29 points, while Tom Shaw of the Sigma Chis hit for 25 points.

SPRING IS ALMOST HERE...

We Are Getting Spring Goods Everyday

Come in and See Our New Cotton Cord Suits, and Walking Shorts, Etc.

Wilson’s Men’s Shop
“COLLEGIATE FASHIONS”
Next to Bank
Davidson, N. C.to lead the KAs to a 52-45 win. Barringer led the Phi Delts with 12 points.

THINCLADS HIT CONFERENCE FOES IN INDOOR MEET

A seven-man Davidson team today took part in the Southern Conference indoor track meet held on the Virginia Military Institute indoor track at Lexington, Virginia. The small team left yesterday for the Virginia city with high hopes of winning several events. The men who made the trip with indoor track Coach Pete Whittle were Bill Shipley, Phil Koonce, Dick Lovette, Frank Mitchener, Homer Sparks, and Andy Turner, in the varsity competition, along with Pete Ashcraft who will enter in the freshman division.

Shipley is entered in the 440 and the mile relay, along with Phil Koonce, Dick Lovette, and Frank Mitchener. Coach Whittle has high hopes for this relay team and expects some fine showings by them throughout the season. Koonce is also entered in the broad jump and joins Frank Mitchener in the 60-yard dash. Dick Lovette is entered in the 880 and has shown a lot of promise as a first-year performer in the cinder sport. To round out the varsity team, Homer Sparks and Andy Turner are entered in the two-mile. Ashcraft will run the mile in the freshman division.

Kappa Sigs 37; ATOs 29

The Kappa Sigs took over sole possession of second place last Tuesday night when they beat the ATOs, 37-29. Clark was high scorer for both teams with 16 points. Gilley and Paige led the losers, getting 9 points each.

Phi Delts 49; SPE 40

Russell Barringer and John Thorpe paced the Phi Delts to a 49-40 victory over the SPEs Wednesday night. Barringer connected for 13 points, while Thorpe got 10. Brown led the SPEs with 16.

RAY HARDING

Playing a regular guard position all season, Ray found his shooting eye in the past week's action to add some needed scoring punch to the “Bennett-less” Wildcat offense. He collected in the twenties in both of last weekend's games and 14 against Carolina Tuesday.

Strong Techmen Meet Grapplers Here Monday

The Wildcat grapplers play host to a strong and highly-touted VPI team for their last scheduled meet of the season on Monday, February 22. VPI has the Southern Conference champion in the 130-pound class in Motley, while King and Wright are outstanding in the 123 and 175-pound classes.

The matmen took a decisive 18-10 victory over The Citadel team in gaining their fourth win of the season here on Friday, February 12. Davidson won six out of the eight matches to clinch the win, all of which were by decisions, and lost the other two by falls to The Citadel. Fred Schenkle pinned Bill Keiter, Davidson's 123-pounder, and Ernie Jantzen of Citadel pinned Henry Faison. Burns, Coe, Schoenberger, Murray, and Buxton won by decisions.

Athletic Director Paul Scott announces that the Junior A.A.U. wrestling meet will be held in Johnston gymnasium, beginning on Friday, March 12, at two o'clock. Such teams as Pittsburgh, Auburn, Davidson, the Cherry Point Marines, who are the winners of last year’s Carolina A.A.U., and some Navy wrestlers from Washington, D.C., are expected to be here for the big event. Outstanding high school seniors from North Carolina and Virginia are also eligible.

Baseballers

Coach Chuck Clements announced yesterday that baseball practice will get underway next Monday afternoon, February 22, at 3 p.m., for all those boys wishing to try out for this year’s team. Workouts will be held as often as the weather permits during the coming weeks. Frosh will not begin their workouts until March 3 at 2 p.m. The first varsity games this year will be at home with Washington and Lee’s Generals on April 2 and 3.

Powerful State ’Pack Ranked Heavy Favorites

By BUDDY LYLES

The North Carolina State Wolfpack will invade the Johnson gymnasium next Monday to engage the upset-minded Wildcats. Coach Everett Case will bring his usual array of talent and will definitely be the favorites by at least twenty points. Such familiar old faces as Mel Thompson and Dick Tyler, and the sophomore sensation, Vic Molodet, will be trying to make the return engagement a runaway. Then there's the tremendous bench strength that will be all in State’s favor in case the Wolfpack tries the infamous press.

Captain Graeme Keith, still recovering from a bad cold which slowed him down considerably against The Citadel, will carry the Cats’ big hopes along with reliable Hobby Cobb. Ray Harding has been showing improvement lately and has added considerably in the scoring punch. Harding replaced Bennett when Bennett was injured and should probably see plenty of action on Monday night. George Melton, who did a good job of guarding Carolina's center Paul Likins and matched him point for point, could help a great deal in the rebound department.

The Wildcats missed a big chance to secure a hold on either sixth or possibly fifth place when they dropped a 75 to 70 contest to The Citadel last Saturday. Despite playing without the services of Ish Bennett, who injured his ankle the night before, and with Captain Keith suffering from a bad cold, the Cats, led by Hobby Cobb and Ray Harding, almost pulled the game from the fire. Ish Bennett injured his ankle in the Cats’ win over the College of Charleston and saw little action in that game, but should be back in form by the State game. Keith had one of his better nights against the Tar Heels, hitting for 19 points while Harding had 14, and Cobb 11. These three boys, with the return of Ish Bennett to top form, could be able to give the Wolfpack a tough time as the Wildcats are traditionally noted for upsets on their home court. Bennett, who has failed to hit in the last three games due to being slowed by his injury, can give the Cats an added scoring punch. Davidson now sports a three won and four lost conference record. Conceding a probable loss to Furman, which will give the Cats a 3-5 record, it will leave them in at least seventh place when the tournament opens.

FRESHMAN CAGERS END ‘54 SEASON IN STATE PRELIM

By BUGIE KING

The steadily improving freshmen face Pfeiffer’s basketballers tonight in what promises to be a real battle on the Misenheimer court. Although the Davidson Kittens won the first game 78-57, the Pfeiffer club has recently been showing a real scoring punch. They beat Charlotte College 104-74 just before the Kittens handed the Owls a 74-40 licking. It may be a case of offense versus defense, as the low scores of many of the Davidson games this year indicate.

Walker Leads

Freshman scoring this year has been led by Gaylord Walker and David Shaw, who had 19 and 15 respectively against Charlotte in their last outing. Shaw and Walker will be the sparkplugs tonight, but the rest of the team has been scoring consistently too. This teamwork has been the keynote.

WILLIAM HOLDEN says: “My Dad, a chemist, wanted me to follow in the business. But I got the play-acting bug in school and college. I was in a small part at the Pasadena Playhouse when they picked me to test for ‘Golden Boy’. I never worked so hard in my life. But the success of the picture made it worth it!”

I'M FOR CAMELS! I'VE FOUND THEY GIVE ME EVERYTHING I LIKE IN A CIGARETTE — GENUINE MILDNESS, REAL FLAVOR. YOU'LL LIKE CAMELS, TOO!

Star of “Forever Female”

Start smoking Camels yourself! Make the 30-day Camel Mildness Test. Smoke only Camels for 30 days — see for yourself why Camels’ cool mildness and rich flavor agree with more people than any other cigarette!