FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 1954

Tonight Davidson's cage forces close with that much talked about Furman encounter at Greenville in a game that will be
looked upon with much interest by both Furman and Davidson fans. There is more riding on this game than meets
the eye as it is almost certain now that it will be these teams that will be going after it
at Morgantown, West Virginia in Mountaineer Field House next Thursday evening at 7:30 p.m. in the Southern Conference tourney. Another
point of interest for Hurricane fans is the fact that the Cats’ appearance on the Greenville court will be the
home finale for their great All-American prospect, Frank Selvy. Coach Miller expressed his satisfaction with his teams’ meeting the Hurricane
this close to their meeting at West Virginia University next week. The Millermen will have a chance to see the
Paladins in action and this may help to improve their showing in the Conference opening round considerably. The way things
are shaping up right now it looks as though it'll be West Virginia versus William and Mary in the lid-opener
Thursday afternoon at 2 p.m., with George Washington going against VPI at 4 p.m. to complete the afternoon action. In
the first of the night games it'll probably be Davidson versus Furman at 7:30 p.m., and Richmond going after VMI
at 9:30 p.m. The Wildcat party will leave Davidson sometime Tuesday and will take along twelve players in addition to
a manager, Mr. Scott and Coach Miller. The Davidson delegation will stay at the Fairmont Hotel in Fairmont, West Virginia,
some nineteen miles from the tournament city. Accommodations for only the first four seeded teams will be in Morgantown.

Attention Interfraternity Council ..... After talking over the existing situation concerning the relations between the athletic department and the rest
of the college’s activity program, especially in connection with the Inter-fraternity Council and the dance schedules, we feel that some
action should be taken to better coordinate these two vital parts of the college community's life. This situation especially came
to this writer’s attention during this past weekend when two of the college’s athletic teams were in competition off campus
on Friday night and another played on Monday night. Not knowing the situation concerning the signing of big-name orchestras for
the various weekends we hesitate to make any sort of criticism, however, it seems to us that some sort of
arrangement could and should be worked out so that the athletic scheduling officials would be able to know far enough
in advance about the dance schedule for the year so as to (Continued On Page Four)

Grapplers Meet Conference Foes By HUGGER KING

The Davidson wrestling team; The relatively poor showing this By JOHN HANDLEY THE DAVIDSONIAN

Cats Vs. Furman’s Fabulous

Powerful Betas Still Set Pace

This week’s interfraternity action saw the spreading out of the leaders with an indication of the way the race will
end. The powerful Betas remained undefeated through their ninth game to set the pace for the league. They downed the
SAEs in their only action of the week, while they won by forfeit from the Independents. The Sigma Chis established
themselves as top contenders for the second place slot as they downed two former second place clubs, the Pikas and
the Kappa Sigs. The Betas, with only two games remaining, and the second place club having lost two already, are
assured of at least a second place tie. The league leaders face some stiff opposition this week, however, and will
have to show their power to down both the Pikas and the ATOs in this final week.

THE STANDINGS
Betas
Kappa Sig
ATO
Sigma Chi
Pika
KA
Phi Gam
Phi Delt
Sig Ep
Ind.
Pi Kapp
SAE

Hurricane Favorites in Greenville Contest By JIM HOLSHOUSER

Davidson’s tournament-bound Wildcats hit one of the toughest teams in the country tonight when they meet Furman University at Greenville,
South Carolina. Ranked currently as the 22nd team in the nation by the Associated Press, journeys to the Virginia Military
Institute March 5 and 6 for the Southern Conference tournament. This is the last action of a not too successful
year for the grapplers as the won-lost record goes, and they face very strong competition from West Virginia and VMI.
Besides Davidson, W&L, VPI, and The Citadel will also be represented. During the regular season, Coach Parker’s men lost to
VMI, VPI and W&L and beat The Citadel out of those represented at VMI. The Cats were also tamed by
State, Duke and Auburn, the latter two by only two points, tied a strong Carolina team, and got a non-conference
win over Emory.

Six Entries

The Davidson entries will probably be Charlie McCrary at 123 lbs., Captain Johnny Buxton at 147 lbs., Henry Faison at
157 lbs., year, only two wins and a tie will probably be much changed next year. Although the varsity will
lose Charlie Murray, Don Reid, Bill Coe, and Dave Burns, a very strong freshman team should fill these gaps well
enough to make things interesting for the opposition.

Proch Strong

Sonny Kincey, Joe Whitesell, Tom Firor, Bob Alexander, Ritzel Snyder, and Ed Grice will be rising freshmen who had a
good season this year and are ready to do the same in future seasons. Both Grice and Snyder came through
undefeated against such competition as Carolina and State. The State match was probably the highlight of the freshman season, as
the perennially tough Wolfpack was completely swamped. Next year’s returning varsity can expect to have a fight to keep the
Independents.

GAME, DANCE TOPS GRIDDERS’ SPRING PRACTICE SLATE

Davidson's football Wildcats completed the second week of their spring sessions under beautifully clear spring skies this week. Head football
coach Bill Dole expressed his enthusiasm over the first two weeks of the practice sessions and as the final week
comes up the Red and Black gridders have shown a lot of spirit and determination and as the amiable Cat
mentor states “have gotten a lot done.” The spring workouts will conclude with an intersquad clash on the Richardson Field
turf on March 6. This game will be sponsored by the “D” club with 25 cents admission for students and
50 cents for adults. The public is invited to attend this preview of the 1954 Wildcats.

Only One Injury

During the first two weeks of practice only one injury is listed among the Cat gridders. Bob Campbell, outstanding frosh
end, sustained a fractured jaw last week and will be out of the action for the remaining week of the
workouts. This Red and Black intrasquad will highlight the day's activities with a YMCA-Union dance to cap off the day
in the Union ballroom in the evening. Students are urged to bring dates to the game and remain for the
evening dance.

Baseballers Open Early Preparations For Holiday Trip

This week’s games went as follows:

Sigma Chi 42; Kappa Sig 39

In an exciting upset thriller the up and coming Sigma Chis downed the second place Kappa Sigs 42-39. Tom Shaw
collected 14 for the winners while Corky Johnson and Johnny Bremer got 11 each for the Kappa Sigs.

Betas 62; SAE 38

With Charlie Hasty leading the way with 18 markers the league leaders downed the lowly SAEs in a lopsided runaway.
Johnny McLauchlin was close behind with 17 for the winners, while Steve Norton had 15 for the SAEs.

(Continued On Page Four)

INDOOR RUNNERS IN ACC MEETING AT CHAPEL HILL

The Davidson indoor track squad left this afternoon for the annual Carolina indoor games on the Carolina indoor track over
in Chapel Hill. Coach Whittle took ten men on the trip, including two freshmen. This is the second and last
event of the indoor season. Last week the Cats took nine men to the Southern Conference indoor meet up at
VMI and came home with eight medals, had there been medals given in the freshman division the team would have
brought back an additional medal on Pete Ashcraft’s second in the freshman mile.Several of the Cat representatives showed up very
well in last week’s meet. Frank Mitchener placed in the 60-yd. dash and Phil Koonce finished fourth in the same
event. Bill Shipley placed third in the 440-yd. dash as did the relay team in their event. Homer Sparks finished
third in the strenuous two-mile to round out the Cat scoring. Overall, the Red and Black clad runners finished third
in the meet.

PAPPY FOWLE
One of the Cats’ scrappiest cagers, Pappy played one of the best games of his career Monday night against State.
He will give Furman and Clemson something to worry about this weekend.

Swimmers at Va. Tech For Conference Final
Coach Carroll Hambright’s Wildcat tankmen, fresh from a convincing victory over Wofford College, journeyed to VPI in Blacksburg, Va., today
for the Southern Conference swimming meet being held today and tomorrow. The Wildcats’ record for all meets this year is
four wins and five losses. The lone Southern Conference team which the Cats have met is the Citadel. In the
two meetings, the Cats have taken one and the Bulldogs have won one. VMI looms as the top contender in
the meet. Citadel, VPI, and Davidson are the other contenders for the crown.

Sports Managers...
Coach Whittle announced today that the Interfraternity track meet will be held on the 10th and 11th of March. Sports
managers are urged to start lining their men up and have them work out for the annual event. The finals
will be held on the 11th.

The Purple Hurricane has won 22 while losing only 6. Most of the losses came in early games, before Darrel
Floyd and Ken Deardorff became eligible for varsity competition. Since these two stalwarts joined Lyles Alley’s crew, the Paladins have
been practically unstoppable.

Top Scorer
The Wildcats will be facing the nation’s leading scorer, Frank Selvy, in circumstances which are not the best. Selvy will
be playing his last game at home, and basketball-crazy Greenville will be wanting something extra in his last appearance. Tomorrow
night, Coach Danny Miller's charges close out their regular season at Clemson, in a game which will see the Tigers
rated as slight favorites only because they are the home club. The Clemson team has had a poor season, and
an upset could be in the making. At any rate, it should be an interesting contest.

Pappy Fowle, who played one of his finest games against State, finally got the Cats rolling in the third quarter.
Pappy hit three field goals in less than two minutes, after Davidson had gone for more than 16 straight minutes
without hitting from the field. Pappy’s sparkling floor work was the bright spot of the night for Davidson. He consistently
worked through the backcourt press employed by the Wolfpack.

Tourney Next
The Southern Conference tournament is coming up on March 4, 5, and 6, and it looks like the Cats have
made it. They are holding down sixth place in the league and can finish no lower than seventh. A loss
to Furman tonight would mean that VMI moves into the sixth slot, and that Davidson faces the Hurricane again in
the opening round.

Captain George Crone will miss the meet because of illness. High point man, Al Ormond, will carry most of the
individual threats along with Ed Spier and Bob Abernathy. Jeff Smith, who captured first place in the Wofford meet after
being absent for several meets due to illness, will be the hope for the Cats in the diving. The Cats
took every first place in the Wofford meet and completely outclassed the Terriers in every event, except in the diving
where Smith had tough competition. The Cats will be meeting tougher competition this weekend, and the absence of Captain Crone
will be a handicap.

Coach Whittle requests that all the fraternity sports managers check with the members of their respective teams to help find
the missing interfraternity game basketball which was taken from the gym last week. If you know the whereabouts of the
missing ball, its prompt return would be greatly appreciated.

NOTICE
All students who are interested in going out for the tennis team this spring are requested to report to Elgin
White’s office on the second floor of Johnston Gym on Monday afternoon at 3:45 for an important meeting. Coach McKee
stressed that freshmen as well as upperclassmen should be present at the brief meeting. Workouts for the coming season will
get underway in the near future.

TOMORROW MARKS VOLLEYBALL MEET FINAL ROUNDS
The Davidson volleyball team has been practicing on a schedule of one workout a day for the past three weeks
in preparation for the Southeastern United States Intercollegiate Volleyball Tournament to be held in Johnston gymnasium Friday and Saturday. The
team has been assisted by the Kannapolis “Y” volleyball team which is the North Carolina champion and ranks fourth nationally.
Coach Scott secured the talented crew to season the Wildcats for the tough competition offered by the visiting teams. Kannapolis
has been the state champions for 17 years. The players have been chosen on a tryout basis and are rounding
into good shape. Those on the team are: Larry Champion, Tom Lamb, Vince Gould, Larry McIntosh, Andrew Simons, Corky Clark,
Lee Scott, Dan Leach, Homer Pheiffer, Bill Nelson, Leon Howell, Linny Baker, Bob Presley, J. C. Taylor, Bill Marable, Jim
Stallings, G. R. Middleton, and M. J. Blankenship.

There will be four sessions in all, two on Friday and two on Saturday. Those on Friday will be at
3:00 p.m. and 7:30 p.m., while Saturday’s come at 9:00 a.m. and 2:00 p.m. Pairings for all sessions will be
made at 1:30 p.m. on Friday. A championship and a runner-up trophy will be given.

How the stars got started...
Vaughn Monroe says: “In high school, I spent all my spare time playing with local bands. I had a lot
to learn before I could lead my own band. I studied singing; even then, I liked the college kind of
music. I started smoking Camels 22 years ago. They’ve always tasted best, always seemed mildest. I think Camels give any
smoker more pleasure. Why not try them?”

John Grey and Fred Stowe were selected to captain the Wildcat squad for the ‘54 season. Grey and Stowe are
returning lettermen and both are seniors. The Wildcats have a promising junior and sophomore lineup that includes John Grey, Ish
Bennett, Fred Stowe, Shorty Stalos, Bill Glidewell, Max Devane, John Smith, Bill Morris, Buzz Hope, Herschel Allen, and Trevor Cymeis.
The team will leave for its spring trip on March 17 on which it will play five games in preparation
for conference games this season. The teams on that schedule are: Fort Jackson, Paris Island (2), Georgia Teachers, and Florida
State.

There will be a meeting of all freshmen who are interested in going out for baseball in the lounge in
the gymnasium on March 1 at 6:45 p.m. It will be a short meeting to discuss matters concerning the forthcoming
playing season, and will be of interest to those freshmen who wish to come out.

Wilson’s Men’s Shop
“COLLEGIATE FASHIONS”
Next to Bank
Davidson, N. C.
