FRIDAY, MARCH 12, 1954

With the bright springtime sun beaming down and many a young Davidson man's fancy turning to the things of love (and spring sports), we feel it necessary to pull away entirely from this season of the year to bring to light some interesting comments heard around the campus and in the Davidsonian in recent weeks.

By JOHN HANDLEY

Concerning the Trustees’ action with reference to the underwriting of the $35,000 for athletics here at Davidson. In a way, we can hardly help but laugh at some of the juvenile and unthinking comments which have come to our attention, and in some cases, these derogatory remarks seem to be along the line of the average Davidson cynical treatment of “griping just for the sake of griping.” However, in many instances, we feel that the individual feelings of some are sincere and genuinely concerned about the so-called dangers involved in this subsidizing by the college.

Wildcat Program Small in Comparison

In point of actual fact, the $30,000 proposed for football aid involves no sizeable increase over the amount spent on the gridiron in the past few years. In basketball, it amounts to a little something from almost nothing. Although $35,000 sounds like a tremendous amount to spend on athletics in two sports, if a careful observer would examine the situation, he would find that this amount is just a drop in the bucket compared to many of the schools against which the Wildcats are competing. However, we do not mean to propose this as an argument in favor of the recent Trustee action as we have never found much worth in the “everybody’s doing it” statement.

We should like to quote directly here a part of the Trustee statement in regard to this decision which was printed in the Davidsonian several weeks ago. It reads as follows: “If Davidson is to be a force for good in the world of intercollegiate athletics, it must lead from a position of strength rather than from weakness. We believe that under our present able coaching staff real progress will be made during the next few years without lowering of academic or moral standards unless the necessary support of athletics is withheld.”

Trustee Statement Could Be Twisted

This statement could, of course, be twisted to infer the birth of a power-crazed spirit rearing its ugly head among the leading spirits of the alumni organization and driving the helpless and innocent defenses against professional college football at Davidson before it until the Davidson line would average 230 pounds per man of 50 IQ coal miners and the backfield men would spend their time reading comic books and driving their new model Cadillacs over the countryside. It could be interpreted as a hint at a $100,000 football program and a group of 7-foot giants ranging the basketball courts. However, we very seriously doubt it and consider it absurd to think such a thing.

THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

Baseballers, Golfers, Netmen Open

Cat Nine Hit Ft. Jackson To Open Five Game Trip. McKeemen Hit Jackson Netters In 54 Opener

Wildcat tennis forces got down to some hard work this week as they made preparations for their departure next Wednesday for their annual southern spring road trip. The Cats, under the direction of Coach Dick McKee, will invade the deep south after their opening action with Fort Jackson team on next Thursday and Friday and a possible match with South Carolina on next Saturday. The two teams which round out the Cat holiday action are the University of Florida on the 22nd, and Florida State on the 23rd. Coach McKee expects the five-match vacation slate to round the Davidsonians into good shape for their March 29 home opener against Michigan State.

Courts Bad

Poor condition of the local courts has greatly hampered the early workouts, but they are rounding into better condition now. The team has worked out every day this week and will continue to do so through Wednesday. Hampered by a broken little finger, Captain Lacy Keesler will not be in top shape for the trip, but reports that the finger has healed quickly and is gaining its strength and should be in top shape by the Michigan State opener here at Davidson.

Same Team

The team will be composed of Keesler, Bremer, Clark, Snead, Green, and Johnson. Johnny Bremer and Corky Johnson are the only seniors on the squad. Included in the spring workouts have been Dick Thorpe, Sam Inman, and Chick McClure who have given valuable assistance in the practice sessions.

Varsity Cindermen To Meet Mercer In Track Opener

By ANDY TURNER

Coach Pete Whittle recently announced a seven-meet track schedule opening with Mercer University at Macon, Georgia, on April 10 and closing with the Southern Conference meet at VPI in Blacksburg, Va., on May 15. The schedule includes only two home meets, one against Clemson and Wofford in a triangular affair on April 17 and the other against Furman on April 28. The Cats will meet South Carolina, The Citadel, W&L, and State on the road. Last year the thinclads boasted a 6-3 record, losing only to USC (twice) and to Clemson by one point. They defeated Furman, W&L, Citadel, Roanoke, Mercer, and State. With the freshmen ineligible, the varsity squad will be small and will lack last year's depth. Such holdovers as Co-Captains Homer Sparks and Bill Shipley, along with sprinters Frank Mitchener and Phil Koonce, will form the nucleus of the team.

The varsity season includes:
April 10—Mercer at Mercer.
April 17—Clemson and Wofford at Davidson.
April 24—USC and Citadel at Columbia.
April 28—Furman at Davidson.
May 1—W&L at Lexington.
May 8—N.C. State at Raleigh.
May 14-16—Conference meet at Blacksburg.

SEND THE DAVIDSONIAN HOME

CAT MATMEN TAKE 4TH IN CONFERENCE

Davidson's varsity wrestlers concluded their season last weekend with the Southern Conference meet held at VMI and finished fourth. The Cats finished behind champion West Virginia, VMI, and W&L in that order. The Cats sent three men to the finals and one to the consolation finals only to see each man lose. Charlie Murray, Don Reid, and Johnny Buxton went to the finals in their weights and Bill Coe went to the consolation finals and all met defeat at the hands of West Virginia men except Buxton who lost to Robertson of VMI. Davidson scored 15 points, while WVU collected 36, VMI 28, and W&L 24. The Cats finished ahead of VPI and Citadel.

The 19-match slate for the varsity will include:
March 18—Ft. Jackson, there.
March 19—Ft. Jackson, there.
March 20—South Carolina (tentative), there.
March 22—Florida, there.
March 23—FSU, there.
March 29—Michigan State, here.
April 2—Sewanee, here.
April 3—Sewanee, here.
April 7—Wesleyan, here.
April 9—Wofford, there.
April 10—Presbyterian, there.
April 12—UNC, here.
April 19—Kalamazoo, here.
April 20—Wofford, here.
April 23—Duke, there.
April 24—William & Mary, there.
April 28—NC State, here.
April 30—Miami, here.
May 3—Furman, there.

LINKSTERS BEGIN '54 SPRING SEASON AT FORT JACKSON

Graeme Keith leading the way, the Wildcat golfers will open their 1954 season with the Fort Jackson service team next Thursday. The Cats will then travel on their annual spring trip to Parris Island to meet the Marines on both Friday and Saturday before moving to Florida to meet Jacksonville Naval Station and Florida State on Monday and Tuesday. The Cats under the direction of Coach Elgin White should have a fine season this year with the entire last year’s squad reporting back to the fairways for the Red and Black. Captain Graeme Keith will lead the way with Joe Jenkins, Mickey Cannon, Larry Parrott,Ed Douglas and Hobby Cobb rounding out the team. The linksters open their home slate at the Charlotte Country Club course on April 1 with Ohio Wesleyan. The card includes 16 matches with five conference encounters. The Wildkitten links squad will have about six matches with local high schools. George Scott, Osborne Thomas, Buster Jenkins, Ed Bell, and Russell Barfinger will figure prominently in the frosh roster. The varsity slate is as follows:

May 6-7-8—Southern Conference
March 18—Ft. Jackson, there.
Tourney, here.
(Continued On Page Four)

Davidson’s Wildcat baseballers open their season next Thursday afternoon when they hit the Fort Jackson nine on the army diamond. The Jackson contest opens the annual spring trip which includes five games this season, with games against Parris Island Marines on Friday and Saturday, Georgia Teachers on Monday, and Florida State on Tuesday.

Red-Black Contest Ends Spring Practice

Last Saturday afternoon saw the Wildcat gridders conclude their spring practice sessions with the annual Red-Black football game which ended in a 12-12 tie. Approximately 700 fans watched the defensive battle. It was a battle of lines a lot of the way with some fine offensive play turned in by both teams. Henry Brown showed some indication of things to come next fall as he sparked several Black drives in a fine performance. Bill Rowland did a fine job under the center for the Blacks as he made some fine pass plays and called a generally good game. All in all, it was a well-played game and Coach Dole expressed his approval of the spring’s results and showed great enthusiasm for next fall. Johnston, Fargason, Lawing, Reid, Newton, Campbell, and Brewer missed the game either because of injury or sickness.

BETAS WIN FRAT TRACK

Taking six first places, the Betas won the interfraternity track meet last Wednesday and Thursday on Richardson Field. Bill Gramley won two first places, Archie Joyner won two, Roswell Mallory took one, and Zack Kilpatrick also took one. Bill Gramley, a Beta frosh, set a new interfraternity record in the shot put. He put the shot 49 ft. 6 in. in the opening event of the meet. He also won the discus throw event. Joyner took wins in the 3-quarters run and the 660-yd run. Kilpatrick won the hurdles event, and Mallory took first place in the 440-yd. run. Henry Brown of the SAEs was the highest-scoring man in the meet. Brown won the 100-yd dash, the broad jump, and the 220-yd dash as he racked up a total of 15 points. Don Stewart was second in point totals. The Phi Delt runner picked up 10.5 points, and it was largely through his efforts that the Phi Delts were able to edge the SAEs in a battle for second place. Robinson won the high jump event in the only event that one of the top three teams did not win. Shown below are the final standings of the teams participating in the finals. The point totals are shown with a first place in an event counting 5 points, a second place counting 3, a third place counting 2, and a fourth place counting 1 point.

Points
Betas ........................ 38
Phi Delts .................. 26.5
SAE .......................... 26
Pi Kapps ................... 15
Kappa Sigs ............... 9
KA ............................. 8
Phi Gams .................. 3
Sigma Chi .................. 2

THREE SPORTS LEFT ON FRAT AGENDA

With only three sports remaining on the fraternity schedule, Coach Pete Whittle announced yesterday that two of these, volleyball and tennis, will get underway immediately after the return from spring vacation. Softball will begin immediately after the completion of these two sports. The KAs stand as defending champs in volleyball, while the Phi Delts are favored to repeat their title on the strength of their stellar performer, Buford Price, beaten only once in last year’s competition. The Phi Gams and KAs were co-champs in softball last year.

The Cats, who failed to win a game last season, should show a lot of improvement during the course of this season. The schedule includes about 20 games but is not complete at the moment. Much of the Wildcat success this year will depend on the pitching staff which is studded with regulars returning from last season. The top pitchers on the staff, judging from past records, will be Ish Bennett, Johnny Smith, Andy Courts, and Roger Little. These four will get some able assistance from such returning hurlers as Cliff Deal, Lindley Beardsley, and Diehl Sluss. The infield will be led by second baseman and captain Johnny Gray who is playing his fourth season with the Cats. Alternate captain Fred Stowe is the power hitter of the club and will probably roam the outfield from his regular left-field position. The remainder of the flashy infield combination besides Capt. Gray will be Billy Morris at third, Buzzy Hope at short, with the big question mark being around the initial sack. Bill Rowland will add some much-needed power to the batting order and should be a big help in the outfield. Shorty Staelos and Bill Glidewell will handle most of the catching; both are returning lettermen. A few of the other returning men who will see action are such prospects as Max Devane, Herschel Allen, Hugh Stevens, and Jimmy Kiser. The team has been working hard and Coach Clements has expressed his enthusiasm over the prospects for the season. Coach Clements has also been working with the freshmen, who have had a good turnout for the Wildkitten squad. Yesterday the two teams held an intrasquad game as both began to work out the rough spots.

ATTENTION!

Athletic director Paul Scott announced today that the Carolinas AAU Handball tourney will be held at Davidson on April 2 and 3. The tournament is open to any Davidson student who wishes to enter and anyone interested should contact Mr. Scott before leaving the campus for the vacation.

AAU Junior Tourney Concludes Tomorrow On Davidson Mats

Today and tomorrow marks the annual appearance on the local mats of the AAU Southeastern Junior Regional championships. Thus far there are eight teams entered in the event including a four-man Davidson squad. Coach Paul Scott, director of the tournament, announced yesterday that admission for the single rounds will be 50 cents for students and $1 for a season ticket for the four rounds. The entries include: Norfolk Naval Base, Washington Naval Receiving Station, Cherry Point Marines, Norfolk Boys Sports Club, University of Virginia, Richmond YMCA, High Point YMCA, Davidson, and a few unattached entries. Davidson's entries will include Ed Schoenberger at 136.5, Henry Faison at 160.5, Monty Littlejohn at 191, and Dave Burns in the heavyweight. Because of fraternity activities, the frosh squad will not be represented in the meet. The first round of the tourney was held this afternoon with the second on tap tonight at 7:30. The third round is slated for tomorrow afternoon at 2:30 with the finals at 7:30 tomorrow evening.

Frosh Tracksters To Open April 9

Since the completion of football drills and the arrival of warm weather, the freshman track team has begun to get into shape for the coming season and first meet with Myers Park High School on April 9. Coach Whittle has scheduled six meets for the team, four of which are here at Davidson. With little over a week's time to round into form, the freshmen are already displaying a number of talented performers in both the track and field events. Pete Ashcraft, who ran the mile in the winter track season, will be a strong contender on the cinders, while Bill Gramley takes a high rating in the discus and shot put. Mal McSwain rates as one of the (Continued On Page Four)

The wrestlers conclude this year’s action tomorrow as the AAU meet here at Davidson ends.

PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS

How the stars got started

“I was a Hollywood stagehand. One day I fell 20 feet off a scaffold. I wasn’t hurt, but I decided acting was safer. I went to acting school, played bit parts, and finally I hit pay dirt in "This Gun for Hire".”

BECAUSE SO MANY OF MY FRIENDS DID. ONCE I STARTED, I KNEW CAMELS WERE FOR ME. FOR MILDNESS AND FLAVOR, YOU CAN'T BEAT 'EM!

START SMOKING CAMELS YOURSELF! Smoke only Camels for 30 days and find out why Camels are first in mildness, flavor, and popularity! See how much pure pleasure a cigarette can give you!

R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., Winston-Salem, N. C.

MORE PEOPLE THAN ANY OTHER CIGARETTE!