PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, OCTOBER 15, 1954

SERGEANT MOODY SOWELL

Master Sergeant Moody Sowell, Supply Sergeant of the Davidson College R.O.T.C. Headquarters, enlisted in the army in 1939 at Charlotte,
N.C. He was stationed at Ft. Bragg with the 17th Field Artillery until 1940, at which time he was transferred
to the 29th Field Artillery Battalion of the 4th Infantry Division, stationed at Ft. Benning, Ga. During the early part
of World War II, this unit was retained at Ft. Benning as an artillery demonstration group for the Infantry School.

In 1943, Sgt. Sowell returned to Ft. Bragg, where he was a member of the newly-organized 798th Field Artillery Battalion,
a testing section for the Field Artillery Board. Sowell’s main job there was instrument operator for the “center of impact”
tests on various types of ammunition. When this battalion was sent overseas, Sgt. Sowell remained at Ft. Bragg and was
made First Sergeant in the 560th Field Artillery Battalion. In June 1945, this battalion was broken up, and Sowell went
to the 780th Field Artillery. This group soon was converted to a 4.2-inch chemical mortar battalion. Sowell and other members
of the battalion were sent to the Edgewood Arsenal in Maryland for a six-week orientation course.

Shortly after the war, after the mortar battalion had been deactivated, Sgt. Sowell re-enlisted in the army with the 30th
Field Artillery Battalion, where he was First Sergeant in Headquarters Battery. After several months, he went to Gorizia, Italy for
occupation duty, where he remained until January 1947. Sgt. Sowell returned to Ft. Bragg and remained there until 1949, when
he departed for Japan. He was assigned to Headquarters of the 24th Infantry Division at Camp Kokura, where he served
as post Sgt. Major. This position was retained until February 1951, when Sowell departed for Korea as chief clerk in
the G-1 section of the 24th Infantry Division. He returned to the United States in November 1951.

After a short leave, M/Sgt. Sowell was sent to Davidson College, where he has served in various capacities. At the
present time, he is Supply Sergeant. Sowell must complete a tour of duty overseas before his retirement from the army
in 1956; therefore, he expects to leave Davidson at the end of this school year. M/Sgt. Sowell is presently residing
on Concord St., with his wife and two children.

David F. Sauer Works Currently Displayed in Chambers Lobby

Concurrent with the concert of the American Chamber Orchestra, an exhibition of paintings by David F. Sauer will be held
in the lobby of Chambers building, Mr. Douglas Houchens has announced. Sauer, a native of Richmond, Virginia, received his B.F.A.
degree from the Richmond Professional Institute, and his M.A. from Teachers’ College, Columbia University. Painting since he was nine, he
works in oil, tempera, casein, encaustic, watercolor, and the graphic mediums.

David Sauer had his first solo show last spring at the Salpeter Gallery on New York's 57th Street. His works
have elicited high critical praise for “Bright-keyed, glowing color,” expressing “an appreciable lyricism.” The New York Times commented on his
work, "The flowers in David Sauer’s hedonistic paintings bloom with bright colors of a Fauve eloquence.” Art News remarks on
the French influence in his work, and the Herald Tribune speaks of his depiction of “all the things that speak
of a joy of living.”

Marines Accepting O.C.S. Applications

The Marine Corps Officer Procurement Officer has announced that applications are now being accepted from students who desire to earn
a commission in the Marine Corps while completing their college education. Freshmen, Sophomores, and Juniors, pursuing a course of study
other than pre-medical, pre-dental, theology, pharmacy, or music, are being selected for the PLATOON LEADERS CLASS. All training is conducted
during two six-week summer classes. Candidates receive $149.05 as pay for the first class and $183.45 for the second class.
Uniforms, food, and travel allowances are also furnished. Members of the PLATOON LEADERS CLASS are deferred from induction. Commissions are
tendered upon graduation from college.

Seniors and graduates may apply for the OFFICER CANDIDATE COURSE. Commissions are tendered to candidates who successfully complete a ten-week
training class after graduation from college. Mid-term graduates are now being enrolled for the 13th OCC which convenes in March
1955. Candidates eligible for the 13th class must be graduated by 15 February. Training for both programs is conducted at
the Marine Corps Schools, Quantico, Virginia. Successful candidates are appointed to commissioned rank in the U.S. Marine Corps Reserve and
must agree to serve on active duty for three years.

Officers commissioned through either program are initially assigned to the Officer Basic School, also at Quantico, for five additional months
of instruction. Many officers then receive specialist training in various fields including aviation, artillery, tracked vehicles, supply, engineering, and others.
The Marine Officer Procurement Officer will visit the campus during the school year; however, anyone interested may see or write
to Captain F. R. Hittinger, Jr., Officer Procurement Officer, Room 537, Peachtree-Seventh Building, N.E., Atlanta, Ga.

U.S.C. REQUIREMENTS FOR ODK ARE HIGH

Columbia, S.C.—(I.P.)—Chi Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa, national honorary leadership society at the University of South Carolina, has announced its
point system. Candidates for membership in ODK must meet the following requirements: (1) Show outstanding character; (2) Have at least
junior standing; (3) Have a 4.0 overall average, a 3.0 average for the previous semester, or a 3.5 average for
the two previous semesters; (4) A junior (60-92 credit hours) must have accumulated at least 75 points as set forth
in the point system; a senior (more than 92 hours) must have accumulated at least 100 points as set forth
in the point system; a graduate student must have accumulated at least 20 points per year above senior requirements for
each year of graduate study.

The American... (Continued From Page One)

poser's orchestral and choral works. The Overture to “Esther” by Handel, the magnificent Fifth Violin Concerto in A major, K.
219, of Mozart, and the Andantino Varie in B minor, Op. 84, No. 1, of Franz Schubert will comprise the
first half of Tuesday evening's program. Also to be heard are David Van Vactor's Introduction and Presto for Strings, and
Mo-

CONOVER BEAUTY TRAINING BY CANDY JONES AWAITS '55 MAID OF COTTON

Memphis, Tenn.—Candy Jones, director of the Conover School in New York, will serve as beauty consultant to the board of
judges at the 1955 Maid of Cotton contest finals January 3-4, the National Cotton Council announced today. The noted beauty
authority will brief Maid of Cotton finalists in walking, posture, make-up, hair styling, and speech during the two-day contest period
which culminates before an audience of five thousand at Ellis Auditorium on the evening of January 4. The girl chosen
Maid of Cotton will receive a complete Conover training course under the personal supervision of Miss Jones. This is scheduled
during the month's preparatory period in New York prior to the beginning of her fashion and goodwill tour for the
cotton industry.

Miss Jones in private life is the wife of Harry Conover, founder of the famous Conover School, and the mother
of three young sons. She appears on television, in magazines and newspapers as one of the nation’s foremost charm and
beauty authorities. Before becoming director of the Conover Career Girl Course, she was America’s most famous magazine “cover girl.”

Approximately 20 girls will receive Miss Jones’ training as contest finalists. These finalists will be selected from written entry forms
and photographs submitted in the Maid of Cotton contest, which is currently under way. Any girl born in a cotton-producing
state, who is between the ages of 19-25, has never been married, and is at least 5 feet 5 inches
tall is eligible to enter. Contest entry forms are available from the National Cotton Council, P.O. Box 18, Memphis, Tenn.
Entries must be returned to the Cotton Council postmarked no later than midnight, December 1. Each completed entry must be
accompanied by two photographs.One must be a head and shoulders portrait and the other, a full-length view. Maid of Cotton
contestants will be judged on the basis of poise, personality, and intelligence, as well as appearance. The 1955 Maid of
Cotton will be the seventeenth Cotton Belt girl to make the tour sponsored annually by the National Cotton Council, the
Memphis Cotton Carnival, and the Cotton Exchanges of Memphis, New York, and New Orleans.

International Affairs Bus. Admission Test Essay Contest Dec. 15; To Be Given Feb. 3

Students interested in international affairs now have up until December 15 to submit essays in the Foreign Service Journal Prize
Essay Contest, it was announced today. The essays, to be written on “The Organization of American Representation Abroad,” may win
for a student up to $1,000 or a full fellowship, amounting to $1,750, at The School of Advanced International Studies
of the Johns Hopkins University in Washington. Essays submitted will be judged by a committee of six nationally known men
including John Sloan Dickey, President of Dartmouth College, Robert D. Murphy, Deputy Under Secretary of State, and Lt. Gen. Harold
R. Bull, former commandant of the National War College. Secretary of State Dulles, in a statement which accompanied the contest
announcement said: “I hope this contest will produce constructive and helpful public thinking on a matter of importance to all
Americans.”

Students constitute one of four categories of entrants outlined in the contest announcement. Other categories embrace former and present State
Department and Foreign Service personnel, personnel of other governmental agencies, and competent persons other than those in the first three
categories. A total of $3,850 will be awarded in prizes after the contest closes December 15, 1954. The contest was
originally to have closed October 15. Full details of the contest may be obtained by writing to the Foreign Service
Journal, Contest Committee, 1908 G Street, N. W., Washington 6, D. C.

UNION WILL PRESENT "FOLLOW THE SUN"

The College Union Film Committee will present showings of “Follow The Sun” in the College Union ballroom tonight and tomorrow
night. The showings begin at 9 p.m., and admission is 25 cents.

Princeton, New Jersey, October 8, 1954: The Admission Test for Graduate Study in Business, required for entrance by a number
of graduate business schools or divisions throughout the country, will be offered twice during the coming year, according to Educational
Testing Service, which prepares and administers the test. During 1954, many students took the test in partial satisfaction of admission
requirements of graduate business schools which prescribed it. Among these institutions are the graduate business schools or divisions of the
following universities: Columbia University, Harvard University, Northwestern University, Rutgers University, Seton Hall University, Syracuse University, University of Chicago, University of
Michigan, University of Pennsylvania, Washington University (St. Louis).

A candidate must make separate application for admission to each business school of his choice and should inquire of each
whether it wishes him to take the Admission Test for Graduate Study in Business and when. Since many business schools
select their entering classes in the spring preceding their entrance, candidates for admission to the 1955 classes are advised to
offer the February test, if possible. The Admission Test for Graduate Study in Business is not designed to test specific
knowledge in specialized academic subjects. Normal undergraduate training should provide sufficient general knowledge to answer the test questions. Sample questions
and information regarding registration for and administration of the test are given in a Bulletin of Information. The tests will
be administered on February 3 and May 14, 1955. Applications and fees must be filed with the Admission Test for
Graduate Study in Business, Educational Testing Service, 20 Nassau Street, Princeton, New Jersey, at least two weeks before the testing
date desired in order to allow ETS time to complete the necessary testing arrangements.

THE CONNOISSEUR

A Place of Fine Foods for any taste in Eating — Specializing in Steak, Seafood, and Chicken Dinners. Mooresville, N.
C. Phone 3-2861

PARKER-GARDNER

CHARLOTTE 2, N. C. 118 West Trade Street Phone ED. 2-8257

For Davidson Seniors

Yale University Graduate School has announced a large number of scholarships and fellowships to be awarded for the academic year
1955-56. Stipends range from tuition scholarships to fellowships of $2,800 or more. All applicants for these awards must submit transcripts
of scores in the Graduate Record Examination. Scholarship applicants are advised to complete arrangements for that examination by January 1,
1955. Seniors should write at once for application blanks to the Dean of the Graduate School, Yale University, New Haven,
Conn.

With Mr. Donald Plott directing, the Davidson Male Chorus commenced what promised to be one of its best seasons last
Sunday night at Vespers. The richness of their performance impressed many who attended the service and was the topic for
much favorable comment on the campus. Composed of thirty-six well-blended voices, the chorus shows signs of richer tonal intonation, a
more melodic line, and a more buoyant spirit for doing good music well than has any other group prior to
this year’s team of musicians. Their scheme is more greatly varied also. The schedule of the Chorus will include concerts
in the states of Louisiana, Texas, and in other Southwestern points. If the group’s director is able to arrange a
contract with an airline agency to fly the Chorus to Mexico for several concerts, the group hopes to sing below
the border will be realized. Several appearances with the Charlotte Symphony are planned. At these appearances, the Chorus will perform
numbers with the Symphony, with famous guest soloists, and alone. Aside from special numbers of greater than average interest, the
group will perform at their concerts music of religious nature and classical numbers. A few secular tunes will round out
their programs. These appearances will further assist the Chorus to bring to the public the very best in choral music.

HONORARY FRATERNITY COUNCIL 1954-1955 SCHEDULE

FIRST AND THIRD WEEKS
TIME 7:15 MONDAY
SIGMA PI SIGMA
I. F. C.
YMCA CABINET
EUMANEAN
PHILANTHROPIC
SIGMA DELTA PSI
9:15 MONDAY
TUESDAY
WEDNESDAY
PHOTO CLUB
I.R.C.
ALPHA EPSILON DELTA

SECOND AND FOURTH WEEKS
TUESDAY
WEDNESDAY
THURSDAY
SOCIAL FRATERNITIES
SIGMA UPSILON
THURSDAY
TAU KAPPA ALPHA
GAMMA SIGMA EPSILON (4th week only)
BEAVER CLUB (2nd week only)
HONORARY DOLPHIN FRATERNITY
O. D. K. (2nd week only)
SCABBARD (2nd week only)
SIGMA DELTA PI
SPANISH CLUB
DELTA PHI ALPHA
RED AND BLACK MASQUERS (2nd week only)
SOCIAL FRATERNITIES

JACK WEBB AND BEN ALEXANDER

You know them best as Sgt. Joe Friday and Officer Frank Smith — stars of Chesterfield’s award-winning “Dragnet” on TV
and Radio. They're now starred in the movies, too, in Warner Bros.’ great new picture, “Dragnet.”

WHAT A BUY! Chesterfield regular and king-size. (Both at the same price in most places). Jack Webb and Ben Alexander
want what you want from a cigarette. Relaxation, comfort, satisfaction. They know where to find it—because in the whole wide
world, no cigarette satisfies like a Chesterfield. Chesterfields are best to smoke because they alone have the right combination of
the world’s best tobaccos. Chesterfields are best for you because they’re highest in quality, low in nicotine. Try a carton
of Chesterfields today.

LARGEST SELLING CIGARETTE IN AMERICA’S COLLEGES
