To the eye of the idle bystander, the game between Davidson and West Virginia Tech tomorrow might appear to be only a minor part of one of Davidson’s three dance weekends. With two big dances, a concert after the game, and numerous parties going on, the game would seem to be an interesting sidelight in a hurried weekend. But such is not the case. Tomorrow afternoon's scrap between the Bears and the Wildcats still remains as the highlight of the activities for the majority of the people who will witness the game. For the incoming alumni, it will once more afford the chance to see old friends and to see Davidson football. And this year, the Wildcats can offer them something more than a beaten-up crew which has little hope of winning. The ’54 club is favored to become the first Davidson team in 14 years to win a homecoming contest. Since 1940, Davidson alumni have returned to their alma mater year after year, only to see Wildcat clubs upset in close contests or beaten badly. The Davidson seniors this year have seen the Wildcats go down to defeat on three homecoming occasions, with all of the games going down to the wire and being decided on extra points. Presbyterian has beaten the Cats twice, and Furman has had one decision. But this year’s seniors seem to have an excellent chance of becoming the first Davidson senior class in a long while to graduate having seen a homecoming win. The game will mark the first appearance on the Davidson campus of the Golden Bears of West Virginia Tech. Few people in this area know very much about the West Virginia school, and the Bears remain pretty much of an “unknown quantity.” Davidson coaches have scouted the team in two encounters and have gotten a pretty good idea of what to expect, but the fans will be in the dark as far as tactics of the Bears are concerned. The Tech team passes a lot (32 attempts in last week’s game) and this should make for a wide-open battle.

By JIM HOLSHOUSER

After hearing a few bitter remarks by members of the student body about last week’s game against Furman, we feel that something should be said about the contest. Davidson went into the battle as a two-touchdown underdog, and when the final gun had sounded, they had lost by two touchdowns. The Davidson team played as hard a game as any this season, and this statement is borne out by the fact that the Wildcat line made two tremendous goal line stands, something for which Davidson clubs are definitely not famous. The Davidson starting line averaged 197 lbs., the highest for the season, but the Furman line was heavier. This, in part, made it possible for Popson and Yakimowicz to make the gains that they did. But there is no denying that the two Hurricane halfbacks lived up to their reputations, and this was certainly no fault of the Davidson team. The Wildcats got some bad breaks, but they played a good game, and definitely improved on that 34-0 score of last year by a Furman team that wasn’t as good as this year’s club. We have no reason to criticize, and nothing to be ashamed of.

GREEK SCHEDULE FOR NEXT WEEK
MONDAY: ATO vs. Campus Club; Phi Gam vs. Kappa Sig; SPE vs. 
TUESDAY: Beta vs. K.A.; Pika vs. Sigma Chi; Pi Kapp vs. SAE.
WEDNESDAY: Kappa Sig vs. Campus Club; ATO vs. Phi Delt; Phi Gam vs. 
THURSDAY: SPE vs. Sigma Chi; Beta vs. SAE; Pike vs. Phi Kapp.

CATS FAVORED TO TAKE MEASURE OF GOLDEN BEARS
The Davidsonian
ALENDA GCUK O85 GRTA LIBERTAS
FURMAN POWER TOO MUCH FOR HUSTLING CATS.
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 29, 1954
THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

Bears To Invade Cat Den Tomorrow
Cats Fight Hard: But Furman Wins
BY LEON HOWELL

Charlotte saw the Davidson Wildcats for the first time since 1949 last Friday night, and they saw the comeback operation jolted by Furman’s Purple Hurricane. However, defeat at the hands of powerful Furman was no disgrace, and the team played well as a whole. On this crisp fall night, Davidson’s student body appeared to turn out almost en masse, and they had scarcely seated themselves when Davidson turned on the fireworks. After taking the opening kickoff, the Cats went into a spread and fired several passes in succession. On the second series that Davidson had the ball, it seemed as if it would pay dividends when Gramley hauled in a long pass. Unfortunately, he lost the ball when tackled, and Furman recovered it. For the rest of the half, Furman controlled the ball, with Davidson caught with its back to the wall several times. As the first quarter drew to a close, Popson, Furman’s great halfback, bulled over for their initial tally. The extra point attempt was blocked. Striking again as the half ran out, Boyle threw a long pass to the other half of Furman's “dynamite duo,” Yakimowicz, who scored without breaking stride. After adding the extra point, the Hurricane took the half-time intermission, leading 13 to 0. The third quarter went much as the first half, with Boyle finally hitting Popson with a touchdown pass. Davidson began rolling in the last frame, cutting Henry Brown loose over the right side for a 33-yard scamper for the score. Bob “The Toe” Talbert booted the point. Coach Dole was of the opinion that his boys had played good ball, but the mistakes made; fumbles, dropped passes, penalties, and a riddled pass defense proved costly against a team as strong as Furman. Davidson’s up-the-middle defense looked very good at times, particularly on two sparkling goal line stands. Popson and Yakimowicz were the chief offenders to Davidson's defensive average, grinding out 153 yards between them in 36 carries.

(Continued On Page Four)

All over America college smokers are flocking to Winston—the new filter cigarette real smokers can enjoy! Winston’s got real flavor — full, rich, tobacco flavor! Along with finer flavor, Winston brings you a finer filter. It’s unique, it’s different, it works so effectively! R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO., WINSTON-SALEM, N. C.

Enjoy ‘em! Winston brings flavor back to filter smoking!

The truly superior Winston filter doesn’t “thin” the taste or flatten the flavor. New Winstons are king-size for extra filtering action — and easy-drawing for extra good taste. Try a pack of Winstons. You'll really enjoy ‘em!

Dole Hopes To Break Long Homecoming Jinx
BY BUNNY PERKINSON

The Golden Bears of West Virginia Tech invade the campus today for tomorrow’s Homecoming game with our Wildcats in which the 'Cats hope to break a 13-game losing streak in Homecoming contests. The Bears, coached by Don, bring a team about which little is known, except that they are big and tough. The line averages 196.lbs. per man and the backs average about 185, the biggest man on the team being 240-pound right tackle, Jim Welker. Coach Phillips himself was a standout tackle at Wheaton College, Wheaton, Ill., where he was an all-conference performer in 1941. He is assisted by Ralph Tate and Neal Baisi, giving the Bears a very competent coaching staff. The Bears perform in the West Virginia Intercollegiate Conference, which is composed of most of the colleges in the state, with the University of West Virginia being an outstanding exception. Tech is located in Montgomery, W. Va., and the school has about 638 students enrolled this year. In their last outing, the Bears lost to a tough Morris Harvey College eleven, perennially one of the top teams in the conference. The score was 33 to 6, and Davidson coach Chuck Clements was present to view the goings-on. The offense of the Bears revolves around 195-pound Bob Burruss, who is reported to be a fine passer. The seventy-odd plays run last week included 32 pass plays, so Coach Dole has been drilling the ’Cats on pass defense all week. The running of former Washington and Lee fullback Eddie Landis and 185 lbs. halfback Delmar Dixon also is a strong point. Coach Phillips has a young team, with only two seniors, Burruss and Landis, on the starting eleven. The 36-man squad is composed of a total of three seniors, six juniors, eleven sophomores, and sixteen freshmen. The 'Cats are in exceptionally good physical condition for the scrap, and all the regulars are expected to see some action. As has been the custom all season, the ‘Cats will be deployed into two platoons. With a win tomorrow, the ’Cats will virtually be assured of finishing above .500 for the season, having to win only one of the last three games to do so.

Winston tastes good — like a cigarette should! WINSTON ...the easy-drawing filter cigarette!

Greek Football Nearing Finish
BY JOHNNY JOHNSON

As the inter-fraternity football season is entering the final stages, the Kappa Sigs and KAs still remain in the running as the teams to beat. The two teams, both once-defeated, still have not met, and that clash will be the feature tilt of the season. The Pikas, Phi Delts, and Sigma Chis still remain in the running for top honors, though the two leaders have the inside track. A split in decision between the KAs and Kappa Sigs would possibly throw the race into a five-way tie.

In Monday's activity, the S.P.E.’s defeated the Independents, 45-13. The Betas, left by fullback “Shorty” Sfaelos, shut out the Phi Gams, 19 to 0. The Pikas came from behind to beat the A.T.O.'s 13 to 7. Trailing by one point during most of the contest, the Pikas pushed across the goal for the deciding score late in the last half. On Tuesday, the green-shirted Kappa Sigs led throughout the game and downed a hard-fighting Pi Kapp team, 19 to 6. Most everything went right for the Phi Delts as they overran the S.A.E.’s 34 to 0. George Snead sparked the winners by intercepting three key passes. Four yards was the margin of the KA's victory over the high-ranking Sigma Chis in the day’s closest and most exciting battle. A total of 21 points was made in the final two minutes. The Sigs saw their 7 point lead become a tie when only a minute and 50 seconds remained on the clock, but they came roaring back to regain it by scoring on a play that netted half the yardage of the field. However, the KA’s knotted the score 26-26 by advancing the ball four yards farther than did the Sigma Chis in the overtime. On Wednesday, the Kappa Sigs swamped the Betas, 40-0, with Dick Makepeace doing an outstanding job of defensive work for the winners. In other games of the day, the SPE’s won a close decision from the ATO's, while the Phi Gams edged the Independents.

The standings through Wednesday:
1. Kappa Sigs — 7 1
2. KAs — 5 1
3. Pikas — 6 2
4. Phi Delts — 3 2
5. Sigma Chis — 5 2
6. SAEs — 1 3
7. Betas — 5 4
8. SPEs — 1 4
9. ATOs — 3 6
10. Pi Kapps — 1 5
11. Phi Gams — 1 7
12. Independents — 0 8

Attention...!
Davidson’s Varsity Basketball team will start practice next Monday afternoon, along with the Wildcat Wrestling squad. After a meeting held this week to discuss and check eligibility, Coach Danny Miller is expecting a large number of candidates for the Varsity and Junior Varsity teams. Coach Charlie Parker will tutor the freshmen and upperclassmen, with the prospects for this year’s club being the best in many seasons.

Davidson Runners To Hit W&L Crew
BY CHARLES McGIRT

Last Saturday, October 23, the Wildcat cross-country team entered a three-way meet with N. C. State and William and Mary in Raleigh. State won with 18 points, Davidson came in second with 51 points while William and Mary scored 66 for the third place. State is known for having outstanding teams, and this year is no exception. Davidson’s Pete Ashcraft ran his best race in this meet, finishing the four-mile course in 22 minutes. This is considered exceptionally good for the State run. State's Gooding took top honors with his 19-minute run. Coach Heath Whittle remarked, “All the boys on my team bettered their previous time and they looked good.” Today, (Friday) the Wildcat squad met V.M.I. and Washington and Lee here in defense of their Southern Conference championship. V.M.I. is the team to beat this year. They defeated West Virginia University, last year’s champs, in a hard-fought contest last week.

Drink ‘Mi O O R? Mooresville Creamery, Inc.
Next to Bank

WELCOME ALUMNI
Distinction With Economy For Either The Grad Or Under Grad. You will want to be at your best for all Homecoming activities and festivities. It is our business to dress you correctly at a price within your budget. See our new — big — three B's: Black Coal, Blue Coal and Brown Coal. College Hall Suits in 3-B’s 52.50 Varsity Town Suits in 3-B’s 67.50 And for the big dance— Palm Beach “year ‘round’ Tuxedo 45.00

Charlotte, N. C.
Let’s Roll Over W. Va. Tech

ALUMNI, VISIT US WHILE YOU ARE IN TOWN.
Wilson-Wright’s Inc.
“COLLEGIATE FASHIONS”
Davidson, N. C.