PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN

MASQUERS PRESENT | Davidson To Get
SERGEANT | FALL FUNCTIONS TOP | Draft Deferment Test
SKETCH 7 FRATERNITY AGENDA | To Be Given On Dec. 9

M/SGT. LOUIS PENLEY

Master Sergeant Louis Penley, assistant M.S. instructor, was born in Weaverville, North Carolina and was a farmer until his enlistment on June 14, 1941. After his enlistment, he was sent to the reception center at Ft. Bragg where he received his basic training. In March of 1943, Sgt. Penley was sent to Greensboro as a weapons and drill instructor to members of the BCT-10 Airforce training outfit. He left Greensboro for Goldsboro, joining the ORD unit there, a replacement outfit, but was pulled off replacement lists because of an injury he received in Greensboro. From Goldsboro, Sgt. Penley went to Gulf Port Field, Miss., and then to Ft. McPherson in Atlanta, Ga., to work with the separation center there. He came back to Ft. Bragg in July of 1946 to work in the supply unit and separation center. In 1947, he left Ft. Bragg to go to Camp Kilmer, the overseas replacement depot for Germany. Sgt. Penley spent twenty-two months in Germany and then returned to the United States, being assigned to the 8th Infantry Div., a basic training unit, at Ft. Jackson, South Carolina. He stayed at Ft. Jackson as a basic training instructor until 1950, when in May, he came to Davidson for his first tour of duty here. He stayed at Davidson for three years and was then sent to Korea. In Korea, he was assigned to the 28th Infantry Division, 35th Infantry Regiment. He was on the front lines with this unit for a total of four months. While in Korea, he was selected by General Bruce C. Clark, 1st Corps Commander, to set up an NCO school. He stayed at this school for eleven months and came from there back to Davidson. Sgt. Penley lives now in Mt. Ulla, N.C. He is married and has two children.

Overcut Penalties ... (Continued From Page One)

tice, at the Bursar’s Office, Room 107 Chambers Building, a penalty for each violation as follows: First offense—$1.00; Second offense—$2.00; Further offenses—$5.00 each. (For offenses during one academic year). 2. While visitors are not subject to penalty on first offense they are requested to observe campus parking regulations.

NOT of Jackson

This is to announce to the people of Davidson and surrounding territory that I have purchased from Mr. A. H. Bates his dry cleaning business, and plan to continue the business under the name My years of service with the College Laundry and five years operating my own plant in Cornelius, I think, prepares me to render the public good service. I shall spare no pains to do this.

FRANK L. JACKSON, JR.

Several of the fraternities on the Davidson campus are planning to have fall functions during the latter part of November and early December. The SPE’s intend to have their fall function at the Policeman's Club in Charlotte on Saturday night, December 4. They will have a banquet followed by a semi-formal dance with music by Jess Morrow's orchestra. Plans are underway for a “Gangster Ball” down Phi Delt way. Working around a hoodlum theme, they plan to have a banquet and dance at the Coach House in Charlotte, also on December 4, with music by a combo from Price High School in Salisbury. The Kappa Sigs plan to hold their Black and White Ball, a formal banquet and dance in honor of their pledges, Saturday, December 4 at the Concord Hotel. Ziggie Hurwitz and his orchestra will furnish the music for the annual event. A Wild West Ball is on schedule for the Sigma Chi fraternity. This ball will take place in Mooresville on November 20th, from 8 p.m. to ?. Brothers and pledges will provide all the necessary entertainment for this “Saga of the Old West.” Two other fraternities are planning functions for December 4. On that night, members of Sigma Alpha Epsilon will hold a banquet in their new boarding house. There will be planned entertainment for this banquet. On the same night, Phi Gamma Delta will hold a combination banquet and dance in honor of its pledge class. This function will take place at the Selwyn Hotel in Charlotte from 6 to 12 p.m. The pledge class will present a skit for entertainment. The KA’s will not have a fall function this year since their social functions for the season will be culminated by the Old South Ball this spring. Pi Kappa Phi, Pi Kappa Alpha, Beta Theta Pi, Alpha Tau Omega, and the Campus Club have not yet completed plans for functions this fall.

Miss Skinner... (Continued From Page One)

biography of her famous theatrical parents. She has also become a popular guest on television programs, and on several occasions has appeared as an actress and writer in Hollywood. In Friday night’s program, the Davidson audience will have the privilege of hearing the creations and seeing the style and personage of one of the few great ladies of the American theater — Cornelia Otis Skinner.

All The King’s... (Continued From Page One)

which permits it.” The producer-director-writer, Robert Rossen, uses novel camera technique to make the film, especially the crowd scenes, more realistic. Admission, as usual, is 25 cents. All students and faculty and staff members are invited.

ICE! Cleaners

The first Draft Deferment Examination of the 1954-55 school year will be given Thursday, December 9, Dr. W. O. Puckett announced today. All applications for the first test must be turned in at the Registrar’s office before November 23. Applications may be obtained from any Selective Service board. A passing grade on this test exempts a student from call into the armed forces during his undergraduate career. Dr. Puckett urges that all upper-classmen who are registered and have not previously taken the test to take the December 9 exam. He urges freshman registrants to take the April exam. The Draft Deferment Examination may be taken only once by a student. A failing grade has no effect on the recipient's Selective Service classification. To be eligible to apply for the Selective Service tests a student must: (1) intend to request deferment as a student; (2) be satisfactorily pursuing a full-time course of instruction; and (3) must not previously have taken the qualification test. Students whose academic year will end in January 1955 are urged to take the December test so they will have a test score on file at their local boards before the end of their academic year, at which time their boards will reopen and whether they should again be deferred as students. The present criteria for deferment as an undergraduate student are either a score of 70 on the qualification test or specified rank among the male members of the class (upper half of freshman class, upper two-thirds of sophomore class, or upper three-fourths of junior class). In addition to meeting one of these two requirements, the student must, at the end of each academic year, progress to the next higher class. Students accepted for admission to or in attendance at a graduate school after July 1, 1951, satisfy the criteria if they ranked among the upper one-half of the male members of their senior class or made a score of 75 or better on the test. Graduate students admitted after January 1, 1955, must have ranked among the upper one-fourth of the male members of their senior class or made a score of 80 or better on the qualification test. Major General Lewis B. Hershey, Director of Selective Service, has emphasized many times that local boards are not required to defer students meeting the criteria. Meeting the criteria merely makesA student eligible to be considered for a student deferment. If a local board refuses to defer a student meeting the criteria, he of course has the right to appeal his case, consider their cases to determine! Hershey pointed out.

LEARNS RUSSIAN AND SHAKESPEARE

Student Sleeps Self To College Success

(ACP)—It’s possible to sleep your way through college, says the Varsity News of the University of Detroit. A. W. Turnbow, a 1954 Nebraska college graduate, boasts that he “slept his way through.” This admission stunned professors who once predicted Turnbow’s college career would end in failure. His secret? He had been “sleep-learning.”

“I'd read many articles on the theory of sleep-learning,” he said, “but none told me how to go about it. So I made my own sleep-learning device and experimented. I was working full time and trying to carry 19 credit hours at college. I was told I was failing, so I figured I couldn't lose anything.”

Turnbow, now president of Sleep-Learning Research Association, in Omaha, said it was hard the first few weeks. “But anyone can learn while he sleeps if he sticks to it,” he said. Turnbow first read 2,000 Russian vocabulary words into a machine, then gave the English meaning to each. “Results were so successful that I started reading notes from all my courses into the device.”

“I remember how my fellow students laughed when I told them about ‘sleep-learning’,” he said. “But when I started tossing around five-syllable words, formulas, dates and complete passages from Shakespeare, they changed their attitude.”

Rapid progress is being made by the State Highway Department on U. S. Route 21’s new through-highway from Charlotte to Statesville, a route which will by-pass the towns of Davidson, Huntersville, Cornelius, and Mooresville, thus alleviating to a great extent the severe traffic problem which has existed along the present route for several years.

Reports indicate that it will be over a year before the new road will be ready for extensive use, although the major road grading and bridge construction projects in the area of Davidson and Cornelius have been completed. The new by-pass will affect both the college and the town of Davidson considerably in that it will remove a large amount of the heavy fast-moving traffic which is characteristic of the present Charlotte-Statesville highway. On the other hand, the town will become even more “isolated” than it is now, although the by-pass will extend to within a mile of Davidson’s city limits and will be no more than five minutes’ driving distance from the college.

YMCA Asks For...

(Continued From Page One)

...few hours per week from study. The program requires leaders for the clubs and coaches for their ball teams. Interested men contact either the “Y” office, Ralph Bright, Creighton Peden or Smithy Johnston.

The Navy accumulates 400,000 cubic feet of records a year.

Davidson Must...

(Continued From Page Three)

...will present a line averaging pounds, spearheaded by co-capt Alf McGinnis, and a backfield averaging 184 pounds. The Davidson-Wofford series began in 1904, with the Cats coming out on top by the unbelievable score of 81-6. In this series, extending over fifty years, the Cats have been victorious in fifteen games, while the Terriers have been unable to win a single contest. One game ended in a 7-7 tie. The biggest score was Davidson's 87-0 victory in 1921.

On Monday the Wildcats began preparation for the game without Coach Dole on the scene due to an attack of influenza. The Cats are expected to be at full strength for the game Saturday with the possible exceptions of ends Tom Newton and Charlie Rankin. Newton suffered a charley-horse in the first half of last week's game and may be hampered by it Saturday. Rankin sustained a cut on his forehead which required eight stitches to close.

Coach Dole feels that Wofford will be the second-best team we have faced this year. Coach Biggers of Catawba said after last week's game, “I would say Davidson has the best team we played all year—with the exception of Wofford.” So the general feeling is that the Cats are in for a long, hard night of football. Davidson started slow last week and played listless ball during the first half, and we will have to go from start to finish to beat the Terriers who are thirsty for victory number eight of the season.

PARKER-GARDNER
CHARLOTTE 2, N. C.
118 West Trade Street
Phone ED. 2-8257

DAVIDSON THEATRE

All Pictures Will Be Shown On Our New P-A-N-O-R-A-M-I-C WIDE SCREEN

THURS-FRI, NOV. 11-12
“BEAU BRUMMEL”
STEWART GRANGER
TECHNICOLOR

SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 13
“YELLOW TOMAHAWK”
RORY CALHOUN
TECHNICOLOR

MON-TUES, NOV. 15-16
“ROGUE COP”
ROBERT TAYLOR
JANET LEIGH

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 17
“MEET DOCTOR JEKYLL AND MISTER HYDE”
ABBOTT AND COSTELLO

THURS-FRI, NOV. 18-19
TECHNICOLOR
“LIVING IT UP”
MARTIN AND LEWIS

SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 20
“BLACK DAKOTAS”
GARY MERRILL
TECHNICOLOR

I like CHESTERFIELD best!

Jeff Chandler
Appearing in “Track of the Cat”, a Warner Bros. Production in CinemaScope and Color

BEST FOR YOU... no cigarette can satisfy you like a Chesterfield, because Chesterfield has the right combination of the world’s best tobaccos. Only the tobaccos that are highest in quality, low in nicotine, and the most pleasure to smoke. Change to Chesterfields now. Smoke them regular or king size. You'll understand why Chesterfield is the largest selling cigarette in America’s Colleges. In the whole wide world—no cigarette satisfies like a CHESTERFIELD.