FRIDAY, APRIL 2, 1954 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE TWO

Action Against BSU Leaders Smacks Of Injurious Dogmatism

While Senator McCarthy conducts his witch hunt for communists among members of the armed services, a large Protestant denomination is conducting its own witch hunt for heretics in its youth movement. As is common knowledge among those who follow current affairs in North Carolina, the State General Board of the Baptist Church this week culminated an investigation of the State Baptist Student Union by firing two campus secretaries as well as the head of the whole organization in the state. The chief complaint seemed to be that these men were stirring up disharmony. What this disharmony consisted of is hard to say. About the only specific allusions which could be ferreted from newspaper accounts were to uncertainty in regard to the virgin birth and the rumor of holding interracial conferences. One general consensus of opinion among those who did the firing was that these youth leaders were too liberal theologically and possibly sociologically, as well. Newspaper accounts referred to testimony by numerous church laymen and clergy, but conspicuously absent from these newspaper accounts was any comment pro or con from the persons most intimately concerned, the student members of the Baptist youth organizations. One of the leaders of the firing groups lamented the amount of publicity given the affair by many newspapers, and understandably so, for from reading the accounts of the proceedings one cannot help but get an unsavory impression of the apparent dogmatism and intolerance that seems to have prompted the whole affair. It would be unfair to hastily condemn the conservative element with no inside knowledge of the complaints and their causes. But from what has appeared in public print, this appears to be a case of short-sighted, and misguided fundamentalism on the part of those making the condemnation and accusations. We do not question the motives of these people whom we believe to be acting in good faith. What we do question is their lack of judgment concerning the nature of the problem of evangelism on the campus, and their ignorance of the fact that it is not to be solved by leaders whose fundamentalism is stretched to non-fundamental issues. Religion must insist on fundamentals, but not on secondary theological points warped into the “sine qua non” criterion of faith. The racial issue which cropped up during the proceedings is one which the church is going to have to face sooner or later. Perhaps the church has more to lose than to gain now in taking the lead here in the South. But for the church to become a bulwark of racial intolerance would be almost fatal, not only to the organization but to the principles on which it is founded. The question is indeed delicate, but it cannot be solved by refusing to even tolerate meetings where black and white can come together and exchange opinions.

All of this is hardly relevant to the Davidson student except as religion itself is relevant. We feel impelled to comment on this situation among our Baptist colleagues because it is one which is not unheard of among Presbyterians as well—not to mention other denominations. It seems to us that this is another example of good intentions gone astray, and of Christians stressing absolute agreement to the letter of the Bible, and in doing so overlooking some of the broader, more important teachings of that Book. It is this sort of intolerance that plays a large part in keeping thoughtful non-Christians outside the Church.

Only Student Body Opinion Can Uphold Drinking Rules

It is no secret that within the past few days there has been an alleged case of drinking on campus before the Student Council.

OFF-MOORINGS: Football Committee Report Of Vital Importance To Future

By JIM MOORE

The most important single effect, in an administrative way, that this new move has had is to put the wedge of trustee sanction on a split of power on the administering and policy-making athletics—taking it from the administration and putting it in the dual hands of the trustees and the athletic department.

Recently there has been a great mass of air blown over the athletic situation at Davidson. Some of it has been hot; some cold. All of it has had at least one quality in common. Every person genuinely interested in this perplexing problem has the best interests of someone, some group, or the college at heart. The views offered vary in direct proportion to the particular loyalty of the person who is sounding off. That my point of view happens to be for the good of the college as a whole influences greatly what I have written and will continue to write.

New Information

It has been uncovered that the action of the trustees to have the college underwrite the athletic scholarship program is a one-year trial plan which will be reviewed and accepted or rejected, or so reports Dr. Sam Spencer. The trustees in making their decision will doubtless depend strongly on the report of the faculty-trustee committee on athletics. This committee is composed of ten men, five from each group. They are now in the process of formulating a statement of aims for Davidson’s athletic program and will give to the trustees in their May meeting the committee report and such recommendations as they deem best. The committee had its duty enlarged somewhat from the former task of investigating the athletic machinery to the fuller scope of policy and long-range athletic aims for Davidson. No matter what the committee report turns out to be, however, the college will by that time have committed itself to underwriting a $35,000 athletic subsidy. The football and basketball coaches will already have recruited new players or awarded scholarships to current players, thus making the college morally obligated to the students.

The reference here is specifically to the crisis at William and Mary College in 1951, when it was discovered that the records of football players had been altered and grades on transcripts changed.

No McCarthy

Please do not be misled into a McCarthy way of thinking that reasons thus: “This man says there are evils in subsidized football. I want a winning team and the betterment of football. Therefore, that guy is against football.” Nothing could be further from the truth. My greatest interest in continuing to write this column is to attempt to present views which seem, on a broad number of accounts and without reference to a narrow field of interest, the best in the light of the available information. One must admit that his time is limited, his resources often leave much to be desired, and his understanding of the underlying issues may not be as clear as that of others.those who are in closer contact with the situation. Still, one must exert his intellectual right to ferret out such information as he can gain and to make such comments as his conscience and mind tell him he must. Davidson still finds itself in its former position of facing two primary problems where football is concerned, even after the trustees steal an unspecified sum from the college and turn it over to athletic subsidization. Our college may continue to compete in the conference in which we find ourselves, or we may (Continued On Page Four)

Divorce

Divorcing athletic policy from the administration and imparting it to either the athletic department, which has motives forced on it from outside (alumni) which will inevitably cause it to abuse its power, or giving the authority to the trustees of the college, who are not a unified, well-organized, in constant-session group, is the first material step down the road to the athletic class of which I wrote several weeks ago. The history of intercollegiate football shows this to be a demonstrable fact. Recently (March 22, 23, 24) there appeared a series of articles in the New York Times on the evolution and current state of affairs in intercollegiate athletics today. This was prompted by and had particular emphasis on the recent agreement of the Ivy League presidents to de-emphasize and further amateurize football as it is played in the schools of the

Indochina Far Away, But Vital To Security Of Free World

By DICK ROPER

cornerstone of Western European defense, it should be obvious that we want to remove all possible obstacles from the path to French ratification of the treaty. At the same time, our Government considers, as Secretary of State Dulles stated this week, that “the imposition on Southeast Asia of the political system of Communist Russia and its Chinese Communist ally, by whatever means, would be a grave threat to the whole free community.” In view of these circumstances, it is not surprising that Secretary Dulles made the assertion, approved beforehand by the President, that the U.S. Government feels that the possibility of Communist domination of Indochina “should not be passively accepted, but should be met by united action.” Here the Secretary of State clearly avoided mentioning any specific measures that we might take, but in view of the prevailing situation as described above, he certainly seems to be saying that if the U.S. deems it necessary and vital to the security of the “whole free community,” American military forces in the form of both men and material may be sent to the Indochinese theater. 

earth, but we may expect to hear such a cry if it ever appears that we may have to send troops to aid the French in their struggle against the forces of Ho Chi Minh and his rebel Vietminh forces. If the turn of events is such that direct intervention by the U.S. becomes necessary, we may expect the opposition to such a move to take two principal stands. Those opposed to intervention probably will say first that a truce (Continued On Page Four)

Your Wings are your Passport

China causes the French to be that much more reluctant to ratify the European Defense Community treaty because they feel it is imperative they have at least as many men under arms at home as their historic enemy Germany, which is to rearm upon the ratification of EDC.

No Great Cry

As yet, there seems to have been no great hue and cry from the American people about sending American fighting men to the other side of the globe, to a country which is pretty nearly as far away from the U.S. as any place on

BOC Is Cornerstone

Since the United States at present hopes to make EDC the

Powerful Student Group

Without any further reference to this situation, except as it throws light on the whole problem on the campus, we feel compelled to express our opinion.

Is Urgent Necessity

Drinking on campus here at Davidson has, in the past,

By RONALD WILSON

not been a serious problem. Notwithstanding the right of every individual to make his own personal decision about drinking, we feel that it has no place on this campus. This opinion is shared by many who do drink as well as by teetotal abstainers. At many colleges, the “no drinking on campus” rule has become something of a farce, to say the least. Thus far, this has not happened at Davidson, and we hope it never will. The reason it has not is not because the Student Council acts as a group of vigilantes, listening at doors, and sniffing students’ breath, but because the great majority of the student body realize the value of the rule, and if they do drink, do so away from the campus. The Student Council realizes that the drinking rules cannot be effective without the support and cooperation of the student body, and has no desire to police the campus. We heartily urge the continued support of the student body on this point, which we believe is one of those that differentiates Davidson from scores of other colleges, and sets her off a little above the common run.

During the speeches to the student body last Wednesday, a point came out which could well be explored further. As intimated, this student body is amazingly inept in making any decisions concerning the school policy, mainly because we have no voice whatsoever which can carry student opinion and feeling to the administration or the trustees. The Student-Faculty Committee is supposed to represent some meeting ground between the two groups; however, this committee has been largely ineffectual in handling important, pressing problems. Therefore, an obvious need exists for the students themselves to form an independent group which is capable of mediating any problem which arises between the students and the administration. This group could be appointed by the Student Council or elected by the student body. Their job would be to meet with the administration, discussing any proposed changes and reporting to the student body what changes have been recommended, along with reasons supporting these recommendations. Much of the furor aroused about the freshman eating problem could have been avoided if the administration had simply informed the students of the proposed plan in advance, and then opened up for any suggestions which would result in an equitable settlement for both. It’s sheer stupidity to expect a college

student body to meekly accept a new plan which radically changes their main course of action without any previous information on the subject. This group should have the privilege of presenting our opinion to the trustees. If problems arise between the students and the trustees, they could be eliminated or quickly resolved; otherwise, antagonism and distrust will be the inevitable result. With such

wherever you go...

Your Air Force wings are your personal passport to universal respect and admiration. They mark you as one of America’s finest. To wear them, you must win them... as an Aviation Cadet. For further information, fill out this coupon and mail it today to: Aviation Cadet Information, Dept. SC23, Box 7608, Washington 4, D.C.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF: Moody Smith

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N.C., under the Act of March 3, 1879.