MOORE DEFENDS YMCA (Page Two) VOL. XLII

NOTED ORCHESTRA HERE FOR FROLICS

Ray Anthony and his orchestra will bring their own brand of musical magic back to Davidson this year for Spring
Frolics, April 16 and 17, Interfraternity Council President Charlie Hassell announced this week. Anthony, who was an instantaneous hit at
last year’s Spring Frolics, with a variety of numbers ranging all the way from his famous “Bunny Hop” to his
rendition of “Slaughter on Tenth Avenue,” will be back with many of the same featured performers.

The schedule of the weekend, according to IFC President Hassell, will follow the same plan as have previous IFC dances
this year, with the formal dance Friday night, the informal Saturday, and the extremely popular concert on Saturday afternoon in
Chambers Auditorium. Accompanying Bandleader Anthony for the Spring Frolics weekend will be vocalists Tommy Mercer and Marcie Miller, the Skyliners,
the Anthony Choir, and “Brother Lee Roy” on the baritone saxophone.

Billed as the “Young Man With a Horn,” Anthony stresses versatility in his music, his orchestral presentations running the gamut
from jazz and swing to novelties and sweet ballads for a well-balanced musical program designed to please almost every taste.
Showmanship, neglected by so many dance bands, is an important feature of the Anthony crew. Ray goes to extremes to
provide a maximum of visual appeal with his music, utilizing such gimmicks as parading the band through the aisles of
the theaters.

In a comparatively short span of time, the Anthony aggregation has won acclaim as America’s top band in sports, radio,
television, motion pictures, and on records. Ray’s annual itinerary now includes prom dates at the leading colleges and universities throughout
the country and a circuit of repeat engagements at such leading name band emporiums as the Paramount Theater and the
Cafe Rouge of the Hotel Statler in New York, Frank Dailey’s Meadowbrook in New Jersey, and the famed Hollywood Palladium.
The band has also been featured in Universal (Continued On Page Four)

RAY ANTHONY

WILSON, SPENCER VIVISECT McCARTHY

In an after-vesper session Sunday evening, Feb. 28, Prof. Iain Wilson will lead a discussion on this week’s most crucial
question, “Where is McCarthyism leading us?” Dr. Sam Spencer, probably the foremost campus authority on McCarthy the man, will act
as a factual resource leader while Prof. Wilson will seek to interpret this latest “ism” on the American scene, speaking
from his first-hand experience with similar political philosophies in Europe and from his impressions as a Britisher of this new
force in American thinking.

Although Prof. Wilson admits that the current European view of McCarthyism may be somewhat out of proportion, he questions that
most Americans are seeing the force in proper perspective. Dr. Spencer has pointed out that McCarthy the man and McCarthy
the “ism” may be two different things and require separate analysis. Both have urged the absolute necessity of straight student
thinking on the issues involved, not only because we are formative citizens, but particularly because of the form McCarthyism has
taken in attacks on the university and liberal education.

Students and faculty are cordially invited to attend this discussion and present their views. The group will meet in the
Student Lounge of the church immediately following vespers. Coffee will be served.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C., ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 26, The Davidsonian 1954

"D" FOOLIES PLANNED

The “D” Club Foolies will be held this year, as in the past, on the Friday night of Spring Frolics
weekend. Members of the Club are already making plans for the annual show which the organization sponsors. “D” Club President
Ben Craig has announced that Floyd Feeney will head the general committee for the Foolies; and that Al Ormond, Dick
Adams, Frank Mitchener, George Crone, and Robert Patten will serve on the committee. Dickie Davis will be the chairman of
the stage committee, and John Handley will be in charge of publicity.

The Foolies this year will be centered around a French night club theme, with individual acts, chorus routines, etc. There
will be no outside talent used in the show and it is hoped that there will be more participation by
the members of the “D” Club than in past years.

PHOTO FRATERNITY ANNOUNCES CONTEST

Kappa Alpha Mu, honorary fraternity devoted to photo-journalism, through its president, Wynn Wardell, Houston University, recently announced its ninth annual
50-Print International Collegiate Photography Exhibition for college students. The contest is sponsored by the eighteen KAM chapters to extend special
recognition to those persons showing talent and interested in photography. Any college student is eligible to participate. Pictures should be
postmarked not later than April 1, 1954, and they must have been taken since April 1953. Four classes will be
judged: News, Feature, Sports, Picture Story and Picture Sequence.

Winners in each class will receive a $25 Government Bond, and runners-up will receive certificates of recognition. For entry forms
or information, write to Print Chairman, Mabel Stewart, Room 114, School of Journalism, University of Houston, Tex., or to Ken
Fee, National KAM Secretary, 18 Walter Williams Hall, University of Missouri, Columbia, Mo.

New Business Department To Be Formed For 1954-55

A Department of Business Administration has been formed at Davidson under the chairmanship of Professor Fred S. Morton. The operation
of this new department begins at once, although the program and major requirements of it will not become effective until
the next college year. The program will affect the rising junior class.

Major requirements for graduation with a B.A. under the new department will include the “core courses” of B.A. 31-32 (Accounting),
41 (Organization), 42 (Finance), 43 (Production), 51 (Marketing), and any other six hours in Business Administration or Economics. Economics 21-22
will be a prerequisite for all work in Business Administration except B.A. 31-32, but it cannot be counted in the
twenty-four hours required for the major. It should be taken in the sophomore year.

Minor requirements will include Psychology 21 and 52 (Industrial Psychology) and any six hours above the basic requirements chosen from
departments listed in the catalogue. In the major core courses, the “case method” of instruction will be used. This method
centers around class discussion of individual business situations, and outside reading and preparation for the discussion. Through the case method,
it is hoped that the students will not only learn the facts but that they will learn how to deal
intelligently with the facts. The case method will stimulate thinking, making the student reach decisions and express his ideas.

The new department expects to maintain contacts with business leaders, to bring in guest lecturers to classes, and to make
class visits to nearby business enterprises. The main reason for the founding of the new department centers around the fact
that from one third to one half of the graduating business majors go directly into business from Davidson without further
training. It is hoped that by the case method the student will get a better picture of how the business
world operates and that he will be led to participate more in class and accept greater responsibilities in his academic
work; thus he will be better prepared to go into business upon graduating.

Plans are being made for all rising juniors wishing to major in Business Administration to have a meeting this spring
in order that they may learn more of the program of the new department. It is expected that new personnel
will be added to the department to help handle instruction by the case method. A Board of Business Advisors will
be appointed to help advise the new department as to new ideas and trends in business. This board will be
one of the main contacts of the Business Administration Department with the business world.

Professor Morton, chairman of the newly formed department, graduated from Davidson in 1943. He attended Harvard Law School for two
years, received his Masters at Harvard School of Business where he was an assistant professor, and is now working on
his doctorate. He came to Davidson as an associate professor in 1951.

To Speak at Vespers

By AL MYERS

The Reverend David A. MacLennan, who is now professor of preaching and pastoral care at the Yale University Divinity School,
will speak at Vespers on Sunday, February 28. Mr. MacLennan acts as guest preacher in many Protestant churches of the
U.S.A. and Canada, and also as lecturer to clergy.

Mr. MacLennan, a native of Boston, Massachusetts, graduated from the University of Manitoba, Winnipeg in 1926. He was ordained into
the ministry of the Presbyterian Church, U.S.A., in 1927, and in the following year he did graduate work at Harvard
Divinity School.

Mr. MacLennan has been minister of churches in both the United States and in Canada. During World War II he
was chairman of the Interchurch Committee of the Citizens Committee for troops in training, and he is now a reserved
Army chaplain. From 1946 to 1949 he was national chairman of the United Church of Canada Committee on Missionary Education.
For several years he has been affiliated with the governing boards of various Canadian schools. In his present work at
Yale, he is training divinity students in the art of preaching and in the duties of a minister.

In 1943 Dr. MacLennan received the honorary degree of Doctor of Divinity from the University of Toronto. Previously, in 1936,
he had received the Bachelor of Divinity Degree from the United Theological College at McGill University. Yale University awarded him
an honorary M.A. in 1949.

Mr. MacLennan, the author of several books and articles, has contributed to religious publications in the United States and Canada.
His book of sermons, No Coward Soul, was published in 1949; and a book on the preacher’s task, A Preacher's
Primer, in 1950. He is author of devotional booklets issued by the National Council of Churches, the Presbyterian Church in
the U.S.A., and the United Church of Canada. In 1952 his book, Joyous Adventure, was published.

SCRIPT 'N PRANKS TO STRESS HUMOR

Davidsonians may look forward to a highly entertaining issue of Script ‘n Pranks shortly after spring holidays, according to the
editor, T. Alden Williams. The issue will be released in the first week or two of April and will vary
from the last issue by containing more pictures, cartoons, and jokes. This issue will not be a parody on any
legitimate commercial magazine as a former issue was, but it may contain portions of parody within the magazine. It will
deal in part with military service, with which, as Editor Williams puts it, “we are all concerned, either in commission
or omission.”

One of the best features of the spring issue will be Don Mahy’s cover, which will be, as all of
his covers are, near classic. If the issue is up to former standards it may be a pace-setter for other
college magazines; the first college magazine in 3-D published by Davidson last year was followed this winter by a 3-D
issue of the Ohio State Sundial.

Cooperating in new capacities to make the spring issue of Script ‘n Pranks both interesting and entertaining to its readers
will be Gene Auten, who has been promoted to the post of chief photographer for the magazine, and Phil Lee,
whowas recently added to the editorial staff.

High School Musicians Compete Here Saturday

Over two hundred and fifty high school boys and girls will be here the next two Saturdays for state music
contests. Instrumental solo and ensemble competition will be held tomorrow, with vocal solo and ensemble rivalry taking place next Saturday,
the sixth of March. The contestants will be judged on a scale ranging from “superior” to “below average” by three
judges, one of whom is to be Mr. John Satterfield of the Davidson Music Department. Similar contests are to be
held at Duke and West Carolina Teachers College.

Male Chorus Tour Set For March 10, Includes 4 States

The Davidson College Male Chorus will leave on its annual spring tour Wednesday, March 10, and return to Davidson March
20, after an extended series of concerts in four states. Thirty singers, who will be accompanied by director Donald Plott
and accompanist Philip Gehring, will travel over two thousand miles and sing eleven concerts. The first scheduled concert is in
Toledo on Thursday night. From there the Chorus will move on to a concert at Bowling Green University and two
concerts in Detroit. After completing concerts at the University of Michigan and Owosso, the group will head south again. On
Wednesday and Thursday, the Chorus is scheduled to sing in Cincinnati and Huntington, with the tour closing Friday night, March
19, with a program at Sullins College.

Mr. Plott states that the music to be sung has been divided into two groups: a formal concert program for
presentation in schools and a sacred program for churches. The songs to be sung will range from early church music
and Schubert to folk songs and spirituals. Leighton McCutchen, Thorny Frick, Alan Sparks, and Bob Crutchfield will sing the solo
parts.

Poister To Present Recital; Hold Master Organ Class March 1

Arthur Poister, professor of organ at Syracuse University and one of the nation’s most eminent organists, will give a recital
at the Davidson College Presbyterian Church on Monday, March 1, at 8:15 p.m. The recital will open with short works
by the early composers Couperin, D’Aquin, and Luebeck. The Bach selections will be the chorale prelude, “We all believe in
one true God, Father,” and the Passacaglia and Fugue in C minor. The second section of the program will include
a little “Andante” for a musical clock by Mozart, and two Brahms chorale preludes. Following intermission, Mr. Poister will play
four sections of Dupre’s “Stations of the Cross.” The program will close with four chorale preludes by the contemporary German
composer, Ernest Pepping. The recital is free of charge, and an offering will be received to help meet expenses.

Mr. Poister will conduct a master class in organ playing on Tuesday, March 2, at 3:30 o’clock at the Davidson
church. Organists and students of this area are invited to attend. A registration fee of one dollar will be charged,
and those planning to attend should communicate with the Davidson College organist, Philip Gehring.

By TOM WARLICK

As their first production of 1954, the Red and Black Masquers will present “The Hasty Heart,” John Patrick’s comedy-drama in
three acts on March 8 and 9 in Chambers Auditorium. The play is under the direction of Robert Mims. The
advisor is Professor Raymond W. Tyson, and Martin McGirk is acting as stage manager for the production. The cast of
characters includes Lacklen, Dick Dabney; an orderly, Sandy McGeachy; Yank, Ed Hadley; Digger, Harrold Hall; Kiwi, Allie Cone; Blossom, Charlie
Oliver; Tommy, Fred Summers; Margaret, Mrs. Sam MaGill; and a colonel, Buddy Liles.

The action takes place in a convalescent ward in a temporary British General Hospital somewhere within the South-East Asia Command.
The play centers around young Lacklen McLacklen, a Scotsman. He is suffering from a severe kidney disease, having had one
kidney removed. The other kidney is seriously defective. Although he does not know it, he has only a few weeks
in which to live. “Lackie” is a very lonely person, having no friends or family, and is very bitter at
the world. His only interest in life is a farm back in Scotland which he has been purchasing on the
installment plan. Throughout the war, he had been putting all of his earnings into the farm so that he would
be a landowner when he returned to Scotland. The authorities grasp the situation and place Lacklen in a ward where
the men are very friendly, hoping thereby to make “Lackie” happy for the last few weeks of his life. “The
Hasty Heart” is the story of the efforts of those men in attempting to make friends with “Lackie” and to
help him through his difficulty.

Return of Fields?

The Davidsonian learned today that more than one half-dozen books on golf have been taken from the library. Librarian Chalmers
Davidson asked the cooperation of students in finding and returning these books. They had not been checked out.

SELVY SEEN THREAT TO D. C. VICTORY NO. 16

TRUSTEES ASK $35,000 FOR AID PROGRAM

RAY ANTHONY TO RETURN IN THE SPRING

FRENCH VERSION OF

Rev. MacLennan, Designate $5,000 For Aid To Basketball Team

The Trustees of Davidson College have asked that the college “underwrite the athletic grants-in-aid program next year for at least
$35,000. Of this amount, $30,000 would go for football and $5,000 for basketball aid.

In a statement, which is printed below, the trustees said that a Faculty-Trustee Committee was already at work studying the
athletic situation. The action is proposed to carry on the athletic program while the study is being made. Most of
the amount is expected to come from alumni, the Wildcat Club, and friends of the college. Under the plan proposed
by the trustees, the college would fill the quota if contributions did not fill it. The proposal marks a departure
from past athletic policy. Athletic grants-in-aid have been entirely dependent upon contributions in the past. No official statement was available
from the administration or the athletic department late Friday afternoon.

The complete text of the statement of the Trustees of Davidson College follows:

“The Trustees of Davidson College would declare afresh their deep conviction as to the importance of a successful program of
intercollegiate athletics at our college.

“A joint committee of the trustees and faculty of the college is now engaged in a study of the athletic
program and policies of the institution. We do not seek to anticipate its report. In the meanwhile, however, it is
important that there be no interruption in the present program of the college because of uncertainty as to the exact
details of the report.

“If Davidson is to be a force for good in the world of intercollegiate athletics, it must lead from a
position of strength rather than from weakness. We believe that under our present able coaching staff real progress will be
made during the next few years without lowering of academic or moral standards unless the necessary support of athletics is
withheld.

“We, therefore, ask that for the coming year the college underwrite at least thirty thousand dollars for grants-in-aid for football
and at least five thousand dollars for grants-in-aid for basketball and that the alumni and friends of the college be
urged by the administration, the alumni office, and the trustees to provide the whole of that amount.

“We would call upon the student body, the alumni, and the faculty to give their loyal support to the athletic
director, the coaches, and the athletic teams of the college to the end that success may be attained and that
intercollegiate sports may again make their proper and vital contribution to the life of the institution.”

Dublin Players To Present Shaw’s Pygmalion Mar. 3

“I come from an old family of artists in the theatre,” says Ann Elsden, youngest member of The Dublin Players,
arriving here to perform in George Bernard Shaw's “Pygmalion.” This performance will be given in Chambers Auditorium on Wednesday, March
3, at 8:15 p.m.

“My mother was a co-performer with Greer Garson, my uncle was the most famous musical comedy performer in Australia, and
my cousin is Mona Barrie, the American film actress, so you can see why I chose the theatre as my
career,” says Ann, who is as beautiful as she is vivacious. “I was born in India, and grew up with
almost as many American children playmates as English or Irish, so naturally I am glad to come to America to
see this great country.

“We are being treated wonderfully well by everyone here, with lovely parties and dinners. I know that I will love
every minute of our tour, although it is a long one.” Ann says she cannot imagine the great distances that
the company travels from city to city. “I am beginning to wonder whether I brought enough clothes, and the right
kinds, because everyone tells me that you have every kind of weather here,” says Miss Elsden. But it is certain
that Ann will never be cold on tour, because her beauty and personality should ensure that any number of young
men will be ready to lend her a coat at the first shiver.

All seats for “Pygmalion” will be reserved. There will be a special price of $1.00 for faculty members, students, and
dates. These tickets will be distributed on a first come, first serve basis. They may be obtained now from the
office of the College Union.

“Pygmalion” is Shaw’s re-creation in modern English setting of the mythological tale of the youth Pygmalion who fell in love
with a beautiful statue of his own creation, Galatea. In the modern version, Miss Elsden plays the role of an
English girl picked up in the gutters (the Galatea of mythology) whom a “gentleman of quality” attempts to refashion in
the manner of elite society.

Ann has played principally in English repertory and English films before she joined The Dublin Players. Her latest film is
“The Sword and the Rose” which Walt Disney produced and filmed in England and which has just been released here.
