EDITOR-IN-CHIEF .......... HENRY BROCKMANN
BUSINESS MANAGER .......... TIM COOPER
ASSOCIATE EDITORS .......... Joe Burroughs, Gilbert Gragg, Swain
Asst. Editors .......... Blake Brinkerhoff, Maurice Crouse, Tom Warlick
Managing Editors .......... Jim Holshouser
Sports Editor .......... Dick Morehead
Feature Editor .......... John Hiers, Watt McCain
News Editors .......... John Harmon
Copy Editor .......... Ed Price
Art Editor .......... Hank Daniel
Photographer .......... Jim Brice
Assignments .......... Joe Gaskin, Jim Marshal, Stan Miller, Bill Stewart
Editorial Consultants .......... Tommy Taylor
Assistant Business Manager .......... Larry Parrott
Advertising Manager .......... John Smith
Collections Manager .......... Bob Carmichael
Circulation Manager .......... Bob Carmichael

The Davidsonian
Published Weekly Throughout the College Year
Floyd Feeney, John Handley, Austin Strand
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N.C., under the Act of March 3, 1879

FRIDAY, SEPT. 24, 1954

Former Student Asks Purpose of College: To Make a Living or To Seek After Truth

The following is an article sent to The Davidsonian by Kurt H. Biedenkopf, a German exchange student who attended Davidson
some five years ago. Biedenkopf, who is doing newspaper work in Germany at this time, writes to consider with us
the problem of what we seek as college men. Replies to the article from students or members of the college
family will be welcomed.—Ed.

With Davidson College having reopened her doors and thus gotten another year of learning under way, this seems as good
a time as any for me as a former student at Davidson to send greetings to the faculty and the
students and let them know that my thoughts have often returned to Davidson since I left four years ago to
return to my home in Germany.

I think it will be safe to assume that the thoughts and considerations which may occupy you upon your return
to college work will most probably be similar to those of German students in your position. Those of you new
to college life will find yourselves confronted with the task of arriving at some clarification of your missions, aims, and
purposes at this institution; those coming back for another year of study will tend to examine your aims and ideals
previously chosen and developed to come up with an appraisement of their values and the possible necessity of revision.

Similar to your German counterparts, you may have devoted your university work to the completion of two major purposes. One
will be to learn a job, that is, to acquire the scientific tools necessary for the execution of a scientific
profession. Doing this, you are guided by the correct assumption that a scientific education, referred to as academic education in
Germany, offers you a better chance to reach a social standard of living which, aspired to more or less by
all of us, will guarantee you a life of relative material security. Viewed thus, college work may be taken as
an economically sound investment. Work, a number of years of your lives, and money represent the capitals which you expect
to yield; as interest, you expect to gain better opportunities in life, a higher standard of living, and material well-being.
Under such aspects, your decision to study derives from an economic and practical consideration, and your studies represent the means
to arrive at an end of mainly economic character.

Since you are, however, more than apprentices of science, your studies at Davidson are guided not only by such economic
considerations but will find their motivations just as much in a desire to study and do research for the sake
of science and knowledge. You will strive to detect the inner associations of things, to examine the intrinsic values of
all which is presented to you as science, and try to contribute to the further completion of this scientific structure
of human knowledge. In studying, you will seek for the truth, may it be by endeavoring to understand the nature
of God in theology or the existence of the infinity in mathematics, may it be by searching for the laws
of combination of elements in chemistry or the causes of life in biology. You will ask for the causes of
events you observe and the truth for truth’s sake. In doing thus, you continue on a path which exists as
long as humans are directed by the desire for an answer to the oldest question known to mankind: Why?

Repeatedly have I heard German and American friends of mine argue that the main difference between German and American students
could be found in the latter’s capacity to motivate their studies by but the first of the two purposes described
above and that they would have no desire to do research and study for the sake of truth and knowledge
alone. I am sure that I find you in agreement with me when saying that this is not true. While
having studied at Davidson, I learned that economic and practical considerations were not the only motives underlying my American friends’
decision to study and that they too were inspired by the desire to search truth for truth’s sake.

Yet we may not let ourselves be tempted into underestimating the number of students to whom college work is but
another form of specialization and who look upon their college as an institution at which one can buy knowledge similar
to buying stock for the expressed purpose of drawing interest and dividend from it. We all know well that life
in our present-day form of society is hardly possible without some form of specialization or another. Without the special knowledge
acquired in his own field, the student could hardly ever become prosperous. Would he limit his studies to a search
for truth for the sake of this truth, he would not have a chance in life.

But thanks to the insight into the mechanism of this human society of ours, we furthermore know that the ultimate
existence of this society depends on humans capable of recognizing, analyzing, and possibly answering problems and questions of common interest
and validity, thus reaching beyond the limits of their specialist education; the answers to such questions and problems being the
indispensable presuppositions to the creation and regeneration of aims and ideals without which a functioning human society cannot exist. A
country within whose boundaries lives and works the world’s best specialist labor, may they be scientists or mechanics, may well
be capable of building the fastest airplanes and the most modern television equipment, but it will not be in a
position to supply the ideas and ideals which the world must expect a leading nation to bring forth. To supply
and hence create such ideas, this nation needs men whose expressed aims are to search for and find the truth
not as a means to some other end but as an end in itself. Ideas and ideals are answers to
questions, questions the results of doubts, and doubts the consequence of seeking and searching.

The more students of the free world regard university work merely as an institution of practical and economic value and
look upon their professors as men paid to sell knowledge and thus tend to diminish their capacity to seek and
doubt, ask and answer, the more the free world will be deprived of one of its main bastions of strength
without any efforts whatsoever on part of its enemies. Though specialist labor in your country and mine be superior to
that behind the iron curtain, this difference is of a quantitative nature. The qualitative difference between the free and the
communist world is to be found in the possibility to question and search which our guaranteed freedoms supply us with
and which allows us to ask without fear of the answer. Should we neglect this possibility by neglecting the second
purpose of university work described, we may find ourselves at one time or another incapable to practice the art of
searching for truth as an end in itself. This must not necessarily lead to a loss of our freedoms; yet
once they are made no use of, we may run the risk of deflating and finally losing them without noticing
it until it is too late.

I feel that we should try to arrive at a synthesis of specialist education and general learning and seeking for
the truth as an end and not only as a means to an end. It is no doubt true that
without the former we are unable to defend ourselves materially; without the latter, however, we may not be in a
position to survive intellectually and spiritually. And history of mankind has selected and named but those nations as great which
were spiritually and intellectually superior to others.

Quo Vadis

Important Questions Must Be Considered
By LEIGHTON McCUTCHEN

Where do you think you're headed? Your life is about one-third gone. If you see any reason for living out
the rest of it, you surely see some challenge to meet, some problem to be dealt with. Many people have
many different kinds of questions that concern them most. Shall I drink or not? What work shall I go into?
Can I use people to satisfy my particular desires? Shall I go to the flick, or get a date? Here
is an attempt to point up some of those questions that demand an answer from most of us at some
time or another. These below are not optional. They seem to me to be the kind that we must seek
to answer soon too, for this is not the day of our fathers when time was luxuriantly distributed.

In a sense, we are of the dead. By that, I mean that the civilization we have come to consider
everlasting is rapidly proving to be quite flimsy in terms of eternity, or even history for that matter. It looks
like it might crumble, or so we are told. This fact doesn’t necessarily lead to despair, but it does put
a premium on this kind of questioning, and the answers we try to find to our questions.

1—Who am I and where am I going? This is a living question because at least four forces claim ultimate
allegiance of us. In the name of the “only” truth, they try to tell us who we are, and they
are obviously not very compatible with each other.

The Four Forces
a.—The Military says that basically I am a thing. I am to give unquestioning obedience at any time to the
machine of the army because the only way to settle things is the unhappy but realistic way of war; that
in the end, a strong military is the source of ultimate strength.
b.—Society says that basically I am a good average member of society; that I am potentially a business success if
I learn well enough the customs and rules of the game called competitive business; that conformity, initiative, and a certain
amount of pride are the keys to success; that I have a right to expect a happy life made enjoyable
by a wife and family and material plenty.
c.—Christianity says that I am basically a potential son of God; that I am best a man when I recognize
my total subservience to God, and live humbly for others; that I am going to be increasingly close to Him
now and after death if I will lose all—pride, my own ambition, hostility, love of wealth—and walk in love.
d.—Communism says I am basically a part of a mass; that I am good when I am working for the
mass; that I am really the result of a sort of cosmic economy that is self-propelling and quite sufficient unto
itself; that I will have meaning only as I work for the classless society, otherwise I am worse than nothing.

2.—Should I help to erase the “color bar” used to separate people? Why must this be settled in a hurry?
The colored peoples of the world who are in the overwhelming majority of the population are restive (note e.g., Kenya,
China, India, Indo-China). They are looking at the proud white and saying, “What now ‘Top-man’? You can't play with us
anymore. The time has come for you to make up your mind. Are we really people, just as good as
you? And don’t talk about it. We can see plain enough what you are doing.”

3.—(To those who claim to be Christians)—What is the nature and function of the church? This is a genuine question
at this time because “fellow” church members are calling eachother liars and heretics on the basis of each other's answers
to just this question. One side says that the nature of the church is a united body, and that its
purpose in the world is to first and foremost pour out through it the love of God in Christ. Others
say that the nature of the church is primarily doctrinal. They claim that its purpose is to draw all men
into agreement to itself before love can really be shown them (such as in the extension of complete fellowship). These
forces are demanding allegiance now. The time is particularly short for the answering to this one, for the world is
“closing down” to the conventional expressions of the church (e.g. in China, secularism, etc). This exhausted article has neither the
important questions which we must answer, nor the facts that make such questions of prime consideration. Perhaps I've left out
the ones that are the most important to you, but these at least must have an answer. What do you
have to say about them? Better yet, what ways will you use to find out the answers for them?

Letters To The Editor

Expressions concerning matters of general interest to the student body and alumni are always welcomed by the editors. Such communications
should not exceed 150 words. All letters must be signed. Occasionally permission may be granted to withhold the author's name.
In any case, the author's identity must be known to the editor.

The “Gadfly”

Attention Freshmen! Advice On Frats and Davidson Spirit

Even now freshmen, as you are remembering that last gala rush party from which you have just returned and are
excitedly and nervously discussing together which fraternities you liked, sleepy-eyed upperclassmen are gathering wearily around in eleven different groups in
the final night of the tiring rushing program. They will be deciding on how well you would fit into their
respective groups; you should remember that they are much more exhausted by this hectic week and further behind in their
work than you are, since they have had to stay up into the far hours of each night. They will
attempt to be as fair as possible, although each one must be careful to issue only so many bids and
try to get the very best of you, in their judgment, to come their way; you have finished looking them
over and have chosen your favorite so go on to bed and try to get some sleep. But sleep is
hard coming as you will find after such an exciting night, and when drowsiness finally overcomes you, most of you
will begin to dream. Perhaps it will be of the summer when those friendly rush letters sparkling with praises of
Davidson and their fraternity began coming—of the people who are alumni of many fraternities who all told you they hoped
you would join theirs—of the final advice from your folks about which group they would like you to join—of the
fun of meeting new friends during orientation and seeing which fraternities they liked—of the memorable rush parties themselves when everyone
had a smile and glad handshake for you and seemed, incredibly enough, concerned about what courses you were taking (as
if they didn’t know what freshmen have been taking at Davidson for years)—of your excitement when you passed the first
big hurdle and got invited back the last two nights—of—

To the Post Office

Suddenly your alarm clock set for 6:30 stuns you into consciousness, and quickly you rush to dress and join the
rest of your classmates on the eager dash to the post office. Perhaps on this memorable walk you will remember
Dr. Cunningham’s words quoted from the Sanskrit about “... looking to this with its joy of action, splendor of beauty,
and bliss of growth...” Yes, this day will be “... the salutation of the Dawn so that yesterday will become
a dream of happiness and tomorrow a vision of hope, if you live well today...” Finally you reach the post
office; nervously your fingers tremble as you open the box and your heart skips a beat as you see what
is or is not inside it...

What your box will contain, anxious freshman, no one under the sun can predict. If you are among a highly
favored percentage of your class with athletic ability, a striking personality, and good looks you will probably have your pick
of any fraternity with each hoping fervently that you will come their way. Congratulations are in order for you, and
here is hoping you'll make a wise choice. Then about half of you will get three or four bids, although
many in this group won't get the bid of your first choice. You are good stable guys with nothing to
be held against you on first appraisal and will make good solid members. A smaller percentage of you will just
get one or two bids and will probably join, even though the fraternity is far from your favorite. The remaining
percentage of the class, if it is the same as ones in the past, will be divided among a very
minute percentage of boys who get bids but do not accept, because they feel that there is a different way
to achieve brotherhood, and a larger percentage who do not get any bids at all and are very disappointed because
their box is empty.

For all of you it will be a memorable day—there will be all kinds of emotions experienced. Those of you
who get the bids you wanted will be very happy and will find in your fraternity a wonderful fellowship of
boys who will become your brothers in a real sense; they will help you in your studies, introduce you to
the cutest girls at Queens, and let you double-date with them etc... For every hard task they require, such as
menial pledge duties, you will find all the inconveniences have been richly worth it when you receive your treasured pin
and are initiated at last. Then you who do not get the bid you wanted but do get another one
and go ahead in that fraternity, you will probably be surprised to find after a little while how congenial you
are with that group and wouldn't trade the fraternity you joined for anything, as your bonds in friendship with its
members grow—just remember that there would be some in any group that you wouldn’t like but the majority of you
would.

One Black Ball Amidst A Galaxy of White

As for you who get no bids, you will feel left out. Probably you'll remember being told glibly during orientation
“that if you get a bid don't let it go to your head and if you don’t, don’t let it
go to your heart” and realize how impossible it is to do the latter when your folks and friends who
wrote gushing letters of recommendations, describing you as little gods, will be anxious to know what you joined and be
waiting even then for your call. Undoubtedly some of you feel bitter at first as you remember how friendly everyone
was to you and decide that they are a bunch of un-Christian snobs and hypocrites; just remember, disappointed freshman, that
it only takes one blackball amidst a galaxy of white to keep you out and that many members of most
of the fraternities are almost as disappointed as you that you didn’t get in and might have argued themselves blue
in the face, but to no avail. Perhaps you will start criticizing fraternities when you see other boys taken because
of family connections, forgetting that even sometimes legacies are refused. Probably you will be critical of the whole system for
its exclusiveness and for claiming brotherhood when its very nature of selection denies the principle of brotherhood, forgetting that thousands
(Negroes, Jews) are discriminated against much more seriously than any of you will ever be and that had you gotten
the right bid you would have joined and not been critical. Just remember you will have an opportunity to participate
in intramural sports and other school activities and to show your abilities, along many lines; you will find many wonderful
unexpected friendships among independents as well as having close friends in different fraternities. No doubt you will again think of
Dr. Cunningham’s words about the challenge and thrill of a new year when you will have unexpected sorrows and disappointments,
but remember there are always many unexpected joys also!

New Horizons

All of you freshmen, whether you join a fraternity or not, will find that the essential and most cherished principle
at Davidson is that you will ultimately be accepted for your own character and personality and have a fruitful college
career because of what you really are regardless of whether you are in a fraternity, independent, have a car, work
your way through school, etc... Indeed, the spirit of Davidson has and always will transcend these barriers—and remember, freshmen, that
it isn’t what happens to you in life that is important but what you make of it. So those of
you who don't get a bid, or the right one, in the morning, keep this in mind, and for you
it will truly be the “Salutation of a new Dawn.”

“Upper Classman” Outlines Four Types Of Nauseating Freshmen

By HIRAM CATON

Neophytes, plebs, peons, peasants, call them what you wish, for they are here. Every year, these nefarious and stupid creatures
descend upon us, and tragically most of them last throughout the entirety of the two terms. They distract us gentlemen
from our proper duties, and they cause us a multitudinous amount of trouble. For instance, just the other day on
my way to philosophy 41, one of them approached me and asked the location of the Chambers Building. And those
abominable little red hats. Why they wear the atrocious things with pride, as though they were a crown or halo
or something comparable! The entire matter is unintelligible to me. I can’t imagine how they got out of high school.

Which brings me to my point. Although I'd like to, I can’t ignore the nymphs. Between explaining this and warning
that, I have detected some very definite types of College Freshmen.

The High School Honor Boy. This type is not content to be a lowly, diabolic freshman. He insists on becoming
a sub-freshman by his profuse and haughty references to his glorious high school career. He revels in the thought of
it, and in anticipation of a similarly glittering college career. He proudly displays his medals, pens, awards, and so forth
in a conspicuous place on his lapel, or shirt, or T-shirt, or, I assume, even on his pajamas. But however
obnoxious he may be, there is one concession: he is harmless. His glory and place of honor are no more
(except at home where mama is), and he soon fades into obscurity.

The Lover. Although this group is not unique to College Freshmen, its place among them is more pronounced. This may
be accounted for by realizing that The Lover is in a new locale, with new opportunities, new challenges, and new
addresses. And, aside from all this, he is now dealing with a new species: the college girl. He is intoxicated
by the thought of his conquests-to-come. Then, we must realize, that he must establish his position among the mob as
an Extra-Special, A-1 Lover Boy. This particular challenge spurs him on with renewed vigor. This type is annoying not only
because of his bragging, but because I myself am his potential competitor, and I don't relish such thoughts.

The Sceptic. This group is by far the most dangerous. They are cynical, serious, and armed with devastating arguments. They
conjure up profound theories that prove we souls have been believing in something wholly false all the while. They are
bitter because the world does not recognize their astounding genius and their scientific, irrefutable philosophy. When they go to church,
they mock the speaker, catch mistakes in his grammar, and generally ridicule him for being ignorant. They are always ready
for an argument. Any argument. They have facts and theories that will prove their argument on anything from the beginning
of the universe to the pronunciation of ghrapthirisew—

(Continued On Page Four)
