VOL. XLII

Commenting on the YMCA forum reports have been encouraging. On “Power Politics and Moral Responsibility,” Ed Stuart, chairman of the forum committee, said this week, “Everything went according to plan. Dr. Clyde and Mr. Lefever did a good job, and our local speakers, Dr. Guerrant and Dr. Spencer, did an excellent job, also.” Stuart also said that since many expected a clear clash between the two speakers, some may have been disappointed by the outcome. On the other hand, those who stood on either extreme—the cynics and the professional moralists—found their ideas challenged by both Dr. Clyde and Mr. Lefever.

The one-day discussion held on Tuesday consisted of a morning presentation in chapel by Dr. Paul H. Clyde, professor of History at Duke University, and Mr. Ernest W. Lefever, associated with the National Council of Churches of Christ in the U.S.A., informal afternoon discussions, and an evening panel discussion in which the principals were aided by Drs. Guerrant and Spencer. Dr. Frontis Johnston moderated.

Stuart expressed disappointment with the attendance at the forum, but added that success cannot be judged by numbers. He also said that some mechanical defects were noticeable, such as the 10-minute limitation on the chapel speeches.

When asked about the fraternity group discussions held in advance of the forum, Stuart said, “This is one of the most hopeful notes. Some fraternities had faculty members to speak, but enthusiasm seemed to be highest where students prepared and led the discussions themselves. We hope that the idea can be examined further and used for topics which are not quite so broad as this one.”

In evaluating the forum, Stuart said, “The forum pointed out not only the realm of what is and what ought to be, but a third possible realm of what can be, what Max Lerner called ‘the realm of mental agility to apoplexy.’” He warned that although theology had been kept out of the forum intentionally, the theological implications of both speakers cannot be ignored. (Several impromptu forums between students Tuesday night dwelt on the theological side of the question.)

“A helpful result may have been ‘confusion on a higher level,’ as Mr. Lefever expressed it. But I do not think the question need be unresolved. Although there is to be no organized follow-up, informal discussion of the topic would be a good thing.”

Artist Series Will Present Isaac Stern

America’s foremost young violinist, Isaac Stern, will appear in concert in Chambers Auditorium at 8:15 p.m. on Saturday, February 13. This popular young artist, familiar to fans of radio, television, and recordings, will give a program of favorite violin selections.

Mr. Stern’s concert here is one of fifty-five he is currently making across the country which include appearances with such organizations as the Boston, Chicago, and Los Angeles orchestras. Last November, Sir Thomas Beecham, conductor of the Royal Philharmonic Orchestra, performed with Stern. The London Times reported: “A player in the front rank of violinists has dawned on our horizon.”

Stern is no stranger to the movie-going public, for it was his music heard on the soundtracks of the films “Humoresque” and “Tonight We Sing.” He is also well known to radio, television, and record fans, for his recordings have been bestsellers throughout the years. The popular young artist will perform here on his priceless 250-year-old Guarnerius. Among the selections that he will play are included Brahms’ Sonata in D Minor, the Suite of Rameau-Ysaye, and the ever-popular La Campanella of Paganini.

VESPERS & CHAPEL

On Sunday, Feb. 14
7:30 p.m. — Vespers — President John R. Cunningham.

Monday, Feb. 15
10:20 a.m. — Chapel — Dr. Goldiere.
8:00 p.m. — Lingle Chapel — Mrs. Rowena McCutchan will speak on “World Missions.”

Tuesday, Feb. 16
10:20 — Chapel — Dr. J. Wilson.

Wednesday, Feb. 17
10:20 — Chapel — The Reverend A. I. Kissling, D.D., Riverside Presbyterian Church, Jacksonville, Fla.

Thursday, Feb. 18
10:20 — Chapel — YMCA Day.

S. V. M.

At a business meeting last Wednesday night the SVM group here elected Joe Grier chairman and Al Myers secretary. The group also decided to adopt an organ as a presentation of their extensive study program.

The Davidsonian
ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C., FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 1954

“Y” FORUM TERMED SUCCESS BY STUART

Dillon Accepts Post As Promotion Head Of WBT and WBTV

John Dillon, publicity and placement director of the college since 1951, announced his resignation this week in order to accept a position with the Jefferson Standard Broadcasting Company in Charlotte. He will leave Davidson Monday to become promotion supervisor of stations WBT and WBTV.

Mr. Dillon joined the Davidson public relations office in September, 1951, succeeding Lacy McLean as publicity director and assistant alumni secretary. In these capacities, he was responsible for newspaper and radio publicity, the alumni journal, and publicity from sister institutions; in addition, he handled job placement activities for seniors.

John Payne, director of public relations, said that no successor has been named for the position, although a number of applicants are under consideration, and that the post will be filled in the near future.

After his graduation from Wake Forest College, Mr. Dillon served as assistant director of the Wake Forest News Bureau and subsequently as continuity director of radio station WPTF in Raleigh until coming to Davidson.

The publicity office was created under John Payne’s public relations department shortly after World War II with a student, Lacy McLean, in charge. At McLean's graduation, Jo Thigpen was employed to fill the position full-time. After a year at Cornell, however, McLean returned to Davidson and Thigpen was moved into a newly-formed, separate athletic publicity office.

PARKING, PUBLICITY DISCUSSED BY GROUP

The Davidson College Student-Faculty Conference Committee held its fourth meeting of the school year last Friday, Feb. 5, with the chairman, Dr. Jay H. Ostwalt, presiding. The committee, whose main purpose is to work out specific problems pertaining to the college life and program through student-faculty co-operation, discussed various problems that have arisen in the past few months. Things included in the discussion were college publicity, increased parking space for students, the college's athletic policy, and the cut system.

The committee is collecting information about the parking situation to be included in a report which will be presented to the faculty, in the hope that something mutually agreeable to both faculty and students can be worked out.

In the discussions about publicity, it was agreed that the committee would continue to work on improving the college’s public relations.

Linker’s Hunch Pays Off; Fields Awaits Jury Action

By TOM WARLICK

After four days of notorious murder and plunder, Jennings Fields is now behind bars in DeKalb County jail in Atlanta awaiting grand jury action on March 1. Should the grand jury return a true bill, Fields will stand trial in Atlanta for first-degree murder. Theoretically, Fields faces possible death in the electric chair or the gas chamber on at least 27 counts. Mecklenburg County authorities have filed a detainer against Fields so that if he should ever win his freedom in Georgia, he will be tried in Mecklenburg County for first-degree burglary, a capital crime in North Carolina.

Entire credit for the detection and capture of Fields is being given to Davidson's night watchman, Ed N. “Cop” Linker. It was Mr. Linker who spotted the bandit’s car parked beside the College Union in the early hours of Thursday morning. Had it not been for Mr. Linker’s alertness in copying the license number of the car, Mecklenburg County police frankly admit that the bandit would probably never have been caught. As a gesture of appreciation, a sum in excess of $175.00 was donated by the students and faculty at the close of the chapel period Monday. This sum was presented to Mr. Linker by President John R. Cunningham and Lyman Kiser, President of the Student Body, in appropriate ceremonies at the chapel period Wednesday.

Meanwhile, students Martin Foil and Joe Jenkins were taken to Atlanta by two Mecklenburg County officers. These students were selected out of the group of those who saw or spoke with the bandit as the most able to identify him. Arriving in Atlanta early Tuesday morning, the two were taken immediately to the DeKalb County Jail. A lineup was arranged and each boy was sent through separately. Both Foil and Jenkins positively identified the man as the dormitory bandit. Foil, who saw the bandit without a shadow of a doubt, described the behavior of the bandit as “ranging from extreme mental agility to apoplexy.”

Rapid fire events which led from the early morning robbery here to the death of a DeKalb County policeman and subsequent capture of the criminal were as follows: Jennings Fields, 30, a resident of Chamblee, Ga., a fashionable suburb of Atlanta, apparently entered Davidson at one a.m. on Thursday, February 4. While here he entered the rooms of 24 students in three dormitories taking $371.50 and a wristwatch valued at $100.00. It was during this time that Mr. Linker took the license number of the bandit’s car. Upon leaving Davidson around 5 a.m., Fields proceeded to Florence, S.C., where at 8 a.m. he telegraphed $325.00 to his wife in Atlanta. Upon the basis of tentative identification, it seems that the robber proceeded to Clemson which he robbed on Friday morning. In the meantime, warrants had been sworn out by Mecklenburg County authorities for the arrest of Fields. These were telegraphed to DeKalb County authorities along with the license number of the car.

Association for Business-Economics Students Begun

The members of the recently organized Business-Economics Association are, from left to right: Gayle Averyt, Professor Morton, Don Reid, Professor Griffin, Sam Sells, Bob Owens, Tom Ligon, Angus Hagins, Vince Gould, Ben Craig, and Jim Cannon. Cortez Cooper was absent when the picture was made.—(Photo by Simons.)

PALMER PRINCE OF PIANO: SENIOR SKETCH NO. 14

D. C. Catalogue To Be Biannual Publication

The 1954-55-56 Davidson College Catalogue, for the first time published biannually instead of annually, is due from the printers by the end of this week. This new policy will necessitate a 16-page supplement in 1955. Davidson is the first college to adopt this new policy.

BUSINESS-ECONOMICS ASSOCIATION IS FORMED

As a result of many years of planning and study, Davidson now has a club to represent the largest segment of the student body—the Davidson College Business-Economics Association. This association has the unique feature of being organized in the form of a corporation and plans to carry on its general activities in corporate fashion.

At the inaugural meeting on Monday, February 1, the following officers were elected: Bob Owens, President; Ben Craig, Vice President; Tom Ligon, Secretary; and Jim Cannon, Treasurer. The other founders include Sam Sells, Vince Gould, Angus Hagins, Don Reid, Gayle Averyt, and Cortez Cooper. These students will serve as members of the Board of Directors for the remainder of this semester.

The Davidson College Business-Economics Association is a local organization. Several national honorary societies in economics and business were considered, but it was decided to organize locally, giving to the association greater flexibility, lower expense, and the distinction of becoming an efficient locally formed organization.

The purpose of the association is to create enthusiasm for a sound understanding of business and economics among the students.Day, Sig Eps Have Best Skit

The third annual Greek Week, which is sponsored by the Inter-fraternity Council, got underway Tuesday. Each fraternity exchanged part of their pledge class for the evening meals on Tuesday and Wednesday. This exchange helps to foster a better fraternity spirit on the campus.

The second phase of Greek Week was put on Wednesday afternoon under the direction of Max Devane, who is chairman of the Greek Week committee of the IFC. The field event was finally decided upon since no suitable community project could be found. This event consisted of an obstacle relay, a cumulative broad jump, a jump stick relay, and a shuttle dash relay.

Placing first in the obstacle relay were the Betas with Sigma Chi in second place and the KAs in third. The time for the Beta team was 1:13.6 minutes. In the cumulative broad jump, the Betas jumped 64 feet and 1½ inches to take first place. Running them a close second were the Pikas with 63 feet and 9⅜ inches, and the Phi Gams were next with 62 feet and 10 inches.

(Continued On Page Four)

knowledge of the principles of business and economics, and to increase the student's interest in his work. It believes that this enthusiasm can best be aroused by bringing together faculty members of the Business Administration and Economics Departments and members of the association on a basis of common interest and understanding.

The association is to serve as a medium through which guest speakers can be invited and entertained. These speakers will be prominent businessmen, economists, government officials, or labor leaders and will present members with an opportunity to obtain an additional wealth of practical knowledge and experience.

Membership in the association will be based primarily on personal interest and initiative rather than upon grade qualifications. Juniors and seniors who are majoring in business and economics and other students interested in business who express the desire to join will be considered eligible for membership. The active members will elect the Board of Directors, which in turn will elect the officers of the association. The board will also consider and elect new members.

The club plans to present several programs during this semester which it feels sure will be of great interest to all the members. Near the end of this month, the association plans to bring several prominent businessmen on the campus to speak and lead the group in a discussion of the general topic, “Business Opportunity—Not Security.”

On March 29th, the Charlotte Sales Executive Club plans to hold its monthly meeting on the Davidson campus jointly with the Davidson College Business-Economics Association. This meeting will feature panel discussions, a dinner, and a main speaker. The Charlotte Sales Executive Club is composed of some two hundred and fifty of the most outstanding businessmen of Charlotte. This club has shown an interest in the formation of the Davidson College Business-Economics Association and expressed the desire to work closely with the association in the future.

At the last meeting of the Board of Directors on Monday night, elections were held for new members. All newly elected members will meet with the board at the association's next meeting, Monday, February 15, at 7 p.m., in the Green Room of the College Union.

The Vocational Guidance office, under the direction of Professor Ostwalt, is offering a rather new service to the members of the student body. This service, instituted here last year, provides a free system of guidance tests to any student wishing to take them. These tests are divided into three general types—the academic tests, the vocational tests, and the remedial reading tests, which are still in the experimental stage. There are of course many different types of tests under each of these headings.

The academic tests are mainly for those students who are having a difficult time in their academic subjects. There are a variety of tests offered under this heading—English, Math, Culture and Aptitude are a few of the various points touched. The vocational guidance division of the tests is composed mainly of preference and interests tests, which are given to aid Professor Ostwalt in his personal counseling to the student. The department has, in addition to the tests, a room containing information in books, charts and other pieces of (Continued On Page Four)

PLAYMAKERS PLAN ‘THE HASTY HEART’

The Red and Black Masquers have begun the second semester under the leadership of President Bob Mims with plans for two productions. In a change of style from the two productions of the fall semester, the dramatics group will present two modern plays. One of these plays, “The Hasty Heart,” is already in the process of casting and lining up the properties and other essentials for the play. Very successful tryouts were held for the parts on Tuesday and Wednesday of this week, with more than twenty persons providing the competition for the few parts. This play will be produced in March and the other possible play will be produced in conjunction with the Fine Arts Festival.

Interest has been keen in “The Hasty Heart” because of its recent success and acclaim from critics in both the Broadway and Hollywood versions of the play. An initiation was held at the regular meeting of the group Wednesday night at 8:15 in the Dome Room in Chambers. At this initiation, the following were received into membership: Sandy McGeachy, Albert H. Myers, and Vereen Bell. These men have worked with several of the Masquers’ productions and on the basis of that work they were chosen to receive bids to membership.

There will be plenty of opportunity for anyone who is interested in helping with the production of the play, “The Hasty Heart,” to work during the next few weeks. Anyone who is interested should contact Martin McGirt or any other member of the Masquers.

COLLEGE DRAFT TEST TO BE GIVEN APRIL 22

All eligible students who intend to take the Selective Service College Qualification Test in 1954 should file applications at once for the April 22 administration, Selective Service National Headquarters advised today. An application and a bulletin of information may be obtained at any Selective Service local board. Following instructions in the bulletin, the student should fill out his application immediately and mail it in the special envelope provided. Applications must be postmarked no later than midnight, March 8, 1954. Early filing will be greatly to the student's advantage. Results will be reported to the student’s Selective Service local board of jurisdiction for use in considering his deferment as a student, according to Educational Testing Service, which prepares and administers the College Qualification Test.

A Week From Today

Midwinters weekend is set to get under way only a week from tonight, and a full program has been scheduled for the occasion. Ralph Marterie and his band will lead off Friday night at nine for the formal dance, at which the Queen of Midwinters will be crowned.

Deadline for entries in the contest for Midwinters Queen is Monday. Sponsored by the College publications, The Davidsonian, Scripts ‘N Pranks, and Quips ‘N Cranks, the contest will be judged by a committee including representatives from all three publications and two outside members.

Trumpeter Marterie, who has one of the most popular bands in America today, will sound off Saturday afternoon in Chambers Auditorium for the always popular concert.

Informal Dance

The informal dance from eight to twelve Saturday night will round out the events of the weekend. Joe Neisler, chairman of the Interfraternity Council decorations (Continued On Page Four)

By TOM WARLICK

Dr. G. B. Watts, Professor of French, has just returned to Davidson from an extended retreat in New England. Dr. Watts was on sabbatical leave from the College for the purposes of research study and writing. From June until November his headquarters was at the beautiful Watts home on Cape Cod. While there, Professor Watts made regular trips to Boston and Cambridge, working in the Harvard, New England Deposit, and Athenaeum libraries. The main object of his attention during this period was the completion of the chapter entitled “The French Protestant Writers of the 16th Century” for the second volume of A Critical Bibliography of French Literature, being published by the Syracuse University Press. He served from June to September as acting managing-editor of The French Review. In addition, Dr. Watts wrote several research papers and articles on late 18th Century French literature, with special emphasis on the forgotten editions of the Encyclopedie.

The trip was not all devoted to work, however. Dr. Watts has his own home on Cape Cod at which he and his wife and daughter have vacationed regularly for twenty years. He participated in the weekly yacht races of the Orleans Yacht Club and went on occasional fishing trips. Among his visitors during (Continued On Page Four)

There will be plenty of opportunity for anyone who is interested in helping with the production of the play, “The Hasty Heart,” to work during the next few weeks. Anyone who is interested should contact Martin McGirt or any other member of the Masquers.

COLLEGE DRAFT TEST TO BE GIVEN APRIL 22

All eligible students who intend to take the Selective Service College Qualification Test in 1954 should file applications at once for the April 22 administration, Selective Service National Headquarters advised today. An application and a bulletin of information may be obtained at any Selective Service local board. Following instructions in the bulletin, the student should fill out his application immediately and mail it in the special envelope provided. Applications must be postmarked no later than midnight, March 8, 1954. Early filing will be greatly to the student's advantage. Results will be reported to the student’s Selective Service local board of jurisdiction for use in considering his deferment as a student, according to Educational Testing Service, which prepares and administers the College Qualification Test.

A Week From Today

Midwinters weekend is set to get under way only a week from tonight, and a full program has been scheduled for the occasion. Ralph Marterie and his band will lead off Friday night at nine for the formal dance, at which the Queen of Midwinters will be crowned.

Deadline for entries in the contest for Midwinters Queen is Monday. Sponsored by the College publications, The Davidsonian, Scripts ‘N Pranks, and Quips ‘N Cranks, the contest will be judged by a committee including representatives from all three publications and two outside members.

Trumpeter Marterie, who has one of the most popular bands in America today, will sound off Saturday afternoon in Chambers Auditorium for the always popular concert.

Informal Dance

The informal dance from eight to twelve Saturday night will round out the events of the weekend. Joe Neisler, chairman of the Interfraternity Council decorations (Continued On Page Four)

By TOM WARLICK

Dr. G. B. Watts, Professor of French, has just returned to Davidson from an extended retreat in New England. Dr. Watts was on sabbatical leave from the College for the purposes of research study and writing. From June until November his headquarters was at the beautiful Watts home on Cape Cod. While there, Professor Watts made regular trips to Boston and Cambridge, working in the Harvard, New England Deposit, and Athenaeum libraries. The main object of his attention during this period was the completion of the chapter entitled “The French Protestant Writers of the 16th Century” for the second volume of A Critical Bibliography of French Literature, being published by the Syracuse University Press. He served from June to September as acting managing-editor of The French Review. In addition, Dr. Watts wrote several research papers and articles on late 18th Century French literature, with special emphasis on the forgotten editions of the Encyclopedie.

The trip was not all devoted to work, however. Dr. Watts has his own home on Cape Cod at which he and his wife and daughter have vacationed regularly for twenty years. He participated in the weekly yacht races of the Orleans Yacht Club and went on occasional fishing trips. Among his visitors during (Continued On Page Four)