FOR DAVIDSONIAN SERVICE
PUBLISHED WEEKLY

Reporting ..... Jim Brice
Sports Jim Holshouser
Ads Larry Parrott
Subscriptions Bob Carmichael

VOL. XLII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, OCTOBER 8, 1954

JOHN WATLINGTON GEORGE DOWDY

Business-Economics Club To Hold Program Tuesday

“Three Ways Up the Ladder,” the first of a series of programs given by the Business-Economics Club of Davidson, will be presented this coming Tuesday night in the College Union at 8 o'clock. This meeting, featuring three outstanding Charlotte businessmen, will be the initial meeting of the club this year, and all new members and others interested in joining the club are invited to attend.

The theme of the meeting, “Three Ways Up the Ladder,” was chosen in order to let three Charlotte men give the members of the club short talks on the subject of opportunity and the way that they found it. Messrs. John Watlington, George Dowdy, and Ed Burnside, Sr. are to be the speakers. Mr. Watlington is the Senior Vice-President of Wachovia Bank and Trust Company and an active leader in Charlotte. Mr. Dowdy is the Vice-President and General Manager of Belk’s of Charlotte. He has long been a leader in the Belk organization and was closely associated with W. H. Belk, Senior. Mr. Burnside, Sr. is a former college professor. He turned from this profession into the Home Finance Group, Inc., of which he is now President.

Officers of the club this year are Gayle Averyt from Columbia, S. C., President; Stebbins Ingram from Winston-Salem, Vice-President; Roy Davis of Concord, Secretary, and Cortez Cooper from Thomasville, Georgia, Treasurer. The Board of Directors of the Club is composed of these four men plus six more. This board makes decisions as to programs, members, and fees.

Bob Owens was President of the Club in its organization last January and February. He and Prof. Morton of the Business Department took a large part in planning the first two meetings of the club last year, one of which was a supper meeting with the Charlotte Sales Executive Club.

The purpose of the Business-Economics Club is to bring faculty and students together in a common interest of business problems of the day, especially those concerning young men who are about to enter the business world. The club hopes, through its action, to create a more intense interest among the student body in business affairs.

Meetings this fall include “Three Steps Up the Ladder” and a debate-type program, the subject of which has not yet been decided upon. All members of the student body interested in joining the club should contact either Prof. Morton or one of the four officers listed above.

LATE, LEARNS FAST

What was your greatest shock upon arriving in America? This was the question. The answer: “Not seeing any American girls at first.” What was your second greatest shock? “Seeing them!”

Thus begins my interview with Davidson's latest arrival—a very intelligent and witty young man who hails from Finland named Pertti (just call me Peter) Karkkainen. Peter arrived in this country just eight days ago; yet he has already formed some interesting opinions on American life in general.

“The prosperity of your country and the way you use it are amazing,” exclaimed the bespectacled good-looking Finn. Before coming to America Peter had obtained a very adequate picture of our country as far as the governmental system and other related aspects are concerned. Throughout his life he has been interested in America and thus read as many of the best books concerning the American way of life that he could find.

Peter's Background

Peter was born in Viiburi, a town comparable in size to Charlotte, and now under Russian control. His mother and father are both living, the latter being a salesman of leather goods in the market town of Karkkila. Peter has one brother who is seven years old and in the elementary school at Karkkila.

The education system in Finland is such that a student usually begins school when he is seven. However, when Peter was only five and a half, he secretly went to school with some older friends one day and liked it so well that he determined to stay. His work was of such a caliber that his teachers were persuaded to let him remain, even though, as Peter says, “I was a very lively student.”

Learns Of Scholarship

During a two-day leave of absence from the army for a visit to his family in Karkkila, Pertti's mother told him about some available scholarships for education in the United States. Preliminary applications were immediately submitted to a group called the Finnish Committee on Study and Training in the United States. Two weeks from the date of submission of this application, he received an invitation to come to Helsinki to take a series of tests. Even after passing these tests, a second application was required by the Committee, and, in the words of Peter, “It was something terrible; 80 pages of it.”

On September 1, 1954, Peter received officially the news that he had won a scholarship to the United States. “My first response to this news was one of complete surprise since I hadn’t heard any news about my scholarship since last January.” Since the Karkkainen home has no telephone, Peter received the good news on a neighbor’s phone, and jumped on his bicycle at once to head home to spread the tidings.

The next problem that Peter faced was that of arranging a loan for his passage across the Atlantic. “It was lots of trouble, but I arranged it, however — because I'm here,” laughed my amiable roommate. The trip across the ocean was made on the U. S. S. Neptunia, which incidentally ran into a terrible storm. Peter had luckily become used to the sea, and since

ATTENTION!

ALL DAVIDSON STUDENTS

Please pick up your I-D cards in the Gymnasium at Ticket Office or Office 102 during the following hours:
8:30—12:30
1:40— 4:30

Swilley to Speak At Vespers On Sunday

Dr. Monroe F. Swilley, Jr., pastor of the Second-Ponce de Leon Baptist Church in Atlanta, will be the Vesper speaker this Sunday. He is a native of El Dorado, Arkansas; he earned the Bachelor's Degree from Ouachita College, which is the Baptist College of Arkansas.

After obtaining his Master of Theology Degree from the Southern Baptist Theological Seminary in Louisville, Kentucky, Dr. Swilley did special work at the Union Theological Seminary in New York City. In recognition of his ability and achievements, his Alma Mater, Ouachita College, has conferred upon him the degree of Doctor of Divinity.

As a college and seminary student Dr. Swilley served as pastor of rural churches in southern Arkansas and northern Louisiana and in Kentucky. After graduating from the seminary, he accepted a call to the South Avondale Baptist Church in Birmingham, Alabama. He was prominent in both the civic and the religious life of that city until he came to his present pastorate in Atlanta.

Dr. Swilley is a member of the Executive Board of the Arkansas Baptist Convention, a writer for the Baptist Sunday School Board and a member of the Executive Committee of the Home Mission Board. He is listed in the 1954 edition of Who’s Who in the South and Southwest. Recently he was elected to preach the Convention Sermon at the meeting of the Southern Baptist Convention in Miami in 1955, one of the youngest men in the history of the Convention to be so honored.

Dr. Swilley has traveled in Europe, and on two occasions has gone on special preaching missions for the Baptist Foreign Mission Board. In 1950 he went to Hawaii, and also to Japan in 1952.

Parents’ Visiting

Parents’ Visiting, long a tradition here in Davidson, was begun in order to establish closer personal contacts between students, faculty, and staff. The schedule is printed here in hopes that the students will plan in advance which of their professors’ homes they wish to visit.

First Sunday—Beaty, Boyce, Brown, K. E., Crawford, Cumming, Fox, French, Goldiere, Griffin, McKee, Peak, Purcell, Satterfield, Schenck, Scott, Trakas, and Whittle.

Second Sunday—Abernethy, Bailey, Blanton, Brown, L. R., Buell, Copple, Davidson, Lilly, Logan, Mebane, Miller, Payne, Pietenpol, Ratliff, Spencer, and Workman.

Third Sunday—Causey, Fulcher, Gallent, Houchens, Mrs. Little, Lamar, Maloney, Marrotte, Martin, McGill, Moore, Parker, Thies, Tyson, and Vavoulis.

Fourth Sunday—Boyce, Brown, McAfee, McGeachy, Reid, Watts, Terwey, Thompson, B. H., Woods.

The addresses of the faculty and staff were printed in the Davidsonian last week. These addresses can be secured in the College Union office or in the office of the Dean of the Faculty.

ROTC UNIT IS MAKING NOTABLE PROGRESS UNDER CADET LEADERSHIP AT DAVIDSON

The R.O.T.C. program is slowly rounding into shape this year, with| lities, and information concerning; evidently in view. The main improvement over the procedures of the past years is the policy by which the cadet officers train and instruct freshmen cadets. In the past, it has been the duty of the cadre officers of the school to carry out this instruction. By this new system, however, the R.O.T.C. program will be more closely knit, as the student officers will be running the entire show. Cadet Major Robert Kimbrough is in charge of this program.

Another marked improvement in cadet instruction and information is the T.L&E. board that is now on the ground floor of the R.O.T.C. building. This chart, changed each week, pictures current events of importance in the world picture. Later on, items of interest to the Reserve Officers Corps will be shown. These will be items concerning such matters as training regulations, active duty regulations, inactive duty possibilities, and items of interest in our everyday lives and possible military lives, to enable the average student to keep abreast of world events, which he is not able to read in newspapers in his hurried school-day life.

All of the drilling and instruction that goes on on the drill field, and in the classrooms each week, is leading up to a fixed goal, the dress parades that are held during the second semester of the school year. All of the individual organizations, from the squad through the regimental staff, are working to perfect themselves so as to blend into a single precision unit for these dress parades. The R.O.T.C. program has taken definite steps forward to be one of the best anywhere.

Freshman Council PLANS UNDERWAY

The Freshman Council held its first meeting Tuesday night, October 5, in the blue room of the Union. Plans are now under way for the second annual Freshman-Parents’ Day, which will be held on Saturday, November 6. A steering committee has been appointed by the Freshman Adviser, Corky King. Lloyd Chapin will act as chairman of the group. Sub-committees and chairmen are Jim Jones, Publicity; Bill Pomery, Invitation; Mike Martin, Entertainment; and Rhett Sanders, Program.

Dean Spencer stated the threefold purpose of this day as follows: first, to acquaint the parents with the college; second, to give the parents a chance to meet their son's friends; and third, to help the parents become a member of the “Davidson family.” Tentative plans call for conferences and discussions on freshmen problems, introduction of college officials, and meetings with faculty counselors. Parents will be given time to ask questions about the college. The day will close with the football game at Richardson Field between Davidson and Catawba.

SAM DONAHUE FRONTS "NEW LOOK” STYLISTS IN ABSENCE OF BILLY MAY

The Billy May Orchestra under the direction of Sam Donahue will play for the IFC Homecoming Dances, October 29 and 30, Interfraternity Council President Ronnie Wilson told the Davidsonian today. Featuring the “fresh approach” that has been a shift from the traditional dance orchestra, the band will play from nine until one for the formal dance Friday night. Saturday night's informal dance will be from eight to twelve.

Considered one of the best dance bands of the year, the Billy May Orchestra is noted for its complete departure from today’s ideas in popular music. Since its organization only 22 months ago, the band has introduced a completely new style of up-to-the-minute arrangements and is leading the trend in dance music.

When the group was formed, it received such spontaneous response through its Capitol recordings that May was forced to take it on a national tour. Billy May is now devoting full time to his work with Capitol Records and has turned the baton of the band over to Sam Donahue for its present tour.

Sam Donahue, a gifted musician and fine arranger, was born in Detroit and gained his early musical experience there during his high school days. Donahue's choice of a musical instrument is the tenor saxophone. Before World War II, Sam played with such leading bands as those of Gene Krupa, Harry James, and Tommy Dorsey. Following the war, he had his own orchestra. Recently Donahue was assistant leader of Tommy Dorsey's band. Donahue will bring the Billy May Orchestra to Davidson for its engagement with a complete catalogue of unique arrangements.

Payne Prepares For Homecoming Alumni

A large gathering of alumni for this year’s Homecoming festivities is expected by Alumni Secretary John Payne. The program of events for old grads gets off to a start on Saturday morning, October 30, at 10:30 with the annual Wildcat Club meeting in the Union Ballroom. The Alumni Convocation will follow at 11:30 in the Union. This will include the annual report, the installation of new officers, and a speech. Immediately after this, the Davidson Football Band will present a short program.

At 1:00, the annual Homecoming Luncheon will take place on the south court of the Union. The kickoff of the Homecoming Football Game between Davidson and West Virginia Tech will be at 2:30 with pre-game activities beginning about 2:15. Open house will be held at the fraternity houses following the game.

Secretary Payne hopes to have some of the dignitaries among the alumni, including Senator Sam J. Ervin, Jr.

University Christian Mission Plans Being Made Now For February 6-10

Plans continue forward for the University Christian Mission slated for the week of February 6-10. The theme for the week has been designated as: “The Mature Christian in A Changing South.” Sam Magill, Y Secretary, listed the areas of discussion for the period as being: 1. Christian Faith in Theology and Ethics; 2. Faith in Relations to Racial Tension; 3. Faith in Relation to Economic Problems of the South; 4. Faith in Relation to the South As A Part of the World Community; 5. Role of Christians in Politics.

On hand to guide and direct the thought and discussion will be five of the nation’s outstanding churchmen: Dr. Addison H. Leitch, the Reverend Lester G. McAllister, the Rev. Clark W. Hunt, Dr. Waldo Beach, and Colonel Francis Pickens Miller.

Dr. Leitch is Dean and Professor of Theology at the Pittsburgh Xenia Theological Seminary in Pittsburgh. He has recently been elected President of the Seminars to take office in 1955. He has had teaching experience at colleges in this country and at Assiut in Egypt, and is therefore much sought-after as a lecturer and speaker. He also has had varied experience as a steel mill worker, a hand on a cattle boat, a football and basketball coach, and an athletic official.

Dr. McAllister is at present Dean of Students at Bethany College in Bethany, West Virginia. He has traveled extensively over the country.