PAGE FOUR

To Demonstrate Cue

Charles C. Peterson, Father of Inter-Collegiate “Billiards,” is in our midst. This season marks the 24th annual tour of colleges by the eminent cue artist, whose trademark is—“Show Me A Billiard Shot I Can’t Make.” Peterson, holder of the World's Fancy Shot Billiard Title, appears today and tonight in the David Ovens College Union. His exhibition includes not only his wizardry of the trickiest shots in the Ivory Sport, but a demonstration of world-famous shots of other stars past and present, fundamentals of the game, playing lecture, and group teaching to students.

Peterson’s missionary work for the game he loves has extended into every part of the country. He undoubtedly has taught the fundamentals of the game to more persons than any other man in the world. He has made it his business while on tour to include in his exhibitions a lecture on the theory and practice of the game, illustrating the various fundamentals so clearly that even one who never has had a cue in his hand can grasp the ideas advanced.

Ranked among the greatest billiardists of all time, Peterson comes to Davidson under the auspices of the Association of College Unions, who have sponsored his tours since their inauguration at the University of Wisconsin in 1931. He will show the most daring shots played in championship competition. His repertoire of fancy shots includes the greatest in appeal and numbers in cue history. Moreover, Peterson customarily gives individual instructions for anyone interested in improving his game. He will be present in the Union all day, but gave his demonstration in the afternoon. Tonight will be devoted to personal instruction.

BELK HALL NEARS COMPLETION DATE

W. H. Belk Hall is scheduled to be completed around the first of the year, according to Bradford and Street, contractors. Construction began last fall and has continued steadily since that time. The roof will be installed within two weeks. Brickwork and tile work inside is practically completed now. This means that pipes and electrical wiring have been installed. Plastering will begin when the roof is on.

From now on there will be no through road behind the dorms. A retaining wall will soon be built near West, and a fill six feet deep will be made to raise the ground level in front of Belk Hall. Within the next few weeks the old shop and student store building will be torn down, and the area in front of Belk dormitory will be filled in. The road from the gym past the College Apartments will be open for around-the-campus driving.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Business - Eco. To Bid New Members

A meeting of the Board of Directors of the Business-Economic Association will be held Monday to issue bids to new members. The rapid growth of the Association in the past year to a place of prominence on the campus has provided a needed organization for a large segment of the student body. A desire to bring together the faculty members of the Economics and Business Departments and members of the student body on a foundation of common interest, and a desire to augment enthusiasm for a sound knowledge of the principles of economics and business resulted in the formation of the society.

Membership is based primarily upon personal interest and initiative rather than upon scholastic standing. Juniors and seniors who are majoring in business or economics are eligible to join the organization, and other students who wish to join may express this desire to a member of the Board of Directors.

In order to integrate the theories and principles studied in academic courses with the practical developments and conditions of the modern business world, the Business-Economic Association serves as a medium by which guest speakers and other clubs can be invited to the campus and entertained. A close and harmonious relationship is maintained with the Charlotte Sales Executive Club which has proved to be a valuable organization in learning the daily problems of business on a first-hand basis. A joint dinner meeting of the two clubs is planned later in the year.

Smith Names Harmon: Leads Music-TV Group

The Music and Television Committee of the David Ovens College Union will have as its chairman for this year John Harmon of the Junior Class, Union Director C. S. Smith announced today. The Music and Television Committee, made up of members of the student body, will select records for purchase by the Union from requests handed in by students, will give periodic record concerts and programs, and will be in direct charge of the music room of the Union and of the Union's record library. Television programs of special interest will be publicized by the committee, which will be in charge of arranging the Union's television facilities for maximum use during these programs by the students.

Features Chairman

College Union Director C. S. Smith announced today that Gilbert Gragg of Bainbridge, Georgia, a Senior majoring in English honors, has been named to the Chairmanship of the Union’s Committee on Magazines and Books. The aim of this year’s committee will be to help Davidson students in their reading interests. The Special Features Committee will be in charge of movies and other entertainment, and will work closely with the Charlotte College Union.of a more personal nature offered at the Union) during the college year. Full membership of the committee will be announced later. 

In the development stage today, gain the maximum from their use of the magazines and books provided in the Union. Discussion groups will be employed. Suggestions for new magazines and books should be handed to the committee, since it is a part of its job to pick and choose which are in student demand and should be made available for student use through the facilities of the Union.

For the opening meeting this year around the middle of October, the program committee has arranged a forum entitled, “Three

SPORT COATS: Tweeds in every color Light or Dark Colors as you Prefer $29.50 — You'll Major In Style

Charcoal Flannels Grey Brown Blue Especially Tailored By $55.00

SLACKS: Flannels in all Shades Plain Front with Back-Buckle or Pleated $12.95 — $17.95

Shirts: Button-down, Box Pleat, Button in Back, White, Blue, and Stripes

Deadline Nearing For Competitions for the 1955-56 academic year for the Fulbright awards opened on May 1, 1954, and will close on October 31, 1954, George B. Watts, Davidson Fulbright Program Advisor has announced. The following countries are participating in the program: Australia, Austria, Belgium, Burma, Ceylon, Denmark, Egypt, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, India, Iraq, Italy, Japan, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Pakistan, Philippines, Sweden, Thailand, Union of South Africa, and the United Kingdom. In addition, 16 South and Central American countries are participating under the Buenos Aires Convention. The requirements are: United States citizenship, a college degree at the time the award is taken up, knowledge of the language sufficient to carry on the proposed study. Awards are in the currencies of the participating countries abroad. They cover transportation, expense of a language refresher course, books, maintenance for one academic year. The awards for transportation for the Buenos Aires Convention program is provided by the United States government. Applicants for a Fulbright award may apply for only one country. Applicants for the Buenos Aires Convention awards are invited to propose study projects for two countries if they desire. The award of a United States government grant carries with it no assurance of deferment from military service. Notification of the decision of the Board of Foreign Scholarships will be sent approximately six months after the close of the competition. Several Davidson graduates have won Fulbright awards. Among them are Charles Hadley and Kenneth Wilson-Jones for study in France, Randolph M. Bulgin for study in the United Kingdom, and Robert A. Mitchell of last June’s graduating class who will study at the University of Marburg, Germany for 1954-55. Interested seniors should confer at once with Professor George B. Watts of the French Department.

(Continued From Page One) Syracuse,” he has been in some eight musicals, including “Show Boat,” played Squire Hardcastle in “She Stoops to Conquer” and starred in “The Man Who Came to Dinner.” Two best-selling books have been written by Ives amidst a rigorous schedule of radio series, films, recordings, concerts, and television appearances.

Grant Johannesen The final performance on the Davidson Artist Series, April 15, will be a concert by Grant Johannesen, a pianist who in ten years before the public has won the acclaim of audiences and critics of three continents. Since making his New York debut in 1944, Johannesen has appeared in almost all of the major cities and with the nation’s outstanding orchestras. In 1949 he won first prize in the International Piano Competition in Belgium and so great was his success in Europe that he returned to Holland in 1952 to record five concerti for Concert Hall. The South American tour of the artist was a triumph, and he is to return again this year. He performs in the Telephone Hour “family,” on N.B.C.’s “Standard Hour,” and A.B.C.’s “Piano Playhouse.” Season tickets ($10) are available to the general public and single admissions ($2) will be sold at all individual performances; there are no reserved seats. All presentations are to be held at 8:15 p.m., except for the second afternoon performance of the Dublin Players, in the Chambers Auditorium. Information and tickets may be obtained by writing to: Artist Series, Davidson College, Davidson, N. C.

Upper Classmen... (Continued From Page 7) Yes, they are profound thinkers and I would welcome such intellect to the campus, except that they are so frightfully nauseating. The impressionist. These fellows reason thus: “I want to make good at school. So what do I do? Impress people. Any people, any way.” So, the impressionist girds himself with the best social graces and a momentous store of miscellaneous facts, and he’s off. He is somewhat of a “back slapper,” too. When he meets you, he will wring your hand off (your best writing hand, too), sing your name to the heavens, and tell you how very glad he is to have the privilege of meeting you. He will converse on any subject (for he knows them all well), and in conversation will very shrewdly inject little self-effacing remarks about his most obvious better points. By doing this, he hopes

BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD, N.C. “Coke” is a registered trademark. © 1952, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY

Next Door Wilson-Wright's Inc “Collegiate Fashions” to Bank Davidson

price as regular. In either size — L&Ms have already won the quickest, most enthusiastic nation-wide acceptance a cigarette ever had. Now, L&M comes to you in king-size, too... the same great cigarette — at the same low price as regular. Remember, it’s the filter that counts and L&M has the best! Only L&M Filters give you real full-flavored smoking enjoyment. Buy L&Ms king-size or regular. JUST WHAT THE DOCTOR ORDERED!