FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 1954

Bevan, Labban, Ratliff | Ray Anthony...

PAGE FOUR | THE DAVIDSONIAN

Capable Bob C Meets Chapel P

By DICK MOREHEAD

The Y's answer to the chapel riddle is senior Bob Crutchfield, native of Orangeburg, South Carolina, and this year’s chairman
of the Chapel Committee for the Y. Although not previously connected with this phase of Y work, Bob has always
been interested in its activities and the general nature of the chapel period. Through his careful planning and leadership, the
Y has developed successfully sound and sincere devotional programs through the year. Capable “Crutch” is a history honors major, with
eyes set on theological seminary upon graduation. Although claiming to have lost more elections than William Jennings Bryan, he has
always been active in campus affairs. A member of the Student Council for two years, he is this year pledge
trainer for the Sigma Chi social fraternity, officer of the Male Chorus, and member of such honorary organizations as Alpha
Psi Omega, Red and Black Masquers, Le Cercle Francais, and Sigma Upsilon. Having progressed through official ranks of the renowned
Philanthropic Literary Society, he served the society as its president for the first semester of this school year.

The Chapel Committee

The functions of the Chapel Committee may be divided into three realms of activity: first, it has sole jurisdiction over
the Thursday chapel programs; secondly, it serves as a non-voting representative on the Executive Chapel Committee; and lastly, it takes
charge of various programs, usually on a voluntary attendance basis, such as chapels held during the frustrating periods of exams.

BOB CRUTCHFIELD

The main emphasis of the Thursday chapel services is on worship, worship of a meaningful and carefully planned nature in
contrast to the other weekly chapels which may range from power politics and pulverized philosophy to mission appeals. The Thursday
programs for the first semester have included a foreign student and a local student who had traveled extensively abroad; special
emphasis such as the Gift Fund; to missionaries who spoke to the student body in an inspirational and instructive manner;
and worship services conducted and planned by students. The worship services were usually held between the times when a speaker
was brought in, and for the most part, were short services aimed at creating within the individual students an attitude
of genuine worship.

The selection of leaders for the Thursday chapel programs is based on two primary criteria: one, the person should have
some experience and insight into conducting a worship service; and secondly, he must have something to say to the student
body. He is not chosen from one particular group as evidenced by the fact that the student leaders thus far
have ranged from pre-law and business majors to pre-ministerials. The majority of the committee work for these programs is on
an individual effort and achievement basis. The chairman first suggests a topic to the leader well in advance of the
proposed program; then the leader draws up an outline and plans his talk. Before the program, however, Chairman Crutchfield meets
again with the leader, hears the proposed program, and adds such criticism and aids as he feels necessary to stay
within and further the aims set by the committee.

The committee had charge of the chapel exercises during the late lamented examination period. These programs were of such a
nature as to lend themselves to a continuity of thought and expression. They were held at 8:15 each morning in
the Lingle Chapel, and were led by student and faculty members, using each morning the same order of service. The
main idea was to provide an atmosphere in which students could have their individual devotions in the company of others
of like mind, and as such the services were quite successful.

The Chapel Committee is closely integrated with other Y committees, often serving as a channel for important projects such as
the Gift Fund and the Forum. Plans for the second semester will be completed soon, and suggestions from the student
body are not only welcome but appreciated and carefully considered. Asked for his opinion on chapel conduct, Chairman Crutchfield said
that the student body has done its full part, attention has been better, and consequently he feels that more have
profited from the devotional programs.

COMMITTEE ANNOUNCES ADDITIONAL SCHOLARSHIPS FOR GRADUATE STUDENTS

YALE UNIVERSITY

Theodore Andersson, director of Yale University’s Master of Arts in Teaching Program, announced today that applications now are being received
from prospective students for the Yale-Reid Hall summer session in Paris, France. The foreign study program is under joint direction
of Mr. Andersson, associate professor of French at Yale, and Miss Dorothy F. Leet, president of Reid Hall. The six-week
session begins on July 5 and will end on August 15. It is open to qualified men and women students
recommended by their college or university who have two years of college French or its equivalent. For further information and
application blanks, students have been asked to apply before March 15 to Mr. Andersson, Hall of Graduate Studies, Yale.

Tulane University

The Tulane University Graduate School announces a large number of graduate scholarships and fellowships. Of special interest are ten scholarships
for first-year graduate students, with stipends ranging from $1,250 to $1,500. Applications must be submitted by March 1, 1954. Application
blanks may be secured from the Dean of the Graduate School, Tulane University, New Orleans 18, La.

New York University

The New York University Graduate School of Public Administration and Social Service announces a number of fellowships, scholarships and assistantships
available for graduating seniors. Some of these awards carry stipends up to $2400 a year. Awards are based on a
student's promise and financial needs. Applications must be filed by March 15, 1954. For information, students should write Dean W.
J. Ronan, Dean, Graduate School of Public Administration, New York University, Room 520, Main Building, Washington Square 3, N. Y.

Carolinian at Oxford...

(Continued From Page Two)

ground for future politicians. Their debates are widely reported and often broadcast and are second in interest only to those
in Parliament. Recently Hubert heard Lady Astor, a Virginian and a great favorite in England, speak at the Conservative Association.
After her talk which she wittily described as “absolutely the worst I’ve ever listened to,” she and Hubert exchanged greetings
in long, Southern drawls.

When Hubert entered Davidson in 1949 he, like every other freshman, was required to speak to every person he met
on the campus. But in Oxford, like in British railway compartments, it is considered bad form to speak to a
stranger without a good reason.

WOMEN!

At a recent meeting of the faculty, it was decided that resident girl students will be admitted for the 1954-55
summer session. The girls will be housed in the Guest House unless an overflow crowd requires the use of a
larger dorm.

(Continued From Page Three)

avoid conflicts which put the players in seemingly unnecessary and definitely unfair positions. What we're driving at is that a
definite schedule for the other two dance weekends similar to the one for Homecoming should be worked out. Homecoming has
already been announced and the various sports that are in season during that period are either not scheduled for that
weekend or are at least scheduled to be at home. If that advance notice of dance weekend dates would be
issued for the other dances, conflicts with sports events could be avoided. The IFC would lose its “cat and mouse”—“hide
and seek” guessing contests of dance weekend dates and orchestra announcements, but would give some of the Wildcat athletics a
better chance in some of their competition and also would avoid some of these men having to miss part or
most of a weekend because of athletic trips.For a few weeks, conversation with Englishmen was limited to remarks like “Pass
the salt, please,” and “Thank you.” This reserve, however, is not practiced solely on foreigners, for the British treat their
own countrymen in the same way. But eventually, they get accustomed to seeing unfamiliar faces around, and British reserve becomes
a thing of the past. When he returns to the United States in 1955, Hubert plans to enter law school.
His two years at Oxford will have taught him much about how others live, and he himself will have helped
fulfill Rhodes’ noble aim.

Bus Chartered For Informal Smoker
Mooresville Church

In cooperation with the Mooresville Bus Company, the First Baptist Church has arranged for a bus to leave Davidson from
the regular bus stop on Sunday at 9:30 a.m. and arrive at the church at 9:50 a.m. It will leave
the First Baptist Church at 12:15 p.m. and arrive in Davidson at 12:35 p.m. The purpose of this bus is
primarily to arrange transportation for Baptist students attending Davidson to participate in the Sunday School and morning worship services at
the First Baptist Church; however, anyone who would like to use this service can do so by stopping the bus
at their stop. Dr. W. E. Spear, pastor, urges all Baptist students to use this bus service and attend the
First Baptist Church in Mooresville.

Cagers Meet...
(Continued From Page Three)

In the individual scoring department for the Wildcats, Hobby Cobb continues to be the leader. Cobb has moved far out
in front of his nearest competitors, and the Charlotte flash is also getting his share of the rebounds. Hobby recently
received honorable mention on the All-State team of the Charlotte Observer. He has scored a total of 318 points in
twenty games this season, for an average of 15.9 points per game.

Powerful Betas...
(Continued From Page Three)

Sigma Chi 37; Pika 34
In another thriller, the Sigma Chis upset the Pikas by another three-point margin. Tom Shaw was high for the Sigs
with 14, and Lindley Beardsley collected 13 for the losers.

Kappa Sig 35; Sig Ep 31
The Kappa Sigs had to work to beat the lowly Sig Eps in a game that was close down to
the final buzzer. Clark and Bremmer led the Kappa Sigs with 8 each in the low-scoring contest, while Ware got
10 for the losers.

ATO 37; Phi Gam 24
Hitting the comeback trail after two defeats last week, the ATOs downed the sagging Phi Gams by a 37-24 count.
Murray Page hit for 17 for the winners, while Larry Champion got 8 for the losers.

Phi Delt 41; Pi Kapp 36
Thorpe, Barringer, and Andrews joined forces in scoring 10 points each to lead the Phi Delts against the Pi Kapps.
Swain hit 15 for the Pi Kapps.

Phi Gam 56; SAE 36
Showing some power and scoring punch, the Phi Gams walloped the winless SAEs 56-36. Larry Champion led the way for
the Phi Gams with 20 markers, while Steve Norton got 11 for the losers.

Held by ROTC Cadets

At a voluntary gathering in the Green Room of the Student Union, the M.S. II and IV students, along with
four officers of the ROTC Department, held the second of four informal smokers. Refreshments were served, and the students discussed
with each other and the officers present the questions they had concerning phases of the ROTC program which class time
did not allow. The smokers are sponsored by the ROTC Department for this purpose and also to enable the students
and officers to get to know each other better. Approximately fifty percent of the advanced military students attended the meeting
and joined in the discussion. The MS IV cadets had questions concerning pay and allowances, uniforms, small unit leadership, code
and conduct of the officer corps, how to report to a new station, and qualifications for parachute school. The main
interest of the military three students was the army summer school they will have to attend for six weeks this
summer. The discussions do not have any guided leadership but are carried on in a conversational mood with students raising
questions and whoever is able providing an answer. Captains Hatch, Terrell, Brown, and Lieutenant Lamar, the military instructors present, felt
the meeting was worthwhile and are looking forward to the next one, the date of which will be announced.

SEND THE DAVIDSONIAN HOME

To Be Associate Profs

Dr. C. J. Pletenpol, Dean of the Faculty, announced today the approval of the following faculty promotions by the Board
of Trustees: Dr. J. L. Bevan has been made an Associate Professor of Psychology. Dr. George Labban has been made
Associate Professor of Greek. Professor Charles Ratliff, on leave of absence this year completing work on his doctorate, has been
appointed an Associate Professor of Economics. All of these men had previously been assistant professors.

YMCA, College Union: Sponsor March 6 Hop

There will be an informal dance in the ballroom of the Union on the night of March 6, Bill Shipley,
social chairman of the YMCA, announced today. This dance is being held in conjunction with the Red and Black football
game on the same weekend, and it will feature the music of Jessie Morrow, the same combo that played for
the earlier Y dance this year. Admission is free and all students and faculty members are cordially invited. The time
of the dance is from eight to ten-thirty. The dance is being co-sponsored by the Y and the Union.

An old superstition among the Zulus of South Africa holds that every man is accompanied wherever he goes by an
ancestral spirit in the form of a serpent that travels underground.

No stuff!
(Continued From Page One)

Ray is regarded in musical circles as one of the most brilliant musicians in the business. An outstanding soloist, he
goes all out in his trumpet playing and paces his band’s distinctive eight-man brass section on both slow and jump
arrangements. One of the most important factors in Ray's rise to the top of the name band heap has been
the tremendous popularity of his records with the nation’s disc-jockeys. The platter-spinners gave Ray his first big boost in electing
his crew the number one dance band on records, and it has been estimated that Ray’s Capitol records are accorded
more airplay throughout the country than the combined total of any three other bands.

DAVIDSON THEATRE
All Pictures Will Be Shown On Our New P-A-N-O-R-A-M-I-C WIDE SCREEN

WED.-THUR., FEB. 24-25
“ROB ROY” (Technicolor)
RICHARD TODD

FRI-SAT., FEB. 26-27
“DEVIL'S CANYON” (Technicolor)
VIRGINIA MAYO

MON.-TUES., MAR. 1-2
“QUO VADIS”

WEDNESDAY, MAR. 3
ROCK HUDSON
MARCIA HENDERSON

THUR.-FRI., MAR. 4-5
“EASY TO LOVE”
ESTHER WILLIAMS
VAN JOHNSON

SATURDAY, MAR. 6
“VALLEY HEAD HUNTERS”
JOHNNY WEISSMUELLER
CHRISTINE LARSON

Today’s Chesterfield is the cigarette tested and approved by 30 years of scientific tobacco research. The cigarette that gives you
proof of highest quality—low nicotine—the taste you want—the mildness you want. Best Cigarette Ever Made!

The cigarette with a proven good record with smokers. Here is the record. Bi-monthly examinations of a group of smokers
show no adverse effects to nose, throat, and sinuses from smoking Chesterfield.

“Chesterfields for Me!”
Smoke America’s Most Popular 2-Way Cigarette
CHESTERFIELD
