EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Joe Burro

BUSINESS MANAGER
Gilbert Gragg, Swain

ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Blake Brink

Managing Editors
Maurice Crouse, Tom Warlick

Sports Editor
Jim Holshouser

Feature Editor
Dick Morehead

News Editors
John Hiers, Watt Mc

John Harmon

Collections Manager
John Smith

Circulation Manager
Bob Carmichael

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N.C. under the Act of March 9, 1897

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 22, 1954

The Davidsonian
Published Weekly Throughout the College Year

Photographer
Floyd Feeney, John Handley, Austin Strand

Assignments
Joe Gaskin, Jim Marshal, Stan Miller, Bill Stewart

Assistant Business Manager
Tommy Taylor

Advertising Manager
Parrott

PAGE TWO

Race Amalgamation Is Real Problem In Segregation Question

The following is the first attempt to clarify some of the problems on segregation as presented in last week's poll. College newspapers throughout the South are discussing the issue heatedly pro and con, the discussions usually centering about the question of whether or not Colored students should be admitted to the colleges. Student opinion at Davidson on this issue is requested. Articles may take the form of letters to the editor or of regular columns.

The recent poll of student opinion regarding the decision of the Supreme Court on segregation brought many arguments and not a few losses of friendship, but when the poll was complete the results showed that the Davidson student body comes very close to being divided straight down the middle on the matter. With 52 percent of the student body giving opinions, it was found that 44.8 percent favored the decision, and 44.6 percent were opposed to it. It becomes evident that if the entire student body had been polled, the weight of opinion could well have gone either way.

With this thought in mind, we would like first to make some generalizations about the poll and then go into some specifics which the separate students often do not take into mind when considering questions of this sort. First, let it be said that those who were in favor of the recent decision were usually too vague in their reasons, appealing to some sort of nebulous idea based upon Biblical or constitutional grounds and grinding out an eternal circle around the words democracy and equality. On the other hand, those who were opposed to the decision too often appealed to nothing more than some on-the-spot old south motto tinctured with a bit of Anglo-Saxon wording. One side got tangled up in the irrefutable but not too convincing arguments about “universal truth” or “natural law,” while the other side stayed too close to the earth and revealed itself as appealing to neither God nor reason.

There can be no doubt that all these patent arguments are grossly effective in dorm room battles where the student’s main purpose is to bolster his ego at the cost of his opponent, but in coming face to face with the practical issues of segregation neither platitudes nor slang will do the trick. We must seek out the results of both segregation and desegregation, find what they will mean to us and to our country; then we can apply what platitudes we may—if they still seem to fit.

Looking into the side of those who are in favor of the court ruling, we must face the issue of what will be the result of integration in the schools. No one can question the fact that desegregation of the schools will lead to the same elsewhere. Churches, of course, will eventually follow as will church colleges follow in the wake of state universities. With white and colored children growing up together, color lines are bound to become less meaningful than they now are, and intermarriage will be the result. The issue of segregation doesn’t revolve about the good Samaritan: it revolves about how he became a Samaritan in the first place, for he too was of an intermingled race. It is not a question of public schooling. It is much deeper. If you would not wince at the thought of amalgamation of the races, then you might well have said ‘yes’ last week.

But what of those who oppose integration? What do they propose as a bypass of it? “Separate but equal” is dead—and the Negroes won't be faked any longer by the argument for it. Two hundred years out of Africa or not, the Negroes are nearing the level of American whites, who aren’t so far out of the bushes themselves, and as such they are demanding equal opportunities. And they will be heard. The Negro is a humble person, but once he gets a spark of desire he will have his way. If we oppose the ruling because we feel the inevitability of race amalgamation, what are we to offer as a solution to the Negroes’ demands? One can sit on the lid of a boiling cauldron only so long before the pressure blows the lid sky high and destroys the sitter along with it.

The problem of segregation is not a problem to argue about. It is not a philosophical abstract that changes itself once in a hundred years. It is upon us and must be answered now. Not with yes or no, but with a solution.

A Creampuff College?

You say Davidson is tough? In a recent talk with one of the members of the faculty we ran across a few facts which added onto multiples of other facts seem to refute an affirmative answer to the above question. Davidson, which finds one of its chief sources of appeal the hardness of its course, is in reality a rowboat behind the various academic men-of-war in modern America. Take for instance the freshman history course at Harvard. Would it be embarrassing to find that until recent years Harvard used in its freshman history course the text used in Davidson’s advanced medieval history course. Not overly embarrassing, you say. But what is your reply when you find that the Harvard freshmen who used this book used it only one semester as against our two, covering the whole thing at the rate of a chapter a day and going on in two additional books during the second semester. Recently, we find, Harvard changed this plan for a more modern, comprehensive one. Lest we become overburdened with our scholastic prowess let us look at these and more facts like them, eat our humble pie and go about our way without complaint.

Tolling For Thee?

An occasional dip into little matters is refreshing and necessary. The dip this issue is in regard to the Chambers bell. Two questions need to be asked someone in regard to this loud clarion of class time, and if anyone knows the answers many students would like to have them. First, why does Chambers bell ring thirty or more times every time it rings, when everyone in the college and the surrounding township can hear the bells from first to last and are thereby notified thirty times as much as they should be of the hour? Second, why does Chambers bell shatter the repose of sleepers twice before 8:00 each morning, making it impossible for those who wish to sleep to do so, and making getting up in the morning that much more unpleasant for those who much prefer the hushable pandemonium of an alarm clock to the incessant clamor of Davidson's iron gong?

No Loud Bellowing Of PRE DANCE IDICLUMMA

“Ne Ultra”

Student Discontent Clouds Values Of Davidson Education

BY MALCOLM WILLIAMSON

In times within the memory of all but the freshmen, the Davidsonian and particularly this editorial page have had the deserved reputation of being a gripe sheet for the expression of student discontent. And this publication was not unsupported by student opinion in these views. One of the hallowed traditions of Davidson College seems to be the continual expression of student discontent with the motives and policies of the institution. I feel certain that my generation of students has sincere doubts as to the value of a Davidson education.

This summer, it was my privilege to attend a University that is basically different from Davidson College. Beyond the coincidence that both institutions offer classes in academic subjects, there is little similarity. I feel that this experience has given me a perspective which I could never have had so long as my entire educational experience was confined to Davidson. Six weeks in summer school does not make me an expert on undergraduate educational institutions, but it does make me more conscious of Davidson’s peculiarities.

Valuable Peculiarities

The most valuable peculiarity of Davidson (and a few other schools of the same general type) is the part which campus fellowship plays in the educational process. This valuable contact between and within the groups of students, faculty, and administration is not available on the large campuses or on the campuses that operate on the philosophy that the completion of so many academic hours makes an educated man.

Here at Davidson there are numerous tangible things worthy of preservation that make this college more than just a place to pass courses. They are the things that unite the students in common interests and experiences and provide the opportunities to know professors as men instead of just lecturers. Football, played on an amateur basis by boys who enjoy the sport, is one of these assets. Chapel and vespers are others. These activities develop the Davidson student in at least two ways which are unconcerned with religion. First, he is exposed to the thoughts held by men both brilliant and otherwise on a myriad of subjects. Second, the criticism of these compulsory activities will eventually force him to give some thought to the whole subject of education and its objectives. Such stimuli are not obvious in many institutions.

Social Fraternities

Social fraternities play an important role in the extra-classroom education. Education is rarely utilized fully in a man who is basically unable to get along with his fellows. An educational institution is incomplete that does not in some way encourage social intercourse among its students. An acquaintance with the ideas and customs of our civilization must be acquired in a formal situation, but a deep understanding of their significance can often best be acquired through the social relationships encouraged by fraternities.

One of the most valuable types of fellowship which is available at Davidson is the opportunity to know faculty members as men. I feel that it is often by personal contact and example that an appreciation for the place of education in a life is best gained. And it is this area that Davidson is most successful as a college. Our faculty may not be the most brilliant of any in the world, but I feel that they are more successful than the faculties at most institutions in leading us to realize that an understanding of our world will prove more valuable to our lives than will the speedy mastery of some remunerative skill.

The purpose of this article is merely to suggest a few of the reasons why Davidson men usually do pretty well in life despite the fact that they attended a college where they were “regimented and told what to do.” My purpose is not to shout a frenzied “ne ultra,” but to say that there are mighty few colleges that offer the individual so many opportunities for his growth and development within four short years.

Little Mencken Laundry Compared To Old Inquisition

BY HIRAM CATON

Several days ago I was startled, bewildered and embarrassed by the loud and unbridled cursing of a student down the hall. I could not conceive anything being so bad as to provoke such a flagrant diatribe. Hence, for curiosity’s sake I cautiously crept down the hall to investigate. When I arrived at hisRoom door he had been cursing continuously for three minutes, and he had not repeated himself once! I had to concede that it was a remarkable demonstration of self-expression, even though it was executed in a banal manner. For fear of injury or life, I did not enter his room immediately; I waited for the ocean of wrath to subside. But minutes passed, and there were no signs of abatement. Finally, my curiosity overwhelmed me, and against my better judgment, I poked an apologetic head inside the door.

A Pre-Ministerial Student

Although he did not see me, I immediately recognized the frustrated soul as a pre-ministerial student. My first reaction was that of pity; I knew that if his Presbytery heard of this infamy, he would never have a chance in the church. At last, I gathered courage enough to interrupt his diabolic reverie, and I asked him what had happened. Still cursing, he said, in words that I cannot repeat, that he had just gotten his laundry back. I said, “Oh,” and left him to his sorrow, for then I understood.

I know that many students have had experiences similar to the one recorded above, and therefore, in the best interests of those concerned, and in hope that the faculty, our benefactors, will take steps to amend the situation, I hereby undertake to record, for all who will read, the lamentable plight of Davidson students with regard to the laundry.

I have asked, at random, many students what they thought of the laundry service. Some of the answers are too horrible to mention here. Suffice it to say that there were several cases of spontaneous epilepsy, one case of raving madness, and one case of lunacy. Having asked a freshman what he thought of the situation, big tears began to seep from his eyes, and he replied, “Why didn't they tell us about this in the catalog? My parents don’t have much money—none to throw away—and here they have gone and ruined nearly all my clothes! I don’t know what I’m going to do.” With that, he could not hold his sorrow, and our conversation, short but meaningful, was ended. I blew my nose and went on about my business.

The next student I interviewed also related a sad tale, but in vigorous and lurid terms. He told me that once he had a shirt returned to him that, instead of being the original white, was red on one half and a pale orange on the other. He said that it was amazing that the dyeing job was so even.

A year or two ago, the laundry instituted a “let's be friends” campaign, during which they replaced the buttons that they tore off shirts. A certain student complains that, although he appreciated their thoughtfulness, they consistently sewed buttons at places where there were no buttonholes.

Another policy of our laundry is to “inspect” the outgoing laundry from time to time. Just the other day, my roommate found that they had returned only one sleeve of a very good shirt, and on top of the shred was a cute little note proclaiming that number three had inspected his laundry. That naturally set us speculating about what “number three” is. We finally concluded that it is probably a sadistic gorilla, or a worn-out cement mixer. Maybe the purpose of the inspection is to make sure nothing slips through without damage.

Armored Vests

Another abominable item is the starching technique, as many students testify. They starch such things as sheets, pajamas, nightshirts, underwear, handkerchiefs, and occasionally, neckties. And then sometimes they grossly over-starch. Some of the shirts that come back from our laundry are being tested by Army Ordnance to see if they will replace their effective armored vests.

But even with all this abusement, let us not pity ourselves or languor because of our misfortune. Remember, somewhere, someone has more troubles than we.

Letter To The Editor: The Church’s Part?

Dear Editor:

Would God have cared if one room had been omitted from our Davidson College Presbyterian Church, and the money been used to better the living conditions of the families not two hundred yards from its doors?

Sincerely,
Jack Bolen

Next Week.

Leighton McCutchen, President of ODK and well-known campus figure, will attempt to define both a “Holy Joe” and an “Unholy Joe” along with a discussion of the motives behind most of our personal condemnation.

IS $61,000 TOO CHEAP FOR HOMECOMING?
BY GILBERT GRAGG

I am getting as excited as everybody else about the approaching Homecoming festivities. During my three years here, I have been happy to see each year’s annual celebration in honor of the alumni (who have achieved enough success by modern-day standards to drive back to view the old school in at least an Oldsmobile or Buick if not a Cadillac itself worth its price in prestige alone) grow bigger and better from all respects. And this year there is a definite possibility that the Wildcats may throw in a victory over much-heralded West Virginia Tech to make the joyous occasion perfect.

The weekend will find many old grads excitedly greeting classmates with fond handshakes whom they hardly knew in the old days except to snub occasionally when passing; perhaps some of them will meet their old laundry boys if they are lucky.

“Real Gone Kids”

At any rate, we are all glad to see these enthusiastic alumni who form the backbone of the college's support, and nobody begrudges them the pleasure (a dubious one) of acting like “real gone” college kids once again. After all, everybody but present students in college admit readily that the days at the dear old institution of close friendships, bull sessions full of gripes and groans, random hours of studying, and weeks of carefree leisure free of the responsibility of making a living, etc., are the best of anyone's life.

One thing I admire in the alumni is the way they don’t mind spending money. Indications are that around 500 Davidsonians of yesteryear will be here with their brood (swelling the total to 1100). The average distance they will have to travel both ways is estimated at around 120 miles at 7 cents a mile which means $4,200. Then they will all attend the delicious barbecue at $1.50 a head ($1650) and pay $2.50 a head ($2,750) to see the Wildcats' first homecoming win since . . .? In addition, they will part with $2.00 each to hear Ogden Nash ($2,200), and it is impossible to predict what fabulous totals will be registered in the “Queen City” Saturday night at various night spots (movies of course) by the influx of Presbyterian gentlemen to the vicinity.

THE ALUMNI THEN WILL PART WITH AN ESTIMATED $10,800. Unfortunately, this will leave them little to contribute to the sagging Vesper offering.

The school should be a little embarrassed that it is being so conservative in spending only about half as much as the memory-conscious alumni. We are grateful for whatever is being spent for Ogden Nash (figures not available) to come offer some of his magnificent and meaningful witticisms for our entertainment in order to get us in the proper mood for dreamy dancing and riotous partying till we collapse from fatigue. Then the $4,500 which is an estimate of the total costs of the football game (pay W. Va. Tech, band, programs, etc.) and the $500 being spent by the administration on publicity and miscellaneous entertainment for us, such as a movie in the union after Saturday night’s dance, which swells the total to at least $5,000.

Dior, “Persona non grata”

Congratulations are due to the lovely young “flowers of innocence” who will drift in about five-hundred strong over the joy-packed “lost-weekend” for spending the most money. Indeed, “mama’s little darlings” couldn't come to a big Davidson dance without a new dance ensemble of about $50 a piece (this is an average estimate—some will have to wear last spring's clothes but others, especially the “Virginia Smart Set” and the ritzy Episcopalian finishing schools, will pay around $100 for their wardrobe for the weekend, which means a $25,000 lift to the fashion world. Let’s hope that the girls have the good taste not to wear Christian Dior fashions.

Then the buxom beauties will pay $10 average for traveling expenses and $3 apiece for their luxurious dormitory rooms which means $6,500, bringing the total amount (get out your adding machines) that 500 unfortunate fathers will invest in the '54 Davidson Homecoming Weekend to the impressive total of $31,500.

I for one am pretty embarrassed at the ridiculously small amount we students are investing in two days of ecstatic pleasures in light of these financial facts. We gripe about putting out $6.00 for dance tickets and then complain about not getting a bigger band—after all, we can't expect to have the real conductor for just $3,700 but should be content to settle for a snappy sax player substituting behind the baton.

Some students thought it would be a good idea to get an orchestra for half this price (charging the same for tickets) and send the difference to some of the teeming masses in the Orient who'll be dying of starvation while we gleefully listen to “Honey Love.” What rubbish! How could we ever get a girl to date us without a really top-notch band to attract her? Surely we don’t think she is coming just to see us!

It isn’t as if we were spending $10,000 as Carolina or other more secular schools do, who have two different orchestras for the really big dances or even $5,000 as we did for Ray Anthony! Counting the dance ticket $6.00, the average “Davidson man in the know” spends $1.50 on his date’s football ticket, $2.00 on her food at the boarding houses, $1.00 for her Ogden Nash ticket, $1.00 on haircuts the day before, $5.00 on Charlotte frolicking (more for student council members—“Honor Squad”—who can't go to after-dance parties because strangely enough they believe in the Student Constitution!), $6.00 for fraternity assessments, and finally $1.50 for the chrysanthemums making a total of $24.00 (total with 500 dating, $12,000).

What, No Orchids!

As to the chrysanthemums, we see again the Scotch vein in us in not giving orchids; we did, you know, up until 8 years ago when the wave of veterans returned with their unusual ideas of economizing. But now that money is flowing more freely among young people anyhow, I suggest we surprise our dates with lovely orchids!

An expense which many students are not aware of is the money we lose by no classes Saturday. With an average of 2 classes for 850 students at a dollar apiece (check college fees) we lose $1,700 which makes a grand total students spend of $13,700.

I would like to recommend that we be given two free days before Homecoming since we are too excited to study dead languages and antiquated facts anyhow and then two more afterwards to wake up to the nightmare of classes again more slowly. After all, with a grand total of $61,000 (add it) being spent in just two days by everybody, it does seem reasonable to suggest an extension of the festivities so we can spend more and enjoy ourselves to a greater extent.

I must stop now and write my date (a lovely blonde from West Virginia) about plans for the weekend, who the orchestra will be, etc. How can I ever tell her about the cheap band? Oh well, I’ll just say nobly that Davidson is a Christian school after all, and we have to sacrifice now so we can give generously to the Christmas Gift Fund—since only $61,000 is being spent on homecoming perhaps we can raise $5,000 for it, although this is a bit optimistic. What do you think?