OK | | THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL © VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE VOL. XLII

Blood Drive To Be Held On Dec. 7, 8

The Davidson College Blood Drive will be held in the basement of Johnston Gymnasium on Tuesday and Wednesday, December 7 and 8. Sponsored by Scabbard and Blade, the drive is open to townspeople, faculty members, and students. Donations may be made between the hours of 11:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. either day.

Students under 21 must have the permission of their parents before they will be allowed to give blood. The College has mailed releases to all parents, and approximately 200 have been returned. A list of students for whom releases have been received will be posted in the ROTC Building and in the College Union. Other students under 21 who desire to give blood are asked to have their parents sign the releases as soon as possible and mail them to the College.

The need for blood is today greater than ever. The Davidson Community alone has used 65 pints of blood from the Red Cross facilities. This blood supplied by the Red Cross is free of charge. The need for blood in the Charlotte area is also very critical, as more than 900 pints are used each month in Mecklenburg County.

Prof. Tyson Elected Speech Association President of N. C.

Prof. Raymond W. Tyson, associate professor of speech at Davidson College, was elected president of the North Carolina Speech Association at the fall meeting of the group held recently at Central High School in Charlotte. Norman Mattis of the English Department at the University of North Carolina, retiring president, presided. Other officers are Mrs. Caroline Dame, speech therapist of the High Point public school system, vice president; and Dr. Meredith Cosey of East Carolina College, secretary-treasurer.

The organization is composed of teachers from high schools, colleges and universities engaged in teaching or in association with all forms of speech, such as straight public speaking, speech correction, radio and television drama. The next meeting of the association will be held in the late winter or spring, the date and place to be announced later.

DAVIDSONIAN
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, DECEMBER 3, 1954

PROGRAM COMMITTEE OF UCM

The Program Committee of the UCM is doing the main planning for Religious Emphasis Week to be held the second week in February. Composed of the chairmen of the special committees which have been set up for the week, it has secured three outstanding speakers and has completed a tentative schedule for the entire week. From left to right, they are: Lance Charles, Cortez Cooper, Linny Baker, Archie Joyner, Harold Davis, Dr. Bevan, Joe Connaroe, Sam Magill, Tom Warlick, Henry Brockmann, Walter Davis, Gayle Averyt, Jason McManus, Perrin Anderson, Clyde Robinson, Richard Molshouser. —Staff Photo By Daniel.

GAVELS, DRAPERIES DOMINATE Eumenean Axes Fall

BY NOSMO KING

“Dame Guillotine” enjoyed an evening of promiscuous decapitation in the stronghold of the Woodrow-Wilson-and-Women Worshippers Monday night at 8:15 as president T. (for Tom) Cooper clubbed (for want of a gavel) the third meeting of the Eumenean Literary Society to order. The roll call was accompanied by considerable weeping, wailing, and so forth, as the illustrious names of many worthies began to be stricken from the lists, because of failure on the part of the bewailed to comply with the minimum attendance requirements, to wit, attend once every three meetings (the alternative: be on friendly terms with the secretary). However, the occlusion of the elements being taken into consideration, the presidential inference was that a reconsideration of memberships for the excommunicated was in the offing. The possibility of such a collective pardon was greeted with mixed emotion from the assembly, but no procedures for impeachment were proposed at that time.

Monkey Business

There being a quorum present, Eumenean proceeded with its business, old and new. Right Wing Extremist T. Dove nominated and successfully backed W. Duke to the chairmanship of the Committee for Restoration of Draperies, and T. Morgan (he, too, a Right Wing End Man) furthered Duke's conquests by nominating and assisting him into the chair of the Inquisition into the Proper Displacement of Neglected Paintings Committee. In a fiendish display of gratitude, “Boss” Duke acknowledged the aid of his campaign managers by appointing them to their respective committees as his subordinates.

Other business of equal import included a unanimous vote of acceptance of J. Connaroe’s gift of a gavel, with the engraving: “From Mother,” and the financial report. New treasurer, A. “Midas,” Dick, foretold brimming coffers in the future, but for the present there was only the reassurance of a positive balance of $16.06.

Ghosts—Not Ibsen’s

Mr. vice-president Crouse presented an essay by Mr. H. L. Mencken (purported literary ancestor of “Catoism”), after which the Left Wingers defeated the Rightists at another of Mr. Crouse’s spelling games, “Ghosts.” Starting lineup for the winners: Left End Dagenhart, Left Out Snider, Left Behind Frick, Left Over Martin, “Boss” Duke, and Grand Mogul Cooper. The Opposition requested that their names not be submitted. President Cooper restored peace and sanity to the meeting, adjournment procedures were entered.

(Continued On Page Four)

Christmas Parties Scheduled Dec. 13

On Monday night, December 13, the Inter-Fraternity Council is sponsoring the annual Christmas parties for the Barium Springs Orphanage. Twelve groups of children ranging from six to thirteen years of age will visit the fraternity houses.

After arriving at 7:15, the children will be given a short program of Christmas music by the Male Chorus. Each fraternity will then entertain one group of children at its house. Presents will be delivered by Santa Claus, who will go from house to house.

The Superintendent of Barium Springs remarked that the children have two goals in life: one is to go to Heaven and the other is to come to Davidson. And if they had to choose, he didn’t know which they would take.

DAVIDSONIAN EDITS

Johnston Sends Vance Papers To Printers

Raleigh—Copy for the first volume of the Zebulon Vance papers, to be published by the State Department of Archives and History, has gone to the printer, it was announced November 27 by Dr. Christopher Crittenden, director. In ceremonies held in the office of D. L. Corbitt, head of the department’s publications division, the typescript was turned over to L. B. Phillips, director of the State College print shop, which will do the job. Delivery is expected next spring or summer.

The series is being directed by Dr. Frontis W. Johnston, head of the history department of Davidson College, who is also writing a biography of Vance. It will cover Vance’s career to the end of 1862, when he had been governor four months and when North Carolina had been in the southern Confederacy a little more than a year and a half. Seven or eight volumes are planned.

As editor, Dr. Johnston has had to deal with some 15,000 individual manuscripts, most of which are in the department’s archives. Roughly one-half of these appear to merit publication.

A native of Buncombe County, Vance served as congressman, governor, and United States senator. He is one of two Tar Heels whose busts are in Statuary Hall in the nation’s Capitol. The other is Charles B. Aycock.

Leading scholars have called the department’s publication program the best of any state in the Union. To date the department has published a total of over three hundred and forty items, of which more than forty are volumes of documents. Among these have been the Records of the Moravians in North Carolina, and separate series containing the papers of such leading North Carolinians as Thomas Ruffin, John Steele, Jonathan Worth, Willis P. Mangum and Archibald D. Murphey.

Gamma Sigma Epsilon Holds Initiation Service

Alpha Alpha of Gamma Sigma Epsilon, the national honorary chemical fraternity, held initiation ceremonies Monday night in the Science Building. Those initiated were Joe Gaskin, Brown Goehring, Jack Huffaker, Jack Knox, Hugh Malone, Bubba Martin, Mallory Miree, Dick Pyle, John Reed, David Regen, and Larry Parrott. Refreshments were served after the initiation.

Fred Hudson was elected as of-

Dr. Martin Will Speak At Sunday Vespers

The Reverend William T. Martin, Jr., Ph.D., pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Tallahassee, Florida, will be the speaker at Vespers this Sunday evening.

Born in Raleigh, North Carolina, Dr. Martin attended the University of North Carolina, where he graduated with an A.B. degree in History in 1942. While there he was elected to membership in Phi Beta Kappa and to Who’s Who In American Colleges and Universities.

Dr. Martin was commissioned an Ensign in the United States Navy in 1942. After training in this country, he spent two years on active duty in the Pacific. He was appointed an Admiral’s aide in 1945 and was discharged from service in 1946 with the rank of lieutenant.

After attending law school for a brief time at the University of North Carolina and at Harvard, Dr. Martin transferred to the Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, Virginia. There he was elected president of the student body and graduated in 1950 with a bachelor of Divinity degree, Cum Laude. In recognition for his excellent work he was awarded a graduate fellowship for study abroad, and spent approximately two years of study at New College, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, Scotland. He also studied at the University of St. Andrews for a short period.

After completing this work Dr. Martin was awarded a Ph.D. degree in Theology and Education. In March, 1952, Dr. Martin accepted the post as minister of the First Presbyterian Church in Tallahassee, Florida.

DR. WILLIAM T. MARTIN

Traditional Christmas Vespers To Be Held On December 12

On Sunday, December 12, a unique combination of music and the reading of Biblical selections will comprise the annual Christmas Vesper Service, the highlight of Davidson College’s Sunday evening services.

Mr. Perry Daniel, a Davidson graduate of 1952 will be guest soloist. Mr. Daniel, who received his Masters in Music from the University of Michigan in 1954, will render two vocal Christmas selections. Along with Mr. Daniel, Professor Harold Frantz of Montreat College, a former organist and professor at Davidson, will be guest organist for the service.

The service itself will be centered on the theme of prophecy about, and the birth and adoration of Christ. For the prelude Mr. Kenneth Moore will direct the Davidson College Chamber Orchestra in Concerto Grosso No. 8 in G Minor (“Christmas Concerto”) by Corelli. The orchestra will play for the offertory Handel's “Pastoral Symphony” (from the Messiah).

Variety characterizes the different musical selections composing the three divisions of the service. German, Holst, Flemish, Polish, English, Negro, and American Indian folk songs, written by such composers as Praetorius, Robert Shaw, Jungst, and Brooks, will be included among the numbers to be given by the Male Chorus and Chapel Choir. Thornwell Frick, Harold McKeithen, and RobertMartin will have solo parts in the various selections.

At present, the official delegate to the national convention to be held in Georgetown, Kentucky, this weekend. (Continued On Page Four)

ASSOCIATED COLLEGIATE PRESS INTERCOLLEGIATE PRESS NUMBER 10

Lewis Announces Gift Fund: Greek Drive Begins Monday

Kickoff for the annual YMCA Christmas Gift Fund drive will be Monday night. This year’s project, chosen at a membership meeting of the Y, is the support of church work teams working in war-devastated areas of northern Greece. The work is centered around rural communities. The need for increased food production is the major problem of the area.

Shown here are members of the Greek Village Team of the World Council of Churches demonstrating new agricultural methods to some workers of a Greek Community.

ATO’s Rehearsing For ‘Good News’ On Dec. 15

Plans have been completed for the stage production of “Good News,” a musical comedy, to be presented at Davidson on December 15. Members of Alpha Tau Omega are staging the musical under the sponsorship of the college YMCA, and proceeds will go to the Christmas Gift Fund.

“Good News” ran for 600 performances on Broadway and was ultimately filmed in 1947. The picture starred June Allyson and Peter Lawford. Ray Henderson scored the music and Lawrence Schwab and Buddy DeSylva combined to write the book.

Casting for the Davidson performance was made early this fall. Taking the lead parts are Tom Thrailkill, Jane Hamrick, Lloyd Chapin, and Myra Adkins. The chorus includes members of ATO and a number of local girls. Al Harris is directing the play and Henry Parrish is handling the choreography. The pit orchestra will be directed by Felix Sibley, and Phil Koonce will be in charge of the set.

The musical includes 12 hit tunes such as “Best Things in Life are Free,” “Lucky in Love,” “Pass That Peace Pipe,” “Varsity Drag,” and “Good News.” The story takes place in a small Southern college, Tate College. It involves a football star who falls in love with an astronomy tutor recommended by his rich society sweetheart.

Tom Thrailkill, the football player, is a freshman from Hapeville, Georgia, and is a baritone in the male chorus. Jane Hamrick, from Davidson, is a soprano and has done operetta work at Fairfax Hall and at the University of South Carolina. Lloyd Chapin, from Atlanta, provides the comedy sequences with Myra Adkins of Mooresville. Miss Adkins, a mezzo-soprano, performed in plays and musicals in high school and was a member of the Playcrafters at Appalachian State Teachers College. She just recently won a “Little Oscar” on the “People’s Playhouse” over radio station WBT.

“Good News” will be the first musical presented by a Davidson group in a number of years. Members of the cast have been rehearsing diligently for several weeks and a top-notch performance is expected.

Charlotte-Davidson Club Elects, Plans Dance

The Charlotte-Davidson club met following chapel Tuesday and elected the following officers for 1954-55: President, Hugh Malone; Sec.-Treas., Charles Harris; Dance Chairman, Harry Brownlee; and Publicity Chairman, Larry Parrott.

Plans for the annual Charlotte-Davidson Christmas dance, an affair scheduled for the coming holidays, are underway with the direction of the new officers.

Holty Talks Lecturer Sponsored By D.C. Artist Series

Friday night at 8:15 Mr. Carl Holty, one of the outstanding American painters and lecturers of today, will be heard at Davidson College. The Artist Series Committee is happy to announce this extra attraction in its program. Blanche Thebom’s appearance at Davidson, scheduled for the night of December 3, has been changed to May 6, 1955, due to an important dress-rehearsal of the Metropolitan Opera’s production of “Salome.” Mr. Holty’s lecture will be free to Season Ticket holders and general admission to all others will be $1.00.

Few artists have a background as varied as that of Carl Holty, who is appearing under the auspices of the Arts Program, Association of American Colleges. At an early age, he drew with ambition for perspective. He studied at Milwaukee Art School, Chicago Art Institute, and the National Academy of Design in New York. A well-known portrait painter at 23, Mr. Holty went to Europe where he studied at the Royal Academy and Hofman School in Munich for two years. His work was exhibited in Paris for three years, and he was represented in important collections in Munich.

Robinson Tells AED Of Medical Trends

Dr. C. W. Robinson, general practitioner in Charlotte, spoke Wednesday night to Alpha Epsilon Delta about trends in medical practice and recent progress in medicine. His address was given at the pre-medical honorary fraternity’s first December meeting.

Dr. Robinson told the young pre-meds that closer associations with patients and a chance to study real medicine are advantages in general practice that are beginning a trend in medicine, a trend away from specialized fields. The medical schools are going along with this trend and in recent years have instituted special General Practice courses for the men who desire to enter that field. Preceptorships, gaining practical experience while still in medical school, have recently come to the front in better medical circles.

He also said that another trend today is the establishment of clinics in urban and rural communities. Many young men just getting out of school are finding this an ideal plan. Several doctors pool their resources and gain, in several years, the advantages they would otherwise be striving for until they were far advanced in age. Through this pool of resources, they are able to combine their several abilities and render better service to their patients. These clinics usually contain expensive laboratory equipment and supplies that would be otherwise unobtainable if their resources were not pooled.

Moreover, Dr. Robinson sees advantages in the rural communities where these clinics may contain beds for those patients who cannot be hospitalized elsewhere. Dr. Robinson continued by saying that medicine today is a far cry from the medicine of years past. As an illustration, he commented on the dependence of a physician on a good technician. X-ray is a comparatively new innovation that has completely changed the concept of medicine, and the (Continued On Page Four)

Our money will buy seed, farming supplements, and materials for developing various projects. These funds will be administered by the church teams working in the area. These teams live in the villages with the people and demonstrate to them advanced methods of agriculture, sanitation techniques, and methods of home canning and preserving. Mr. Harley Kline, who worked with these teams for three years and was director this past year, will be on campus next week to tell us more of the work in this area.

Two solicitors have been appointed for each hall and every student will be contacted individually. Contributions may be made directly to the solicitor or if a student so desires, he may pledge the amount of his contribution and pay it after Christmas. All pledges will be due by January 12. The goal of $4000 is important but more important is 100% participation by the student body.

It is sometimes easy to overlook the problems of a people who are so far removed from us and to see only our own problems here at home. However, these problems exist and are acute. This is an opportunity for us to share our plenty with a people who have not been so fortunate as we. Displays showing the work in this area will be placed in the Union next week.

Eight Davidson Students Will Attend Y Assembly

Eight Davidson students will attend the quadrennial National Student Assembly of the YMCA and YWCA to be held during Christmas Holidays. The convention will be held at the University of Kansas from December 27 to January 2. The Davidson delegation will be led by Y Secretary Sam Magill. Students making the trip are Jim Brice, Creighton Peden, John Baker, Bob Mack, Tony Dick, Roy Davis, Henry Griffin, and Doug Oldenburg.

The theme of the meeting will be based on the Biblical question “Where art thou?” as applied to the individual in the modern world.

Abstraction Group

Mr. Holty is a charter member of the Abstraction Creation Group in Paris, and is the only American other than Alexander Calder to hold this distinction. Also, he is a founder member of the American Abstract Artists. His American exhibits include New York, The Corcoran Gallery, and the Chicago Art Institute.

He has been artist-in-residence at the University of Georgia and the University of Florida. He has been visiting professor at the University of California and the Corcoran Gallery School and at Washington University.

The Arts Program of the Association of American Colleges plays an important role in promoting the fine arts in liberal education. Originally established in 1936 as a plan for furthering an understanding of music in the liberal arts colleges, it has since enlarged to include all the Fine Arts and the Humanities. The program makes available to colleges and universities professional artists and outstanding leaders from other faculties under far more economical arrangements than those of commercial booking agencies.

Pollard Engravings

The graphic work of Ann Carter Pollard, a young Winston-Salem artist, will be displayed in the lobby of Chambers Building from November 26 to December 4. Miss Pollard, a graduate of Woman's College, Greensboro, received a master's degree in painting there last spring. The work to be displayed at Davidson was selected from her experiments with other graphic techniques — etchings, woodcuts, lithographs, and ink and pencil drawings. Miss Pollard is now employed by the Western Electric Company as an editor of technical publications.

For information concerning the Friday night presentation contact the Artist Series, Davidson, N. C. Tickets will be available at the door.