FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 1954. THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

It’s football time again, and Davidson’s spring practice session got under way down at Richardson Field last Tuesday afternoon. Coach Bill Dole and his staff have already got the heavy pads on the boys, and it looks like it’s going to be a hard session that is going to pay off in touchdowns next fall. With the added strength of the freshman squad, chances for the 1954 season are looking much brighter. With some noticeable changes on the schedule for next fall, Davidson’s chances for a winning season look about the best in the past five years, and the season’s record should soar far above last year’s showing. It seems certain that the freshmen of 1954 will have something to cheer about.

These spring practices, often criticized by some groups, are really necessary to give the boys an early chance to work together as a unit. With a ruling of the Southern Conference banning all pre-season practice prior to September 1, some sort of spring practice is almost essential if a well-rounded team is to be molded by opening game time.

Seems that the athletic committee has finally selected the way in which D.C. sport fortunes will move for a while at least. After several years of following a “middle-of-the-road” policy that has proven very unsatisfactory, the committee felt that some sort of positive action had to be taken. There were, of course, several choices from which the committee had to choose. They could decide on “big-time football” and keep up with the trend of modern football factories, or they could drop intercollegiate football in favor of intramural sports. The committee made the choice that would make for a continuance of intercollegiate football but on a smaller scale. It is not a complete de-emphasis program, but it is certainly below the standards of past years. Such powerhouses as Georgia Tech and Harvard have been dropped from the schedule, along with N.C. State and Richmond. There is no sense in kidding ourselves that we gained anything except money in that 53-0 loss to Tech last season, and these teams would continue to be cripplers on the Davidson schedule.

Another move the committee made as part of the new program is the abolishment of the post of a paid athletic publicity director. Students will handle the job from now on. The absence of a full-time director who handles correspondence with other schools, and who calculates school athletic records will be felt much more than the officials realize, and this is a move on which we cannot honestly agree with the committee.

All of you sports fans have a series of treats coming up this spring. Starting with the Southeastern United States Volleyball Tournament, Davidson will be the site of five major athletic tourneys. The tournament schedule will be climaxed on June 7-12, when the Southern Junior Boys and Tennis Tournament, which is nationally famous, will be held on the local courts. You will hear more about these tournaments as the schedule progresses, with dates being given well in advance.

Revenge Minded Frosh Hit Kannapolis Quintet
By JOHN HOLSHOUSER

On Saturday night the freshman quint will play host to the Kannapolis “Y,” and will be seeking revenge on the “Y” for handing them their first defeat earlier in the season by the score of 52-46. The Kittens have a good chance to overcome this six-point margin on their home court, and with the experience gained since then they should give Kannapolis a hot scrap.

The Davidson Wildkittens handed Coach Paul Scott a win in his first game since he took over the reins of the frosh basketball team by defeating a hustling O'Dell squad 41-38 in a preliminary to the Davidson-College of Charleston game here Saturday night. Coach Scott replaced Tom Fetzer who has accepted a coaching position at Furman University. The Kittens were noticeably off in the shooting department after the ten-day layoff for exams, and they also had their hands full with the flashy O'Dell team which boasted a 17-0 record going into the contest. Gaylord Walker was high scorer for the freshmen with 11 points, and Richard Weeks was second high with 10. Charlotte College, Gardner-Webb, and Pfeiffer complete the schedule for this season for the freshmen.

SALE Continues at Wilson’s Men’s Shop - “COLLEGIATE FASHIONS” Next to Bank Davidson, N. C.

Cat Cagers Meet VPI Tomorrow Night

CHARLIE MURRAY
One of the finest wrestlers to wear the Davidson colors in recent years, Charlie has proved to be hard to beat. He will lead the grapplers as they meet Citadel here next Friday.

Wildcat Wrestlers Idle After Loss To State

After taking their worst defeat of the season at the hands of a hustling North Carolina State wrestling team on Tuesday night, Davidson’s Wildcat grapplers remain idle until next Friday when they tangle with The Citadel’s Bulldogs on the local mats in an afternoon meet. The Cats dropped to State by 19-10 as sensational Charlie Murray added another to his string of victories as he pinned his man. Dave Burns downed his opponent by a decision while Henry Faison fought to a draw to score the Cats’ other five points. The frosh wrestlers made a fine showing as they downed State's yearlings by a sizeable 22-11 count. The freshmen show plenty of hustle and skill and Coach Parker expects them to be a great help to the team next season when they become eligible for varsity competition. The Cats will remain at home for the remainder of their regular season encounters as they meet The Citadel, Washington and Lee, and VPI on the local mats. They close out regular activities on February 22 before the conference meet action.

TANKMEN TO MEET CITADEL IN FIRST OF TWO TOMORROW
By BILL HESTON

Davidson's vastly improved tankmen will travel to Charleston to meet The Citadel’s swimmers in a dual meet tomorrow afternoon. This is the first of two meets with the Bulldogs who will travel to the local pool next Friday. The Cats meet South Carolina and Wofford in a triangular affair in Columbia next Tuesday. Hambright complimented his freshman swimmers on doing a swell job this season, winning two out of their three meets, and he believes they will have an even chance to win the two remaining teams they meet. The coach plans to take the freshman medley relay team and the 400-yard freestyle relay team to the Southern Conference swimming meet at VPI in Blacksburg, Va., on Feb. 25-27. The freshman team is made up of seven men who are as follows: Billy Carrell, John Edwards, Basil Sharp, Tom Rivers, Don Crates, Jim Presley, and Frank Kiker. The varsity swimmers have all been improving their times. Among these Wildcats, George Crone, breast-stroker, has cut 8.6 seconds off his time in the 200-yard breaststroke in the last two weeks. Also, Al Ormond and BobPatton have been improving consistently for the last three weeks. The varsity team includes: Bo Abernathy, Bill Buck, Archie Joyner, Bud Montgomery, Steve Norton, Larry Parrott, Stafford Query, Ed Spiers, Ed Stuart, and Jeff Smith.

ATTENTION! Athletic Director Paul Scott announced recently that tickets are now on sale for the Southern Conference Basketball tournament to be held in Morgantown, W. Va., on the West Virginia University Mountaineer Fieldhouse floor March 4-5-6. Season tickets for the three-day affair will be $9 for the best seats, and $6 for the remaining seats. These are good for all seven games in the eight-team tourney. Anyone interested in obtaining tickets should do so immediately while good seats remain. Tickets not sold before February 10 must be returned to West Virginia University for general sale.

DAVIDSON THEATRE
All Pictures Will Be Shown On Our New P-A-N-O-R-A-M-I-C WIDE SCREEN

THURS.-FRI., FEB. 4-5
“SANGAREE” (Technicolor) ARLENE DAHL

SATURDAY, FEB. 6
“STEEL LADY” ROD CAMERON

MON-TUES., FEB. 8-9
“CAPT. JOHN SMITH AND POCAHONTAS” (Technicolor) ANTHONY DEXTER

WEDNESDAY, FEB. 10
“MAN FROM THE ALAMO” (Technicolor) GLENN FORD

THURS.-FRI., FEB. 11-12
“DECAMERON NIGHTS” (Technicolor) JOAN FONTAINE

SATURDAY, FEB. 13
“THE BIG HEAT” GLENN FORD

Betas, ATO’s Pace Greeks
As the interfraternity teams got back into action after the exam break, some fast high-scoring games marked the action. The ATO’s and the Betas remained undefeated to top the league as the formerly undefeated Phi Gams dropped two and lost their top slot rating. The Pikas took a tight hold on third place as they established themselves as the highest-scoring club in the league. Their 51 points per game average is tops in the averages. The Kappa Sigs follow in fourth place, having not played as many games as the Pikas through Wednesday. The top-ranking Betas took the season’s high-scoring honors for a single game as they walloped the Sig Eps 62-39. Kappa Sig’s Corky Clark continues to be the league's big gun as he holds a 19-point average in his first three games. Lanky Lindley Beardsley, the Pika sparkplug, is a close second with an 18-point per game average, while ATO’s Murray Page has hit for 16.5 in his first four games. Beardsley has scored the most number of points with a 71-point total.

The results of the week’s action are following:

Beta 53; Phi Gam 27
The top-ranking Betas rolled over the previously unbeaten Phi Gams after the exam layoff by a 63 to 27 count. John McLaughlin hit for 13 to pace the Beta victory, while the Phi Gams had trouble getting their attack rolling.

Sigma Chi 52; KA 49
The Sigma Chis won a close ball game from the KAs by the score of 52 to 49. Tom Shaw led the fast-breaking Sigma Chi attack with a total of 21 points. Perrin Anderson added 18. For the KAs, Hall and Larry McIntosh sparked the scoring with 15 and 12 points respectively.

Pike 59; Pi Kapp 32
The Pikas ran away with the Pi Kapps in the third quarter and coasted to a 59 to 32 victory. With big Lindley Beardsley dropping in 20 points and Tom Owen and John Handley doing the ball handling, the Pikas took an early lead and never were headed after the first quarter. Charlie Robinson collected 8 points.

Beta 62; SAE 39
The Betas dropped in 62 points while holding the SPEs to 39 to gather their fourth victory. Bill (Continued On Page Four)

Important Encounter For Hot-Cold Wildcats
Davidson’s Varsity basketball team meets VMI here tomorrow night in a game that will see the Wildcats setting their sights on a spot in the Southern Conference tournament. The Davidson club is now occupying fifth place in the conference standings with only three conference opponents remaining on the schedule. If the Cats are able to take the Cadets in hand tomorrow night, they should continue to hold their fifth place standing, since only Citadel and Furman remain in the way after tomorrow's game, and Davidson will be heavily favored to beat the Citadel. A win over VMI will almost assure the Cats that they will be in the vicinity of Morgantown, West Virginia, when tourney time rolls around.

Southern Clubs High-Ranked
If the Wildcats do make it to the tournament, they will be traveling in the company of a select group of basketball teams. George Washington, who is currently leading the pack in Conference games, is rated this week as the 11th best cage team in the country, according to the Associated Press Poll. Furman, second in conference standings, boasts the nation’s leading scorer, Frank Selvy, who recently broke the all-time three-year scoring mark for an individual player.

Cats Split Two
Since the ten-day lay-off, taken during the exam period, the Wildcats have split two decisions. Last Saturday night, the cagers met the College of Charleston and emerged the victors by a wide margin. This was the fifth victory of the season for Davidson. Then last Tuesday night, the Wildcats traveled to Columbia to meet South Carolina University. The Gamecocks had lost a 65-56 decision to Davidson earlier in the season, but Tuesday was their night. They were red hot, hitting a very high percentage of shots in the first half as they built up a big lead. The last half saw the two teams play almost evenly, but the first half lead was too great, and South Carolina won. This marked the first time this season that the Cats had lost to a club from the Palmetto state in four games.

Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co. says...
For four years we have maintained in the smoker’s interest an intensified larger scale diversified research program. A half-million dollar 30-ton machine, the world’s most powerful source of high voltage electrons, designed solely for our use has tested tens of thousands of cigarettes. This program has already given to us direct and significant information of benefit to the smoking public. Our consultants include Arthur D. Little, Inc. of Cambridge, Massachusetts, “one of the largest and most reputable industrial research organizations in the country” (From Business Week Magazine) and eminent scientists from leading universities. Today the public can confidently choose from a variety of brands—by far the best cigarettes ever made by the tobacco industry.

For more than thirty years we have used research day in and day out learning about tobaccos and cigarettes in the public’s interest. Continuously we and our consultants have analyzed, experimented with and smoked all kinds of tobaccos... especially Southern Bright, Burley, Maryland and Turkish cigarette tobaccos. Our own cigarettes and competitive brands have been submitted to the most exacting scientific scrutiny including thousands of analyses of millions of pounds of tobaccos. From all these thousands of analyses, and other findings reported in the leading technical journals, our Research Department has found no reason to believe that the isolation and elimination of any element native to cigarette tobaccos today would improve smoking.

3 Brands Tested and Approved by 30 Years of Scientific Tobacco Research
Copyright 1954, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.