PAGE TWO

New Religious Emphasis Week Corrects Many Faults of Old

The decision of the YMCA to cut out the present policy of special services in the spring and fall next
year and consolidate the two into a single religious emphasis week at the beginning of the second semester, will be
a judicious step toward improving the whole religious program on the campus. We hope that this religious emphasis week will
become the permanent policy after next year, and feel that its success will dictate its adoption.

Among the many advantages to be gained under the new set-up will be the proposed co-operation with a national organization
with wide experience in advising and setting up religious emphasis weeks on campuses throughout the country. This group, the University
Christian Mission, not only helps lay plans for such programs, but secures speakers from a large selection of men who
have a message and an appeal for college students. These men work through the organization for a minimum expense fee.
Among their number are many of the outstanding leaders of Christian thought and action.

We are in agreement with those who believe that too much preaching can be at least as bad as too
little, especially when it comes with little preparation and enthusiasm among those who are to hear it. The new set-up
will allow plenty of time for planning and study among those who are interested both before and after the week
itself. Though many of the fall and spring services of the past have been eminently worthwhile, they have suffered from
the widespread belief that they are just one more opportunity for “somebody to preach to us.” With the effort of
those planning the services abetted by an experienced national group, and concentrated into a single effort, we believe that the
new program—though consisting of less preaching—will have a far better chance of having far-reaching effects among students here, who sometimes
feel they become immune to religion through an overexposure to the preaching aspect of it.

Need For Whole Blood Continues Though Hostilities Have Ceased

Hostilities in Korea have subsided but the need for blood, and, of course, of blood donors is still with us.
It is hard to muster a lot of enthusiasm for a blood drive without the added impetus of men falling
wounded on the field of battle, where maybe a pint of blood can mean the difference between life and death
in the space of a few minutes. But though the drama is gone, still its aftereffects are left with us
in the form of men with shattered bodies, whose only hope for regaining any semblance of health lies in a
series of tedious and painful operations. These operations are not possible when the blood banks have run dry, because many
of them necessitate numerous transfusions. Modern science can work many miracles, but it cannot manufacture this needed whole blood; it
has to come from people willing to give it.

It takes a little time to donate blood, and it’s a little inconvenient and uncomfortable. But it’s also a little
inconvenient and uncomfortable to lie crippled in a veterans’ hospital with one’s only hope in surgery that is also a
little inconvenient and uncomfortable. There are people whose return to health and happiness depends on the supply of whole blood.
Let’s insure them of the future they have a right to expect from the people and nation who expected so
much from them.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Moody Smith

BUSINESS MANAGER
Charley Hasty

ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Jim Moore, Dick Roper

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1879.

SPECTATOR SPORTSWEAR for every important HORSE RACES: CAROLINA CUP Camden, S. C. APRIL 3rd Post Time: 2:00 P.M. Mark Wood
Ltd. “It Costs No More To Dress Correctly” 233 SOUTH TRYON CHARLOTTE, NORTH CAROLINA

A group of Davidson men, engaged in pursuit of certain fraternity pledges who had attempted a revolt, chanced upon a
parked automobile which they seemed to recognize as that of the fugitives. The vehicle, a '52 DeSoto sedan, was parked
in a small grove of elm and poplar in the vicinity of Concord Road, well away from the main thoroughfare
and at a distance of five or six miles from the town. The car lights were out, and all was
quiet. The pursuers, congratulating themselves on their keen observation and alert foresight, parked their car at some distance from the
place and proceeded stealthily on foot. Confident that the neophytes believed their hiding place secured and undetected, the men agreed
to effect the capture swiftly and silently, seizing them altogether by surprise.

At the edge of the clearing they stopped, deliberated for a moment, and then disbanded, surrounding the car on all
sides. At a given signal, one man darted from the shadow of the trees and jerked open the front right
door, diving onto the seat. A shout was heard: “Okay, I've got the keys—let’s get ‘em!” Whereupon the others rushed
screaming and cursing from the woods. The first man to reach the opposite side of the car opened the door
and cried out in a loud voice: “All right, you've had it!” He shined his flashlight on the front seat.
There huddled closely together, startled and afraid, were a young Negro girl and her escort. Sprawled over them with the
keys in his hand was the would-be captor of pledges. The other young man, mindful always of those social graces
which must be brought to bear in every situation, quickly doffed his hat and said: “I beg your pardon; we
seem to have the wrong party.” And then he ran.

The particulars of the subsequent flight to safety were unfortunately lost in the chaotic scramble which ensued. This much, however,
has been ascertained: Our men were pursued into town and onto the campus by the owner of the DeSoto, who
stopped them here and demanded a logical explanation of their actions, which, unfortunately, the former were unable to furnish him.
His companion was quite shaken up, and he himself was indignant and uncompromising. At last, however, reluctant to pass more
time in such unwelcome company thus ungraciously thrust upon him, he started his car and drove away. We have not
been informed what became of the pledges in question.

Owen Leland, Senior, in Recital Monday

Owen Leland, senior at Davidson College, will give a piano recital Monday night, March 29, at 8:30 in Chambers Auditorium.
Leland, from Charleston, South Carolina, is completing a major in music this semester. While at Davidson he studied under Louise
Nelson Pfohl in his piano work. The program for the night will include: a French suite in E major, by
Bach; Beethoven’s Sonata in G major, compositions by Chopin; Three Fantastic Dances by Shostakovich, and Miniatures by Turina. The public
is invited to attend the recital. No admission will be charged.

WILSON SPEAKS

Dr. James Southall Wilson will lecture in the ballroom of the College Union next Friday, April 2, on the topic
“What Makes a Bestseller.” Recently Dr. Wilson discussed “The Modern Novel” before a group of some 125 students and faculty.

S and P Staggers Out By Mid-April, Maybe

Scripts ‘n Pranks, the clarion call of militant young American apathy originally scheduled for final 1953-54 publication today, hit a
technical snag this week causing a slight delay, Editor Alden Williams revealed yesterday. Appearing three times during the college year
during the months of October, February and April, Williams said that it will be “a matter of days—a month, roughly,
before the poor man’s Seventeen makes its last, and best, splash in the ebbtide of Davidson entertainment.”

The April number features the artwork of Don Mahy, photography by Gene Auten, and the “best prose since the heyday
of the Algonquin Round Table,” with the theme being “one of surprise.” “In fact,” he added, “I'm anxious to see
what’s in the next Scripts ‘n Pranks myself. It hasn't been written yet.”

As for manuscripts from the student body at large, Wednesday, March 31, was announced as the deadline for these, whether
poetry or prose. “In the case of equal merit,” the editor stated, “preference will probably be shown to seniors. We
hope, however, to keep all the material, serious or light, artistically on a par with the Vereen Bell and Willa
Cather award-winning papers which we hope to publish.”

At approximately 2 a.m. on the morning of Monday, March 16, a group of Davidson men, engaged in pursuit of
certain fraternity pledges who had attempted a revolt, chanced upon a parked automobile which they seemed to recognize as that
of the fugitives. The vehicle, a '52 DeSoto sedan, was parked in a small grove of elm and poplar in
the vicinity of Concord Road, well away from the main thoroughfare and at a distance of five or six miles
from the town. The car lights were out, and all was quiet. The pursuers, congratulating themselves on their keen observation
and alert foresight, parked their car at some distance from the place and proceeded stealthily on foot. Confident that the
neophytes believed their hiding place secured and undetected, the men agreed to effect the capture swiftly and silently, seizing them
altogether by surprise.

At the edge of the clearing they stopped, deliberated for a moment, and then disbanded, surrounding the car on all
sides. At a given signal, one man darted from the shadow of the trees and jerked open the front right
door, diving onto the seat. A shout was heard: “Okay, I've got the keys—let’s get ‘em!” Whereupon the others rushed
screaming and cursing from the woods. The first man to reach the opposite side of the car opened the door
and cried out in a loud voice: “All right, you've had it!” He shined his flashlight on the front seat.
There huddled closely together, startled and afraid, were a young Negro girl and her escort. Sprawled over them with the
keys in his hand was the would-be captor of pledges. The other young man, mindful always of those social graces
which must be brought to bear in every situation, quickly doffed his hat and said: “I beg your pardon; we
seem to have the wrong party.” And then he ran.

The particulars of the subsequent flight to safety were unfortunately lost in the chaotic scramble which ensued. This much, however,
has been ascertained: Our men were pursued into town and onto the campus by the owner of the DeSoto, who
stopped them here and demanded a logical explanation of their actions, which, unfortunately, the former were unable to furnish him.
His companion was quite shaken up, and he himself was indignant and uncompromising. At last, however, reluctant to pass more
time in such unwelcome company thus ungraciously thrust upon him, he started his car and drove away. We have not
been informed what became of the pledges in question.

Dr. Sam Spencer, assistant to the president, announced today that all applications for grants-in-aid and remissions except for athletic grants-in-aid
must be madeby April 15. Consideration cannot be guaranteed for applications received later than that date. Application blanks for grants-in-aid
may be secured from Dr. Spencer’s office, Room 113, Chambers Building.

Rent A New Car
LOW RATES FOR THE COMING WEEKEND
Drive it Yourself Inc.
212 West 4th
Phone 3-4131
Charlotte

DAVIDSON THEATRE
All Pictures Will Be Shown On Our New P-A-N-O-R-A-M-I-C WIDE SCREEN

THUR-FRI, MAR. 25-26
“TENNESSEE CHAMPS” (Technicolor)
SHELLEY WINTERS

SATURDAY, MARCH 27
“JESSE JAMES VS. THE DALTONS” (Technicolor)
BRETT KING

MON.-TUE., MAR. 29-30
“CAPTAIN'S PARADISE”
YVONNE DECARLO

WEDNESDAY, MAR. 31
“WICKED WOMAN”
BEVERLY MICHAELS

THUR-FRI., APRIL 1-2
“LITTLE BOY LOST”
BING CROSBY

SATURDAY, APRIL 3
“GUN FURY” (Technicolor)
ROCK HUDSON

FOR YOUR RECORDS — LP’s — PARKER-GARDNER
118 W. Trade — Charlotte

FRIDAY, MARCH 26, 1954

Cat Netters Face Powerful State’s Netters
After failing to break into the win column in five starts on their southern trip to open the season, the
Wildcat baseballers make their North Carolina debut on Monday as they hit the appleknockers of Lenoir Rhyne College on the
Hickory diamond. The Bears are a newcomer to the Cat slate and are an unknown quantity as this will be
their opening game of the season. The Cats gained some valuable experience on the spring trip, and Coach Clements now
has a little more to go on in his choice of starters.

Good Showing
The Cats played some good ball on the trip, but just couldn’t seem to put across the runs in the
clutches. Perhaps the outstanding game of the series was the Georgia Teachers encounter which was lost only by the Georgians
having one big inning, scoring all three in that frame. Lanky Lindley Beardsley turned in an eight-hit pitching job in
going all the way in that encounter. Other highlights of the trip were a four-hit pitching job by Johnny Smith
against Fort Jackson, and a bases-loaded homer by Billy Morris against Parris Island. After Monday's date with the Bears, the
Cats will hit Washington and Lee University in two games on the local diamond on Friday and Saturday in their
home debut.

LINKSTERS HOSTS TO OHIO WESLEYAN
Davidson’s Varsity golf team squares off against the links team from Ohio Wesleyan next Thursday in a match which will
mark the opening of the home season for the Davidson spring sport teams. The golfers had a rough time of
it on the spring trip into the southeastern states where golf is a year-round sport. After winning their opening contest
of the season, the team lost the three remaining matches of the tour in rapid succession. Upon returning from the
trip, Coach Elgin White had high praise for Joe Jenkins and Skipper Hall, who led the Cats’ scoring on the
trip. Both boys played very good golf, with Hall being the only player on the team to win all of
his matches.

Volleyball, Tennis Set Next For The Greeks
The next two sports on the interfraternity docket get underway on Monday as volleyball and tennis take the Greek spotlight.
The schedules for both have been posted and the competition in these two sports will bring the Greek sports activity
into the home stretch of this year’s season.

Freshman Netters To Open Workouts
Wildkitten tennismen get into the swing of their spring practice sessions Monday as the workouts open under Coach McKee. Some
good prospects seem to be in order for the frosh who boast several very fine performers. The frosh schedule will
be mostly with local high schools and the only definite matches on the slate to date are two with Myers
Park High. Coach McKee announced recently that the frosh slate will include some six or eight matches when it is
completed.

SEND THE DAVIDSONIAN HOME

Coach Heath Whittle, director of interfraternity athletics, announced yesterday that several changes will be made in the volleyball setup this
year with an accelerated program of scheduling among the changes. The season must be run off in two weeks this
year as the basketball team will move into the gym on April 12 for spring drills and the volleyball tournament
must be completed by that time. Each team will play twice each afternoon in order to finish the season by
that time.

Rules Changed
The volleyball rules have also been changed in that a victory will be decided by the best 2 of 3
games (games will consist of either 15 points or 10 minutes time, whichever comes first), and in that way each
team must supply a referee and a timer. Either 6 or 9 man teams are optional.

PHI DELTS LEAD WAY IN TROPHY RACE WITH ONLY THREE EVENTS REMAINING
With only three sports remaining on the interfraternity docket, the race for the coveted sports trophy heads into the home
stretch with the Phi Delts out in front by some 50 points. The Delts are the present holders of the
trophy. The second place Betas are the only team to have won undisputed first places in two sports this season
as they won the basketball and track titles. The Phi Delts, however, have taken wrestling and tied with the Sigma
Chis for the tag football crown. The winners of the various other sports have been: swimming—SAE; and Handball—Kappa Sig. The
standings in total points to the nearest ¼ point are:
Phi Delt 715
Beta 657
Kappa Sig 555
Sigma Chi 535¼
SAE 501
KA 476
Phi Gam 423¼
Pika 415¼
Sig Ep 392

Davidson’s sluggish tennis forces open their home season Monday against Michigan State’s powerful netters after a slow start on their
spring tour of the deep South last weekend. The netters won only from Fort Jackson while falling victim to both
Florida and Florida State in close matches. Bad weather has kept the Cats from their usual spring practice sessions and
has greatly hampered their progress. Coach McKee feels, however, that with the coming now of warmer spring weather the Cats
will come along quickly to develop their great potential. The Michigan State team stands as a very interesting showing of
the Cats’ skill and will show some indication of the way the team will shape up for the season.

State, Sewanee Here
Sewanee is scheduled to make its yearly appearance on the local courts for two matches next Friday and Saturday. The
Cats beat Sewanee last year and dropped to Michigan State’s Big Ten champs. Said Coach McKee of the recent spring
trip, “We couldn't seem to get rolling, especially in the singles, with our lack of adequate practice time prior to
those matches really hurting us. I was greatly pleased with the showings in doubles where we were a little weak
last year.”

Clark Hot
Corky Clark was possibly the hottest of the netters on the trip as he copped all three of his singles
matches, two doubles matches, and was leading in the doubles match at Florida which was called on account of darkness.
Johnny Bremer and Corky Johnson also showed up well, but that broken finger is still hampering No. 1 man Lacy
Keesler who lost both his singles matches at Florida and FSU, but improved his No. 1 doubles pairing with Johnny
Bremer as they showed up very well.

AAU Handball Meet Set for Next Weekend
Next Friday evening will mark the opening of the Carolinas AAU Handball Championships here on the Davidson courts. The two-day
event will conclude with the final rounds at 7 p.m. on Saturday, April 3. The entries are not complete as
yet, but good representations of the other schools in the state are expected. Information was not available due to the
absence of Mr. Scott from the campus as to any Davidson participants, however, several have expressed an interest in the
tourney. The entry fee for the tourney will be 50 cents for the singles and 25 cents for the doubles.
Mr. George Diehl, Chairman of the Carolinas AAU Handball Committee, is handling the preparations for the meet along with Mr.
Scott.

Liven your wardrobe with Linen! Pace the mirror and see how wonderful it looks! It's sure to be your favorite
for so many occasions — evenings out, special events or just plain relaxing. And we've got just the pair of
contrasting linen slacks so you have three outfits to wear... a suit, a sports outfit and casual slacks. Complete line
up of colors to choose from. $35.00 - Wilson’s Men’s Shop “COLLEGIATE FASHIONS” Next to Bank Davidson, N.C.

LADY BORDEN Ice Cream
Mooresville
