EDITOR-IN-CHIEF: HENRY BROCKMANN
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 3, 1954

The Davidsonian
Published Weekly Throughout the College Year

ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Asst. Editors: Joe Burroughs, Photographer Hank Daniel
Managing Editors: Crouse, Editorial Consultants — Joe G.
Sports: Tom, Jim Marshall, Stan Miller, Bill Stewart
Feature Editor: Dick Morehead
Assistant Business Manager: Tommy Taylor
Copy Editor: John Hannon
Circulation Manager: Bob Carmichael

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N.C. under the Act of March 3, 1879

BUSINESS MANAGER: TIM COOPER
Lloyd Feeney, John Handley, Austin Strand

PAGE TWO

Dixie’s Calvinists

Some years ago Charles A. Beard brought forth a faith-shaking interpretation of the Constitution of the United States which, in
brief, laid claims to the fact that our founding fathers had their own economic and social interests at heart when
they drew up the document which has been revered since 1789 as the ground upon which the government of the
greatest of all nations was founded. In the midst of an age of theoretical idealism which surrounded the document, Mr.
Beard made the heretical claim that, knowingly or not, the fathers of our country had their own interests at heart
in drawing up the Constitution.

We shall not go further into Mr. Beard, but would like by a stretch of the imagination to apply somewhat
of the same kind of thinking in getting to the base of the question of Presbyterian (re)union. Much have we
read in recent months of eternal verities concerning the question. We find that the northern Presbyterians are ‘unsound’ doctrinally, that
they don’t give like we give, that they are losing churches, and, as a whole, that we are more worthy
than they are. Never can physical union be successful until a spiritual union has been attained, we are told. And
how right this last statement is. But the spiritual union, in spite of all the high-flown terms used to describe
it, really has very little to do with the spirit of Jesus Christ. It is actually a spiritual union which
will come only when churchmen in the south cease to consider themselves a separate people in a promised land and
begin to realize that the thought patterns of the Confederacy are well outdated and that too often we are prone
to back a peculiarly reactionary philosophy of life by calling our sectional feelings the eternal verities of God. Christianity, it
appears, is crushed unmercifully into the cocked hat of a little mold of thinking that is so outdated as to
kill the very dynamic faith which it so loudly professes.

The faith of the southern Presbyterian is one with the faith of the northern Presbyterian. The purpose of the churches
is one. Both proclaim the gospel of Jesus Christ, a gospel of unity and love instead of division and competition.
Let us investigate our reasons for our outspoken protection of our ‘peculiar’ church. Do we base our fight against union
on the Gospel, or are we knowingly or not proclaiming that the southern mind is out of concord with the
national mind and that that mind has convinced itself that it is right and that everyone else is wrong. Lest
we become blind to our duty by looking too fondly at the ghosts of the Confederacy, let us remember the
well-wrought words of William James concerning Rome, a city with a past nearly as great as that of the south:
“The weight of the past world here is fatal—one ends by becoming its mere parasite instead of its equivalent. The
ancients did things by doing the business of their own day, not by gaping at their grandfathers' tombs, and a
normal man today will do likewise.”

On Taming a Zealot

In spite of box upon box of signatures coming from the austere top-brass organization “Ten Million Americans Mobilizing for Justice”,
the Senate has finally regained some dignity by taking a top-heavy stand to censure Joseph McCarthy (R-Wis.) on the first
two of three counts. Monkey-wrenches thrown by members to slow down or stop procedures having failed in their purpose, the
Senate finally realized that the elections were over and that it was time to take some positive action about the
man who has made a laughing stock of the most dignified of legislative bodies and who has brought the United
States to a greater fear of Fascism than she has experienced in recent times.

For a man who has made such a mockery of freedom, while all the while claiming to protect it, some
curbing of slanderous conduct and accusations was necessary. In a word, his method is as bad as that of the
very thing which he is fighting—a method of ‘purging’ opposing elements whoever they may be, and of using any method
necessary to destroy all opposition, hiding all the while behind a cloak of ‘Americanism’ a doctrine which, if made effective,
would end the life of America as we know it. To put his most patriotic program across with the methods
he has used would be to burn down the house of freedom to get rid of a few rats dwelling
in the basement. Surely there must be a better answer than this to the problem of Communism.

McCarthy has been of no mean value to the American nation. He has aroused us to realization of the danger
of Communism, and along with others has upturned evidence pointing to the pervasive force of the Russian religion in even
the high places of our country. But the man himself has become a greater immediate menace than that which he
fights. His flinging of accusations and epithets, his incrimination of many organizations which simply dared to criticize him, his personal
attacks on members of the Senate—these are signs which point to the fact that the junior senator from Wisconsin is
as much concerned about himself as he is about a fight on Communism. And we believe even more so. The
censure came none too soon, none too soon to make the people realize that when they cast a vote against
McCarthy they are not voting for Communism but rather for their own right to live and think with the democratic
freedom upon which our country was built.

“UN” ... But Not the Other Way

Way back when, somewhere around the fifth grade, I remember an unusual teacher. She was not only smart, but also
intelligent. But it took until now for me to appreciate her exacting meticulousness about words. She taught English. She insisted
not only on the exact word at all times, but also on the exact prefix or suffix on every word
that had one or the other. She would know how to handle the present confusion, misinterpretation, and downright stubborn misunderstanding.
But, alas, she lies dead, buried under the weight of misused, misleading prefixes.

Yes, she would have solved everything. She would have changed the name of the House Un-American Activities Committee. You see,
to her, being un-American (whatever that is) and being anti-American would be two quite different things. As I said, she
was also intelligent. She would next have obliged every good American, nay, every American, to carry his dictionary wherever he
went if he did not already know it by heart.

——Jim Dygert in the Michigan Daily (University of Michigan, Ann Arbor). From the Associated Collegiate Press.

When we consider how America stands among the nations of the world, and how we, able to be college students,
compare even to many people in America, we can but realize that a dip into our hamburger and cigarette money
for the Gift Fund to Greece is a small price to pay for being stewards of the greatest material and
spiritual inheritance known to the world.

WITH THE HIGHEST of ROTC STANDARDS, PROGRESSING IN ALL PHASES

WATCH FOR WORMWOOD

At Davidson we hear quite a bit about the state of our religious growth. Perhaps no other weakness in this
period of our lives, the college years, is as prevalent as that of being unconcerned with applying a yardstick accurately
to our growth. Often we simply do not make the effort to relate our beliefs with our actions, and so
we lose sight of how far along we really are — which may not be far at all.

C. S. Lewis has a classic in The Screwtape Letters. This book is a series of letters written by Screwtape
(an official in Hell) to Wormwood, his nephew, who is a junior devil on earth. The letters are instructions telling
Wormwood how to convert a human being, who is in danger of becoming a Christian, to the devil. In this
satire Lewis fairly sparkles, and in a few selected passages I would have him speak for himself.

Concerning Prayer
“... keep the patient from the serious intention of praying altogether. When the patient is an adult recently re-converted to
the Enemy’s party, like your man, this is best done by encouraging him to remember, or to think he remembers,
the parrot-like nature of his prayers in childhood. In reaction against that, he may be persuaded to aim at something
entirely spontaneous, inward, informal, and unregularised; and what this will actually mean to a beginner will be an effort to
produce in himself a vaguely devotional mood in which real concentration of will and intelligence have no part.”

BY BILL SCHOLL

On Influences of Other Humans
“I was delighted to hear from Triptweeze that your patient has made some very desirable new acquaintances and that you
seem to have used this event in a really promising manner. I gather that the middle-aged married couple who called
at his office are just the sort of people we want him to know — rich, smart, superficially intellectual, and
brightly sceptical about everything in the world. I gather they are even vaguely pacifist, not on moral grounds but from
an ingrained habit of belittling anything that concerns the great mass of their fellow men and from a dash of
purely fashionable and literary communism. This is excellent ... No doubt he must very soon realize that his own faith
is in direct opposition to the assumptions on which all the conversation of his new friends is based. I don’t
think that matters much provided that you can persuade him to postpone any open acknowledgment of the fact, and this,
with the aid of shame, pride, modesty and vanity, will be easy to do.”

Of The Patient’s Misconception Of His State
“Obviously you are making excellent progress. My only fear is lest in attempting to hurry the patient you awaken him
to a sense of his real position. For you and I (sic), who see that position as it really is,
must never forget how totally different it ought to appear to him. We know that we have introduced a change
of direction in his course which is already carrying him out of his orbit around the Enemy; but he must
be made to imagine that all the choices which have effected this change of course are trivial and revocable. He
must not be allowed to suspect that he is now, however slowly, heading right away from the sun on a
line which will carry him into

What Others Are Saying About...

SEGREGATION
From Sullins College, Bristol, Virginia

“All men are created equal.” A concise and definite interpretation of this phrase from our Declaration of Independence has yet
to be formed. Our forefathers wrote that all men are equal, but how did they mean this? Surely the people
of America cannot assume that we are all equal. Equality means sameness in measure, quantity, and degree. We have only
to look around us to see that inequality of wealth, social position and class rank exists. A list of inequalities
in our United States would be almost endless. The problemof segregation is one that affects every one of us, regardless
of what section of the country we are from. As a body of students here at Sullins, we are rather
indirectly associated with this problem, due to the fact that Sullins is a privately owned, non-denominational institution. On the other
hand, each of us is directly concerned with this major problem in regard to our own particular city and state.
This problem is one that cannot be solved with a yes or no answer. A solution can come about only
through clear thinking and an objective attitude. What will the answer be? As long as prejudices and false ideals exist,
so will segregation. In the next generation, our children will be influenced by our own prejudices and beliefs. It seems,
then, that the only possible solution to this problem is to attack the source of the sore spot—unsegregated public schools
and unequal economic opportunities. Let us, with the help of God, learn not just the meaning of toleration, but the
meaning of love—love for our fellow man. Our fellow man is not only the man next door, but the man
on the back of the bus, and the little Negro girl who shares her lollipops with your kid sister. (Sullins
Reflector).

And The Associated Collegiate Press ... Read the newspaper accounts of race riots in the newly integrated schools. Rarely will
you find difficulty arising from the behavior of children. Most of the trouble is plotted by “indignant” parents who are
displaying their ignorance and narrow-mindedness and, at the same time, are depriving their offspring of a sound education ... It
is the parents who instigate school strikes, not the children. Teaching of the principles of the equality of men and
equal opportunity for all must begin in the home. (Daily Atheneum of the University of West Virginia)

the cold and dark of utmost space. “For this reason I am almost glad to hear that he is still
a churchgoer and a communicant. I know there are dangers in this; but anything is better than that he should
realize the break he has made with the first months of his Christian life. As long as he retains externally
the habits of a Christian he can still be made to think of himself as one who has adopted a
few new friends and amusements but whose spiritual state is much the same as it was six weeks ago. And
while he thinks that, we do not have to contend with the explicit repentance of a definite, fully recognized, sin,
but only with his vague, though uneasy, feeling that he hasn’t been doing very well lately.” Such words are a
challenge to anyone who would examine himself with the utmost scrutiny, and who wants to develop himself through wrestling with
questions of the most profound nature—questions which are applicable to all men and remind us of our brotherhood with every
man on earth. At Davidson too often the cry rings true that we are concerned with local matters in such
a way as to bog down and lose sight of all purpose and slur over great intellectual problems which could
educate us as we never dared hope, would we but make the effort. But, of course, “education” literally means a
“leading out,” and perhaps we're too settled in mediocrity to want to come out—because it would mean carrying a cross.

Wisdom of the Ages? Dr. James H. Thornwell was the outstanding preacher of the Southern Presbyterian Church before the War
between the States. In 1838, in an address to the students of Davidson College, he had this to say with
respect to the Abolitionists: “And if their leveling propensities should gradually bring them to the hated doctrine of amalgamation, reason,
religion and humanity as well as decency and taste would turn away in disgust from the sickening am of outrageous
fanaticism.”

Ivy League Expert! Dear Editor: I was fortunate enough to obtain recently copies of your paper in which a letter
from Tom Firor and a rebuttal to it from Gilbert Gragg appeared. In this age of universal enlightenment, provincialism is
a serious accusation. I am sure Mr. Firor was not jesting when he attacked you. For this reason alone I
was shocked by the flippant reply of Mr. Gragg to the allegation. I must therefore assume one of two things;
either that the Davidsonian accepts the role of bumpkin mediocrity relegated to it by Mr. Firor without so much as
a whimper, or that in your hauteur you do not even consider Mr. Firor’s excellent letter worthy of an intelligent
reply. Surely one could expect a more mature viewpoint from a college newspaper. Thomas Perkins, The Yale News New Haven,
Conn.

Mental Breakdown: What Is Our Part? BY LEIGHTON McCUTCHEN As we entered the gate, it looked as if we were
visiting the grounds of a private college. The large buildings were located on a high point of rolling green land,
completely enclosed by vari-colored trees. The first sign of abnormality came as we walked toward the main building, for behind
many large barred windows sat the apathetic figures of people labeled and pigeon-holed by their fellow man as—insane. This was
the state mental hospital at Morganton, and we were a visiting group of “Psych” students—outsiders coming to observe what many
of us thought to be a different species of human; this even though the “book” had said that the sickness
of these people was neither mysteriously shameful nor totally incurable. Only as we talked with the patients did we come
to see the truth of this fact. The hospital has 2700 patients—ranging in degree of sickness from those that were
soon to be released as normal, to those in the back wards which seem hopelessly and chronically psychotic. There is
an amazing turnover of five-hundred persons each six months—leaving due to being “cured,” paroled to society, or dying, and coming
in for an equal variety of reasons.

Context! At first we self-consciously “paraded” through some of the wards. We were amazed to learn later that though most
of the patients looked to be from the lowest socio-economic class of people, they had held prior to their commitment
such a variety of roles as doctors, ministers, common laborers, and business people. Some of the things that we saw
were not pleasant—again the apathetic window sitters—men lying about on the floor of the hall—those patients requiring seclusion sitting immobile
turned toward the wall with only a quilt around their bodies—others grinning foolishly at the door of their necessarily bare
cells—a young girl pleasantly asking us not to kill ourselves in her presence—the recreational therapist trying to get an overwhelming
number (about two hundred) to participate in play of various kinds with amazing success, though of course many were left
untouched— Some of the wards were spoken

Letters To The Editor of as being better, that is having more congenial patients in them, but even the worse
ones were amazingly clean and neat considering the condition of the patients confined therein. Many of the patients talked affably
with us. Most of them expressed the desire to leave the place claiming sanity with such sane arguments that they
were rather convincing at first hearing. Some did seem to be there because they were an exaggerated nuisance to their
families, but others gave every evidence of the validity of their commitment.

Some Reactions The most impressive fact to me was the realization that here were people who were sick in mind,
many of whom could be returned to society as normally functioning personalities. This destroyed the notion, of course, of the
inevitable permanency of abnormality, and also the idea that there is an easily recognizable line between the normal and the
abnormal. The second new conception that I gained was that much of the responsibility for those people in Morganton falls
not just on those few dedicated staff members serving there, but on me as well. It does so on two
accounts; first as I contribute (through ignorance) in interpersonal relationships to the “breakdown” of individuals around me; and secondly as
I am unaware of the fact that many of those people already committed to an asylum could regain adequacy in
society if there were enough psychologists, psychiatrists and interested donors to furnish wise individual therapy and equipment to get at
these persons. The number of patients for which each professional staff member at Morganton is responsible is overwhelming. They can
give potentially effective (i.e. total) therapy to those just entering the institution. There is neither money nor personnel for the
painstaking job with the “chronics” in the back wards. What a challenge for those not blinded by the goal of
financial security and the promise of an easy job; the challenge is to work in the exciting frontier science of
psychology while losing yourself in the service of making men whole again.

Davidsonian Called Tool of ROTC Dear Sirs: We are sick and tired of continually seeing so many articles in “The
Davidsonian” on ROTC. Couldn't this space be used for more interesting and valuable subjects? If you are going to give
such coverage to one subject, shouldn't you give it to all? Instead of writing on members of the ROTC Department
why don’t you write on other members of the faculty? Why doesn't the ROTC Department inaugurate its own newspaper for
those who are interested in reading about ROTC. Many of us are not interested in reading about ROTC. Sincerely, Some
Readers.

Student Contends Discussions Have Not Been One-sided In Past Dear Editor: This letter is written in reply to a letter
which appeared in the Davidsonian on November 12 composed by three members of the student body. Their letter contains in
it a plea for a non-partisan, two-sided discussion of any important controversy dealt with here on the campus. To this
plea I would like to add my own name. Never can intelligent discussions of controversial issues be had unless both
sides are allowed to present their viewpoints. We must work with open and not narrow minds. But as to the
particular questions mentioned by these students in their letter there seems to be an error to me. The “vital questions”
specified were church union and racial segregation. It is claimed that neither of these questions has been presented fairly from
both sides. Possibly this is true of chapel. If so, that fact should be remedied immediately. As long as chapel
is compulsory it is only fair that both sides of any controversy be presented. To my knowledge in the past
three years there have been only two programs on Presbyterian reunion. Both of these were put on by the Westminster
Fellowship last May. The first program was merely a presentation of the Plan for union presented by Dr. C. K.
Brown. The second was a debate held in the ballroom of the College Union with an audience of between 160
and 200 people. Dr. James A. Jones presented the pro-union side, and Dr. Charles McClure presented the anti-union side. Both
of these Charlotte ministers were well-qualified to debate this question, and they handled it capably. This past October the Westminster
Fellowship also presented two programs on segregation. These were led by students. Here again both sides of the question were
given equal opportunity to present their viewpoints. Time for general discussion was also allowed. Both the programs on segregation and
reunion were publicized ahead of time. This letter is not written to provoke an argument but to show that there
are places and opportunities on the Davidson campus to hear controversial issues fairly discussed and to have opinions formulated. Let
us hope that this will continue to be true of a Christian, democratic school such as Davidson. Sincerely, Pat Miller
