FRIDAY, APRIL 9, 1954

It has truly been a remarkable week at Davidson. The Student Body elections and the recent drinking question taken before the Executive Committee have been in the limelight, and under these headlines, an equally significant fact has perhaps gone unnoticed by many Davidson students. During the past week, Davidson’s athletic teams have participated in exactly seven contests, and the Davidson record for the week is seven wins and no losses! Phenomenal, you say? Almost. It has certainly been quite some time now since the Wildcat forces could point to such a record.

The spring sports season at Davidson opened in the usual fashion this year, with the baseball team losing five straight on the southern trip which opened the season. The golf and tennis teams didn’t fare much better, and it looked like another gloomy spring as far as sports were concerned at Davidson. Many said that the baseball team was out to duplicate that winless 1953 season. But the times have changed. Those students who chanced to remain on the campus and see the two baseball contests last weekend saw Davidson soundly thrash Washington and Lee’s Generals in a pair of one-sided Southern Conference affairs. And that team out there on the diamond certainly didn't resemble any Davidson nines of recent years. They hustled all the way, and not a single error was made. Incidentally, the two wins put them atop the Southern Conference standings, though they are tied with The Citadel for the top spot. Yesterday, just to show that it wasn’t a freak performance last weekend, the Cats extended the win streak to three by edging past Wesleyan, 10-9. The thrilling contest saw Davidson come from behind in the bottom of the ninth inning after trailing 9-8.

The golf and tennis teams took their share of the glory this week, too. The links crew took two decisive wins over Furman and Wofford early this week by scores of 17-1 and 26½-3½. It seems that the interfraternity athletic race is going right down to the wire again this year as it did in 1953. The Phi Delts, last year’s champs, still hold the lead in active competition, but it is so slim now that the on-rushing Betas could easily overtake the leaders in softball and varsity competition, the only two remaining point-getters. The Kappa Sigs and Sigma Chis stand an outside chance of taking the cup, but unless there are a lot of upsets, it looks like it will be a two-team race down to the final point. Last year, the results weren’t certain until after the last two weeks of school had gotten under way, and unless one of the teams should slump badly in softball, it will be that way again this year. The pressure’s on in that softball league.

The only Davidson spring team that has yet to make its opening appearance is the track squad, and the big question is, “Can ‘Pete’ do it again?” Coach A. Heath Whittle has been turning out Davidson’s only consistently-winning squad over the past ten years. Although no scholarships are offered in track, “Pete” has always managed to come up with some fine prospects and build a winning team. This year’s team will probably be no exception, and added to the fact that very few were lost from last year’s squad, a very good season may be in the offing for Whittle’s crew. Tomorrow's opening meet at Mercer may give some indication of what we may expect.

By JIM HOLSHOUSER

FOR YOUR RECORDS — I's — PARKER-GARDNER 118 W. Trade — Charlotte Phone 2-8257

AFTER-SIX DINNER JACKETS FOR SPRING FROLICS, ETC. Single Breast or Double SEE THE NEW DACRON BLEND Priced from— 26.75 to 65.00 RENTALS ALSO

Wilson’s Men’s Shop “COLLEGIATE FASHIONS” Next to Bank Davidson, N. C.

THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

Cat Netmen Tangle With P. C. Tomorrow Baseballers Will Hit Wofford Nine Tomorrow

By BUDDY LYLES.

Coach Chuck Clements’ baseball squad meets Wofford College at Spartanburg tomorrow in the second half of a weekend trip into South Carolina. The Wildcats met Furman this afternoon in a crucial Southern Conference game. The Davidson baseballers are currently leading the Southern Conference with a two win-no loss record. The Purple Hurricane has won one contest and lost two in conference competition thus far, and the Wildcats could help their chances of breaking out of a first-place tie with The Citadel by taking Furman in hand.

In defeating Washington and Lee in two straight games this past weekend, the Wildcats broke one of the longest losing streaks ever carried by a Davidson team. The local nine had lost 23 straight contests on the diamond since the beginning of last season. Ish Bennett took charge of the situation Friday in limiting the Generals to four hits. Johnny Gray collected two doubles and two singles to lead the batting. Buzz Hope rapped out a triple and a single to add to the winning cause. Although the Davidson team committed no errors in the two contests, the Generals failed to get a single earned run. This improved defense by the Wildcat nine seems to intimate that the infield and outfield are settled and are giving the proper support that the pitchers need, always a big factor for a winning team.

Next week the Wildcats will play host to Ohio University on Wednesday, and on Thursday the team tangles with Hampden-Sydney. Ish Bennett who was to be the starting pitcher against Furman this afternoon will probably be ready again, and will go against the Ohio team. Johnny Smith will take his turn against the Hampden-Sydney nine, while Lyn Beardsley or Roger Little will start on the mound against Wofford tomorrow.

The Davidson freshman baseballers, who have been badly hampered by rain, played their first game Tuesday, and defeated Brown High School of Kannapolis. Dick Belton was on the mound for the Kittens, and he fanned 13 batters and gave up only four hits in the 4-0 win. Don Campbell got two hits to lead the hitting department. Dyke Little and Jim West had a triple and a double respectively to support Campbell.

Freshman Netters Idle After Loss

The Davidson freshman tennis team meets Myers Park High School on April 22 in their second match of the current campaign, after having lost their opener to Myers Park High, 5-3. The Davidson squad took both the No. 1 doubles and singles matches, but the depth of the Myers Park team was the factor that brought victory. Leading only 4-3, going into the final match, Jerry Clark and Finley Lee pulled the win out of the fire for the Mustangs with a 6-1, 6-4 win over John Winfrey and Huger King. John Thorpe defeated Bob Huffaker, 5-7, 11-9, 6-1, in the top match of the afternoon. Later Thorpe teamed with John Robinson to win the No. 1 doubles match. Tom Lee was the only other player to salvage a win against the Myers Park boys. He defeated David Bradford, 4-6, 6-1, 7-5.

PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS

Phi Delts, SPEs, Betas Tie In Volleyball Loop

The Phi Delts and the SPEs moved into a tie for first place in the Interfraternity Volleyball League this week as competition came to a close. On Wednesday afternoon, the Phi Delts upset the highly touted Betas to move into the tie for the top spot. The SPEs finished the season undefeated except for a first-game loss to the Betas, and handing the Phi Delts their only defeat. The Betas had led the league from the beginning and were undefeated until the game Wednesday. Tom Lambe was the big gun for the Betas, and his ability on the net was a big factor in the Beta wins. Buddy Brown and Jon Regen of the Phi Delts turned in fine performances of spiking in pushing their team to the top, while Lee Scott and Vince Gould were the sparkplugs of the SPE squad. The three-way draw in the volleyball competition left the Phi Delts in front of the Interfraternity race this year. With the Betas hot on their heels, the Phi Delts are still clinging to their slim 587-point margin. Tennis results are almost completed, and only softball and varsity competition remain in the point race.

Kitten Tracksters

The tentative line-up is as follows:

SHOT PUT—Bill Gramiley, Bill Lazenby, Gaylord Walker.
DISCUS—Bill Gramley, Bill Lazenby, Gaylord Walker.
JAVELIN—Sonny Kincey.
HIGH JUMP—Sonny Kincey.
HIGH JUMP—John Robison, John Hunter, Snyder Garrison.
BROAD JUMP—John Robison, Roswell Mallory, Snyder Garrison.
POLE VAULT—John Holshouser.
200 LOW HURDLES—Don Campbell, John Robison.
120 HIGH HURDLES—Don Campbell, John Robison.
100-YARD DASH—John Robison, Mal McSwain, Jim Covington.
220-YARD DASH—Mal McSwain, Jim Covington.
440-YARD DASH—Frank Kiker, Roswell Mallory, TedBaker. 880-YARD RUN—Pete Ashcraft, Frank Kiker, Ted Baker. ONE MILE RUN—Pete Ashcraft, Steve Huntley, Billy Jackson, John Kiker, Ted Baker, Roswell Mallory, Snyder Garrison.

PICKED CAMELS AS BEST 18 YEARS AGO AND WE'VE BEEN THE BEST OF FRIENDS EVER SINCE! CAMELS’ FRIENDLY FLAVOR AND MILDNESS HAVE ALWAYS AGREED WITH ME!

RED SQUAD VICTORS IN INTRA-SQUAD TRACK COMPETITION

In the recent Davidson inter-squad track meet, the Reds defeated the Blacks by a score of 83½ to 62½. The teams were composed of both varsity and freshman participants divided equally with even distribution of talent on both sides. The performers were not up to par with other time trials held earlier in the season, and a better record can be expected from both teams in their regular meets.

Phil Koonce led the scoring for both teams with 15 points, coming in with three first places. Koonce ran the 220-yard dash in 23.4 for first place, and had a 10.5 in the 100-yard dash. He nosed out Jack Huffaker to take the broad jump. Two freshman standouts, Pete Ashcraft and Don Camel, tied for second place honors with 10 points apiece. Ashcraft posted a 4:46 in the mile and a 2:09 in the 880-yard run to run up his points, while Camel racked up a first in the high and low hurdles for his markers.

Homer Sparks, Wildcat distance man, copped first place in the 2-mile run and second place in the mile for 8 points. He had a time of 10:56 in the 2-mile, which is not as good as his usual time, and a 4:57 in the mile. In the 440-yard dash, Bill Shipley crossed the line in 53 seconds for first place, followed by Roswell Mallory, Frank Kiker, and Doug Andrews in that order.

While the cindermen were speeding around the track, the field events men were engaged in a close battle in the throwing and jumping departments. Bill Gramley, freshman weight man, threw the shot 40 feet 7⅞ inches to take first place, and placed second in the discus for 8 points. Tim Gilley took a first in the discus with a throw of 133 feet, some feet less than his usual distance, and Harry Peterson racked up 5 points with a second place in the shot and a third in the discus.

Jack Huffaker tied for first place in the high jump and second in the broad jump for 7 points. Huffaker leaped 5 feet 8 inches in the high jump, tying with versatile John Robinson who accumulated 6 points. In the pole vault, Bill McNair and John Holshouser tied for first place at 9 feet 6 inches.

The varsity tracksters travel to Macon, Georgia, tomorrow where they will meet the Mercer squad. The team defeated Mercer last year and should show up very well again this year. The freshmen team played host to a quadrangular affair with Myers Park and North and East Mecklenburg High Schools this afternoon.

Dick Powell says: “At Little Rock College, Ark., I began singing with a choral group. This was followed by dance-orchestra jobs all over the Mid-West — and finally to Hollywood. After 40 pictures, typed as a ‘crooner’, I finally won a ‘tough guy’ role — and really got going!”

TOUGH CAROLINA NETTERS INVADE COURTS ON MONDAY

The Wildcat netmen, victorious in their last three matches, face some tough opposition in the next few days. They faced Wofford this afternoon in Spartanburg, an unknown quantity. It is believed, however, that Davidson has too much power for the South Carolinians, and another victory should be added to the growing string.

LACY KEESLER

No. 1 man on Coach McKee’s squad, Lacy was the leader in the Cat win over Wesleyan.

FROSH GOLFERS END QUALIFYING ROUNDS

This week marked the completion of the qualifying rounds for the Davidson freshman golf team with some fine prospects coming through in the 36-hole trials with some fine play. Although all the scores were not in as we went to press, the men who will make up the stronger nucleus of the squad were pretty well determined. Buster Jenkins led the field with a fine 151 count. George Scott was close behind with a 153 total. Such men as Russell Barringer or Osborne Thomas will probably see action for the future varsity aspirants. A good turnout took part in the hotly contested trials. The freshman schedule is still not entirely complete, however, the kittens will definitely have matches with Charlotte Central high school and Myers Park high school, as well as some of the other high schools and junior colleges.

Saturday things will be different, as the netters move to Clinton to meet Presbyterian College. Davidson will definitely be the underdog to one of the finest teams in the South. Alan Morris will be playing in the number one position again this year. He defeated Lacy Keesler twice last year, but the second match went three sets; this year it ought to be another battle, since Lacy is constantly improving his already strong game. Playing in the number two slot for PC will be Dick Macatee, who was ineligible last year. He is reported to be pushing Morris, but his opponent will probably be much improved Corky Clark. Corky is a real power player, forcing and fighting every minute. Hunt, who played number two last year, will be the third man, while Bradley and Thompson will play four and five respectively. Both return from last year’s team. From past experience Davidson plays some of its best tennis at PC, and Coach Dick McKee says that the situation is far from hopeless.

Again Monday, the Wildcats will be forced to play the underdog role, this time to the University of North Carolina. Carolina has one of the most powerful teams in the nation, and is gunning for the national championship they missed narrowly last year. The Tar Heels lost top man Del Sylvia through graduation, but the line-up of Browne, Thompson, Blanchard, Payne, Green, and Derdasha is loaded. And down through the first twelve or fifteen there are players that would bolster almost any team in the nation. But there is a bright spot in this situation. It is entirely possible that Davidson will be on the short end of a lop-sided score, but invaluable experience will be gained, win or lose. Experience from this match will help the team for the rest of the year.

Last Wednesday, Ohio Wesleyan fell before the netters 8-1, with Captain Lacy Keesler paving the way with an easy 6-1, 6-2 win over Bowers of the visitors. Lacy was in complete command all the way, keeping his opponent off balance with well-placed shots from both the net and the baseline. Leighton Green, at number five, was the only loser.

SEND THE DAVIDSONIAN HOME

IMPROVING LINKSTERS WILL MEET STATE IN CHARLOTTE TUESDAY

The varsity linksters continued their winning ways this week as they racked up three impressive victories to push their season’s mark to five wins and only two losses. The Cats took the measure of Ohio Wesleyan, Wofford, and Furman in impressive wins. The Furman victory, an overwhelming 26½-3½ rout, was the only conference engagement for the Cats to date and gives them a spotless Southern Conference mark of 1-0.

The surprise of the week was the excellent medalist play in both the Wofford and Furman matches of Joe Jenkins who toured the two courses with a 71 against Wofford and a 72 against Furman. Jenkins is perhaps the most improved golfer on the squad and has been playing consistently good golf in all seven of the meets to date. Captain Graeme Keith, along with Mickey Cannon and Edo Douglas have also been turning in some fine performances against their opponents.

In the Ohio Wesleyan match the Cats took the Ohioans to the cleaners to the tune of 13½-3½, while mopping up Wofford’s Terriers in a 17-1 whitewash. The Cats look like a different team since their return from their spring tour of the Deep South, and have been playing good golf.

Next week's schedule pits the Cats against NC State on the home Myers Park links on Tuesday in the only action.

NOTICE!

Davidson's freshman track team won an impressive victory yesterday in a quadrangular meet with Myers Park, East and North Mecklenburg high schools. Taking 11 out of 13 first places, the Kittens finished well ahead of second-place Myers Park. East was third, while North finished in fourth place.

Start smoking Camels yourself! Smoke only Camels for 30 days — see for yourself why Camels’ cool, genuine mildness and rich, friendly flavor give more people more pure pleasure than any other cigarette!

CAMELS LEAD IN SALES BY RECORD