FRIDAY, APRIL 23, 1964; THE DAVIDSONIAN

Wildcat Nine To Host Citadel, Davidson Netters To Contest With Bulldogs NC State Here Thursday

Highlights SC Competition

By RANDY JOHNSTON

The Davidson varsity track team will take a trip to Columbia, S.C., tomorrow for a three-day meet with the Gamecocks of the University of South Carolina and the Citadel Bulldogs. The Davidson team has shown much improvement as the season has progressed and will carry an experienced and strong team on the trip. In previous meets, the only weak spots have been in the field events.

Davidson's varsity baseball team plays host to The Citadel tomorrow in a contest which holds the Southern Conference spotlight for the action of next week. The Bulldogs are currently leading the conference, while the Davidson club is in third place. Citadel will remain for a second game Saturday.

Coach Dick McKee’s varsity tennis team plays host to N.C. State and Miami University next week in the final matches of the season for the Wildcat netters. On next Thursday, N.C. State will be here for a match that finds the Davidson team highly favored. State lost a 9-0 decision to Duke in its last outing and should be easy pickings for the Wildcats. Miami, on the other hand, brings one of the top teams in the South to Davidson next Friday. With a year-round warm climate that encourages practice, the Floridians consistently come up with fine teams which make trouble for the best teams around.

Tomorrow, the Wildcats are on the road for a Southern Conference match with the Indians of William and Mary. It will be the only conference encounter of the campaign prior to the Southern Conference tournament which will be held next month. This afternoon, the Cat netters were to take on the Duke tennis team at Durham in a match that was rated a toss-up.

Win Two

The Davidson netters played two matches this week and emerged the victors in both contests. On Monday, the Cats defeated Kalamazoo College's touring team, 5-4, and on Tuesday, Wofford invaded the local courts and was defeated. Bremer was the only Cat man who was extended to three sets, as the Davidson team won every match for a 9-0 win.

SPEs, Phi Gams Lead Greek Softball Race At Mid-way Mark

At the mid-way point in the inter-fraternity softball competition, the SPEs and the Phi Gams are pacing the league. The two clubs have both remained undefeated thus far, but the SPEs have won more games than the Phi Gams, so they hold a slim margin in the first place position.

Phi Delts Near Title in Interfrat Tennis

With only one match remaining on their schedule, the Phi Delts appear to be on their way to a second consecutive inter-fraternity tennis championship. The Phi Delt combination of Buford Price and James Montgomery has beaten every foe thus far, and only the ATOs remain in the way of the crown. The SPEs and the KAs were still holding strong positions until this week when both clubs lost to the Phi Delts. Several other combinations have played very few matches and could move up fast at the last moment, but it appears that none will be able to move into the top spot. Actual standings of the league are unavailable at this time since many matches are in progress but have not been finished. The Betas have now won seven matches and have lost only one, and their combination will probably finish the season in second place. Competition should be finished within a week, and final results will be announced. Several matches have not been played, and some forfeits may result.

Frosh Tracksters Complete Schedule With Lenoir Rhyne

Senior Johnny Bremer has shown his usual fine brand of tennis in recent matches, and has been a big factor in the wins of the team this year. Johnny plays the No. 2 post and is part of the No. 1 doubles team.

Carrying the brunt of the attack in the track and field events this season are: Captain Bill Shipley; the versatile sophomore, Phil Koonce; Homer Sparks; Floyd Feeney; Frank Mitchener; Tim Gilley; Harry Peterson; and Harley Smith.

Clemson Wins

In a three-way meet last Saturday, with Clemson and Wofford furnishing the opposition, the Wildcat cindermen finished second. Clemson edged past the Cats by a slim, 77-75 margin, while Wofford only got 11 points to finish third. Coach Whittle was pleased with the showing of the team. Davidson took seven out of fifteen first places. Phil Koonce was the big gun for the Red and Black. Koonce walked off with three first places and was one of the runners in the winning mile relay team. The first places came in the 100-yd. dash, the 220-yd. dash, and the broad jump. Homer Sparks finished first in the mile, and Bill Shipley won the grueling 440-yd. run. Floyd Feeney won the two-mile run for Davidson to complete the sweep in the distance events.

BULLETIN

Davidson's tennis team won its initial Southern Conference match of the season yesterday in a match which was moved up after having been originally scheduled for tomorrow. Traveling to Williamsburg, Va., the Cats walloped William and Mary.End Mary, 9-0. Lecy Keesler defeated Carl Spies, 6-1, 6-0, in the feature singles match of the day. Johnny Bremer teamed with Keesler to beat Spies and Heern, 6-2, 6-3, in the No. 1 doubles match. Two contests during this past week, and the Wildcats split the pair of decisions. On Wednesday, the semi-pro McCrary Eagles invaded the local diamond. After trailing for the major part of the ball game, Davidson scored three runs in the bottom half of the ninth inning to emerge the victor. Behind, 6-4, after 8½ innings, the Cats loaded the bases on a walk to Kiser, a double by Buzz Hope, and a walk to Bill Rowland. Then Hicks, the McCrary pitcher, walked Stowe to force in a run. Billy Morris brought in the tying run from third base with a clean single to left, and Max Deane watched four balls go by and strolled to first as the winning run was forced in. On Thursday, Lenoir Rhyne met the Wildcats and defeated the local club for the second time this season. Earlier this season, the Bears took a 3-1 decision over the Davidson Club at Hickory. This time the Bears came out on the long end of an 8-7 score. Ish Bennett started for the Cats and was coasting along fine until the fourth inning, when the roof fell in. The Bears knocked Bennett out of the box as they scored five runs in the frame. A three-run homer into left field was the climax. The Cats almost pulled another final-inning rally as they scored three runs in the ninth. But the rally fell short when the Bears (Continued on Page Four).

Davidson Golfers To Meet State in Return Match

The Davidson golf team overwhelmed the Furman linksters in a one-sided affair, 16½ to 1½ last Wednesday. Graeme Keith sparked the Wildcats in the match, shooting a brilliant 69. Joe Jenkins and Skipper Hall turned in two fine performances also. Jenkins had a 72 while Hall shot a 74. This win brings the season record to 5 and 4 for Davidson. The Cats are now looking forward to the Southern Conference Tourney at Richmond on May 7 and 8. Next on the schedule is a return meet with the N.C. State golfers. In their previous encounter, State shaded the Wildcats by three points at Charlotte. The Davidson team travels to Raleigh on April 27 to take on the Wolfpack again. VMI and VPI are the next two opponents to face the Wildcats, who travel to Virginia for these meets. On April 29 the home team faces VMI at Lexington and travels to Blacksburg to take on the VPI linksters. It should be noted that these two are conference foes, and wins would boost the standing of the team to a prominent position as the tournament approaches.

Your Wings are

The major leagues have finally gotten into full swing up North, and there is always that question, “Can the Yankees do it again?” The Bronx Bombers have won five straight World Series championships, a new record for consecutive wins, and each year, sports fans have predicted that the Yankees were “through.” Casey Stengel has continued to win, however, and has another good club this year. Boston Red Sox and Chicago White Sox fans are convinced that this will be the year that the New York club won't win. Certainly, both of these clubs appear to have the best chance of pushing the Yankees out of first place. When Ted Williams returns to the Red Sox line-up, they will be in there fighting for the lead. But right now, it looks like the World Series will remain a New York affair, with Brooklyn and the Yanks meeting again.

Cat Scores This Week

SPE 5 0
Kappa Sigs 3 2
Sigma Chis 2 1
Cotas 2 2
Belts 1 3
SAGs 0 4
PI Ka 0 5

A well-balanced team with strength in every event has been the biggest factor in the fine record for the campaign. Bill Gramley and Bill have been consistent winners in the weight events, and John Robison and John Hunter have been the leaders in the high jump. Robison also participates in the pole vault and in the dashes. Mal McSwain has been the Kitten broad jumper, and John Holshouser is the leading pole vaulter.

HOT WEATHER? LORD JEFF KNIT SHIRTS cool and good looking Lisles and Cottons Davidson, N.C.

Phi Delts, 13-1. This marked the fifth consecutive win for the leaders as compared to four wins for the Phi Gams who have had one bye in competition. The Pikas have dropped into the third spot in the league after losing to the SPEs. They have a 4-1 record. Shown below are the softball standings including Wednesday's contests. With the game between the Phi Gams and the SPEs coming up soon, the progress of the race will start to form, and the championship may be decided in that contest.

Net Meet Here

Coach Dick McKee has announced that the Davidson College tennis courts will again be the site of the annual Southern Conference tennis tournament. The tourney will be held on May 6, 7, and 8, with the finals being held on Saturday, May 8. The tournament will be a single-elimination affair with players advancing to the finals if they remain undefeated. Davidson’s veteran crew will be favored to cop the championship. Since the Southern Conference has split, leaving North Carolina and Duke out of the competition, the Wildcats moved into the favorite’s role since they finished third last year. William and Mary, VPI, and the others who had a sizable entry in the event last spring, and none fared too well. Keesler is coming into his own in individual play, and Keesler’s game has steadily improved this season, playing inter-fraternity basketball last winter.

Creamery, Inc.

UNITED STATES AIR FORCE