PAGE FOUR

SERGEANT SKETCH

David McLean Center To Be Dedicated Sunday

The David McLean Community Center, known for many years as the “Y” Hut, will be rededicated this Sunday afternoon, November
21, at 3:00 P.M. The Community Center, which was moved and renovated as a result of the Davidson College Y.M.C.A.’s
annual Christmas Gift Fund last year, was formerly located behind the Negro Elementary School and was used by the community.

M/SGT. JOHN P. BUTTS

Master Sergeant John P. Butts, who is now an Assistant Instructor in MS II at Davidson College R.O.T.C. Headquarters, enlisted
in the army in February 1940 at Fort Bragg, N.C. Almost immediately, Sgt. Butts was sent to Panama with the
14th Infantry Division and remained there for a little over three years. In June 1943, Sgt. Butts was sent back
to Camp Carson, Colorado, where he was to stay only three months before being sent back overseas.

In September 1943, M. Sgt. Butts left for the China-Burma-India Theater as a member of the now famous “Merrill's Marauders,”
which was the first Infantry Unit to serve in Asia during World War II. “Merrill's Marauders” won quite a name
for themselves as a fighting unit during the time that they harassed the Japanese troops in the C.B.I. Theater. The
unit was formed to fight behind enemy lines and keep the enemy troops busy so that they could not continue
with their conquest of the Far East. After approximately a year and a half, Sgt. Butts returned to the United
States and was stationed at Camp Gordon, Georgia until he was discharged in October 1945.

Sgt. Butts immediately reenlisted and between October 1945 and January 1947 was moved from Fort Bliss, Texas to Fort McClellan,
Alabama to Fort Bragg, N.C. In January 1947, M. Sgt. Butts was sent to Japan with the 19th Infantry Regiment
of the 24th Division. After a year and a half in Japan, he was sent back to Fort Jackson, South
Carolina, where he remained until January 1950. From Fort Jackson, Sgt. Butts was given his first assignment to Davidson College.
In February 1953, he was sent to the Far East for the third time in his army career. This time
Sgt. Butts went to Korea with the 14th Regiment of the 25th Division. In August of last summer, Sgt. Butts
was pulled out of Korea and came to Davidson College for his second assignment here on October 18, 1954. Sergeant
Butts now lives with his wife and son in Cornelius, N.C.

Truckers... (Continued From Page One)

Commission. After the war, during which he rose to a colonel in the Air Force and won several medals, he
returned to Davidson as a professor of political science. In 1949 he was made athletic director at which post he
served until recalled to active duty. Since his second return to civilian life, he has been General Counsel for the
American Trucking Association, Inc.

We all know the importance of transportation, especially the railroad, in the building of our nation. We also know of
the growth of trucking, how it has hurt the railroad, and how the railroad is now fighting to regain some
of its lost carrying trade. Lately, there has been much controversy over the railroads’ plan of carrying trailer trucks on
flat cars from city to city. Mr. Pinkney and Mr. Henry are sure to provide many interesting comments and sidelights
on these and other important issues between the truckers and the railroaders. Opportunity for questions and answers will be given
after the address of these speakers. All students are urged to attend, for this will be a very interesting and
educational program, and could prove quite exciting. Refreshments will be served at the end of the meeting.

Student Opinion... (Continued From Page One)

Robertson, E. Moore, B. Fraley, D. Carmichael, M. Miree, J. Ballenger, J. Brooks, L. Carter, S. Wallace, B. Beall, J.
Trotti, D. Hood, S. Ferguson, A. Myers, B. Sloan, W. Harris, A. Cone, H. Wells, C. Patterson, L. W. McIntosh,
H. Brockmann.

For over a decade as a supplement site is on community center. The present Open House

The dedication service will be the formal opening of the community center for the use of the Negro community. After
the service, there will be an open house, with refreshments being served by the ladies of the community, for all
who care to inspect the building. All members of the Davidson community are invited to attend.

It was before the Second World War that the Davidson College Y.M.C.A. turned over the money raised by the Christmas
Gift Fund for the building of a sorely needed community center. After much hard use for many years, it was
decided by the College student body that they wanted to help recondition the Center, making it a place that could
be used and enjoyed by persons of all ages. A lot was purchased from Mr. J. R. Caldwell on Graham
Street and the old Center was moved to its present site. Mr. Floyd Ballard contracted to renovate the building, and
extensive repairs were made. In addition, a section was added which now provides two bathrooms and a storeroom. Other additions
have been made in terms of equipment, for example, folding chairs and tables, gas furnace, electric stove and refrigerator, etc.

John Withers is at present Chairman of the Community Center’s Board of Control and has put much of his own
labor, along with that of friends, into the building. The Board of Control is thinking about beginning a Teen Age
Club for the young people of the community, with the help of the College Y.M.C.A. Other possible projects are being
considered by the Board at the present time. Policies for the use of the Community Center will be announced at
a later date by the Board.

Named For Alumnus

The Community Center is named after Mr. David McLean who was a student at Davidson College at the time of
the building of the Community Center. He, as Y.M.C.A. Cabinet member in charge of Colored Work, was one of the
main forces behind the drive to raise funds for the Center and spent much of his time working with the
young people of the community. Because he was beloved by the community, the Community Center was named for him. Mr.
McLean is at the present time a missionary in Africa.

Moderator To Speak at Vespers Sunday

Dr. Wade Hamilton Boggs, Sr., Moderator of the Presbyterian Church, U.S., will be the speaker at vespers Sunday night, Nov.
21. Dr. Boggs is a native of Liberty, S.C. He was a member of the class of 1907 at Davidson
where he received his A.B. degree. He did graduate study at Austin Theological Seminary, the University of Texas, and Biblical
Seminary of New York. He received honorary degrees from Presbyterian College of South Carolina and from Southwestern in 1926 and
1944, respectively.

Dr. Boggs was ordained as a Presbyterian minister in 1913 and has served pastorates in five southern states since that
time. In 1943, he became the Executive Secretary of the Assembly's Committee of Christian Education and Ministerial Relief and of
the Board of Annuities and Relief. He has held many important positions in the Assembly including the lower courts of
the church. Dr. Boggs was elected Moderator of the 94th Assembly of the Presbyterian Church in the United States at
its meeting in Montreat on May 27, 1954.

Dr. Boggs married the former Miss Louise Sheldon of Westminster, S.C., and they have two children, a son and a
daughter. His son also has become a minister.

Cagers, Matmen... (Continued From Page Three)

Coach Danny Miller’s basketball squad has been working hard in practice sessions, with the routine being varied with scrimmage games
with other teams and a high school clinic. The Cat cagers will get their schedule under way right after Thanksgiving
holidays, playing their first game on December 1. The initial contest will be against the Guilford Quakers, with Guilford playing
a return engagement on December 6.

Some say that there ought to be three of everything. One for whites with racial pride, one for Negroes with
the same, and one for those who want to be together.

Drink MOORE’S QUALITY MILK
Mooresville Creamery, Inc.

Murrow-McCarthy Film To Be Shown Sunday

The Committee for Effective Citizenship is currently sponsoring a film for the Y.M.C.A. This documentary film, presented by Freedom House,
gives highlights of the Edward R. Murrow-Joseph R. McCarthy controversy on Murrow’s See it Now, CBS-TV program. Following the film,
a member of the faculty will lead a discussion. This program will be held in the Student Lounge of the
Davidson College Church, Sunday Night, November 21, immediately after Vespers.

Peddlers Forbidden On Davidson Campus

College regulations prohibit the solicitation of Davidson College students in the selling of any type of merchandise. This announcement was
made by college authorities this week in the face of reports that a number of students and outsiders have been
going from room to room in their selling efforts and that they have also been approaching other students at the
College Union and at other places on the campus. The regulations against any form of solicitation were put into effect
many years ago at the request of the students because of the great amount of time lost in dealing with
an endless succession of salesmen with all types of merchandise.

On Segregation

There are those who say that constant dripping will wear away the hardest stone. However, there are stones here that
have been here a lot longer than some of the drips.

Miss Cornelia Otis Skinner will present a program of original monologues tonight at 8:15 in Chambers Auditorium. Admission will be
$2.

ROTC Cadets Will Appear In Concord

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Two-Man Forum... (Continued From Page One)

in limiting his opportunities in relation to the opportunities of other students in the same school. It becomes evident that
the Supreme Court has left the realm of tangible inequalities and has become a judge of intangible inequalities. According to
Dr. Dabbs, time alone was necessary for the court to proclaim what was already evident, that equality must mean what
it says both on the college and the grade school level.

A Southern Problem

At 7:30 Wednesday evening, the Reverend Beverly Asbury of the Zebulon, N.C., Baptist Church joined Dr. Dabbs in speaking to
a group of about 60 Davidson students, professors.and townspeople. In his evening address, Dr. Dabbs presented the facts on what
the South is doing at present about the decision. He pointed out that four states in the South are opposing
the decision overtly, that four border states are proceeding with integration and are suffering necessary repercussions, and that the rest
of the South is waiting.

Cadet Colonel Cortez A. Cooper announced this week that elements of the Davidson College ROTC Regiment will participate in a
Holiday Parade in Kannapolis on November 30th. This will mark the first time in some five years that the Regiment
has taken part in a parade off the campus. ROTC leaders hope that the parade will not only have a
good public relations effect for the College but will also be a means for building morale and “esprit de corps”
within the ROTC unit. High enthusiasm on the part of the Cadet Corps has already been shown in the good
response given to the appeal for volunteers for the marching unit which will be sent to the parade.

Davidson ROTC units participating in the parade, which will have approximately 80 other units, are the ROTC Band, commanded by
Cadet Captain Haywood Rogers, the Regimental Color Guard, and the marching unit of 80 sophomore cadets, commanded by Cadet Captain
George M. Canon. Assisting in the operation are Cadet Lieutenants William M. Heston, Jr., Robert B. Dalton, Stratton N. Sterghos,
and Emmanuel G. Sfaelos. Transportation to and from Kannapolis for the event will be furnished by 2½-ton trucks from the
Army Motor Pool in Charlotte. General arrangements for the operation were handled by Cadet Colonel Cooper, Captain Lee R. Brown,
and Lt. Colonel John D. Sapp of the Davidson ROTC.

Chorus and Ensemble Appear In Charlotte

The Davidson College Male Chorus and Brass Ensemble will give their first combined performance at the Covenant Presbyterian Church in
Charlotte this Sunday afternoon at five o'clock. The program is to include selections of early church music, several Bach selections,
several Russian selections, and a few Christmas numbers. This is the first time this year that either of these organizations
has given a concert off campus and also the first time that they have ever given a combined program. The
Chorus is under the direction of Mr. Donald Plott, and the Brass Ensemble is directed by Mr. J. P. Satterfield.
Mr. J. T. Fesperman will be the organist for the group.

Sunday evening, both the Male Chorus and the Chapel Choir will furnish the vocal music for Vespers. This will be
the first time this semester that the two choral groups have sung together. The music will consist mainly of Thanksgiving
selections.

THE CONNOISSEUR
A Place of Fine Foods for any taste in Eating — Specializing in Steak, Seafood, and Chicken Dinners.
Mooresville, N.C. Phone 3-2861

PARKER-GARDNER
CHARLOTTE 2, N.C.
198 West Trade Street
Phone ED. 2-8257

Pointing out several factors in the world which doom segregation to a losing struggle, Dr. Dabbs stated that the South,
in looking backward, has waited to oppose integration until it is too late. The Communist challenge, movements among the world’s
colored peoples for equality, and our own belief in and leadership in democratic ideals have marked defeat from the start
for any attempts we might make to stop integration.

Mr. Asbury, speaking from the background of living in a typical southern small town of average Negro population, addressed those
present to problems that face such an environment in the decision. Stressing the fact that one must know his community
before he can understand its problems, Mr. Asbury said that the greatest problem in his town was the problem of
misinformation and lack of factual information on the part of white people. He stated that the effect of such misinformation
is a low estimate of the Negro. School systems do not help to alleviate prejudice and to educate the young
as to the problem, Mr. Asbury stated. Rather, they leave the issue untouched, or worse, they add unwittingly to the
existing prejudice.

As to the method of integration, Mr. Asbury pointed up a definite possibility of race riots with either immediate or
gradual integration. He intimated that precipitous integration would perhaps cause less difficulty in the long run than a slow, continuously
annoying process. Directing his attention to the church and segregation, Mr. Asbury pointed up the inevitable cleavage in membership and
the accompanying danger of church splits and dismissal of ministers. He brought out the church’s weakness in failing to apply
the Gospel to the education of its children in contemporary social problems such as segregation.

In proposing a solution to the problem, Mr. Asbury proposed study groups and interracial groups working together to solve problems
common to both races. As an example of such interracial cooperation, he mentioned working together to establish recreational facilities in
municipalities. A test area willing to undergo integration and a study of the problems which would arise would also aid
in solving the problem as a whole, Dr. Asbury asserted. He suggested Greensboro, N.C., as a likely place for such
an experiment.

A Davidson Problem

Davidson College, a church-related institution whose trustees come from the synods of North Carolina and Florida, is not free from
the problem of segregation on the grounds of being a non-state school. When the General Assembly of the Presbyterian Church,
U.S., met in Montreat, N.C., early in the summer, it voted to urge synods to adopt a policy of opening
the doors of their colleges and schools to all races. A follow-through on this appeal by the General Assembly would
mean that Davidson would be among the first undergraduate schools in the state (indeed in the South) to admit Negroes.
The problem of what basis the Negro will be admitted on would be one for prolonged investigation.

FRIDAY, NOV. 19, 1954

Five Are Disciplined For Dormitory Trouble

At a special meeting of the Student Council Tuesday night, five students were disciplined for creating disturbances in the dormitories.
One student was acquitted of a similar charge. Two students were placed on probation as regards conduct in the dormitories
for playing a radio excessively loud late at night. Three students were given a short campus, a small fine, and
a letter home, in addition to probation concerning dormitory conduct for removing and breaking bottles.

Nov. 30 Deadline For Beauty Contest Photos

Pictures entered in the 1954-55 Quips and Cranks Beauty Contest are to be handed in at the College Union desk
no later than November 30. Those photographs which will be entered in the beauty section of the annual will be
selected from the entries by a prominent outsider whose name has not yet been disclosed. As in past years, student
body approval is necessary for the printers to personalize the yearbooks with gold-enscribed names on all front covers. A vote
will be taken Friday in chapel and extra charges for this service will be 75 cents if a majority are
in favor of this addition.

Want Frat Snaps

“All fraternities are urged to be taking various activity pictures, because in the past the staff has found a lack
in both quantity and quality of fraternity informals,” announced Swain Loy, editor of this year’s Quips and Cranks. Many students
who failed to order additional photographs from Smith Studios of Raleigh at the time when proofs were shown have expressed
desires to do so. Prints may be secured by placing orders with Swain Loy or Bill Jenkins.

Freshmen, Too

All freshmen interested in working on the Quips and Cranks staff are asked to sign up at the College Union
desk. Typists are much needed and boys not yet working in any type of extra-curricular activity are especially urged to
participate in the production of this year’s annual.

Six Davidsonians Attend Student Meet

Six student leaders left Thursday to attend the State Student Legislature in Raleigh. Meeting in the Capitol, the legislature began
sessions Thursday afternoon and will continue through Saturday morning. Buddy Dye, Floyd Feeney, Swain Loy, Clyde Robinson, Jeff Smith, and
Stuart Vaughn are representing Davidson at the legislature. The legislature is composed of representatives from all of North Carolina colleges.
It contains an upper and lower house and is designed to allow leaders of the various student bodies to meet
and discuss common problems and issues confronting students in general. Davidson has participated in the legislature to some extent in
the past, but is sending a full delegation this year for the first time in recent years.

D.C., Ga.... (Continued From Page One)

The year engineering course is to better prepare the engineering student for his chosen profession. Dr. Karl Compton, former President
of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, was one of the initiators of this trend. He felt that the technical institutions
can train students in technical aspects but they also need a good background in the arts. There are now dozens
of ranking technical schools in the United States which have affiliated with outstanding liberal arts schools in forming three-two educational
programs.

Dr. C. J. Pietenpol, Dean of the Faculty of Davidson College and coordinator of the programs with Columbia University and
Georgia Tech, has had considerable experience with three-two programs. Dr. Pietenpol served as coordinator of the three-two programs at Washington
and Jefferson College which was the first institution to be selected for affiliation with both M.I.T. and the Carnegie Institute.
Later, when Washington and Jefferson founded its own school of engineering, Dr. Pietenpol served as Dean of Engineering for that
institution.
