**FRIDAY, APRIL 2, 1954**

Another tournament has invaded the Davidson campus tonight to bring into the spotlight a man who is doing a fine job of putting Davidson on the map in amateur athletics, not only in our Southland, but all over the eastern part of the nation. What with the Carolinas AAU tournaments frequenting the campus regularly and such larger tournaments as the volleyball affair on the collegiate level coming to Davidson, the school receives much favorable and very welcome publicity. The man of whom we speak is Athletic Director Paul Scott. Mr. Scott’s energy and enthusiasm for the Davidson athletic program have greatly improved the local setup since he took the helm several years ago. Few students realize the good impression which being a tournament seat, no matter in what sports, makes upon the outside public, especially high school undergraduates undecided in their choice of schools. It gains many friends for Davidson among the visiting teams as well. However, one of the finest tournaments on the local docket is the Southeastern Juniors and Boys Tennis tourney which will again return to the local courts in early June. This event is one of the major high school tournaments in the country and brings a lot of recognition to Davidson. The Southern Conference tennis tourney is not to be overlooked either. Of course, booking tournaments is by no means Mr. Scott's prime objective, nor does it slow his zealous efforts to strive to make Davidson’s athletic department the best possible. Hats off to a man who does much of his work behind the scenes with little recognition for a job well done.

April 12 marks the opening of spring basketball drills under the direction of Coach Miller. The practice sessions will run for 20 drills under a similar ruling as the one which governed spring football practice. The drills have to be completed within a 30-day period. Coach Miller emphasized that anyone who is interested in playing varsity basketball next winter, whether he has been on either the varsity or the freshman teams this year, should report for these workouts. Fundamentals will be stressed with special emphasis on footwork and basic play formations. Coach Miller hopes to make some big strides toward building a good nucleus around which to build next year’s hardwood quint.

By JOHN HANDLEY

Though the famous Jolson song about the flowers following the showers, the recent rains have greatly hampered the flowering of the Davidson spring sports teams. All four of the squads have been hurt by the continuous downpours, being unable to complete their regular workouts. The local diamond has been so well soaked that all three of the freshmen games which were scheduled during the past week have been postponed. The tennis courts have been soft and soggy, but good weather on Monday allowed the Michigan State match to be won in a very impressive manner by the Cats. However, the wet weather during the middle of the week has put the Cats behind in their practice schedule. If the weather warms up again and things are allowed to dry out, the Cats should be ready for the two matches with Sewanee tomorrow and Monday.

WEEK-END GOLFER...OR TITLE HOLDER THESE CLUBS WILL SAVE YOU STROKES!

Shooting to break 100...90...80...or to take a title? Spalding’s sensational advance in clubs — new '54 Synchro-Dyned woods and irons — can do more to save you strokes than any other clubs you ever played! Reason? Try a few swings — and see. Every wood, every iron now has identical contact feel. You naturally swing freer, improve timing... get the ball away straighter and for more distance. Will you shoot better golf consistently? Ask any golfer who owns a Spalding Synchro-Dyned Top-Flite set... and then have your professional fit you.

SPALDING Synchro Dyned TOP-FLITE REGISTERED GOLF CLUBS SOLD THROUGH GOLF PROFESSIONALS ONLY

THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

Netters, Baseballers Here Tomorrow

GOLFERS EVEN MARK

Sewanee Netmen Invade Campus

Washington And Lee Meets Luckless Cats

Davidson's hard luck baseball forces opened their home season this afternoon with Washington and Lee University and will continue it with another game with the Generals tomorrow afternoon. Ish Bennett was scheduled to go the route on the mound for the Cats this afternoon. The starting pitcher had not been decided as we went to press for tomorrow's encounter. Coach Clements said Thursday that either Andy Courts or Johnny Smith would start for the Cats with Lindley Beardsley standing by for a possible relief role.

Starting Line-up

The Wildcat starting lineup includes: either Glidewell or Sfaelos, catching; Johnny Gray, captain, at first; Buzzy Hope at second; Jimmy Kiser at third; Billy Morris at shortstop; Fred Stowe in left field; Bill Rowland in center; and Max DeVane in right. The Cats have shown a lot of improvement over last year’s team and Coach Clements feels that one win is all the Cats need to gain the confidence necessary to win some ball games. The Cats dropped 16 in a row last season and have lost 6 in 6 starts thus far this season. The schedule is as follows:

Apr. 7—Wesleyan, here.
Apr. 8—Wesleyan, here.
Apr. 9—Furman, there.
Apr. 10—Wofford, there.
Apr. 14—Ohio U., here.
Apr. 16—Hampden-Sidney, here.
Apr. 21—McCrary, there.
Apr. 22—Lenoir Rhyne, here.
Apr. 27—Guilford, there.
Apr. 30—Citadel, here.
May 1—Citadel, here.
May 4—McCrary, here.
May 7—VPI, there.
May 8—VMI, there.

Hot Betas Lead Way In Interfraternity Volleyball Tourney

After five rounds of play the Betamen have compiled a record of four wins and no losses in the annual interfraternity volleyball tournament. They are the only unbeaten team in the race. The Betas are followed closely by the Phi Delts, who have obtained a 4-1 record, and the SPEs, also with a 4-1 slate. The Betas have already beaten the SPEs, the Phi Delts and might go all the way to the title.

STANDINGS
Won Lost
Betas 4 0
Phi Delts 4 1
SPE 4 1
ATO 2 1
Pikes 3 2
KA 2 2
Sigma Chi 2 2
Kappa Sig 1 3
Phi Gams 0 3
SAE 0 4
Pi K 0 4

*Wednesday’s results not in

Mooresville Creamery, Inc.
LADY BORDEN Ice Cream

AAU Handball Meet In Progress Here Through Tomorrow

This Friday and Saturday Davidson College will be host for the first time to the Carolinas AAU Handball Championships Tournament. According to AAU eligibility rules, any amateur athlete in North and South Carolina who is duly registered with the Carolinas Association of the AAU may enter. The play will begin on Friday night at 7:00 p.m. Sessions will continue on Saturday at 9:00 a.m. and 2:00 p.m., with the final session being held on Saturday night at 7:00. According to Mr. Paul K. Scott, director of athletics here at Davidson, only one student,Vince Gould had entered the tournament. Other cities represented are Columbia, S.C., Charleston, S.C., Charlotte, Kannapolis, Greensboro, and High Point.

Red and Black Meet Completed Tomorrow

Coach Pete Whittle took advantage of beautiful weather today to give his tracksters a chance to show their form in the Red and Black intrasquad meet. The meet will be completed tomorrow with most of the events being completed today. Co-captains Homer Sparks and Bill Shipley served as the captains for the events; Sparks for the Reds, Shipley for the Blacks.

AT 2 WINS, 2 LOSSES AGAINST WESLEYAN

The Davidson Wildcat golfers will journey to Furman Monday and Wofford Tuesday in an attempt to better their present mark of two wins and two losses. The linksters yesterday handed Ohio Wesleyan a defeat on the Myers Park Country Club course. Led by Captain Graeme Keith, No. 1 man on the team, each of the Cat golfers won from the visitors in all matches except Ed Douglas and Larry Parrot. Graeme seemed to hit his stride, along with Joe Jenkins, Mickey Cannon, and Skipper Hall, who copped their matches.

Ohio Strong

The visiting Ohio team was the Mid Conference champions last year and had a very strong team yesterday. The Cats evened their record with the win and should stay on the winning side from now on. Aside from the above-mentioned boys, several other men are expected to help. Hobby Cobb should round into form soon following basketball. Martin Foil and Tommy Douglas have also shown improvement. Coach Paul Scott will hold a tryout for the freshmen golfers in the first part of next week in order to determine the line-up when the freshmen take on Boyden High School of Salisbury on the 5th. Leading candidates are Ed Bell, Buster Jenkins, Russell Barringer, and George Scott. The freshmen will play a total of six matches. Two each with Salisbury and Myers Park, and two more which are not yet arranged.

WILDCAT OF THE WEEK: Clark Unbeaten In Four Matches

Undefeated! That’s a very unusual word around Davidson in the sports field, but it accurately describes the record which big Corky Clark holds in Davidson tennis play this spring. After four matches Corky has won all of his doubles matches with partner Corky Johnson in the No. 2 position as well as all four of his No. 3 singles matches.

The team was divided by the two captains choosing in turn the various members of the squad. The meet was scheduled to be run in the order of a regular track meet with the events in the regular order. Both the freshman and the varsity men were divided for the Red and Black event. The Cats open their season next weekend as they travel to Macon, Ga., to meet Mercer University. The Cats will be heavy favorites for the meet as they took a decisive win over the Mercer tracksters last season.

“WILDCAT” CLARK

Pictured above is THE original WILDCAT. If that drive doesn’t go over the net, it’ll sure go through it. The fierce expression is just an example of the aggressive play the big netter has been giving the opposition.

Big Corky has been a varsity performer during all three seasons that he has been at Davidson. Although he has never played higher than the No. 3 position, the husky junior has been a consistent mainstay on the teams in the past.

Little Difference

Tennis mentor Dick McKee considers the top three positions to be separated by a mere hair with only a shade of difference between the games of Keesler, Bremer, and Clark. Corky, who hails from Delmar, N.Y., has been playing tennis for quite some time and was a standout in his play before entering Davidson. Thus far this season Corky has taken the measure of his opponents in the team’s matches with Parris Island (this was only a practice match), Fort Jackson, Florida, (Continued On Page Four)

Possibly the brightest spot in the Cats’ lineup to date has been the sparkling play of husky junior Corky Clark. Clark has really been mowing down the opposition and has come through the first four matches unscathed. Besides winning all four of his singles matches, he and his partner, Corky Johnson, have copped their three doubles encounters. (Their doubles match at the University of Florida was not completed because of darkness—Clark and Johnson were leading when called.)

Lacy No. 1

Another bright spot is the ever-improving play of No. 1 man Lacy Keesler who has now regained most of the strength in that broken finger which bothered him a great deal during the first few matches. Johnny Bremer and Corky Johnson have also been playing well in their singles competition. The Cats are looking forward to a good season and will be favored in the Southern Conference tournament to be held here in May. In Monday's match with Michigan State’s Big Ten defending champions, the Cats really poured it on with the Spartans only able to manage one win each in the doubles and the singles. Lacy and Johnny lost their No. 1 doubles to the Michigan Staters. The Cats face Wesleyan here next Wednesday and Wofford there on Friday before the big match with Presbyterian next Saturday.

Attention...!

Coach Miller announced yesterday that the spring basketball practice will get underway on April 12 in Johnston Gym. All men interested in going out for basketball next fall should report for the 20-day schedule of practice sessions.

SEND THE DAVIDSONIAN HOME

Just Received Black Cordovans $16.95 see the mirror finish on these beautiful shoes Belts to Match

Wilson’s Men’s Shop “COLLEGIATE FASHIONS” Next to Bank Davidson, N.C.

RISE STEVENS says: “Not ‘til high school was my voice ‘discovered’. (I unwittingly sang an octave low in class.) From that day, singing was my love—at weddings, parties, on the radio. I studied all over Europe before the Met and the movies accepted me.”

Start smoking Camels yourself! Smoke only Camels for 30 days—see for yourself why Camels’ cool, genuine mildness and rich, friendly flavor give more people more pure pleasure than any other cigarette!

AGREE WITH MORE PEOPLE ANY OTHER CIGARETTE