FOR DAVIDSONIAN SERVICE
Reporting
Sports Ads
VOL. XLII
Jim Brice
Jim Holshouser
Larry Parrott
Subscriptions
Bob Carmichael

Y.M.C.A. Sponsoring Voluntary Devotional

In order to fill a need for those students who have expressed a desire to have a Monday morning devotional period, the Y.M.C.A. is sponsoring a voluntary chapel service each Monday morning in the Lingle Chapel at 10:25. Leighton Green, president of the Y.M.C.A., in making the announcement, stated that the Chapel is to be modeled after the voluntary chapels that are held during examinations. It will last approximately ten minutes. Dickie Davis, who is in charge of the regular Y.M.C.A. chapel programming, will also be in charge of this voluntary service. The members of the faculty and the student body are cordially invited to attend.

Film Committee Gives Statement Of Purpose

It is the desire of the College Union Film Committee to bring a consistently high grade of motion pictures to the campus. With this in mind, we have set out to book films that would not ordinarily be shown in the commercial theatre. As a consequence, many of our attractions have not been very well known, in that they may be several years old, of foreign origin, or were not big money makers. Therefore it is necessary for us to develop a reputation for running pictures of such calibre that one would not have to be familiar with our films at all to be assured of their quality. For the most part we believe we are fulfilling this ambition, although we realize that a few movies of dubious merit have crept in. The present semester is not entirely free from them. In order to close these gaps and to render the best service possible, we would greatly appreciate suggestions from the faculty as well as from the students concerning future bookings.

Eu Literary Society Holds First Session

Despite a few minor mishaps, the Eumenean Literary Society got its season off to a good start Monday night at Eu Hall. Tim Cooper, the new prexy, presided over the zealous throng. After a short business session devoted to keys, quorums, and such, Maurice Crouse, the program chairman, presented a highly entertaining and worthwhile program which thoroughly tested the participants’ knowledge of literature. It was announced that a diverse and interesting variety of forums, debates, and guest speakers have been scheduled for the semester. Eu members interested in maintaining their status were urged to be on hand for the bi-monthly gatherings, held the first and third Monday nights in each month.

HON. FRANK P. GRAHAM

FRANK P. GRAHAM, UN REPRESENTATIVE, SPEAKS AT VESPERS

Dr. Frank P. Graham, former United States Senator and U.S. Representative to the United Nations, will speak at Vespers this Sunday. Dr. Graham received his A.B. degree from the University of North Carolina and his A.M. from Columbia University. Davidson, Duke, William and Mary, and many other colleges have awarded him the LL.D. Catawba College presented him the D.C.L. degree. From 1915-1930 Dr. Graham was a professor of history at U.N.C., and from 1930 to 1949 he was president of that university. During World War II he served on the National War Labor Board, and as a Man-Power Administrator in the United States Department of Labor. Dr. Graham is president of the National Association of State Universities. He is the United States representative on the U.N. Committee of Good Offices in the Dutch-Indonesian dispute, and he is the United Nations Representative to India and Pakistan.

ROTC DEPARTMENT TO PRESENT DISPLAY

The Davidson College R.O.T.C. Department will present a display on Homecoming Day, October 30, in front of the David Ovens College Union. The display, which will be divided into two major portions, will attempt to outline the R.O.T.C. and Army Reserve plan as it fits in with college life. One division of the display will be an information board which will outline the R.O.T.C. curriculum, the advantages of R.O.T.C. training, the mission and purposes of R.O.T.C., and the military obligation of each cadet. The board also will include information about Davidson College graduates who have been active in the Armed Forces in the past. The second portion of the display will consist of an exhibition of the weapons used here in the Davidson College R.O.T.C. Department. Cadets and Army personnel will be available to explain briefly the operation of the various weapons. The primary purpose of the dis- (Continued On Page Four)

OGDEN NASH, COMIC POET, HERE OCT. 29

By DUNBAR OGDEN

The poetic comic genius who “trips the light fantastic through the Saturday Evening Post and the New Yorker,” Ogden Nash, will appear on the Davidson stage Friday night, October 29, at 8:15. His most recent book of verse, “The Private Dining Room,” was hailed enthusiastically by the critics and added to the expanding group of his admirers. Except for a brief tenure as managing editor of the New Yorker in 1931, Mr. Nash has concentrated for some twenty years on producing the light verses that have become associated with his name. His book, Hard Lines, published in 1931, established him as a master of humorous verse, and I'm A Stranger Here Myself, published five years later, sold more than 100,000 copies in the original edition. Ogden Nash was born in Rye, New York, the first of his family to emerge north of the Mason-Dixon Line. One of his ancestors was Revolutionary governor of this fair state, another, a Revolutionary general; Francis Nash gave his name to Nashville, Tennessee.

OGDEN NASH

Entering Harvard in the class of ‘24 he left after one year, as was his original intention. He spent a year at St. George’s School in Newport, R.I., where he lost his “entire nervous system carving lamb for a table of fourteen-year-olds.” In 1925 Nash worked in the advertising department of Doubleday Page, the publishing house, and he “doubledayed” until the beginning of 1931. It was here (Continued On Page Four)

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C., FRIDAY, OCTOBER 22, 1954

The Davidsonian

PUBLISHED WEEKLY

The news and editorial voice of Davidson College

NUMBER 5

Sam J. Ervin Jr., North Carolina’s newly-appointed Junior Senator, will be the speaker for the Homecoming program at Davidson College Oct. 30, John L. Payne, alumni secretary, has announced. The day’s activities will begin at 10 a.m. with the annual meeting of the Wildcat Club in the ballroom of the David Ovens College Union. At 11 a.m. the Davidson College Concert Band will play in the South Court of Chambers Building. The Alumni Convocation will be held in Chambers auditorium, with Dr. F. L. Jackson of Davidson, general alumni president, presiding. Senator Ervin, who will speak on “Alumni Potentials,” will be introduced by Dr. John R. Cunningham, president of Davidson College. Another highlight of the alumni meeting will be the installation of the new association officers, who are: George M. King of Bristol, Tenn., president; and Dr. W. T. Thompson Jr. of Richmond, Va. and Yates W. Faison Jr. of Charlotte, vice presidents. Dr. Jackson will administer the oath of office, and the response will be made by Mr. King. President Jackson will also give the annual report of the Alumni Association. Musical selections will be presented at the Convocation by the Davidson College Male Chorus under the direction of Donald Plott of the music faculty. Luncheon will be served at 1 o’clock in South Court of the College Union, weather permitting. At 2:30 p.m. Davidson will play West Virginia Tech in the colorful Homecoming football game, after which the fraternities and faculty homes will hold open house for the alumni and friends. The second of the Homecoming dances, sponsored by the Interfraternity Council, will be held that night in Johnston Gymnasium. The first dance, a formal affair, will be held Friday night, Oct. 29.

COURT OF CONTROL DECIDESABOLISH FRIDAY MEETINGS

Harry Petersen, chief judge of the Court of Control, announced this week the decision of the Court to abolish its Friday morning meetings in assembly. The move came as a result of observation by judges and members of the student body that the Court was losing its effectiveness on account of conduct during the meetings. Freshmen called before the assembly and served with subpoenas to meet trial the following week frequently met jeers and catcalls from other members of the student body. In the opinion of Court members, this type of behavior tends to undermine the true purpose of the Court and to give freshmen an impression that the Court was just "a big joke."

In an effort to restore the effectiveness of the Court procedure and to eliminate undue belittlement of freshmen, the Court has changed its method of issuing subpoenas. Accused freshmen are now notified by mail to appear before the Court for trial. Petersen emphasized that the Court of Control is definitely not a vehicle of the student body designed to belittle or harass freshmen. He pointed out the beneficial results in freshman attitude that have come as a result of the Court's work this year.

Open meetings before the entire student body have not always been a part of the Court procedure. The Court installed this method of summoning freshmen before assembly in 1949. The Court will continue to hold meetings with freshmen occasionally in their Wednesday morning assemblies in the Union.

Few Rooms Available For H.C. Dance Dates

With Homecoming only a week off, only a few rooms for girls are left. Duke and East dormitories and the infirmary have all been filled. The Douglas house on Concord Road, formerly the home of Professor W. I. Wilson, has been opened for girls and is now nearly full. One of the reasons for this crowding is the great number of graduates of last year who have arranged for places for their dates. Mrs. Little wishes to make it clear that boys who do not need rooms should not reserve them. In the face of the current shortage, anyone who has reserved a room and finds he cannot use it should report immediately to Mrs. Little. Her office is 101 Watts dormitory.

GAYLE AVERYT
JOHN FITE
HENRY BROCKMANN
GILBERT GRAGG
BOB BROWN
BOB HAYES
PHI BETA KAPPA ELECTS
CORTEZ COOPER
RONNIE WILSON

EIGHT TO MEMBERSHIP

By JOHN HARMON

The North Carolina Gamma Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa elected eight outstanding seniors to membership at its first fall meeting Tuesday afternoon, October 19th. Election to Phi Beta Kappa, the oldest and most widely recognized of the American Greek letter societies, is the highest recognition of excellence in the general scholarly attainments which undergraduates can achieve. In addition to possessing sheer intellectual ability as well as a remarkable amount of perseverance and consistency, the eight seniors receiving the coveted bids this fall also have achieved positions of leadership in extra-curricular activities.

GOOD STUDENTS

The group of well-rounded scholars soon to be feted at a banquet in their honor include:

Gayle Averyt
This popular business major from Columbia, South Carolina has been very active in campus life. Gayle has served as rush chairman for SAE and is now boarding house manager. He holds the responsible position of being President of the newly formed and active Business-Economics Association as well as being Cadet Captain and company commander in ROTC; in addition, Gayle is a cheerleader, member of the Honorary Fraternity Council, Scabbard and Blade, Eumenean Literary Society, Sigma Delta Psi, and the Spanish Club.

Henry Brockmann
This outstanding senior hails from High Point, North Carolina, and is doing honor work in history. Henry is secretary of Sigma Phi Epsilon and has made an impressive record at Davidson, being editor of the Davidsonian, chairman of the Publications Board, Editor of the Wildcat Handbook, and a member of the national leadership fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, as well as Sigma Upsilon, Eumenean Literary Society (former vice-president), and the YMCA Cabinet. Last spring Henry won the award for excellence in American history. He is a ministerial student planning to enter Union Seminary in the fall.

Bob Brown
This witty senior is from Greensboro, North Carolina, and is a pre-med major, which means he has really earned his prized key. Bob is active in Alpha Epsilon Delta and is also a member of Gamma Sigma Epsilon, as well as being on the business staff of Quips and Cranks. Indications are that Bob will win a big scholarship to pursue the ancient art of learning to open skulls at the University of Carolina Med School next fall.

Cortez Cooper
This friendly Thomasville, Georgia, boy has a double major in psychology and business and is looking forward to a graduate fellowship in the former. Corty has made an outstanding record at Davidson and is Cadet-Colonel of the ROTC unit this year, Vice-President of Kappa Alpha, and a member of Philanthropic Literary Society, Scabbard and Blade, the Business-Economics Association, in addition to being a spirited player on the varsity baseball team. He has been very active in Y work serving as Vice-President last year and he is now treasurer, in charge of the post on deputations, and a member of the Board of Directors.

John Fite
This likeable “Freudian disciple” from Sanford, Florida, is a psychology major and has won one of the 42 fellowships given by the National Social Science Research Council last summer for a special experiment at Davidson. John is a member of Kappa Alpha, Delta Phi Alpha, Secretary of the band, and is an associate editor of Quips and Cranks, having been a managing editor last year. He is looking forward to a graduate fellowship in psychology and is a candidate for a Fulbright scholarship to the University of Oslo to pursue his chosen subject in Norway.

Gilbert Gragg
The personable originator of controversial “Graggism” (realistic rather than humble optimism, this Bainbridge, Georgia, senior says after a summer's work in the slums of New York City on a Y project), is an Honors student.

INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS CLUB, YMCA SPONSOR EASTERN EXPERT, A. L. MILLER

A Forum on the topic, “Emerging Nations in the Near East: Problems and Possibilities,” sponsored by the International Relations Club and the Commission on Effective Citizenship of the Y.M.C.A. will be held Wednesday night at 8:15 P.M. in the Ballroom of the College Union. The feature speaker of the evening will be Mr. Alvah L. Miller, until this past June, Director of the Near East Foundation. All students are cordially invited to attend. This will also be the first open membership meeting of the Y.M.C.A.

In addition to the Forum, there will be an informal faculty hour in the afternoon at 4:00 P.M. in the Faculty Lounge of the College Union. Mr. Miller will speak on “America’s Responsibility in the Near East.” Coffee will be served prior to his remarks. All faculty members are urged to attend. Inasmuch as Mr. Miller is very closely connected with American colleges in the Near East, he will be available to talk individually with students who are interested in teaching in the American colleges of the Near East. Students should sign up for an appointment in the Y.M.C.A. office.

Mr. Miller was born in Iowa, and graduated from Morningside College in Sioux City. For seven years after graduation in 1909, he was student Y.M.C.A. secretary in North Dakota and at Indiana University. In 1916 he went to India with the International Y.M.C.A. and remained until 1935. He served as General Secretary, first at Lahore, then Delhi, and was Associate General Secretary of the National Council of the Y.M.C.A. at Calcutta. In 1935 he went to Jerusalem as General Secretary of the Jerusalem Y.M.C.A., a post he held until his return to this country in 1950. He became Director of the Near East Foundation in October, 1950, and remained in that capacity until his retirement in June, 1954. Mr. Miller holds a Master’s Degree from Boston University.

HAVE COLLEGE PROBLEMS

Columbus, O. — (I.P.) — College entrance offers just as many problems to potentially superior students as to those less well equipped for college work. This was revealed in an Ohio State University research project which disclosed also that “how to study” was the problem most frequently mentioned by a group of education freshmen. The research was aimed at selecting a group of potentially superior students and predicting their ultimate success in the University. The researchers, Dr. Collins W. Burnett, coordinator of student personnel in the College of Education and Patricia S. MacLachlin, a former graduate student in psychology, found that:

The potentially superior were younger upon entrance to college; they have higher grades and participate more extensively in extracurricular and leisure time activities; their fathers are grouped mainly in the professional and managerial categories; they tend to underestimate their ability to make high grades; and they apparently have as wide a range of problems as do the non-potentially superior students. The researchers said that determining who are superior college freshmen involves definition, selection and careful study. “If promising college students are to develop to the optimum of their capabilities,” they said, “they must be recognized, stimulated, and guided from the beginning of their college careers.”

OFFICE ANNOUNCES GRANTS

The Danforth Foundation, an educational trust fund in St. Louis, Missouri, invites applications for the fourth class (1955) of Graduate Fellowships from college senior men and recent graduates who are preparing themselves for a career of college teaching, and are planning to enter graduate school in September, 1955, for their first year of graduate study. The Foundation welcomes applicants from the areas of Natural and Biological Sciences, Social Sciences, Humanities and all fields of specialization to be found in the undergraduate college. President J. R. Cunningham has named Dr. G. L. Abernethy as the Liaison Officer to nominate to the Danforth Foundation two or not to exceed three candidates for these fellowships. These appointments are fundamentally “a relationship of encouragement” throughout the years of graduate study, carrying a promise of financial aid within prescribed conditions as there may be need. The maximum annual grant for single Fellows is $1800; for married Fellows, $2400. Students with or without financial need are invited to apply.

A Danforth Fellow is allowed to carry other scholarship appointments, such as Fulbright, Woodrow Wilson, G.E.B., etc., concurrently with his Danforth Fellowship, and applicants for these appointments are cordially invited to apply.