PAGE FOUR

COURT OF CONTROL NAMED BY COUNCIL; FALL PLANS STATED

The first meeting of the 1954-55 Student Council was held on May 12. The election of the Court of Control for the coming year was undertaken first. Elected to be the judge was Harry Peterson, and the recorder will be John Buxton. The senior class representatives will be Harley Smith and Henry Brown. Representing the junior class will be Dick Adams and John M. McLauchlin, and chosen from the sophomore class were Dick Belton and Bill Gramley.

President Feeney outlined his plans for the coming year. Committees were set up to start work immediately on the program which Feeney set forth in his campaign speech. The Constitution Committee was appointed to study the Constitution article by article and see what changes and improvements should be made. The chairman of this committee will be Perrin Anderson. The members appointed were Charlie Rankin, Linny Baker, John Child, Clark Reed, and Swain Loy.

A second committee was appointed to study the problem of student-faculty relations. Chairman of the Student-Faculty Relations Committee is Kiki Lewis, and the members are Hobby Cobb, Stuart Vaughn, and Corky King.

Two other committees were set up. On the Chapel Committee are Charlie Cousar, chairman, and the members are Joe Conaroe and Buddy Dye. This committee will see what improvements, if any, can be made in the present chapel situation. Tom Newton was appointed to work on the infirmary problem. His job will be to see what improvements are needed and to see what can be done about carrying them out.

EAST, WEST DORMS OPEN FOR SUMMER

East Dormitory has been opened for the use of students this summer. Mrs. R. A. Little, supervisor of dormitories, announced today that in order to accommodate all summer school students with comfortable quarters, the larger dormitory has been opened instead of Georgia. West Dormitory, as previously scheduled, will also be open.

Summers R & B Head: New Men Named

At a recent Red and Black Masquers meeting, Fred Summers was elected president of the group for the coming year. Mac Williamson will serve as vice president, with Don Pilkenton as secretary and Tom Dove as treasurer. The following persons have been elected to membership in the Masquers: Ed Hadley, Harold Hall, Allie Cone, Frank Renfro, John Horne, Billy Berryhill, Rufus Cromartie, Tom Morgan, and Bob Rhodes. Honorary memberships have been extended to Mrs. Howard Lamar and Mrs. Sam Magill. An initiation ceremony will be held in the Dome Room of Chambers Building Friday night.

Off-Moorings . . . (Continued From Page Two)

The action of the Trustees at commencement, after hearing the report of their committee on athletics, will be interesting to see. (5) The active pursuit of the spirit found in the proposed amendments to the Student Body Constitution. Now is not the time for half-way measures, but a full investigation should reveal what the students and the college want and need. (6) Investigation into the advisability of second semester or sophomore year rushing. This is not the advocacy of that change, but now we can begin to see the effect of not having the freshmen in the boarding houses. (7) An analysis into the pay structure for student offices on the campus. Money-wise the president of the Interfraternity Council, the Editor, and the Business Editor of the annual come off pretty well. No one else gets anything.

My final conclusion on Davidson is possibly more prosaic than pragmatic. At Davidson, there are no revolutions—only revelations.

Cat Tennis and Golf . . . (Continued From Page Three)

Graeme Keith, Mickey Cannon, and Skipper Hall were the top Cat scorers, with Keith and Cannon finishing right behind Jenkins in tournament play.

Reports On Year’s Work By PRES. CHARLIE WILLIAMS

Let me preface this report with two comments: First, this is simply to inform the student members of the year’s program and to give it thereby a note of finality. Secondly, I trust that the report will be read in the context of evaluative remarks presented by me in chapel, Thursday, May 6.

New Activities

Both the cabinet and board have sought to gear the program more directly to the needs of the college community while continuing the program to the larger Church and secular community. To that end, the following has been done:

1) Organization of a Freshman Y Council to provide more concrete means for participation in religious activity and for self-expression through study and work.
2) Adoption of the Student Volunteer Movement into the Y to provide expression of the missionary enterprise of the Church.
3) Establishment of a Summer Placement Service to locate students in work situations providing both educational and spiritual experiences.
4) Enlargement of the social program to provide planned and leisure time entertainment at little or no cost in such forms as dances and dinners.
5) Planning of forums to enhance student understanding of socio-political, economic, and religious problems as well as for discussion of pertinent campus issues.the University Christian Missions to help in the planning and sponsoring of a week of religious emphasis in early 1955 to replace the traditional spring and fall services. This new program will utilize educational and study approaches and a larger force of competent leadership.

Regular Services
In addition, the regular activities of the posts chairmen have continued:

Gift Fund: Netted $3800 in the 1953 drive to move, enlarge, and equip the Y “hut” located in the Negro community. The work will conclude this summer.

Special Services: Sponsored the Fall Services, headed by Dr. Dockery, the Spring Services headed by “Chuck” Templeton, the special Christmas Vespers and the Easter Sunrise Service.

Scouting and Boys Work: Organized two new troops, one new cub den and sponsored four boys’ clubs and one older boys basketball team.

Chapel: Planned the Y's Thursday morning worship services, utilizing student leadership, and the voluntary worship services during exam periods.

Bible Class: Experimented with systematic and purposeful Bible study and group discussion.

Publications: Printed the 1953 Wildcat Handbook and is completing the 1954 book with complete renovation.

Spiritual Life: Sponsored the Wednesday evening hall prayer services; prepared and distributed the devotional booklet, Daily Devotions.

Deputations and Sunday School Extension: Placed men in preaching and teaching positions every week in nearby areas, using a large number of students.

Community: Performed some of the most promising work of the year in its activity with the Negroes of the community.

The Cabinet
The cabinet has met twice monthly and in a large number of informal sessions to plan and discuss the program. It is presenting to the Board of Trustees a formal resolution calling for a definite statement of college policy regarding entertainment of interracial groups on the campus. The Y sent 11 men to a United Nations seminar in New York last fall; one student will be working after school in a Summer Service Project also in New York, and from 4 to 6 men will be attending the Southern Area Conference at Blue Ridge in early June.

The program for the year has been full but inadequate in many areas. Yet I commend, and express profound gratitude to each man of the retiring cabinet for his contribution to the program.

AFTER COMMENCEMENT EXERCISES STOP AT AL'S GRADE A RESTAURANT FOR FINE FOODS
Specializing in CHARCOAL BROILED STEAKS AND CHOPS
PRIVATE DINING ROOM FOR PARTIES
Tel. 2-9451
Al Bistany, Prop.
Mooresville, N. C.

Going Home by GREYHOUND
NEW YORK CITY 32.85
WINSTON-SALEM 1.60
GREENSBORO 2.35
WASHINGTON, D.C. 9.30
DETROIT, MICH. 6.05
COLUMBIA, S. C. 2.85
ROCK HILL, S. C. 1.20
AUGUSTA, GA 4.48

WHITE DRUG COMPANY
C. &. Goodrum, Agent
Ph. - 075

Fifth Amendment... (Continued From Page Two)
sibility than Amendment One. Its defeat will be a frank avowal of the frequent faculty taunt that we are incapable of shouldering responsibility. Its passage, with the others, will be a challenge of no little significance to those whose apparent conviction it is that the Davidson student cannot or will not think for himself.

THE DAVIDSONIAN
In conclusion, let us frankly admit that we cannot legislate away our human tendency to err, and that we cannot make any “system” perfect or perfectly pleasant, but let us also assume our obligation to do the best with what we have and to make improvements where we can, and quickly, lest with a “dying controversy” dies student government as well, and it and a student year come to an end, “not with a bang, but a whimper.”

BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD, N. C.
“Coke” is a registered trademark. ©1952, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY

FRIDAY, MAY 14, 1964

Score for Summer Comfort Plus
Cotton pull-over sports shirt in Italian styling— 7.95
Walk Shorts of cotton gabardine, by McGregor— 4.95
Black Loafer, by Bostonian— 2.95
Esquire Walk Socks— 1.50
for active or lay in comfort Cool . . . comfortable . . . Spectator sports. Relax or and know you're style-right!
Rayon and Dacron Sports Coat by Mayest—
Denim Walk Shorts by Jantzen— 4.95
Sport Shirt by McGregor— 7.95
White Bucks by Crosby Square— 7.95
Other Shorts from— 3.95 to 8.50
Duke Kahanamoku Cabana Set— 6.95
Men’s Furnishings — Street Floor

Today’s CHESTERFIELD is the Best Cigarette
“Chesterfields for Me!”
The cigarette that gives you proof of highest quality —low nicotine... the taste you want — the mildness you want.
“Chesterfields for Me!”
“Thirty years’ scientific research goes into this cigarette. I've seen Chesterfield’s research laboratories and I’ve seen how they’re made! I wouldn’t smoke any other cigarette but Chesterfield!”
“Chesterfields for Me!”
“Chesterfields for Me!”
“Thirty years’ scientific research goes into this cigarette. I've seen Chesterfield’s research laboratories and I’ve seen how they’re made! I wouldn’t smoke any other cigarette but Chesterfield!”
The cigarette with a proven good record with smokers. Here it is. Bi-monthly examinations of a group of smokers show no adverse effects to nose, throat and sinuses from smoking Chesterfield.
Largest Selling Cigarette in America’s Colleges