PAGE FOUR

Charles Peterson, Billiards Champ, To Demonstrate Skill September 24

Charles C. Peterson, Father of Inter-Collegiate Billiards, will soon be in our midst. This season marks the 24th annual tour of colleges by the eminent cue artist, whose trademark is—“Show Me A Billiard Shot I Can't Make.” Peterson, holder of the World's Fancy Shot Billiard Title, will appear at Davidson College on September 24, Friday, in the David Ovens College Union.

His exhibition will include not only his wizardry of the trickiest shots in the Ivory Sport, but a demonstration of world-famous shots of other stars past and present, fundamentals of the game, playing lecture, and group teaching to students. Peterson’s missionary work for the game he loves has extended into every part of the country. He undoubtedly has taught the fundamentals of the game to more persons than any other man in the world. He has made it his business while on tour to include in his exhibitions a lecture on the theory and practice of the game, illustrating the various fundamentals so clearly that even one who never has had a cue in his hand can grasp the ideas advanced.

Ranked among the greatest billiardists of all time, Peterson comes to Davidson under the auspices of the Association of College Unions, who have sponsored his tours since their inauguration at the University of Wisconsin in 1931. He will show the most daring shots played in championship competition. His repertoire of fancy shots includes the greatest in appeal and numbers in cue history. Moreover, Peterson customarily gives individual instructions for an hour or more a day at the rooms where he entertains to anyone interested in improving his game. He will be present in the Union all day Friday but will give his demonstration in the afternoon. The rest of the day will be devoted to personal instruction.

At Sunday Vespers

The Reverend Fred R. Stair, Jr., Pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Hickory, North Carolina, will be the speaker Sunday night at the first of the fall series of College Vesper Services. Mr. Stair is a graduate of Davidson in the class of 1939. He was President of the Student Body and an outstanding leader in every phase of campus life. A recently elected member of the board of trustees of the college, Mr. Stair came to his present pastorate after serving for several years as Assistant to the President of Union Theological Seminary in Richmond.

Son: “What do you call a man who drives a car?”
Dad: “It depends on how close he comes to me.”

America’s first automobile race was held in Chicago on Thanksgiving Day 1895. It was won by J. Frank Duryea driving a Duryea Motor Wagon at an average speed of 5.05 miles per hour.

College life is like a three-ring circus with all sorts of excitement going on to distract students from their main purpose of getting an education, according to Dr. Wray H. Congdon, director of admissions at Lehigh University, in a new booklet, “Brains Aren't Everything,” for prospective students issued here recently. Survival in his main tent will depend on eight “can you” questions proposed by Dean Congdon, plus a broad smile and a neat appearance. Here are the eight questions prospective college applicants should ask of themselves:

“Can I write paragraphs on a given topic and express myself coherently, correctly, and intelligently?
“Can I read an article in ‘The Atlantic Monthly’ rapidly (400 to 500 words per minute) and retain the main arguments lucidly in mind for three days?
“Can I listen to an address or lecture and note briefly the main points so that, when I've gone home, I can reconstruct the essential theme of what the lecturer said?
“Can I prepare successfully for examinations so that I don't become confused, panicked, and ineffectual when I face the necessity of taking a test or examination?
“Can I go to a library and find quickly the reference and source books I need for preparing a paper, and take the necessary notes effectively for writing an assignment on the topic?
“Can I make up a budget for the daily use of my time to meet all necessary assignments, have a proper amount of time left for sleeping, eating, and wholesome recreation, and then stick to the budget in spite of all lures of the flesh and devil?
“When I have homework to do, can I settle down to it promptly and concentrate on my work at once without daydreaming and frittering away my time?

Let me sell you a house by the side of the road
I've lived in the darn thing for years
You'll like it a lot. It faces the spot
Where all the truck drivers shift gears.

Drink ‘MOO’ Mooresville Creamery, Inc.

Frosh Arrive From Here To Finland

Davidson, September 9—Acree, Adamson, Adkins, Alexander, Armstrong, and on. The greater part of 246 freshmen descended on the Davidson campus yesterday to begin their careers as students in the 118-year-old institution. The morning was occupied with the initial steps of registration which consists of the payment of the regular college fees for the first semester and the assignment of each individual to a room in the badly crowded dormitories. The overcrowded condition on the campus and in the community will probably be at its peak except for the years immediately following World War II. With 835 students expected before the college begins its actual class work on next Wednesday, dormitory space is at a premium. The homes of professors and other local families are being drafted for use of the college, wherever this is possible, to alleviate the situation.

In many cases, the freshmen are accompanied by their parents, usually their Dads, who produce their pocketbooks prepared to settle for the initial required fees. It is an interesting experience to watch the neophytes as they approach their first step in a college education with a mixture of timidity and awe. Within the freshmen class, all but two of the original 13 states are represented. The bulk of the students, as in the past, comes from the south although there is a spattering of representation from New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Massachusetts, and other northern states. The deep south is also well represented as far west as Texas. Two foreign students will come in today or tomorrow; Eric Deichgraeber from Denmark and Pertti Karkkainen from Finland.

The alumni reception room was converted into a registration office, filled with tables and chairs and regulated by members of the faculty and student advisors. The Y.M.C.A., under the guidance of “Y” Secretary, Sam Magill, has a well-organized program underway to make it easy for the newcomers to get located and properly oriented to the Davidson environment which, except for the six local students represented, is a new experience and an unfamiliar scene. Orientation began this morning. Following the Morning Worship at 8:45, most of the day was consumed with preliminary tests, physical examinations, and conferences by groups with faculty counselors. In charge of the program was freshmen advisor, Hardin King; Dr. J. H. Ostwalt, Director of Counseling Service; Dr. Samuel R. Spencer, Jr., Dean of Students; and Lt. Col. John D. Sapp, Professor of Military Science and Tactics of the local ROTC Unit.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

HARRIERS PREPARE FOR NEW SEASON

Coach Pete Whittle’s Wildcat Harriers will begin workouts in the next few days to meet what will promise to be another successful season for the veteran cross country and track mentor. Since he has the services of returning lettermen Floyd Feeney, Andy Turner, Dick Lovette, and Archie Joyner, the team has a good nucleus to build from. A shining star in the Wildcat crown will be Pete Ashcraft, who was the champ of the Southern Conference Freshman Mile. A call will go out for prospective runners in the very near future and it is emphasized that this is one sport in which no man is assured of a berth because of his years with the team. The top spots on the varsity are wide open to the fastest runner. There will also be a junior varsity.

The schedule will be:
Oct. 8—Maryville—There.
Oct. 16—Richmond—Here.
Oct. 22—William and Mary, N. C. State—Raleigh.
Oct. 30—VMI, Washington and Lee—Here.
Nov. 6—State Meet—Raleigh.
Nov. 15—Conference—Lexington, Va.
Nov. 20—Carolina AAU—Here.

Three meets have been scheduled for the JV’s—one with the Carolina Freshmen and two with Pfeiffer Junior College. More will be scheduled later.

Scott Resigned ... (Continued From Page One)him as he returns to Cornell for his new work.” Mr. Scott has quite an enviable reputation over the nation in coaching circles. At Culver-Stockton College (1937-41) where he was Athletic Director and head football coach, his teams won their only conference championship. Moving to his Alma Mater in 1941, he succeeded the famous Glenn Cunningham as Director of Physical Education and Athletics in 1946. Here he produced National Collegiate and A.A.U. Championship wrestling teams from 1947 through 1949. Wrestlers coached by Mr. Scott were on the 1942, 1948, and 1952 United States Olympic teams. Since coming to Davidson, Mr. Scott has occupied a position of leadership in collegiate athletic circles. At the present time, he is President of the Carolinas Association of the A.A.U. and Secretary of the National Collegiate Association of the wrestler’s rules committee; a member of the National A.A.U. Wrestling Committee and Secretary of the Southern Conference Organization of Athletic Directors.

shoulder, three button, or brown shetland fabrics Khaki Chico Trousers Also-- strap and no pleats, and stitch and argyle hose. Flannel Suits in our own natural vent model! in black, Oxford or black Handsome Sport Coats with lap seam, center hook vent of fine imported back strap and no pleats . . The Best Dressed Men at Davidson Wear Jack Wood, Ltd., clothes -- styled and tailored to perfection! center hook 60.00 with center 9.99 Other important campus accessories are our crew neck Shetland Sweaters, slim trousers in Oxford gray with back imported English wool cable Jack Wood Ltd. “It Costs No More To Dress Correctly” 233 SOUTH TRYON STREET CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Harry Peterson, Judge of the Court of Control, has stressed the importance of a good start in college to the Freshman Class of 1954. The Freshman Regulations will go into operation the first day of school, and each member of the Class of 1958 will be expected to respect them. Especially important in the early days of school are regulations two and nine, regarding the requirements that freshmen know the college yells and songs by the seventh day after school opens and that freshmen wear their identifying nameplates. Lists of regulations and freshmen caps, required for all freshmen, are available at the Student Store. It is imperative that all freshmen secure both immediately. The regulations as found on page 12 of the Wildcat Handbook are as follows:

1. Freshmen shall show respect to upperclassmen at all times.
2. Freshmen must know college yells and songs by the seventh day after school opens.
3. Freshmen must wear, at all times, the caps prescribed for them by the Court of Control.
4. Freshmen shall not walk on the grass of the Davidson campus.
5. Freshmen shall remain in chapel seats until all upperclassmen have cleared the room.
6. Each freshman shall have his own placard with his name inserted in the proper place, hanging in a conspicuous place in his room throughout the year.
7. Freshmen are required to attend all pep meetings and be on time.
8. Freshmen are required to attend all major athletic events fifteen minutes early, sit together, and remain throughout the entire contest.
9. Freshmen are required to wear YMCA nameplates until October 15.
10. Freshmen must carry to all athletic contests and pep meetings the megaphones prescribed.

TO THE (Continued From Page One) ROTC... Army schooling includes the Attack of Field Fortifications Course, Ft. Belvoir, Va.; the Command and Staff College; and the Characteristics and Effects Course, Sandia Base, N.M.

Sgt. Moody Sowell
M. Sgt. Moody Sowell, Infantry, is the Detachment Supply Sergeant in addition to his duties as an assistant instructor. A native of South Carolina, he has completed 15 years of active duty, which includes 48 months of overseas service, 7 months of which was spent in combat in Korea. His decorations and awards include the Bronze Star, Good Conduct Medal and theater ribbons with four battle stars. Sgt. Sowell has attended the Communications School, Ft. Benning, Ga.; the Chemical Corps School, and the Mess Stewards School.

Sgt. W. D. Fields
M. Sgt. Willis D. Fields, Infantry, a native of Texas, is the Detachment Sergeant Major. Sgt. Fields has completed 19 years of active duty, 28 months of which was spent overseas, including 12 months of combat duty in Korea. His decorations and awards include the Bronze Star, Good Conduct Medal, Combat Infantryman’s Badge, Expert Infantryman’s Badge, and two theater ribbons with six battle stars. Sgt. Fields is a graduate of the Light and Heavy Weapons Course, Ft. Benning, Ga.

Sgt. L. H. Penley
M. Sgt. Louis H. Penley, Infantry, a native of North Carolina, will be the assistant Military Science I instructor. Sgt. Penley has completed 13 years of active duty, 15 months of which has been spent overseas with 3 months of combat duty in Korea. His decorations and awards include the Commendation Ribbon and six theater and campaign ribbons. He is a graduate of the Constabulary School, Germany; and the NCO Leadership School, Ft. Jackson, S.C.

Sgt. W. D. Fricks
SFC William D. Fricks, Infantry, a native of South Carolina, is the assistant Military Science II instructor. Sgt. Fricks has completed 12 years of active duty, 78 months of which has been spent overseas. He has spent 30 months in combat. His decorations and awards include the Bronze Star, Good Conduct Medal, Combat Infantryman’s Badge, and three theater ribbons with seven battle stars. Sgt. Fricks has completed the Small Arms School, Trieste, and the Leadership School, Ft. Knox, Ky.

Sgt. L. O. Wernowsky
SFC Lancer O. Wernowsky, Infantry, is the Detachment Administrative Clerk. A native of Minnesota, he has completed 11 years of active duty, of which 5 months was spent overseas with four months of combat duty. His decorations and awards include the Bronze Star, Good Conduct Medal and four theater ribbons with two battle stars. Sgt. Wernowsky is a graduate of the Ranger School, Hawaii; and the Administrative School at Ft. Jackson, S.C.

Sgt. C. B. Wheat
SFC Charles B. Wheat, Infantry, a native of Georgia, is in charge of the detachment armory. Sgt. Wheat has completed 12 years of active duty, 32 months of which has been spent overseas with 32 months of combat duty in Korea and the European Theater during World War II. His decorations and awards include the Bronze Star, Purple Heart, Good Conduct Medal, Parachute Badge, Combat Infantryman’s Badge with Star and two theater ribbons with six battle stars. Sgt. Wheat is a graduate of the Ranger School, Ft. Benning, Ga.; the Parachute School, Ft. Benning, Ga., and the Cooks and Bakers School, Ft. Meade, Md.

Currently, the ROTC Department is completing the formulation of the Military Science Course for the coming year to include all of the latest concepts of military tactics and developments in military equipment. It is planning for the cadets of this school year to receive a more usable course of instruction to better qualify them as future officers in the Army. More emphasis is being directed at world activities and their influence on the future of the United States, particularly the U.S. Army. Every effort is being directed toward equipping the cadets with a sound, well-formulated, and up-to-date knowledge of the principles of Military Science. The ROTC cadet at Davidson College is provided an outstanding teaching staff of experienced personnel, a streamlined course of instruction, and the Department is looking forward to producing the finest Cadet Corps in the history of Davidson during the 1954-55 school year.

PARKER-GARDNER
CHARLOTTE 2, N.C.
118 West Trade Street
Phone ED. 2-8257

CLASS OF '58
CHESTERFIELD IS THE LARGEST SELLING CIGARETTE IN AMERICA’S COLLEGES

Chesterfield leadership is shown by actual sales audits in more than 800 college co-ops and campus stores from coast to coast. In choosing YOUR cigarette be sure to remember this! You will like Chesterfield best because only Chesterfield has the right combination of the world’s best tobaccos — highest in quality, low in nicotine — best for you. All of us smoke for relaxation, for comfort, for satisfaction — and in the whole wide world no cigarette satisfies like a Chesterfield. You smoke with the greatest pleasure when your cigarette is Chesterfield ... Yes, these six words “highest in quality—low in nicotine” mean Chesterfield is best for you. Buy ’em king-size—or regular.