FOR DAVIDSONIAN SERVICE PUBLISHED WEEKLY

Sports | Jim Holshouser | The news and editorial voice of Davidson College | Larry Parrott
Subscriptions | Bob Carmichael

VOL. XLI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, OCTOBER 1, 1954 NUMBER 2

FRATERNITIES END RUSH WEEK BY PLEDGING

RECORD LIBRARY APPLICATIONS READY FOR RHODES GALLERY SCHEDULE SET

The record room and library of the college is now open Monday through Friday from eight o'clock to eleven o'clock
in the evenings, and from nine o'clock to eleven Sunday evenings. Approximately five thousand recordings of good music are included
in the library. The record room is located on the first floor of the Philanthropic Literary Hall and is equipped
with easy chairs and other comfortable furniture which add to the enjoyment of the music. A student monitor will be
on duty at all hours when the hall is open. The music department urges all students to take advantage of
this facility of the college to hear good records played on the finest high fidelity equipment.

Testing Service Sets Graduate Exam Dates

Princeton, N. J.—The Graduate Record Examinations, required of applicants for admission to a number of graduate schools, will be administered
at examination centers throughout the country four times in the coming year, Educational Testing Service has announced. During 1953-54 nearly
9,000 students took the GRE in partial fulfillment of admission requirements of graduate schools which prescribed it. This fall candidates
may take the GRE on Saturday, November 20. In 1955, the dates are January 27, April 30, and July 9.
ETS advises each applicant to inquire of the graduate school of his choice which of the examinations he should take
and on which dates. Applicants for graduate school fellowships should ordinarily take the designated examinations in the fall administration. The
GRE tests offered in these nationwide programs include a test of general scholastic ability and advanced level tests of achievement
in sixteen different subject matter fields. According to ETS, candidates are permitted to take the Aptitude Test and/or one of
the Advanced Tests. Application forms and a Bulletin of Information, which gives details of registration and administration, as well as
sample questions, may be obtained from college advisers or directly from Educational Testing Service, P. O. Box 592, Princeton, N.
J.

THREE ROTC CADETS CAPTURE HONORS

Three members of the Davidson College ROTC captured honors for themselves and their unit during the six-week encampment at Ft.
Bragg this summer. Cadets Gayle Averyt, Robert Stogner, and John Buxton won first places in regimental competition. All three winners
were members of the unit selected as the best platoon in Company H.

Cadet Averyt received the honor of being the outstanding cadet of the day after serving as commander of Company H.
He was the only Davidson cadet selected to be regimental commander for the day. His award was based on a
high score in all competition. After returning from summer camp, Averyt received a commission as Cadet Captain and now commands
Company A of the ROTC regiment. He is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon, social fraternity.

Cadet Stogner won first place in his company in command voice competition and placed high in the regimental competition. He
served as a platoon leader during regimental parade. Stogner, a Cadet Lt. Colonel, is commander of the 2nd battalion here
at Davidson. He is a member of Kappa Sigma, social fraternity.

Cadet Buxton, a husky wrestler on the Davidson mats, carried off company honors for physical fitness during the training period.
A Cadet First Lieutenant, he is the executive officer of Company D at Davidson. He is a member of Kappa
Sigma, social fraternity.

Applications Ready For Rhodes Scholarships

Application blanks for Rhodes Scholarships and information concerning current regulations are now available. The annual stipend has recently been raised
from 500 to 600 pounds. Applicants who may present themselves either in their home states or in the state of
the institution they are attending, must first be approved by the local committee on Graduate Scholarships. Applications must be in
the hands of the secretary of the state committee by October 30; preparation of the applications normally takes not less
than two weeks. Students who are interested are advised to see the institutional representative, Professor W. P. Cumming, early in
October. For the past year Dr. Cumming has been collecting a file of books, papers, and correspondence for the benefit
of future applicants. The recent Davidson Rhodes Scholars, C. T. Davis, '50, J. J. Murray, '51, H. N. Cannon, '53,
as well as other applicants, have sent letters with specific suggestions and advice on how to handle oneself before scholarship
selection committees.

Deichgraeber Comes As Exchange Student

By DICK MOREHEAD

What is your most outstanding impression of America? That was the question. The answer: Seeing a young man and woman
kissing and hugging in a car going more than 60 miles an hour down a very crowded highway outside of
New York—and he was driving, too!

What are the dynamic statements of one interesting personality, Eric Deichgraeber, a Scandinavian, and special student.

The Name’s Erich

Eric, (my real name is Erich, but everybody just calls me Eric), came into the world and grew to manhood
in Sjellerup, a small village located in southern Denmark. His father is a farmer, dealing mainly in corn and dairy
products on their 125 acres of land. The two sisters and one brother are all married, the latter now living
in Canada. Eric, himself, began school at the ripe old age of five because, “I was the youngest and noisiest
and they couldn't stand me around any longer.” After elementary work, he went to Soenderborg for higher schooling. There he
studied science and language and began his six years of association with the English language. Now, after only three and
a half weeks of actual conversation in our native tongue, he can boast of clearer control than most professors would
give us credit for. (Expecting a two-week conception of English, I began speaking to him in funny spaced monosyllables only
to be greeted by a flow of diction in our native tongue that would do credit to Sir Winnie, whose
British accent Eric bears.)

Offered Scholarship

While dozing in class one day, our subject was rudely awakened by the headmaster’s reading of an invitation to come
to America by way of a scholarship offered by the Danish-American Board. Always interested in travel and seeing the world,
he immediately filled out the rising pile of papers and sent them in. Within several weeks he was notified of
his acceptance, but as the scholarship was not completely certain, he arranged his own transportation on boat over here. In
June, word came of the scholarship offered by Davidson College, and in late August, he set sail aboard the Swedish-American.
After eight days of pleasant voyage, and many hours of confusion with the Institution of International Education in the smoke
and smother of New York, he boarded the bus for the “variety vacationland”—(“I didn’t know what busses were like then—").
He arrived at Davidson early enough to watch pre-season football practices which “seemed very rough to me” (some would consider
this an understatement).

Lab Courses His Forte

According to the terms of the agreement, Eric will only be with us one year, but he is making the
most (and a little more) of this one year. He is taking Chemistry 21, Chemistry 31, Biology, and Psychology, making
a total of four labs a week, but “I don't seem to be rushed.” In fact, he does a little
tutoring in German on the side. Eric plans to be a surgeon, possibly working in conjunction with the World Health
Organization throughout the world.

Union Displays Salon Of Prize Photographs

An exhibit of the finest in International photography will go on display in the Photography Magazine opens at the Davidson
College Union tomorrow through October 16. It will be an hour down a very crowded highway outside of New York—

College Union Gives ‘O. Henry's Full House’

The College Union will present tonight and tomorrow night at 9 p. m., a showing of “O’Henry's Full House.” This
picture features 12 stars—including Marilyn Monroe, Jeanne Crain, Anne Baxter, Jean Peters, Charles Laughton, Oscar Levant, David Wayne, Richard Widmark,
Fred Allen, Farley Granger, Dale Robertson, Gregory Ratoff. Other movies for October are “Knock On Any Door,” 8-9; “Follow The
Sun,” 15-16; and “Johnny O'Clock,” 22-23. Admission is 25 cents.

Annual Blood Drive To Be Held Oct. 14

The annual Red Cross blood drive will be held October 14 in the basement of Johnston Gymnasium. It will be
sponsored by Scabbard and Blade. All boys 21 years of age and older may make donations, boys 18 to 21
years old must have their parents’ approval before they will be allowed to donate. Blood release slips for these boys
will be distributed by Scabbard and Blade, the Y.M.C.A., and the R.O.T.C. cadre. These slips must be signed by parents
and returned to be handed in at the desk at the donations center. As usual, all donors will be given
physical examinations before being allowed to give. Always, in the past, there has been at least a 70 percent turnout
of the student body. All concerned are hoping for an equally good record this time.

Institute Announces French Scholarship

Opportunities to teach English in the secondary schools of France are open to American graduate students or secondary teachers of
French, it was announced today by Kenneth Holland, President of the Institute of International Education, 1 East 67th Street, New
York City. The awards, which may combine foreign study with the teaching assistant posts, are offered by the French Government
through its Ministry of Education. Designed for future teachers of French, these appointments involve teaching conversational English in secondary schools
and teacher training institutions in France. Nominations of candidates will be made by a joint committee of French and American
educators working in cooperation with the French Cultural Services and the Institute of International Education. The awards, which cover maintenance
and incidental expenses, are for the 1955-56 academic year. The closing date for applications is January 15, 1955. Applicants should
apply directly to the Institute of International Education. Basic requirements for the assistantship awards are: (1) U. S. citizenship; (2)
a bachelor’s degree from an American college or university by the time of departure; (3) a good academic record; (4)
good knowledge of French; and (5) good health. Applicants must be unmarried and under thirty years of age. In addition
to the teaching assistantships, the French Government offers a number of graduate fellowships. There are other excellent opportunities for teachers
of modern European languages under the Fulbright program. Awards are available for graduate study in language and literature in Austria,
France, Germany, Italy, and Greece. The Institute of International Education will furnish information.

Staff Appointments For Scripts ‘n Pranks

Vereen Bell, editor of the Scripts ‘n Pranks, announced Wednesday the magazine's staff appointments for the school year 1954-55. Dunbar
Ogden and Malcolm Williamson were appointed the executive editors of Scripts ‘n Pranks. Assistant editors of the magazine will be
Jim Kuist, Jim Armistead, and Gilbert Gragg. Joe Garrison will serve as art editor. Since the Scripts ‘n Pranks is
a campus magazine, all students are invited and urged to submit original works for consideration for publication. Short stories, poems,
and humorous articles, all are desired, as well as cartoons and other art work. Manuscripts may be turned in to
Vereen Bell or to any member of the staff. It is hoped that the first of four issues of the
magazine will be ready for Homecoming weekend.area for the first time when the Traveling Salon of Photography, sponsored by the
Davidson College Camera Club, arrived. The Salon features over 100 original prints, including the work of leading professional and amateur
camera artists from all over the world. Most, however, are American. The photographs have all been prize winners in the
$25,000 annual Photography Magazine photo contests, the biggest yearly event in international photography. This year the contest attracted a record
93,000 entries.

In subject matter, the exhibit encompasses a broad range, from dramatic and human interest photographs to serene landscapes and portraits.
In ultimate substance, they demonstrate with sharp impact the great forward strides made by the photographic arts in very recent
years.

Like many Europeans, Eric’s picture of America was a crazy mixed-up composite of money, the colored person, plenty of McCarthy,
everyone with a car, TV, refrigerator, and still hunting for more money. For propagandist's purposes, the brief time here has
changed his mind and cleared the picture—and of the alma mater he says: “I like it very well to be
here where life is not too fast—it is just how I want it—not fast like up North—but very friendly.” To
Eric, we say it is a pleasure and an opportunity to know such a fine gentleman.

For the record and your acquaintance if you have not met him, Eric is 5’ 8” tall, 140 lbs., light
hair, light complexion, and keen smile. He is a member of the Lutheran faith as are over 90 percent of
the Scandinavian peoples. For hobbies, he prefers photography and chess, and he likes most all sports. He is being sponsored
on this campus by the Beta Theta Pi fraternity. Incidentally, our Mr. Deichgraeber is already quite familiar with American habits—he
asked me if I would care for a smoke—when there was only one cigarette left in the pack.

Eleven new faces can be counted among the members of the Davidson faculty for the 1954-55 school year. In addition
to the permanent appointments, there are several temporary replacements for regular faculty members away on leave of absence. The eleven
new professors are:

Mr. William M. Boyce, Jr., assistant professor of Bible; Dr. Lee Biggerstaff Copple, assistant professor of English; Dr. Malcolm McAfee,
associate professor of sociology; Dr. W. M. Drake, who is filling in for Dr. Frontis Johnston in the history department
during the latter’s leave of absence; Mr. John T. Vesperman, Jr., who will serve as instructor in music during Professor
Philip Gehring's absence; Mr. Richard M. Fox, who is substituting in the mathematics department while Dr. William McGavock is away;
Dr. Harold D. Hayward, filling in as assistant professor of Bible during Dr. Charles Eberhardt’s leave of absence; Mr. Samuel
D. Maloney, assistant professor of Bible; Dr. Paul Arthur Marrotte, assistant professor of history; Dr. William Andrew Paton, Jr., associate
professor of business administration; and Lt. Col. John D. Sapp, who is succeeding Lt. Col. Ernest Davis as head of
the ROTC department.

Mr. William M. Boyce, Jr., was born February 25, 1928, in Atlanta, Ga. He was a member of the class
of 1949 at Davidson and in 1952 obtained his Bachelor of Divinity Degree at Princeton Theological Seminary. Following that, he
served for two years as a U.S. Army Chaplain. Mr. Boyce is a member of Phi Beta Kappa and Phi
Mu Alpha.

Dr. Lee Biggerstaff Copple is a native North Carolinian, having been born on March 13, 1923, in Albemarle. He graduated
from the University of North Carolina in 1947 and then did graduate work at the University of Michigan. He received
his Ph.D. Degree there this year. Dr. Copple was an instructor at Michigan and is a member of Phi Beta
Kappa.

Dr. Malcolm McAfee received his A.B. Degree from the University of Chicago, his Bachelor of Divinity Degree from Yale, and
his Ph.D. in Sociology from Yale. In addition to having taught sociology at Georgia Tech, he previously taught for one
year at Yenchiang University in China.

Dr. W. M. Drake hails from Natchez, Miss. He was awarded his B.A. and M.A. Degrees at Washington and Lee
and just this year received his Ph.D. at the University of North Carolina. He has been Registrar at Washington and
Lee and has taught at the University of Mississippi. Dr. Drake is a Presbyterian and belongs to Phi Beta Kappa,
Phi Alpha Theta, and Kappa Phi Kappa.

Mr. John T. Fesperman, Jr. was born in Charlotte. He received his B.S. Degree at Davidson in 1948 and three
years later obtained his Bachelor of Music Degree at the Yale School of Music. He formerly was a music professor
at Catawba College. Mr. Fesperman is a member of ODK and Phi Mu Alpha.

Mr. Richard M. Fox, a native of Pittsburgh, Pa., is the youngest addition to the faculty. He graduated from Monmouth
College in Illinois in 1951 and received his M.A. Degree at the University of Florida this year.

Dr. Harold D. Hayward was born in Brooklyn, N.Y. He has attended the University of Washington, Princeton, and New York
University, receiving his Th.D. Degree at the latter in 1941. He served for 14 years as a missionary to China
and also served four years as a U.S. Army Chaplain. In addition to his teaching duties, Dr. Hayward also serves
as pastor at the Providence Presbyterian Church in Matthews, N.C.

Mr. Samuel D. Maloney was born on May 13, 1924, in Annapolis, Md. He was a member of the class
of 1948 at Davidson and later received his B.D. and Th.M. Degrees, the latter in 1952 from Union Theological Seminary.
He returns to Davidson from a pastorate at the First Presbyterian Church in Red Springs, N.C.

Dr. Paul Arthur Marrotte, 30 years of age, is a native of Connecticut. He graduated from the University of New
Hampshire in 1947 and then did graduate work at the University of North Carolina, receiving his M.A. and Ph.D. Degrees
there. Dr. Marrotte is a member of the American Historical Association and was formerly an instructor at the University of
North Carolina.

Dr. William Andrew Paton, Jr., 29, hails from Ann Arbor, Michigan. He has done all of his studying at the
University of Michigan and was awarded his Ph.D. Degree there this year. He has taught at the University of Kentucky
and Pennsylvania State. Dr. Paton has won a great deal of fame as a top-notch tennis player.

Lt. Col. John D. Sapp is a native of Lakeland, Florida. Lt. Col. Sapp graduated from the University of Florida
in 1941 and since then has spent 13 years as an officer in the Army. He served 61 months overseas,
including 12 months of combat in Europe during World War II.

In addition to the eleven new professors on the faculty, Professor Charles Ratliff returns to his former position on the
faculty after a year’s leave of absence. During this time he studied at Duke and recently received his Ph.D. in
Economics.

Smith Craves Music, Talent, Applications

Suggestions for new records, search for talent, and applications for jobs highlight this week’s news from the Student Union. John
Harmon, Chairman of the record committee, has asked that all men who wish to make suggestions for additions to the
record collection please see him, Shaw Smith, or leave a note in the union. He stated that only two additions
to the record library have been made since last semester. As soon as the new records are bought there will
be a period on Sunday afternoons and during weekday nights when special requests will be played. More details will be
released later.

Men who are interested in volunteering their services on the game committee in such games as cards, checkers, and chess
are asked to sign up in the Union office. Also, men with talent in dancing, music, gymnastics, or in such
fields as magic, or humorous speech are asked to let their talents be known in the Union office.

Mr. Smith announced that it would be necessary for all boys who signed application slips last spring to sign a
current application blank if they have not yet been employed. This should be taken care of immediately.

The motion picture schedule at the Union will be announced soon.

201 MEN PLEDGE IN SATURDAY CEREMONY

By JIM BATTEN

Another Rush Week has come and gone for the Davidson fraternities, leaving in its wake broken punch bowls, littered patios,
thousands of unread pages, punch-drunk innards, and 201 new pledges down at Fraternity Court. The week of handshaking was climaxed
Saturday afternoon as the neophytes came down to the cottage of their choice to be joyfully pounced upon by the
tired but happy brethren. After the pledging period ended at 2 p.m., the fraternities went up in a body with
their new men to cheer the football Wildcats to their second victory in as many outings.

The Kappa Sigs garnered the most pledges with a total of 28, followed by the SAE’s with 24. Most of
the groups held their formal pledging ceremonies this week before getting their pledge training programs underway.

The names of the new pledges by fraternities are:

Alpha Tau Omega
Don Carmichael, Ed Lupberger, Tom Thrailkill, Lloyd Chapin, Felix Sibley, Ron Lanford, Pete Eller, Lorie Moore, Fred Scott, Jim Travis,
Ray Vaughn, Maurice Ritchie, Bob Sayers.

Phi Delta Theta
Dave Alexander, Ralph Bassett, Jack Briggs, Max Bryan, Charles Davis, Tom Dennard, Phil Duiguid, Gary Fisher, Billy Hopper, Bob Martin,
Charles Morris, Earnest Sanders, Ed Stewart, John Trask, Bill Walker, Bill Warlick, Jimmy Weller, David Wood, Pat Woodard, Bill Patton.

Pi Kappa Phi
P. G. Adamson, J. E. Adkins, C. H. Blake, F. Emerson, W. K. Burgess, A. M. Farrell, J. H. Frye,
W. A. Gardner, R. C. Keown, Dick Lam, P. T. Hall, T. H. Stevens, W. W. Stover, A. Sweum, H.
Tripp.

Kappa Sigma
Dickie Belton, Jim Patterson, John Bernhardt, Dan Woods, Ken Forester, Gary Maynard, Marshall Sasser, Joe Meachum, Ottie Lynn, Jerry Greene,
Ralph Setzler, Dick Jordan, Freddie Butler, Brown Hamer, Bob Baker, Ray Corbin, Ollie Harris, Chuck Cowles, Burton Hocker, Peter Sterling,
Dick Makepeace, Hugh Bryant, Glenn Robertson, Mike Gallagher, Harry Ethridge, Bill Fisher, Harry Heinitsch, Dan Drummond.

Phi Gamma Delta
Pat Brady, Larry Arehart, Joe Browning, Earnest Carpenter, Tom Doddins, Dan Everhardt, David Fagg, Charles Fonville, Henry Griffin, Jim Hambright,
Bob Jones, Curt Loftin, Ken Milburn, Preston Nowlin, Curt Ormond, Charles Sigmon, Bob Sloan, Don Wooten.

Sigma Phi Epsilon
Neil Murray, George Kemmerer, Willard Wolfe, Red Neisler, Alex Gardner, Charlie Simons, Jerry Eller, Duval Craven, Hilary Davis, Leonard Thomas,
Bill Daniel, Bill Gallier, Dickey Bunop.

Beta Theta Pi
Ed Ervin, Bob Taylor, Jack Sullivan, Bob Talbert, David McLain, George Hemingway, Bill Bondurant, Gerald Wilson, Dale Gramley, John Shaw,
John Garvey, Bill Price, Dave Beckham, Rhett Sanders, Bill Whitener, Billy Long, Bob Oliver, Cantey Heath, Tony Guiles, Fred Hayes,
Elford Morgan.

Kappa Alpha
Ned Payne, David Page, Locke Carter, Charles Carter, Shelburne Wallace, Bill Fraley, Van Woods, Sonny Ferguson, Bill Turner, Buzzy Boyd,
Van Knox, Jim Ballenger, Waller Harris, Buddy Weathers, Charles Staton, Bill Pomeroy, Howard.

(Continued On Page Six)
