EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
HENRY BROCKMANN

ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Joe Burro, Gilbert Gragg, Swain Loy

Managing Editors
Dick Morehead, Watt McCain, John Harmon

Sports Editor
Maurice

Feature Editor
John Harmon

News Editor
Dick Morehead

Copy Editor
Watt McCain

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N.C., under the Act of March 3, 1869.

FRIDAY, NOV. 19, 1954

The Davidsonian
Published Weekly Throughout the College Year

BUSINESS MANAGER
TIM COOPER

Assistant Editors
Floyd Feeney, John Handley, Austin Strand

Photographer
Joe Gaskin

Assignments
Jim Marshall, Stan Miller, Bill Stewart

Assistant Business Manager
Tom Taylor

Advertising Manager
Bob Carmichael

Circulation Manager
Bob Carmichael

PAGE TWO

Take Ten Giant Steps

When a Johannesburg delegate from the Dutch Reformed churches of South Africa to the Second Assembly of the World Council
of Churches announced that he would not vote against the Report of Group V, Intergroup Relations—The Church Amid Racial and
Ethnic Tensions (which included among other stirring statements: “The church of Christ cannot approve of any law which discriminates on
grounds of race, which restricts the opportunity of any man to acquire education to prepare himself for his vocation .
. . or in any other way curtails his exercise of the full rights and responsibilities of citizenship . .
.”) The Christian Century (Sept. 22, 1954) commented, “Evanston may have known no more Christian moment.”

One wonders what a Davidson undergraduate, whose Southern segregation situation is not nearly so severe as that of the South
African student, would have said and how he would have voted. And what would have been the commentary of a
Christian contemporary in the twentieth century? Could it be said that Davidson had not known a more Christian moment?

In an institution that is avowedly Christian, and although not “narrowly sectarian,” officially controlled by the Synods of a Christian
denomination and in a student body that is 97 percent “pure” as regards professing membership in Christian churches, there is
surprising evidence (see other columns on today’s editorial page) that we are not all even starting at the same point
in our segregation discussion. This was made embarrassingly clear at Wednesday night’s Segregation Forum as well. We are still raising
such questions as Should the Supreme Court have ruled segregation unconstitutional? Does the majority of the population of the South
want the end of segregation? Are most of the members of the Davidson community willing to admit Negroes to Davidson?
To the exclusion of the questions: The Supreme Court has ruled; how can we best implement its decision? World and
local movement indicates that the end of segregation is imminent; what can we do to facilitate adjustment? The highest court
of the denomination which founded and fosters Davidson College has recommended the admission of Negro students; should we not be
studying the practicality of accomplishing that end?

Do not fear. The cause of segregation is being loudly sounded. There are those who are representing the right of
the states to determine the constitutionality of segregation in public schools. There are those who are raising the very real
social problems which will surely result from the end of segregation. There are those who would seek peace by begging
the question. There are many even in our midst who just do not think it’s worth it. These opinions are
essential to our American idea of free exchange of opinion. And they are being well represented. However, that is not
the contribution which the Christian community has to make. Nor do we believe it is the witness that the Christian
college has to bear.

We believe that the approach of the leaders of the YMCA is sound. In the chapel presentation and open forum
this week they emphasized time and again that we should not be engaged in a debate on segregation; the Christian
approaches the problem not as a debater but as a mediator. His aim is to be informed; his advice is
to adjust; his hope is to accomplish the fulfillment of the Christian principle of brotherhood involved.

It is unthinkable that Davidson has a choice to make. We are several steps behind. The choice about segregation in
the public schools has been made. The choice about whether Davidson should admit Negroes has been implied. The choice about
separating individuals solely on the grounds of race in any situation has been eternally divided if not universally understood. We
have a job to do as citizens. But we have a special task to do as members of a Christian
church, living in a Christian community, attending a Christian college. Some of us have some catching up to do. Some
of us have some steps to take—forward.

—Frank White

A Thanksgiving Litany

We thank thee, O Lord that we are white and not yellow or red or brown or black. The Bible
does teach that “while men looketh on the outward appearance, God looketh on the heart” but the outward appearance counts
for a great deal below the Mason-Dixon line!

We thank thee, O Lord, that we are North Americans and not South Americans, for there is a vast difference
as everybody knows; and that we were born in these favored United States and not among the gringoes of Mexico
or the Canucks of Canada.

We thank thee, O Lord, that we are Occidentals and not Orientals—“one of those lesser breeds without the law.” Yes,
it is true that Confucius, Buddha, Abraham, Moses, Gandhi, and Kagawa were great men, but we never liked slanting eyes
or the wrong shape of noses.

We thank thee, O Lord, that we are Gentiles and not Jews. Of course, Jesus was a Jew and many
others of that race were princes of Israel when our ancestors were Nordic Barbarians, but that was a long time
ago and should not be brought up now.

We thank thee, O Lord, that we are Protestants and not Roman Catholics. Yes, it is a fact that for
hundreds of years the Roman Catholics preserved the Church, long before anyone ever thought of Protestantism, and our denomination no
longer brands the Pope as that “anti-Christ and son of perdition,” but anyway put it to our credit that we
are Protestants.

We thank thee, O Lord, that we are Southern Presbyterians and have remained aloof from those “unsound” Yankees. Yes, it
is true that there is “. . . one Lord, one faith, one baptism, one God and Father of us
all. . .” but everyone knows we just take literally the parts of the Scripture which confirm our prejudices.

We thank thee, O Lord, that we have been blessed with minds and resources to come to a college of
the calibre of Davidson instead of to merely a state school. We rejoice that our alma mater tops even the
Ivy League schools.

We thank thee, O Lord, that we shall sit down to a delectable Thanksgiving dinner in a comfortable home and
dressed in the latest fashions. Yes it is true that two-thirds of the world is starving, but there must always
be poor people. Anyway, we have shown our noble character by attending church on Thanksgiving morning and singing contentedly: “O
Jesus I My Cross Have Taken, All to leave and follow thee—destitute, despised, forsaken . . .” in dedicating ourselves
anew to a sacrificial suffering Christianity.

Meditation Text: “The Pharisee stood and prayed thus with himself, ‘God, I thank thee that I am not like other
men’ . . .” Luke 18:11.

—G.H.G.

SEGREGATION: SYMPOSIUM OF A SOUTHERN COLLEGE

INTEGRATION: Not Elsewhere: Here
BY RONALD WILSON

Segregation, to understate the case, has become an issue. The question which relevantly affects the Davidson College community is this:
Should we admit Negroes to Davidson as students? What follows is a brief evaluation of the pro and con arguments,
especially as they tie in with the functions of the governing body of Davidson: the trustees.

With the decision of the General Assembly last spring favoring integration, the Board of Trustees must decide whether they are
willing to abide by the dictum of the governing body of the church, or whether their affiliation with the Presbyterian
Church, U. S. is binding only on matters which meet with the trustees’ approval. The trustees meet in February, and
it is as yet unknown whether this matter will even appear on the order of business.

Secondly: Can Davidson, considering itself a Christian college, allow itself to fall behind other secular universities which have already admitted
Negroes (i.e. the law schools of UNC, Tulane, and University of Va.) It would seem that the church is among
the last, rather than the first, actively to secure equal rights for the Negro.

Thirdly: What is the sentiment among those people whom it will most directly affect—the administration, the faculty and the student
body? Some members of the administration and faculty have entertained Negroes in their homes, and many students have worked with
colored people. Dr. Cunningham has publicly announced that he felt the Supreme Court made the only decision which could be
morally justified. Reliable opinion indicates that more members of the student body and faculty are in favor of integration than
are opposed to it; however, there is no significant majority. Those opposed to it are more vehement than those in
favor of it.

Arguments opposing integration have more of an emotional foundation than a rational one. Biological inferiority of the Negro is quickly
refuted by any competent physiologist. Lack of moral character, intelligence, ambition, and all the other personal shortcomings which have stigmatized
the Negro may in many cases be true, but the evidence seems to point to his environment as precipitating such
behavior, rather than any hereditary shortcoming. Many whites manifest the same type of personal shortcomings.

The “coup de grace” of the segregationists maintains that if you are willing to admit him to school, then you
must be willing to have him marry your daughter, sister, etc. This does not necessarily follow. The Armed Forces accomplished
integration which affected over 4 million men; yet there has been no hue and cry that miscegenation has arisen from
such integration.

Thus the problem for Davidson: To admit, or not to admit, Negroes. Certainly it is one which requires ethical and
personal consideration on both sides.

SEGREGATION: Why Force The End?
BY CORTY COOPER

The nature of man is seldom changed suddenly by a legal decree. Changes in any social order must come slowly
and laboriously, and instantaneous revision of a way of life cannot be wrought by an edict of law alone. Yet
many individuals throughout the nation are convinced that the recent Supreme Court decision is all that is necessary to destroy
the whole pattern of segregation, and to establish an integrated social order in which there will be no distinction made
in this country on the basis of race, religion, color or nationality.

This objective is altogether laudable and certainly Christian. However, the methodology being pursued and the attitude exhibited by integrationists in
both North and South seems anything but laudable. Those in favor of the Supreme Court ruling favor immediate integration of
schools and universities in the South. The Davidson student should realize that this will soon entail admission of Negro students
to D. C. Those in favor of integration are approaching the problem with fervent emotional zeal, convinced that theirs is
the absolute righteous viewpoint. But do they stop to ponder the tremendous problems involved? If they do, I have heard
little of it.

Law is law, and fact is fact, but a way must be worked out to resolve the great problems imposed
by the decision. For example, the states of Georgia and Mississippi alone employ approximately 14,000 Negro teachers. When integration comes,
many of these will no longer hold teaching positions. Many Negro principals will also find themselves out of their job.
Will the policy now being pursued benefit these? It seems that it may only serve to deprive certain effective, dynamic
citizens of the joy of engaging in their chosen vocation. This appears to be a valid consideration.

Davis Lee, Negro publisher of the Newark (N.J.) Telegram says: “Right now the Southern Negro is in a better spot
educationally, politically, and economically than the Negroes anyplace else in the world.” He feels that the southern Negro is very
much respected by southerners, and that the Negro himself can do more about improving conditions than can courts, legislation, or
pressure groups. Perhaps many Davidson students feel likewise, but have been labelled “Segregationist” and placed on the defensive.

One often realizes that expectation. I see, however, no evidence of innate (used here as biological or physiological) inferiority used
to justify an unequal status. On the other hand I have seen myself to be both functionally and innately inferior
to Ultimate Reality — God. This inferiority is what many call sin. Beginning to apprehend God, a person begins to
apprehend his and all men’s basic inferiority. But isn’t the “good news” the fact that God has totally accepted all
of us—inferior though we are? And doesn’t the Cross at least mean that He now releases those who accept his
love from the bonds of inferiority, and begins to make real men out of them? How can anyone who realizes
this call another inferior to himself? He can appraise variation inindividual talent, but can he call differences indices of basic
inferiority when all men are equal in the most genuine experience of all—living worship?

Total Acceptance Leads To Easy Integration

If men are not basically unequal, then segregation seems out of place. If the power to release men from “social
inferiority” is in the hand of man, need we stop with a separate but equal view? Can you realize and
express to others the acceptance you have found in this limited way? This seems to THE PRINCIPALS vel Ca wo
© ¥ ald A taste of the multicolored opinion on segregation which pervades the Davidson campus might be gathered from
the meat found in the articles on this page. Of the writers, four are seniors, two sophomores. Left to right,
top row first, they are: Renald Wilson, not unfamiliar to critical analysts of the local and national situation, cology. Born
in Greensboro, N. C., he has lived in Winchester, Virginia and Miami, Florida. He graduates this year with a major
in psychology. He is a recent nominee to Phi Beta Kappa.

Leighton McCutchen, a history major and a senior, was born in the Belgian Congo, and has lived in Texas, Alabama,
South Carolina, and Tennessee. His column appears weekly in the Davidsonian.

William Gallier is a native of Boston, Massachusetts and has lived in Chicago. He is a thoroughly converted southerner and
has been a member of the citizenry of Charlotte for the past 12 years. A sophomore, Bill is majoring in
mathematics and history.

Cortez Cooper, born in Thomasville, Georgia, also graduates this year with a major in psychology. Cooper has distinguished himself in
the ROTC and was recently named to Phi Beta Kappa. He has been active in the Y. M. C. A.
during his years here.

Jim Brice was born and has lived all his life in Easley, Pickens County, S. C. With a population of
less than 12% Negro, Pickens County is the ‘whitest’ county in South Carolina. Brice is a sophomore, majoring in pre-med.

Bob Jones is a senior majoring in pre-med. Bob was born and lived all of his life in Macon, Georgia.

It seems to me that all of us must consider these views if we all have the interests of the
southern Negro at heart; and I believe that we do. As an observer of debates and bull sessions here at
Davidson concerning how the decision applies to us, I have been impressed by the fact that there is as much
prejudice and blind assurance of being right on the part of those in favor of integration as has been shown
by those against integration. Yet the hue and cry of those favoring integration has been that all emotionality and prejudice
lie with those not in favor. If any resolution is to be achieved, both sides must recognize the merits of
the other’s stand. Christian understanding is never fostered by blind self-assurance on the part of either faction.

INTEGRATION: — Do We Veto God?
BY LEIGHTON McCUTCHEN

Herein I am approaching possible integration from a religious viewpoint. I have had to condense the ideas below, so I
welcome further chance to discuss their meaning. My motive is simply to aid you in rationally coming to a conviction
on this question.

What is A Man Basically?

First, I clearly see a functional inferiority in many Negroes in our Southland. Our society expects men of color to
play inferior roles and lead to total integration, especially here at Davidson. Being genuinely interested in others' growth more than
our own, we can now include boys with potential college ability into Davidson. If intermarriage should occur in some instances,
why does that frighten those realizing their acceptance? The individual’s determination of his marriage partner will not be snatched from
him; rather it will be put more securely into his hands as legal and customary prohibitions against his picking a
partner from another race will begin to drop out. If we have really understood how Ultimate Reality has totally accepted
man as His son, then I fail to see how we can deny total acceptance to others.

SEGREGATION: A Southern Problem
BY JIM BRICE

I have been asked to write an article defending racial segregation. I would not go to the Bible and find
verses of scripture to prove that segregation was instituted by God, as many men would do; I'm not that much
of a fundamentalist. Nevertheless, I don't believe that anyone can prove from the Bible that segregation is opposed to the
will of God. As I see it, segregation is a social problem and should be looked upon as such.

The recent Supreme Court decision has forced upon the southern states the greatest social problem they have faced since Reconstruction.
It is a problem which cannot be solved in a short period of time, and it is a problem which
must and will be solved by the people of the South, not by rulings from Washington.

I would venture to say that before last May 17, race relations in the South were better than they had
ever been. Segregation was dying, slowly but surely. For example, Negroes have voted in my state during the past five
or six years and have had a relatively free choice of train seats, both with little white opposition. From my
own experience, I can tell that the attitude has changed in the past six months. The white people have taken
a more belligerent attitude toward the Negro, even before the ruling has been implemented.

To those who hold the view that segregation is un-Christian and should be abolished immediately, I wish to pose the
following questions: Is it Christian to implement a ruling which will tend to pit white against Negro, and the relations
between the two have been improving so greatly in past years? Is it Christian to take a drastic step which
stands a better-than-average chance of leading to actual armed conflict and violence? Is it Christian to take a step which
will deprive thousands of Negro school teachers of their jobs? Think seriously about these things.

Immediate integration would tremendously lower the standard of education in the public schools of the South. It is a fact
that the I.Q. of the average Negro is around 13 points below that of the average white man; I would
guess that in the southern states, the difference is even greater. I think it is evident that an influx of
Negroes into the white schools could not help but lower the standard of education. For example, what would happen to
the academic standing of Davidson College, or any other school, if half the student body were replaced with students who
had I.Q.’s 13 points lower?

Racial Pride

I think it must be admitted that the end of segregation will lead to miscegenation, thereby eventually destroying racial characteristics
and racial pride. Though there are those here at Davidson who are diametrically opposed to this next view, I believe
that racial pride has been one of the greatest stimuli for the ambitions of most great Negroes. Is it right
to take away that pride?

After all is said and done, I admit that racial segregation is doomed to die in the future, though it
might be the distant future. I contend, however, that it will end just as soon (maybe sooner), and with a
thousand times better feeling between the races, if the matter of integration is not pushed and shoved by outsiders and
radical southerners.

You will find that the people of the South, independent as they are, have never accepted peaceably anything which was
rammed down their throats, and there is no reason to believe that their attitude toward racial integration will be any
different.

INTEGRATION: Miscegenation? Ha!
BY BILL GALLIER

Since the Supreme Court issued its decision against the constitutionality of racial segregation as maintained by twenty state school systems,
multitudinous opponents to such a relaxation of one of our most venerated social barriers have arisen to damn the ruling
with all the vigor of one who feels the intrinsic standards of his society to be destroyed. Among the contentions
of these assailants are the illegality of the Court's decision, Scriptural references supporting segregation, and the lowering of educational standards
in regions most immediately affected by the ruling. It is not this observer’s purpose to uphold the legal validity of
the decree, to refute perverted Biblical interpretations, nor to disparage popular misconceptions concerning inherent physiological and intellectual deficiencies of the
Negro, though they be wholly environmental.

Another tenet, and probably that to which these social reactionaries cling with most tenacity and emotion, is that the dread
specter of miscegenation will be transformed from an innocuous literary term for amalgamation of the races into hideous and brutal
reality. Logic would have it that small white boys, growing to handsome Caucasian manhood in desks beside small black girls,
in turn developing attractive colorful maturity, would come into intimate social contact with Negroes in his scholastic environment, become emotionally
attracted to one of them, and marry her, in time producing children of mixed blood. But this is mere speculation;
let the experiences of those areas long having had integrated educational systems be viewed. Is intermarriage there an accepted and
frequent social practice?

At present there are being produced in American Negroes, at the rate of 3.6 percent per generation, genes which are
essentially Caucasian hereditary factors. This figure is undoubtedly lower than that of a century ago at which time the aristocratic
progenitors of those who now most fear miscegenation were indulging themselves with their female slaves who might exhibit no will
in the matter. Furthermore, it would appear that those modern mulatto offspring are products also of illicit sex relations, for
the Caucasian-Negroid marriage rate is simply not of proportions to produce the rapid transfer of genetic characteristics that is now
taking place.

To illustrate the interracial marriage rate, Los Angeles (Cal.) County may be taken as a case in point. This county
is approximately ten percent Negro as is the United States as a whole. In 1938 the state of California declared
its anti-miscegenation statute unconstitutional. Since that time the rate of marriages between whites and Negroes has been little more than
one tenth of one percent.

If it may be assumed that Californians are no less inhibited than are those residents of other states, it may
also be assumed that their miscegenation rate may be fairly accurately projected to encompass the nation, if this includes a
South in which miscegenation is possible, i.e., where integrated school systems exist. In the light of such a minute interracial
marriage rate, need we be alarmed by the prospect of the immediate defilement of our race should the day of
integrated educational institutions be upon us?

SEGREGATION: No Social Chaos Now
BY BOB JONES

Reared, as I have been, in the atmosphere of a very conservative home, I have naturally always considered segregation to
be the only way of life. Indeed, I think that irreparable damage would be done to the people of the
South if this institution were abolished. Not that I have anything personally against the Negro... On the contrary, I have
many close friends among the members of the colored race. My stand is merely that both the white and the
colored races are much better off in being segregated.

In regard to the religious aspects of segregation, I have found no conclusive evidence as to the un-Christian like characteristics
of this institution. To be true, we should respect and love our colored friends. But why can't this be done
without throwing down all social barriers? In my opinion this could only lead to miscegenation. Of course, one is reminded
that this would not be the case in the South. I realize that at first it would not be a
problem but eventually it would, and I would not like to see our country populated by a mongrelized, “tan” race.

In considering the Supreme Court decision, I am reminded of an editorial by a Negro editor of a Trenton, New
Jersey newspaper. In the article he pointed out the detrimental aspects of “desegregation” of the southern schools. One of his
main points was the fact that many Negro schoolteachers and principals would be thrown out of jobs by this action.
Statistics were quoted showing the incomes of the southern Negro teachers... they far surpassed those of the northern teachers.

I also think it wrong for this decision to be forced on us. To be true there is a definite
trend toward abolishing segregation. (Although I think this is very unfortunate, it seems to be true). Why can’t we be
allowed to solve this ourselves? In the long run it would save much violence and also help to preserve the
close relationship which exists between the southern white and the Negro. Instead, we are constantly being invaded by the modern
carpetbaggers who actually have no use for the Negro, but whose main desire, evidently, is to stir up the southern
Negro and destroy the existing relations between our races.
