COLUMNISTS GIVE LAST WORD ON THE AMENDMENTS

VOL. XLII

Bus.-Economics Club Names Averyt Pres.

The Davidson College Business and Economics Association recently terminated its first year of operation under the leadership of President Bob
Owens and Professor Fred Morton as faculty adviser.

In reviewing the progress made this year, Owens emphasized at the closing meeting the aid and encouragement given the association
by the Charlotte Sales Executive Club. One of the highlights of the year was a combined dinner meeting of the
two clubs at the Hotel Charlotte where the Davidson students were given a chance to see at first hand the
opportunities of the business community. With the tremendous industrial growth of the South and the concern of industry for trained
leaders, the possibilities arising from a closer relationship between the association and neighboring industry are practically unlimited.

Owens also pointed out how the association was filling a big gap on the Davidson campus; before its formation, there
was no organization primarily interested in the economics and business students.

In the election of next year's board of directors, the following men were chosen: Gayle Averyt, Henry Brown, Johnny Buxton,
Corty Cooper, Roy Davis, Stebbins Ingram, Tommy Lambe, Harley Smith, Austin Strand, and Bob Stogner. During a subsequent special meeting,
the Board elected as its officers Gayle Averyt, president; Stebbins Ingram, vice president; Roy Davis, secretary; and Corty Cooper, treasurer.

Plans for next fall are already well under way and tentative arrangements call for three programs before Christmas.

DISPLAY IN LOBBY

Now on display in the lobby of Chambers Building is the entire display of Mrs. George Abernethy’s textile designs. A
portion of the display was formerly in the College Union.

I. R. C. ELECTS

At a business meeting last week in the Green Room of the College Union, the International Relations Club elected officers
for the coming school year. Roy Davis was chosen as president, Kiki Lewis was selected to be vice president and
program chairman, and Gilbert Gragg was elected secretary-treasurer. Plans for a cabinet meeting were made to discuss plans for next
fall and new membership procedures.

Mike York, retiring president, presided at the session and commented on some of the club's activities for the year. After
discussion of changing the meeting date from Wednesday to another night, literature pertaining to current affairs was distributed.

DR. W. O. PUCKETT

N.C. Scientists Elect Puckett As President

Dr. W. O. Puckett has been elected president of the North Carolina Academy of Science for next year. The secretary-treasurer,
Mr. John A. Yarbrough, writes, “This is a richly deserved honor for a long-time member of the Academy.” The annual
meeting of the North Carolina Academy of Science will be held on the Davidson campus the first week in May,
1958.

Pictured above are the members of the 1954-55 Student Council who were installed Wednesday. Left to right, front row, they
are Perrin Anderson, Hobby Cobb, Floyd Feeney, Charlie Rankin, Clark Reed, and Buddy Dye. Back row: Joel Connarroe, Swain Loy,
John Child, Kiki Lewis, Charlie Cousar, Corky King, Tom Newton.

Best Military Students Picked At Grand Finale

By TOMMY THOMPSON

In the final parade of the Davidson College Cadet Corps on Tuesday, May 11, outstanding military science students were honored.
Heading the awards was the presentation of the Henry E. Fulcher, Jr. Memorial Medal, an award given to the graduating
cadet best exemplifying the principles of good citizenship. This medal is awarded by the Davidson Lions Club in honor of
2nd Lt. Henry E. Fulcher, Jr., a Davidson graduate killed in World War II. Cadet Colonel Leroy M. DeVane, Jr.,
of Jennings, Florida, received the award presented to him by Dr. Henry E. Fulcher.

The 108th Infantry Division Cup was given to the company commander of the best company in the Davidson Cadet Corps.
The 108th Infantry Division awards this medal, and Lt. Colonel G. W. Crawford, representing Brig. General Mayfield and the 108th
Infantry Division, presented the award to Cadet Captain William P. McAlister of Barium Springs, North Carolina, commanding Company “K.”

Other senior awards included the Third Army Leadership Certificate presented to Cadet Captain Cecil K. Brown, Jr., of Davidson, North
Carolina, the Most Outstanding Senior Cadet Medal awarded to Cadet Lt. Colonel Millard H. Coe of Wethersfield, Conn., and the
Best Company Commander Medal presented to Cadet Captain Grame M. Keith of Greenwood, South Carolina. The Best Platoon Leader Medal
went to Cadet Lieutenant Edwin L. Douglass, Jr., of Augusta, Georgia. Cadet Master Sergeant Theodore E. Andra, Jr., of Orangeburg,
South Carolina, received the Scabbard and Blade Medal for the most outstanding Junior Cadet. The Most Outstanding Sophomore Medal was
awarded to Cadet Corporal Harold McKeithen of Winston-Salem, North Carolina. In the Band Company, the Most Outstanding Band Cadet Medal
was presented to Cadet Corporal Tom Murphy of Umatilla, Florida. Cadet Private First Class Francis L. Howell, Jr., of Copperhill,
Tennessee, won the American Legion Medal as the most outstanding Freshman Cadet.

STUDENTS CHOOSE THE KINSEY REPORT

Library statistics indicate that the Davidson College student has approximately the same literary taste as the rest of the nation.
The circulation figures for the year 1953-54 end with the Kinsey report on the human female at the head of
the optional reading list, even though the two copies owned by the Davidson library are kept on permanent reserve and
are not available except on special request.

The second-best read title indicates a more literary interest: Ernest Hemingway's “The Old Man and the Sea.” It is a
small book as is also number three, Armour’s humorous “It All Started With Columbus.” The popularity of the short books
is perhaps indicative of the digest trend of our times.

If the Davidson list differs from the national list in any significant respect, it would be in the prominence of
books by Carolina authors on the local list, though all of these were national best-sellers as well. Mrs. Elizabeth Coker
of Hartsville, S.C., wrote “India Allen,” James Street of Chapel Hill wrote “Velvet Doublet,” and LeGette Blythe of Huntersville collaborated
with Mrs. Mary Martin Sloop of Crossnore in writing “Miracle in the Hills.” It can hardly be said at Davidson
that a prophet is without honor in his own country.

The most popular titles (exclusive of required reading) are as follows:

Kinsey: “Sexual Behaviour of the Human Female.”
Hemingway: “The Old Man and the Sea.”
Armour: “It All Started With Columbus.”
Paton: “Too Late the Phalarope.”
Sharpe: “Brain Surgeon.”
Coker: “India Allen.”
Herzog: “Annapurna.”
Michener: “Bridges of Toko-Ri.”
Street: “Velvet Doublet.”
Costain: “The Silver Chalice.”
Frank: “Hold Back the Night.”
Blythe and Sloop: “Miracle in the Hills.”

ALENDA CUR O85 CREA LIBERTAS

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C., FRIDAY, MAY 14, 1954

Lt. Colonel Millard H. Coe of Wethersfield, Conn., and the Best Company Commander Medal presented to Cadet Captain Grame M.
Keith of Greenwood, South Carolina. The Best Platoon Leader Medal went to Cadet Lieutenant Edwin L. Douglass, Jr., of Augusta,
Georgia. Cadet Master Sergeant Theodore E. Andra, Jr., of Orangeburg, South Carolina, received the Scabbard and Blade Medal for the
most outstanding Junior Cadet. The Most Outstanding Sophomore Medal was awarded to Cadet Corporal Harold McKeithen of Winston-Salem, North Carolina.
In the Band Company, the Most Outstanding Band Cadet Medal was presented to Cadet Corporal Tom Murphy of Umatilla, Florida.
Cadet Private First Class Francis L. Howell, Jr., of Copperhill, Tennessee, won the American Legion Medal as the most outstanding
Freshman Cadet.

YMCA, Student Body Elections Complete

By BILL STEWART

Voting in chapel today all but ended the elections for officers and positions on the various student organizations for the
1954-55 school year. The single remaining officer to be elected is the athletic council representative for whom nominations were made
today. The rising sophomores completed their list of officers by electing Stuart Vaughn as their representative to the student council.

Members elected to the YMCA Board of Directors during the week's voting include Cortez Cooper and Clark Reed from the
rising senior class and Blake Brinkerhoff and Linny Baker from the rising juniors. While this, the last full week of
elections, has been an active one, it has been even more unusual. For the first time, an honorary cheerleader has
been elected. From the three possible candidates, the student body has overwhelmingly elected Velma Middleton. Velma beat out two of
Davidson’s ace football players in the final elections Thursday.

Although voting for head cheerleader was completed in today’s voting, the results were not available at press time.

PHI MU ALPHA ELECTS

Officers for the year 1954-55, elected in Phi Mu Alpha, national honorary music fraternity, are as follows: President, Richard Morrow;
vice president, Sandy McGeachy; secretary, Brown Goehring; treasurer, Wayne Burgess; alumni secretary, Don Hinshaw; warden, Thorny Frick, and historian, Hadley
Hunt.

More Parking Spaces Set Aside For Students

Mr. D. Grier Martin has announced that a number of additional spaces around Shearer Hall have been set aside for
student parking. Students may park in the spaces that are not specifically reserved for the music department. This has been
done as a result of student-faculty conferences which have also brought about student parking between Georgia and West dormitories from
6 p.m. to 8 a.m. This space is still reserved for the ROTC department during the day.

BELK CORNERSTONE

The ceremony, which will start at 12 Noon, will be presented by the administration, faculty, and alumni of the college.
Mrs. William H. Belk, who is the widow of the man for whom the new dormitory is named, will be
present, along with other members of the family which has provided much of the funds that have made the new
dormitory a reality. The cornerstone is to contain material being collected by Dr. S. R. Spencer.

The building is expected to be completed by February 1, 1965, at which time students will be moved into the
building. The first choice of rooms will go to seniors, the second choice to men living in the Carolina Inn
and Cardboard Village, and the third choice to juniors. Georgia dormitory will remain throughout the year until after commencement. The
men living in Georgia will not be affected in any way by the new dormitory in the coming year. By
the opening of school next fall, the exterior of the building is expected to be completed, and all the remaining
time will be concentrated on completing the interior. The dormitory will have accommodations for 302 students, an office for Mrs.
Little, and space for the ROTC department.

Cunningham Selects Investigation Group

The faculty took action at its last meeting of the college year, Tuesday afternoon, May 11, authorizing the appointment by
the President of a committee of seven members, two from the administrative staff and five from the faculty to work
toward the following goals:

To study the present lack of understanding between the students and the faculty and to try to determine the causes,
if possible.

To study ways and means of securing a better exchange of ideas between the students and the faculty with reference
to their common problems.

To study the present constitution of student government in conference with the designated representatives of the student body, and to
study the rules of the faculty as they apply to the students, with the purpose of determining their points of
strength and their points of weakness.

It is hoped that the student body will appoint a like group to confer with the administration and faculty to
work out such solutions as will be for the best interests of all concerned.

J. R. CUNNINGHAM

Acting Group Names Officers for 1954-55

At a recent meeting of Alpha Psi Omega, honorary dramatics fraternity, the following members were elected as officers for the
coming year: Dunbar Ogden, president; Jack Pietenpol, vice president; Fred Summers, secretary; Gwynn Griffin, treasurer.

BIBLE PRESENTED BY MRS. HELEN KIRK

Mrs. Helen McC. Kirk has presented to Davidson College a very handsome Bible in memory of her husband, the late
Reverend Harris E. Kirk, D.D., LL.D., of Baltimore, Maryland. The Bible is a beautiful folio edition, hand-tooled leather, printed by
John Baskerville, printer at Cambridge University, England, in 1763. It is an edition usually referred to as the “Baskerville Bible.”

Dr. Kirk was one of the outstanding ministers of the Southern Presbyterian Church and a lifelong friend of Davidson College.
He died in 1953. This year, Professor Iain Wilson of the Bible departmentAt Davidson, has accepted a call to Dr.
Kirk's church.

Morehead Poll: Opinion Poll Suggests Student Disfavor

In order to establish a valid register of student opinion on important issues concerning the entire student body and to
create greater interest in them, the Davidsonian conducted last week the first in a series of student opinion polls to
be continued next year. The poll this week aimed not to influence but to record student opinion. The poll was
taken by ten reporters and obtained the opinion of 102 students in six dormitories. The following questions were asked with
the results given in percentage of the total polled.

Are you for or against the proposed Crutchfield amendments as they now stand?
For: 24.5%; Against: 56.9%

Of the 56.9% against:
Are you for or against modification of the proposed amendments?
For: 81.1%; Against: 18.9%
(Undecided: 11.7%; Ignorant of the amendments: 6.9%).

The main reasons given in support of the amendments were: They are an adequate answer to the recent drinking episode;
they will give the student council more definite and defined power. The main reasons given by those against the amendments
but in favor of modification were: That they are a step in the right direction but some definite changes need
to be made; the compulsory signing of the honor pledge should be abolished because it is too stringent; that the
honor court should have more members; that the forced testimony clause is too strong and should be amended; the drinking
penalty should be lightened. Of those opposed to modification, two views were expressed: the present constitution is too outdated for
amending and should be abolished and a new one created; the present system is satisfactory. A feeling of general indifference
was expressed by those who are undecided.

This poll was taken by reporters T. Warlick (East), John Hiers (West), J. Brooks (East), T. Thompson (Carolina Inn), J.
Trawick (Georgia), M. Crouse (Watts), H. Antrim (Rumple), S. Miller (Georgia), T. Griffin (Watts), J. Burroughs (West).

Sig Upsilon Names Three To Membership Thursday

Sigma Upsilon, national honorary fraternity recognizing student literary talent, elected three new men to its membership at its meeting Thursday
evening. The new members of Sigma Upsilon are Gilbert Gragg of Bainbridge, Georgia; John Harmon, of Laurens, South Carolina; and
Henry Brockmann, of High Point, North Carolina.

Faculty Walloped By Lowly Seniors

In the annual battle between the faculty and the seniors which was held last Wednesday, the seniors finally won. The
first stage of the battle on Monday was a disastrous defeat for the seniors. The invincible golf team of the
faculty beat the seniors by a score of 32-13. Pfaff and Owens defeated Dole and McGavock, but the other faculty
teams triumphed over the seniors. The students made a brilliant comeback on Wednesday by winning the tennis matches and the
volleyball and softball games. Causey and Johnston defeated their opponents in tennis, but Vavoulis lost to Murray. In the doubles
matches, Scott and Witherspoon won over Martin and Daggy, while Mitchell and Moody Smith defeated Purcell and Iain Wilson. In
the volleyball game, the faculty led by Chalmers Davidson lost two out of the three games to the seniors. The
softball game also ended with the defeat of the faculty by the score of 17-13. At the close of the
day, the former opponents met at Erwin Lodge for a fish fry and fellowship. About 175 of the victors and
vanquished joined in this fellowship.

EXAMS SIGNAL THE END OF SCHOOL YEAR

New members of Omicron Delta Kappa are, left to right: First row: Leighton Green, Professor Iain Wilson, Leighton McCutchen, Swain
Loy, Mike York; second row, Henry Brockmann, Dickie Davis, Herschel Allen, John Bremer, Floyd Feeney; back row, Charlie Cousar, Buford
Price, Ed Stuart and Coach Bill Dole.—(Photo by Hank Daniel.)

ODK TAPS FOURTEEN IN EXERCISES TUESDAY

By JIM BATTEN

The Delta Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa held its annual tapping service in chapel Tuesday morning as membership was conferred
on twelve outstanding student leaders and two faculty members. Bill Hood, president of the Davidson Chapter of ODK, presided over
the ceremony. The guest speaker for the occasion was Dean William Tate of the University of Georgia, who addressed the
student body on “Living in This Generation.” He noted the discontent of the modern generation, urging the students not to
avoid their place in life but to recognize the innumerable advantages of living at such a period in the history
of the world as today.

Following Dean Tate's address, five seniors, Herschel Allen, Buford Price, Mike York, Johnny Bremer, and Ed Stuart; and seven juniors,
Dickie Davis, Leighton Green, Swain Loy, Henry Brockmann, Floyd Feeney, Charlie Cousar, and Leighton McCutchen, were tapped by student members
of the society. Two faculty members, Dr. Iain Wilson of the Bible Department, and Football Coach Bill Dole, were also
tapped. The annual initiation banquet honoring the new members was held at the College Union Tuesday night.

FLOYD FEENEY

Floyd Feeney, a Charlottean, was recently elected president of the student body for next year. A member of the Kappa
Sigma fraternity, he is serving as their boarding house manager. Floyd is a familiar figure on the Davidson athletic scene,
being a member of the basketball, track, and cross country squads. He is president of this year’s junior class, associate
editor of The Davidsonian and a member of the “D" Club, Scabbard and Blade, and the Eumenean Literary Society.

LEIGHTON McCUTCHEN

Leighton McCutchen from Nashville, Tennessee, will head the Commission on Campus Life for the new Y cabinet, having filled the
Advancement post for the past year. Leighton has also been active in student government as he served as the student
body's first vice president for the past year.

Fred Myers Wins French Scholarship

Sophomore Fred Myers has recently won a one-year scholarship for study in France. The scholarship was awarded by Sweetbriar College,
which annually picks some eighty outstanding students for this junior year of study abroad. Fred will leave the United States
August 31 and will spend six weeks at Tours, France, studying the French language, after which he will go to
Paris to Sorbonne or “Faculty of Letters,” which is a part of the University of Paris. Fred expects to study
French and English literature (English is his major course) along with other subjects.

JOHN BREMER

Wilmington’s Johnny Bremer has been one of the leading netmen all season long for Davidson's Southern Conference tennis champs. He
is the retiring president of Kappa Sigma fraternity, vice president of this year’s senior class, and a member of the
Student Council, the Beaver Club, and the “D” Club.

HENRY BROCKMANN

“Rabble rouser” Henry Brockmann of High Point has been elected editor of The Davidsonian for next year. He is a
member of Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity and will be their rush chief next fall. Henry is filling the Public Relations
post of the new YMCA Cabinet, which entails the editorship of the 1954-55 Wildcat Handbook. Long active in the intellectual
pursuits of the Eumenean Literary Society, he is their treasurer for the coming year. He recently received the history award
given by the Society of the Cincinnati. He is chairman of the Publications Board for next year.

MIKE YORK

Mike York, a Phi Gam from Kernersville, N. C., has been active in Y work, heading the Community Work post
of this year’s cabinet. Mike has acted as business manager for this year’s Scripts and Pranks and is a member
of the Student Council. He is president of the International Relations Club, on the Honorary Fraternity Council, and a member
of Scabbard and Blade.

BUFORD PRICE

Buford Price, a Baker scholar from Rock Hill, S.C., is a member of Phi Delta Theta and served as their
secretary and rush chief this year. As president of Sigma Pi Sigma and Delta Phi Alpha, he has been active
on the Honorary Fraternity Council. A member of Phi Beta Kappa, Buford has also been active in student council work
and is affiliated with the Eumenean Literary Society.

ED STUART

Ed Stuart from Bartow, Florida, spent his junior year in the Near East, studying at the American University in Beirut,
Lebanon, and attending the World Conference of Christian Youth in India. He returned to Davidson last fall and is the
retiring president of Beta Theta Pi. He headed the Y Forums post and is a member of Sigma Delta Pi,
Phi Mu Alpha, Eumenean Literary Society, and Sigma Upsilon. A two-year letterman on the swimming team, Ed was recently initiated
into Phi Beta Kappa.

Several Seniors Secure Graduate Scholarships

Dr. George Abernethy has announced that several more seniors have won scholarships or fellowships to do graduate study in some
of the best colleges and universities in the United States. Don D. Reid has won a $1,000 fellowship to Cornell
University to study city planning. Dan McCall will receive $800 to study business at the University of North Carolina. Danforth
Fellowships have been granted to Ed Stuart and Bob Mitchell.

SWAIN LOY

Swain Loy, from Roanoke Rapids, N.C., has recently been elected editor of next year’s edition of Quips and Cranks. Active
in publications work, he has also filled important positions on the staff of the newspaper and magazine. He is the
president-elect of his fraternity, Kappa Alpha. He was a member of this year’s Y Cabinet, serving as president of the
College Bible Class. Swain has been active in student government and is a member of Alpha Psi Omega, Philanthropic Literary
Society, and the International Relations Club.

LEIGHTON GREEN

Leighton Green, from El Paso, Texas, is the newly elected president of the YMCA, having headed the Special Services post
for the past year. A Baker scholar, he is a member of the Kappa Sigma Fraternity. Recently named to Phi
Beta Kappa, Leighton is a member of the varsity tennis team, Philanthropic Literary Society, the “D” Club, and Scabbard and
Blade. He was also recently named recipient of the Agnes Sentelle Award which is annually awarded on the basis of
character, personality, and scholarship.

HERSCHEL ALLEN

Hailing from Monticello, Ga., Herschel Allen is a member of Phi Delta Theta fraternity. He filled the Spiritual Life post
of this year’s Y Cabinet and has served as secretary of the YMCA Board of Control. A member of the
cross country and baseball squads, he has been active in the Beaver and “D” Clubs, serving as president of the
former last year. Herschel has been a member of Phi Literary Society and is a senior class representative to this
year’s student council.

DICKIE DAVIS

Dickie Davis, a Kappa Sig from Spindale, N.C., is well known to the student body (and to some few Southern
Conference linemen and backs as well) for his gridiron feats which have won him acclaim throughout the South. He was
recently named captain of next autumn’s edition of the football Wildcats. Dickie was president of the Beaver Club for this
year, and will hold the same office for the “D” Club next year. He also fills the Y Chapel post
in the new cabinet and is a member of the student council, Scabbard and Blade, and the Honorary Fraternity Council.

CHARLIE COUSAR

Charlie Cousar from Raleigh is president-elect of the rising senior class. He has served as president of Phi Delta Theta
this year, and is their IFC representative for the coming year. A varsity footballer, he is a member of the
Beaver Club and the “D” Club. Active in student government, Charlie will be a member-at-large of the new YMCA Cabinet.

Two honorary members from the faculty ranks were also tapped Tuesday: veteran football mentor Bill Dole, and Prof. Iain Wilson
of the Bible department who is leaving Davidson to assume the pastorate of the Franklin Street Presbyterian Church in Baltimore,
Maryland.
