PAGE TWO

Signing Up For Placement Important For All Seniors

The Davidson College Bureau of Public Relations and Placement has requested that seniors begin coming by the placement office on the first floor of Chambers in order to sign up for job interviews which will begin immediately after exams. A good percentage of this student body, like all male student bodies throughout the country, are pretty certain that Uncle Sam has at least a short-term career for them as soon as they pick up their sheepskins this spring. In the past, many of these seniors felt that there was no need to worry about any other job until their period of military service was over. As a matter of fact, this is anything but the case.

This winter and spring there will be about forty large companies and corporations, many of them nationwide in scope, on the campus to interview prospects. The Davidson senior will never again have such a sterling opportunity to choose and be chosen from such a wide field. What is more, almost all of these companies are as willing to talk with the man who is going into service as with the one who is not. They realize that most of the men they will be interested in are facing a period in the military and are willing to hire a man on the basis that he works as long as he can before he goes in and then gets his job back when he comes out. If a man is going into the service immediately after graduation, most companies will hire him with the agreement that he has a job as soon as he is out of service. Therefore, it will behoove all seniors who are not going to graduate school immediately after graduating to sign up for these placement interviews.

Companies represented include Colgate-Palmolive Peet Co., General Electric, Union Carbide, the Chase National Bank of New York, and many other equally well-known concerns. Career opportunities will be available in insurance, textiles, sales, banking, radio, advertising, personnel work, industrial relations, etc. The average starting salary of men hired from Davidson by these concerns last year was about $3,500.00 a year.

Parking Situation In Need Of Drastic Alterations

The parking situation on the campus is chaotic to say the least. Though the situation was never ideal, the construction of the new dormitory has made things worse than ever, many of the few available places having been eliminated. In order to enforce parking regulations, the Dean's Office has had to raise fines for violations to an exorbitant level out of line with fines for parking violations in most other cities in this area. The fact of the matter is that the trouble lies in the situation and not with any person or office. We need temporary parking facilities to solve the present difficulties, as well as long-range parking plans to take care of the steadily increasing number of cars among students.

A very likely solution to both of these problems would be the conversion of the area behind Watts dormitory and the President’s home into a student parking lot. Such a parking lot would offer a solution to the present situation and what is more, would be admirably well situated to furnish parking facilities for the more than three hundred students who will room in the Belk dorm when it is completed. Such a parking lot would serve the needs of the student body not only today, but in the foreseeable future as well. Watts field, as it is known, was at one time used by the ROTC for drill, but this use was discontinued last year. About the only objection of which we can conceive is that of those who have a distinct aversion to seeing the beautiful green of any part of our campus fall victim to the “acids of modernity” in the form of hard-surfacing and student automobiles.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

Moody Smith, Charley Hasty, Jim Moore, Dick Roper, Bob Crutchfield, Charles Hassell, Buddy Lamon, Bob Owen, Hunter Strader

Managing Editors: Henry Brockmann, Floyd Feeney
Sports Editor: John Handley
News Editor: Austin Strand
Feature Editor: T. A. Williams
Art Editor: Ed Price
Photographer: Andy Simons
Assignments: Blake Brinkerhoff
Asst. Business Manager: Ed Nicholson
Advertising Manager: Tommy Taylor
Circulation Manager: Dick Little
Collections Manager: Tim Cooper

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
BUSINESS MANAGER
ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Assistant Editors

Fine Candies

Select your favorite from trays of Lindt Swiss Chocolates, David Kopper Chocolates, Perugina Chocolates from Italy, Pascal Hard Candies from England, Bonell’s Chocolates (made expressly for us), Jacob's English Cookies, and many others.

131 W. Fourth St. Tel. 6-8195

DAVIDSON

In Defense of Football

College (Ed. note: In view of Davidson’s recently troubled football waters we are reprinting the following article from the Charlotte News.)

Mr. Fadiman, of famous “Information Please” now emceeing “This is Show Business,” won fame originally as a book reviewer for the New Yorker. He was also one-time editor-in-chief for Simon and Schuster.

Recently a generous Texas oil man gave his university $2,250,000, saying, “The great spirit and determination shown by the Cougars last Saturday in defeating Baylor fills me with enthusiasm and prompts me to do something for our great university.” We may note in passing that this marks a new high in undergraduate earning power. Each of the 11 Cougar (let's forget about replacements) earned for his Alma Mater $205,545.45, or $3,409.09 per minute of scholarly play, a record that may well make the chess team despair.

CLEAR THINKING

But what is important is the clear thinking behind the Texan's generosity. His motives may be criticized by some, but not by me. In endowing his university exclusively for its ability on the football field he showed, I think, an accurate and honest sense of reality. And it is high time, like the Texan, we too cleared our minds of cant.

A long time ago our colleges devoted themselves to the study of divinity and a few dead languages. Why? Because we Americans wanted them to. When we stopped wanting that, the colleges changed, and began to emphasize the sciences and also various techniques for earning a living. Now a great many of us—students, trustees, alumni, and others—would like a further change. We would like to see the college go forward, develop, begin to devote itself mainly to the complex art and science of football. In response to this deep-seated demand, the colleges should again alter their character, and I have firm faith that they will.

The Texas oil man is not the only one to face the facts without flinching. The former All-American back Aubrey Devine, recalling his brilliant undergraduate career, puts the matter clearly: “Education was not our primary objective but a means to an end, which was athletics and particularly football. I can think of no greater praise for the game than to say that boys love it so much that they will sacrifice for it even to the extent of acquiring a college education.” But why should we exact this sacrifice, which runs counter to every instinct of fair play? It is time that we recognize the claims of Mr. Devine, the Texas philanthropist, and tens of thousands of other Americans. They represent the progressives, just as those who cling to the notion that a college

THE DAVIDSONIAN

BOYS, THIS IS YOUR COLLEGE UNION

By CLIFTON FADIMAN

is an educational institution, represent the traditionalists, perhaps even the reactionaries. The split between them, because it is not honestly acknowledged, causes confusion, even unhappiness. Why only the other day some of the students of a midwestern college demanded, after a losing football season, that the entire athletic staff be removed. The president, rutted in convention, replied, “The primary function of Iowa State is that of research and education.” Admitting that he has the right to make such a statement, does that do anything to assuage the heartache of the football-students?

IMMORAL RELATIONSHIP

These two viewpoints should not be forced to live immorally together. The situation is even more unfair to the football group than to the old fogy education group. Football should be given the status it has earned, earned often in plain honest dollars and cents. It should no longer be thought of—I follow Mr. Devine here—as an anti-toxin tothe poison of education. I propose, therefore, that each college, taking due account of the desires of its students and the enthusiasms of potential endowers, label itself for what it is so that all who run may read or, in the case of some alumni, have it read to them. Harvard, for example, would be Harvard E. (E for Education) and would attract its own kind of student, about whom the less said the better. A college which has the courage to move forward into the new era would advertise itself as Siwash F (F for Football). In the latter case, the curriculum should be minimum and preferably on high school level.

DAVIDSON THEATRE
THURS-FRI., JAN. 14-15
“PARIS MODELS”
MARILYN MAXWELL
PAULETTE GODDARD

SATURDAY, JAN. 16
“PRISONERS OF CASBAH”
GLORIA GRAHAME
CESAR ROMERO

MON.-TUES., JAN. 18-19
“FLIGHT TO TANGIER”
GEORGE BRENT

WEDNESDAY, JAN. 20
“THE FAKE”
DENNIS O'KEEFE
COLLEEN GRAY

THURS-FRI., JAN. 21-22
“HERE COME THE GIRLS”

SATURDAY, JAN. 23
“SHARK RIVER”
STEVE COCHRAN

RESERVED FOR
CONCHING STAFF OFF-MOORING

“But, Sir, I need only two hours more to graduate.”
“I am very sorry, Mr. J. College, but the faculty ruling on this is very clear and they never make an exception. You are allowed sixteen hours a semester without the B average, and then only nineteen.”

Thus another Davidson senior comes to grief in his almost final semester, as he butts his head against the ridiculous ruling that puts him just short of his academic goal of graduation. This occurrence goes on every year to the great sorrow of a select group of seniors. Many a man’s last memories of his alma mater are bitter ones of days ill-spent in a summer school blistering with not only summer heat, but as well the undercurrent hatred of a system that refuses to adjust itself to an individual’s honest needs.

In no department here is there to be found so uncompromising, so unsympathetic an approach as can be noted in the academic requirements for graduation. There must be a reason back of all this unfeeling reliance on cold authority, and there is. It is that unrealistic approach that says Davidson must protect herself from her enemies from without and from within. It holds that students must be protected from “overloading,” and the college must be protected from having too many so as to leave the students free men in the classes for their real work. The degree granted would, of course, be B.F.; the doctorate would be D.F. It is a dismal fact that though college football no longer needs any defense, the football college, as these words show, still does. It’s time for a change. There’s the whistle—let’s go!

STUDENT ART TOWN OF CORNELIUS DAVIDSON

No student is permitted to carry more than sixteen hours, not including basic R.O.T.C., unless in the preceding semester he made an average of B or better. Under no conditions is a student permitted to carry more than nineteen hours per week, Basic R.O.T.C. included. An additional charge of $6.00 per hour above sixteen hours is made.

The registrar points out what will happen if you wish to take more than sixteen hours in your final semester without that B average. He said, “You may petition the Executive Committee if you wish. I might tell you that they have never before passed favorably such a petition. They are very specific on this.”

Why? You ask yourself, feeling like a heretic before the Court of the Inquisition. A man may have had financial or other difficulties that deprived him from going to a summer session earlier in his studies. His military training may be such that he cannot have attended the past summer sessions. This same military training may deprive him from going to another Davidson summer school (where there only is he allowed finally to earn the necessary requirements), thus forcing him to return for an expensively unnecessary fall and winter at Davidson. Individual differences make no difference here. It seems there is no way but the right way, the Davidson way, if you are to graduate here.

As you may suspect, this writer has also come afoul of the rules. Don’t surmise then that I am merely giving vent to a personal grievance, though I have had occasion to come in intimate contact with the situation. There is a valid and generally felt grievance here outside my own feelings. The Administration has been wont in the past few years to ask itself why it is the butt of so many student attacks. Until the Administration recognizes that in those areas where it continues to act in unfeeling, unsympathetic, undifferentiating ways, there will always be student protests, published or not, coming from those who feel injustice to themselves and to their fellows.

Perhaps the storm that has risen in the past few years, and is still raging, is nothing other than the reaction to years of over-paternalism. Our protest is not a spiteful one. It is one that seeks for something better. It is one that occasionally strikes a blow against hypocrisy and tries to find a better solution than that which worked twenty years ago. It is a critical spirit that finds its way into the minds of students today. We, as critics, are still 20 years behind our times, for only in these years have we caught up with the self-analysis and truth-seeking that first began sweeping across most college campuses, and our nation, as well, two and three decades past.

The truly critical men of those times—H. L. Mencken, John Mason Brown, Ludwig Lewisohn, Frank Lloyd Wright, Elmer Davis, Eugene O'Neill, Mumford Lewis, and others—have now been eclipsed by a new spirit and are rapidly passing into the shadowy pages of intellectual history, a history attended now, it is true, only occasionally by scholars and (Continued On Page Four)

When you grip the wheel of an Air Force jet, your hands are on a fast, high-flying future that leads to the top in jet aviation. Once behind the controls of an Air Force jet, you leave the humdrum of everyday life...soar far above the cares of the crowd into a bright new future. You may be part of a select flying team, playing for the highest stakes of all.

To qualify as an Aviation Cadet, you must be at least a high school graduate. However, you will be of more value to the Air Force if you stay in college, graduate, and then volunteer for training. You must be between 19 and 26½ years, unmarried, and in good physical condition.

HERE'S WHAT YOU DO:
1. Take your high school diploma or certificate of graduation and a copy of your birth certificate to your nearest Air Force Base or Recruiting Station. Fill out the application they give you.
2. If your application is accepted, the Air Force will arrange for you to take a physical examination at government expense.
3. Next, you will be given a written and manual aptitude test.
4. If you pass your physical and other tests, you will be scheduled for an Aviation Cadet training class. The Selective Service Act allows you a four-month deferment while waiting for class assignment.

As an Aviation Cadet, you get in on the ground floor of jet aviation, with the best instructors. You graduate as an Air Force lieutenant earning over $5,000 a year.