EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
HENRY BROCKMANN

BUSINESS MANAGER
TIM COOPER

ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Floyd Feeney, John Handley, Austin Strand

Asst. Editors
Gilbert Gragg, Swain Lo

Managing Editors
Blake Brinkerhoff, Maurice Crouse, Tom Warlick

Sports Editor
Jim Holshouser

Feature Editor
Dick Morehead

News Editors
John Hiers, Watt McCain

Copy Editor
John Harmon

Art Editor
Ed Price

Photographer
Hank Daniel

Assignments
Jim Brice

Editorial Consultants
Joe Gaskin, Jim Marshal, Stan Miller, Bill Stewart

Assistant Business Manager
Tommy Taylor

Advertising Manager
Larry Parrott

Collections Manager
John Smith

Circulation Manager
Bob Carmichael

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 1, 1954

The Davidsonian
Published Weekly Throughout the College Year
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N.C., under the Act of March 3, 1897

PAGE THREE

Davidson’s Past Graduate Scholarship Record Is Good; But Students Are Failing To Take Advantage Of An Exceptional Opportunity

Davidson College is justly proud of the record which its alumni have made in graduate and professional schools. The number
of Rhodes Scholarships and Fulbright Fellowships won by Davidson men for study abroad is particularly gratifying. Last year’s senior class
distinguished itself by the large number of scholarships and fellowships for graduate study which were awarded to its members, among
these two Woodrow Wilson Fellowships and two Danforth Foundation Fellowships won in the face of very stiff national competition. No
other college or university surpassed Davidson's record in these two competitions although several equaled Davidson’s record.

There is every evidence that the number of Davidson men winning graduate fellowships could be greatly increased if more Davidson
students were willing to apply for such opportunities and to plan their choice of courses more carefully to prepare them
for graduate study. Each year the Faculty Committee on Graduate Scholarships receives many more requests to nominate students for fellowships
carrying substantial stipends than there are interested students. This reverses the situation which existed before the war.

In order to bring pertinent information to the seniors and to stimulate the interest of other classes in the possibility
of graduate study, the DAVIDSONIAN plans to publish regularly announcements of the more attractive graduate scholarships and fellowships for which
Davidson students are eligible. Meanwhile, we commend the untiring efforts of the Faculty Committee on Graduate Scholarships (Professors Abernethy, Cumming,
Gallent, and Watts) to assist and counsel students seeking graduate awards. Here is one area of faculty-student relations in which
the faculty has gone more than halfway!

Two Month Orientation Gives Frosh Better Idea Of Davidson and College Life

Like it or not, Davidson is faced with a real problem in its rate of freshman mortality. Each year the
general exodus at the semester points to two things: One, that Davidson is academically hard as nails, and two, that
many freshmen either do not realize this or have not been sufficiently oriented to the idea to apply themselves to
college work. It is therefore with great foresight and wisdom that the College has this year instituted a prolonged orientation
program for the freshmen. Subject as is any new system to a certain number of unavoidable rough spots which must
eventually be smoothed, the new system nevertheless meets a real need in keeping before the freshmen during their first two
months here the fact that they must adjust themselves to a new type of existence, that, so to speak, of
a bookworm. The proof of this pudding will not be in the eating. Anyone can easily see its value, and
if the freshman mortality and maladjustment rate this year is not lower than in previous years, it will be the
result of closed ears and minds on the part of the freshmen, not of failure on the part of the
College to offer all the help possible.

Is Davidson Gargantuan?

There are virtues of a small college and virtues of a large university. These virtues are not the same and
decisions with respect to which type of institution is chosen should be made with the differences in mind. Recently, Hamilton
College, a liberal arts institution for men in the state of New York, undertook a study to determine as nearly
as possible where the dividing line lay. Hamilton wanted to remain a small college but it was pressed for admissions.
The published results of the study read, in part:

“Institutional decision in such a matter can seldom be made solely on the basis of curricular or academic criteria. Such
mundane matters as adequacy of the water supply may be relevant. The budget is not unimportant, and there are intangible
but proper concerns for the character of campus life which a change in enrollment may affect.

“The study was therefore divided into three parts. A survey of the business management of the College was made by
professional consultants who estimated an optimal enrollment in terms of plant and budgetary considerations. A faculty committee on student activities
was asked to discuss the relation of enrollment to student-student and student-faculty acquaintance and friendship, the sense of corporate unity,
and the extra-curricular activity of the student. The Committee on Studies of the Faculty undertook the most difficult task of
studying the general question in relation to the central academic task of the College. Would academic efficiency be affected in
the event enrollment changed?

“Fortunately, the three separate studies pointed to a common answer.”

If seven hundred and fifty is the optimum number for a small college, as the Hamilton study indicates, Davidson College,
which now has eight fifty, is on the verge of failure with respect to the virtues of the ‘Small College.”

Salute To The Little Fellow

One of the most exciting college football games we have seen in the last ten years was played by two
teams that would never have ranked in the top 150, in a stadium that consisted of some weather-beaten wooden bleachers
propped against a colorful New England hillside. We don’t recall the name of the player who scored the winning touchdown
in the last 15 seconds; his name would mean something to his classmates but he never made All-New England or
Little All-America or anything else. Yet he provided us with one of the greatest thrills we have had watching football
games (and we include Army-Notre Dame, Southern Cal-UCLA, Penn-Cornell, Alabama-Tennessee, etc.).

But these small colleges—and there are hundreds of them—provide as many thrills to as many fans as do the relatively
few big-time teams that dominate the national scene. And these little fellows are just as important to football as the
top-ranking conference leaders or the choices for the major bowl games on New Year's Day. Probably they are more important.
Because they come a lot closer to reflecting the spirit in which the game was originated in this country. Football
was once designed to be played by students simply for the exercise and fun they got out of it, remember?

As the 1954 football season gets underway, we salute small colleges that believe playing the game on a modest, amateur
scale is much better than not playing the game at all.
—From Sport Magazine.

Oceans Of Red Tape

Secretiveness Separates

A sharp blow and a premature wind storm began the harvest of the fall and an immediate distinction between liberal
arts and other activities has, at the outset of the school year, been established. With the return of the students
to subdue their intellectual tendencies also returned the ancient Inquisition. This sentiment was felt in the past week when the
raging Order of the Davidsonian (otherwise known as the Student Council) sought to carry out, define, and denounce the title;
“an honorable man.” The absence of the dull monk's cloth was replaced by a “tunica molesta” — a shirt of
fire — but the circumstances were reversed from what the natural reaction would be.

These “tunics,” as we shall call them, were smeared with the inflammable materials of pride and suspicion, awkwardness and singularity;
a chemical composition which burst into a dull glow at the slightest contact with the outer world, and where upon
returning to the dark abyss of secretiveness the flame raged with ravenous intensity.

Bananas And Gin

These enclosed activities serve only one purpose in this case; they increase the imagination and also shock an established opinion.
But on the other hand if the imagination had been a reality and the established opinion had been valid then
there would not have been the hushed rumors or the silent wishes appearing in a subtle plot to dissolve our
powerful machine—the Student Council. The Student Council should be able to see that the students’ faces are bright with interest,
and they would like to know a little more than a casual announcement two or three days after the storm
of the purge has lost its fury. It is almost as if a case that is tried, shipped, and discussed;
and later the members of the “Star Chamber” sit smugly by and await the reaction of the student body. The
folly in the whole thing is that they know perfectly well the reaction that will follow and perhaps have that
same sentiment themselves. When a word unbecoming to a Davidson gentleman arises from amidst the ranks they lift their eyebrows
and scoff; some even to the point of seeing the student who audibly expressed a suppressed majority opinion packing his
bag and making his exit with the others.

Crowns’ Legal System

Before 1776 a policy of the Crown's legal system was to ship more extreme court cases to England for a
hearing. The closed door of the Student Council Chamber is much like the Atlantic Ocean: We, the colonists, are separated
from our court by an ocean of diffuse red tape and smug secretiveness. The colonists resented their situation; we resent
ours. The colonists had a revolution. We tried last year with constitutional amendments but the Crown was too strong for
us and constant postponement of the corrective issue became mildewed and dusty in the dome of Chambers. Our problem is
the stolid conservatism! We have let our shallow motto become—“A safe place for your son.” If the trend continues as
it has in the past, we shall look back on our four substanceless years with puny nostalgia and scraps of
gathered knowledge. If we shake off our drowsiness and rise from our sacks to feed on a good breakfast of
nourishing reform we shall have a good start on this morning of our lives.

Letter To Editor

Student Council Secrecy Scored; Publicity Urged

Dear Editor:

In view of the recent case before the student council and secrecy shrouding the true facts of the case, and
in the light of the fact that in most cases which come before the council many rumors are generated because
of the lack of facts all of which, in my opinion, leads to more damage to character than an official
statement would, I would like to add my appeal to those of many others who are seeking a measure requiring
the Student Council to make public a report on all cases which come before the body. I propose that this
report be in the form of a short article which would be published during the week of the case in
an inconspicuous place in the DAVIDSONIAN. It should be only a summary of pertinent facts and would not necessarily have
to mention names. If something similar to this were done I think that it would greatly raise student interest in
the work of the Council and improve cooperation between the two bodies.

—Tom Morgan

FACULTY ARTICLES

The Davidsonian wishes to reiterate its invitation, made at the close of the past year, for articles from members of
the faculty. These articles should be on matters of current interest to the student body. The submission of these articles
will continue to be voluntary in nature. All such will be welcomed.

Garrison Again!

Davidson May Be Nearing The Dawn In Three Important Areas

BY JOE GARRISON

Many persons seriously concerned about the improvement of several features of Davidson life which have been criticized editorially, in student
bull sessions, and from other higher circles for the past several years are beginning to be cautiously hopeful that this
year will see definite progress in these areas.

School Spirit

In the first place the Davidson Wildcats are growling out on the gridiron after a disturbing slumber last year with
two victories already under their belts. Despite all attempts to awaken school spirit it is very difficult when the team
is competing against schools like Georgia Tech which are so far out of its class that the possibility of an
upset win is about as probable as the Southern Presbyterian Journal changing their editorial position on the union question. School
spirit is always difficult to define, but it is obvious that there is a great deal of it when our
team is winning and not too much when it is winless as last year. The game with Citadel tomorrow provides
a tough challenge for the team; although we are fully confident of victory number three, if we do lose it
why not still showThe team, they have our support by giving them a rousing midnight welcome again? When we can
do this, we will really know the true meaning of school spirit.

Chapel

Another beam of light is appearing in the chapel situation, which has developed in the last several years into a
major source of embarrassment to the school. Indeed, last spring, the conduct of the students reached new heights of crudeness
and ill manners so that any speaker was liable to be pounced on by a wild pack of coughing cats
known enigmatically enough as “Davidson gentlemen.” To emphasize the seriousness of the problem, Dr. Cunningham spoke at length on the
second day of the semester on it and showed that some intelligent and far-reaching thinking had been done on it
during the summer by the faculty committee. The abolishing of Monday chapel in favor of emphasizing a better quality of
programs on the other four days was very wise and was greeted by the students with enthusiasm. Dr. Cunningham went
ahead to stress how much better behavior would mean to him personally and suggested that we all work on the
problem with a mutual degree of harmony and understanding of what it would mean to the college. For the first
week, many students as well as administration members held their breaths daily in chapel, hoping fervently for signs of improvement;
generally, everyone seemed pleased with the courtesy shown Dr. Hall and the silent attention given announcements the first week. It
was a trembling hope for many who feared everyone was only sleepy from rush week, and this week some are
already pointing to the outburst of “clicks” which accompanied the Camera Club announcement Tuesday (mostly sophomores!) and the sudden outburst
of coughing in chapel Wednesday. But encouragingly, these were mild compared with what it has been in the past, and
there are high hopes among most students that 1954 will see the end of this problem. Only time will tell,
but if we can field a winning football team, surely we can defeat this source of embarrassment to the school.

The Student Constitution

The third and most promising glitter of light at the beginning of this new term concerns the Student Council and
the scraping of the old constitution. It has long been suggested that this was needed, and at no time was
it more obvious than last Friday when the president of the student body read some of the outdated rules including
“... no student shall be guilty of selling a girl’s football ticket either to another student or to an outsider,”
which justly provoked ludicrous reactions from the students. It is heartening to the student body to know that their trusted
representatives are now meeting in various committees to give the school a completely new constitution that will be clear and
meaningful in cases where it is now irrelevant or difficult to interpret. Such questions being considered are the responsibilities of
testimony regarding infractions of the student regulations, some actual revision of the student body rule on drinking which has long
been overdue, in the opinion of many, and also the much-discussed question of the difference between being honor-bound to report
someone for an infraction of the rules as a Student Council member under oath or duty-bound according to the dictates
of your own conscience as a student at Davidson. Is there really a difference? The new constitution will be written,
advance reports indicate, so that it will be acceptable to the majority of the faculty and students and trustees, which
will be a difficult but commendable undertaking. Let us hope that the succeeding years of Davidson students will look back
on this school year with pride and satisfaction at the new constitution which was drawn up and passed this year.

It is too early in the school year to be unrealistically optimistic about these three factors of Davidson life. But
certainly, it is not too soon to be indulging in wishful thinking that this year will mark the birth of
a new spirit among the student body in supporting all athletic teams, win or lose, that the students will act
rationally with higher standards of decency and better chapel manners, and that finally the Student Council will present a workable,
reasonable, and fair constitution for adoption.

CERTAIN ATTITUDES ARE ESSENTIAL TO ALL TO WHOM THESE PRESENTS MAY COME, GREETINGS:

Whereas, there is only one time in life when a young man passes through an institution of higher learning, i.e.,
a college or university, and whereas one owes it to himself and to society to burgeon out the very best
of which one is capable of becoming so that he may pay his full debt to his heirs and assigns,
therefore, I do hereby set apart for your deepest consideration and application certain fundamental attitudes and requirements which, if dutifully
adhered to, will ensure more than ordinary success and satisfaction in your intellectual pursuits:

To Wit:

1. Never take your studies seriously. This is the first rule of success and achievement. Why waste time and effort
on such frivolous matters? Be A Man About Town!
2. Be an individualist and a free thinker. If the professor holds to ideas different from your own, disagree openly
and vehemently. After all, he doesn’t have the last word on truth. Perhaps he has had many years of study
and experience, but it may all be a vast store of prejudice and misinformation.
3. Ignore all school customs and traditions. Why should you follow certain practices simply because it has been done for
a hundred or so years? This is a new age and make the most of it! It may not be
the popular course to travel, but now is the time to stand up for your rights.
4. Do not waste valuable time in the sack. Science has long since disproved the theory that a certain amount
of sleep and rest are necessary for physical and mental health. Things happen after the weak have retired. Who wants
to sleep his life away?
5. Date constantly, fervently, and energetically. Here is the thing that counts for all in college. Date every night. Ignore
distances where a good date is involved. Cut as many classes as necessary. THIS IS THE LIFE!
6. Put Self above everything else. Show kindness and consideration to your associates only when it will enhance your own
position.

—Ye Olde Scribe

MY OWN STORY: A QUESTION OF ETHICS

By BILL SCHOLL

Constitution of the Student Government of Davidson College: Article 8, Section 2: No student shall be guilty of ... having
same (alcoholic liquors) in his possession, on the campus. Section II: It shall be the duty of every student to
report immediately all violations of this Article which come under his observation.

I entered Davidson College in September 1952, as a member of the sophomore class. Of the things constituting an education,
I placed near the top of my list further development of ethical values — including such things as honesty. Since
my arrival, I have heard much of the student body's responsibility for self-government and seen little in practice. I have
been willing to assume that the lack of evidence of such student responsibility was as much my fault as it
was anyone else’s. Therefore, I determined to make a conscious effort myself to live as a member of the student
body and subject to its regulations, and to encourage others to do so; I ask you to see what has
happened.

I based this outlook primarily on a single foundation. That foundation is that I entered Davidson College realizing fully that
I must abide by such rules as had been put into effect by all who govern this institution — trustees,
administration, faculty, student government. This did not mean that I felt I must blindly follow such rules, and should not
be so interpreted. At any time that I felt a particular law was unjust, I felt that I had the
right and the duty to confer with others interested and see what could be done to change it if the
change was for the good of the institution as a whole. Recognizing this right of expression and permission to work
to improve certain matters (though even this power at times seems impotent), I agreed to myself to abide by the
rules of the group under whose instruction I put myself. I felt that every member of the student body must
have essentially that same spirit, or the laws would be farcical. The fact of how farcical they are has been
amply demonstrated during the past week.

Events Of The Week-End

I am sure that most Davidson personnel are familiar by now with the events of the past Sunday and Monday,
whether in some distorted fashion or not. I daresay that not a member of these personnel feels that the accused
student was innocent of the charge of possessing liquor on the campus. (No charge was made concerning the student’s drinking
on the ride back, as some have erroneously thought; it was not an issue.) The Student Council heard the case
fairly and declared the student guilty, on the basis of his own confession. When the students arrived at the campus
last Sunday night and I suggested that the liquor be disposed of because of the relevant rule, my suggestion was
laughingly put aside. When this matter came up later, I was told that the students had no idea: 1) that
I was serious in cautioning them about the violation of the “drinking rule”; and 2) that I would report the
violation. This is an explicit example of how poorly we students look at each other's responsibility in this business of
governing ourselves.

I was under no obligation to suggest that the liquor be disposed of; I did this simply hoping that the
suggestion would be taken. When I made this suggestion, I was not completely sure what course of action to take.
The more I thought of the case, the surer I became that a clear violation had occurred. I reported the
violation Monday afternoon, after careful deliberation Monday morning. I felt absolutely no obligation to overlook this offense because I had
been picked up by these students; when I entered the car, I did not leave behind my obligation as a
member of this student body.

What happened after the trial and conviction of the student to whom the liquor belonged? Hot-headed emotion seized many of
the characters involved in the incident. Fortunately, the two students who had ridden in the car with the suspended one
and myself regained their reasonableness and talked to me quite openly soon after the trial. This I appreciated very much
and feel that much more mature wisdom would have been shown if the other main character had done likewise, instead
of reverting to force to “prove” his point.

The main incident is over. I sincerely hope that the student suspended will come to the point at which he
realizes that the only course to be taken was pursued. But what of attitudes on the campus after this event?
I ask each reader of this article, in the Davidson personnel, to examine what his reaction was when and if
he learned of this incident. A few have come to me and said they agreed that I could have done
no other. The vast majority have not kept silent, but have rather voiced their disapproval by stony stares and open
obscenities hurled at me.

What does bother me now, however, and what should bother you, is that I question the principle that there is
to be found here the growth of ethical values in the student body on the large scale that is generally
thought of by the public. To the person who honestly considers what my duty was when I came in contact
with a violation of the drinking rule (a rule which particularly should be in the minds of many because of
last year's episode along this line), I ask: How far are you in developing a mature concept of governing yourself?
Before we demand more student-governmental powers, I suggest that we see exactly what we are doing with those we have.
As long as the Student Council is regarded as a police force and no other members of the student body
are expected to be responsible, the scene will continue its downward path. Every member of the student body must do
in a situation like this what he feels to be that which is most in harmony with the Christian faith,
if he considers himself a Christian. I have done what seems to me to be the best thing for all
concerned. If I am ever the subject of a violation of the government under which I have put myself, i.e.,
Davidson College, I shall expect to be dealt with in like manner — which is only fair. If I violate
such a rule, I pray I would have the strength to turn myself in without considering being “caught”; if I
did not, I would expect others to do that for me.
