**SPECIAL EDITION**

SATCHMO: MAY 6

The Mavidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

VOL. XLII

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C., FRIDAY, MARCH 26, 1954

SPECIAL EDITION

Student Body Nominations Begin

DAVIDSON STUDENTS CALLED UPON BALLOTING TO BEGIN MONDAY TO ELECT BODY HEAD

Nominations were taken this morning in chapel for student body and student council officers, by Homer Sparks, chairman of the Elections Committee. Presumably, balloting will begin Monday morning to elect these four officers. A student body president will be elected from the rising senior class, two vice presidents from the rising junior class, and a secretary-treasurer from the rising sophomore class. As soon as the number of nominees for president of the student body has been reduced to four by balloting, these four candidates will make chapel speeches briefly setting forth their platforms and qualifications.

Those nominated this morning for president of the student body from the rising senior class included: Gayle Averyt, John “Ish” Bennett, Henry Brown, Cortez Cooper, Charlie Cousar, J. Roy Davis, Dickie Davis, Floyd Feeney, Jim Fisher, Gilbert Gragg, Leighton Green, John Handley, Lacy Keesler, Zack Kilpatrick, Corky King, Kenneth Lewis, Swain Loy, Leighton McCutchan, Dunbar Ogden, Clark Reed, Bill Rowland, Harley Smith, Fred Summers, Tommy Taylor, Jimmy Thacker, Ronnie Wilson.

Those nominated from the rising junior class for vice president of the student body were: Perrin Anderson, Linny Baker, Allen Beck, John Child, Hobby Cobb, Joe Conarroe, Ray Harding, John Harmon, Dee Helm, Carl Jackson, Phil Koonce, Buddy Liles, Dick Lovette, Harold McKeithan, John McLaughlin, Jason McManus, Ralph Maynard, Pat Miller, Dick Morehead, Doug Oldenberg, Kerry Spiers, Don Stewart, Tom Warlick.

Nominated for secretary-treasurer from the freshman class were: Gordon Bondurant, Jim Brice, Tom Brewer, Carl Cooper, Walter Davis, Buddy Dye, Bill Gramley, Vernon Hunter, Randy Johnston, Jim Kuist, Phil Kukura, Dan Lafar, Bill Lazenby, Dyke Little, Bill McCaskill, Don McRee, Roswell Mallory, Bob Moffit, Tom Morgan, Creighton Peden, Alvin Perkinson, Barney Poole, Bob Pulliam, Frank Robert, John Robison, George Scott, Chuck Wright, Ed Young.

Plans Get Underway For Spring Frolics

The Interfraternity Council began work in earnest this week on plans to make Ray Anthony's appearance at Spring Frolics, April 23 and 24, the highlight of the year’s social activities. Anthony will play for the formal dance Friday night, the informal Saturday night, with a concert on the lawn in front of the Union Saturday afternoon. Tickets will be sold in the usual manner, by IFC members to the fraternities, and through a special representative to independents. As has been the policy at previous dances this year, independents must buy a special independent ticket.

This will be Anthony’s second appearance at Davidson, he having played for last year’s Spring Frolics. Anthony, the “Young Man with a Horn,” ascended to his position as leader of America’s top dance band via one of the greatest successions of record hits in the history of the recording industry. At a time when singers were dominating the nation’s waxworks, the name of Ray Anthony, through the medium of Capitol records, literally skyrocketed across the record scene. During his first year with Capitol, in 1950, Ray chalked up sales figures of more than two million records and clicked with such outstanding disc hits as “Count Every Star,” “Sentimental Me,” “Can Anyone Explain,” “Autumn Leaves,” “Harbor Lights,” “Dreamer’s Holiday” and “Nevertheless.”

Ray's tremendous recording success proved a boon to the entire dance band business for it encouraged other recording companies to put greater emphasis on dance bands than ever before. One of Ray's major objectives in his recordings is to keep America dancing to his music and among his biggest disc favorites have been his own musical creations such as “Mr. Anthony's Boogie,” “Mr. Anthony’s Blues,” “Cook’s Tour,” “All Anthony and No Cleopatra,” “Sky Coach,” and “Lackawanna Local” as well as his own recorded interpretations of such standards as “Darktown Strutters Ball,” “Tenderly,” “I’ll See You in My Dreams,” “I Wonder What’s Become of Sally” and “Harlem Nocturne.”

CONCERT BAND ON TOUR

CONCERT BAND LEAVES FOR ’54 SPRING TOUR ON NEXT MONDAY

The Davidson College Concert Band, frequently hailed as one of the South’s outstanding collegiate musical organizations, will present concerts in Augusta and Waycross, Georgia; and in Perry, Tampa, and West Palm Beach, Florida, during the annual spring tour which begins on Monday, March 29, and ends on April 3. Kenneth R. Moore, assistant professor of music and director of the band, will conduct the series of programs. Mr. Moore, an outstanding clarinetist, is a graduate of the University of Illinois and Juilliard School of Music.

Composed of 50 selected musicians—this year all from Southern states, the Davidson College Concert Band has won numerous honors in the last decade to place it in the foremost ranks of concert bands. Originally organized in 1910 as a 25-piece “marching band,” it was reorganized in 1933 as a “concert band” by James Christian Pfohl, former Director of Music. Each spring the Concert Band makes an extended tour throughout the eastern seaboard. The Mendelssohn “Overture for Band” and George Frederick Handel’s “Royal Fireworks Music” will highlight this musical tour. All in all the program will include more than a dozen selections, ranging from the stately music of Handel and Rimsky-Korsakoff to the thrilling strains of John Philip Sousa and Leroy Anderson. Other works to be played are by Samuel Barber, Elie Siegmeister and Harry Simeone. Fred Hudson of Miami, Florida, trombonist, and Mason Field of Charlotte, N.C., trumpeter, will be the featured soloists on tour this year.

The Davidson College Concert Band has been heard in the past years coast-to-coast over several national radio networks, on numerous tape-recorded programs throughout the Southeast, and in 1952 was invited to play at the convention of the National Music Educators Association in Philadelphia. In addition, the band has appeared before numerous bandmaster meetings and music educators conferences.

Satterfield Conducting

John R. Satterfield, director of the ROTC Band and the Football Band at Davidson College, is the assistant conductor on this Southern tour. Mr. Satterfield, an assistant professor of music at Davidson College, is a graduate of the University of North Carolina. A part of the training which the student musicians receive under conductor Moore is practical work in arranging and organizing concerts. The members of the bands receive no academic credit or remuneration for their activities. A large share of the business operation of the organization is handled by the members and officers of the band. David Pfaff, Winston-Salem, N.C., serves as president of the organization; Fred Hudson, Miami, Fla., vice-president; Haywood Rogers, High Point, N.C., executive committeeman; Thornwell Frick, Spartanburg, S.C., business manager; John Fite, Sanford, Fla., secretary; and William V. Porter, Jr., Charlotte, N.C., librarian.

Ray’s tremendous success on records and the constant play accorded his platters by the nation’s disc-jockeys have combined to make him a consistent winner of name band popularity polls from coast-to-coast.

Scholarship Finalists Visit Campus; Three-Day Tests Now In Progress

Finalists in the Baker and Union Carbide Scholarships competition are now on the campus. They arrived yesterday, and are now in the process of undergoing various tests and interviews which will continue through Saturday, March 27. The sixth annual Baker competition and the second Union Carbide drew a record total of 170 contestants. The Scholarship Committee expects to award about six Baker Scholarships, two Union Carbide grants, and three Davidson Honor Scholarships. Because the number of awards offered is greater than in previous years, the Committee has increased the number of finalists from twenty to twenty-seven and will devote three days to testing and interviewing the finalists instead of two days as formerly. Half the finalists will be tested on Friday; the other half will undergo tests on Friday and be interviewed on Saturday.

Scholarships Described

Baker Scholarships are awarded to high school seniors who have demonstrated exceptional scholastic ability, outstanding leadership, and superior qualities of character and personality. The value of these awards ranges up to $1,200 a year. Qualifications for the Union Carbide Scholarships are much the same as for the Baker, with the addition that the candidate must be interested in a career of business administration or some activity allied to the widespread interests of a corporation such as the Union Carbide Company. These scholarships are worth tuition and fees. Davidson Honor Scholarships, valued up to tuition, will be awarded to the runners-up in the Baker and Union Carbide competitions. The committee requires these men to maintain high standards of performance from year to year at Davidson. There are now in the student body twenty-one men holding Baker Scholarships, four on Union Carbide awards, and three on Honor Scholarships.

Finalists Named

Finalists expected at Davidson this weekend (March 25-27) include: William A. Baker, Raleigh, N.C.; Milner S. Ball, Brentwood, Tenn., a senior at Hillsboro High, Nashville, Tenn.; Earle Wray Baughman, Jr., Tupelo, Miss.; Robert B. Bell, Asheville, N.C.; John C. Bernhardt, Jr., Lenoir, N.C., a senior at Woodberry Forest; Alan Taylor Bradford, Raleigh, N.C.; Henry Hale Bucher, Haddonfield, N.J.; Donald M. Carmichael, Louisville, Ky.; and Jere S. Carter, Baldwin, L.I., N.Y.

Other finalists are: Lloyd Walter Chapin, Jr., Atlanta, Ga.; Fairman Preston Cumming, Nashville, Tenn.; Arch B. Edwards, Tulsa, Okla.; W. Pierce Elliott, Jr., Bristol, Tenn.; Leonard Anderson Hamilton, Alexandria, Va.; Robert W. Hankins, Winston-Salem, N.C.; D. Tip Johnson, Winston-Salem, N.C.; George F. Kemmerer, Jr., Bristol, Pa.; Arthur S. Lynn, Jr., Albemarle, N.C.; Daniel R. Martin, Opelika, Ala., a graduate of Markham, a private school in Lima, Peru.

Rounding out the list are: James F. Martin, Laurens, S.C.; Ancil Newton Payne, Jr., Gainesville, Fla.; Ross Jordan Smithe, Charlotte, a senior at Christ School, Arden, N.C.; William Earl Thompson, Spencer, N.C.; Thomas F. Thrailkill, Hapeville, Ga.; Claudius Elmer Watts, II, Cheraw, S.C.; Albert Lee Wiley, Acme, a senior at New Hanover High, Wilmington, N.C.; and Samuel R. Williamson, Springhill, La.

ROTC Honor Platoon Now Clad in New Dress

The members of the recently formed ROTC crack drill platoon are now attired in impressive military garb due largely to the efforts of Scabbard and Blade. The national military fraternity has provided the drill platoon with red fourrageres and scarfs. The ROTC department has furnished white gloves to round out the equipment necessary to give a snappy appearance to this honor platoon. Consisting of twenty-six sophomores, the platoon was formed under the leadership ofCaptain Russell Hatch, now stationed in Atlanta. For the past several weeks at ROTC drill, it has performed intricate movements in front of the regiment. The honor unit marches separately, leading and reviewing all parades. Lt. Howard Lamar is now in charge of the platoon, with Sergeants Jeter Abernathy and Bob Stogner acting as his cadet assistants. Larry Wright, Bubba Martin, and John McLauchlin have been selected as squad leaders, and Joe Billy Pharr is the guide. The sophomores who are members of the platoon are Bob Presley, Bob Patterson, Phil Hicks, Tal Broughton, Joe Billy Pharr, Russell Rogers, Richard Holshouser, Bob Buchanan, George Cousar, Ed Davis, and Bubba Martin. Also included are Larry Parrot, Joe Hall, Dee Helms, Jerry Helms, Larry Wright, Hugh Malone, Bob Stewart, John McLauchlin, Buck Reinhardt, Al Simpson, June Stallings, Hugh Stephens, Jack Williamston, Charles Mauney, and Bayless Mack.

Members of Eumanean Literary Society enjoyed an interesting meeting Monday night, March 15, as scheduled. The meeting began with the reading of a well-prepared paper by Stuart Vaughn on the indomitable Glenn Cunningham, holder of the mile record in indoor track. The paper was followed by the devotion, roll call, and reading of the last meeting’s minutes. Then the president, Charles Hasty, opened the business of the meeting. The main business discussed was the coming debate on the chapel question scheduled for April 5. Hasty also approached the issue of a combined banquet with Phi. Will Terry introduced a motion to go through with the long-delayed “secular” chapel program, and he was therewith appointed chairman of an arrangements committee to plan the program. Larry Parrott's paper, “The Day I Lost My Glasses,” made up the humorous part of the program. Following this, a quiz was given on popular modern novels and their authors, much to the intellectual embarrassment of the members. The meeting ended with the beginning of concrete plans for the chapel program, which will be along the traditional line of faculty pantomime. Philanthropic Literary Society postponed its meeting scheduled for the same night due to adverse circumstances.

TEMPLETON TO LEAD '54 SPRING SERVICES

Spring services will be held on the Davidson campus April 4-7. The Rev. Chuck Templeton, evangelist for the National Council of Churches, will serve as the main speaker; he will deliver four messages and will lead several discussions during his stay here. A number of outstanding leaders have been secured to assist Rev. Templeton in answering the question, “What's the Use?”, which is the theme for the whole series of services. The men who will serve as counselors in the dormitories are: Rev. Beverly Asbury, Zebulon, N.C.; Dr. Robert Dubose, Whitmire, S.C.; Rev. J. W. Flora, Jr., Greensboro, N.C.; Mr. Howard Kester, Black Mountain, N.C.; and Rev. S. Yorke Pharr, Jr., Kinston, N.C. Also included are Rev. W. R. Sengel, Radford, Va.; Rev. Claude C. Shotts, Chapel Hill, N.C.; Mr. J. Randolph Taylor, Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Va.; Mr. Neil C. Leach, Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Va. Both Mr. Leach and Mr. Taylor are former Davidson students who are now students at Union Seminary. The Rev. Templeton will begin the services with an address at Vespers on Sunday, April 4. He will also speak at chapel on Monday, at the church on Tuesday night, and at chapel on Wednesday morning. As plans now stand, the spring services will be concluded with a communion service in Lingle Chapel on Wednesday evening.

Debaters On Tour to Mid-Atlantic Schools

The debate squad is on its spring tour, debating squads from Georgetown University in Washington D.C., and the Naval Academy at Annapolis, Maryland. The subject of the debates is: “Resolved that the United States should adopt a policy of free trade,” with Malcolm Williamson and David Jones representing the negative, and Buddy Lamon and Roy Davis supporting the affirmative.

PLACEMENT SERVICE FOR SEMI-ANNUAL BLOOD DRIVE

Davidson students are urged to make plans to contribute when Mecklenburg County’s Red Cross Bloodmobile returns to the campus next Thursday and Friday.

Rev. Andrew R. Bird To Speak At Vespers

The speaker for vespers this Sunday night, March 28, will be Dr. Andrew R. Bird, Jr., pastor of the First Presbyterian Church in Huntington, West Virginia. Dr. Bird is a graduate of Davidson, where he was very active in YMCA and publication work. During his senior year, he was editor of the college annual, Quips and Cranks, and was active in other literary activities. Along with various other YMCA duties, he was a member of the YMCA Church and Relations Committee, was interested in Boys’ Work, and served as a Sunday School teacher. He is a member of Eumanean Literary Society and Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity. He got his B.A. degree from Davidson in 1931. He later entered Union Theological Seminary in Richmond. While at Union, he was awarded the Latta scholarship, which is the highest undergraduate honor given. He got his B.D. degree in 1938. Soon after graduating from Union, Dr. Bird went to Scotland, where he entered New College at Edinburgh. During his year’s study in Edinburgh, Dr. Bird was closely acquainted with Dr. Charles Eberhardt, professor of Bible at Davidson. Upon his return from Scotland, Dr. Bird took a pastorate at Wytheville, Virginia, where he served until 1943. In 1943, he became pastor of the First Presbyterian Church in Huntington. Davis and Elkins College, Elkins, West Virginia, awarded Dr. Bird a D.D. degree in 1946.

NOTICE

No Davidsonian was originally scheduled this week due to spring holidays. Since there was a lot of important news this week, the staff decided to put out this special edition.

OFFERS MANY JOBS

For boys who want to gain valuable experience this summer and who wish to earn money for the coming school year, the Y placement program offers much-needed assistance in finding jobs. The positions are spread over a wide range of interests, localities, and pay scales. The national and state parks offer the “outdoor type” ample opportunities, while the YMCA summer camps give those interested in the social fields a fine chance to gain first-hand experience with various types of individuals. For the sciences and business majors, jobs in industry and business are available. Samples of the work include gas station attendants at Yellowstone National Park, research work at Aberdeen Proving Grounds in Maryland, field advertising with Proctor and Gamble, work on cattle boats to Palestine, and of course, a host of counseling jobs at various summer camps. Good counselors are very much in demand this year. It should be remembered that this program points out job opportunities but does not guarantee that the person applying will get the position. The program is expected to get into full swing now that the spring holidays are over, with Sam Magill and Jeter Abernathy holding single and group interviews.

Blood drive officials announce that the American Red Cross is making an urgent appeal for 24,000 pints of blood desperately needed in veterans’ hospitals throughout the nation. The demand for blood donations today is greater than ever. Since the Korean truce, donations have sharply declined; yet vast amounts of plasma are continually needed for wounded G.I.’s still undergoing treatment. The need is serious. The quota of 24,000 pints must be met by June 1. To do so will require intensive participation by Americans in this spring’s blood drives.

Good Record

In the past, Davidson has responded exceptionally well to the blood drives. It is hoped that the students will continue to do so next week, especially in light of the Red Cross’s plea for extra participation. The Bloodmobile’s facilities will again be set up in Johnston Gymnasium, and trained nurses will be on hand to perform the transfusions. The ROTC Department will assist in administrative details. Part of the blood received at Davidson will remain in the county for local use, but the greatest amount will be sent to various Red Cross blood banks to offset the deficit realized by veterans’ hospitals.

Releases

Students under twenty-one are reminded that they must obtain written permission from their parents in order to give blood. Release forms are available from fraternity chairmen or the ROTC Department. The giving is safe, simple, painless, and only takes a few minutes. Sponsors of the current blood drive are Scabbard and Blade and ODK. Charley Hasty and Fred Stowe are acting as co-chairmen.

Vienna Summer School Offers English Courses

The University of Vienna Summer School at Schloss Traunsee, Gmunden, Austria, will offer courses open to American students from July 26 to September 5. Designed to promote better understanding between Europeans and Americans, the curriculum will include law and political science, liberal arts, and German language. Courses will be conducted in English. To be eligible for entrance to the three or six-week courses, American applicants must have completed at least two years of college work by June. Closing date for admission is May 30. An opportunity for summer study combined with outdoor vacation life at a mountain lake, the school is held at the nineteenth-century castle of Traunsee on the shore of a lake in Austria's Salzkammergut district. In addition to the course work, the summer school’s $200 tuition will include trips to Salzburg and the festival, and to nearby places of interest. Students will also be able to arrange an excursion to Vienna.

Scholarships Available

Eight scholarships are available to well-qualified students who would be unable to attend the summer school without financial assistance. Applicants for these awards or for general admission should write to the Institute of International Education, 1 East 67th Street, New York City. The Institute is screening applicants for this program in the United States. Another summer school program administered by the Institute is the Summer Schools at British Universities. Closing date for application to this course is April 7.

Jared Reed Replaces Carl Sandburg On Artist Series Program

The Davidson College Artist Series Committee is pleased to announce that they have been successful in securing Jared Reed, Folk Singer, for a performance on Wednesday, March 31, in place of Carl Sandburg, who was forced to cancel his appearance because of illness. Jared Reed is known as a “Folk Singer who really sings.” He is endowed with a big, rich baritone voice and a wonderful talent for storytelling and for making legends come alive for his audience. He is the brother of Susan Reed who appeared at Davidson College in 1952.