PAGE FOUR

VARSITY GOES APE! D CLUB FOOLIES

Tonight at 7:30 the D Club presents the 1954 D Club Foolies in Chambers auditorium. Centered around a French theme, the Foolies feature an all-star cast and the original can-can girls. Making his debut on the Davidson stage in the role of Madame Fifi will be Pete Peterson. Lovers Bobby Joe Key and Al Ormand will add a touch of spice to the show. Barkeep Neil Graham, art critic George Crone, and inspector Tim Gilley also add to the show’s luster. Dan McCall, Tal Broughton, and Tom Owens round out the cast. The D Club also is proud to have as a guest performer Robert (Toulouse) Patten.

Bernhardt Beton

SPRING FROLICS SPONSORS

Hedrick Dowd Tarrant Byers

DEBATORS MEET, ELECT WILLIAMSON

Malcolm Williamson, rising senior, was elected president of the Forensic Council at its meeting Thursday. Dunbar Ogden is the new debate manager. Immediately following the Council meeting, Tau Kappa Alpha, national honorary forensics fraternity, initiated David Jones and Maurice Crouse. Malcolm Williamson was also chosen to head TKA for 1954-55. Other TKA officers are Roy Davis, vice president; Maurice Crouse, secretary; and Dunbar Ogden, treasurer. Professor Raymond Tyson of the speech department is now serving as the faculty adviser.

Prof. Iain G. Wilson (above) of the Bible Department, will become pastor of the Franklin Street Presbyterian Church, Baltimore, Md., after the end of this school term.

R. V. “Buddy” Lamon and Will Terry, graduating members, were commended for their service to the Forensic Council and Tau Kappa Alpha.

FRIDAY, APRIL 28, 1954

Any student found guilty of violating these provisions shall on the first offense be placed on strict campus for three months by the Student Council. The student shall be required to sign an honor pledge that he has kept his campus, and the sentence shall be administered and carried out by the Student Council. Failure to comply with the campus regulations shall result in dismissal from college.

Amendments...

(Continued From Page Two)

1. Any student found guilty of violating these provisions shall on the first offense be placed on strict campus for three months by the Student Council. The student shall be required to sign an honor pledge that he has kept his campus, and the sentence shall be administered and carried out by the Student Council. Failure to comply with the campus regulations shall result in dismissal from college.

2. Any student found guilty for a second time shall be suspended from college.

Any student who does not sign this agreement shall not become a member of this student body.

DAVIDSON THEATRE

All Pictures Will Be Shown On Our New P-A-N-O-R-A-M-I-C WIDE SCREEN

THURS-FRI., APRIL 22-23

“CASANOVA’S BIG NIGHT” (Technicolor) BOB HOPE

MON.-TUES., APRIL 26-27

“BEACHHEAD” (Technicolor) TONY CURTIS

The can-can line has several striking routines and will star such noted dancers as “Goose” Brown, “Gook” Davis, Ray Harding, Bill Barker, Forrester Bennett, Walker Davis, Rowland, Charlie Murray, Dick Jones, Bo Abernathy, John Handley, and Tommy Breeden. The show is scheduled to be over by 8:30 in order to allow plenty of time to get ready for the dance. Admission will be thirty-five cents per person. Special attractions will include music by a 15-piece band headed by Budd Montgomery and Mason Field, and a song by a double quartet from the male chorus. The script was written specially for the D Club by Al Harris and is a Davidson version of the Broadway play Can-Can. The choreography was done by Henry Parrish and the direction by Floyd Feeney.

Camera Club Exhibit In Lobby of Chambers

As its contribution to the Fine Arts Festival, the Davidson College Camera Club has secured an exhibit of contemporary photographs from Mr. Ernie Shaw of Holly Smith’s Camera Store and other members of the Charlotte Camera Club. Mr. Shaw, who is active in local photographic circles, recently won a first place award in the exhibit at the Photography Short Course held at Chapel Hill. The exhibit will remain on display in the corridor of Chambers Building through the month of April.

Salem College, with Joe Neisler, Oppenheimer...

(Continued From Page Two)

Judging whether a man is fit for Government service. If it is decided that anyone who has ever held Communist sympathies is ineligible for Government service, then we will undoubtedly be doing ourselves out of a wealth of talent for important Government jobs.

Precedent Also Important

The precedent which the coming decision will establish is important, too. For if it is decided that what a man thought or did two decades ago—even though he has evidently repudiated his old sympathies and associations now—should be held against him, the effect which such a decision would establish could very well deprive us of valuable talent in the future. Who knows what the current danger will be twenty years from now? What may be popular may be considered extremely dangerous to America in future decades; but the person who might innocently embrace that popular cause now would forever be a marked man after the change in national sentiment came. It should be evident, then, that in dealing with this extremely delicate problem the Board in whose hands the future of Dr. Oppenheimer...

Green, Gray...

(Continued From Page One)

Of the Davidsonian, the American History Award, given annually by the Society of Cincinnati for excellence in that field. Lawrence Trotti was awarded the Freshman Bible Award for outstanding work in that department, by Prof. Iain Wilson. The C. T. Stowe Memorial Scholarship, presented to the outstanding football player, scholar, and leader, went to Dickie Davis. Coach Bill Dole made the presentation. Professor Pedro Trakas, president of the local Phi Beta Kappa chapter, announced a list of eight seniors and two juniors who have been admitted to the honorary fraternity. Seniors named were Ed Stuart, Hunter Strader, Paul Pinckney, Harry Lamon, Jr., Bill Johnston, James Jackson, Jr., James Efird, and Larry Champion. Juniors were Eugene Bargeron and Leighton Green, Jr.

Controversial...

(Continued From Page One)

Student Government to be suspended, and for all its officers to resign, until the reversal shall be withdrawn and agreements can be reached restoring the Student Government to its said complete authority.

AWARDS

“ONE OF THE TEN BEST PICTURES OF THE YEAR” Time Magazine Saturday Review of Literature

The backers of the proposed Amendment I keep the essential points of the original.amendments. It is, however, worded more simply and leaves more room for free negotiation between the Student Council and the Faculty. The substitute amendment is now a part of the petition that will ultimately be brought before the student body for a vote. The Student Council had its final meeting on the matter last night.

FOR YOUR RECORDS — IT'S — PARKER-GARDNER
Phone 2-8257

T-O-D-A-Y
VISULITE
1615 Elizabeth Ave.
CHARLOTTE N.C.
118 W. Trade — Charlotte

Frolics, with their escorts, are Miss Nancy Bernhardt of Lenoir and Hollins College, with Charlie Hassell, Kappa Sigma, president of the IFC; Miss Martha Eaton of Franklinton and East Carolina College, with Bob Owens, Pi Kappa Alpha, treasurer of the IFC; Miss Martene Hedrick of Lenoir and IFC treasurer; Miss Gloria Dowd of Charlotte and Queens College, with Graeme Keith, Beta Theta Pi; Miss Rose Reece Tarrant of Charlotte and Hollins College, with Dick Roper, Phi Gamma Delta. Miss Carolyn Byers of Durham and Converse College, with Jean Eason of Monroe and Queens College, with Marshall Pitts, Alpha Tau Omega; Miss Rebecca Barker of Jasper, Fla., with Max DeVane, Phi Delta Theta; Miss Sally Forrester of Thomasville, Ga., and Agnes Scott College, with David Burns, Sigma Alpha Epsilon; Miss Sally Bennett of Winchester, Va., with Ronald Wilson, Kappa Alpha; Miss Shirley Walker of Trinity and Pfeiffer Junior College, with Dick Morrow, Campus Club; and Miss Peggy Janice Davis of Charlotte and Queens College, with Bill Shipley, Sigma Chi.

Wildcat Nine...
(Continued From Page Three)
right fielder made a fine running catch of Stowe's long drive. The hit almost cleared the fence and would have brought in the tying run. The Davidson nine travels to Greensboro next Tuesday for another contest with a North State Conference team. They will meet the Guilford baseballers, and the Wildcats will be trying for the first win over the Quakers this year. During the basketball campaign, Guilford was the winner of a lone contest.

ATTENTION!
Work has begun on the renovation of the Negro Community Center which is being financed by the YMCA Gift Fund. Students participated in preparing the building to be moved to its present location, and during the next few weeks additional student labor will be needed for such jobs as digging ditches and painting the building. Anyone wishing to volunteer his services should apply to the Y office.

Sigma Phi Epsilon must arrive at some sort of formula by which to judge future cases of this type, for this will surely not be the last time such a case comes up. It seems imperative that such a formula should include at least one or both of the following considerations:

Two Criteria
(1) Can it be established—at least within reasonable doubt—that the person involved has not had a change of heart from his former sympathies, and/or repudiated his former associations?
(2) Does the person's opinion or stand on the issue in question—merely because it happens to coincide with the current Russian viewpoint—necessarily mean that he still has subversive sympathies and beliefs? For instance, might it not truly be that Dr. Oppenheimer opposed the construction of the hydrogen bomb purely on moral grounds?

The only encouraging aspect of the situation is that whatever the Gray committee decides to do, the decision made will be a rational and carefully considered one, not dictated by demagoguery or political aspirations as it might easily have been if certain other Government officials had gotten hold of the case.

If we should repeal all the regulatory laws on our statute books and enforce only the Ten Commandments, in ten years we would become the most law-abiding nation on earth.—James R. Page.

PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS

Fine Arts...
(Continued From Page One)
culminate in two one-act plays presented by the Red and Black Masquers. Both of the plays will be presented for two evenings: Wednesday and Thursday, April 28 and 29, at 8:15 p.m. in Chambers Auditorium.

The satirical comedy, “Twelve Pound Look,” by James M. Barrie, will star Fred Summers, Mrs. Tom Daggy, Mrs. Sam Magill, and Tom Morgan. Professor R. W. Tyson is directing, and Albert Harris is production manager. This witty British comedy is about a man who makes success his goal in life and realizes, to his dismay, that not everyone values it.

The other one-act play is Eugene O’Neill’s “Where the Cross is Made.” This is a tragedy concerning the efforts of a young man to free himself from the influence of an insane father. Ed Hadley has the leading role with Mrs. Howard Lamar, Ted Reid, and Harold Hall making up the rest of the cast. Bob Mims is serving as director and Bob Rhodes is production manager.

For the first time in several years, the Masquers will present plays in the round. This method, which will be used for both plays, has the audience on all sides of the playing area and only a few feet away from the actors. Presentation in the round is much more intimate and effective than that given on an ordinary stage.

Today’s CHESTERFIELD is the Best Cigarette Ever Made!
“Chesterfields for Me!”
America’s No. 1 Cigarette Leader
The cigarette with a proven good record with smokers. Here is the record. Bi-monthly examinations of a group of smokers show no adverse effects to nose, throat, and sinuses from smoking Chesterfield.

Largest Selling Cigarette in America’s Colleges

The cigarette tested and approved by 30 years of scientific tobacco research.
“Chesterfields for Me!”
The cigarette that gives you proof of highest quality—low nicotine. For the taste and mildness you want—smoke America’s most popular 2-way cigarette.

(Continued From Page Two)
ourselves even farther from the reality which we all, as self-made critics, ought to earnestly seek. However, it must be perfectly obvious that if we don't. We, for one, deplore this sad state of affairs. Perhaps it is true, as we said earlier, that we, as realistic observers of life, should take the bull by the horns even though we recognize that this school, in the final analysis, probably will remain in its present status: two or three steps behind us—still unrealistic and still uncomprehending. In fact, just still. In our next column we shall deal with these things with even greater care in hopes of shedding more light, as it were, on the cloud-covered Davidson scene.

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 28
“GYPSY COLT” (Technicolor)
WARD BOND

THUR.-FRI., APRIL 29-30
“RIDERS TO THE STARS” (in Color)
WILLIAM LUNDIGAN

SATURDAY, MAY 1
“STRANGER WORE A GUN” (Technicolor)
RANDOLPH SCOTT

SEND THE DAVIDSONIAN HOME