DIPLOMA REQUIREMENTS STRICT AND STUPID dim Moore VOL. XLU Davidson Graduate Is Communist For F.B.I. VU for him by Junius
Scales of Carrboro, N. C., whom he identified 4 KY), RALPH CLONTZ Ralph C. Clontz, Jr., Davidson class of '47,
testified before the Subversive Activities Control Board in Washington last Tuesday that for the past four years he had been
an undercover member of the Communist Party as a secret agent for the FBI. Clontz, who is now a lawyer
living in Charlotte, N.C., was a member of the Glee Club, Band, Phi Literary Society, Debating Team, International Relations Club
and wrestling and track squads while a student here. He graduated with a B. S. degree in psychology. His father,
Ralph C. Clontz, Sr., is a retired Presbyterian minister who has been residing here in the Davidson community since his
retirement last August. Neither he nor Clontz’s mother had any knowledge that their son was working in an undercover role
with the FBI until their story broke last week. Mrs. Ralph Clontz, Jr., refused to comment when questioned by a
Charlotte Observer reporter until she heard from her husband. Frank Van der Linden, Observer Washington correspondent, gave the following account
of Clontz’s testimony: Clontz, 31, made his revelation at a hearing before the Subversive Activities Control Board. The board is
to decide whether or not the “Jefferson School of Social Science” in New York should be officially branded a Communist
front under the Internal Security Act of 1950. Clontz said he attended the school on a scholarship obtained Brockmann to
Edit Wildcat Handbook — 4 - HENRY BROCKMANN Henry Brockmann, a junior from High Point, N.C., has been chosen to
edit the Wildcat Handbook for the 1964-55 school term. The Handbook is published annually by the YMCA and distributed to
all members of the student body and faculty. This year the editor has been appointed earlier in the year than
has been the custom in the past in order to give him more time in which to work. Brockmann has
been active in publications work with the Davidsonian since his freshman year, serving as a reporter until this year when
he became front-page editor. He is a member of Sigma Phi Epsilon social fraternity, the vice-president of the Eumanean Literary
Society, and active in YMCA work. A History major, Brockmann is taking part in the History Honors program. as the
chairman of the Communist Party for the district of North Carolina and South Carolina. The lawyer said he used his
first two names, “Ralph Clayton,” as an alias, and later only a number, when he attended the school. Post Card
Clontz said he wrote a post card to Scales in 1948 and received a box full of Communist literature. After
months of study and questioning, Clontz was considered “a dedicated Marxist” by Scales and admitted to the Communist Party in
early 1950, the witness said. In April, 1950, Clontz said, he contacted the FBI, offering to enter into full-time service
as an undercover agent inside the Communist Party. He was then a student at the Law School of Duke University,
Durham, N. C., and division sales manager for the Carolina Motor Club of Charlotte. He received his law degree in
the summer of 1950, was admitted to the N. C. Bar that September, and opened his office in the law
building at Charlotte. Clontz said he enrolled in the Jefferson School of Social Science in August, 1950, for a two-week
course that included studies of Marxism and pamphlets by Lenin and Stalin, which he identified as exhibits for evidence. One
teacher said Negro women were doubly oppressed, he said, first as women, and secondly as Negroes. Another pamphlet was entitled
“The Path (Continued On Page Four) ~~ The Davidsonian ALENDA LUX UBI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C., SENIOR PLACEMENT GOALS FOR
1954 TO BEGIN AT ONCE SIGHTED BY GROUP Seniors wishing to get jobs through the placement bureau are asked to
sign up immediately as companies wishing applicants will start interviewing after exams. A qualification record must be filled out by
the seniors. This record can be gotten in the placement bureau, located in the Alumni Office on the first floor
of Chambers. Men who are either in ROTC or have other military obligations are urged to come in for interviews,
since most of these companies are interested in getting men, even though they may have to serve two years in
the armed forces before beginning work. Thirty-five or forty companies will be on the campus for interviews this spring, including
such national names as Deering Milliken Textile Organization, Burlington Mills, Cargill Corporation, General Electric, Southern Bell, Wachovia Bank, Colgate-Palmolive-Peet, Proctor
and Gamble, Chase National Bank, and Union Carbide. Mr. Dillon believes this to be the greatest opportunity the men here
will ever have for obtaining a future position with national firms. Men will be here from such fields as insurance,
textiles, banking, office management, advertising, personnel, and industrial relations. Last year salaries offered by these visiting firms ranged from $275
to $410. Some 1-A classified students (military classification) and several ROTC students were accepted by firms with the understanding that
they would serve with the armed forces before reporting for work. WHITE RELEASED IN DC ATHLETIC UPROAR By WATT McCAIN
Davidson's troubled athletic situation took on a new complexion recently with the college administration’s decision to abolish the office of
athletic publicity director. Labeled as a purely economic measure the move was not a complete surprise, having been under consideration
for a number of months and rumored as far back as last winter. Authorities cite the deficit drawn by athletics
in the college budget and the actual needlessness of a separate publicity department for sports as the factors calling for
a change. Closely following a sudden announcement of the decision to drop several “money” games with larger schools in the
1954 football schedule, the removal gave all appearances of a trend toward de-emphasis of intercollegiate athletics by Davidson. Elgin White,
director of the office since 1950, in an interview was quick to acknowledge his belief that this definitely figured in
the decision, adding that a poor football season probably laid impetus to it. Other sources insist that the action was
purely from an economy standpoint. The athletic publicity office has not been financed by the athletic fund, but has been
included in the general college budget. Treasurer Grier Martin said that in an effort to balance spending on the athletic
program a cut was advisable somewhere. That cut was left to the administration. He added that Davidson should not attempt
to compete in sports publicity with schools that spend more on their whole intercollegiate athletic programs. Obviously, this move will
cut a great deal of the national publicity Davidson receives, such as readers’ interest articles printed in many leading papers
several weeks ago. Plans are for the duties of sports publicity to be turned over to the college public relations
department; it is likely that a number of students will carry on the job under direction of this office, although
publicity man John Dillon implied that nothing had yet been definitely decided. Newspaper sports writers have not failed to show
their disappointment over the action. An article during vacation in a Charlotte daily blasted the move and termed it typical
Davidson policy toward athletics. Asked if the coaches felt it would hurt, Athletic Director Paul Scott said, “Of course, we
would prefer a full-time man, but we'll just have to see how it’s handled otherwise.” He also pointed out that
no other schools the size of Davidson provided for a separate athletic publicity office. The office of athletic publicity director
was installed in 1947 with Joe Thigpen as director. Elgin White succeeded Thigpen in August, 1950, and has done an
excellent job in this capacity as well as doubling as coach of the college golf team. He will remain on
the campus until June. President Cunningham and Director Paul Scott both praised Mr. White for the outstanding work he has
done for the college. By JOHN HIERS Possible goals for the year were discussed by the members of the Student-Faculty
Conference Committee at a meeting of that group last Friday night. An important goal concerns the present parking situation on
the campus. The committee is anxious to work through the proper channels to alleviate the existing condition. Another goal under
discussion is the development of better techniques for encouraging student-faculty conferences. This could be accomplished by more convenient office hours
on the part of the professors and by more initiative on the part of the students to see the faculty.
The committee would like to see some arrangement made for informing students of faculty trips and the opportunities for rides
when faculty members are going to their region. Improved procedures and increased opportunities for students to make their views known
to the faculty as a whole were also discussed as possible goals of the committee for this year. It should
be understood that the Student-Faculty Conference Committee does its work through other appropriate channels, and that no projects are carried
on by the committee as such. This group will welcome ideas, suggestions, and comments from any member of the student
body, particularly on the goals mentioned in this article. Any student having something to contribute is urged to contact some
member of the committee. Dr. Jay H. Ostwalt serves as chairman of the committee, and the other faculty members are
Professors Ernest Beaty and Donald Plott. Student members are Lyman Kiser, president of the student body; Charlie Johnson, president of
the senior class; Floyd Feeney, president of the junior class; Jim Daughdrill, president of the sophomore class; and Max DeVane,
freshman adviser. Editor Moody Smith of the Davidsonian has been invited to sit in on the meetings this year as
the paper’s representative. It was decided to have the group meet bi-weekly, starting after exams. At the next meeting on
Friday night, February 5th, the public relations of the college will be discussed. It was brought to the attention of
the committee that the college laundry is now open until five o'clock in the afternoon, a fact which many students
do not realize. ORTA LIBERTAS FRIDAY, JANUARY 15, 1954 RALPH MARTERIE SIGNS FOR MIDWINTERS HOP DAVIDSONIANS MAKE GOOD COMMUNISTS Ralph
Clontz NO. 12 RALPH MARTERIE 'Y' Project Begins With Short Funds The 1953-54 YMCA Gift Fund, which was voted to
be used as aiding the Negroes of Davidson by building them a community hut complete with television set and other
recreation facilities, fell short of its goal by a $1200 margin. Which element of the project that would be most
affected by the lack of financial backing was not known. Meanwhile, the Gift Fund Committee, with Hunter Strader in charge,
is going ahead with original plans to build the center. The first step in the follow-up procedures will be the
purchase of a suitable lot somewhere in the Negro community. The original plan called for a hut equipped with the
necessary facilities, and for a paid director. Marterie, who popularized the instrumental “Caravan,” and the hit ballad “Pretend,” will hold
forth on the Johnston Gym bandstand from nine until one for the formal dance Friday night. Following an afternoon concert
on Saturday, Marterie will play from eight until twelve that night. Only formed in 1951, Marterie’s band has enjoyed such
great success that it is now placed among America’s top dance bands. An instrumental star on his own, Marterie has
been in the past holder of the key “lead” trumpet chairs with suchOutstanding band leaders such as Paul Whiteman, Percy
Faith, Frank Black, Roy Shields, and John Scott Trotter. Marterie’s association with Mercury records, begun in 1949, has resulted in
a steady growth in the popularity of his recordings. The list of more than forty numbers includes established favorites such
as “Once in a While,” “Persian Market,” and “Street Scene.”

J. Walter Dickson To Speak At Vespers

Placement Service To Offer Summer Jobs

Sam Magill of the Davidson College YMCA announced today that one of the principal projects of the group for the
year will be a Summer Placement Program that will offer aid in securing vacation work. The idea behind the program
is to help place students in the type of work for which they are best fitted. Included among the jobs
that the YMCA hopes to offer are jobs in banks, work in summer camps, and participation in summer projects such
as those offered by a number of churches. The type of work for an individual will depend upon what he
expects to gain from his labor—vocational preparation, leadership training, financial returns, etc.

In signing Marterie, the IFC believes it has one of the most popular dance bands in the country today, and
the Council has already begun work on decorations for the gymnasium and other plans for the mid-year festivities. One of
the leading network musicians before the war, Marterie was called into the Navy in 1942 and organized a band that
was considered to be the top service musical unit in the country. Touring the country during the war years, Marterie’s
band set record after record for aiding in the sales of millions of dollars worth of war bonds. After his
stint for Uncle Sam, Ralph Marterie went back to radio and his own coast-to-coast show with the American Broadcasting Company.
In 1949, this virtuoso trumpet player signed a long-term contract with Mercury Records and has since become one of the
most popular recording “names” in the dance band field.

Conducting Vespers this Sunday night will be Rev. J. Walter Dickson, Jr., pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Belmont,
N.C. A native of Anderson, S.C., he was a Davidson graduate in the class of 1937. While at Davidson he
was president of the YMCA, a member of the Student Council, ODK, and the Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity. In athletics,
he was a member of the varsity track team. Following Davidson, he attended Union Theological Seminary in Richmond. Upon graduation
there, he served as a minister at Gatun, Canal Zone. Following this, he was minister at the First Presbyterian Church
of Shelby, N.C., Army Air Force chaplain in World War II, director of student activities for the Synod of Georgia,
and pastor of the Fairmont Church in Knoxville, Tenn. At the present time, he is a member of the Board
of Trustees of Union Seminary, and former vice-president of the Davidson College Alumni Association. Rev. Dickson has preached at Davidson
on a number of previous occasions and has had wide experience as a religious emphasis speaker at a number of
colleges.

The Gift Fund Committee is working with the Community Post, which is under the direction of Mike York, and hopes
to bring the work in the colored community to “what is hoped will be a successful conclusion.” The pledged $3800
had not been completely collected by Monday, which was the original deadline for payment. The period has been extended until
everyone has had an opportunity to pay his pledge. Since the YMCA has no direct contact with those students living
in town, it is asked that all those students drop by the “Y” office to make their payment, while students
living in the dormitories are asked to pay the representative who contacted them for their pledge. Opinions on why the
goal was not reached were varied, but the general view was that the project, which won by a 2-1-1 margin
of the student body, failed to appeal to enough of the students. The “Y” spokesman, in thanking the students who
contributed for their support, said, “Those who gave made good contributions; a considerable number gave nothing at all, and consequently
the goal was not reached.” This was not the first time the Gift Fund goal had not been reached. In
1952 the goal, which was $6,000, fell $2,500 short, and it has several times in other years.

Additional Scholarships Offered Seniors Abroad And In The States

(The following is one of a series of articles issued by the Faculty Committee on Scholarships in connection with the
varied possibilities open to seniors.)

Harvard Law School is offering a number of National Scholarships to students of outstanding quality. In case of demonstrated financial
need, a stipend with a maximum of $1,600 per academic year may be allowed. A successful applicant who makes no
showing of financial need will be awarded as a prize a stipend of $100 per academic year. National scholarships are
renewable if the holder maintains the proper scholarship rank. Applications may be obtained from the Director of Admissions, Harvard Law
School, Cambridge 38, Mass.

Columbia University announces a limited number of fellowships in Near and Middle Eastern Studies. The fellowships carry a stipend ranging
from $1500 to $1750. Scholarships covering full or partial tuition are also available. Applications must be filed by February 20,
1954. Special application forms may be obtained by writing to Frederick Stevenson, Office of University Admissions, 322 University Hall, Columbia
University, New York 27, N.Y.

The University of Michigan Department of Library Science is offering Scholarships, which carry a stipend of $1800, to successful candidates
who have had little or no library training. Holders of scholarships may elect not more than one-half of the course
hours expected of full-time students. They will be scheduled for thirty-six hours of service weekly in the General Library of
the University. Applications must be filed by May 1, 1954. Requests for application blanks should be directed to Samuel W.
McAllister, Associate Director, General Library, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Mich.

Stanford University announces five fellowships in the amount of $2,100 each in a new program of graduate work in the
humanities. Application forms may be had from F. W. Strothmann, Director, Graduate Honors Program in Humanities, Room 243, Stanford University,
Stanford, Calif.

George Peabody College for Teachers offers twenty $1,000 Carnegie Graduate Fellowships for prospective high school teachers. Courses may be elected
at Peabody, Vanderbilt or Scarritt. The Master’s degree will be awarded in four quarters. The program will include practice teaching
and internship opportunities. College seniors are eligible for the program if they are interested in high school teaching and have
majored in a subject that is taught in high schools. For further information interested students should consult either Professor Ostwalt
or Professor Abernethy.

The University of Chicago announces more than 250 awards to graduate students in various divisions of the University. These awards
carry stipends ranging from $360 to $3,000. Applications must be filed by February 15, 1954. More than 150 awards are
offered by the various professional schools of the University. For some of these awards the closing date for applications is
February 1, 1954. Application forms for all types of awards may be obtained by writing the Admissions Counselor, the University
of Chicago, Chicago 37, Illinois.

The University of North Carolina Graduate School announces 246 teaching fellowships, graduate assistantships and research assistantships to be awarded on
a competitive basis. In addition, there are ten special scholarships for first-year graduate students. These are open in the basic
fields of the arts and sciences and social sciences to students of exceptional ability and promise. They carry stipends of
$1,000 plus tuition. Applications must reach the Graduate School before March 1, 1954. For further information, write: Dean of the
Graduate School, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, N.C.

The University of Missouri Graduate School is offering a large number of assistantships, each of $500 plus free tuition, to
first-year graduate students. Applications must be filed before March 1, 1954. Blanks may be secured by writing to Dr. Henry
Bent, Dean of the Graduate Faculty, University of Missouri, Columbia, Missouri.

The Hartford Theological Seminary invites applications for two Entrance Scholarships for the B. D. course in the amount of $1000
for the academic year 1954-55. Applications close March 1. For further information, write: Dean Terrien Van Dyke, Hartford Theological Seminary,
Hartford 5, Conn.

Frosh YMCA Council Holds Panel, Dance

The Freshman YMCA Council proved its worth for the second time in the scant space of a week as it
presented an excellent panel of professors, representative of all phases of the curriculum in which freshmen are involved, in a
highly informative pre-examination discussion. Following closely on the heels of Saturday's highly successful Salem Exchange Day, the Council, under the
direction of Sam Magill and chairmanship of Stuart Vaughan, is continuing its program of benefit to the freshman class.

Professor Ostwalt presided over Wednesday night's proceedings in the ballroom of the Student Union as the faculty representatives discussed with
the freshmen, most of whom face the crucial mid-year college exams for the first time, the best methods of preparation
and study. After each panel member had spoken briefly, the floor was opened to a question and answer session and
the first-year men were permitted to question the professors as to the impending exams. Representing their respective departments were: Prof.
Benjamin Wilson, English; Prof. McGavock, Mathematics; Captain Lamarr, ROTC; Prof. Schenck, Bible; Dr. Spencer, History; and Prof. Peak, the various
language departments.

Four Davidson Men Attend Union Meet

Use of electric-eye devices and IBM counting and filing machines in order to poll student use of Union facilities was
suggested at a recent conference of representatives of college unions held in Greensboro at Woman’s College. The University of Florida
in Gainesville, Fla., proposed the use of the devices mentioned above as a method that they had used in finding
what facilities of their college unions were most used. They discovered that the most-used facility was the rest rooms.

This conference of union directors and college representatives began on Thursday, January 7, and lasted through lunch on Saturday, January
9. The conference was attended by C. Shaw Smith, director of the Davidson union, and four students, including Bill Hood,
Buddy Beehler, Austin Strand, and Joe Sandifer. Thursday's activities centered around registration and a talent show put on by the
Woman's College, UNC and NC State delegates. Friday, the delegates were welcomed by Dr. E. K. Graham, chancellor of Woman’s
College, and David Phillips, chairman of the conference. Bill Rion, from the University of Florida, gave an address on “The
Purpose of the Union.” The rest of Friday was spent in conference groups, with the delegates discussing such topics as
committee structure, house rules, use of facilities, maintaining interest, budget allocation of funds, programming and evaluation of committee members. Bill
Hood led the discussion on maintaining interest. Saturday’s activities centered around discussing how to improve publicity and how to coordinate
the union with other campus activities. At a general meeting held just before the conference was adjourned, the various companies
and groups which will offer jobs. Mr. John Dillon will cooperate with the YMCA in the program.
