EDITOR URGES STUDENT - FACULTY COOPERATION VOL. XLII

Shown here with Col. Davis are the officers of Scabbard and Blade, left to right: Corty Kooper, Austin Strand, Bob
Stogner, and Harlee Smith.

STOGNER TO BE HEAD OF MILITARY GROUP

Davidson’s company of Scabbard and Blade, national honorary military fraternity, this week named Bob Stogner to head the chapter in
the coming year. The selection was made by the entire company at a formal meeting held Tuesday night in the
Quadranglers Room of Chambers. Three other juniors were elected by the group to fill offices vacated by graduating members. The
new officers include, besides Stogner, captain; Harlee Smith, 1st lieutenant; Austin Strand, 2nd lieutenant; and Cortez Cooper, 1st sergeant.

Stogner, whose home is Hartsville, S.C., is completing his third year in ROTC. He has served as squad leader and
platoon leader and is now leading the newly formed honor drill platoon.

In addition to the election of officers, the meeting was highlighted by the formal initiation of new Scabbard and Blade
members, including nineteen juniors and two members of the cadre, into the company. The cadets were selected on the basis
of military leadership and overall scholastic average and were “tapped” during a special parade the previous Tuesday.

Following the initiation ceremonies, present captain Buddy Lamon welcomed the new members into the chapter. During the succeeding business session,
plans were announced for a talk by Lt. Col. Davis on “Indoctrination” at the next regularly scheduled meeting. The members
of the company also discussed plans for their annual spring function, an informal party to be held near Concord. Installation
of the new officers is set for the next meeting, May 1. Outgoing officers include Buddy Lamon, Tom Ligon, Bill
Morris, and Charley Hasty.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C., FRIDAY, APRIL 30, 1954

GREEN SELECTS NEW Y CABINET LEADERS

Leighton Green, president-elect of the YMCA, has announced the selection of most of the YMCA Cabinet for 1954-1955. Fred Summers
will be in charge of deputations for the coming year. Included in Summers’ post will be the Sunday School extension
work. This was formerly a separate commission.

Cortez Cooper and Jason McManus will serve as co-chairmen of special services. Austin Strand will be in charge of Scouting
and will direct several troops in this vicinity, while Smithy Johnson will be the Boys’ Work member of the cabinet.
As gift fund chairman, Kiki Lewis will plan and carry out the annual volunteer gift drive this coming Christmas. Dolph
Allen has been appointed to the community work post and will seek to extend Christian ideas through better local relations.

Dickie Davis will fill the chapel position on the cabinet, and will be in charge of the YMCA chapel prayer
meetings and will be responsible for selecting the leaders on the various halls as spiritual life chairman. Bill Scholl will
be in charge of advancement. The public relations post will be filled by Henry Brockmann. He will edit the Wildcat
Handbook and handle YMCA publicity.

Two new study commissions have been added to the cabinet. These commissions will investigate various problems. The campus life commission
is to be headed by Leighton McCutchan. Roy Davis will be in charge of the world citizenship study commission. This
commission will study some of the political, economic, and social problems of the world as they relate to the Davidson
student.

Representing the student government on the cabinet will be Charlie Cousar and Floyd Feeney. The freshman adviser and the president
of the College Bible Class, who will be members of the cabinet, have not been elected. Also, Green has not
appointed the social life chairman.

Besides Green, the incoming YMCA officers are as follows: Blake Brinkerhoff, first vice president; John McLaughlin, second vice president; and
Corky King, treasurer. The members of the old and new cabinets will have a retreat this weekend on Friday and
Saturday afternoon at the Davidson College Presbyterian Church.

Decision On Courses To Be Made On May 8

Final decision concerning the courses offered at Davidson this summer will be made on May 8th, Dean C. J. Pietenpol
announced this week. The courses which will be offered will be determined by the size of registration. Dean Pietenpol urges
those students who plan to attend summer school to register immediately for the courses they wish to take. Only courses
which have registration of sufficient numbers to warrant instruction in them will be offered.

The University Christian Mission group and the campus committee for religious emphasis week met Tuesday night to lay tentative plans
for the single religious week to be held next year. Rev. James L. Stoner, national director of the UCM, spoke
to the group and aided in making the plans. Dr. J. M. Bevan was elected president to succeed Rev. Iain
Wilson, who resigned to return to the pastorate in Baltimore.

The purpose of the week was outlined as being to help the student and faculty to see their roles as
Christians in a changing South. Certain specific objectives were laid out: first, to present forthrightly the Christian gospel and its
relevance to all of life; and second, to present adequate interpretation of the response of Christian faith to social issues,
labor and management relations, racial tension, world citizenship, urbanization, and education.

R.O.T.C. Unit Awaits Federal Inspection

An intense degree of preparation has reached its apex as the ROTC department awaits the annual ROTC government inspection scheduled
for May 3 and 4. Colonel Davis has announced that the inspection will include a thorough scrutinization of administrative and
supply activities, facilities, and equipment. As many ROTC classes as possible will be observed, and on May 4 an inspection
of the cadet corps in rank and a colorful parade will be held.

The inspection team consists of three officers from the Third Army Area. Colonel William I. Russell, infantry, who is at
present the Deputy Post Commander of Fort Benning, Ga., will be president of the team. Colonel Russell graduated from the
University of Maryland and has served with the United Nations forces in Korea. The Legion of Merit, Bronze Star Medal,
and the Commendation Ribbon have been awarded to Colonel Russell.

Lt. Colonel John W. Thames, A.A.A., a graduate of Mississippi State College and of Command and General Staff College at
Fort Leavenworth, will be another member of the team. Lt. Colonel Thames is now commanding an A.A.A. battalion at Camp
Stewart, Georgia, but will soon assume his new duties as PMS&T at his college alma mater.

The last member of the team is Major John W. Hughes, Jr., armor. Major Hughes, holder of the Bronze Star
Medal, is a member of the Academic Department of the Infantry School at Fort Benning, Georgia, and is a graduate
of Eastern Kentucky State Teachers College.

Various Fraternities Plan Spring Functions

The following fraternities have announced plans for spring functions:

PI KAPPA PHI

Phi Kappa Phi Fraternity will hold its annual Rose Ball on Saturday night, May 1, at the Red Fez Club
in Charlotte. A banquet will precede the dance. The evening will be highlighted by the crowning of the Pi Kappa
Rose and the presentation of the outstanding pledge and pledge scholarship awards. The awards are made annually to the boy
deemed the most outstanding pledge and to the new initiate with the highest scholastic standing.

PI KAPPA ALPHA

The following week, May 8, the Pi Kappa Alpha’s yearly Dream Girl Ball will be held at the Selwyn Hotel
in Charlotte. The announcement of the Dream Girl will be made during the dance which follows a banquet, also to
be held at the Selwyn.

BETA THETA PI

The Betas will stage their annual Bowery Ball at Charlotte’s El Morocco on May 15. The traditional senior banquet will
be followed by the Bowery costume ball with brothers and their dates appropriately garbed. Decorations will follow the general theme
and tables will be arranged in cafe style. Music will be furnished by Bob Graham’s seven-man combo.

PHI GAMMA DELTA

The Phi Gams’ Fiji Island Ball will be held May 8 at Billy Pharr’s cabin on the Catawba River. The
banquet will be followed by a costume ball featuring a tropical island theme. Brothers and their dates will be dressed
in South Sea garb to include sarongs, it is rumored. Ed Locke’s combo will provide music.

PHI DELTA THETA

Phi Delta Theta will have its spring function Saturday, May 15, atthe Red Fez Club in Charlotte. Their sweetheart will
be crowned at the dance.

KAPPA ALPHA
The Kappa Alpha Rose Ball will be held at the Selwyn Hotel in Charlotte on May 8. Complete plans for
the function have not yet been made.

SIGMA PHI EPSILON
The Sig Eps are having a steak fry with a party afterwards at Joe Neisler’s cabin, The Bachelors, on Kings
Mountain Lake. This party is to take the place of the annual Sig Ep Sweetheart Ball. The Sigma Chis, SAE,
and the ATOs had their last function earlier in the year.

COUNCIL DEADLOCKS ON TREASURER POST
By JIM MARSHALL
The annual election of officers of the Inter-Fraternity Council was held Tuesday night, April 27. Ronald Wilson was elected president,
and Marshall Pitts, secretary. Deadlocked over the election of the treasurer candidate, the Council adjourned. The representatives who produced the
deadlock were Tom Lambe, Henry Brown, and Lacy Keesler. The retiring president, Charlie Hassell, received congratulations for a job well
done. He officially turned the management of Inter-Fraternity affairs over to the new council. It was pointed out that the
new council will have as its first action the completion of arrangements for the Louis Armstrong performance here on May
6.

The old and new IFC representatives listed respectively include:
ATO—Marshall Pitts (re-elected); Beta—Graeme Keith, Tom Lambe; Phi Gam—Dick Roper, John Ford; SAE—Dave Burns, Henry Brown; Sigma Chi—Bill Shipley, Diehl
Sluss; Pika—Bob Owens, Ted Andrae; Pi Kap—Winston Wright, Nelson Henson; KA—Ronald Wilson (re-elected); Kappa Sig—Charlie Hassell, Lacy Keesler; Phi Delt—Max
Devane, Charlie Cousar; Sig Ep—Joe Neisler, Tom Dove; Campus Club—Dick Morrow, Paul Sellers.

Ronald Wilson, the new IFC president, is preparing for a B.S. in psychology, and hopes to do graduate work in
industrial psychology. Besides the IFC work, Ronald plans to handle sports publicity for the college, write for the campus publications,
make a contribution to the ROTC department, and to marry a young beauty from Winchester, Va., on August 21, 1954.

TO ADDRESS PBK
Formal initiation for the new members of Phi Beta Kappa, national honorary scholarship fraternity, will be held immediately prior to
a banquet Monday night, May 3. Dr. Urban Holmes of the University of North Carolina will be the principal speaker
after the banquet. His address will be open to the public. Students taken into the scholarship group this spring include
Eugene Bargeron, Leighton Green, Larry Champion, Micky Efird, Jimmy Jackson, Willie Johnston, Buddy Lamon, Paul Pinckney, Hunter Strader, and Ed
Stuart.

JOHN FITE AWARDED STUDY FELLOWSHIP
Drs. J. M. Bevan and W. G. Workman of the psychology department recently announced that John D. Fite of Sanford,
Fla., a member of the rising senior class, has been awarded a fellowship by the Social Science Research Council of
Washington, D.C., for the purpose of psychological research to be carried out this summer at Davidson. The fellowship is one
of forty such awards given each year to undergraduate students in the United States. This award is granted to college
juniors who will devote eight weeks or more during the summer between their junior and senior years to research under
the guidance of designated faculty members. Fite’s research is to be directed by Drs. Bevan and Workman. Dr. Bevan stated
today that first-year graduate study fellowships are also awarded at the end of the senior year to those holders of
undergraduate research stipends who have shown superior promise of making successful careers in the scientific study of human behavior. John
is a member of the Philanthropic Literary Society, Delta Phi Alpha, secretary of the Concert Band, managing editor of the
Quips and Cranks, and a member of the Kappa Alpha social fraternity.

RONALD WILSON I.F.C.
Dr. William Tate Will Speak at ODK Tap Day
Bill Hood, president of Davidson's Delta Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa leadership honor society, recently attended the Southeastern Province Convention
of ODK. The convention was held in Atlanta, on the campus of Georgia Technological Institute on Friday and Saturday, April
23 and 24. Principal speaker at the convention was Dr. Robert Bishop, national secretary of ODK and editor of the
ODK Circle. Dr. Bishop is dean of students at the University of Cincinnati. Business sessions and committee discussions were led
and organized by Dr. William Tate, dean of students at the University of Georgia, and deputy of the Southeastern Province
of ODK. Dr. Tate will speak at Davidson's ODK spring tap day ceremonies and initiation banquet to be held on
Tuesday, May 11.

Growing Organization
An especially interesting part of the convention program was Dr. Bishop’s report on the growth of ODK as a national
organization. The Society was founded at Washington and Lee University in 1914, and Davidson's Delta Circle, established in 1917, was
the fourth circle in existence. There are now about 80 circles of ODK, most of them east of the Mississippi.
But recent expansion has been westward, and installment is now being planned for circles at the University of Wyoming and
Oklahoma A. & M. A number of petitions from such schools as the University of Southern California are under consideration.
As Dr. Bishop phrased it, “The ‘ODK idea’ has gained acceptance throughout our nation. At present the scope of the
society is rapidly expanding, and the admirable success of collegiate circles combined with recent development in new areas predicts a
brilliant future for the organization.”

MUSICAL DOUBLE FEATURE SET FOR THURSDAY
Irene Jordan Sings Here This Evening
In a day dominated by specialization in almost every field, titian-haired soprano Irene Jordan, who will sing in Chambers Auditorium
at 8:15 this evening, is that rare and refreshing phenomenon, a singer whose specialty is not specialty but infinite variety.
Miss Jordan, of whom Rochester Philharmonic Conductor Erich Leinsdorf said, “Here is the voice the masters had in mind when
they wrote their operas” may be in the great classic tradition vocally, but in streamlined looks and manner she is
strictly twentieth century. Although she has been compared to the most memorable European divas, Miss Jordan is wholly American in
training and background. Born in Birmingham, Alabama, she was one of ten children, all of them musical. Irene began taking
piano lessons when she was 3 and at college majored in piano as well as voice. The result of dedicated
effort from earliest childhood was a perfectly trained voice, a successful Town Hall debut, and immediate recognition by the Metropolitan.
The day after her audition in 1946, she received a contract and went on to sing in Lakme, Boris Godunov,
and Cavalleria Rusticana. In addition to regular opera repertoire she is known for her mastery of the soprano roles in
more rarely heard works such as Mozart’s Titus which had its American premiere recently at Tanglewood. Last winter she was
a brilliant success in the difficult role of Eglantine in Weber's Euryanthe. Highlights of Irene Jordan's concert in Davidson will
be “Have You Seen But a Whyte Lilie Grow,” a group of German Lieder by Richard Strauss and Wolf, “In
the Silence of Night” by Rachmaninoff, and arias from operas by Verdi and Mozart. Students will be admitted to the
concert upon presentation of their identification cards.

Spanish Fraternity Re-Elects Douglas
Monday night, April 26, Sigma Delta Pi, the honorary Spanish fraternity, initiated into its ranks six new members. The six,
four of whom are sophomores and two juniors, are Archie Joyner, Jack Williamson, Grier Robinson, Bobby Joe Key, DeWitt Helm,
and Maurice Crouse. Immediately following the formal initiation, a short refreshment period was held. Officers for next year were elected.
They are: Tom Douglas, president; Archie Joyner, first vice president; Bobby Joe Key, second vice president, and Maurice Crouse, secretary.

KING AND BELL ELECTED TODAY: WILSON TO SERVE AS PRES. OF IFC
Voting For Council Members Continues
Corky King of Burlington, N.C., edged Clark Reed in voting this morning for the post of freshman adviser. Vereen Bell
of Valdosta, Ga., was chosen editor of Scripts ‘n Pranks. King, a member of Phi Gamma Delta, is secretary-treasurer of
the present junior class, is on the Y Board of Directors, and has done an outstanding job for Davidson on
the football field. Bell, long active in literary circles, is a member of Sigma Upsilon, Philanthropic Literary Society, and Sigma
Chi social fraternity. In runoffs held earlier this week, Charlie Cousar was elected president of the rising senior class. Cousar
was president of both his sophomore and junior classes. He is also a leading football player for Davidson and will
be IFC representative from Phi Delta Theta for next year. Tom Newton won over Carl Cooper for president of the
rising sophomore class in earlier balloting. Tom, a member of Phi Delta Theta from Raleigh, N.C., was a member of
the freshman football squad this season. Voting will continue for the student council representatives from the respective classes as no
nominees received sufficient majority of votes this morning. The senior class will continue balloting for class day speakers. Those candidates
from the rising senior class who remain in the running for Student Council representative are Kiki Lewis, Swain Loy, Leighton
McCutchen, Charlie Rankin, Clark Reed, Austin Strand, and Frank Mitchener. The rising junior candidates who remain are Harry Brownlee, Joel
Connaroe, Jim Ensign, Jimmy Kiser, Buddy Liles, Dick Lovette, Harold McKeithen, John McLauchlin, Jason McManus, and Jack Williamson. Votes had
not been tabulated for the Student Council representative from the sophomore class at press time.

Jones and McClure Debate Church Union
The proposed union of the Southern and Northern branches of the Presbyterian Church will be the subject of an after-vespers
discussion group May 9. Dr. James Jones, who will deliver the vespers sermon, and Dr. C. G. McClure will debate
the question. Dr. Jones will defend the union and Dr. McClure will take the negative view. Like all other after-vespers
this year, this one will take place in the student lounge of the College Church. All students and the public
are invited to attend the discussion.

Popular Jazz King Louis Armstrong Will Raise Roof On Chambers May 6
The one and only Louis “Satchmo” Armstrong, the world’s jazz king, will play at Davidson the night of May 6.
The program is sponsored by the Inter-Fraternity Council. Armstrong was born on July 4, 1900. When he was twelve years
old, he got into a jam which turned out to be a blessing in disguise. He was sent to a
reform school for shooting his father’s 38 caliber pistol into the air. While at the “Colored Waif’s Home for Boys,”
the captain in charge taught him how to play, first, the bugle, and next, the cornet. Louis took the old
pawn shop cornet home with him. At fourteen he began playing as a fill-in on irregular jobs. To support himself
he sold newspapers, worked in a dairy and delivered coal. While doing odd jobs for King Oliver, he attracted this
famous musician’s attention. Oliver taught Louis to read notes and gave him lessons. In 1917 he played for Kid Ory’s
band, and a few years later he played on the riverboats plying the Mississippi between New Orleans and Memphis. During
this time Armstrong began to compose his own music. In 1922 he started working for Oliver as his second cornet
player. Louis began to make a name for himself in the late twenties. He organized his own band, which was
a small group called Louis Armstrong's Hot Five. It was later expanded to the Hot Seven. During this time he
changed from a cornet to a trumpet and added singing to his program. He has made numerous recordings, among which
some of the greatest are “Potato Head Blues” and “Poor Butterfly.” Old Satch has made several trips to Europe where
he was received with enthusiasm. He was recently elected to Music’s Hall of Fame, an honor that seemed to be
long overdue.
