FRIDAY, MAY 7, 1954 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

Southern Conference Tennis Finals Here Tomorrow

VMI Wildcat Baseballers Tomorrow

Davidson’s varsity baseball team hits VMI in Lexington, Va., tomorrow in the final scheduled game of the 1954 season. The
tilt will be a Southern Conference affair and could have an important effect on the final standings. The Davidson club
now has a 3-2 conference record and stands in fourth place in the Southern rankings. The Cadets are currently in
seventh place with a 5-4 record. Richmond and The Citadel stand atop the standings with 3-1 records. By winning against
the VPI Gobblers this afternoon and taking tomorrow’s contest, Davidson could move into the lead if the leaders should falter.
Ish Bennett was scheduled to pitch today’s contest with tomorrow's mound choice still unannounced by Coach Clements.

Last Monday, the Cats were to play Furman’s Purple Hurricane in a doubleheader, but the rains came, and the twin
bill was postponed indefinitely. It may be rescheduled, but the time element may prevent the return of the Paladins to
the local diamond. Last weekend, Coach Chuck Clements’ crew played host to the league-leading Citadel Bulldogs in a pair of
contests. On Friday, the Cats knocked the Bulldogs out of first place temporarily by taking a 10-9 decision. But on
Saturday, the Cadets came back to take a wild, 15-12, win. Both games were played loosely, with many errors being
made. In the first contest, Davidson came from behind in the final innings to wipe out a five-run deficit and
take the victory. The Cats secured the winning run in the last half of the eleventh inning. “Squirrel” Beardsley was
the winning pitcher. On Saturday, the Bulldogs pounded three local pitchers for eleven runs in the first inning but had
to score three runs in the eighth inning to come out the victors. The scrappy Davidsonians picked away at the
tremendous lead until the score after seven innings was only 12-11. But the Cadets tagged Ish Bennett for three tallies
in the eighth, and the lone Cat run in the ninth went for naught. Two Citadel third sackers were hurt
in the series. After colliding with Bill Rowland in a close play in the first game, the regular hot corner
man was forced to retire from the game. On Saturday his replacement was hit in the head by a line
drive.

SEND THE DAVIDSONIAN HOME

McKee Selected As New Davidson Sports Publicity Director

In a meeting of the Davidson Athletic Committee last Friday, tennis coach Dick McKee was selected as the new Davidson
sports publicity director. In an action which was unexpected, since the job was only recently put under the direction of
students, the committee reversed its previous decision to vacate the position of a full-time director. Athletic Director Paul Scott has
announced that Coach McKee will begin his duties next September when Davidson's fall session begins. He will work in cooperation
with the school publicity office which handles all other Davidson publicity. Coach McKee replaces Alden Williams, a senior who has
been handling the job since February, when Elgin White was moved into the school publicity office. McKee will have student
assistance next year, but the students will not be fully responsible for the job, as it was previously planned. Coach
McKee is certainly not a stranger in the sports-writing ranks. He has previously conducted several tennis columns in The Charlotte
News.

Wildcat Scoreboard For The Past Week

BASEBALL:
Davidson—10; Citadel—9
Davidson—12; Citadel—15

TRACK:
Davidson—83; Washington & Lee—47

GOLF:
Davidson—22½; Wofford—4½

TENNIS:
Davidson—0; Miami—9

FROSH GOLF:
Davidson—13½; Gastonia High—11½

Cat Track Team Finishes Work-Outs For Conference Meet

The Davidson track team has completed workouts for the meet with N.C. State tomorrow, their last encounter before the Southern
Conference meet on the 14th and 15th. The Wildcats, who have won three meets and placed second in two triangular
meets, will be journeying to Blacksburg with several potential winners and a good chance to place high in the final
totals. Coach Whittle will be taking a squad of 14 men to the two-day affair. Frank Mitchner and Phil Koonce
will team up to run the 100-yard dash and the 220-yard dash where they should rack up valuable points. Bill
Shipley is entered in the 440 and 880-yard dashes, with help from Doug Andrews in the 440. In the mile
and 2-mile, Homer Sparks, Floyd Feeney, and Andy Turner will represent the Wildcats. Tim Gilley, Harry Petersen and Ralph Petree
are the team’s weight men in the shot put and discus events, while Harley Smith and “Bubba” Martin will throw
the javelin. Jack Huffaker will vie for honors in the high jump and broad jump, accompanied by Koonce in the
broad jump. Shipley, Koonce, Mitchner and Andrews make up the mile relay team. Approximately twenty-five boys are trying out for
Sigma Delta Psi, national athletic fraternity, at the present time, and one of them, Bill McNair, has completed his requirements
for entrance. Many lack only one event before gaining membership. Coach Whittle urges all men who hope to try out
for the fraternity to begin passing off their events as soon as possible.

TRIED DIFFERENT AND FOUND JUST THE AM BRANDS OF CIGARETTES

LEADS DAVIDSON’S GOLFERS

Captain Graeme Keith (above) leads the Davidson golf team into the Southern Conference Tournament this weekend. A senior, Keith will
be playing his last match for the Red and Black in the Richmond event.

Cotton Cord Pants
Blue, Tan, Grey
5.95
Wilson-Wright's Inc.
“COLLEGIATE FASHIONS”
Next to Bank
Davidson, N. C.

ROCK HUDSON says, “After acting in high-school plays, I got a job in Hollywood delivering mail so I could talk
to stars and agents. The plan worked — oneagent arranged a screen test. I worked five months without a day
off — and it paid off with a good starting contract!”

Semi-finals Tomorrow Morning; Keesler Top-Seeded In Meet

The semi-final and final rounds of the Southern Conference tennis tournament will be held on the local courts tomorrow. Semi-final
matches will be held tomorrow morning, with the finals being played in the afternoon. The championship matches will be played
with three out of five sets needed to win.

DAVIDSON GOLFERS IN S.C. TOURNAMENT

The Davidson varsity golf team is currently competing in the annual Southern Conference Golf tournament which is being held in
Richmond, Virginia. The golfers left last Wednesday for Richmond to prepare for the meet which is being held today and
tomorrow. Coach Elgin White is accompanying the team on the trip. Captain Graeme Keith will be the leading Davidson hope
for conference honors in the tournament, but in a meet of this kind, any player who is hitting exceptionally well
can easily take a high position in the resulting standings. Joe Jenkins and Skipper Hall will also be threats for
the Cats. Both boys have done exceptionally well this season and should hit their peak this weekend.

Last Monday, the Wildcat linksters played their last match of the regular season. The Davidson club met Wofford’s Terriers on
the Myers Park Country Club course in Charlotte, and the host team downed the Terriers, 22½-4½. Graeme Keith was medalist
for the day with an even-par 72, while Jack Hankins topped the Wofford scores with a 79. The Davidson freshman
golfers met Gastonia’s team this past week and came out the victors by a 13½-11½ count. The frosh linksters finish
their 1954 season next Tuesday at Salisbury, when they meet the freshman team from North Carolina State.

From our TOP

Last Wednesday, representatives of conference schools met to make pairings and to decide the seedings for the tournament. Teams from
Furman, VMI, William and Mary, VPI, The Citadel, West Virginia, and Davidson are entered in the tournament. Only Washington and
Lee, Richmond, and George Washington failed to send an entry. Lacy Keesler of Davidson was seeded No. 1 in the
tourney, and the Keesler-Bremer doubles combination from Davidson was seeded first in the doubles ranks. Max Bryant of VPI was
seeded second, Hosey Hearn of William and Mary was seeded third, and Ed Sirkin of The Citadel was seeded fourth.
West Virginia's Jerry Barber was seeded fifth, Johnny Bremer of Davidson was seeded sixth, and Cordell Maddox of Furman was
seeded seventh. VMI’s Frank Pilley completes the seedings in the eighth slot.

Two seeded players were ousted from the tourney in the second round of play. Second-seeded Max Bryant of VPI was
trounced by Davidson’s Corky Clark, 6-0, 6-0, and eighth-seeded Frank Pilley of VMI was upset by Reel of William and
Mary, 6-3, 6-1. Davidson's George Snead also took an upset win over highly-rated Carl Spies of William and Mary. Spies
was the Indians’ No. 1 man. In the doubles play, Davidson's Green-Johnson duo upset the second-seeded Sirkin-Stetz team from The
Citadel. Third-seeded team of Spies and Hearn (William and Mary) and the fourth-seeded Reynolds-Reel team (William and Mary) are rated
highly, along with the Keesler-Bremer combination. Quarter-final matches in both doubles and singles action were to be played today, with
singles in the morning and doubles in the afternoon.

BULLETIN

In matches played this morning, two Davidson doubles teams advanced into the semi-finals of the Southern Conference tournament. The Keesler-Bremer
team defeated Maddox and Rogers of Furman, 6-4, 6-4, and Clark and Snead beat teammates Green and Johnson, 6-3, 4-6,
7-5. Other teams which advanced into this afternoon’s semi-final doubles round were Spies and Hearn of William and Mary, and
Reynolds and Reel, also of William and Mary. Doubles finals will be held tomorrow afternoon at 4:00 p.m.

In singles play, quarter-finals were to be played this afternoon. Davidson players who have advanced into this round are Lacy
Keesler, Corky Clark and Leighton Green. In the biggest upset of the tournament, Green beat teammate Johnny Bremer, sixth-seeded, in
the third round. Other players in the quarter-finals are Barber, West Virginia; Maddox and Rogers of Furman; Hearn and Reel
of William and Mary. The favored Davidson squad still appears to have the inside track to the conference crown. William
and Mary is still the chief threat to Wildcat domination, and the Indians’ players could come out the winners. Tomorrow’s
play will be as follows provided that the rain threat does not materialize:

Singles semi-finals—9:00 a.m.
Singles finals—2:00 p.m.
Doubles finals—4:00 p.m.

SELECTIONS FOR YOUR SUMMER WEAR

SUITS—Haspel Cotton Cords ... 26.50
College Hall Nylon Cords ... 33.50
College Hall Dacron and Wool ... 52.50
Palm Beach Fashion Linen ... 52.90
Varsity Town Dacron and Wool ... 58.50
Varsity Town Silk and Wool ... 63.50
Slacks ... 7.00 to 18.50
Palm Beach Dinner Jackets ... 33.95
Palm Beach Formal Trousers ... 12.95
McGregor, Catalina, Skipper and Manhattan Knit Sport Shirts ... 2.95 to 3.95
White Suede Belts ... 1.50
Washable Linen Ties ... 1.50

R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co.
Winston-Salem, N. C.

MILDNESS AND FLAVOR YOU WANT IN CAMELS. TRY 'EM YOURSELF YOU'LL FIND CAMELS THOROUGHLY ENJOYABLE!

START SMOKING CAMELS YOURSELF! In sales by record, Camels lead by 50.6% ahead of the second-leading cigarette. Published in Printers’
Ink, 1954.

CAMELS AGREE WITH MORE PEOPLE THAN ANY OTHER CIGARETTE!

THE LABEL OF DISTINCTION
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
126 SOUTH TRYON
