Davidson's Wildcats invade Charlotte’s Memorial Stadium tonight for the first time in four seasons, and when the Cats play host to Furman, it will mark the renewal of a long series of Davidson games in the Queen City. Until 1951, Davidson had almost always played at least one game in Charlotte, and fans had given the Wildcats a lot of support. But in the late forties, when Wildcat football fortunes were rather slim, the Charlotte support dropped until it was finally necessary to play all home games at Davidson.

In November of 1950, the Cats played V.M.I. in the stadium before stands that were virtually empty except for the student section. The battle was played on a rain-soaked field, and runners were constantly slipping to the turf. It was the day that Auburn Lambeth completed pass No. 200 of his career, and this was about the only thing Davidson students had to cheer about as the Keydets massacred the Cats, 46-6. That was the last time Davidson played in Charlotte.

But there have also been pleasant memories of Memorial Stadium. Few who saw the 1949 scrap with N.C. State will forget little Jake Wade’s 95-yard run following a pass interception in the last quarter. Wade pulled down a State pass into the flat and was gone before the Wolfpack realized what had happened. It gave the traditional-underdog Cats a 20-14 victory.

This year, Davidson returns to the stadium in the hope that Charlotte fans will once again come out and back Wildcat football. It could be the beginning of a long tradition, since Furman also has a lot of alumni and fans in Charlotte. Davidson has played a lot of football in front of Charlotte fans. We hope they will give Davidson the backing necessary to keep playing there.

On that dreary November day mentioned above, a big cheer went up in the last half when the PA system announced that Lambeth had just completed his 200th pass. It was one of the many highlights in a career that few recent Davidson men can match. “Aubie” completed a total of 222 passes in his four years at Davidson, less than thirty below the national record. He ranked among the top twenty players in the nation in passing average, and though the Cats didn’t always win, he was practically always a standout.

Lambeth spent most of his college football career in the tailback slot of the single-wing formation. This made his passing attack even more of a threat, since the opposition had to stop his end sweeps and off-tackle slants. And often the defense would charge in to stop the running back only to find him “floating” the ball over their heads. Lambeth had the gift of being so accurate in his pitching that he could “float” the ball without the constant danger of an interception. When the Wildcats switched to the “T” formation under Crowell Little, Lambeth moved into the quarterback slot and continued to shine. He was voted to innumerable team honors (All-Conference, All-State, All-Opponent teams of different schools, etc.), and he set a Southern Conference record by completing five touchdown passes in one game. Auburn Lambeth will long be remembered as one of the greatest passers Davidson has ever had, and the last time the Cats played in Charlotte was one of his “big” days. Let’s hope another Wildcat or two has a “big” game tonight against Furman. The Wildcats can do it, and though Furman rates the favorite’s role, when the whistle blows, press clippings don’t mean a thing.

The Peterson Story Starts Another Page Tonight when Harry Peterson starts at tackle for Davidson against the Furman Purple Hurricane, another page will be written in the strange chapter of his athletic career at Davidson. This will be the first time he has started since he was injured in a pre-season scrimmage against Western Carolina and has been unable to see full-time duty since then.

When Peterson entered Davidson three years ago, he was rated as one of the best prospects Darlington Prep has ever sent to the Presbyterian institution. But early in his college career, things began to happen. He received a bad knee injury, and when he hurt it again, it was predicted that he would never play again. But at the beginning of last season, “Pete” had an operation on the knee, and by the time the final game was over, he had seen plenty of action.

This season has been a story with the same plot for the big tackle. Out with that bad “charley horse,” Peterson finally saw about three minutes of action against The Citadel, and against Presbyterian’s Blue Hose, he played most of the game. Tonight is the first time that he has started, though, and it will seem quite natural to Davidson fans to see that big “64” on the right side of the line. Undoubtedly, Furman will see a lot of it before the night is over.

Cat Line-Up For Tonight's Battle
Here is the probable starting line-up for tonight's game with Furman. In a complete overhaul of personnel, seven men have been replaced in the starting line-up since the PC game. Probable Furman starters are also given.

Pos.--Davidson--Furman
LE--Gramley--Hightower
LT--Peterson--Harris
LG--Davis--Bolick
C--Price--Socha
RG--Fasul--Williams
RT--Leo--Young
RE--Newton--Barefoot
QB--Little--Boyle
RH--Smith--Popson
LH--Thacker--Yakimowicz
FB--Brown--Dellinger

ATTENTION!
All candidates for the 1954-55 Davidson Basketball Teams are requested to meet in Johnston Gymnasium on next Thursday, Oct. 28, at 3:30 p.m. Coach Miller has announced that practice will start on November 1, and this meeting is necessary to check eligibility.

Bill Price (left) will start at center for the Wildcats, marking the first time this year that a frosh player has been a starter. Bob Talbert (right) is the boy who does most of the Davidson extra-point kicking, and he has done a fine job so far, kicking four points and only missing one attempt.

Kappa Sigs, Sigma Chis Tied In Greek Action
BY BUNNY PERKINSON
The touch football season in the inter-fraternity league is just about at the halfway mark, and as the race enters the homestretch, the Kappa Sigs and Sigma Chis are tied for the lead. Last week's leaders, the Phi Delts, dropped two battles this week and dropped behind the leaders. The two teams tied for the lead both have 5-1 records.

Yesterday’s action affected the standings in a big way. The Sigma Chis beat the Kappa Sigs, 31-26, scoring on the last play of the game. The win moved the winners into the tie for top spot. The KAs, who have lost only to the Pikas, won their fourth decision yesterday as they massacred the Phi Delts, 51-18.

In games on Monday afternoon, the Pikas downed the hapless Campus Club team, 46-7; and the improving Betas dumped the Pi Kapps by the score of 20-6. The SAEs edged the SPEs, 12-7, in a thriller. In addition to the game between the Kappa Sigs and the Phi Delts on Tuesday, which the Kappa Sigs won, 13-7, the Sigma Chis won a 39-7 decision over the Phi Gams, who are still looking for victory number one. In another real tussle, the KAs took the measure of the ATOs and dropped them from a second to a sixth place tie.

Wednesday afternoon was a day of high-scoring games, as the Betas trounced the Campus Club, 62-7, and the Pikas dropped the winless SPEs, 32-6. The game scheduled between the Pi Kapps and the Phi Gams was postponed. The standings of the league are shown below. The results of games through Wednesday are tabulated (yesterday's results are not included).

Kappa Sigs
Phi Delts
Sigma Chis
KAs
Pikas
ATOs
SAEs
Betas
Pi Kapps
SPEs
Phi Gams
Campus Club

Yakimowicz Leads Furman Rushing
Tonight at Charlotte Memorial Stadium, Davidson fans will get a look at Furman’s leading rusher, Yakimowicz.at two of the best halfbacks in the Southern Conference, and Wildcat followers are hoping that the Davidson defense will be able to do what many others have tried, but failed, to do—stop the Hurricane’s John Popson and Ted Yakimowicz. It will be a tough job, since the two backfield stars both rate in the top ten in Southern Conference rushing. Yakimowicz is the fourth-place rusher, and Popson is tenth. Though his running mate has the better average, Furman supporters rate Popson as the strongest threat in the Hurricane backfield. Popson’s kick-off return average has soared to 51 yards per game. This includes long gallops of 97 and 103 yards against Miami and The Citadel. Popson and Yakimowicz may find the going a bit rough against the Wildcats who now boast the second-best defensive record in the Southern Conference. The Davidson team has held opposing runners to an average of only 124 yards per game. Though the ‘Cats will undoubtedly have their eyes on Popson and Yakimowicz tonight, they cannot afford to overlook the Hurricane quarterback Jim Boyle who leads the conference in total offense and has the second-best passing average in league competition. Sounds like a rough combination to stop, but the Wildcats have the equipment to do it. It promises to be a real thriller.

Wildcat Linksters Hit Salisbury Club Tomorrow Afternoon

Davidson's varsity golf candidates travel to Salisbury tomorrow for another fall match against top amateur competition. After opening the fall season last Saturday against Billy Joe Patton and his Morganton cronies, the Wildcat linksters take on Charlie Feezor's crew from the Salisbury Country Club. All players who wish to make the trip should contact either Mickey Cannon or Martin Foil. These two players are making arrangements about transportation, and the earlier they are contacted, the easier it will be. So make it early. A lot of interest has been shown by Davidson students thus far, and there was a good representation which played at Morganton last Saturday. Though the weather was bad, the matches were played as scheduled, and this early experience is certain to pay off next spring.

CAT CINDER MEN BEAT RICHMOND BY LEON HOWGALL, JR.

Davidson College’s cross country team continued their winning ways by defeating a strong team from the University of Richmond. The meet, run here last Saturday, October 16, wound up with Davidson on top, 24-36. Richmond brought a very fine runner here in Chukinas, who took first place with the good time of 21 minutes and 20.5 seconds over the four-mile course. Coach Whittle believes he has a good chance to win the Southern Conference championship, particularly since he defeated “Pete” Ashcraft, who beat him in the frosh mile at the Conference meet last year. The fact that Richmond took first and third and still lost indicates that this was a team victory for us. Besides Ashcraft, who came in a close second, Feeney, Wilson, Lovette, and Patterson finished fourth through seventh respectively. This show of depth pushed the other team under. If these hardworking boys could be characterized by any one word, it would have to be improvement. Each one is gradually getting better, particularly Handley, Jackson, and Woods. On Saturday, they travel to Raleigh to engage William and Mary and North Carolina State in a triangular meet. State, in particular, appears powerful, having already defeated the University of North Carolina.

Cats Still Pacing Conference Action Despite PC Loss BY BOB PULLIAM

Davidson’s Wildcats’ Southern Conference leaders risk their conference lead and a possible share in the championship against the Purple Hurricane of Furman tonight in Charlotte. This is the last conference game of the season for the Cats, and a victory would leave them undefeated in conference play. Furman, led by halfback Johnny Popson and quarterback Jim Boyle, will present a powerful ground attack that crushed Presbyterian, 27-0, and Citadel, 31-20. Davidson defeated the same Citadel but was upended by the Blue Hose, 10-7. Virginia Tech, one of the two Southern Conference teams ranked nationally, takes on Virginia at Roanoke, in what should be a breeze for the Gobblers. West Virginia, tenth-ranked team in the nation, should continue their winning ways against a weak V.M.I. team. The Mountaineers, who have the worst part of their season behind them, are gunning for another trip to the Sugar Bowl on January 1. The only other game involving two conference teams is the George Washington-William and Mary game Friday. William and Mary rates a slim six-point favorite. The Citadel plays non-conference Presbyterian in Charleston on Saturday.

Conference Games
Davidson
Virginia Tech
West Virginia
Furman
Virginia Military
Richmond
Wm. and Mary
Geo. Washington
The Citadel

All Games
Davidson
Virginia Tech
West Virginia
Furman
Virginia Military
Richmond
Wm. and Mary
Geo. Washington
The Citadel

Two Spotless League Records To Go On Line BY JOHNNY JOHNSON

Davidson's football team will be fighting for their fourth win of the season tonight when they meet Furman University at 8 P.M. in Charlotte Memorial Stadium in Charlotte. The Davidson boys are out to upset their strongest opponent of the season, an opponent that they haven’t conquered since 1948. Three important men — Harry Peterson, Jim Fasul, and Captain Dickie Davis — who have been out of regular play in some of the previous games will be in the Davidson starting lineup. They will add needed weight and experience to the forward wall. Also starting in the line will be freshman center Bill Price, left tackle Tom Lee, and sophomore ends Bill Gramley and Tom Newton. Dyke Little, Harley Smith, Jim Thacker, and Henry Brown will make up the backfield. The 'Cats have been working hard this week in preparation for the game. Coach Dole has drilled the boys thoroughly, with particular attention having been given to pass defense because of Furman's strong air attack. Angered by last week's loss to a fired-up P.C. team, the ‘Cats are determined to get back into the win column. Coach Dole said, “Furman is the biggest and strongest team that we will meet this year. I hope that we have enough manpower to stop them.” Truly, the Purple Hurricanes are loaded with talent. Jim Boyle, their ace quarterback, leads the Southern Conference in total offense with 374 yards gained in five games. Right halfback Jim Popson is a hard and shifty runner that opposing teams have found difficult to stop. Right end Ronald Barefoot, who is second in the conference in pass receiving, teams with left end L. G. Hightower to make the Hurricane aerial assault effective. Furman has three wins and two losses to its record this season. The Purple Hurricane has beaten Newberry, The Citadel, and Presbyterian College, which is Davidson’s lone conqueror; it has lost to Miami of Florida and South Carolina. The history of the Davidson-Furman competition is long. The teams first played in 1902 when the Purple Hurricane won, 6-0. The Wildcats, in 1916, won the second contest by a score of 58-13. The two teams have been fairly evenly matched, with a margin of two games being the difference. In sixteen years of competition, Davidson has won 7 and lost 9. Last year Furman won 34-0. The Wildcats realize they have tough opposition, but they are upset-minded tonight.