PAGE FOUR

SPARKS HEADS YMCA BOYS WORK PROGRAM

By DICK MOREHEAD

The Boys’ Work Committee of the Y is capably run by Homer Sparks, Davidson’s own Gil Dodds. “Sparkie’s” background, present and future, are full of activities, interests, and unusual experiences with boys’ and Y work. For three years, he has worked in a summer YMCA camp in Anniston, Alabama, the metropolis where he spent the best 21 years of his life. He has been associated with the school Y for three years, his last two as chairman of boys’ work. His main interests also lie in this field as, after doing a bounded duty to his country, he plans to enter graduate school in final preparation for a career of Y work, especially in the realm of boys’ activities.

A man of varied abilities, Homer has used his talents in several fields of campus life since first coming to Davidson. He is co-captain of the track team and served as captain and “pacer” for the cross country team, illuminating Davidson’s athletic record with a second place in the Southern Conference in cross country. He was commencement marshal representing Phi Lit. Society last year, and is this year a member of the Y Cabinet, Scabbard and Blade, D Club, ODK, the anti-McCarthy movement, and vice-president of the Kappa Alpha social fraternity.

Boys’ Work Committee

The boys’ work program is not one with which the student body is entirely familiar. Some have seen, on occasion, the basketball games played between the halves of varsity games. Some others know that football and basketball games among the boys of the community are played in season. The boys’ work program this year, however, has endeavored to go beyond this one sphere of activity. The main emphasis has been placed on boys’ groups as clubs instead of athletic teams alone. Following this plan, a group of boys are set up as a club and during the process of the school year, carry out a program which includes mental and physical as well as spiritual growth. The program is set up along national Y lines adopted by Gra-Y and Jr. Hi Y organizations.

The local boys’ work covers age groups from nine to sixteen years of age, ranging over the area from Huntersville to Mooresville and encompassing boys of varied backgrounds, interests, and achievements. There are five groups under the Y committee, three in the white school, two in the colored school, each headed by members of the student body on the committee. The student leaders are all of varied vocational interests, ranging from industrial psychology majors to pre-meds who mostly predominate. Of the original sixty who signed up for this work, twenty-four have actively participated. Their leaders meet often with Chairman Sparks to discuss and criticize committee work, building an experienced nucleus for next year’s boys’ work activities.

The youngest age group at the white school is under the direction of freshmen Bunny Perkinson and Baxter Cochran. They have had a football and a basketball team so far, and are planning for a softball team in the spring. During the basketball season, this team played Concord and Kannapolis Y groups who were both powerhouses. In the true tradition, they “didn’t scratch,” but in the words of their coach: “There are great future prospects, with a possible Dick Groat in the making.” This club will be continued through the school year with hikes and weiner roasts planned for spring.

The second group is led by Warren Buford and Creighton Peden. They, too, have had a football and basketball team which has been continued for the last three years. Due to opposing powerhouses, they are planning to revamp the athletic policy with hopes of getting in a smaller conference of “beatable” teams.

The third and oldest group is under the direction of “Coach” Cooper. This team of Jr. Hi boys copped the county championship in basketball this year and have progressed tremendously. These boys are planning to organize as a club later this year, carrying on unified activities under Cortez’s guidance.

The youngest group in the colored school is in its first year of organization. During the first of this year, chairman Sparks spent a good deal of time helping the boys in phys. ed. classes and becoming acquainted with them. Then about two months ago, a group was started in the 3rd to 6th grade range under Smitty Johnston and Kiki Lewis. This group, the pride and joy of the committee, turned out en masse (35) for the first meeting and have continued to show an avid interest and amazing progress in all subsequent activities. The school principal, Mr. Harris, has given his full cooperation, putting school facilities, the gym, and his time at the committee's disposal.

The second group under Leon Howell and Reece Middleton is formed and operated on the general ideas of the other groups with the main emphasis on club work. Coaches Scott and Whittle have made most of this club work possible through their interest, work, and constructive plans.

This committee is filling a unique and much-needed place in the community as it, with the possible exception of Scouting, is the only organization working with the boys of the community, giving them a place, leadership, and encouragement to develop their individual talents, whether they be in the realm of social or athletic activities. As experienced by their leaders, these boys have learned to work and cooperate as a team, losing their varied individuality in unified efforts.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

ATO PLEDGES ON THE JOB

“Help Week” has been a full semester program for this year’s ATO pledges as they spent their Friday nights folding the Davidsonian under the eye of circulation manager Dick Little. From left to right, boys on the ATO folding squad are: Rip Pischotta, Joe Hodges, Bob Haywood, Kim Kimbrough, Frank Bloodworth, Warner Hall, Bob Carmichael, Tom Morgan, Charles Efird, Charles Gribble, Wally Pharr, Sandy Stubbs, George Houck.

Linksters Begin...

(Continued From Page Three)

March 10—Parris Island, there.
March 20—Parris Island, there.
March 22—Jacksonville Navy, there.group work and sports. If you are interested in this work, contact Homer Sparks or Sam Magill.

QUALITY MILK
Mooresville Creamery, Inc.

JAMES MASON - CLAIRE BLOOM
STARTS TODAY
VISULITE
1615 ELIZABETH AVE.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
SHOW TIME
Monday-Friday Shows: 7 and 9 p.m.
Saturday Shows: 1, 3, 7, 9 p.m.
Sun. Shows: 2, 4, 9 p.m.

Davidsonians are mailed to some five hundred people each week. Dick Little, circulation manager, is seated at the addressograph, while Sam Sutton, Bob Carmichael, and Warner Hall look on.

CAT TALES...
(Continued From Page Three)
Wildcat Club should only raise $5,000, the amount would be raised. As for the idea that the amount, if successfully raised by the Wildcat Club, would be raised by the amount that the college usually puts into the program, in a never-ending cycle seems to this writer to violate the whole spirit of Davidson alumni interest. In any case, no matter what position the reader holds, we would like to re-emphasize the closing statement of the Trustees’ recent statement which reads as follows: “We would call upon the student body, the alumni, and the faculty to give their loyal support to the athletic director, the coaches, and the athletic teams of the college to the end that success may be attained and that intercollegiate sports may again make their proper and vital contribution to the life of the institution.”

BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD, N. C.
“Coke” is a registered trademark. © 1932, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY

March 23—FSU, there.
April 1—Ohio Wesleyan, here.
April 5—Furman, there.
April 6—Wofford, there.
April 13—N.C. State, here.
April 21—Furman, here.
April 22—Citadel, here.
April 27—N.C. State, there.
April 29—VMI, there.
April 30—VPI, there.
May 3—Wofford, here.
May 7-8—Conference Tournament.

Male Chorus...
(Continued From Page One)
Bob Dunbar, Leonard Geiger, Paul Pinckney, Alexander McKelway, Alexander McGeachy, John Fenton, Leighton McCutchen, Bob Bankhead, Joe Conarroe, Harold McKeithen, Jim Kuist, Eugene Auten, Charlie Hassell, and Bill Hood. This group will return to the campus during the weekend of spring vacation.

Alyea’s Proposal...
(Continued From Page Two)
course we can follow—until such a revolution and/or change of philosophy by the political leaders in Russia occurs—is to try through adroit and astute diplomacy to maintain such a balance of power that the Soviet Union will not feel they have a chance to succeed in dominating the world even with the use of atomic weapons.

PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS

Frat Initiations...
(Continued From Page One)
house inside and out was one of the many “jobs” done by the SAE pledges during the week of intensified pledge training which preceded their formal initiation Friday night. Pledges scholastically qualifying were: Bob Alexander, Ted Baker, Bill Ballentine, Sloan Cassels, Snyder Garrison, Dan Haley, Jack Kerr, Sonny Kincey, Dyke Little, Boyce Martin, Jim Robinson, Bill Smith, David Simpson, John Winfrey, Chuck Wright, and Ed Young. The outstanding pledge and the pledge having the highest scholastic average will be announced Saturday night at the Founder’s Day Function.

The Pi Kappa Phis initiated 18 pledges Thursday night. Those who were eligible for initiation are: John Robinson, John Vernon, John Hill, Phil Winstead, Jerry Robinson, Dick Cannon, Pete Reavis, Tom Firor, Bill Carter, Joe Huskins, Belton O'Neal, Bill Duke, Neil McMillan, Tommy Griffin, John Hunter, John Lennon, John Maultsby, and Ed Price.

Twenty-one pledges will be initiated into Beta Theta Pi fraternity Saturday night. New initiates will be: Tony Dick, Jim Covington, Reese Middleton, Leon Howell, Jim Batten, Jimmy Martin, Zell McGee, Siewers Walls, Paul Hennon, Carl Cooper, Larry Wright, Bill Cunningham, Gaylord Walker, Bill Gramley, Roswell Mallory, Phil Kukura, Bill Martin, Reitsel Snider, Edward Bell, Henry Massey, and Gordon Bondurant.

Phi Gamma Delta was still uncertain as to the time of initiation and those who would be initiated.

CORRECTION
In the bulletin for the summer session released last week, two courses were omitted from the list of those offered: German 11-12 (6 hours), Prof. Beaty. Music 41-42 (6 hours), Prof. Satterfield.

FRIDAY, MARCH 12, 1964
DAVIDSON THEATRE
All Pictures Will Be Shown On Our New P-A-N-O-R-A-M-I-C WIDE-SCREEN

THURS.-FRI., MAR. 11-12
“TUMBLEWEED”

SATURDAY, MAR. 13
“TRADER HORN”
HARRY CAREY

MON-TUE., MARCH 15-16
“APPOINTMENT IN HONDURAS” (Technicolor)
GLENN FORD

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 17
“BAD FOR EACH OTHER”

THUR.-FRI., MAR. 18-19
“LONG LONG TRAILER” (Technicolor)
LUCILLE BALL
DESI ARNAZ

SATURDAY, MARCH 20
“STAND AT APACHE RIVER” (Technicolor)
STEPHEN McNALLY

Want to travel and study abroad? Take a university-sponsored tour via TWA this summer and earn full college credit while you travel. Visit the countries of your choice... study from 2 to 6 weeks at a foreign university. You can do both on one trip when you arrange a university-sponsored tour via TWA. Itineraries include countries in Europe, the Middle East, Asia, and Africa. Special study tours available. Low all-inclusive prices with TWA's economical Sky Tourist service. For information, write: John H. Furbay, Ph.D., Director, Air World Tour, Dept. CH, 300 Madison Ave., New York 17, N. Y. Be sure to mention countries you wish to visit.

Today’s Chesterfield is the Best Cigarette Ever Made!
“Chesterfields for Me!” The only cigarette tested and approved by 30 years of scientific tobacco research.
“Chesterfields for Me!” The cigarette with a proven good record with smokers. Here is the record. Bi-monthly examinations of a group of smokers show no adverse effects to nose, throat, and sinuses from smoking Chesterfield.
“Chesterfields for Me!” The cigarette that gives you proof of highest quality—low nicotine—the taste you want—the mildness you want.
Smoke America’s Most Popular 1954, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.