FOR DAVIDSONIAN SERVICE —— Jim Brice, Jim Holshouser, Larry Parrott, Bob Carmichael Reporting, Sports, Ads, Subscriptions

BUDAPEST STRING ORCHESTRA

Davidson Selected For Part In UCM Program

Davidson College has been chosen as one of 22 colleges and universities to take part in the University Christian Mission,
which is sponsored by the Joint Department of Evangelism and the Commission of Christian Higher Education of the National Council
of Churches and the United States Christian Council. This will more than take the place of the Religious Emphasis weeks
which have been conducted on the campus in past years. Previously, Davidson had one speaker in the Fall and another
in the Spring. Instead of this old arrangement, there will be five men to conduct seminars, lectures, discussions, and conferences
with students during UCM week, which will be February 6-10.

The leaders for UCM week are to be the Rev. Lester G. McAllister of the University Christian Church, Berkeley, California;
Dr. Addison H. Leitch, who is Dean and Professor of Theology at the Pittsburgh-Xenia Theological Seminary, Pittsburgh, Pa; Rev. Clark
W. Hunt of the Trinity Methodist Church in Albany, New York; Dr. Waldo Beach of Duke Divinity School; and Colonel
Francis P. Miller of Charlottesville, Va.

Purposes Of Mission

The purpose of the University Christian Mission at Davidson has been stated as: “Convinced that the measure of our faith
in God is our sensitivity and concern for the world in which we live and that the extent to which
we know Christ is just that extent to which we look with His eyes upon all the needs of men,
we propose to: (1) examine what our response to the love of God in Christ means, (2) examine what social
imperatives and claims upon our culture that response involves, and (3) examine what each of us can do in action
as Christians to transform culture in the name and nature of Jesus Christ.”

The definite objectives of this week will be “to present forthrightly the Christian faith as the only real basis for
social concern and action, and to present an adequate interpretation of the response of Christian faith to the following social
issues: (1) racial tensions, (2) labor and management relationships, (3) economic inequalities in the South, (4) organization of the South,
and (5) world citizenship.”

Poetry Contest Open To Davidson Students

The National Poetry Association has invited all college students to submit original verse to be considered for possible publication in
the Annual Anthology of College Poetry. This is the Twelfth Annual College Competition. The recognition afforded by publication will reflect
definite credit on the author, as well as his school. Over a hundred thousand manuscripts have been submitted to the
National Poetry Association in the past 10 years. Of these, about 4,000 have been accepted for publication.

Rules are simple: Manuscripts must be typed or written in ink on one side of a sheet. Student's home address,
name of College and College address must appear on each manuscript. Students may submit as many manuscripts as desired. Theme
and form may be in accordance with the wish of the student contributor. In order to give as many students
as possible an opportunity for recognition and because of space limitations, shorter efforts are preferred. Closing date for submission of
manuscripts is November 5. Address entries to Dennis Hartman, Secretary National Poetry Association, 3210 Selby Avenue, Los Angeles 34, California.

Officers Named

The chairman of this program is Prof. John Bevan, the vice-chairmen are Jason McManus and Corty Cooper, the secretary is
Corky King, and the executive secretary is Sam Magill. The program committee is composed of the chairmen of the various
sub-committees. These include Walter Davis of the Arrangements Commission, Jim Marshall of the Book Display Commission, Clyde Robinson of the
Breakfast and Retreat Commission, Roy Davis of the Classroom Commission, Henry Brockmann of the Continuation Commission, Gayle Averyt of the
Finance Commission, Joe Conarroe of the Personal Conferences Commission, Tom Warlick of the Publicity Commission, Linny Baker of the Seminars
Commission, Jim Murr of the Worship Commission, and Dr. Jay Ostwalt of the Faculty Commission.

“We are concerned as Christian students living in the South about how we can build that community which will most
nearly approximate God's will for us. We are caught up in the great world struggles. Consequently, we are planning to
study, to listen, and to discuss the Christian faith and ethics as it relates to several distinctive problems of the
South.” These are the feelings of Sam Magill, the executive secretary of the Mission at Davidson, and leader of the
Y.M.C.A.

Some of the more common questions asked of the speakers at the University Christian Missions have been: “How do you
know there is a God? Is God created by man in man’s image to satisfy man’s ego? How can we
make our Christian ideals work in our jobs after graduation?”

Company organization, orientation for MS I cadets, and a review in fundamentals of drill for the higher classes were features
of the first ROTC drill of the year Tuesday. After a quick organization into companies and squads, MS I cadets
marched to the Davidson Theater for films on the ROTC program. The remaining students concentrated on platoon drill. It is
the policy of the ROTC cadre to have the cadet officers and non-commissioned officers take complete charge of drill and
discipline during the weekly drill period on Tuesday afternoon.

Cadet Col. Cortez Cooper is commander of the Davidson College ROTC regiment. Other members of his staff are Cadet Lt.
Col. Leighton Green, executive officer; Cadet Major Jeter Abernathy, S-1; Cadet Major Robert Kimbrough, S-3; Cadet Major Floyd Feeney, S-4;
and Cadet Master Sgt. Tom Warlick, sergeant major.

The first battalion staff consists of Cadet Lt. Col. Ted Andrae, commander; Cadet Major LeRoy Fargason, executive officer; Cadet Capt.
Jesse Lockaby, S-1; Cadet Capt. Richard Morrow, S-3; and Cadet Master Sgt. Maurice Crouse, sergeant major. Company commanders are Cadet
Captains Gayle Averyt, Co. A; Jim Thacker, Co. B; and Mickey Cannon, Co. C.

Cadet Lt. Col. Bob Stogner commands the second battalion; Cadet Major Harlee Smith is executive officer; Cadet Capt. Smithy Johnston
is S-1; Cadet Capt. Ricky Benton is S-3; and Cadet Master Sgt. George Cousar is sergeant major. Company commanders of
the second battalion are Cadet Captains Richard Davis, Co. D; Henry Brown, Co. E; and Tom Lambe, Co. F. The
regimental band is commanded by Cadet Capt. William Rogers.

FACULTY COMMITTEE REVISES METHODS

Two new members joined the faculty Executive Committee last week in an organization session which saw the Committee make major
revisions in its meeting hours and methods of handling matters of discipline and student absence, Dean of Students S. R.
Spencer announced today. Dr. George L. Abernethy became a member of the committee as Chairman of the Social Sciences Division
of the college. Dr. Pedro Trakas was elected to the group as a member at large.

The Executive Committee, made up of the college president, the two deans, the heads of each college division, and three
members at large, authorized President John R. Cunningham to appoint a sub-committee composed of the Dean of Students and two
other members to handle matters of petty discipline and absence procedure. The sub-committee, working under the full committee and subject
to the larger group in matters of more serious nature, is to meet every other week.

The full Executive Committee for this year includes President Cunningham, Deans Pietenpol and Spencer, Professors Watts, Fulcher, Kimbrough, McCutchan, Abernethy,
and Trakas. The sub-committee members chosen in last week’s meeting are Professors Trakas, Kimbrough, and Dean Spencer.

STAFF MEETING

There will be a meeting of all students interested in Davidsonian work, Sunday night after Vespers in the Green Room
of the College Union. Reporting, Sports, art, business—all these staffs have openings for those who want to get started in
newspaper work.

AMERICAN CHAMBER ORCHESTRA

Monday Chapels Out; Improvement Pledged

College President John R. Cunningham, in a talk before the entire student body last Thursday, announced the administration’s decision to
eliminate Monday morning chapel exercises. The Faculty Chapel Committee's ruling came as a result of study by faculty and student
groups during the previous semester and summer vacation. It was felt that better programs could be offered by omitting one
of the regular required services each week.

Dr. Cunningham expressed deep concern by the administration and faculty over the apparent student attitude toward chapel, and he said
steps are being taken for improved exercises. In return for promptness and better chapel conduct, the president pledged a more
interesting and better series of programs this year. Tuesday chapel will be handled by a faculty member; Wednesday, by the
college YMCA; Thursday, by a guest speaker; and Friday, by student body organizations. The regular weekday class schedule will be
maintained on Monday.

President Cunningham noted that chapel services have long been an institution almost uniquely on this campus. He appealed to this
student body, as victims of a more recent tradition, to put an end to undignified chapel behavior which disturbs the
worshipful and gentlemanly atmosphere desired by the majority of students. In addition to the change in chapel procedure, he pointed
out that a buzzer will be sounded two minutes before the beginning of the service. Also, announcements of concern to
all students will again be permitted at assembly, since this is realized to be an important means of intra-campus communication.

Dr. Cunningham also announced that smoking rules in the halls will be more strictly enforced and that an endeavor will
be made to keep the bulletin board at the north door of Chambers up-to-date with important student announcements. This is
now an official bulletin board.

Cut cards are no more. The famous, fabulous weekly missals from the Dean’s officeare gone, ‘cut room,’ for good, replaced
by a more efficient, less troublesome system, Dean Spencer has announced. The new system will leave student cuts up to
the student. Each man will be responsible for his own attendance at classes and will receive no notice of cuts
until he has stepped over the line into the overcut realm. Dean Spencer says that the cut books will be
complete each Wednesday afternoon through the previous Sunday, and that any students who wish to consult them may do so
on that afternoon and on Thursday afternoon between the hours of 2 and 4:30 p.m. Miss Juanita Morrow will be
stationed in Room 101 Chambers Building.

The Davidsonian
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C., FRIDAY, SEPT. 24, 1954

R.O.T.C. RANKS FORM DURING INITIAL DRILL

CUT CARDS SUCCUMB; NEW SYSTEM BEGINS

PUBLISHED WEEKLY
The news and editorial voice of Davidson College
NUMBER 1

Paul K. Scott, Davidson's Athletic Director for 4 1/2 years, has resigned his post to accept the position of Alumni
Secretary at his alma mater, Cornell College. Mr. Scott is scheduled to resume his duties at Cornell at Mt. Vernon,
Iowa, on or before October 15. Mr. Scott is retiring from active athletic work with his new task of Alumni
Secretary, after serving faithfully for twenty-five years in the field of coaching and physical training. Mr. Scott began his career
in sports. Held down by the freshman rule, he was not able to participate in varsity sports until his sophomore
year but gained valuable training in the basics of football and wrestling. For three years Mr. Scott was an active
participant in varsity football and wrestling; he culminated his college career as captain of both teams. In 1928 Mr. Scott
was a leading prospect for the Olympic wrestling team but was prevented from trying out because of a sustained rib
injury. Leaving college, Mr. Scott began coaching in a high school in Orient, Iowa, where he enjoyed 19 consecutive victories
in football. After two years he undertook coaching at a junior college and then returned to another high school in
Missouri. In 1937 Mr. Scott went to Culver-Stockton College, producing winning football and basketball teams for the four years of
his tenure. His greatest achievements in his coaching career came during the ensuing ten years which were spent at his
alma mater. Mr. Scott’s wrestling teams had the untouchable record of an N.C.A.A. championship in 1947, 2nd in the A.A.U.
meet in 1948, and finishing in the first three teams in both A.A.U. and N.C.A.A. championships in 1949 and 1950.
As a wrestling coach, Mr. Scott has coached and produced twelve A.A.U. champions and four N.C.A.A. champions. It is not
to his own ability that he accredits his coaching success but to the fact that “he ran into naturally good
athletes.” It is evident that Mr. Scott has established a splendid record of achievements during his successful coaching career. Not
only for his enviable coaching career but also for the same success that he has achieved as Athletic Director at
Davidson we want to express our admiration and warm gratitude for a job well done.

WANT ADS
With next week's issue, The Davidsonian will introduce a ‘want ad’ column for use by the students and administration in
advertising any articles which they would like to sell. The column, which will find its place on the back page
of the paper, will be supervised by the various editors in order that it might gain (through the words used
in its ads) some sort of human interest. Members of the college family are urged to place ads in the
Davidsonian box in Chambers or in the Union, or by mailing them to The Davidsonian, Box 218, Davidson, North Carolina.
Costs for all want-ads will be 50 cents for 35 words.

To increase assurance of attention and to lessen the burden which would in ordinary cases weigh down the job of
attending to all cases in the hours indicated above, students who have complaints after having consulted the cut books are
requested to fill out cards provided. Their cases may then be cleared throughout the following days. Dean Spencer indicated upon
consultation that the new system is experimental at the moment, and that though he feels that it will be a
decided improvement over the previous system, it is still open to criticism and suggestions. Students are asked to present any
improvements they have for consideration.

COMMITTEE ANNOUNCES 1954-55 ARTIST SERIES
Eight outstanding artists, including such names as Cornelia Otis Skinner, Burl Ives, and Ogden Nash will perform at Davidson College
during the 1954-55 artist series season. This season brings to Davidson eight performances including the best names in music, drama,
and current poetry.

ARTIST SERIES
Shown here and elsewhere on this page are the individuals and organizations who will appear in the 1954-55 Davidson College
Artist Series. This array of musical, dramatic, and humorous talent will appear throughout the college year in Chambers Auditorium. Season
tickets are ten dollars. Individual performances will be two dollars each. Students will be admitted by presentation of their identification
cards.

American Chamber Orchestra
On October 19 the American Chamber Orchestra, under the baton of Robert Scholz, will play at Davidson. Founded in 1950,
this ensemble of string and wind players has thrilled audiences in New York’s Town Hall as well as throughout the
country with its recapturing of our great heritage of chamber music. Born and trained in Austria, Robert Scholz has been
acclaimed as one of the finest orchestral conductors and is a noted authority on Mozart.

Ogden Nash
Ogden Nash, referred to as the “poet laureate of the United States” in Life magazine, is to appear here on
the night of October 29. The comic genius of this rhymester and maker-of-words has captured the heart of the public
in his verses in The Saturday Evening Post and The New Yorker, on which he served briefly as managing editor
two decades ago. Since Hard Lines was published in 1931, some dozen volumes of his humorous poems have placed his
name among the greats in contemporary American literature. His ventures into lyricism on Broadway have produced “Two's Company” and the
smash-hit musical, “One Touch of Venus.”

Cornelia Otis Skinner
Cornelia Otis Skinner, well-known to the Davidson audience from her previous brilliant appearance, will be heard November 19. Miss Skinner
has been acclaimed as one of America's finest actresses and her successes have included Lillian Hellman's “The Searching Wind” and
“Lady Windermere’s Fan.” She has frequently appeared on television programs, and she has written a large number of articles for
the “New Yorker,” “Harper's Bazaar,” and other such magazines. Her most recent book is “Family Circle.” The sparkling wit of
her monologues is her own creation.

Blanche Thebom
In 1944 Blanche Thebom made her debut in New York and since that date she has appeared as soloist with
many of the leading orchestras in the country. She has become the mezzo-soprano star of the Metropolitan Opera. She is
to sing at Davidson the night of December 3. Her extensive repertoire of recordings for RCA Victor and her performances
on television, in addition to her many operatic appearances, have brought to her the highest praise of the nation’s music
critics. Her performances in Europe have added international prestige to one of America's greatest mezzo-sopranos.

Budapest String Quartet
February fourth brings to Davidson one of the most renowned exponents of the exacting art of chamber music — the
Budapest String Quartet. The history of the string quartet goes back to the 18th century to Haydn, and since then
quartet playing has become one of the greatest enjoyments and one of the most exacting roles of the string players.
The Budapest artists have been applauded not only in their large number of performances in this country and Europe, but
around the globe in Australia, North Africa, and Japan. Each year the group highlights the chamber music season at the
Library of Congress in Washington, and since its birth in 1930 they have won the acclaim of the world's critics
for their artistic integrity, sound musicianship, and brilliance of execution.

Dublin Players
The Dublin Players, appearing here on the night of February 25 and on the afternoon of the following day in
three one-act plays, has been called “one of the foremost acting companies of our time," by Eddie Dowling, Broadway producer-actor.
Last year the players made their first coast-to-coast tour of the United States, coming from the famous Abbey and Gate
theatres of Ireland. This season they have returned on an even more ambitious tour. Performing with the great skill and
style that characterizes those two classic theatres, they bring new meaning and a fresh approach to the great plays of
G. B. Shaw, Wilde, Noel Coward, Sean O’Casey, W. B. Yeats, J. M. Synge, Lady Gregory, and others. Critics have
been extravagant in their reception of these Irish and English actors; “the finest company to come here in 20 years”
says television tycoon Ed Sullivan.

Burl Ives
A descendant of Illinois farmers, river-boat gamblers and preachers, Burl Ives has come to be known as the nation’s leading
folk-singer. While still in rompers, he learned the songs of the plains, the mountains and the sea from his grandmother,
who had crossed America in a covered wagon. He will be heard at Davidson on March 25 at the apex
of his story-book career. After his big break in 1938 in a musical called “The Boys from Syracuse,” he has
continued to charm audiences with his unique voice and storytelling ability.
