FOR DAVIDSONIAN SERVICE
Reporting Jim Brice
Sports Jim Holshouser
Ads Larry Parrott
PUBLISHED WEEKLY
The news and editorial voice of Davidson College
Subscriptions Bob Carmichael
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, OCTOBER 15, 1954

Sigma Upsilon Holds First Meeting Of Year
Davidson's chapter of Sigma Upsilon, honorary literary fraternity, held its first meeting of the year Thursday, October 7, in the
Sigma Chi fraternity lodge. Dr. W. P. Cumming opened the program with a review which he wrote for the Charlotte
Observer of Wilder Shores of Love by Leslie Blanch. The novel is the story of four famous Victorian women who
in their lives and loves proved to be anything but Victorian. Following a discussion of the review, Gilbert Gragg read
two original works, a poem “New York City” and a short story “Wind.” “New York City” centered around the poet’s
experiences in New York as a city of paradise. In “Wind,” Gragg gave his own Gothic interpretation of life as
portrayed in the memory of a boy's experiences in a hurricane. The meeting concluded with a brief discussion of the
novel Sig Up members will write this year.

Coach Dole Honored By Alumni Banquet
Davidson’s Bill Dole was honored by the Greater Charlotte Alumni Association at their recent “Fall Roundup” held last Wednesday night,
October 13, at the First Presbyterian Church’s Fellowship Hall in Charlotte. The meeting, entitled “Bill Dole Night,” featured a talk
by Dole on Davidson's prospects for the remainder of the season, as well as a summary of the team’s progress
to date. Following Coach Dole’s address a business meeting was held, with talk centered around the coming game with Furman,
to be played in Charlotte on October 22.

The Freshman Run... Belt Buckles and Buckets of Water
Organized by the Court of Control, with appropriate modifications by members of the student body, the 1954 Freshman Run can
be described as either an effort to prevent hazing or an over-dose of hazing with official sanction. The scene above
was taken as the beleaguered freshmen passed through water hoses and swinging belts behind Fraternity Row. (Staff photo by Hank
Daniel).

LITTLEJOHN MAKES 3rd ARMY RIFLE TEAM
By FRANKLIN BLOODWORTH
As a result of his outstanding showing this past June and July at summer ROTC camp, Monty Littlejohn was chosen
a member of the Third Army ROTC rifle team. This team represented the Third Army in the National Rifle Association
Championship Matches fired last August at Camp Perry, Ohio. After finishing his summer ROTC training, Littlejohn reported to Fort MacPherson
near Atlanta, Georgia, where he received his uniform and equipment for the matches which were to be held a week
later. From there he was sent to Fort Benning, Georgia, where for seven days he practiced rifle marksmanship on the
Fort Benning firing ranges. Following this he went to Camp Perry, Ohio. There, on the banks of Lake Erie, the
National Rifle Association Championship Matches were held. “Twice each day, for seven days, including Sunday,” Monty said, “we fired against
the best teams from all over the country.” In actual competition, the team fired in the National Individual Trophy Match,
the President's Match, and the National Team Trophy Match. The team placed third in the latter contest. The Third Army
ROTC team consisted of seven members. Besides Littlejohn from Davidson College, two members of the team were from North Carolina
State, one from the University of Alabama, two from Wofford, and one (Continued On Page Four)

Business-Eco. Club Men Hear 3 Business Talks
Approximately fifty members of Davidson's newly formed Business-Economics Club attended the organization’s first meeting of the year Tuesday night in
the College Union ballroom. Tom Lambe introduced three prominent Charlotte businessmen who presented short talks on the theme “Three Ways
Up the Ladder” and how each found it. Mr. Ed Burnside, Sr., President of the Home Finance Group, Inc., told
of his turn from college professor to business leader. He stressed the need for college men going into the credit
business and the necessity for hard work of a newcomer into the fields of business. Mr. George Dowdy, Vice-President and
General Manager of Belk’s of Charlotte, told of his rise in the Belk organization and urged business students to take
advantage of their opportunities. Mr. John Watlington, Senior Vice-President of Wachovia Bank and Trust Company, called for use of common
sense by business aspirants. He particularly noted the number of Davidson graduates becoming associated with Wachovia—at least one each year.
Following the messages, the floor was opened for questions and discussion, and light refreshments were served. Club officers are completing
plans for a debate, “Truckers versus Railroads,” featuring speakers from national associations in their November meeting.

Shown above is the Board of Directors of the Business-Economics Club as named earlier this year. From left to right:
Tom Lambe, Harley Smith, Austin Strand, Treasurer Cortez Cooper, Secretary J. Roy Davis, President Gayle Averyt, Vice-President Stebbins Ingram, John
Buxton, Henry Brown, and Bob Stogner.

The United Nations Seminar for Students will be held November 26-28 at the United Nations Headquarters in New York. This
seminar is sponsored each year by the National Student YWCA-YMCA so that American students might have an opportunity to see
the United Nations in action. One hundred fifty students from all over the country will be accepted for membership in
this year’s seminar. These students will have an opportunity (1) to attend the General Assembly of the United Nations; (2)
to learn about the work of the specialized agencies; (3) to meet United Nations delegates from other countries; (4) to
interview members of the Secretariat; and (5) to visit the United States mission to the United Nations. The registration fee
for the seminar (including the seminar banquet, a sightseeing tour, one breakfast and one luncheon) is $10. Room and board
for the three-day period will cost approximately $15.00. Anyone interested in attending the seminar may make all necessary arrangements with
Sam Magill in the YMCA office.

SAE DIETICIAN, MRS. L. M. ELKINS, DIES
Mrs. Leonura McSweeney Elkins, dietician at the SAE boarding house for a number of years, died suddenly of a heart
attack last week. Mrs. Elkins was born in 1891 at Hampton, S. C., the daughter of Miles and Martha Porcher
McSweeney. Her father was a former governor of South Carolina and founder of the Hampton Guardian. Her husband, the late
Capt. John W. Elkins, served as PMS&T at Davidson until his death in 1935. Mrs. Elkins remained in Davidson as
dietician at the SAE boarding house. Mrs. Elkins was a member of several local organizations, including the American Legion Auxiliary,
the “As You Like It” book club, Ramah Home Demonstration Club, North Mecklenburg Business and Professional Women's Club, and St.
Mary’s Episcopal Church of Long Creek. Mrs. Elkins is survived by one son, three daughters and four brothers. Funeral services
were held at Cathey-Hoyle Funeral Home in Davidson. Members of the SAE fraternity acted as honorary and active pallbearers. No
arrangements have been made to fill the vacancy at the boarding house; however, meals are still being served.

Student Opinion Favors Court Ruling
BY DICK MOREHEAD
In continuance of the policy founded last year, the Davidsonian conducted this week the first in a series of monthly
student opinion polls on national and local issues. These polls are not designed to influence opinion but rather to establish
a valid register of student thought on important issues concerning the entire student body and to create interest in them.
The poll this week was conducted by 25 representatives from all four classes; gathered cross-section views from 52 percent (433)
of the student body; and covered all six dormitories, Carolina Inn, The Village, and five boarding house residences. The question
asked was: Are you in favor of the recent decision of the Supreme Court with regard to segregation? The results
in percentage and total were: For: 48.7 percent (211); Against, 44.6 percent (193); Undecided, 6.7 percent (29). The main opinions
expressed in favor of the decision (in order of popularity) were: It is the only Christian decision that the Supreme
Court could have made; equality of education is only morally, socially, and ethnically right; it grants the Negro his legal
rights according to a just interpretation of the Constitution; desegregation in education has to come sometime, and we are as
ready for it now as we ever will be. The main opinions against the decisions were: The cultural, educational, and
moral standards of the Negro race are not good enough in comparison to the standards of the white race to
allow coincident growth in education; the South is not ready for the results which this decision will bring as desegregation
must be more gradual and naturally adaptable to both races involved; the effects of

Blood Drive Reset For December 6, 7
The Red Cross Blood Drive, originally scheduled for the Davidson campus on October 14 and 15, has been cancelled and
redated for December 7 and 8. In years past Davidson has

SMITH WANTS HELP
Shaw Smith announced today that students desiring work in the Union or on the campus should sign a card to
that effect in his office immediately. All men who signed up last year and still want work are urged to
sign another card right away in order to maintain the priority rating they held last year. Jobs are given on
the basis of need, priority, and performance.

SAM DONAHUE TO LEAD IFC’s HOMECOMING BAND
On the basis of college records, the following facts of interest to this poll were obtained. Of the 840 students
enrolled in Davidson, Sam Donahue, acknowledged by the musical world as the most exciting tenor sax starIn the country, will
bring the celebrated Billy May Orchestra for the first time to the Davidson campus for the annual IFC Homecoming Dances
on October 29 and 30.

Photograph Salon Will End Saturday

The last week of Photography Magazine Traveling Salon will end Saturday, October 16, 1954. This array of prize-winning photographs has
been on exhibit in the ballroom of the Union since October 2, and it has drawn much favorable comment from
all who have seen it. Davidson is the only place in this area where this salon has been presented. The
Davidson College Camera Club is the sponsor. Admission is free. Those who have not been in to see this unique
collection are urged to do so before Saturday.

Some of the following general, yet representative, comments were made by the students who conducted the poll. “Few seemed to
have concrete facts to back up their argument, indicating hereditary and environmental influence on their positions.” “Some feel that the
abolishment of segregation should have come about through the churches, not legislatively.” “Those opposed to the ruling were more decisive
and clear in their convictions than those who favored the ruling.” “Though many favor the ruling, they cannot see how
it can be made to work.” “Generally, upperclassmen were for the decision, freshmen were against the ruling.”

This poll was taken by: J. Trawick, B. Daniel, B. Gallier, G. Robertson, E. Moore, B. Fraley, D. Carmichael, M.
Miree, J. Ballenger, T. Thompson, J. Brooks, L. Carter, S. Wallace, B. Beall, J. Trotti, D. Hood, S. Ferguson, F.
Jordan, A. Myers, J. Wilson, B. Sloan, W. Miller, W. Harris, and A. Cone.

Jones Will Deliver Vespers Meditation

Dr. James A. Jones, pastor of Myers Park Presbyterian Church in Charlotte, will deliver the Communion Meditation at Vespers this
Sunday. After graduating from Davidson College with a B.S. degree, Dr. Jones attended Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, Va., where
he earned his Th. M. Hampden-Sydney College later awarded him the honorary doctor’s degree. Dr. Jones has also done graduate
work at New College, Edinburgh University, Edinburgh, Scotland.

Donahue was selected by May to lead the band on its present nation-wide tour after May signed an exclusive contract
with Capitol Records that requires him to remain permanently in Hollywood. Besides his renown as an outstanding tenor sax star,
Donahue has also had a long and distinguished career with his own band, recording on the Capitol label and touring
the leading ballrooms, colleges, hotels, and theatres throughout the land. Because of this diversified and distinguished background, it was only
natural that Billy May should turn over the leadership of his band to Sam Donahue. “Though the Billy May Orchestra
under Sam Donahue will be on the road,” May said, “I will keep a hand in its activities and oversee
arrangements. But my work with Capitol will of necessity keep me in Hollywood where I will have to devote full
time to these arrangements and those of the other artists on the Capitol label.” The Billy May Orchestra, in its
short, meteoric rise to fame, has been winning critical acclaim through its public appearances and recordings as one of the
top dance bands in the country.

AMERICAN CHAMBER ORCHESTRA HERE TUESDAY; BEGIN ARTIST SERIES FOR 54-55

Tuesday evening at 8:15, The American Chamber Orchestra, Robert Scholz conducting, will open the Davidson Artist Series with a concert
in Chambers auditorium. The group consists of a basic ensemble of sixteen wind and string instruments augmented by additional instruments
according to the requirements of the scores. Making its Town Hall debut in 1950, the orchestra has now taken its
place among the established musical organizations of New York City and of the nation. The chamber orchestra, founded as The
Mozart Orchestra, began public performances after many years of experiment and training which began in the Music School of the
Henry Street Settlement of New York City. It was here that Mr. Scholz, an Austrian, realized that the young American
musician is equal, if not superior in many respects, to the highest of European standards. The repertoire of the orchestra
includes classical and pre-classical compositions as well as works of the modern era; perfection of detail and delicate tonal balance
are the aims of the chamber orchestra, rather than mere volume of sound. “The proportions and the quality of sound
produced by this group were a delight,” said the Montreal Daily Star; “a tonal balance which touches perfection,” commented the
reviewer of Le Canada. The New York debut of the orchestra marked a high point in the brilliant career of
Robert Scholz, which began in Upper Austria shortly after the turn of the century. At 19 he studied with the
Austrian pianist-composer Felix Petyrek at the Mozarteum in Salzburg. Later he and his brother toured Europe with great success as
a piano team and in the thirties they were heard on three concert tours of this country. Scholz conducted the
Cleveland Orchestra in his own orchestral setting of Bach’s monumental “Art of Fugue” at Town Hall and at the Bach
Festival in Ohio. Today Robert Scholz is considered an outstanding authority on Mozart, having edited that composer’s piano works for
the Universal Edition. In 1937 he was made an honorary professor of the Mozarteum. Following the Nazi's occupation of Austria
he established permanent residence in this country and became an American citizen. Since then he has made a high place
for himself in the field of orchestral education, as well as becoming a composer of some note. In 1950 Mr.
Scholz was awarded the Bruckner Medal for his performances of that composer’s works.

Publications Short Course

Four Davidson students will represent the local undergraduate publications in the 1954 Associated Collegiate Press Short Course and Conference to
be held in Washington, D. C., on Thursday and Friday, October 21-22. Swain Loy, editor of the college annual, Quips
and Cranks, will attend the convention with his business manager, Bill Jenkins. Henry Brockmann will represent the Davidsonian at the
conference. Hank Daniel will attend as photographer for both publications. The four student representatives plan to leave Davidson by automobile
Wednesday afternoon, October 20. The conference will begin Thursday morning with lead-off talks by Roscoe Drummond of the New York
Herald Tribune and J. Russell Wiggins, managing editor of the Washington Post. Further talks and conferences during the course of
the day will feature Fred L. Kildow of the University of Minnesota, Professor John Tebbel of New York University, and
Harry H. Lunn, Jr., President of the U. S. National Student Association.

Newspaper Seminar

Sessions during the conference will be led by editors and writers of the Washington Post and other experts, and will
include meetings on such topics as The Sports Page, News Reporting and Coverage, The Editorial Page, Feature Writing and Interviewing,
Headline Writing, Copy Editing, Freedom and Responsibility for the College Press, etc. Newspaper Business and Ad Staff sessions will also
be major features of the convention. The yearbook representatives will have busy days. Experts will be present to ask and
answer questions about photography, art work, color, copy, captions, heads, binding, etc. Hank Daniel, photographer for both The Davidsonian and
Quips and Cranks, will attend the conference to take advantage of its course on photography. Adrian L. TerLouw, educational consultant
to the Eastman Kodak Company, will conduct an eight-hour session. He is currently a member of the Educational Committee of
the National Press Photographers Association which is working toward better training for future photographers in the field of journalism. Other
clinics similar to the photography clinic will be held on the subjects of Makeup and Typography and Newspaper Makeup. A
reception for all student delegates will be from 7 to 9 p.m. Thursday, and on Friday evening in the Presidential
Ballroom of the Hotel Statler there will be a final banquet and dance. The four Davidson representatives to the conference
will return to college in time for the opening of classes on Monday.

78 percent in the country, will bring the celebrated Billy May Orchestra for the first time to the Davidson campus
for the annual IFC Homecoming Dances on October 29 and 30. (or SAM DONAHUE)
