CATS IDLE; MEET ROUGH FURMAN NEXT FRIDAY, OCTOBER 15, 1954

Despite Loss, Cats Hold To Best Post-War Record

The 1954 football season is scarcely a month old, but already thousands of fans throughout the country have seen some very startling upsets take place on the several weekends. This past weekend, the upset fever hit the Carolinas, as Wake Forest played mighty Maryland to a tie, 13-13; Clemson defeated Florida, 18-7; and the Blue Hose of Presbyterian College surprised our Wildcats by the score of 10-7.

If one considered the individual players on each team, the previous records of the two, and other “incidentals,” the P.C. boys didn’t belong on the same field with the ‘Cats. However, it was Homecoming there, and the Blue Hose managed to get “up” for the game and played what will undoubtedly be their best game of the season. In contrast, the ‘Cats played their worst, as the results would indicate.

Statistics Lie

When looking at the statistics, the score is even more surprising. The 'Cats ran up a total of 14 first downs to 12 for P.C. and outgained the Hose on the ground, 184 yards to 135. The Blue Hose quarterback, Harry Hamilton, held a slight edge over the 'Cats’ quarterbacks in passing, completing 7 of 17 for 80 yards, while Little, Belton, and Rowland could complete only 3 of 12 for 62 yards. Hamilton’s punting kept the 'Cats in the shadow of their own goal posts and accounted for two safeties in the first quarter. The first came when the Hose left end, Bob Jackson, drove Harley Smith into the end zone after Smith had received a Hamilton punt. Minutes later, Jackson blocked one of Smith’s punts, breaking through the line without being touched. The ball rolled out of the end zone, giving P.C. another two-pointer and a 4-0 lead as the quarter ended.

The P.C. touchdown came as a direct result of Davidson miscues in the second period. A 16-yard penalty against the ‘Cats for roughness and, later, a pass interference called on a ‘Cat back gave the Hose the ball on the three. Two plays later Hamilton sneaked over from the one.

The lone ‘Cat touchdown came in the opening minutes of the last quarter, with Dyke Little's 5-yard plunge on fourth and goal to go climaxing a 90-yard drive. The ‘Cats had been knocking at the door all during the third period, after failing to pass the 50-yard line in the first half. Key plays in the second half comeback were a 25-yard run and a 22-yard pass reception by alternate-captain and left halfback Jim Thacker. The conversion after the touchdown was made by Bob Talbert, who is fast becoming known as the boy with the magic toe.

‘Cat supporters were happy to see Harry Peterson and Dickie Davis back in action after being out with injuries, and both will be at full steam against Furman on October 22. After winning three straight and getting a little too much confidence, the 'Cats were due for a letdown, and we should be happy that it came against P.C. and not against Furman, our strongest Southern Conference foe. Now we're ready to play real football and reduce the “Purple Hurricane” to a gentle breeze!

WILDCAT NETTERS BEGIN WORKOUTS

Davidson's fall tennis workouts started on the local courts this week, and round-robin play has already begun among the hopefuls who are trying out for the team. With two spots on the varsity made vacant by graduation, competition is keen among the sophomores and freshmen who will fill these holes. With freshmen eligible this season, and with the experienced aid of the sophomores, the prospects for a fine season look very encouraging.

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

THE DAVIDSONIAN

COACH SCOTT LEAVES CAMPUS FOR CORNELL

PAGE THREE

Wildcats Suffer First Loss Of Season

Three Teams Remain Tied In Greek Race

After two weeks of battling on the local fields, three teams still remain unbeaten in the Inter-Fraternity football race. The Kappa Sigs and Phi Delts have won four straight games, and the KAs have won three. The Kappa Sigs pushed the ATOS from the undefeated ranks yesterday when they won a close, 6-0 victory.

Hambright Gives 1954 Swim Card

Swimming Coach Carroll Hambright released the 1954-55 Davidson swimming schedule yesterday. The first Varsity meet will be here on December 11, against The Citadel. The team will swim eight meets and finish the season with the Southern Conference meet in Lexington, Virginia. The Freshmen Tankers have a four-meet schedule, opening with High Point High School. Practice sessions will be under Capt. Al Ormond (until the close of the football season).

Wildcat Harriers Hit Richmond Tomorrow

BY JOHN JOHNSON

Davidson's cross-country team won the opening meet of the '54 season by defeating Maryville College on the loser’s course in Maryville, Tennessee. The Wildcat runners took four of the first six places and edged the Scotties, 25 to 32. Vandenburg and McWilliams of Maryville placed first and third; Pete Ashcraft, captain Floyd Feeney, Dick Lovette, and Gerald Wilson placed second, fourth, fifth, and sixth for Davidson. John Patterson, John Handley, Bill Walker, and Gordon Bondurant were the other four members of the fast Wildcat squad. Coach “Pete” Whittle said that he was proud of the showing that his boys made. It was an impressive win against tough competition. Because the Scotties do not have a regular track team, they concentrate on cross-country and produce some excellent runners. This Davidson win evens the series between the two schools with one win apiece and one tie. Maryville won in 1952, and the tie resulted from last year’s contest. Davidson’s first '54 Southern Conference meet, which is also this year’s first home meet, will be tomorrow, October 16, with Richmond. The Wildcat squad will be out for its second victory of the season.

The Freshman and Varsity meets are listed below:

Date Opponent Place
Dec. 11—The Citadel—Davidson
Jan. 8—East Carolina—Greenville
Jan. 17—U. of S. C.—Columbia
Feb. 8—Wofford—Davidson
Feb. 11—Clemson—Clemson
Feb. 12—Emory—Atlanta
Feb. 14—V. P. I.—Davidson
Feb. 18—W. & L.—Davidson
Feb. 24-25-26—S. Con.—Lexington

Freshmen Swim Schedule*
—High Point
—Asheville School For Boys
—Greensboro
—High Point

*Dates are undecided.

ATTENTION!

Coach Carroll Hambright has announced that swimming practice for all freshmen and upperclassmen who are interested in trying out for the team will begin next Monday afternoon at 4:00 p.m. The practice will be held in the local pool under the direction of Captain Al Ormond.

SUCCESS

One of the bright spots in last week's loss to Presbyterian was a 25-yard gallop by Jim Thacker. Thacker is shown above as he moves down the sideline on his fourth-quarter jaunt.

Davidson's Golfers Hit Morganton Club

Davidson's golf prospects travel to Morganton, North Carolina, tomorrow for their first fall match of the season. About fifteen men will make the trip which will pit some of the best golfers in NorthCarolina against the defending Southern Conference champions. The Morganton Country Club will supply the competition for the Wildcats, and the Western North Carolina city has turned out a fine crop of linksters. Sports fans are already quite familiar with one of the Morganton products, one Billy Joe Patton. There is a possibility that Patton will be in the group which will face Davidson, but the Morganton Club professional, Joe Cheves, has not announced the names of those in the group. The Davidson team will be composed of those students who have shown interest in the team and have indicated that they would like to make the trip. Joe Jenkins, Southern Conference runner-up last spring, will head the list of Wildcat golfers who are making the trip.

Bill Gramley, (43), Davidson end, moves in on the play, and Dyke Little, (27), Wildcat quarterback who started the play watches in the background. Thacker’s run started the Wildcats on an 80-yard drive for their only touchdown.

Cenric ADAMS says: “When I was at the University of Minnesota, learning to be a reporter for the Daily, I lived on peanut butter sandwiches. It took me nine years to graduate (with time out to earn tuition!) When I married and went to work as a cub for the Star, I lived on love and macaroni. I worked like a horse writing about everything on earth, before I made the grade as a columnist. Now I'm eating better — even better than a horse!”

START SMOKING CAMELS YOURSELF! Make the 30-Day Camel Mildness Test. Smoke only Camels for 30 days — see for yourself why Camels’ cool mildness and rich flavor agree with more people than any other cigarette!

CHOICE QUALITY — Camels — America’s most popular cigarette... by far! AGREE WITH MORE PEOPLE than any other cigarette!

(Photo By Daniel)

Wildkitten Gridders Open 1954 Season With McCallie Today

Davidson’s Junior Varsity football team made its 1954 debut this afternoon when the Wildkittens met McCallie School here at Richardson Field. The contest was slated to get under way at 3:00 p.m. Yesterday the “J.V.” coaches, Bill Acker and Charlie Cousar, announced the probable starting lineup for the Kittens, with freshmen carrying the brunt of the load. The squad is very weak in the depth department, and only twenty-two men dressed for the game. McCallie, today's opponent, had a record of two wins and one loss prior to the battle with the Wildkittens. The Blue Tornado took wins over Westminster (of Atlanta) and Notre Dame Prep of Chattanooga. Chattanooga High School handed the McCallie crew their only loss, 7-6. McCallie is coached by former Davidson star, Dave Spencer. The starting lineup for Davidson, as given reporters yesterday, is: Dave Fagg and Dan Everhard at ends, Bob Talbert and Brown Hamer at tackles, Dave McClain and Bob Stancil at guards, Gene Reid at center, Ollie Harris in the quarterback slot, Harry Hienitch at fullback, and Ralph Setzler and Arthur Lynn at the halves.

BULLETIN

As a result of the bad weather caused by Hurricane Hazel this afternoon’s game between Davidson JVs and McCallie was cancelled.

Fall tennis is well under way on the Davidson scene, and local courts are being put to plenty of use almost every afternoon. Varsity players of last year have been getting into shape, and some close battles have been played. But there were few witnesses to one of the most exciting matches in recent months. It was played last week in the late afternoon when the courts were almost deserted. It was a doubles match, and all of the contestants had a connection with Davidson, though each was in a different field of life. It was, however, a very impressive foursome. On one side of the net were Lacy Keesler, current Southern Conference champion and top Davidson netter, and Whit Cobb, former Southern Conference “Athlete of the Year” and Southern doubles champ. Whit is now in the insurance business in Durham. Facing Keesler and Cobb from the other side of the net were Dick McKee, director of Davidson's tennis fortunes, and William Paton, former Big Ten champion. Since finishing college, Paton has played at Wimbledon and Forest Hills in some of the top amateur tournaments. He is now a member of the Davidson Business Administration department. It was just a friendly get-together, with wisecracks occasionally going faster than the game. But the quality of the tennis was a pleasure to watch. Though the four men were playing together for the first time, there was no mistaking the fact that there were four veterans of the game on the courts. After seeing some of the sloppy play exhibited in the conference tourney here last spring, it was a bit of tennis not easily forgotten. Incidentally, McKee and Paton, the “old men” of the foursome, finally emerged as the winners, though the match was close all the way. Paton is helping Coach McKee with fall practice and should be a big help, since two instructors can give more individual help than one, and with the calibre of tennis Davidson turns out, this individual help with the problems of experienced players is what is needed in most cases.

By JIM HOLSHOUSER

It seems that the time for a decision has come for Davidson’s 1954 footballers. Riding high on a three-game winning streak, the Wildcats ran into a fired-up Presbyterian College club last Friday, and the streak was abruptly brought to a halt. A little over-confident, the Wildcats were pushed all over the field during the first half before they realized, too late, that “little P.C.” wasn’t so little after all. Though almost all of the “breaks” went against the Cats, the game still goes into the record book as a loss. But with the P.C. battle now a thing of the past, Davidson faces an even more formidable opponent. Furman’s Purple Hurricane, without a doubt, is the strongest opponent on the Davidson schedule this season. Popson, the Paladin’s ace halfback, has torn opposing lines to shreds all year. The only loss Furman has suffered this season was at the hands of South Carolina (who, if you will recall, also beat Army). So, undoubtedly, the Cats will have a battle on their hands. But when nearly four hundred students went to Clinton last week, they expected P.C. to have a pretty rough night. We hope the Wildcats will take advantage of the lesson learned the hard way last week. Not being over-awed by a strong opponent's press clippings brought Presbyterian a win. This could do the same thing for Davidson next Friday. So the time for a decision has come. Are we going to roll over and play dead next Friday against the powerful Furman club, or will it be an upset with Davidson on the winning end this time?

STOP AT AL'S GRADE A RESTAURANT FOR FINE FOODS

Specializing in CHARCOAL BROILED STEAKS AND CHOPS

PRIVATE DINING ROOM FOR PARTIES

Al Bistany, Prop. Tel. 2-9451 Mooresville, N. C.

KHAKI’S Buckle In Back Tapered Legs $4.95

Wilson-Wright's Inc. “COLLEGIATE FASHIONS” Next to Bank Davidson, N. C.