With only two games remaining on the Davidson football schedule, the interest of Davidson supporters is now being divided between
the winning grid squad and the coming basketball season. Davidson’s cagers have started pre-season practice and now have two scrimmage
games under their belts. With the call out for candidates for the team, over forty players showed up for the
opening sessions. Since then, the squad has been cut because time does not permit the work necessary with so large
a group. Coach Danny Miller has been working with the Varsity, and Buddy Brown is coaching the Junior Varsity.

By JIM HOLSHOUSER

There has been no great change in Davidson personnel with many of the Junior Varsity of last year now with
the Varsity. Several freshmen have looked good enough in early practice to stick with the Varsity, and some of this
group may be around for a lot of Davidson games this year. The freshmen have not quite found themselves as
yet, and some are a little slow in making the change to the Miller offensive patterns. Thus far, Mike Martin
has been the outstanding performer on the list of frosh. The former North High flash has looked good in practice
and is, from our viewpoint, the best prospect for Varsity play this season. However, there are several frosh players who
will undoubtedly stick with the varsity this season, and only time will tell about the ability of all.

GUARDS LOOK GOOD

When looking the Cats over in practice, several items catch the eye of the bystander. One notices that the Davidson
club has a surplus of steady, dependable guards. “Pappy” Fowle is the veteran of the group, and as a senior,
“Pappy” will probably have his best year. Up from the freshman team of ’53-’54 are Dave Shaw and Richard Weeks
who are sure to see plenty of action this season. Weeks has been ill recently, and the Savannah boy may
be late in joining the club. Turning an eye to the forward prospects, we see veterans Ray Harding and Ish
Bennett holding the starting roles at the present time. These two boys were starters for Coach Miller last season, and
they have the experience necessary to do some good work. Harding has been alternating at the guard position when certain
line-up changes are made, and Ray has looked good there, too. When Davidson observers take a look at the center
post in the Cat line-up, they see the weakest spot on the club. At the present time, Coach Miller is
using Hobby Cobb at the position. Last year, Cobb was one of the starting forwards on the Davidson club and
played a little in the center slot, too. The Charlotte boy handles the forward position much better than the slot,
but the absence of an adequate “big man” on the roster has forced Miller to move his leading scorer to
the important spot. Sophomore Gaylord Walker and Junior Al Aiken are also out for the job, but neither has shown
the spark necessary to hold it down.

SEVERAL SCHEDULE CHANGES

A number of changes have been made in the basketball schedule for this season. Most noticeable will be the absence
of traditional opponents from the North Carolina area. Both North Carolina and N.C. State have been dropped from the schedule,
along with two South Carolina clubs, Clemson and U.S.C. New opponents include University of the South and Southwestern, two Tennessee
teams. The University of the South (Sewanee) team toured Europe several seasons back and should be a tough opponent. Not
very much is known about the cagers from Southwestern, but the game is to be played in Memphis at the
opening of their new gym which is to be dedicated at that time.

The Most Popular 40% Cashmere Blend
Char-Grey, Black, Char-Brown, Oatmeal, Lt. Ox. Grey, French Blue, Cherry, Maroon, Dk. Green, Lt. Green, Brick, Chocolate, Brick Heather, Navy
Heather.
$13.95
Wilson-Wright’s Inc.
“COLLEGIATE FASHIONS”
Next to Bank
Davidson, N.C.

FRIDAY, NOV. 12, 1954
THE DAVIDSONIAN
PAGE THREE

Cats Rack Catawba in Wild Contest

BY LEON HOWELL

For thirty sluggish minutes last Saturday at Richardson Field, Davidson seemed destined to contribute its name to the list of
the upsets in this unpredictable football season. However, a thoroughly aroused Wildcat bared its teeth and clawed to another victory,
this time against Catawba, in the second half. The rugged Indians almost rushed Davidson off its feet at the outset
of the game. Before the team became aroused, Catawba had punched across their first six-pointer. In fact, the only bright
spot in the first quarter was McRee's beautiful 52-yard punt which rolled dead on the three-yard line. In the second
canto, McRee’s punt return to the 28 and a Belton pass to the 7 appeared to have Davidson rolling. A
fumble on the six killed this threat, and the Indians, led by Swanner’s 40-yard jaunt, promptly drove 94 yards for
their second TD. After again failing to convert, Catawba had a surprising 12 to 0 lead.

Fumble Nullified

After the kickoff, Rowland passed from his own 32 to Gramley, who fought and scrambled 52 yards with it to
the 16. On the ensuing play, Davidson got a break that was one of the turning points of the game.
A Cat fumble was picked up by an Indian, but play was halted and Catawba penalized to their 1 for
slugging. The workhorse of the day, Harley Smith, drove in for the score. “Toe” Talbert lifted the extra point through,
and the half ended with Catawba in front, 12-7.

A new ball club hit Catawba in the second half, and the score soon indicated it. Brown sparked the first
drive with a dash of 25 yards, and Bill Rowland got the 6 points that put us in the lead.
Before long, Jimmy Thacker tallied, and Talbert put us safely ahead, converting again.

McRee Gallops

In the final quarter, Dyke Little, on a quarterback keep, picked up 20 yards, then hit McRee on the next
play with a scoring pass. McRee added the final points on the most spectacular run of the day, an 88-yard
gallop on a punt return, aided by a great block from Tom Newton. Petersen, Abernathy, and especially Newton were the
line standouts. Despite a bad charley horse, Newton was outstanding on both passes in the process. Harley Smith was the
backfield star, playing perhaps his finest game this year, running well and coming up with several key plays on defense.
Henry Brown, as usual, was almost unstoppable, averaging 6.8 yards on 8 carries. Sophomore halfback Don McRee amassed a huge
amount of yardage, as well as scoring twice in the affair. Besides rushing for 15 yards, heCarried three punts back
for 90, one kickoff for 38, and the passing attack, more formidable than usual, connected on 6 of 12 tosses,
good for 116 yards, while the rushers accounted for 162 yards. Compared to Catawba’s net of 271, Davidson picked up
296 as its final total. Drink ‘MOOR’ Mooresville Creamery, Inc.

The Kappa Sigs won the Flicker, defeating the K.A.’s in an overtime touchdown throughout the first half. They took over
the lead by making two six-pointers but were forced Tuesday, November 30, to settle for a tie when the K.A.’s
pushed across for their second marker. Because the game ended in a 12-12 deadlock, overtime was played which the Kappa
Sigs won by advancing eight yards farther than did the K.A.'s. The victory gave the Kappa Sigs a 10 win,
1 loss record and the championship. On the same day, the Phi Delts scored a 55-0 win over the Independents.
The win gave the Phis a 9-2 record and the runner-up position. The KAs ranked third, and three teams—Sigma Chi,
Pika, and Beta—tied.

A Davidson player falls on a Cat fumble in last week's scrap with Catawba. The Cats shook off a 12-point
Catawba lead and came back to win, 32-12.

Phi Delts 2nd, KA’s 3rd

BY JOHNNY JOHNSON

In Tuesday’s action, the S.A.E.s scored at will, downing the Phi Gams, 55-0. The Pi Kapps eased by the SPE's,
12 to 6. The Pikas held a two-touchdown lead during the first half of their game with the Betas, but
were unable to keep it as the Beta boys scored six touchdowns to finish their season with a 36-18 win
and a 7-4 record. On Wednesday, four teams played games that had been postponed.

Coach Pete Whittle has announced that the annual Inter-fraternity swimming meet will be held on November 30 and December 1.
Time trials will take place at 7:30 on Tuesday, November 30, and on Wednesday, the finals will be run. The
final but unofficial standings are as follows:

SPEs
Phi Gams
Independents

The feuding between the Presbyterians and the Methodists will be renewed again this Saturday night at Spartanburg, S.C., when the
Davidson Wildcats take on the once-beaten Wofford Terriers. The Cats, presently riding a two-game winning streak, the latest victory being
an impressive 32-12 win over Catawba, are gunning for their sixth win of the current season. A win this Saturday
would give the Cats the best record since the 1934 edition which won six, lost two, and tied one.

Wofford started the season with only a fair outlook. Coach Sindow had only fifteen returning lettermen, most of whom had
had only one year of experience at operating from the split-T formation. However, he and his assistants have wielded the
Terriers into a powerful unit built around Little All-American candidate and Co-captain Joe Hazle. The Terriers have won seven games
to date with their lone loss being suffered at the hands of The Citadel, 14-13. Wofford beat Davidson's other mutual
foes, Catawba, 33-0, Stetson, 40-0, and Presbyterian, 20-13.

(Continued On Page Four)

Donnie McCree was one of the stars in last week’s win over Catawba. The sophomore back scored twice for the
Cats, once on a 58-yard punt return. He'll see plenty of action tomorrow night at Wofford.

There will be eight events with one man being able to swim in only two events and one relay. The
Inter-fraternity wrestling meet will be held on December 7 and 8, with the finals on the night of the eighth.
There will be nine weight divisions, with the winners of each division earning six points for his team in final
scoring. Details of these two sport meets will be covered in next week's issue of The Davidsonian.

By virtue of winning the football championship, the Kappa Sigs now lead the race for this year. Wrestling and swimming
both precede Greek basketball, which will start after Christmas.

Wildcat Harriers 3rd In State Meet

BY BUNNY PERKINSON

The Davidson Cross Country squad leaves Sunday for Lexington, Va., and the Southern Conference meet to be held Monday morning
beginning at 11:30. Coach Pete Whittle’s thin clads will be going after a large share of the trophies given to
the first twenty-five finishers, and the team to beat for the championship seems to be the defending champs from the
University of West Virginia. The other schools entered are V.M.I., Washington & Lee, William & Mary, V.P.I., and Richmond. Coach
Whittle’s only comment in speaking of the meet was, “Hope we win a good many trophies.”

Last Monday, the Cats warmed up for the conference meet by competing in the state meet held at Raleigh, between
Davidson, Carolina, N.C. State, and Duke. Standout for the Cats was sophomore Pete Ashcraft, who ran a beautiful race and
finished fifth with a time of 21:15.5 over the four-mile course. Jones of State literally “nosed” out Pete for fourth
place, winning by inches in the most thrilling finish of the day. Out of a field of 40 contestants, the
other Davidson entrees finished this way: Feeney 16th, Handley 20th, Patterson 22nd, Huntley 25th, Lovette 27th, Jackson 28th, Wilson 30th,
and Wood 34th.

Carolina took the meet by virtue of having Beatty and Barden finish first and second respectively, with Beatty setting a
meet record of 20:10. Favored State had previously defeated Carolina in a dual meet. Miller of State took third, with
Jones and Ashcraft finishing just behind him.

NOW! A filter cigarette real smokers can enjoy! Winston tastes good—like a cigarette should! Winston brings flavor back to filter
smoking—full, rich, tobacco flavor! No wonder college smokers are flocking to Winston—on campuses across the country! Along with real flavor—the
kind you've been missing in filter smokes—Winston brings you a finer filter. This exclusive Winston filter is unique, different, truly
superior! It works so effectively, yet doesn’t “thin” the taste or flatten the flavor. Winstons are king-size, too, for extra
filtering action—and easy-drawing for extra good taste. Try a pack of Winstons!

R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO., WINSTON-SALEM, N.C.
