PAGE FOUR

Dr. George Abernethy, chairman of the Faculty Committee on graduate scholarships and fellowships, has released the following additional information about grants available to graduating seniors:

He announced that the Wayne University Department of Public Administration, Detroit, Michigan, will give fourteen fellowships for the academic year, 1954-55. Six Lent D. Upson Fellowships in public administration are offered by the Citizens Research Council of Michigan. Each fellowship provides a stipend of $1800 for the twelve-month program, plus tuition. The program consists of academic work leading to the degree of Master of Public Administration from Wayne University. Eight fellowships in health administration are provided by: The National Tuberculosis Association (4), The American Cancer Society (2), and The National Society for Crippled Children and Adults (2). Each of the health administration fellowships provides a stipend of $1200 for the twelve-month program, plus tuition. The degree of Master of Public Administration or Master of Social Administration may be earned. Qualities desired of applicants are: a high order of scholastic achievement; capacity for community leadership in an executive position; and a sincere interest in public service.

Abernethy Releases More Scholarship Information

Applications must be completed by March 15, 1954. Application blanks may be obtained by writing to the Dean of the Graduate School, University of South Carolina, Columbia, South Carolina.

Institute of International Education

The Institute of International Education is offering a special group of five fellowships for study in Spain. These fellowships carry stipends of $2,000 and require demonstrated ability for independent study or research. Applications must be completed by May 1, 1954. For further information, see Dr. George L. Abernethy of the Davidson College faculty.

Converse College School of Music

The Converse College School of Music is offering a $1,250 teaching fellowship to a graduate student in voice or orchestral instruments, open to students who hold the Bachelor of Music degree or the Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in music. For complete information, interested seniors should write Dean Edwin Gerschefski, School of Music, Converse College, Spartanburg, S.C.

Brandeis University

The Brandeis University Graduate School of Arts and Sciences is now offering scholarships with stipends up to $1300 and fellowships with stipends up to $2100. Undergraduate majors in history, philosophy, politics, or sociology are recommended but not required for admission. Applications must be filed by April 1, 1954. Further information may be had from the Chairman, Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, Brandeis University, Waltham 54, Mass.

Universities of Alabama, Kentucky, and Tennessee

The Universities of Alabama, Kentucky, and Tennessee announce a number of Southern Regional Fellowships in Public Administration. Each grant carries a stipend of $1,200 plus university fees. The program involves a three-month internship in a public administrative office plus three months of study at each of the three cooperating institutions. Successful completion of the course leads to a certificate in Public Administration. Further information may be had from Professor Abernethy.

Harvard Law School

Harvard Law School is offering a number of national scholarships to students of outstanding ability. In case of need, a stipend of as much as $1600 a year may be allowed. The scholarships are renewable. Applications must be filed prior to May 1, 1954. Further information may be had from Prof. Morton or by writing to the Director of Admissions, Harvard Law School.

DEFERMENT TEST DEADLINE MARCH 8

Major General Lewis B. Hershey, Director of Selective Service, today reminded college students that the deadline for submitting applications for the April 22 Selective Service College Qualification Test is midnight, Monday, March 8, and that applications postmarked after that time cannot be considered. Application blanks and information bulletins, with sample questions, may be obtained by students from the nearest local board. They do not have to write their own local board to secure an application. Students are to mail their completed applications to Educational Testing Service of Princeton, New Jersey.

To be eligible to apply for the college qualification test a student must (1) intend to request deferment as a student; (2) be satisfactorily pursuing a full-time course of instruction; and (3) must NOT have previously taken the Selective Service College Qualification test. The April 22, 1954, test is the last one scheduled for this school year. Students whose academic year will end in June are urged to take the April test so they will have a test score in their cover sheets before the end of their academic year, at which time their boards reopen and reconsider their cases to determine whether they should be again deferred as students. The present criteria for deferment as an undergraduate student are either a satisfactory score (70) on the Selective Service College Qualification Test or specified rank in class (upper half of the males in the freshman class, upper third of the males in the sophomore class, and upper quarter of the males in the junior class).

Swimmers Miss . . . (Continued From Page Three)

Davidson got second in the 300-yard medley relay, Ed Spier took fourth in the 50-yard freestyle, Al Ormond took third in the 200-yard backstroke, and Davidson took third in the 400-yard freestyle relay, for the Wildcat scoring. The freshman team took second place in the two-event frosh meet, placing second in the 400-yard freestyle relay and third in the 300-yard medley relay. This conference meet was the last meet on the Cats' schedule and marked the last appearances of seniors Bob Patton and Capt. George Crone.

ATO's turned on the steam in the final seconds of play to pull away for a 48-42 victory over the hustling KAs. Murray Page hit for 20 for the second placers as Skipper Hall collected 13 for the KAs.

Pike 56; Phi Gam 43

The Pikas took an early lead over the Phi Gams and were never in any serious trouble as they won a 56-43 decision. Lanky Lindley Beardsley collected 22 points in a hot second half to gather in a 28-point total for the night, Larry Champion got 15 for the losers.

Sig Ep 60; Sigma Chi 57 (Overtime)

The Sig Eps pulled one of the biggest upsets of the season in their final game as they took an exciting overtime win from the Sigs 60-57. Brown collected 18 for the victors while Tom Shaw hit for 14 for the Sigs.

KA 36; SAE 26

In a relatively low scoring contest the KAs took a ten-point victory from the lowly SAEs by a 36-26 count. Pete Bridges dropped in 12 points for the winners.

Individual . . . (Continued From Page Two)

without by those who do not understand them; they are also hampered from within by those who are blind to all but a sliver of the path ahead.” For the liberal tradition, Time says, Pusey therefore has offered not only a defense but a definition. “We are,” he says, “against fundamentalism of all kinds . . . and all kinds of mean-minded thinking that would make man less than he is.”

Spring Elections

Elections for student body and other campus offices will begin immediately after spring holidays, according to Lyman Kiser, President of the Student Body. Kiser said that elections were being held earlier this year than has often been the case in the past in order to avoid conflicting with examinations. The Student Council will meet at the beginning of the week in order to finish laying plans for the beginning of balloting. If present plans follow through the new officers of the Student Council—president, vice presidents, and secretary-treasurer—will be elected soon after spring holidays.

"The Hasty Heart" . . . (Continued From Page One)

Patrick is the author of the recent New York hit, “The Teahouse of the August Moon.” The setting of the play is the convalescent ward of a British hospital somewhere in the South-East Asia Command during the war. Here are gathered a motley collection of wounded soldiers from England, Australia, and New Zealand. The introduction of Lachlen into this ward sets the conflict of drama. Although unaware of it at the time, “Lachey” is dying of a kidney infection resulting from a wound. The repeated and fruitless efforts of the men in the ward to befriend him and to dispel the bitterness which he feels for his fellow-man create a touching, often comical, situation.

The players have been in rehearsal for several weeks under the direction of Professor Charles Lloyd. With the exception of the technical assistance of Mr. Tyson, this is exclusively a student effort. The price of admission is 50 cents, and the curtain will rise at 8:15 on both evenings. Robert Crutchfield, president of the honorary dramatics fraternity, has announced that tickets are now on sale.'Alpha Psi Omega, said, in a statement to the Charlotte Observer which we quote: “Past excellence and an unusual cast indicate that this production will be well worth attending.”

PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS

DAVIDSON THEATRE
All Pictures Will Be Shown On Our New P-A-N-O-R-A-M-I-C WIDE SCREEN

THUR.-FRI., MAR. 4-5
“EASY TO LOVE”
ESTHER WILLIAMS
VAN JOHNSON

SATURDAY, MAR. 6
"VALLEY HEAD HUNTERS”
JOHNNY WEISSMULLER
CHRISTINE LARSON

MON.-TUES., MAR. 8-9
“THUNDER BAY” (Technicolor)
JAMES STEWART

WEDNESDAY, MAR. 10
"STRANGER ON THE PROWL”
PAUL MUNI

Rehearsal for four weeks, and will from all reports turn out an unusually outstanding performance.

Public service. Applications should be received on or before April 15, 1954. Additional information can be received from: Robert F. Steadman, Chairman, Department of Public Administration, Wayne University, 451 West Kirby Street, Detroit 2, Mich.

Rice Institute
The Rice Institute is offering a number of graduate assistantships and fellowships which carry stipends ranging from $1300 to $2500. In addition, there are graduate scholarships available which provide exemption from fees but carry no stipends. For further information address the Registrar, The Rice Institute, Houston 1, Texas.

Wesleyan University
Wesleyan University offers a two-year program of study and training leading to the degree of Master of Arts in Teaching. It is designed to provide professional training in a liberal arts environment for men planning to teach in public schools. The program admits 12 well-qualified college graduates each year. Candidates take courses in their designated areas in the liberal arts and sciences for 18 hours credit, education and practice teaching for 18 hours credit, plus participation in a supervised program of field work. Twelve fellowships of $1625 (less $325 tuition), renewable for the second year, are available for September, 1954. Applications must be submitted by April 15, 1954. For information interested seniors should write Prof. Ernest Stabler, Chairman, Master of Arts in Teaching Program, Wesleyan University, Middletown, Conn.

Kent Fellowship
The National Council on Religion in Higher Education announces the Kent Fellowships for 1954-55. The amount of stipend varies according to need but ordinarily does not exceed $1300 for married students and $900 for single students. The awards carry with them lifetime membership in the Society of Fellows of the National Council. College graduates and college seniors looking forward to professional careers in higher education may apply. Applicants are welcomed from any field of study which contributes to liberal education. Further information may be had by interested seniors from Dr. Samuel R. Spencer.

University of Pennsylvania
The S. S. Huebner Foundation for Insurance Education at the University of Pennsylvania announces a group of scholarships with stipends of $1,000 for students who are interested in pursuing a career of teaching in the field of insurance. Applications must be submitted prior to March 15, 1954. Further information may be had from Dr. David McCahan, Executive Director, the S. S. Huebner Foundation for Insurance Education, Dietrich Hall, 3620 Locust Street, Philadelphia 4, Penn.

University of South Carolina
The University of South Carolina Graduate School announces a large number of fellowships and assistantships carrying stipends.

Creamery, Inc. In Mooresville

Literary Societies . . . (Continued From Page One)
Segregation were members Moody Smith and Jason McManus, who were judged the winners over their stalwart opponents, Larry Parrot and Hugh Malone. The meeting closed with the report of Critic Maurice Crouse.

Rev. Thos. H. McDill... (Continued From Page One)
Annual gifts to the church from $14,218 to $61,593. Under Mr. McDill’s leadership, his church also sponsored in 1949, the organization of the Chandler Road A.R.P. Church, which now has 115 members. In September, 1951, Reverend McDill was elected to the faculty of Columbia Theological Seminary. Following his reception into membership in Atlanta Presbytery of the Presbyterian Church, U.S., he was granted leave of absence from the seminary to work toward his doctorate at the University of Chicago. He remained there until the fall of 1953 when he assumed his teaching duties at Columbia Seminary.

Drink ‘M O O R’ QUALITY MILK

Mooresville Library Adds... (Continued From Page One)
Is the story of Jalna revisited. The previous book, entitled Jalna won the Atlantic Novel Contest. The Great Corinthian, a Doris Leslie production, gives a picture of British history, from one of England's most colorful eras. The book portrays the life of George IV as Prince Regent. An Album of Southern Birds with photographs by Samuel A. Grimes and text by Alexander Sprunt, Jr., has also recently been received at the library. Mr. Sprunt is a Davidson alumnus, having been graduated in 1918. How To Be a Successful Emcee, by Leroy Stahl, a handbook for the master of ceremonies, presenting every phase of the art. Other books which the library has just gotten include The Unconquered, by Ben Ames Williams; Lord Vanity by Samuel Shellabarger, and The Face of Time by James Thomas Farrell.

Students accepted for admission or attending a graduate school prior to July 1, 1951, satisfy the criteria if their work continues to be satisfactory. Graduate students admitted or attending after July 1, 1951, must have been in the upper half of their classes during the senior year or make a score of 75 or better on the test. It is not mandatory for local boards to defer students who meet the criteria. General Hershey has emphasized many times that the criteria are a flexible yardstick used to guide the local boards and that the standards may be raised any time the necessity for manpower demands. The April 22 test will be the twelfth administration of the test since the program was inaugurated in 1951. To date, more than 500,000 students have taken the tests.

Betas Win ... (Continued From Page Three)
Season as they ran for a 43-26 decision. Barringer hit for 13 for the winners and Jerry Bishop hit for 9 for the winless SAEs.

ATO 48; KA 42
In control most of the way, the Trustees Cross .. (Continued From Page Two)
Article of last week, that the college has not yet prepared its answer to the Trustee’s proposal. Though it doubtless will do little good since it comes from a student (and one whose father and grandfather did not attend Davidson), my suggestion to the administration is that they consider long and well the step which they are about to take. Contemplate what lies hidden within the Pandora’s Box before you use your key. You may unlatch a fiend.

COLLEGE UNION SHACK BAR
Serves LADY BORDEN Ice Cream

You can always tell a California car because it doesn’t have a license plate on the front—it has a pedestrian.—Arthur Van Horn.

Most of us are quick to recognize a good thing the minute the other fellow sees it first. — Charles Knouse.

FELLOWS.... You Must See the New Spring...
SLACKS
BUTTON-COLLAR SHIRTS
KNITTED SHORT SLEEVE SHIRTS
BELTS
REPP TIES, Regiments of the World
SHOES
SPORT COATS
GINGHAM SHIRTS

John Mack & Son.
Mooresville’s Finest and Favorite
FEATURING CAMPUS CLOTHES
FORMAL RENTALS
Phone 3-1471

Sig Ep 45; Phi Kapp 33
The Sig Eps took their second victory of the campaign as they downed the Phi Kapps 45-33. Donnie McCree hit 14 for the Sig Eps as Swain collected 15 for the losers.

Phone 3-4513

In days gone by, young men in shining armor constituted the elite of the era. Today, a new kind of man rules America’s Knights of the Sky, the Aviation Cadets! They rule from on high, in flashing silver-winged Air Force jets—a gallant band that all America looks up to! Like the Knights of old, they are few in number, but they represent their Nation’s greatest strength. If you are single, between the ages of 19 and 26½, you can join this select flying team and serve with the finest. You will be given the best jet training in the world and graduate as an Air Force Lieutenant, earning $5,000 a year. Your silver wings will mark you as one of the chosen few, who ride the skies in Air Force jets. As an Aviation Cadet, your kingdom is space—a jet is your charger and your mission is the highest. You are a key defender of the American faith, with a proud future both in military and commercial aviation. Join America’s Knights of the Sky, new men of a new age. Be an Aviation Cadet!

WHERE TO GET MORE DETAILS:
Contact your nearest Aviation Cadet Selection Team, Air Force R.O.T.C. Unit or Air Force Recruiting Officer. Or write to: Aviation Cadet, Hq., U.S. Air Force, Washington 25, D. C.

The play itself is one which has an appealing theme and which is perhaps in some respects a rather important commentary on human nature. The entire production should make for a worthwhile evening’s entertainment.

Excepting advice from Prof.

“TUMBLEWEED”
SATURDAY, MAR. 13
“TRADER HORN”
HARRY CAREY

The Spartan Band that held the pass,
The Light Brigade that charged the guns,
RIDE OF THE CHOSEN FEW

For Fellowship...High Adventure...and a proud mission... wear the wings of the U.S. Air Force!

UNITED STATES AIR FORCE