PAGE TWO THE DAVIDSONIAN

A Modest Proposal

It is noteworthy in glancing through the pages of the Davidson College Catalogue to find listed a Sociology Department. This
department, at the present time, is without professors, textbooks, classrooms, or students, but it is adequately equipped with misleading pages
in the catalogue which offer the Davidson student some seven semesters' work in sociology. To the somewhat untutored student of
the social sciences, it appears that one particular course usually known as Marriage and the Family would be a valuable
addition to the Davidson College curriculum. Today in America, the watchword of young people is “specialization” yet most of them
fail to realize that this specialization must be carried over into the field of interpersonal relationships. If the educators hope
to produce students who have gained some degree of emotional maturity in addition to the intellectual maturity which is so
often stressed, they cannot overlook the importance of the classroom in preparing students for marriage.

The divorce rate, itself, speaks with a clear tone in pointing up the weakness in our educational system, especially the
basic education of knowing how to build a family and even more important... how to keep it together once the
foundation is laid. In North Carolina (1940), there were 15,100 marriages and 3,900 divorces, thus for every four marriages beginning
one ended on the rocks. These figures represent the situation before the war, but, on the national scale, after World
War II, (1949) there were 1,585,440 marriages and 386,000 divorces which shows a similar trend. Of course, lack of education
for marriage is not the sole reason for the ever-mounting divorce rate, yet we believe its importance in holding marriages
together is underestimated to a great extent. Our world, today, is moving fast, and problems which arise to confront young
married couples are becoming more and more complex. Many young couples go into marriage grossly ignorant of their responsibilities to
each other and to society in general. It is our belief that many of these problems could be solved before
marriage in the college classrooms of our colleges and universities.

Actually, only one professor is needed at Davidson to instruct the courses necessary in this field of Sociology and Marriage
and the Family. Since Prof. Douglas left the Davidson College Faculty in 1951, this important place has been left vacant.
The Dean of the Faculty has recently announced that Davidson will offer a full program in Sociology next year. Certainly,
congratulations are in order for this reform, but it is unfortunate that this year’s graduating class never had the opportunity
of benefitting from a course in Sociology.

—H.V.L.

OFF-MOORINGS: Aims For Column Set For Year As “Family” Analysis Concludes

By SIM MOORS

Indifferent. Yet great men are not born of complacency, and if we cannot discover some new wellspring of vitality, we
run the risk of becoming intellectually sterile. Perhaps the most disastrous shortcoming of the Davidson family is its failure to
find a solution to the strange barrier existing between student and professor, contrary to the environment and basic aims of
the school. This is not merely due to the aloofness of some faculty members. It is more likely due to
the keen fear on the part of the student that by unnecessary association with his professor he may be accused
of licking the professor’s boots for a better grade. Therefore, the average student seems to shy away from close relationship
with the very men with whom he should be trying to associate most closely.

The administrative feature most inconsistent with the family complex and least in line with the traditional humility of our Presbyterian
forebears is the attitude of some salaried members that they are “big-time operators.” This growing tendency evidences itself in snobbishness
and arrogance, in the attitude that they are doing the student a favor by performing their prescribed tasks. It is
seen in the vanishing value of a student’s word in dealing with lost laundry, and in the cold uncompliancy of
gymnasium officials toward equipment supposedly available for student use. It is met even in the Union, the so-called heart of
college family life, where they are too often without change for checks or phone calls, and where one’s thirst goes
unslaked if he arrives at 11:31 p.m.

The Davidson family is a Christian family, and yet it has failed to solve the problem of compulsory attendance at
chapel and vespers, and to compulsory membership in “my” last column of the first semester of this year, there was
a discussion of the graduation requirements of Davidson with particular stress on the rules for regulating the academic load. The
point was made, possibly dogmatically and yet pragmatically too, that a student needed a B average before he could take
a maximum of nineteen semester hours of class work. This writer also admitted that he was a sufferer from the
system and was direly and personally concerned about these rules.

As it has developed, your writer is now a benefactor of that system and will be (with due class attendance,
work and reasonable luck) marching down the Chambers aisle for the “last” time on May 31. That pertinent fact, of
pursuing more class and lab work this semester, possibly affects some of the aims of “Off-Moorings” for the remainder of
the year. The aims of the column for the rest of the school year are briefly these:

1. To continue the current series of guest writers who will be commenting on several broad themes—Davidson today; aspects of
education often untouched by the curriculum; the international situation; and others that present themselves.
2. A more intelligent and broadened approach to areas that are, in our lives, either brushed off summarily, oversimplified unnecessarily,
or blandly accepted without reasonable thoughtfulness (i.e. religion, politics, and the role college students today have facing them).
3. A long look at the place of Davidson as a college, as a unit in our society, and as
an intellectual entity.
4. Investigation and analysis of current developments on and off our scene and such critical comments as seem pertinent to
this writer.

More areas of interest might be squeezed in, but there are certain limitations imposed in writing for only thirteen weeks
between 800 and 1,000 words at a time. You cannot say everything; even Shakespeare didn’t in a lifetime in millions
of words. You will notice that the plan is Davidson-centered, as it well ought to be, for we are most
interested in ourselves—egotistically, for purposes of self-improvement, or for a number of other reasons.

Furman’s Purple Hurricane has been named as the visiting team for the Davidson homecoming next fall. The Hurricane will make
its annual appearance on the Cat slate on October 23 on the Richardson Field turf.

In last week’s column, Bill Moffett had a studied introduction, a well-ordered body and no conclusion. This time

Taste Buds Take A Holiday

Food is a much talked of, seldom acted upon subject at Davidson. There are those of us who eat it
and try to forget it, and there are those gourmands who wander about rabidly seeking a batch of the best
available. It seems in keeping this week to give a first-hand report on the best available from the standpoint of
the Davidson epicure. We speak of the Sunday night buffet served in the College Union, a repast which lends a
genuine air of luxury and finery to the cornfield college.

Stepping from the student store into what is ordinarily the snack bar we found ourselves confronted with a room full
of busy eaters, masticating to the rhythm of recorded Respighi, and where the common snack bar usually stands we found
a table some twenty feet long and covered with food to outdo Old Mother Hubbard's dreams. There were cold cuts,
salads, meats, vegetables, breads, desserts and drinks to make the eyes bulge, and the waiters were more than eager to
make the plates bulge also. We still were not convinced. All this was very effective at impressing us, but we
were hungry, and taste would tell the worth of our first impressions. So it was that for the next thirty
minutes the taste buds took a holiday. Looks fell far short of taste, and we realized why some men are
accused of living to eat instead of eating to live. Someone at Davidson could well be accused of having a
Ph.D. in Cookery, for one twenty-five was a meagre price indeed to give for that short period at worship of
epicurean pleasures.

History relates that the food at the National Hotel in Washington in 1857 created a country-wide crisis by poisoning the
elite of the nation. It seems entirely possible that the food at Mr. Murphy’s Gastroteria could easily cause a local
crisis by initiating a charge on Rush Wilson for better belts for bigger bellies.

—H.C.B.Bill is rectifying the oversight. Actually, the difficulty arose when, in the editorial rush of putting the paper together at
the printing office, the last part of Moffett’s analysis was left out en toto. With due editorial apologies, we thus
continue where we left off. Derrick Barton, former Davidson tennis coach, is now performing as the tennis pro at the
University Club in Memphis, Tenn. Barton left Davidson after the 1962 season. Want to travel and study abroad?

By BILL MOFFETT

Last week we were discussing the Davidson family. We endeavored not only to point out the reasons for its existence,
but to show that the family complex can be uniquely beneficial. We pointed out that it played down divisions, fostered
a sense of harmony, and promoted friendship and cooperation.

University-sponsored tour via TWA. Itineraries include countries in Europe, the Middle East, Asia, and Africa. Special study tours available. Low
all-inclusive prices with TWA’s economical Sky Tourist service. For information, write: John H. Firbay, Ph.D., Director, Air World Tours, Dept.
CN, 380 Madison Ave., New York 17, N.Y. Be sure to mention countries you wish to visit.

Jim Moore, Dick Roper, Bob Crutchfield, Charles Hassell, Buddy Lamon, Bob Owen, Hunter Strader, Henry Brockmann, Floyd Feeney, John Handley,
Austin Strand

Feature Editor — T. A. Williams
Sports Editor — Blake Toure
Asst. Business Manager — Ed Nicholson
Advertising Manager — Tommy Taylor
Circulation Manager — Dick Little
Collections Manager — Tim Cooper
Photographer — Andy Simons

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N.C., under the Act of March 3, 1897.

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 1954

THIS IS DAVIDSON

LET’S FACE IT!
By MALCOLM WILLIAMSON

In the still of the night—high above a sleeping American city—an unidentified aircraft is spotted. In a matter of seconds,
a lightning-like jet interceptor takes to the air. Unerringly, with an Aircraft Observer showing the way, the Air Force F-94
Night Fighter speeds to intercept the stranger. The Aircraft Observer is the man behind the pilot—the officer who keeps America’s
planes flying on course and on target. Without him, the Air Force couldn't do its job.

What is the Aircraft Observer? He’s a Radar Officer . . . the all-seeing eye that penetrates where human sight
fails. He’s an Aircraft Performance Engineer Officer . . . knowing everything there is to know about his plane .
. . keeping it fit for the skies and ready for action. He’s a Navigation Officer . . . plotting
his plane’s course . . . with an entire crew depending on him for a safe flight. He’s a Bombardment
Officer . . . in full control of the plane over the target area . . . the Air Force
Officer who “lowers the boom” on the enemy.

What the Aircraft Observer gets: He earns over $5,000 a year. His silver Aircraft Observer wings give him prestige and
distinction, and he wears the bars of an Air Force Lieutenant. They mark him as the eyes, ears, and brains
of America’s Number One flying team.

What it takes to be an Aircraft Observer: The Aircraft Observer must be sound of limb, keen of mind, and
above all, must have the determination to be the best. To qualify as an Aircraft Observer, you must be single,
between 19 and 26½ years old, and a high school graduate. However, it will be better for you and the
Air Force if you stay in college and graduate before you apply. Then you, too, can be one of the
best . . . as an Aircraft Observer.

WHERE TO GET MORE DETAILS: Contact your nearest Aviation Cadet Selection Team, Air Force ROTC Unit, or Air Force Recruiting
Officer. Or write to: Aviation Cadet, Headquarters, U.S. Air Force, Washington 25, D.C.

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

By MALCOLM WILLIAMSON

At the point where the end of the column was terminated, we were discussing some rather typical shortcomings, which we
believe to be grossly inconsistent with the principles for which the college stands. Ultimately, our true strength is measured by
the extent to which we are successful in solving our own problems. Failing in this, we cannot hope for better
than a second-rate position in the eyes of future generations.

For example, there is a lack of intellectual stimulation, of a great deal of the niche accomplishments, or class conflict
conspicuously absent on our campus. We tend to be smug, self-satisfied, passively accepting everything. We go to chapel to be
counted present, not to learn from the variety of speakers presented. We must take certain courses, some we may take,
many we may study at any one time. This policy kills incentive to take courses merely for the sake of
knowledge and makes us consider only if a course will be of any use toward graduation. The second reason is
the sense of extreme formality that is exhibited toward the students by the administration as a whole—pleasant, yes—but too aloof
to stimulate the real exchange of ideas.

Davidson proudly proclaims principles which have so little to do with the world as it is that they taint the
whole college experience with an aura of unreality. Davidson is the citadel of black and white surrounded by the world
of grey. We are taught, at least by inference, that the following of the Sunday School religion will more certainly
bring success in life than will the calculating and precise applications of the tools of knowledge. But this is a
world of doers, not wishers. In order to achieve our goals, praiseworthy or deplorable, we must be taught how to
beat the cold-blooded world of today. Many of us suspect that not everyone on the outside is a member of
the YMCA, and we wonder if our studies here are really worthwhile.

Fourth, we are too homogeneous to develop any competitive spirit toward learning. We come from a class in society that
is no longer on the make. There is no valid reason for most of us to strain ourselves academically. We
are already made, and Davidson grades will not change the situation. To run the family business does not require any
great understanding of the problems of life. Or we can pick up everything we really need in seminary or med
school. In some institutions, the average student is not fortunate enough to attend any more specialized institution of learning. Then
there may be some reason for him to get all he can in his undergraduate days.

Fifth, (this may sound trivial to many, but I believe that it is a genuine cause for the general apathy
toward real knowledge at Davidson) the traditional academic spirit is missing from this Presbyterian institution. Davidson has no riots over
political issues. The student body takes no concerted action against unpopular administration measures. We have no established intelligentsia to discuss
the latest literary trends with professors over an evening stein of beer. Qualities such as these develop a spirit of
unity and purpose within a college family. Unfortunately, Davidson must live in a rather sterile atmosphere devoid of fervor which
can beget only lethargy. We will continue to do what we must but no more.

You may wonder what the purpose of this is. I believe that Davidson can be a worthwhile experience, and it
seems a shame for us to waste much of the opportunity that might be found here. But we do. Admittedly,
our North Mecklenburg College may never become a world-renowned institution—never a Princeton, Harvard, Oxford, Edinburgh, or Sorbonne, and we might
not want it so. But a more liberal policy in regard to the first three points and a concentrated effort
to make the last two qualities of Davidson more cosmopolitan might go a long way toward making Davidson more than
classes during the week and a place away from which to be on weekends. Davidson can move toward a place
of real learning for a real life.

“America has never had the equal of her little hill-top colleges.”—The Catalogue of Davidson College and the History of Textbook.
