JIM MOORE: RAPS ATHLETIC GRANT (Page Two) VOL. XLII Che Mavbidsonian ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C.,
FRIDAY, MARCH 5, 1954

Patrick’s ‘The Hasty Heart’ Masquers Top Production

The Red and Black Masquers will present their first three-act production of the year in Chambers Auditorium on Monday and
Tuesday, March 8 and 9, at 8:15 p.m. The play, a comedy-drama by John Patrick entitled “The Hasty Heart,” deals
with the problems of a group of wounded soldiers in a British Hospital during the Second World War.

BOB MIMS

College Artist Series Brings Hubert Alyea

Dr. Hubert N. Alyea, distinguished and popular Princeton University scientist, has for several years been making the mysteries of atomic
energy intelligible—and interesting—to laymen all over the United States. On March 10 he will come to Davidson to give his
lecture-demonstration in Chambers Auditorium at 8:15 p.m. He has given this lecture, featured last year in Life magazine, to seven
hundred audiences totaling six hundred thousand persons. The lecture, entitled “Atomic Energy, Weapon for Peace,” will be demonstrated by many
chemical experiments which require such assorted properties as a pail half filled with sand (“coarse, dirty sand is OK,” says
the Professor), a small dry-ice fire extinguisher, flood lights and two motion picture projectors. Among other features of the lecture
will be the tracing of the growth of ideas which led to the atomic bomb; alchemy of the Middle Ages,
discovery of radioactivity, and isolation of radium. He will also speak of the effects of an atomic blast and of
the many new researches being conducted to discover the peaceful possibilities of atomic energy.

Students will be admitted to the lecture upon presentation of their identification cards.

Professor Alyea graduated from Princeton University in 1925. Following this, he spent a year at the Nobel Institute, Stockholm, Sweden,
and returned to get his doctor’s degree from Princeton in 1929. The next year was spent at the University of
Minnesota studying the chemical effects of radium, and the next year at the Kaiser Wilhelm Institute in Berlin investigating the
explosion of gases. Since then he has been a member of the Chemistry Department of Princeton University.

The entire production is under the direction of Bob Mims, president of the organization, and Prof. Raymond W. Tyson is
acting as faculty advisor for the play. The set is being designed and executed by Swain Loy; lighting and backstage
work will be handled by Jack Pietenpol. Dick Dabney, newcomer to our stage and to our campus, will be seen
in the leading role of Lachlen, the friendless, frustrated Scot about whom the conflict of the drama revolves. The role
of Margaret, the army nurse, will be played by Martha (Mrs. Sam) Magill, who made her Davidson stage debut last
December in “A Chronicle of Joe.” Ed Hadley will take the part of Yank. Harold Hall will be seen as
Digger, Allie Cone as Kiwi, Charlie Oliver as Blossom, Fred Stimmers as Tommy, and Buddy Liles as a Colonel. An
orderly will be played by Sandy McGeachy.

“The Hasty Heart” is perhaps the most successful play ever to come from the pen of John Patrick. It enjoyed
a long run on Broadway in 1945, and has since fast become a “standard” for little theater and college groups.
The warm sincerity of the theme, together with Patrick’s careful and intelligent treatment of it, has been widely praised by
critics both (Continued On Page Four)

WHITE ANNOUNCES SENIOR INTERVIEWS

The placement bureau for the seniors continues its work with many firms having already visited the campus, including the following:
Burlington Mills, the Hanover Bank of New York, Cargill’s, Inc., Proctor and Gamble, Household Finance Company, Traveller’s Insurance Agency, Oak
Ridge Research Laboratory, Aberdeen Proving Grounds, Union Carbide and Carbon Corporation, Deering Service Corporation, and Rich’s of Atlanta.

This week The Connecticut Mutual Insurance Company was at the college. In following weeks the National Security Agency, General Electric
Company, Riegel Textile, Sears-Roebuck and Company, Colgate-Palmolive Company, Southern Dairies and the Providence Mutual Insurance Company are expected to visit
the school.

Elgin White, publicity director of the college, said it is always advisable for the seniors, if they are not pre-med
or pre-ministerial students, to sign up for interviews with these companies. Davidson is one of the few schools in this
area which has these companies send representatives to its campus. These companies in the past have always had high regard
for Davidson men, and the school has placed many seniors with outstanding companies, and all are doing exceptionally well.

A good many seniors who feel that they are going into the armed services hesitate about signing up. Mr. White
said that they shouldn't, for all these representatives have emphasized the fact that they want to talk to these men
and get a line on them for when they finish their duty with the government. Many of these men can
move right into these companies after their army duties if the company is interested in them. Also several firms, wanting
more experienced men than the seniors, have asked for men who have already put in their army duty. Mr. White
said that more firms other than the ones listed are expected to come from now until the first part of
May.

REV. THOS. H. McDILL IS SUNDAY EVENING VESPERS SPEAKER

The vespers speaker this Sunday evening will be the Reverend Thomas H. McDill, Jr., B.D., Professor of Pastoral Theology and
Pastoral Counseling at Columbia Theological Seminary in Decatur, Ga. Reverend McDill was born in Little Rock, Arkansas, on June 9,
1917. He received his B. A. from Erskine College in 1938 and his Th. B. from Erskine Theological Seminary in
1940. He did special work in Psychiatry at the University of California in 1944, and was a student at Princeton
Seminary for one quarter in 1946. He then earned his B.D. at Columbia Seminary in 1947. He subsequently completed a
portion of the requirement for his Th. M.

Mr. McDill was licensed and ordained by the First Presbytery of the ARP. Church in Charlotte, N.C., on June 3,
1940. His first pastorate was in the A.R.P. Church of Russellville, Ark. In October, 1942, he entered the Chaplaincy of
the United States Army with the commission of a first lieutenant. In March, 1946, he was honorably discharged with the
rank of major and the following awards: American Theater; Asiatic-Pacific Theater with two battle stars and arrowhead; Philippine Liberation with
one battle star; Legion of Merit; and the Victory medal. From June, 1946, to September, 1953, Mr. McDill served as
pastor of the First A.R.P. Church of Atlanta. During that time the membership of this church increased from 348 to
773. During the same period the membership of the Church School increased from 201 to 523, and the total an-
(Continued On Page Four)

LINGLE CHAPEL OPEN FOR DEVOTIONS

Due to a desire expressed by many students that a quiet place should be set aside on the campus for
daily devotions, Lingle Chapel will be open from 7:00 a.m. until noon, beginning Monday for all students interested. Bibles will
be provided and a suggested devotional guide will be placed in the front of the chapel. This plan is on
a temporary basis and will become permanent if enough students make use of it to warrant its continuation.

NORTHERN LIBERAL: NO OATHS AT HARVARD (Page Two)

NO. 17

Move Effective With End Of Present College Term

Mr. John C. Bailey, Jr., has resigned as Dean of Students. His resignation becomes effective at the close of the
present school term. President John R. Cunningham announced with regret the acceptance of Dean Bailey’s resignation and said that the
Dean is “one who in his life and character embodies Davidson’s finest qualities.”

John C. Bailey, Jr... . Resigns Deanship

1954 Summer Session Initiates New Policies

The 1954 summer session at Davidson College, for the first time a single term session, will open on June 3,
for laboratory science courses and on June 9, 1954, for other courses. The session will end on July 21, and
the Davidson campus will spend a lone, studentless month watching the progress on gigantic Belk Dormitory now being erected.

"Y" Sponsors Dance Featuring Morrow

YMCA social chairman Bill Shipley announces that arrangements have been made for transportation of dates from Charlotte to tomorrow night’s
informal dance in the Union Ballroom. Several cars have been acquired in order to assist students needing a ride for
their dates. The dance, co-sponsored by the YMCA and the College Union, is to be given in conjunction with the
Red and Black intra-squad football game Saturday afternoon. Students are invited to bring dates to the game and to the
dance following that evening. Jessie Morrow and his trio will return to the bandstand and promise another evening of rhythm
and entertainment. At a similar dance several weeks ago, Jessie’s group made quite a hit with the Davidson crowd. Shipley
said that these dances are planned to replace former exchange days with nearby women’s colleges. The dance will begin at
8 o'clock. Admission is free and refreshments will be served.

Several outstanding changes in policy mark this year’s summer session. Of first interest to the monkish students will be the
new policy of admitting girls as dormitory resident students for the session. There is little doubt attached to the statement
that the faculty move to admit female students to the summer term is the most generally accepted ruling since the
abolition of the aggregate cut limit last fall. The one term system will necessitate both a larger influx of students,
turning the summer campus from a lonely desert to a scene not unlike the average winter one, and a larger
variety of courses available to students attending the term. Some thirty-three courses have been offered for the term, though enrollment
qualifying class time to teach any one course will be necessary before that course will reach the final agenda. Most
departments will be represented this summer by two professors instead of the customary one for each term. A wide variety
of Psychology, History,English, Economics, and Science courses are offered. Sociology 21-22, a course not offered at Davidson for several years,
will be offered during the summer with Dr. G. L. Abernethy as professor.

Ostwalt Conducts Reading To Increase Student Reading Rate
By JOHN HEIRS

An experiment to increase the reading speeds of students is currently being conducted by Dr. Jay H. Ostwalt. The idea
is not only to speed up the slow readers but to make substantial increases in the reading rates of those
who already have high speeds. At this time, there are five classes meeting at various times on Monday and on
Wednesday through Friday in the special room on the second floor of the Chambers Building, which the college has set
aside for this work. This is known as the Remedial Reading Clinic.

There is an average of six students per class. The classes, which have been running since February 9th and will
conclude just before spring holidays, are directed by student assistants John Fite and Ronnie Wilson. The program is given without
charge during this experimental stage, but it is probable that a small fee will be charged in the future. If
the results of the first course warrant future classes, they will be given throughout the year with a new course
starting every six weeks.

The college has purchased new equipment valued at around $1,000 to use in the project. The tachistoscope, a slide projector
which flashes digits and phrases on a screen at rates up to a hundredth of a second, constitutes the largest
expenditure for this work. There are also a new screen and several hundred slides to use with the tachistoscope. Two
rate-reading machines used in the program are also new. When using one of these machines, the material to be read
is placed on the machine. As the student reads, a metal bar moves down the page at the rate of
speed which has been selected on the control scale. This constantly moving bar forces the reader to concentrate continuously on
the material he is reading and prevents spasmodic reading. It presses the student to read at his utmost speed.

The recently acquired eye tester is used to give each student an eye test before he begins the reading program.
The machine is capable of determining obvious visual defects which might hinder a person's reading. After successfully completing the eye
test, the student takes a reading test to determine his rate of reading and his comprehension of what he reads.
Another such test is given when the student has finished the course. A statistical analysis will then be administered to
the results of the two tests to determine whether the increase is a significant one.

The classes last thirty minutes with the first half being devoted to eye exercises. Using the tachistoscope, the instructor flashes
digits and phrases on the screen at speeds up to a hundredth of a second. Scientists say that most people
tend to use only the central part of the retina, the part of the eye with which we see. These
exercises are used to make the student use the outer part of the retina, the periphery, also. The last half
of the class consists of readings timed with a stopwatch. A comprehension test is given on the reading.

Spring Blood Drive Jointly Sponsored

ODK president Bill Hood announced this week that the spring Red Cross Blood Drive on the Davidson campus will be
under the joint sponsorship of ODK and Scabbard and Blade. Charlie Hasty has been selected by Scabbard and Blade to
head the drive for that organization, according to Scabbard and Blade president Buddy Lamon. Hood said that Fred Stowe will
probably be in charge of the ODK effort in the drive. Both ODK and Scabbard and Blade have sponsored successful
blood donation drives in the past for the Red Cross, but this is the first time they have staged a
joint sponsorship. The date for the drive will be announced by the organizations at a later time.

Smith Announces The Week's Union Events

Mr. Shaw Smith of the College Union announces the following events at the Union during the next week:

Saturday, March 6—State Vocal Contest, part of which is to be held in the Union from 9:00 a.m. to 3:00
p.m. An informal Y-Union Dance for faculty and students is to be held beginning at 8:00 p.m.

Tuesday, March 9—Prof. and Mrs. Moore will give a recital in the College Union Ballroom beginning at 8:15. Everybody is
invited and the admission is free.

Wednesday, March 10—After Mr. Alyea’s performance for the Artist Series, there will be a reception for everyone in the Union
Ballroom.

Thursday, March 11—The Coker College Glee Club will present a concert beginning at 8:15 in the Ballroom.

Friday, March 12—Columbia Bicentennial Exhibition begins. At 8:15 p.m., Dr. J. S. Wilson of the Davidson faculty will hold an
informal discussion of the Modern Novel in the Union Ballroom. Both faculty and students are cordially invited and a coffee
hour for all in attendance will follow.

Saturday, March 13—A Walt Disney technicolor movie, “Ichabod and Mr. Toad,” will be shown at 3:30 in the afternoon and
again at 9:00 that evening. Admission is free.

Dean Bailey has felt for some time that the duties of his office were too heavy, and while he is
in good health, he feels it wiser for him to resign and undertake a full-time teaching schedule again. Dr. Cunningham
said that Dean Bailey has enjoyed the friendship of the students during his entire tenure of office, together with the
respect and confidence of the faculty in dealing with student problems.

Dean Bailey graduated from Davidson in 1922, after which he immediately became principal and Latin teacher at Davidson High School.
In 1925 he joined the faculty of Davidson College as Assistant Professor of Greek. From 1928 to 1932 he taught
Greek at Johns Hopkins University, where he received his A.M. degree. In 1932 Dean Bailey returned to Davidson as Professor
of Greek. He was appointed Dean of Students in 1941, having now served in that capacity for 13 years. While
a student at Davidson College, Dean Bailey was outstanding in academic and extra-curricular activities. He was a member of Omicron
Delta Kappa, Phi Beta Kappa, and Kappa Alpha social fraternity. A native of Summerton, S.C., he is the son of
a Presbyterian minister.

Gridders Boast High Scholarship Record

The Registrar's office recently announced that Davidson’s football Wildcats can’t be branded with the old “brainless brawn” tag. Last fall
during the football season and through the first semester, the varsity grades averaged .01 above the student body average of
1.506. The freshman team also averaged above the freshman average with a 1.285 showing as compared with the entire class’
1.251 average.

Literary Societies Initiate Members, Criticize Papers

The Philanthropic and Eumanean Literary Societies held their regular biweekly meetings Monday night. Both of the meetings were cut short
because of reviews. With President Bob Dunbar presiding, the Phis held a short business meeting. Following this was the highlight
of the evening, the initiation of four new freshmen into the society. The new members are Reece Middleton, Boyce Martin,
Bunny Perkinson, and Steve Huntley. The meeting concluded with the supervisors’ reports by Joe Garrison and John Trotti.

Across the way in Eu Hall, the members of Eumanean Literary Society enjoyed three freshman papers and a debate by
four forensic members. The meeting opened with the devotional, which was led by Henry Brockmann, acting president. After the business
of the evening was finished, three new freshman members, Tony Dick, Tom Morgan, and Jim Batten, read their papers. Dick
spoke on “Coming of Age in Davidson.” Morgan read a short dissertation entitled “A Radical Idea.” Batten presented a satire,
“Home Again.” Following this was a well-represented extemporaneous debate on the Supreme Court test concerning the policy of segregation.

GUERRANT QUITS COLLEGE FACULTY: PLANS INDEFINITE

Dr. Edward O. Guerrant, Professor of International Relations, has resigned from the college faculty effective at the end of the
present school term. At present, he has no definite plans for next year but is considering several possibilities.

Dr. Guerrant has served on the Davidson College faculty as Associate Professor of Political Science since 1946. Prof. Guerrant graduated
from Davidson College in 1933 with an A.B. degree. In 1939, the University of Southern California granted him an M.A.
degree and a Ph.D. degree in 1943. During the two years he was working toward his doctorate, he was a
teaching instructor at the California Institute of Technology. In 1944, Dr. Guerrant was appointed a political analyst in the office
of Inter-American Affairs, Washington, D.C., and in 1945 he was in the Division of the American Republics of the Department
of State, Washington. He is a member of Phi Delta Theta, Phi Beta Kappa, and Omicron Delta Kappa (national honorary
leadership fraternity). As author of “Roosevelt’s Good Neighbor Policy,” a book on U.S. relations with Latin American countries between 1933
and 1945, he won national recognition. It has been adopted as a textbook by several colleges throughout the nation. At
present, he has a documentary work on American-Soviet relations which is soon to be released by the publisher. Prof. Guerrant
is married and has three children.

Library Adds Several Selections to Shelves

Many interesting books have been received at the Davidson College Library recently, according to Director Chalmers Davidson. They include:

Brooklyn is America, by Ralph Foster Weld, is a fascinating story of the many peoples who have made Brooklyn a
microcosm of America and American life.

Iles Brody, in Gone with the Windsors, presents the life of the most celebrated couple of our time, of a
couple who has made it their business to be known and to stay in the public eye.

The Great Iron Ship by James Dugan, is an exciting story of a monster steamship, the Great Eastern, the largest
iron ship ever built.

The Man Who Never Was by Ewen Montagu, is a Book of the Month Club selection. This book was taken
from an actual incident which took place during the last world war.

LaRoche’s The Whiteoak Brothers...
