CRAIG: ATHLETIC SUBSIDIES HIGHLY ADVISABLE

VOL. XLII

Conference Examines Car Parking Problems

The Davidson College Student-Faculty Conference Committee met last Friday, March 5, 1954, with its chairman, Dr. J. H. Ostwalt, presiding.
The committee, whose main purpose is to work out college problems through student-faculty cooperation, asked Mr. D. Grier Martin to
meet with them to discuss the student parking situation.

It was suggested that the lot between the rear of the President's home and the new dormitory be turned into
a parking lot for students. However, Mr. Martin said that his job was to apply the funds of the school
to the best advantage of the entire student body and he did not feel that building a new parking lot
there, which along with its great expense would only be temporary until the new dormitory is completed, would be putting
the funds to their best use. He said that some additional parking spaces near the new dormitory would be furnished
upon its completion.

Mr. Martin told the committee that he would look into the possibility of providing some student parking at Shearer Hall
and around the laundry. He also announced that the parking spaces reserved for the ROTC department would be open for
student parking between the hours of 6 p.m. and 8 a.m., but remaining reserved for the ROTC department between the
hours of 8 a.m. and 6 p.m. It was also pointed out to the committee that the large parking area
north of the gym provided for student parking is rarely filled to capacity.

The members of the committee, besides Dr. Ostwalt, are Mr. Donald Plott, Prof. E. A. Beaty, Lyman Kiser, Charlie Johnson,
Floyd Feeney, Jim Daughdrill, and Moody Smith.

Beaver Club Drive To Begin March 12

The annual spring clothing drive, sponsored by the Beaver Club, will be conducted this year from Friday, March 12, through
Sunday, March 28. Every year the Beaver Club chooses the people of some foreign nation or nations to whom they
will send all wearing apparel collected in the spring drive; and this year the clothing will be distributed by the
Church World Service Center at New Windsor, Maryland.

In the past, these drives have been very successful, and the Beaver Club expresses its hope that this year’s drive
will be the biggest yet. This year a new method of collection will be used, with one room on each
floor of every dormitory as a center for the collection of clothes on that hall. These rooms will be designated
by a large red sign on their doors.

Concerning what students are expected to give, any type of wearing apparel in usable condition will be a help, especially
any shoes which may be old but not worn out. All contributions to this important drive will be appreciated by
the Beaver Club, and the clothing will undoubtedly be appreciated by the people of the foreign country to whom it
is sent as a goodwill gift from the people of the United States.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C.

LIONS MINSTRELS HERE ON MARCH 16

Davidson students can realize a long-smouldering hope this coming Tuesday night if they are on hand for the Davidson Lions
Club “King Cotton Minstrels.” A flock of faculty members and members of the administration have starring roles in this production,
as well as some leading students on the campus and some high-stepping high school cuties.

Written and directed by Elgin White, the “King Cotton Minstrels” will feature such well-known personalities as Professors Jack Bevan, George
Labban, and Pedro Trakas, “Y” Secretary Sam Magill, Restauranteur “Wild Bill” Murphy and a gaudily dressed contingent from the ROTC
department, featuring Col. Ernest Davis as a low-life, miserable sentry, and Captain Walter Blanton as a high and mighty Count
who continually rides the sentry’s back! Captain Lee Brown of the ROTC department will also lend his vocal talents in
the minstrel chorus line, while Fred Summers of Red and Black Masquers fame will handle the lead role as Mr.
Interlocutor.

In addition to Summers, other student talent will be Dick Dabney in a special routine with lovely Miss Helen Guerrant,
and Mason Field, Bud Montgomery, and Watt McCain, plus Milton Craig and the Cripple Creek boys. All this and 10
big acts make for one of the laugh-happiest productions to hit Davidson in many a moon, and one that shouldn't
be missed. The show will be held at the Davidson Junior High School Auditorium Tuesday night.

Dr. W. Tally Thompson To Speak At Vespers

The Reverend W. Taliaferro Thompson, D.D., will be the speaker for the vesper service this Sunday evening. Since 1926 Dr.
Thompson has been at Union Theological Seminary as a professor of Christian education. He will be remembered by many Davidson
students as one of the main speakers at the recent conference in Auburn, Ala. of Presbyterian youth.

The speaker is a member of the 1905 graduating class of Davidson College. He received his D.D. and Litt. D.
degrees here, and also has a D.D. from Washington and Lee. While here Dr. Thompson was a member of Omicron
Delta Kappa, Phi Beta Kappa, and Kappa Sigma social fraternity. He was active in athletics, playing baseball and tennis and
managing the track team. Mr. Thompson graduated from the Union Theological Seminary in 1909 and from then until he returned
to teach there, he held pastorates in Lexington, N.C., Knoxville, Tenn., and Mobile, Ala. During the First World War, Dr.
Thompson worked with the Army YMCA, and in 1924 he spent six months lecturing in Korea on Christian Education under
the auspices of the World Sunday School Association of the Presbyterian Church, U.S., Board of Missions.

Dublin Players Will Return to D.C. in 1955

The Dublin Players, due to the hearty reception given them, will make a return engagement next year at Davidson. The
Artist Series Committee has not yet, however, signed the formal contract.

The Players will return under more favorable conditions. They will give two performances, one on Friday night and another on
Saturday afternoon. The matinee will not be the same play given on Friday night. Admission to both performances will be
included in the Artist Series fee. The two plays have not yet been determined, but the Dublin Players plan to
prepare several plays for their 1955 American tour including “The Importance of Being Earnest,” “Shadow and Substance,” and “Playboy of
the Western World.” These performances will probably be in February again.

America’s Native Poet-Biographer, Carl Sandburg, Appears March 31

By J. T. HARMON

Carl Sandburg, who will appear at Davidson College at 8:15 p.m. on Wednesday, March 31, is known as America’s “most
truly native poet.”

Born of Swedish stock in Galesburg, Illinois, his early schooling was haphazard, and at thirteen he went to work on
a milk wagon. For the next six years he was, in rapid succession, porter in a barber shop, scene-shifter in
a cheap theater, truck-handler in a brickyard, turner apprentice in a pottery, dish-washer in Denver and Omaha hotels and harvest
hand in Kansas wheatfields. After serving in the Spanish American War, he started out in the newspaper world, and soon
began to write poetry. His first poems went unnoticed. “Chicago,” however, won the prize for the best poetry entered in
Poetry magazine. Gradual recognition resulted in Sandburg’s winning the Pulitzer Prize in 1919 for his “Cornhuskers.”

While on the staff of the Chicago Daily News he developed his writing, most of which dealt with the common
man and his problems. His exaltation of the working man caused him to be known as the “poet of Industrial
America.” In addition to his reputation as a writer of poetry, Sandburg is known also for his books for children,
and especially for his monumental biography of Abraham Lincoln. “The War Years,” part of the six-volume series, won the Pulitzer
Prize in 1939.

An Evening with Carl Sandburg, acclaimed by critics and audiences everywhere, is sure to be rich in songs, stories, poems,
and tall tales of this great American author. Students will be admitted to the performance upon presentation of their identification
cards.

Blood For Polio, Vets Needed In April’s Drive

By JOHN HIERS

The return of the Red Cross bloodmobile to the campus April 1st and 2nd will bring to the Davidson student
body another opportunity to demonstrate their support of the worthy aims of the blood drives. Those in charge of the
spring drive are counting on the student body to respond again, as they have in the past, and to maintain
Davidson’s excellent record. Unselfish gestures such as donating blood do much to dispel the opinion held by some older persons
that we are a thoughtless generation, unmindful of the needs of our fellow men.

Blood is needed particularly at this time for the veterans’ hospitals all over the country. It should be remembered that
although the shooting war is over in Korea, there are still thousands of wounded veterans in government hospitals who constantly
require blood transfusions. Many of these men are having successive operations in order to regain their health and their place
in the community. They merit our support now just as much as when they were on the battlefield. The need
that was met by the blood drives during the war is as real today as it was then.

There is an additional need for blood because of the recent experiments with gamma globulin in the fight against polio.
It is believed that this new medicine will prove itself to be very beneficial in the fight against the dread
disease. Some of the blood donated here will be used locally in Mecklenburg County, but the greater part will be
sent elsewhere for use in the veterans’ hospitals where the need is so great.

The drive is being jointly sponsored this spring by Scabbard and Blade and ODK. The sponsoring organizations are planning an
intensive campaign with Charley Hasty and Fred Stowe acting as co-chairmen, representing Scabbard and Blade and ODK, respectively. The social
fraternities will be asked to participate as they have in the past.

Completion Date Set For New Belk Dorm

Present indications are that the Belk Dormitory will be ready for use on or about February 1, 1955, Mr. Grier
Martin, treasurer of the college, said today. The date will vary in accordance with weather conditions and availability of necessary
materials.

The building is to be of reinforced concrete throughout. The concrete is being poured now for the basement floor on
the east side. As soon as this is completed, the wood forms will be removed and used for the floor
for pouring the concrete on the west side. Then the masons will lay the brick walls on the east side,
simultaneously with the pouring of concrete on the west. The brick layers and concrete pourers will be working on opposite
sides from now until the top floor is completed.

The dormitory, being constructed by Thompson-Street contractors, is under the local supervision of Mr. Charles S. Ballard.

FRIDAY, MARCH 12, 1954

SCHOLARSHIPS

DUPONT PROGRAM COMES TO DAVIDSON

Dr. John Gallent of the department of chemistry has announced that Davidson will be included in the program of the
Dupont Company designed to assist and advance the teaching of chemistry in colleges and universities.American colleges. The Dupont program is
one of grants to colleges to be used to aid in the training of students majoring in chemistry. It has
been extended to 19 colleges since its inception in 1953. Only one other school in the South, Emory University, has
been incorporated in the program by Dupont. Grants of $2,500 have been awarded to colleges participating in this program for
the first time this year. These funds are to be used at the discretion of the chemistry departments of the
individual colleges. In addition to Davidson and Emory, the colleges sharing in the program for the first time this year
include the following: Allegheny, Bates, Beloit, Bucknell, Colgate, College of St. Thomas, Grinnell, Hope, Kalamazoo, Kenyon, Knox, Lafayette, Manchester, Mt.
Holyoke, Rensselaer Tech, Wheaton, Williams, and Worcester Tech.

Dr. J. S. Wilson Scheduled For Novel Discussion

Dr. James Southall Wilson will direct an informal discussion tonight in the College Union Ballroom at 8:15 on “The Modern
Novel.” All students and the public are urged to attend. The discussion will be followed by a coffee hour.

We Deliver!

The Davidsonian requests the cooperation of the student body in removing any hardship to the students by picking up Davidsonians
on Friday night. We mail out over 500 papers each week to outside subscribers, and our margin of extra copies
is very small. If you are not getting your paper promptly through the regular channels, please see Dick Little, circulation
manager, and he will see that you do.

Male Chorus On Tour Thru Northern States

By JIM MARSHALL

The Davidson College Male Chorus left Wednesday morning for an 11-day tour of the Middle North. The group of thirty
singers has a promising schedule including three high schools in Toledo, Ohio, Bowling Green (Ohio) University, the University of Michigan,
Sullins College, and churches in Grosse Pointe, and Detroit, Mich. and Huntington, W. Virginia. The students are accompanied by Donald
Plott, organist and accompanist, Mr. Philip K. Gehring, and Mr. Herbert Russell. A modern, new Trailway bus has been chartered
for the entire trip. And the driver is popular T. C. Ingram, who has driven the Male Chorus on their
spring tour for 21 successive years. While on the road the singers will stay in hotels, college dorms on campuses
where they have concerts, and in homes of families in whose church they sing. The Mid-Northern Tour has taken much
planning and the well-organized group is a credit to Mr. Plott and the officers of the Male Chorus who are:
Leonard Geiger, president; Thorny Frick, veep; Bob Mack, secretary. Committees were appointed before departure to manage each and every phase
of the trip. The Chorus has arranged both a “secular” and “sacred” concert. Tuxedos will be worn to the former
and robes to the latter. They have plans for “informal concerts” which inevitably arise on their tours. The following students
are making the tour: Bill Bryson, Will Little, Bob Klugh, Ernest Mason, Alan Sparks, Joe Garrison, Pat Miller, Bob Crutchfield,
Jim Faires, Bob Mack, Thorny Frick, Grant Sharp, Hadley Hunt, Walter Bul- (Continued On Page Four)

Almost all of the 160 fraternity pledges at Davidson who are eligible for initiation will be sporting their fraternity pins
when they leave for spring holidays next week. At least one fraternity, however, is planning to wait until later in
the month to confer membership upon its pledges. Pi Kappa Alpha was the only one of the eleven social Greek
letter organizations to follow the custom of initiation before Mid-Winters. The main cause of the unusually long period of “pledge
training” for the other aspirants was due to the college ruling which required all freshmen to eat at the College
Union first semester. As a result, most of the fraternities felt that they needed a longer time to establish a
mutual fraternity spirit between brothers and pledges. The PiKAs held their formal initiation Thursday night, February 18, in the fraternity
house. Initiates were Jerry Brook, Steve Huntley, Irving Walther, George Scott, Randy Johnson, and Edgar Heath. During the intermission at
the formal Mid-Winters dance, Steve Huntley received both the outstanding pledge and scholarship awards. Two other PiKA pledges who hope
to be initiated within the next week on the basis of six-week grades are Mack Hamer and Ken Conger.

The Sigma Chis began the series of formal initiations for the week when they conferred brotherhood on 17 pledges Tuesday
night. Taken into the fraternity were Fred Brandt, Bill Carroll, Jimmy Daniels, Walter Davis, Rex Dillingham, Harold Hall, Dave Hood,
Jim Kuist, Tommy Mann, Bob Shaw, Jerry Pietenpol, Mal McSwain, Read McGehee, Ben Williams, John Trotti, Al Sparks, and Bill
Morrow. The outstanding pledge will be announced at the annual Sweetheart Ball, March 27. The Kappa Alpha pledges will get
their pins Sunday and Monday nights at formal initiation ceremonies in Phi Hall. Those who have completed pledge training and
are eligible for initiation are: Harry Antrim, Jim Brice, Joe Brown, Mack Calcote, John Gilmer, Waddy Hagins, Bill Lazenby, Bill
McCaskill, Dave McCaw, Bob Majors, Stan Miller, Al Myers, Lea Powell, Basil Sharp, Jack Trawick, Lawrence Trotti, Richard Weeks, Andy
Whaley, and Malcolm Williamson. Tentative plans call for a stag dinner in honor of the pledges Saturday night in Charlotte.

Pledges in Phi Delta Theta who are eligible for initiation which will be held Sunday, Monday, and Tuesday nights are:
David Brown, Warren Buford, Baxter Cochran, Vernon Hunter, Ed Lanham, Tom Lee, Lyle Llewelyn, Bunny Perkinson, Barney Poole, Everett Price,
Bob Pulliam, Barney Regen, Norman Richards, Tom Rivers, John Robinson, Joe Sandifer, and Tommy Thompson. A stag banquet will be
held at Kuesters in Charlotte Tuesday night after initiation is over. The banquet will be a combination Founder's Day -
Pledge Award affair. All the alumni are invited, and the awards for the outstanding pledge and scholarship will be given.

Kappa Sigma’s sixteen prospective new members will be initiated sometime during the first of next week. Those eligible for membership
are: Pete Ashcraft, Bob Campbell, Gerald Cathey, Mack Dagenhart, Jim Foil, Jim Gaither, John Kimbrough, Huger King, Dan Lafar, Bob
Moffitt, Ralph Robinson, Bill Roland, Phil Sasser, Alec Shepard, and Stuart Vaughn. The outstanding pledge will be announced at the
Spring Function.

Alpha Tau Omega pledges will be initiated March 28. For their famed Help Week project, the ATO pledges spent several
afternoons cleaning and repairing the Alexander Orphanage in Charlotte. Pledges scholastically eligible are: Cliff Deal, Frank Bloodworth, Tom Morgan, Sam
Sutton, Charlie Gribble, Phil Tesh, Bob Carmichael, Bob Haywood, Charles Efird, Wally Pharr, Sandy Stubbs, Hank Daniels and Kim Kimbrough.

Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity held its formal initiation ceremonies Thursday night in the SPE fraternity house. Pledges who were eligible
for initiation were Jim West, Jack Graham, Sonny Jarrett, Joe Cagle, Fred Teal, Bob Beall, Donnie McCree, Charlie Brown and
Tommy Dove. The painting of their boarding (Continued On Page Four)

ALYEA UTOPIAN OR PIPE DREAMING? (Page Two)

NO. 18

L. H. McAfee To Head D.C. Sociology Department

By MAURICE CROUSE

After three years of vacancy, the Sociology Department will again have a professor and will offer courses next year. Mr.
L. Malcolm McAfee, now assistant professor of sociology at Georgia Institute of Technology in Atlanta, will assume his duties at
the beginning of the fall term.

COUNCIL APPOINTS ELECTIONS BOARD

At its meeting Thursday night, the Student Council appointed to the elections board the following men: Bill Moffett, Kappa Sigma;
Bob Mitchell, Sigma Chi; Homer Sparks, Kappa Alpha; Ralph Petree, Phi Delt; Perry Biddle, Pi-Kapp; Gary Daffin, SAE; Don Reid,
Phi Gam; Rusty Goode, Beta; Kent Mitchell, ATO; Milton Craig, Pika; and Jim Faires, Bill Watt, Andy Courts, and George
Grissom, Campus Club and Independents. This board, working under the Student Council, will supervise the elections of the various student
body officers for the year 1954-55. According to the Council, these elections are to begin immediately following the spring holidays,
and will continue through most of April. Any member of the student body wishing to make constructive criticism or offer
suggestions which would improve the elections procedure is urged to do so by contacting one of the men above.

College Union to Present “Ichabod and Mr. Toad”

On Saturday, March 13, the College Union will present two showings of the Walt Disney feature-length color production of “Ichabod
and Mr. Toad.” One showing will be a matinee performance at 3:30 p.m., and the other will be shown that
night at 9:00. The College Union schedule of movies for the rest of March includes “Winchester 73,” starring Jimmy Stewart,
on March 15 and 16, “Conquest” with Greta Garbo and Charles Boyer on March 24, and “A Streetcar Named Desire”
on March 26 and 27. On display in the Union from March 12 to 26 will be the Columbia University
Bicentennial Exhibit, a graphic exhibit of sixty panels explaining and illustrating the theme of “Man's Right to Knowledge and the
Free Use Thereof.”

Mr. McAfee received his B.A. from the University of Chicago, his B.D. from Yale Divinity School, his M.A. in Sociology
from Yale University, and will receive his Ph.D. from Yale in June. He has held scholarships at Chicago Theological Seminary,
Yale Divinity School and Yale University. At the present time he is a fellow of the National Council on Religion
in Higher Education and a member of the American Sociological Society. After teaching one year at Yenching University in Peiping,
China, Mr. McAfee served for two years as pastor of the Federated Church in Redding, Connecticut. He has also been
a YMCA program director, a hospital chaplain, and student secretary at Chicago Theological Seminary and Yale Divinity School. Mr. McAfee
is married and has two children, ages two and four.

The Sociology Department has been without a professor for three years. The last professor was George Douglas, who is now
a director of the Family Life Council in Charlotte. Dr. C. J. Pietenpol, Dean of the Faculty, said that the
department plans to offer courses as listed in the catalog. He pointed out that only two advanced courses have prerequisites.
Sociology 51, 52, Marriage and the Family, requires only the consent of the instructor. For the benefit of those who
may want to take advanced courses next fall, Dr. G. L. Abernethy will teach the introductory course, Sociology 21-22, during
the summer session.

Vespers & Chapel

Vespers, Sunday, March 14—The Reverend W. Taliaferro Thompson, D.D., of Union Theological Seminary will be the speaker.

Chapel

Monday, March 15—Ed Stuart will have charge of the program.
Tuesday, March 16—Mr. C. Shaw Smith will have charge of the program.
Wednesday, March 17—Dean C. J. Pietenpol will have charge of the program.
