PAGE TWO

Dean’s Appointment Approved

The permanent appointment of Dr. Pietenpol as Dean of the Faculty has met with what might truthfully be described as the hearty approval of the student body. Since coming to Davidson College, Dr. Pietenpol has won the respect of all with whom he has come in contact on the campus. In an unpretending and unassuming manner, he has established himself as one the student can trust. At a college where much is said about cordial relations between student and faculty, Dr. Pietenpol practices what others preach. The Dean himself would be among the first to object if we seemed to eulogize him here. We wish only to give a word of approval to a man whom we feel deserves it, and commend the trustees and administration for a wise choice of a Dean of the Faculty.

Editor Has Kind Word or Two For Much Maligned Plaque

An underdog almost always manages to work up a little sympathy from some quarters whether he has any real merit or not. During the last few weeks since the plaque commemorating the donors in the building drive was erected, there has been no little criticism from some members of the college community. We have heard little favorable comment about it, but it is not for this reason alone, but because we feel it is not necessarily a “bad thing” that we hasten to make a few disjointed remarks in its favor.

Let us grant that perhaps from an artistic point of view the plaque does not greatly enhance the appearance of the corridor outside the auditorium. In the first place, it is too big and cumbersome, a fact which is attested to by the wooden stilts which support it from below. In the second place, perhaps philanthropists should forbid the public recognition of their gifts if they are given in the most altruistic spirit. Nevertheless, men are so made that most of them appreciate, if they do not require, some small recognition of good works. There are few of us indeed that don’t let our right hand know what our left is doing. Certainly, it is not inconceivable that some of the plaque’s severest critics may eventually become benefactors of this institution. If they do, it will be interesting to note whether they insist on complete anonymity of the type they thought most fitting for earlier contributors.

As we have suggested previously, there are certain aspects of that tremendous piece of bronze that are not beyond reproach, or at which we cannot help but poke fun. But it might well be borne in mind that it is the slab of bronze itself that we think somehow a little far-fetched, not the friendship for, and in some cases the devotion to Davidson College which it represents.

Students, Faculty Often Stymie Class Discussions

In last week’s “Off-Moorings,” Bill Moffett discussed the problem of the seeming barrier between faculty and students. This past week a professor here told a class that he was hampered by the fact that students only infrequently raised questions for discussion in class. It is easily apparent that there may be a rather fundamental connection here, and that the latter instance is related to the former situation. There is lacking somehow the feeling that professor and students are on the same team, so to speak, and are working for common goals. Though individual relations of student and professor are often most cordial, as soon as the professor assumes the duties of his station, and speaks “ex cathedra,” the barrier becomes too often apparent.

This is not true with all professors or with the same professors all the time, but it is true enough in far too many classes. It is probably good that students frown upon the bootlicker who seeks the professor’s approval by asking frequent and indiscriminate questions. But we wonder sometimes if this taboo doesn’t grow so strong as to stifle valid class discussion. There is little cause for jealousy toward the man who tries to exhibit his interest and knowledge. Teachers spot these men as easily as students, and they usually get their just desserts. It seems to us that a genuine desire on the part of the faculty to promote more student expression in classes, and less reluctance on the part of students to participate, would exert a healthy influence on student-faculty relations and also help break the barrier.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
BUSINESS MANAGER
ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Assistant Editors
Moody Smith, Charley Hasty, Jim Moore, Dick Roper, Bob Crutchfield, Charles Hassell, Buddy Lamon, Bob Owen, Hunter Strader
Managing Editors
Henry Brockmann, Floyd Feeney
Sports Editor
John Handley
News Editor
Austin Strand
Feature Editor
T. A. Williams
Art Editor
Ed Price
Photographer
Andy Simons
Assignments
Blake Brinkerhoff
Asst. Business Manager
Ed Nicholson
Advertising Manager
Tommy Taylor
Circulation Manager
Dick Little
Collections Manager
Tim Cooper

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1879.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

U.S. In Danger If People Believe Charges of Democratic “Treason”

Senator Joseph McCarthy of Wisconsin has been vindicated on at least one of the many assertions which he has made in the past few months, but contrary to what he would have us believe, the nation is at the most no better off for it. In his nationally-broadcasted speech “answering” former President Harry Truman on the White case last November, McCarthy made the statement that despite President Eisenhower's publicly expressed hopes to the contrary, “The raw, harsh, and unpleasant fact is that Communism is an issue and will be an issue in 1954.” The implication was that this was something over which neither Eisenhower nor McCarthy had any control, that Communism was just destined by fate to be an issue in 1954.

Gave Fate a Boost

But it appears that McCarthy, along with his fellow-appointed defenders of “Americanism,” have decided to give fate a healthy boost early in this new year, with the result that the Democrats, who were in 1952 charged with creating that “mess in Washington,” and laxity in detecting Communists in the government, are now becoming the repeated objects of both explicit and implied treason charges. Last week McCarthy charged that the “Democratic Administration over the past twenty years has deliberately and knowingly allowed Communists to take any position in Government they desired.” And from McCarthy's comrade-in-arms, Senator William E. Jenner of Indiana, came the assertion that when the Republican party took over last year it had found “heaps of evidence of the stupidity, the corruption, even the treason of its predecessors.”

Extreme Extremes

Admittedly, these are only the two extreme examples of Lincoln Day oratory in which the charges made by speakers were of greatly varying degrees of seriousness. But there are certain aspects of the situation which make it different from the usual type of political campaign. In the first place, it is disturbing to see such slanderous attacks begin so early before a political campaign. It is possible that when the Lincoln Day speeches have all been made, the charges linking the Democratic party with treasonous activities and/or failure to remove known Communists from Government will come less frequently. But this will not happen if Senator McCarthy can prevent it. McCarthy, Jenner, and those who support these two particularly vocal public figures are, as was indicated above, out to make Communism an issue in the 1954 Congressional elections if they possibly can, and to pin the label of “traitor” on the Democratic party as a whole.

No Real Issue

The Republicans, it should be pointed out, seem to have developed no real issue on which they can appeal to the voters in the coming campaign. That is one reason, I believe, why many Republicans have either actively engaged in the present slanderous campaign against the Democrats, and why others who would not like to stoop to quite such low levels are at least tacitly condoning these tactics. True, several party leaders have already indirectly censured the McCarthy-Jenner tactics, but nothing positive has so far been done to actually discourage them. What might eventually happen is that the Republicans, without a real issue, might almost be forced by group to use the Communism issue as the principal one in the campaign. Such a state of affairs would be unfortunate for all parties concerned — Democrats, Republicans, and the nation as a whole. For when a political party, desperately groping for a weapon that will keep them in power, is forced to use charges of treason—when such charges are clearly unfounded—it is obvious that the party which makes these charges has lost its integrity; and if these charges are accepted as true by the people, the nation as a whole will have lost its capacity to look (Continued On Page Four)

Why Does Y.M.C.A. Lack Support of Davidson Student

As a member of the student body, and as one who by necessity helps finance the YMCA, I would like to call the attention of the student body to some attitudes held toward the Y and offer some suggestions as to a solution. We all know that part of our tuition is used to support the work of the YMCA. Whether we wish it or not, we have a stake in the Y, and it should concern us whether we are “getting our money's worth.” There are many members of the student body who would prefer not to be forced to become a member of the YMCA. Most local Y organizations are on a purely voluntary basis, and I think rightly there will be no need for compulsory membership. The Y cabinet has become complacent in respect to its service to the student body, and one reason for this is the fact that it does not have to perform any real service to the student to keep up its membership. The YMCA does a needed outlet for Sunday School teaching, youth work, etc., but why should the whole student body be forced to support such an organization when a large number have very little interest in this? Undoubtedly, there are some members of the student body who find the Y to be of great value in their college life; yet there are also those who see no value in it at all. In my opinion, those who do not wish to join should not be made to do so.

There are several reasons why the YMCA is held in low esteem by many of the student body. I am not the first to state them, nor I hope the last. The Y officials are aware of many of their faults, but they seem to be unwilling or unable to remedy them. One of the prime reasons for student contempt for the Y is that it fails to allow enough student participation. Each year the Y sends to the student an invitation to join in its work. Those running for president of the Y the last three years have had this plank in their platform: “I will make sure that these invitations are followed up—everyone will get his chance to work.” All three years these invitations have been ignored for the most part. Every year a large number of students sign these blanks, and somehow the same few members of the student body get the jobs. The Y cabinet is aware of this fault, as certainly the student body is, but why does it continue to happen? If the Y is going to get the support of the student body, it had better allow more willing students to participate in its program. The failure of the Y Gift Fund is an excellent example of the student body’s lack of interest and concern for the Y. Some would attribute this failure to the fact that the student body has the “wrong set of values.” It is true that the average student spends more money for a dance weekend than he voluntarily gives to the Y. The Y has a worthwhile project in helping the Negro community of Davidson, and I think most ofThe student body realizes this. Yet in discussing the matter with other students, I find that many did not contribute to this cause simply because the YMCA was sponsoring it. Much of the student body's discontent centers around the fact that the Y is one of the many things forced upon it. Most people have a reaction against things which they are forced to accept without a choice, and I think this has happened in the case of the Davidson YMCA. I would like to see the Y put on a completely voluntary basis. By doing so, the student would not feel the resentment of having something forced upon him. The Y, on the other hand, would have to improve its program by using the resources of a larger number of the student body, and thus encourage membership and a more worthy attitude of the student body. I believe that the YMCA definitely deserves a place on the Davidson campus, but I do not think it is right to force the student to become a member.

OFF-MOORINGS: FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 1984
College’s Shortcomings Aired

Last week’s editorial page provided a unique opportunity for iconoclasts eager to point up Davidson's faults. Two men—Bill Moffett and Malcolm Williamson—were analyzing their school as they had come to know her while they have been here. Neither approach was egotistical, nor were they devoid of genuine affection for certain phases of the school. They were, finally, hopeful for the future and expressed an optimism that in the end seemed out of proportion to many shortcomings they pointed out.

By JIM MOORE

The sport of needling Davidson, its administration, and its foibles has sprung up over a fairly recent period of time. Even before World War II, focusing attentions on the fallacies of Davidson was not strictly acceptable in the printed page. In the past few years, this art has developed to such a point that now there is a real demand for one writer on the editorial page to continue in the semi-iconoclastic position of tearing Davidson apart—piece by piece, point by point, personality by personality. To be sure, it has always been a journalistic prerogative to attack and to point up shortcomings, but today the style has gone to such a past that unless a writer is ripping limb from limb, he is considered an apologist.

Now what seems so incongruous to this writer is that for years on end, the same, or similar, line of attack is trotted out, fitted up with a few new adjectives, and made to deal the same blows with little or no appreciable effect on the status quo. Well, then, why continue beating your journalistic head against this impasse when little good results? As the two men last week pointed out, there is hope.

Future Nevertheless Hopeful

It is a hope that has been pummeled, sapped, and bled of its lifeblood but somehow goes on. It is also a hope fed by the constantly replenished spirit and fire of new students. As well, the dampening of the hope goes on in the same proportion unaltered as the hope continues to rise anew. The shortcomings of Davidson have been recognized for a long time now by those who have bothered to look beyond the never-wrong attitude found so frequently here.

To summarize what last week’s writers said, and in the process to cut out the important explanations, we can list Davidson's ineptitude in this way:
1. Lack of intellectual stimulation here that is derived from the too homogeneous nature of the student body and also finds itself in the lack of traditional academic spirit.
2. Conformity in many forms, one of which is the administration’s control over our programs.
3. The artificial barrier between students and professors.
4. The air of unnecessary formality, arrogance, and snobbishness on the part of some salaried members of the administration.
5. Davidson’s unrealistic principles that show up badly in compulsory chapel, Vespers, YMCA membership, and the athletic program.
6. Paternalism fails in its original function: to mold character. Take, for example, the control over chapel and its continued compulsory nature. Many students and more than a few faculty members are in favor of a change in chapel, but as long as the trustees say, “No,” our hands are tied.

Our hopes of rectifying these vast failings in the Davidson system are based on a fly-by-night lack of realization. You see, the only real way in which Davidson will change will be through the trustees. That august, conservative, tradition-bound, middle-class, bourgeois-minded group is so made up that they not only will not change their stereotyped attitude but as well they cannot, because of the nature of things. In the first place, they cannot have accurate knowledge of what Davidson is today. They aren't here to see it, and as the French put it, “Pour comprendre, il faut que vivre.” In other words, they haven't an understanding of the scope of present-day discontent on the campus, and further, they will never gain it.

Secondly, every alumnus of Davidson is thoroughly convinced that the school was at its best when he was a student here. The trustees are made up of alumni primarily, as you have a continual process of attempting to turn the clock back, rather than looking forward, or even surveying accurately the present needs of the student body. Unlike some of my colleagues, I am about ready to call it quits on our trying to change for the better. I would give it up entirely if only I, too, didn’t have ... hope.

THE CABBAGE PLANTER: THE WORRY CHRONIC

Beatrice’s life was almost ruined because she was going with the wrong type of man. Be considerate of these modern Sir Gallahads, for there are thousands of them. And thank your editor for exposing these pitfalls of the “savorism complex” for they are far more numerous than any of you good folks even imagine.

Case LSM: Beatrice L. is a puzzled young college woman in her early twenties, and she writes to me to see if I can help her:

“Dear Dr. Todd: I am a puzzled young college woman in my early twenties, and I am writing to you to see if you can help me. About a month ago, a boy whom I had been dating fairly steadily and I decided that we didn’t have a real community of interest, and that it might be wiser for us to stop dating each other. For about two weeks afterwards, I was unhappy at times, and not always able to concentrate on my school work. I am perfectly all right now, though, am doing well in school, am dating a number of other boys, and am not unhappy at all. I am puzzled, however, about the two weeks after we broke up when I occasionally felt unhappy, and I wonder if there might have been something wrong with me. Can you help me, Dr. Todd?”

There certainly is something wrong with you, Beatrice L., and unless you and all the other readers of this public-spirited newspaper wake up to the facts, then you're in for serious trouble as a victim of the common “savorism complex.”

Unsavory Beatrice

In the first place, I would say offhand that you are conceited, self-centered, egotistical, and selfish. Moreover, though you were too cowardly to come right out and say it, I can tell from your letter that you are used to running around to taverns, engaging in a multitude of unsavory affairs, regardless of whom it was you were able to pick up in these taverns. In general, you were, and are, a disgrace to your church and your community. Consequently, when this former boyfriend tried to make a decent person out of you, you reacted against his noble efforts. You rushed back on the road to sin and ruin, rationalizing it all with a couple of glasses of demon liquor at the bar.

By DR. MILLER T. TODD

Deceitful Beatrice

I am sure that you, being a profligate tavern frequenter, smoke cigarettes. Did you know that a smoker burns up almost three times the money each year on his cigarettes as the average person contributes to the church? If you readers want to find out how you can do something about this menace, write for my booklet, “How to Light Your Cigarettes with Matches Instead of Money,” in care of this public-spirited newspaper.

But this is not all there is to Beatrice L's tragic story. As I could early tell from her letter, she interpreted her period of unhappiness after breaking up with her boyfriend as a “savorism complex” sign that she should go back to the life of sin and disgrace which she formerly led.

Bravo, Dr. Todd

Fortunately, I was aware of a fact that Beatrice didn’t know: the average person spends more time being unhappy than he does playing the steam calliope. So, unbeknown to Beatrice, I went to the college town where she is in school and where I was able to find out secretly the names of the men she is dating these days. Returning to Chicago, I mailed a letter to each of these college men, enclosing the full analysis which I was able to make after reading her letter which I reprinted for you. Not wishing to embarrass Beatrice, I didn’t send them a copy of her letter; but merely told each one that Beatrice had dated one man for several months, but had broken up with him because he was virtuous. Actually, I wrote, she is conceited, deceitful, unsavory, and a cigarette smoker only when she is happy. Therefore, if they were worth their salt as unsavory boyfriends, they would think twice before they dated a deceitful girl who might change her ways at the slightest excuse. In this way, I was able to help Beatrice out of what was obviously a horrible and ticklish situation.

If others of you young readers are troubled with the same dilemma, then write for a copy of my free marriage counseling service, “How to Pick a Mate Out of State.” Written with the help of my first four wives, it has brought savor into thousands of unsavory lives. (Always write to Dr. Todd in care of the Watauga (Nev.) Eagle-Democrat, enclosing long, self-addressed, stamped envelope and $2 to cover postage and mailing costs when you send for one of his pseudological charts.)

MUSIC, JAZZ, MARTERIE

By WATT McCAIN

At tonight's formal dance opening the Midwinters festivities, Davidson gets its first chance to hear one of America’s foremost young musical organizations. Ralph Marterie’s orchestra, termed by Downbeat magazine as “the nation’s most promising band for ‘54,” should continue their campus popularity drive and 800 IFC members should receive four hours of real enjoyment. The average Midwinters couple will enthusiastically agree that “he’s really good!”—that is, if Marterie slurs over the better part of the evening with cuddly ballads and occasionally blasts off an ear-splitting original dominated by the brass or a swinging bop to pacify the South Carolina beach beaucats. With concentration on a drag beat adorned by sweet melodies and tender lyrics and with insertion of several well-spaced hand-clapping roof raisers, Ralph can note another success in his mute.

This is American music, an outgrowth of American jazz, but now basically unlike jazz in having lost that art characterized by a freedom to respond to a “feeling” of rhythm, yet within the bounds of harmony. In this sense, jazz and popular American music are fundamentally different although one’s genesis was in the other. An outstanding dance musician is more apt to be an artist of mass psychology than one of jazz. Music is big business. Great corporations in the radio, movie, and recording fields depend heavily upon it for their existence; music affects the welfare, too, of the dance hall janitor and the TV cameraman. In the music industry itself, competition is keen and the herd of dance bands are constantly battling with one another for top spot in the public ear. In order to achieve success, or just survival, the band must naturally cater to the demands of the public.

(Continued On Page Four)