FOR DAVIDSONIAN SERVICE

Reporting Sports: Jim Brice, Jim Holshouser, Larry Parrott
Ads: Bob Carmichael
Subscriptions: Bob Carmichael

VOL. XLII

DR. PIERCE HARRIS

Dr. Harris To Present Ashlin White Lectures

The Ashlin White Bible Lectures, which have been held yearly since 1943 in memory of the Reverend Robert Ashlin White,
D.D., beloved former pastor of the First Presbyterian Church, Mooresville, N.C., will be given next week from October 31 to
November 5. The guest lecturer this year is Dr. Pierce Harris, Pastor of the First Methodist Church, Atlanta. Dr. Harris
is an outstanding leader in his field. Because of the inability of Dr. Harris to be present for Sunday services
because of his own busy pastorate in Atlanta, the Trustees of the Lectureship have secured for the opening day of
the 1954 Lectures the Rev. Robert Ashlin White, Jr., Assistant Minister of the First Presbyterian Church, Winston-Salem, as the lecturer
for the Morning Worship, and the Rev. Costen J. Harrell, D.D., Resident Bishop of the Charlotte Area of the Methodist
Church, as the lecturer for the Evening Worship. The interdenominational services will be held each night at the Mooresville Presbyterian
Church beginning at 8 o’clock.

Dr. Harris (Continued On Page Four)

The Davidsonian

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C., FRIDAY, OCTOBER 29, 1954

Men For 1955 Annual

Quips and Cranks Editor Swain Loy this week named the members of his 1954-1955 yearbook editorial staff. Editor-in-Chief Loy also
told of his general plans for the 57th volume of Davidson’s annual publication. Named as Business Manager is Bill Jenkins.
Managing Editor will be Ronald Whitson. John D. Fite, Gilbert Gragg, and “Sticky” Henson were named as Assistant Editors. The
assignment of Chief Photographer was given to Hank Daniel. Editors of various sections which comprise this year’s volume are as
follows: Senior Class section, Joe Burroughs; Junior Class section, Bert Eyster; Sophomore Class section, Allen Smith; Social Fraternities, Harry Brownlee;
Special section, Jim Marshall; Opening section, Boyce Martin; and Activities, Dee Helm. Heading up the various technical branches are Dick
Morehead, Copy; Sam Inman, Layout; and Diehl Sluss, Advertising.

Editor Loy, full of new ideas gained at the meeting of the Associated Collegiate Press Conference this past week, said
that this year Quips and Cranks is “seeking to present a true picture of the year 1954-1955 at Davidson, neglecting
neither the aims of the administration nor the students’ responses to these aims.” The annual intends to present “just as
true a picture ten years from now as in the year 1954-1955.” Concurrent with these purposes is the adoption of
a new contemporary format design which will make the 1954-1955 Quips and Cranks outstanding in appearance as well as in
content.

Sigma Upsilon Elects Eight New Members

Eight new members were elected to the Sigma Upsilon fraternity at the meeting of the group on October 21. Those
students who were chosen are Frank White, Joel Conarroe, Jason McManus, Tom Dove, Maurice Crouse, and Jim Kuist. Dr. Lee
Copple and Dr. George Labban, of the Davidson faculty, were also elected for membership.

Sigma Upsilon is a national literary fraternity which stresses creative writing and a raising of the intellectual level on the
campus. It is made up of members of the faculty and student body who have a serious bent toward creative
writing. Davidson's Blue Pencil chapter was founded in 1915. At chapter meetings members read literary works before the group and
offer constructive criticism of the work of other members.

Negro Community Hut is Almost Completed

By FRANKLIN BLOODWORTH

The final results of the 1953-54 College Gift Fund are rapidly mounting as work on the Negro Community Center, the
job chosen by the student body last year as its Gift Fund Project, is brought to completion. The Community Center
serves as a center of Negro activities for all ages as well as the center of all YMCA-sponsored activities for
the Negro Community. Under the direction of Hunter Strader, some $3,750 was donated by the students and faculty last Christmas
for the moving and renovation of the Community Center. Vast improvements have been made on the building since that time.
First of all, $800 of the money was used to buy a new lot, 60 by 180 feet, which was
needed because of the necessity of moving the building from its former location. It took $40 to have the land
cleared and another $800 to move the building to its new location. The major portion of the Gift Fund, around
$2,000, was spent for the complete renovation of the Center. This included a new coat of paint, improvements in the
framework of the building, and the adding of two new bathrooms and a new storage room. New electric light fixtures
and electric outlets were installed, and the whole building was rewired. A second-hand electric stove replaced the old wood-burning stove,
and a new gas furnace, costing $100, was installed. Still left to be bought with the remainder of the Gift
Fund are an electric refrigerator and a set of folding chairs and tables. Later, a juke box is to be
installed. Plans for YMCA-sponsored activities at the Center this year include a teen-age club and a program of adult education.
The Community Post of the YMCA, which is in charge of these activities, is headed by Dolph Allen. All students
and faculty are invited to see the Center, which is completed except for some more work to be done on
the floors. The building is located on Graham Street, in the Northwest section of town. Already this year several students
have given their time to help work on the project. Any others who are interested in community work and would
like to participate are requested to get in touch with Dolph Allen or Mr. Magill.

Bristol's Dr. T. A. Fry To Speak At Vespers

The Vesper speaker for this Sunday will be Dr. Thomas Albert Fry, Jr., pastor of the First Presbyterian Church in
Bristol, Tennessee. Dr. Fry attended the Georgia School of Technology from 1936 to 1938, and graduated from Davidson College with
an A.B. degree after transferring here in his junior year. He then went to Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, Virginia,
where he earned his B.D. degree in 1943. In 1949 he received a degree of Master of Theology from Union
Seminary, and the degree of Doctor of Divinity was presented to him by King College in 1952. Dr. Fry has
held several pastorates in Virginia, North Carolina, and Tennessee. He came to his present one in Bristol in 1950.

D.C. Hits Air Waves Weekly With Hadley

Residents of the Davidson community, either on a permanent or a student basis, who happen to turn on their radios
at 12:45 p.m. any Thursday, might be surprised to hear the following announcement: “Radio Station WSOC now brings you ‘Davidson
on the Air,’ a news program designed to promote interest in Davidson College throughout the North Carolina Piedmont area. Ed
Hadley is your reporter.” “Davidson on the Air” is a regular feature of this Charlotte, N.C. station. It is one
of a series of four similar school programs presented by WSOC each week. Ed Hadley, a sophomore from Burlington, N.C.,
began handling the announcing duties for “Davidson on the Air” last year and is now also in charge of gathering
the material for the weekly fifteen-minute program.

Jim Murr Elected President of MSM

Jim Murr was elected president of the North Carolina Methodist Student Movement for 1955-56 at the Methodist Student Conference held
in Salisbury last Friday, Saturday, and Sunday. He will take office in the spring, succeeding Carl Edwards of Duke University.
Murr is a junior from Thomasville, N.C., and is a pre-ministerial student. Jim has been active in religious groups on
the Davidson campus, having been president of the local Methodist student group last year and at the present time is
engaged in deputation work for the YMCA. During the Christmas holidays last year, Murr attended the national Methodist student conference
held in Lawrence, Kansas, at the University of Kansas. Other officers elected for 1955-56 were Ann Corpening, Duke University, vice
president; Maitland Woodell, Pembroke State College, secretary; and Fred Macon, High Point College, treasurer.

National Assembly YMCA To Be Held In Lawrence, Kan.

The National Student Assembly of the YMCA and YWCA will be held on the campus of the University of Kansas
at Lawrence, Kansas from December 27, 1954 till January 2, 1955. The theme for the assembly is taken from Genesis
3:9; “And the Lord God said unto Adam, ‘Where art thou?’” Among the speakers at the assembly will be: Dr.
J. Coert Rylaarsdam, Professor of Old Testament, The Divinity School, University of Chicago; Mr. Philippe Maury, General Secretary, World's Student
Federation, Geneva, Switzerland; Mrs. Maxine Thornton, Leadership Services, National Board of the YWCA, New York City; Miss Muriel Jacobson, UNESCO
staff, New York City; Dr. Kirtley Mather, Professor Emeritus, Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass. The registration fee for the assembly is
$12.50 before November 30; after that date the fee is $15.00. The fee, however, is refundable until December 15. The
cost for meals, room and university service is $28.86, to be paid at registration time in Lawrence. The Davidson College
YMCA has a quota of 25 voting delegates and several non-voting delegates; it is the hope of YMCA officials that
our quota will be filled. Roy Davis is chairman of the cabinet committee to publicize and finance the assembly. The
YMCA hopes to finance partially the trip of each delegate. Anyone who is interested in attending the assembly may get
the necessary information from Sam Magill in the YMCA office.

Miller And Whitman Speak On Eastern Problems, Progress

BY JOHN HARMON

Dr. Alvah L. Miller brought his experience and knowledge of the Near East to an interested group of about 70
Davidson students and faculty members in the ballroom of the College Union on Wednesday evening. Dr. Miller, who for 19
years was General Secretary of the YMCA in India and for 15 years head of the YMCA in Jerusalem, delivered
a forceful and intelligent lecture concerning the problems facing the Near East today and the importance of our consideration of
them. He is one of the few Americans who have first-hand information on the Arab-Israeli dispute, perhaps the most serious
of all the problems. Dr. Miller had the unique advantage of having contacts with both parties involved in the events
and decisions which eventually broke into armed warfare in Israel. He also had the privilege of being a personal friend
of T. E. Lawrence of Arabia and of Count Bernadotte, who was the United Nations mediator of the Arab-Israeli conflict
until his assassination by Zionist extremists. In his lecture, Dr. Miller emphasized the strategic importance of the Near East to
the United States. There are many new states emerging in this part of the world as a result of World
War II, and these states are looking to America—some with fear, some with hope, some with suspicion, some with respect—and
areWatching closely to determine whether the world leadership of the United States will be a success or failure. The types
of government adopted by these new states will depend largely upon the result of observation by intelligent and influential leaders
in Near Eastern affairs. It is significant that 48 per cent of the world’s oil supply is located in such
countries as Arabia, Egypt, Iraq, and Iran. Several of the tremendous problems with which the Near East is confronted are
leadership, education, health, and the interminable Arab-Jewish dispute. During the open discussion period after the lecture, Mr. Arthur Whitman, the
new head of the (Continued On Page Four)

APRIL AMES...
Sings Here Tonight
PLAYS FOR FORMAL DANCE - BILLY MAY BAND WITH SAM DONAHUE

PUBLISHED WEEKLY
The news and editorial voice of Davidson College
NUMBER 6

DANCE AT 9:30 P.M.
BY ALLEN SMITH

Billy May’s famous orchestra, under the direction of Sam Donahue, will play tonight and tomorrow night for the annual IFC
Homecoming Dances. Tonight the formal dance begins at nine-thirty o'clock rather than nine o'clock to allow for the performance of
Ogden Nash to be held in Chambers Auditorium. It has been suggested that everyone attend the Nash presentation in dance
wear so that the formal can get under way as soon as possible. The dance will conclude at one-thirty, while
tomorrow night's informal dance will be held from eight until twelve. The concert immediately following Saturday’s game will be held
in the middle of Fraternity Court, weather permitting.

Following one of the fastest rises ever witnessed in the musical world, the May group continues to feature their familiar
fresh and clean approach. After their recent waxing session with Capitol Records, a prominent music critic described their style as
“a tidal wave of fresh musical expression.” Soon after the organization of the band only 22 months ago, it became
evident that they were much wanted for various engagements throughout the country. When Billy May found that he would be
unable to travel with his group, he was wise to choose such a capable assistant as Sam Donahue.

Born in Detroit, Sam early excelled in athletics, playing varsity football, baseball, and basketball while attending Redford High in the
Motor City. Although at first music was merely a hobby, it was soon to crowd sports from his mind and
become his major interest. After his band, organized while he was still in high school, had held the spotlight for
some time at the Coral Gables Ballroom in East Lansing, Michigan, they became quite well known throughout that region. Yet
Sam realized that this local popularity meant very little when viewed on a national scale. He then decided to accept
one of the big band offers and in 1938 joined the Gene Krupa outfit. In 1940 Donahue and his tenor
saxophone joined with Harry James and later that same year played with Bennie Goodman. Featured coast-to-coast with these three top
bands, he had become the outstanding tenor-man among saxophone players in the entire nation.

Soon after the outbreak of World War II, Sam was drafted into the Navy and there formed a band which
was soon well known among service men in all the foreign theaters. Probably best known for his entertainment in the
form of competitive shows with Glenn Miller and Count Basie, he was widely acclaimed as the United Kingdom's number one
foreign band favorite. After lending his talents as chief arranger for all navy bands during the Korean War, he returned
to civilian life to become assistant leader of the Tommy Dorsey band. From this musical group he went to his
present job of handling the Billy May band on its current tour. April Ames has also risen surprisingly fast in
the musical realm and has been quite successful in her vocal career thus far. (Continued On Page Four)

SPEECH BY ERVIN, MUSIC, FOOTBALL MARK HOMECOMING

Reunion, music, football, and a speaker will highlight Homecoming this year. North Carolina's senator Sam J. Ervin, Jr., is to
speak to the assembled alumni on “Alumni Potentials,” Dr. F. L. Jackson, general alumni president, will install the new officers
of the Alumni Association: George M. King of Bristol, Tenn., president; and Dr. W. T. Thompson of Richmond and Yates
T. Faison of Charlotte, vice presidents. There will also be the unveiling of a portrait of the late Dr. J.
Moore McConnell, class of 1899, who until 1935 was professor of history and dean of faculty. Finally, there will be
musical selections by the Davidson College Male Chorus.

The fraternity houses have been decorated in honor of Homecoming, and tigers and dummies are strewn all over the yards.
Alumni are cordially invited to come by and inspect. As is customary, graduate brothers are welcome, and it is expected
that many will drop by after the game for more reunions with old friends. The schedule for this big Saturday
is:

10 a. m.: Meeting of the Wildcat Club in the ballroom of the Union.
11 a. m.: Performance by the Davidson College Concert Band.
11:30 a. m.: Alumni Convocation in Chambers auditorium.
1 p. m.: Luncheon on the south court of the Union.
2:30 p. m.: Davidson vs. Virginia Tech.

After the game there will be opportunities to visit the fraternity houses, see the decorations, and hear the concert by
Billy May's orchestra in Fraternity Court.

ROTC To Present Static Display Of Equipment

A static display by the Davidson College ROTC department will occupy a prominent position during Homecoming festivities. This display, to
be featured in front of the College Union, is to allow parents and alumni to see the equipment and facilities
of the military department. In addition to the ROTC cadre, cadet officers will be present to assist in the conducting
of the display.

Instruction And Competition

Rifle instruction and dismounted drill have occupied the last two drill periods. Instruction on the assembly, disassembly, and nomenclature of
the rifle by cadet officers and non-coms brought this phase of the military into drill period for the first time.
This development is in line with the overall policy of allowing cadet officers to operate the corps. F Company, commanded
by Cadet Captain Lambe, and C Company, commanded by Cadet Captain Canon, are currently in the lead in company standings.
One interesting aspect of this competition among the companies is that the top company at the end of the next
two drill periods will receive free cuts for the following drill.

Brice Receives Commendation

Jim Brice, a sophomore member of the corps, has been commended for his excellent work in the PIO (Public Information)
work of the unit, particularly for his “Sergeant Sketches” in the Davidsonian.

Inspection Coming

The unit is working hard on its “spit and polish" to get ready for an inspection by Colonel Settle, Commander
of the North Carolina Military District on November 23.

ATTENTION!

After Saturday night’s dance, the College Union will show the movie, “One Foot In Heaven.” Admission is 25 cents per
couple, and the time will be about 12:15.

French Circle Meets To Initiate Members

Le Cercle Francais held its first regular meeting of the year on Tuesday night, October 26, at the home of
Professor and Mrs. George Watts. President Fred Summers opened the meeting with a word of welcome. Appropriately, the next item
on the agenda was the singing of Le Marseillaise. During a brief business session, the group unanimously decided to extend
invitations for membership to M. F. Miree and to T. E. Campbell. The society also extended its welcome to its
newest members: Emory Kimbrough, Dick Pyle, Larry Trotti, Tom Warlick, S. M. Huntley, Jr., David Brown, A. W. F. Bloodworth,
Frank White, Joel Conarroe, and Jack Trawick.

The program included recitations of French poetry by several of the new members, Kim Kimbrough, Dick Pyle, Larry Trotti, Jack
Trawick, and Joe Conarroe, and a talk by Frank White on Pascal. Mr. White also read a letter from Fred
Myers, a Davidson student who is now studying in France. After the program, all members participated in the singing and
playing of favorite French songs and games. The two hostesses rounded out a delightful evening of entertainment by serving delicious
refreshments. The officers of the society, in addition to the President, are John Harmon, Vice-President and Dick Morehead, Secretary. Professors
Goldiere and Watts serve as faculty advisers and members.

Union Schedule Book Of Top-Notch Movies

Jerry Helms, chairman of the Union Film Committee, announces that the following films are booked through February:

Nov. 5-6—Gentleman’s Agreement.
Nov. 12-13—All the King’s Men.
Nov. 20-22—Fourteen Hours.
Dec. 1-2—Miracle on 34th Street.
Dec. 11—Johnny Belinda.
Jan. 4-5—Man on a Tight Rope.
Jan. 8-10—Mr. 880.
Jan. 22—State Fair (Will Rogers).
Jan. 27-28—Snake Pit.
Jan. 11-12—Arsenic and Old Lace (in color).
Feb. 26-28—David and Bathsheba (in color).

Dates are subject to change.

Reading Classes To Start Monday
By CLAGETT TAYLOR

The Davidson College Remedial Reading Clinic will begin its fall series of classes Monday, November 1, in room 231, Chambers
Building. This clinic is an outgrowth of an experiment in remedial reading instruction conducted last spring by Dr. Jay H.
Ostwalt of the Student Counseling Office. Mrs. Henry Lilly will be the instructor of the classes this year.

The program has a two-fold purpose: to speed up slow readers and also to make substantial increases in the reading
rates of those who already have high speeds. Type I, a course for deficient readers, includes special training in all
basic reading skills such as vocabulary, thought analysis, and speed. Type II, which is for advanced readers, gives a series
of speed training exercises such as lengthening eye span and timed exercises.

Students attend three classes a week either on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday or on Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday during either
third or fourth periods. The fall program of the clinic will run from November 1 through December 16 and then
continue on from January 4 through January 15. A second series will be run sometime during the second semester. The
course charges are $25.00 for Type I and $10.00 for Type II. All necessary technical equipment is furnished by the
college.

Last spring the clinic purchased new equipment valued at almost $1,000 to use in the project. Probably the most expensive
and most used piece of equipment is the tachistoscope, a slide projector which flashes digits and phrases on a screen
at exposures up to one one-hundredth of a second. Before beginning the reading program, each student is given an eye
test to determine any visual defects which might hinder his reading. Reading tests to determine each person’s rate of reading
and his comprehension of what he has read are given at the beginning and end of the program.

Dr. Ostwalt believes that this addition to the student counseling services will put Davidson's counseling program on an equal with
the best found in the south. Anyone with questions concerning the Remedial Reading Clinic should inquire at the Student Counseling
Office in room 231, Chambers Building.
