2 THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE VOL. XLII

Committee Outlines U.C.M. Sketch Contest

Tom Warlick, chairman of the Publicity Committee, and Walter Davis, chairman of the Arrangements Committee of Religious Emphasis Week, announced
today that a contest for a sketch portraying the theme of Religious Emphasis Week will be held. The contest is
open to all the members of the student body, and the winner will receive a prize of five dollars. The
second and third place entrants will be awarded three and two dollars, respectively. The deadline for all entries is November
29, which is the first Monday after the Thanksgiving holidays.

The idea of the sketch is to portray the theme of Religious Emphasis Week, “The Mature Christian in the Changing
South.” Sketches should be simple and symbolic, provoking real thought. The entry should be submitted on approximately 8”x11½” slick paper
or slick cardboard. It is suggested that entrants see Sam Marlowe at the YMCA office to obtain possible ideas, to
get a further general idea of what is wanted, and to see any other information that might be desired. The
winning sketch will be used on all publicity that is distributed locally on the campus for Religious Emphasis Week, February
6-10. It will also be used as a huge backdrop for the stage.

OVERCUT PENALTIES DEFINED BY FACULTY; FINES ABOLISHED

Davidson College Treasurer D. Grier Martin has announced that strict enforcement of parking regulations on the Davidson Campus will begin
Monday, November 15. Parking and enforcement will apply to all persons using automobiles on the Davidson Campus, including students, members
of the faculty and staff as well as visitors.

The principal change in the enforcement is the provision for increased penalties for second and third offenders. Any person who
feels that a penalty has been imposed improperly will pay the penalty as provided by the regulations and will then
make a written statement of the considerations under which he feels that he should have a refund of the penalty.
Payment of the penalties must be made to the Bursar’s office within 24 hours after the violation notice is placed
on the car.

The new regulations and provisions for enforcement are as follows:

Parking Regulations
1. No parking by students, faculty, staff members, or visitors is permitted in any places marked “No Parking” or on
any grassed areas on the Davidson Campus.
2. Certain areas on the campus are restricted for the use of visitors and members of the College staff. Other
areas are restricted for the use of students.

Enforcement
1. Students and employees of the College will pay within 24 hours following posting of violation notice.

(Continued On Page Four)

GERMAN FRATERNITY INITIATES ELEVEN

The honorary German fraternity, Delta Phi Alpha, held an initiatory meeting at Dr. French’s home Wednesday night. Dr. Vowles and
Dr. Beatty were present. Refreshments were served by Mrs. French. Those initiated were Al Moreau, David Regen, Kerry Spiers, Bob
Stevenson, Jason McManus, Jeff Bulle, Jim Armistead, Hugh Malone, Jim Morrill, Pat Miller, and Brown Goehring. A committee was appointed
to look into the possibility of sponsoring a German club.

HOFFMAN SAYS “YES”

Luther Scales Receives Appointment To East

Boston.—Luther Lee Scales of Shawmuf, Alabama, a Davidson graduate of the class of 1953, has been appointed for a three-year
term as educator in Talas, Turkey, under the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions. Mr. Scales, who attended Princeton
Theological Seminary after obtaining his A.B. degree from Davidson, will teach English in the American School for Boys in Talas.
This will not be Mr. Scales’ first contact with the Near East, for he served this past summer in Greece
in one of the Work Camps of the World Council of Churches where he met students and teachers from schools
in both Greece and Turkey and felt the challenge for service in that country.

Spanish Club Meets; Initiates 21 Members

Davidson’s Spanish Club initiated 21 new members in its November meeting Wednesday night. The Club also made plans to attend
a meeting of the Winthrop College Spanish Club November 23. Films, slides, and discussions of summer trips to Mexico were
presented. New members of the Club include: Hugh Bryant, Mack Calcote, Don Carmichael, Cecil Dickson, Tommy Dobbins, James Gardner, Johnny
Johnson, Ray Keeter, Robert Keown, Branc Knox, Charles Lambert, Gary Maynard, David McFayden, David McLain, Belton O’Neall, Ray Robinson, Robert
Shaw, Sam Sutton, John Trask, William Warlick, and Willard Wolfe.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C., FRIDAY, NOV. 12, 1954

AUSTRALIAN SPEAKS AT VESPERS SUNDAY

The Reverend Professor J. F. Peter, Professor of Theology in the Theological Hall of the Presbyterian Church in Queensland, Australia,
and Lecturer in Theology at the University of Queensland, will speak at Vespers Sunday evening.

After receiving a Bachelor of Arts degree and a diploma in Education from the University of Sydney, Rev. Mr. Peter
enlisted in the Armed Forces and served as an aircrew officer in the Royal Australian Air Force during World War
II. He rose to the rank of Flight Lieutenant and was mentioned in a dispatch for distinguished service.

Following the war he returned to his studies for the ministry and spent two years, 1946-1948, in St. Andrew's Theological
Hall at Sydney, which is the Theological Hall of the Presbyterian Church in New South Wales, Australia. Honors in four
subjects were awarded him on his graduation. Simultaneously Rev. Mr. Peter had been working for a Bachelor of Divinity degree
at the University of Sydney. He finished work on this in 1950. He was the first student to take double
honors in divinity at this University. To fill any spare moments he might have, he served as minister of St.
Andrew's Presbyterian Church in Maroubra, a suburb of Sydney. It was from this church that he was called to his
present post.

In addition to his other duties, Rev. Mr. Peter holds the Caldwell-Morrow History and is on the Board of Studies
in Divinity at the University of Queensland. He also was elected a delegate to both the Second Assembly of the
World Council of Churches and to the General Council of the World Presbyterian Alliance.

Belk Dormitory Scheduled For Second Semester Opening

By BILL STEWART

In spite of a month’s delay caused by the unavailability of limestone, the W. H. Belk Dormitory will still be
completed by the first of February, unless some unforeseen delay occurs, it was announced this week by Treasurer D. Grier
Martin. This should mean that the building can be occupied by students during February.

Current plans contemplate the removal of the R.O.T.C. Department from its present location into its new quarters on the basement
floor of the Belk Dormitory during the Christmas holidays. The college shop will be then moved into the present R.O.T.C.
building, and the old shop building removed. This will permit the filling and grading in front of the new dorm
which will be necessary before occupancy. The interior of the dorm will be completed by the first of February.

YMCA Leaders Attend Retreat In Mountains

The YMCA Cabinet left this afternoon for a weekend retreat at Montreat. This is the first Cabinet retreat of this
year, and Rev. Magill states that he expects it to be of great value to the boys attending.

The primary purpose of the weekend is to enable the cabinet to get away from the campus to think and
talk together about its job of guiding the activities of the Davidson Y. The thinking is to be done in
the light of the contemporary nature of the university. A second purpose is to help each to deepen his own
spiritual life; and as a result of this to aid the cabinet members in the direction of their Y posts.
Among the activities of the weekend will be a weiner roast and square dance on Saturday night with the Queen's
Cabinet.

Bus-Eco Club To Have Address, Orientation

The Business-Economics Association will hold an informal meeting in the Green Room of the College Union Monday night, November 15,
at 9:30 p.m. The meeting will feature an orienting session for new members and an address by Professor Morton on
the values and concepts of graduate work in Business Administration. The address will be in part a continuation of the
discussion begun at the association's previous meeting.

The orienting session will consist of an explanation and discussion of the plans, purposes, and organizational structure of the association.
All members of the Business-Economics Association and students considering the possibility of entering a graduate business school are cordially invited
to attend the meeting.

Company C Wins First Monthly Drill Award

Company C, under the command of Cadet Captain G. M. Canon, was selected Tuesday afternoon as the best all-round company
of the Davidson College R.O.T.C. Regiment.

The selection was made on the basis of appearance, drill performance, and command leadership. Such a selection will be made
once each month by the Cadet Regimental Commander C. A. Cooper and the Regimental Staff.

Cadet Captain G. M. Canon, commander of the best company, is from St. Angelo, Texas. He is majoring in English
at Davidson and is a member of Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity.

The runner-up company this month was Company F, under the command of Cadet Captain T. W. Lambe Jr., of Winston-Salem.
The monthly selection of a “best company” was a new idea initiated this year under the direction of Cadet Col.
Cooper. Plans have been made to grant a free drill cut to members of each company chosen.

Work Volunteers Needed

The Boy's Work Post of the YMCA urgently needs a number of men to help in its club and recreational
program among the white and colored boys of the community. Experience is not necessary, and the work will take only
a very small amount of time. Those interested should contact the YMCA.

All The King's Men To Be Seen At Union

The College Union Film Committee will present “All the King’s Men” tonight and Saturday at 9 p.m. This is the
Academy Award-winning adaptation of Robert Penn Warren’s novel.

Cornelia Otis Skinner Here Next Week

Special to the Davidsonian BY DUNBAR OGDEN

DAVIDSON.—Friday night, November 19, the Davidson Artist Series will present Cornelia Otis Skinner, one of the foremost actresses of our
time, in a program of her famous monologues. This will be the second appearance of Miss Skinner on the Davidson
stage, as she was heard here with much enjoyment and received with a great deal of enthusiasm two years ago.

Miss Skinner’s mother was the gifted Maud Durbin and her father is one of the finest actors the American stage
has produced—Otis Skinner. Born in Chicago, she has been in constant contact with the theater since early childhood. At fifteen
she attended Baldwin School, Bryn Mawr, Pennsylvania, where her mother volunteered to coach a Shakespearean production.

Is Marlowe Shakespeare? New York —William Shakespeare, over whom students have sweated for more than three centuries, is possibly history’s
biggest fraud. It is more than likely, says the current issue of Esquire Magazine, that William Shakespeare wrote none of
the great plays attributed to him, but merely signed his name to them, under an arrangement with the real author,
Christopher Marlowe. That is the contention of a Shakespeare scholar, Calvin Hoffman. His theory that Marlowe wrote the “Shakespeare” plays
is explained by author Robert Heilbroner in the Esquire article, “The Murder of the Man Who Was William Shakespeare.” History
tells us that Marlowe was stabbed to death in a tavern brawl several months before Shakespeare published his first play.
But history, says Hoffman, is wrong. The fact is, according to this new theory, that Marlowe faked his own murder
in order to elude government prosecution of a sedition charge. Charged with seditious and atheistic writing, Marlowe faced certain torture
and possible death. So, says Hoffman, he pretended to be murdered and fled the country. A few months later, he
returned and spent the rest of his days as a secret guest in the castle of Lord Walsingham, Marlowe's known
friend and benefactor. It was from this castle that he wrote all the “Shakespeare” plays and sonnets. Hoffman has a
hunch that the original manuscripts—bearing Marlowe’s signature—are buried with Walsingham in his tomb. But he must get permission to open
the tomb from the Vicar of Chiselhurst. Thus far, the vicar has refused permission. If Hoffman ever succeeds in opening
the tomb and finds what he is looking for, he will have single-handedly solved a 300-year-old murder mystery, and exposed
history’s most outrageous literary hoax. But it probably won't help students much. They'll still have to slave over “The Tragedie
of Hamlet;” but the course will be called “Marlowe,” not “Shakespeare.”

Cornelia Otis Skinner made her real entrance on the professional stage in Blasco-Ibanez’ “Blood and Sand” at the Empire Theatre
in New York. Her rise to stardom is a story filled with success piled upon success. One of the high
places in her repertoire was the production of “The Wives of Henry VIII,” which was followed by “The Empress Eugenie,”
and “The Loves of Charles II.” In “Mansion on the Hudson” Miss Skinner accomplished an extraordinary feat of acting a
whole play by herself. Her unique performances by now had won for her a critic’s designation as “... the greatest
single attraction of the American theatre...” A transcontinental tour of “Edna His Wife” was a triumph in the actress’ life,
and her first venture as a star with a full company in Shaw’s great play, “Candida,” added another laurel to
her now-famous name. The next season she appeared in New York in “Theatre,” by Somerset Maugham, and this was followed
by Lillian Hellman’s “The Searching Wind.” Miss Skinner's greatest dramatic success was as the star of the Broadway production of
“Lady Windermere’s Fan.” Today Cornelia Otis Skinner, the author, is as well known as Cornelia Otis Skinner, the actress. She
has written all of the series of sketches with their pathos, humor, and satire, which she is to present here
next Friday night. Outside the theater her writing has been as successful as it has been on the stage. Her
first book, Tiny Garments, did for prospective mothers what Irvin S. Cobb did for hospital patients in Speaking of Operations.
The New Yorker and other leading magazines began to find that she had a real gift for the light essay,
and her articles have appeared in Harper’s Bazaar, Vogue, Housekeeping, and Ladies Home Journal. A collection of these appeared under
the title of Excuse it, Please! Her third book was Dithers and Jitters and, in collaboration with Emily Kimbrough, she
wrote “Our Hearts were Young and Gay,” which was filmed. Miss Skinner’s most ambitious and successful book is Family Circle,
which is the novel of the same name. At Bryn Mawr her talent was immediately recognized, and here she began
writing her monologues which have so delighted her countless audiences.

Stars include Broderick Crawford, Mercedes McCambridge, Joanne Dru, John Derek, and John Ireland. Two of these won Academy Awards—Broderick Crawford
winning one for being the best actor of 1949, and Mercedes McCambridge for the best supporting role. “All the King’s
Men” is a fictional version of Huey Long's rise to power in the state of Louisiana. Broderick Crawford is cast
as Willie Stark, a demagogue who sets up a one-man government. The film was described by Christian Century as “absorbing...
provoking, if discouraging, in its reasoned satire on vicious local politicians, brazen misuse of power, and the people's weakness.”

ENFORCEMENT OF PARKING REGULATIONS TO BE ACCOMPANIED BY STIFF FINES

A meeting of the Executive Committee of the faculty has clarified penalties for overcutting college exercises and has abolished fines
as one of the penalties for overcutting. Tuesday, November 9, the general faculty approved both measures at its regular meeting.
In clarifying penalties for overcutting, three passed with regard to students who by immoderate cutting find themselves subject to Executive
Committee action. After the first overcut the student is on probation; after the second overcut he is restricted to the
town of Davidson for not less than thirty days; a third overcut will result in suspension from college. The office
of the Dean of Students will warn both the student and his parent (or guardian) when the student receives his
first overcut, and will make clear the sequence of penalties to be imposed for continued violations. Action taken with regard
to the penalties imposed for overcutting has been in progress for some time, and is in no way connected with
Tuesday’s action by the faculty with regard to the cutting of reviews.

The W. H. Belk Dormitory was made possible by the gifts of the W. H. Belk family and business associates,
together with funds made available from other sources. It is named for W. H. Belk, founder of the Belk Stores
which are now located all over the South and in other sections of the country. The building, including landscaping, moving
of buildings and other necessary items will cost approximately $850,000. When allowance is made for the R.O.T.C. Department and the
extra work not directly connected with actual construction of the building, the cost is a little more than $2500 per
student. This is considerably below the average cost for similar dormitories in the Southeast. The dormitory will be very modern,
and all the newest conveniences will be included in the student rooms. A built-in lavatory with a recessed medicine cabinet
will be in the corner of each room near the door. Immediately down from that will be two large closets,
separated by a large built-in bureau. Over the closets will be large storage spaces, which will have sliding doors to
make access to them more convenient. Further down will be a large built-in desk and bookcases. Each desk will probably
be equipped with a fluorescent study lamp. Across the room will be another identical desk, and of course, two beds
separated by a lighted night table. The rooms on the fourth floor, many of which will be single rooms, because
of their dormer type construction, will have desks with bookcases built in the sides. Floors in the rooms will be
covered with block-type linoleum, while the floors of the lounge, stairs, and stairwells will be covered with tile. Steam heat
will be used, but the radiators will be enclosed in metal cabinets. In addition to the 298 students who will
occupy Belk Dormitory, there will be a lounge, and an office for the Supervisor of Dormitories, Mrs. R. A. Little,
and a visitor’s rest room. The R.O.T.C. will occupy the entire basement floor, and will have a separate entrance on
the north side of the building. The rifle range will be located in the sub-basement near the laundry. Mrs. Little,
Supervisor of Dormitories, says that all seniors wanting to move to the new dorm will have first preference to the
rooms. Next choice will go to those students living in Carolina Inn and the Village, since both of these structures
will soon come down. She asks, however, that room reservations not be made till after January, since definite floor plans
and other necessary information are not yet available to her.

JOHN FESPERMAN TO GIVE ORGAN RECITAL

John Fesperman, College Organist for Catawba College in Salisbury, will be presented in the first of the 1954-55 organ recitals
at Davidson College on Sunday afternoon, November 14, at 4:30 P.M., Donald Plott, Director of the Department of Music at
Davidson College, announced recently. A native of Kannapolis, Mr. Fesperman is presently an Associate Professor of Music on the Catawba
College faculty and is also filling the temporary position as college organist and Instructor in Organ at Davidson College, his
Alma Mater, in the absence of Philip Gehring who is on a Sabbatical Leave. The Sunday recital will feature the
Bach “Trio Sonata II in C Minor,” the “Organ Sonata No. 1” by Hindemith, selections by Vierne and the Max
Reger “Toccata in D Minor.” Mr. Fesperman will begin his program by playing Bach's “St. Anne Prelude” and close with
the “St. Anne Fugue.” The series of organ recitals as in past years will be held in the Davidson College
Presbyterian Church, beginning at 4:30 P.M. The series is presented annually by the Davidson College Department of Music without charge.

Dr. Jackson To Speak At Bucknell Services

Dr. Frank L. Jackson, formerly treasurer of Davidson College, will be the speaker at Bucknell during that college’s Religious Emphasis
Week.

Commission

The Commission for Effective Citizenship of the YMCA which is sponsoring the World Citizenship Forum, will present two programs Wednesday,
November 17, in Chambers Auditorium. The topic of this forum will be “Supreme Court Decision: Obstruction or Implementation?” The purpose
of the forum is to present the problems and the possible methods of approaching it in regard to the recent
ruling on segregation in the public schools. Speaking in these programs will be Mr. James M. Dabbs of Mayesville, South
Carolina, and Mr. Beverly Asbury of Zebulon, N.C. Mr. Dabbs has been a professor of English at the University of
South Carolina, but has recently retired to his farm to write extensively for the Christian Century Magazine, the American Scholar,
and Presbyterian Outlook. His writing has dealt with the social, religious, and economic life of the South. Mr. Asbury is
at the present the minister of the Zebulon Baptist Church of Zebulon, N.C. and a graduate of the University of
Georgia and Yale Divinity School. He has frequently been a group discussion leader at the University of North Carolina and
has recently been the main speaker at the Religious Emphasis week at Atlantic Christian College. In the morning Mr. Dabbs
will give the historical background of segregation and reasons which led up to the Supreme Court decision. That evening, at
seven thirty, Mr. Dabbs will give an idea of the problems which the South faces as a result of the
ruling, and Mr. Asbury will discuss the local effects of the ruling. This will be followed by a discussion from
the floor. The Commission for Effective Citizenship chose this topic because of its capital importance to the young people of
the South. This forum will not in any way detract from the University Christian Movement which will be held here
later in the year, but will supplement the U.C.M. program.
