PAGE TWO THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, MARCH 6, 1964

Dean Bailey's Surprise Resignation Terminates Faithful Tenure

Doubtless the news of Dean Bailey’s resignation as Dean of Students comes as a surprise to the student body just as it did to the Davidsonian. To say that it was unexpected is to say the least. Certainly, the college loses one of its most earnest and conscientious administrators, and one who was not content to do second best on any duty or detail that faced his office. Dean Bailey gained the reputation of being firm, but scrupulously fair in enforcing the rules of the college, and in carrying out his obligations. If a man ever took his job seriously, surely Dean Bailey did, and in doing so he won the admiration and respect of the student body. It was the seriousness with which he bore his burdens which exacted a heavy toll on his time and endurance, and led his family and friends to a serious concern over his health. Though not broken in health by any means, Dean Bailey felt that to continue in his position would soon put his physical welfare in serious jeopardy. So this week he sent his letter of resignation simultaneously to both President Cunningham and Dr. J. M. Richards, President of the Board of Trustees. Upon accepting his resignation, Dr. Cunningham expressed his own sincere appreciation of the devoted manner in which Dean Bailey has served the college during his 13-year tenure.

Students Prefer Own Choices To Free Union Exhibitions

The College Union seems to be passing from the status of a new and not completely accepted entity to that of an established campus institution. Director Shaw Smith has made it plain to those who have talked with him during this transitional period that the Union is operated principally, though not exclusively, for the students, and that their criticisms and suggestions are welcomed. Through this medium, therefore, we offer both criticism and suggestion. It seems to us that the Union could cut its operating expenses at some points with a view of eventually reducing the present Union fee of $15.00 and eliminating the section of student thought that maintains that the Union is somewhat lavish with the students’ money. For example, the recent purchase of a number of books which ranged from outdated photography annuals to a catalogue of sculpture has raised the question of whether the Union is extending itself in an unwise direction. The occasional free exhibitions which have included in the past everything from monkey shows to electronic musicians also cost the Union money. From some comments we have heard recently, this money could be better spent, or not spent at all. On the other side of the ledger, the improved quality of movies that have been appearing on the screen of the ballroom recently has been quite well received. It seems to us that most Davidson students would rather pick their entertainment and pay a nominal fee for it, than see the money from College Union fees devoted to bringing some of the more or less exotic entertainment to the campus.

Puerto Rican Fanatics Put U.S. At Disadvantage In Cold War

The display of violence put on by the four Puerto Rican fanatics in the House of Representatives Monday was unfortunate enough in that five members of that body were wounded, two seriously. But just as important in the overall picture is the effect which this occurrence could easily have on the tense international political scene. For years we have been using as one of our most important weapons in the Cold War the fact that the people living behind the Iron Curtain are virtually enslaved, since the governments they must live under do not govern in their interests and are actually no more than puppet regimes with all the strings being pulled by the men in the Kremlin. By constantly repeating this fact in the propaganda war, and at the same time pointing out that our method is one of freedom and democracy, we have usually maintained at least a draw in the Cold War.

Russians Given Advantage

But the Puerto Rican episode is bound to give the Russians a wealth of ammunition in the fight. The Trustees have crossed the moral Rubicon in athletics. By their recent action of asking the college to underwrite the athletic subsidization program, they clearly defined the path down which Davidson is going toward probable athletic chaos. Now they not only have recognized, through direct implication, the rabid alumni organization, The Wildcat Club, but also they are advocating the very athletic evil which Davidson supposedly is opposed to in its very basic principles. The amateur athletic organization which Davidson says it advocates—witness Dr. Cunningham's speech at the All-Sports Banquet last spring—and the brand of subsidization to which the Trustees would commit us, are mutually contradictory. The very fact is that they cannot coexist, but the Trustees would have one hand do what the other does not know exists. It is to be expected that most students and many alumni will say of the change effected by the Trustees, “A good thing. About time Davidson did something. Maybe we can win a few games now. It's about time the college did its part for athletics in finally coming to the aid of the Wildcat Club.” All this thinking represents just the emotional reaction to the emotional appeal of putting more money into athletics that some greatly desire. Beneath the action (that of subsidization) there lie devious and slippery paths of thinking and action which have been followed to great sorrow by many collegiate institutions of the North and Northeast particularly. Let me explain my own position in this matter so that there will be little misunderstanding of my purpose. Your writer is not opposed to athletics per se, and he has spent many enjoyable and profitable hours working and playing at a number of sports. What is entirely odious to him is the corruption of the amateur athletic program through the commercialization of athletics that has taken place in so many colleges and universities in the country and which seems about to take place here. As Mr. John Payne put it, “There are two ways in which the Trustees’ action may be judged.” The first is the overall moral question involved, with several pertinent appending questions, and the wisdom of the move is the second.

By DICK ROPER

The moral question involved has lately resolved itself to this: Is paying a student for playing a sport for his alma mater the morally right action? Also, is it morally just to make up athletic scholarship funds from the general fund of the college? In discussing morals, this writer does not pretend to be an authority, nor does he wish to be regarded as a self-styled purveyor of public morals. There is a point in pragmatic analysis where a certain set of values—call them morals or right standards—must be introduced. Far more capably than I could hope to have done it, Clifton Fadiman's article on the evolution of intercollegiate athletics and its alternating present-day evils which appeared earlier in the Davidsonian, clearly revealed the course that progressive commercialization takes. In his article, he showed how the up-the-ante tactics of many schools had led them to eventual greater control of the institutions by influential (wealthy) alumni and the athletic departments. In the past, Davidson has been woefully lacking in providing adequate facilities for carrying on a program that would “train body as well as the mind.” One might interpose the question at this point of whether or not Davidson is not being dictated to too much by athletic-success-minded alumni and the athletic department. Surely there is coming to be a greater investment in the players themselves, when over $100,000.00 has gone into athletic scholarships in the last four years. Certainly, there is a great investment in such a gymnasium as ours and in improvements in the football field. The coaching staff is today much larger than it was not too many years ago. With progressive alumni interest in winning teams, the investment tends to increase. The Wildcat Club has never met one of its four goals yet, and now instead of the expected greater participation in the club, I predict a decrease. The reason for this is that they have reached the depth of alumni support they can gain, and interest will continue to lag unless a winning season is forthcoming. More important, though, is the assurance that the college will make up any deficit, so there will be no real incentive to reach a higher goal. It has been interposed that the greater pressure on the college to get the money in. This is added withthe knowledge of our leader’s fabled ability to raise money and with the full facilities of the Alumni Office to back the drive. Still, it must be noted that the Alumni Office is now the central collecting point and chief organizer for the Club’s activities and that Dr. Cunningham is already fairly busy raising money for dormitories and such. But if there is a winning season and the Wildcat Club happens to reach its goal of $36,000.00, then the Trustees will probably feel that the college has been able to subsidize the athletic program so far and should continue to do so to the same extent they have in the past. The Trustees will then raise the underwriting by the same amount the college has contributed in the past. This evolutionary cycle comes to a great jolt when the Wildcat Club again fails in its effort to reach its goal. Then, great pressure is brought to bear on the college to keep up the level of subsidization. Here is where coaches and alumni truly begin their pressure on the college to do what is necessary to get a winning team—lower standards for the necessary men, offer greater inducements (money) to students to come to play ball, and hire big-name coaches who have the ability and experience to handle winning teams at all costs to the players, and to coddle the proper alumni. Now this is a fairly hypothetical picture and it is one not difficult to imagine happening here; only it is a little difficult to pick out the picture from the generally slower moving alumni of Davidson. We might recall that it was only four short years ago, in the spring of 1950, at the Red and Black football game that year, that the first real movement for the Wildcat Club crystallized into the embryonic organization that soon grew and developed into what we have today. In the final analysis we have to ask ourselves what role Davidson should play in education and athletics. The guiding light must necessarily be that Davidson is first, foremost, and ultimately an educational institution. The intelligent and intellectual life of the college must come above all else or soon Davidson will fall from grace (divine or earthly) and suffer greater loss of prestige than athletic victories can bring in recompense. It is this writer’s understanding, to sway the minds of those who doubt or are uncertain as to which cause is right (particularly in Germany, Italy, France, and the Middle East). Mrs. Lolita Lebron, leader of the group, stated after the shooting that she and her cohorts had only committed such an act in order to dramatize the “cause for Puerto Rican independence” at the beginning of the current Inter-American Conference in Caracas, Venezuela. To make matters worse for the U. S. in the propaganda war, a note found in Mrs. Lebron’s purse after the shooting made it appear even more certain that the four had really been working for the cause of Puerto Rico against an allegedly imperialistic America. Mrs. Lebron’s note stated in part: “Before God and the world my blood claims for the independence of Puerto Rico. My life I give for the freedom of my country. This is a cry for victory in our struggle for independence. Which for more than a half century has tried to conquer that land that belongs to Puerto Rico.” We certainly do not advocate stripping the Union’s budget, but everyone would welcome a reduction in the Union fees if one would result from eliminating some of these less popular features. (Ed. note: The following article contains excerpts from the March 1 issue of Time and is printed with their permission.) From Cotton Mather to Joseph McCarthy, Harvard, “the most diversified, individualistic and non-conformist of U. S. universities,” has taken on all comers in the fight for liberal education. “It was Harvard that, in 1636, transplanted the seeds of liberal learning to the New World, and it has been Harvard more than any other institution that nourished it and made it grow,” Time, The Weekly Newsmagazine, said last week (March 1 issue) in a cover story on President Nathan Pusey and Harvard’s pioneering role in U.S. education. Defender of Tradition By declaring that the purpose of their college was “to advance learning and to perpetuate it to Election Speeches By Themselves Inadequate Criteria of Ability With spring come student body elections once again. This time, happily, a little earlier than usual, thanks to the farsighted planning of the Student Council. With the type of elections we have at Davidson there is perhaps less occasion for editorial comment than would be the case under different circumstances. Probably the quiet sort of system we have is as good as any for electing men to most of the present student body offices. We might say, however, that care should be taken not to allow the chapel speeches made by candidates for some of the major offices to exert the wrong kind of influence, pro or con. It is all too easy to vote for a good speaker rather than for the man with the best qualifications for a specific job. Sometimes the two go hand-in-hand, but not necessarily. Content is the thing to look for, not rhetorical ability. Harvard's founders made a decision that has set the tone of U. S. higher education ever since... Harvard is not only a university, it is also a state of mind. Nowhere is the pursuit of knowledge carried on with more intensity,” Time says. Nathan Pusey, 24th president, first non-New Englander and second non-Bostonian, was an apparent nobody when he was named to the position in 1953. “By last week both Harvard and the nation had come to know him better. In his own quiet way, he had not only won over his faculty, he had also emerged, by virtue of his office and his personality, as the eloquent defender of an ancient tradition.” “Unremitting Vigilance” When Pusey became president he was charged with the task: “to pursue, with unremitting vigilance, inquiry into fundamental truths in every field of knowledge, no matter where the trail leads, no matter how unpopular the result.” For his predecessors the road has not always been easy. The “colledge” had barely started when President Henry Dunster was forced to resign for holding the view that infant baptism is unscriptural. In 1796, the college press was under fire for printing a “popish” book and President John Leverett himself came face to face with the formidable Cotton Mather, who fulminated at the reading of “plays, novels, empty and vicious pieces of poetry, and even Ovid's Epistles, which have a vile tendency to corrupt good manners.” Panics and Passions Under President Edward Holyoke (1737-69), the Harvard Overseers demanded an investigation of tutors suspected of “holding dangerous tenets,” and in 1747 citizens began agitating for an oath of loyalty to Calvinism. In 1880 a committee of the General Court of Massachusetts denounced the curriculum as too intellectual. “Through wars and panics and all the passions they bring,” Time says, “Harvard’s theme never changed. The age (1869-1909) of Charles W. Eliot... was a golden age for the university, when such men as William James, Josiah Royce and George Santayana flocked to its faculty, and colleges and universities across the U.S. fell all over themselves trying to follow its lead...” Scapegoats and Sanctuaries World War I brought shrill demands for the scalp of German Psychologist Hugo Munsterberg, and the ‘20s brought more of the same for Socialist Lecturer Harold Laski. In both cases, President Abbott Lawrence Lowell (1909-33) stood his ground. “If the Overseers ask for Laski’s resignation,” he said, “they'll get mine.” Pusey, “perhaps the most ubiquitous president the university has had in years,” has played senior defense counsel to the academic world beyond Harvard, Time says. While president of Lawrence College in Appleton, Wisconsin, he was a sponsor of a campaign pamphlet against his fellow townsman Joseph McCarthy. Since then the junior Senator from Wisconsin has blasted Pusey and painted a picture of the university as “a privileged sanctuary for Fifth Amendment Communists.” Old Story to Harvard Says Time: “It was all an old story to Harvard—as old, indeed, as the whole university tradition. The concept of academic tenure is a delicate one that has grown up partly because the teacher has historically been a favorite target for attack.” “It is simply another way of saying that a man's mind cannot exist half slave and half free, that if a scholar is to operate effectively on the frontiers of his field, he must also be accorded the rights of any other citizen to differ and dissent outside that field. Harvard has refused to fire four teachers who invoked the Fifth Amendment because they are not now members of the party, have never been found guilty of espionage, and have not been engaged in subversive activities.” Last of the Pioneers “Since the advance (of learning) has never ceased, the modern Harvard and its peers in U. S. education have, in a sense, become the last of the pioneers, operating on a frontier that is never conquered. But as Nathan Pusey has already found out, pioneers are rarely popular. They are threatened from (Continued On Page Four) BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD, N. C. “Coke” is a registered trademark. ©1953, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY