PAGE TWO

Complacency Is Reverse Side Of Cynicism, Both Extremes Bad

Last week in this column we spoke of Davidson cynicism, this week let us briefly examine the other side of
the coin. By this we mean the attitude of complacency that has appeared from time to time here at Davidson
among students and also among faculty and administration. Perhaps the cynicism among the upperclassmen is partly the product of disillusionment
about the Davidson so perfectly painted by alumni, faculty, friends, and some students of the college. Some of us remember
that as freshmen we received the impression that Davidson College had definitely “arrived” in the broadest sense of the word.
This indoctrinated feeling of security in our situation led in many cases to the same sort of complacency about the
past, present, and future standing of this college that seemed to be held by many of those connected with it.
Davidson appeared to be more of a standard to conform to than a college in which we ourselves had the
opportunity of continuously shaping and improving. We sometimes forgot, and continue to forget, that this college regardless of its noble
tradition and heritage, is not better at any given moment, than its student body, faculty, and administration at that moment.
Tradition is wonderful, we agree, but left to stand alone it is less than nothing. Davidson is part of a
state, an area, and a nation in a state of flux. While holding to the things we deem essential, the
college must also adapt itself to a changing society in preparing its students for life. Davidson has been a relatively
successful college, not because it is Davidson, but because it is doing a job, and doing it well. While students
are often critical of many aspects of the college about which we have grown cynical, we are unconcernedly complacent or
indifferent about the kind of education we are getting. We point to past records and affirm that Davidson is a
fine school academically, but complain that too little thought is taken of the students’ present well-being. Perhaps now is the
time to think a little less of our present comfort and direct our concern toward our preparation for the future
and toward the future of the college. We need to be less conscious of ourselves as students and less complacent
about the more fundamental question of future citizenship. Present student cynicism is due partially to too much complacency in low
places and high, but an informed and concerned student attitude can help moderate both extremes. Let us hear no more
of Davidson’s being a “land of milk and honey,” which it is not. Students should be made to feel they
are parts of an institution in the process of constant change and improvement, but with many shortcomings—not that they are
in the best of all possible schools to which they must absolutely conform.

Chorus Not Without Honor, Except On Davidson Campus

Even as a prophet is not without honor except in his own country, so also the Davidson College Male Chorus
is not without honor except on its own campus. For a long time we have felt, along with many others,
that the Male Chorus, and the Concert Band for that matter, are a good bit above the run-of-the-mill in so
far as collegiate musical organizations are concerned. But we have pretty much taken them for granted, and other than at
vespers and occasionally in chapel have never taken the time to hear them at work. Last week the Chorus, after
having returned from a successful northern tour, gave a concert in Chambers Auditorium. They had a small but receptive audience,
less than half of whom were students. This writer, like the vast majority of students, was absent. It seems to
be a sort of tradition that we do not attend chorus and band concerts by the local groups. Despite the
fact that most of the student body evidently does not appreciate the quality of the chorus enough to voluntarily attend
its concerts, there are some who do. In the Thursday morning edition of the Charlotte Observer appeared the critic’s review
of the Davidson Male Chorus concert. The Observer writer praised the chorus literally to the skies, comparing it more than
favorably with similar groups from Princeton and Dartmouth, and obviously inferring its superiority. Reprinted on Page 4 is the Observer's
review of the recent concert. If it is an accurate representation, most of the student body missed an opportunity to
hear one of the finest college choral groups in America.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Moody Smith

BUSINESS MANAGER
Charley Hasty

ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Jim Moore, Dick Roper

Assistant Editors
Bob Crutchfield, Charles Hassell, Buddy Lamon, Bob Owen, Hunter Strader

Managing Editors
Henry Brockmann, Floyd Feeney

Sports Editor
John Handley

News Editor
Austin Strand

Feature Editor
Bill Moffett

Art Editor
Ed Price

Photographer
Andy Simons

Assignments
Blake Brinkerhoff

Asst. Business Manager
Ed Nicholson

Advertising Manager
Tommy Taylor

Circulation Manager
Dick Little

Collections Manager
Tim Cooper

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C, under the Act of March 3, 1907.

Should Witnesses Be Required To Testify Against Themselves?

The several amendments to the Student Body Constitution proposed last Friday came at a time when feeling was running high
on the recent case involving the expulsion of five students from school for drinking on campus, and I do not
doubt that the students who drew up the proposed changes did so with the belief that a tightened-up constitution would
result in a much better student government. Nevertheless, there are several questions which arise upon the consideration of the proposed
amendments, only part of which were read to the student body at their presentation by Bob Crutchfield last Friday in
chapel. The main question which I would raise, and the one I believe to be the most fundamental in the
light of the recent drinking case: is whether an accused student should be made to testify against himself. This was
one of the big issues in the recent case before the council, and one which the fifth proposed amendment would
seek to make explicit. This is the text of the proposed amendment: “Every student called as a witness before the
Student Government shall give full testimony in answer to all relevant questions. Every student who fails to comply with this
provision shall be required to withdraw from college.” As interpreted to this writer by author Crutchfield, this is meant to
include testimony against himself by the accused. The arguments usually presented in favor of this procedure, which would be contrary
to one of the most fundamental principles of American justice, usually proceed along either or both of two lines: A
student should be “honor-bound” to testify against himself where he is the defendant in the case, because our system of
student government, and the fact that students are supposed to be Christian gentlemen, make this mandatory. The other is that
an accused should be required to testify against himself since attendance here is a privilege enjoyed at the sufferance of
the college. The first argument—concerning personal honor—would be a valid one if honor were the only basis upon which alleged
violations of the honor code and student body regulations were tried. If it is to be assumed that all accused
students will on the basis of honor tell the truth when questioned about an alleged offense, then there is no
use for a court except to question the accused. As it is, however, every paragraph of the student body constitution
concerning trials (Article IX, Section 5) indicates that alleged offenses are to be conducted along the lines of a regular
court trial, in which both material evidence and testimony of witnesses are to be used against the accused. One of
the most fundamental principles of the United States Constitution—and one which is very much in the news today in connection
with Senator McCarthy's tactics—is that part of the Fifth Amendment which states that “No person... shall be compelled in any
criminal case to be a witness against himself...” The similarity to our own situation is clear. We follow standard court
procedure as far as presentation of evidence against the accused, and trial and judgment by his peers are concerned, but
when we get to the point where the accused is conceded a right, we deny it. I do not call
this justice in any sense of the word.

Letter to Editor: Red Cross Thanks D. C. For Blood Contributed

Dear Davidsonian Editor:

It is always a pleasure and instigated at Davidson in 1950, contributions have totaled 2,967 pints, including 277 collected on
April 1st and 2nd. Although former visits have produced greater amounts of blood than this recent one, we feel that
the result of this visit was good due to the fact that typhoid shots hadbeen given which rendered many donors
ineligible, and that emphasis has shifted from the military to the civilian program which is not as vital to young
men of college age. The 277 pints donated by Davidson students and faculty the first of April will help immeasurably
in alleviating suffering in our local hospitals as well as providing blood for the Defense Department for fractionation into serum
albumen and gamma globulin. Members of Scabbard and Blade and ODK deserve special recognition for the splendid job they did
on interpretation and recruitment which brought in the donors. Having a person such as Colonel Davis coordinate the program and
plans is always most helpful, so we were very sorry to hear that this may be his last year at
the college. We hope that his successor will have as much enthusiasm for and interest in the Blood Program as
Colonel Davis has displayed. We thank you for the privilege of bringing the Bloodmobile to Davidson and would like, through
you, to express appreciation to your donors there for their splendid response and participation.

JOHN L. STEWART, Chairman Mobile Units Division Blood Donor Recruitment

It should thus be obvious that to require the accused to testify against himself and at the same time conduct
his trial according to the basic rules of a criminal court trial is both inconsistent and unjust. I maintain that
the requirement of testimony against himself by the accused is fine as long as the personal honor of the accused
himself is the only basis upon which a judgment is to be made. That is, a witness should be called
before the council and asked point-blank whether he is guilty of the charge, and the judgment made according to his
answer. But if the accused is to be prosecuted and have material evidence and testimony of other witnesses presented against
him, then he certainly should not be required to testify against himself. If it is assumed that the accused will
tell the truth as to whether or not he is guilty, then there is no need to have evidence and
witnesses; if it is not assumed he will give a truthful answer, then the procedure followed should be one provided
for in the present Student (Continued On Page Four)

OFF-MOORINGS: FRIDAY, APRIL 16, 1964

Writer Sees No Cure All In Crutchfield Amendments

With emotionalism and innuendo, with great anti-faculty and anti-administration feeling, with falsetto phrases and vague generalities—with all this were the
proposed amendments to the Student Body Constitution presented in last Friday’s chapel. Not only are Bob Crutchfield’s amendments to the
Constitution full of legal, logical, and functional holes but also and most importantly one of them is illegal. I mean
illegal in the sense that it goes against the laws of the State of North Carolina. This I will shortly
prove.

Like Harter

The group which Crutchfield represents is much like a similar group that was on the campus two years ago and
which had as its spokesman Lee Harter. Then the issue was the lack of genuine politics here. Harter’s sincere desire
to make the elections a more vital part of student life led him to advocate, and to win, mandatory chapel
speeches by the principal candidates. Today, as then, the proposals offered oversimplify greatly the problems involved and attempt to find
a solution through the pet ideas of too restricted and unrepresentative a group as has brought them forth. The fact
that Harter’s proposals were adopted, or even that the current ones might be adopted, does not of itself prove that
the problem is solved. All that it does show is that a disciplined, highly organized, and energetic group can overthrow
the rational will of the whole when they use all the tools of emotional attack, organizational weakness, and general apathy
to serve their own ends.

The Problem

Few students or faculty men will deny that there is a growing awareness of the need for a stronger, more
definite, and more workable interpretation of the Honor System at Davidson. There are some who think the present set-up can
be strengthened of itself through the recognition on the part of the elected representatives of their role in administering the
Honor System. One man put it this way: “The Student Council just hasn’t had the guts to enforce its own
rules.” This may well be. By the means of the panacea answer that is proposed, it is supposed that through
giving another name to a special judiciary group and through relegating the trial of honor violations to this group, then
honor will be restored to the campus and all cases will be decided with equity, with speed, and without bothering
any wiser or more experienced heads. The assumption is false on two major counts. (1) Because all these judges are
elected positions, you will not get another “type of student," as it has been phrased, in those offices. Thus the
same sort of thinking that has prevailed in the Student Council in the past would continue in the Honor Council—only
then with more force and less reason. (2) Merely by the expedient of changing a name and restricting a function,
you will not thus change the actions of the men in the group, when the character of the men has
not changed. It has been asserted that students have lost or will in the future lose faith in the Honor
System. The men who advocate the changes do not themselves say they have lost faith in honor at Davidson. They
seem to say they are speaking for other students and for the future of Davidson. Yet I have it on
the best authority that no one—student or otherwise—in the last three years has said to any member of the Student
Council he was losing his trust in our Honor System. Do the facts back up the assertion of lost faith?
I have seen no wholesale cheating going on in any of the classes I attend. The attitudes of students I
know does not seem to be one of a turning away from honor. We might look to the Student Council
record itself. There has been no noticeable change in the past few years, nor in months, in the number of
cases being tried under the Honor System. There is little validity in the charge itself when it is reviewed in
the light of the actual facts. There is some fear for the future, and in the past there has been
some great passing of the buck where final judgment is concerned.

The Need

There is a definite need for a full investigation, analysis and possibly some changes made in the Honor System. At
this time there is no need for the adoption of a halfway action which does not solve the problems, which
would serve only to jam the logical channels of the administration of justice, student government.

Illegal

Earlier I said that one of the proposed changes is illegal and this can easily be verified. The first amendment
is the one that openly violates the state law. It says:

“In all matters arising under the Honor System or the Student Body Regulations, the Student Government shall have final and
complete jurisdiction. It shall be illegal for the Student Government to refer any such matter to any other authority. If
the actions of the Student Government in such matters should be reversed by any other authority, it shall be mandatory
for the Student Government to be suspended, and for all its officers to resign, until the reversal shall be withdrawn
and agreements can be reached restoring the Student Government to its said complete authority.”

When a charter is granted a college by a sovereign state, the articles of that charter become in effect the
law of the land. In the Charter of Davidson College granted by the State of North Carolina, in Article IV,
Section 89b, there is this statement:

(b) “The faculty shall be authorized to transfer to the Student Council, under rules and regulations approved by (Continued On
Page Four)

HOW'D YOU LIKE TO... earn $5000 a year... be an officer in the air force... get an exciting head start
in jet aviation... AND belong to a great flying team?

Dorse F. Pendleton, Jr., 1st Lt. USAF & aviation cadet selection team No. 304 are coming to Davidson to show
you how. They will be here on the 28th and 29th of April, 1954. Meet them at the Student Union
during their stay.
