7 RAPS AMENDMENTS MOORE VOL. XLII

FACULTY MEMBERS
W. G. McGAVOCK WIN FELLOWSHIPS
F. W. JOHNSTON

Johnston, McGavock Win Ford Fellowships

Dr. F. W. Johnston and Dr. W. G. McGavock have won fellowships for study during the next college year. Both
were notified this week that they are to receive grants from the Faculty Fellowship Program of the Fund for the
Advancement of Education, a part of the Ford Foundation.

Dr. Johnston, professor of American History at Davidson for the past eighteen years, will spend a year studying at the
University of North Carolina. His work will center around the modern South, largely paralleling his current course in Southern history
since the Civil War. He plans to go also into extensive writing, reading, and research during his year at UNC.

Dr. McGavock, professor of mathematics at Davidson since 1934, will enroll in the University of Wisconsin at Madison. He plans
to leave his chosen field in order to study in the related field of philosophy. His concentration for the year
will be in the field of Philosophy of Science, involving such courses as the purely reasonable and nearly mathematic symbolic
logic.

Both Dr. Johnston and Dr. McGavock were graduated from Davidson College in 1930. Dr. Johnston took his master’s and doctor’s
degrees at Yale University, and returned to Davidson in 1935 as instructor of history. Dr. McGavock did his graduate work
at Duke University and Princeton University. He has been teaching at Davidson since 1934.

The professors plan to leave Davidson in late August or early September in order to get themselves and their families
settled before the beginning of school. Dr. Johnston will teach two courses during the coming summer session in Davidson.

EASTER BUFFET | SUNRISE SERVICE

The College Union has announced that the regular Sunday evening buffet supper will be HELD THIS SUNDAY. Next Sunday morning
at 6 a.m., the YMCA is sponsoring an Easter sunrise service. This year the emphasis is on total community participation.
In the past, some have thought that the service was just for students, but the entire community is urged to
attend. Benches will be placed on the lower football practice field facing the sun. A cross and the dawn will
be the worship center. Rather than having a sermon, three people from the community will lead a service of praise
and adoration—using scripture, hymns, and prayers. The congregations from all the various churches in the town, both Negro and white,
are especially urged to come. This is an opportunity for all of us to participate in a united act of
worship commemorating the most important fact in past and present history. In case of rain, the service will be held
in Lingle Chapel.

A traditional Easter menu will be offered and there will be an Easter novelty for the children. Guests are requested
to make reservations by phoning 4781.

LOUIS ARMSTRONG, KING OF JAZZ, SET FOR DAVIDSON
By AUSTIN STRAND

Louis “Satchmo” Armstrong will be here on May 6 in Chambers Auditorium to give out with a few solid beats
of jazz, but no bop. The concert by the well-known and widely traveling Satchmo is scheduled to begin as soon
as the interfraternity sing is completed. The doors to Chambers Auditorium will not be opened until the sing is completed,
giving everyone an even break on getting the best seats. Tickets went up from $1.75 to $2.00 yesterday and are
now on sale to the general public, although they are still available to the student body.

Satchmo, called the King of Jazz, traveled to Honolulu in February of 1952 where he packed them in for two
weeks. Down Beat, one of the top jazz magazines, devoted practically a whole issue to Armstrong in 1950 and is
quoted as saying “Louis always has a golden song to offer.” The aging and yet sexy Tallulah Bankhead once said,
“His beautiful, heart-breaking horn, his comedy, his humor, everything about Louis just kills me!” Grandmother Bankhead also said, in Flair,
“... if Satchmo had never heard of high F or if he thought a trumpet was a minor bridge bid
or couldn't sing a note, I'd still dig him because he is an authentically great man embodying all of the
best human qualities and instincts by which people should conduct their lives.”

The independent newspaper, The Chicago Enterprise, gave their July 4, 1952 issue to Satchmo’s birthday. On this day, he received
a raft of telegrams, including one from the editor of the London Daily Express. The New York Times Magazine wrote
back in 1950 that “Louis Armstrong's music has been shaping jazz history for almost thirty years, but he still takes
time to listen and learn. He has remained both a consistent top man and a profound influence among jazz players.”
Some of Satchmo’s more famous numbers include Muskrat Ramble, Alligator Crawl, Basin Street Blues, Body and Soul, Stardust, I Can't
Give You Anything But Love, Tea for Two, How High the Moon and numerous other blues numbers.

There will be a reserved section, apart from the general public, for students at the concert. All students who have
not bought their tickets are asked to do so as soon as possible.

ELECT OFFICERS

Fraternity elections continued last week with Beta Theta Pi, Alpha Tau Omega, and the Campus Club electing their leaders for
next year. The Betas elected Frank Shaw, president, and Charlie Rankin, vice president. Their rush chairman is to be John
McLauchlin, and their IFC representative is Tom Lambe. Other officers include: Joe Connaroe, corresponding secretary; Carl Cooper, recorder; and Hugh
Gramley, treasurer.

The ATOs selected Linny Baker, president; Charles Lambert, vice president; Albert Harris, secretary, and Fred Samra, treasurer. They elected Marshall
Pitts to be IFC representative, and Phil Koonce as boarding house manager. The latter two served in this capacity last
year.

Officers of the Campus Club for next year are: Richard Morrow, president; Maurice Crouse, vice-president; Ben Byers, secretary; Bob Brindle,
treasurer; and Paul Sellers, IFC representative.

A Request

It is important that information be given to all students of the college that the county regards any interruption of
the free flow of traffic through Main St., which is a Federal highway, as a violation of law. The county
has no latitude with reference to the requirement that this road be kept open at all times. For the safety
and good name of the students, for the sake of the traveling public, and in observance of the clearly defined
laws governing highways, it is urged that henceforth all gatherings and parades of student groups be confined to the campus.

JOHN R. CUNNINGHAM
President

FOOLIES SET FOR NEXT FRIDAY NIGHT

Starring the intricate dance routines of that dainty damsel from the left bank, Madame FIFI, played by Harry Peterson, the
annual “D” Club Foolies will get underway promptly at 7:30 in Chambers Auditorium on next Friday evening. The fast-moving show
will last about an hour and will be over in plenty of time for the dance. Admission is 35 cents
per person. The scene is set in one of those “cafes” for which Paris is so famous.

MALE CHORUS PRAISED IN OBSERVER, EDITORIAL NO. 21

HENRY BROCKMANN EDITS PAPER

SWAIN LOY EDITS ANNUAL

Mrs. Patton Speaks At Sig Upsilon Meet

Sigma Upsilon, national literary society, held its regular meeting Monday evening, April 12, at 9:15 o’clock in the Green Room
of the College Union. Don Mahy, president of the Blue Pencil chapter, presided and introduced the special guest for the
evening, Mrs. Frances Gray Patton, the short story writer and judge of this year’s Vereen Bell Award.

Mrs. Patton opened her talk by giving an account of her start in short story writing. The first story that
she wrote, which was sold to the Kenyon Review, took her six weeks of intensive work and revision in which
she studied the nuance of every word. She felt that this six-week period gave her more understanding of the methods
of writing than any like period before or since.

Mrs. Patton then read one of her short stories, “The Finer Things of Life.” Following this, she explained the origin
of the idea, the method, the stages of development, and techniques of actual writing. Following her talk, she answered questions
for about an hour on literary agents, methods of selling one’s writings, problems of technique, and other questions by members
of the audience. Mrs. Patton closed by urging that every serious writer keep a journal recording his impressions. Approximately 25
undergraduates and faculty members were present at the meeting.

In balloting today in chapel, Swain Loy was elected editor of next year’s Quips and Cranks. Earlier in the week,
Henry Brockmann was chosen editor of The Davidsonian.

Council Discusses Amendments Tonight in Special Meeting
By WATT McCAIN

Student interest continued to mount high this week in the six proposed amendments to the Constitution, despite the fact that
official progress slowed to a congressional pace. The proposals found an increasingly more prominent place in campus conversation through the
week, although no steps have been taken by the Student Council or other groups since last Friday's presentation of the
petition. Definite action will resume tonight with a special student council session to consider thoroughly.

Dr. Thomas Speaks For Vespers Sunday

Dr. John Newton Thomas, Robert L. Dabney Professor of Systematic Theology at Union Seminary, will be the vesper speaker for
this Sunday night, April 18. He will be the second professor from Union to speak at vespers this semester.

Dr. Thomas is a native Virginian, having been born at Bedford, Va., on March 28, 1903. He received much of
his education in his home state. Dr. Thomas is a graduate of Washington and Lee University, receiving his B.A. degree
in 1924. Six years later, in 1930, he was awarded his B.D. degree at Union Theological Seminary. Dr. Thomas has
also studied abroad at the University of Edinburgh and at the University of Berlin. He is the recipient of two
degrees from the first, an M.A. in 1927, and a Ph.D. in 1937. Hampden-Sydney awarded Dr. Thomas an honorary D.D.
degree in 1943. Dr. Thomas has held several pastorates and college positions. He has been the Robert L. Dabney Professor
ofSystematic Theology since 1840 and Dean of the Graduate School since 1950 at Union. He is a trustee at three
different schools, including Washington and Lee, and is a member of the General Council of the Presbyterian Church, U.S. Dr.
Thomas is married and is the father of two children.

Fine Arts Festival In Full Swing; Continues With Poetry Tonight
By FRANKLIN BLOODWORTH

The 1954 Davidson College Fine Arts Festival got under way Monday night in the College Union with the unveiling by
Dr. G. I. Abernethy of a painting by Philip Moose, former associate professor of fine arts at Davidson College. Also
on the program for Monday evening was a color movie entitled “Mark Tobey: Artist,” describing the work of this contemporary
artist, and a lecture and slides on “What Is Modern Sculpture?” by Douglas Houchens, assistant professor of fine arts at
Davidson.

On Tuesday evening the Gamma Chapter of Phi Mu Alpha, national honorary music fraternity, sponsored a concert of Contemporary American
Music in the Union ballroom. The Davidson College Male Chorus, Donald Plott, director, and Philip Gehring, accompanist, presented a concert
in Chambers Auditorium on Wednesday evening. Thursday, Alpha Psi Omega, national honorary dramatics fraternity, sponsored a play reading in the
Union ballroom.

Modern Poetry Lecture
This evening, Mr. Bedford Moore, professor of English at the University of Virginia, will present an informal lecture on modern
poetry. Saturday at 8:15 p.m. the Union will present a movie entitled, “The Moon Is Down,” starring Sir Cedric Hardwicke,
Henry Travers, and Doris Bowden. This movie is a stirring adaptation of John Steinbeck’s novel of a sincere people's unconquerable
will to protect their way of life against the Nazi oppressor during the occupation of Norway. What conquest really means
is dramatically revealed in the picture.

Graduation Recital
On Monday, April 19, at 8:15 in Chambers Auditorium, the Davidson College Department of Music will present William V. Porter,
Jr., pianist, in a graduation recital. Mr. Porter, a Davidson senior, is the son of Mr. and Mrs. W. V.
Porter of Charlotte and a graduate of Central High in Charlotte. He has studied piano for eight years with Elsie
Stokes Moseley of Queens College, for seven summers at the Transylvania Music Camp, Brevard, N.C., and for four years at
Davidson College under Louise Nelson Pfohl. Bill has numerous musical accomplishments to his credit and is now president of the
national honorary music fraternity at Davidson, Phi Mu Alpha. Porter's program will include “Prelude” and “Fugue” in B-flat minor by
Bach, “Sonata” in E-flat Major, Op. 81a, by Beethoven; “Mazurka” in F-sharp minor, Op. 16, No. 1, “Mazurka” in A-minor,
Op. 17, No. 4, “Ballade” in A-flat Major, Op. 47, all by Chopin, “Poems by the Sea,” by Ernest Bloch,
and “Three Preludes,” by Kent Kennan.

Mr. John Holliday, professor of music at Queens College, will present a brief lecture on contemporary music Tuesday at 8:15
in the Union Ballroom. Mr. Holliday is head of the Music Department at Queens, director of the Queens College Chorus,
and is a composer in his own right. He will attempt to present an approach for the interested layman in
understanding and appreciating contemporary music.

Band Concert
On Wednesday evening at 8:15 the Davidson College Concert Band, under the direction of Mr. Kenneth Moore, will present a
concert in Chambers Auditorium. This will be the concert played by the band on its recent tour of Florida and
Georgia. The program will include “Overture for Band” by Mendelssohn, “Royal Fireworks Music” by Handel, “Concerto for Trombone and Band”
by Rimsky-Korsakov, Fred Hudson, soloist, “Commando March” by Samuel Barber, “Fairest of the Fair March” by John Philip Sousa, “Prairie
Legend” by Elie Siegmeister, “Trumpeter’s Lullaby” by Leroy Anderson, Mason field soloist; “Flute Cocktail,” by Henry Simeone, featuring Richard Morrow,
Larry Champion, and Robert Beall, “Stars and Stripes Forever” by Sousa, and “Fugue” by Gould.

Thursday, April 22, at 8:15 in the Union ballroom, the Intercollege Chamber Music Guild will sponsor a concert of chamber
music. The guild is made up of members from Queens, Catawba, Montreat, and Davidson colleges who pool their resources several
times each year. The concert will feature Kenneth Moore, clarinetist; Eunice Plann Berg, pianist; Betty Gehring, violinist; William Tritt, violinist;
Mary Ann Ashe, violist; Jean Moore, cellist, and Philip Gehring, pianist. The program will include “Overture on Hebrew Themes” by
Serge Prokofieff; “Two Pieces for Clarinet, Violin, Cello and Piano,” by Philip Gehring, and “Quintet,” Op. 57, by Dmitri Shostakovich.

Highlights of the week were speeches by the candidates for both offices. Loy promised support of an annual which would
better represent student ideas. Good clean contemporary lines, more pages, and chronological order of activities were included in his platform
as improvements toward which he would work. Brockmann promised a Davidsonian which would be more interesting to read, and which
would give the students more opportunities to express their views. He also promised to take a definite editorial stand on
every issue.

Loy, who comes from Roanoke Rapids, N.C., is quite active in many phases of campus life. A member of Kappa
Alpha fraternity, he has been advertising manager for the college magazine Scripts ‘n Pranks, and was managing editor of the
annual this year. He will serve as president of his fraternity next year. He is a member of Philanthropic Literary
Society.

Brockmann, a history major from High Point, N.C., was managing editor of the Davidsonian this year. He serves as secretary
of Sigma Phi Epsilon, and will be rush chairman for the Sig Eps next year. He will also edit the
Wildcat Handbook. Brockmann is a member of Eumanean Literary Society.

Today’s balloting marked the end of the third week of elections at Davidson, in which all Student Council and YMCA
officers have already been elected. Elections will continue in chapel next Monday and Friday, with class elections taking the spotlight.
Other ballotings to take place after all class officers have been elected include those to determine Student Council representatives, sports
representative, the YMCA board, and others.

Vespers & Chapel
Vespers, Sunday, April 18: The speaker for the Vesper service will be the Reverend J. N. Thomas, D.D., of Union
Theological Seminary, Richmond, Virginia. Chapel, Monday, April 19: Dr. C. K. Brown will have charge of the program. Tuesday, April
20: Awards Day will be held. Wednesday, April 21: Dr. Charles Templeton will have charge of the program. Thursday, April
22: Dr. Templeton will again lead the chapel exercises.

1954 ROBERTS AWARD OFFERS SCHOLARSHIP
A scholarship of $200 is being offered as the 1954 Roberts Award. This contest, open to any full-time undergraduate student
registered in a college, university, or junior college in the U.S., closes May 1, 1954. The Roberts Award contest is
one of the many projects of the Interscholastic Association for Study of the Alcohol Problem. The winner of the contest
will receive a cash prize. There are also second, third, fourth, and fifth prizes amounting to a total of $750.
Along with this award are given $450 worth of scholarships to the 1954 Intercollegiate School of Alcohol Studies, to be
held September 5-11, in London, Ontario. Another $500 will be awarded for group participation by special arrangement.

Contestants are required to write an editorial of 500 to 800 words in length. This manuscript must be typewritten and
must be on the general theme of “The Opportunity of the Home in Dealing with the Problems of Alcohol.” Judging
will be based on soundness and originality of thought, quality of research, clarity of expression, and accuracy of basic facts.
Any student wishing to enter should write: Contest Secretary, Intercollegiate Association for Study of the Alcohol Problem, 12 North Third
Street, Room 522, Columbus 15, Ohio.

EADS QUIPS & CRANKS
By BILL STEWART, Elections Editor

HENRY BROCKMANN - Edits Davidsonian

Myers, Ball, Gragg Vereen Bell Winners
The 1954 Vereen Bell Award for Creative Writing was presented in chapel Tuesday, April 13. Making the award was Mrs.
Frances Gray Patton, prominent short story writer from Raleigh. First place and a $50.00 prize went to Fred Myers for
his work, “7 Sonnets.” Second place was awarded to Scott Ball for a group of poems entitled “Ghost Town and
Other Poems.” Third place was taken by Gilbert Gragg for his short story, “Frost On the Marsh Grass.”

Mrs. Patton, who made the selections from among 29 entries, has taught creative writing at Woman's College of the University
of North Carolina and has been on the faculty of the writers’ conference at the University of Indiana. In addition
to being a regular contributor to the “New Yorker Magazine,” she has written short stories for “Harpers,” “Ladies Home Journal,”
and other magazines. During her speech in chapel in which she immediately captured her audience with her wit and charm
she talked on problems of the writer and the need for observation of everyday occurrences. She pointed out that the
structural soundness and development of the papers submitted to her were distinctly superior to what she had observed in most
amateur writing.

Vereen M. Bell was a Davidson graduate in the class of 1932. He died as an air combat intelligence officer
in the second battle of the Philippine Sea. Before his death he was the author of many stories and two
novels, one of which, “Swamp Water,” was a best seller and was twice made into a motion picture. The Vereen
Bell Award for Creative Writing was established at Davidson by relatives and friends of Vereen Bell in 1947.

SCOTT BALL WINS '54 WILLA CATHER PRIZE
Scott Ball, a member of Davidson’s Junior Class, won first place in this year’s Willa Cather Award competition, it was
announced last week in chapel. His entry in the contest, a group of poems entitled “River Days and Other Poems,”
was announced by Professor James Southall Wilson to have been awarded the coveted prize. Ball is from Jacksonville, Fla., and
is a member of Phi Delta Theta social fraternity. An English major, he plans to go from Davidson into graduate
work in English.

The Willa Cather Award is given each year to the member of Sigma Upsilon who submits the best work of
creative writing. Its purpose is to advance the cause of creative study and writing, and in keeping with this purpose
the prize usually consists of books. Last year John King Ottley of Atlanta, Ga., won the award. Ball's “River Days
and Other Poems” also won a place in the Vereen Bell award contest. With a different poem, “Ghost Town,” featured,
the works received the second place award.
