FRIDAY, APRIL 16, 1954

First of all, we'd like to tip the Davidson cap to John Handley, the fellow who has handled the sports
page of the Davidsonian for the past year. John has done a fine job in our school sports coverage, in
spite of the fact that 1953-54 has not been an easy year in sports here at Davidson, and to John
we extend a hearty, “well done.”

As for next year, we hope to bring the students the Davidson sports news in a way that will be
interesting and accurate. We have heard some complaints about inaccuracies in such things as inter-fraternity standings. We'll do our best
to correct this and to keep the student body up to date as to the inter-fraternity situation on the athletic
fields. Davidson’s sports situation continues to be one that is constantly changing, but never for the best, it seems. Next
year may bring a slight change. This year’s fine crop of freshmen will join the returning varsity players, and the
outlook for a successful inter-collegiate campaign is very promising. We hope to be able to use the Davidsonian as a
means of getting (for the team) some student support (a thing that hasn’t been too potent in the past two
years) which will help to produce a winning season.

This year’s edition of the Davidson track team made its debut last Saturday at Macon, Georgia, and the Wildcat cindermen
did a superb job of trouncing the Mercer University runners. Coach Whittle’s squad almost doubled the Mercer score as they
racked up an 82½-48½ win. It seems that Whittle has developed another good team and has uncovered some hidden talent
in the Davidson student body. Harley Smith, who is working out with the team for the first time, is Whittle’s
prize discovery. Smith threw the javelin for the Cats Saturday and won the event easily.

A large group of Davidson’s golf enthusiasts went down to Augusta, Ga., last weekend and witnessed the Masters Tournament. Most
of the returning students had nothing but praise for Billy Joe Patton, the Morganton, N.C., amateur who led the field
for the first two days. Patton turned out to be the crowd-pleaser of the tourney and drew most of the
gallery away from such famous golfers as Sam Snead (who eventually won the crown) and Ben Hogan, the pre-tournament favorite.
Patton finished in third place, the highest in many years for an amateur, behind Snead and Hogan. Snead beat Hogan,
one-up, in a play-off for the championship, but Patton had already stolen the show. He constantly conversed with his followers
and showed a freeness which was noticeably lacking in the professional golfers. Incidentally, Morganton is having a celebration for Patton
when he returns home. This afternoon he was to be the guest of the nation’s Number One golfer, President Eisenhower,
at the Masters Course. Ike extended the invitation after the tournament was over and Patton had not “goofed” in the
final round as many expected of the amateur.

We'd like to extend an invitation to any of you sports fans who would be interested in doing a little
writing on the Davidsonian sports page. There are several vacancies in the staff due to graduation, etc., and any of
you who are interested in holding down a job on the sports crew get in touch with Jim Holshouser (Ga.
18). No previous experience is necessary, although it is certainly an asset.

Greek Softball Gets Under Way this Week

The interfraternity softball race has gotten under way, and it appears that the competition for the top spot is going
to be rough. Several fine teams are standing in the top positions in the league, and it looks like the
race may go down to the wire for the championship. In early games this week, the defending champs, the Phi
Gams, won their first two contests as they romped over the Phi Delt and ATO teams. The Phi Gams are
favored to cop their second straight crown, but they are being pressed closely at present by the SPEs and the
Pikas. Both of these clubs have won two games this week and appear to have the best chance of taking
over the lead. In contests which have been reported to the official record, the Kappa Sigs bested the SAEs, but
lost to the Pikas. The KAs won from the Pi Kapps and lost to the Sigma Chis, while the SPEs
took victories over the Betas and the SAEs. The Pikas also beat the Pi Kapps.

New Group Charcoal Dacron-Wool Slacks also Medium Grey 14.95 Walking Shorts. 12.95

Wilson’s Men’s Shop “COLLEGIATE FASHIONS” Next to Bank Davidson, N. C.

Davidson Nine Hits McCrary

Davidson’s varsity baseballers play host to the semi-professional McCrary Eagles next Wednesday in the third part of a four-game home
stand. McCrary has one of the crack diamond combinations in this area, and a lot of fine baseball will be
in store for those who attend the contest.

On Thursday, the Wildcat nine will meet Lenoir Rhyne on the college field. The Bears have one of the better
teams in the North State Conference, and they defeated the Cats earlier this season at Hickory.

Drop in Conference

This past week, the Davidson team lost decisions to Furman and to Ohio University. The loss to Furman was the
first in Southern Conference competition and left the Cats in a tie for third place in the family standings. The
Citadel still stands at the top of the league. On Wednesday, a strong Ohio Club invaded the campus and promptly
proceeded to pound out a 13-4 decision over the home club. The Bobcats got 13 hits, with Capt. Tom Biskup
leading that department with a double and a triple. Fred Stowe got two hits, one a double, in three times
at bat to lead Davidson's hitting. Ohio used three pitchers in order to stop Davidson scoring threats. The Cats got
nine hits but were unable to bring the runners in to score. Both teams made three errors, but Davidson’s miscues
were costly since they came with runners on base.

Ish Bennett and Andy Courts will be the probable starters on the mound for Davidson in contests next week. Bennett
took the loss in the close, 4-3, decision to Furman last week, but Ish will be ready to go against
McCrary. Fred Stowe, Bill Rowland, and Johnny Gray continue to be the leading Davidson hitters. The three veteran players have
provided most of the punch in the Wildcat attack this season. Gray is the leading hitter in the starting line-up
with a near .400 average, while Stowe and Rowland have been the long-ball hitters on the team. If these three
men continue to slug at this fast pace, Davidson will finish the season with a much-improved record over previous campaigns.

COLLEGE UNION SHACK BAR Serves LADY BORDEN Ice Cream

HOW'D YOU LIKE TO... earn $5000 a year... be an officer in the air force... get an exciting head start
in jet aviation... AND belong to a great flying team?

Dorse F.B. Pendleton, Jr., 1st Lt., USAF & aviation cadet selection team are coming to on the 28th of April,
1954. Meet them at the Student Union during their stay.

Cat Cindermen In 3-Way Meet Tomorrow

By JOHN HOLSHOUSER

This Saturday the Davidson track team plays host to Clemson and Wofford in a triangular meet, field events beginning at
1:30 and track events at 2:00 p.m. Coach Whittle predicts a hotly contested meet, and if the Davidsonians show the
strength that they displayed in their first encounter last week, they should do well.

Frosh Tracksters Meet ASB Tomorrow

This weekend the Davidson freshman track team travels to Asheville for meets with Mars Hill Junior College and Asheville School
for Boys. In their first two meets of the season, the Davidson freshman track team racked up 79 and 78
points to post decisive wins on both occasions, taking 11 out of 13 first places in each meet. In the
first meet, Davidson took a first place position in a quadrangular affair with 79 points, while Myers Park had 37,
East Mecklenburg took 22, and North Mecklenburg finished with 4 points. This week the frosh team took to the track
again, this time with Central High School, and the freshmen outgunned the losers to the tune of 78-35. The Kittens
turned in some excellent times on the cinder path, though many of theRaces were run in a drizzling rain. Pete
Ashcraft turned in a great performance in the 880-yard run as he clipped off over three seconds from his best
previous time to win the grueling two-lap race in a time of 2:03.3. Ashcraft established this time some few minutes
after he copped first place honors in the mile. He also was a member of Davidson’s winning mile relay team
and led the meet scoring with 11½ points. Don Campbell took revenge on last year’s state champion in the 180-yd
low hurdles by nosing him out with a time of 21.9 seconds. Central’s Soule had beaten Campbell last year on
three different occasions, but Don proved to be too much for the champ this time. Roswell Mallory turned in a
fine performance in the killing 440-yard dash by running the lap in 52.9 seconds, his best time of the season.
Frank Kiker came from behind to grab second place honors in 53.5 seconds, also a good time. Bill Gramley threw
his way to 10 points and a tie for second high scoring honor by posting first places in the shot
put and discus.

SEND THE DAVIDSONIAN HOME

Phil Koonce (above) started the season as high-point man for the Davidson track team last Saturday as he won the
220-yd. dash and the broad jump. Koonce also took second place in the 100-yd. dash.

Netters to Meet Kalamazoo Mon.

Coach Dick McKee’s varsity tennis team will meet Kalamazoo College’s touring netters here next Monday in the hope of getting
back into the win column after having suffered two straight losses during the past week. The Davidson team lost one-sided
matches to Presbyterian College and North Carolina University this week, bringing the season’s record to four wins and four losses.
Lacy Keesler and Johnny Bremer won the No. 1 doubles match against Presbyterian, and that was the only win for
the Cats against the two teams. PC defeated the local netters, 8-1, last Saturday, and on Monday, North Carolina trounced
the Wildcats as the Tar Heels won all nine matches. The Carolina team, winners of the Southern Conference tournament last
spring and currently ranked as the second team in the nation, turned on the power, and it was just too
much for the Davidsonians. On next Tuesday, the Cat netmen meet Wofford on the local courts in a match that
finds Davidson heavily favored. Next weekend, the Cats finish a busy week with matches at Duke and William and Mary.
The latter match, on Saturday, will be the first Southern Conference encounter of the current campaign for the Davidson netters.
The Wildcat line-up for the matches next week will remain as it has been in recent weeks, with Keesler still
holding down the No. 1 singles post, and teaming with Bremer to make up the top doubles combination. The freshman
team is continuing workouts in preparation for next Thursday's match with Myers Park High School in Charlotte.

Phi Delts Lead In Tennis Race

The Phi Delts continue to set the pace in the interfraternity tennis competition, although action has been slow and many
matches postponed. At present, the defending champions have won five straight matches and have lost none. The SPE and KA
teams are also standing high in the race and could easily overtake the leaders at any time. Although both of
the latter teams have lost matches, they have not met the Phi Delts, and a win there would put one
of them into the lead. Competition should be finished within the next two weeks, and the results will have an
important effect on the annual interfraternity race. The Phi Delts still lead the pack in the race with the Betas
close on their heels. A win in tennis would definitely help to increase their lead, while if they should drop
down in the tennis race, the softball competition could be the determining factor. Neither team has displayed much on the
diamond, with both losing their opening contests.

Whittle’s track and field men traveled to Macon, Georgia, for their first meet of the season and rolled over the
Bears of Mercer University by an 82⅓ to 48⅔ score, taking 10 of the 15 available first places. Top scorer
for the meet was Phil Koonce, who took first place honors in the 220-yard dash and the broad jump and
added three more points in the 100-yd. dash for a 13-point total. Koonce also won the broad jump by out-jumping
Mercer's Richard Reid, high scorer for the opponents, with a jump of 19 feet 9 inches.

Shipley Wins

Bill Shipley added 10 points to Davidson’s total as he won the 440-yard dash and the 880-yard run. Jack Huffaker
cleared the high jump bar at five feet 11 inches for another first place, and David Regen hurled the shot
41 feet seven inches to out throw all contestants. Tim Gilley came through with a beautiful throw of 134 feet
8 inches in the discus to take first place honors and to tie the all-time Mercer record set just one
week before by Mercer's Hugh Hodges.

Smith's Work Praised

Harley Smith turned in one of the most outstanding performances of the day when he whipped the javelin 171 feet
7 inches. Whittle had special praise for Smith's performance in the javelin. Coach Whittle was well pleased with the team’s
showing in which several Wildcats bested their previous times and distances of the season. Two improving performances were turned in
by Doug Andrews in the 440-yard dash and Bill McNair in the pole vault.

Golfers To Meet Furman Wednesday

By HUGER KING

On April 21, Davidson's golfers hope to keep their Southern Conference record clean against Furman, whom they've beaten once before
this season. Graeme, Keith, and Larry Parrot ought to be up to last season’s form for this match to make
the victory even more decisive than before. The Davidson golfers lost a close one to North Carolina State in their
last outing 18½. The State first team won, to build up a margin the Wildcat second and third teams could
not overcome, although they both topped their opponents. The two teams meet again in Raleigh on April 21, and chances
for revenge look good. Again it was Skipper Hall who stood out for the home team, extending his winning streak
to seven straight. Joe Jenkins also played his consistently good golf to make him, along with Graeme Keith, one of
the definite contenders for honors in the Southern Conference tourney in Richmond on May 7 and 8. In addition to
Furman and the Southern Conference tourney, VMI, VPI, and Wofford remain on the schedule in that order. A match with
the Citadel has been canceled. In spite of a host of good golfers, including last year’s North Carolina Junior Champion
Buster Jenkins, the freshman team has had a rough time. The first five men, Buster Jenkins, Ed Bell, Russell Barringer,
Osborne Thomas, and Bobby Armfield, all have been unable to play because of too many class cuts. The valuable experience
gained by those who would not ordinarily play in match competition will give next year’s varsity a good number of
tested players. Prospects, then, look especially bright for next year.
