PAGE FOUR SERGEANT | Court Of Control | Biographies Given

Davidson's 1954-55 Court of Control, in its first session Monday night, tried and sentenced a number of accused freshmen on
charges of violating student regulations. Eight members of the student body make up the court. They are as follows:

Henry Brown and Harley Smith, members of the Senior Class. Both are football players. Henry, an SAE, is from Carrollton,
Ga. Harley, from DeFuniak Springs, Fla., is a member of Phi Delta Theta social fraternity.

Harry Peterson, also a senior, is judge of the court this year. Harry is an SAE from Columbia, S. C.
John Buxton, last but not least of the Senior court members, is a Kappa Sig, from Sumter, S. C. He
will serve as recorder this year.

The junior members are John McLaughlin and Dickie Adams. John, a Beta, is from Raeford, N. C. John played freshman
basketball and is serving as second vice-president of the YMCA this year. Dickie Adams, a basketball star from Bay Village,
Ohio, is also a Kappa Sig. Dickie served as president of the Beaver Club last year.

Sophomore members are Dick Belton and Bill Gramley. Dick, from Mt. Airy, N. C., is a Kappa Sig also. Bill,
a Beta, is from Winston-Salem. He was a member of the freshman football and track teams and is now playing
varsity football for Davidson.

Any upperclassmen having complaints against freshmen can obtain complaint forms from any of the members of the court.

M/SGT. W. D. FIELDS

Master Sergeant W. D. Fields of the Davidson College R.O.T.C. headquarters has had a long, interesting, and diversified career in
the armed forces. M-Sgt. Fields entered the army in June, 1935, as a private. His first six years in service
were spent at Ft. Sam Houston, Texas, with the Second Infantry Division. During this period, Fields rose to the rank
of sergeant.

In 1941, Sgt. Fields was transferred to an infantry replacement training center at Camp Walters, Texas, where he remained for
two years. Holding the rank of Sergeant First Class, he moved in 1943 to a tank destroyer training center at
Ft. Hood, and in September, 1944, he moved to Camp Rucker, Alabama.

After World War II, M-Sgt. Fields was transferred to the Infantry School at Ft. Benning, Ga. He went to Puerto
Rico in April, 1947, with a mechanized cavalry but returned to Ft. Benning in 1948, where he remained until the
beginning of the Korean War.

In July, 1950, M-Sgt. Fields went to Korea with the Third Division as a replacement. In Korea, he was attached
to the 21st Regiment, 24th Infantry Division, where he served at various times as platoon sergeant and first sergeant.

M-Sgt. Fields returned to the United States in July, 1951. After several moves, he arrived at Ft. Benning, where he
was attached to the Army Field Forces Board until January, 1953. At this time, M-Sgt. Fields applied for R.O.T.C. duty,
was accepted, and was sent to Davidson College. As Sergeant Major, or chief clerk, Fields is responsible for the administration
of the entire unit.

Next June, at which time he will have completed 20 years of service, M-Sgt. Fields will be eligible for retirement.
At the present time, he is undecided as to whether he will remain in the army or change over to
civilian life. M-Sgt. Fields is married and is residing in Cornelius with his wife and two children.

Graduate Schools Ask Early Application

Every year many students intending to enroll in graduate schools send for information and instructions too late. Students should send
for information and instructions concerning the procedure of application early in their senior year, preferably in October or November. They
should not hesitate to ask for information even though they may not be certain about their plans for graduate study.
Many applicants are excluded from consideration because they start their applications after the places available in a department have been
filled.

Students intending to apply for scholarships or fellowships should obtain forms and instructions at the earliest possible date. Most graduate
schools require all applicants to submit reports of scores in the Graduate Record Examination. Students must obtain instructions and make
arrangements for that examination in time. Scholarship applicants must take the Graduate Record Examination not later than the national testing
scheduled in January. The earlier testing in November is often more convenient.

“Coke” is a registered trade-mark. BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Four For Rioting

The Student Council met Wednesday to investigate Monday night's dormitory disturbances. The investigation resulted in the reprimand of four participants
and the acquittal of a fifth student. The Council does not discourage student demonstrations, but feels that the throwing of
water, particularly hot water, the breaking of bottles, and the shooting of firecrackers are practices which easily lead to injury
and the damage of property, and which therefore cannot be condoned.

To Elect Members

Program In Germany

Davidson College’s Chapter of Alpha Epsilon Delta, national pre-medical honor fraternity, will hold its first meeting of the school year
in the Martin Science Building on November 3, 1955, at 7:30 p.m. Opportunities to teach English in the secondary schools
of the Federal Republic of Germany are open to American graduate students or teachers.Under the Educational Exchange Program conducted by
the Department of State, on April 28, 1926, it was announced today by Mr. Kenneth Holland, President of the Institute
of International Education, 1 East 67th Street, New York. The organization has more than ten thousand members in 61 active
chapters at schools throughout the United States.

The objectives of the fraternity are to encourage excellence in pre-medical scholarship and to stimulate an appreciation of the importance
of the vocation. AED also endeavors to promote cooperation between medical and pre-medical students and educators, and to bind together
students of similar interests.

AED is completing at least three semesters of pre-medical college work with a minimum scholastic average of B. Charlie Freed
is president of the Davidson chapter. Other officers for this year are Bob Jones, vice-president; B. C. Brown, Secretary; and
Zack Kilpatrick, Treasurer. President Freed stated that a meeting of the officers on October 5 was for the purpose of
initiating new members into the fraternity. An open program for the public has been planned tentatively for November 10, 1954,
in the Science Building. A film dealing with the medical profession will be shown, and a brief discussion period will
follow the movie. Definite time and place will be announced later. Dr. E. E. Brown is the faculty adviser of
the Davidson chapter.

The U.S. Educational Commission in the Federal Republic of Germany would prefer for these posts young Americans with some teaching
experience and a Master’s degree. Candidates with preparation in the fields of English or history are desired. Applicants should have
broad experience in extracurricular as well as academic activities and should be well-informed about American history, institutions, and educational practices.
Successful candidates for the assistantship positions will be awarded Fulbright grants, payable in German deutschemarks, which cover travel, tuition, maintenance,
books, and incidentals for a full academic year. Graduate students who are now enrolled in academic institutions should apply to
the Fulbright Program Adviser on campus. Other candidates should apply to the Institute of International Education, 1 East 67th Street,
New York City. Final selection of Fulbright grantees is made by the Board of Foreign Scholarships appointed by the President
of the United States. The Institute of International Education, the central private agency in the U.S. administering programs for the
exchange of students, teachers, and specialists, is the agency designated by the Board of Foreign Scholarships and the Department of
State to screen applications.

The program of German assistantships is separate from the interchange of German and American teachers under the State Department’s Educational
Exchange Program. Persons wishing to apply for teaching grants should write to the U.S. Office of Education, Department of Health,
Education and Welfare, Washington 25, D.C.

Phi Society Holds its First Meet Monday

The Philanthropic Literary Society held its first meeting of the year last Monday evening with Stein Wilson presiding. Following the
roll call by Secretary Reece Middleton, Dick Morehead outlined the coming year’s program and opened the floor for discussion of
these plans by the members of the Society. After motions by Swain Loy, Dunbar Ogden, and Mac Williamson had been
acted upon, Morehead introduced the program of the evening which included readings by Jim Kuist and Mac Williamson. Ogden and
Williamson gave the Critics’ reports, followed by reports of the Supervisors, Jim Brice and Bob Beall. President Wilson then adjourned
the meeting.
