FRIDAY, MARCH 5, 1954 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

Betas Win Basketball Crown; Corky Clark Captains All Stars

The Betas came through this week’s action against some of the league’s toughest opposition to cop the interfraternity basketball race with a record of nine wins and one defeat. Although the champs were beaten by the ATOs by 31-30 to spoil their chances for an undefeated season, they took a close decision from the Pikas 33-30 to salvage their crown.

Besides the windup of the league action for another year, the Interfraternity All-Star teams were chosen by the various teams during the week. Big Corky Clark, who walked off with the individual scoring honors, was named to captain the mythical first team by an almost unanimous vote of the league's players. The remaining members of the first team were: Tom Shaw of the Sigma Chis, Linny Baker of the ATOs, Murray Page of the ATOs, and Lindley Beardsley of the Pikas. The five men named to the second team in the voting were: Charlie Hasty of the Betas, John McLaughlin of the Betas, Larry Champion of the Phi Gams, Perrin Anderson of the Sigma Chis, and John Handley of the Pikas.

The Betas, although not having a man averaging more than 12 points a game as far as the individual rankings went, came up with the highest team total and average in scoring 471 points over the ten-game stretch for a 47.1 average. The Pikas were not far behind with a 45.3 average per game. Corky Clark nosed out Murray Page for the scoring honors on the individual level with a 16.4 average and a 164 point total as compared to a 162 point total and a 16.2 average for the ATO guard. The other men in the league who averaged in double figures were: Lindley Beardsley of the Pikas (16 even), Tom Shaw of the Sigs (13.2), Larry Champion of the Phi Gams (12 even), Tom Lambe of the Betas (11.7), Linny Baker of the ATOs (11.7), and John Handley of the Pikas (11.6).

After the withdrawal of the Independents from the league caused the removing of all their games (both played and un-played) from the schedule, Corky Clark’s 35-point performance against the

RED-WHITE GAME TOMORROW

Game, Dance End Practice Sessions

Tomorrow afternoon at 2 p.m., the 1954 Wildcat gridders will give a sneak preview of things to come as the much talked about Red-White intra-squad game gets underway. The encounter is sponsored by the “D” club with 25 cents admission for students and 50 cents for adults. The day’s activities will be capped off with a YMCA-Union dance in the Union Ballroom in the evening, beginning at 8 o'clock.

The gridders wound up their practice activities for the spring yesterday afternoon before the game tomorrow with a lot of hustle and spirit being shown. From the pregame indications, it should be a hard-fought battle between two evenly matched squads. Tomorrow's game will wind up the spring practice sessions.

The starting lineups for tomorrow's tussle are as follows: for the Whites—Jim Patterson (LE), Tom Lee (LT), Lyle Liewelyn (LG), Tal Broughton (C), Tom Owen (RG), Harold Davis (RT), Tom Lee (RE), Bill Rowland (QB), Jimmy Thacker (LB), Henry Brown (FB), and Donnie McCree (RA). For the Red team it will be: Bill Gramley (LE), “Pete” Peterson (LT), Dickie Davis (LG), Don Moore (C), Adair Hatcher (RG), Don Jones (RT), Corky King (RE), Don Campbell (LH), Ken Conger (FB), and Harley Smith (LH).

Coach Dole has expressed on several occasions during the course of the practice sessions his satisfaction with the results of this training period. Things seem to point to a much improved season ahead for next fall.

Six men will miss tomorrow's encounter because of injuries or sickness. Bob Campbell is out with a broken jaw, Ken Lawing has a broken maxillary in his face, Randy Johnston is out with a broken thumb, and Leroy Fargason is again having trouble with his knee. Eugene Reid will miss tomorrow’s game because of the flu, and Dallas Brewer is out of action because of an infected tooth. Yesterday afternoon in the last football practice session of the year, Tom Newton, star freshman end, received a serious ankle injury which will not allow him to participate in the Red-White game tomorrow afternoon.

CATS TAKE FOURTH

Big gun Tom Lambe spikes against two members of the Florida State champs in last weekend's action. Linny Baker looks on.

Florida Staters Volleyball “Pros”

By JOHN HOLSHOUSER

The first Southeastern Intercollegiate volleyball tournament ended on February 26 with the strong Florida State spikers in first place, sporting a 20-0 record in the two-day tournament. The Seminoles were very impressive in racking up four wins over every other team in the tournament and also sweeping a four-game exhibition series with the nationally ranking Kannapolis YMCA team.

North Carolina took the runner-up position as they lost only to Florida State and came out with a 14-8 score. South Carolina and Davidson were in a tight race for third place honors with South Carolina nosing out the Wildcats by winning ten of twenty games while Davidson took eight. The two teams met in each round and split each time with identical 2-2 records against each other. Following in fifth and sixth place were Appalachian and Alabama State Teachers College.

Davidson's Wildcats took games from Appalachian, South Carolina, and Alabama in the course of play, starting out strong by winning three of their first four contests. Leading the team were Lee Scott, Vince Gould, Linnie Baker, Tom Lambe, John McLaughlin, and Larry McIntosh. Bill Lazenby and Andy Simmons substituted.

NOTICE!

Coach Hambright announced yesterday that there will be a very important meeting of all freshmen interested in going out for track in the equipment room in the basement of the gym on Monday afternoon at 3:30 p.m. A good six-meet schedule has been arranged for the freshman team and all interested men should report on Monday afternoon. Hambright pointed out that previous experience in track was not at all necessary.

Coach Bill Odeneal of FSU stated that “Interest in intercollegiate volleyball is increasing all over the nation, and the South is making a lot ofProgress in promoting the sport.” SAEs and the Pikas 76-29 stomping of the same SAE team stand as the individual and team highest scores of the season. The final week's action went as follows:

Beta 33; Pika 30
The Betas clinched their undisputed possession of first place in the league as they took their final game from a scrappy Pika club by a 33-30 count. Tommy Lambe paced the victors with 11 points while Lindley Beardsley hit 8 to top the Pikas. There was never a gap of more than four points during the entire game.

Kappa Sig 44; Phi Gam 31
The Kappa Sigs held on to their hold on a second place tie as they downed the Phi Gams in the week's only afternoon game by 44-31. Johnny Bremer dumped in 18 markers to pace the Kappa Sigs as Larry Champion hit for 16 for the losers.

THE FINAL STANDINGS
Won Lost
Beta 9 1
Kappa Sig 8 2
ATO 8 2
Pike 7 3
Sigma Chi 6 4
KA 5 5
Phi Delt 4 6
Phi Gam 4 6
Sig Ep 3 7
Pi Kapp 2 9
SAE 0 10

AAK COPS OP. KAPPA SIGS TAKE THIRD STRAIGHT HANDBALL CROWN
The Kappa Sigs have swept past ten straight opponents to take their third consecutive handball championship in inter-fraternity competition. With veteran Corky Johnson teaming with Henry Connelly who replaced the injured Lacy Keesler, the Kappa Sigs edged out their nearest rivals, the Phi Delts, to come out with first place honors. The SPEs and Pi Kapps finished in third and fourth place, respectively, while the Beta team came in fifth to complete the first division. The KAs were the only team to complete the season without a win.

With the completion of the handball competition, the Winter schedule for interfraternity sports activity is finished. Next on the docket is the interfraternity track meet. The Kappa Sigs, the defending champions, will share the role of favorite with the Betas. Coach “Pete” Whittle has announced that the meet will be held on Tuesday and Wednesday of next week, providing that the weather permits. The following events will be held in the meet: the 100-yard dash, the 220-yard dash, the 440-yard run, the 660-yard run, the 120 low hurdles, the 3/4 mile run, the broad jump, the high jump, the discus throw, and the shot put. The meet will be concluded by the one-half mile relay.

ATO 31; Beta 30
In one of the most exciting games of the season, little Linny Baker put through a swishing set shot with 10 seconds remaining in the contest to bring the ATOs a second place tie and to hand the Betas their only defeat of the campaign. Baker collected 14 for the night as did Tom Lambe of the Betas.

Phi Delt 43; SAE 26
The Phi Delts handed the SAEs their 10th straight defeat of the season.

(Continued On Page Four)

SLOW START HALTS DAVIDSON AS HURRICANE ACE HITS 36
By JIM HOLSHOUSER
Davidson’s Wildcats bowed out of the Southern Conference Tournament last night when they dropped their opening round of the tourney to Furman. The Cats matched the Hurricane almost basket for basket in the final three quarters, and it was only through a first period spurt that Furman was able to move out in front. After taking an eleven-point lead in the initial quarter, Furman went on to win the game by 84-68.

As usual, it was Frank Selvy who led the Furman team in scoring. The Corbin flash scored 36 points, 11 in the first quarter, to pace the scoring for both teams. Hobby Cobb, Graeme Keith, and George Melton all hit in the double figures for Davidson, with Cobb leading the way with 16.

The tournament loss marked the second time within a week that the Paladins have proven too much for the Cats. Last Friday night the Davidson club dropped a 105-93 decision to Furman, as Frank Selvy, the captain of this year's All-American squad, scored 50 points. It was by far the best game of the year for the Cats. Greenville sports writers had predicted that Selvy would outscore the entire Davidson team. Instead, Coach Lyles Alley was forced to use his regulars all the way in order to beat the scrapping Cats. Davidson pulled to within eight points of the lead midway in the fourth quarter, but a final push by the Hurricane gave them the winning margin.

Graeme Keith, Ish Bennett, and Hobby Cobb all broke the twenty mark in the contest. Keith poured in 27 points to lead the Davidson scoring, while Bennett and Cobb both racked up 24 points. Darrel Floyd scored 20 points for Furman.

Davidson finished the season with a record of 7 wins and 15 losses, with a disastrous pre-Christmas stint proving fatal to the season’s mark. Prior to the holidays, the Cats lost six of seven contests before Coach Danny Miller finally found the right combination. Then the Wildcats won four of five contests in a late January-early February streak to boost the mark considerably. Hobby Cobb’s much improved play was the most pleasant surprise of the campaign. Only a sophomore, Cobb led the team in scoring this year and became a fine rebounder as well.

The Davidson freshman team ended its season last Tuesday against the North Carolina frosh. The Kittens lost a close, 53-44, decision to the heavily-favored Tar Babies in a contest in Charlotte. The frosh ended a very successful season with a record of ten wins and four losses.

Swimmers Miss 2nd By Only Two Points
Last weekend Davidson's tankmen finished fourth in the Southern Conference swimming meet held at VPI. The Cats were barely nosed out for second place. VPI finished with 28 points, The Citadel had 27 and the Cats tallied 26. VMI won the meet easily in taking every first place for a 143 point total. Bud Montgomery placed fifth in the 100-yard breaststroke, Bob Patton took second in the 100-yard freestyle.

(Continued On Page Four)

HOLLYWOOD MOVIE STAR
Jane Greer says: “I was a band singer when a picture magazine asked me to pose in the new WAC uniforms. Hollywood saw my picture, liked it and overnight I was in movies. From then on, it was hard work and perseverance.”

START SMOKING CAMELS YOURSELF!
Smoke only Camels for 30 days and find out why Camels are America’s most popular cigarette. See how mild and flavorful a cigarette can be!