THE DAVIDSONIAN

He set a loaded rack and sent it crashing to the floor. Dr. Logan said nothing. It's pitiful to see a grown man cry. Later we learned why they put up with Parks. Seems that for fifty years the boys in the Science Department have been hoping for a student who could make some great technological discovery, in the manner of those who brought glory to Davidson in 1896 with the ‘first X-ray photograph.’ Ever since awarding him the Howard Chemistry scholarship last year, they have felt that Ken might be the long-awaited one. Whether he will be left to tell the world is another matter.

Freshman Cagers...
(Continued From Page Three)
all season, and the 8-3 won-lost record proves that it has paid off. It also means that next year’s varsity can expect help from several players instead of just one or two high-scoring stars. The season closes Monday night with Gardner-Webb here, a preliminary to the varsity battle with North Carolina State.

HFC Meets Thursday

“EFF,” he chortled, “forgot his pants.” Convulsed with laughter, he upended a loaded rack and sent it crashing to the floor. Dr. Logan said nothing. It's pitiful to see a grown man cry. Later we learned why they put up with Parks. Seems that for fifty years the boys in the Science Department have been hoping for a student who could make some great technological discovery, in the manner of those who brought glory to Davidson in 1896 with the ‘first X-ray photograph.’ Ever since awarding him the Howard Chemistry scholarship last year, they have felt that Ken might be the long-awaited one. Whether he will be left to tell the world is another matter.

Phi Mu Alpha Changes Meeting Time

The Honorary Fraternity Council met Thursday afternoon, February 4, in the Green Room of the College Union. With President Hunter Strader presiding, the Council checked on changes that any fraternity might wish to make in its meeting schedule. In the only change effected, Phi Mu Alpha, national honorary music fraternity, changed its meeting time from the first and third Tuesdays to the second and fourth Tuesdays of the month.

U.S. in Danger...
(Continued From Page Two)
at the situation with any degree of objectivity.

Second Aspect
The second important aspect of this situation is tied in directly with the last statement made above. The eminent British essayist, Bertrand Russell, in a recent essay on “The Corroding Effects of Suspicion,” pointed out that in situations in history similar to the one we have in America today, there have been three conditions which have enabled unscrupulous politicians to make political capital at the expense of the whole nation concerned. Russell names these conditions as: “a frightened populace, a press that is willing to pander to the fears of the populace, and a public that is credulous and uncritical.” It should be obvious that of Russell’s three factors, the one with the most immediate relevance to our situation is the frightened populace. This fear has been exploited by politicians to gain power and influence, often at the expense of rational policy-making and the public good.

State Department. (That, however, was before most Americans, Republicans included, were sufficiently awakened to the danger of the Russian designs on world domination.) And the Democratic party may...

Arts and Sciences is offering fellowships up to $2,500 for first-year graduate students in addition to its regular graduate scholarships. The awards range from $600 to $4,000. Interested seniors should write to Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, Troy, New York.

165 Students Apply...
(Continued From Page One)
The Interfraternity Council Midwinter dance sponsors, with their escorts, are Miss Mary Ann Waldrop of Greenville, N.C., and Duke University, with Dick Roper, Phi Gamma Delta; Miss Carolyn Byers of Durham and Converse College, with Winston Wright, Pi Kappa Alpha, president of the Council; Miss Martha Eaton of Franklinton and East Carolina College, with Bob Owens, treasurer of the Council; Miss Sally Bennett of Winchester, Va., with Ronnie Wilson, Kappa Alpha; Miss Peggy Davis of Charlotte and Queens College, with Bill Shipley, Sigma Chi; Miss Marlene Hedrick of Lenoir and Salem College, with Joe Neisler, Sigma Phi Epsilon, secretary; and Miss Jean Eason of Monroe and Queens College.L. Bishop, Department of the Union Car- of the Council; Miss Gloria Dowd of Charlotte College, with Marshall Pitts, Alpha Tau Omega. Not bide and Carbon Corporation. Two Queens College, with Graeme Keith, Beta Theta Pi; Miss Fabia Trice of Macon, Ga, and Pictured is Miss Margaret Gary, Institute of Tech- nually at Davidson to help make Randolph-Macon Woman's College, with Dave C., and Queens College, with Dick Morrow, Cam- bridge, Mass. college education financially pos- Burns, Sigma Epsilon; Miss Rose Tarrant of Char- pus Club. Princeton University announces len in Music Jazz Jazz is an American creation. But exception as evidenced by the local ton National Fellowships, each with a normal value of $2000 for entering graduate students in the Hu- sins cover the cost of tuition and reasonable allowances for books (From Page Two) Moreover, written music, a necessity in order for large bands to produce anything but bedlam, in the general concept of jazz pictures five or six dope addicts blowing like mad in a smoke-filled dive in the majority of the students just do not care for it; they derive personaliti Street. European and American interested student souls offers various pres different, for there jazz musicians are given triumphal welcomes and Jazz at the Philharmonic recordings and play Shearing’s album only to cut down on outside noise. showing Louis Armstrong’s pro- NAVAL OFFICER who cannot otherwise meet their college expenses. small combos where they find greater flexibility for personal expression. Errol Garner, the famous pianist, never studied a lesson from music, and outstanding teachers have advised him not to do so in fear that it may affect his style and feeling. college campuses. Davidson is no exception as evidenced by the local interest taken recently in Stan Kenton’s Festival of Modern American Jazz. It remains, though, that the majority of the students just do not care for it; they derive no pleasure whatsoever from Jazz at the Philharmonic recordings and play Shearing’s album only to cut down on outside noise. Moreover, written music, a necessity in order for large bands to produce anything but bedlam, in the general concept of jazz pictures five or six dope addicts blowing like mad in a smoke-filled dive. For this reason a number of big-band musicians have turned to small combos where they find greater flexibility for personal expression. Errol Garner, the famous pianist, never studied a lesson from music, and outstanding teachers have advised him not to do so in fear that it may affect his style and feeling. It is typical for a people to neglect an art they gave birth to and others have heralded. However, a growing number of Americans, predominantly young, have developed an avid appreciation for jazz. A great deal of this enthusiasm is found in more intellectual societies and is scattered on college campuses. Davidson is no exception as evidenced by the local interest taken recently in Stan Kenton’s Festival of Modern American Jazz. It remains, though, that the majority of the students just do not care for it; they derive no pleasure whatsoever from Jazz at the Philharmonic recordings and play Shearing’s album only to cut down on outside noise. However, a growing number of Americans, predominantly young, have developed an avid appreciation for jazz. A great deal of this enthusiasm is found in more intellectual societies and is scattered on college campuses. Davidson is no exception as evidenced by the local interest taken recently in Stan Kenton’s Festival of Modern American Jazz. It remains, though, that the majority of the students just do not care for it; they derive no pleasure whatsoever from Jazz at the Philharmonic recordings and play Shearing’s album only to cut down on outside noise. However, a growing number of Americans, predominantly young, have developed an avid appreciation for jazz. A great deal of this enthusiasm is found in more intellectual societies and is scattered on college campuses. Davidson is no exception as evidenced by the local interest taken recently in Stan Kenton’s Festival of Modern American Jazz. It remains, though, that the majority of the students just do not care for it; they derive no pleasure whatsoever from Jazz at the Philharmonic recordings and play Shearing’s album only to cut down on outside noise. However, a growing number of Americans, predominantly young, have developed an avid appreciation for jazz. A great deal of this enthusiasm is found in more intellectual societies and is scattered on college campuses. Davidson is no exception as evidenced by the local interest taken recently in Stan Kenton’s Festival of Modern American Jazz. It remains, though, that the majority of the students just do not care for it; they derive no pleasure whatsoever from Jazz at the Philharmonic recordings and play Shearing’s album only to cut down on outside noise. However, a growing number of Americans, predominantly young, have developed an avid appreciation for jazz. A great deal of this enthusiasm is found in more intellectual societies and is scattered on college campuses. Davidson is no exception as evidenced by the local interest taken recently in Stan Kenton’s Festival of Modern American Jazz. It remains, though, that the majority of the students just do not care for it; they derive no pleasure whatsoever from Jazz at the Philharmonic recordings and play Shearing’s album only to cut down on outside noise. However, a growing number of Americans, predominantly young, have developed an avid appreciation for jazz. A great deal of this enthusiasm is found in more intellectual societies and is scattered on college campuses. Davidson is no exception as evidenced by the local interest taken recently in Stan Kenton’s Festival of Modern American Jazz. It remains, though, that the majority of the students just do not care for it; they derive no pleasure whatsoever from Jazz at the Philharmonic recordings and play Shearing’s album only to cut down on outside noise. However, a growing number of Americans, predominantly young, have developed an avid appreciation for jazz. A great deal of this enthusiasm is found in more intellectual societies and is scattered on college campuses. Davidson is no exception as evidenced by the local interest taken recently in Stan Kenton’s Festival of Modern American Jazz. It remains, though, that the majority of the students just do not care for it; they derive no pleasure whatsoever from Jazz at the Philharmonic recordings and play Shearing’s album only to cut down on outside noise. However, a growing number of Americans, predominantly young, have developed an avid appreciation for jazz. A great deal of this enthusiasm is found in more intellectual societies and is scattered on college campuses. Davidson is no exception as evidenced by the local interest taken recently in Stan Kenton’s Festival of Modern American Jazz. It remains, though, that the majority of the students just do not care for it; they derive no pleasure whatsoever from Jazz at the Philharmonic recordings and play Shearing’s album only to cut down on outside noise. However, a growing number of Americans, predominantly young, have developed an avid appreciation for jazz. A great deal of this enthusiasm is found in more intellectual societies and is scattered on college campuses. Davidson is no exception as evidenced by the local interest taken recently in Stan Kenton’s Festival of Modern American Jazz. It remains, though, that the majority of the students just do not care for it; they derive no pleasure whatsoever from Jazz at the Philharmonic recordings and play Shearing’s album only to cut down on outside noise. However, a growing number of Americans, predominantly young, have developed an avid appreciation for jazz. A great deal of this enthusiasm is found in more intellectual societies and is scattered on college campuses. Davidson is no exception as evidenced by the local interest taken recently in Stan Kenton’s Festival of Modern American Jazz. It remains, though, that the majority of the students just do not care for it; they derive no pleasure whatsoever from Jazz at the Philharmonic recordings and play Shearing’s album only to cut down on outside noise. However, a growing number of Americans, predominantly young, have developed an avid appreciation for jazz. A great deal of this enthusiasm is found in more intellectual societies and is scattered on college campuses. Davidson is no exception as evidenced by the local interest taken recently in Stan Kenton’s Festival of Modern American Jazz. It remains, though, that the majority of the students just do not care for it; they derive no pleasure whatsoever from Jazz at the Philharmonic recordings and play Shearing’s album only to cut down on outside noise. However, a growing number of Americans, predominantly young, have developed an avid appreciation for jazz. A great deal of this enthusiasm is found in more intellectual societies and is scattered on college campuses. Davidson is no exception as evidenced by the local interest taken recently in Stan Kenton’s Festival of Modern American Jazz. It remains, though, that the majority of the students just do not care for it; they derive no pleasure whatsoever from Jazz at the Philharmonic recordings and play Shearing’s album only to cut down on outside noise. However, a growing number of Americans, predominantly young, have developed an avid appreciation for jazz. A great deal of this enthusiasm is found in more intellectual societies and is scattered on college campuses. Davidson is no exception as evidenced by the local interest taken recently in Stan Kenton’s Festival of Modern American Jazz. It remains, though, that the majority of the students just do not care for it; they derive no pleasure whatsoever from Jazz at the Philharmonic recordings and play Shearing’s album only to cut down on outside noise. However, a growing number of Americans, predominantly young, have developed an avid appreciation for jazz. A great deal of this enthusiasm is found in more intellectual societies and is scattered on college campuses. Davidson is no exception as evidenced by the local interest taken recently in Stan Kenton’s Festival of Modern American Jazz. It remains, though, that the majority of the students just do not care for it; they derive no pleasure whatsoever from Jazz at the Philharmonic recordings and play Shearing’s album only to cut down on outside noise. However, a growing number of Americans, predominantly young, have developed an avid appreciation for jazz. A great deal of this enthusiasm is found in more intellectual societies and is scattered on college campuses. Davidson is no exception as evidenced by the local interest taken recently in Stan Kenton’s Festival of Modern American Jazz. It remains, though, that the majority of the students just do not care for it; they derive no pleasure whatsoever from Jazz at the Philharmonic recordings and play Shearing’s album only to cut down on outside noise. However, a growing number of Americans, predominantly young, have developed an avid appreciation for jazz. A great deal of this enthusiasm is found in more intellectual societies and is scattered on college campuses. Davidson is no exception as evidenced by the local interest taken recently in Stan Kenton’s Festival of Modern American Jazz. It remains, though, that the majority of the students just do not care for it; they derive no pleasure whatsoever from Jazz at the Philharmonic recordings and play Shearing’s album only to cut down on outside noise. However, a growing number of Americans, predominantly young, have developed an avid appreciation for jazz. A great deal of this enthusiasm is found in more intellectual societies and is scattered on college campuses. Davidson is no exception as evidenced by the local interest taken recently in Stan Kenton’s Festival of Modern American Jazz. It remains, though, that the majority of the students just do not care for it; they derive no pleasure whatsoever from Jazz at the Philharmonic recordings and play Shearing’s album only to cut down on outside noise. However, a growing number of Americans, predominantly young, have developed an avid appreciation for jazz. A great deal of this enthusiasm is found in more intellectual societies and is scattered on college campuses. Davidson is no exception as evidenced by the local interest taken recently in Stan Kenton’s Festival of Modern American Jazz. It remains, though, that the majority of the students just do not care for it; they derive no pleasure whatsoever from Jazz at the Philharmonic recordings and play Shearing’s album only to cut down on outside noise. However, a growing number of Americans, predominantly young, have developed an avid appreciation for jazz. A great deal of this enthusiasm is found in more intellectual societies and is scattered on college campuses. Davidson is no exception as evidenced by the local interest taken recently in Stan Kenton’s Festival of Modern American Jazz. It remains, though, that the majority of the students just do not care for it; they derive no pleasure whatsoever from Jazz at the Philharmonic recordings and play Shearing’s album only to cut down on outside noise. However, a growing number of Americans, predominantly young, have developed an avid appreciation for jazz. A great deal of this enthusiasm is found in more intellectual societies and is scattered on college campuses. Davidson is no exception as evidenced by the local interest taken recently in Stan Kenton’s Festival of Modern American Jazz. It remains, though, that the majority of the students just do not care for it; they derive no pleasure whatsoever from Jazz at the Philharmonic recordings and play Shearing’s album only to cut down on outside noise. However, a growing number of Americans, predominantly young, have developed an avid appreciation for jazz. A great deal of this enthusiasm is found in more intellectual societies and is scattered on college campuses. Davidson is no exception as evidenced by the local interest taken recently in Stan Kenton’s Festival of Modern American Jazz. It remains, though, that the majority of the students just do not care for it; they derive no pleasure whatsoever from Jazz at the Philharmonic recordings and play Shearing’s album only to cut down on outside noise. However, a growing number of Americans, predominantly young, have developed an avid appreciation for jazz. A great deal of this enthusiasm is found in more intellectual societies and is scattered on college campuses. Davidson is no exception as evidenced by the local interest taken recently in Stan Kenton’s Festival of Modern American Jazz. It remains, though, that the majority of the students just do not care for it; they derive no pleasure whatsoever from Jazz at the Philharmonic recordings and play Shearing’s album only to cut down on outside noise. However, a growing number of Americans, predominantly young, have developed an avid appreciation for jazz. A great deal of this enthusiasm is found in more intellectual societies and is scattered on college campuses. Davidson is no exception as evidenced by the local interest taken recently in Stan Kenton’s Festival of Modern American Jazz. It remains, though, that the majority of the students just do not care for it; they derive no pleasure whatsoever from Jazz at the Philharmonic recordings and play Shearing’s album only to cut down on outside noise. However, a growing number of Americans, predominantly young, have developed an avid appreciation for jazz. A great deal of this enthusiasm is found in more intellectual societies and is scattered on college campuses. Davidson is no exception as evidenced by the local interest taken recently in Stan Kenton’s Festival of Modern American Jazz. It remains, though, that the majority of the students just do not care for it; they derive no pleasure whatsoever from Jazz at the Philharmonic recordings and play Shearing’s album only to cut down on outside noise. However, a growing number of Americans, predominantly young, have developed an avid appreciation for jazz. A great deal of this enthusiasm is found in more intellectual societies and is scattered on college campuses. Davidson is no exception as evidenced by the local interest taken recently in Stan Kenton’s Festival of Modern American Jazz. It remains, though, that the majority of the students just do not care for it; they derive no pleasure whatsoever from Jazz at the Philharmonic recordings and play Shearing’s album only to cut down on outside noise. However, a growing number of Americans, predominantly young, have developed an avid appreciation for jazz. A great deal of this enthusiasm is found in more intellectual societies and is scattered on college campuses. Davidson is no exception as evidenced by the local interest taken recently in Stan Kenton’s Festival of Modern American Jazz. It remains, though, that the majority of the students just do not care for it; they derive no pleasure whatsoever from Jazz at the Philharmonic recordings and play Shearing’s album only to cut down on outside noise. However, a growing number of Americans, predominantly young, have developed an avid appreciation for jazz. A great deal of this enthusiasm is found in more intellectual societies and is scattered on college campuses. Davidson is no exception as evidenced by the local interest taken recently in Stan Kenton’s Festival of Modern American Jazz. It remains, though, that the majority of the students just do not care for it; they derive no pleasure whatsoever from Jazz at the Philharmonic recordings and play Shearing’s album only to cut down on outside noise. However, a growing number of Americans, predominantly young, have developed an avid appreciation for jazz. A great deal of this enthusiasm is found in more intellectual societies and is scattered on college campuses. Davidson is no exception as evidenced by the local interest taken recently in Stan Kenton’s Festival of Modern American Jazz. It remains, though, that the majority of the students just do not care for it; they derive no pleasure whatsoever from Jazz at the Philharmonic recordings and play Shearing’s album only to cut down on outside noise. However, a growing number of Americans, predominantly young, have developed an avid appreciation for jazz. A great deal of this enthusiasm is found in more intellectual societies and is scattered on college campuses. Davidson is no exception as evidenced by the local interest taken recently in Stan Kenton’s Festival of Modern American Jazz. It remains, though, that the majority of the students just do not care for it; they derive no pleasure whatsoever from Jazz at the Philharmonic recordings and play Shearing’s album only to cut down on outside noise. However, a growing number of Americans, predominantly young, have developed an avid appreciation for jazz. A great deal of this enthusiasm is found in more intellectual societies and is scattered on college campuses. Davidson is no exception as evidenced by the local interest taken recently in Stan Kenton’s Festival of Modern American Jazz. It remains, though, that the majority of the students just do not care for it; they derive no pleasure whatsoever from Jazz at the Philharmonic recordings and play Shearing’s album only to cut down on outside noise. However, a growing number of Americans, predominantly young, have developed an avid appreciation for jazz. A great deal of this enthusiasm is found in more intellectual societies and is scattered on college campuses. Davidson is no exception as evidenced by the local interest taken recently in Stan Kenton’s Festival of Modern American Jazz. It remains, though, that the majority of the students just do not care for it; they derive no pleasure whatsoever from Jazz at the Philharmonic recordings and play Shearing’s album only to cut down on outside noise. However, a growing number of Americans, predominantly young, have developed an avid appreciation for jazz. A great deal of this enthusiasm is found in more intellectual societies and is scattered on college campuses. Davidson is no exception as evidenced by the local interest taken recently in Stan Kenton’s Festival of Modern American Jazz. It remains, though, that the majority of the students just do not care for it; they derive no pleasure whatsoever from Jazz at the Philharmonic recordings and play Shearing’s album only to cut down on outside noise. However, a growing number of Americans, predominantly young, have developed an avid appreciation for jazz. A great deal of this enthusiasm is found in more intellectual societies and is scattered on college campuses. Davidson is no exception as evidenced by the local interest taken recently in Stan Kenton’s Festival of Modern American Jazz. It remains, though, that the majority of the students just do not care for it; they derive no pleasure whatsoever from Jazz at the Philharmonic recordings and play Shearing’s album only to cut down on outside noise. However, a growing number of Americans, predominantly young, have developed an avid appreciation for jazz. A great deal of this enthusiasm is found in more intellectual societies and is scattered on college campuses. Davidson is no exception as evidenced by the local interest taken recently in Stan Kenton’s Festival of Modern American Jazz. It remains, though, that the majority of the students just do not care for it; they derive no pleasure whatsoever from Jazz at the Philharm