PAGE TWO

The Davidsonian

Published Weekly Throughout the College Year

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
HENRY BROCKMANN

BUSINESS MANAGER
TIM COOPER

ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Asst. Editors: Gilbert Gragg, Swain Loy
Managing Editors: Blake Brinkerhoff, Maurice Crouse, Tom Warlick
Sports Editor: Jim Holshouser
Feature Editor: Dick Morehead
News Editors: John Hiers, Watt McCain
Copy Editor: John Harmon
Art Editor: Ed Price
Joe Burroughs, Floyd Feeney, John Handley, Austin Strand
Photographer: Hank Daniel
Assignments: Jim Brice
Editorial Consultants: Joe Gaskin, Jim Marshal, Stan Miller, Bill Stewart
Assistant Business Manager: Tommy Taylor
Advertising Manager: Larry Parrott
Collections Manager: John Smith
Circulation Manager: Bob Carmichael

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N.C., under the Act of March 3, 1897

Orientation Not Just Preparing For Classes; Davidson College Of Itself Is A Way Of Life

A student: A learner; scholar; especially, one who attends a school. Such a definition Webster gives to you who will enter Davidson as freshmen next Wednesday for your first day of classes. Just so you are. You have come to Davidson to study, and while you are in attendance here you will continue to learn, to be a scholar, to put what is in the books into your head. But the student in the college sense of the word seems to be more than just an attendant at a school. Certainly if we were here for classes alone we could claim attendance in Davidson, yet our life as students would fall far short of what the student's life should be in order that he might be called in all truth a learner.

To find the real meaning of what the word student in college and at Davidson in particular is, we must go further in Webster’s analysis of the word, gleaning from his second definition the words: One who studies; an attentive and systematic observer; as, a student of life. The college student has not entered the institution to become a student in the true sense of the word until he has mastered the idea that college class experience is minor compared to the myriads of other experiences he will have there that will teach him more than he could ever realize about that essence of which he is a minute part, life.

The experiences you will have here, from the daily round of petty conversation and deed to the dramatic laying bare of souls in anguish or of characters in moments of strain, will teach you more of the race with which you live than the black and white of man’s printed knowledge ever could. Just as your experiences with your fellow students in college will teach you much of the eternal verities of life on its varied planes, so your life in Davidson will teach you a particular way of life. For Davidson is not a name; it is a way of life. To some it is a bane, to others a coronet of gold, but to all who enter it there comes sooner or later the realization that here there is a pattern, here there is a design, here there is an idea made concrete, and that though that concrete is rippled with imperfection, its very existence shows its lasting worth.

Here you will find tradition tempered with progress, hard work offset by fraternal fellowship, the skittishness of youth calmed by the glint of Christian souls who pass you by, the vigor of young manhood channeled to the quest for knowledge. You will see the cynic and the saint, and you will see them clash; and if you are wise you will see the value of both. You will see cooperation and strife, you will be gladdened at the unity of the student body, sickened by the deeds that such unity can sometimes bring to pass. One cannot make concrete predictions at the beginning of a year. One can see only a step ahead along the way. The question rises: Will Davidson go forward this year, or will she be caught in combat with air? You who are freshmen must choose now what ideal you will serve while here. But mark this well: For better or for worse, Davidson College will be three years from now what you as this year’s freshmen make it. Build well, whatever else you do.

Spencer Outlines R.O.T.C. Program For Better Understanding Frosh

As stated in its contract with the Army, Davidson College requires basic ROTC (the first two years) of all entering freshmen. Students who are physically disqualified or who have had equivalent military training may be excused. Traditionally, the Army has also allowed the college to excuse a small minority of students whose parents requested this in writing before classes began. All freshmen should be aware of the following points: (1) To take basic ROTC is the normal pattern for freshmen and sophomores, (2) Once a student begins basic ROTC, he must complete it as a requirement for graduation unless discharged by the Professor of Military Science and Tactics. (3) A student who does not take basic ROTC virtually eliminates any future chance of a commission in any branch of the Army, thereby restricting himself to the more limited programs of the other three services. Conversely, if he takes ROTC, he preserves his freedom of choice for an additional two years, during which time his own objectives or the world situation (or both) may change radically. (4) Participation in the basic ROTC does not prejudice a student's opportunity to participate in the officer training programs of other services. Any student interested in such programs should ask for information directly from the service concerned.

Capable, Wise: Spencer Tackles Big Job As Davidson’s New Dean Of Students

Last year's resignation of John C. Bailey as Dean of Students left a big pair of shoes for someone to fill. Dean Bailey had served capably for many years, engendering in the Davidson students friendship and respect that made it hard for them to see him leave his post. Davidson is fortunate, however, in having a man overflowing with capability and wisdom and common sense to take over the important job. It is with all good wishes and a promise of wholehearted cooperation that The Davidsonian welcomes as Dean Dr. S. R. Spencer. We shall look forward to a year of progress and concord under his able leadership. We also look forward to Dean Pietenpol’s first full year as Dean of the Faculty. We join in wishing him well in his important and arduous task.

Dr. Spencer's qualifications include not only a long connection with Davidson College, but a close tie with the present student generation. His work with the history department gave it new life as he presented an individual and highly effective method of introduction to and interpretation of the subject. The present Orientation Program has been particularly effective so far, and the extended schedule which will stretch orientation till November shows that Dr. Spencer and all those working with him are out to give each generation of Davidson freshmen a firm foundation and a solid indoctrination to Davidson.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

‘Y’ Program Is Open To Men of all Beliefs

BY LEIGHTON GREEN

You who are freshmen will naturally find many new experiences and concepts at Davidson, one of which will be the YMCA, for the “Y" here does not have a building, but only an office in the Union, and does not perform many of the functions you associate with the YMCA in your home town, since the gym and the athletic program take care of those things. When you pay your Student Activities Fee upon registering, you automatically contribute a certain part of that fee to the “Y" and are thus considered members of the Davidson YMCA with voting privileges. Disregarding for the moment the question of whether this is a good policy, it is easy to see that this does not make you an active member, for an active member takes part in the work of the organization, and wants to know for what he is working.

The YMCA at Davidson is indeed striving to be a Christian organization, to be the spiritual center of student life, to be the student's opportunity for effective Christian worship, study, and action. The “Y” program gives you a chance to put into practice the Christian faith, which most of you undoubtedly have in one stage or another, by serving those around you. But the “Y" is not just for the pre-ministerials or the deeply religious or even only for Christians. The “Y" is open to everyone, to those of all religious faiths who want to take part in the program, to skeptics who may want to test their position against other beliefs, to those who don't feel they need religion, but who have a humanitarian impulse to help others. The whole point is that it doesn’t make any difference what you believe or don't believe. The important thing is that you find something in the “Y" program which you want to do, and that in doing it you are doing something constructive. Don't misunderstand me. The most important part of the YMCA is its Christian purpose, which will not be compromised with anything else. But the “Y” is an inclusive, not an exclusive, organization.

Look through your Handbook and see the various projects that the “Y" sponsors. They are not things that will normally bring you any prestige on the campus, but they are all things that will give you pleasure in accomplishing something worthwhile. In Boys’ Work, Scouting, Community Work, and Deputations to churches and schools in this part of the country, you have an opportunity to serve God through serving others or just to serve for the pleasure you get out of helping others. Through Special Services, Chapel, Hall Prayer Meetings, the College Bible Class, the Student Volunteer Movement, and study groups on Campus Life and World Citizenship you have a chance to think through the faith which you have, for everyone deep down inside has faith in something. Through the Gift Fund at Christmas time, you have a chance to give to others who are not as fortunate as you are, and through the social functions planned by the “Y" you can see that having a good time in the right way is an important part of the Christian life.

Right now your attitude may be that you came to college just to have a good time, or just to study and learn, or to get away from doing anything connectedwith Christianity or the Church except what is compulsory at Davidson. At least that may be your surface attitude. But somewhere down deep, everyone wants to be something more than just a walking nonentity. The “Y” offers you a chance to do work which may not seem important to you now, but which will have more lasting results than nearly anything you can do while you are at Davidson. You have a chance to think through your faith and to put it into practice. You have a chance to show that love of self does not completely rule your life. We hope that you will examine the program of the “Y", ask any questions you have about it, and take an active part in the work of the YMCA at Davidson.

Freshmen set the direction and level of your career in the later years. Four essentials to a successful college career at Davidson are Honor, Friendliness, Willpower, and Hard Work. Anytime during this year, or the years which follow, when I can be of any assistance to you in any way, I sincerely hope you will let me know. I want to know each of you. You will be welcome in my office and in my home.

Cordially,
John R. Cunningham, President

A Hint To The Wise

Those First Six Weeks

Long-time campus-dwellers see a lot of students in their day. They get some definite ideas about college people. As they watch them, they see some patterns form and they tell what they see—at least, they told us. These wise friends and counselors include some college presidents, some deans, some student workers for the church, some college pastors, and, believe it or not, their observation is that students need help most:

In Learning How To Study

Apparently (as if everybody didn't know), most of them leave high school with a pretty spotty relationship to the hard, serious work that is expected at college and when they hit the campus they don't know for a long time that they are in a different world. The second thing these friendly counselors think a new student ought to know and do is:

Get Off To A Good Start

First impressions, you are told at home, are mighty important. But more than that, habits are being formed in a new environment and before you know it some habits can become problems — like, well you know what any fellow can think up to put off settling down to that work for tomorrow. So, honor that time schedule. The third thing these keen observers want to tell students is:

Forget Those Proud High School Honors

You did mighty well back there, but let's forget it, settle down and make friends with the fact that most of the people around you had a pretty fine record in high school too — or they wouldn't be here alongside you. Here’s one of a number of quotes on the subject: “High school leaders can’t all be leaders in college; they should prepare to enjoy association with others equally or more competent, without envy.” Takes a lot of gumption to step down, but that is one of the entrance tests not listed in the college catalog. You don’t want to fail that one, so ditch those awards, numerals, and that strutting manner and start out once more as your own self.

That's what these long-time campus friends think needs to be said. They have seen a lot of students come — and go.

—Going To College Handbook.

FRIDAY, SEPT. 10, 1954

Catsby Never Could See Without His Glasses

Freshmen with artistic leanings are invited to lend their talent to the DAVIDSONIAN as cartoonists. If you have capabilities and ideas, put both on pasteboard and drop by the Davidsonian office soon. We'll look for you.

THE CARILLONNEUR

Man, Boy, Or Something In Between; All Must Fill a Spot

Once upon a time there was a man; at least in his own opinion, there was. He came to college as a freshman. He allowed himself to be led through the maze of entrance routine, longing for the time of its cessation. He knew that he had been well prepared before coming to college. Above all other things, he hated to go through “childish” practices. The sooner the campus personnel learned that he was a man, the better.

Once upon a time there was a boy; at least in his own opinion, there was. He came to college as a freshman. He allowed himself to be led through the maze of entrance routine, longing for the time of its cessation. How could he not become panicky when he considered all that he was to be learning? He knew that he had not been well prepared before coming to college. Above all other things, he hated to face frustrating, “mature” problems. The sooner the campus personnel learned that he was to be cared for personally, the better.

Once upon a time there was a boy-man; at least in his own opinion, there was. He came to college as a freshman. He allowed himself to be led through the maze of entrance routine, enjoying it while it lasted. He knew that he had been well prepared before coming to college in some fields, poorly prepared in others. Above all other things, he hated to become too encouraged by his successes and too discouraged by his failures—he strove to find the Golden Mean. The sooner the campus personnel accepted him as an equal — superior in some ways, inferior in others—the better.

The campus personnel arrived. The majority of them neither learned that the first new student existed nor made the effort to care for the second new student. The third new student? Why, the majority of the group never thought much about accepting or rejecting him. He was one of them—not in the sense of losing individuality and becoming a slave to the group, but in the sense of gaining individuality and being able both to assert this power when he felt it was needed and to accept others’ power when he felt it was needed. But the third new student should seek to show No. 1 and No. 2 their weaknesses and help them. Strong as would be his temptation to settle back into the group, he should stand upright in it and not sit down—remembering how recently he had not been “in.” From there he could grow and branch out from the central vine, having found the source of strength he needed to contribute his individuality. And if this third student carried that feeling of kinship into his life after college, he would surely have learned the spirit of Brotherhood: the Father, loving all his children equally, has made every man a unit of the human race, to leave his light or heavy mark.

The Davidson Freshman; Fear And Trembling

Is The Order

Now that you have been on the Davidson campus for at least a day and a half, you are no doubt profoundly imbued by the magnificent array of all sorts of architecture, intellectuals, and withered grass that you have seen placed at odd intervals about this most precious spot in North Carolina. Perhaps you have been so impressed with everything and everybody that you are supremely happy at this moment. But it is very probable that you are not much different from thousands of others who have entered Davidson since its beginning in 1837: maybe you just don't like it. There are many combined elements that contribute to your dislike, and there are many more (heh, heh) that you haven't yet had a chance to experience. Don't be alarmed that you are preparing to spend four miserable years in “this hole,” for, as I said, many others who at first despised the place in later years became Davidson’s most profitable devotees.

Since you have been here for only a short while and have not had the chance to get in the know, this article is designed solely to warn you—no, I won't say that, I'll say this—to inform you of what is in store for you in the near future.

A Lower Form...

The first thing that you should know is that in the eyes of most members of the campus a freshman is nowhere: he really has no business being in school at all. Most Davidsonians will appear to you at all times during the first semester of your sojourn here to be vainly conceited, tactlessly obnoxious, and thoroughly pusillanimous. That is the general rule for Davidson gentlemen of the upper classes, but there are subdivisions under it. The senior can be detected by the air of self-assurance which comes with the knowledge that he is well “over the hump” and on the way to graduation; the junior may be spotted by his listless and lackadaisical attitude: he is not quite so sure of himself as the senior and not nearly so exuberant as the sophomore; last but not least in this scholastic hierarchy is the sophomore; each second-year man feels unmistakably confident that he was created just a little lower than the angels (any sophomore will verify this); you don’t really need a rule-of-thumb to identify him: you will hear his voice at least fifty times a day.

Barbells And Bathing Beauties

There are one or two things about the daily routine, especially during orientation week, that may give you that tired, worn-out look. One thing is the P. T. test. It will do you no good whatsoever to protest that all you desire is strength enough to walk, for you will be run through paces that seem to have been taken directly from the Chas. Atlas training guide, but it is not all in vain. When the nurses at the infirmary try to revive you from the faint into which you have lapsed, and you awake to gaze into those flashing, luring eyes, you'll be glad it all happened just as it did.

When school begins, you will be expected to adhere carefully to a set of well thought-out rules and regulations invented especially for freshmen. These rules are hallowed, and breach of any one of them is cause enough to have you sent before the Grand Jury in charge of arrest, trial, and punishment of offenders, the COURT OF CONTROL. Words cannot adequately convey to you the feeling of utmost respect which each of you should have for this ruling body. It is its duty to unearth and to examine some of the most serious offenses conceived by the brilliant legislative minds of this century: really important things like walking on dead grass, forgetting to wear hats, having a superior attitude when you actually aren’t superior, and numerous other serious matters like that. As your teeth chatter on the days the Court meets, don’t say I didn’t warn you.

There isn’t much more that I can think of at the moment to tell you. I would like to say this, though: Always walk softly, stranger. The sophomore behind you will be carrying a big stick.