PAGE TWO

Greeks Must Curtail Initiations In View Of Their Own Interest

During the past week, we have been alarmed to learn that the fraternity system at Davidson is seriously jeopardizing its
position and even its existence. For many years, the annual “Hell Week” immediately preceding the initiation of pledges has been
a tradition among social fraternities. But in recent years, this tradition has come under heavy fire from within the fraternities
themselves as well as from without. Attempts to replace it with more constructive initiatory practices have met with varying degrees
of success on different campuses. At this college, there have been those who desired to substitute “Greek Week” or “Help
Week” for “Hell Week.” This movement was started by fraternity men who realized that if fraternities did not effect a
change in their initiation practices, changes would be forced upon them from without—i.e., by the college faculty and administration under
pressure of parents.

We have learned that the college feels that various substitute initiation programs have been a failure in so far as
they tended to take the place of “Hell Week.” To use a trite but relevant phrase, “ominous rumblings” have been
heard from the college authorities, who at present think that “Hell Week” is just as strong a tradition as it
ever was. It is not outside the realm of probability that stiff action may be taken against this practice and
even against fraternities themselves. Those who feel this should be done have ammunition to back them up. At present, two
initiates have been hospitalized as an indirect result of these initiation ceremonies. In addition, faculty members are complaining that these
time-consuming practices get the initiates hopelessly behind in their studies.

Fraternity men often argue that what goes on in fraternity court is no business of the college—that the college has
no right to interfere with fraternity initiation proceedings. Regardless of whether this is true or not, the college has the
power to interfere in fraternity matters and to take any steps they wish in regard to the continued existence of
the fraternity system. No matter how much it is argued that this is unfair, it is the plain and simple
truth of the matter.

This is not to say that there is no place for frivolity in fraternity initiation. But when frivolity is added
to frivolity, so to speak, in the manner of the traditional “Hell Week,” the faculty and administration are bound to
find out, and it can reasonably be expected that they will sooner or later take action. It seems to us
that either the fraternities will by their own volition drastically curtail the practices of “Hell Week” or that the college
will drastically curtail the activities of these same fraternities. There are real and positive values in fraternities. Are these to
be placed in jeopardy by clinging to unnecessary if amusing practices of initiation?

Athletic Aid Not ‘Greatest Good’ Nor Intrinsically Evil Either

If you want an argument, or even something more violent, at Davidson or at many schools, just take an extreme
position, pro or con, on the matter of athletic scholarships. We welcome argument, but abhor violence, so we are taking
what we feel is a moderate, if somewhat prejudiced position.

It seems that the question of athletic scholarship raises two subordinate questions. The first concerns whether the recruiting of athletic
talent necessarily brings inferior students to the campus and lowers the academic standards and general “moral tone” of the student
body. The second question asks whether the money spent on athletic scholarships could be put to better use, for the
college as a whole, and if so, is there reason to believe that it would be. If one can answer
both these questions negatively, then the question of subsidization boils down to the matter of how much money can be
got. On the other hand, if the answer is yes to both these questions, then all must admit that subsidization
is wrong.

In attempting to give a reasonable answer to these two questions, we would first strongly maintain that those currently at
Davidson on athletic grants are men of whom the college can take pride. They are, on the whole, satisfactory students,
and take an integral part in every aspect of campus life. In no way that we see do these men
“lower” the quality of the student body. Thus, to question one, we would answer there is no inevitable relation between
the presence in a student body of men on athletic scholarships and the lowering of academic or other standards.

Secondly, even if you grant that money spent for athletic grants could be put to better use for the college,
there is little reason to believe that alumni who “kick in” for athletic scholarships would do so for other purposes.
The criticism is made that time and effort used for collecting money for athletic grants could be utilized more constructively.
Perhaps so, but not more successfully. If a man is willing to contribute to the education of an athlete, but
not to that of another person, is it wrong to deny him the choice?

Our conclusion is that there need be no objection to athletic grants, so long as the college maintains the same
standards for all students, and is not deprived of its other financial resources by them.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE

plea for some form of international control of the awesome potential powers of atomic energy was a very fit close
for his informing lecture Wednesday night on the basic principles of the atomic bomb, and the fervent tone in which
this authority on the subject spoke should have been enough to convince even the most ardent isolationists and “America-Firsters” that
such international control must be achieved if another world holocaust is to be avoided. The distinguished Princeton physicist was undoubtedly
aware, when he asserted that “We must give up some of our sovereignty” in order to achieve such world control,
that such an act would have to be multilateral to achieve the desired goal of saving the world from destruction
by the virtually unlimited power of potential atomic and hydrogen bombs. That is, all the major nations of the world
would have to be included in such a program in order for it to work effectively.

Difficulty Arises

Here, of course, is where we inevitably hit a snag. For, in the first place, there will undoubtedly be a
large element in the United States which will not want to give up a single Constitutional clause of our present
sovereignty, for various reasons. And it should be said that their reasons are not always easily brushed aside, although in
the light of the possibility of potential world self-destruction by a super-bomb these reasons might appear less important.

Let us assume, for the sake of argument, that America and all the other free, democratic nations of the world
would be willing to surrender part of their sovereignty in order to achieve some form of world federalism, whereby control
over atomic weapons could be effected, and in order to create some form of international army-police force with which to
enforce the controls agreed upon by the member nations. The next step would of course be to bring into such
a system the Iron Curtain countries, which means principally the Soviet Union. And this, as any American diplomat of the
last ten years will undoubtedly attest, is where the real impasse is inevitably reached.

Two Methods

There are obviously only two ways in which the Soviet Union could be brought into such a federal system. The
first and most desirable way would be to convince the Russians that the atomic and hydrogen bomb are potentially capable
of destroying us all, so consequently they would only be spiting themselves by refusing to join such an organization. The
only other alternative would be to force the Soviet Union to join a federal system and surrender a sufficient part
of their sovereignty in order to achieve

COLLEGE YEAR

be to force the Soviet Union to

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Moody Smith

BUSINESS MANAGER
Charley Hasty

ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Jim Moore, Dick Roper

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1879.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

By DICK ROPER

Dr. Hubert Alyea’s dramatic

Quite obviously, the only way we could bring Russia into the proposed organization would be by some sort of warfare
by which we could achieve enough control over that nation to force it to join. And the terribly ironic feature
of such a course is that we would inevitably become engaged in atomic warfare, the control and prevention of which
we would be attempting to gain in the first place!

Few Americans would be willing to undertake Proposition No. 2, since it might very possibly lead to the destruction or
near-destruction of America by atomic weapons, in addition to the fact that such a coercive action would be a repudiation
of the very democratic principles which we are at present trying so hard to safeguard and preserve.

Futility Seen

The apparent futility of the whole effort toward achieving a sort of world federalism can be seen when we consider
the possibility of getting the Soviet Union to agree to give up enough of its sovereignty to make such a
plan workable. From all we know about Communist doctrine and Russian imperialism in practice, it seems obvious that the men
in the Kremlin are not going to be persuaded to join any such organization. They will talk endlessly about the
desirability of achieving and maintaining world peace; but any positive measure which involves mutual sacrifice of power and sovereignty we
know they will not support.

What the situation amounts to, in the final analysis, is that we as members of a democratic nation cannot conceive
of any nation which will willingly permit the existence of a situation which might very possibly lead to the destruction
of the world. Dr. Alyea and his fellow physicists must be literally terrified by the potentialities of the weapon which
they have helped to develop. As citizens of democracies, the atomic scientists of America and Great Britain want to prevent
this terribly destructive weapon from being unleashed on the world.

Kremlin Feels Differently

But what we must realize in attacking the problem is that the Soviet hierarchy does not feel this way about
the situation. They are undoubtedly aware of the potentialities of the atomic and hydrogen bomb; as Dr. Alyea pointed out,
they are known to have a considerable supply in their stockpiles right now. What Premier Malenkov and his cohorts apparently
want to do is wait until they believe they have the upper hand, or at least an even chance of
winning an all-out global conflict; then they will, if they are unable to eventually dominate the world by subverting the
various governments, launch such a war with the hope of eventually coming out victorious and thus dominating the entire world.

To tell them that they would only

Alyea’s Proposal Praiseworthy But Unrealizable at the Present

very doctrine calls for Communist domination of the world, and it is virtually impossible to believe they will ever agree
to stop short of this goal. Only a revolution it appears would ever bring about such a change of heart.

FRIDAY, MARCH 12, 1954

Old Student Council Ineffectual? Proposal For New Introduced

Throughout the year there is frequent criticism of the Student Council for being an ineffectual body from the students’ point
of view. Sometimes this criticism goes so far as to call the Student Council just another agency of the faculty
and administration for the enactment of their program upon the students. I feel that there must be some underlying cause
for this lingering feeling. The criticism is not caused, I feel, by any particular disgust with the particular officers for
the year. Neither is it caused by an irreconcilable difference between the philosophy of Davidson College and the philosophy of
the Davidson student. The reason that there is continual disappointment or dissatisfaction with the Student Council is that it is
not constructed to be a student government. Our rather unique present organization, whose character is difficult to define, is not
a member of The United States National Student Association in which the student governments of most recognizedColleges and universities are
represented. Our Student Council is poorly constructed to do the jobs of organizing student opinion and representing the student body.
Why is this? Under the present organizational set-up, the functions of a body to maintain the honor system and a
body to represent the students are unwisely blended into one organization—the present Student Council. So long as these two separate
functions remain combined, neither one of them can be carried on in the best manner. If they were separated, the
student government could do a thorough job of representing student interests without in any way affecting the honor system. Indeed,
even the honor system could be enforced better by a group which did not have the duty of dealing with
faculty and administration on behalf of the students. Buddy Lamon has presented this problem together with a program for the
separation of these two powers to ODK, but that organization has as yet made no study of the situation. It
seems, however, that a change of this type should be made as soon as possible. It would be indeed unfortunate
if we continue in this state of confusion and dissatisfaction if we can make a few changes in the organization
of the Student Council. With this in mind, I would like to present a program designed to separate these two
distinct aspects of student government which is similar to the one proposed by Buddy Lamon.

First, there should be created an Honor Council with the same duties as are now exercised by the Student Council.
This body might be composed of four seniors, three juniors, and two sophomores with a freshman member elected by the
end of the first semester. They could elect their own chairman from the senior members, and their meetings should properly
be conducted in private. All matters pertaining to violations of the honor system and only such matters would be handled
by the Honor Council.

Second, there needs to be a Student Assembly which should conduct open meetings at a regular time. This assembly might
be composed of the president and one other elected member of each of the upper classes with a freshman member
being added at the end of the first semester. One man should not serve on both the Student Assembly and
the Honor Council. The Student Assembly would conduct the regular affairs of the student body and would give a hearing
to any student who would make an appointment with its secretary. Through this function of the Student Assembly, a way
would be offered to students to make their suggestions and criticism concerning student affairs. The Student Assembly should be headed
by the President of the Student Body who would be a full voting member of the Assembly. The President should
also serve as an ex-officio member of the Honor Council. He would thus have no voice in the decisions of
the Honor Council but would be able to coordinate both portions of the student government.

A change of this nature would require an amendment to the student body constitution, and if we are to have
a more efficient student government which would prevent such surprises as the freshman eating situation from arising in the future,
we must begin now to think and act with this need in mind. The only way to make a change
is to have considerable student interest and action. I hope that you will consider the proposal which has been offered,
and if you feel that it will help to improve the ineffective and isolated nature of the Student Council as
it now exists, I would recommend that you insist that the candidates in the forthcoming elections for President of the
Student Body let you know how they feel concerning this important matter. Actually, this is a simple proposal which involves
no issue except the separation of two powers which cannot be operated properly through the unilateral system of government now
operating on the Davidson campus, and I strongly feel that the whole spirit of Davidson will be greatly improved and
enhanced by your sincere interest and support of this proposal.

The Editor’s Mailbox: Craig Attacks Moore’s “Rubicon Crossing” Plea For Admission’s Director Made LIKES TRUSTEES MOVE

Dear Editor:

This is my first, and I hope, last written contribution to the Davidsonian; but I felt compelled to write after
reading last week’s article concerning the “Crossing of the Rubicon,” (which, to my surprise, turned out to be a river
prominent in Roman history). Your writer, who apparently considers himself an expert in discussing morals as well as discussing rivers,
roused me; so you can thank him for this letter. Throughout the article, the writer forecast impending doom for our
college because the trustees finally made a decisive move in our athletic policy, although this move still leaves us the
least subsidized college in our conference. He presented the Board of Trustees and the Wildcat Club as the villains responsible
for our plunge from our high moral principles “down devious and slippery paths of thinking.” I wonder if Mr. Moore
is personally acquainted with any of these destroyers of morals. In both organizations, the Board of Trustees and the Wildcat
Club, are some of Davidson's outstanding alumni, men who are leaders in their community. There are even several ministers in
both of these corrupting groups. I find it hard to see why the writer considers himself a better judge of
policy than these men whom I have always held in the highest esteem. I doubt that any of them have
become victims of an “emotional reaction to the emotional appeal of putting more money into athletics” as the writer asserts.
I cannot see the difference in principle which Mr. Moore apparently discerns in giving a boy a scholarship for playing
football or basketball and in giving a boy who excels in music a scholarship. I see no more grounds for
moral corruption in “paying” a boy for playing football than I do for “paying” a boy for playing a musical
instrument or for excelling in “leadership in extracurricular activities.”

The writer does not have my respect for the integrity of our administration when he asks “if Davidson is being
dictated to too much by athletic-success-minded alumni and the athletic department.” In my mind, nothing could be further from the
truth. If anything, the administration has bent over backwards to avoid such unfounded accusations. How long did it take the
writer to dream up the so-called hypothetical evolutionary cycle of our athletic policy? He predicts a fiend which will rise
out of Pandora’s box and in a few years destroy us all. I find it very hard to believe that
the day will ever come when Chambers Building will be pressured by alumni and coaches to lower our standards so
as to attract more athletes. I'm afraid I will have to go along with the majority of students and faculty
whom Mr. Moore predicts will say, “A good thing. About time Davidson did something.” I think a concrete athletic policy
which gives us a chance to compete equally with schools our size will be good medicine for our school. Our
failure lies in the fact that we've waited too long to establish such a policy. I won't do as the
gifted writer of the article did and predict any hypothetical pictures of the future, but I do expect to see
a better spirit and a more healthful school in general as a result of this “Crossing of the Rubicon.” With
this statement, I will put away my pipe, withdraw from the realm of the verbose, and relinquish the captious (look
it up, I had to) to the cynics.

Sincerely, BEN CRAIG.

D. C. MUST COMPETE

Dear Editor:

After considering the question of subsidization of athletes at Davidson, I offer my humble opinion on the matter. First, I
concede that it is often difficult to present logical reasons why one is for subsidization. Frequently the motivation is emotional.
Nevertheless, there are many of us who hold this conviction after consideration of things other than an intense desire to
be identified with a highly successful team. I think several aspects of the controlled subsidization programs as conducted at Davidson
justify the plan.

(1) Davidson's “priceless heritage,” its fine young men, are being bought by rival institutions. Many outstanding high school boys who
would otherwise be attracted here, receive lucrative offers as soon as they show athletic prowess. Without adequate funds, we are
unable to compete for the athletes which would be ordinarily ours.

(2) The program has not only provided a superior education for many, but the majority of men on scholarships have
made definite contributions in leadership and scholarship on the campus. One of the present athletic administration's most outstanding accomplishments has
been its acquisition of a maximum number of talented men with a minimum of funds at their disposal. I shudder
to think what the nature of the student body would be if it were not for the element of virility
which is nurtured by the intercollegiate program here.

(3) In granting aid to these men, the school realizes a means of having the homogeneity of the student body.
The present generation seems to be largely the sons of highly successful upper-middle-class men. Perhaps the famed “Davidson Spirit” declined
with the reduction of the rural element in the school. Certainly, every phase of campus activity stands to benefit from
greater introduction of men from different locations, and diverse social and financial backgrounds.

(4) In participating in an organized intercollegiate conference with subsidization for athletics, a full program of minor sports is supported
in conjunction. On our present program, we have a coaching staff which is large and qualified enough to run this
program. It is very doubtful that this program would be conducted in this manner if we had a completely “amateur”
system with no particular emphasis upon major sports.

After evaluating these sources of benefit to the school, I find the trustee’s action in underwriting the Wildcat Club justifiable.
This appropriation may in part meet the advances which other institutions are making for outstanding men through enlarged scholarship programs,
both athletic and academic. At the University of North Carolina, most of the Morehead Foundation Scholarships are now being directed
to outstanding high school leaders with minor requirements for academic accomplishment. The Angier B. Duke Awards along with other similar
grants always attract well-rounded young men. Measures must be taken to minimize these threats to Davidson’s most important tradition—giving a
particular type of education to superior men.

ADMISSION’S MAN AUTHORIZED

The administration must be prompted to employ a full-time admission’s director for recruiting and screening purposes. This post was authorized
over four years ago by the Board of Trustees and the Administration evidently has been unable to fill the office.
While an acceptable man is being sought, little recruiting is being done, and injurious ideas about Davidson’s academic “stiffness” flourish.
We are now drawing on our reputation, but can this continue indefinitely? The school can only be as good as
its teachers, equipment, and students. While much ado is made over the former items, the quality of the freshmen is
taken for granted year after year.

Sincerely, BILL ELLIOTT.

DAVIDSONIAN TOO CYNICAL?

Dear Editor:

My finer sensitivities have been slightly offended of late. In reading your paper, The Davidsonian, I believe that I have
denoted much criticism and perhaps a policy of questioning and stirring up all possible issues and controversies. It is not
this that has given me offense. This is the solemn duty of college journals. However, it is also the duty
of these institutions to do it in an accurate, logical, rational manner, not in involved, emotional, excited denunciations. I suggest
that you review your policy of grinding out solutions to the world’s poignant problems in haste to fill up space.
Perhaps by alternating your staff in writing editorial page features, you might relieve burdens from both writers and readers.

Sincerely, BOB ABERNETHY.
