FRIDAY, APRIL 30, 1954

After waiting patiently for the past few weeks, the Davidsonian is finally able to announce that the inter-fraternity tennis champion has been crowned (see elsewhere on this page for details). But in spite of the fact that the winners have defeated all ten of their opponents, many of the Greek duos have played less than five matches. There has been no great pressure put on them to hurry the match play, and matches have been run off very slowly. A day-by-day schedule was set up originally, but it has not been followed too closely this year, and as a result, play is far behind schedule. Even though the champion has been determined, the lower positions in the league are still undecided and may remain that way.

After looking closely at the inter-fraternity tennis situation this year, we feel that the time has come for a change in the way in which the competition is held. It seems that the present method has lost out in the hurried schedule of the individual players since it requires a large amount of time over several weeks, and most boys don’t have the time to put into the games. A precise, direct procedure for deciding the standings is a need which cannot be overlooked if inter-fraternity tennis is to continue to hold a prominent place in the annual fight for the Greek Cup. Certainly, the confused, long drawn-out play cannot continue much longer.

We would like to propose that next year’s tennis play be held in the form of a tournament similar to the Southern Conference’s net meet. The success of the inter-fraternity wrestling meet, which is run on a similar basis, shows that student interest in a short meet would be much greater than it is in the present set-up. An annual tennis tournament has all the possibilities of being a huge success. Though the details would have to be worked out by the inter-fraternity representatives, a simple procedure would be to have the tournament last three days, and to have a single elimination type of meet. Each fraternity would enter three men, and points would be given for each player advancing to the semi-finals, and more points if he reaches the finals. The champion singles player would, of course, gain the most points for his fraternity, but the results of all three players’ matches would be important. The tournament would have to be held when the varsity tennis team was away on a trip, but this would not be a problem. Also, there are certainly enough courts to have a tournament run off quickly and without delay, if it is efficiently handled by those in charge. Inter-fraternity tennis could really be a big thing at Davidson, and as in the wrestling competition, could be the beginning for future varsity material. The way the matches are strung out now, none of the players can be observed closely by Coach McKee or other members of the athletic staff. Certainly, a change is needed. We hope it will come next year.

How The Wildcats Fared This Week
By JIM HOLSHOUSER

BASEBALL: Davidson—5; Guilford—6
TENNIS: Davidson—9; N. C. State—0
TRACK: Davidson—45½; South Carolina—94½
Davidson—45; The Citadel—23
Davidson—74½; Furman—49½
GOLF: Davidson—22; N. C. State—23
Davidson—5½; V.M.I.—3½
FROSH BASEBALL: Davidson—6; Harding High—5
FROSH TENNIS: Davidson—2; Myers Park High—7
FROSH TRACK: Davidson—81; Lenoir Rhyne—49

Black Brown (Some call it Charcoal Brown) TROPICAL SLACKS
Plain Front, Back Buckle $15.95
Wilson-Wright’s Inc.
COLLEGIATE FASHIONS
Davidson, N. C.
Next to Bank

THE DAVIDSONIAN

New Wildcat Captains Elected For Next Year
By RANDY JOHNSTON

In meetings during the past few weeks, the Davidson varsity teams for next fall and winter have selected their captains for 1954-55. All the captains are rising Seniors who have been outstanding in past years and have shown the leadership that the honor requires.

The football team, which begins practice for the 1954 season on September 1, has picked guard Dickie Davis as captain for the grid squad, and halfback Jimmy Thacker has been elected to serve as alternate captain. Coach Dole has expressed high confidence in both boys, and they have the confidence of their teammates as well as the coaching staff. In addition to having the fight that goes to make up a ball player, both Davis and Thacker have been real hustlers in the Wildcat line-up in the past. Davis, one of the boys who found it easiest to switch to the one-platoon system last year, is already pegged as All-State and All-Conference material. He is one of the finest linemen to wear the Red and Black in recent years, and his steady, slashing play is really superb. He was selected on many All-Opponent teams last fall, and if the Cats’ record had been better, he would probably have been All-Conference. Succeeding Ben Craig as leader of the gridders, Davis should hit his peak next fall.

Jim Thacker, next year’s co-captain in football, has been Davidson’s leading scoring threat for the past two seasons. When he was but a sophomore, he was selected on the All-State team as one of the two offensive halfbacks. Thacker’s speed and ability to shift direction quickly have made him a constant threat to Wildcat foes, and next fall will undoubtedly see the familiar No. 22 streaking across the double lines more than once.

Charlie Parker’s 1954 wrestling squad has selected Johnny Buxton as head man for the grapplers for the second straight season. Buxton was captain of the Wildcat matmen for the past season, and in being elected for a second straight time, Johnny became the first Davidson wrestler since 1935 to have such an honor. Buxton will be the backbone of next year’s squad, which will be stronger in number than this year’s team. Though several valuable men will be lost via graduation, the fine freshman team of last season is ready to take up the slack.

The swimming team has elected Al Ormond as their captain for next season. Ormond has been the leading Davidson swimmer for the past two seasons and was the leading scorer on the squad last season. Al has been the chief threat for Davidson in the Southern Conference swimming competition, and next year promises an improvement in past records.

Next season, as has been the policy in recent years, Coach Danny Miller’s basketball team will have no permanent captain. A different captain will be selected from the varsity line-up for each game.

CAT LINKSTERS TO MEET WOFFORD

Coach Elgin White's varsity golf team meets Wofford in Charlotte next Monday in a match that closes out the regular season for the Wildcat links squad. The Davidson crew has met the Terriers once before this season, and they soundly defeated the Wofford team in the match.

The golfers had two matches this past week. N. C. State played the part of a rude host on Tuesday, as the Wolfpack edged the visiting Cats to the tune of 23-22. Then yesterday, the linksters were scheduled to meet VMI. This afternoon, the Wildcats were to be at VPI.

Tourney to Start

The Davidson club is making final preparations for the Southern Conference tournament, which is to be held in Richmond, Virginia on May 7 and 8. The Davidson freshman golfers lost a return match to Myers Park High School this week by a 7-2 score. John Thorpe won the No. 1 singles match and teamed with John Robinson to win the No. 1 doubles match. Next Wednesday the Kittens meet North High's netters on the local courts.

SPEs New Champions InGreek Softball
In a full week of hot competition, the SPEs have emerged as the champions of the Inter-Fraternity softball league. Yesterday’s games determined the championship as the SPEs won against the Kappa Sigs, and the Pikas beat the Phi Gams. The Phi Gams had previously lost only one game, as had the SPEs, and a tie appeared to be in the making until the Pikas edged the Phi Gams and moved into second place ahead of the Fijis.

Good Record
The SPEs finished the season with a nine-win, one-loss record. An upset at the hands of the Pi Kapps was the only mark on the otherwise perfect record. The Phi Gams and the Pikas will battle it out for second place, though if both of these clubs lose their final game, the Phi Delts or Betas could finish in a tie for the runner-up spot with the other two clubs. One more game remains for every club except the SPEs, who have a bye for the last round. Below are the standings of the softball league, including yesterday’s games. Three games have been postponed and will be played next week.

THE STANDINGS
SPEs
Pikas
Phi Gams
Phi Delts
Betas
Sigma Chis
Pi Kapps
Kappa Sigs
SAEs
KAs
ATOs

FOR YOUR JOB PRINTING CALL DAVIDSON PRINTING CO. PHONE 6651

How the stars got started.
Red Barber says: “I was a student working my way through the University of Florida when I was asked to be a substitute announcer on a farm program. That got me a job. In two years, I became chief announcer. My break in sports came in '34 when I broadcast Cincinnati Reds games. Been doing Major League play-by-play ever since!”

Johnny Buxton (above), veteran Wildcat wrestler, was recently elected captain for next year’s mat crew. It marks the first time since 1935 that a wrestler has been elected captain for two consecutive seasons.

Wildcats To Hit Cadets On Diamond Tomorrow
Coach Chuck Clements’ baseballers hit The Citadel tomorrow in the second half of a two-game series. After meeting the Bulldogs here this afternoon in a Southern Conference encounter, the Wildcats play host to the visitors again at 2:00 p.m. The Cadets, prior to this afternoon’s contest, were leading the Southern Conference, and are bringing a fine team to Davidson. Next week, Davidson's nine will have three contests. On Tuesday, the Cats are at home for a doubleheader against Furman’s Purple Hurricane. Furman handed the Davidson club its only conference defeat earlier this season, and the Hurricane will be favored to repeat the job. On next Friday, the Wildcats travel to VPI in Blacksburg, Va., for another family encounter, and on Saturday, Davidson closes out the 1954 season at Lexington, Va., against VMI, also a conference opponent. Davidson played only one game during the past week, and in that encounter, the Guilford Quakers beat the Cats, 6-5. The Davidson defensive game fell apart, and the Quakers scored several unearned runs in the ragged contest.

Phi Delts Remain Unbeaten to Cop Greek Net Crown
The Phi Delt duo of Buford Price and James Montgomery has remained undefeated this season to win the Inter-fraternity tennis title. The Phi Delts swept past ten straight opponents to cop the crown. The runner-up Betas lost only to the winners, and this match was the feature of this year’s competition. Jim Hamilton and Joel Connor went three sets before bowing to the champs. The SPEs have a 7-2 record, and the KAs also have a good record. All re- (Continued on Page Four)

“I’VE TRIED ‘EM ALL. I’VE CHANGED TO CAMELS FOR MILDNESS AND FLAVOR THAT AGREE WITH ME BEST. YOU TRY CAMELS, Y'HEAR?”

Back in 1950, before the old Southern Conference split to form the Atlantic Coast Conference and the present Southern Conference, Davidson won the tennis championship, something rather infrequent in recent years. Bo Roddey won the singles crown and teamed with Whit Cobb to win the doubles championship. This year, Coach Dick McKee's team is favored to make a repeat performance of 1950. On Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, the play will take place, with the champions being decided on Saturday. Drawings for positions in the tournament will take place in Johnston Gymnasium next Wednesday night. McKee has received entries from West Virginia University, William and Mary, VMI, and Richmond, and a total of nine teams is expected. The tournament promises to be an exciting one from the beginning, and a lot of good tennis is in store for spectators. Lacy Keesler, Davidson's No. 1 singles man, will be among the top-seeded players in the tournament and could possibly be the choice for the favorite. Keesler has been Davidson's outstanding performer this season, and his consistent play has made him one of the most respected players in the conference. If past performances mean anything, Lacy will make the going rough for tournament opponents. Thus far this season, Davidson has played only one conference match. The Cats met William and Mary last week and won an easy decision. Since then, the Indians have defeated several conference foes, and this makes Davidson's chances look better than ever. A match with Furman is scheduled before the tournament, and this is the last one for the Cats this season.

BULLETIN
The Davidson golfers edged the VMI linksters, 5½-3½, yesterday in the first half of a two-day stint against Virginia opponents. They were to meet VPI this afternoon in another Southern Conference golf match.

Start smoking Camels yourself! Make the 30-Day Camel Mildness Test. Smoke only Camels for 30 days—see for yourself why Camels’ cool mildness and rich flavor agree with more people than any other cigarette!

WILDCAT CINDERMEN HIT WELL TOMORROW
BY JOHN HOLSHOUSER
The Davidson track team has two encounters remaining before the Southern Conference meet at Blacksburg, Virginia, on May 14 and 15. Tomorrow they tangle with Washington and Lee at Lexington, Virginia, and on May 8, they meet N.C. State in Raleigh. While Furman was getting 49½ points, the Wildcats piled up 74½ points to defeat the Purple Hurricanes in a meet held here on April 28. Phil Koonce was again the high point man as he collected 16½ points, winning the broad jump with a leap of 21 feet 2 inches, the 100-yard dash in 9.9.5, and the 220-yard dash in 23.1. The mile relay was forfeited by Furman. Harley Smith kept his pace in the javelin throw, taking it with a throw of 172 feet. Tim Gilley took the discus with a good throw of 137 feet, 3 inches. The freshmen tracksters defeated the Lenoir Rhyne varsity in a practice meet here April 23, 81 to 49. The score was comparatively close until the late stages of the meet, when Davidson pulled away with victories in the hurdles and two-mile run. Tying for top scoring honors were Don Campbell, Bill Gramley, and Pete Ashcraft, each taking two first places for 10 points. Ashcraft turned in a very good time in the mile, running it in 4:39. Six freshmen will be making the trip to the Southern Conference meet on the 14 and 15. They are Bill Gramley, Pete Ashcraft, Roswell Mallory, Bill Lazenby, Don Campbell, and John Robison. Sigma Delta Psi tryouts will be held next week, beginning Monday. All men interested in trying out for the national athletic fraternity should note the requirements for membership posted on the track bulletin board in the varsity dressing room. Contestants will have all week to pass the required events.

SEND THE DAVIDSONIAN HOME

New nationwide figures from the industry analyst, Harry M. Weetman, show Camels now 58 8/10% ahead of the second-leading cigarette. The greatest lead in history! Published in Printer’s Ink, 1956.

CAMELS AGREE WITH MORE PEOPLE THAN ANY OTHER CIGARETTE!