EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
BROCKMANN

BUSINESS MANAGER
TIM COOPER

ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Joe Burroughs, Gilbert Gragg, Swain

Asst. Editors
Floyd Feeney, John Handley, Austin Strand

Managing Editors
Blake Brinkerhoff, Maurice Crouse, Tom Warlick

Sports Editor
Jim Holshouser

Feature Editor
Dick Morehead

News Editors
John Hiers, Watt McCain

Copy Editor
John Harmon

Art Editor
Price

Photographer
Hank Daniel

Assignments
Jim Brice

Editorial Consultants
Joe Gaskin, Jim Marshal, Stan Miller, Bill Stewart

Assistant Business Manager
Tommy Taylor

Advertising Manager
Larry Parrott

Collections Manager
John Smith

Circulation Manager
Bob Carmichael

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 15, 1954

Che Bauidsonian
Published Weekly Throughout the College Year
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N.C., under the Act of March 3, 1897

PAGE TWO

The Library: Alenda Lux

Words are seldom formed on the lips of people in Davidson to compliment or to criticize the Library. Somehow amidst
all the complaint and praise of recent times the book building seems to have escaped both the leveling of big
artillery and the bestowing of laurels. It has quietly served its purpose here as the intellectual center of the campus,
and with a hard-working and conscientious staff has made vast improvements of which many of us are not aware, or
of which those of us who are aware say little.

Nothing has attracted more notice than the recent addition to the library of first floor air conditioning. The effect of
this asset upon Davidson students can be seen by the crowded conditions that exist in the building all day, even
during the usual quiet part of the morning. Everyone is in the rush to be first to lay claim to
a first floor seat, and without a word the students by such actions show well-due appreciation to the party or
parties that were responsible for the cool atmosphere.

More important than this, however, has been the great extension of shelf space brought about by putting stacks the full
length of the fourth floor (second mezzanine). In so doing the library opened up room for thousands of volumes. In
keeping with the new space are new books. Books of import in all fields are coming into the library in
large numbers, and the flow shows no sign of stopping. It might be well for those connected with the financial
end of this influx to arrange their appropriation so that the flow will not stop or slack, but will increase
in the coming years. Davidson’s library by such efforts could become more than an average institution: one of which those
here and elsewhere could be proud.

With all the recent improvements of the library there continues on the part of those who work there a spirit
of helpfulness and efficiency for which they should be congratulated. In a word, they are willing to help even when
they find themselves in the worst possible situations.

There is one suggestion that we believe might be made concerning the library hours. Many students make the library the
center of their scholastic life here. Many more use reserve books overnight or have other reasons for wanting to be
admitted to the building before the beginning of first period at 8:20. If the library could be opened from 8:00
in the morning till 8:20 on a Sunday afternoon basis (i.e. with the desk closed), students could get to work
that much earlier using library facilities which they might not be able to get back to before chapel or even
before lunch. Consideration of this matter would be appreciated universally by the student body, which has found the library so
far this year quiet and efficient, a place where scholarship takes precedent over anything else, and where, therefore, the Davidson
student can feel that he is really profiting by college.

Paul Scott: An Athlete’s Dream Comes True

Too many of us, afraid to utilize our powers of thought, have never endeavored to seek the purposes of physical
training. All that we are able to do is to initiate a monotonous rumble of gripes bemoaning mandatory attendance at
such classes. Nor was the author to be exempted from this category of ‘wailing and gnashing of teeth,” until he
had an enlightening interview with Paul Scott, retiring Athletic Director. Mr. Scott unveiled in understandable terms three major tenets of
his philosophy of physical training.

Everyone accumulates tensions and a degree of nervousness from the pressures of daily studies. It is also common knowledge that
the academic demands intensify themselves during review periods. To Mr. Scott physical training is an escape valve for the steam
of continual tensions. Forgetting oneself in the rigor of a tennis match or, in general terms, “breaking a sweat,” replenishes
the spirit. New desire to learn, new drive to study is thereby acquired. A certain coolness, a requirement needed in
so many instances, is recaptured by those who give themselves rigorous physical exercise.

The release of tensions enhances the successfulness of Mr. Scott’s second tenet. The student is given an extensive variety of
sports from which to select those of his interest or those suitable to his personality. Most of the sports involve,
unknowingly, cooperation and self-denial for advancement of others. In the individual sports offered, the student grasps the meaning of dependency
on his own capabilities and the art of making quick, correct decisions. It is Mr. Scott's contention that the advantageous
personality traits learned in sports have great bearing on one’s future success, especially in business.

There is a definite need in everyone to be recognized in some way by others. It is a boon not
only to the minimizing of tensions but also to the development of a healthy personality to have this need of
recognition satisfied. In physical training, Mr. Scott believes that there is an answer to this strong need. As each individual
is unique, the amount of recognition required varies from person to person. Some must have the acclamation of the crowds.
Others, composing the majority, only need the approval of their teammates in gym class to be satisfied. The “slap on
the back” to some means as much as the admiration and praises of the crowds to others.

Our previous unawareness and ignorance of these basic principles of the goals of physical training should not prevent us from
re-evaluating our ideas about it. And let us in our new evaluation pay tribute to the person who has incorporated
this philosophy into an outstanding, beneficial physical training program at Davidson, Mr. Paul Scott.

—J.E.T.

Coach Whittle

No one was better qualified to take over as Acting Athletic Director at Davidson than Heath Whittle, capable track and
cross country coach. This is the opinion of Coach McKee, Publicity Director for the athletic department.

Coach Whittle, a graduate of Davidson, has been on the athletic staff for twenty years, and is the senior member
of the group. For most of that time he has ably served as Assistant Athletic Director along with his other
duties. This experience, plus his natural ability to handle athletic functions, adds up to continued competency in the regular physical
training, as well as in intercollegiate competition. The publicity department said that he planned to maintain the present method of
individual coaching in the “P-T” periods. He is going to be a very busy man with these new duties added
to his regular responsibilities with the cross country and track team, but there is no doubt about his ability to
do a fine job.

—F. L. H., Jr.

The Godfly

Is Davidson College Cloister or Bar Room

By GILBERT GRAGG

Why did we come to Davidson anyway? This question honestly answered by all students would reveal almost as many and
varied responses as literary critics give in explaining controversial symbols in Eliot’s metaphysical poetry. This seems a bit startling when
we consider that the majority of students are from the upper-middle bracket of the great American bourgeoisie (with a few
from the lower-upper) and from a sound Calvinistic background of Southern Presbyterianism—certainly it would appear with such a common heritage
that the students would agree more on why they were at Davidson and what they were expecting to get from
it, but this is not the case.

Some of the reasons we came were because—‘our father loved thee and gave their best to thee”—because it is generally
acknowledged to be almost the best liberal arts school in the South where a “good past indicates a better future,”
and we wanted a good foundation for graduate school or seminary—because a degree would give us a fast start toward
that first million we want in the business or professional world—because we got a good athletic or academic scholarship—because we
wanted to have a good time primarily and secondarily to do as little work as possible just so we could
have a degree from a high-ranking school—and so the answers would go for most of us.

There are two extremes which emerge from this array of reasons that overlap in part, and both are due to
the fact that we're middle-class and Presbyterian. Let us realistically examine these two widely varying attitudes prevalent unconsciously at Davidson
and see where we fit into the pattern of hedonism or asceticism.

Country Club?

“I’m so glad I came to a country club instead of a college” says the first extreme after finishing viewing
an exciting TV show, settling down to play bridge, and finally hopping off to Charlotte or vicinity for further diversion
and entertainment. This group is intelligent enough to make high marks at a less difficult school than Davidson but are
satisfied with mediocre work here while prostituting their time and talents in other areas. One student commented: “This is my
last year, and I want to have as good a time as I can,” which automatically meant for him the
less studying he did and the easier courses he took, the better time he would have.

This attitude that studying and having a good time are incompatible is pretty prevalent among all of us—certainly this group
of us is pursuing a policy of extremely expensive loafing (as Cop says). This is the group who believe it
is unheard of to be seen on the campus after Saturday noon or before Vespers or you are definitely a
“square.” It provokes them when people always think of Davidson as a school that turns out ministers only and where
nobody has any fun. Perhaps the real reason those of us in this group came to college is that everyone
who was anyone was going, and it would not be fashionable to be left out. On a closer analysis of
this group we all see ourselves in some degree despite our denials of it.

Monastery?

“How I hate to go back to the monastery” is a frequent remark of students returning from a gala weekend
of partying, who usually try to steel themselves against anything the Vesper preacher might say which may threaten to penetrate
their armor of indifference and even whistle sardonically their supposed approval when he becomes ludicrous. The word monastery in student
vernacular usually applies to being cut off completely from life at its best and being confined to unpleasant tasks of
required religious exercises and rigorous studying.

Of course, the pursuit of knowledge is most desirable, but some of us just try to amass as many facts
and high grades as possible forgetting that the “mind is a workshop and not merely a storehouse,” and that wisdom
is the knowledge of how to use information rather than just absorb it as a sponge. This extreme in their
desire to escape from the world and grow intellectually spiritually isolates itself in an “ivory tower existence” not concerning itself
with the outside world, and for all they knowNew York could be blown up by an atomic bomb since the
quest for knowledge does not include responsible citizenship on current events; certainly, many of us are guilty of the latter
anyway. College at its best certainly should not be a retreat from the world, but neither should it be an
excuse for four full years of scurrilous frivolity. The ideal Davidson student, of course, would be one who combined great
social and athletic skills with ODK leadership and Phi Bete intellectual qualities plus a Christian ideal which is lived daily,
but this combination is hard if not impossible to find. We all want to strive to be well-rounded, but still,
it would be well to remember that the chief reason we come to a liberal arts college should be to
learn to distinguish between reality and appearances and to learn how to live with ourselves and our world; to learn
that it is necessary to be secluded a great deal for intellectual stimulation and religious meditation on the great issues
of life but also important to remember that there is a world “out there” and we should keep up with
it through newspapers, magazines, and a sensible amount of diversion. The Answer Monastery or country club? Davidson is neither but
can and will be what each of us chooses to make it. The alternatives are clear—surely the times are too
tragic and the world’s sorrow too great for us to give anything less than the best we have to getting
the most out of our college education which is both a tremendous opportunity as well as a sacred responsibility. If
we give ourselves now wholeheartedly to this high endeavor, years later when we remember things past we will be glad.

Drinking Statement By Dean Spencer
BY SAMUEL R. SPENCER, JR.

In the hope of preventing incidents which would require action by the Executive Committee of the Faculty, I would like
to remind the student body of the Faculty regulation which reads:

“3. Drinking. Davidson College is opposed as a matter of principle to the use of alcoholic beverages by students.

“A student will be suspended from Davidson College if he is found guilty of drinking, possessing, or being under the
influence of an alcoholic beverage while within the town limits of Davidson, or while attending any off-campus event sponsored entirely
or in part by Davidson College or any organization connected with Davidson.

“Student drinking not covered by the above-mentioned rule may be disciplined under Item 1 of the rules stated under CONDUCT.”

Off-campus football games and fraternity functions are clearly covered by this regulation. In addition, I would like to remind the
student body of the general regulation as to conduct which reads:

“1. Davidson students are expected to conduct themselves as gentlemen. Any student who is guilty of ungentlemanly conduct, or whose
conduct is such as to attract unfavorable disciplinary action. This action may be expulsion, suspension, or some lesser penalty, depending
on the seriousness of the act.”

A Bit Beyond The Ivory Tower With Mozart And The Bozarts
BY DUNBAR OGDEN

You have paid for it, why do you not get your money's worth? That is the question that went through
our mind as we noticed the rather sparse attendance of Davidson students at many of the concerts and lectures presented
on the Davidson Artist Series throughout the last several years. A number of outsiders have partially helped to fill Chambers
auditorium on these occasions, but why is it that at a liberal arts college, noted for its interest in the
arts and the world about, there is apparently such a dearth of realization of the part that music, art, and
literature play in our lives and what these things can add to us?

Perhaps the near-sighted emphasis here is on the parrot-like repetition of minutiae. Perhaps the fault then lies in the peculiar
day-to-day pace which we lead, in which we are a bit blinded by the pressure of immediate writs and reviews.
Certainly, these are important—without question—for we have chosen the four-system under which we now live. But we feel that there
are great opportunities for appreciation and self-broadening that come to us every now and then, such as the Artist Series,
which are optional. Unfortunately, many of us have not been able to know the real worth of these opportunities or
have allowed trivialities to overcome our schedules, and thus, after paying for our admissions to the series, we omit most
of the presentations. People in town pay two dollars to hear one of these concerts which many of us avoid.
When such gigantic figures as Robert Frost, Claude Rains, and Charles Laughton appear here, and we do not take time
out to hear them, we are injuring ourselves.

This inability applies not only to the Artist Series in particular, but to many phases of interest and activity on
as well as outside of the campus. Students criticize our institution as taking a small view in many matters—of being
a glorified “prep school.” We agree in certain cases, but the blame cannot be placed on the faculty or the
administration in most instances. They deal with the student body as a whole and if a certain adolescent “mob spirit”
overcomes the students in general, they have little recourse.

The incessant drive of the Davidson routine tends to discourage broadness in experience and interest, and we find ourselves caught
up in a whirlwind of classwork. We feel that if we would only reflect for a few moments, we would
see the college experience in its true light and then give it its real place in our whole outlook. There
are things—many things—that are to be seen and heard and felt and absorbed outside of our books. Comprehension of these
realities is a sign of real maturity.

Throughout this school year, eight presentations in the fields of poetry, drama, art, and music are to be given here
on our own stage in the Artist Series. The typical situation on the nights of the concerts in years past
has been that a fair number of students attend, but a large percentage have some writ or review for which
to study, and most of these simply have no interest in such things. Yet these are the persons who shout
loudest about being treated like boys; these are the people who haven't enough maturity to weigh relative values in the
balances of their own judgment.

Tuesday evening, one of the finest chamber music groups in this country, The American Chamber Orchestra, is to give a
concert in our auditorium. Chamber music’s forte is not in the thunderous climaxes of large orchestral passages, which “thrill” so
many casual listeners. With a group of sixteen players, thematic material, perfection of tone, and balance are even more important
than in the large orchestra. Musicians certainly prefer to perform music for smaller groups, although their playing must be much
more exact. Indeed, it is many times more demanding than large orchestral work as a whole. The joy of chamber
music for the listener is not in the overbearing pulsations of one’s eardrums as the last chords crash us from
our seats, but is found in the many themes employed, the precision of the individual performers which must stand out,
and the beauty of complete participation of the listener which constitutes a true musical experience.

The works of Mozart, Schubert, and Handel, which are to be heard Tuesday night, are milestones in the great musical
heritage which is ours. These are the compositions of the masters which have lifted the hearts of countless audiences, on
which a bit of our being is built, and which have made their authors immortal as they present each of
us with a portion of their souls. Here is an opportunity asking us to take advantage, here is an experience
waiting for us to participate: Will we be able to see a little way beyond our “ivory tower” and comprehend
that which is great?

Cigarettes and Cancer
By HIRAM CATON

According to schedule, I rose at 6:30 a.m., lit a cigarette, and dressed. I opened the door and picked up
the morning paper, which the delivery boy had thoughtfully crumbled up in a heap. As I examined the news items
from near and far, my eyes came to rest on an article which ensconced me into clutches of fear, disconcertion,
and exhaustion. It was another of those diabolic stories relating the adverse opinions of doctors concerning the relationship of cigarette
smoking to lung cancer. Having been badly shaken by the impact of the headline, I could not bring myself to
read the article itself, and besides, it was time to go to work.

Lipstick and Mouth Cancer

In the hour and a half that followed, I tried to reassure myself. I saw the whole situation as a
plot to push the cigarette companies out of business. Perhaps some fanatic religious sect had managed to infiltrate the medical
profession and had started all this mess in an effort to achieve universal access for its “no smoking decree.” Maybe
before long we would be hearing that lipstick causes mouth cancer. I thought of a few more vague reassurances, nevertheless,
back in the dark recesses of my mind was a hideous fear.

It was a bad morning for me. I broke two plates, which deprived me of $2.50; I bumped into football
players, and I overturned a chair that I didn’t see in time. I tried to eat, but when I looked
at my eggs, I saw a malignant sore. I did not have a class the first period, so I went
back to my room and tried to sleep a while. I could not sleep. I attempted to recall who had
been quoted in the article. “Probably some stupid laboratory technicians trying to make a name for themselves,” I mused. But
if it had been no more authoritative than that, why would it be on the first page? Afraid of what
authorities I might find quoted in the article, I resolved to remain ignorant and endeavor to forget that I saw
the abominable thing. Just as I got to sleep, the bell for the second class rang (it rings 33 times),
so, clutching my chem book, I dozed off to class.

Some Ignoramus From Harvard

That afternoon I was in my room working on some math problems when my roommate, who doesn't smoke, came in.
I had forgotten about the morning’s mental conflict, and I was enjoying another cigarette. With the piety of Saint Peter,
he picked up the paper and began to read. Out of the corner of one eye, I saw him reading,
and for no reason at all, I began to perspire heavily. Then he called my attention to the cigarette article
and cited some of the men who had delivered judgment on cigarette smoking: some ignoramus from Harvard, an idiot representing
the Board of Public Health of the State of Massachusetts, and so on. I was enraged and cursed fervently and
violently. It was the morning’s experience all over again.

Since then, I have tried to stop smoking. I have found it most difficult, but resolved to quit, I have
read many books on self-discipline, stopped buying cigarettes, tried to stop “bumming” them, and almost consulted a preacher. I don't
know what I am going to do about it; life is miserable. Everywhere I see delicious cigarette advertisements; everywhere I
am tempted. Maybe someone ought to organize a Cigarette Smokers Anonymous, maybe that would help. I don't know.
