PAGE FOUR

RELEASED BY DR. ABERNETHY

Details On Graduate Help

Graduate Record Examination

Graduate Studies, Yale University, Professor George L. Abernethy, New Haven, Conn., has announced that the Graduate Record Examination will be
given to interested seniors at Davidson on Thursday, January 27, 1955. Seniors who are applying for graduate fellowships or scholarships
or who are seeking admission at Graduate Schools which require early application should take the Examination at this time. Dr.
Abernethy urged seniors who are planning to take the Examination to write at once to the Educational Testing Service, 20
Nassau Street, Princeton, New Jersey, for application. Completed application blanks must reach the Educational Testing Service before January 13 if
the student is to be admitted to the Examination on January 27. Further information may be had from Professor Abernethy.

Wesleyan Scholarships

Wesleyan University is offering a two-year program of study and training leading to the degree of Master of Arts in
Teaching. It is designed to provide professional training in a liberal arts environment for men planning to teach in public
secondary schools. Fellowships ranging up to $1500 for single men and $2400 for married men with dependents are available. The
awards are renewable for the second year. The program admits fifteen well-qualified college graduates each year. Prospective candidates must furnish
satisfactory evidence of ability to carry on work of high quality, as well as evidence of personal qualifications for public
school teaching. For further information students should consult Professor Jay Ostwalt or write to Ernest Stabler, Chairman, Master of Arts
in Teaching Program, Wesleyan University, Middletown, Conn.

Fletcher School Scholarships

The Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, a graduate school of international affairs administered by Tufts College in cooperation with
Harvard University, offers a comprehensive program of advanced study leading to the M.A. and Ph.D. The fields of study include
International Law, Organization, Diplomacy, World Politics, International Economics, Trade and Finance. The program is designed to provide graduate training for
careers in the State Department and Diplomatic Service of the United States, in the United Nations and other international agencies,
in international business, and in teaching. Candidates for admission should have a broad undergraduate preparation in the Liberal Arts with
substantial training in History, Government and Economics; a reading knowledge of one modern foreign language; a record of high personal
and academic achievement. A number of grants varying from tuition scholarships to fellowships bearing stipends of $1800 are available. Applications
must be completed by February 15, 1955. Requests for information and application blanks should be addressed to the Office of
the Dean, the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, Medford 55, Massachusetts.

Hartford Scholarships

The Hartford Theological Seminary has announced two entrance scholarships of $1000 each to students preparing for the Christian ministry. These
scholarships cover tuition, room, board and incidental expenses. March 1, 1955 is the closing date for applications. Further information may
be had by writing to the Dean, Hartford Theological Seminary, Hartford Seminary Foundation, Hartford, Conn.

Emory Fellowships

Emory University in a recent announcement offers thirty fellowships in various university departments for programs leading to the Master’s degree.
These awards carry stipends ranging from $1,000 to $1,500. Applications must be received before February 15, 1955. Application forms, bulletins
and additional information may be had by writing the Dean of the Graduate School, Emory University, Emory University, Ga.

Columbia University

Columbia University is offering graduate training for careers as specialists on Russia and East Central Europe in government service, academic
teaching and research, journalism, etc. A two-year program leading to the M.A. degree involves study of the history, economics, political
institutions, literature and international relations of Poland, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Yugoslavia, Rumania, Bulgaria, Albania or Russia. Awards up to the amount
of $2,000 per year are available for students of special ability and promise. Completed applications must be received prior to
February 21, 1955. Further information may be had by writing to the Program on East Central Europe, Columbia University, 429
West 117th Street, New York 27, N.Y.

Yale University

The Yale University Graduate School announces the Overbrook Fellowships in International Relations. These fellowships carry stipends ranging up to $2,000
and are offered on a competitive basis to students preparing for an M.A. or Ph.D. degree in International Relations. Completed
applications are due before February 15, 1955. Interested students should write to the Director of Graduate Studies in International Relations,
214 Hall of Graduate Studies, Yale University, New Haven, Conn.

Brandeis Scholarships

Brandeis University offers a program of graduate study in the History of Ideas leading to the M.A. degree in history.
The program is designed to offer broad comprehensive training in the following fields: History of Philosophy, History of Political Theory,
History of Religion, History of Science and History of Social Thought. Financial assistance is available. Graduate Fellowships vary from tuition
to stipends of $2100, while teaching assistantships are available up to $2100 including tuition and other fees. An undergraduate major
in History, Philosophy, Politics or Sociology is desirable, but not a requirement for admission. Additional information may be had by
writing to Chairman, Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, Brandeis University, Waltham 54, Mass.

Nichols Foundation

The J.C. Nichols Foundation of the Urban Land Institute will offer a grant-in-aid in the amount of $2,000 to be
awarded during the Spring of 1955, for research to be carried on during the academic year 1955-56 at Georgia Institute
of Technology. The competition is open to any man or woman who has been admitted to the Graduate Division of
Georgia Institute of Technology for study during the academic year 1955-56 in Architecture, City Planning, Civil Engineering, or Industrial Management.
Further information may be secured by writing Professor Howard K. Menhinick, 225 North Avenue, N.W., Atlanta, Georgia.

University Of Oslo

Announcement is made this week by the University of Oslo Summer School of the ninth session to be held July
8-August 13, 1955, in Oslo, Norway. Courses will be offered in the fields of humanities and social studies, education system
of Norway, graduate seminars in Norwegian Education, Literature, and Social and Political problems. The summer school will also feature two
new courses in Physical Education in Scandinavia (with special emphasis on Norway). All classes will be conducted in English and
an American member is on the administrative staff. The University provides outstanding lecturers and maintains highest educational standards. Housing is
provided in the Blindern Students Hall for single students. Married couples are accommodated in private homes. Six semester-hour credits may
be earned in the six weeks course and the session is approved by the U.S. Veterans Administration for veterans under
P.L. 346 and P.L. 550. Applicants should have completed their freshman year not later than June, 1955. A limited number
of scholarships are available for the summer school. Students will leave New York on the SS STAVANGERFJORD June 22, 1955.
Reservations for the return trip are available August 20, September 3 and 14, and October 1955. An orientation program is
conducted on the trip eastbound. For catalogue of courses, preliminary application material, or any further information, write: Oslo Summer School
Admissions Office; Care St. Olaf College; Northfield, Minnesota.

Study in Paris

Applications are now being received from prospective students for the Yale-Reid Hall Summer Session in Paris, Associate Professor Theodore Anderson
of Yale University announced today. The foreign study program is under the joint direction of Mr. Anderson, Associate Professor of
French and Associate Director of Yale’s Master of Arts in Teaching Program, and Miss Dorothy F. Leet, President of Reid
Hall in Paris. The six-week session begins on July 4 and will end August 13. It is open to qualified
men and women college students who have had two years of college French or the equivalent. Students accepted will leave
New York in mid-June and be conducted on a tour of Normandy, Mont St. Michel, and the Loire Valley before
beginning studies in Paris. Throughout the session they will live at Reid Hall, a beautiful mansion in the heart of
Paris. There will be other tours organized during the session, and at the end of the course there will be
three weeks of independent travel.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Duke Foundation Letter

Cat Squads... Eligibility...

(Continued From Page Three)

freshmen, is considered a member of a current squad if he dresses for any regularly scheduled contest, practices with the
team or participates in any exhibition contest betweenany team. He will not be eligible for intramural sports as long as
he is considered out for the intercollegiate sport. One suggestion has been made that in sections 1 and 2, the
wording of the rule be changed to read “any student who has met the requirements for a letter (or numeral).”
Even though he has quit and did not receive a letter or numeral, he remains ineligible. Another is that in
section 5, the individual be allowed to play in activities other than the one in which he quit, since his
ability lies in that field. A question about section 7: If a man is not eligible for intramurals as long
as he is out for an intercollegiate sport, how did candidates for the Varsity swimming team legally swim in the
Interfraternity Swimming Meet? Certainly they were currently practicing with the team. An answer will be appreciated.

Basketball... (Continued From Page Three)

without the services of star forward Ish Bennett who is injured and was unable to play against the Charleston club.
Bennett may be ready in time for tonight's scrap against The Citadel. The Bulldogs are in the middle of a
major overhaul as General Mark Clark has fired the football and basketball coaching staffs. The Citadel cagers are being handled
by a member of the faculty until a new mentor is selected. Last Monday night, the Wildcats put on a
late scoring spree to down the Guilford Quakers in an exciting contest, 78-69. The battle was a close one for
the first 30 minutes of the contest, but then the Davidson cagers got the lead and, by playing slowly, forced
the Quakers to commit fouls or leave players open. Then the lead was stretched into the final margin. The first
half was marred by sloppy passing and frequent violations. It appeared for a while that it might be a repeat
performance of last year’s upset victory of the Quakers.

before returning to this country. This co-ed group was established five years ago and offers courses in French, Contemporary French
Literature, French Art, and French Politics, taught at the Sorbonne and the Louvre. College credits are granted for work completed.
For further information and application blanks students have been asked to apply before March 1, 1955 to Professor Anderson, 133
Hall of Graduate Studies, Yale University.

make it count... have a Coke

BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD “Coke” is a registered trade-mark. ©1952, the
coca-cola company

Editor’s Note: The following is a letter sent from Davidson this week to the Trustees of the Duke Endowment, of
which Davidson College receives 5%.

December 6, 1954
Trustees of Duke Endowment
40 West 49th St.
New York, N. Y.

Dear Friends:

The Executive Committee of the Trustees of Davidson College, the Faculty and the Student Body have noted the forthcoming Anniversary
of the remarkable Indenture of the late Mr. J. B. Duke on December 11, 1954. These bodies recalled in separate
sessions the significance of that provision to Davidson College and desire to record their profound gratitude, not only for Mr.
Duke’s beneficence but also for the wisdom and fidelity of you who have acted as Trustees across these thirty years.
Our institution was lifted to a new level of service and accomplishment by the Duke Endowment provision. It has been
further strengthened by the support of others whose confidence and interest were inspired by the knowledge of Mr. Duke’s generosity.

With sincere appreciation to each of you, we are

Very truly yours,
J. McDowell Richards
President of the Trustees
John R. Cunningham
President of Davidson College

Phi Delts... (Continued From Page Three)

Delt), McGee (Beta). 147—Crouch (SAE), Wright (Beta), Bernhart (Kappa Sig), Hambright (Phi Gam). 157—Martin (Beta), Bryan (Phi Delt), Griffin (Phi
Gam), Greene (Kappa Sig). 167—Acree (SAE), Campbell (SPE), Lewis (Phi Gam), Heintish (Kappa Sig). 177—Holshouser (Sigma Chi), Baker (SAE), Finnegan
(Kappa Sig), Hooper (Phi Delt). 191—Broughton (SPE), John (Phi Gam). Heavyweight—Hamer (Kappa Sig), McKinnon (Sigma Chi), Everhart (Phi Gam), Lee
(Phi Delt).

Little- & No Filter Compares with L&M for Quality or Effectiveness!

Actress Diana Lynn: This is the best filter of all—L&M's Miracle Tip. The smoke is mild, yet full of flavor.

(Continued From Page Three)

David Fagg, and David Burns. The powerful swimming team under the coaching of Carroll Hambright swam to a 62-22 victory
over East Carolina. Davidson took first place in all of the events except the 200-yard backstroke and the 400-yard freestyle
relay. Those taking first place for Davidson were as follows: Ormond—300 yard medley, Carrell—220 yard freestyle, Speir—50 yard dash, Carrell—150
individual medley, Sharp—fancy diving, Speir—100 yard dash, Edwards—200 yard breaststroke, and Ormond—440 yard freestyle. The next meet will be here
with The Citadel, tomorrow at 2:30 o’clock.

Babbling Brooks... (Continued From Page Three)

and his basketball teammates for their two fine wins over Guilford College as the basketball season gets under way again.
With the spirit so far shown, the team could possibly win several big ones on intestinal fortitude alone. Outstanding in
both games, Hobby Cobb is definitely the man to watch this season. Playing the pivot and backed by outstanding teammates,
Hobby could go all the way this season as the most outstanding ball player ever produced at Davidson.

Coaches Comment of the Week: Danny Miller said, “In the face of much opposition from those who were not associated
with the Guilford basketball team, the boys conducted themselves as gentlemen and played cool, heads-up ball all the way.”

“Good News”... (Continued From Page One)

in high school. A baritone, Lloyd sings in the choir of Atlanta's St. Mark Methodist Church. Myra Adkins, who teams
with Lloyd Chapin to provide the laughs, plays the part of Babe O’Day. Myra, who lives in Mooresville, is a
mezzo-soprano. Besides acting in a number of high-school plays and musicals, she was a member of the Playcrafters at Appalachian
State Teachers College. Recently she has been honored by being presented a “Little Oscar” on WBT’s “People’s Playhouse.” This Oscar
was given her for the best performance on the program over a thirteen-week period. Myra also won the District Woman's
Club Music Contest and placed second in the state contest. Bettie Jo Torrence will play the part of Pat, a
wealthy social climber, and Henry Parrish will play the role of Dillie, the head cheerleader at Tate College. Other members
of the cast will include Bob Stewart as Slim Saunders, Fred Scott as Coach Johnson, Jim Traviss as Professor Kenyon,
Warner Hall as Kearney, Ron Lanford as Sylvester, Pete Eller as Windy, Raymond Vaughn as Slats, Maurice Ritchie as George,
J. D. Stewart as Don, Charles Lambert as Pete, and Patty Kimbrough and Anne Wilson as cheerleaders.

Backstage Crew

The technical crew includes Jack Curtis, Gwynn Griffin, and Clyde Short in charge of lighting; Phil Koonce in charge of
sets; Joanne Short and Mary Copeland, makeup; Bob Carmichael, publicity; Jerry Helms, tickets; Marshall Pitts and Cliff Deal, ushers; and
Frank Renfrow, stage manager.

DAVIDSON THEATRE

All Pictures Will Be Shown On Our New P-A-N-O-R-A-M-I-C WIDE SCREEN

THURSDAY-FRIDAY, 9-10
“Three Coins In The Fountain”
CLIFTON WEBB
DOROTHY McGUIRE
JEAN PETERS

SATURDAY 11TH
“Shield For Murder”
EDMOND O'BRIEN
MARLA ENGLISH

MON.-TUE., DEC. 13-14
“River of No Return”
MARILYN MONROE
ROBERT MITCHUM

WEDNESDAY, DEC. 15
“The Mad Magician”
VINCENT PRICE
MARY MURPHY

THURS-FRI., DEC. 16-17
“Susan Slept Here”
DICK POWELL
DEBBIE REYNOLDS

Enjoy Much

Mr. and Mrs. Stan Erwin, stars of TV’s great “Stan Erwin Show”: As we say on TV, this certainly is
the Miracle Tip. L&M’s filter beats ‘em all.

More flavor—Much Less Nicotine

What is it that makes L&M the most talked-about, most eagerly accepted, the fastest growing cigarette of all time? Just
this, It’s the filter that counts—and none compares with L&M’s Miracle Tip. You get much more flavor, much less nicotine—a
light and mild smoke. That’s effective filtration. No other cigarette has it! Why wait to try L&Ms? Discover for yourself
what more and more filter tip smokers are finding out every day: L&Ms are just what the doctor ordered.

© Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
