FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 1954

Despite the slighting remarks of the Charlotte dailies, the Davidson College Wildcats have almost within their grasp a bid to
the Southern Conference basketball tournament in Morgantown, W. Va., on the 4-5-6 of March. At present, the Cats boast a
3-3 record in the conference side of their action with only two conference encounters remaining on the slate. Both of
those conference games are to be played on enemy courts as the Millermen hit The Citadel tomorrow night and Furman
on the 26th. Should the Cats come through with a win over The Citadel (who, by the way, beat them
in Charleston last year) tomorrow, they will definitely make the long trip over the mountains to the stomping grounds of
the Mountaineers come early March. In that case, a loss to Furman would make little difference as the Cats would
finish with a 4-4 record and a spot in the tourney.

We feel that the Cats and their coach are due a lot of praise and congratulations for a job well
done as they have come a long, long way from that Guilford opener to hold a 6-10 record to date.
They have worked to achieve this position and have played some good basketball after their slow start.

As the 1954 version of the Davidson Wildcat football eleven climaxes its second week of spring practice action with a
scrimmage tomorrow afternoon, Coach Bill Dole has expressed his optimism for the coming season of fall-1954 and is very well
pleased with the spirit and hustle of the squad as they go through their practice paces. Justly can he be
proud now of his freshman additions to the squad who, with the exception of but one man, weathered the exam
storm which usually takes quite a toll of Davidson freshman athletes. The freshmen are panning out in varsity competition just
as well if not better than Coach Dole and his staff could have hoped. In every position, the frosh have
either pushed returning regulars to the second team or are in close pursuit of the veterans for the first string
nod. “We have a bigger squad to work with this year and we should round out into a much stronger
and deeper team by next fall,” says Coach Dole. The amiable Wildcat head man also hinted at another good freshman
squad in prospect for next year. The Cats will hold their second big scrimmage of the spring session tomorrow afternoon
at 1:30, weather permitting, and this will be a good chance for the student body to get a sneak preview
of the 1954 Wildcats in action. At the quarterback spot, Dyke Little and Dick Belton are giving returning regular Bill
Rowland a lot of competition for the starting assignment, while at fullback Ken Conger and Eugene Reid are giving plunger
Henry Brown a (Continued On Page Four)

By JOHN HANDLEY

Improving Swimmers Splash Emory Tomorrow

Coach Hambright’s Catfish will be facing a busy weekend, meeting the Citadel today and Emory University tomorrow, both here. Prospects
look bright for a win against Citadel, although a sinus infection will keep Jeff Smith out of the diving competition.
Citadel won the previous encounter in Charleston last Saturday, but the revenge-minded Cats want this one. The 440-yard freestyle relay
team set a new Davidson team record in that event last Tuesday in South Carolina meet in Columbia as they
finished the 400 yards in 3:56.2, shaving 2.6 seconds off the old mark. The team is composed of Seb Patton,
Stafford Query, Ed Stuart, and Ed Spier. Emory, however, will be one of the toughest tests of the season for
the swimmers. Led by Henry Harris, one of the top-ranking breast-strokers in the nation, the visitors will make it tough
in every event. Being in the Davidson pool will help, and the marked improvement of Captain George Crone, Al Ormond,
and Bob Patton in the past few weeks might be enough for victory. But as is often the case, a
Davidson win would be an upset.

Besides the improvement of the varsity team recently, the freshmen have been coming along in a manner to considerably brighten
next year’s prospects. Tommy Rivers will have to fill George Crone’s place in the breaststroke next year, and he shows
great promise. John Edwards, Bill Carrell, and Danny Crates are looking better in every event, while Jim Pressley, Basil Sharp,
and hardworking Frank Kiker complete a well-rounded team. All these freshmen should strengthen the returning varsity enough to make next
year a winning one for the tankmen.

Davidson, N. C.

The varsity is in bad shape for the coming matches. Bobby Joe Key, No. 1 man in the 123-lb class,
is out for the rest of the season. Charlie Murray, Don Reid, and Bill Coe have suffered injuries, but will
definitely see action against Washington and Lee next Thursday. Remaining matches for the Wildcat grapplers include W&L and VPI. The
Cats met Citadel here this afternoon. When the conference tournament time rolls around, Davidson will be sending quite a few
wrestlers to the meet. Charlie Murray, Don Reid, and Charlie Buxton will be the leading Cat candidates for conference honors,
with Murray standing the best chance of coming out as a champion. Murray has lost only one match thus far
this season. Coach Parker states that Murray, Reid, Buxton, Coe, and Faison may all have to drop down one weight
class for the tournament. Bill Keiter will replace Key in the varsity line-up, and with a little experience, Bill could
become a top-notch grappler. The Davidson freshman team got its second win of the season last Saturday when they trounced
Cramerton High School, 28-8. The frosh record now stands at two wins against two losses. The one remaining match on
the schedule is a return bout against Cramerton here next Thursday. It is to be a preliminary match to the
Davidson-Washington and Lee scrap and will start at 1:30 p.m. The varsity match will be underway about 3:30 p.m.

PAGE THREE

Tournament Bid Hinges On Citadel Encounter

AL ORMOND

One of Davidson's prize dolphins, Ormond has been high-point man for the Cats for the last two consecutive years. Al
has made some good showings this season and is again among the top scorers.

BETAS UNBEATEN -- ATO’s FALL

By JOHN HOLSHOUSER

With only three weeks to go in the interfraternity basketball race, the powerful Betas are riding in the top slot
with a six-game winning streak against no defeats. The ATOs, who were tied with the Betas for first place, found
themselves unseated by a strong Pika defense and ended up tied with the Pikas and Kappa Sigs for second place.
The best performance in the scoring department for the week and the season was turned in by the Kappa Sigs
who walloped the Independents by a score of 90-25. Corky Clark of the Kappa Sigs hit for 35 and 24
points in this week’s games to pull his 19-point average up to 24 for six games. Corky leads the league
in the highest average and for the most points scored in one game, 37. Murray Page, leading ATO scorer, is
in second place with a 17.6 average. Lindley Beardsley of the Pikas secured the third place position with an average
of 16.3.

Results of this week's action are as follows:

Phi Delts 42; Phi Gams 35

The Phi Delts and Phi Gams

Freshman Cagers Idle After Two Wins In Good Weeks’ Play

By ANDY TURNER

After two impressive wins in the past week, the Davidson Wildkittens of Coach Paul Scott are idle until next Friday
when they make their last road trip of the season as they travel to Pfeiffer Junior College. The Scott-men now
boast an 8-3 record for their season's efforts. The freshmen defeated Pfeiffer earlier in the season with little trouble on
the local court and shouldn’t have too much trouble making a repeat performance. The only other game remaining on the
schedule is the Gardner-Webb encounter in Johnston Gym as a preliminary to the North Carolina State encounter with the varsity
on Feb. 22. The Kittens haven't faced the Gardner-Webb quintet this season and some stiff competition is expected by CoachScott.
Two Wins

The Wildkittens continued their winning ways by soundly defeating both the Kannapolis Y and Charlotte College in last week's action.
The victory over Charlotte College marked the second win for the Kittens over the Owls this season. The win over
Kannapolis avenged an earlier loss to the YMCA team. The frosh continue to show a teamwork system to make up
for their lack of height. Gaylord Walker, along with Richard Weeks and David Shaw, continue to share scoring honors. Thus
far this season, the Wildkittens have taken the measure of Pfeiffer Junior College, Wingate Junior College, Charlotte College (twice), and
Kannapolis YMCA. They have lost to Kannapolis, Wingate, and the North Carolina frosh.

The game battled down to the final whistle in an exciting game, with the Phi Delts winning 42-35. For the
victors, Jim Ensign hit for 22, while Don Comer flipped in 14 for the Phi Gams. Halftime score, 21-18.

Sigma Chi 61; Pi Kapps 37

The Sigma Chis checked the Pi Kapps in this week’s first round by a 61-37 count. Perrin Anderson came through
with 19 points to be high man for the Sigma Chis, while Swain dumped in 14 for the losers.

KA 61; SPE 42

Sparked by the 22 points of Pete Bridges, the KAs rolled to a 61-42 victory over the eighth-place SPEs. Charlie
Butler had 16 points for the SPEs.

Kappa Sig 90; Independents 25

The Kappa Sig powerhouse broke the intramural team scoring record in crushing the injured Independents, 90-25. Corky Clark pushed through
37 points to lead all scorers, and Dye connected for 18 for the Independents.

Pika 76; SAE 29

In a great attempt to keep up with the high-scoring Kappa Sigs, the Pikas rolled up 76 points to defeat
the SAEs 76-29. John Handley poured in 34 points for the winners, and Dyke Little led the SAE attack with
12 points.

Beta 53; Phi Delt 30

The Betas hit a scrapping Phi Delt team which stood ground against the league leaders for two and a half
quarters, but the Beta offense proved too much for the Phi Delts and went on to a 53-30 victory. Hasty
and Glidewell had 13 apiece for the Betas while Andrews and Thorpe each threw in 8 for the losers.

Kappa Sig 63; SAE 40

Corky Clark tapped in 35 points to keep his league scoring lead well intact while the Kappa Sigs beat the
SAEs 63-40. Steve Norton connected for 19 to pace the losers.

Pike 36; ATO 33

The ATOs were knocked out of the undefeated ranks by a hustling Pika team 36-33. Beardsley was high man for
the winners with 12 points, and Baker and Page had 12 each for the ATOs.

Beta 47; KA 37

The Betas took the measure of the KAs as they rolled to their fifth straight win. Inman collected 13 points
to lead the Betas and McLaughlin scored 12 for the losers.

Kappa Sig 44; Pi Kapp 34

The high-scoring Kappa Sig squad downed a fighting Pi Kapp team to the tune of 44-34. Corky Clark led the
winners with 10 points, and Swain of the Pi Kapps had 15.

ATTENTION!

Coach Scott announced this week that much interest has been expressed in some sort of squash tournament to be held
for all students. Therefore, a tentative open squash tourney has been scheduled for all those interested. Please sign up in
the dressing room in the gym if you are interested.

By BUDDY LILES

Coach Danny Miller’s Wildcats will journey to Charleston this weekend for two big purposes. The first is to add two
more victories to their record, while the second and more important is obtaining a spot in the Southern Conference tournament
which a win over The Citadel would cinch. After defeating VMI last Saturday, a win over The Citadel will put
the Wildcats in a good position with the Furman game the only other conference game remaining.

On Friday night, the Cats will tangle with the College of Charleston and remain over in Charleston to encounter the
Bulldogs of Citadel. The Cats have beaten both of these teams in earlier games, but both squads have improved greatly
since the first encounter. The Cats opened after the exams with the College of Charleston and won easily by a
wide margin. The same procedure could be in order.

Bulldogs Improved

Against the Citadel, Coach Miller related, that is a different story. Several years ago, the Wildcats swamped the Bulldogs by
a score of 106 to 60, and then traveled to Charleston only to come out on the short end of
a revengeful battle by about ten points. The Bulldogs will be playing for this kind of revenge.

The hopes of the Cats will rest mainly on sophomore sharpie Hobby Cobb. Hobby is the leading scorer with about
a 16-point average and is usually exceptionally good against Palmetto foes. A leading rebounder, Cobb will team with Graeme Keith,
center, who has moved back into the pivot slot replacing Big George Melton who hasn’t been finding the range lately.
Keith holds the second-highest scoring average and provides the needed height for rebound work.

Same Team

Rounding out the starting five are Ish Bennett, Buddy Brown, and Ray Harding. To keep their opponents from concentrating on
the top scorers, either of these boys can take up the slack. Brown, like Cobb, is a good rebounder and
possesses a dead eye. Bennett goes like the Wildcats as a team—sometimes hot and sometimes cold. Ray Harding has won
the starting guard assignment in the past few games but both Dick Adams and Pappy Fowle will definitely see action
this weekend. If the Cats can take both or either of the games easily, Coach Miller plans to use his
reserves freely, thinking of next year. The main boy who will have to step into big shoes is sophomore Al
Aiken. Al is six feet four and has played in several of the games this season but needs experience to
take Keith’s or Melton’s place. Another sophomore who has shown improvement since the beginning of the season is Curtis Cates
who may see action at the guard spot.

THINCLADS WORK HARD AS INDOOR SLATE APPROACHES

The Davidson thinclads have settled down to hard work during the past two weeks after the ten-day layoff for exams
in preparation for the coming indoor season. The team will participate in the Southern Conference meet on February 19 at
VMI and the ACC Invitational meet (in the non-conference class) at Chapel Hill on February 27.

Shipley Hitting Stride

Bill Shipley, who placed third in the 440 at the old conference indoor meet last year, will be one of
the top contenders this year in that event. Shipley is beginning to show top form in practice now and should
be ready for the indoor affair. Coach Whittle also has high hopes for the mile relay team. Bill Shipley, Phil
Koonce, Dick Lovette, and Frank Mitchener compose the team. Koonce and Mitchener will also run in the 60-yd. dash event.
Koonce will enter the broad jump for the team’s only field event competition.

Homer Sparks, who finished sixth in the two-mile at the Conference outdoor meet last spring and second in the conference
cross country meet last fall, along with Andy Turner will go the strenuous two miles in this meet. Dick Lovette
is scheduled to run the 880-yard run in the conference meet and he and Archie Joyner will run this event
in the ACC meet. Pete Ashcraft is developing into top form for his entrance into the freshman mile in the
Southern Conference meet and the ½ mile run in the ACC meet and should be one of the top contenders
in that event.

WILLIAM HOLDEN says: “My Dad, a chemist, wanted me to follow in the business. But I got the play-acting bug
in school and college. I was in a small part at the Pasadena Playhouse when they picked me to test
for ‘Golden Boy’. I never worked so hard in my life. But the success of the picture made it worth
it!”

I'M FOR CAMELS! THEY GIVE ME EVERYTHING I LIKE IN A CIGARETTE — GENUINE MILDNESS, REAL FLAVOR. YOU'LL AGREE WITH
MORE PEOPLE LIKE CAMELS, TOO!

Star of “Forever Female”

Start smoking Camels yourself! Make the 30-day Camel Mildness Test. Smoke only Camels for 30 days — see for yourself
why Camels’ cool mildness and rich flavor agree with more people than any other cigarette!
