FRIDAY, SEPT. 10, 1954 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

SHORTIES BY CAM CRIDLEBAUGH

As the beginning of the 1954 football season approaches, the outlook is much brighter than it has been for the
three other seasons that I've seen come and go. For the first time since the post-war influx of students, Davidson
has a football team with depth. This season Coach Dole will be able to take a man out of the
game and send in a replacement that can adequately fill the job. There is a good crop of varsity veterans
back along with the unusually strong last year’s freshman team. The thirteen freshmen invited to participate in this year's varsity
drills seem to be just as promising as Coach Dole’s “'53 Wildkittens.” The spirit on the team is high and
as Coach Hambright says, they’re “wukin’ hard.” If the boys don’t kill each other in practice, the sports world will
know that Davidson is on the football field this fall.

JV CALL

Although only thirteen freshmen are out for football so far, the number is expected to swell when the JV call
is issued after orientation. Due to an early season injury, Leroy Fargason will join Coach Bill Acker with the JV
coaching job. Wrestling coach Charlie Parker says that he'll be along to chaperone. We welcome back to the squad freshmen
Jim Fasul and Charlie Rankin. Both men, who hail from Fayetteville, have been out of action for the last couple
of years.

“Big Pete” and “Tiny”

Harry “Big Pete” Peterson will head the Court of Control this semester. Pete might be the meanest man around Davidson
but he’s no longer the heaviest. Brown “Tiny” Hamer, a tackle from Dillon, S. C., outweighs him by 67 (yes
67) pounds. “Tiny” doesn't let his great amount of weight keep him from moving. He ran a 50-yard wind sprint
in 6.9 the other day.

Schoolboys

Coaches Clements and Hambright played the schoolboy role this summer. Both doing work towards their degrees, they weathered the exam
storm better than most of us around here. Speaking of Coach Hambright, if you want to hear a witty reply
to a serious question, ask him for his statement as to the outcome of his last year's swimming team.

Coaches Hambright, Clements, Dole, and Acker pose during practice sessions for the Davidsonian photographer. Coach Hambright has trained centers, guards,
and tackles this fall, Coach Clements, ends and defensive backfield. Coach Dole has concentrated on the offensive backfield, and Coach
Acker has helped Coach Hambright on the line.

1954 DAVIDSON FOOTBALL SCHEDULE

Sept. 18—VMI—Lexington, Va.
Sept. 25—Stetson—Davidson
*Oct. 2—The Citadel—Charleston
Oct. 8—Presbyterian—Clinton
Oct. 16—Open
*Oct. 22—Furman—Charlotte
Oct. 30—West Va. Tech—Davidson
Nov. 6—Catawba—Davidson
Nov. 13—Wofford—Spartanburg
Nov. 20—Elon—Davidson

* Night Games—8:00 P.M.
Davidson Games—2:30 P.M.

Our Unsung Heroes, The Lowly Managers Keep The Team Going

BY BUSTER SHARP

When we go to a football game we only see what is taking place on the field, but we fail
to see the preparation that makes the game progress on time. All of this is not the coaching of the
staff. Many jobs are the direct work of the managers of the club.

The manager works equally as hard in practice as during the actual game. During practice, he, along with his assistants,
must see that clean equipment is at the disposal of the players when needed and that towels and soap are
ready at the close of practice. When different colored jerseys are used in a scrimmage, the manager must have them
in the hands of the right player at the right time. He must see that all the equipment used by
the team in practice is in proper working order. In other words, the manager is the lowly janitor. He gets
all the dirty work.

During the game, he must see that the players have the proper uniform and that each one is ready for
the game as far as his gear is concerned. The success of the team depends on these unsung heroes.

Record September heat waves and two-a-day practices haven't slowed the 1954 edition of the Davidson College Wildcats in preparing for
their nine-game season that starts with the military men of VMI at Lexington, Va., September 18th. In a strong effort
to have his team in top physical condition and the best running order offensively and defensively, Coach Dole has been
running the men twice daily, with a skull practice in the early evening. Now that school will soon be beginning
for all students, the regular schedule of one workout a day will start next Wednesday.

Thacker Strong

All-Star Jim Thacker will be leading the hustling Wildcats in their initial invasion of the season and judging from practice
sessions to date his performance will be greater than ever. Other standout backs who promise to do stellar duty this
year are: quarterbacks Dyke Little and Bill Rowland, halfbacks Harley Smith, Don McRee, and Don Campbell, and fullbacks Henry Brown
and Ken Conger.Line, a starting team now would probably include these men: center Bo Abernathy, guards Dickie Davis and Jim
Fasul, tackles Harry Petersen and Harold Davis, and ends Tom Newton and Jim Patterson. Arriving on the campus ten days
before the freshmen began coming to the Hill for Orientation, the Wildcats have been hard at work under the skillful
eyes of Head Coach Bill Dole since September 1, and indications are that this year’s team will prove worthy of
some of the faith that the head mentor has for three years placed in his boys.

Depth
This year’s edition of the Wildcats is 53 strong. This is a very good indication that the team will be
decidedly improved because it has depth for the first time in quite a few years. This can be attributed to
the fine recruiting of Coach Dole and his staff. In their selection of football candidates, they take into consideration a
boy's academic standing in high school as well as his football record. This method of recruiting eliminates the “one semester
football players.” The team will be captained by two three-year lettermen, Dickie Davis and Jim Thacker. Other members of the
football roster include: ends Bob Campbell, Bill Gramley, Richard Jordan, Corky King, Arthur Lynn, Lea Powell, Charles Rankin; tackles Dan
Everhart, Tom Firor, Brown Hamer, Little Howard, Adair Hatcher, Ken Lawing, Tom Lee, John Lennon, Dick Jones; guards Dale Gramley,
Lyle Llewellyn, David McClain, Tom Owen, Bob Stancil, Bob Talbert; centers Tal Broughton, Don Moore, Bill Price, and Eugene Reid;
quarterbacks Dick Belton, Ollie Harris; fullbacks David Fagg, Mike Fennegan, Leroy Fargason, Russell Rogers, Jim West; and halfbacks Don Comer,
Barney Poole, and Ralph Setzler.

Trampoline Added — To College Facilities
Davidson gymnasium has been blessed with a new and very specialized piece of equipment, the trampoline. Obtained during the summer,
Davidson's trampoline will see only limited service this year, since courses must be mastered by students before they can use
the moderately dangerous equipment alone. A. Health Whittle said in telling of the trampoline that the coaches themselves are to
be trained briefly in the use of the trampoline before they begin instruction.

With Tennis Tourney
Lacy Keesler of Davidson's Senior Class defeated Bo Roddy, Davidson '51, to win the North Carolina Open Tennis Tournament in
Greensboro this week. Keesler, Southern Conference champion, is a member of Kappa Sigma Social Fraternity, and is from Charlotte. He
and his brother, Dewey Keesler, Davidson '52, went on to cop the doubles title.

Freshmen and Transfers Days At Wilson-Wright
Monday - Tuesday, Sept. 13-14
REFRESHMENTS
Also Drawing For The Following
DRESS SHIRT
SPORT COAT
PAIR SLACKS
SPORT SHIRT
PAIR SHOES

College Events... Personalities
The Davidsonian COVERS THEM ALL
The Davidsonian, student newspaper of Davidson College, welcomes you to campus, and invites you to participate in its activities. There
will be a meeting of all interested in working in connection with the newspaper shortly after college classes begin. See
the bulletin boards for time and place.

Welcome Back To College
Manhattan Pinareed, left
Manhattan Crew, button down, right.
Manhattan and Holbrook shirts. Round point collars, button-down, and pin collars in pink, helio, white, blue and wicker 3.95 to
5.00
Varsity Town and College Hall SUITS. Black coal, Blue coal and Brown coal. In 2-button or 3-button models with ticket
and flap pockets, flannel and worsted flannel 52.50 to 69.50
SLACKS — “Ivy League”, Italian “Cortina”, “H” self belt and Chino Khaki twill 4.95 to 20.00
SPORT SHIRTS. Italian T. T., Button-down collars 6.95 to 11.95
SWEATERS by Catalina and Towne and King. Lambs wool, cashmere blends and 100 percent cashmere 8.95 to 18.95

BACK-TO-SCHOOL CLOTHING WARDROBE
Wilson-Wright’s
NEXT DOOR TO BANK
Charlotte, N. C.
