PAGE TWO

The Davidsonian

Published Weekly Throughout the College Year

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
BUSINESS MANAGER

ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Joe Burroughs, Asst. Editors
Gilbert Gragg, Swain Loy

Managing Editors
Blake Brinkerhoff, Maurice Crouse, Tom Warlick

Sports Editor
Jim Holshouser

Feature Editor
Dick Morehead

News Editors
John Hiers, Watt McCain

Copy Editor
John Harmon

Art Editor
Ed Price

Floyd Feeney, John Handley, Y Brockmann, Tim Cooper, Austin Strand, Hank Daniel, Jim Brice

Photographer
Assignments

Editorial Consultants
Joe Gaskin, Jim Marshal, Stan Miller, Bill Stewart

Assistant Business Manager
Tommy Taylor

Advertising Manager
Larry Parrott

Collections Manager
John Smith

Circulation Manager
Bob Carmichael

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N.C., under the Act of March 3, 1897

A Student Problem: To Jack Up a Battered Hulk ... Or To Build a New Constitution

The debates, talks, or whatever they were in chapel Wednesday morning may have done little to bring the proposed Crutchfield
amendments closer to the goal or to the grave, but they did point up one thing that needs broadening. The
new amendments without a doubt stem from the highest ideals and reasoned thoughts of their authors. Their passage would, probably,
be a needed strength to the present hulk of student government. But the thing that most people did not, and
still do not realize about the amendments is that they would be additional tonnage added to an old scow of
a Constitution that is so heavy in itself that most students are loath to read it for fear of losing
their position in modern time. There is scarcely an article beyond the first that, giving the name of the organization,
is not so outdated as to be useless or in some cases funny. We do not mean to appear sacrilegious
in referring to the Constitution, but in that it does not presume to be as grounded in tradition as Marshal
Ney or George, we would like to suggest that it be martyred, that is, that it be scuttled like the
French Navy, quickly and quietly.

Though the proposed amendments have the best end of the students at heart, they are of the old school in
design, trying vainly to add a streamlined touch to an outdated vessel that is now, after four major patching jobs
and many years of gathering barnacles, strictly beyond repair. Should the overburdened Student Council be aided by the relieving of
its honor responsibility by the formation of an honor court? Perhaps. But the amendments were proposed, it was said, to
give the Student Government the power to regulate student affairs in a well-organized and dependable way, with a measure of
wider student participation. Have the amendments really done either of these things? Six more students would take an active part
in the judgment of honor cases, and there would be a division of power so that, theoretically at least, the
Student Council could spend more time on the constructive side of college affairs than on the disciplinary. But with the
very amendments that were to strengthen the Constitution, there was a failure, while the whole student body seethed with interest,
to go any deeper than the surface pertaining to the immediate problem of discipline. While the authors complained of the
inadequacy of the Constitution and demanded that something be done this year while things were still hot about it, they
failed to make the slightest move toward shaving from the Constitution some of the main things that make it look
so silly in the eyes of all concerned with it.

Was mention made of the outdated point system and its impossible simplicity in the distribution of points or of the
eighth article, which remains valid in 1954 and promises to remain in effect in 1955, even though the Student Store
has become a figment of the imagination? Complaints have been voiced as to the present election system at Davidson, but
not one word was mentioned in the amendments about changing it. In defense, the student in favor of the proposed
amendments might well say that they were purposely limited to the direct problem of student government as such. But why
would someone so interested in seeing things get done this year while the students are interested fail to realize that
a revivifying of the Constitution itself, bringing it out of the dark ages as a whole, is vitally important to
its functioning as an effective mechanism of Student Government. If interest will be lost next year, why not do the
whole thing this year? If the thing is too big to do this year, why go off half-cocked with a
few punitive measures that will go overboard with any reorganization of student government that sets up a legislature for open
meetings or any other new body not included in the present Constitution or amendments?

It is definitely too late in the term to go into any major revision of the Constitution this year. Next
year, however, the student body should be able to start off with a clean slate early in the fall and
draw up a constitution which, though it may use the present one as an old-fashioned model, will not be so
riddled with inadequacies and obsolescences as to make it too cumbersome and ineffective for smooth sailing.

A Study In Filth and Wastefulness

Shocked looks and muffled voices on the part of visitors to the College Union have not been rarities lately. Little
minds seem to have been at work again, this time turning useful signs into billboards of blasphemies and foul language
to be put to the gaze of everyone who enters the Union. The recent fad of changing the black and
white announcements into proclamations which will cause red faces to those who read them sets no new low in student
thought; however, it seeks no new level above the common current of apathy concerning thoughtfulness for others. There is really
no point in delivering a sermon on the virtues of steering clear of vile language for use where it might
be seen by the general public. No doubt the student or students who change the Union signs do it solely
for the “benefit” of those who will come, see the handiwork, and drop one rung lower in respect for Davidson
as a result. Some minds are built that way.

There is one point, however, in asking those who have no part in the changing of the signs to have
a part in carefully changing them back. It could well be called as great a wrong to see the dirt
and not clean it up as to put it there in the first place. If one is not interested in
hearing of the sins of changing signs, perhaps he would be more prone to listen to the practical argument for
letting things be. The signs are put in the Union for announcement purposes, not as playthings. They are bought at
the expense of the Union and serve the students in a very important way. The days are complicated enough with
the announcements of things to come; when those announcements are mutilated, students easily go crazy trying to do their daily
tasks. At seventeen cents per letter, costs mount when day by day brutish hands maltreat the weak composition of the
Union’s white alphabet. If the students must destroy something which the new Union budget will not be able to replace,
let them at least destroy something that is not useful to them, if there is any such thing in the
Union.

Two weeks remain in the school term, and editorializing is probably of little effect. Students should remember, however, that the
last two weeks and the commencement time will be times in which many visitors come to the campus and in
which all students tend to wander in a fog wondering what will happen next. A little thought on the part
of a few could do away with a lot of trouble on the part of many, and could gain a
higher respect for the inner workings of the Davidson student from those who view him from without the walls.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

OFF-MOORINGS: Moore Urges Realistic Requirements Policy

By JIM MOORE

One of the many areas of which student observations on Davidson are more or less left untouched is thatof the
curriculum and the course requirements. At mid-semester, your writer said that he would investigate Davidson as a unit in our
society. A great part of our school’s contribution is the educational training that her students receive. A college must necessarily
contribute to its age and must correspond its educational opportunities to the needs of her students and patrons. Davidson has
an obligation in living up to its liberal arts heritage and its Christian character. Within the framework of these two
precepts, there is adequate room to determine current needs and fulfillment of those needs. For many years, the educational goals
of Davidson have been satisfied in the same or similar manner. The attempt has been made through the courses required
for graduation to broaden the student’s interest and knowledge by making compulsory those courses that experience has shown to be
the basic ones for a liberal arts education. The assumption has been that in the specified fields required, an adequate
cultural development would be open to students so that later upperclass major work would be undertaken after the broader introductory
courses have been set aside. These required courses vary with the degree being pursued, but they basically are these: algebra
and trigonometry, Bible, history, foreign language, ROTC, a science course, and English. One shortcoming of our system is that so
much time is taken up in the first two years with these required courses that the last two years have
courses in the major field which are introductory courses. All of these required courses can be attacked on one ground
or another and be shown to fall short of the goal of the liberal arts development that is desired.

Courses Required For Graduation

The only real reason mathematics is still required at Davidson is a pragmatic one. It is highly useful in preparing
students to pass the deferment test for the selective service. ROTC is the necessity of our times, and as once
pointed out, puts the Christian college in an embarrassing position as to the reasons for including it in the curriculum.
As far as these first two go, one man has summed up my feeling on the matter when he said,
“If it takes a war to justify a thing, I'd say it’s not worth anything.” The science course must be
a single science and cannot include a broad introduction to science designed for students not interested in majoring in the
field. It cannot be so because no such course is offered. The English and history courses are so median in
nature that they take in many facets of the subject, but are so broad generally and so deep specifically as
to provide little in the way of stimulation to the uninitiated and oftentimes direct frustration to the genuinely interested. The
foreign language requirement is one that is difficult to unspecialize, but there does seem a great opportunity to pursue more
of the history and development of the languages of the world than is presently undertaken.

Bible and Religion

Bible is one subject that it is necessary to treat separately because of its close association with the attempt here
to indoctrinate students in the Christian approach to life. As long ago as 1926, there was criticism of the Bible
courses as they were organized at that time. In those days, two years were required but with the difference that
three semesters were devoted to the Old Testament and one to the New. Robert L. Kelly, writing in Christian Education
for May 1926, said, “Especial attention should be called to what appears to be the disproportionate amount of time placed
in Bible study of the Old Testament.” The aspects of compulsory Christianity have other unattractive points for criticism in chapel,
vespers, and YMCA membership, but on the level of scholarship, Bible study has slowly fallen victim to changing attitudes and
evaluations. There are few colleges in the country today which still require two full years of Bible. The survey of
Davidson which was made last year by the management engineering firm in one of its recommendations said, “One year of
Bible should be required and a second year offered as an alternative.” If there is such a strong desire for
two years of Bible, there would seem to be more avenues for student understanding of what Christianity is and how
it stands up in comparison to other religions by having a comparative religion course required for the second year. The
first year would take up the entire Bible.

The Princeton Concept

The particular way in which Davidson fails in its attempt to interpret the liberal arts goal is in its very
compulsion of specified liberal arts courses. When the philosophy of education at Davidson is compared to that of Princeton, you
are bound to get differences because of the difference in the college and the university. Searching deeper for the underlying
motives, however, one finds a far clearer and more penetrating statement of educational aims in the northern college than is
found in ours. Their concept is one of freedom within the framework of what is necessarily liberal arts. They define
four areas in which certain basic work must be completed in the first two years of the student's residence at
Princeton. These four broad areas are Natural Sciences, Social Science, Arts and Letters, and the fourth less general heading of
History, Philosophy, and Religion. At Davidson, there is conformity wherever one turns—in religion, in social activities, in honorary organizations.

LETTER TO THE EDITOR: Study Urged For Union Discussion

Dear Editor,

This Sunday, the students of Davidson and the public are invited to hear a discussion on the proposed union of
the Southern (U.S.) and the Northern (U.S.A.) branches of the Presbyterian Church. This discussion will be led by Dr. C.
G. McClure and Dr. Jas. A. Jones. Dr. McClure will take the negative view and Dr. Jones will give his
views on why we should unite with our Northern “brethren.” This discussion should be very interesting, and I want to
urge all of the Presbyterians in and around Davidson to attend. The reason I am writing you this letter, Mr.
Editor, is to tell the folks who are planning to attend this meeting to “bone up” on just what kind
of Presbyterian Faith they have. I would suggest that they look into this plan of union and decide on just
which side of the fence they plan to stand. The discussion will be much more interesting if the students have
studied the plan, and they will be better equipped to ask questions pertaining to it. I recently attended a discussion
held at the First Presbyterian Church in Concord which was led by Dr. Nelson Bell, associate editor of The Southern
Presbyterian Journal, and Colonel Miller. It was very informative, and my only regret was that I hadn’t studied the plan
more carefully. It is with this in mind that I urge you to learn the full significance of the plan
and to be sure to attend this discussion. I'll see you on the front row.

Yours in fundamentalism,
DAVE LONG.
