. TENNIS TOURNEY TOPS SPORTS BILLING

ORTA LIBERTAS

The Davidsonian

AMENDMENTS ARE PRESENTED

AT LAST!!

VOL. XLU

VOTE OF STUDENTS ON AMENDMENTS TO COME ON MAY 17

By TOMMY THOMPSON

After having the revised amendments presented to the student body today, an official vote will be taken in ten days, May 17. It is customary to have the amendments tabled for this period of time when, at its conclusion, a two-thirds vote of the attending student body is required for the passing of the amendments.

The amendments, says Bob Crutchfield, martyr of the amendment cause, will be grouped according to their specific relation to each other. This procedure allows the student body to express outwardly wherein their interests lie. Tentative plans are to combine amendments 1 and 5 and 2 and 3, leaving 4 and 6 to be voted on separately.

Crutchfield, as well as other proponents of the amendments, have been exasperated over the seemingly deliberate reluctance of the Student Council to discuss the amendments. Even though the vote will be taken immediately before the crucial exam period, Crutchfield asks the student body to consider seriously the amendments before poll time.

Debate on Qued in

In the climax of all formal discussions of the amendments, which was held in a special assembly on Wednesday, May 5, Bob Crutchfield and Ed Stuart defended the amendment, while Buddy Lamon and Dick Roper headed the opposition. The affirmative declared that some of the major weaknesses of student government were that the Student Council does not represent student body viewpoints, is void of all systematic trial procedure, and is functioning on an ambiguous constitution. They uphold that the amendments will begin, at least, to diminish the present situation. Crutchfield called on the Davidson student to prove his maturity, so often ridiculed, and accept the responsibility of student government invested in the revised amendment. Stuart stated that amendment 5 was the most important amendment from the standpoint that it is a “strong” amendment and would, consequently, motivate “strong” government.

In opposition, Roper asserted that the amendments would assume authority that the student body does not have and that a “fundamental change” in the drinking rule is needed. Lamon alleged the illegality of amendment 2 by pointing it was contrary to the Rules and Regulations of the Board of Trustees, in which there is a rule that states that all appeals must be made directly to the faculty. Lamon proposed a complete “revision and overhauling” of the present constitution and that the (Continued on Page Four)

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C., FRIDAY, MAY 7, 1954

Council Men Chosen

Shown here are the members of Leighton Green's new Y Cabinet. From left to right, first row: Clark Reed, Smithy Johnson, Leighton Green; second row, Jason McManus, Kiki Lewis, Corty Cooper; third row, Buster Sharp, John McLaughlin, Dolph Allen; fourth row, Joe Greer, Fred Summers, Biske Brinkerhoff; last row, Dickie Davis, Henry Brockmann, Clyde Robinson, Austin Strand, Leighton McCutchen.—(Photo by Hank Daniel)

Faculty-Student Day Will Be Held On Wednesday

The annual Senior-Faculty Day will be held Wednesday with a golf preliminary at Mooresville on Monday. After the last athletic event on Wednesday the seniors will treat the faculty to a fish fry at Erwin Lodge.

The faculty sportsmen, many of whom were athletes in their own right a few decades ago, have expressed through their spokesman, Pete Whittle, the hope that “the seniors try to make it interesting for us this time.” Somehow—perhaps mindful of the approach of diploma time—the senior classes of the past two years have allowed the old-timers to claim the win. This year, however, the seniors have announced their intention of sweeping all four events. Charlie Johnson, president of the class, has invited the student body to witness the mid-week massacre.

The events are scheduled as follows: Golf at 1:30 on Monday, tennis at 2:00 on Wednesday, followed at 3:00 with volleyball, and softball at 4:00. Forty-five minutes after the softball game the winners and losers will meet at Erwin Lodge for fish and fellowship.

The senior golf team, led by Bob Owens, Ed Powe, Toto Williamson, Mardre Bell and Dave Pfaff, will face a dauntless aggregation composed of Bill McGavock, John McCutchan, Charlie Parker, Henry Fulcher, Paul Scott, Danny Miller, Lee Brown, Tom Daggy, Walter Blanton and Alex Vavoulis. Venerable Chalmers Davidson, traditional faculty volleyball captain, will again lead his team, while the battery of Dizzy Baumann and Slugger Fulcher will spark the softball crew. The tennis team features the doubles play of Daggy and Martin, Purcell and Wilson, Causey and Vavoulis.

The starting lineups for the senior teams have not been announced for fear the faculty might devise some excuse to back out.

Vespers & Chapel Sunday

As the last full week of the regular semester begins, Davidson students will have the pleasure of hearing one of the finest ministers in the South, the Reverend James A. Jones, D.D., pastor of the Myers Park Presbyterian Church, Charlotte, North Carolina.

Monday

The Monday morning chapel service will be under direction of Charlie Johnson, a senior from South Carolina.

Tuesday

The Spring tapping of the Delta Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa, national leadership fraternity, will take place during the chapel service Tuesday morning.

Wednesday

The chapel service Wednesday morning will be led by Dr. Frontis W. Johnston, of the History Department.

Bible Class Chooses Sharp As President

In an election held on Sunday, May 2, Buster Sharp, a rising junior, was chosen to succeed Swain Loy as president of the YMCA Bible Class. Also elected was Jerry Helms, to succeed Sandy McGeachy, as secretary-treasurer. Helms, too, is a rising junior.

So far Sharp has only made tentative plans concerning next year’s Bible Class. As it now stands, the initial policy would be to abolish any type of uniform lessons. Sharp's second plan is to work in coordination with the University Christian Missions in sponsoring a religious emphasis week in February of next year. By being elected president of the Bible Class, Sharp will automatically hold a seat in next year’s Y Cabinet.

According to Sharp, the same policy of serving coffee and donuts before Bible Class will be carried on throughout the coming year.

'54 Elections End

ELECTS TIM COOPER During Next Week

By BILL STEWART

Elections this week centered around the selection of representatives to the Student Council from the three rising upper classes. The only other voting was for YMCA Board of Director representatives, which was begun today in chapel.

Representatives elected from the rising senior class are Swain Loy, Roanoke Rapids, N. C., Charles Rankin, Fayetteville, N. C., Kiki Lewis, Burlington, N. C., and Clark Reed, Ft. Lauderdale, Florida. The two men who will represent the junior class at next year’s Student Council meetings are Joel Canarroe, Bradenton, Fla., and John Childs, Hopedale, Mass. The representative from the rising sophomore class has not yet been decided, but the race has been narrowed down to three hopefuls who are Carl Cooper, Bunny Perkinson, and Stuart Vaughn. Voting will continue for this office Monday.

Next week, the final full week of classes, will end this year's elections. The only other offices to be filled include those of head cheerleader, for which nominations were made today, and athletic representative, the final office to be filled.

SIGMA CHI WINS INTERFRAT SING

Sigma Chi Fraternity emerged victorious in a field of eight different fraternities competing in the Davidson College Interfraternity Sing last night, with the Phi Gamma Delta and Beta Theta Pi fraternities taking second and third places, respectively. The annual event was sponsored by Phi Mu Alpha, national honorary music fraternity. Serving as judges were Mr. and Mrs. Richard Peek, the organist and the choir director of Covenant Presbyterian Church in Charlotte, and Mrs. Herbert Carson, vocal instructor at East Mecklenburg High School. Dr. W. G. McGavock filled well the capacity of master of ceremonies.

Sigma Chi, directed by Sandy McKelway, won the cup on “Sylvia,” “The Battle of Jericho,” and “The Sweetheart of Sigma Chi.”

Band Elects Frick; To Give Concert

The Davidson College Concert Band, under the direction of Mr. Kenneth Moore, will present a concert of light music on Tuesday evening, May 11, at 7:00 p.m.The concert will be held on the north terrace of the College Union and will mark the first outdoor concert of the season for the band as well as its final appearance of the year. The concert will open with “Farandole” by Bizet, and included in the program will be the “Poet and Peasant Overture” by von Suppe, along with a number of familiar marches. Closing the concert, the band will play Ravel's “Bolero.” The new officers of the band, which were elected at a meeting Monday night, are Thorny Frick, president; Fred Hudson, vice president; John Fite, secretary; Haywood Rogers, treasurer; and Dewey Stovall, business manager.

Church Union Debate To Be Held Sunday

The presentation of diplomas to its senior members and the election of officers for the coming school year were the highlights of the meeting of the Eumanean Literary Society last Monday night. Charles Hasty, the president, presided. After the meeting was opened with a devotional given by Vice President Henry Brockmann, the group heard a report from its Constitutional Committee. A new constitution for the group was presented by Fred Myers, the chairman of the committee. After discussing the proposed constitution, the members voted in favor of adopting it as presented by the committee. Will Terry presented a report from the organization's chapel program committee. Plans were made for a program to be given in chapel later this month by the society.

A hotly-contested election resulted in the election of Tim Cooper of Charlotte as the next president of Eumanean. For vice president, the group picked Maurice Crouse of Lincolnton. Carl Cooper of Durham was elected secretary, and Henry Brockmann of High Point will be the new treasurer. The traditional Eumanean diploma was presented to the senior members of the organization. These diplomas are in Latin and resemble the one given by the college.

Last Frat Elections Results Announced

Four fraternities have recently held elections for the various offices for next year. These positions and the men filling them are: For the Pi Kapp’s, Willis Briley, president; Jim Thacker, treasurer; Jim Fisher, secretary; and Jack Williamson, boarding house manager. For the Sigma Chi’s, Tom Shaw, president; Perrin Anderson, vice president; Vereen Bell, secretary; Budd Montgomery, treasurer; and Bill Morris, rush chairman. The SAE’s elected Dave Burns, president; Curtis Ellison, vice president; John Woodall, secretary; Billy Rawson, treasurer; and Gale Averyt, boarding house manager. The Phi Gam’s, also busy during the election season, elected Kiki Lewis, president; Roy Davis, treasurer; Charlie Freed and Harold Riley, secretaries; and Bill Gentry, boarding house manager.

WILSON ELECTED BY PHILANTHROPIC

The regular meeting of the Philanthropic Literary Society was held last Monday night with President Robert Dunbar presiding. Following an inspirational prayer given by Robert Bankhead, the society proceeded to the program for the night. Mac Williamson was in charge of the program which consisted of extemporaneous speeches given by members of the group. Such subjects as: “Is it better to double date in a balloon than on a motor scooter?” and “Is it better to cut ROTC than to stay out all night on a dance weekend?” were used. John Trotti and Ernest McCutchen were among those speaking. The main item of business taken up was the election of officers for the 1954-1955 school year. Stein Wilson of Bristol, Tennessee, was selected to head the group next year. For vice president, the society chose Dick Morehead of Charlotte. Reese Middleton from Copper Hill, Tennessee, will be the new secretary and Jim Kuist of Princeton, N. J., will carry out the treasurer's duties. The organization also elected as critics Mac Williamson, Waynesville, N.C., and Dunbar Ogden, Springfield, Ohio. Serving as supervisors will be Jim Brice of Easley, S.C., and Harry Antrim of Sarasota, Florida. Bob Presley of Asheville was elected agent. Several students showing literary interest and talent were initiated into the society, and plans for the joint banquet to be held with the Eumanean Literary Society were discussed.

Gehring Will Give Recital On Sunday

Philip Gehring, assistant professor of music at Davidson College, will present the last program in the current organ recital series at the Davidson College Presbyterian Church on Sunday afternoon, May 8, at 4:30 p.m. Philip Gehring is the organist for the Davidson College Vespers. One of the youngest college organ instructors in the South, Mr. Gehring, a native of Carlisle, Pa., received his formal education at Franklin and Marshall College in Pennsylvania, at Oberlin College and Conservatory, where he received his B.A. and B.M. degrees, and at Syracuse University, where he and his wife will return this summer for further study. A member of the American Guild of Organists, and former dean of the Charlotte chapter, Mr. Gehring has presented many outstanding organ recitals in the Southeast, and on occasion is joined by his wife, Betty Gehring, in duo organ-piano-violin programs. Just this month the Gehrings have appeared at Duke University Chapel for a program, and in April, Gehring presented an organ recital at Salem College. Included in the Davidson program will be organ works by Vivaldi, J. S. Bach, Buxtehude, Franck, Schroeder and Messiaen. The public is cordially invited to attend. There is no admission charge, but a silver offering will be received to help defray the expenses of the series.

Attention...

Tomorrow, May 8, is the deadline for registration for next year’s courses. Students are urged to return the registration forms to the registrar’s office by that time. On Sunday, May 9, Dr. James A. Jones, pastor of the Myers Park Presbyterian Church in Charlotte, will speak at the Vesper service. Dr. Jones graduated from Davidson College with a B.S. degree and from Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, Va., with a Th. M. He has received an honorary doctor’s degree from Hampden-Sydney College, and has studied at New College, Edinburgh University, Edinburgh, Scotland. In 1948 and 1949 Dr. Jones was a member of a deputation of Christian leaders to the mission fields of the world. He visited the Belgian Congo where he spent some time with the missionaries at the American Presbyterian Congo Mission meeting at Lake Munkamba. While in Africa he preached to the missionaries, the native pastors, and leaders. Next he flew to Brazil where he again attended special meetings and preached to the native pastors. In 1952 Dr. Jones again visited the Belgian Congo. He has held numerous special services here in this country as well as preaching for the Presbyterian Hour in 1950. Dr. Jones is a member of the Board of Trustees of Davidson and Queens Colleges.

Fitzgerald To Be Chief Commencement Speaker

By CLAGETT TAYLOR

Chancellor Rufus H. Fitzgerald of the University of Pittsburgh will be the principal speaker during commencement exercises, May 29 to May 31. He will present the graduation message to the class of '54 at Commencement, Monday morning, May 31. Chancellor Fitzgerald is president of the Association of American Colleges, having served as vice president under Dr. Cunningham last year. Dr. Allan M. Frew, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Detroit, Michigan, will speak at Baccalaureate services on Sunday morning, May 30. Dr. Frew is a Davidson alumnus of 1930. Saturday, May 29, will be Alumni Day. Members of the classes of 1904 and 1929, celebrating their 50th and 25th graduation anniversaries, are to be honored. Other classes having special reunions will be those of 1934, 1939, 1944, and 1949. Alumni Secretary John Payne is expecting a big crowd for Alumni Day. Hotel Barringer in Charlotte will be alumni headquarters. Commencement will actually last three days, but the trustees will report one day early on Friday, May 28, for a meeting at 10:00 a.m. Alumni Day will get underway with a meeting of the Executive Committee of the Alumni Council at 10:00 a.m., in the Blue Room of the College Union on May 29. An Alumni Council meeting will follow at 11:00 a.m. in the Ball Room of the Union. Faculty, seniors, and all alumni are invited. The cornerstone laying of W. H. Belk Dormitory will take place at 12:00 noon. Class reunions will be at 12:30 p.m. in front of Chambers for photographs. The Senior-Alumni luncheon will take place on the front campus at 1:00 p.m. Alumni, faculty, seniors and their parents are invited to the annual “luncheon on the lawn.” During the luncheon the senior class will be welcomed into the alumni association, the report of the Alumni Council meeting will be given, and the nomination of officers, committees, and trustees will take place. Senior class day exercises will be at 4:00 p.m. on the front campus. A concert by the Male Chorus and a guest artist will be given at 8:15 Saturday night. The main item on the program for Sunday, May 30, will be the Baccalaureate sermon by Dr. Frew.

(Continued On Page Four)

ROTC FEDERAL INSPECTION

Lt. Col. Thames, member of the Federal inspection team, inspects the second platoon of Cadet Captain Homer Phifer’s Company D along with Phifer and Captain Brown.—(Photo by Hank Daniel.)