UNPLEDGED WORK FOILS COPS

VOL. XLII ANNUAL Y.M.C.A. ORV Dormitory Gunman

Bailey Reports on Case; Suspicious Auto Seen

At noon today there had been no further developments in the search for a slightly built gunman of college age,
who entered over 20 rooms in three dormitories here, escaped with approximately $350 plus a wristwatch, and threatened two students,
who challenged him, with a gun.

In chapel this morning Dean Bailey told the student body that police were following up several leads which they hoped
would result in the apprehension of the criminal. He also reported that Mr. Ed “Cop” Linker, campus policeman, took the
license number of a suspicious-looking car parked near the College Union early Thursday morning, in which a young man, apparently
a student, was sleeping. After having taken the license number, Mr. Linker checked the Union to see if any foul
play was afoot there, and when he returned to the car, the man had left. The car was described as
a late model two-tone Oldsmobile, bearing a Georgia license plate. Investigation revealed that the car was registered in the name
of a Mrs. Fields of Atlanta. Dean Bailey asked if any student had any knowledge of the car that would
clear it of suspicion that he report it to him immediately. At present police are scouring several states in search
of the automobile.

Gunman Described

Several students who saw the gunman said that they thought they would be able to identify him. Their descriptions of
him were similar. All agreed that he was about 20 or 21 years old, slightly built, with a rather full
face and prominent jawbone. He was wearing a brown checked coat and a brown tie. They also agreed that he
was a (Continued On Page Four)

ISAAC STERN HERE SATURDAY, FEB. 13

ISAAC STERN

Isaac Stern's eleventh coast-to-coast tour of the U.S. and Canada will bring the foremost American violinist to Davidson College for
a concert at 8:15 p.m. on Saturday, February 13, Director Plott of the Davidson College Department of Music announced recently.
Mr. Stern's concert here is one of fifty-five he is currently making across the country which include appearances with such
organizations as the Boston, Chicago, Pittsburgh, and Los Angeles Orchestras.

Last November, Sir Thomas Beecham, conductor of the Royal Philharmonic Orchestra, performed with Stern. The London Times reported: “A player
in the front rank of violinists has dawned on our horizon.” Stern is no stranger to the movie-going public, for
it was his music heard on the sound track of the films “Humoresque” and “Tonight We Sing.” He is also
well known to radio, television, and record fans, for his recordings have become best-sellers throughout the nation.

Summer Placement Service Is Offered

This spring, for the first time, the YMCA is attempting to aid interested students in securing placement for summer jobs.
According to Sam Magill, Y secretary, this summer placement service is still in the process of organization, and many additional
positions are expected to open up as the semester progresses. Especially is this true of the many various camp jobs
which would become plentiful by March and April. Already there is an imposing list of interesting possibilities, many of which
promise not only remuneration, but also travel and valuable experience, especially in the field of industry.

Already included on the constantly increasing list of prospective employers are: The North Carolina State Park Service, American Trust Company,
Wachovia Banks, Proctor and Gamble, WBT-Charlotte, Yellowstone Service, and the Federal Government. In addition to these are several study tours,
seminars, and leadership training camps. Job forms can be secured and submitted at the Student Union desk. If further information
is desired, contact Mr. Magill or Jeter Abernathy, who is acting as student coordinator for the project.

The Davidsonian

ALENDBA LUK UB) OGRTA CIBERTAS

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C., FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 1954

Dr. E. L. Daniel Leads Vespers, Discussion Sunday Night, Feb. 7

Dr. Eugene L. Daniel, Candidate Secretary for the Board of World Missions of the Presbyterian Church, U.S., will speak at
Vespers Sunday, February 7, 1954. Dr. Daniel will lead a discussion in the student lounge after the service on Christian
Missions and World Responsibility.

A native of Atlanta, Ga., Dr. Daniel graduated from Georgia Tech in 1933 and from Columbia Theological Seminary in 1936.
He did further work at Princeton Seminary, and occupied several pastorates before entering the Army as a chaplain in 1941.
During the war he was for 27 months a prisoner of the Germans. For his actions on the African front
prior to his capture he was awarded the Silver Star and the Distinguished Service Cross. For a year after the
war he served on the War Relief Committee, then until the outbreak of the Korean War he served in missions
there. Before he left for Korea Mr. Daniel was married to Miss Nancy Hayter of Abington, Virginia. Since 1951 he
has been Candidate Secretary for the Board of World Missions.

QUALE TO CONDUCT YEARBOOK CLINIC

Student yearbook staff members from western North Carolina and their faculty advisers will attend a Yearbook Clinic at Davidson College,
Wednesday, March 3. Otto W. Quale, publications director of the American Yearbook Company, Owatonna, Minnesota, will conduct the clinic. Bill
Hood, editor of the Davidson yearbook, and his staff will serve as hosts.

Mr. Quale was formerly a member of the faculty of the University of Minnesota School of Journalism and a director
of the National Scholastic Press Association. Included in the clinic will be sessions on themes, layout, art work, financing, and
staff organization.

Placement Service Activity Underway

Placement activities are underway for the class of 1954, says Mr. John Dillon, head of the college’s public relations department.
So far fifty seniors have signed up to talk to the companies who will come to the campus to interview
prospective jobholders.

Deering-Millikan Service Corporation interviewed on the campus yesterday, and will be followed by numerous other companies. A representative of Union
Carbide Company is slated to be at the school on Tuesday of next week. According to Mr. Dillon, Union Carbide
is looking for men to fill personnel, production, industrial relations, and sales posts, with a minimum starting salary of $325
per month. On Thursday of next week, Feb. 11, a man from Aberdeen Proving Grounds will be here to talk
to mathematics and physics majors. He will be followed in the coming weeks by representatives from Travelers Insurance Company, Proctor
and Gamble, Mills, Cargill, Inc., Connecticut Household Finance Corporation, and Burlington Mills.

BELK DORM RISES; WEATHER AND ALL

Despite the recent bad weather, the construction of W. H. Belk Dormitory is still proceeding according to schedule. Allowances had
been made during the planning stages for such weather as has been seen lately on the campus. With no unexpected
time setbacks the date for occupation of the new dorm is still tentatively set for February 1, 1955. However, the
rate of construction is dependent on the weather.

For the past few weeks concrete footings of the foundation have been laid. This is now largely completed and the
laying of the bricks for the east wall of the basement has begun. After going up one floor level the
brick masons will then begin laying the west wall while structural steel and concrete are put in the east wall.
It is safe to say that the dormitory rooms will be of a very modern type, many of the facilities
being built into the wall. Desks, bookshelves, chests, closets, and storage cabinets will all fall into this category. Storage space
in the new rooms will be approximately twice the amount found in the present ones. Lavatories will be in every
room and allowances had been made during the planning stages for such weather as has been seen lately on the
campus. With no unexpected time setbacks the date for occupation of the new dorm is still tentatively set for February
1, 1955. However, the rate of construction is dependent on the weather.

Woodwind Quintet, Brass Ensemble to Give Performances

The Woodwind Quintet under the direction of Mr. Kenneth Moore will appear before the Mooresville Kiwanis Club on Friday evening,
February 5. The Brass Ensemble will present a musical program for the Charlotte Woman's Club building. The performance will be
under the joint direction of Mr. Kenneth Moore, director of the Woodwind Quintet, and Mr. John Satterfield, director of the
Brass Ensemble.

On the evening of February 8, both the Woodwind Quintet and the Brass Ensemble will be under the joint direction
of Mr. Kenneth Moore, director of the Woodwind Quintet, and Mr. John Satterfield, director of the Brass Ensemble. The performance
will be given at the Charlotte Woman's Club building.

Thursday evening, February 11, at 8:15 p.m., the St. Marks Lutheran Church and the Charlotte Chapter of the American Guild
of Organists will sponsor a concert by the Woodwind Quintet and the Brass Ensemble. The concert will be held at
the St. Marks Lutheran Church.

Fraternities To Start Greek Week Soon; Devane in Charge

President Charlie Hassell announced today. Final plans for the program, which has been shortened to only three days this year,
were made at a joint meeting of the IFC and the pledge masters of the eleven fraternities and the Campus
Club last Tuesday night. The IFC, headed by Max DeVane, announced its tentative plans subject to the approval of the
delegates present at the joint meeting. Plans are still in the tentative stage, but it appears that the two-day schedule
will include at least: An afternoon civic project or field event, the latter being held if no suitable project is
found. This will be an event of Wednesday afternoon. An interfraternity exchange of pledges for the evening meals on (Continued
On Page Four)

Alpha Epsilon Delta To Hold Convention

Alpha Epsilon Delta, the national premedical honor society, will hold its Tenth National Convention at Indiana University, Bloomington, March 26-27,
1954. The Indiana Alpha Chapter will act as host to this gathering of premedical students and educators from sixty-three chapters
in colleges and universities throughout the country.

The convention banquet is scheduled for Friday evening, when Dr. Aura E. Severinghaus, Associate Dean, College of Physicians and Surgeons,
Columbia University, New York, will be the banquet speaker on the subject, “So You Want To Be a Doctor.” Saturday
morning will be devoted to conducted tours through the Indiana University School of Medicine, hospitals, and other facilities at the
Center. Following the luncheon, Alpha Epsilon Delta will sponsor a conference on premedical education with several nationally known speakers on
medical and premedical education.

The North Carolina Alpha Chapter was installed upon this campus in 1936. Barring an interruption during the war years, N.C.
Alpha has had an active life on the Davidson campus. Each year several outstanding physicians and medical school administrators are
brought to the campus for lectures. Films of a medical nature are shown several times yearly and visits made to
nearby hospitals.Davidson College are invited to send delegates. “We would like to have juniors attend the clinic as we believe
it will help them in their work next year,” Mr. Quale explained. “It should be emphasized that this is an
educational short course in the interest of better yearbooks. Schools attending are in no way obligated to purchase from the
company represented; and at no time will they be given a sales talk.”

NOTICE!

On Friday, Feb. 5, Roy Mayer will present an entertaining program of magic at 8:15 in the ballroom of the
College Union. This mystery entertainment put on by the skilled Mr. Mayer is sponsored by the Union.

Seniors Take Graduate Record Examination

The Graduate Record Examination was administered at Davidson on Saturday, January 30th. Among those taking the exam were the following
seniors: Larry Champion, James Efird, George Melton, Robert Mitchell, Kenneth Parks, Buford Price, John R. Shannon, and Richard Roper. The
Graduate Record Examination will be administered again at Davidson in May. Interested seniors should write to the Educational Testing Service,
Box 892, Princeton, New Jersey, for application blanks. Further information may be had from Prof. George Abernethy.

The popular young artist will perform here on his priceless 250-year-old Guarnerius. Among the selections that he will play are
the Suite of Rameau-Ysaye, and the ever-popular La Campanella of Paganini. Students will be admitted to the Guild of Organists
will bring to Charlotte the renowned St. Olaf Choir. This choir, under the direction of Olaf Christiansen, has been referred
to by the Chicago Herald as “the greatest of its kind in America, perhaps in the world.” The program will
be held in the Radio Center auditorium.

EU INITIATES FRESHMAN MEMBERS; PHI ELECTS OFFICERS, ISSUES BIDS

The Philanthropic and Eumenean Literary Societies held their regular scheduled meetings Monday night, with new officers and new members being
the chief concerns of business. In Phi’s meeting, a devotional was presented by Holshouser from the book of Ecclesiastes. Instead
of having a program, the remainder of the meeting was filled with business. Elections and appointments were continued from the
last meeting to give Phi the following slate of officers: President, Bob Dunbar; Vice President, Swain Loy; Secretary, Dick Morehead;
Treasurer, Stein Wilson; First Critic, Paul Pinckney; Second Critic, David Jones; First Supervisor, Richard Holshouser; Second Supervisor, Pat Miller; and
Agent, Gilbert Gragg. The installation of new officers and the new president's speech of acceptance were postponed until the next
meeting. Bids for freshmen and upperclassmen were brought up, with recommendations of freshmen’s English professors being read, nominations being made
from the floor, and each bid being voted on individually. Bids were to be sent out by the weekend. Phi
also initiated a new member into the society, Mr. Allie Cone.

Eumenean Literary Society had its first meeting under the new leadership of Ed Stuart. The new officers, Charles Hasty, Henry
Brockmann, Joe Conarroe, and Tom Ligon, who are the new president, vice president, secretary, and treasurer, respectively. Eu had its
regular program, which consisted of two papers being read, several extemporaneous speeches being given, and a talk being presented by
the new president, Charles Hasty. Then the business of initiating new members was taken up. The new members of the
society, as of Monday night, are Emory Kimbrough, Jr., Samuel Sutton, Thomas Morgan, Jr., John Robinson, Dan LaFar, Jr., Frank
Ren- (Continued On Page Four)

Harold J. Brennan, designer and craftsman, will visit Davidson College on February 8 and 9, sponsored by the College Union
under the direction of Professor Houchens of the Department of Fine Arts, and Mr. Shaw Smith. After completing his studies
at the Carnegie Institute of Technology and at Harvard University, Mr. Brennan had a traveling scholarship at the Institute of
Art and Archaeology, University of Paris. He taught courses in design, crafts, and the history of art while on the
faculty of Westminster College in Pennsylvania and at present he is director of the School for American Craftsman at the
Rochester Institute of Technology. An exhibit at the College Union indicating the character of contemporary production in ceramics, silversmithing, jewelry,
textiles, and wood will be the focal point of Mr. Brennan's visit here. He will give an illustrated lecture presenting
the work of other outstanding contemporary designers on February 8 at 8:15 in the ballroom of the Union. On February
9, at 4 p.m., Mr. Brennan will give a special talk to the ladies of the Davidson community. The public
is invited. During his two-day period here, he will visit several classes interested in his particular field of furniture design
and crafts. The Arts Program, Association of American Colleges, is sponsoring Mr. Brennan’s tour. He will visit several other leading
colleges in this area also.

MIDWINTERS QUEEN TO BE SELECTED AT FORMAL DANCE

Something new is being added to the IFC Midwinters Dances this year. To the already sparkling attraction of Ralph Marterie
and his band will be the added feature of the selection and crowning of the Queen of Midwinters at Davidson's
third annual “Greek Week” formal dance Friday night. Each fraternity, according to the plans for the event, is to enter
one girl into the contest. Pictures must be submitted by the weekend. The Queen will be chosen by a five-man
committee comprising one representative from each of the three college publications, and two outside members. The decision of the judges
will be made known Friday night, with the crowning of the Queen coming during the dance.

Clyde To Be Speakers

By STAN MILLER

A contrast of the expedient and ethical approaches to international relations and diplomacy will be the basis of a forum
to be held here Tuesday on the subject “Power Politics and Moral Responsibility.” The Forum is the first of several
to be sponsored by the Forums Committee of the YMCA under the leadership of Ed Stuart. This year the forum
itself is being confined to one day, although preparations are being made for discussions, and through the programs of the
literary societies and the International Relations Club. In addition, Dr. E. L. Daniel of the Board of World Missions, the
Sunday night Vesper speaker, will lead a discussion on the importance of an understanding of international affairs by prospective missionaries.
The Forum will start with an introduction of the topic and presentation of the main speakers and their views Tuesday
morning in chapel. Dr. Paul H. Clyde and Mr. E. H. Lefever, who will champion the opposing sides, will speak
to various classes in the morning. Dr. Clyde will lead a discussion on “U. S. Policy in the Orient,” and
Mr. Lefever will discuss “The Student and Power Politics,” at 4:30 in the afternoon. An evening forum, which will be
patterned after the famed Radio Town Meeting, will feature Dr. Clyde and Dr. E. O. Guerrant against Dr. S. R.
Spencer and Mr. Lefever, with Dr. Frontis Johnston serving as moderator. Dr. Johnston will start the evening off with a
brief review of the two points of view. The two visitors will then discuss our own foreign policy in both
principle and practice. The panel discussion will follow, with an opportunity for questions from the floor. Dr. Clyde, a native
of British Columbia, is a professor of history and director of the summer session at Duke. He is a graduate
of the University of British Columbia (Continued On Page Four)

Entrance Examinations To Be Required By 1955

Beginning with the freshman class entering Davidson in 1955-56, applicants for admission into Davidson must take the Scholastic Aptitude section
of the College Entrance Examination Board tests. This action, recently taken by the Administration, requires that all prospective students wishing
to enter Davidson must take this test or one substituted by the college. The main advantage of giving this test
to prospective students is that of helping the Admissions Committee to select the boys fitted for study at Davidson. The
college plans to use these tests in two ways. First, to require all applicants below a specific level to be
screened by the members of the Admissions Committee, with a final decision by that committee being made on the basis
of the complete record of the prospective student. No cut-off point for rejections is anticipated, as the CEEB does not
set a cut-off score, but leaves the matter up to the judgment of the institution. The second use of this
test would be in trying to eliminate those students who would not be able to do successful academic work here.
Advantages in the plan to use this test are six: improved judgments by the Admissions Committee; removal of testing pressures
from orientation; listing in the College Handbook (published by the CEEB, not Davidson's); association with the better universities and colleges
of the U. S.; receipt of techniques offered by CEEB, and a source of strength in resisting outside pressures to
accepting unqualified students. Disadvantages center around the loss of some good prospective students who would be unwilling to take the
tests, which costs six dollars. Besides this there is a cost to Davidson for the service, and these tests are
inadequate for predicting academic success in college. Almost all of the tests are of the objective variety, utilizing multiple-choice answers.
The complete examination is administered in two sessions of three and one-half hours each. Verbal and mathematical sections are given
in the morning, followed by a variety of one-hour tests in the afternoon. These tests are given four times annually
at selected centers all over the world. Here at Davidson Professor Ostwalt is the key man in giving tests of
a similar type. The college entrance tests will not be used for the incoming freshman this year. The tests are
already being used extensively in colleges throughout the United States.
