It was pretty shocking! Since the renewal of Davidson football following the war, local students and alumni have seen quite
a few one-sided games played on Richardson Field, but last Saturday marked one of those rare occasions when Davidson has
been on the winning end. As the Wildcats racked up their fourth win of the season against only two defeats,
they ran up the largest margin of victory for a Davidson club since 1947. Midway through the '47 season, the
Cats downed Hampden-Sydney, 40-0. The last time that a Davidson squad scored over fifty points was in 1946. That year
the Red and Black rolled Wofford’s Terriers, next week’s opponent, to the tune of 54-0.

By JIM HOLSHOUSER

Almost anything you could think of happened last Saturday. For the first time this season, a Davidson back got off
on a run of over fifty yards. Barney Poole got the honor as he hauled back a Tech punt for
55 yards and a TD. The Wildcat ground game hit its peak as Davidson backs consistently hit the line and
ends for sizable gains. From the tone of some of the spectators of the rout, an outsider might have thought
Davidson was taking another beating, and the groans heard were for Davidson, but the observers were no longer complaining about
having a losing team. Now they were mad because Davidson was, for once, having a good day. It seems that
the long, lean years can be easily forgotten by some. Personally, we enjoyed the feeling of being on the winning
side.

The Cats set a minor record Saturday by winning their fourth decision of the current campaign. This improved on the
number of total wins by Davidson clubs in 1951, 1952, and 1953. The 1951 club won one game, the '52
team won two, and last year’s squad went through the schedule without a win.

HATS OFF

The Davidsonian hat is off this week to halfback Jim Thacker. The Rome, Ga., flash finally hit his stride and
on four occasions showed his heels to Tech defenders as he crossed the double-stripes. Thacker was the leading threat of
the Davidson ground attack during his freshman and sophomore seasons, and last year, his fine play was one of the
few bright spots in a dismal season. In pre-season practice this fall, Thacker was injured and didn’t play in the
opener against V.M.I. Returning to the Wildcat line-up, he failed to regain his old form, and other members of the
Davidson backfield walked off with the laurels. Against West Virginia Tech, however, Thacker returned to his role as Davidson’s most
dangerous man. On two of the touchdown jaunts, a less-elusive runner would have been caught, but Jim slipped around the
Tech men in the manner that looked so familiar to the Davidson upperclassmen who had seen him perform in the
same way so many times before.

SCHEDULE AT FAULT AGAIN

Last season, the students had the dubious pleasure of seeing the Wildcats at home on only three occasions, and many
complaints were raised on the subject. This year’s card has improved along that line, including four games at Davidson and
one at Charlotte, with only four games played away. The size of the crowd at the game Saturday showed an
error in scheduling this year. Though the west stands were practically full, the east stands were not half-filled (for a
homecoming crowd, with alumni coming to the game, this was a rarity). The reason was that only 20 miles away,
Clemson and Wake Forest were meeting in Charlotte. The Charlotte fans naturally stayed in town instead of traveling over to
Davidson. The faux pas in scheduling also denied Davidson students the chance to see one of the better games in
this area, since Charlotte has few college games.

Button down collar... Button on back of collar... No lining collar or cuffs... Box pleat full length of back... White
and blue—4.95 Stripes of Oxford and Madras by Gent—5.50

Wilson-Wright's Inc.
“COLLEGIATE FASHIONS”
Next to Bank Davidson, N.C.

PRE-SEASON DRILLS NOW UNDER WAY FOR WINTER-SPORT SQUADS

The Davidsonian

CATS TO GO FOR FIFTH WIN HERE TOMORROW

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 1954

Wildcats Ho

Cats Back On The Track With Rout of W. Va. Tech

After losing thirteen consecutive Homecoming contests, Davidson’s Wildcats finally broke the jinx last Saturday and won a game before a
Davidson Homecoming crowd. When the Cats finally managed a win, it was one in which they pulled out all the
stops and proceeded to thrash the Golden Bears of West Virginia Tech to the tune of 51-6. Using all the
players on the bench and calling freshmen players out of the stands at halftime, Coach Dole used a total of
49 players in the rout.

After the first quarter, there was no doubt in the minds of spectators that the scrap could turn out to
be anything other than an overwhelming Davidson victory. The Wildcat backs ran wild behind the savage blocking of the forward
wall, and throwing less than ten passes, the Davidson club ground out a total of 360 yards via the ground.
The day’s longest run came in the first quarter as Barney Poole lugged the football for 85 yards. Hauling in
a Bear punt on the Davidson 46, Poole faked a handoff, and then proceeded to twist and squirm down the
west sideline, seemingly caught by Bear defenders on two occasions, but finally breaking into the clear and going all the
way.

Davidson Cagers Start Workouts; '54 Card Released

BY BOB PULLIAM

The 1954-55 edition of the hardwood Cats began practice last Monday in preparation for a long hard season beginning December
1 with Guilford and closing with V.M.I. on February 26. The Cats, under Coach Danny Miller, hope to better last
season's record of 7-15. Back from last year's team are such outstanding players as “Ish the Swish” Bennett, 6'2" senior
forward, Hobby Cobb, 6'3” junior forward, Ray Harding, the driving jump shot artist from Marion, and Pappy “The Scrapper” Fowler
diminutive senior guard. With these boys forming the nucleus of this year’s team, Coach Miller also has some fine prospects
from last year’s freshman team. David Shaw, Gaylord Walker, and Dick Weeks are probably the best of the lot. These
boys who led the Wildkittens to a fine season last year are expected to see plenty of action with this
year’s varsity. The changing of the Southern Conference rule concerning freshman participation may benefit the Cats tremendously this year. A
fine group of plebes has been working out in early sessions, and a few of them may provide the bench
strength that has been so lacking in Cat teams of the past few years. The Cats will sorely miss 6’7”
George Melton and high-scoring forward Graeme Keith, lost by graduation, plus Dick Adams and Buddy Brown who aren’t playing this
year. Brown has taken over the Junior Varsity and for the present has the candidates working out each night at
Johnston Gymnasium.

After four straight scoreless games this season, Jim Thacker turned on the steam last Saturday and scampered for four touchdowns
in the 51-6 Davidson win. It marked the first time this year that a Cat back has scored four times.
It was the largest margin of victory for a Davidson club since 1947, and it was the first time since
the war that Davidson had (Continued On Page Four)

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Kappa Sigs Stand Alone Atop Greek Football Standings WithThe records computed through Wednesday, November 3, the Kappa Sigs are standing
on top in the flicker ball competition. The green-shirted boys have a 9-1 record with only one game left on
their schedule. However, their final contest is with the K.A.s who have lost only two. Should the K.A.s be the
victors in that encounter, the league lead would probably be thrown into a three-way tie with the Phi Delts, who
presently have a 6-2 record, being the third party. On the past Monday, the three victorious teams met little opposition
as they won their games by safe margins. The ATOs ran wild, scoring seven touchdowns to beat the luckless Independents,
52 to 6. The Kappa Sigs increased their number of wins by downing the Phi Gams, 25-6. The Phi Delts
held their opponents scoreless while running up 21 points for themselves. Tuesday’s cold weather was too much for the Pi
Kapps and the SAEs, who canceled their game; but the Eskimo members of four other fraternities determinately played their scheduled
contests. Although the losers held a better win-loss record, the Betas soundly whipped the K.A.s, 40 to 18. This was
the K.A.s’ second defeat of the season. The Pikas ruined the Sigma Chis’ hopes for finishing in the top bracket
by defeating the Sigs, 12-6. The Kappa Sigs handed the defeat, the former winning, 51 to 6. The K.A.s had
little difficulty in outscoring the Phi Gams, 33 to 7. The Phi Delts shut out their second straight opponent by
squeezing by the ATOs, 7-0.

Kappa Sigs
Phi Delts
K.A.s
Sigma Chis
Pikas
Betas
SAEs
SPEs
ATO
Pi Kapps
Phi Gams
Independents

Win Loss

PAGE THREE

Indians Tomorrow “Catawba Tough,” Say Coaches Though Cats Are Heavy Favorites

BY LEON HOWELL

After the jinx-breaking homecoming victory over West Virginia Tech, the students here at Davidson are confidently predicting a sweep of
the last three games on the schedule. In its quest for win number five, Catawba will be the foe, and
Richardson Field the scene of battle tomorrow.

Wildcat Grapplers Begin Preparation For 1954 Season

Davidson's Varsity Wrestling team began workouts last Monday with an exceptionally large number of men turning out in answer to
Coach Charlie Parker's call for grapplers. The list of candidates for the squad now stands at 27. Leading the number
of returning lettermen is Captain Johnny Buxton, third-ranking Southern Conference matter in the 157-lb. class last year. Buxton will be
the most probable Davidson man to win a conference crown this season. Below is the schedule.

Dec. 3 and 4 V.M.I.—Auburn—Marshall at Lexington.
Dec. 11—UNC there.
Jan. 12—N. C. State—here.
Feb. 12—The Citadel—here.
Feb. 17—W. and L—Here, 7:30.
Feb. 26—VPI—there.
March 4-5—Southern Conference Meet at Lexington.

Fresh and full of snap after last week's rout, the Davidson club will go into the scrap without a single
man missing due to injury. The two-platoon system will again be employed, thereby tending to wear down a team with
less reserve strength. Catawba had a potentially good team at the outset of the season, but injuries to key men
have given them a poor record. Nevertheless, with a win over Davidson, they would consider the season a success. Remembering
what Presbyterian did to us, they will hit us in the same frame of mind. Evidence that Coach Dole is
expecting no pushover has been indicated by the grueling practice sessions held this week. Although his club is favored by
thirteen points, he is preparing for a rough afternoon. Having seen them in action three times, Coach Clements, a Catawba
product himself, asserted that they had a particularly fine backfield. Carter at quarterback spearheads the attack which features Smith, Swanner,
and Nance, the latter a former Mooresville flash. Led by Powell, a guard, and Yarborough at tackle, their line is
as big as the ‘Cat forward wall.

Pos.—Davidson—Catawba
LE—Gramley—B. Smith
LT—H. Davis—Young
LG—D. Davis—Powell
C—Abernathy—Quinn
RG—Fasul—K. Smith
RT—Peterson—Yarborough
RE—Newton—Sisley
QB—Rowland—Carter
LH—Thacker—Nantz
RH—H. Smith—Swanner
FB—Brown—D. Smith

Davidson Runners in Raleigh On Monday For State Meet

Davidson’s Cross Country Team travels to Raleigh on Monday for the State Meet, the annual major competitive race among the
colleges of North Carolina. Sponsored by the Wolfpack of North Carolina State, which is the host team, the meet traditionally
pits the best runners in the state against the rough State course and the State record. This year’s meet will
be a five-team affair in the Varsity division, with Davidson, Duke, North Carolina, N. C. State, and Wake Forest participating.
There will also be a freshman division since the four Atlantic Coast Conference teams are not allowed to use freshmen
in Varsity competition. Davidson will not enter the freshman division since the Cat freshmen are eligible for the Varsity under
Southern Conference rules. There will be an Open division in which Service teams and college graduates will make up the
major part of the competition. The favorite in this class will be Buz Sawyer, former Southern champion who now coaches
the N. C. State harriers.

SUCCESS STORY FOR TWO... and how it started

Joanne Dru started her career as a model of teen-ager clothes. But it was her 6-year study of dancing that
won her a role in a Broadway musical... which led to stardom in Hollywood. There she met John Ireland, ex-marathon
swimmer, amateur actor, stock player, Broadway star—now a brilliant director. Today they are man-and-wife partners in sparkling new screen hits.

SUCCESS STORY: Camels—America’s most popular cigarette... by far! Start smoking Camels yourself! Make the 30-Day Camel Mildness Test. Smoke only
Camels for 30 days!
