SINGERS, TENNIS AND BASEBALL TEAMS ON CAMPUS TOMORROW

ALSENDA LUK UBS ORTA LIBERTAS

The Davidsonian

WILSON SEES NEED FOR STUDENT ASSEMBLY (Page Two)

VOL. XLII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C., FRIDAY, APRIL 2, 1954

Feeney New President; Frats Honor Pledges With Trophy Awards

BAKER AND CARBIDE WINNERS NAMED

COBB, ANDERSON VICE-PRESIDENTS; DYE SECRETARY

In balloting held this week in chapel, Floyd Feeney was elected president of the student body, Hobby Cobb and Perrin
Anderson were elected vice-presidents, and Buddy Dye was named to the secretary-treasurer's post.

Election proceedings continued in chapel this morning with nominations for president and vice-president of the YMCA. After these officers are
chosen, the editors of the three publications will be elected.

Feeney, a member of the rising senior class, is from Charlotte and is a member of Kappa Sigma social fraternity.
This year he has held the office of president of the junior class, secretary-treasurer of the D Club, and captain
of the track team. Hobby Cobb, who was elected in Wednesday’s balloting, is also from Charlotte. He has gained a
great deal of recognition throughout the area with his impressive basketball record made during his first two years at Davidson.
Cobb, too, is a member of Kappa Sigma social fraternity. Perrin Anderson, a sophomore this year from Union, South Carolina,
is a member of Sigma Chi social fraternity. He represented the sophomore class this year on the Student Council, and
holds a very impressive scholastic average.

(Continued On Page Four)

FLOYD FEENEY

Officers Are Elected By Five Fraternities

By JIM MARSHALL

Five fraternities, including Kappa Sigma, Phi Delta Theta, Sigma Phi Epsilon, Pi Kappa Alpha and Kappa Alpha, have elected officers
for next year. Several of these groups have yet to fill some offices.

Greensboro Girls To Give Concert

Pictured here are the officers of the Greensboro College Glee Club, which appears in concert Saturday night in the College
Union. On Saturday, April 3, approximately 40 young women comprising the Greensboro College Glee Club will arrive on the campus
of Davidson College to present a formal concert in the David Ovens College Union ballroom at 8:15 p.m. This is
the girls’ first official visit to sing for the Davidson community. Admission will be 25 cents.

Under the direction of Mr. E. L. Williams, professor of voice at Greensboro College, the Glee Club is on a
nine-day tour of the central Atlantic coastal states. Mr. Williams received his training at Central State College, his M.M. degree
in voice from Oklahoma University, and has studied with Giuseppe Bentonelli, Bernard Taylor and Frank LaForge.

Concert Program

The concert sponsored by the Davidson College Department of Music will consist of three sections. Verdi's “Laudi Alla Vergine Maria,”
a fifteenth century motet “Magnificat” by Dufay, Thompson's “Seven Choruses from the Medea of Euripides,” and six short “Divertissements” will
be sung. A portion of the program will include the American folk-song “Poor Wayfaring Stranger;” “Old Shoe-boots and Leggins,” a
Southern folksong; Fred Waring’s “Jesus Had a Mother Like Mine” and “Set Down Servant.” Soloists on tour include Margaret McLarty
of Mooresville, N.C.; Ann Woodward of Statesville, N.C.; Nancy Kerry Spyder of Winston-Salem, N.C.; Norma Steedman of Asheville, N.C.; and
Betty Hackett of Durham, N.C.

Greensboro College Glee Club officers are Janette Davidson of Sedgefield, N.C., president and student director; Jean Armstrong of Belmont, N.C.,
vice president; Joann Hoyle of Thomasville, N.C., business manager; Sally Wagner of Kannapolis, N.C., secretary and treasurer; JoAnn Padley of
Ayden, N.C., librarian; and Barbara Stalvey of Reidsville, N.C., accompanist.

The Kappa Sigs elected Ronnie Whitson as president and Lacy Keesler as IFC representative. John Buxton and Leighton Green are
the two vice presidents; Blake Brinkerhoff is secretary, and John Child is treasurer. Floyd Feeney is their boarding house manager.

Phi Delt officers include Bob Jones, president; Charlie Cousar, IFC representative; Bob Kimbrough, secretary; Fred Hudson, treasurer, and Austin Strand,
reporter.

The Sig Eps elected Joe Burroughs as president, Fred Walsh as vice president and Gene Bargeron as secretary. The treasurer
and boarding house manager is to be Jess Lockaby, Henry Brockmann is rush chairman, and Tom Dove is the IFC
representative.

The Pikas have elected as their president, Fred Summers. Other officers include Ted Andrae, IFC representative; Joe Billy Pharr, vice
president; Irve Walther, IFC representative; Edgar Heath, treasurer; and Ricky Benton, boarding house manager.

Kappa Alpha officers for next year include Swain Loy, president; Cortez Cooper, vice president and boarding house manager; Ronnie Wilson,
IFC representative; and Fred Allen, treasurer.

Most of the remaining fraternities will elect officers within the next two weeks except for those whose officers serve for
one semester.

Eumanean Society To Debate Monday

The Eumanean Literary Society has planned a debate on the subject of compulsory chapel. The topic is: “Resolved, That Compulsory
Chapel at Davidson Has a Real Purpose and Value and Should Be Maintained.” The affirmative side will be taken by
Will Terry and Harry (Buddy) Lamon, while Maurice Crouse and Harold McKeithen will be on the negative. According to Henry
Brockmann, the judges for the debate will be Dr. G. L. Abernethy, Dr. W. G. Workman, Moody Smith, Jason McManus
and Archie Joyner. The Eumanean debate will be at 6:15 o’clock on Monday, April 5 at Eu Hall. All members
are urged to come, and the student body is invited.

One of the greatest, if not the greatest, hours of fraternity membership comes with the awarding of the annual pledge
trophies. Most of the fraternities have already announced their pledge awards, but a few—Kappa Sigma, Phi Gamma Delta, Sigma Phi
Epsilon, and Pi Kappa Phi—are waiting until the spring functions to announce theirs. The Kappa Sigmas will make their presentation
at the Spring Frolics Dance, while Phi Gamma Delta, Sigma Phi Epsilon, and Pi Kappa Phi will award theirs at
their functions in May.

Most of the fraternities honor the pledges in two respects—the outstanding pledge award and the scholarship award. The announced winners
of the outstanding pledge awards are: Dyke Little (Sigma Alpha Epsilon), Carl Cooper (Beta Theta Pi), Steve Huntley (Pi Kappa
Alpha), Jim Kuist (Sigma Chi), Bunny Perkinson (Phi Delta Theta), Bob Carmichael (Alpha Tau Omega), and Bill Lazenby (Kappa Alpha).
The winners of the scholarship awards are: Ed Young (Sigma Alpha Epsilon), Phil Kukura (Beta Theta Pi), Steve Huntley (Pi
Kappa Alpha), and Bunny Perkinson (Phi Delta Theta).

BEAVER CLUB DRIVE ENDS SUCCESSFULLY

The Beaver Club has successfully brought to a close its annual clothing drive for the needy. Each year at this
time, Davidson students are given the opportunity to donate clothing to this cause. Besides this drive the club also sponsors
in the spring the now famous Senior Auction where numerous bargains can be found. Other activities include programs to entertain
visiting athletic teams, ushering at some home athletic events, and the recognition of leadership in the three lower classes. The
Beaver Club stresses sportsmanship throughout all of its activities.

BUSINESS GROUPS HOLD JOINT MEET

Last Monday the Davidson Business-Economics Association met jointly with the Charlotte Sales Executive Club at the Charlotte Hotel. Around 60
of the association's total membership of 70 were present at this meeting that highlighted the activities of the newly formed
association for this semester. The primary purpose of this meeting was to help the members of both clubs to become
better acquainted with each other.

Panels and Speeches

The meeting began at 4:00 p.m. with refreshments. After these the association heard six panelists who gave 10-minute talks about
the large opportunities available to college graduates within the sales forces of their respective companies. These prominent businessmen represented a
variety of business fields. After each speech the members of the Business-Economics Association asked the panelists questions. The afternoon speakers
were as follows: Mr. Bill Buice, sales manager of the Old Dominion Box Company; Mr. Herb Helbig, sales manager of
the Southeastern District of the Reichold Chemical Company; Mr. J. H. “Shorty” Martin, branch manager of the Horne-Wilson Company, wholesale
plumbing suppliers; Mr. Perrin Oliver, Southeastern sales manager of the Ralston-Purina Milling Company;

Awards of eight Baker Scholarships and two Union Carbide Corporation Scholarships were announced today by Professor B. D. Thompson. In
addition, the Scholarship Committee granted three Davidson Honor Scholarships. Twenty-six finalists competed for the awards last weekend, and the number
of scholarships of this type is the largest to be granted in any one year since the beginning of the
program.

Union Carbide Corporation Scholarships were awarded to George Franklin Kemmerer, Jr., a senior at Delhaas High in Bristol, Pa., and
Ross Jordan Smythe, of Charlotte, a student at Christ School, Arden, N.C. Both men rank first in their classes, and
have been active in extra-curricular work. Smythe has compiled what is reported to be the most outstanding record made by
any student at Christ School in several years.

George F. Baker Scholarships were awarded to John Christian Bernhardt, Jr., of Lenoir, a senior at Woodberry Forest School, Donald
Monroe Carmichael of Louisville, Ky., Jere S. Carter of Baldwin, N.Y., Lloyd Walter Chapin, Jr. of Atlanta, Ga., Arch Brandon
Edwards of Tulsa, Okla., and Leonard Anderson Hamilton of Alexandria, Va. Others receiving BakerAwards are Robert W. Hankins, Winston-Salem, and
Daniel Frank Martin of Lima, Peru, and Opelika, Ala. These men have all made exceptional records in their schools and
communities. The three winners of Davidson Honor Scholarships were Milner S. Ball of Brentwood, Tenn., Fairman P. Cumming of Nashville,
and Arthur S. Lynn of Albemarle.

DEVOTIONAL GUIDES
Herschel Allen has announced that the devotional booklets for use during Spring Services and through Easter were distributed to dormitory
rooms Thursday. It is hoped that the use of these guides will furnish a sense of unity in the devotional
life of the student body. Please take advantage of them!

Crutchfield Heads Dramatic Fraternity
Alpha Psi Omega, dramatic fraternity, at a recent meeting, elected the following officers for this year: Bob Crutchfield, president; Dunbar
Ogden, vice president; Jack Pietenpol, treasurer; Fred Summers, secretary. As program matter for the coming meetings, it is the plan
of the organization to have members take part in the reading of various one-act plays.

Mr. Ralph Petersen, merchandising manager of Southern Dairies, and Mr. Joe Robinson, vice president of the Wachovia Bank and Trust
Company. Following the panel program, a banquet was served. After this meal, four speakers gave short talks on the topic,
“Why I Switched to Selling.” Speaking at this time were Mr. Ted Kennedy, vice president of the Hardware Mutual Fire
Insurance Company; Mr. Henry McConnell, traffic and sales manager of Eastern Airlines; Mr. Frank Whitehurst, division manager of the Arkansas
Fuel Oil Company; and Mr. Archie Carroll, general agent of New York Life. The reception given this meeting was enthusiastic
by all concerned and it promises to be an annual function of the Davidson Business-Economics Association.

TEMPLETON TO OPEN SPRING SERVICES SUNDAY

MR. TEMPLETON Schedules Given Wilson Fellowship For Summer School Established At U. Va.
The college has announced that this summer, for the first time in its history, women will be admitted as resident
students. Any woman student who is a high school graduate or who is in good standing in an accredited college
or a public school teacher, may apply for admission. The women will be housed at the College Guest House under
the supervision of the hostess while men students will room in one of the regular college dormitories. All students will
take their meals in the college cafeteria. The 1954 summer session has been set for June 9 to July 21,
with the exception of science students who will attend from June 3 until July 21. Regular classes, each 75 minutes
long, will meet Monday through Friday. Science classes will be offered Monday through Saturday. The Fourth of July will be
observed and no classes will be scheduled for the 3rd, 4th, or 5th. As usual, a special recreational and activity
program is being planned for the summer. This includes the use of the swimming pool, tennis courts, golf course, recreational
fields, and the David Ovens College Union.

WILSON TO SPEAK ON BEST-SELLERS
Dr. James Southall Wilson will lecture tonight at 8:15 in the College Union Ballroom on the subject “What Makes a
Best Seller.” Following this discussion there will be a coffee hour for those present. An anonymous alumnus of the University
of Virginia has established the James Southall Wilson fellowship for the University Graduate School, Lewis M. Hammond, present dean of
the school, announced today. The fellowship provides for an annual income of $1,000. Dr. Wilson, before his retirement, was chairman
of the English Department and dean of the Graduate School, is visiting professor of English at Davidson this year. Appointment
is to be made after consultation with Dr. Wilson, by the dean of the Graduate School, to a candidate in
any department of graduate studies who shows special promise of intellectual achievement. If judged desirable, the stipend may be divided
between two candidates. The first appointment is to be made for the session opening next September. Wilson, who was founding
editor of the Virginia Quarterly Review, was for many years Edgar Allan Poe Professor of English. He received his Master
of Arts degree from the University in 1905, after doing undergraduate work at the College of William and Mary. In
1906, he received the Doctor of Philosophy degree from Princeton University. In 1919, he joined the University faculty after having
taught at William and Mary for thirteen years. He founded the Virginia Quarterly Review in 1925 and was its editor
through its first six years. He was named dean of the Graduate School in 1937.

NO. 19
“What’s the Use!” Is Topic for the Services
By JIM BRICE
Dr. Charles (Chuck) Templeton, evangelist for the National Council of Churches, will open the Spring Services at Davidson with an
address at vespers on Sunday, April 4. The theme for the series of services is “What’s the Use?” Immediately after
vespers there will be a question and answer period led by Dr. Templeton in the student lounge of the church.
Later Sunday evening, each dormitory will have a “bull session;” these discussions will be led by the dormitory counselors, who
will be on campus throughout the services. The schedule for Monday begins with an address in chapel by Dr. Templeton.
Monday afternoon, from two until three o’clock, the guest leaders will be available for personal conferences with students. A lecture
and discussion, entitled “Communicating the Gospel,” will be held by Dr. Templeton at 4:30. This meeting is designed primarily for
pre-ministerial candidates. At 7:00 o'clock Monday night, the guest leaders will hold fraternity discussion groups on the following five subjects:
“Marriage and Family Relations;” “War and Pacifism;” “Segregation;” “Student Life and Government;” “God.” Dormitory discussions will be held at 10:00
p.m. Monday.

Students Speak Tuesday
Chapel on Tuesday morning will be led by Mr. Neil Leach and Mr. Randy Taylor, former Davidson students who are
now studying at Union Seminary. Personal conferences will be held from 3:30 until 4:30 Tuesday afternoon. An address by Dr.
Templeton at 7:00 o'clock will be followed by vocational discussion groups. These discussions will be in the following five fields:
pre-medical, pre-ministerial, pre-law, business-economics, and teaching. Dr. Templeton’s last address will be given at chapel on Wednesday morning. The Spring
Services will conclude with a communion service in Lingle Chapel on Wednesday night at 6:50 p.m. Besides Dr. Templeton, the
following leaders will be on campus for the services: Rev. Beverly Asbury, Zebulon, N.C.; Dr. Robert Dubose, Whitmire, S.C.; Rev.
J. A. Flora, Greensboro, N.C.; and Mr. Howard Kester, Black Mountain, N.C. Other counselors include Mr. Neil Leach, Union Seminary,
Richmond, Va.; Rev. S. Y. Pharr, Kinston, N.C.; Rev. W. R. Sengel, Radford, Va.; Mr. Claude C. Shotts, Chapel Hill,
N.C.; Mr. Randolph Taylor, Union Seminary, Richmond, Va.

Change Combines Spring And Fall Special Religious Services
Plans, marking a major change in YMCA policy, are now well underway for the holding of a comprehensive “Religious Emphasis
Week” on the Davidson campus in February, 1955. This will replace the annual fall and spring services which have been
held here for a number of years. This program is being planned and carried out under close cooperation with the
University Christian Mission, a national organization formed for this purpose. The organizational arrangement suggested by the University Christian Mission is
being used at Davidson. This calls for the selection of a Campus Committee from which an Executive Committee is elected.
The Executive Committee in turn appoints the various other committees, the chairmen of which make up the Program Committee.

Officers Elected
At a meeting of the Campus Committee held late last week, this organizational setup was put into motion. The main
item of business was the election of the Executive Committee. Dr. John R. Cunningham was elected honorary chairman of this
committee by acclamation. The other officers elected were as follows: chairman, Prof. Iain Wilson; vice chairmen, Cortez Cooper and Jason
McManus; and secretary, Corky King. Sam Magill, YMCA secretary, is serving as executive secretary of this committee. The meeting also
featured a recorded address by Dr. James L. Stoner, Director of the University Christian Mission. Dr. Stoner outlined in his
speech the aspects of an ideal religious emphasis week which were also the aims and ideals of the YMCA for
this program: 1) a period of true worship; 2) continuing value; 3) good organization; 4) student body study in preparation
for the program; 5) a process, not a schedule of events; 6) a vital program; and, 7) good speakers. The
meeting was closed with the announcement of a visit to the Davidson campus by Dr. Stoner on April 27 and
28.

Executive Committee Meets
On Monday evening, March 29, the executive committee held its first meeting. The only item of business taken up was
the selection of the various committee chairmen. These committee chairmen along with the members of the executive committee form the
program committee for the services. Those selected to head their various committees are as follows: arrangements, Ronnie Wilson; book display,
Fred Myers; breakfast and retreat, Clyde Robinson; classrooms, Roy Davis; continuation, Henry Brockmann; finance, Hugh Gramley; hospitality, Archie Joyner; organized
house committee, Perrin Anderson; personal conferences, Joe Conarroe; publicity, Tom Warlick; seminar, Linny Baker; worship, Clark Reed; faculty, Jack Bevan.
