BACK THE CATS AT CITADEL TOMORROW

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

DAVIDSON REMAINS UNDEFEATED WITH WIN OVER STETSON

PAGE FOUR

THE DAVIDSONIAN

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 1, 1954

Charleston Contest Is Rated As Toss-Up Scrap

BY BUNNY PERKINSON

First V.M.I, then Stetson, and tomorrow the Citadel. That’s the hope of the coaches, the team, and the large number of students making the trip to Charleston for the game at the Citadel tomorrow night. A sight that has been seldom seen around the old D.C. campus lately, but no doubt, many boys would like to witness it tomorrow.

The jinx on Davidson football captains is running true to form this year, with Dickie Davis now sidelined with a knee injury and unable to see any action against the Bulldogs. He will be sorely missed, but the spirit displayed in the first two games should pull the "Cats through. The game is rated a toss-up by many observers, but Wildcat followers have been pleased to note the effort the Bulldogs had to exert to conquer little Elon last week in their first game of the season. However, one should never underestimate the ferocity of the Bulldogs in their backyard, so the game should be a good one from the initial whistle to the final horn.

Davidson’s 1954 football Captain, Dickie Davis, will be out of the Wildcat line-up for tomorrow night's invasion of The Citadel. Davis was injured in the first quarter of last week's contest against Stetson. His sparkling play in the line will be missed against the Bulldogs. Thus far, Coach Dole has enjoyed much success in his use of the two-team system, in which one team plays the first and third quarters and another plays the second and fourth quarters; so he will undoubtedly employ this form of attack tomorrow. The starting team will have at least one new face, for Lyle Llewellyn has been selected to start in the place of D. Davis. Only a sophomore, Lyle played a fine game last week and did a good job of line-backing when the five-man line was used. His near-200 pounds and aggressive nature will greatly aid him in filling Dickie’s (Continued On Column 7)

Cats To Hit Citadel Tomorrow Night

WILDCAT RUNNERS CONTINUE WORKING

Coach “Pete” Whittle’s cross country squad has gone into serious work for the upcoming meet with Maryville College, October 8, at Maryville. After losing to Maryville two years ago and tying last year, the chances of a win this time seem excellent. “Pete” Ashcraft, freshman Southern Conference champion, is the top prospect. After an all-winning freshman season, “Pete” appears headed for great things with the varsity. John Patterson and Gerald Wilson, who staged a great finish in this year’s cake race, are the leading frosh candidates for a starting bid, along with Dan Woods. Returning lettermen include Captain Floyd Feeney, John Handley, and Dick Lovett, all of whom are top-notch runners. Bill Jackson, a sophomore who has been looking sharp, will miss the Maryville meet, due to a pulled leg muscle. Time trials will be held this Friday to determine who will make the trip to Maryville. On October 16, Richmond comes here for the first home meet.

BY JON REGEN

Smith And Poole Spark Davidson To Close Win Over Stetson, 19-13

Davidson summoned a desperate defense in the last period to turn what appeared to be a comeback-win by Stetson University into a 19-13 victory here last Saturday. Two touchdowns to the good at the end of the first half and apparently off to the races, the Wildcats found their backs against the wall in latter stages of the second half by virtue of a tricky, last-stand, Stetson attack, featuring something of the Southwest's famed “spread formation.”

One of the stars in last Saturday's win over Stetson was Gregg Poole, sophomore halfback. Above, Poole is shown scoring the Wildcats’ first touchdown.

Before a “Homecoming-like” crowd, excited by the first-game win over V.M.I., Davidson exploded to grab two touchdowns in the first period and add a third in the second period. Leading this onslaught as far as touchdowns were concerned, were halfback Harley Smith with two and halfback Barney Poole with a single one. Smith, running the ball only occasionally due to his right halfback position, gained well with each of five or six carries. Poole, recently recovered from a pre-season injury, could easily be credited with sparking Davidson’s running attack. His frequent breaks into the Stetson secondary allowed the Hatters few moments of peace.

Although the Wildcats’ second half play was hampered by numerous rule infractions, Stetson manufactured its comeback with an improved brand of play. Their fourth period score, which struck fear into the hearts of Davidson rooters, came on a 78-yard pass-and-run combination. Stetson halfback Stephenson gathered in the pass from fullback Singletary, neatly reversed his field, and literally out-raced the Davidson secondary to the goal.

According to rushing yardage and first downs, the Wildcats held a definite edge over Stetson, due in a large measure to the plunging strikes of fullbacks Brown and Conger, and the front-line work of Tom Newton, Bill Gramley, Jim Fasul, and Bill Price.

ATTENTION GOLFERS!

Coach Danny Miller has asked that all freshmen who are interested in going out for the golf team meet with him in the lobby of the Gymnasium next Monday, October 4, at 2:30 P.M.

TERESA WRIGHT says: “Up to 16, my knowledge of acting had been gleaned from seeing movies. When I saw my first professional play, that was it: I only wanted to act. I got into high school plays, wrestled props at Provincetown, understudied, sat for months in producers’ reception rooms. One rainy night, sick with a cold, I read for a good role, and got it!”

SUCCESS STORY: Camels—America’s most popular cigarette... by far!

GREEK SCHEDULE SET BY SPORTS MANAGERS

Coach “Pete” Whittle met Tuesday night at 7 o'clock in the Trophy Room of the gymnasium with the fraternity sports managers to plan the ’54-’55 intramural sports season. Competition for the coveted inter-fraternity trophy will be in four major activities — tag football, basketball, softball, and varsity competition—four intermediate activities — wrestling, volleyball, track, and swimming — and three minor activities: handball, horseshoes, and tennis. These activities are grouped according to the number of points a fraternity can possibly receive by entering in the various sports. A greater amount can be scored in the major activities than in the minor. The managers decided to award the good sportsmanship trophy again this year and to change the tennis program.Tennis Changed

In the past, a round-robin tennis tournament was held during a period of about two weeks, but this slow system proved ineffective. Under the new rules, a regular tennis tournament with elimination and consolation will be held, lasting about three days. Each fraternity will enter two contestants who will receive points according to how far they progress in the meet; the men advancing the farthest will score the greatest number of points. Coach Whittle and the sports managers hope that this new method, which is similar to the way in which the wrestling tournament is conducted, will prove more effective than the former system and will increase the interest in the tennis competition.

The intramural sports program begins Monday, October 4, when the first tag football series takes place. The managers selected by the various fraternities are listed below:
S. P. E. — Charles Brown.
Phi Delts — Dan Leach.
Kappa Sig — Corky Clark.
Beta — Tom Lambe.
A. T. O. — Cliff Deal.
Phi Gam. — Jack Bolen and Bobby Joe Key.
S. A. E. — Steve Norton.
Sigma Chi — Curtis Cates.
Pikas — Joe Billy Pharr.
Pi Kapps — G. N. Henson.
KA — Ed Schoelenberger.

Dick McKee Is New Veep Of SC Writers

Davidson's Athletic Department proudly announced this week that Coach Dick McKee has been appointed Vice-President of The Southern Conference Sportswriters Association. McKee has won this honor as a “rookie,” having only taken over the reins of the Davidson Athletic Publicity Department on September 1. In his new position, McKee will work with the two other top executives of the Association. President of the group is Bill Evans, of the “Fairmont Times,” in Fairmont, West Virginia. Mickey Furfari is Executive Secretary. The purpose of the Association is to keep the Southern Conference activities in the public eye. This has become increasingly important since 1953, when the old conference split, and the Atlantic Coast Conference was formed. The rival conference has stronger teams, with a few exceptions, and until the SC can get on its feet (as it is doing) the sportswriters must keep it in the headlines. An example of up-and-coming SC teams is the greatly-improved VPI squad which has trimmed N. C. State and Wake Forest of the ACC in past weekends. Our heartiest congratulations to Coach McKee who has been doing a fine job in our Sports Department.

Most of the teams, however, including pre-season favorite West Virginia, have not begun conference action yet. West Virginia, on the basis of last year’s record and the number and quality of returning lettermen, is an odds-on choice to cop the conference title again this year. They open the season this Saturday against a non-conference foe, South Carolina, last week’s upset-winner over powerful Army. Davidson will try to increase their lead this week when they travel to Citadel for a Saturday night tussle. Citadel beat Elon in a squeaker last week, scoring two touchdowns in the last three minutes of play to win, 21-13. Coach Bill Dole is expecting plenty of trouble from a team that last year soundly trounced the Cats.

The week’s schedule:
Saturday—William and Mary at Pennsylvania, George Washington at Virginia, West Virginia at South Carolina, Virginia Tech at Clemson.
Saturday night—Virginia Military at Richmond, Davidson at The Citadel.

All Games (SC Standings Shown by Positions)
Davidson ........2 0 0 1.000
Virginia Military 1 1 0 .500
Richmond _..._§..§. 2 0 0 1.000
Virginia Tech _... 2 0 0 1.000
The Citadel _... 1 0 0 1.000
Furman 1 1 0 .500
West Virginia... 0 0 0 .000
William and Mary 0 0 0 .000
George Washington 0 2 0 .000

Davidson's grid mentors shown above are Carroll Hambright, “Chuck” Clements, Headcoach Gill Dole, and “J. Acker.”

Coach Bill Cat’s Coaching Staff Give Views

The three football coaches behind the Davidson team that is doing things this year that haven’t happened in years say that work is still needed if this is to continue. Head coach Bill Dole refused to comment on last week’s game with Stetson but talked a little about the game this week. He remarked, “Citadel will be a severe test, and it will require a combined V.M.I. effort along with our share of the breaks. That's all I have to say.”

Coach “Chuck” Clements, who scouted Citadel's game last Saturday, didn't get to watch the Wildcats play. However, he did say, “the defense has got to be better before Saturday.” When asked about his trip to Charleston, he stated, “The Citadel club is big and fast. In other words, it is a good, all-around team.”

Line Coach Carroll Hambright was more detailed in his remarks concerning the past victory. When asked about the contest, a serious look came over his face, and he said, “The blocking must improve. Believe it or not, I don’t remember a single man in the secondary being knocked off his feet. If our backs are to make long runs, our other men must fulfill their assignments until the whistle blows. The downfield blocking must get vicious. In general, Davidson didn't function as a well-oiled machine, except in spurts. We have the makings of a great club if all the men are willing to pay the price of building into strength any weakness that we may have.” With this he smiled and walked away, as if to say, “Just wait until Saturday for the rest of the story.”

WILDCAT GOLFERS TO BEGIN WORKOUTS

Coach Danny Miller, after a meeting of upper-classmen who are candidates for Davidson's Varsity Golf Team, has announced that several fall matches are being arranged in order that the team may get into actual competition before winter sets in. About twenty-five men showed up at a meeting held last week, and the potential for the team looks very good. Several members of last year’s Southern Conference Championship club are back, though Captain Graeme Keith was lost via the graduation route. Coach Miller has asked that all freshmen interested in going out for the team meet in the lobby of the gym next Monday at 2:30 p.m. There should be a large turnout since several members of the freshman class are already quite talented at the game. Perhaps foremost is Pat Brady, last year's North Carolina Junior Champion.

Davidson Stands Alone Atop Southern Loop

Davidson College, fresh from its second straight victory, is all alone atop the Southern Conference standings. V. M. I., the only other team to hit the win column, has a 1-1 record and ranks second to Davidson.

(Continued From Column 2)
The Bulldogs, led by quarterback Rierson, are fully capable of surprising a lot of people tomorrow night, and for the rest of the season. But it seems that they are always at their best against the Wildcats at Charleston. On the other hand, the ‘Cats are out to avenge last season’s loss, so the game should be one of the highlights of the season.

Probable starting line-ups:
The Citadel Davidson
LE—Tyson . . ... Patterson
LT—Cole .. Lee
LG—Hutchinson . Llewellyn
C—McDowell Abernathy
RG—Cronin Owen
RT—Renken —........... H. Davis
RE—C. Hill —......_... Rankin
QB—Rierson Rowland
LH—New ... . Thacker
RH—Broome —_... _McRee
FB—Allen ....__.. Brown