PAGE FOUR

SENIOR SKETCH No. 6

Don Mahy in his studio with self-portrait.

Davidson's Degas: Mahy...

By BILL MOFFETT

Don Mahy is a guy you're glad you've gone to school with. The array of potentially well-to-do physicians, lawyers, and businessmen among graduating Davidsonians is disgustingly formidable. Frankly, the monotony of it all is often very boring, and when one discovers a fellow like Don in the midst of this bourgeois desert he greets the refreshing surprise with as much pleasure and relief as a lost Sahara caravan sighting the reassuring palms of an oasis.

For Mahy is unique in that he is not pre-med, pre-min, or pre-business, but is pre-artist. He’s good, even now, and he’s going to be better. Of course, Don is by no means a matured artist, but one sees in him a genuinely creative spirit, confident in his ambitions, and striving to perfect the technique with which he seeks to express himself. The rising tenor of his experiments in style and technique seems to indicate that his aspirations are based on an authentic appreciation of art as well as a great amount of skill.

Here at Davidson his work has taken a considerable variety of appearances. From magazine covers to newspaper cartoons, from yearbook illustrations and oil portraits to woodcuts and sculpture, from the design on the Artist Series programs to still lifes, we are continually treated to the ingenuity and resourcefulness of the Philadelphian.

A visitor to his apartment has to think twice to remember that he is in the Cardboard—not Greenwich—Village. Paintings of all kinds cover the walls. From the workshop in the back comes the unmistakable smell of turpentine and oils. A partially finished bust stands near a sheaf of sketches at his desk, and a curious mobile is suspended from the ceiling. A nude study by the window completes the Bohemian scene.

When one realizes that these works may well represent the first efforts of a really outstanding artist, there is a distinct thrill that comes in hearing him explain the ideas back of a particular picture, what made him want to paint it, and how he achieved his objective. His paintings vary a great deal in subject matter, but usually attempt to tell a story, or at least to set forth ideas which guide the viewer to understand the artist’s own experience. On the other hand, his sculpture is largely the development of form and shape, and does not necessarily depict any one person or thing. Much of it reflects his earnest, soft-spoken nature, and his gentle wit.

Don's background is as interesting as his paintings. His boyhood was spent in the Shantung peninsula of northern China where his parents were missionaries. Perhaps it was there, watching for hours the intricate and painstaking efforts of a Chinese artist-friend, that he acquired some of the patience that characterizes his own work today. The Mahys were forced by the Communists to give up their work in China and after World War II they moved to the Philippines where Don finished high school. Incidentally, he spent much of his spare time there carving little heads and figures from the hundreds of coconuts cast up as driftwood on the beaches. These same droll faces were later to become familiar to us as the characters of his cartoons.

Don decided to go into art professionally after coming to Davidson. He has worked under Phil Moose and Doug Houchens, and studied last summer in a Maine art school. A $800 prize awarded him this past week in a statewide art contest will enable him to spend the summer in Mexico, where he will study Mexican fresco work, as well as continue his own painting. In the fall he goes to Washington University in St. Louis on a Woodrow Wilson scholarship. An M.A. in English will enable him to teach school, but he hopes that this will be only temporary. Ultimately he hopes to make art a full-time proposition. Perhaps the name of Mahy will never rank with Raphael or Rembrandt, and then again, it might rise to new heights. At any rate, he’s a guy you can be glad you've gone to school with.

Phi Delts Remain...

(Continued From Page Three)

Results are not in, and many matches have not been played, but the Phi Delts are now the official champions. The Betas have finished in second place, but past this position, the standings are very uncertain.

SEND THE DAVIDSONIAN HOME

Dulles Faces...

(Continued From Page Two)

Position is not to be envied. If he should fail to negotiate a truce with the Communists, the American people will be much more ready to sympathize with him than if he should fail to reach an agreement with the French on the action to be taken. If on the one hand he should be unable to persuade the French to renounce their colonial privileges in Indochina and therefore abandon this area to the Communists, many far-sighted people in America as well as the entire world will feel he has done the wrong thing. If on the other hand he should decide to convince the Administration that the security of Indochina is so vital to us that we should send troops in even to defend a colony of another power, the opposition to such a move would be every bit as vocal if not more so than if he took the first alternative. It appears that the only hope we have in this matter is that Secretary Dulles will be able to prevail upon the reason of the French to convince them of the importance of Indochina in the struggle against the Communist advance. Failure to do so might very possibly mean a great deal more grief for the Western Allies in future years.

QUALITY MILK

Mooresville Creamery, Inc.

ROBERT MORLEY

MAURICE EVANS

VISU

1615 Elizabeth Ave.

CHARLOTTE N.C.

IN

MARTYN GREEN

EILEEN HERLIE

BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD, N. C.

“Coke” is a registered trademark. ©1952, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY

Prince Bernhard of Netherlands, piloting TF-86 jet, becameworld’s first royalty to fly faster than sound. Don Mahy... (Continued From Page One) the country. He attended the Skowhegan School on a working scholarship, studying painting under Jack Levine and Henry Varnum Poor, and sculpture under Milton Hebald. Mahy intends to use the $300 scholarship award for study this summer in Guadalajara, Mexico. The art school in Guadalajara is sponsored jointly by Stanford University and the Universidad Autonoma de Guadalajara. At Guadalajara, Mahy will study fresco mural painting under Alfonso Maro Medina, landscape painting under Julio Vidrio, and sculpture under Ofelia Arismendi. Miss Arismendi is considered one of the two best sculptors in Mexico by Diego Rivera, the internationally famous Mexican artist. The Federation of Art competition is open to works in sculpture, the graphic arts, and paintings in oil, watercolor, and mixed media. Don Mahy’s winning entry was an oil painting on a 16x25 inch masonite panel, a still life study stressing design and close color harmony. The painting, entitled “Red Table Still Life,” was exhibited in Raleigh and in Asheville at the presentation of the scholarship award.

By DICK MORSHEAD

Max Devane, the poor man’s Eisenhower, claims Jennings, Fla., as his home base. Having pulled time in boy’s work, on the Student Council, and as a counselor for two years, he was not only well qualified but has capably proved his abilities as Freshman Adviser, that unheralded general and fatherly counselor of the “green-eyed” confusion. “General” Devane, a history major, hopes to continue his education at Vanderbilt U. under the Fellowship in Teaching which he was just awarded. Postponing marriage, if she will grant a deferment, until completion of his two years of devoted duty to Uncle Sam, he then plans to enter educational administration in a secondary school system. His activity record, reading like a Cunningham introduction, includes being president of the sophomore class, second vice president of the student body, three years on the Student Council, Phi Delta Theta pledge master, a Baker Scholar, active in the Beaver Club, Scabbard & Blade, D Club, Le Cercle Francais, Phi Society, IFC, and Regimental Commander of the Davidson ROTC unit. This year he was elected to ODK and “Who’s Who.”

Freshman Adviser

The post of Freshman Adviser, who is elected by the rising senior class, is an interesting and varied one. His duties, though profuse in nature, may be divided into two main categories or time sequences. The first of these is orientation. Before the last school year was completed, Max chose a capable group of nineteen men from the ranks of the YMCA cabinet and Student Council roster to serve as student counselors. He kept in contact with them and Dean Bailey throughout the summer months, informing them of the proposed programs and seeing that such articles as the Wildcat Handbook and freshmen letters were properly sent out. Then on the ill-fated 12 Sept. 1953, orientation drill began under Commander Devane and his executives. The counselors, working in conjunction with the corps of faculty advisors, served as time guides and instruction leaders for the fast-learning frosh. The freshman adviser, supervising the student side of the maneuvers, saw that the program functioned smoothly and endeavored to become personally acquainted with his '57 army. The entire program, lasting approximately a week, was quite successful in accomplishments, leaving more time than in previous years for the frosh to get acquainted with the campus and make full use of group discussions.

The other function of the FA covers those particular problems, programs, and plans which concern the freshman class throughout the remainder of the year. It is the duty and particular opportunity of the FA to aid the freshmen individually, especially in school problems, from the student point of view.

MAX DEVANE

Max has represented the freshmen on the YMCA Cabinet, and the Student Council; conducted freshmen elections for class officers; and given them the annual “treatment” test on the Constitution and Student Body Regulations. To his dismay and shattered hopes, the '57 class “gave little evidence of study,” which the recipients of Court of Control awards well remember. An interesting and quite successful facet of his work this year has been the Freshman-Parent Day. The program, originated this year by Dr. Spencer and aided by C. Shaw Smith of the Union, was enjoyed with much enthusiasm, and many letters of appreciation were received afterwards. Held on last November 21, the day’s agenda included a Davidson football game, informal campus tours, conferences, and faculty-parents discussions. In hopes that the program will continue to be beneficial to freshmen, parents, and faculty, the administration has decided to make it an annual fall affair. Another new development this year was the Freshman Y Council plan, originated by Sam Magill. Each orientation group elected two men from which the directory of five men was chosen. They worked closely with Mr. Magill in planning certain functions. It is an area in which the FA can be instrumental in creating a more active freshman program. Asked for his opinion of the ’57 class of Rebels, Commander Devane merely replied: “They certainly had a nationalistic spirit,” which worked for the good of some, the detriment of most, and the accelerated aging of the FA.”

The Spartan Band that held the pass, The Knights of Arthur's train The Light Brigade that charged the guns, Across the battle plain Can claim no greater glory than The dedicated few Who wear the Wings of Silver -- on a field of Air Force Blue.

EMBLEM OF THE CHOSEN FEW

For Fellowship...High Adventure...and a proud mission... wear the wings of the U.S. Air Force!

In days gone by, young men in shining armor rated the highest respect. Today, a new kind of chosen few, who ride the skies in Air Force jets, are meeting the challenge. As an Aviation Cadet, your road to leadership is as near as your nearest Air Force recruiter. If you are single, between the ages of 19 and 26 1/2, you can join this select flying team and serve with the best. You will be given the best jet training in the world and graduate as an Air Force Lieutenant, earning $5,000 a year. Your silver wings will mark you as one of the best. You will be given the opportunity to lead and inspire as a member of the Air Force Team.

WHERE TO GET MORE DETAILS: Contact your nearest Aviation Cadet Selection Team, Air Force R.O.T.C. Unit, or Air Force Recruiting Officer. Or write to: Aviation Cadet, HQ., U.S. Air Force, Washington 25, D.C.

UNITED STATES AIR FORCE