PAGE SIX

NO. 1 SERGEANT SKETCH

One of the most experienced men of the Davidson College R.O.T.C. staff is M/Sgt. Clark M. Thaler, who has had
almost 16 years of continuous service with the armed forces in sundry capacities. Sgt. Thaler finished school and received his
commission in 1938. He entered the armed forces in 1939 with the 80th Field Artillery Battalion, with which unit he
maneuvered throughout the South during the winter of 1939-40. He reported in August 1940 to Schofield Barracks, Hawaii, with the
Eighth Field Artillery Battalion. This unit defended the Honolulu sector after the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor.

Sgt. Thaler moved to Guadalcanal with the 25th Division in December 1942, still attached to the Eighth Field Artillery Battalion.
He was moved to New Zealand in June 1943 for hospital treatment and was returned to the United States in
November 1943. After two more months in a hospital, Sgt. Thaler reported to the 608th Field Artillery Battalion at Camp
Carson, Colorado. After maneuvers in California and training at Ft. Benning, Ga., he departed for Europe in January 1945. Crossing
Europe with the Third Army, Sgt. Thaler was in Austria when the war ended. He had several months of occupation
duty and returned to the United States in August 1945.

Sgt. Thaler joined the 82nd Airborne Division in July 1946, after spending several months in training at different camps. He
left Ft. Bragg in August 1949 to go to Japan, where he joined the G4 section of Eighth Army Hq.,
Yokohama. In May 1951, he joined the First Cavalry Division in Korea, where he assumed command of the 82nd Field
Artillery Battalion. Sgt. Thaler remained in this capacity until January 1952, when he returned to the United States. Sgt. Thaler
reported to Ft. Bragg, where he remained until January 1954. During this period, he commanded the 442nd Field Artillery Battalion
observation at Ft. Bragg. It was last January that Sgt. Thaler was separated from active commissioned duty and reported to
Davidson. He has four more years to serve with Uncle Sam, after which time he plans to retire to a
farm near Boone, N.C. Sgt. Thaler's wife is a former army nurse whom he met in Hawaii. The Thalers are
now living in Mooresville with their two sons, but they plan to move to Davidson around Christmas.

Union Displays...
(Continued From Page One)

recent years. These have been made possible not only by a broadening of the camera's artistic goals and outlook but
by important technological advances. While the Salon has proved a moving artistic experience to thousands of viewers not actively concerned
with photography, it has a particular attraction for fans because each photo is accompanied by technical data describing the camera
settings and type of equipment used in producing it.

Dr. W. G. McGavock, Davidson Professor of Mathematics, writes from Madison, Wisconsin, that he is engrossed in a year of
studying on his Ford Fellowship. The only trouble with the place, he remarks, is the search of his person that
goes on every time he leaves the university’s library. Davidson has spoiled him!

Cotton Council Looks For Maid Of Cotton

Memphis, Tenn. — An exciting six-month international tour and a fabulous wardrobe of 50 costumes may be waiting for some
cottonland college girl in 1955. The National Cotton Council has announced that the 1955 Maid of Cotton contest now is
open. And, the Council says, Cotton Belt colleges have supplied 15 out of the 16 Maids in years gone by.
If this year’s contest runs true to form, it is likely that the 1955 Maid of Cotton will be found
on a college campus in one of the 18 cotton states.

Any girl born in a cotton-producing state who is between the ages of 19-25, has never been married, and is
at least 5 feet 5 inches tall is eligible to become Maid of Cotton. Entry forms are available from the
National Cotton Council, P.O. Box 18, Memphis, Tenn. Entry forms must be completed and returned to the Cotton Council's contest
headquarters postmarked no later than midnight, December 1. Two photographs must accompany the completed entry forms. One must be a
head and shoulders picture and the other a full-length view.

The Cotton Council emphasizes that the Maid of Cotton competition is not a beauty contest in its usual sense. Judging
is on the basis of intelligence, personality, and poise, as well as appearance. From the group of entries, approximately 20
girls will be selected to come to Memphis for contest finals. The two-day contest finals will include personal interviews, photography,
and a final appearance before an audience at Ellis Auditorium. At that time, the 1955 Maid will be announced.

The girl who is chosen 1955 Maid of Cotton has an action-packed, six-month adventure ahead. She will tour some 40
major cities in the United States, Canada, and Europe to carry news of American cotton fashions and a goodwill greeting
from the cotton industry. The itinerary of the Maid will be extended in Europe next year, and it also will
include the Pacific Northwestern states and Vancouver, B.C., for the first time.

As an official envoy from the land of cotton, the Maid will appear as a featured model in all-cotton fashion
shows in each city she visits. She will present a goodwill message to mayors, governors, city and civic leaders at
each tour stop. Throughout her whirlwind travels, the young cotton emissary is constantly in the spotlight. Her activities are widely
featured by radio, television, newspapers, and magazines.

At the beginning of her cotton tour, the Maid of Cotton will go to New York to spend the month
of January. There she will be completely outfitted in a fashionable year-round cotton wardrobe. Best-known designers in the United States
will create smart cottons for every occasion and for every season for the Maid to wear on her tour. The
wardrobe will show the latest developments in cotton fashion fabrics and will illustrate the season's pace-setting fashion trends. European designers
will add cotton fashions to the Maid's collection during her visit abroad.

Sponsors of the Maid of Cotton are the National Cotton Council, the Memphis Cotton Carnival, and the Cotton Exchanges of
Memphis, New York, and New Orleans. An official chaperone representing the Cotton Council will travel with her.

Texas Western College supplied the cotton industry’s 1954 Maid. She was blue-eyed, 20-year-old Beverly Pack of El Paso, an outstanding
junior student at the Texas college. Beverly has returned to school this fall to complete work on her degree.

STUDY SEEKS TO RENEW CLOSER BONDS BETWEEN COLLEGE STUDENTS, FACULTY

Hartford, Conn.—(LP.)—American colleges and universities which believe that the best teaching is done in the tradition of “a teacher on
one end of a log and the student on the other” are concerned that growing student personnel services are cutting
a notch in the log between student and teacher.

Studies on how to utilize personnel specialists in college without interrupting the close student-teacher relationship are being made by the
Commission on Student Personnel of the American Council on Education, headed by Dr. Albert C. Jacobs, president of Trinity College.

A major concern of the commission, Dr. Jacobs reports, is that on many campuses student personnel work “is regarded by
both students and faculty as a separate service or administrative activity, an ‘empire’ apart from the rest of the institution,
failing to be understood as fundamental in the total educational process. The concern of the commission has been of eliciting
greater recognition of the opportunity which the teacher has in working with students, not one of seeking to circumscribe or
diminish the opportunity of the student personnel specialist.”

In seeking “the impediments which prevent the teacher from making the student the central focus of teaching,” Dr. Jacobs noted
“the continuing expansion of knowledge and the difficulty of the teacher informing himself in his own and other fields; the
pressure of individual research; the interest of the teacher himself, recognizing that many teachers are interested only in research, shutting
out entirely the welfare of their students; that this interest may be due to practical necessity because of institutional policy
of ‘up or out,’ ‘publish or perish;’ a special ignorance on the part of many teachers as to what students
really are like and what are their major problems.”

He also stressed as obstacles the competing demands for the teacher's time — faculty committee service, outside employment, participation in
student affairs, and competition in the fields of science and government; a difference in basic philosophy, some staff members not
agreeing with the premise that students are the primary business of a college or university. The pressures of a greater
number of college students forecast for the next decade may mean even less faculty member time available per student, Dr.
Jacobs warned. The Commission, he said, has agreed that it is more important to stimulate reappraisal of the integration of
student testing and counseling through informal discussion than to “sell” a particular program.

Law Admission Test Announced For 54-55

Princeton, N.J. — The Law School Admission Test required of applicants for admission to a number of leading American law
schools will be given at more than 100 centers throughout the United States on the mornings of November 13, 1954,
February 19, April 23, and August 6, 1955. During 1953-54 some 8200 applicants took this test, and their scores were
sent to over 100 law schools.

A candidate must make a separate application for admission to each law school of his choice and should inquire of
each whether it wishes him to take the Law School Admission Test and when. Since many law schools select their
freshman classes in the spring preceding their entrance, candidates for admission to next year’s classes are advised ordinarily to take
either the November or the February test, if possible.

The Law School Admission Test, prepared and administered by Educational Testing Service, features objective questions measuring verbal aptitudes and reasoning
ability rather than acquired information. It cannot be “crammed” for. Sample questions and information regarding registration for and administration of
the test are given in a Bulletin of Information. Bulletins and applications for the test should be obtained four to
six weeks in advance of the desired testing date from Law School Admission Test, Educational Testing Service, Nassau Street, Princeton,
N.J.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

3-Year Arts Program

New York, N.Y., (AP.) — A pioneer in liberal arts education since 1919 through the development of the nationally-known courses
in Contemporary Civilization and the Humanities, Columbia College, the liberal arts undergraduate school for men at Columbia University, is now
planning to eliminate the fifty-year-old “professional option” program for all except engineering students. At the same time, all students will
be required to include an area of concentration in their program which will require...At least 24 points of study in
some one department. These thorough-going changes, which are expected to increase substantially the liberal arts content of the last two
years, will become effective this month for the Class of 1958 and those following, according to Dr. Lawrence H. Chamberlain,
dean of the College. The reorganization of the Upper College has been the subject of extensive faculty and student discussion
since the end of World War II, particularly as to professional option. This plan permitted College seniors to spend their
last undergraduate year as a graduate student in the University’s professional schools of medicine, dentistry, law, engineering, and architecture. It
was originally instituted to ensure that preprofessional students would have a minimum of three years of liberal arts education but,
as most graduate schools began to require a baccalaureate degree for admission, its purpose became lost. In recent years, the
professional option plan, according to Dean Chamberlain, has actually served the direct opposite of its original function by eliminating one
year of liberal arts education for the preprofessional student. At the same time, the rigors of specialized professional study, sometimes
far distant from the College campus, denied to the professional option student the time and opportunity to maintain his extracurricular
activities during the important senior year.

Discussing the old Upper College program, Dean Chamberlain cited the fact that in the past a student could be graduated
from the College with a minimal number of courses in any one department. Because of the necessarily introductory nature of
such courses, a student could complete his college program with a cursory knowledge of many disciplines, but without any concrete
and comprehensive understanding of one particular field. He also pointed out that under the old plan many of the seminars
were of an advanced nature, requiring several courses in preparation, as well as being elective. These two factors worked to
prevent numerous Upper College students from choosing or being eligible for seminar courses, thus missing sufficient opportunity to exercise the
independent judgment and planning which the Dean felt must be an integral part of a liberal arts education.

Internationalists To Convene Tuesday At 4

The first meeting of the International Relations Club will be held Tuesday afternoon at 4 p.m. in the Green Room
of the College Union. All freshmen who are interested as well as interested upperclassmen and the old members are especially
urged to be there for this important planning meeting for the year’s activities. There are many organizations and clubs on
the campus, but this is the only one which gives the student a direct chance to get out of the
cloister which is Davidson life to look at the world beyond. Last year there were many interesting programs and discussions
centering on understanding international affairs and contemporary problems including panels on “European Attitude Toward the United States” and “Christian Morality
and Power Politics.” The club will be meeting once a month as usual, and all students are always welcome. This
year the officers will be Roy Davis, President; Kiki Lewis, Vice-President; and Gilbert Gragg, Secretary.

WANT ADS

FOR SALE—Webcor three-speed record player. Practically new and in good condition. A jewel for $35.00. Cecil Dickson, 307 West.

WANTED TO HIRE—Business staffers for the Davidsonian. All sorts of jobs for would-be publishing tycoons. See Tim Cooper or Henry
Brockmann.

Grad Schools, Firms Must Fight It Out For Senior Classes

Chicago, Ill.—(P.)—Opportunities for graduate study in science and engineering are greater than ever before, but so are the temptations that
cause college students to end their formal schooling at the bachelor’s degree level. The report comes from Dr. Marion H.
Groves, assistant dean of the graduate school at Illinois Institute of Technology, who attributed both increases to the critical shortage
of scientists and engineers. Dr. Groves said educational institutions are offering more fellowships and assistantships to induce outstanding students to
work towards master’s and/or doctor’s degrees. He pointed out that the national government, private industry, research organizations, and professional and
scientific groups are sponsoring an increasing number of fellowships for graduate study. The number of graduate fellowships at Illinois Tech
has grown from 10 to more than 50 during the last five years, Dr. Groves revealed. The value of these
grants has increased greatly during this period, he added. “It appears that all fellowships for 1954-55 will award stipends of
$2,000 or more,” he explained, comparing the figure to the $1,400 average five years ago. He said that fellowships allowing
full concentration on the academic program last year ranged from $1,750 to $2,150, with an average stipend, including tuition, of
$1,990. Dr. Groves also offered some striking figures showing how the value of assistantships has increased during the past 10
years—more than doubled, in fact. The assistantships will provide $1,750 during the 1954-55 academic year, compared to $825 a decade
ago. Five years ago the figure was $1,275. He pointed out that the temptations to forego further study for an
immediate position in industry have never been so great as they are at the present. Each graduating class, Dr. Groves
explained, is confronted by the numerous representatives of companies who come to the campus and offer the graduates record-breaking starting
salaries.

Methodist Students Name Kiker President

Frank Kiker, sophomore from Cornelius, was elected on September 16 as president of the Methodist Student Movement here at Davidson
for the 1954-55 school year. Kiker succeeds Jim Murr, who has held the post since September 1953. Other officers elected
are: Stuart Collins of Chase City, Virginia, vice president; and Clagett Taylor of Sebring, Florida, secretary-treasurer. Rev. Jerry Murray, pastor
at the Davidson Methodist Church, announced that the church will hold open house and give a “feed” for all Methodist
students at Davidson after Vespers on Sunday, October 3. All Methodist students are urged to attend this annual event.

201 Men Pledge... (Continued From Page One)

Sigma Chi
Roger Bates, Willie Thompson, Hugh Jackson, John Patterson, Tint Teachey, George Lyon, Graham McKinnon, John Dickson, Clark Hogland, Karl Bitter,
Jack Pietenpol, John Holt, Dudley Wiley, Grier Davis, Bruce Shipley, Bill Noland, Dan Buckley, Allen Moore.

Pi Kappa Alpha
Hiram Caton, Hugh Craig, Cecil Dickson, Charles Feezer, Lee Hand, Hayden Hollingsworth, Gray Lewis, John McVay, John Mackerell, Joe Malinoski,
Stephens Scarborough, Robert Smith, William Tedford, Bob Wooten.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon
Gilmore Lake, Mike Martin, Dent Acree, Roger Powell, Fritz Russell, Liew Spears, Jimmy Jones, David Bradford, Ross Smyth, Skeets Bellamy,
Buddy Birgel, Pete Ramm, Dick Hemstrom, Sidney Cox, Harold Hoffman, Harding Rogers, Jerry Norvell, Jack Crouch, Chuck Haston, Fred Wilkenloh,
Ralph Bright, Ned Hedgepeth, Mike Page, Tommy Hines.

Campus Club
Alan Riley, George Gilmer, Mickey Inman, Stewart Bridgman, Charles Sanders, Lowell Hayes, Curtis Patterson.

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 1, 1954

Wide Culture Range

MEXICAN STUDY AWARDS AVAILABLE

St. Louis, Mo.—(P.)—A liberal education must include a knowledge of several fields of religion, philosophy, history, the social sciences, and
physical science, declares The Reverend Maurice B. McNamee, S. J., associate professor of English at the St. Louis University. “It
is becoming more and more apparent among educators that differentiation in the curriculum and in the course content for various
levels of students is absolutely necessary, if we are to salvage the notion of a liberal education from our modern
‘educational wastelands.’ St. Louis University has begun some significant experiments in this area of differentiation. Three years ago she introduced
a program of general studies for weaker students devised to give them some significant breadth of intellectual experience but tailored
to their capacities.” Father McNamee pointed out that because of the mass production we have in this country, the one
who is apt to suffer most is the genuinely superior student. Because of the huge numbers in college today, the
curriculum and teaching methods are leveled down to the average student and the really superior student is not apt to
find a real challenge to his intelligence.

Smith Craves... (Continued From Page One)

the Union through December has been released. Bookings include: October 1 and 2, O’Henry’s Full House; 8 and 9, Knock
On Any Door; 15 and 16, Follow The Sun; 22 and 23, Johnny O'Clock; November 5 and 6, Gentleman’s Agreement;
12 and 13, All The King’s Men; 20 and 22, Fourteen Hours; December 1 and 2, Miracle On 34th Street.
These will be shown at the Union ballroom at 9:00 P.M. and an admission of 25¢ will be charged. It
is 305 feet from the base of the statue to the torch Liberty holds aloft, and she herself is 111
feet tall from toe to crown, weighing 450,000 pounds.

Scholarships for study in Mexico during 1955 will again be offered by the Mexican Government, it has been announced by
Mr. Kenneth Holland, President of the Institute of International Education, 1 East 67th Street, New York City. Open to graduate
and undergraduate students with a knowledge of Spanish, the awards are given through the Mexico-United States Commission on Cultural Cooperation.
Awards are for the academic year beginning March 1, 1955. Closing date for application is November 1, 1954. Requirements for
the Mexican Government awards are: U.S. citizenship, knowledge of Spanish, a good academic record, a valid project or purpose, and
good health. The five undergraduate and eleven graduate scholarships are expected to cover tuition and full maintenance. Applicants should have
other funds for incidental expenses and travel costs. Recommended fields for graduate study or research are architecture, Indian and physical
anthropology, ethnology, archeology, museography, painting, cardiology and tropical medicine, biological sciences, and Mexican history. Suggested undergraduate fields of study are
philosophy, languages, and literature. Applicants with sufficient previous training may take Mexican history, ethnology, archeology, and physical anthropology. Applicants may
write for information to the Institute of International Education which is administering the awards for study in Mexico.

Testing Service... (Continued From Page One)

tin of Information, which provides details of registration and administration as well as sample questions, may be obtained from college
advisers or directly from Educational Testing Service, 20 Nassau Street, Princeton, N.J., or P.O. Box 27896, Los Angeles 27, California.
A completed application must reach the ETS office at least fifteen days before the date of the administration for which
the candidate is applying.

COMO AND HOGAN

Perry Como, top TV and recording star, and Ben Hogan—only active golfer to win 4 national championships, enjoy a Chesterfield
during a friendly round of golf.

WHAT A BUY... CHESTERFIELD King Size (at the New Low Price) and Regular

Like Ben and Perry, you smoke for relaxation, comfort, and satisfaction. In the whole wide world, no cigarette satisfies like
a Chesterfield. You smoke with the greatest possible pleasure when your cigarette is Chesterfield—because only Chesterfield has the right combination
of the world’s best tobaccos—highest in quality—low in nicotine. In short, Chesterfields are best to smoke and best for you.

LARGEST SELLING CIGARETTE IN AMERICA’S COLLEGES
