ASSOCIATED COLLEGIATE PRESS
THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE INTERCOLLEGIATE PRESS
The Davidsonian
VOL. XLII

Christmas Vespers Set Sunday Night, Dec. 12
Malcolm Williamson Is Chosen To Be Reader
By CLAGETT TAYLOR

Malcolm Williamson, a senior from Waynesville, N. C., has been selected from a group of 15 candidates to be the reader for Sunday night’s annual Christmas Vesper service. The service is co-sponsored by the Davidson College YMCA and the Davidson College Music Department and will be held in the College Church this Sunday night, December 12, at 7:30 o'clock.

The service is a combination of selected Scripture readings and music by soloists, the Male Chorus, the Chapel Choir, the Chamber Orchestra, and the Brass Ensemble. As in the past, the Brass Ensemble of the Concert Band will play from one of the nearby buildings for a period preceding the start of the service in the sanctuary. The Vesper prelude, “Christmas Concerto” by Corelli, will be played by the Chamber Orchestra. Harold Frantz, formerly of the music faculty at Davidson and now a professor of music at Montreat College, will be the guest organist for the service.

Following the processional, “O Come All Ye Faithful,” Leighton Green, president of the YMCA, will give the invocation, after which a Litany of Thanksgiving will be given responsively. The Christmas Story will be presented in three divisions: The Prophecy, The Birth, and The Adoration, with appropriate Scripture readings by Reader Malcolm Williamson and musical selections by the Male Chorus and Chapel Choir. The numbers will include German, English, Flemish, Polish, Negro, and American Indian music.

Guest soloist will be Perry Daniels, a 1962 graduate of Davidson now doing graduate study in music at the University of Michigan, who will sing two solos during the service, “The First Mercy” and “The Holy Child.” Other soloists will be Thornwell Frick, baritone; Robert Martin, tenor; and Harold Frantz.

The congregation will join in singing Christmas carols, and the recessional will be “Hark the Herald Angels Sing.” President John R. Cunningham will pronounce the benediction, concluded with a choral response. The Postlude will mark the close of the service.

The student chairman of the YMCA committee in charge of arrangements is Dickie Davis, assisted by Blake Brinkerhoff. Directors of the music are Donald Plott, Kenneth Moore, and John Satterfield, members of the Davidson music faculty. The Chamber Orchestra includes among its members five students, Richard Morrow, Bob Beall, Jim Lovette, James Naylor, and Donald Carmichael.

Friends of Davidson are invited to the service, but because of the limited amount of seating space, it is suggested that all who wish to attend come earlier than usual.

Two Alumni Abroad Make Good Records

Fred Myers, who is spending his junior year at the University of Paris, has been chosen president of the literature group at the American Students and Artists Center. Here Fred arranges lectures every two weeks with French and American writers. Fred will return next year to Davidson where he will receive an A. B. in English. It is a part of the Davidson College curriculum to allow students to spend their junior year abroad, for which they will receive full credit toward graduation.

C. T. Davis, ’50, who was a Rhodes Scholar ’50-’53, is now in his second year in Italy on a Fulbright Scholarship. He has written a review of recent studies of Dante publications in America, which has been recently published in the “Dante Studies,” a learned journal written entirely in Italian.

Phi Society Meeting Has Chants, Censures

Monday night the white columned building on the old campus that faces the dying sun entertained a meeting of the superannuated organization whose outlook is oriented in the same direction, known as the Philanthropic Literary Society. After a short business meeting, taken up mostly by Mr. Ogden’s verbose censure of the Davidsonian’s editorial staff for daring to publish the truth about a Phi meeting, Bill Scholl presented a sketch on the life of the author Thomas Wolfe, performed in the style of a noted educator from Oxford. To round out the evening, a quartet composed of Messrs. Ogden, Cone, Hall, and Williamson delivered a humorous chapel chant about life in Africa entitled “The Congo.” Mr. Ogden served as critic for the evening, and Messrs. Kuist and Huntley as supervisors. The meeting of the society closed with a period of awed silence while everyone faced the new chandelier.

TWO BY NORTH CAROLINIANS
Library Gets New Books

Among the new extra-curricular books to be found in the Davidson College library are two by native sons of North Carolina. One of these is Goodbye, My Lady, one of the last works of James Street, whose recent death saddened millions who loved his work. Street has fashioned this story of a boy, an old man, and a dog into a tale of individual beauty and rare excitement. The boy, who lives on the edge of a swamp with Uncle Jesse, finds a dog in the swamp. He grows to love the dog and decides to try to make him his own. His success and the rewards of the victory in joy, achievement, and maturity make up the core of the story.

Stonewall Jackson

Burke Davis, another North Carolinian, brings color and vivid characterization of fiction to the first factual biography of Gen. Thomas J. Jackson. His book, They Called Him Stonewall, is a stirring narrative of men and war. Filled with character portraits which seem to come to life before the reader’s eyes, this book uncovers many hitherto unknown facts about Jackson. Mr. Davis attended Duke University and is a graduate of the University of North Carolina. He is a reporter for the Baltimore Sun and a free-lance writer for the Greensboro News. He and his wife live at Guilford College.

My Brother's Keeper

My Brother's Keeper by Marcia Davenport is a fascinating novel which will hold the reader spellbound. It is the story of two old men, whose house, in a run-down neighborhood, is stacked with old papers, 14 old pianos, an auto chassis, and piles of junk yard gleanings. When one of the brothers is found dead of starvation and the other is missing, a puzzle is brought to the attention of the public. Why should two men, well-educated and from a good family, live and die here among this squalor?

A Fable

William Faulkner’s A Fable is set on a battlefield in the spring of 1918. Here the Passion of Christ is re-enacted by a corporal in the French army, who is determined to stop the war. This book contains some of the most powerful scenes ever conceived by Faulkner. It is sure to be a subject of discussion and debate for a long time.

MOREHEAD POLL: Most Students Favor Greater Subsidization

At the suggestion of members of the D Club and ODK and due to highly speculative rumors around the campus, the question of athletic subsidization was chosen by the Davidsonian as the subject for this month’s student opinion poll. This poll was conducted by 20 reporters from all four classes; gathered representative views from 52 percent (433) of the student body; and covered all six dormitories, the Village, Carolina Inn, and six town residences.

Question 1. Are you in favor of the proposed complete non-subsidization athletic policy of the administration?
YES: 28—4.4 percent.
This question pertained to the suggested formation of a league of colleges, such as W&L, Sewanee, Davidson, and Centre, whose athletic programs would be completely non-subsidized.

Question 2. Are you in favor of the present policy of partial subsidization?
YES: 144—33.2 percent.
The word “subsidization” as used here referred to the $35,000 available for athletic scholarships in football ($30,000) and basketball ($5,000) covering four years beginning in 1954.

Question 3. Are you in favor of increased subsidization?
YES: 262—60.4 percent.
It was noted in several instances that those floors which were predominantly freshman voted substantially in favor of Question 2 in preference to the other questions. This was attributed by the reporters to our 6-3 record in football this year. Opinions varied considerably among the upper three classes.

Prominent comments and reasons given were:
Question 1. The money could be better spent on the scholarships. Subsidization, “pay for play,” ruins the essence of sports. If enough other colleges with good teams would cooperate in such a league, it would be beneficial to Davidson, putting scholarship in its proper place—“first”—and raising school spirit.
Question 2.Davidson had a good team (football) with sufficient subsidization this year; if it were eliminated, school spirit would drop and publicity would be substantially decreased; if increased, it would drop scholastic standing and make Davidson a “commercial college.” At present, non-scholarship athletes have a chance to participate in inter-collegiate ball. Some in this category showed a general indifference toward the subject.

Question 3. Outstanding athletic teams do as much or more to raise the standards and reputation of a college as outstanding scholastic standings — in the long run we would acquire better students both athletically and academically with stronger athletic teams. Increased subsidization would enable more deserving men to come to Davidson, increase our prestige and reputation in collegiate circles, build school spirit within the student body, enable Davidson to compete on an equal basis with all teams in the Southern Conference, and develop student pride in the alma mater. Some felt that the “minor” sports should receive subsidization as well as the “major” sports.

This poll was taken by: J. Trotti, A. Cone, L. W. McIntosh, B. Gallier, C. Cridlebaugh, B. Fraley, G. Robertson, A. Myers, E. Moore, D. Carmichael, B. Sharp, W. Harris, H. Brockmann, B. Beall, B. Daniel, L. Carter, S. Wallace, J. Ballenger, S. Ferguson, and S. Mendenhall.

Charlotte-Davidson Dance To Be Dec. 25

The Charlotte-Davidson Christmas Dance will be held at the Veteran’s Club on Saturday night, December 25, from 8:00 to 12:00 o'clock. Bids for the dance can be obtained from any of the officers of the club, Sonny Kincey, and Ross Smythe. This is the outstanding social event of the Christmas season in Charlotte, which is also highlighted by dances sponsored by clubs representing the University of North Carolina, Duke, North Carolina State, and others.

Faculty Reviews New Student Constitution

Since early October a Student Council committee headed by Perrin Anderson has been hard at work on a very comprehensive revision of the entire Student Body Constitution. The new Constitution will be presented to the students, article by article, for ratification soon after the end of mid-term exams. At the present time, the proposals are being studied by a faculty committee consisting of Professors Pietenpol, Beaty, Ostwalt, Schenck, and Spencer. When their work is completed, the articles will be voted on by the Student Council and then by the student body. The purpose of this thorough renovation is to make a Constitution which will be more acceptable to the students than the present document; in Anderson's words, “To make the Constitution representative of student opinion and one which the students will have faith in and will want to be governed by.”

Proposed Changes

Almost all the articles of the present Constitution have been either revised or eliminated. A preview look at some of the proposed changes discloses:
1. A clear-cut definition of pledged work,
2. A change in the penalty concerning the drinking rule,
3. A definite trial procedure for all trials (both honor and student body regulation cases),
4. Provision for a student-faculty committee to allocate the Stu-

(Continued On Page Four)

Spencers To Conduct 1955 European Tour

Dr. and Mrs. Spencer announce that they will act as chaperones for the Southern Colleges Tour of Europe next summer. This is the same tour which was conducted last summer by Mr. and Mrs. D. Grier Martin. The tour, sponsored by the Brownell Travel Bureau, is restricted to college students and recent college graduates. From Quebec, the group will sail to France on the S. S. Homerie, the flagship of the Home Lines, and then visit Italy, Switzerland, Germany, Holland, Belgium, and England. Travel on the continent will be by private motorcoach, and Brownell representatives will accompany the group through each country visited. The tour will sail June 13 and registration for it will close in January. Anyone interested in further details should see Dr. Spencer.

Red Cross Collects 209 Pints in Drive

A total of 209 pints of whole blood was received during the Davidson College Blood Drive Tuesday and Wednesday, December 7 and 8. Co-Chairmen Bob Stogner, Austin Strand, and John Buxton were disappointed at the turnout of Davidson students. Strand attributed probable indirect causes of the poor response to confusion over the blood releases which were mailed to all parents during October. Delay in return of releases forced postponement of the initial drive. Consequently, this put the drive during the Intramural Wrestling Program and conflicted with the grapplers participating. Then too, there was no incentive from fraternities desiring one hundred percent donations.

Scabbard and Blade representative Stogner emphasized the urgent need for blood even today under peace time conditions. Considering the size of the Davidson community, 65 pints used last year presents a definite need for blood in this area. Stogner added that there are a considerable number of veterans receiving blood regularly from the Red Cross donations, and in cases of emergency the bank in Charlotte stands ready to supply necessary quotas to disaster areas. Blood collected in the Mobile Unit will be transferred to the Mecklenburg County Blood Bank where it is distributed free of charge by the Red Cross.

The Fall Drive in 1953 sponsored by ODK and IFC netted a total of 405 pints. One senior was publicly recognized as a new member of the Gallon Club, having contributed 8 pints during the College drives.

Mr. and Mrs. T. F. Staley Establish Scholarships

The Dr. and Mrs. Thomas F. Staley Memorial Scholarship Fund has recently been established for the aid of ministerial candidates here at Davidson. The initial gift of $33,000 was made to the Fund by Mr. and Mrs. T. F. Staley of Rye, N. Y., in memory of Mr. Staley's parents. It is planned that the Fund will eventually provide scholarships for at least two members of each of the four classes at Davidson at all times. The scholarships will be awarded in the same manner as the various Honor Scholarships; that is, to students judged worthy on the basis of scholastic tests and personal interviews, the only restriction being that they must intend to enter the ministry after graduation.

Mr. and Mrs. Staley are natives of Bristol, Tennessee, where Mr. Staley’s father was a prominent physician. His mother, the late Mrs. Staley, was a niece of R. J. Reynolds and William N. Reynolds of Winston-Salem. Mr. Staley is now head of the Wall Street stock firm of Reynolds and Co.; he is an alumnus of Davidson of the class of 1925 and has had an active interest in the institution ever since. As a student, he was a star on the basketball and tennis teams and was a member of the YMCA cabinet. His son, Thomas F. Staley, Jr., graduated from Davidson in the class of 1953.

“Good News” Next Wednesday

N.Y. Musical Features Hit Tunes, Local Cast

BY FRANKLIN BLOODWORTH

Good News, the sparkling musical comedy by Laurence Schwab and Buddy De Sylva, will be presented next Wednesday evening, December 15, at 8:30 P. M. in Chambers Auditorium. As one of this year’s Help Week projects, the pledge class of Alpha Tau Omega, with the co-operation of the entire Alpha Tau Omega Fraternity and the help of many others who have offered their services, are presenting this musical under the sponsorship of the Davidson YMCA.

Proceeds To Gift Fund

Admission will be $1 for adults and 50 cents for students. The entire proceeds from the production will go to the Christmas Gift Fund of the YMCA. Good News will mark the first time in many years that a Broadway musical comedy has been presented on the Davidson campus. Good News, which had a long and successful run in New York a few years ago, will star Tom Thrailkill, Jane Hamrick, Lloyd Chapin, and Myra Adkins in the leading roles. Included in the chorus of 30 singers and dancers will be 165 girls from the Davidson community. Music will be provided by a twelve-piece pit orchestra under the direction of Felix Sibley. Such hit tunes as “The Best Things In Life Are Free,” “Lucky In Love,” “Varsity Drag,” “Pass That Peace Pipe,” and “Good News” will be among the eleven musical scores offered.

Director, Choreographer

Albert Harris, a member of the Red and Black Masquers, will direct Good News. Albert has played in several of the Masquers’ productions here at Davidson, and last year he was the Assistant Stage Manager for The Hasty Heart and the Production Manager for The Twelve-Pound Look. He also wrote the 1954 D. Club Foolies. In Macon, Georgia, he acted on a weekly dramatic program for three years as well as in various high-school productions.

Don Massey is the assistant director. The choreography will be in charge of Henry Parrish, also a member of the Red and Black Masquers. Henry had leading roles in several variety shows and operettas in high school, and each summer he acts in the Little Theater in Tampa, Florida. He has also acted in television, playing a role on “Treasury Men in Action” which was filmed for the NBC-TV network in Tampa. Last year Henry was in charge of the choreography for the Lions’ Club Minstrel Show and for the D-Club Foolies.

The Cast

Starring in the role of Tom Marlowe, the football hero of Tate College, will be Tom Thrailkill. Tom, from Hapeville, Georgia, sings baritone in the Davidson Male Chorus. He acted in several musical productions in high school while serving as president of the Student Council. In the summer he is soloist at St. John's Episcopal Church in College Park, Georgia.

The romantic lead, that of “Connie Lane,” stars Jane Hamrick. Jane, from Davidson, has sung in operettas at Fairfax Hall in Waynesboro, Virginia. She also sang in the second presentation of the “Confederacy,” a cantata presented at the University of South Carolina. Jane, a member of the choir of the Davidson College Presbyterian Church, sings soprano.

Lloyd Chapin, from Atlanta, Georgia, provides the comedy sequences. He plays the part of Bobby, Tom Marlowe's roommate. Lloyd, president of the Alpha Tau Omega pledge class, held the lead in the Senior Play and also took part in several other productions.