FOR DAVIDSONIAN SERVICE

Reporting
PUBLISHED WEEKLY
The news and editorial voice of
Jim Brice
Sports .... .... Jim Holshouser
Ads ...... Larry Parrott
Subscriptions .... Bob Carmichael
Davidson College
The Davidsonian

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, SEPT. 10, 1954
VOL. XL FRESHMAN EDITION

CLASS OF ’58 BEGINS ORIENTATION PROGRAM: SCOTT QUITS ATHLETIC DIRECTOR'S JOB

Dr. Samuel Spencer

Orientation Period for the Class of 1958 began at Davidson College this morning under the leadership of Dean of Students Samuel Spencer, Freshman Adviser Corky King, and 21 student counselors. The main business of getting to know Davidson will continue for the freshmen until next Wednesday morning, when they join with their 600 fellow students to

The resignation of Athletic Director Paul K. Scott of Davidson was announced today by President John R. Cunningham. Mr. Scott leaves Davidson after four and one half years to accept a position as Alumni Secretary at his Alma Mater, Cornell College at Mt. Vernon, Iowa, on or before October 15.

In commenting on his regret that Mr. Scott is leaving Davidson, President Cunningham said, “The Davidson College community is distressed to lose Paul Scott and his fine family. It is a compliment to him that his Alma Mater insists upon his return as Alumni Secretary.

“Mr. Scott has brought to his position at Davidson as Director of Athletics and Physical Education an intelligent interpretation of the program which we idealize for our students. It is a program which includes all students, offering an opportunity for a sound physical development to everyone.

“Coming to Davidson, as he did, just as the new Johnston Gymnasium was ready for use, he has developed a program which includes physical education classes for all beginners, and a broad sports schedule involving football, basketball, and golf. In addition to varsity teams.

“A recent description of the Davidson program stated ‘Few similar-sized schools over the nation conduct as comprehensive and inclusive an over-all program as Davidson, where every student is regarded as important.’

“Mr. Scott is a clean-cut Christian gentleman. We shall miss him at Davidson. Our best wishes ac- (Continued On Page Four)

Teaching military tactics to ROTC students may be a far cry from the rigors of the battlefield. But a look at the Davidson College ROTC Instructor Group shows that these officers and men know military matters from actual experience as well as from the textbook angle.

The experience of the Davidson ROTC staff represents a total of 141 years of military duty which includes 187 months of combat duty and a total of 470 months of overseas service. These activities have taken place in all of the theaters of World War II and Korea. They represent combat action in a majority of the campaigns of Europe, Africa, Italy, Burma, and the South Pacific, as well as the recent campaigns in Korea. These instructors have the training and first-hand knowledge of warfare necessary to make them imminently qualified to instruct the future officers of the Army. They know the “tricks of the trade.”

The following biographical sketch of the military personnel on duty here at Davidson clearly outlines the military experience provided by the Army for the training of Davidson ROTC cadets:

Col. J. D. Sapp

Lt. Col. John D. Sapp, Artillery, reported to Davidson August 3, 1954, and assumed the duties of PMS&T. Col. Sapp has completed 13 years of active service; 61 months of which was spent overseas, with 12 months of combat in the European Theater in World War II. His decorations and awards include the Bronze Star Medal with oak leaf cluster, Ribbon, and five theater ribbons with four battle stars. A native of Florida, Col. Sapp graduated from the University of Florida in 1941. In addition, he has completed the Artillery Schools at Ft. Sill, Okla.; the Characteristics and Effects Course at Sandia Base, N. M.; and just prior to his arrival at Davidson, he completed the Army Command and Staff College at Fort Leavenworth, Kan. In addition to his duties as Professor of Military Science and Tactics and head of the department, Col. Sapp will teach Military Science III to the cadets of the Junior Class.

Captain W. P. Blanton

Capt. Walter P. Blanton, Infantry, Detachment Executive Officer and Military Science II Instructor, reported to Davidson in May 1952. He has completed 12 years of active service; 54 months of which was spent overseas, with 42 months of combat duty in the European Theater during World War II and the recent Korean campaigns. His decorations and awards include the Bronze Star Medal, Combat Infantryman’s Badge, and five theater ribbons with nine battle stars. A native of Georgia, Capt. Blanton is a graduate of North Georgia College and Georgia Tech. In addition, he is a graduate of the Infantry Officers Advanced Course, Ft. Benning, Ga., and Army Engineering Course, New York University.

Captain L. R. Brown

Capt. Lee R. Brown, Infantry, Detachment Operations Officer and Military Science IV Instructor reported to Davidson in July, 1953. A native of Florida, Capt. Brown is a graduate of Gordon Military College. He has completed 12 years of active service; 37 months of which was overseas, with 12 months of combat in Korea. His decorations and awards include the Silver Star, Bronze Star, Combat Infantryman’s Badge, Senior Parachutist Badge and three theater ribbons with three battle stars. His Army schooling includes the Parachute School and the Infantry Officer’s Advanced Course at Ft. Benning, Ga.

Captain H. H. Lamar

Capt. Howard H. Lamar, Jr., Infantry, a Davidson graduate, reported to Davidson in September, 1953. A native of South Carolina, Capt. Lamar has six years of active service, 36 months of which was spent overseas. His awards include the occupation ribbon for service in Germany. Capt. Lamar is a graduate of the Ground General School, Ft. Riley, Kan., and the Infantry School, Ft. Benning, Ga. During the coming school year, he will teach Military Science I to the Freshman class.

Sgt. C. M. Thaler

M. Sgt. Clark M. Thaler, Artillery, is the Detachment Operations Sergeant in addition to being an assistant instructor. He has completed 16 years of active service, 76 months of which has been spent overseas. Sgt. Thaler has 33 months of combat duty, serving in both the European and Pacific Theaters in World War II and in Korea. His decorations and awards include the Bronze Star with oak leaf clusters, Commendation Ribbon, and seven theater and occupation ribbons with nine battle stars. A native of Nebraska, he graduated from Colorado A & M College in 1938. His (Continued On Page Four)

BELK HALL NEARS COMPLETION DATE

W. H. Belk Hall is scheduled to be completed around the first of the year. Construction began last fall and has continued steadily since that time. The roof will be installed within two weeks. Brick work and tile work inside is practically completed now. This means that pipes and electrical wiring have been installed. Plastering will begin when the roof is on.

From now on there will be no through road behind the dorms. A retaining wall will soon be built near West, and a fill six feet deep will extend in that vicinity. Within the next few weeks, the old shop and student store building will be torn down, and the area in front of Belk dormitory will be filled in. The road from the gym past the College Apartments will be open for around-the-campus driving. In order to make room for the road, a portion of the laundry was removed. A few parking places have been eliminated, and a temporary parking area will be made in the field back of Watts. There will be room for 40 cars, and the area will be restricted to student parking.

Frosh and Transfers

A group of 21 student advisers met on Thursday evening to complete Orientation plans for the incoming freshmen and transfers. The students are directed in their work by Corky King, freshman adviser, and Dr. Samuel Spencer, dean of students and faculty supervisor for the Orientation Program.

Perrin Anderson, a junior from Union, S. C., is Second Vice-President of the Student Body. He is a member of Sigma Chi social fraternity.

Dolph Allen is a Y Cabinet member in charge of Community Work. He is a senior from Kinston, N. C.

Linny Baker of Kannapolis, N. C. is serving this year as President of the Junior class and also of Alpha Tau Omega social fraternity.

Blake Brinkerhoff, First Vice-President of the YMCA, hails from Montreat, N. C. He is a Kappa Sigma member.

Henry Brockmann of High Point, N. C., is editor of The Davidsonian, Y Cabinet member in charge of Public Relations, a member of Omicron Delta Kappa leadership fraternity and Sigma Phi Epsilon social fraternity.

Cortez Cooper, a senior from Thomasville, Ga., is treasurer and past Vice-President of the Y. He has been appointed cadet commander of the ROTC regiment for this year, and is a member of Kappa Alpha. He is in charge of Deputations for the Y.

Roy Davis holds the World Citizenship post in the YMCA Cabinet. A senior from Concord, N. C., he is a member of Phi Gamma Delta and is active in debating.

Floyd Feeney is President of the Student Body and an associate editor of The Davidsonian. He is from Charlotte, N. C., and is a member of Kappa Sigma and Omicron Delta Kappa.

Leighton Green, a Baker scholar from El Paso, Texas, is President of the YMCA, a member of Kappa Sigma and Omicron Delta Kappa and the tennis team. He is a senior.

Smithy Johnston serves the Y as Boys Work director. He is a Kappa Alpha from Paw Creek, N. C.

Kiki Lewis will head the YMCA Gift Fund this year. He is a member of Phi Gamma Delta, is a senior, and represents his class on the Student Council.

Leighton McCutchen, a former Vice-President of the Student Body, hails from Nashville, Tenn. This year he has the Campus Life post on the Y Cabinet and is a member of Omicron Delta Kappa.

John McLauchlin is the Second Vice-President of the YMCA. A junior from Winston-Salem, N. C., he is a member of Beta Theta Pi.

Jason McManus, a member of Phi Delta Theta, will plan the YMCA’s Special Services this year. His home is in University City, Mo.

Clark Reed, a junior from Ft. Lauderdale, Fla., will direct Social Life for the YMCA this year.

Clyde Robinson, another Baker scholar, holds the Spiritual Life position on the Y Cabinet. He is a junior and a member of Phi Delta Theta.

Bill Scholl, a Kappa Alpha from Charlotte, N. C., will serve the YMCA in his Advancement post on the Cabinet.

Buster Sharp is President of the College Bible Class. He is a junior

New Enrollment Shows OnlySlight Increase

Davidson's enrollment for 1954-55 shows but a slight increase over the enrollment for 1953-54, Registrar F. W. Hengeveld announced today, reporting that the school will register a normal number in all classes. The total enrollment will approach 840, Hengeveld is quoted as saying, with about one quarter of these, or about 245 students, being freshmen.

Austin Strand, from Greensboro, N. C., will direct the Scouting program for the YMCA. He is a member of Phi Delta Theta and is an associate editor of The Davidsonian. Fred Summers shares responsibility for Deputations with Cortez Cooper. He is active in dramatics and is a member of Pi Kappa Alpha. His home is in Statesville, N. C. John Fenton, a senior from Rolling Fork, Miss., is the student counselor for the transfers. He is a member of Kappa Sigma.

MUSIC GROUPS TO HOLD AUDITIONS

Auditions for the Male Chorus, the Chapel Choir, and the Bands will be held in Professor Gehring’s Studio in Oak Row early next week, Music Department head Donald Plott announced today. Moore and Plott will be judging. These periods will be reserved for freshman tryouts. On Monday and Tuesday, September 13 and 14, auditions will be held from 2 to 5 p.m. for the three groups, with Professors Satterfield, Moore, and Plott judging. These periods will be reserved for freshman tryouts. Wednesday, September 15, from 3 to 5 p.m. upperclassmen will audition for the Male Chorus and the Chapel Choir. All freshmen interested in joining any of these groups are urged to be at Oak Row (on the front campus across the highway from Carolina Inn) at the stated hours.

Several Offices Move To New Locations

A change in the position of several administrative offices has been announced. The office of the Dean of Students will be next to the alumni office, and the Dean of the Faculty is in the former office of the registrar. The registrar is in a new office across the hall from the Dean's office.

EBERHARDT STRICKEN OUT FOR SEMESTER

Professor Charles Eberhardt, Bible instructor at Davidson since 1947, was stricken with a heart attack recently while on vacation in New Hampshire. He is expected to remain in Mary Hitchcock Hospital at Hanover, N. H., for about four weeks, after which time he will return to Davidson for a period of recuperation. Professor Eberhardt is not expected to resume his teaching duties for at least one semester.

Mr. Broyles Recovering

Mr. H. C. Broyles, owner of the Davidson Printing Company and publisher of The Davidsonian, was able today to visit town for the first time in over a month of prolonged illness. Ill since June 17, Mr. Broyles underwent surgery on July 1, and is scheduled to have two more operations before his return to the shop. Mrs. Broyles is keeping the print shop open for business during his illness.

Accepts Deanship

Dr. Samuel R. Spencer, formerly Assistant to the President of the College, officially accepted the position of Dean of Students shortly before the end of the last school year. Dean Spencer replaces Dean J. C. Bailey, who resigned after 13 years to give full time to teaching. A native of Rock Hill, S. C., Dr. Spencer has more recently claimed Columbia as his home. He was a student at Davidson College for four years prior to his graduation in 1940. While a student at Davidson, Dr. Spencer was president of the student body, a member of Omicron Delta Kappa, Phi Beta Kappa, Sigma Upsilon, a Lt. Col. in the ROTC, and a member of Scabbard and Blade. In addition to this, he was a member of the Eumanean Literary Society, Le Circle Francais, the Student Store Board of Control, the Y.M.C.A. cabinet, was Managing Editor of the Davidsonian, Assistant Business Manager of Quips and Cranks, and was vice-president of the student body. After graduating from Davidson in 1940, Dr. Spencer took a position in the advertising and sales department of Vick Chemical Company. He then served five years in the United States Army, being discharged with the rank of major. For two of these years, he was a member of the ROTC department here at Davidson. From January 1946 to June 1948, Dr. Spencer was an assistant in the Public and Alumni Relations office at Davidson. He has done graduate work at U.C.L.A., received his M.A. in history from Harvard, and completed his work and was awarded the Ph.D. degree in history. He returned to Davidson as assistant to the President in the fall of 1952.

Fitzgerald Institutes Novel “Open House”

Pittsburgh, Pa. — A new project was initiated recently at the University of Pittsburgh when senior men and women met Dr. Rufus H. Fitzgerald, chancellor of the university, and Miss Helen P. Rush, dean of women, in the first “Open House for Seniors” in the university’s history. At any time from 2:30 p.m. to 5:30 p.m., seniors are invited to walk into the chancellor's office for a friendly, informal chat. The whole affair is steeped with arrangements designed to accommodate the student with a friendly atmosphere at his convenience. If the student should want to leave at any time during the conference, to go to a class perhaps, he may do so without any questions asked. The “Open House for Seniors” was planned as a substitute for the traditional fireside chats, which only ten or twelve students could attend. Dr. Fitzgerald was the principal speaker at the Davidson commencement this year.

Denmark, Finland Send Students Here

Two new special students come to Davidson College this year on their first trip to America. Erich Deichgraeber and Pertti Karkkainen are entering Davidson next Wednesday to spend a year in this country studying. Deichgraeber, a native of southern Denmark, is 19 years old and is studying a pre-med course. Sponsored by Beta Theta Pi Social fraternity, Erich is in his 14th year of schooling. Pertti Karkkainen is a recent addition to the special student roll, replacing Alfred Wang of Hong Kong. He is from Finland, is 21 years old, and is also planning to study a pre-med course. Incidentally, he is a member of the Finnish Naval Reserve. Both special students will enroll in upper class courses.

FACULTY, FRESHMEN BARBEQUE PLANNED

In an effort to go one step further than the Saturday night freshman-faculty reception, Davidson has scheduled a faculty-freshman barbeque for Monday night, September 13 at 6 p.m., on the South terrace of the College Union. The barbeque, served on the terrace and devoured under the trees on the Union lawn, will serve as an ice breaker between the new students and their older friends. It will come as a welcome break to the grueling days of testing, mental and physical, for the freshmen. In case of rain, the barbeque will be served indoors at the Union.

CUT CARDS SUCCUMB; NEW SYSTEM BEGINS

Cut cards are no more. The famous, fabulous weekly missiles from the Dean's office are gone for good, replaced by a more efficient, less troublesome system, Dean Spencer has announced. The new system will leave student cuts up to the student. Each man will be responsible for his own attendance at classes, and will receive no notice of cuts until he has stepped over the line into the overcut realm. Dean Spencer says that the cut books will be complete each Wednesday afternoon through the previous Sunday, and that any students who wish to consult them may do so on that afternoon and on Thursday afternoon between the hours of 2 and 4:30 p.m. Juanita Morrow will be stationed in Room 101 Chambers Building to take care of all cases, her headquarters being officially named the ‘cut room’. To increase assurance of attention and to lessen the burden which would in ordinary cases weigh down the job of attending to all cases in the hours indicated above, students who have complaints after having consulted the cut books are requested to fill out cards provided. Their cases may then be cleared throughout the following days. Dean Spencer indicated upon consultation that the new system is experimental at the moment, and that though he feels that it will be a decided improvement over the previous system, it is still open to criticism and suggestions. Students are asked to present any improvements they have for consideration.

This year's Orientation will not be a week-long event, Dean Spencer said when asked of changes made in the usual procedure. He indicated that in order to give the freshmen a better start in Davidson, Orientation will continue until the Thanksgiving Holidays begin in late November. Separate chapel programs followed by counseling sessions will be the order of the day for the frosh twice each week for the next two months. Other major changes that have entered the program include the naming of themes for each day of orientation. This was done, according to Spencer, in order that the freshmen might at least read some order into the rather mixed-up time that they will endure for the next few days. The freshman-Queens dance originally scheduled for Saturday night has also been postponed. Queens has not yet started Orientation, but will sponsor a dance next Saturday night for the Davidson frosh, who by that time should be weighted down with the knowledge of four days of classes. In describing the continuation plan for Orientation, Dr. Spencer indicated that this year’s plan will be experimental, subject to loopholes and changes, but that it basically will center around a plan of giving the freshmen a long-range, deeper conception of Davidson and college life than has been given in the past. There will be a Monday and a Wednesday series of Chapel programs given exclusively for freshmen until Thanksgiving, Monday chapel programs being held by faculty counselors at chapel time in their classrooms, Wednesday chapels for the whole class in the ballroom of the Union. Monday sessions will be under the direction of Jay Ostwalt, and will be devoted to getting the freshmen orientated to study habits of college. Discussions will be held on such subjects as budgeting time, preparations for reviews and exams, note-taking, term papers, and conditions for mental health. The Wednesday sessions will center around more universal themes such as student government, the honor system, the why of drinking regulations, reading, student services, and activities. The period extending from this morning through Tuesday night will be filled with testing, lectures, and introductory periods to the college, its student body mores, and its administration and faculty. Highlights will be the reception and movie Saturday night, and the Sunday worship services and visits to faculty homes. Monday night’s barbeque, given in an effort to introduce the freshmen in some permanent way to the faculty and administration, will be followed on Tuesday night by a freshman pep meeting and another movie. Classes will begin Wednesday morning for all Davidson students.