T° HOT D VINSOFI

July 8, 19

SUTITTH SC DA. FLAS!

Er. Smith has informed us that the Academy Award winner "You Can't Take it with You" will be shown Saturday night on the evening of July 22 in the Student Union. This comic, romantic comedy stars Jean Arthur, Lionel Barrymore, Jimmy Stewart, and Edward Arnold. I would like to urge all who plan to be on the campus at that time to see it. Be sure to attend!

Chronic MASSEY almost faints after smelling ether in biology lab to test for unknown diseases. Dick has cuts on his legs from wit' rush. Udo gets beaten in the Union billiard lounge but swears revenge. Students playing "flashlight games" with late-night study sessions. LT) Dave Clark and Gore Reese, and John Boyett and Frank W. and Sidney Hart and Charlie Brown.

Bonnie Britson looks sweet in chapel this morning. Jeally Pharr gets a date for the summer JAMMER Frolics. Some girls have...

Don Massey goes to sleep in my room while I am typing this paper. Tid and Bill Matt invent the game of bridge. Have you heard it spoken of as being bridge? Yeah, Roper, give up, you've had it good enough to come back to the campus for a Sunday night? Well, maybe if you haven't heard it stated quite like that, at least, you have heard quite a few complimentary things said about the Sunday Night Feast in the Union Dining Room. Probably, at times during the week, as far as you're concerned, the kitchen has an off day and doesn't serve exactly what you like to eat, but even the most particular ones of us are bound to find at least one cherry tart or salad plate that pleases due to the wide variety of well-prepared food that Mr. Murphy and the kitchen staff have planned and cooked just for us. Try the delicious shrimp topped with Newburg Sauce (note the taste of sherry in the sauce).

Faculty, come. Students, come. Take full advantage of the last two Sunday Night meals. Hats off to you, Mr. Murphy and the kitchen for the wonderful Sunday Night suppers. See you in the Dining Room Sunday night.

SUTITTH FROLICS

In the field of social activities, the summer program is quickly drawing to a close. Last night the last Wednesday night social, Y'All Come, was held on the terrace. It was a pleasant watermelon cut and was well attended. For the final program of the summer, the Summer Activities Committee is planning a semi-formal dance to be held on the night of July 16 (Friday). The dance, Summer Frolics, will feature "The Larramores" who will furnish the dance music. The dance will begin at 9:00 P.M. and refreshments will be served at intermission. Tickets will go on sale on Saturday, July 10. Al May and Ray Harding will be in charge of these ticket sales. Tickets are $1.00 a couple and 75¢ for singles.

For the last time this summer, Y'All Come.