CYNICISM, DRINKING RULE THORNS IN EDITORIAL FLESH

VOL. XLII ALENDA CURA LIBERTAS DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C., FRIDAY, APRIL 9, 1954

The Davidsonian

CONSTITUTIONAL CHANGES ARE SUBMITTED BY CRUTCHFIELD

NO. 20

FAMED ‘SATCHMO’ TO PLAY FAVORITES; TICKETS ON SALE

Louis Armstrong, widely regarded as the Jazz King of America, will bring his celebrated all-star band to Davidson Thursday night, May 6, for a two-hour concert in Chambers Auditorium, IFC President Charlie Hassell has announced. Tickets to the concert will be sold to college students and residents of Davidson for $1.75 through April 15, after which date the price will be $2.00.

The famous “Satchmo,” who has been in the business of playing and singing jazz since he was fifteen, is the man who popularized such long-standing favorites as “Basin Street Blues,” “Muskrat Ramble,” “High Society,” and “Dippermouth.” His most recent movie appearance was in “The Glenn Miller Story” in which he played himself in a jam session along with several other popular bandleaders.

Satchmo’s Start

“Satchmo,” says a recent magazine article on the famous bandleader, “forged his reputation in the Chicago of the Twenties. The city was then a hothouse for a young, ardent and brilliant group of youngsters who were to spread a fondness for their kind of jazz to all parts of the country. Youngsters like Bix Beiderbecke, Benny Goodman, Gene Krupa, Eddie Condon listened to Louis, found him giving expression to ideas they were groping for and tried to learn from him.

“In that Chicago ‘Satchmo’ organized his first band, the kind of small group which he has always favored as the happiest medium for jazz and which he uses on his world tours today. First it was Louis Armstrong’s Hot Five, then his Hot Seven. He was induced to change over from a cornet to a trumpet. One of his early Chicago employers said that the larger trumpet would look more impressive.

“He also began to take his turn as a singer, and those who heard him recognized that the affinity for jazz that had come seething out of this young chap’s horn was also in his voice and singing style.”

(Continued On Page Four)

LOUIS ARMSTRONG WILL GIVE CONCERT

Library Adds Books; New Ones Described

A number of new popular books recently have been added to the collection in the library. Among these are Not As a Stranger, by Morton Thompson; Gone with the Windsors, by Iles Brody; Tomorrow, by Philip Wylie; Peace with God, by Billy Graham; and The Ponder Heart, by Eudora Welty.

Not as a Stranger is “a novel dedicated to pure medicine.” Although the author is not a doctor, he spent years of research gathering information so as to make the details authentic in every place. Gone with the Windsors is an extremely frank appraisal of the Duke and Duchess of Windsor. Tomorrow is “a story of what happens in two American cities, when—someday in the future—Russia opens a new war with atomic weapons.” Peace with God, in the words of the author, “was written for the man in the street, to give him a clear understanding of a new way of life.” The Ponder Heart is said to be “a happy book” in every detail. Uncle Daniel Ponder, one of the main characters, was “good as gold, rich as Croesus, and generous as well.”

BUSINESS CONCERNS HOLD INTERVIEWS

Representatives from many outstanding business concerns visit the campus each spring to hold interviews from prospective graduates. So far this year over twenty-five companies have held interviews and all, according to placement director Elgin White, have been highly pleased with what they saw. The companies, such as Colgate and Sears-Roebuck, have shown special interest in prospects for sales and personnel representatives, and administration heads. Some applicants have gone as far as New York and Cleveland for their second interviews. In addition to the companies mentioned above, representatives from Portland Cement, Wachovia Bank, National Carbon Company, and several other concerns are expected during April and May.

John Alexander Mackay Sunday Vespers Speaker

DR. MACKAY

Outstanding among Davidson's many well-known guest vesper speakers is Dr. John Alexander Mackay, Moderator of the 165th General Assembly of the Presbyterian Church in the U.S.A., who will speak at vespers Sunday night, April 11.

Dr. Mackay’s life was begun in Inverness, Scotland, May 17, 1889, his father being a Scottish tailor. In 1912, at the age of 23, he graduated with first class honors in philosophy from the University of Aberdeen, and he completed his theological education at Princeton Theological Seminary in 1915, when he received his Bachelor of Divinity degree from that institution.

On August 1, 1916, Dr. Mackay was ordained a minister of the Free Church of Scotland; and on August 16 he married Jane Logan Wells, of Banffshire, Scotland, who had a profound influence on his missionary outlook. He then went to Peru as a pioneer educational missionary of the Free Church of Scotland. At Lima, the capital of Peru, he founded the Anglo-Peruvian College, which has since become one of the leading Protestant schools in Latin America. In 1918 he received the degree of Doctor of Letters from the National University of Peru; and later, while continuing his work as a missionary educator, he was elected to the chair of philosophy in San Marcos University, Lima.

In 1936, Dr. Mackay was elected President of Princeton Theological Seminary, oldest and largest Presbyterian Seminary in the nation. From 1944 to 1951 he served as president of the Board of Foreign Missions of the Presbyterian Church, U.S.A. He is, besides, a member of the Central Committee of the World Council of Churches. Since 1947 he has been chairman of the International Missionary Council, and he is also a vice president of Protestants and Other Americans United for the Separation of Church and State.

Dr. Mackay is also important in many other fields of religion. He has conducted many lectures in a large number of institutions, among them the Otts Lectures at Davidson in 1942. He is successful as an author, having written many and varied books, among them A Preface to Christian Theology and, his latest, God's Order: The Ephesian Letter and This Present Time. In 1944 he founded the theological quarterly, Theology Today, and was its editor until 1951. Dr. Mackay was elected to the office of Moderator of the General Assembly of the Presbyterian Church in the U.S.A. at Minneapolis, May 28, 1953. During his year in the office, the highest honorary office in the church, he serves as chairman of the General Council and acts as official representative of the church at special gatherings and occasions.

Attention, Golfers!

Leighton Green (left) receives congratulations from runner-up Leighton McCutchen, as the two contenders learn the results of the election for Y president in which Green won out.

—Photo by Hank Daniel.

Green Elected “Y” President

By BILL STEWART, Elections Editor

Leighton Green was elected president of the YMCA in balloting in chapel this morning. Green won over Leighton McCutchen on the third ballot. The other strong contender, Corty Cooper had been eliminated on the previous ballot. Yesterday Blake Brinkerhoff and John McLaughlin were elected first and second vice presidents of the Y. John Jason McManus was eliminated on the final ballot, and Linny Baker who had made a strong showing, withdrew from the running.

Green, a rising senior, hails from El Paso, Texas. This year he has been first vice president of the Y, and chairman of the special services committee. He has been a member of the varsity tennis team since his freshman year, and this year served as one of the editors of the yearbook. Green is a history major, doing honors work in that field, and a member of Kappa Sigma social fraternity.

Brinkerhoff is a rising junior from Montreat, N.C., and a Kappa Sig. This year Blake served as assignments editor of the Davidsonian. McLaughlin, another rising junior, is a native of Raeford, N.C. He is a member of Beta Theta Pi fraternity.

Next week will see elections for the editors of the publications take place. On Monday the two candidates for editor of the Davidsonian will be voted on.

(Continued On Page Four)

Eumanean Debates Chapel Attendance; PHI MEETS MONDAY; PROGRAM FEATURES

The Eumanean Literary Society held its regularly scheduled meeting Monday night at 8:15 in Eu Hall. Vice President Henry Brockmann opened the meeting with the devotional. A short business meeting was then held during which President Charlie Hasty announced that two marshals would be elected atthe next meeting. It was also announced that the officers for the first semester of next year would be elected at the first meeting in May. The main program consisted of a debate on the topic: “Resolved, That Compulsory Chapel at Davidson Has a Real Purpose and Value and Should Be Maintained.” The affirmative side was taken by Bill Terry and Buddy Lamon, while Maurice Crouse and Harold McKeithen took the negative side. The judges chosen for the occasion were Dr. G. L. Abernethy, Jason McManus, Ed Stuart, Archie Joyner, and Jimmy Martin. The critics were June Stallings and Jim Thornton. Each participant in the debate was allowed an eight-minute speech and a three-minute rebuttal period, after which the affirmative side was declared the winner by the judges. Following the debate, each of the judges gave a constructive criticism of the debate, and these proved almost as interesting as the debate itself. Several members of the student body who are not members of the Eumanean Society attended the meeting as guests in order to hear the debate.

READING OF PAPERS

The Philanthropic Literary Society held its last meeting on Monday, March 28, at Phi Hall. Harold Hall opened the meeting with the reading of the devotional. The program for the evening consisted of the reading of three papers by Phi members. The first, by Jim Davis, was entitled “Our Noble Heritage.” It questioned our present religious beliefs by tracing their formulation back through history. The second paper was a short story by Jim Brice entitled “Boots of the Devil.” “Boots of the Devil” was about conditions in the South during the War Between the States. “Etymological Attack on the English Language,” was the title of the last paper, by Tom Ratchford. This was a satire on the present-day use of the English language. At the business meeting, several names were brought up for election as honorary members in Phi, and plans for the future meetings of Phi were discussed. The two supervisors, Gene Bargeron and Harold Riley, gave their reports, and Paul Pinckney and Norman Johnson gave the critics’ report. The program for the next meeting of Phi, which will be held on Monday night, will be the reading of some selected old manuscripts of Phi, including themes, stories, poems, etc., which date back as far as 1880.

A golf clinic for all students and faculty members will be held Monday afternoon at four o'clock in front of the gymnasium. This clinic will display the latest clubs and equipment for both the low and high handicap golfers. Members of the Davidson golf team will be on hand to demonstrate various golfing techniques and answer questions that may be asked concerning equipment, or playing of the game itself.

SPRING SERVICES RESCHEDULED FOR APRIL 21st, 22nd

Plans have now been made for Dr. Charles Templeton to speak at Davidson on April 21 and 22. He will speak on the topic, “What's the Use?" which was originally planned for services beginning April 4. Four major addresses will be delivered by Dr. Templeton in the two days in which he will be on the campus. These addresses will be given in chapel on Wednesday and Thursday mornings and at the College Church at 7:00 o’clock each evening. After the evening services, Dr. Templeton will lead a discussion group in the student lounge of the church.

CAMERA CLUB MEETS; DANIEL NAMED PREXY

The regular bi-weekly meeting of the Camera Club was held in the College Union Green Room on the evening of April 6th. Featured on the program was a descriptive showing, “Salon Prints by the Masters.” Following a group discussion of the works, the annual elections for the coming year were held. The new officers are: Hank Daniel, president; Bob Black, secretary-treasurer; and Professor French, faculty advisor. The club members wish to express their appreciation to Andrew Simons and Sam Sells for a job well done this year.

Seniors, Alumnus Get Graduate Fellowships

Fellowships and scholarships to do graduate study at some of the best schools in this country and abroad have been awarded to several members of this year’s graduating class. It has recently been announced by the Institute of International Education that Robert Mitchell has been nominated by the National Selection Committee for a Fulbright Scholarship for study in Germany. Mitchell will get final confirmation later from the Department of State. He has also been awarded a scholarship to study German this summer at Middlebury College in Middlebury, Vermont. The Institute also announced that John Lyles of the Class of 1950 has been nominated for study in the United Kingdom. Three seniors have won fellowships to the University of Virginia. Larry Champion has received a Philip Francis duPont Junior Fellowship carrying a $600 stipend and $300 tuition. He will do work in the field of English. Another senior who is the recipient of a duPont Fellowship is James M. Efird. He will study history. The third senior who has been granted a fellowship for study at the University of Virginia is Buford Price. He will do his work in the field of physics. Mike York has received a $1200 (Continued On Page Four)

FESTIVAL TO BEGIN APRIL 12th; MAY 6 EVENT TO EMPHASIZE MUSIC AND PAINTINGS

By JOE BURROUGHS

Contemporary art is the theme of the Davidson College Fine Arts Festival to be held April 12-29. The festival, held annually at Davidson, will emphasize contemporary music and painting, and modern poetry and dramatics.

DR. CHARLES N. REILLY

The Carolina Piedmont section of the American Chemical Society will hold its 79th meeting next Monday evening, April 12, in the chemistry lecture room at Davidson College. The speaker will be Dr. Charles N. Reilly, assistant professor of chemistry at the University of North Carolina. Dr. Reilly has also taught at Queens College in Charlotte and did his graduate study at Princeton University. He will speak on the subject, “Modern Trends in Analytical Chemistry.”

Newell Banks to Play In Checkers Contest

Davidson will be visited on April 14, at 4 p.m. by Mr. Newell W. Banks, blindfold checkers champion of the world. In the past 45 years, Mr. Banks has traveled over a million miles, playing over 600,000 checkers and chess games, 80,000 of which were blindfolded. Mr. Banks holds all of the world’s records at blindfold and simultaneous checkers. Any local experts at these games are invited to sign up immediately at the Union office as opponents for Mr. Banks. The games will be held in the Union Ball Room at 4 p.m.

Mr. John Holliday, head of the music department at Queens College, Mr. Douglas Houchens, professor of fine arts at Davidson, Mr. Bedford Moore, professor of English at the University of Virginia, and Mr. Harry Davis, professor of dramatics and assistant director of the “Playmakers” at the University of North Carolina, will lecture in their respective fields during the two-week period. All events are scheduled to begin at 8:15 p.m. Events, concerts, and lectures are scheduled as follows:

April 12: College Union. Dr. G. L. Abernethy, professor of philosophy, will preside at the unveiling of a painting by Philip Moose, former associate professor of art at Davidson. Also included on that day's program are slides on the work of Mr. Mark Tobey, contemporary artist, entitled, “How a Painter Goes About Painting,” and slides on modern sculpture, with a lecture by Professor Douglas Houchens.

April 13: Chambers Auditorium. Phi Mu Alpha concert of contemporary American music.

April 14: Chambers Auditorium. Davidson College Male Chorus, under the direction of Professor Donald Plott.

April 15: College Union. Play reading sponsored by Alpha Psi Omega.

April 16: College Union. Mr. Bedford Moore, professor of English, University of Virginia, will present an informal lecture on modern poetry.

April 17: College Union. Movie, “The Moon Is Down.”

April 19: Chambers Auditorium. Student piano recital by Mr. W. V. (Bill) Porter.

April 20: College Union. Mr. John Holliday, professor of music at Queens College, will present an informal lecture on modern music.

April 21: Chambers. Davidson College Concert Band, under direction of Professor Kenneth Moore.

April 22: College Union. Inter-college Chamber Music Guild concert.

April 23-24: Spring Frolics (Continued On Page Four)

Crutchfield Seeks New Constitutional Changes

Bob Crutchfield, member of the Senior Class and former member of the Student Council, approached the student body this morning with the following proposed amendments to the Student Body Constitution. Mr. Crutchfield spoke with force and sincerity as he presented his suggestions for amendments to a constitution which he felt to be inadequate for a growing Davidson. The petition for amendments follows:

Petition for Amendments

We, the undersigned students of Davidson College, realizing the value of and necessity for effective student government, and a lofty conception of the Honor System; believing that only by assuming their rights and responsibilities can the students of this college have good government; and honestly and deeply feeling that some definite action must be taken for better government at this time, do hereby submit to the student body the following proposals for amendments to the Constitution of the Student Government of Davidson College:

AMENDMENT I.

“In all matters arising under the Honor System or the Student Body Regulations, the Student Government shall have final and complete jurisdiction. It shall be illegal for the Student Government to refer any such matter to any other authority. If the actions of the Student Government in such matters should be reversed by any other authority, it shall be mandatory for the Student Government to be suspended, and for all its officers to resign, until the reversal shall be withdrawn and agreements can be reached restoring the Student Government to its said complete authority. (Continued On Page Four)