EDITOR-IN-CHIEF: HENRY BROCKMANN
ASSOCIATE EDITORS: Joe Burroughs, Pho
Managing Editor: Githert a) B.S croure
Asst. Editors: Tom Warlick, Jim Holshouser, Dick Moxehoad
Editor: John Harmon
FRIDAY, NOV. 12, 1954
The Davidsonian
Published Weekly Throughout the College Year
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N.C., under the Act of March 3, 1879
BUSINESS MANAGER: T.M. COOPER
Lloyd Feeney, John Handley, Austin Strand
Photographer: Rank Daniel
Assignments: Jim Brice
Editorial Consultants: Joe Gaskin, Jim Marshall, Stan Miller, Bill Stewart
Assistant Business Manager: Tommy Taylor
Advertising Manager: Bob Carmichael

PAGE TWO

Broader Horizons

After two months of this business of being at Davidson during the ’54-’55 term, it may well seem to those
who heard Rev. Sam Newell’s Orientation Week sermon that he struck a key tone which has been sounded in several
other areas of campus thought throughout the past few weeks. Because the relevance of God to our widening horizons was
covered in its appropriate setting, the sermon, we wish to call attention to the other fields of which our knowledge
has been increased, our sight and scope expanded.

President Cunningham’s Evanston address prompted reflection and discussion of some of the issues of the World Council of Churches and
brought to a campus highly conscious of denominationalism and sectionalism a healthy economical aspect. Who could forget the observation that
privileged, prosperous Americans attending that Assembly were almost embarrassed at their good fortune when confronted face to face with Christian
brothers who had sacrificed just in order to represent their sometimes suffering, often struggling peoples from many parts of the
earth? And who was not impressed by the questioning of our use of “foreign” missions or the ethical problem of
testing atomic weapons “out there,” to the detriment of our fellows in other parts of the world? Who did not
leave with a wider concept of world Christianity?

The theme of world community was heard again on United Nations Sunday. Some were jarred in their thinking about race
when reminded that more than a billion people of color were looking to their nation and perhaps their hometown for
encouragement and hope. Many were feeling anew the urgency of action which from time to time stirs in a generation
of college students, one generation preparing to take its place in a “world with a hydrogen bomb in its bosom.”
There was a noticeable width to the Honorable Frank P. Graham's understanding of a world and its wars.

An emphasis on European students’ problems and their relations to those in the United States was brought to the campus
even more recently by the Y, in an address by a representative of World University Service, and we may have
first-hand information from European students studying at Davidson this year. There are opportunities to broaden outlooks, and there are people
aware of college and university students all over the world. We who are comfortable do well to remember those who
are cold. We who complain about the constancy of diet do well to think of those who are saving lunch
money to take night classes. We who have more books than inclination to read may well share some with fellow-students,
such as those who need books and magazines relating to the social sciences at the Law College Building of Nagpur
University, Nagpur, India. How can we who are socially secure do less than sympathize with students who are rejected from
their villages for trying to share their education? We who are trying to decide which job to take after college,
what shall we say to him whose backward community does not even know it needs him? Those who have generous
help may be able to remember those who are afraid, today and when tomorrow is today. They who think, can
consider world student service, even in the face of American Education. They can say a prayer for the students of
the whole world, those who pray.
—Frank White.

A Federal Stalemate

With the results of last week’s national balloting complete, President Eisenhower has become the third president in the twentieth century
to confront full opposition at midterm. With the Democrats taking control of both houses and of eight new governorships, it
seems that the man in the White House is all alone, and disappointed if not fully repudiated in his arduous
campaign efforts.

History and the South shed light on other sides than party names, however. Recent history tells us that it is
quite normal for the party in power to lose considerably at mid-term. The Republicans just didn't have the margin necessary
in the 83rd Congress to take Congressional defeats and still stay on top. The present condition of the Democratic Party
in the South tells us that the Democratic numerical majority is but a shield to hide a basic split in
the party which is much more serious at this point than is the Republican split over the junior senator from
Wisconsin. Southern Democrats to a large degree are Democrats in name only (or perhaps they are the only ‘real’ Democrats),
gleaning their political philosophy from an adapted John C. Calhoun or a Republicanism even more conservative than that of the
late Mr. Taft, but refusing to call themselves by the name of a party that was organized to raise the
standards of the Negro.

The situation in Washington for the next two years will be one of stalemate. The Democrats (whose leaders Senators Johnson
of Texas, Clements of Kentucky, and Representative Rayburn of Texas and McCormack of Massachusetts have all voted with the administration
on a majority of its measures) won't be able to get any major legislation across through the inevitable vetoes of
the President, or more likely, the paralysis of the southern clique. The Republicans will find themselves in a minority and
unable to drum up support on most major issues. Only in foreign policy is progress likely. Here the Democrats seem
out to pass the Republicans in proving their support of the administration. One other ray of hope, a dim one,
will be party cooperation on administration politics, a general trend during Eisenhower’s administration so far. Mr. Eisenhower looks with hope
to the next two years, stating that he has a program which represents progress for America, and which he will
continue to work. We find it hard to believe, however, that statesmanship will lick politics for a change, and lean
toward support of his campaign prediction that a Democratic victory would create “chaos”, or, more apt to the situation, a
legislative stupor.

Left-wing Or Liberal?

Many violent anti-Communists use the term “liberal” as a synonym for Communist, left-wing, or radical. Strictly speaking, a liberal is
one who advocates improvement, change, and reform.

Although the sober opponents of Communism realize the vast difference between a liberal and a left-winger, many McCarthyites continue slurring
the memory of the world's great liberals through their use of the word. Among history's famous “fuzzy thinking” reformers were:

A Jewish prophet who stood atop Mount Sinai to proclaim ten rules to live by.
One carpenter’s son of Nazareth nailed to a wooden cross for ideas subversive to Rome.
An Italian astronomer forced by the Pope to quit teaching his heretical doctrine that the earth travels around the sun.
A red-headed Virginia lawyer who advocated the right to revolt and dared to say “all men are created free and
equal.”
The tall, ugly Illinois rail-splitter willing to fight a war to protect the rights of slaves in the South.
—The Daily Texan (University of Texas, Austin, ACP)

IF THESE SHOWER-HEADS HAVE EVER BEEN CLEANED.
By Executive Committee

Student’s Hopes For More Liberal Cut System Crushed

Resolved:
I. That Faculty members are not permitted to give “make-up” reviews to students who have cut for reasons other than
(a) Sickness in Infirmary (b) Participation in College-sponsored affairs (not Student dances and the like) (c) Emergencies.
II. The professor shall record zero for those missed reviews not specifically covered by (a), (b), and (c) above.
III. EXCEPTION: The professor, at his discretion, may recommend to the Dean of Students and the Executive Committee that a
student be permitted to take a “make-up” review, even though the “cut” is not covered by (a), (b), and (c)
in I.

Tuesday afternoon the faculty committee met behind closed doors and altered a tradition of long standing on the Davidson scene:
the right of any student to cut a review. Undoubtedly the committee felt that it was acting in the best
interests of the student body; however, in setting up this new rule which is to go into effect December 1,
the committee members appear to have overlooked some very important facts. As the rule now stands, a student may cut
a review and take double cuts in so doing. In addition, the student may take a make-up review at a
time when it is suitable to both the professor and student.

It is evident from the above that a student is given virtually no freedom whatsoever. Not only is the student
completely at the whims of the Executive Committee but, in addition, so is every faculty member. No longer can a
professor use his own discretion about what course to follow in the event of a student cutting a review. He
must contact the Executive Committee and petition, on behalf of the student involved, for the right to give the student
a make-up test. Whether the Committee will grant this is solely up to the Committee and any petition may be
refused. In that case, the student will receive a ZERO on a zero even on one review. It boils down
to this: CUT A REVIEW AND FAIL THE COURSE.

The disadvantages of this new ruling are self-evident; however, let’s look at a few situations which will point these disadvantages
even more vividly: What of the student who should sleep through a review? More than one student has slept through
a first period class quite unintentionally. Is it right that he should be endangered to the extent of failing the
whole course because of this? What of the students that plan to go home early to work during the Christmas
holidays? What about the students who have two or three reviews assigned for one day? What about the student who
will miss a ride home (say, for example, to Mississippi or Florida) because of a review scheduled for a fourth
or fifth period on the day before a holiday season? What about the student that feels that he needs to
cut because of some sudden situation which arises? It is evident from the above-mentioned illustrations that the student cannot possibly
know whether the Executive Committee will approve his petition or not. This is solely up to the Committee and any
petition may be refused. In that case, the student will receive a ZERO on a zero even on one review.
It boils down to this: CUT A REVIEW AND FAIL THE COURSE.

The disadvantages of this new ruling are self-evident; however, let’s look at a few situations which will point these disadvantages
even more vividly: What of the student who should sleep through a review? More than one student has slept through
a first period class quite unintentionally. Is it right that he should be endangered to the extent of failing the
whole course because of this? What of the students that plan to go home early to work during the Christmas
holidays? What about the students who have two or three reviews assigned for one day? What about the student who
will miss a ride home (say, for example, to Mississippi or Florida) because of a review scheduled for a fourth
or fifth period on the day before a holiday season? What about the student that feels that he needs to
cut because of some sudden situation which arises? It is evident from the above-mentioned illustrations that the student cannot possibly
know whether the Executive Committee will approve his petition or not. This is solely up to the Committee and any
petition may be refused. In that case, the student will receive a ZERO on a zero even on one review.
It boils down to this: CUT A REVIEW AND FAIL THE COURSE.

The disadvantages of this new ruling are self-evident; however, let’s look at a few situations which will point these disadvantages
even more vividly: What of the student who should sleep through a review? More than one student has slept through
a first period class quite unintentionally. Is it right that he should be endangered to the extent of failing the
whole course because of this? What of the students that plan to go home early to work during the Christmas
holidays? What about the students who have two or three reviews assigned for one day? What about the student who
will miss a ride home (say, for example, to Mississippi or Florida) because of a review scheduled for a fourth
or fifth period on the day before a holiday season? What about the student that feels that he needs to
cut because of some sudden situation which arises? It is evident from the above-mentioned illustrations that the student cannot possibly
know whether the Executive Committee will approve his petition or not. This is solely up to the Committee and any
petition may be refused. In that case, the student will receive a ZERO on a zero even on one review.
It boils down to this: CUT A REVIEW AND FAIL THE COURSE.

The ruling has already been approved and is soon to go into effect unless the student body will join with
the members of the faculty who are also opposed to the new law. The professor, who certainly knows the student
better than the Executive Committee and canbetter understand a particular situation, should be allowed to make his own decision.

Letters To The Editor

Good or Bad? The Pax Feeney: A Result Of Apathy?
BY MALCOLM WILLIAMSON

It has come to our attention that an unusually quiet and peaceful attitude is the currently prevailing spirit on the
campus. There is no annoying petition signing; there have been no petitions. There are no imperative issues, either political, religious,
or ludicrous such as was the furious diploma storm of a former era.

Chapel And Vespers

Chapel conduct is the best since old Chambers was constructed, and due to the much improved chapel policy of the
administration there is no longer any real opposition to chapel. Vespers rudeness was curbed by quietly closing the balcony to
students. These are laudable ends, and they have been achieved by clever and astute means. The administration has shown a
mature political judgment which was not always demonstrated so effectively in past years. Everyone has been benefited.

But the current spirit of peace and contentment is not only found in the field of school-student relations. The intra-student
relations are relatively quiet.

YMCA

The once badly maligned YMCA now suffers from no vulgar abuse. It was not abolished, nor was membership made voluntary.
Through the passage of time, the wounds have healed, and the YMCA, its war-chest undamaged, continues as a potent force
in campus life. We wonder if the decision regarding the future of the Y was not made in the typical
Davidson way — passive apathy instead of affirmative decision. But evidently this is perfectly acceptable to the student body, and
the YMCA leaders should feel that they have received a tacit mandate from the students for the continuation of their
previous program.

Student Government

The major field in which peace reigns supreme is that of the student government. The present administration has achieved an
amazing success in its acceptance by the students. Never before has there been so little criticism of any regime. Never
before has the council gone about its duties so unhampered by student interest or concern. But perhaps this is to
be expected when practically no information of that body’s activities ever reaches the student’s ear — not even through that
ancient institution, the grapevine. If this administration’s goal was the maintenance of the status quo, they seem to be achieving
it since time is passing, and there is no sign of any imminent change.

A Student Assembly

What has become of the proposal supported by ODK that a student assembly separate from the judicial board be created?
The effectiveness of a regularly scheduled student council session open to interested students over a meeting of the entire student
body in chapel can hardly be doubted if the object is to bring forth sound proposals from the students. We
do not know the answers to many of the above questions, but we do know that many Davidson students would
like to feel that they can have some part in the student government even at the expense of the lethargic
quiet which now exists.

The Lions Den or How To Wait On A Football Training Table
BY HIRAM CATON

Everybody that is anybody has noticed the terrible spirit of our football team. It is obvious during practice sessions, games,
and nearly any other time when the team is gathered. I have been privileged to take a very intimate look
at them as I help wait the football team’s tables in the Student Union.

Lions Den

Have you ever tried to feed a lion? Neither have I, but I think that I have a pretty good
idea of what it would be like. While my colleagues and I diligently work to have the tables set up
for feeding time at one o'clock, four or five men usually come into the dining hall and plague our efforts.
The reader must understand that the kitchen gives us the exact number of desserts and salads that it takes to
provide one of each for every man on the team. Well, these “early birds” rake havoc on our efforts by
gathering up two or three salads and desserts and eating them before the rest of the team comes in. This,
of course, leaves us with a deficit, and when the other men finally arrive and discover that “we have shorted
them” a dessert or salad, they scream and yell and jump up and down and claim that we and Mr.
Murphy are profiteers trying to cheat defenseless boys.

This type of thing is very discouraging as there is no one more sympathetic with the team than I. I
feel sort of a maternalistic responsibility for them and it cuts me deeply for them to make such odious accusations.
Sometimes when we waiters are a little bit late they become awfully impatient. They beat on the table with their
spoons and this makes a noise loud enough for even Mr. Smith to hear, while he is eating, and Mr.
Smith eats dinner at his home. As if that weren't enough to let everybody know that their dinner is late,
they also shout in a singsong rhythm, “Where's the feed.” This is repeated without intermittance until the food appears, whereupon
a tumultuous shout of glee goes up. Meanwhile, everyone standing in line at the cafeteria is impressed with the waiters’
inefficiency.

Just as we are unloading the cart and have our hands full trying to serve five tables between the three
of us, one or two particular players will always shout, “Want some bread!” or “Want some jelly!” or whatever happens
not to be on his table. These “I want” shouts when we are obviously busy serving some other tables are
especially disquieting.

Probably everyone has speculated about how much the team eats and who the biggest eater is. As to how much
they eat, I can only say that they always want more than is in the kitchen. As for the biggest
eater, I can say without reservation that “Pete” Petersen is the man. One Sunday he ate two whole chickens, eight
pieces of bread, two salads, a dessert, two helpings of each vegetable, and drank three glasses of tea and four
glasses of water. That was one meal. There are four or five people who were there and will swear that
this is the truth.

WHAT OTHERS ARE SAYING

Selection Of “Prejudiced” Men For Compulsory Services Is Criticized

About . . . Mike Barron, writing in the Emory Wheel, finds distorted vision in the scissor workings of the
Atlanta censor who cuts clean sex from movies and passes with sadistic glee over brutalities unmentionable in polite company. Referring
to “The Egyptian,” Barron states “. . . the Atlanta censor was quick to scissor out the scenes of Bella
Darvi bathing, but she seemed to see nothing wrong with the scene where the Egyptian slave was crushed to a
bloody mess under a stone used to build the pyramids. The camera lingered lovingly on the scene while the screaming
slave was squashed. Which do you think is more objectionable, Bella Darvi taking a bath or someone being crushed to
death?” Both.

Way up in North Carolina W. C.’s Carolinian made a plea: Vote Republican! Speaking to a solid south it defended
the value of a two-party system. Said the Carolinian “Party affiliation should count little in this. Every Republican vote in
the South is a protest against the lazy inefficiency, corruption, and slow progress which is the almost inevitable result when
one party holds unchallenged political power and faces no competitor in efforts for the benefit of the people. It is
at the same time an encouragement to the growth of competitive vigilance and a step toward a remedy of the
situation.”

Shades . . . Sex, Statesmen, And Southern Writers of Walter Hines Page and the Forgotten Man! Meanwhile the Greensboro
Daily News had some editorial comments on the south as a literary locale. Calling attention to the release from the
magnolia and mint julep tradition in southern writing brought forth by the stark writings of Caldwell, Faulkner and Lillian Smith,
the News (as quoted in the Daily Tar Heel of U.N.C.) had the following to say of the “welter of
murder, arson, lynching, rape, incest, perversion and so on”: “Some of this was literature; most of it was the bunk;
and all of it taken together gave a picture of the South about as true to life as that modernist
artist’s painting of ‘A Nude Descending A Staircase.’ The South’s portrait looked more like a Picasso than an Eakins.

“But each reaction causes another reaction, and there are signs that Southern literature is moving from inferno to purgatory and
cooling off a bit. What signs? Well, there is Ovid W. Pierce’s The Plantation, and there is Frances Gray Patton’s
Good Morning, Miss Dove. Both contain a lot of truth and a good bit of art. These scraps of paper
may show which way the wind is blowing.” Anybody for a round of ‘Marse Chan’ or Red Rock? We prefer
A Bauble.

Next week: What they are saying about segregation. Letters concerning the same issue have been submitted by Stanley Miller and
Richard M. Hamor. These will be published next week in the segregation issue if the authors signify that they so
desire. -Ed.

Dear Editor:

If there is a freedom of speech at Davidson College, why do we have to sit back at compulsory services
and continually listen to a very one-sided view on the issue of segregation and not object outright to that portion
of the student body which only wishes to hear its views aired and hopes or believes that there is only
one view to hear? Is it not possible that we could persuade such a person as Herman Talmadge of Georgia
to entertain us in Chapel with his ideas on segregation? A large percentage of the student body is known to
be for segregation and for that element I would like to quote two sentences taken from an Alabama newspaper. They
seem to fully describe what would take place when and if segregation is done away with— “White and Negro children
in the same schools leads to miscegenation. Miscegenation leads to intermarriage which leads to mongrelization of the human race.”

Sincerely,

Dear Editor:

It seems that in a liberal arts college both sides of any current and important controversy should be presented by
competent exponents of each viewpoint. Such is not the present case at Davidson on at least two vital questions: Church
Union and racial segregation. The tone of the speakers both at compulsory vespers and at compulsory chapel has been uniformly
pro-union and anti-segregation. No speaker has fairly set forth the opposing view to either of these questions. This has not
been due to a lack of competent proponents either of the continuation of racial segregation or the continuation of the
autonomy of the Presbyterian Church, U. S. The one-sidedness of the presentation is due solely to the choice of speakers.
Considering the recent poll of the student body on the question of racial segregation, it is clear that the opinion
on this subject is almost equally divided on the campus. Perhaps we might be allowed to hear both sides fairly
presented and determine for ourselves their relative merit.

Sincerely,
Bob Majors
Al Simpson
Franklin Bloodworth
