PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN

Ford Foundation, Washington University,

“SERGEANT [People’s Playhouse | UNION BULLETINS | Miler And...

SKETCH _|nvites Davidson —) To Participate

Bob White, director of WBT’s popular program “People’s Playhouse,” has contacted the College Union with the idea of having Davidson students take part in his programs. This unusual program selects people from all walks of life as its actors, which offers a fine opportunity for Davidson students interested in dramatics, radio, and television work.

“Each program is one-half hour long and consists of two sketches of 10 minutes each. Every week the judges select “the best actor of the week,” who is asked to return for another performance. Mr. White is willing to arrange auditions at the College if enough students are interested. He also adds that WBT will pay $5 for any story idea suitable for the program. These sketches may be love stories, “who dunnits,” fantasies, kid stories, or suspense yarns. All students interested are asked to come by the Union office.

SFC WHEAT

SFC. Charles B. Wheat of the Davidson College R.O.T.C. Department entered the army at the Fort McPherson, Ga. induction center on February 6, 1943. He was assigned to Camp Pendelton, Va. for his basic training in the 34th Coast Artillery Battalion. He remained there for fourteen months. He then went to Camp Gruber, Oklahoma for infantry basic training with the Rainbow Division of the 42nd Infantry Regiment. After this, he went to jump school at Fort Benning, Georgia where he remained for nine weeks, April, May, and June of 1944. From there he went to E.T.O. in England with the 82nd Airborne Division, right before the Holland invasion. Wheat made the Holland invasion and remained in the Netherlands for 59 days. He stayed with the 82nd for the remainder of the year 1944 and went with them through three major campaigns. After he left Holland, he was engaged in the Battle of the Bulge when the Germans broke through. At that time he was wounded and went back to England to the hospital where he stayed for three months. He then went back to his outfit and made the last major campaign of which the 82nd was a part. This was the crossing of the Elbe River and the consequential surrender of the German 21st Army to the 82nd Airborne Division. SFC. Wheat then went into Berlin and remained there for three months in the occupation troops. He was then sent home on points. He re-enlisted after a ninety-day furlough and re-joined the 82nd at Fort Bragg, N.C. He remained there until the outbreak of the Korean War. He then volunteered for the Airborne Rangers and was sent to Fort Benning for training. During this period he took ranger training at Fort Benning, jungle training in Florida, and mountain and ski training in Colorado. He was then sent to Korea with the Eighth Ranger Company. This company joined the 24th Infantry Division. Its duty was primarily patrolling behind enemy lines. SFC. Wheat was in combat for nine months, after which time the ranger companies disbanded. He then went to Japan where he became a member of the 187th Regimental Combat Team. He remained in Japan for seven months and was then rotated home. He re-joined the 82nd at Fort Bragg and remained there for two months, during which time he test jumped a new chute that the 82nd is using today. He left there and joined the 508th Regimental Combat Team at Fort Benning, Ga. During his stay there he qualified as a master jumper in Master Jump School. He was there for fourteen months until he was assigned to the Davidson R.O.T.C. department. SFC. Wheat is married and now makes his home in Huntersville.

DAVIDSON THEATRE

All Pictures Will Be Shown On Our New P-A-N-O-R-A-M-I-C WIDE SCREEN

THURS.-FRI. OCT. 28-29
“SEVEN BRIDES FOR SEVEN BROTHERS”
JANE POWELL

SAT., OCT. 30
“JESSE JAMES WOMEN”
DON (Red) BARRY
PEGGY CASTLE

MON.-TUES., NOV. 1-2

All students and Faculty members are reminded to make proper arrangements in the Union Offices for using meeting rooms and other Union facilities in order to avoid possible conflict and disappointment. Cooperation in this regard will be greatly appreciated.

Freshman-Parents’ Day

Freshmen are requested to wear their Y.M.C.A. nameplates on Freshman-Parents’ Day, Saturday, November 6.

Hobby Displays

Any students who have collections, stamps, coins, short snorters, Indian relics, glassware, etc., and are willing to display them are asked to come by the Union office so that a time and place may be reserved for display.

Homecoming...

(Continued From Page One)

She was born on May 11, 1933, in Orange, California, and received her first experience on the Al Jarvis Show on Radio Station KLAC in Hollywood. At first with a small band, she left this group in order to spend more time with her vocal studies. Her break in the entertainment field came when she was invited to sing at a party given in honor of Harry James. After hearing her for only a minute, James decided to feature her as top vocalist in his band. It was at this point that Sam Donahue, after taking over the Billy May Orchestra, offered her the position of featured vocalist in the outfit.

D.C. Hits Air...

(Continued From Page One)

Dan Everhart, freshman from Lexington, N.C., is Hadley’s assistant. The broadcast consists of a brief rundown of campus activities, including extracurriculars, sports, and coming events of importance. Every other week Hadley interviews a student or faculty dignitary. He has recently interviewed Professor Houchens, head of the Fine Arts Department, and Dickie Davis, captain of this year’s Wildcat football team. “Davidson on the Air” is recorded in the David Ovens Student Union and is sent by direct wire to the WSOC studios in Charlotte.

[ported luxury sweaters, knitted in the most attractive patterns to be seen in years... hand-fashioned in Scotland exclusively for Mellon's in Charlotte]

Near East Society in New York, who came to Davidson with Mr. Miller, described the educational problem of the Near East as that which offers the greatest opportunities to American students and...Teachers: About 60 students (40 men) are selected each year to serve as teachers at Robert College in Istanbul, Turkey, the University of Beirut in Lebanon, and Athens College and Anatolia College in Greece. The greatest openings for men with a B.A. or B.S. degree, with no experience in teaching, are for the instruction of English language and literature, mathematics, and science on a secondary level. Mr. Whitman, who himself taught at Robert College in Istanbul, said that the instruction is not entirely academic, for there is a great practical necessity of inculcating geography, history, philosophy, and the foundation of Western thought along with regular subjects. The majority of students at each Near Eastern educational institution are natives of the respective countries. All instruction is delivered in English, though it is advisable for one participating in this program to learn the native language in order to understand fully individual problems. The pay for the required three-year term is $1,000 per year, plus room, board, and transportation to and from the Near East. This salary corresponds roughly with the usual beginning annual pay of teachers in secondary education in the United States, $2,800. While the financial remuneration is not great, Mr. Whitman pointed out, it is sufficient to cover travel interests in vacation periods and local expenses. He said that he lived comfortably and well during his Near Eastern sojourn, and still had money enough to bring home with him such items as Bohara and Turkish rugs, an inlaid ivory box, and a quantity of Damascus silk. Further information concerning teaching opportunities in the Near East may be obtained from Dr. George L. Abernethy, who worked with the International Relations Club and the YMCA in presenting Messrs. Miller and Whitman on the Davidson campus.

Ford Foundation and Ohio State U. Announce Scholarships

Ford Foundation: The Ford Foundation is again offering Foreign Study and Research Fellowships for persons who wish to become competent in the cultures, histories, and current problems of Asia and the Middle East, the Soviet Union, and East Europe areas. College seniors may apply for these awards. Previous study of the area or of a language of the area is not required to qualify. Stipends will be determined by an individual’s need. All applications must be filed before January 7, 1955. Further information may be had from Professor G. L. Abernethy. Application blanks are available from the Ford Foundation Foreign Study and Research Fellowship Program, 477 Madison Avenue, New York 22, N.Y.

Washington University: The Graduate School of Washington University in St. Louis is offering a number of fellowships for graduate study in various departments. The stipends range from $450 to $2,200. A number of University Tuition Scholarships which provide stipends equivalent to tuition are also available. Holders of fellowships and scholarships are not required to teach or render laboratory assistance. Application forms may be secured by writing to the Office of the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, Washington University, St. Louis, Mo.

Ohio State University: The Graduate School of the Ohio State University has announced a large number of scholarships for entering graduate students with stipends ranging from $600 to $800 plus remission of fees. Fifty out-of-state tuition scholarships are also available. Full information and application blanks may be secured by writing to Dean N. P. Hudson, Graduate School, Ohio State University, Columbus, Ohio.

Dr. Harris To... (Continued From Page One): will speak during the week on various phases of the theme: “The Christ Speaks to the Christian.” “The lectures are designed to be for all churches of this section of the state.”

Furman Game... (Continued From Page Three): If a finger were to be pointed at any one factor that made the difference between the two clubs, it would have to be in the passing attack. Whenever yardage was needed, Boyle, the leading ground-gainer in the Southern Conference, dropped back and hit his men. Yet when Davidson passed, men broke through, resulting in bad losses on more than one occasion. There were also several dropped passes. Outstanding for Davidson in the line were Petersen, Gramley, Newton, and Price, while Dyke Little and Henry Brown led the backs. Brown had a 67-yard average in 10 carries. Davidson played a rough-and-ready game against a team that beat them, 34-0, last year. Undoubtedly, many spectators walked away feeling that with fewer mistakes, the score would have been quite different. With no one injured badly enough to miss this Saturday’s homecoming game, the “Big Come Back,” featuring the Wildcats, should get back into the winning column against West Virginia Tech.

PARKER-GARDNER: CHARLOTTE 2, N.C. 118 West Trade Street Phone ED. 2-8257

THE CONNOISSEUR: A Place of Fine Foods for any taste in Eating — Specializing in Steak, Seafood, and Chicken Dinners. Mooresville, N.C. Phone 3-2861

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 29, 1954

WHAT A BUY! Chesterfield regular and king-size. (Both at the same price in most places). Jack Webb and Ben Alexander want what you want from a cigarette. Relaxation, comfort, satisfaction. They know where to find it—because in the whole wide world, no cigarette satisfies like a Chesterfield. Chesterfields are best to smoke because they alone have the right combination of the world’s best tobaccos. Chesterfields are best for you because they're highest in quality, low in nicotine. Try a carton of Chesterfields today.

LARGEST SELLING CIGARETTE IN AMERICA’S COLLEGES