PAGE FOUR

Terry, Scholl Head Teaching And Preaching Committees of YMCA

The deputations and Sunday school extension committees are service functions of the Y designed primarily to serve the community; to
fill the definite need for class teachers, group and discussion leaders, and young people's workers. As such, they also serve,
secondarily, to develop the student through experience in leadership, speaking, and social work.

Deputations

The deputation activities are centered around young people’s groups in surrounding churches and schools. So far, around twenty-five deputations have
been made to such institutions of learning as Queens, W.C., Winthrop, and Wofford, and to churches located all over the
Carolinas. A deputations team, usually consisting of four students, meets well in advance of the proposed trip, discusses the program
with chairman Scholl, and then returns again for a briefer prior to departure. Traveling in the Y car, the team
holds their services throughout the week in SCA’s or some denominational group consisting of high school and college-age young people.
Of the near forty who signed up, some twenty-five have participated in these deputations, coming from all four classes and
all varied interests and intended occupations.

The overall aim of the committee has been to attempt to conduct discussions that will raise eye-opening and thought-provoking questions
in the minds of the audiences, rather than to lecture. Due to frequent requests, the committee is planning a religious
emphasis in May at Elkin High School. A different DC student each morning will lead the chapel exercises centering around
the general topic, “The Maturing of Christian Young People.” There has been a constant demand throughout the year from the
churches and schools for these deputations. All requests have been fulfilled and several more are scheduled for completion in April
and May.

Sunday School Extension

The Sunday School Extension Committee is very similar to the former committee, being identical in purpose, type of activity and
personnel, and in continual competition for the Y car. The Sunday School Extension Committee centers its efforts on Sabbath teaching
in local rural churches and the sanatorium, with an attempt to expand the work done among the churches. The churches
served are located at Bethel, Ramah, Mt. Mourne, and Gilead, with student teachers alternating every other Sunday. The most hopeful
step toward progress is the work which is going forth successfully in Sharrar Town under the direction of Jim Daughdrill
and Blake Brinkerhoff. A class for small children has been organized and meets every Sunday afternoon in a local home.
The adults have become slightly interested and plans are under consideration to use a few appropriate films to arouse further
interest among them. It is hoped that these groups will continue to expand in the future. Among other plans of
the committee is the purchasing and distributing of New Testaments among the Negro group at the sanatorium.

One of the major problems facing both committees is how to utilize the large number of men signed up for
this type of Y work. Most of those unable to go on deputations or teach have aided in the overall
planning of the various activities. The sanatorium program has been served by an average of six to seven students a
week with a visitation devotional scheme being utilized rather than the former way of teaching a full lesson.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

DAVIDSONIAN WALKING SHORTS: CLASS WILL TELL

BROWN HENLEY JOHNSON

Davidson Chorus Praised by Observer

(Ed note: The following review of Wednesday night’s Male Chorus concert is reprinted from the Charlotte Observer.)

By WRISTON LOCKLAIR
Observer Staff Writer

Although the very competent Dartmouth College and Princeton University Glee Clubs have been interesting and entertaining in recent programs here,
they are not as accomplished in the art of singing as a group of 30 young men right in the
neighborhood—the Davidson College Male Chorus. The visitors from the Ivy League, who drew large and approving audiences, sang everything from
Handel to Gershwin, and sang with spirit. They were delightful in popular tunes and college songs. But the Davidson chorus
is more interested in the production of music for music’s sake. It is thoroughly serious. And the product of this
attitude is a timbre and a finesse that must have been the envy of many larger colleges and universities visited
on the recent chorus tour in the North.

Quality High

Usually, there are about 90 candidates for the chorus, with about 30 boys from all four classes accepted in the
fall. Rehearsals are about three times a week. There is no better example of good quality in relation to small
quantity. The early sacred music, which occupied the first portion of the concert, was sung in Latin and was beautifully
projected. (There is exceptionally fine resonance in the bass voices, giving the ensemble a solid foundation.) The four Schubert songs
were the most stimulating section of the diverse program. “La Pastorella” has never sounded more melodious, and the “Widerspruch” was
admirably unfolded. Randall Thompson’s “Tarantella” is a somber and striking composition, set to a text by the eccentric Hilaire Belloc.
The color and contrasts in the vocal line are numerous and the harmonies are dramatic. With Robert Crutchfield singing the
tenor verses, there was a haunting quality to the familiar “Poor Wayfaring Stranger.” (Earlier, tenor Leighton McCutchen was recalled for
a second bow following his solo by Gluck, “O Del Mio Dolce Ardor.”)

There is a minimum of physical movement when the Davidson College Male Chorus sings. All attention is to the best
presentation of a song. They are not theatrical. They do not win you by hamming all over the stage. They
win you by their seriousness and by their musicianship. All of this, of course, reflects on the direction they are
getting from Donald Plott. He, too, uses a minimum of gestures. His approach is straightforward. His musical acumen is advanced
and he apparently knows many of the choral pitfalls. Mr. Plott is an important talent in front of a group
of singers.

Council Discusses...

(Continued From Page One)

the proposals and to set a date, probably next week, for formal presentation to the student body. The Student Council
must review the amendments and air their views before presentation to the students. The delay has been attributed to the
fact that council members have been busy making up time spent in last week’s hearings. Amendment originators also have been
forced to ease their push somewhat by last week's loss of time in composing sessions.

According to the Constitution, the Student Council must present the proposed amendment exactly as petitioned. Following the presentation, the amendments
will be tabled at least ten days. Realizing the development of some misunderstanding over individual amendments, petitioners agree that a
great deal more explanation, particularly in the motives and background of respective proposals, is needed. They are particularly anxious to
receive any questions that may have arisen among students. Plans are being made for open discussions and printing of views
by the originators. Sunday night’s discussion in the YMCA lounge following vespers gave an indication of the deep and widespread
interest held by students. Participants exchanged several views, pro and con, and clarified a number of points in the proposed
amendments. Robert Crutchfield, who brought the signed petition before the student body in assembly, feels that “the student body as
a whole is rather enthusiastic for something to be done about the existing situation. The student body is ready for
the change these amendments will produce.”

BILL SCHOLL
WILL TERRYdeputations committee, is a proud product of Charlotte, North Carolina. Combining new ideas with his experience in church and
Scout work, he has promoted a very active deputations program this year. A history major, Abernethy minor, he plans to
enter Union Theological Seminary in the fall of ‘55 with the support of his future spouse—if all goes well. “Wild
Bill” came to Davidson after one year at Charlotte College where he was editor of the annual and elected Best
Student among other honors. This year he is an officer of the Kappa Alpha social fraternity, a member of Phi
and the Y cabinet.

WILL TERRY
Will Terry, prophetic senior from the tobacco field of Durham, N.C., is silently serving as chairman of the Sunday School
extension committee of the Y. Calling on his many years of good attendance in Sunday School and his creative ability,
he has greatly expanded the formerly small extensions committee. He is a history major with a future set in the
ministry. “Boss” Terry has lived a very active role in campus life his four years here. Now serving as assistant
editor of Quips and Cranks and on the Y cabinet, he was last year chief commencement marshal, president of Eumanean
Literary Society, and an officer of the Sigma Phi Epsilon social fraternity. He was this year elected to Who's Who.

Should Witnesses . . . (Continued From Page Two)
Body Constitution, in which testimony of other witnesses and material evidence is used. In short, it should be an insult
to any accused who is placed on the stand in a trial after testimony and evidence (or the lack of
either) have been considered, and then ask whether or not he is guilty, with the expectation that he will consider
himself honor-bound to tell the truth. As the old saying goes, you can’t work both sides of the street—not and
claim to be acting justly.

The second argument stated above—that an accused should be required to testify against himself since attendance here is a privilege
enjoyed at the sufferance of the college—is one which cannot be successfully refuted by logic and reason, because it proceeds
on other bases. It should be enough to say this: The college, being a private institution, can certainly do what
it wants to, in the manner it deems desirable, in any matter concerning its affairs as long as it does
not violate the law. This fact, however, does not mean that anything the college does is necessarily just or fair
or right. It means merely that the college has the force to back up its rulings; no more and no
less.

FREE! BERMUDA WALKING SHORTS
went to the races in Camden, S. C., last weekend in varied fabrics, smartly coordinated. Buddy Brown chose a linen
coat, India Madras bow tie, and matching belt and gray socks to complete his ensemble. Helen Burns was smartly attired
in a silk serge suit of navy blue with a white linen blouse. Claire Chesnut preferred separates of toast and
white linen and repeated the tones in her spectator pumps. Jesse Henley wore oxford gray tropical worsted walking shorts with
a cotton cord coat and neat patterned tie. Betty Morrison’s dress was a novelty cotton tweed frosted with white pique
trim. Sim Johnson teamed a cotton cord coat and a button-down shirt, repp stripe tie, and white cable-stitched hose with
a pair of India Madras walking shorts. Bermuda shorts are continually gaining favor for all types of spectator sportswear as
well as leisure wear.—Reprinted from Charlotte Observer, Sunday morning, April 11, 1954.

D Club Follies... (Continued From Page One)
mous and the star-studded cast includes such renowned theatrical performers as Bobby Joe Key, Al Ormond, Tim Gilley, Dan McCall,
and the “jewel” himself, Neill Graham as the bartender. Also included in the program is the famed and fabulous Can-Can
line composed of 10 campus lovelies. Graeme Keith and that lady-killer “Ish” Bennett will also give their version of an
American traveler's experiences in gay Paris.

HOW'D YOU LIKE TO... a year... be an officer in the air force... get an exciting head start in jet
aviation... AND belong to a great flying team? Dorse F. Pendleton, Jr., 1st Lt. USAF & aviation cadet selection team
No. 304 are coming to Davidson to show you how. They will be here on the 28th and 29th of
April, 1954. Meet them at the Student Union during their stay.

FREE! 1954 Crosley VHF-UHF Television Set To Be Given Away Saturday, June 5 Ticket given with each purchase of gasoline.
Start saving yours today. You do not have to be present to win. TWIN-CITY TIRE & OIL SERVICE PHONE 6416
At the Underpass Cornelius-Davidson

Off-Moorings... (Continued From Page Two)
the Faculty, such general matters of discipline as it may desire to transfer, provided that any action of the Student
Council involving discipline shall be reported at once to the Dean of Students. Any student has the right of appeal
from the Student Council to the Faculty, but all appeals shall be made direct to the Faculty. Thus the Crutchfield
amendment offers to students no right of appeal, which is fundamental in any law structure, and further it is actually
incompatible with the views of any of the other groups vitally concerned with the furthering and advancement of student government.
By the simplest analysis you can see that what is proposed here constitutes a power which we students just do
not possess.

The Answer
The proposed amendments to the Student Government Constitution as they now stand are ambiguous, ill-conceived, unrepresentative, illegal, solve no problems
but only create many more difficult and complex ones, and finally represent immature thinking. There is only one of the
amendments with which I partially agree and that is the drinking rule. In the past the penalty has been entirely
too severe and so interpreted that few offenders came under the rule and those that happened to get caught were
martyred as an example to others. It would seem that the campussing business and the pledge are too juvenile for
college students, but there certainly ought to be some way of treating first offenders with greater mercy than has been
shown in the past. What is now needed—and badly—is a thorough overall investigation of the Honor System as it now
is conceived. Through the democratic processes of committee investigation, analysis, and recommendation a solution can be found. The Crutchfield amendments
are solutions of sorts. We need solutions of equity and right.

DAVIDSON THEATRE
All Pictures Will Be Shown On Our New P-A-N-O-R-A-M-I-C WIDE SCREEN
WED.-THUR., APRIL 14-15 “SABRE JET” (Technicolor) ROBERT STACK
FRIDAY & SATURDAY AND MONDAY & TUESDAY “FROM HERE TO ETERNITY” BURT LANCASTER DEBORAH KERR
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 21 “SEQUOIA” JEAN PARKER
THURS.-FRI., APRIL 22-23 “CASANOVA’S BIG NIGHT” (Technicolor) BOB HOPE

Today’s Chesterfield is the Best Cigarette Ever Made!
“Chesterfields for Me!” Purdue Univ.
The cigarette tested and approved by 30 years of scientific tobacco research.
“Chesterfields for Me!” Deborah Kerr Star of the Broadway Hit “Tea and Sympathy”
The cigarette with a proven good record with smokers. Here is the record. Bi-monthly examinations of a group of smokers
show no adverse effects to nose, throat and sinuses from smoking Chesterfield.
“Chesterfields for Me!” The cigarette that gives you proof of highest quality—low nicotine. For the taste and mildness you want—smoke
America's most popular 2-way cigarette. University of Oklahoma
Largest Selling Cigarette in America’s Colleges
Copyright 1954, Loorrr & Mrrss Tosacto Co.
