PORT SCENE
By JIM HOLSHOUSER

Davidson's Inter-fraternity winter-sports program got underway last Tuesday night with the swimming meet, and as usual, the old question of eligibility is already starting to come up. The student body (for the most part) has been given no definite rules concerning eligibility as set up by the Sports Managers, and several mix-ups always occur during the winter activity.

The eligibility committee has established a set of rules which have been pretty standard for quite a few years. The rules committee has also set the law concerning such things as Protests, Forfeits, Postponements, and the point system to be used in each sport. Next week, The Davidsonian will publish the rules concerning major points on which most students seem to be confused, and we hope that students will take advantage of this opportunity to acquaint themselves with these rules. This publication is also being made in an attempt to call to students’ attention several points which could, it seems, be improved. As the system stands now, the rules are sometimes rather vague and can be easily misinterpreted, and some could be only slightly changed to make a terrific improvement in the inter-fraternity program. Any changes made, of course, will take a lot of hard work, but any improvement made would be worth the effort.

It was shown this fall that the rules are not perfect, when the entire tennis program was overhauled for a better system. This move came as a direct result of student interest, and any further change in the system will come only through the same channel. The Sports Managers, not the Athletic Office, should be given the complaints of students since these representatives make the rules. If there is no pressure from students, there will be no change. The matter is entirely in the hands of the students. Perhaps the present complaints do not represent the sentiment of the entire student body, and only by our action can the Sports Managers know what action, if any, to take. So let’s let our representatives know any of the parts we don’t like and get them changed.

Across the nation, winter sports have gotten started in fine style, and already several predictions have been made concerning national champions and basketball All-Americans. Davidson’s cagers got the local ball rolling up at Guilford last night, and the home slate opens next Monday when the Quakers return the visit. But as all the hustle and bustle over winter sports begins, the national football situation still holds the major spotlight. The bowl games have selected all their opponents, and the college bowl schedule gets underway tomorrow, with the Potato Bowl and Orange Blossom Festival being the first. After a long, dizzy spin, the bowl season ends on January 8, with the Senior Bowl marking the final major clash. Carolina fans will get a look at the top prep players in North and South Carolina tomorrow at the annual Shrine Bowl in Charlotte, with proceeds going to the Crippled Children’s Hospital in Greenville, S. C. The classic is a top-flight attraction and always provides the best in high school football.

Next week’s issue of The Davidsonian will bring out a new feature which will continue throughout the winter sports season. In each issue, a five-man delegation chosen at random from the student body will attempt to select the winners on a 10-15 game card taken from outstanding basketball games in this area each week. Five members of the sports staff are going to start the ball rolling by sticking their necks out on the first card, possibly to get them cut off. With the many closely-matched teams in the area, picking the winners could be quite a job, and the winners of the contests will have to be very adept (or lucky as the case may be.) The names of the winners will be published each week, but no prizes will be given since that would make the contest illegal under student gambling regulations.

SPECIAL
This Ad Is Worth $5.00 on any Suede Jacket in Stock. Come In and Get Yours Today! Tear Out And Bring To Store.
Wilson-Wright’s Inc.
“COLLEGIATE FASHIONS”
Next to Bank
Davidson, N. C.

CAT CAGERS HIT QUAKERS MONDAY NIGHT
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 3, 1954

Hobby Cobb Buckets 39 As Quakers Fall, 94-73
By JIM HOLSHOUSER

Davidson's varsity basketball team opened its 1954-55 season last night by defeating the Guilford Quakers, 94-73. The outcome of the contest, which was supposed to be pretty close, was never in doubt after the early minutes of the second half when the Wildcats moved ahead by a wide margin, never to be threatened again. The Davidson club held a five-point lead at half-time and definitely had control of the game.

SAEs Cop Swim Meet; Kappa Sigs Take 2nd
By LEON HOWELL

The fraternity swimming meet ushered in the winter sports season here at Davidson Tuesday and Wednesday night. In a meet marked by its stiff competition, John Winfrey and Henry Brown led the SAE’s to victory. The individual spotlight was grabbed by Don Stewart, who turned in the only record-breaking performance in winning the 50-yard backstroke. The top four teams were SAE with 26 points, Kappa Sig with 19½, Phi Delt with 16½, and Phi Gam’s with 8. The results by event were:

180-yard medley—Kappa Sig—1:39.6.
25-yard freestyle—Brown and Winfrey (tie)—SAE—:11.9.
95-yard freestyle—Shepard—Kappa Sig—:44.3.
50-yard backstroke—Don Stewart—Phi Delt—:33.3*
50-yard freestyle—Winfrey—SAE—:27.4.
75-yard individual medley—Ormond—Phi Gam—:51.5.
80-yard breaststroke—Stowe—Kappa Sig—:34.5.
200-yard relay—Phi Delt—1:54.1.
*-Denotes new record.

SC Race Promises To Be Good One; Colonials Favored
By BOB PULLIAM

It was a wild and exciting contest, with the Guilford coach leaving the game midway in the last half in protest to a call by the officials. The Guilford crowd continually heckled the Davidson players, but the Wildcat cagers kept making the baskets just the same. The Quakers tried a desperate, backcourt press in the final quarter, but the move failed as the Davidson guards continually worked the ball easily into the fore-court. Coach Meredith of Guilford and Referee Dolan Hedrick will have a chance to resume their argument Monday when both men will be at their posts for the game here.

For Davidson, Hobby Cobb was the hero, pumping in 14 field goals and 11 free throws for a tremendous total of 39 points. After a big, 22-point first half by Cobb, the Guilford defense doubled up on the Charlotte boy in the final period, but Hobby continued to score despite the move.Ray Harding and Richard Weeks did a fine job of helping the Cat scoring punch, and Gaylord Walker played a top-flight game under the boards, getting more than his share of the rebounds. Coach Danny Miller used the entire traveling squad in the scrap. Only Ish Bermett did not get into the game. Ish had a badly-sprained foot, a result of an accident in practice earlier this week. The West Virginia forward may miss the return game with Guilford next Monday night, but he will probably be set to make the pre-holiday trip next week. His presence in the Davidson line-up will definitely strengthen the Wildcat chances. Bill Atkins, Captain of the Quaker club, pushed in 25 points to lead the Guilford scoring, but the efforts of the forward weren't enough as the Wildcats held his teammates closely in check.

The Southern Conference basketball race begins this week with all ten teams swinging into action. The 10-team league is expected to furnish one or possibly two eastern powers on the hardwood. The George Washington Colonials are picked to lead the conference, come March, with West Virginia, Richmond, and Furman furnishing most of the tough opposition. The league, in its second year of existence after the split with other schools who formed the Atlantic Coast Conference, is expected to furnish a tighter race for league laurels than last winter when George Washington snared the honors with a perfect 10-0 record.

Glancing at the conference by teams, we find George Washington, 12th ranked nationally last year, sporting a squad of eight returning lettermen, including such stars as Corky Delvin and Joe Holup. Holup, picked in preseason polls as a possible All-American, led the nation last year with a field goal percentage of 57.2. With one eye on the rival, Oklahoma City All-College and the Virginia Festival at Richmond, Richmond is given a slight nod starting five back from last season. Richmond went to the finals in the 83-54 tournament before bowing to the powerful Colonials. Coach Hooker is building his team around Warren Mills, whom he considers the best small player in the country. West Virginia and Furman find they have a capable replacement for the fabulous Frank Selvey, who broke almost every scoring record in the books last year.

(Continued On Page Four)

The Davidsonian

THE DAVIDSONIAN

SEVEN GUYS WHO WILL BE MISSED

The seven seniors shown here completed their active football careers at Davidson in the final game against Elon. Sub or star, lineman or back, they all played a very important part in giving Davidson its best season since 1933. Reading left to right, the seniors are: Top row—Henry Brown, Dickie Davis, Jim Fasul, and Corky King. Bottom Row—Harry Petersen, Charlie Renkin, and Jim Thacker.

By BUNNY PERKINSON

Davidson has just completed its most successful football season in recent years, a season which will long be remembered by the players and students alike. Those who will probably remember it longest are the seven Seniors who ended their college football careers here two weekends ago.

The first in alphabetical order is Henry Brown, a 175-pound fullback from Carrollton, Ga., who came into his own this year as a star runner. Henry ran at the quarterback spot in 1953, but his return to the fullback position this season was one of the best moves made by Coach Bill Dole. Henry finished the season in fourth place in individual Southern Conference rushing, and he was the leading ground-gainer for the Cats.

Dickie Davis, hailing from Spindale, N. C., is probably the toughest 180 pounds Davidson opponents met all year. One of the scrappiest guards to perform here in many years, Dickie was the Captain of this year's Cats, and the record of the team is some indication of the fine job he did. Though hampered by a knee injury in the early part of the season, he came on to finish a brilliant career in great style. His dependability and never-say-die spirit will be sorely missed when Davidson takes the field next fall.

Jim Fasul, returning to the squad after a hitch in the Marines, was an outstanding guard on this year’s eleven, having won his letter in 1950. Fasul was on Coach Dole's great championship team at Fayetteville High School in 1947, and his performance this year showed one reason that the Fayetteville club did so well. His outstanding play this season earned him Honorable Mention on the All-Southern Conference squad.

Corky King, a 169-pound end from Burlington, is a typical example of the type of player that gave Davidson its fine season. When a player ran out of steam in earlier years, he simply had to stay in and take it, or let the coach send in a “second-rate” player. This year, Davidson could substitute freely without dropping the quality of players in the line-up, and Corky played a lot of ball for Davidson under Dole’s two-unit system. He played exceptionally well on defense and will certainly be missed next season.

Harry Petersen, known much more widely as “Pete”, has had a brilliant career at Davidson despite many injuries. Weighing 234 pounds, Pete has provided the needed strength and size in the Davidson line, and it has told the story in some of the scores this season. He had more tough breaks and injuries than Carter has pills, but he never failed to return to the line-up and give it all he had. This year, he was sidelined for the first few games with a bad leg, but he ended his playing days with tremendous performances in the line-up.

(Continued On Page Four)

AND HOW IT STARTED.

Fran Baumann says: “I've wanted to be an editor ever since I worked on a boy’s magazine at age 8. After being an editor of the Dartmouth literary magazine (The Dart), I set my sights on Esquire. It took 18 years of hard work to achieve the editorship — after struggling as a newsmagazine cub, cartoon and essay writer, advertising copywriter, and trade paper editor.”

"I started smoking CAMELS 2 years ago. I've tried many other brands, but my choice always is Camel. No other brand is so mild yet so rich-tasting!”

START SMOKING CAMELS YOURSELF! Make the 30-Day Camel Mildness Test. Smoke only Camels for 30 days!