PAGE TWO

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Henry Brockmann

Assistant Editors
Joe Burroughs, Gilbert Gragg, Swain Loy

Managing Editors
Blake Brinkerhoff, Maurice Crouse, Tom Warlick

Sports Editor
Jim Holshouser

Feature Editor
Dick Morehead

News Editors
John Hiers, Watt McCain

Copy Editor
John Hermon

THE DAVIDSONIAN
PUBLISHED WEEKLY THROUGHOUT THE COLLEGE YEAR
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office of Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1897

ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Floyd Feeney, John Handley, Austin Strand

BUSINESS MANAGER
Tim Cooper

Art Editor
Ed Price

Photographer
Hank Daniel

Assignments
Jim Brice

Editorial Consultants
Joe Gaskin, Jim Marshall, Stan Miller, Bill Stewart

Assistant Business Manager
Tommy Taylor

Advertising Manager
Larry Parrott

Collections Manager
John Smith

Circulation Manager
Bob Carmichael

Smith’s “Farewell Address” Views Editorial Year In Retrospect

With unexpected regret and understandable relief, the retiring editor turns over the duties, headaches, worries, and satisfactions of the office to his successor. We will not pat ourselves on the back as we walk out the door, mouthing vague generalities about what a good year we have had. We honestly feel we have in several instances done a job of which we could be proud, but on the other hand, there have been some moments best forgotten.

Elected on the platform of reflecting student opinion, we have since come to wonder whether that is the highest calling of the student newspaper, though we still feel it is important. More vital, however, is the responsibility of molding informed student opinion on the more fundamental issues of college education, and how it is preparing us for a world such as this. The weekly college newspaper is a pretty good barometer of student attitudes and a reasonably good indication about how much and what kind of thinking is going on among students. Of course, it should not merely be satisfied with the passive role of barometer for the student body. It should be an active and stimulating force presenting new ideas, rather than a broken phonograph, repeating for its readers what they are already thinking and what they like to hear. Our feeling is that too often we have merely catered to the student body instead of informing them.

But together with certain recriminations about our failures goes a deep satisfaction that working with the Davidsonian has provided. This publication has an important place on the campus with a world of opportunity for intelligent student self-expression; it is really an education in itself. One of the many rewarding and heartening things about editing the Davidsonian this year has been the enthusiastic, self-sacrificing attitude of an entire staff who were really interested in improving the quality and efficiency of the paper. In this respect, there has scarcely been a weak link. Henry Brockmann, Floyd Feeney, and John Handley functioned like old pros as managing editors and sports editor respectively. The same goes for Blake Brinkerhoff who handled assignments. Austin Strand was “Johnny on the Spot” as news editor. Dick Little did a splendid job as circulation manager, both in getting papers distributed on the campus and mailing them out to nearly 500 outside subscribers and advertisers. Jim Moore and Dick Roper led a corps of capable editorial page writers who literally feared no man and let the chips fall where they might—on everyone from Joe McCarthy to the local police officers. Under the direction of Charley Hasty, the business staff sold the ads and paid the bills, despite the fact that many businessmen were increasingly prone to confuse advertising in college publications with acts of Christian charity. Don Mahy and Ed Price probed tender spots around the campus with their cartoons while humorous and human interest features by Bill Moffett and T. Alden Williams served to brighten the pages of many an issue.

We leave the Davidsonian now in the capable hands of Henry Brockmann and his new staff with every good wish for the future and with full confidence in their ability.

—D.M.S.

Typical Student Apathy Seen In Dying Amendment Controversy

The “fight” over the proposed amendments has but added tacit assent to the unchallenged conclusion that the Davidson student is ever apathetic about anything beyond six hours sleep and three meals daily. For two weeks now, a sprinkling of students have kept their ears and lips open in an effort to hear any comment about the amendments they oppose or propose and to press their case. In an effort to keep things going, they have made the calm discussions of the amendments seem veritable wars of words. Those in favor of the proposals have warned over and over again that something must be done this year before the whole thing dies down. It is disheartening to realize that things seem to have died already. Perhaps few were interested in the first place. The words of Bob Crutchfield in chapel two weeks ago stirred the students to clapping—after all, wasn’t someone proposing independence, whatever that was? Since then, however, little thought has been given to the matter by most students, and the whole decision about the amendments now rests on the question of whether or not they will ever find their way into the Friday voting of the student body. If they do, they may pass, but if they don’t, everyone will very appropriately forget about them.

The whole attitude of students toward these amendments is typical of their attitude toward every problem that comes before their gaze. We are typically men who let George do it. We can’t be troubled to think over anything beyond mosquitoes, reviews, and other temporary bothers to our daily vicious circle. The most exciting thing since Jennings Fields is the eternal smoke of the burning garbage dump. Reason: we bother nostrils and sleep. What if boys do get thrown out of school for an overdose of Listerine. They usually turn out to be boys other than ourselves, and besides, such cases are seldom detected. The seniors, of all students, seem to be those most interested in the progress, or lack of progress on the amending of the Constitution. Some have just stood in awe at this phenomenon. Others have accused the sages of the student body of being last-minute glory seekers. Be this right or wrong, there seems to be little but praise for men who spark for action during their last weeks in Davidson while the rest of the student body, the people who will be affected by any change, sits idly by half asleep, wholly unconcerned.

There are those who will consider the foregoing unfair to the Davidson students. Coffee time often finds conversation about the proposed amendments. But conversation is all. An introspective glance by the student would likely reveal to him that he is a parrot at heart, soaking in witty sayings by others in order to repeat them himself, but leaving action buried beneath his words. To talk, to converse, to argue, to gripe: all is utterly useless energy sown to the wind without the vital interest and intestinal fortitude to change words to actions. There is no doubt that the Davidson student should get busy. A little thought on the part of the men who will be under the jurisdiction of these amendments will settle the matter well before the end of school. But if things are as usual, the student will remain a cistern of cynicism to the end of time before he will use his brain to become a fountain of constructive criticism and building.

—H.C.B.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

“Thomas, you know too much.”

May Oppenheimer Case Involves More Than Scientist’s Fate

The current security case involving atomic scientist Dr. Robert Oppenheimer has already ceased to be headline news in the daily papers, largely because there have been no new facts or developments since the appointment of a special three-man board to review the facts and announce its decision, which is due about a week from now. But if the Oppenheimer case is not occupying as much newspaper space as it did last week, the central issue in the case is just as important now as it was when the news of the story broke. For the Oppenheimer case involves more than the innocence or guilt of one man. The overriding issue here is the question: Should a person's former political beliefs and associations be held to forever disqualify himself from public service?

The argument which will immediately be made upon the posing of this question is that in the Oppenheimer case it is not yet certain that he has definitely repudiated his established former political sympathies and associations, i.e., his sympathy with many Communist causes and association with known Communists in the nineteen thirties and early forties.

Two-Fold Charge

The charge that Dr. Oppenheimer is a security risk is based on more than merely his former political associations. It is the second charge, which is also established, that Dr. Oppenheimer in 1949 opposed the construction of the hydrogen bomb, the program which President Truman ordered begun on January 31, 1950.

It is, of course, the conjunction of these two established facts, not either of them singly, that is held to incriminate Dr. Oppenheimer. Had either of them been true and the other false, there would have been...

Another point that we should...

FRIDAY, APRIL 23, 1954

Students Take Sharp Hit at D.C. Situation

By BELL, McKELWAY, MAHMY, MITCHELL

It is evident to these writers that there are vast problems now facing the student body, which we will shortly prove. These things are of momentous import, as some have so ably pointed out. This may well be! Few students or faculty men will deny that there is a growing awareness of the need for a stronger, more definite, and more workable interpretation of the problem. There are some who seem to think this is definitely the case. Others take a more moderate stand on this knotty issue. As one Mr. J. College put it, “I think it’s time we faced the facts, procrastination will get us nowhere.” We have it on the best authority that no one—student or otherwise—in the last four years has seriously questioned the need for full investigation, analysis, and possibly some changes.

As you may suspect, these writers have also come afoul of the situation. Don’t surmise then that therefore we are merely giving vent to personal grievances; though we have had occasion to come in intimate contact with the situation. There is a valid and generally felt grievance here outside our own feelings. The Faculty has been wont to inquire into these things and has more often than not found itself unable to give voice to any concrete solution, such as the type which we propose to propose. Our solution is not a spiteful one. It is one that seeks for something. It is one that may, as several undergrads have indicated, strike a blow against hypocrisy and find a better solution than one which might, under other circumstances, have worked. Only now are we able to...Employ that critical spirit, self-analysis, and truth-seeking which pervaded other college campuses across our great nation two and three and four decades past. Unless we continue, we may be sorry. But if we persist in refusing to adopt this spirit, we may well find (Continued On Page Four)

Williams Defends Legality Of New Constitutional Amendments

Dear Editor:

Involvement, either active or passive, in the current question of Student Council jurisdiction over cases arising out of honor system violations, affords this observer an overpowering Don Quixotic feeling. Not that there is any inherent danger in breaking lances in windmill teeth. But this sort of thing implies a certain obligation for Sancho Panza to act as a sort of steadying second, so to speak, and to be sure that Quixote not only realizes that the persons who joust with an authentic lance were attracted to Communism in the dark days of the thirties and early forties were as a rule of the more intelligent, intellectual classes. And it is inevitable that many of these same persons, who were in their twenties and thirties during the era in question and are now in their forties and fifties, are men who have the experience and intelligence in such fields as science, history, political science, economics, et al, to be of great value to the Government. Thus it can be seen that these considerations are all-important in (Continued on Page Four) against honest-to-goodness windmills is real, live, red-blooded windmill country, but that he joust justly.

Last week, columnist Jim Moore quoted a paragraph which he claimed to be from the Charter of Davidson College. For purposes of explanation, this Charter is an act of legislation of North Carolina, granted to Davidson College in 1838 and bearing the full legal weight of any such act. Columnist Moore’s quotation, however, was not from the Charter itself, but from a group of By-Laws to this Charter added by the Board of Trustees. These By-Laws, unlike the original Charter, are not state laws in any sense of the word. It follows, then, that even if the proposed Amendment I to the Student Body Constitution did imply contradiction of one of the By-Laws of the Trustees, which it does not, Mr. Moore would have no legal basis for his assertion which implies both contradiction and illegality.

This statement in no way renders judgment, pro or con, on the proposed amendments, nor is it meant in any way seriously to impugn the general journalism of Jim Moore, who is a writer of no mean ability. We merely want to keep the gloves used in the ring of the same weight, to keep them free from between-rounds tampering. In short, let us keep our lances made from solid, straight and true oak, and let us joust in windmill country like Holland or Spain, not in the windmill-less wastes of Nairobi.

Sincerely,
ALDEN WILLIAMS.

Members Of Student Council Defend Revised Amendments

By PERRIN ANDERSON and LEIGHTON McCUTCHAN

Amendments I, IV, and V are designed to give the Student Government the teeth which it so sadly lacks now, and to make explicit what has long been vague and indefinite. The first one (note change on page 2) makes the Student Government have more guts. It makes clear that the Student Government must be the group to decide on student affairs without passing the buck to the Faculty. The right of appeal is not denied any student; but the amendment points out the student leaders’ obligations to the student body.

The fourth amendment, dealing with the signed statement, is not designed to place anything new under the Honor System; quite the contrary, it simply makes clear to an incoming student that he is becoming a part of the Student Government. He agrees to place himself under our Constitution, understanding what our rules are, and the consequences for breaking them. It is an effort to eliminate the ignorance of our government, which has been so widespread in the past.

The amendment calling for full testimony by student witnesses (number five) is absolutely essential, for without it the Student Government cannot depend upon its only source of power—the cooperation of the students. Again, this is nothing new; for years it has simply been understood that all students would cooperate fully in aiding the Student Council to seek out and administer justice. It was only the strain of an unjust rule that caused this understanding to fail.

Now we must clarify the understanding as well as change the unjust rule. It is idle to cite the Fifth Amendment to the U. S. Constitution as applying to our situation; it applies only to criminal courts, working on the premise that a defendant should be allowed every chance to escape punishment for a crime. At Davidson, we cannot operate on a legalistic system; we are forced to depend on the cooperation and integrity of each student, without any police force or prosecuting attorneys. It is a question of whether we are aiming to provide loopholes for students to escape the provisions of our Constitution, or whether we are striving to emphasize our common agreements and joint responsibilities. Besides, it is clear that if the Student Government does not have enough support to solve its cases, the Executive Committee can—and did—demand full testimony.

The last amendment provides for a more realistic and modern approach to keeping the campus free of drinking. A three-month campus is a severe penalty, but it is not as harsh as suspension; and it has become obvious that most students do not think that drinking should carry a penalty similar to that for honor offenses. The campus would be enforced by the Student Council; it may not be a perfect solution to the problem, but something must be done, and this is the only workable arrangement now known.

These are the purposes and explanations of the proposed amendments. We, together with fifty other students, believe that if Student Government is to mean anything at all here, we must take these beginning steps before it is too late, even though they may not be perfect. We sincerely urge the students of this college to think carefully and act decisively to preserve their right to govern themselves.