The Davidsonian
The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

EDITOR
HENRY BROCKMANN

BUSINESS MGR.
TIM COOPER

Managing Editors
Maurice Crouse, Tom Warlick

Sports Editor
Jim Holshouser

Feature Editor
Dick Morehead

News Editors
Watt McCain, Bill Gallier

Copy Editor
John Harmon

Photographer
Hank Daniel

Assignments
Jim Brice

Business Staff
Tommy Taylor, Larry Parrott

Circulation
Bob Carmichael

Published each Friday during the college year except during examination and holiday periods. Member of the Associated Collegiate Press and
Intercollegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service. Subscription rate: $2.00 per year. Entered as second class matter
at the Post Office at Davidson, N.C., under the Act of March 3, 1879. Offices in David Ovens College Union,
Davidson College.

Page Two
Friday, February 25, 1955

A Positive View Of Negativism

For some time now and particularly in the last few months, there has been a lot of comment, critical concern,
and evaluation of the religious life found at Davidson. One does not have to put his ear to many doors
before discovering that there are many divergent, emphatic, and controversial views expressed on this well-worn subject. Out of this confusion,
though, a new wave of feeling, a new expression, seems to have developed and to be growing as evidenced by
discussions, observation, and recent student opinion polls. This is in direct contrast to a former well-recognized and still prominent movement.

To this prominent philosophical school, religion here is like a stagnant pool, stirred periodically by impressive twigs, causing a few
ripples of disturbance that only rub a little more mud off the confining banks before settling into sterile stagnancy again.
To this group, compulsory services are medieval in concept and the height of hypocrisy in practice. “That early morning service”
is an endurance test where liberal Calvinism is shoveled down a student’s yawning aperture by gentlemen with chapel pedigrees that
extend from grade school medallions to cabinet posts. When they run out of chapel, Vesper, and Y comments, this select
group turns its weapons upon the strict administrative system, college athletics, certain of the faculty, and in general anything associated
with Davidson including the “corrosive elements” distributed at the fraternity taverns. Found within this group of gentlemen are the campus
cynics, some pseudo-intellects, and those who aspire to acceptance in such “schools.”

This school enjoyed a strong sway last year. A definite wave of negativism swept the student body at various times,
accompanied by a general apathy for school affairs. Throughout the last few months of this school year, a new wave
of positive evaluation and thinking has developed, perhaps in answer to the former school of thought, probably as a result
of it. This has become evident in several places and bears earmarks of a continuing emphasis.

First of all, a religious emphasis week enjoyed a successful stay at Davidson, a fact which is unusual and unconventional.
According to poll figures, three-fourths of the students contacted stated they gained something from UCM, and some 87% found that
their thoughts were stimulated to some degree by UCM activities. Another element of this recent change is found in the
hall prayer meetings held on the third floor of Georgia dorm. Out of a stagnant situation has grown a well-publicized
assembly which is unable to be contained in its quarters. It began when one of the boys was asked to
aid in a revitalization of hall prayer meetings. Cards were sent out advertising the programs, personal contacts were made, and
attendance grew. Critics were stumped when eighty to ninety students jammed the hall each Wednesday night for the past three
consecutive weeks, some being turned away because of no standing room.

Chapel and Vespers, formerly star headliners each week on the “crushing” editorial page have been conspicuously lacking this year. In
fact, only once has chapel been mentioned and then in a complimentary manner. Interest in a voluntary Y program was
contrary to pre-poll suppositions. Sixty percent of the 400 men contacted would be members of a voluntary Y and 64%
would contribute financially toward its program.

Religion is not the only area in which there has been a re-evaluation. Student Constitution, revised faculty regulations, even a
new esprit-de-corps on the Tuesday drill field bear evidence of a definite re-thinking and positive reaction. Whether this new development
will continue to grow or will attain any lasting effect on campus remains to be seen. It does afford a
time, however, when students in a healthy, positive atmosphere can evaluate their own religious convictions, criticisms, and compunctions. Regardless of
whether one falls into the former or latter discussed philosophical schools, he owes it to himself and to his associates
to pause for a while and rework his feelings, his faith, his philosophy of “life, liberty, and the pursuit of
happiness.”
—R.H.M.

Let’s Get The Feeling On Subsidization

In a letter to the editor of the Davidsonian, dated March 12, 1954, Walter L. Lingle, Jr., Executive Vice-President of
the Procter and Gamble Company and son of the former President of Davidson College stated his views on the question
of athletic subsidization as it concerns Davidson College.

This is the question most often and most vociferously discussed by those connected with Davidson. This problem has been highlighted
by the recent action of Washington and Lee University, which eliminated intercollegiate football until a non-subsidized program could be arranged
and by the amazing Case 16 at the University of Maryland. It was particularly struck home with the adoption by
our trustees in their May, 1954, meeting of the recommendation of their athletic sub-committee that “they authorize the President of
the College to solicit and encourage a selected group of at least six colleges and universities to join with us
in promoting a program looking toward the abolishing of subsidized athletics (that is, athletic scholarships as such) at the earliest
possible date.” This is still the policy of the Trustees, and Dr. Cunningham is continuing to negotiate along these lines.

Feeling among students, faculty, and alumni in this matter is far from uniform. There are many who are quite earnestly
in favor of subsidizing “Wildcat” teams to the extent of that done by Carolina and other large universities. The other
extreme is not without its supporters. Mr. Lingle, himself, is in favor of eliminating varsity competition entirely. He backs this
up with the argument: “In my judgment no matter how hard we try it will be economically impossible for Davidson
to subsidize sufficiently and compete with the larger schools which should be Davidson’s competitors. If we do not subsidize football
adequately, competitors must be small schools, many of whom have little prestige in the public mind. I think it is
contrary to Davidson’s interest and detrimental to her prestige to field football teams with a schedule made up largely of
smaller schools.” However, this is only one man's opinion and is beside the point in question.

The heart of Mr. Lingle’s proposal is a comprehensive poll which he proposes be mailed to every member of the
Student Body, the Alumni, and the Faculty together with a secret ballot. The essential here is that the poll be
thoroughly planned and very carefully worded so that it will in no way be stacked and will show a true
picture of what the Davidson family feels about subsidization. Of equal importance we must make sure that each individual’s answer
is carefully reasoned and truly his own feeling on the subject.

The decision on whether or not Davidson continues subsidized athletics is and rightly so up to the Trustees. However, we
feel as does Mr. Lingle, that any decision should be based on a compound of the opinions of the Student
Body, the Alumni, the Faculty, and the Trustees. There is no accurate means at present of knowing what the majority
opinion is in each of these groups, and the proposed poll stands out as the only plausible method of obtaining
this information.

We therefore propose that the Trustees, through the administration, move immediately to conduct such a poll. As has been pointed
out this should give a valid composite of the real feeling of the Davidson family and should be of immeasurable
value to the Administration and to the Board of Trustees in coping with the problem which has been set before
them.
—T.W.W.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Gragg: Snowballing And Chapel Conduct May Be Immature, But

Dear Editor:

We at Davidson College are blessed with a gem of wisdom, “a pearl of great price,” and I fear that
we don't realize it. Gilbert Gragg, an astute scholar and philosopher by any judgment, offers us the remnants of his
soul and we use them as socks for our sweating and smelling feet. Here is an indomitable man who, having
passed through the ordeal of college life, and having divined what is good and what is evil, altruistically offers to
us sufferers from the malicious onslaughts of an un-God-guided life the wisdom and courage by which we might rise from
our squalor and conquer. Unfortunately, he veils his sagacity—the profundity of which finds no parallel—in humility, so that we wretched
beings who lack insight and vision therefore fail to comprehend his revealed truths. So much the worse for us.

To Mr. Gragg’s most recent subdued diatribe, I reply: “You're right, I'm immature.”

SNOWBALLING

Mr. Gragg cites snowballing as Proof One of our immaturity. It was a display of immaturity inasmuch as most adults
don’t engage in snowball battles. But why did we throw snowballs? In answering this question it is necessary to bear
in mind that all youth are a good deal more rebellious, boisterous, bold, and individualistic than the average adult. The
reason that most adults don’t throw snowballs is that as one grows older, society demands that he conduct himself in
a more refined, abstemious manner. He is required to repress his rebellious and undignified desires and to become more sophisticated.
When he oversteps the bounds of conduct imposed by society, he is strongly rebuked.

Now, when it snowed, we were immediately excited into the desire to throw snowballs, or at least to play in
it, which leads to throwing them. The snow furnished the occasion for us to give vent to our desire to
be boisterous, to do something fresh and unusual, to “raise some hell.” When an individual has such a desire, he
either manifests it or represses it. Undoubtedly quite a few Davidsontians are accustomed to doing the latter. They repress their
desires because such banal carrying on as throwing snowballs is not congruous to what people think of them, to how
people expect them to act. In other words, they have already conformed to society's tacit rules of propriety. Perhaps a
few did not even have the desire to throw snowballs because they have so thoroughly repressed such delinquent desires that
they do not have them any longer. We see, therefore, that to exercise these desires was the natural thing to
do, and even though society frowns upon it, it is not such a bad thing even at the cost ofseveral
dozen window panes. Soon enough we will be graduated from college, and then we will have to stay ourselves.

CHAPEL CONDUCT

I should like to discuss one more of Mr. Gragg’s “symptoms,” that being chapel conduct. The same ideas expressed above
are valid in this consideration. Mr. Gragg accuses us of irreverence and discourtesy. I cannot condone these things, but the
often insipid retrampling of Paul by uninterested professors who are anxious to get their names off of the top of
the devotional list is not conducive to intelligent listening or a polite reception. The ingratiating and solicitous manner of some
of our guest speakers furnishes the occasion for a reaction that is often called cynicism, but which would more accurately
be termed a desire for unadulterated sincerity. I have observed that we students are eager listeners to some of the
faculty and guests who have something to say and who say it honestly. The average college student resents mediocrity in
high places, even though he himself may be guilty of it. Probably much of the cynicism at Davidson may be
directly attributed to such resentment. I have tried to express in a few words some rather involved ideas, and the
reader might think I have failed to convey them, but I do hope that I have been able to show
that the Davidson student's immaturity is not so serious a matter as Mr. Gragg obviously thinks.

Sincerely,
HIRAM CATON.

Dr. Davidson Clarifies Faculty Position On “Hell Week”

Dear Editor:

As one who believes in the fraternity system, I would like to recommend a re-reading of Watt McCain's article on
“Hell Week” in last week's Davidsonian. Last year, Dr. McGavock was chairman of the Faculty Committee on Fraternities and put
it up to the fraternities to abolish abuses this year or expect the faculty to assume the responsibility if they
declined to act. He was confident that there was enough maturity in fraternity leadership to accomplish the purpose. Some student
opinion to the contrary notwithstanding, the Davidson faculty and administration much prefer a maturity which grows from conviction rather than
compulsion. As chairman of the Faculty Committee this year, I was invited to sit in on meetings of fraternity presidents
and representatives. We had agreed to let the fraternities come up with a solution themselves, and I attended the meetings
only by invitation. To some of the presidents, the immediate elimination of “Hell Week” was the goal. To others, the
elimination of harmful practices and a gradual process was preferable. The first goal can, of course, be achieved by any
individual fraternity which wills to do so. Already three fraternities have taken that step. The student committees have passed resolutions
that no pledge will be physically injured or degraded, that there will be no interference with his class work and
proper preparation, and that nothing will be done to bring the name of the college or the fraternities into an
unfavorable light with the public. It was the duty of the Faculty Committee to review the solutions suggested by the
student committees. The resolutions, above stated, have been presented to the Faculty Committee by Chairman Ronald Wilson and have been
accepted in good faith.

Sincerely yours,
CHALMERS DAVIDSON.

What Others Are Saying

Resolve Or Dissolve

Most New Year’s resolutions have been made by now and probably almost as many have been broken or forgotten. But
it’s not too late for a few additional ones which might have been overlooked by skeptical students. Here are a
few timely suggestions to incorporate in your list, if you have one, which may come in handy for brightening up
dull conversations. Laugh at your instructor’s jokes at least once a week to humor him, but not too often, for
you may encourage him to go overboard... Don't fall into heavy slumbers while the prof is lecturing because it gives
him the idea that you are bored... See your adviser before you graduate, preferably the day before, so he can
tell you what required courses you still have to take... Either wear glasses or avoid blind dates... Quit loaning out
term papers to fellow students who end up with better grades than you...

University of Miami Hurricane—ACP.

A PicinTy GEN IS OFTEN NO RACKS LOISTER

By GILBERT GRAGG

IN THE Dialogue Of Three Roommates On Pleasure, Sin, And Salvation

Scene: Davidson dorm, 10 p.m., Wednesday, February 23.

JOHN: (entering room breathlessly) Boys, you really missed out by not going to see “Battle Cry” tonight. I haven't seen
such love scenes since “Ruby Gentry.”

ANDY: (looking up disgustedly from studying Bible) All you ever do is party, go to shows, watch TV, and play
Armstrong records.

PHILIP: (looking up amusedly from Philosophy) Oh, Andy, let him have his fun; after all he is showing school spirit
by laboring day and night with the Union Film Committee to supplement the emergency entertainment need of students, and entering
the bridge and billiards tournament.

ANDY: But living a life like John’s won't get you to heaven; the Bible says “the wages of sin is
death.”

JOHN: Dry up, preacher. I can quote Scripture, too, and it says Christ came that we might have “life more
abundantly” and that “our joy might be full.” I believe in a God of love, and not hate, who will
save us all. Do you think he’d put us in a house and then burn it?

PHILIP: Your Calvinism does teach that, Andy. Have you ever thought John may be right about universal salvation; after all
“if in this life only we have hope, we are of all men most miserable.”

ANDY: Of course not! The whole context of the New Testament insists the only way to salvation is to be
“born again” through faith in Christ.

JOHN: I’m for you, Philip, since you have works if not orthodoxy.

PHILIP: I believe the key is living Christ’s way of love and forgetting dogmatism about creeds; even Paul says “for
he will render to every man according to his works.”

ANDY: You are quoting out of context and misinterpreting.

JOHN: How nice we have you here, Andy, to interpret for us!

PHILIP: Do you believe someone like Gandhi will go to hell because he did not accept Christ as Divine although
he lived a saintly existence?

ANDY: Yes, because Christ said “he who denies me before men, him will I deny before my father” and this
applies to Moslems, Buddhists, Hindus and all regardless of their lives.

JOHN: How can you say Gandhi or any earnest religious worker is not saved, Andy, when you don’t let your
orthodoxy hinder your enjoying a luxurious life. Did you know Gandhi was turned away by a Christian missionary church as
too poorly dressed?

PHILIP: I am afraid we're all just as guilty about loving materialism, John; why even the trustees brought three shiny
Cadillacs with them last week. Wonder if this is what Gandhi meant when he said becoming a Christian meant little
change in most person’s lives; seems like everybody nowadays thinks Christ promised a crown without a cross.

JOHN: This is what makes me sick about fundamentalists who think faith alone is enough. Did you read about that
Billy Graham convert interviewed about new race ideas saying: “What are we doing talking about race? I thought we were
talking about religion!”

ANDY: You're being unfair— I'm not a fundamentalist, but do believe Christianity deals primarily with spiritual matters, and am trying
to cling to the faith of my fathers in spite of education. Do you know I’ve learned in Ancient History
that the Gilgamesh Epic inspired the Noah story, in psychology that we're dependent on environment chiefly, in Biology that we
come from monkeys, in Philosophy that we can’t be sure of anything, and even in a harmless subject as French,
could be studying Voltaire during UCM. Why even the Bible has been suggested as the book about God instead of
the Word of God!

PHILIP: Perhaps now that education has helped clear away cobwebs from your mind you will be prepared to search for
truth intelligently.

JOHN: Don't you know God is laughing at our little “cosmic phantasies.” Why I bet our uneducated janitors who have
to live on $28.50 a week are happier than all of us, since they actually believe Jonah was in the
whale!

ANDY: Sometimes, Philip, I think you confused your search for truth with THE way, truth, and life and forget Paul’s
warning: “see to it that no one makes prey of you by philosophy and empty deceit...” Why don't you admit
Christianity is deeper than logic and believe with the poet “there is no truth saving in thine own heart.” Reason
in religion is hopeless!

PHILIP: At times I believe you are right, Andy, and then I remember the statement that he who begins by
loving Christianity over truth usually means his own interpretation of it and ends up finally loving himself most of all.
Perhaps it is senseless to keep groping for answers to unanswerable questions but then I remember we're to love God
with all our minds as well as hearts.

JOHN: I think both of you are right in your own way. It’s 10:30 now so I'm going down to
watch the fights; thank goodness, I'm a Presbyterian and don’t have to sacrifice for Lent.

ANDY: I'm going to end this Holy day at Prayer Meeting on third floor Georgia.

PHILIP: I believe I can worship better here by reading T. S. Eliot‘s “Ash Wednesday.”

(Andy and John go to the door and look briefly at Philip—their eyes meet and for a moment they all
think: “perhaps we're all wrong.” Then they go each to his desired place.)

CAN WE SAY WHICH IS BEST? TO BE A QUEEN, IT HELPS GREATLY IN GETTING A HUSBAND (60r- new)
