MASQUERS PRESENT JOURNEY’S END (Page 4) VOLUME XLIII

Marlin Announces Extensive Plans for Dorm Renovation

Treasurer D. Grier Martin has announced that Davidson College plans a very extensive program of dormitory renovation this summer. With
the completion of Belk Dormitory this summer, Davidson will no longer have use for historic Carolina Inn and Georgia Dormitory.
Present plans call for the destruction of Georgia, and the use of the first floor of Carolina Inn as a
club room for teenagers.

For the past two years, the college has set aside funds in order to improve the older dormitories and make
them compare more favorably with the new Belk Dormitory. Main projects will be the painting of the interior of West,
and the installation of “Marble” linoleum in the rooms and corridors of Watts and East. Before this linoleum can be
installed, the floors must be firmly fastened to the cement girders supporting them. A new process called “Ramset,” which works
on the same principle as a rifle and shoots a steel bar into the girder, will simplify this work.

In addition to these improvements, the front room in each of these three dorms is to be a reception room
for visitors. Besides actual work on the dormitories, workmen will fill in the area around Belk and build walks after
the ground is landscaped. Improvements will also include the parking areas.

Phi Betes Initiate; Dr. Johnson Speaks

Last Tuesday night, the North Carolina Gamma Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa held its most important meeting of the spring
term, with the initiation of new members and the annual public address. The eight students who had been elected recently
were formally initiated at this time. They were Roy Davis, Floyd Feeney, Linny Baker, Maurice Crouse, Brown Goehring, Bill Kuykendall,
Jason McManus, and Clyde Robinson.

Following the initiation, at 7:30 a banquet was held in the College Union. Approximately 70 guests were present, primarily members
from the Davidson community, but also about 20 members and their guests from the surrounding area. At 9:00 o’clock, Dr.
Gerald White Johnson delivered an address to the general public on “The Provincial Scholar.”

The Davidsonian

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, APRIL 29, 1955

Members Selected for YMCA Cabinet

The 1955 YMCA Cabinet members are, left to right, first row: Walt Davis, Tommy Thompson, Creighton Peden, Pat Miller, Maurice
Crouse, Dan Woods, Jim Covington, Tony Dick. Second row: Sam Magill, Archie Joyner, Jeff Smith, Hampton Maute, Blake Brinkerhoff, Clyde
Robinson, Bob Martin, John McLauchlin. Third row: Gordon Bondurant, Dick Morehead, Buster Sharp, John Child, Doug Oldenburg, Jason McManus, Jerry
Helms, and Vernon Hunter.

ROTC to Hold Field Competition Tuesday

The Davidson College ROTC Department will hold a military field day in Richardson Stadium during the regularly scheduled drill period
on May 3, 1955. The basis for competition will be companies, and each company will have a participant in every
event. Competition will be open to students in MSI, MSII, and MSIII, while MSIV students will serve as judges and
timekeepers.

MSI students will enter the following events: Best drilled squad; best drilled individual; MI Rifle, assembly and disassembly; grenade throw
(distance and accuracy); relay race. The following will be open only to MSII students: Browning automatic rifle, assembly and disassembly;
light machine gun, assembly and disassembly; best drilled light machine gun team; best drilled 81mm mortar team. MSIII students will
be judged on command voice and “Scramble” (assembly of MI, BAR, and carbine from mixed parts). A tug of war,
to be judged by Cadet Regimental Commander C. A. Cooper, will be the final event of the afternoon.

Child Elected Adviser; Senior Speakers Named

Voting in chapel this week brought the Davidson College spring elections to a close, except for final voting on only
three more offices, head cheerleader and student representatives to the Athletic Council. The rising Senior Class elected John Child, a
Kappa Sig from Hopedale, Mass., as freshman advisor. Child has served on the Student Council this year as representative from
the Junior Class. Bill Bondurant was elected as next year's sophomore representative to the Student Council.

In balloting after chapel today, the rising seniors selected three of the four representatives to serve them on the Student
Council next year. Linny Baker, an ATO from Kannapolis, N.C.; Jason McManus, a Phi Delt from University City, Mo.; and
John McLaughlin, a Beta from Raeford, N.C., were elected.

The Senior Class Day speakers were also selected this week. Chosen as valedictorian was Ish Bennett, Norfolk, West Virginia. Other
speakers are: Emmanuel Sfaelos, Huntington, L. I., New York, Salutatorian; Fred Summers, Statesville, North Carolina, Orator; Mac Williamson, Charlotte, North
Carolina, poet; and Jim Thornton, Richmond, Virginia, Class Historian. Joe Garrison, a rising Senior from Greensboro, was elected editor of
the Scripts and Pranks in last week’s voting (see Davidsonian, April 22.)

Dr. Benfield Will Lead Unique Meeting Monday

Plans have been completed for a unique get-together to be held Monday afternoon and evening in the Davidson College Church.
A group of distinguished ministers selected from the major denominations represented in the Student Body will be on campus to
discuss with students the problems and challenges facing ministers of the Christian Gospel and related fields. However, the meeting is
in no way restricted to those who have made a definite decision to enter the ministry, but is open to
everyone considering it.

Conceived as a mere possibility some months ago by students, this event is the result of unselfish work and prayers
of dedicated students. When the plan was submitted to the administration, it was enthusiastically accepted and has received full cooperation
and support from the administrative officers. Approximately one hundred students have registered for the meeting and it is hoped that
it will become an established custom, depending of course on the success of this initial session.

Informality is the keynote so that students interested in full-time Christian service will have the opportunity to share common ideas
and problems with fellow students, while they are guided by competent ministers. Rev. John Lawrence, from the First Baptist Church
of Shelby, is to lead the opening devotional at 4:00 in the student lounge. Two informal talks, followed by questions
and discussions, will be led by Dr. William Benfield of Louisville Theological Seminary, and Fred Stair, pastor of the First
Presbyterian Church of Hickory. Scheduled between 5:45 and 6:15 p.m. is a general question period of any phase in the
life of a minister and his work. An array of topics ranging from “How do you know you were ‘called’
to the ministry?" to “What kind of car should a minister drive?” will be discussed.

Included in the representative denominations are Rev. J. Bryan Griswald, of St. Matthews Episcopal Church in Mooresville and Rev. Jerry
Murray of the Davidson Methodist Church. Dr. John R. Cunningham, Dr. Lewis B. Schenck, (Continued on Page Four)

French Lady Is Guest As Harmon Presides

Looks of surprise and delight crossed the faces of the members of Le Cercle Francais as they entered the living
room of the Goldiere house and were introduced to a most attractive and vivacious young French lady “qui s’appelle Sabine
Blanchard.” Sabine, who is visiting friends in Charlotte and is taking several courses at Queens, was the special guest of
the French Club at their bi-monthly meeting held Tuesday evening, April 19. It was surprising to note how many members
made an appearance at the meeting (one had not come in two years) when they learned we were to be
honored with Mlle. Blanchard’s presence. After many furtive glances and tie-loosenings, the meeting was begun with M. Harmon presiding. Due
to the absence of the secretary, the evening’s program was begun with a delightful comedy by Octave Mirbeau, “Scruples.” (Continued
on Page Four)

Language Profs Attend Conference

Three Davidson language professors left Thursday to attend the Eighth University of Kentucky Foreign Language Conference at Lexington, Ky. On
Friday afternoon, Dr. Pedro N. Trakas of the Spanish Department read a research paper, “Getting Acquainted with Alfonso Hernandez-Cata,” before
the Spanish section. At the same hour, Dr. Geo. B. Watts presided over the French section. Dr. Labban of the
Greek Department also attended the three-day sessions. They will return Sunday afternoon.

Randall Jarrell to Present Vereen Bell Award on May 5

Randall Jarrell, poet, novelist, and critic, will award the Vereen Bell Prize for Creative Writing at Chapel on Thursday, May
5. He will speak on the place of the intellectual in American Society. Mr. Jarrell was born in Nashville and
received his B.A. and M.A. from Vanderbilt. He has taught English at Kenyon, University of Texas, Princeton, and the University
of Illinois. He is now associate professor of English at the Woman's College in Greensboro. During the war, he served
in the A.A.F., and several of his best-known poems come from his experience at that time. He is the author
of Blood for a Stranger (1942), Little Friend, Little Friend (1945), Poetry and the Age (1953). Probably his most widely
read work is the novel Pictures From an Institution, although as literary editor of the Nation in the middle forties
he established a reputation as a critic.

Overcut

“Overcutting is a serious offense and will be dealt with accordingly. It is a violation of a student’s sense of
responsibility.”

YMCA Cabinet To Hold Retreat To Make Plans for ’55-56

President Blake Brinkerhoff of the YMCA has announced his Cabinet for the year 1955-56. Brinkerhoff, a rising senior, is a
member of Kappa Sigma social fraternity and is studying for the ministry. Gordon Bondurant, the vice president, is a rising
junior and a member of Beta Theta Pi. He plans to choose business or psychology as his major field.Secretary is
Dan Woods, a member of Kappa Sigma and a rising sophomore. The office of treasurer is held by Doug Oldenburg,
who will be a senior. He is studying for the ministry and is a member of Phi Delta Theta. Heading
the committee on the Mission of the Church is Pat Miller, a rising senior, who is a Sigma Chi planning
to study for the ministry. Clyde Robinson is in charge of the Commission of Campus Life, which deals with evaluating
and examining campus problems. He is a member of Phi Delta Theta, a rising senior, and a pre-ministerial student. Walt
Davis will be in charge of Deputations, which includes the activities of putting on programs at sanatoriums and schools. Davis,
a Sigma Chi, will be a junior next year and plans to study for the ministry. Leading Boys’ Work is
Creighton Peden, a member of Phi Gamma Delta, who is a rising junior. This post is concerned with work among
the boys in the community of Davidson. Tommy Thompson is in charge of Community Work, which deals with social action
in the town, most especially with the “community hut.” Thompson will be a junior.

Vesper, Chapel Cuts Released by Dean

The following figures on vesper and chapel cutting were released this week to the Davidsonian by the cut office. These
are based on first semester records of the student body.

| Chapel | Vespers |
|--------|---------|
| 3.1% | Used all cuts 38.8 |
| 58.2 | Did not use all available cuts 53.8 |
| 38.7 | On observing these figures Dean Spencer commented, “This seems to me an important tribute to the |

NOTICE

In recognition of his valued service and aid to the student body, the Senior Class has selected a portrait of
Dean Bailey for its gift to the college. Mr. Joe King of Winston-Salem has been secured as artist to paint
the portrait.

1955 AWARDS DAY HELD IN CHAPEL THURSDAY MORNING

President Cunningham administered the chapel service Thursday at which time the annual Awards Day was held. During the program the
following awards were presented to those who, it was deemed, had excelled in their respective fields:

Dr. Schenck awarded the William Banks Award to Ken Wilson, who has the highest academic average in the Bible Department
among seniors still taking Bible. Modestly, neither Wilson nor the medal showed up.

Dr. Logan presented the Howard Chemistry Award to two rising juniors whose achievements in the Chemistry Department have been of
indistinguishable excellence. These winners were John Gilmer and Jim Martin. It was announced that the Freshman Physics and (Continued on
Page Four) and is a member of Phi Delta Theta. Guiding Social Life is Bob Martin, a member of Phi
Delta Theta. A rising senior, he plans to study for the ministry. The duties of this post include arranging exchanges
with other schools. Archie Joyner fills the Scouting post for next year. Joyner, who will be a senior, is a
business major and a member of Beta Theta Pi. Administrator of next year's Gift Fund is John McLauchlin, who is
a business major, a rising senior, and a member of Beta Theta Pi. Leading Worship is Vernon Hunter, who will
be a junior next (Continued On Page Four).

Davidson Grad Rate Good in Med School

Seventy-eight per cent of Davidson graduates in medical schools rate academically in the upper two-thirds of their class. This is
the word received in Dr. Cunningham's letter from an agency which gathers the data setting forth the accomplishments of the
students of various medical schools of the nation. The total number of Davidson graduates upon whom reports were given individually
was 107. This number does not include reports from several large medical schools, nor is the present first-year class included.
The percentage breakdown by thirds is as follows: top third, 39%; middle third, 40%; low third, 22%. There have been
several voluntary withdrawals but only in one case has there been a failure.

Those of the present Davidson generation who have been stirred by the intensity, humility, genuineness and consecrated power of Peter
Marshall, as recorded in the book and film version of A Man Called Peter and in Mr. Jones, Meet the
Master, are but re-echoing the reactions of their predecessors of the 1930s and early ‘40s, who were likewise enkindled by
the dynamic personality and the inspired utterances of this man of God on the occasion of his several visits in
the flesh to the Davidson campus.

While still a student at Columbia Theological Seminary, Peter Marshall first came to Davidson on Sunday, March 20, 1931—only a
few months before his graduation from Columbia—as a member of a deputation team. Even though there were in the group
two recent Davidson graduates, it was not they who impressed the audience, but rather it was, according to the contemporary
record, “Mr. Marshall’s inspiring address ... given in his rich Scotch brogue,” which “from the first,” held “the attention of
everyone.” During his speech he used—perhaps for the first time in America—his illustration of the returned missionary from China, to
which he refers in his sermon “The Tap on the Shoulder.” He closed his first Davidson address with the thought
that “there is such a perfect peace and realm of happiness in a complete resignation to God's will.” How prophetic
of his later career as pastor, preacher and chaplain was this early utterance!

NUMBER 23

Artist Series To Present Blanche Thebom May 6

By DUNBAR OGDEN

“From Canton, Ohio, to New York is better than a short sleeper jump. Sometimes it takes a singer years to
make the trip—career bent, that is. Some singers never make it. But in the Town Hall last evening, Blanche Thebom,
a tall and beautiful mezzo-soprano from Canton, proved that she had been away too long from the center of musical
things.” This was Robert Bagar's (music critic for the New York World Telegram) comment on Blanche Thebom's New York debut
in 1944. On Friday, May 6, at 8:15 p.m., the mezzo-soprano of the Metropolitan Opera Company, Blanche Thebom, will be
heard in a concert in Chambers Auditorium in conjunction with the Artist Series. Bagar went on to speak of “the
loveliness of her voice, the intelligence of her singing and the flash and spirit of her stage personality” with the
suggestion: “It would do the Metropolitan no harm to look into the situation.” The Metropolitan did, and the next December,
less than a year after her debut, made her bow on the stage of the old opera house. After completing
the spring portion of her second national concert tour during the 1945-46 season, she was heard in a number of
important radio assignments such as the Telephone Hour and the RCA Hour, before reporting to the Met. That season was
also marked by Mademoiselle Magazine's selection (Continued on Page Four) and at vespers. He also had many personal conferences with
students during his stay. Of this series of meetings the editorial writer of the Davidsonian said, on October 30, 1935:
“Rev. Peter Marshall's inspiring and thought-provoking messages ... will long be remembered by those who heard him. Davidson is indeed
fortunate to have such an appealing personality to conduct this group of annual revival services.”

Dr. Marshall’s last appearance here was during the late fall of 1941, a month before Pearl Harbor. On November 5-7
he was once more in charge of the YMCA Services. He visited in the homes of several members of the
faculty and the fraternity and boarding houses. On November 5 he met with the YMCA cabinet. During this series he
spoke on “Choosing the Twelve," “Man's business is Duty, and God's is Destiny,” “Who is eccentric?” “When is man a
hero?” and “Don't put off until tomorrow what you can do today.” The Davidsonian writer on November 12 again stressed
his “Scotch accent,” and his “earnest delivery.” “Much was gained by everyone in helping the students decide how to choose
the better way,” said the Davidsonian, apparently with conviction, if not in the purest English style. At the conclusion of
Peter Marshall's last sermon, Dr. Cunningham “expressed his desire that the Fall Services weren’t over, but that the students would
keep them forever in their hearts,” wrote the reporter.
