The Little Davidsonian ----------------- June 22, 1955 ----------------- Page 2

SOUTHERN SCANDAL

Word has come to me that the famous "Stan Getz" of Davidson, WATT McCAIN, is still trying to get his
sax out of the pawnshop.

J. De STEWART takes an overnight trip to Rock Hill, S. C., and returns to the campus very much pacified.

EVERETT PRICE, the waiter in the Bermuda shorts, likes his Cafeteria job so much that he has decided to enlist
in "AUDIE" MURPHY'S brigade this fall.

Miss SARAH ADAMS was escorted to the Catawba by four Davidson Gentlemen where she was entertained by local-yokels. She was
quite imbued.

By plenty of hard work "inside-out and backwards" TLSH manages to maintain his 105 average in Organic.

DICK LOVETTE misses the wonderful spring that he visited with his classmates last summer. He says nothing can compare with
the Carolina Biological Supply Company.

JIM MURR and “a close friend" were quite engrossed with each other and a copy of "Brides To Be" at
the Union yesterday. Jo Ann coyly cooed that "she was just learning to cook this summer."

The local Brooks Brothers' representative, DEL HELM, arrived with the dummy of the 1956 Quips and Cranks under his arm.

Other sometimes illustrious visitors have included JOHN HARMON & HARRY BROWNLEE.

With plenty of luck, BILL HORNE thumbs home in 36 hours and gets a car to match his keys.

DAVE BROWN becomes a brother-in-law.

Mustacheless DICK JONES is irritated when friends don't recognize him.

FRANCE JORDAN dates every night and still manages to make A's.

Don't forget "y'all come" ..... and do!

LIVE IT UP AND BACK SOUTHERN SCANDAL!

Editors Jars

STARS IN OUR CROWN
by Louella O. Linker

In an exclusive interview last night with social arbiter Mr. RAY HARDING, it was disclosed to me that the significant
event of the summer social season, Summer Frolics, will be held on the Union Terrace of the Country Club.

The live music of an undisclosed combo will prevail at the festivities to be held on SATURDAY NIGHT, JULY 9th.

And to be truthful, Mr. Harding disclosed little except the date of said function. But the date is definite, dear
reader, and I suggest that you get a date for July 9th.

Be sure to follow my column for further developments, and I'll be at the ball. I'll have a date for
this occasion, since the rumors of it which I started hit the campus.

SPORTS SCENE

The athletic program was flexible enough to provide a contest when only ten students showed up for softball yesterday afternoon.
This is one time and place where you don't have to be an athlete to get to play.

If you have the time and/or the initiative, you are encouraged to indulge in this afternoon pastime. It is a
good way to get a tan.

There are plans underfoot for ping-pong and billiard tournaments, and this is an opportunity to participate as an amateur (we
realize that anyone who takes pool seriously considers himself a pro). You understand that as an amateur in these tournaments
you do not have to pay to play.

The best news on the sports scene is that LACY KEISLER is organizing a Tennis Tournament to be started next
week. If you are interested be sure to check with this ace netman.

Con’t on: Don Massey
