PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN

ROTC Dept. Begins (Continued From Page One)

Located on the bottom floor of the W. H. Belk Hall, providing the department with adequate space and facilities to
conduct its many and varied training programs. Students may gain entrance to the ROTC headquarters by using the center door
located in the rear of Belk Hall.

The PMS&T Lt. Col. John D. Sapp, artillery, assumed his duties as PMS&T at Davidson on August 3, 1954. Lt.
Col. Sapp’s military career consists of 14 years of active service, 61 months of which was spent overseas and with
12 months of combat in the European theater of operations in World War II. A native of Florida, Lt. Col.
Sapp graduated from the University of Florida in 1941. In addition, he has completed the Artillery School at Fort Sill,
Oklahoma, the characteristic and effects of atomic weapons at Sandia Base, New Mexico, and just prior to his arrival at
Davidson, he completed the Command and General Staff School at Fort Leavenworth, Kansas.

Military Science I Instructor

The freshman instructor for the coming year will be First Lieutenant Edwin Van Keuren, Jr., artillery, who in addition to
his duties as the MS I instructor, is also the assistant operations officer and the rifle team coach. Lt. Van
Keuren is a native of Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, and a graduate of the United States Military Academy at West Point, Class
of 1951. Prior to his arrival at Davidson in July of this year, Lt. Van Keuren was stationed in Western
Germany as a member of the U. S. Seventh Army. Assisting Lt. Van Keuren in the MS I instruction is
Master Sergeant Louis Penley, who is also a qualified infantry weapons instructor, and who has 14 years of active service
in the Army.

Military Science II

Capt. Arthur T. Cavano, Jr., Infantry, will instruct the sophomores this year, and in addition is the supply officer for
the ROTC Department. Capt. Cavano is a native of Michigan, and is a graduate of the University of Denver, Denver,
Colorado. He served with the Marine Corps Reserve in World War II, and prior to his arrival here in March
of this year served with our forces in the Far East in Japan. Master Sergeant John P. Butts, Capt. Cavano's
assistant in the MS II instruction, is, in addition, a qualified infantry weapons instructor, and has 15 years of active
service in the Army.

Military Science III Instructor

Instructing the Juniors for the coming year will be Captain John W. Thompson, Armor, who also has the additional duty
of the Adjutant of the Detachment. Captain Thompson is a native of Florida, and has served as a warrant officer
and officer in the Army since 1943. He has attended the University of Maryland, and prior to his arrival at
Davidson in August of this year, was graduated from the Advanced Course of the Armored School, Fort Knox, Kentucky.

Military Science IV

The senior instructor this year, Capt. Lee R. Brown, who is also the Detachment Operations Officer, reported to Davidson in
July 1953. Capt. Brown is a native of Florida, and a graduate of Gordon Military College. He has completed 13
years of active service, and his Army schooling includes the Parachute School and the Infantry Officer’s Advanced Course at Fort
Benning, Georgia.

Experienced NCO’s

The ROTC Department is fortunate in that it has non-commissioned officers on the staff who have a wealth of training
and experience in the military service. Master Sergeant Willis D. Fields, Infantry, who is the detachment sergeant major, has just
completed 20 years of active service. The detachment operations sergeant, Master Sergeant Clark M. Thaler, Artillery, who makes all the
various posters and training aids used in the department’s instruction, has just completed 17 years of active service. Others on
the staff, all well trained and experienced in their jobs are SFC Charles B. Wheat, Infantry, who is in charge
of the detachment Armory, SFC Clifton B. Newby, the assistant operations sergeant and small arms repairman, SFC Thomas M. Domin,
the administrative supervisor and Sgt. Roy D. Brothers, the detachment supply sergeant.

With the varied and experienced background of all the staff members, both officers and enlisted alike, and the excellent physical
surroundings and equipment now available in Belk Hall, the Davidson College ROTC Department looks forward to another year of service
to their country, to Davidson and to you—the students.

College Union Offers Much to DC Student

Now that you are completely engrossed in the various activities and festivities of orientation, you probably think that spare time
is only a thing of the past. After you become settled in your rooming situations and class schedules, you will
find that there are a few moments now and then that you may call your own. In the College Union
you have always close at hand one of the finest physical plants possible for taking positive advantage of the spare
time which you have. These past two days, many of your orientation activities have been centered in the Union and
by now you should be generally acquainted with the facilities for entertainment available—music, books, games, refreshments, etc. You have not,
however, observed the Union in a typical situation, and it will be quite a while before you do so, and
before you will really understand what the purpose of the Union is—a place where you can pursue leisure-time education. No
matter what your interests are, you will be able to find materials or equipment suitable for your purposes. (If we
don't have it, tell us and we'll try to get it; if we can't get it, we'll make up for
it in fellowship.) During orientation, representatives of the Union will be on hand to answer any questions you may have
about the Union—its purpose, its advantages or its facilities. Feel free to call on us at any time; we will
be happy to help you out in any way we can—THE COLLEGE UNION COMMITTEE.

Five Overseas Men To Study at Davidson

By MIKE MARTIN

Davidson will be very fortunate to have on her campus during the next school year several overseas students, representing the
countries of Denmark, France, Finland, Korea, and Norway. Students from other countries have always formed an integral part of school
life here, and the outstanding group now enrolled indicates that this will be even more true than in the past.

Pertti Karkkainen, of Finland, and Erich Diechgraeber, of Denmark, are well known by upperclassmen, both having distinguished themselves as Davidson
students during the past year. Pertti, a qualified senior and a member of Sigma Chi social fraternity, is on a
Charlotte Rotary Club Boy’s Choir scholarship. He plans to go into the diplomatic service for his native country upon graduation.
Erich, who is on a Mary Lynn Richardson scholarship, is affiliated with the Beta Theta Pi fraternity, and desires to
take a medical course upon completing his work this year.

Jacques Delpech, from France, was interested in Davidson by Bob Gay, a recent alumnus who attended the theological seminary in
Montipelier, France. Jacques is sponsored by the First Presbyterian Church of Charleston, W. Va. While here he will concentrate his
studies mainly on Business-Economics and the languages.

Oyvind Norstrom, a Norwegian, is also benefitted by the Mary Lynn Richardson fund. He is interested in journalism, having had
considerable previous experience in this field, and intends to complete his education in Norway.

Nam Young Park, the Korean student, has had what could be termed in understatement “an eventful life” thus far. He
is a First Lieutenant in the Korean Army, and, like the majority of his people, has been all too familiar
with the aspects of war during the past few years. He is fluent in English, and has seen considerable service
as an interpreter for the U. S. Armed Forces.

JAMES W. JACKSON, JR.

Jackson News Bureau Head at Davidson

Davidson College has announced that James W. Jackson, Jr., has assumed his duties as Associate Director of Alumni and Public
Affairs. Jackson came to Davidson from Columbia, S. C., where he was employed by television station WIS-TV and was engaged
in graduate study at the University of South Carolina. His duties at Davidson will include operation of the news bureau.
He has previously served as public relations director for the College and as head of the news bureau.

Jackson is a 1947 graduate of Davidson, and is a former sports editor of the Columbia Record. He also served
as sports director of radio station WKIX in Columbia. An Air Force veteran of both World War II and the
Korean war, Jackson is a captain in the Air Force reserve. At WIS-TV he held the positions of promotion manager
and sports director and also served as managing director of the 1964 Carolina Carillon, Columbia's fall civic parade and festival.

The new Davidson administrator is married to the former Blanche Gibbs of Columbia. They have three children, Lynne 4, Jimmy
3 and Leslie 1.

As a Davidson student Jackson was a member of Omicron Delta Kappa, national honorary leadership fraternity, and of Sigma Upsilon,
honorary literary fraternity. He was president of the YMCA, president of Kappa Alpha Order social fraternity, editor of the Davidsonian
newspaper, and was sports editor.

ATTENTION!

The following is an announcement: There will be held on the afternoon of September 16, at 4 o'clock, the annual
freshman cake race. The course will follow the traditional layout, beginning down on the football practice field and extending for
some distance back around to the stadium. Fifty cakes, baked in faculty kitchens, will be offered to the first fifty
“men” to finish the race. All freshmen, unless excused by the doctor or who are out for football, are required
to attend. Report to the practice field in running apparel. This is your chance to become a man.

This announcement concerns all those who have worked on high school newspapers, other publications, or who are interested in writing.
There are openings for you on the news, sports, and feature staffs of the Davidsonian. If enough interest and ability
are shown there are also opportunities on the editorial staff. All freshmen interested are requested to register their names in
the Davidsonian office during orientation. There will be a brief meeting for these writers Sunday, Sept. 18, after Vespers with
the editorial board in the Blue Room of the College Union. Cards will be sent out as a reminder.

New Physical Ed. (Continued From Page Three)

The first PE class. It is designed to test theStudent's athletic ability will be used as a criterion in the
placement of freshmen in basic or regular courses. The test will consist of the following seven events: football punt for
distance, softball throw for distance, 100-yard dash, standing broad jump, dips on parallel bars, dodging run, and the bar snap
or bar swing for distance. The points are all scaled according to the event. For example, a man jumping 8’
7” in the standing broad jump receives 9 points, while jumping 8 feet would credit him with 53 points. One
should pick up some points in each event. There is no maximum score in any one event. A total score
of between 290-300 points will qualify a man for regular placement; otherwise, he will be placed in basic PE where
instruction will be geared to enable a man to pass the test. The scale is so arranged that everyone...

JAMES ARCHER NEAL

J. Archer Neal New Assistant Treasurer

James Archer Neal of Winston-Salem was named Assistant to the Treasurer and Business Manager of Davidson College in July. He
begins his duties immediately. Neal is a graduate of Davidson in the class of 1954 and has studied at the
University of North Carolina for the past year. His duties at Davidson will entail general business assistance, with emphasis on
purchasing, office services, and housing of faculty and staff. Neal received a grant by the Carnegie Institute to the University
of Omaha Workshop for College Business Management in Omaha, which he attended this summer. Archer is the son of Mr.
and Mrs. William H. Neal of 517 Arbor Road, Winston-Salem. Mr. Neal is senior vice president of the Wachovia Bank
and Trust Company and a former Charlotte businessman. Archer was prominent in campus affairs at Davidson and was a member
of Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity. He was elected to Phi Mu Alpha, honorary music fraternity, and held membership in
the Eumenean Literary Society, the Business-Economics Association, and both the football and concert bands. At the University of North Carolina,
his post-graduate studies included business administration, journalism, and courses in radio-TV-motion picture curriculum. He also served with the Daily Tar
Heel and radio station WUNC.

‘Y’ Doings

By DAN WOODS

What’s going to happen in the YMCA at Davidson this year? Here are just a few of the things that’ll
happen the first part of the year. At the first membership meeting, which will be held on October 4, there
will be a speaker who is well known and much loved in this section of the country. This man is
Dr. Harry Moffett from the First Presbyterian Church in Gastonia. Dr. Moffett was raised here in Davidson and went to
college here. He is still remembered by the men who knew him. Fall Services are next. The speaker this fall
is Dr. Paul Tudor Jones. The Services run from October 9 through October 11. Dr. Jones is well known in
the church at large. He was at Grace Covenant Presbyterian Church in Richmond and now is at Idlewild Presbyterian Church
in Memphis. He received his Bachelor of Divinity from Union Seminary in Richmond and his Doctor of Philosophy from Union
Seminary in New York. The next speaker is a real treat for us. The man is Nicholas Goncharoff, a Russian.
He is speaking at the membership meeting on November 8. Goncharoff has led quite an exciting life. In World War
I, he was a Soviet tank commander, was captured by the Germans, and later set free by the Americans. He
is now working with the International YMCA, studying Communist tactics and making talks around the country. We will certainly look
forward to having an ex-tank commander talk with us. Finally, there is a special series which will be directed by
Seward Hiltner. He is the author of "Sex Ethics and the Kinsey Report" and will be discussing “Sex Ethics Today”
with us. He is the associate professor of Pastoral Theology on the Federated Theological Faculty at the University of Chicago.
Certainly, he is well qualified to talk on the subject at hand. That's only part of what’s been planned; there
are many other things that will be happening in the “Y” this year, too. You'll hear about them as school
goes on.

Do you upperclassmen have books you don’t need? Do you freshmen need books? The YMCA has set up a program
to help all of you. It is known as the YMCA Book Exchange. Here’s how you work it. There are
five steps:

1. Examine the list of books to be used this year. This list will be placed on the various bulletin
boards around school. Check it over—does someone need a biology book or an English lit? Does someone have Physics by
Rusk?
2. If you have any of these books, take them to the YMCA office. The office is at the head
of the stairs on the top floor of the College Union.
3. Get a card from one of the persons on duty there and fill it out. First, put the name
of the book, then the course in which it was used, your name, your room number, and finally the amount
for which you wish to sell the book.
4. Books will be put up for sale at the beginning of the Fall Semester.
5. If your book is sold, the money will be given to you.

Do you need a freshman biology or physics book? How about the upperclassmen—do you need a Westminster Dictionary of the
Bible or Principles of Abnormal Psychology? You may be able to get them at the Book Exchange—for less! Upperclassmen remember—you
can get some of your money back if you turn in that old Westminster Historical Atlas to the Bible or
your old biology book! Let's all save each other cash and use the YMCA Book Exchange.

FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 1955

YMCA Sponsors Used Book Sale for All

Music Department to Audition Next Week

Donald Plott, head of the music department, announced today that auditions will be held for both bands and both choruses
sponsored by the Davidson music department on the first three days of the coming week. The times scheduled are: 3:30-5:00
P.M., Monday; 2:00-5:00 P.M., Tuesday, and at announced times on Wednesday for all those who were unable to audition on
Monday and Tuesday. Tryouts for the concert and football bands will be held under the direction of Mr. Frank West
in Mr. Moore’s studio on Oak Row. Those for the Male Chorus and Chapel Choir will take place in Mr.
Gehring’s studio on Oak Row under the direction of Mr. Plott. These auditions will be private, and all who have
ever done any singing or playing before are urged to be present. Those selected will be able to take advantage
of the many opportunities in interest, travel, and musical education which are offered by these musical organizations. Instruments will be
provided for all those who do not have their own.

Peden Is Elected to YMCA Council Office

In the middle of last June at a conference at Blue Ridge, N. C., the Southern Area Student Council of
the YMCA elected Creighton Peden chairman. The Council of which Creighton is chairman is made up of the representatives of
many of the schools over an area which covers ten states. After the conference at Blue Ridge, Creighton attended two
conferences as a representative of the Southern Area. The two were the National Student Council of YMCA's and the United
Student Christian Council. Creighton has resigned his position as head of Boys’ Work because of the added responsibility of this
new position. William Thompson was appointed to replace him. Creighton will remain on the Cabinet as a “member at large.”

Frosh Regulations in Effect Immediately

The Freshman Regulations will go into effect immediately. Hobby Cobb, Judge of the Court of Control, has expressed his concern
for diligence and respect in regard to these and other rules of conduct. In a prepared statement for the paper,
Judge Cobb said: “Getting off to a good start is very important to a Freshman Class here at Davidson. I
know of no better way to do this than to familiarize yourself with the traditions of the college, both past
and present, and to know well the Freshmen Regulations the Court of Control has set up. “The Regulations printed below
are exactly as you find them in the Wildcat Handbook. Each regulation is important and this should be kept in
mind. At this time, however, I feel that regulations 2 and 9 are of particular importance. That is that ALL
Freshmen know the college yells and songs by the 7th day after school opens and that Freshmen must wear their
nameplate at all times. “Lists of regulations and Freshmen caps are now on sale at the student store in the
Union. The regulations must be displayed in the rooms, and caps will be worn starting Monday, Sept. 12.” The regulations
as found on page 13 of the Wildcat Handbook are as follows:

1. Freshmen shall show respect to upperclassmen at all times.
2. Freshmen must know college yells and songs by the seventh day after school opens.
3. Freshmen must wear, at all times, the caps prescribed for them by the Court of Control.
4. Freshmen shall not walk on the grass of the Davidson campus.
5. Freshmen shall remain in chapel seats until all upperclassmen have cleared the room.
6. Each freshman shall have his own placard with his name inserted in the proper place, hanging in a conspicuous
place in his room throughout the year.
7. Freshmen are required to attend all pep meetings and be on time.
8. Freshmen are required to attend all major athletic events fifteen minutes early, sit together, and remain throughout the entire
contest.
9. Freshmen are required to wear YMCA nameplates until October 15.
10. Freshmen must carry to all athletic contests and pep meetings the megaphones prescribed.
11. Freshmen are required to speak to all men they meet on the campus and tip their hats to the
members of the faculty.

MONDAY & TUESDAY SEPT. 12th & 13th

Put Your Name in the Pot for FREE

SPORT COAT
PAIR SLACKS
SWEATER
SEVERAL TIES
BELT

REFRESHMENTS WILL BE SERVED

Wilson-Wright’s Inc.
“COLLEGIATE FASHIONS”
DAVIDSON, N. C.
