THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

Che Hautdsontan

FORTY-FIRST YEAR OF CONTINUOUS PUBLICATION

VOL. XLII

Widow of Former D.C. President Passes

Mrs. Jennie Vardell Martin, widow of Dr. William Joseph Martin, former president of Davidson College, died Monday evening in a private hospital in Morganton. She had been in declining health for several years. Funeral services were held today at 2 p.m., in the Davidson College Presbyterian Church, and burial was in the college cemetery.

Dr. and Mrs. Martin were married in 1897 in Summerville, S.C. Dr. Martin served as president of Davidson College from 1912 to 1929, and after his retirement, he continued to live in Davidson. Dr. Martin died in 1943. Mrs. Martin is survived by a brother, Dr. Charles G. Vardell of Red Springs, president emeritus of Flora Macdonald College; four children, Dr. William Joseph Martin, II, of Louisville, Ky., Mrs. A. A. Currie of Nashville, Tenn., Mrs. Martin L. Foil of Concord, and Mrs. Kenneth P. Maddox of Greensboro; 10 grandchildren and four great-grandchildren. Two of Mrs. Martin's grandchildren, Bill Martin and Martin Foil, are students at Davidson College.

Marriage and Family Seminar Begins On Wednesday, Mar. 30

The YMCA Commission on Campus Life announced the first in a series of seminars on courtship, marriage, and the family to begin Wednesday evening, March 30, at 7 p.m., in the Green Room of the College Union. Students interested in signing up for the seminar should register at the YMCA office before the spring holidays. The seminar will make use of educational films at each meeting of the seminar. On March 30, “Choosing for Happiness” will be shown and a lecture-discussion will follow. Leaders for the seminar are still in the process of being secured. The seminar will meet each week on Wednesday evening until April 27. Films secured for the successive meetings are as follows: April 6, “Are You Ready for Marriage?” April 13, “This Charming Couple!” April 21, “Marriage Is a Partnership;” and April 27, “Story of Reproduction.” A slight fee will be charged to provide literature to all participants in the seminar.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C.

Committee Announces Baker Awards Finalists

By LLOYD CHAPIN

Finalists in the competition for the George F. Baker and Union Carbide Scholarships have been announced by Professor B. D. Thompson, Secretary of the Baker Scholarship Committee. They are as follows: David I. Blanchard, Deland, Fla.; Richmond Wiley Bourne, Jr., Spartanburg, S.C.; Aubrey Neblett Brown, II, Richmond, Va.; Vernon S. Broyles, III, Atlanta, Ga.; Richard Brubaker, Macon, Ga.; James William Byrd, Mt. Olive, N.C.; James M. Dabbs, Jr., Mayesville, S.C.; Benjamin Bernard Dunlap, Columbia, S.C.; Henry Glasgow Elkins, Jr., Winston-Salem, N.C.; Thomas Henry Gainer, Jr., Panama City, Fla. Joseph Champion Goodman, Winston-Salem, N.C.; John R. Heller, Kensington, Md.; John Wells Kuykendall, Charlotte, N.C.; Francis Wingfield Langston, Atlanta, Ga.; Samuel Robert Lathan, Chester, S.C. Spencer McCallie, III, McCallie School, Chattanooga, Tenn.; Walter Herbert O’Briant, Reidsville, N.C.; Tom Slade Rand, Episcopal High, Fremont N.C.; John Pickens Feeder, Woodberry Forest, Concord, N.C.; Henry Madison Samuels, Chester, S.C. Edward Ira Stevens, Syracuse, N.Y.; George Helms Sutcliffe, McCallie School, Charlotte, N.C.; William Terry Thompson, McCallie School, Chattanooga, Tenn.; John Lampros Toumaras, Burlington, N.C.; W. Laurens Walker, III, Spartanburg, S.C. John Anderson Wells, Columbia, S.C.; James Douglas Wilson, Woodberry Forest, Morganton, N.C.; William Stanley Wilson, Staunton, Va. These men will be on the Davidson campus March 24-26 for further testing and personal interviews with the Baker Scholarship Committee. A record number of Baker scholarships, seven or eight, will be awarded this year, in addition to the two Union Carbide awards. The winners will be announced around April 1. The Baker scholarships range in value from an honorary award without stipend to a maximum amount of $1,200 a year, renewable from year to year for a period of four years. The size of the stipend varies according to the student's need and is intended to relieve him of difficulty in meeting essential college expenses. The winners are chosen on the basis of superior scholastic ability, well-rounded personality, strength of character, and high qualities of leadership. The Union Carbide grants cover the complete cost of tuition for a full, four-year academic course. They also provide, in addition, reasonable allowances for the necessary books and usual fees, as established by the college. Awards are made on the basis of good scholastic standing and personal reputation, recommendation by their school authorities, and a real interest and ability in scientific research. Winners have the opportunity of summer employment with the Union Carbide and Carbon Corporation during their college years. Both scholarships have as their purpose the development of youth into men who will make real contributions to society—the former in the field of public service and the latter in the field of scientific research.

Rev. Chas. W. Ranson To Speak At Vespers

The Vesper speaker this Sunday is the Reverend Charles W. Ranson, General Secretary of the International Missionary Council, with headquarters in New York City. Dr. Ranson was born in Ireland in 1903. He received his education in Belfast and at Oriel College, Oxford. In 1924, Dr. Ranson entered the ministry of the Methodist Church in Ireland, and after a period of service at home, he went to India as a missionary. On appointment to the Madras District in India in 1929, he saw service in several different types of work—as a district missionary in a rural area, as pastor of a Tamil-speaking congregation in the city, and as an evangelist to students in nearby schools. His most continuous and effective work, however, was done in the Kellett Institute, which is a center of evangelism and social witness set in the heart of the city of Madras. In this work, Dr. Ranson developed the two interests which dominated his missionary career—the presentation of the Gospel to the Indian people and a passionate concern for social renewal. From 1943 to 1945, Dr. Ranson served as Secretary of the National Christian Council of India, Burma, and Ceylon. While in this capacity, he directed the National Christian Council’s survey of theological education and gathered up the results of this survey in his book, The Christian Minister in India. In 1946, Dr. Ranson became Director of the Department of Social and Economic Research and Counsel of the International Missionary Council. In July of 1947, he was elected General Secretary of the Council, the position which he now holds. Dr. Ranson participated in the Amsterdam Assembly of the World Council of Churches and in many of the Executive and Central Committees of the World Council which have been held since that Assembly. He is at present a member of the Executive Committee of the Commission on International Affairs of the World Council of Churches. He is also a member of the Royal Institute of International Affairs in London. In July, 1952, he carried the planning responsibility for the general meeting of the International Missionary Council at Willingen, Germany, where delegates from fifty nations representing twenty-six major denominations were present. In addition to his duties as General Secretary of the International Missionary Council, Dr. Ranson has been a visiting lecturer at Drew University, Princeton Theological Seminary, and the Episcopal Theological School, Boston. He has preached and lectured widely both in the United States and abroad, his latest trip being to Switzerland, Denmark, Norway, Sweden, Finland, and Germany in the summer of 1953. While in Germany, the Theological Faculty of the University of Kiel conferred upon him the honorary degree of Doctor of Theology.

Make Florida Safari

Ten students under the direction of Professor Tom Daggy will leave Davidson tomorrow for a ten-day camping trip into Florida’s outdoors. The 3,000-mile tour, sponsored annually by Davidson’s Biology Department, will take the men as far south as Key West. Spending the nights in tents and sleeping bags, the group will travel by automobile and will make a number of stops to study flora and fauna and to collect items for further study on the return to Davidson. Making the trip are Curtis Ellison, Miller Byne, Bob McCain, Jim Knox, Bob Dalton, Bob Shive, Tom Firor, Phil Hicks, Homer Bodiford, Bob Wilkinson, and Mr. Daggy. The trip’s itinerary includes overnight stops near Jacksonville and Miami, two or three days in Key West, several days in the Everglades, and a return possibly up the gulf coast. The idea for the expedition arose seven years ago when several biology students complained they missed trips such as members of the college band, chorus, and other organizations enjoy. Since then Dr. Daggy has taken a number of students on an expensive field trip to Florida every year except last year. Florida was picked for such a trip because it is far more advanced and has much more to offer than other regions during this season. Besides wading swamps and hiking, the boys hope to get in a little fishing and skin diving in Key West. They will return to Davidson after spring holidays.

Ben Johnston Named To Handbook Staff

Richmond, Va.—Ben Johnston of Davidson has been named to the College Board of the next volume of the Going-to-College Handbook, annually published here for students in and looking forward to college. Nominated by college or national youth officials, members of the College Board serve as advisors to the editors in planning and developing the book. At the present time, the College Board is being polled to discover attitudes on a number of lively campus problems. Scheduled for publication next August in time for hometown going-to-college functions, the Handbook will be used during the remainder of the year by students looking forward to college.

Sociology Dept. Shows Movie Series

On Wednesday, March 9, the Sociology Department and the College Union sponsored the first in the series of educational movies about life in various areas of the world. Two films were shown Wednesday, both dealing with Southeast Asia. The first dealt with the tropical mountain island of Java. The major portion of the film showed the preparation of products for export, chiefly cocoa, tea, and rubber. It is astounding that one-half the world’s supply of rubber comes from Java. The main food of the Javanese is rice, which grows in abundance. The second film was a presentation of the primitive life of the nomad tribes of Malaya. Living in vast tropical jungles, the people wander from place to place, hunting and fishing. The movie also showed the interesting methods of food preparation used by the Malayans. Dr. Malcolm McAfee of the Sociology Department announced that plans have been made to show similar moving pictures every other Wednesday. Two films on Africa will be shown on March 23.

Philanthropic Society To Debate Eumanean

The Philanthropic Literary Society met Monday night, March 7, in historic Philanthropic Hall. President Malcolm Williamson conducted a short business meeting after which Vice President Kerry Spiers presented the evening program. This program consisted of several readings from papers written by society members in the 1946-1948 era. A remarkable parallel was noted in these older dissertations with the issues present on the campus today. The highlight of the evening meeting was the challenge offered by President Malcolm Williamson to the members of the Eumanean Society for the annual debate. The challenge was accepted with fear and trepidation by Eumanean President Tom Dove. By mutual agreement, it was decided that the time, place, and subject of the debate would be decided at a later date. The Philanthropic Society then adjourned for two weeks.

Eumanean Accepts Phi Debate Challenge

On Monday night, March 7, the meeting of the Eumanean Literary Society was called to order by its president, Tom Dove. After a short business meeting, Bob Talbert entertained the members of the society with his readings of several poems and a short story. Harry Brownlee, one of the critics for the evening, was interrupted during his criticism by a rap at the door from members of the Philanthropic Literary Society. Malcolm Williamson, president of Phi, came over to issue a challenge for a debate to be held two weeks later. The challenge was quickly accepted. Gordon Bondurant then gave his criticism of Talbert’s readings. Bill Gallier read a paper on the Negroes of Africa, and Lloyd Chapin read three short poems. Comments on both these works were rendered by Mr. Bondurant and Mr. Dove. Impromptu speeches were made by Tony Dick on “The Faculty Gave Us too Many Cuts,” and by Sam Sutton on “Why Twin Beds Are More Conducive to a Compatible Marriage.” After these talks, the meeting was closed.On April 6, the subject will be the Orient, with particular emphasis on the farming methods of China. The New World, with emphasis on Eskimos and Indians, will be the topic on April 20. The movies will be shown in the College Union Ballroom at 4:00 p.m., on each of the above dates. All students are urged to attend.

Dr. Hudson Leads Folklore Discussion

Dr. Arthur Palmer Hudson of the English Department at the University of North Carolina, will lead an informal discussion of folklore literature on March 23, in the College Union Ballroom at 8:15 p.m. Dr. Hudson is an internationally known authority in this field, and faculty members, students, and townspeople are urged to take advantage of this opportunity. The discussion will be strictly informal, being carried on very much like Dr. J. S. Wilson’s discussions of last year. A social hour, during which coffee will be served, will follow the discussion.

Le Cercle Francais Features Comedy

Le Cercle Francais of Davidson College held its regular meeting on Tuesday evening, February 22, 1955, at the home of Dr. and Mrs. A. V. Goldiere. After the singing of “La Marseillaise” and a short business meeting conducted by President Fred Summers, Vice President John Harmon presented the program for the evening. Larry Trotti, Steve Huntley, and Tom Warlick each read a brief story in French, and Jack Crymes gave a talk on Maurice Couve de Murville, French ambassador to the United States. The evening's program was highlighted by the presentation of a French comedy, “La Farce du Cuvier," by Fred Summers, Albert Harris, Bill Gordon, and Tommy Dove. A crossword puzzle in French and the serving of refreshments by Mrs. Goldiere and Mrs. Watts ended the evening’s meeting.

Southern Bell to Hold Personal Interviews

The Southern Bell Telephone Co. will have a representative in the College Union on March 24 to hold personal interviews with interested seniors. Companies which have just recently scheduled interviews include Procter and Gamble and American Trust Co. Procter and Gamble will hold a group interview on the evening of April 5, and personal interviews on April 6. American Trust Co. will hold its interviews on April 7.

FRIDAY, MARCH 11, 1955 NUMBER 18

Sandburg To Appear In D. C. Artist Series

Poet-Historian Here Night of March 24

By D. H. OGDEN

On Thursday, March 24, at 8:15 one of the outstanding literary figures of our time will appear on the Davidson platform—Carl Sandburg. Wrote T. K. Whipple of the poet, “The best term that I can find for Sandburg is that of a psalmist... His feelings for the sky, the ocean, the winds, for all the more grandiose aspects of nature, for vastness in time and space, is like that of the Psalms... Sandburg’s poetry is in truth a veritable Psalm of Life—for he is essentially an accepting, yea-saying psalmist.”

Burl Ives, who was previously scheduled to appear at this time on the Davidson Artist Series, is opening that night in New York in Tennessee Williams’ new play, “Cat on a Hot Tin Roof.”

Carl Sandburg was born in 1878 in Galesburg, Illinois, the son of a Swedish immigrant. He soon left school and began wandering, working as a day laborer, on a milk wagon, as a barber shop porter, in a theater as a scene shifter. At 17 he went West, working in wheat fields, roving, listening to men talk, learning the songs the people sang. “Nothing could have been better.” Amy Lowell wrote, “The pictures which all these trades have left in his mind have greatly enriched his work.”

When the Spanish American War broke out, young Sandburg enlisted in the first company to set foot on Puerto Rican soil. Upon his return, he worked his way through Lombard College in Galesburg where Professor Philip Green Wright encouraged him and helped him publish his first book of poems in 1904. After college he engaged in various activities, chiefly journalistic. In 1914 he was awarded the Levinson prize by Poetry Magazine for the best poem published in that magazine during the year. 1916 marked the appearance of his Chicago Poems (including such works as “Fog,” “Chicago,” and “Nocturne in a Deserted Brickyard") which shocked some Americans with their brutal frankness and seeming formlessness of verse. But America had got “a new voice” and soon the “new” poetry meant that of Carl Sandburg. His free verse is not far from prose, his style is his own, and his new four-time movement (as opposed to the English three-time movement) carries the “vision, the anger, the tenderness, and the irony" of the poet.

Cornhuskers (1918), which won a special Pulitzer Prize, Smoke and Steel (1920), and Slabs of the Sunburnt West (1922) reflected the life of the plain people, Sandburg relying on the wisdom of the people he knew, his people—the American people. In Good Morning, America (1928) we find an undertone of brooding and pessimism with the use of symbols of mist, fog, and ashes. These works established him as an American artist, working often with vernacular cadences and slang, and sometimes with subtle impressionism such as “Fog.” Of the strange and powerful The People, Yes, which appeared in 1936, a number of critics have said, “It is one of the great American books.” Between 1917 and 1933 he wrote for the Chicago Daily News, later supporting himself by lectures and book sales, while he penned the magnificent and beautiful biography of Lincoln which won the 1940 Pulitzer Prize for history. The work includes Abraham Lincoln: the Prairie Years in two volumes (1926) and Abraham Lincoln: the War Years in four volumes (1939). Remembrance Rock (1948) is a long, historical novel and last year appeared Always the Young Stranger, a sensitive account of his early life. Students will be admitted to the presentation by their identification cards and tickets will be available at the door.

Fire Destroys Biology Examinations at NYU

New York (ACP)—Destruction of biological final examination papers was given as a motive for a $2,000 loss due to fire at New York University. In addition to the examination papers, almost all of the professor’s research and graduate notes were completely burned. These notes, including his lecture notes, represented an accumulation of many years’ work, the Heights Daily News reported. The plant department superintendent said that while the arsonists have not been found, it is generally believed that they were students. “This view is further substantiated,” the Daily News says, “by the fact that nothing was stolen, since a typewriter and other items of value remained unburnt after the fire.” The professor said that most of the students in his Comparative Anatomy course will receive a grade of “P" certifying simply that they have passed. However, he added, that a few students will receive a grade of “F.”

Dr. Henry David Calls College Educational Service Stations in Speech to Conference

(Reprinted from The Chicago Daily News)

Chicago, IL.—This has been a gloomy week for college and university officials. For the third time in four days, they found themselves the target of sharp attacks. They were told Tuesday that most of them operate “service stations” rather than colleges. The meaning of education has been lost, the speaker said, in a maze of superficial activities, internal organizations or administrative structures.

1000 EDUCATORS

The barrage of blows came from Dr. Henry David, executive secretary of the National Manpower Council at Columbia University. He gave the keynote speech before 1000 college presidents, deans and other educators, attending the National Conference of the Association for Higher Learning. Four hundred and sixty colleges, covering every state except Maine, are represented.

Five Profs Depart: Pietenpol Announces ’55-’56 Faculty Changes

Many of the changes and additions to the faculty for the 1955-56 college year were announced yesterday by Dean Pietenpol, Davidson College Dean of Faculty. Those members of the faculty who have resigned and will not return to Davidson next year include Professor Erwin C. Buell, assistant professor of Political Science; Dr. George Labban, assistant professor of Greek; Professor Peter Terwey, assistant professor of mathematics; Professor Alexander Vavoulis, assistant professor of chemistry; and Professor Benjamin H. Wilson, assistant professor of English. Professor Labban has resigned in order to accept the position as Professor of Greek at Southwestern University in Memphis, while Professor Terwey has accepted a position in the mathematics department of Lamar College in Texas. Professors Vavoulis and Benjamin Wilson have both resigned to continue their study for their doctorates. Professor Buell has not yet announced his future plans.

New members of the faculty next year will include Dr. H. P. Ford, Dr. Richard R. Bernard, and Professor H. Alden Bryan. Dr. Ford, who will be associate professor of Political Science, graduated from the University of Redlands in California, and took his Ph. D. in Political Science from the University of Chicago in 1950. He was a Kent Fellow during his graduate study. Now employed by the State Department in Washington, his interest is concentrated on the Far East. Dr. Richard Bernard, a graduate of the University of Virginia, will be an associate professor of mathematics. He also did his graduate work at the University of Virginia, and has since been an assistant professor of mathematics at Yale University. He served in the U. S. Navy during World War II, working with the Exterior Ballistic Department of Naval Proving Grounds. Professor Bryan will get his Doctorate in Chemistry from the University of Tennessee in June. He graduated from King College, then took a position as a chemistry instructor at the University of Tennessee, where he is now serving. He will be with the chemistry department at Davidson.

Taking over the reins as Director of Athletics next year will be Dr. Tom Scott, who will get his Doctorate from Columbia in June. Mr. Scott, who has served on the faculty at Chapel Hill, was coach of the famous Phillips 66 basketball team for several years. Returning to their positions on the faculty next year will be Dr. William McGavock, professor of mathematics, and Dr. Frontis Johnston, professor of history. They have both taken leaves of absence to study under the Ford Foundation. Other changes in the faculty, if any, will be announced later in the semester by Dean Pietenpol.

“With a few notable exceptions,” said Dr. David to the somewhat uneasy-looking educators, “higher education has been defensive about its intellectual functions and responsibilities. It has been all too willing to escape from these to grapple with less difficult problems of internal organization, administrative structure and activities. Many institutions of higher education discourage critical thought and reflection in both their students and their faculties. Too many of them respond so readily to the demands made upon them by society that they tend to operate as educational service stations rather than as educational institutions.”

Dr. David said that the colleges have fashioned their own professional language—“jargon,” he called it—which has helped to isolate the professors from the community at large.

EMPHASIS ON SCIENCE

The current emphasis on science and technical subjects is dangerous for the future welfare of higher education, Dr. David warned. Even though engineers and scientists are needed, other branches of learning are of equal importance, he stressed. The social sciences, humanities, education, the arts and religion must not be neglected, the speaker said. Dr. David objected to the attitude, held in some quarters, that (Continued On Page Four)

Union Presents Movie Schedule for Spring

The famous movie, “Sergeant York,” will be shown in the College Union Ballroom tonight and tomorrow night, March 11 and 12. Admission is 25 cents. Show time is 9 p.m. The College Union Film Committee has booked films during the first part of the week whenever there are no conflicts, in order to provide movie entertainment since the burning of the local commercial theater. These movies are in addition to the regular weekend features. Other movies scheduled this semester are: “Ruby Gentry,” March 14, 15; “Snows of Kilimanjaro,” March 25, 26; “Green Pastures,” March 29, 30; “The Promoter,” April 1, 2; “Les Miserables,” April 8, 9; “Strangers on a Train,” April 15, 16; “Man in the White Suit,” April 29, 30; “Grapes of Wrath,” May 3, 4; “Foxes of Harrow,” May 10, 11; “Wilson,” May 13, 14; “Titfield Thunderbolt,” May 16, 17. All movies will begin at 9 p.m. in the ballroom.