THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE VOL. XLII

The Davidsonian

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 1955

W. C. HARMONIZERS ON TV

Close harmony is the specialty of this charming trio of Woman's College of the University of North Carolina girls who are a Thursday evening television feature from the Greensboro studio of WUNC-TV Channel 4. The girls, left to right, are Esther Benedict, Hemlock Park, Kingsport, Tenn.; Eleanor Martin, also of Kingsport, and Martha Fulcher, of Davidson, N. C. They appear on the program, “Enjoy Yourself.” All three are W. C. juniors and are majoring in primary education. Martha Fulcher is the daughter of Professor H. S. Fulcher of the Davidson faculty.

YMCA Announces Plans For Discussion Groups

The Y.M.C.A. announced today that plans are now being made to begin two study-discussion groups and a Seminar on Courtship, Marriage and the Family. The study-discussion groups are intended to begin the week following the University Christian Mission and the Seminar probably after Spring vacation, continuing through the month of April.

The two areas for the study groups are intended to provide opportunity for study to students interested in either Christian Faith Heritage or Christianity and Contemporary Social Problems. The plan of action is to meet once every two weeks for discussion centering around a pamphlet or book to be chosen for study by the group. These materials may range from the small study booklets prepared by the National Student YM-YW to Paul Tillich’s The Protestant Era or Reinhold Niebuhr’s Interpretation of Christian Ethics. Time and place of meeting will be announced at a later time.

The Seminar on Courtship, Marriage and the Family, as projected at the present, will cover four major areas: Human relations seen in the context of the Biblical Faith; Courtship (dating and pre-marital relations); Marriage, including the sexual, social, psychological, and economic aspects of the institution; and the family. It is anticipated that leading authorities will be secured for this seminar and that it will be organized in terms of realistic preparation for marriage. The sessions may be co-educational at certain points in the seminar to provide a broader understanding and exchange of ideas. More detailed information will be forthcoming at a later date. If at all interested in either the study groups or the seminar, please leave your name in the Y.M.C.A. office.

YMCA Is Operating Placement Service

The Y.M.C.A. is again operating a Summer Placement Service for all students in the College, Sam Magill, General Secretary of the “Y” announced today. The service is designed to assist men in locating experiences in three major areas: Summer service; camp and resort work; and business experience. The service also has information regarding summer travel in Europe.

Some of the most attractive opportunities are being posted on the bulletin board outside the Y.M.C.A. office in the Union Building. Further information can be obtained from the General Secretary. At the present time employment is offered in ten summer camps, co-ed and all male; numerous opportunities for service through the American Friends’ Service Committee in work camps, institutional service, interne programs in industry, etc., a few opportunities in business, especially for chemistry and physics majors, a few resort jobs open in New England and the Far West. In the next few weeks more opportunities will arise. If you are interested in placement, come by the Y.M.C.A. office, fill out a card for our files, and talk with the General Secretary about the possibilities.

Private Devotionals in Chapel Next Week

In order that Davidson students might worship in private during University Christian Mission Week, Lingle Chapel will be opened at 7:45 a.m. Monday through Thursday. The playing of the chimes will replace the usual 7:15 a.m. bell and also the 10:30 Wednesday Hall prayer meeting bell. The playing of the chimes will be a period of silent prayer.

Student Body to See Constitution Feb. 11

Floyd Feeney, president of the student body, announced this week that the new student government constitution will go before the student body Friday, Feb. 11, 1955, in chapel. Mimeographed copies of the new constitution will be handed out at this time. The February 11, 1955, issue of The Davidsonian will carry a discussion of the proposed changes. The Constitution is now before a faculty committee for a thorough going over before being presented to the faculty for their vote. The definition of “pledged work” is the problem stumping the committee now, but this is expected to be ironed out within the next few days so that it can be presented to the faculty for direct approval and then on to the student body on February 11. Perrin Anderson and his committee have been working on this revision since the beginning of the school year.

UCM Book Committee Will Sponsor Display

In connection with the University Christian Mission due to begin next week on the Davidson campus, the Book-Display Committee of the YMCA has announced plans for displaying books and pamphlets pertinent to the topic: “A Mature Christian in a Changing South.” Chairman Jim Marshall and his committee have arranged for the literature to be available for inspection and purchasing in the Student Union during third period and from 9 p.m. to 11 p.m. throughout the UCM week.

Among the books included in display through the courtesy of Efird Department Store are: Reinhold Niebuhr’s The Irony of American History; Harry Emerson Fosdick’s A Faith for Tough Times; John C. Bennett's Christian Ethics and Social Policy; and Chad Walsh’s Campus Gods on Trial. Correlative material runs from free pamphlets through the less expensive booklets, and up to the better known authors and authorities on ethical and Southern problems (e.g., the Southern Presbyterian stand on segregation and the report of the World Council of Churches at Evanston; a series of Social Action).

An understanding of the UCM and the problems of the contemporary South with which it deals is related directly to our knowledge of the situation around us and the solutions that have been suggested for these problems.

FORTY-FIRST YEAR OF CONTINUOUS PUBLICATION NUMBER 13

University Christian Mission Begins With Services On Sunday Morning

UCM Week Features Movie, Seminars, and Frat Bull Sessions

As part of the University Christian Mission Program a number of special features are planned throughout the week. These special features include a movie to be shown in the Union Ballroom Tuesday evening, speakers in classrooms and personal conferences, afternoon seminars, and bull sessions at the fraternity houses in the evening.

The movie “Pinky” will be shown in the College Union at 7 p.m., Tuesday evening, to be followed by a discussion led by Col. Francis P. Miller. “Pinky” is a deeply moving exposure of racial prejudices as it affects the life of a light-complexioned colored girl, and the inward struggle she undergoes in making her choice between marrying a white doctor and leading a comfortable life in the North or continuing the work for which she had trained, that of aiding the colored people in the South. Newsweek describes the movie as a “drama fit to stand alongside “Gentleman's Agreement,” the Academy Award winning joust against anti-Semitism.” The magazine continues to say that the picture “does an admirable job of blending a courageous approach to racism and the strictly emotional factors of Pinky's personal history.” The picture stars Jeanne Crain as Pinky, with Ethel Barrymore, Ethel Waters, William Lundigan, and a fine supporting cast. “The movie concentrates so relentlessly on Pinky’s personal anguish,” Time magazine states, “that it achieves a haunting character portrait.”

Speakers will be heard in various classrooms each morning, and personal conferences can be arranged with the speakers during this time. Seminars will be held each afternoon from 3:30 to 5:30 in the Ballroom of the College Union. The subject of Monday afternoon's seminar will be “The Christian Basis for Concern with Social Problems.” The discussion will be led by Dr. Addison Leitch and The Rev. Harry Smith.

On Tuesday afternoon the subject will be “The Christian Looks at Labor and Management in the South,” with the discussion led by Dr. Lester McAllister. Wednesday’s seminar, led by Dr. Waldo Beach, will discuss “Segregation, Mongrelization or Integration?” “Political Responsibility and the Christian Faith” will be the subject of Thursday's seminar, with Col. Francis P. Miller leading the discussion.

On Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday evenings, bull sessions will be held at the Kappa Alpha, Kappa Sigma, and Beta Theta Pi fraternity houses from 8 to 9 p.m. Dr. Lester McAllister will lead the bull session Monday evening at the KA house, The Rev. Harry Smith at the KS house, and Col. Francis Miller at the BTPi house. Tuesday evening The Rev. Harry Smith will lead the bull session at the KA house, Dr. Lester McAllister at the KS house, and Dr. Addison Leitch at the BTPi house. The bull session will be led Wednesday evening at the KA house by Dr. Addison Leitch, at the KS house by Col. Francis P. Miller, and at the BTPi house by The Rev. Harry Smith.

Phi Meets Monday for Installation and Bids

Philanthropic Literary Society will hold its regular meeting next Monday night in Phi Hall. Inauguration of new officers for this semester will highlight the program.business also includes selection of freshmen into the society's membership. Prospective members will receive bids on the following Tuesday.

McAllister Religious and Political Notables To Be on Hand

The team of speakers for University Christian Mission Week, which begins this Sunday at Davidson College, will be composed of five of the nation’s outstanding religious and political leaders. The speakers for the Mission will be Col. Francis Pickens Miller, Dr. Addison H. Leitch, Dr. Waldo Beach, Dr. Lester G. McAllister, and the Rev. Harry E. Smith.

Col. Miller is best known for his reputation as a Christian who has been active in politics. For several years Col. Miller, who was born in Middlesboro, Kentucky, was a member of the Virginia House of Delegates. In 1949, he was runner-up in the Virginia gubernatorial contest, and in 1952 he was defeated by Harry F. Byrd for the United States Senate. Col. Miller received his A.B. degree from Washington and Lee University, where he was selected for membership in both Phi Beta Kappa and Omicron Delta Kappa. He received his B.A. and M.A. degrees at Oxford University where he studied as a Rhodes Scholar. Serving in both world wars, Col. Miller was awarded the American Legion of Merit with Oak Leaf Cluster, the French Legion of Honor and Croix de Guerre, and the Order of the British Empire for his meritorious service in World War II. He has served as a member of the boards of St. John’s College in Annapolis, Maryland, of the College of William and Mary in Williamsburg, Virginia, and of Mary Baldwin College in Staunton, Virginia. He is at present a member of the Board of the United States Military Academy at West Point. He was the co-author of several books, including “The Giant of the Western World” and “The Church Against the World.” In 1948 he served as a contributing editor of Presbyterian Life. From 1928 to 1938 he was Chairman of the World's Student Christian Federation, and he has been a member of the Advisory Commission, the Executive Committee, and is now a member of the Central Committee of the World Council of Churches. Col. Miller is also a member of the Council of Foreign Relations, the American Legion, and the Veterans of Foreign Wars.

Dr. Addison H. Leitch is Dean and Professor of Theology at the Pittsburgh Xenia Theological Seminary in Pittsburgh. He has recently been elected President of the Seminary to take office in 1955. Dr. Leitch has had wide teaching experience in colleges in this country and at Assiut College in Egypt, and he is therefore much sought after as a lecturer and speaker. He holds a Ph.D. degree from Cambridge University, Cambridge, England.

Dr. Waldo Beach is Professor of Christian Ethics at the Duke University Divinity School and the Duke Graduate School of Arts and Sciences. Widely known as a writer, Dr. Beach has had articles appearing in Social Action, Ethics, The Intercollegian, The Woman's Press, Journal of Religion, and Religion in Life. He is a member of the National Council on Religion in Higher Education. Dr. Beach is a graduate of the Yale Divinity School and holds a Ph.D. degree from the Yale Graduate School.

Dr. Lester G. McAllister is Dean of Students and associate professor in the Department of Religion at Bethany College, Bethany, West Virginia. Dr. McAllister was chairman of the Youth Section, International Council of Religious Education, from 1947-48, and he was a member of the Youth Committee, World Council of Churches in 1947. He has done youth work in Mexico, Canada, Jamaica, and Cuba. Widely traveled, he represented the United States in the Second World Conference of Christian Youth at Oslo, Norway. He was listed in “Who's Who in the West” in 1953.

The Reverend Harry E. Smith currently serves as Minister to Students at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. An ordained minister of the Presbyterian Church, U.S., Mr. Smith is a frequent participant in religious emphasis weeks and is a widely sought speaker. His writings have appeared in Intercollegian and Motive as well as other periodicals. While an undergraduate at the University of Texas he served on the Assembly’s Youth Council of the Presbyterian Church, U.S., and as Chairman of the National Student Council of the Y.M.C.A. In addition to other world conferences of Christian students, he was a delegate to the Second World Conference of Christian Youth at Oslo, Norway, in 1947, and to the World Student Christian Federation Conference at Evanston, Illinois in 1954. Mr. Smith attended Yale Divinity School and graduated with the B.D. degree in 1953. While a student there he served as Chairman of the United Christian Council and was acting Associate Executive Secretary of U.S.C.C. in the summer of 1951.

Due to serious delays which have taken place in the construction of W. H. Belk Dormitory, it will not be possible for students to occupy the building until the fall semester, it was announced yesterday by D. Grier Martin, Treasurer of the College. In spite of all efforts on the part of the contractor and suppliers of materials for the building it has been necessary to advance the scheduled completion date several times, the last estimate being that the building will be ready on April 1st unless some unexpected problem causes another delay. If no further change in this date occurred this would have meant that students could not move into the building until about the middle of April. Even then there would have been a number of disadvantages to having students occupy the building since the grading, walks and landscaping will not be completed by that time. Among the problems which have prevented occupancy this year were the inclement weather, delays in the receipt of the limestone for the building, in getting the chest units which are to be built into each room, in getting the roof on the building, and in getting heat into the building so that plastering and painting could be done.

Several Big Companies Will Interview Seniors

The following companies will be in the College Union during the coming week to interview interested seniors: Proctor & Gamble, February 10, 11; Standard Oil of New Jersey, February 14, 15; Burlington Mills, February 17; Riegel Mills, February 18. Kendall Mills has been added to the original list printed at an earlier date. A representative will be in the College Union March 8, 1955.

Debate Team Scores At Scott Tournament

Davidson's Debating team scored victories over half of their opponents at the debating tournament held before exams at Agnes Scott College. The team, directed by Professor Raymond Tyson, defeated groups from Florida State, Tennessee Tech, University of Georgia, and West Georgia. Mac Williamson and Ted Reid led Davidson on the affirmative while John Trask and David Wood held the negative. Florida State's affirmative team and Tennessee Tech's negative were the final winners. Davidson is planning an eastern debate trip for the near future. Students interested in competing for places on this trip are invited to see Professor Tyson or Mac Williamson.

Campus Committees Plan Varied Program

By FRANKLIN BLOODWORTH

University Christian Mission Week will be observed at Davidson College beginning this Sunday, February 6, and lasting through Thursday, February 10. The week is co-sponsored by the Davidson College Y.M.C.A. and the National University Christian Mission, a branch of the National Council of Churches of Christ in the U.S.A. The purpose of this week is three-fold: First, to examine what our response to the love of God in Christ means. Second, to examine what social imperatives and claims upon our culture that response involves. Third, to examine what each of us can do in action as Christians to transform culture in the name and nature of Jesus Christ. The objectives of University Christian Mission Week are to present forthrightly the Christian faith as the only real basis for social concern and action, and to present an adequate interpretation of the response of Christian faith to the following pressing social issues: racial tensions in the South; economic problems in the South; the South as a member of the world community; and the role of the Christian in politics. Five of the nation’s outstanding religious and political leaders will be assembled for the Mission. The speakers will be Col. Francis Pickens Miller, Dr. Addison H. Leitch, Dr. Waldo Beach, Dr. Lester G. McAllister, and the Reverend Harry E. Smith. The Campus Committee for University Christian Mission Week, which has been working on the project for over a year, has planned a varied program for the week. Sunday morning Col. Francis P. Miller will teach the Presbyterian Men’s Bible Class, and Dr. Lester G. McAllister will teach the College Bible Class in the Student Lounge of the Presbyterian Church. The morning worship at the Methodist Church will be conducted by Dr. Waldo Beach, and (Continued On Page Four)

Red And Black Masquers Continue Play Rehearsals

Rehearsals for the Red and Black Masquers’ fall production, “The Bishop Misbehaves,” were reopened this week. Fred Summers, president of the Masquers, announced that the play which had been originally scheduled for December 9, will be given February 17 and 18, in Chambers auditorium. Performances were previously postponed because of illness in the cast. Senior Fred Summers will take the role of the misbehaving bishop. Supporting him will be Allie Cone as Red Eagen, and Harold Hall as Donald Meadows. Other members of the cast and characters they portray are Tom Mann as Waller, Tom Morgan as Collins, and Mac Williamson as Brooke. Women in the cast are Mrs. Howard Lamar as Mrs. Waller, Mrs. Stein Wilson as Lady Lyons, and Mrs. Sam Magill as Hester. Professor R. W. Tyson, Speech Department head, is director of the play. Gwynn Griffin and Jack Curtiss are in charge of stage lighting and props. Admission charges will be 50 cents for students and one dollar for adults. Proceeds will go to Red and Black Masquers. Last year’s production, “The Hasty Heart,” was taken on tour during Spring holidays and the Masquers presented it at five Carolina colleges. The group has made plans for another play this spring, but Summers said that final plans are indefinite.