TRUSTEE STAND ON SUBSIDIZATION (Page 2) VOLUME XLII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C.

Rev. Iain Wilson, B.D., To Deliver Baccalaureate
By LLOYD CHAPIN

The Honorable Wilson Martindale Compton, Ph.D., LL.D., and the Reverend Iain Wilson, B.D., will be the speakers at the Davidson
College Commencement this Spring. Dr. Compton will deliver the graduation address on Monday, May 30, in Chambers Auditorium. He is
one of the nation’s outstanding economists and administrators and is now president of the Council for Financial Aid to Education,
Incorporated, New York City. Until recently he was president of the State College of Washington.

Rev. Wilson, who will preach the baccalaureate sermon on Sunday, May 29, is pastor of Franklin Street Presbyterian Church in
Baltimore. He was an associate professor of Bible at Davidson from 1949 until he accepted the pastorate of the Baltimore
church last June.

The commencement program begins Saturday, May 28, at 11 a.m., in the College Union with the Alumni Council meeting. At
1 p.m., is the Senior-Alumni luncheon on the front campus, followed by Class Day Exercises in Chambers Auditorium at 4
p.m. A concert by the Davidson College Male Chorus will be given at 8:15 p.m. in Chambers.

On Sunday, May 29, at 11 a.m., the baccalaureate sermon will be delivered by Rev. Mr. Wilson in the College
Church. From 8 to 11 p.m. that evening the faculty homes will be open to seniors, parents, alumni, and friends.
The Academic Procession will begin at 10:15 a.m., Monday, May 30, and Graduation Exercises will start at 10:30 a.m. in
Chambers. The address will be given by Dr. Compton.

Outstanding Pledge Awards Announced By Fraternities

With the initiation of their 1954-55 pledge classes, most of Davidson’s eleven social fraternities have announced the winners of their
outstanding pledge and scholarship awards. Several other fraternities plan to announce the winners of these awards in the near future.

Alpha Tau Omega, at its annual Founders’ Day banquet in Charlotte on March 5, presented its “Outstanding Pledge” award to
Lloyd Chapin of Atlanta. David McLain of Cleveland, Tennessee, was chosen the “Outstanding Pledge” of Beta Theta Pi, and Bill
Bondurant of Winston-Salem, North Carolina, won the “Pledge Scholarship” award.

Kappa Alpha will present its “Outstanding Pledge” award at their Old South Ball on May 7 to Sonny Ferguson. A
pledge citation for scholarship will be awarded at the end of the year. Kappa Sigma will present its “Outstanding Pledge”
award on Saturday evening of Spring Frolics, April 23.

At their Founders’ Day Banquet in Charlotte on March 15, Phi Delta Theta chose Bill Warlick of Chattanooga, Tennessee, its
“Outstanding Pledge,” and Johnny Johnson of Morristown, Tennessee, won the “Scholarship” award. Carl Loftin of Weaverville, North Carolina, won the
“Outstanding Pledge” award of Phi Gamma Delta, and Bob Jones of Norfolk, Virginia, received the “Pledge Scholarship” award. These awards
were made last Saturday evening at the Norris Pig Dinner in Charlotte.

(Continued on Page Four)

Five Alumni to Study Abroad Next Year

Dr. George B. Watts, adviser on Fulbright scholarships at Davidson, announced this week that three Davidson alumni in addition to
two present seniors have won scholarships for graduate study abroad next year.

John Fesperman, class of ‘48, now with the music department of Catawba College, has won a Fulbright to the Netherlands.
Mr. Fesperman filled in for Professor Philip Gehring here during the latter’s absence last semester. Peter Kalogridas, who finished here
in 1952 and is now a senior at the University of North Carolina Law School, has been awarded a Fulbright
to the British Isles. Tom Dove, a senior at Davidson this year, will also study under a Fulbright scholarship at
Berlin beginning this fall (Davidsonian, April 8). J. W. “Jinx” Jervey, a member of the class of 1953, received an
M.A. in Spanish at the University of...

(Continued On Page Four)

Dr. Sanger to Speak At AED

Next week, on April 27, Dr. Paul W. Sanger from Charlotte will talk to Alpha Epsilon Delta on the artificial
artery that he and his associates invented recently. This will conclude AED's meetings for the year.

Dr. W. O. Puckett of the Davidson College Science Department delivered a very interesting lecture, “The Regeneration of Limbs,” at
the regular meeting of Alpha Epsilon Delta which was held in the Martin Science Building Wednesday night, April 13. Using
the amphibian salamander as an illustration, Dr. Puckett showed how the cells of the salamander retrogress into a less mature
state after a limb has been lost. In the regeneration the cells go through a process of dedifferentiation which is
closely related to the process through which cancer is formed.

New officers for AED were elected before the lecture for the 1955-56 school year. Dick Pyle, an outstanding rising senior
from Del Ray Beach, Fla., was elected president. Dick is a member of the Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity and
has been a member of AED for one year. Larry Parrott, a Beta from Charlotte, was elected vice president. Linny
Baker is the incoming secretary; Harry Brownlee, the treasurer; Arthur Martin is the fraternity historian.

YRC HOLDS MEETING; ELECTS OFFICERS

The Davidson Young Republicans Club held its annual formal meeting Wednesday night. Marcus Hickman, President of the North Carolina Young
Republican Federation, was guest speaker; officers for next year were elected. Outgoing president Mac Williamson is to be succeeded by
Tom Hall; Tom Firor will be vice-president; Frank Robert, secretary; John Maultsby, treasurer. The group plans their next caucus within
two weeks at which time other Davidson students and Democrats may join the politicos in the smoke-filled chamber of the
Green Room.

Panty Raid Scares Queen's Hierarchy

Last Saturday night at 6:30 p.m., Queens College had a called meeting of the student body to discuss a very
serious problem. It seems that some of the members in high places had been alerted to expect a return of
the barbaric Davidson expedition that invaded the girls’ school a year ago. Dr. Walker, their illustrious president, just returned from
New York, called the girls together in a compulsory meeting to ask their complete cooperation against the rioters from the
north. (Needless to say, it being Saturday night, everyone was present at the meeting.) The president urged and pleaded with
the girls not to “encourage” the Davidson gentlemen or arouse their excitement to a higher pitch than it already was.
Dr. Walker had received a warning from one of the Davidson hierarchy after the somewhat disturbing episode among the dorms
a week ago Thursday night. Slightly worried, the young ladies from our sister school to the south hastened back to
their dorms to prepare for the ruffians by gathering their various unmentionables, turning on the lights, and throwing up the
windows. Much to the ‘relief’ of the girls and the administration the Davidson hoodlums did not make their appearance. (Too
bad, fellows, they were looking for you).

FRIDAY, APRIL 22, 1955

Ten Days, a Beautiful Key Largo graces the bandstand with song and style as Ralph Flanagan, his piano and his
orchestra, open the 1955 Spring Frolics weekend.—(Staff Photo by Daniel.)

Koonce, Garrison, And Class Officers Elected
By BILL STEWART

Spring elections continued at an almost torrid pace at Davidson College this week, with seven class...Offices, editor of the Scripts
and Pranks, and offices of the Inter-Fraternity Council being decided. And other voting, including freshman adviser and sophomore and junior
Student Council representatives, was begun.

Elected president of next year's Senior Class is Joe Conarroe, from Bradenton, Florida. Other Senior Class officers elected are: Vice
president, John McLaughlin from Raeford, North Carolina; and secretary-treasurer, Francis Jordan from Siler City, North Carolina. Conarroe and McLaughlin are
both members of Beta Theta Pi social fraternity, while Jordan is a member of Sigma Chi.

The rising Juniors elected Dan Lafar, a Kappa Sigma from Gastonia, North Carolina, president of their class for next year.
Dyke Little will serve as Junior Class vice president. Little is from Hickory, North Carolina, and is a member of
Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity.

Pat Woodward was elected president of next year's Sophomore Class. Woodward, a Phi Delt, is from Quincy, Florida. Serving as
vice president of the sophomores will be Bill Fraley, a KA from Gaffney, South Carolina. The secretary-treasurer position for both
the Sophomore and Junior Classes was decided last week.

In student body-wide voting after chapel Wednesday, Joe Garrison, a rising Senior from Greensboro, North Carolina, was elected editor of
the college literary magazine, Scripts and Pranks. Garrison is a member of Sigma Upsilon, an honorary fraternity which recognizes outstanding
ability in creative writing. He is also vice president of the Male Chorus, and was art editor of the Scripts
and Pranks this year. He is a member of Sigma Chi social fraternity.

New fraternity and independent representatives to the Inter-Fraternity Council, at their first meeting last Tuesday night, elected officers for next
year. Elected president was Phil Koonce, a rising Junior from Tarboro, North Carolina. Koonce, who is representing Alpha Tau Omega
social fraternity on the council, is one of the leading men of the Davidson College track team. Other officers of
next year’s IFC are: Bo Abernathy, secretary, and Don Stewart, treasurer. Abernathy, from Chapel Hill, is representative of Kappa Sigma
fraternity, while Stewart, from Kirkwood, Mo., is representing Phi Delta Theta.

FIVE MORE SENIORS WIN SCHOLARSHIPS FOR FURTHER STUDY

Dr. G. L. Abernethy, chairman of the Committee on Graduate Scholarships, announced to the Davidsonian this week that five more
seniors have been awarded graduate study scholarships or assistantships for next year.

JOHN O. FITE

John, a KA from Sanford, Fla., has won an $1800 scholarship in psychology to Duke University. John was elected to
Phi Beta Kappa last fall and is an assistant editor of Quips and Cranks, a member of Delta Phi Alpha,
and has been secretary of the Concert Band for several years. Last summer he won one of the forty-two fellowships
given by the National Social Science Research Council for a special experiment at Davidson. Fite is a psychology major.

RONALD S. WILSON

Ronnie, president of the Inter-fraternity Council this year has been awarded a $1600 scholarship in psychology to Yale University. One
of the married students on the campus, he is a KA from Miami, Florida. He is another who joined the
ranks of Phi Beta Kappa last fall, was also taken into ODK and named to Who's Who Among Students in
American Universities and Colleges, and is an active member of Sigma Upsilon, Philanthropic Literary Society, the Honorary Fraternity Council, Sigma
Delta Pi, and has been a writer for all three of the college publications. In addition, Ronnie is a Distinguished
Military Student and is another psychology major.

DUNBAR OGDEN

Dunbar, a Sigma Chi from Pea Ridge, Arkansas, has been given a $1200 assistantship in English at (Continued on Page
Four) (Continued on Page Four)

COMMENCEMENT SPEAKERS CHOSEN

EDITOR EMERITUS CONFESSES PAST (Page 4)

NUMBER 22

Flanagan Opens Frolics Weekend

“Orchid Parade” Is The Theme For Formal Dance

By TONY DICK

The observant student will immediately note that the coming Spring means femmes, flowers and fashions. One does not have to
search far to see evidence of Les Femmes on campus this weekend. Perhaps there is one this very moment looking
over your shoulder.

Ronnie Wilson tells us that the theme for the 1955 Spring Frolics’ Dance is “Orchid Parade.” Each date is to
receive as a favor a miniature paper orchid as she arrives for the formal dance, Friday at 9:30, following the
D Club Foolies. Ralph Flanagan has charge of activities until 1:30 and after that you're on your own. With both
the old and newly elected IFC members completing decorations, Ted Andre and his committee of 20 have planned gay tinges
of lavender and white to adorn the gym.

A hasty check on Spring sales at Wilson-Wright's, Jack Woods Ltd., or Tate-Brown should reveal that every Davidson gentleman is
definitely fashion-conscious. Why no one would think of attending the Saturday afternoon concert on the north side of Phi Hall
from 2:30-4:30 without the correct Ivy League vogue in sport wear! Let’s check to make sure our selections are in
the best taste. Yes, tasseled loafers, deep wine or black; set off by knee-length socks, plain or plaid; two inches
above the knee begins a pleatless pair of Bermuda shorts in a variety of colors, casually gathered on the hip
with a belt of the same material. Completing the attire is a two-piece shirt of cotton chambray set off by
an adjustable belt. Our Flanagan fan is all ready for two hours of smooth entertainment.

(Continued on Page Four)

Masquers to Give “Journey’s End”

By S. F. MARTIN

To bring the dramatic season to a close this year the Red and Black Masquers will present R. C. Sherriff’s
“Journey's End,” next Friday and Saturday, April 29 and 30. Under the direction of Professor Raymond W. Tyson, this promises
to be one of the outstanding presentations of recent years.

“Journey’s End” was first presented on the London stage where it ran successfully for several years before it was brought
to the United States. After its immediate success on Broadway the road companies of “Journey’s End” toured through the early
thirties resulting in an immediate smash hit throughout the country. “Journey's End” has become a milestone in the progress of
contemporary drama and its pertinency lies in the universal presentation of men at war and the nobility of human character.

The action for all three acts takes place in a British Army officer’s dug-out a few yards from the front
line trenches at the St. Quentin Front, March 1918. In the first scenes of “Journey’s End,” the shriek and whine
and detonation of shells puts the setting into its true perspective as a haven in a fiendish world of destruction;
and the last scene, during the beginning of a German drive, punctuates the action with thunder. The tautest scene in
the play is trench warfare at its most hazardous. Lieutenant Osborne (Fred Summers), an elderly, sensitive schoolmaster, and Lieutenant (Continued
on Page Four)

At the End of the Journey, a Final Farewell.
