PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, DECEMBER 2, 1955

TRIBUTE TO A JANITOR

Who needs Otto BY HANK DANIEL

“Hey, Tam! What'd you do with last Sunday's paper? I hadn't read the sports pages” ... “Hey, Tam! How ‘bout
getting your wife to do these shirts for me”... “Ta-am! Ta-am! I want to make a room check this morning”
... “Talmadge! We need some more janitors over here moving these beds-” So it goes, through the day and through
the week. To each call comes a pleasant whistle or a “Hey-hey” that lets the caller know where he will
find Talmadge O’Connor, janitor for the first and second floors of East Dormitory.

The present school year is number eight for Tam. He has spent all eight years making beds, sweeping floors, picking
up papers, and being a friend to the Davidson Gentlemen of East Dorm. He worked on the third and fourth
floors during his first year — “my freshman year,” he calls it — but since then he has held his
present post on the lower floors.

Tam and his wife Cecilia are the proud parents of five children who range in age from one to fourteen
years. The O’Connors live on Mock Circle in Davidson. Tam is at present the local secretary of the Christian Aid
Society. But Tam’s “students” know little about the domestic environment of their janitor. They know him as a daily visitor
who listens to their gripes, discusses the latest campus gossip, and reminds them that “it’s ten o’clock. You better get
up for chapel.” More important, he makes the beds that twisting feet have pulled loose overnight. “That Ken Cloninger kicks
like a baby. I have to make his whole bed over every morning.” Stray socks and handkerchiefs, to say nothing
of occasional tennis shoes and keys, often show up at the business end of Tam’s mop after a whisk under
the bed or dresser.

Every Monday morning Tam collects the Charlotte Observer Prize Crossword Puzzles from the many papers in the trash and mails
off the answers. But so far the judges in Charlotte have never come up with the right answers. Tam keeps
trying, but he’s not very optimistic. “Can't nobody win that thing. It’s fixed. That's what it is, it’s fixed.”

Whether he’s winning or losing, joking or griping, working or loafing, Tam is generally well-liked by the boys who live
on his beat. “Yep,” one of them remarked recently, “you gotta admit it. Tam’s a damn good janitor.”

Honors Creative Talent at D. C. By JOHN HARMON

Vitality, vigor, vivaciousness, verve—these are the brilliant abstracts which the magic name of Davidson's oldest and most respected honorary fraternity,
Sigma Upsilon, conjures in the astute and facile imaginations of those experienced in its creatively stimulating traditions.

Clarifies Parking (Continued From Page One)

Parking is available at Shearer Hall, the driveway to Chambers beyond the Union, the drive between the Stadium and Fraternity
Court, and in the Fraternity Court parking area. Reference has been made to the number of restrictions listed on the
Parking Regulations placed in cars and on bulletin boards several weeks ago. The length of the list resulted from an
effort to provide detailed information to car operators as to where they could and could not park, particularly in view
of the fact that parking signs were installed late. Many of the restrictions are for the protection of individuals driving
cars or walking on the Davidson campus. For example, the spaces on the East side of Belk did not extend
all the way to the drive between Belk and the Laundry because a car parked there would reduce visibility to
such an extent that people or cars coming across the drive would be endangered. Parking of cars is prohibited on
curves such as the one at Duke Dormitory and in other areas where visibility and convenient operation of cars would
be adversely affected. Some areas are restricted to prevent cars from blocking the exit of already parked cars. Some restrictions,
like the 15 and 45 minute parking areas at the Gym, the Laundry, and the Union serve all those who
need a place to park for only a short period of time. While the parking situation at Davidson is far
from perfect it is considerably better than that existing in the vast majority of the colleges and universities in the
country. You may be sure that the policy of the College will be to continue to provide the most satisfactory
facilities possible for campus parking.

The ROTC color guard, shown above, along with the ROTC Band, took part in the annual Kannapolis Christmas parade last
Tuesday. The color guard (from left to right) is composed of Bob Jones, Jim Batten, Charles Gribble, and Tony Guiles.

Maj. Gen. Gard to Inspect Davidson ROTC Unit

Major General Robert G. Gard will inspect the Davidson College ROTC Unit on December 8, 1955. General Gard is the
Deputy Commanding General of the Third Army. He will be accompanied by Lt. Col. R. T. Reed, and his aide,
Lt. N. J. Baird. During the course of the inspection, General Gard will meet the military personnel of the unit
and hear a briefing by the Cadet Regi-Mental Staff. Following the briefing, he will have a conference with the Senior
Cadet Commanders and the Regimental Staff, will observe a class of instruction, and will inspect the ROTC facilities. Immediately before
his departure, he will have a conference with Dr. C. J. Pietenpol, Dean of Faculty. General Gard was a 1918
graduate of the United States Military Academy at West Point. After attending the Basic Course of the Field Artillery School,
he served as a troop officer and Artillery instructor at several posts. During World War II, he served in both
theaters, as an observer from the Artillery school with the British Eighth Army in Europe, and as commander of the
96th Division Artillery in the Pacific. In 1951, he became commander of the VII Corps Artillery of the Seventh Army
in Germany, and in 1952, he became Deputy Chief of Staff for Operations, Headquarters U. S. Army, Europe. Being promoted
in 1953 to Major General, he assumed the position of Deputy Commander Third Army in October 1954, after 44 months
of service in Germany. Among the decorations held by General Gard are the Silver Star; the Legion of Merit; the
Victory Medal World War I; American Defense; the European, African, Middle East Theater with one battle star; and the American
Theater, to name only a few.

Connaught Luxurious mere v-neck sweaters Pure Cashmere in one of the handsomest sweaters ever seen! Navy, natural, dark brown, charcoal
grey, medium grey, black, light blue, cherry. 27.50 men’s furnishings, street floor 38-46. fast color, Esquire argyle socks Cash- you've
Although Sigma Upsilon has a dazzling record of past achievement, it does not rest upon its laurels: it remains today,
as always, the most vibrant and influential honorary organization at Davidson. The year 1915 dates the genesis of Davidson's Blue
Pencil chapter. After a petition from Davidson was granted by the national organization, installment by the Chapel Hill contingent followed
shortly. As a functional organization, Sigma Upsilon seeks to stimulate interest in creative literary endeavor, to recognize creative genius, and
to enable its members to enjoy convivial intercourse. Its membership, including both students and professors, is select, and is of
the type that makes a Sigma Upsilon not only a sophisticated, highly creative communication but also the ne plus ultra
of social gatherings. Among the more famous Davidson Sig Ups are such distinguished persons as the novelist Vereen Bell; Don
Wharton, who writes for Reader's Digest and other semi-literate periodicals; Dr. S. R. Spencer, author of Decision for War, 1917;
and Dr. Chalmers Davidson, regionally known for his historical novels, the most controversial of which, Cloud Over Catawba, is still
the subject of hot debate in literate circles.

STONESTREET'S CAFE Open Seven Days a Week PHONE 3-6241 450 S. Main Mooresville

Sigma Upsilon formerly elected as members only those who displayed marked creative ability; however, politics crept into its ranks and
there is evidence that collusive influence has been exerted more than once for the purpose of electing friends to membership.
The present membership is not, strictly speaking, totally creative, though it is wholly literary and intellectual. It is amazing that
despite its wide diversity of interests, the membership maintains perfect harmony in its meetings, which usually last around three hours.
Every second is utilized, however, and gems of rhetoric and wisdom are as common as IQ's above 140. Sigma Upsilon
is not, as is sometimes supposed, a cathartic haven for naive neurotics. It is, rather, a literate coterie that provides
creative stimulus and that appreciates and judges the results of literary creativity. It confers upon its elite the type of
implicit honor and abiding respect which many covet but few attain. To speak in the vernacular, it is the most.

QUALITY MILK Mooresville Creamery, Inc.

PARKER-GARDNER 198 West Trade Street CHARLOTTE 2, N. C. Phone ED. 2-8257

A comprehensive collection of these famous socks, bold patterns, in uniformly good taste. All are fast-colors, wash beautifully. 1.00 men’s
furnishings, street floor

In Ivy League style... handsome slacks Handsome Dansheen gabardine slacks, in black, olive, tan and charcoal grey. Ivy League Flannels,
in charcoal brown, grey and green. 15.00 men’s clothing, street floor

Long-wearing genuine Lustrous shell cordovans are an investment in smart appearance and long wear. Sizes 6 to 12, widths A
to E. Shown, Crosby Square wing-tip with leather sole and heel in black or brown. 11.95 men’s shoes, street floor

The Ivy League Look... unmistakably quality-rich... Stamps you as a man of fashion, head-to-toe From the moment you try on
one of our Ivy League suits or sport coats, you’ve gained a valuable business and social asset. You look trimmer,
more self-assured. You look destined to get ahead. The secret is in the easy, natural fit; in the rich, subdued
fabrics, in the careful tailoring Worsted-Tex lavishes on every suit or sport coat. We have your size and color preference,
in a full selection of patterns. Isn’t it worth a try-on tomorrow? Worsted-Tex suits, 65.00 Worsted-Tex Sport Coats, “After-Six” Ivy
League Tuxedo, others, 30.00 up Wilson Brothers authentic Ivy League shirt in lustrous combed oxford cloth... 5.00 Black knit ties
1.50 men’s clothing, street floor
