By LLOYD CHAPIN

A total of two hundred eleven freshmen pledged themselves to Davidson's eleven social fraternities this past Saturday afternoon. Phi Delta
Theta had the largest number of pledges with twenty-nine, and Kappa Alpha was second with twenty-five. Roughly eighty per cent
of the largest freshman class in the college’s history entered the fraternity system at the close of Rush Week. The
members of each pledge class are as follows:

Alpha Tau Omega: Sydney Britt, Richard Brubaker, Marshall Chapman, Gordon Coxe, Tom DuPuis, Roy Gilbert, Carl Godsey, Melvin Jones, Kim
Kimball, Ed Lewis, Dave Long, Lee Mayfield, Bob Meier, Spencer Mitchem, Chuck Noe, Jim Overall, Bill Patton, Henry Samuels, Allan
Smyth, Ed Stevens, Randy Turpin, Harrison Wagner, Larry Walter, Ralph Wilson.

Beta Theta Pi: Teeney Deane, Richie King, Ken Maddox, Ranny Turner, Walter Scott, Jim Pinkney, Charles Woods, Mel Armstrong, Billy
Akers, Charles Lampley, Sam Clark, Jock Reeder, Charles Reed, Bob Shofner, Charles Massey, Bill Pfefferkorn, Ned Austell, John Renfro, Laurens
Walker, Charles Rutherford, Tom Johnson, Jimmy Page.

Kappa Alpha: Julian Aldridge, Tom Anderson, Ray Antley, Bobby Austin, Tom Douglas, John Drew, Walter Edwards, Rob Evans, Bill Ferguson,
Lewis Haynie, J. C. Johnson, Bob Lathan, Charles Loftin, Jimmy Moore, Calvin Morgan, Jimmy Morris, John Nix, Neil Padgett, Howard
Persinger, Carey Pickard, Bill Purks, Bill Redding, Adair Reddoch, Fred Streetman, Evans Whiting.

Kappa Sigma: Paul Barbee, Paul Biggers, Jerry Clarke, Pete Coleman, Joe Dean, Steve Edwards, John Francis, Sandy Grey, Pat Henderson,
Bob Holding, Charlie James, John Johnston, Thad Kelly, Bob King, Tom McCutchen, Sam McGuirt, Tommy Morrison, Dave Pearsall, Squeeky Simpson,
Sam Sloan, John Stafford, Craig Wall, Gary Watts, Bob Wynne.

Phi Delta Theta: Barry Benton, David Broadbear, Henry Brown, Woody Burns, Brantley Burns, Vernon Broyles, Putman Crabtree, Tom Cutting, Paul
Erckman, Manfred Emmrich, Fletcher Eyster, Bob Huffaker, Dan Hendry, Ben Harris, Dave Hollingsworth, Tom Jefferson, John Kimbill, John Kuykendal, Don
Lamm, Semi Mintz, Angus McBryde, John Poindexter, John Scoffield, Melton Tankersly, Scott Woodmansee, Eddie Booth, Hugh Campbell, Jim Ellis, Larry
Stell.

Phi Gamma Delta: Peter Andrews, Brown, Dick Buell, Al Elder, Paul Jones, Gene Long, Dave Lyon, Bill Markley, Jim Proctor,
Gippy Reid, Buie Seawell, Burwell Shore, Guyton Smith, Kay Spangler, Waller Taylor, John Toumaras, Hut Wester, Bill Wilkinson, Joe Williford,
Boyd Wilson, L. G. Wilson.

Pi Kappa Alpha: Ed Morrissey, Ralph Triplett, Sherrill Parks, Archie Johnson.

Pi Kappa Phi: Walter Bishop, Thomas Campbell, Joe Chandler, Leon Corbett, Tedrow Dingler, George Egerton, Andy Gordon, Charles Griffith, James
Hain, George Harris, Virton Lide, Charles Miller, Paul Rudisill, Drayton.

The Davidsonian
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 1955

Date Is Set For Final Fulbright Entries

The Institute of International Education has announced the opening of the competition for Fulbright scholarships for graduate study abroad during
the academic year 1956-57. The awards are available for graduate study in the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Greece, Italy, Austria,
and a number of other countries, ordinarily covering transportation, tuition, books, and maintenance. Among the group of Davidson graduates who
have won Fulbright Scholarships have been Tom Dove ‘55, Bob Mitchell '54, and John S. Lyles '50. The closing date
for the final submission of completed applications, transcripts, and other data is October 29, 1955. Since it takes considerable time
to gather the necessary materials, seniors interested in applying for Fulbright Scholarships are urged to consult with Dr. George B.
Watts, local Fulbright Adviser, as soon as possible.

Movies and Billiards Highlight Union Week

The movie, “Hollywood Story,” which was shown Thursday night, will be shown again in the College Union Saturday at 9
p.m. The movie stars Julia Adams and Richard Conte. Henry Hall, Fred Clark, Jim Backus, and Richard Egan are also
in the cast. On Friday, Oct. 7, and Saturday, Oct. 8, the film, “Peggy,” will be presented. Charles C. Peterson,
Billiard wizard, ends a two-day exhibition at the Union with a performance at 8:15 p.m. today. Peterson, world champion trick
shot artist, has been here since Thursday afternoon—giving exhibitions, and free advice to local would-be billiard players.

Homecoming Plans Announced

By BOB BEALL

Homecoming this year will prove to be one of the most active of all dance weekends. The campus will take
on new life with the arrival of many of the fairer sex during the day of Friday, October 14. Many
graying and balding alumni will be seen trying to recapture their youth. The weekend officially starts with the first presentation
in the Artist Series for the year of the play “One Plus One” in Chambers Auditorium at 8 o'clock p.m.
From there the activities move to the Johnston Gymnasium for the Friday dance with Art Mooney providing the music. The
Friday night dance will last from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. There being no classes Saturday morning, many will find
it advantageous to spend this extra time sleeping, while others will be able to find enough strength to meet their
dates and escort them around the campus steeped with tradition which must be explained to the young ladies, whether this
be her first or tenth visit to the campus. The Davidsonian himself always seems to discover some new area, tradition,
or aspect of the campus during these visits—sometimes the chandelier of Phi Hall, sometimes the foot switch of the old
well, sometimes a new bench on the lawn, but always something.

For the most part, Saturday morning will be devoted to the returning alumni. The dedication of W. H. Belk dormitory
will begin at 10:30 a.m. on the plaza in front of the dormitory. Members of the trustees and administration will
participate in the service which will include a litany of dedication and a brief sketch of Mr. Belk. The service
is expected to last about thirty minutes. Music will be provided by the college band directed by Professor J. S.
Satterfield. The annual Homecoming meeting of the alumni will be held after the dedication of Belk Hall in Chambers Auditorium.
George M. King, outgoing president, will preside over the business meeting after which Howard Arbuckle will be inducted into the
office of President of the Alumni Association for the coming year. The principal speaker will be the Honorable Walter Robertson
of the U. S. State Department in Washington. Robertson is a graduate of Davidson who has distinguished himself in the
government of the United States in the field of foreign affairs.

Construction Begins October 1

October 1 will be another milestone in the history of Davidson College for on that day the construction of a
$250,000 dormitory will begin. The four-story, brick structure, resembling Watts from the outside, will be similar on the inside to
Belk. Each room will have built-in desks and study lamps, elevated storage space, and a lavatory. The floors will be
marbelle linoleum. The dormitory hasn't been named. It is hoped that it can be named after the person bearing the
greatest part of the cost. Work on the dormitory is due to be completed in time for occupation next fall.
Housing 96 students, the dormitory will greatly relieve rooming difficulties. The architect, who also designed Belk Dormitory and Johnston Gymnasium,
is Mr. H. Raymond Weeks of Durham, North Carolina. Barger Construction Company of Mooresville, North Carolina is the contractor.

Dr. Frank Caldwell To Speak at Vespers

The Rev. Frank Hill Caldwell, president of the Louisville Presbyterian Theological Seminary will be the third Vesper speaker of the
school year. Dr. Caldwell, in addition to holding the office of president at the Seminary, is professor of Homiletics there.
He attended the U.S. Military Academy between 1919 and 1920, and later graduated from Davidson College. Dr. Caldwell has been
active in the Presbyterian Church and has held various pastorates before his current position. He is well-known for his engaging
speaking style and deep theological insights.

Dr. Harry Moffett To Speak at Year's First YMCA Meeting

Dr. Harry Moffett of Gastonia, well-known speaker on this campus and at other schools, will be the featured speaker at
the first YMCA membership meeting of the year, to be held on Tuesday night, October 4. His topic will be
“The Cost of Discipleship.” Dr. Moffett spoke last year to a group of pre-ministerial students at a special meeting on
this campus. Another important feature of the membership drive will be a report on the two membership drives. The one
for upperclassmen was held this past week, and the one for freshmen will be conducted next week.Week and that for
freshmen was held during the Orientation period. Vesper offering envelopes will be sent out very shortly so that those who
choose to contribute to the YMCA through this method may begin at once. The next membership meeting will be held
on the night of November 8, when Nicholas Goncharoff, who was a Russian tank commander during the last war, will
speak to the gathering. (Continued On Page Six)

Davidson College. The University of Mississippi from 1920 to 1922, and Louisville Presbyterian Seminary from 1922 to 1925. He holds
the degrees of Bachelor of Divinity, Doctor of Divinity, and Doctor of Letters from Centre College and the degree of
Doctor of Philosophy from New York University. Dr. Caldwell has visited the Davidson campus many times and has spoken for
many Vespers services. It was he who replaced Dr. J. R. Cunningham as president of Louisville Seminary when Dr. Cunningham
assumed the presidency of Davidson College.

Receiving this honor are Cadet Lt. Col. Joe Billy Pharr, of Cherryville, N. Car.; Cadet Major Hobby Cobb, of Charlotte,
North Carolina; Cadet Major Tom Owen, of Charleston, West Virginia; Cadet Major Philip Koonce, of Tarboro, North Carolina; Cadet Capt.
John McLauchlin, of Raeford, North Carolina; Cadet Capt. Dick Morehead, of Huntington, West Virginia; and Cadet 1st Lt. Tom Warlick,
of Newton, North Carolina. In order to qualify for this designation, senior ROTC Cadets must meet requirements outlined by Department
of the Army Special Regulations. These requirements include: (1) possession of outstanding qualities of leadership, high moral character, and definite
aptitude for military service; (2) demonstration of leadership abilities through achievements while participating in recognized campus activities; (3) an academic
standing in the upper half of the senior class of the institution they are attending. Cadets who are designated as
Distinguished Military Students become eligible to apply for a commission as a Second Lieutenant in the Regular Army. Those who
continue to maintain the required standards are designated as Distinguished Military Graduates upon graduation.

DAVID BAR-ILLAN 1955-56 ARTIST FEATURES 8 TOP EVENTS BEATRICE GRIFFIN CREATIVE RESEARCH AWARD ESTABLISHED

Seven Cadets Chosen As DMS for 1955-56

Davidson College today announced the establishment of the Woodrow Wilson Award for Creative Research Work. It is made possible through
a gift to the college by Professor William C. D. Kerr of Glendale College of California. Prof. Kerr, a Davidson
alumnus, previously donated the Willa Cather award for creative writing. Members of Sigma Upsilon, national honorary literary fraternity, will be
eligible for the award. The first winner will be announced in the spring of this academic year, and the nation
will observe the 100th year of Wilson’s birth in a celebration beginning January 1, 1956. Professor Kerr attended Davidson with
the class of 1915 and installed the Davidson chapter of Sigma Upsilon while a student. He has been a member
of the faculty of Glendale College since 1929, and has also taught and lectured at Columbia University and the University
of California. The gift stipulates that the award be made for a monograph, a treatise upon a single subject. The
Willa Cather award is for the best creative writing, poetry or prose submitted by a member of the student body.

Council Gets School Year

This past Monday all but one of the Council members were present at this first meeting. Even though the meeting
was an “open” one, as all Council meetings will be, there was no audience at the meeting. Councilman John McLaughlin,
Davidson’s representative to last summer's National Student Assembly in Minneapolis, gave the Council his report on the Assembly. McLaughlin said
that the general theme of the Assembly was a philosophical discussion on the aims and goals of higher education. Among
the more concrete points McLaughlin listed the following as points urged by the Assembly: (1) Student government should not be
just a coordinator of student activities; (2) Student government should expand to represent all phases of student life; (3) Student
government should judge and take a more active stand on what it thinks about the college curriculum and academic courses;
(4) College committees should include underclassmen, for the purpose of giving them future experience; (5) Student government should stress and
work for the attainment of a higher intellect; (6) In the matter of student-faculty relations, the student body should be
kept informed of student representation on the various student-faculty committees. The students should know what action was taken, and the
reasons. It was felt that this policy would enable the individual student to voice his own opinion to the committee
representatives, and therefore, he would have the feeling that his interest was voiced to the faculty; (7) It was also
felt that students, through their student Council, should have a stronger voice in the college administrative policy. In summing up,
McLaughlin said that he thinks that the NSA will grow into a powerful student voice throughout the world, and for
this reason, Davidson College should continue to represent itself at the assemblies. McLaughlin felt that much of the opinions expressed
during the convention were of a radical nature, and that the Southern colleges, such as Davidson, could be a most
stabilizing conservative influence. After presenting his report of the NSA activities, Councilman McLaughlin said that he felt that students should
try to feel more confidence toward their Student Council representatives. To harbor this feeling, he presented a three-point program: (1)
The Student Council should (Continued on Page Six)

One Plus One’ To Be First Attraction

By CHUCK WRIGHT

The old adage, “There's no business like show business,” may seem rather far removed from the lives of the average
Davidson College student. But this year’s Artist Series could do much in the way of remedying that situation. A fine
array of talent has been garnered, with the headliners including such outstanding personalities as Bennett Cerf, Robert Merrill, and the
Roger Wagner Chorale. In all, there are eight performances that should bring to the Davidson community the best available talent
in music, literature, and the legitimate theatre. Launching the series on October 14 will be Basil Rathbone and Helen Gahagan
Douglas in a dramatic reading performance entitled “One Plus One,” and directed by Melvyn Douglas. Mr. Douglas was forced to
withdraw from the cast to replace Paul Muni in the widely acclaimed Broadway production of “Inherit the Wind.” The production
is the story of the evolution trials in Tennessee in the late 1920s. Rathbone is perhaps best known as the
creator of his portrait of Sherlock Holmes, and has had wide experience in stage, screen, radio, and TV roles. One
of the theatre’s most distinguished actors, Rathbone served his apprenticeship in England's repertory companies, appearing in 22 plays of Shakespeare.
His long list of credits since coming to the United States stage include “The Winslow Boy” and “The Heiress.” In
the course of his motion picture career, he has starred in such outstanding vehicles as “David Copperfield,” “Tale of Two
Cities,” and “Captain Blood” in addition to his unique portrayals of Sherlock Holmes. Helen Gahagan Douglas, actress, opera singer, and
former Congresswoman, has packed a wealth of varied theatrical experience into her career. She was starred on Broadway in such
plays as “Moor Born” and “Tonight or Never.” She has sung with the San Francisco and other leading opera companies.
In 1944 she was elected to the House of Representatives and served in the 79th, 80th, and the 81st sessions
of the Congress. In addition to the sophisticated and humorous touch for which (Continued on Page Six)
