FRIDAY, DECEMBER 2, 1955 THE DAVIDSONIAN

By LEON HOWELL

With a few rare exceptions, battered headgears, tired jerseys, and scarred shoes have been stored in dressing rooms and football steps aside to allow the winter indoor sports to hold sway. This weekend the swimming team, the wrestling squad, and the hoopsters all open their seasons. Patiently waiting for the basketball season to open and an opportunity to see the new (tall) look, the Davidson family was filled with hope and expectation. This season, given the material that he had been yearning for, Danny Miller was expected to produce an aggregation reminiscent of his Wingate powerhouses. The man who developed Nield Gordon and Darrel Floyd was of the opinion that he had another protege of that calibre, Hobby Cobb. This outlook was shattered Wednesday afternoon as the news spread around the campus that Coach Miller was leaving on January 1 to accept a business offer. Thursday morning the story was given full coverage in the Observer and other tabloids. With the conclusion of the Carrousel tournament, the Miller-Davidson era will end. Needless to say losing Coach Miller is a blow to the Cat basketball picture, particularly at a time like this. Frankly, this observer is sorry that Coach Miller could not finish the year before reporting to this new opportunity, but understands that it was of a now or never nature. So Davidson is left without a coach, with the players to constitute the best team in several years. Dr. Scott, who entered the Athletic Directorship to get out of coaching, will fill the gap very ably. No stranger to the sport, he had a very distinguished career with the likes of North Carolina and the Phillips 66 team on his list of positions. Under the circumstances no one could step in to handle the team who is better qualified than he. Nevertheless, the change will necessitate some adjustment on the part of the team. The results of this reaction will be an important determinate in the ultimate outcome of this year’s record. In closing the Davidsonian would like to salute Coach Miller for his work of the past few seasons and wish him well in his new endeavor, commend Dr. Scott for assuming this horrendous task, and cross its fingers for the team as it attempts this treacherous switching of motivation in the very face of a rough schedule.

CHRISTMAS IS ALMOST HERE! SAVE VACATION TIME! SHOP OUR FINE SELECTIONS BEFORE GOING HOME FOR POP, BROTHER OR YOURSELF! Wilson-Wright’s Inc. “COLLEGIATE FASHIONS” DAVIDSON, N. C.

SWIMMERS ENGAGE EASTERN CAROLINA

BY TED DINGLER

The Davidson swimming team opens its 1955-56 season this Friday against East Carolina College in the Davidson pool. The first of the Wildcats’ only two meets before Christmas, the contest will begin at 2:45 p.m. “There for a while, we'll fight as hard as possible, but we may not have the man-power to cope with their scholarship-implemented squad.” East Carolina is expected to be one of our toughest opponents. Davidson will have many lettermen returning, and these are going to be counted on very heavily. Led by Captain Ed Speir, the sprinters will be Tom Rivers, John Winfred, and Stafford Querry. Bill Carrell will be our man in the individual medley, and will be assisted in the backstroke by Curt Ormond. Breaststrokers are John Edwards and Jim Traviss, with Alec Sheppard in the distance events. Diving power is centered in Basil Sharp, Jeff Smith, Max Bryan, and Roger Bates. Outstanding Freshman prospects are Gary Clark and Bob Wynn. The tankmen have been working hard under the direction of Captain Ed Speir since November 1. “Ed's done a fine job of working the men. This is the best they’ve ever looked for this time of year”—Coach Hambright.

FURMAN EDGES DAVIDSON, 13-9

By CARL COOPER

Baptists from Furman, Coach Carroll Hambright stated:

First Annual Tournament To Be Held Dec. 19-21

BY CHARLES McGOWAN

For the first time in the history of the college, Davidson is to be host to one of the largest holiday tournaments to be held in the South. This tournament, called the Carrousel Basketball Classic, is the first of its kind to be held in the Charlotte area. This city was chosen for the site of the tournament because of the fine accommodations which the city offers such as a choice of hotels and the newly completed Charlotte Coliseum in which the tournament is to be held. Besides the many accommodations which were found, the NCAA was also impressed by the fine civic and community backing which is plentiful in Charlotte. The tournament will officially begin at 2:00 p.m. on December 19 and will last through December 21. Pairings for the first games were announced on October 23 by General Chairman, John Belk. The pairing committee, consisting of Mayor Phil Van Every, Charles Buley of the Junior Chamber of Commerce, and George Dowdy, president of the Chamber of Commerce, drew and announced the first day pairing as follows:

Game No. 1—2:00 p.m.—Tennessee vs Boston College
Game No. 2—3:30 p.m.—Clemson vs Florida State
Game No. 3—7:30 p.m.—Davidson vs Colgate
Game No. 4—9:00 p.m.—Wake Forest vs Mississippi State

Two of the men important in the success of the tournament are members of the Athletic Department here at Davidson. Coach Dick McKee, who is publicity director of athletics here at Davidson, is the publicity director of the tournament. On Monday before Thanksgiving, Davidson students saw their first soccer team in over a decade defeated by theUniversity of North Carolina Jayvees, 4 to 0. Outclassed in experience and condition by the undefeated Tar Heels, the Davidson freshmen were seldom able to pierce Carolina’s defense and attempt shots at their goal. Goalie Jim Hamm and fullbacks Charlie Rutherford and John Kuykendall were primarily responsible for limiting the Tar Heels’ halftime lead to one goal, and linemen Gordon Neville, Tom Johnson, and Jockey Reeder provided the offensive spark which occasionally flared in the second half. John Poindexter and Pete Andrews at halfback posts successfully backed up their line and stemmed the Carolina offense.

An attendance of about 200 spectators accomplished Athletic Director Tom Scott's intention to foster interest in soccer by this “clinic-type” contest. The athletic department hopes that this season's soccer activities can next year produce a varsity team which would play other colleges and universities.

Hardwooders Open
By JIM PAGE

Tonight, at 8 o'clock, Davidson opens its basketball season against Furman University in the new Charlotte Coliseum. Saturday night the Wildcats meet the University of Tennessee at Knoxville.

The game tonight is a first in three ways. (1) It is the first college basketball game played in the Coliseum. (2) It is Davidson's first game of the '55-'56 season. (3) Furman, for three straight years, has been first in team scoring in the nation. Last year the Paladins upped their average to 130-95.3, after two previous seasons of over 90 points. Only a few scoring duels with the Citadel kept Furman from edging close to a hundred.

Facing the possibility of a winless season, Davidson, eked out a 13-9 victory over the Wildcats November 19. Furman proved superior in every statistical department except punting, but a muddy field and a wet ball considerably thwarted the Wildcats’ usually potent aerial attack. Comer intercepted a Furman pass on the 50 and returned to the Furman 28. Shortly afterwards Don McRee scored from the 15 on a beautiful double reverse. Belton converted, and throughout the remainder of the first half it looked as though the 1955 Davidson finale was going to be a success.

Boyle Passes For Two T.D.s

But the Furman eleven caught fire in the third quarter. A pass play from quarterback Boyle to halfback Popson covered 45 yards for the first Furman touchdown, and Heisler’s conversion tied the game, 7-7. Minutes later, Boyle tossed again, this time to end Mack Edwards, who snatched the ball on the one after it had been deflected by Davidson defenders and plunged over for the score. The extra point try was wide, but the damage had been done.

In the fourth quarter the Cats, who fought hard all game, showed signs of pulling the game out of the fire. Tal Broughton blocked a Furman punt which was recovered by Furman in the end zone for a Davidson safety, making the score 13-9.

Keep your Christmas sure-bets like the Arrow button-down, shown. $3.95. Or the new all-nylon “Frost Fighter” jacket—nylon-fleece-lined and light as a snowflake! $19.95. Count yourself in on one, too! Shop at your Arrow dealer’s beforehand! Cover yourself and the men on your list first in fashion.

Davidson College was shocked Wednesday night to hear that Coach Danny Miller, who has been at the reins of the basketball team since 1952, had resigned effective January 1. Coach Miller, a native of Braddock, Penn., had come to Davidson College in 1952 from Wingate Junior College, where in the years from 1946 to 1951 he had compiled a 169-39 record. Prior to this time, Danny had graduated from Appalachian State Teachers College, where he had starred in basketball. From 1942 ‘til 1945 he called the Navy his home.

A business offer from National Container Corporation that was impossible for him to turn down precipitated this surprise action on his part. Having done a fine job with limited material here at Davidson, Miller was expecting his best season this year due to a stronger squad being in the process of development at the moment. Until further word, Dr. Tom Scott, athletic director, will handle the position as basketball mentor.

Tomorrow night, at Knoxville, the Wildcats work with the University of Tennessee, a strong contender for the Southeastern Conference title. Facing this tough weekend, the Wildcats are in good shape except for Dave Shaw and Dave Hollingsworth who are still out with injuries. The starting lineup will have Joe Milner at center, Weeks and Harding at guards and Captain Hobby Cobb at forward. Either George Lyon, Lou Spears or Mike Martin will start at the other forward.

On December 9 Davidson will go against the College of Charleston and on the 10th Catawba will be the opposition.

Charlie Reed (at left) on offense for OC.—(Photo by Daniel)

Christmas, Ebenezer! On Trips Home For The Holidays by GREYHOUND

NORTH BOUND
One Way
WINSTON SALEM, N.C. $1.60
GREENSBORO, N. C. $2.35
RICHMOND, VA. $7.20
WASHINGTON, D. C. $8.40
NEW YORK, N.Y. $12.95
WYTHEVILLE, VA. $3.80
BLUEFIELD, W. VA. $5.20
CHARLESTON, W. VA. $8.40
CINCINNATI, OHIO $10.60
CHICAGO, ILL. $16.40

SOUTH BOUND
One Way
CHARLOTTE, N. C. $0.50
ROCK HILL, S. C. $1.20
COLUMBIA, S. C. $2.85
SPARTANBURG, S. C. $2.35
AUGUSTA, GA. $4.65
ATHENS, GA. $5.35
ATLANTA, GA. $6.90
JACKSONVILLE, FLA. $8.85
MIAMI, FLA. $14.95
TAMPA, FLA. $12.75

Plus U. S. Tax. Big EXTRA Savings EACH WAY On Round-Trips.

WHITE DRUG CO.
Main St.—Phone 2111
Davidson, N. C.

©. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO.
WINSTON-SALEM, N.C.

YOU'LL BOTH GO FOR THIS CIGARETTE!
Men and women both want real flavor in a cigarette — and Winston's really got it! That’s why king-size Winston changed America’s mind about filter smoking. The exclusive Winston filter works so effectively that the flavor really comes through to you. Winston tastes good — like a cigarette should!