PAGE FOUR LS SN (Continued From Page One)

Sunday of each week. After Vespers, as soon as the cut cards are signed, the men of policy gather with Jim Brice, assignment editor, to decide on the news breaks and run-of-the-mill info for that week’s edition. These news leads are put into form as article assignments and sent to various men of abilities ambiguously termed “reporters.”

The reporters are chosen from a list of names found on Union information sheet No. 96, entitled, “All interested in writing for the Davidsonian, sign here.” All who sign are selected. Of the 75 to 80 who signed on the dotted line this year, about thirty compose the actual writing staff of the paper. Half of these are used each week.

Article deadline is early Wednesday night. The office staff, usually composed of the entire Davidsonian roster as found on page two of every edition, then gathers together Wednesday night to edit, rewrite, strike out indecent or radical ideas, and meditate on the half page of blank space which has to be filled by closing time. Three writers in the double role of news snoops track down articles, mop up spare headlines, and dust off unused leavings from other papers. Here also are written with anguish and chuckles the headlines, captions, and sub-liner copy. Copy editor, John Harmon, carefully scrutinizes incoming material, putting his JTH on all that meets the high qualifications of printable publications. Much could be scribbled about this hub of interest that buzzes with all curious forms of students, but one must see for himself. There is never a dull moment in finishing off the stuff that passes into print to be “tasted, chewed, or thoroughly digested.”

EDITORIAL

It is the editorial page of the newspaper which allows for the exchange of ideas of individuals on the news and issues of the day as opposed to the reporting of current events on the news pages. Each week the editor and the managing editor confer and determine what aspects of the week’s news should be discussed that week. Following this, it is the duty of the managing editor to contact capable writers who can express the paper's views on these subjects. At times the managing editor contacts writers and allows them to select their own topics and express their own views on these subjects.

The official policy of the Davidsonian is expressed by the “editorials” which are always found at the left of the editorial page. These are usually written by the editor-in-chief but are occasionally written at his suggestion by associate and managing editors. These editorials alone should be considered the paper’s official stand on the various issues.

Each year the Davidsonian has several outstanding senior writers who are usually given a standard assignment to write regularly. In this category this year is the well-known column “Cracks in the Cloister.” Also familiar to the editorial page reader are the cartoons. These are sometimes drawn by local artists and at other times are received from the Associated Collegiate Press. A full page may be devoted to a single subject such as the segregation symposium this year. Such subjects require more careful planning than regular issues.

BUSINESS STAFF

The paper you are now reading was founded in 1914 with a feature staff. Later a business staff was added to help deal with the numerous management problems of the paper. Many efficient business staffs have preceded the one whose members now work on the newspaper, but the five men who compose the staff are doing as good (or better) a job of handling the paper's advertising, circulation, and collecting problems as have the members of preceding business staffs.

The advertisements for the Davidsonian are obtained from two main sources, those being a local source, and a national source of advertising represented by National Advertising Service, Inc. The local advertisers have their places of business in Charlotte and vicinity. Outstanding among contributors are: Wilson-Wright Clothing Store, Parker-Gardner, Mooresville Creamery, the Connoisseur, and the Davidson Theater (until the catastrophe). Outstanding national contributors are: the Coca-Cola Bottling Company, Winston, Camel, L. & M., and Chesterfield cigarettes.

Our college apportions $3.75 per student each year out of the Student Activities Fee to run the paper, and usually this is enough. Other financial sources are the paper’s advertisers. At the end of every year, all money over $200.00 is paid to the Publications Board Fund. This money is used in the following school year to aid the functioning of all faltering publications. Outside subscriptions to the paper are $2.00 per year. Student subscriptions are covered in the Student Activities Fee. Alumni subscription blanks are sent out with the letters to Davidson graduates. Last year the paper under the able business management of C. Hasty operated in the black, for they paid the $200.00 to the Publications Fund. Following the set precedent, the staff of this year’s Davidsonian hopes to operate again in the black.

The members of the business staff are: T. Cooper, business manager; L. Parrott, advertising manager; T. Taylor, assistant business manager; B. Carmichael, circulation manager; L. Wright, collections manager.

PRINTING PROCESS

The actual transformation of the Davidson mind and spirit in hallowed black and white is the phase of the Davidsonian story toward which all other sections and contingents must eventually point. There is no heavier hand to a writer or crusader than one which must alter, because of physical limitations of size and space (and good judgment), the culmination of many hours of dedicated work or fervent bid for the prestige and reputation of a budding “great” in the printing ink world.

The pictures to appear in any week's issue are first sent to Charlotte’s Arts Engraving Company to be transformed to either mats or engravings. All printing is done by the Davidson Printing Co. Mr. H. C. Broyles, linotypist, sets all type. A galley proof of the articles is first run off and proofread by Mrs. Broyles. Thursday afternoon or Friday morning, Crouse, Warlick, and Holshouser, page editors, supervise their respective page compositions of the type; and it is here that additions, subtractions, and divisions are made in the copy for page balance and completion. A final page proof is made for corrections and the forms are then said to be closed on the press and the lines locked in the printing frame. After a few trial runs and checks, the press is started and a tired editor begins again his worries about next week. Folding is carried out by hand under the supervision of Bob Carmichael, circulation manager, who “employs” ATO pledges and Court of Control delinquents. Final distribution and mailing ends with many an editor’s sigh and writer’s prayer.

Subsidization Forum Students Asked to Help Set for Wednesday

President J. R. Cunningham will lead a “Facts Forum on Athletic Subsidization” next Wednesday in the College Union ballroom. All members of the student body are invited to participate in the discussion, which will include clarification of any questions arising over statements in this issue of the Davidsonian concerning the school’s future athletic policy. Omicron Delta Kappa is sponsoring the forum as an endeavor to inform students of the administration’s athletic subsidization plans, a vital question on the campus for several months. The meeting will begin at 7 p.m.

Keep Campus Sightly

Having been Superintendent of Buildings and Grounds over a period of years I take pride in trying to keep our campus beautiful. When parents of students and visitors come to our campus we want them to have a favorable first impression. Too many unnecessary paths, paper cups and paper detract from the natural beauty. As Superintendent I am suggesting that all of us try to follow the campus walks. We are planning to place reminders at places where paths would be unsightly. Your cooperation in achieving these objectives will be greatly appreciated.—F. D. Hobart, Superintendent Grounds.

Memorable By JOHN HARMON

THE DAVIDSONIAN Davidsonian Celebrates 41st Birthday

Last Tuesday evening at the home of Dr. George Watts, members of Le Cercle Francais enjoyed what has been termed by some as the highlight of the spring social season thus far. This session of the spiritual sons of Louis XIV et al, was characterized by a brilliant display of sparkling wit, penetrating intelligence, and calculated cooperation on the part of all present to make the evening an unforgettable event. After the singing of the “Marseillaise,” President Summers addressed a few well-chosen words to the group. They were apparently not well chosen, however, for Summers had to be reminded by alert John Harmon that he had failed to acknowledge the presence of a new member, Bill Martin. More about that later. Next, Dick Morehead called the roll, after which he commented about the excellent attendance at the meeting. Dr. Goldiere called attention to an error which occurred in the subsequent reading of the minutes of the last session; the nature of this error escapes the writer at the moment, and therefore must not have been very important.

Secretary Morehead had the last laugh, however, when Vice-President and Program Chairman Harmon arose to introduce those participating in the program. With his usual noble spirit of defense of the down-trodden, he pointed out to the group the fact that Dr. Goldiere himself had made an error in the printing of the cards which announced the meeting. Instead of signing Secretary Morehead's first name “Dick,” he signed it “Andy.” It seems that this error was caused by some psychological lapse of memory on the part of Dr. Goldiere, for he confused Morehead’s name with that of “Andy Morehouse” (or “Outhouse” or something like that) of several years past. Anyhow, Dr. Goldiere offered profuse apologies to the group.and the otherwise unforgivable error was forgiven. Program Chairman Harmon then continued his introduction of the program with some delightful comments concerning how happy he was to see everybody again, etc. Then he personally welcomed Bill Martin into the fellowship and apologized for the notable omission of such a welcome earlier during the meeting. 

On the first part of the program, George Scott, Emory Kimbrough, and Jack Crymes read with beautiful and emotional tenderness three beautiful, emotional, and tender poems from the nineteenth-century French poets, Victor Hugo and Lamartine. Next followed a play, “Cupidon Dentiste” (which being translated means “Cupid, the Dentist”) by Pierre Macy. The actors for this performance were Bill Kuykendall, Dick Pyle, Bill Martin, Charlie Robinson, Dick Morehead, and Tom Warlick. This play was not presented as a closet drama, but rather in acted fashion. The star of the show was Dick Pyle, who played the part of a beautiful young girl visiting the dentist for a regular check-up. He was dressed in the manner of a roaring-twenties courtesan, complete with a red hat, and he really looked the part. This beautiful young belle’s dashing suitor was played by Bill Martin, who had come to the dentist with an acute toothache, but who upon falling in love with Pyle, had become immediately cured. If the club had given an Oscar for the best performance, Tom Warlick, the dentist, would undoubtedly have been the recipient. He appeared on the stage after both his patients, pierced by the arrow of Cupid and cured by the elixir of love, had decided not to use his dental services. In a dramatic soliloquy, he lamented (in French, and of course everything in French sounds like a lament) the fact that Cupid proved to be a better dentist than he. In the after-theatre discussion, the experts compared Warlick’s soliloquy to that of Gielgud doing Hamlet in point of dramatic empathy and directness. 

After the presentation of the program, the entire group joined in a 45-minute singing bout, led by Dr. Watts. After the sing, Program Chairman Harmon had another little surprise up his sleeve in the form of a contest to determine who could unravel some scrambled names of French cities in the shortest while and with the greatest degree of accuracy. Bill Kuykendall won the prize, which consisted of an extra bit of cake stolen from the refreshment table. After the contest, the hostesses, Mrs. Goldiere and Mrs. Watts, summoned the group into the dining room where delicious ambrosia and nectar had been prepared. While eating, the members formed into little cliques and discussed individually the aesthetic and intellectual subjects in which they tried to look interested. About 10 o'clock, someone suggested that it was time to leave since he and others had yet to translate their French for Wednesday morning. Acting upon this suggestion, all the members except Dr. and Mrs. Watts (who were already at home) soon left, commenting enthusiastically on the way to their respective domiciles about the stimulating and uplifting catharsis they had just experienced.

WHO ARE THE “TOP-FLITE” GOLFERS ON YOUR CAMPUS?

If you've watched them on the course, you've probably thought: “Boy, if I could just get my game down like that.” Constant practice is the answer, of course, but getting the best from your equipment is just as important, too. That's where Spalding TOP-FLITE® clubs have the edge. They have more to offer in precision balance that gives an absolutely uniform swing-feel with every club in the matched set. That's the secret of Spalding SYNCHRO-DYNED® clubs. And, it will pay off for you from the first round. You'll make the same shots with new uniformity. The perfect balance of these clubs lets you swing through the ball with confidence. Without “choking-up” or “compensating.” You get the ball away cleaner, longer, and with more shot control. These are the clubs that have lowered handicaps by as much as 5 strokes. Spalding SYNCHRO-DYNED TOP-FLITE clubs. Your Golf pro has them now. And, now's the time for you to start playing better golf.

SPALDING

McManus, Anderson...

(Continued from Page One)

Charlotte, and Pat Woodward, a Phi Delt from Quincy, Florida, are still in the running. Further balloting will take place in chapel Tuesday. Next week balloting will continue for the election of Student Council officers, and nominations, speeches, and voting of YMCA officers will be held. Y nominations will be taken in chapel on Tuesday. Also appearing next week will be the first phase in the changed process of selection of editors of the Davidsonian and Quips and Cranks. As set forth in the new constitution, there will be no speeches by candidates for these offices, but their policies will be set forth in editorials in the Davidsonian. The editorials of the nominees this year are to appear in the Davidsonian next Friday night. Elections are supervised by the elections board, whose members are chosen by the Student Council. Their purpose is purely an administrative one. Their objective is to run elections by the procedure set forth in the constitution. The makeup of the board is one senior from each fraternity, and four non-fraternity members.

118 West Trade Street

PARKER-GARDNER

Phi-Eu Competition To Be Held Monday

Davidson’s two literary societies, Eumanean and Philanthropic, will vie Monday night in the annual competition for possession of the Phi-Eu Cup, a silver trophy awarded each year since 1912 to the winner of several literary contests. A faculty committee will judge groups of poems and short stories and an extemporaneous debate on subjects to be presented by Professor B. J. Wilson. Eumanean Society has retained the cup for a number of years, and President Tom Dove cockily states, “We positively intend to keep it, one way or another.” Phi President Mac Williamson could not be reached for comment before the Davidsonian went to press. The Phi-Eu Competition has not been held for several years. The meeting two years ago was broken up by a campus riot and authorities felt it safer not to risk a contest last year. The competition will begin at 8:15 p.m., and all members of both organizations are urged to attend.

Baseballers...

(Continued From Page Three)

A lot could happen before the season is over, but if this outfit gets its share of the breaks, it’s not beyond reason that the conference baseball crown will come to rest at Davidson. At any rate this is an interesting team, and they deserve support this weekend.

PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS

CHARLOTTE 2, N. C. Phone ED. 2-8257

Pianist to Play...

(Continued From Page One)

artist received fifteen curtain calls. The virtuoso has also become a favorite of radio listeners and record devotees. He is the only one of the younger generation of pianists to be included in the Telephone Hour “family,” and he is frequently heard on N.B.C.'s “Standard Hour” from California and A.B.C.’s “Piano Playhouse.” His choice recordings for Concert Hall and Vox include albums of Schumann, Beethoven, Schubert, Grieg, and the complete Chopin “Polonaises.” During the summer season Grant Johannesen plays in concerts in the Hollywood Bowl, Grant Park in Chicago, and in the time-honored Chautauqua concerts. Mr. Johannesen has just returned from a series of European performances where he played in the great concert halls of Vienna, Munich, Hamburg, Copenhagen, and Oslo. Erling Westher in the Oslo “Arbeiderbladet” paid the pianist the following tribute: “All the small and great things that combine to create a perfect artistic performance and that we so often miss were here present and actually made this concert one of my greatest musical experiences. Equally hopeless as the attempt to define art is the attempt to explain what makes one artist’s performance superior to all others. One may mention all the well-known things, like perfect technique in all phases, the incredibly rich and perfect range of sound, imagination, lucid interpretation, creative power, etc., etc. However, these are only words. Grant Johannesen gave his listeners a wonderful experience. He possesses the undefinable which is unique, even among the world’s elite pianists.”

Tickets may be obtained from the Davidson College Artist Series and students will be admitted by their ID cards.

Davidson Spotlighted...

(Continued From Page One)

by Leighton Green and four members of his cabinet. Cortez Cooper and the regimental staff officers gave a briefing on the ROTC department. Martin “Teeny” Lafferty of Concord, one of the all-time greats in Davidson's football history, presented in a scene with several students the current athletic and physical education program. Dr. Kelsey Regen, a minister of Durham and a Davidson alumnus, assisted in the spiritual area of the program. The other faculty and administration members participating were Shaw Smith, Sam Magill, John Payne and Chalmers Davidson. Music was furnished by the Male Chorus under the direction of Prof. Donald Plott and by the Lamplighters.

Spring Clothing Exhibition FROM Milton’s Clothing Cupboard OF CHAPEL HILL ON Thursday April 7, 1955 DISPLAY WILL BE HELD AT THE COLLEGE UNION BUILDING

CAMPUS “STAND-OUTS”

Dig those L&M’s!—America's best filter cigarette. What a filter—that pure white Miracle Tip really filters. And you get all the taste! Campus after campus agrees—“L&M stands out from all the rest!” L&M’s got everything!”

LIGGETT & MYERS TOBACCO CO.