CATS RACK CATAWBA (Page 3)

VOL. XLIV

WILL TERRY

William Holt Terry Named as Davidson's New YMCA Secretary

Davidson College President Dr. John R. Cunningham today announced the appointment of William Holt Terry as secretary of the college YMCA. Terry succeeds the Rev. Samuel H. Magill, who resigned last week to become Director of Student Activities at the University of North Carolina.

The new secretary is a native of Durham and graduated from Davidson with the class of 1954. For the past year, he has been a student at the Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, Va. The YMCA is the center of campus religious life and sponsors student activities throughout the year. Dances at nearby women’s colleges and a series of outstanding speakers combine with service activities of the members to create a varied and active program.

Terry was prominent in student affairs while an undergraduate. He was president of the Eumenean Literary Society, assistant editor of the college annual, a member of Sigma Phi Epsilon, social fraternity, and of the honorary fraternity council, and served as chief marshal at commencement. He was elected to “Who's Who in American Colleges and Universities” and to Tau Kappa Alpha, national honorary forensic fraternity. He assumes his duties immediately. Magill will remain at Davidson for the next six weeks before joining the administration at Chapel Hill.

Davidson College has added 12 new men to the faculty for the 1955-56 school year. They are Dr. Karl G. Jung, Exchange Professor of German; Dr. Harold P. Ford, Associate Professor of Political Science; Dr. Richard A. Bernard, Associate Professor of Mathematics; Dr. H. Alden Bryan, Assistant Professor of Chemistry; Mr. W. J. Monahan, Visiting Professor in Spanish; Mr. J. Frank West, Visiting Assistant Professor of Music; Mr. Julian B. Ficklen, instructor in English; Mr. E. Bryan Gillespie, instructor in English; Mr. Larry Stephen Champion, instructor in English; Mr. Frederick Benton, instructor in physics and mathematics; Captain John W. Thompson, instructor in Military Science II; and 1st Lt. Edwin Van Kueren, instructor in Military Science I.

Dr. Jung comes to Davidson through the United States government exchange program. Dr. Howard P. French, Associate Professor of German at Davidson, is this year teaching English in Germany as part of the exchange. Dr. Jung studied at the Universities of Munich, Heidelberg, Frankfort, and Tubingen from 1933 to 1940, and holds the equivalent of the Doctor of Philosophy in American education. He served as a non-commissioned intelligence officer for the German Air Force during World War II. He has traveled and studied in both England and Italy and is qualified to teach geography as well as German literature and language.

Dr. Ford has been a consultant to the United States Government for the past five years and is a specialist in Far Eastern and Asian affairs. He earned his A.B. degree from the University of Redlands and his M.A. from Southern California. He was awarded the Ph.D. in International Relations by the University of Chicago in 1950. A Fellow of the National Council of Religion in Higher Education and a member of the American Political Science Association and the Far Eastern Association, Dr. Ford is well qualified for his post in the Political Science Department.

Dr. Bernard, Associate Professor of Mathematics, was awarded the Ph.D. degree in Mathematics by the University of Virginia in 1949, and then taught at Yale until 1952. He is a member of the American Mathematical Society, Sigma Xi, Phi Beta Kappa, and Omicron Delta Kappa.

THE DEATH OF A DORMITORY (Page 2)

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 1955

By DEE HELM

The publication of an annual may well be compared to the courtship of a beautiful woman. The result can be futile and linger like a first lost love in the memory of the editor. On the other hand, success means a certain inner satisfaction that often outweighs the tangible result. With this thought in mind, the Quips and Cranks staff has begun another “annual venture of faith.”

Over thirty members of the Student Body have joined the staff. This is not at all in keeping with the experience of previous editors, and is the only reason that at present the staff is slightly ahead of schedule. Staff organization has been completed, and new members assigned to work with Managing Editor Jim Marshall and his Section Editors — Harry Brownlee, Frank Bloodworth, Ross Smyth, Jim Holshouser, Ed Young, Tom Morgan, and Boyce Martin. Class Editors include David Bradford, Charles Ellison, Ned Hedgpeth, Allen Smith, Stan Miller, and Bob Buchanan. Hank Daniel is serving in a dual role as Chief Photographer and Photography Advisor.

Perhaps the outstanding development in the staff’s planning is that John Whitcomb of Darien, Connecticut has graciously agreed to judge the Beauty Section. Whitcomb is considered by many to be the foremost magazine illustrator of the day and has a feature page monthly in Cosmopolitan. The Beauty Section will include four full pages, a formal portrait and two informal shots of the winner, as well as formal portraits of the six runners-up. Hamp Mauze and Henry Faison will be in charge of campus collection.

The 1956 Quips and Cranks will present the school year just as it occurs, in chronological order, with a parallelism in copy and pictorial representation. Dark green has been chosen as the second color and Old English script will be used to contribute to the conservative, “Ivy League” design. The layout is the largest in the school’s history, a full fifty pages bigger than last year’s. For the first time since 1949, each social fraternity and the Campus Club will receive four full pages. Competent representatives have been designated in each respective organization to keep an account of its activities in both picture and print. Davidson social life will be further portrayed by a spread, two full pages, on each of the three dance weekends.

The dedication of the annual was decided by a ballot of the Class of 1956 in a class meeting after yesterday’s chapel. So as to maintain the element of surprise the dedication affords, the dedication will not be announced publicly. The choice was made from seven members of the “college family” nominated by the annual staff. It is the earnest desire of the editor and his staff that impartial student representation be increased in every aspect of student life. We pledge careful photographic selection to assure there is no vain repetition of student demagogues or members of any social organization. Our only ambition is to present an original, readable, durable, attractive, and thoroughly representative portrayal of the school year.

Orientation Program Seen As Successful

John Child, Freshman Advisor, said that orientation was a success, and that he believed that the five-day period was of invaluable help to the freshmen. Dr. Spencer, Dean of Students, also expressed his view that orientation was very successful. During the five-day period, the Class of ‘59 was divided into groups based on individual interest with the hope of increasing the effects of the counseling. Among the extra-curricular features of the program were movies at the College Union, Faculty Open House, the Faculty Reception, a dance with the belles of Queen's College and the Freshman-Faculty barbecue. The orientation ended as the upperclassmen returned to the campus to begin classes last Wednesday. Rush week, which began Monday, September 19, culminates with the pledging on Saturday, September 24.

By LLOYD CHAPIN

According to a tabulation made late Tuesday, about 215 freshmen joined the Davidson College YMCA during the recent membership drive held during the orientation period. The tabulation was not complete, since some reports from solicitors had not been verified at that time, and others were still coming in. The membership drive for upperclassmen will begin on September 27 with a chapel program outlining the procedure for the drive. Solicitations will be made from that time through September 29, according to Hampton Mauze, chairman of the Membership post on the Y Cabinet. Mauze and his committee have already made extensive plans to reach every upperclassman during the membership drive. The same group planned the freshman drive. About 60 solicitors have been engaged and they will choose the same number of assistants to make sure that no person is overlooked. Each solicitor will contact about eight men during the drive.

Membership in the YMCA is obtained through the signing of a statement that one accepts the purpose of the YMCA as outlined on the membership card. This card will contain various questions to ascertain the member's interests so that his talents can be used to the greatest advantage by the Y. The YMCA encourages stewardship, although financial contributions are not required.Contribution is not required for membership. Those wishing to support the YMCA may do so in two ways: the first is a direct contribution made to the Y through the solicitor and the second is a weekly offering through the Vespers services. In case the second method is chosen, the member will receive dated envelopes in which to place the contributions each week. These envelopes will be distributed immediately after the drive and will be used beginning with the first service in October. If a member contributes five dollars or more through either the direct contribution or the weekly method, he will receive free a subscription to the Intercollegian, the national YMCA publication.

As soon as the membership is complete, the YMCA will get into full swing with its complete program ranging all the way from Spiritual Life on campus to deputations to other schools and churches far from the Davidson scene.

Class of '59 Prepares for College Students, Dates

“That Genial Irish Gentleman,” Art Mooney, will bring his great entertaining band to Davidson on October 14 and 15. Few band leaders on the American musical scene have created such a fervor of excitement as Art Mooney. His waxing of “I'm Looking Over a Four Leaf Clover” became a national institution, which for him topped the position in every type of music poll and catapulted him into the most prominent position of the band world. Art's family moved to Detroit when he was quite young so that his father could take a job as a detective with the city’s police force. The elder Mooney decided he would equip his son with a fine trade—one that would give Art real security for the future. During the year Art attended technical high, he studied saxophone after school hours. As a side line, more for “kicks” than for the money he earned, Art frequently worked “dates” with some of the Detroit bands. He began to dream of fronting a big-time band of his own.

With his popularity engulfing the entire country, his disc of “Mahzel” was an immediate smash hit and sold over a million records. Then came the phenomenally successful “I'm Looking Over a Four Leaf Clover” which took the country by storm. Some of his other record successes include: “That's My Desire,” the novelty “Va Sa-Pa” which means “Go to Work,” and “Bluebird of Happiness.” Novelty tunes have long been one of the fortes of the Mooney band. Realizing that the discriminating public demands more than eight rhythmic bars in patterned sequence, Art has skillfully combined entertainment with dance music. Adding further to his versatility, Mooney has done much in the way of choral and vocal presentations. His band is actually unlimited in upper bracket entertainment. Not one to rest upon his laurels, however, Mooney is currently injecting some of the old Glenn Miller trademarks into his music: the clarinet leading the sax section; the trumpets muted and thin, lending to dreamy and easy listening. It may well be that the ex-linotypist, who jokingly substituted his name for Miller's on an advertisement, is on his way to making a present-day reality out of a youthful daydream.

ART MOONEY

Billiards Expert Will Be Here Sept. 29-30

Tomorrow afternoon from 2:00-3:30 p.m., will be one of the first major decisions to be made by many Davidson rushees as they ponder the merits and demerits of life in one of the eleven national fraternities or local campus clubs. For some, this decision is complex, involving the choice of boys with whom he would enjoy associating. Or perhaps he may feel “pressured” into joining a fraternity with which he had little in common with the active members. The purpose of an early Rush Week,” says Phil Koonce, president of the Interfraternity Council, “is to give Freshmen a quicker opportunity to meet upperclassmen. By visiting several different groups early in the year, the interests and activities of men outside your own circle of friends are more easily learned. Then, too, fraternities have a more even balance and distribution of pledges with varied interests. Fraternity life enables freshmen to broaden their views and appreciations.”

Of course, no fraternity is able to...

(Continued On Page Four)

DAVIDSON LOSES NINE PROFESSORS

Several of Davidson's most popular and capable professors were lost to the college at the end of last semester, some of them being on temporary leave of absence, and others assuming positions on faculties throughout the country. Professors leaving permanently were Peter Terwey, of the Math Department, who left to become a professor at his alma mater, La Mar College, in Beaumont, Texas. Mr. Terwey had been at Davidson for two years. E. C. Buell, Professor of Political Science, is also going to LaMar. He is a graduate of West Texas State, and has been a member of the college faculty for two years. W. M. Boyce, a member of the Bible Dept., has accepted a full-time pastorate at the Sardis Road Presbyterian Church in Charlotte. Alexander Vavoulis is leaving the college after two years to attend the University of North Carolina in order to finish work on his doctorate. While here he served with the Science Department as a professor of Chemistry. William Paton, a native of Ann Arbor, Mich., is returning to his native state to teach Business Administration at Michigan State. Richard Fox of the Math Department was uncertain of his future plans when last contacted. W. M. Drake of Natchez, Miss., and a History Professor, will teach at Southwestern Louisiana Institute this year. L. B. Copple, member of the English Department for the past year, is also attending the University of North Carolina in pursuit of his doctorate.

Charles C. Peterson, who calls his amazing trickery on a billiard table a mere matter of geometry, is finding, and helping to build, a great new interest in the ancient sport of making ivory balls perform to order on a flat green surface. World champion trick shot artist and representative of the Association of College Unions for the past twenty-five years, a veteran of more than sixty years as a cue expert (78 years young), will be here September 29-30, giving exhibitions at 4:00 p.m. and 8:15 p.m. on both days. His repertoire, which has been demonstrated before press, television, motion pictures, and radio, includes such feats as lofting balls into hats, riding the rail, balancing one ball on top of the other, dollar shots, difficult masse, and reverse English shots. The colleges have become interested in the sport because they realize its mathematical problems. They found in the college that billiards isn’t just a matter of knocking...

(Continued On Page Four)