Sport Shorts — BY — LEON HOWELL

Rain alternately pattered and pounded, the Citadel Bulldogs hustled and hounded, and the spectators roared and resounded. In between, the
gridiron gladiators scrapped to a hard-earned six to two victory. Throughout the game, any of the upperclassmen could feel a
tension, a will to win that has very rarely been exhibited in the past. Despite the adverse circumstances, thrills were
plentiful, particularly for those who enjoy the type of defensive brilliance displayed by the ’Cats. As the fans, both students
and visitors, filed from the drenched stands, they were soaked, shaken, but satisfied to have come out in front.

As different groups gathered around coffee in the union, supper at the “Spoon,” or an evening with a date, the
topic of particular interest for those who delve into the game deeper than the score was the versatility witnessed that
afternoon. Contrary to the game of two weeks earlier, Davidson had to remain on the defensive for the majority of
the affair. The playing conditions had incapacitated the aerial attack, so that the brunt of the load was tossed upon
the defense. Time and again these stalwarts courageously halted the bellicose Bulldogs as they appeared goal-bound. This should prove decisive
in future tougher games.

Backfield depth is proving very comforting. With Dyke Little at the throttle for Dick Belton, who was injured on the
second play from scrimmage, there was little noticeable difference in the offensive. If you may consider four of our backs
first string and the next four as a second quartet, there is again only a very small gap. Conger is
dependable, almost brilliant at times and will be hard to keep on the bench. McRee slashed as of old last
Saturday and Rowland, injury and all, got the winning TD. Our ends, perhaps the most outstanding single element on the
squad (Newton, Gramley, Patterson, and Wall), reverted from Catawba’s spectacular offensive display to defend with equal skill as the occasion
demanded.

With the progressing weeks, the schedule becomes tougher, pointing toward the giant we must face, namely Richmond. It has become
apparent to all that the Cats have the ability to continue to roll and so far have shown a lot
of desire. Our support is needed and it seems to a good many of the students that that is the
least we can do!

Jinxes are, I suppose, like laws, made to be broken. Tuesday, to the delight of many, to the dismay of
others, the Brooklyn Dodgers broke one of the most amazing of all time, their inability to beat the Yankees in
the World Series. As exciting as the games were, no one could overcome the temptation to wonder just what the
story would have been had Mantle, Bauer, and Skowron for the American League champs and Newcombe, Snider, and Robinson of
Brooklyn been in top shape for the whole fray. Left-handers played a tremendously big part in the series. In my
opinion, two were most significant. Snider, Berra, etc., are expected to shine. The real story seems to lie in the
courageous clutch chunking of Podres, who set the Yanks down twice and the failure of Irv Noren (hit into five
double plays) to produce. Two ball clubs, neither rated among the all-time great clubs, but who possess a good measure
of the intangibles met and one prevailed. Seven games of baseball and they will form the basis of discussion and
argument for bull sessions until next March. Brooklyn, only the second team to win the crown after losing the first
two games, acquired a luster in defeating the “Old Pros” that even the memory of the Gillette advertisements will have
trouble dimming.

Ready for the Dances .. ? Have Your Tuxedo and Accessories! SEE OUR “After Six” Ivy League Tuxedo It’s the
most comfortable you have ever tried on. RENTALS ALSO Wilson-Wright's Inc. DAVIDSON, N. C.

BROOKLYN VICTORIOUS

The Davidsonian ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS P. C. HERE ON SATURDAY FRIDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1955

WATER, BY JOHNNY JOHNSON

Davidson's line, showing the determination, stubbornness, and bruising power that makes champions, deserves the glory for the Cat's 5-2 victory
over the Citadel. The line, traditional gloriless workhorses of any game, has vaulted Davidson into the number one defensive team
in the Southern Conference by holding their opponents to an average of only 125 yards per game. In last Saturday's
battle with the Bulldogs, when the rain made the offensive running slippery and passing difficult, it was the Wildcats' hard-fighting
line that was the deciding factor. The body-crushing tackles consistently shook the Citadel runners loose from the slick ball; and
the alert Cat defensive fell on seven of these loose balls. Davidson's one touchdown was set up by just such
a play when guard Harold Davis broke into the opponent's backfield and pounced on a fumble on the Citadel’s 19-yard
line. Although the Bulldogs managed to start several drives, the Cats’ forward wall was a major factor in holding for
downs or, more frequently, answering the fans’ plea to “take it away; hey, hey!” Offensively the line showed spark, too,
as they opened holes for the backs and provided the passer with time to pick a receiver. No single man
was a standout, but those of particular note were: ends Bill Gramley, Tom Newton, and Jim Patterson; tackles Tom Lee,
Lyle Llewellyn, and David Fagg; guards Harold Davis, Tom

The Defense Dynamic BY JEFF SMITH

The Wildcats were a bit lucky last Saturday in their 6-2 win over a fast-moving Citadel eleven. Costly fumbles by
the military men set up the lone D.C. score and nullified several Citadel threats. The temper of Al Andrejko was
another element in the Davidsonian’s favor, his unsportsmanlike conduct gave fifteen yards to the Citadel in the only dangerous drive
of the first half. In the first quarter, the Charleston soldiers quickly slipped through the line for three significant drives
but were stopped by their own fumbles. For most of the first quarter, the tackle-to-tackle plunges of Andrejko, Reeves, and
others drove Lee, Llewellyn, Owen, and Davis to run into double-teams, fakers, and each other. On two occasions Budgie Broome
raced away for long gains, one being the opening kickoff and later a 65-yard punt return down the sideline which
ended at the 25, recovered by Harold Davis; and a 15-yard penalty against the Citadel two plays later. This put
the ball on the one-yard line, from which point Rowland bulled over. The conversion attempt was low. The Citadel again
threatened in the second quarter as they drove to the Wildcat 7-yard line, down to the same fullback through the
middle play time after time. On fourth and one to go, Dzanis again drove up the center, but he was
stopped by Lee and Davis who by this time were beginning to catch on to the Citadel blocking pattern. After
several exchanges, the half ended.

In the second half, the fast-moving Citadel backfield continued to dominate the play for a while. Siano, Woodworth, and Lesher
were running very well from the hand-offs of Miller and Schwarze. One drive alone at the end of the second
quarter yielded three first downs. Fortunately, Dole was able to putHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning
and punctuation:

the first string line back in- ed in paydirt. Fortunately for the Cats Bobby Miller was caught clipping on the
play. This may have saved the day for the Dolemen. In Davidson's first two offensive attempts they were forced to
quick kick, which West did most effectively. The third drive reached the Citadel 14 yard line, but finally died on
downs. Everyone substituted and changed fields for the second quarter. A score was set up by Andrejko's fumble on his
own column has been left, so that you Tommy Newton Davidson over Presbyterian Michigan over Army Stanford over Mich. State
Notre Dame over Miami Ohio State over Illinois Oklahoma over Texas Auburn over Kentucky Rice over Clemson Richmond over Citadel
North Carolina over Georgia Georgia Tech over LSU Mississippi over Vanderbilt S. Carolina over Furman Florida State over VPI Maryland
over Wake Forest This comes as news to no one, but the Davidsonian felt that it should report the results
of the sport’s event that has just had the attention of the world focused upon it. Riding high on the
cool clutch pitching of 23-year-old Johnny Podres, the Brooklyn Dodgers won their first World Series diadem in six attempts against
the New York Yankees last Tuesday. In a series uniquely dominated by left-handers, the “Flatbush Faithful” were finally rewarded for
their years of despair as “dem Bums” became the World Champs. Only the second team in all series history to
come back to win after losing the first two efforts, the Dodgers parlayed strong pitching, sparkling fielding, and striking power
into a margin of victory. While the eyes of a majority of Davidson College and a few pocketbooks rode on
every pitch, Duke Snider’s tremendous clouts, Jackie Robinson’s never-ceasing hustle, Rizzuto and Reese’s brilliant fielding and the entire stirring panorama
kept classroom questions at a minimum and baseball excitement at a frenzied peak. Yankee's big lashed a wicked slice down
the left field line with two on, and three times ended strong Citadel right tackle for the score. Newton's penalties
hurt them. An important element that kept them in the game was the determination of Dyke Little to play a
full game well after Dick Belton had been shaken up on the first play. Also, the running of Ken Conger
and Danny McRee deserve special mention. Rowland looked good in helping out with some of the best pass defense seen
from the Wildcats in three years. The rain had a neutralizing effect in that whereas it stifled aerial offense, it
also caused several costly Citadel fumbles. DC MEETS DUKE Led by “Pete” Ashcraft, the Davidson Cross Country team met Duke
at 4:00 p.m. this afternoon. After a month's hard preparation, the harriers appear to be in tip-top shape for their
first meet. As the Davidsonian went to press, no results had been turned in. Last year the two teams battled
to a draw. Nothing is known as to the quality of Duke this year. In any event, this meet should
have been a rigid test of the strength of the Cat aggregation. The eyes of the school will be on
them as they prepare for the conference meets. SATURDAY BY CHARLES SIGMAN South Carolina will invade the Davidson campus at
2:30 p.m. to renew an old grid rivalry. The Blue Hose will be trying to make it their third win
in four years, and the Wildcats are attempting to stop their winning ways. In the games with the Blue Hose,
the Cats have only been able to take one. Spectacular would describe these contests. In 1952 Davidson won by a
margin of 14-13, in 1953 P.C. managed a 19-18 defeat of the well-coached Cats, and last year they upset the
apple cart, 7-0. These always have a close tilt, and Coach Bill Dole regards Presbyterian as being one of his
roughest games because the small Little Four school was the pitfall between him and a very successful season last year.
Little at the quarterback slot directing the outfit. These two expert signal callers with aid from Al ends Gramley, Newton,
Patterson, and Wall; tackles Jones, Fagg, Llewellyn, and Lee; guards Davis, Owen, Abernathy; and centers Price and James have done
a fine job, as shown by the statistics. If the weather is fair Saturday, the fans stand to get another
view of the now famous double-barrelled attack. The unpredictable Presbyterian cousins from South Carolina.
