PAGE FOUR

THE DAVIDSON COLLEGE MALE CHORUS

Grants Available for Scandinavian Study

Club Cabaret Dance is Tomorrow Night

Plottmen Head South: Chorus Leaves Shortly For Annual Spring Tour

The 37 members of the Davidson College Male Chorus will sing in eleven southern cities during their annual spring tour.
Starting Wednesday, March 9, a tight schedule will keep the Chorus on the move through eight Southern and Southwestern States,
covering some 3000 miles during the 13-day period. Included in the schedule will be concerts in Decatur, Ga.; Jackson, Miss.;
Little Rock, Ark.; Beaumont, Houston, San Antonio, and Dallas, Texas. Some of the featured selections will include Jacob Handel's “O
Magnum Mysterium” for double male voices, a group of Russian liturgical music including the thrilling “Hospodi Pomilui,” spirituals and folk
songs, and selections by Romberg and Frank Loesser.

Now rated as one of the finest choral groups in the Southeast, the Male Chorus was formed more than a
half-century ago by student directors. The Chorus, which has grown steadily in size and quality, has appeared in principal cities
from New York to Detroit to New Orleans, and has presented coast-to-coast radio broadcasts over all the major networks, including
one from Radio City in New York. Donald Plott is the director of the Chorus, and Philip Gehring, professor of
Organ at Davidson, will be the accompanist.

TWO OLD-TIMERS

Hoopy Davis, left, and Auburn Lambeth, right, are two of the former Davidson stars who will play for Bill Story’s
team against this year’s football varsity tomorrow afternoon in Richardson Stadium.

Tax May Be Cut for Families of Students

New Haven, Conn.—(I.P.)—A bill which would give parents of college students a reduction in their income tax payments and help
more young people get a college education will be introduced in Congress during the current session. The idea behind the
present bill originated with the Yale Alumni Board about 18 months ago. The proposed legislation would grant an income tax
credit of 30 per cent of the tuition charges or educational fees paid for students above the 12th grade. Based
on a formula suggested by the Resolutions Committee of the Taxation Section of the American Bar Association, it would provide
the same benefits to all taxpayers supporting college students, regardless of their income.

Assuming a charge of $500 for tuition or education fees, the taxpayer would deduct $150, or 30 per cent, from
his federal income tax bill. Similar legislation proposals in the past were based on a plan of making the cost
of tuition and fees deductible from income. The new plan about to be introduced by several Congressmen this year is
believed to be better as it provides identical benefits to all taxpayers, and is of particular advantage to those in
low-income brackets.

The new bill limits the tax credit to tuition and educational fees on the assumption that other costs, such as
room, board, and travel, are covered in part by the $600 deduction now allowed for a dependent by income tax
law. A ceiling under the bill. Thus, that portion of any tuition charge above $1,500 per year would not count
in any further tax credit. Scholarships, fellowship grants, or education and training allowances would reduce the maximum on which a
person could obtain income tax credit. Thus, if the tuition charges were $1,000 a year, toward which a student received
a scholarship of $400, his income tax credit would be 30 per cent of $600, or $180.

Davidson College was one of two colleges in the Confederacy which did not close its doors during the Civil War
and Reconstruction. It was the only college in North Carolina which survived those years without inactivity for at least a
year.

Fellowships for study in Denmark and Sweden have been offered to American graduate students for the 1955-56 academic year by
the two Scandinavian governments, it was announced today by Kenneth Holland, President of the Institute of International Education, 1 East
67th Street, New York. Three fellowships have been offered by the Danish Government through the Ministry of Education. These include
funds for a year of study in an institution of higher education as well as expenses to cover a short
orientation course. Since the number of supplementary travel grants is limited, there can be no assurance of such aid to
recipients of the above-described awards. Grantees should have funds, therefore, to pay their own travel and incidental expenses.

The Swedish Government is giving three fellowships through the Sweden-America Foundation. These awards are administered in the United States by
the Institute of International Education and the American-Scandinavian Foundation. The stipends cover room, board, and tuition expenses at a Swedish
university. Candidates must pay their own travel. Preference is given to candidates under 35. Other eligibility requirements are: (1) U.S.
citizenship; (2) a bachelor’s degree from an American college or university of recognized standing by the time of departure; (3)
demonstrated academic ability and capacity for independent study; (4) good moral character, personality, and adaptability; and (5) good health. Applications
may be secured from the United States Student Department of the Institute of International Education. Closing date of the competition
is April 1, 1955.

Wildcat Swimmers...

(Continued From Page Three)

was second place Virginia Tech with 69 points. Host Davidson tied with Washington and Lee for third with 36 points.
West Virginia University was fifth and last with 10 points. The remaining five conference schools did not compete. Dick Hoyt,
of VMI, was voted the outstanding swimmer of the meet by the coaches. Hoyt won the 200-yard backstroke, the 100-yard
backstroke, and 150-yard individual medley. Bill Van Fossen of VMI matched Hoyt with three wins. Van Fossen won the 1,500-meter
swim, which was the first night's only event, the 200-yard freestyle on the second day, and the 440-yard freestyle on
the final day.

This year’s meet was held at Davidson College for the first time. Davidson's swimming coach, Carol Hambright, served as tournament
director. The championship marked the end for one of Davidson's finest seasons in the swimming sport. The tankmen posted a
7-win and 2-loss record over the season. Next year’s prospects look good for Coach Hambright. The entire squad will return
with the exception of this year’s team captain, Al Ormond. Davidson results in the conference meet include:

Ed Spier—3rd in 100-yd dash.
John Edwards—5th in 200-yd breaststroke.
Jim Travis—5th in 200-yd breaststroke.
Al Ormond—4th in 200-yd backstroke.
Tom Rivers—2nd in 50-yd dash.
Ed Spier—4th in 50-yd dash.
John Winfrey—5th in 50-yd dash.
Bill Carrell—5th in 150-yd medley.
300-yd medley relay team—3rd.
400-yd relay team—3rd.

Instrumental...

(Continued From Page One)

cert the College Band will stage a concert in Shearer Hall at 1:15. Entrants gaining a “Superior” rating in this
competition will advance to the state level of play at Salisbury. Judges for the contest are instructors in North Carolina
college music departments.

PARKER

son fraternity functions. According to the YMCA social committee, sponsor of the event, the dress is informal and refreshments will
be served. A program of entertainment, including dance exhibitions, is planned, and the cost will be $1.00 per couple. Background
decorations, including candles and checkerboard tablecloths, will be carried out in line with the French theme of the club. Because
of the relatively small size of the ballroom, a limit of twenty-five couples is set on the number to attend.
The YMCA plans tohold several similar Saturday night dances this semester if the interest shown by students in this initial
function warrants such action.

Spring Practice ... (Continued From Page Three)
Several pre-war stars will dress for the contest. Johnny Mackorell, Teeny Lafferty, and Ed Armfield will be here, and all
three of these backs were voted to the All-Time Davidson team selected here several years ago. Tickets will be sold
at the gate, and prices are $1.50 for adults and $1.00 for students.

Tennis Schedule... (Continued From Page Three)
Chapel Hill. April 28—University of Miami at Davidson. April 29—Wofford at Spartanburg, S.C. April 30—Presbyterian at Clinton, S.C. May 2
or 3—Rollins (pending) at Davidson.

Babbling Brooks . . . (Continued From Page Three)
In the running history of Pete. It was last weekend at Chapel Hill. The Atlantic Coast Conference Indoor Games, “the
Indoor Track Classic of the South” (sic). One saw many great athletes there... Ray Poucher of Florida pole-vaulting 14 ft.
6 in. to break his own record in the non-conference division... David Sime of Duke, a freshman, hurtling like a
blue streak over the 70-yard low hurdles in 7.7 seconds to break the old record by four-tenths of a second...
the terrific Jim Beatty in the conference division, whose final kick is more like a sprint. But for us, the
greatest thrill of the evening was seeing Pete run his mile. Holding back most of the way, Pete began to
move out at about three-quarters; he still opened up. Finally, with his steady pace holding him near the top, Pete
began his kick a little less than halfway through the final lap. Then he really threw it wide open, a
kick to match the best. However, it was started just a little too late... Ben Angle of VMI won but
Pete pushed him, probably more than he has been pushed the last two seasons. Angle won in the time of
4:24.6. Pete's time was approximated at 4:25.6. This was six and a half seconds better than his previous time and
only 3.6 seconds off of the school record. What better improvement can one ask? Pete still has a lot of
potential left in him... and he does his best when the competition is the toughest. Let’s hope for a lot
of good competition for him this year. Davidson's first meet is April 9, a while off yet, but not too
far away. It will be at home on Saturday afternoon. If you want to have a real thrill... be there!!
... as for right now, this hat is off to the potentially greatest distance runner in the history of Davidson
College.

GARDNER
CHARLOTTE 2, N. C.
118 West Trade Street
Phone ED. 2-8257

DAVIDSONIAN

Group Photo To Be Made Tuesday After Chapel
Mr. Roy D. Young, specialist in large group photography, will take a picture immediately following chapel, Tuesday morning, March 8,
just south of Chambers Building. It is requested that all students remember to go to the temporary stands in front
of the library following chapel exercises. The purchase of copies of these photographs will of course be optional. Coats and
ties will be worn.

Statistics of Davidson Students Are Released
Of the 845 students enrolled at Davidson College, more than one half the number have chosen business, medicine, or the
ministry as their prospective vocations, it is announced by Registrar Fred W. Hengeveld. Business and medicine each have a total
of 160, and 118 students have chosen the ministry. Professions next in order are law and teaching. Twenty other selected
vocations are listed, with 196 students still undecided as to their professions. Twenty-two states, the District of Columbia, Africa, Denmark,
Finland, and the Philippine Islands are represented in the student body. After North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Florida, Virginia, and
Tennessee have sent the largest enrollment. Since Davidson College is a Southern Presbyterian school, more than half the students are
Presbyterians. However, 19 other church affiliations are listed in Mr. Hengeveld’s 1954-55 report. Enrollment by classes is as follows: freshman,
250; sophomore, 229; junior, 176; and senior, 183. Of these, 112 are working toward A.B. degrees, and 727 toward B.S.
degrees. There are seven special students.

THE CONNOISSEUR
A Place of Fine Foods for any taste in Eating — Specializing in Steak, Seafood, and Chicken Dinners.
Mooresville, N. C.

CHESTERFIELD
Today You'll smile your approval of Chesterfield’s smoothness — mildness — refreshing taste. You'll smile your approval of Chesterfield’s quality
— highest quality — low nicotine.

FRIDAY, MARCH 4, 1965

Mimeographed copies of two chapel addresses by Dr. Waldo Beach during the University Christian Mission are available in the YMCA
office. Also, a few copies of the Reverend Harry Smith’s Monday chapel address are available.

(Continued From Page One)
Seven thousand members. These models come from the Fine Arts Department of International Business Machines Corporation and were constructed by
a foremost Leonardo authority, Dr. Roberto Guatelli, after years of study and research. Originally constructed for the 1938 exhibition of
Leonardo's work in Milan, the models were destroyed by bombs during the war, at which time Dr. Guatelli was confined
in a Japanese prison camp. When he returned to the United States, he began work on another set of models,
the ones now on tour.

In one way or another nearly every man that graduates from Davidson bears at least one Greek label. And there
is very little limit to his potential if he cares to approach the matter from a collector’s point of view.
If a man desires to emulate the Renaissance idea of the universal man, there is nothing in the scheme of
things to prevent him from claiming as many as thirteen Greek titles after his name in the yearbook. Potentially, all
twelve honoraries and one social fraternity are open to a man. But he would have to be a special kind
of man: a pre-medical student with literary propensities who did well in chemistry and physics and found time to take
German and Spanish, plus study a few other things enough to make the overall 92 average Phi Beta Kappa requires.
His extra-curricular life must include athletics, dramatics, debating, and music. If he did all this he might conceivably make ODK,
and then it would only remain for him to be extended a bid by a social organization and a bed
by an eleemosynary institution.

Greek History...

Circle This Date
MARCH 9, 1955
You can discuss career opportunities with our representative at this time.
Our THREE-MINUTE STORY is in your Placement Office

ELECTRO METALLURGICAL COMPANY
A Division of Union Carbide and Carbon Corporation

LIKE CHESTERFIELD
