PAGE FOUR DYING DEMAGOGUES . . . Obituary No. THE DAVIDSONIAN 14 | Awards Day Is Climax Of Successful ROTC Year

With arms widespread and forehead wrinkled...

JOHN ISHAM BENNETT
By WATT McCAIN

With arms widespread and forehead deeply wrinkled from bottom up, scholar John Isham Bennett, '55, looking like an Ipana hyperbole, began his valedictory address, “So there we was...” He paused, lifted his eyebrows another inch, looked over the empty auditorium, and commented that he better get some outside help for this speech; that story about his pitching eighteen innings, nine lefthanded and nine right, may not be such an acceptable beginning for a discreet Davidson audience. Maybe football would make a better opening, and he could tell how he started at quarterback for the Northfork Oranges. He continued to ponder over the content of his class day talk two weeks away. Unquestionably the seniors made a perfect choice when they elected Ish Bennett to deliver the class valedictory address.

Besides being one of the most prolific, confident public speakers on campus, Ish has proved himself a scholar by maintaining a B-plus average this year. In addition to diligently applying himself to courses under Fulcher, Griffin, Reid, and Parker, Ish finds time to keep up with affairs in the outside world, mainly by seeing every flick within thirty miles. Above all, Ish is an athlete. In four years of varsity basketball and baseball he has won eight letters, more than any other student now at Davidson. In his first year he was named Freshman Athlete of the Year. Presently Ish is concerned over his poor ping pong game. At the Phi Delt house, where he is affectionately called “Overbite,” “Barracuda,” “Great Face," “Mellon Head,” “Fishface,” or “Fossiltop,” Ish is the leading entertainment. He packs the living room after every meal for a storytelling spree of his athletic prowess and exploits.

After graduation Ish hopes to spend his service time in the Navy, where he will probably be assigned to supplementing icebreakers. Following discharge, Ish intends to do graduate work in physical education which means passing up a number of aquarium offers and several opportunities as an ivory hunter. As the hometown hero of Northfork, which slopes on two West Virginia hills, Ish doesn't receive competition even from the state idol, Rod Hundley. At McCallie Ish again played all-round athlete, once sinking a mid-court shot just at the half, then pitching a no-hit ball game after the first batter blasted a homerun, and broad jumping on Saturday nights.

At Davidson Ish found other interests to complement his athletic career. There was the College Grill, the schoolhouse, and dancing all night on a foot lame from basketball workouts. Ish’s love affairs have been short and sweet and he has fallen to memorizing statistics from his favorite sports magazines. Still, he is the pride and joy of Northfork, and all the local parents hope their kids will grow into Big Oranges like Ish, scholars, entertainers, and athletes.

Scholarship in Forestry Offered

A scholarship for a Davidson student who is interested in studying Forestry has been announced recently by college officials. The award amounts to $500 per year and is made possible by Nickey Brothers, Incorporated, a lumber and hardwood flooring industry of Memphis, Tennessee. Any student who plans to enter forestry work and is interested in this scholarship for next year, is urged to apply at Dean Spencer's office as soon as possible.

ATTENTION!

The annual Davidson College ROTC Awards Day was held May 10 during the regular Tuesday afternoon drill period. Eleven different awards, ranging from the “Lions Club Medal for Outstanding Citizenship and Leadership” to the “Outstanding Band Cadet Medal,” were presented to members of the ROTC Corps.

Cadet Colonel Cortez A. Cooper was awarded the “Lions Club Medal for Outstanding Citizenship and Leadership.” Cadet Major Austin C. Strand and Cadet Lt. Colonel James R. Stogner, Jr., won Honorable Mention. Brig. General T. M. Mayfield, Commanding General of the 108th Infantry Division, presented the “108th Infantry Division Cup for the Best Company” to Cadet Captain Thomas W. Lambe, Jr. Lambe is commander of Company F. Honorable Mention went to Cadet Captains Richard T. Davis and Gayle O. Averyt.

The “ROTC Leadership Certificate for Meritorious Leadership Achievement” was awarded to Cadet Lieutenant Emanuel G. Sfaelos. Cadet Captain Frank S. Johnston, Jr., and Cadet Lieutenant Charles Rankin received Honorable Mention. Cadet Captain George M. Canon was presented the “Outstanding Company Commander Medal.” Honorable Mention in this category went to Cadet Captains Richard T. Davis and Gayle O. Averyt.

The “Outstanding Staff Officer Medal” was won by Cadet Major Robert A. Kimbrough. Cadet Captains Frederick D. Benton and Jesse S. Lockaby, Jr., received Honorable Mention. The “Outstanding Platoon Leader Medal” was presented to Cadet Lieutenant Corvin H. Clark. Honorable Mention in this category went to Cadet Lieutenants Emanuel G. Sfaelos and Charles Rankin.

Lt. Colonel Theodore E. Andrae received the “Outstanding Military Science IV Cadet Medal.” Cadet Lt. Colonels James R. Stogner, Jr., and John L. Green were awarded Honorable Mention. The “Outstanding Military Science III Cadet Medal” was presented by Scabbard and Blade to Cadet Master Sergeant Joe B. Pharr. Cadet Master Sergeants John M. Peirce, Jr., and Lawrence H. Wright won Honorable Mention.

Cadet G. Reece Middleton received the “Outstanding Military Science II Cadet Medal.” Honorable Mention was given to Cadets William K. Conger and Thomas E. Moody. The “American Legion Medal for the Outstanding Military Science I Cadet” was awarded to Cadet Charles H. Blake. Cadets Joseph F. Browning and Ralph G. Bright received Honorable Mention. The last award to be given, the “Outstanding Band Concert Medal,” was presented to Cadet James G. Martin.

Twelve Top Men... (Continued From Page One)

PERRIN ANDERSON
Perrin Anderson from Union, South Carolina, was recently elected president of the student body for next year. He serves as vice president of Sigma Chi and was the second vice president of the student body for the past year. Anderson is a holder of one of the much-coveted Union Carbide and Carbon scholarships.

BLAKE BRINKERHOFF
Blake Brinkerhoff, newly elected president of the YMCA, hails from the Presbyterian citadel of Montreat. He held the post of vice president of the Y for the past year. As a sophomore he was assignments editor of the Davidsonian. Brinkerhoff is presently vice president of Kappa Sigma social fraternity.

HOBBY COBB
Hobby Cobb, high scorer on the basketball team this year, makes his home in the off-season in Charlotte. He was first vice president of the student body this year, presi-dent of Kappa Sigma, and vice president of the sophomore class last year.

JOE CONARROE

Joe Conarroe, a goodwill ambassador for the state of Florida and hailing from Bradenton, was recently elected president of the Senior Class for next year. Conarroe in the past has held the posts of recording secretary and corresponding secretary for Beta Theta Pi social fraternity and will be their president next year. He has been secretary and vice president for Eumanean Literary Society and was secretary-treasurer of his sophomore class. He is a Union Carbide and Carbon scholar and is a member of the Student Council, the Male Chorus, Sigma Upsilon, and Le Cercle Francais.

DEE HELM

Dee Helm, next year’s editor-in-chief of Quips ‘n Cranks, comes from the town of Hot Springs, Virginia. Active in annual work in the past, he is a member of Sigma Delta Pi honorary Spanish fraternity and has been at one time or another secretary, rush chairman, and pledge trainer for Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity.

JASON McMANUS

Jason McManus, who was recently named to Phi Beta Kappa, is a native of University City, Missouri. McManus is next year’s president of Phi Delta Theta social fraternity and is presently a member of Sigma Upsilon, Delta Phi Alpha honorary German fraternity, the YMCA Cabinet, the Student Council, and Eumanean Literary Society. He is the Agnes Sentelle Brown Scholar for 1955-56 and also a holder of a Presbyterian competitive scholarship.

DICK MOREHEAD

Dick Morehead, newly elected editor of the Davidsonian, is a KA from Huntington, West Virginia. Morehead is also editor of the Wildcat Handbook for next year. He has been secretary, vice president, and president of Philanthropic Literary Society and secretary of Le Cercle Francais. He is also a member of Scabbard and Blade, the Y Cabinet, the Interfraternity Council, the Honorary Fraternity Council, the Publications Board, and has been manager of the swimming team.

DEAN C. J. PIETENPOL

Dean Pietenpol has held the post of Dean of the Faculty at Davidson for the past two years. A member of the physics department here for some years, Dean Pietenpol was formerly president of Washington and Jefferson College.

MR. J. V. LORE

Mr. Lore, a prominent citizen of Davidson, is Executive Vice President of the Piedmont Bank and Trust Company. Mr. Lore has been especially active in setting up several branch banks and a few years ago was one of the leaders in the establishment of the local merchants association. He is a graduate of Davidson, a deacon in the Presbyterian Church, and two years ago was vice president of the Men of the Church.

DR. C. G. REIGNER

Dr. Reigner, after making the tapping ceremony address, added another honor to his long list by becoming a member of ODK. In addition to being president of the H. M. Rowe Publishing Company, he is a past president of Pi Beta Alpha national publishers association, author of some 40 odd textbooks, past president of Phi Delta Kappa, national education fraternity, and is in Who's Who in America, Who’s Who in Commerce and Industry, and Who's Who in Education.

Subsidization Poll... (Continued From Page One)

A conference, while 51.6% opposed it.

III. If you favor one of the above programs, what policy should Davidson follow in the interim? (A) increased subsidization, (B) present subsidization, (C) decreased subsidization? Of the students favoring a non-subsidized conference, 26% favored increased subsidization in the interim, 57.6% favored the present amount, and 16.3% favored decreased subsidization.

IV. If you do not favor a non-subsidized conference, what level of subsidization do you favor? (A) Increase to $50,000, (B) present $30,000, (C) Decreased subsidization? 84.8% of the students favoring subsidized athletics wanted increased subsidization, 13.4% favored the present amount, and 21% desired decreased subsidization.

V. Do you favor basketball and other sports getting a larger share of this money? 86.7% of the students polled answered this question in the affirmative, while only 13.3% dissented.

VI. Have you read editorials, statements of policy, and have you attended the forums on athletic subsidization? 81.2% of the students polled had either read editorials or attended forum(s) or both.

VIII. Have these influenced your opinion? Of the 81.2% answering Yes to question 6, 42.6% indicated that their opinion had been influenced somewhat by the discussion, while 57.4% were not influenced at all.

Perhaps the most significant fact indicated by this poll is the percentage of students who favor larger subsidization to basketball and to the “minor sports.” Realizing the greater expense involved in producing a top-flight football team, undoubtedly, they feel that Davidson would be more successful in building far-famed basketball or tennis teams.

Taking part in the administration of this poll were: B. Sharp, B. Fraley, C. Staton, C. Helms, C. McGowan, J. Ballenger, N. Payne, H. Wells, C. Patterson, B. Beall, P. Woodward, B. Turner, S. Ferguson, R. Bates, L. Carter, J. Trawick, and S. Wallace.

Placement Office... (Continued From Page One)

Several returning servicemen who graduated in the past years took advantage of the placement service, and a total of over 800 interviews, of approximately 15-20 minutes each, were held. Evaluation of the program for this year has not been completed, but such an appraisal is in process, in order to determine the weaknesses and strong points of the method followed this year. Those who are interested in learning more about this program and want information concerning the procedure for next year are urged to talk with C. Shaw Smith or John T. Harmon who have worked with this service and will be able to give full details concerning the opportunities for next year.

Netters Are Champions (Continued From Page Three)

Major awards. William and Mary finished second with 17, closely followed by Richmond's 14. In the semifinals Clark beat 3rd seeded Chuck Straley of Richmond, 6-1, 6-4 while Keesler downed 4th seeded Ed Phillips of William and Mary, 6-3, 6-3. On Friday afternoon, the number one Wildcat doubles team dropped only one game as they won over Joe Reynolds and Toby Perry of William and Mary, 6-1, 6-0. Phillips and Reel gained their berth in the finals by virtue of a 6-3, 5-7, 6-4 victory over Davidson's George Snead and Leighton Green in one of the most exciting matches of the tournament.

FRIDAY, MAY 13, 1955

Baseballers Meet... (Continued From Page Three)

Getting into the playoffs after exams for a tourney berth. Coach Clements said he was not yet sure of the outcome, but the situation looked favorable at this point. It was also announced this week that Billy Morris has been elected captain for the 1956 Davidson team. The new Cat leader plays shortstop and is from Charlotte, having played his high school ball for Harding High. Jim Kiser, also from Charlotte and an ex-performer at Harding, and Buzz Hope of Atlanta were named alternate captains for the next season.

Davis and Rowland... (Continued From Page One)

The outstanding freshman athlete. Billy Morris was announced as 1956 baseball captain, and Ritzell Snyder was named as captain of the wrestling team. After the awarding of individual honors, lettermen in all sports received awards from their coaches.

Drink ‘M O O R’? Mooresville Creamery, Inc.

PARKER-GARDNER CHARLOTTE 2, N. C. 118 West Trade Street Phone ED. 2-8257

Buy CHESTERFIELD today! Largest selling cigarette in America’s colleges. You'll SMILE your approval of Chesterfield’s smoothness—mildness—refreshing taste. You'll SMILE your approval of Chesterfield’s quality—highest quality—low nicotine.