The Davidsonian

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF: Dick Morehead
ASSOCIATE EDITORS: Maurice Crouse, Tot Batten
Managing Editors: Frank Bloodworth, Jim Brice
Sports Editor: Bunny Perkinson
News Editors: Jonni Galler, Leon Howell
Feature Editor: Watt McCain
Staff Photographer: Hank Daniel
Assignments: John Trask
File Clerk: Bob Beall

Member of the Associated Collegiate Press and Intercollegiate Press

Page Two
Friday, May 6, 1955

Science for the Layman

Education merits progress. In recognition of the general trend in education and the needs of Davidson in particular, the following proposal is presented for criticism, consideration, and possible action.

According to the present system, a student, in order to graduate, must pass one course in the field of science, chosen from either chemistry, biology, or physics. The implied purpose behind such requirements is that a liberal arts graduate would not have a complete education without a year’s exposure to the mysteries of science. It has been felt by many that this worthy purpose is not fulfilled nor current needs met by the present system. Would not a general science course afford the solution?

Such a course would initiate two fields of instruction. Science majors would enter an accelerated course in their respective fields, and the remainder of the student body would be offered a course in general science. This course would present all three sciences, with emphasis upon modern times, and developed around understanding and application of the scientific method. It would be flexible enough to include recent experimentation and discoveries such as the Salk vaccine, atomic power, and the H-bomb without utilizing front-page headlines for a text.

There are many reasons to support a general science course. As it now stands, the present courses, especially in physics and chemistry, are geared too low for science majors and too high for the layman. According to first semester figures (Davidsonian, Oct. 15, 1954), only 25% of the 640 expressing professional interests are pre-med. Allowing some 5% for math and associated majors, that leaves around 10% (pre-law, pre-business, pre-min, etc.) who are required to absorb fairly technical instruction. There is then a need for more advanced individual courses and a generalized presentation for the layman.

On the basis of a test given around five years ago at Davidson to seniors and sophomores, it was found that Biology boys knew little if anything about Physics and Chemistry, and students of the latter were equally embarrassed in the other sciences. There is then a need for breadth of scientific instruction.

Many reasons for this course are found in the benefits which it could bring to our curriculum. It would present an informative and practical knowledge of all three sciences to the student who is not interested or does not have sufficient time to major in an individual science. It would further offer to science majors comprehensive preparatory courses in their field, presenting more technical knowledge and concentrated laboratory requirements which would provide an invaluable foundation for later work. Further, the scientific method, perhaps the crux of this course, could be better presented and practically analyzed.

The trend in education is toward general liberal arts training, not specific and detailed lectures which by their very required nature limit discussion and scope. Specialization is not encouraged in most fields until graduate level today. A course of general science could become a reality. Textbooks have been written, and such schools as Michigan State and FSU, among others, have successfully employed this type of instruction in their curriculum. Such a course need not develop into a crib by any means. It would present a challenge to both student and professor and depend upon the interest and determination of both. It could be flexible without being flippant or attached to the trivial. Davidson need not wait until the last hour before it presents a modern, practical, and interesting course of instruction in general science. May education not be denied the benefits of progressive presentation.

Farewell To Arms—An Evaluation

At the beginning of the present school year, a unique program came into existence in the Cadet Corps at Davidson College. A far-sighted staff of military science instructors looked 58 senior cadets over closely and handed the operation of the cadet regiment entirely over to them with the exception of classroom instruction. ‘Twas a shock to be sure... No more would cadets be told how each and every phase of ROTC activities was to be conducted. There was no doubt about it—it was a sink or swim proposition. It was meant to be so.

Next came the inevitable cynical remarks which characterize the Davidson scene, to the effect that the “new look” in the ROTC Dept. wouldn't last six weeks. Well, it did last... And most observers have agreed that it has grown into something which may produce some of the best-qualified officers which the Army Reserve has ever received from Davidson College.

It is well worth while analyzing the reasons for the survival and apparent success of the new system of operation. From the beginning, all men in ROTC pitched in and attempted to show that the cadets were capable of running their own corps. Sure, there were problems, but perhaps problems are a sign of a growing organism. On Tuesday afternoons, more and more Davidsonians reported to drill with brass a little bit sharper and shoes which showed evidences of much polishing. To the senior cadets, this was a good sign... esprit de corps, a pride in the cadet corps which had long been dormant. A man does his best work and expends most energy when he has a personal interest in what success in a task will mean. This was the case in the cadet corps this year. If we have succeeded, the credit belongs to us... If we have failed, then the stigma belongs to us. And I am prepared to say to anyone that the men, who earned through hard work and a lot of preparation the finest rating which can be awarded in the annual Spring Inspection, made a smashing success!

Davidson has every right to be proud of its having such outstanding and far-sighted men as Lt. Col. Sapp, our PMS&T, and his entire staff of officers and non-coms as the guides of a system such as the present one. Theirs hasn’t been an easy year... Supervision and advice often require more effort and sincere application than going on and doing a task yourself.

These comments are not intended to present a rose-colored picture of all that has taken place in the military scene at Davidson. Basic and Sophomore cadets should receive more than 1½ hours of credit per semester for ROTC, and efforts are being made to take up this matter with the trustees. And I feel confident that any needed adjustments in cadet administration of the program can be brought about by recommendations from students as well as from instructors. Sure, there has been loose motion in the cogs that turn the wheel of the ROTC, but learning from these mistakes will lead to greater success in the future.

All in all, even in the face of tender young critics who have taken it upon themselves to crusade heartily (and loudly) against anything or anyone who wears a uniform signifying service in the armed forces, ROTC at Davidson has had a good year. And credit for this goes directly to the students who have seen a task and performed it well... the cadet private on up through the cadet officers. Possessing no sage-like wisdom to throw out, I would simply say to those who are to move up a notch in the military next year that if being “GUNG HO” entails working hard at preparing yourself to do your part in the defense of all that you believe in, then it is my fervent hope that you will be just as “GUNG HO” as you possibly can!

Liberal Arts And

To evaluate objectively the educational program of any school is almost an impossible task, much less one which we love as much as Davidson. It would not be difficult to write countless articles enumerating the excellent academic standards of our alma mater of which we are justly proud, but we believe that constructive criticism has a better chance of inducing action than deserved praise; this seems like an appropriate time to say we believe the quality of our curriculum in some areas is not on a par with our splendid faculty and high calibre of our educational program.

HUMANITIES

The major failing in our curriculum is the lack of a broad course in the humanities which a tour through the catalogues in the registrar's office will reveal almost all colleges and universities offer if not require.

Of course, it is dangerous to judge the academic program of any school by simply comparing courses offered, but we feel that there is much of positive value from such a study. It would be impossible naturally to have a course in the great ideas and personalities of history as at Princeton, Harvard, and Yale where students for the most part really take education seriously, but we could have a four-semester Cultural Heritage course as Bates (846 students: Lewiston, Maine) offers. Their course, as does a similar one at Haverford and an eight-semester one at Coker, at least familiarizes the students extensively if not intensively with the great thinkers from Homer, Sophocles, Plato, Augustine, Virgil, Aquinas, Dante, Machiavelli, Rousseau, Hegel, Dostoevsky, Freud, Marx, and Mann.

Admittedly such a course would have to be on a superficial level and be under the joint leadership of several departments, but it would open up whole new areas of learning for those who cannot major in English, Philosophy, History, and Economics at one time. Why could not Davidson freshmen be given placement tests in English as they are in Math and the top scorers be allowed to graze in greener pastures? Certainly many prep school graduates find Freshmen English on a very low level and would profit much more by a course such as Presbyterian offers—Readings in World Literature; in some schools, this course is offered as an alternative to British Literature, which is very limited in scope. Many schools are beginning to offer a type of humanities course to freshmen called Philosophy Through Literature which would be of inestimable value.

RELIGION AND BIBLE

Although sex is still first in most Davidson bull sessions, religion runs a close second. Everyone is an amateur theologian, and college should be the place of rethinking the faith which was handed down to us—this means studying religion in general as well as the Hebrew-Christian Scriptures. Instead of tossing freshmen right into the Garden of Eden with its fertile soil for cynicism, why not have an opening semester on the history and psychology of religious development as proper background for spending a semester on Hebrew History and then a semester on New Testament? The fourth semester could well be spent studying Classics of Religious Thought (Pascal, Eckhardt, Woolman, etc.) as at Haverford or, having a semester as Agnes Scott does to study History of Christian Doctrine. Even staunchly Baptist Furman requires more courses in Religion than Bible without necessarily minimizing the significance of the scriptures.

Davidson is admittedly a fine liberal arts school, but it is out of step in these ways with the best small liberal arts schools in the country. Any student wishing a humbling intellectual experience should listen to the College Quiz Bowl (WIST) in which selected schools send student teams to match minds, and then think twice before he says Davidson is the best school in the South (both Washington and Lee and Duke have been recent guest schools) again. Four years at Davidson is a challenging, exciting, disappointing, thoughtful, and joyous experience from an academic standpoint, and we covet for future Davidsonians an even higher quality of courses—only when students have been exposed to all areas of learning will our already excellent college reach its full potential.cause its students to realize that the laborious and often painful journey up the steep mountain of understanding is infinitely worthwhile and eternally rewarding.

For a Better Davidson: Sweeping Curriculum Changes Necessary
By JOHN REED

Davidson is a swell school. Just ask anyone who doesn’t go here. But the belief in the Great Davidson Myth that has so seduced most of the outside world is not nearly so compelling to those of us here. Not all in the Davidson community are so sure that Davidson is the best of all possible educational worlds. In fact, often something very like this takes place in lieu of the educational experience that a college supposedly provides:

A man comes to Davidson, in most cases eager to learn and anticipating a great experience, and is immediately confronted with numerous courses of questionable value which are often taught at the high school level by bored professors; he feels the terrible pressure for conformity in the matter of disdain for the intellect and desirability of the social life. Consequently, he goes through a period of resistance to the system and then finally succumbs superficially or in fact and becomes another impotent glob in the agglutination of nothings that comprise Davidson. Finally, when he receives his diploma and looks to see what he has acquired over his four years, all he can find is a slightly polished personality, the prospect of a good job afforded him by the reputation of the diploma he carries, and a few miscellaneous facts that he learned during an examination period that his mind has not yet been able to expel. His mind is the same sluggish hunk of nervous tissue that it has always been, not having been exerted much since the mastery of long division.

What can be done about this situation? What changes must be made before Davidson can begin to train minds which will be capable of coping with the problems of modern society, minds which can not only adapt themselves to their environment but also can change the environment for the good of all men? It seems to me that there are many steps which could be taken. Here are a few of them:

1. Require the College Board Examinations of all applying students and make it a determining factor in the selection of the freshman class. This would serve the double purpose of attracting more applications from the brighter students and discouraging those with less ability from applying. Such a procedure would raise the level of collective intellectual capacity immeasurably.

2. At least 75% of the courses at Davidson should be conducted on a higher, more mature level. There should be more parallel work in the library and fewer class lectures, leaving more time for discussion and questioning. To make such improvements in the quality of courses would require a much greater effort than is exerted now on both the part of the student and the professor.

3. The faculty should be enlarged by the addition of young, naive teachers whose enthusiasm has not yet been deflated by unappreciative students. The departments of psychology, physics, sociology, and philosophy are greatly lacking in manpower.

4. There should be a radical change in the courses required for graduation. Some of the changes needed are as follows:

Bible—Two full years of work in the Old and New Testaments is a waste of time when one considers the courses which must be omitted in order to take Bible. A comprehensive, one-year course in comparative religion with special attention to Christianity and the Bible should be substituted. The student should be exposed to the nature and philosophy of religion and to the doctrines found in the more important faiths, and then allowed to accept or reject as his reason guides him. The professor should describe; the student should evaluate.

Science—Non-science majors should not be required to take a pure science course. In its place, a two-semester course would be substituted in the “Tactics and Strategy of Science,” as J. B. Conant puts it, designed to introduce the student to the purposes and methods of scientific inquiry. Examples would be drawn from classical and contemporary chemistry, biology, and physics. This change is one of the most needed at Davidson, where the rift between science and religion constantly widens; it would do away with much of the misunderstanding between scientists and non-scientists. A man can hardly appreciate science if his only exposure to it has been in drawing a drupe fruit or an archegonium.

With the current increase in the population of prospective college students threatening to modify every standing educational pattern, it seems to me that Davidson is going to have to make a very crucial decision in the near future. Is Davidson to continue to train personalities only and provide southern society with men who are pillars of their communities, who live reputable, middle-class lives devoted to the preservation of the status quo? Or is Davidson to make an about-face and begin to train minds as well as personalities and to graduate men who are capable of improving the status quo, of creating as well as maintaining? In the men standing at the frontiers of knowledge in all fields, we see the hope of the modern world—does Davidson want to produce some of these men?

If we choose the first alternative, we must give up our reputation as a first-rate institution of learning and accept the equally worthy reputation as a polishing factory for reputable, middle-class citizens. On the other hand, if the latter alternative is our choice, some program similar to the one I have outlined here and much more must be instituted.

Condensation of Vesper Sermon
By DR. WILLIAM BENFIELD

Progress in forceful Christian living is inseparably related to men and women who can stand up and say “I believe.” This right to believe or not believe is a precious freedom but there are some things which need always to be recognized about those who do not profess belief in God. For one thing, some so-called disbelief is essentially not a protest against the existence of God but against crude and childish concepts of Him. Then, too, some probably deny the existence of God on a basis which cannot be substantiated. There are the people who protest this thing called faith and claim to live by fact alone. They pride themselves on being realists but they forget the fact that when there is no real participation in life, there can be no wholesome growth apart from the element of faith.

If our Christian belief is to be meaningful and productive, we must remember two things. We must never be apologetic for our belief nor should we be ashamed of our doubts. Every man has his creed, of one kind or another. The Christian must stand up for that which he believes or his Christianity is meaningless. At the same time, however, it must be remembered that doubt is not necessarily a sign of weakness. The person does not live who has never said “I do not know” and who has never been tempted to say “I wonder...” The important thing is to be willing to face up to doubt, examine it honestly and openly, and to emphasize the things we can and do believe. Membership in Christ's Church is not reserved for those who have all the answers but for those who want to find the answers. The Christian Church is not intended for people who have already arrived but people who are willing to launch out in the adventure of growing in the better life—committing themselves to Christ and being willing to follow Him.

Letter to the Editor:

Dear Editor:

It has been hard to see why books should cost more at the college bookstore than almost any other source (such as Efird’s, or other bookstores). We are aware that students do not have to buy their books at the college store and that the prices are usually the book list prices. We still feel that a lowering in price might be achieved, or at least figures and reasons should be shown as to why this lowering in price cannot be accomplished here.

Our Tight Little World

Soren Kierkegaard, the Danish master of paradox, had these unparadoxical words to say to this Davidson generation: “What is education? I should suppose that education was the curriculum one had to run through in order to catch up with oneself, and he who will not pass through this curriculum is helped very little by the fact that he was born in the most enlightened age.”

We can catch only a glimpse of the full meaning of these words. Once upon a time we were so sure that we had all the answers (what did it matter that we did not know the questions?) but now we are not so sure. The glory of certainty has departed, leaving us humble before the vast areas of our ignorance. Our college education has taken us out of the deep ruts of our provincialism and given us new insights into life. Or has it?

Unfortunately, the Davidson student body falls short of the idealized portrait drawn above. We form such a tight little family that it is possible to pass through this institution of “liberal education” without once having our most precious views seriously challenged. We enter believing in the supremacy of our unique culture and we shall probably leave with our faith still unshaken.

UNIVERSITY CHRISTIAN MISSION

A significant example of our unwillingness to “catch up with ourselves” is the reception given to the University Christian Mission with its theme “The Mature Christian in a Changing South.” Previously we had complained that the Religious Emphasis Weeks were so far removed from everyday life that they had little interest for us. But when the UCM attempted to apply Christian principles to important areas of what we usually regard as secular life, we suddenly found that we did not want anyone telling us that our previous concepts of life and religion might be wrong.

We sit calmly through a chapel speech which tells us we ought to love our neighbor, because we have heard all this before and know that things really should be that way, of course. But when an ethics professor tells us that we can demonstrate our Christian love by accepting a Supreme Court decision, we conclude that he has overstepped the traditional boundary between the “ought to be” and the “shall be.” Or when the same professor tells us that our growing industrialization in the South is based on cheap unorganized labor, our regional pride is injured and we begin to suspect him of trying to stir up uncalled-for controversies between workers and employers.

OVERSIMPLIFICATION

Take the much-debated football issue as another example. We oversimplify the issue so greatly that persons voting on a petition may not realize that they can object to the manner in which the petition was drawn up and circulated without at the same time necessarily objecting to subsidization. The question is submitted as either/or, but neither may be the correct answer.

REFLEX ATTITUDES

Student opinion tends to be a reflex action which opposes whatever action may be taken by the faculty or the trustees. When will we realize that the college officials have the interests of the college quite as much in mind as we have, and that they have a much broader background of experience from which to draw in making their decisions? All too frequently we deny ourselves the opportunity to catch up with ourselves by shutting out any ideas that challenge the ideas which have become so comfortable for us that we do not want to disturb them. If Emerson was correct in his definition, there are probably few scholars at Davidson College.—M.A.C.

AS REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
420 Madison Ave. New York, N.Y.
Chicago • Boston • Los Angeles • San Francisco

BUSINESS MANAGER.....Larry Parrott
Advertising Manager.....Subscription Manager.....Circulation Manager
Business Staff: Tony Guiles, Bill Bondurant
Subscription Rate: $2.00 Per Year
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1879
Offices in David Ovens College Union, Davidson College