— BY — TOM OWEN WILDCAT OF WEEK LEON HOWELL

The time is now. This is it. Now is the hour. Make or break. All are terms with practically the
same meaning. And they all apply to one situation as far as we at Davidson are concerned. That is the
Richmond game of tomorrow.

Perhaps this may seem to you to be giving one game, on a foreign field, too much importance. It may
appear that, in view of a possible loss, the future games would lose importance. However, this is the way it
appears to me and I shall reveal my reasons.

Since Davidson College was received into the venerable old Southern Conference in 1936, the Wildcat football squads that have represented
her have, for the most part, been near the bottom in league standings. Full of fight, full of hope, the
Cats never stopped battling, but they simply did not have the equipment to fight the bigger squads with. In fact,
the fourth place finish of last year is the best ever.

Tomorrow, when the red and white uniformed warriors from D.C. dash onto the field, they will carry with them the
hopes, the plans, and the vindication of myriads of Davidson supporters. In the midst of the losing streak of 1953,
undaunted fans looked ahead to such a day as this. When it appeared that the long walks back to the
dressing room after accepting the consolation of the victorious coach would never end, Coach Dole looked forward to such a
day.

With the outcome of the Richmond game will rest Davidson’s hope of winning its first Conference diadem ever. True, even
if victorious, they would have to get by Furman, but a defeat in this encounter would close the door on
any chance. In the Spiders, the Cats will meet a formidable foe. It is one that is probably better on
paper. Big and fast, they will present a tremendous challenge to our line. Backs will have to run a little
harder, passes will have to be a little sharper.

In view of all the years labor it represents, of the comparative importance it bears, of the part one small
error or break could play, it does not seem quite fair to place such a burden on eleven guys, different
from you and me only in that they are somewhat better equipped physically. However, between the hours of two and
five, the fate of this year’s team, indeed the place of our generation at Davidson’s fortune will be decided. As
the Cats go out to become champions or just another average team, the backing of the student body goes with
them. In the interlude, I would not be surprised if a few selfish prayers were uttered.

Teams, Here and There

While the Cats were on the road, the editor spent a couple of weekends watching games at other schools. As
it turned out, in both cases, the night was spent in the football dorms, located at the University of Tennessee
and the University of Georgia. Being associated, however briefly, with the typical football player who was brought in solely to
propound his athletic skill, made me even more appreciative of the quality of athlete here at Davidson. With a few
notable exceptions, the grant-in-aid men of these “big-time” schools were interested in nothing about their school, their team, or their
friends. Rather, they spent their time solely for football and its application to their own prestige.

No one here at Davidson need ever feel anything other than pride in the men who are representing their school
around the South. They will be the equal, and, in most cases, surpass the quality of any other school.

ACP Sports Editors Select Top Ten Teams

The ALENDA LUX UB) ORTA LIBERTAS

Davidsonian

SIGMA CHIS FLICKERBALL CHAMPS

PAGE THREE FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1955

OWEN IS NAMED WILDCAT OF WEEK

Stetson Falls 25-13

By PHIL KUKURA

This morning at eight the Davidson Wildcats pulled out by bus to keep their date with destiny—two-thirds of one of
the biggest seasons in Davidson history was completed as the Cats took a fired-up Stetson Hatter outfit to the cleaners
25-13 in Deland, Florida, last Saturday night. Despite the fact that the heat was a disadvantage, the long trip had
sapped their strength, and they were naturally a little below the peak of the VMI game, a combination of ground
power and aerial finesse was enough to give the Wildcats their fifth victory in six starts.

Striking with startling ease, the Cats rolled to an easy 13-0 lead in the first quarter. Once again, the Southern
Conference's leading scorer, Owen, moves in to back up play. One of the real veterans on the squad, Tom Owen
has been a mainstay. Despite the presence of his more publicized mates, Tom has been content with the scattering praise
thrown to the lineman. Against Stetson last week, though, his rocking play was impossible to ignore.

An all-stater and all-southern star in high school at Charleston, W. Va., Tom has devoted his time primarily to football
while at Davidson. His grim and business-like manner has become an accepted part of the Davidson football scene. In the
middle of the line at times, backing up at other times as Davidson shifted around during the game, he was
in on a number of slashing tackles. All in all, Tom played his most outstanding game. The Davidsonian salutes another
lineman who, by doing his job day in and day out, makes it possible for the backs to move the
ball.

Cross Country W&L in Triangular

By OYVIND NORSTROM

Davidson's cross country team will enter the last stage of its 1955 season with a record of 3 wins and
3 losses. Last week’s triangular meet in Lexington, Va., gave the harriers a victory over Washington & Lee’s Generals, but
the host team, VMI, proved too strong. Davidson’s John Smith was the meet’s most important winner, more than one minute
in front of Armstrong of W&L. The hosts came out of the meet with a low score of 27 points,
Davidson, whose 4th and 5th scoring men were Bill Jackson and Gerald19-13. Belton clicked, with Dick hitting Tom Newton with
three consecutive completions, knocking again with Ken Conger taking a pitchout for 9 yards and the final scoring thrust for
a TD. Although the ground attack was responsible for more yardage, a few minutes later the other portion of the
Davidson "Dynamic Duo," Dyke Little, hit Bill Gramley with a pass good for 22. Ralph Setzler followed this with a
30-yard jaunt and went in for the score. From this point on, the proceedings turned into a vicious defensive effort
on the part of the Davidson line, as the club never could seem to threaten through the air and connected
on enough passes to rate them number one and three in the Conference. Newton and Gramley are again one-two in
receptions, according to figures released by the (Continued On Page Four)

STUDENTS PICK 'EM
By JIM OVERALL

John Jackson hit on 13 of 15 to take the prize for the first week. Each week's winner gets $2.50
worth of goods from Wilson Wrights.

GAMES OF NOVEMBER 12
Score Score
Davidson vs Wofford
Auburn vs Georgia
The Citadel vs VMI
Florida vs Tennessee
Geo. Washington vs Richmond
LSU vs Miss. State
N. C. State vs VPI
N. Carolina vs Notre Dame
Ohio State vs Iowa
Pittsburgh vs W. Virginia
Purdue vs Northwestern
Rice vs Texas A&M
SMU vs Arkansas
Texas vs TCU
Virginia vs Wake Forest

NAME
Encircle the winner, indicate the score, place in the box in the Union before 6 p.m., Friday, November 11

Keydets of VMI proved too strong on their own course. The VMI course, which was the setting of last year’s
Conference meet, was the toughest task the Davidson team had encountered this year, and caused much trouble for the runners.
Pete Ashcraft tried to stick on in the lead for the first half of the race, but the terrible up-and-down
hills took too much of his strength, causing him to fall back to seventh place. Henry Brown crossed the line
10 seconds before him, and Al Elder practically tied track champ Ashcraft. Pitkethly of VMI was a dis-

When the Big Game is done
And your home-team has won...

The “Big Ten,” as rated by Associated Collegiate Press sports editors, including the Davidsonian, across the nation, shows that Michigan
barely nosed out Maryland as the No. 1 football team for the weekend of October 14-15. Scores follow:
1. Michigan 51
2. Maryland 50
3. Oklahoma 46
4. UCLA 46
5. Michigan State 43
6. Notre Dame 36
7. Duke 26
8. Auburn 25
9. West Virginia 21

Also receiving high mention were: Georgia Tech, Texas A&M, Stanford, Wisconsin, Texas Christian, Taylor, Colorado, and Washington.

It’s more than mere underwear. Worn alone or under an Arrow sweater or shirt, this Arrow Two-Purpose Tee Shirt is
a campus favorite. Wear it with comfortable Arrow shorts—they feature an exclusive contour seat that can’t bind! Boxer shorts in
novelty patterns, $1.50. Tee, from $1.25.

To have the most fun—have a CAMEL!
—Man that! pleasure
If you're a smoker, remember — more people get more pure pleasure from Camels than from any other cigarette! No
other cigarette is so rich-tasting, yet so mild!
R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., Winston-Salem, N.C.

Belton and Little provided a constant threat in the shape of a hulking Richmond University team. Tomorrow at 2 p.m.
at the City Stadium in Richmond, these two clubs meet for the 12th time. The series stands at five wins
for each, with one tie. Smarting from their homecoming loss to Villanova last week, they will be bounding back against
the Davidson Cats. Coach Clements, who saw them perform in Philadelphia, states flatly that they will be the best team
that DC is to face. A large and extremely mobile team, their record is not exceptionally sparkling, but their competition
has included such powers as West Virginia.

Led by Frank Pajaczkowski, whom pro scouts deem as one of the outstanding backs in the nation, their running game
will be by far the most powerful faced this season. Glenn Riggs and Pajaczkowski both are averaging several bruised members
after the jarring scrap with Stetson last week, the Cats plan to be ready to unleash what will have to
be their best effort of the season. Particularly in the line, where they will be out-weighed several pounds per man,
will a top effort have to be expended.

Prospects appear bright for a Davidson upset against Coach Merrick's outfit now that the ground attack has come along well
enough to give the ever-potent aerial fireworks some balance. Dick and Dyke will definitely have to be hitting this weekend,
but, at the same time, a couple of the running backs must spring loose for substantial gains. A coordinated peak
effort will have to be attained if the team is going to reward Coaches Dole, Clements, and Hambright with a
victory.

SIGMA CHIS WIN FLICKERBALL CROWN
BY BILL PITSER

As the interfraternity football season progressed, it became evident that the contest between the Kappa Sigs and Sigma Chis would
be the telltale game. Wednesday afternoon proved this to be right, as the Sigma Chis, with only one game remaining,
clinched first place by beating the Kappa Sigs 43-30. Dick Makepeace proved a constant threat all afternoon with his passing
and running, and doubtless the Kappa Sigs would have won had it not been for the alert defensive work of
P. A. Anderson and the offensive punch provided by Billy Morris’ three touchdowns. Allen Moore also proved apt to the
occasion by scoring twice. Ralph Long and Dan Cates each scored once for the Sigs. Along with Makepeace, Thad Kelly
made his presence felt by scoring three Kappa Sig touchdowns. Tom Brewer and Joe Hall also added one T.D. apiece.

The most constant winner in recent competition has been the SAEs. They took three last week and started this week’s
action with a 51-18 victory over an SPE team, who, by comparative scores, appeared to be the favorite. Led by
Jerry Norvell and John Dykers, the SAEs gave the SPEs their worst defeat of the season. Danny Crates, Bill Ballentine,
Bill Turner, and Jack Chipperfield scored for the winners.

The Phi Delts moved back into a tie with the Kappa Sigs for second place after dropping out with a
loss to the SPEs 12-7. They beat the Pi Kappas 24-0 with T.Ds being scored by Bill Hopper, John Regen,
Doug Andrews, and Clyde Robinson. Other action this week saw the Phi Gams down the Pikas 18-13. The ATOs beat
the Campus Club and the Betas lost 58-13 to the Sigma Chis.

Standings:
W L
Sigma Chi 10 0
Kappa Sig 8 2
Phi Delt 8 2
SPE 9 3
ATO 6 3
SAE 6 4
Pi Kappa Phi 4 6
K. A 3 5
Phi Gam 2 6
Pika 1 8
Beta 1 8
Campus Club 0 9
