The Davidsonian

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF: Dick Morehead
ASSOCIATE EDITORS: Maurice Crouse, Tom Warlick
Managing Editors: Jim Batten, Bloodworth, Jim Brice, Leon Howell, John T. Harmon, Bob Beall, Lloyd Chapin, Bill Pomeroy, Hank Daniel, John Trask
Sports Editor: Franklin
Copy Editor: Bill Pomeroy
Exchange Editor: John Trask
News Editors: Jim Batten, Bloodworth, Jim Brice, Leon Howell, John T. Harmon, Bob Beall, Lloyd Chapin, Bill Pomeroy, Hank Daniel, John Trask
Staff Photographer: Lloyd Chapin
Assignments: Bill Pomeroy
Member of the Associated Collegiate Press and Intercollegiate Press

PAGE TWO
Friday, Dec. 9, 1955

Power and Resolution

We enjoy the fruits of power: we live in a mold of vaster power. The Creator has revealed to man many wondrous yet awesome secrets. The A-bomb, uninhibited jets, unlimited machines... instruments of peace and war... signify an age of power. This has produced a corresponding age of benefits, leisure time, comfort, and convenience. But with this power and its benefits must come the responsibility of control. For a future that shows few positive limits to the forces of power, control becomes increasingly vital, and lack of it, fatal. Power is both potentially good and potentially evil, positive or destructive.

One of the more noted elements of our power age is the common car. Advertisers flauntingly display its dynamic power: highways test its endurance: and traffic tolls record its tragic results. Look at the figures. Last year, there were 10,000,000 traffic accidents in the United States. They killed 36,000 people... one every 15 minutes; injured 1 1/4 million others... one every 25 seconds; and cost an estimated 4.4 billion dollars in medical bills, property loss, and other expenses, including loss in earnings. Of the 36,000 Americans killed in traffic accidents, 7,800 were of college age. It is at this age that physical reaction, mental processes, and ability in the use of a car should be at a peak. Why then should this relatively peaceful machine become more destructive to our civilization and individual security than the dreaded implements of war?

What is the cause of these accidents? It is not the road, the car, law enforcement, mentally ill, or physically disabled. It is the driver. Super roads are being built and improved daily: fallacies of operation are becoming negative through planning and maintenance: and driving requirements are being strengthened and enforced. Responsibility rests with the individual. As columnist Sydney J. Harris has written recently, our shocking auto accident rate is “not mental, physical, or mechanical. Auto accidents are an emotional problem.” They are a result of individual action and reveal all too fatally a lack of responsibility with power. One can offer a hundred suggestions on how to drive, pitch out dozens of safety slogans, and string radar lines over the U.S.—but—they are useless without individual attention, responsibility, and control. The correct approach and right amount of desire will produce control that can offer pleasure with safety, convenience with security.

The aspirations of modern college drivers: the crazy scratch-off, dynamic drags, and perilous passer: coupled with the tremendous hurry of modern society produce catastrophic tragedies on the street corners of human life. One is the drive for prestige and “power” personality; the other a drive to get somewhere on time. Both end in twisted steel and broken bodies. How do you value the human life? Man is blessed with great power, wondrous convenience, and enjoyment in the modern automobile. Like all other aspects and elements of power today, it has its price. That price is individual responsibility and control. It applies equally to the A-bomb and to modern society; but in practical reality, the actualities of atomic warfare are pushed to obscurity by the staggering totals of everyday auto accidents.

When you travel this Christmas time, consider carefully the power in your hands, and accept the responsibility toward yourself and others that it demands. Conditions for driving will be dangerous and more cars will be in the running. Recognize these conditions and observe the rules that knowledge and judgment require. Power can be positive. Accidents must be prevented.

Out of the Ivory Chambers

The definition of the Administration on requirements to remain at Davidson is based on consideration of the students as well as academic interests. Some individuals inevitably drag through their first semesters when lack of interest and ability indicate that they will not graduate at least within the normal span of years. If allowed to continue they place a strain on their fraternal organization, financial resources, and their own time and attitude. The administrative ruling eases that situation. An investigation was made into the records and figures of last year. It was found that only two or three freshmen would have been dropped and a corresponding number of upperclassmen if these rulings had been in effect then. These requirements are relatively regarded as experimental as was the present cut system when inaugurated. They are not stringent but quite liberal; and they should become a positive step in proper academic and counseling directions.

Out of the swamps of Georgia politics and the almighty sickle vote came the odor of inane and harmful action. Cutting his way through delicate sod of understanding, intelligence, and reason a pungent politician plowed up the ground for pre-spring riots, rabble-rousers, and rump assemblies. This revelation of social, moral, and political ineptitude furnished an amusing yet pathetic tidbit among the tragedies of the news columns. What happened in the long run was understood from the beginning and should have occurred without a second consideration. Where does a sovereign state uncover such downright upstanding leaders? The strain is running low—perhaps it will run out. “Glory, glory to old Georgia...”

Out of the recent opinion poll on the Court of Control came some choice items. First a few words for the English department. “Naturidly.” “abolishion.” “bassed.” “rebelous”—are a few samples of some new words found on upperclass polls in the comment boxes. To this writer, the most pertinent and practical comment was in essence this. There are two basic needs for the Court. One arises out of the seeming chasm between freshmen and upperclassmen; the other is found in a freshman’s acclimation to college life. While serving as an instrument of counseling and corrective foresight, the Court can strive to meet these needs. Other comments ranged from the sublime to the ridiculous. “Freshmen are people, too.” “Entire idea is more immature than the freshmen.” “More of this is needed.” “Who cares if the freshmen are immature or not. They might as well be—it’s their last chance.” “It is not in keeping with Democracy.” “Justice makes others more just.”

Care... Thousands of people overseas will experience a hungry and cold birthday on this Christmas. Respond to the call and opportunity—contribute from your plenty to the Food Crusade sponsored by Care. Leave your contributions in the Davidsonian box in the Union or mail them to Box 218. Share Christmas.

The observance of the Christmas spirit and meaning has become evermore obscured in the tremendous commercialization, socializing, and rush of this season. Business people seem to find it beyond their power to stem the ever-lengthening tide. While it promises to be the “biggest” ever, it also comes at a time of great international crisis and human need for spiritual life. The individual alone must find the heart of Christmas. Seek the center of this spiritual celebration, for His presence is more than a season’s parties or a lifetime of wealth.

BUSINESS MANAGER: Larry Parrott
Advertising Manager: Bob Carmichael
Subscription: Warner Hall
Circulation: Bob Lors, Stan Ler
Business Staff: Tony Guiles, Bill Bondurant

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
420 MADISON AVE. New York, N.Y.
Chicago, Boston, Los Angeles, San Francisco

Subscription Rate: $2.00 Per Year
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N.C., under the Act of March 3, 1879.
Offices in Davidson College Union, Davidson College

AS DEBATE CONTINUES...
Opposing Opinions on Court Wrangle Presented

Three Traits Are Essential

The real issue involved in the question of the Court of Control is whether or not we, as a student body, want to exert any influence on an incoming student's personality. In taking a stand for the Court of Control or its counterpart, we must believe that there are certain traits of a personality which every Davidson student should possess; that an organized group employing coercive methods is the best means of instilling these traits; and realize that the success of such a program will result in a somewhat homogeneous community.

There are three traits: respectfulness, humility, and loyalty which have been dominant and merit attention as being thought a part of the “Davidson Gentlemen.”

Respectfulness

One idea in the Freshman Regulations is that the trait of respectfulness is most important. An attempt is made to project this trait by requiring respect for those who have come before and respect for, and knowledge of, the student body.

Christmas Is Peace...

Visions of sugarplums, hopes of St. Nick; holly and carol and angel and crib: Christmas is a time when to be fully alive is to be a little child.

Mercy Mild

The spirit of Christmas is the spirit of a child. And is it so strange that Christendom’s great festival should center on an infant? Yes, to the wise and prudent. Yes, to the scholar and sage. Mystery is not known by the learned man, nor wonder by the wise. It takes a child to see the truth of Christmas time. Look in the manger. What of infancy, wee cradled one? Yes, and so can all men see what you see. But it takes a child, beside the crib, to look with eyes, lost in ecstasy, on God's invisible, unimaginable love. Neither theologian nor professor of moral philosophy, whose eyes, we say, would see salvation, could find the child in the crib divine. Only the prophet of God’s kingdom would say: “For unto us a child is born.” Only a savior who was first a child would say to his disciples: “Suffer the little children to come unto me... for of such is the kingdom of God.”

How long, O Lord, how long? Where, O Lord, is thy kingdom, and when? Are we thy children, Lord? Has this thy kingdom come? Are we “of such... (of) the kingdom of God”? We who war, and proclaim thy peace; we who need and yet have all? We whom much is given? We who test and try and fail? We who teach, and so soon forget? We who strain to know thy Spirit; we who vainly search thy Word? We who would love—and fail to remember? We who would pray—and know not how? We of the light, who lead as in darkness? We the unseeing— to whom sight has come? We who close—to whom all is open? We who refuse—to whom much is given? We who have heard, and follow afraid? We who deny what we have never known? Are we of thy kingdom who are most sincere? We who are certain, fearless and proud? We who are masters of science and trade? We who are artists, untouched? We who have riches exceeded but by greed? We who are hungry, emptied of hope? We who are helping, every other Tuesday? We who cook and then go home? We who wash and wash and wash? We who whisper...and kiss, and whisper? who cry out and we who sleep on? We who are pleased and we who grieve? We who believe, we who believe? Are we thy kingdom, Lord? Thy kingdom is at hand. Are we thy children, Lord? We pray thy kingdom come. At Christmas time we see the child, the child who grows to be the son, the son who is the Christ of God. At Christmastide we say, O Lord: We, too, are children, children all. It matters not how old or young. We children are; Lord, make us sons. 
- Frank White

body constitution, songs, and traditions. Humility is a trait which past upperclassmen have required. Humility in the sense that any new citizen of a community must recognize that his position as a recent member of that society brings certain restraints, yet all members of this society must continually prove themselves and never rest on past accomplishments nor traditions.

Loyalty
Citizens of any community should have a sense of loyalty. A loyalty to the community, its program, and its purposes. If we, as a student body, feel that these main traits should be a part of the “Davidson Gentleman,” we should give our wholehearted support to means which would best accomplish their end. If we, as a student body, consider that an organized group employing coercive methods is the best means of instilling these traits, we should insist upon the existence of such an organization and require it to maintain an effective program. If we, as a student body, are in accord with the preceding statements and favor a somewhat homogeneous community, we must exert our every effort and influence in support of the Court of Control or a modification of the Court as it now exists.

Maturity Should Replace Court
That the Court of Control has failed this year is a fact generally accepted. Those who criticize the members of the present court so as to impute full responsibility for the Court's failure upon them fail to see the central issues involved. This year’s Court has done all that could be expected with the support it received. The main point is not, however, whether measures can be taken to ensure the effective functioning of the Court; the question is this: Is the Court, even when it functions effectively by its own standards, a necessary or justifiable institution on the Davidson campus? There is reason to believe it is not.

Traditional Basis
It is ironic that those who criticize many Davidson traditions fall so easily in the line of defense of the Court of Control on the basis of tradition. Tradition is completely unimportant, regardless of its age, unless it exhibits significance for the present situation and promises to continue being significant. The best argument for justification of the Court is that it proposes to aid freshmen in adjusting to the college environment. The Court, however, does not fulfill this purpose. Indeed it may fail completely, and instances may be cited to prove that it has failed. In the case of the shy, insecure individual, the Court manages successfully to increase his feelings of insecurity, since it is not action but fear of action that usually causes such harm as is done. In the case of the cocky freshman, a Court meeting often provides a situation in which vigorous approval of his attitude is manifest. The best function of the Court is that in some cases it replaces irrational hazing by a milder form of the same, but hazing and other methods of “corrective discipline” can be replaced by constructive methods.

Mature Adjustment
There is no single purpose or function of the Court of Control that is not more effectively and more naturally taken care of by a healthy college situation that puts its collective sanction upon those aspects of individual personality that show promise of developing along lines of maturity, and that refuses approval of those attitudes which fail to indicate a trend toward mature adjustment. The approval or disapproval of the Court of Control neither encourages present attitudes nor provides reasonable motivation for adopting other attitudes. To take the best possible advantage of the present situation and to indicate the maturity we often profess but seldom demonstrate, the student body must unequivocally decide to abolish an outdated, useless system for imposing the will of the many upon the few. It must recognize each student's right, regardless of scholastic class, to exercise his individual powers in a mature college society that affords them scope and which provides a reasonable standard for the judgment of progress along lines of worth.

Teacher Shortage Faces Nation
By TOM WARLICK
The recent White House conference on education as well as several reports and studies which have been made public have focused much attention on the serious problems which face the United States in the field of education. These are brought about in part by the tremendous increase in pupil enrollment which has taken place since World War II and will continue in the future. During this period elementary school enrollment has increased over 50 percent and is expected to increase to an all-time high of 33,750,000 in 1960. By 1969 secondary school enrollment will have increased over 70 percent above last year's figure to an astounding 12,361,000. The college outlook, our most intimate concern at present, is likewise discouraging. It is evident that college enrollment will have doubled from the present figure of 2,500,000 by some time between the years 1966 and 1971. One recent projection places the figure at 7,231,000 by 1973.

The staggering increases in enrollment will be accompanied by many evils such as increased taxation and overcrowded classrooms. The far more serious problem, however, is in securing the additional teachers which will be needed if an increased teacher load or part-time schooling, which will result in less time spent per pupil, are to be avoided. Last September the schools were short 140,000 qualified teachers. Of equal importance, then, with every other problem is that of securing adequate teachers in the future. The situation is desperate. More than half of the college graduates of the next ten years will have to enter teaching if the nation's schools are to be adequately staffed during that period. At present only one-fifth of college graduates become teachers.

At the college level the replacement rate is lower than at the elementary or secondary levels, but the need for expansion is greater. For every ten faculty members now on the job between sixteen and twenty-five new ones will have to be found between now and 1970. This means that colleges and universities will have to add more professors in the next fifteen years than they have in all previous history. Although shortages of teachers in all levels of education result largely from rising enrollment, low salaries, and high teacher load, in the field of higher education the teacher shortage reflects several other factors. Among these are the competition of government, business, and the other professions. The report concludes that after 1960, when the student rolls rise, “present recruitment difficulties are likely to seem trivial.” The only real solution would appear to be to increase faculty salaries to such a level as to be more attractive than those offered by government and industry.

The need is for teachers. The need is for men of the caliber of Davidson students to become college professors. If salary raises are not forthcoming the only reward will have to be a job well done or a feeling of contributing something worthwhile to society. However, in many cases the prospect of higher salaries, and better teaching conditions seems to be quite real. Certainly no more propitious time has offered itself of late for the entrance of an aspiring and qualified student into teaching.

AROUND THE WORLD
Tiny Afghanistan Feeling Squeeze of Red Imperialism
BY PHIL KUKURA
Few people other than geographers know much more about the country called Afghanistan than that it is located off the beaten track somewhere in central Asia. Yet for the last one hundred years this nation has served as an invaluable blockade restraining Russia in her push toward the vast subcontinent of India and the Indian Ocean. After a calm period of over half a century while Russia has been more concerned about her internal affairs than expansion, this area is once again feeling the pressure of Russian imperialism. The United States, in line with its containment policy, is faced with the problem of checking this Soviet advance through Afghanistan into Pakistan and India.

Afghanistan is a landlocked country, bounded by Russia on the north, Iran on the west, and Pakistan on the south and east. In its central position in Asia it has straddled what were for many years the main trade and migration routes of the world. Alexander the Great spent several years there on his campaign of conquest, using it as a base of operations against India, and from there Genghis Khan’s hordes swept westward toward Europe. The overland spice trade routes between Europe and the Orient passed through Afghanistan and the famous Khyber Pass.

A Buffer State
After the voyages of Vasco da Gama and the establishment of an all-water route to the East, traffic through Afghanistan fell off sharply and stopped almost dead in the middle of the nineteenth century when Russia’s southward expansion through central Asia was met by Britain’s strength flowing out of India. Britain wanted Afghanistan for a buffer state to protect her interests in India from Russia, and after a series of wars, effectively checked Russian expansion toward the south on the Oxus River, Afghanistan’s northern boundary. These positions on the Oxus, Britain at the Khyber Pass on the east, and Afghanistan pacifically wedged between the two giants seemed permanent. This situation was maintained throughout the nineteenth and into the twentieth century while Russia was concerned with her internal affairs and consolidation following the Bolshevik Revolution of 1917 and while Britain remained in her position of strength in India. Following World War II Russia was ready to resume her territorial expansion, and Britain's influence was removed when her rule of India terminated in 1947. The resultant vacuum of the British withdrawal from this area was not filled at once by the Russians because of their preoccupation with affairs in eastern Europe and the Chinese Civil War. Until last spring Russia made no attempt to aid Afghanistan in its development, but since then has flooded the country with offers and agreements for technical aid. She has been working feverishly to make Afghanistan’s simple economy dependent on her, by absorbing all her marketable products.

Further Conflict
The problem of limiting Russian expansion in this field has become considerably more complex in the last few months. With Soviet backing the Afghanistan government has demanded from Pakistan the area known as Pakhtoonistan, populated by Pakhtoon tribes now in revolt against Pakistan, who are blood relatives of the Afghan monarchy. This Pakhtoon territory amounts to about one half the area of Pakistan, and she refuses to surrender control over it. Both Afghani and Pakistani are ready to fight for their claim to this area, but Afghanistan can attempt armed action against Pakistan only with the aid of Soviet armaments.