UNDEFEATED TRACKSTERS IN S.C. MEET (Page 3)

VOLUME XLII

Chapel Will Be Held Three Days a Week

By BILL GALLIER

The faculty May meeting has confirmed the recently released Che Hauidsontan

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, MAY 13, 1955

policy of the Chapel Study Committee, which reaffirms the objective of the mid-morning chapel service to be primarily one of worship. It is also felt that this exercise is “an integral and valuable part of Davidson College life” and that certain additional objectives should be served as well: education for social responsibility, provision for cultural and additional religious opportunities, creation of a college community, fostering of college spirit, and expediting of campus mechanics.

In accordance with this strengthened policy, a renovated schedule for chapel services has been affected. Limitation of the number of exercises to three each week is included in plans for next year’s program. These services will be held Tuesday, Thursday, and Friday; chapel on Wednesday will be conducted only during special series, e.g., Fall Services and Otts Lectures. Thursday has been established as Convocation Day when ordinarily a specially arranged program will present members of faculty, administration, student organizations, or guest speakers and entertainers. An additional spirit of worship and dignity will be added to the Friday exercise, but inclusion of student announcements will also be arranged.

A reduction in the number of cuts allowed in chapel accompanies the elimination of Wednesday chapel. Dean Spencer has announced that a system of cut allowances has been proportioned in the same ratio as was formerly the case. Seniors and juniors will receive eight cuts; sophomores and freshmen, five, per semester. The Chapel Committee will meet regularly to plan programs; the schedule and nature of exercises will hereafter be announced well in advance in a college bulletin which will have a campus-wide distribution.

First “Open” Meeting

By JOHN TRASK, JR.

The first meeting of the newly elected Student Council was held as scheduled in the Blue Room of the College Union on Wednesday night. The “open meeting” was called to order by President Perrin Anderson, and in keeping with his campaign pledge, the meeting was open to all interested persons. President Anderson called for a breaking with precedent, and announced that the meetings will be henceforth run “in a parliamentary manner.”

The first order of business was the election of a summer school Student Government. Clyde Robinson, a member of the Council, was unanimously elected President of the Council for the summer session. Ten other students, who will attend summer school, were elected to serve on the Council. Next, Hobby Cobb was elected Judge of the Court of Control. President Anderson voiced the opinion that he felt that the Court could and should be an effective and helpful body. Ed Speir was elected Recorder of the Court. Two members from each of the three rising classes were elected to serve on the Court. These were: Harley Smith and Dick Adams; Tom Newton and Bill Gramley; and David Fagg and Bill Price.

Anderson then said that he felt that more “concrete steps” should be made toward making known the Council’s and the students' views on the subsidization program. After much discussion on the sending of delegates to the NSA Conferences on student government this summer, it was finally decided that Councilmen John McLaughlin and Clyde Robinson would represent Davidson College at the August Conference. The financial cost for sending the two delegates will be about $150.00 plus transportation which was estimated at $100.00 round trip per person. The conference will be at the University of Minnesota.

The meeting continued with Anderson’s request that the councilmen learn and familiarize themselves with the new Constitution. President Anderson then stated that the policy on the method of the meetings would be that the Council would hold “open” meetings on all legislative and policy-making matters, but that in the case of “judicial” matters, the meetings would naturally be closed. There was some discussion about the “open” and “closed” meetings. Councilman Carl Cooper was insistent that “all meetings be open, except in the trial of an honor violation.” He was generally supported by the other members of the Council, including President Anderson. There were, however, one or two councilmen who expressed some misgivings about the practicability and wisdom of such “open” meetings. These felt that there would be a conflict between what was purely legislative and what was purely judicial. President Anderson cleared the matter up, however, by stating to this reporter, that a clear line will be drawn between legislative and judicial matters, and that each will be handled separately with the best interest of the student in mind.

Seniors Beat Faculty By Winning Three Out of Four Events

The annual “Senior vs. Faculty Games” were held on Tuesday and Wednesday of this week. Despite their youth, the seniors of Davidson College took three of the four events. In tennis, the featured match was between Dr. Andy Paton and Corky Clark. Here experience helped, but the senior managed to win the overall match. Bob Stevenson pitched the Seniors to a whopping victory over the Faculty in softball. After three innings, the scoreboard “broke,” so there was no way to tell just how high the score ran. The beautiful golf links of Mooresville, however, were the scene of a Faculty victory. The Seniors were badly beaten with the Faculty posting an impressive score. In volleyball, the results were reversed, with the Seniors winning easily. At Erwin Lodge on Wednesday night, the two groups enjoyed a fish fry, highlighted by entertainment by the “Candlesnuffers.”

Chamber Music Guild Ends Season May 20

The last of this year's Inter-college Chamber Music Guild concerts will occur on Friday evening, May 20, at 8:15 P.M. in the Davidson College Union Ballroom. The public is cordially invited and there is no admission. Participating will be Betty Gehring, Melvin Sipe, William Tritt and James Weber, violinists; Sam Citron, violist; Jean Moore, cellist; Kenneth Moore, clarinetist; and Philip Gehring, pianist.

Twelve Top Men Tapped by O.D.K.

NEW CHAPEL POLICY IS ANNOUNCED

Student Council Holds First Open Meeting

Pictured above are ten of the men tapped by ODK Tuesday in chapel. They are, seated, left to right: Dick Morehead, Mr. J. V. Lore, Dr. C. G. Reigner, Fred Summers, Perrin Anderson. Standing are: Hobby Cobb, Blake Brinkerhoff, Joe Conarroe, Dee Helm, and Jason McManus. Not shown are Dean C. J. Pietenpol and Vereen Bell.—(Staff Photo by Daniel.)

Brinkerhoff Reveals Plans For 1955-56

YMCA President Blake Brinkerhoff this week told of new plans formulated for the YMCA for next year.

JOHN ISHAM BENNETT, VERSATILE SCHOLAR (Page 4)

NUMBER 26

Pietenpol, Lore, Reigner Chosen For Membership

By CLAGETT TAYLOR

The Delta Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa selected twelve outstanding leaders from the student body, faculty, and business world for membership in chapel ceremonies Tuesday morning. Leighton McCutchen, president of the Davidson chapter, presided over the annual spring tapping service. The guest speaker for the occasion was Dr. Charles Gottshall Reigner, president of the H. M. Rowe Publishing Co. of Baltimore. Dr. Reigner spoke on leaders he has known and the role of leaders in the world today. He presented a formula for getting things done which could be well applied by industry’s biggest executives down to the struggling student.

Following Dr. Reigner’s address, two seniors, Fred Summers and Vereen Bell, and seven juniors, Perrin Anderson, Blake Brinkerhoff, Joe Conarroe, Dee Helm, Dick Morehead, Jason McManus, and Fred Summers, were tapped for membership. Three faculty members, Dean C. J. Pietenpol, Mr. J. V. Lore, and Dr. C. G. Reigner, were also chosen for membership.Hoff, Hobby Cobb, Joe Conarroe, DeWitt Helm, Jason McManus, and Dick Morehead were tapped by members of the society. Dean Pietenpol of the faculty, Mr. James Lore of Davidson, and Dr. Reigner were also tapped. The spring initiation banquet honoring the new members was held in the Ballroom of the College Union Tuesday night.

FRED SUMMERS

Fred Summers, renowned actor of the Davidson stage, is a Pika from Statesville. Though probably known best for his roles in the productions of the Red and Black Masquers for the past four years, Summers also serves as president of the Honorary Fraternity Council, Le Cercle Francais, the Red and Black Masquers, and Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity. Summers, who was elected to Who’s Who Among Students in American Universities and Colleges in the fall, is also secretary of Alpha Psi Omega honorary fraternity and director of deputations for the YMCA.

A new innovation will be a monthly newsletter, circulated to the Student Body, informing Student Body members of YMCA activities and about the activities of participating YMCA members. Monthly membership meetings are also planned. These well-balanced programs will feature films, recreation, and speakers along with business sessions. These meetings will afford the reality of a “fellowship with Christ” for YMCA members. Membership Chairman Hampton Mauze has already begun work on membership campaign plans for next year. Incoming freshmen will be given an opportunity to join during Orientation Week in early September. The drive for members of the student body will be conducted from September 27th to September 29th.

Concurrent with these new plans is the establishment of several new cabinet posts. The Service post, held by Jerry Helms, will provide ushers for Vesper Services and will also sponsor projects such as book exchanges as a service to students. A Commission on the Mission of the Church, headed by Pat Miller, will bring together the various church groups on the campus such as the Canterbury Club, Methodist Student Movement, and Westminster Fellowship for purposes of discussion and idea exchange. Also new is the post of Worship with Vernon R. Hunter as its chairman. This post will encompass the former Chapel post and several related activities.

Student Poll Favors Athletic Subsidization

A recent poll of the student body on athletic subsidization, prepared by ODK and administered by the Davidsonian, showed a large majority of students favoring continued subsidization. Almost 400 students were given poll sheets, but only about half this number returned the questionnaires; therefore, all results stated below are based on approximately 200 students.

Question Number I was: Are you in favor of a non-subsidized athletic conference with such teams as Centre, Sewanee, and Southwestern? 16.7% of the students answered in the affirmative, while 83.3% said no.

II. Would you be in favor of a non-subsidized conference including all teams in the present Southern Conference except West Virginia and VPI? 48.4% of the students were in favor of such (Continued on Page Four)

Davidson's summer session will be permitted to enjoy a full 10-day holiday before school reconvenes on June 8, it has been announced. All laboratory science courses, however, begin almost a week earlier: on June 2. The 1955 Session, like last year’s, will run for a period of six weeks (and in the case of a science, seven), terminating on July 20. Midway during the period the Fourth of July will be observed with a three-day holiday lasting from the 2nd through the 4th.

Regular classes will be held five days a week, Monday through Friday, with science courses meeting six days a week, Monday through Saturday. Class periods will be of seventy-five minutes in duration. Extensive social, religious, and athletic activities are to be made available to all summer students. Since no afternoon classes will be held, there will be ample time for participation in extra-curricular affairs.

SCABBARD AND BLADE TAPS SAPP AND 16 CADETS

The 1955 Scabbard and Blade tapping ceremony took place last Tuesday afternoon during the regular drill period. Sixteen outstanding cadets, along with one member of the ROTC faculty, were tapped into membership. Scabbard and Blade is an honorary military fraternity recognizing those men who have shown a particular interest in the field of Military Science and Tactics.

Lt. Colonel John D. Sapp, PMS&T of the Davidson College Reserve Officers Training Corps, was tapped into membership of Scabbard and Blade during the ceremony. Colonel Sapp is in his fourteenth year of active service in the Army and has served 61 months overseas, with 12 months of combat in the European Theater in World War II.

The sixteen cadets who were chosen for membership in Scabbard and Blade are: Cadet Captain Frank S. Johnston, Cadet Captain Jim D. Thacker, Cadet Lieutenant Monty Littlejohn, Cadet Lieutenant Dickie Holland, Cadet Lieutenant Buddy Brown, Cadet Lieutenant Chick McClure, Cadet Lieutenant George T. Whisnant, and Cadet Sergeants Maurice A. Crouse, Richard H. Morehead, Larry McIntosh, William H. McNair, Joe B. Pharr, Doug Oldenburg, John M. Pierce, Jack P. Williamson, and John Maughlin.

Dr. John Bevan's Industrial Psychology class has just completed a survey on the attitudes and habits of radio and television listeners. Eighty students interviewed men and women who are heads of families and who live within a sixty-mile radius of Davidson. The sampling revealed that 94 percent of the persons interviewed own radios and 77 percent own television sets. They listen to the radio mostly in the early morning and watch television principally in the early evening. The average person, according to the results of the study, spends one to one-and-a-half hours per day listening to the radio and three hours viewing television. He reads the newspaper only thirty minutes per day, and many no longer even subscribe to a newspaper.

The survey revealed that radio has become almost entirely a woman’s media. Men today consume little time listening to the radio, but almost equal the amount spent by women viewing television. Both sexes chose the latter as the most popular advertising media and overwhelmingly agreed that they preferred men to deliver commercials. The most popular radio personality with those interviewed is Grady Cole and the most popular on television is Arthur Smith. Both sexes prefer comedy programs on radio and complete drama on television.

Dr. Bevan said that one of the most significant effects of television, as pointed out by the study, is the fact that people now spend more time together as families than formerly. Although he goes to the movies less, the average person still spends about the same amount of time reading newspapers and magazines, and still visits his neighbors just as often, he said.

According to Dr. Bevan, the boys ran into many amusing situations. When one woman was asked what had influenced her to buy a television set she replied that when she and her husband had lived in the country they had owned a set and enjoyed it very much. She was sorry to say, however, that when he had shot himself the husband also shot their television set and now that she was living alone in the city, she felt she just must have a new one.

Dr. Bevan and Mr. Jack Burney, research director of WBTV, designed the questionnaire and Dr. Bevan set up the sampling technique. The principal object of the survey was to teach the students the technique of sampling and procedure of interviewing. Each student did ten to fifteen thirty-minute interviews.

VEREEN BELL

Vereen Bell, editor-in-chief of Scripts ‘n Pranks this year, is a native of Quitman, Georgia. In addition to his magazine duties, Bell is president of Sigma Upsilon literary fraternity and president and past secretary of Sigma Chi social fraternity. He also is a member of the Honorary Fraternity Council, Philanthropic Society, and the Red and Black Masquers.

DR. SAMUEL R. SPENCER

Dr. Samuel R. Spencer, Dean of Students and Professor of History at Davidson College, has announced the publication of his second book, “Booker T. Washington and the Negro’s Place in American Life.” Dr. Spencer’s new book is the seventh volume in the Library of American Biography series which is edited by Oscar Handlin of Harvard. Among the distinguished authors in this series is Bruce Catton, winner of a Pulitzer Prize in History. The book will be released by Little, Brown and Company on May 26.

Placement Office Helps Graduates

Graduates from liberal arts colleges throughout the nation have been offered more and better opportunities this year than at any time in the past. Davidson has begun to reap some of the benefits of this interest on the part of business in liberal arts graduates.

This year, under the direction of Mr. C. Shaw Smith, the Davidson College Placement Office provided scheduled interviews with 50 different companies over a period of four months. A list of these companies may be obtained from the College Union Office. Each member of the senior class was notified that such service was to be offered at the first of January. Forty-eight seniors, plus several alumni, took advantage of this service.