PAGE FOUR

Federal Service Exams Now Open to Applicants

The first Federal Service Entrance Examinations opened today to college seniors and college graduates who want a career in the
Federal Service. Applicants have until November 18 to file for the first written test to be given December 10 in
more than 1,000 localities, including many college campuses, Phillip Young, chairman of the U.S. Civil Service Commission announced.

The new program, unique in Federal history, will be permanent and continuous, with examinations planned periodically as Federal personnel needs
require it. Filing is permissible at any time for any of the subsequent examinations, which will be open to both
specialists and non-specialist seniors and graduates. Replaced are approximately 100 college-level examinations. Many of these have been given only in
specialized fields and infrequently.

Job offers can be made by Federal agencies to persons passing the examination once their names become available on the
lists of eligibles which the Civil Service Commission will set up early next year. Appointments following graduation can be obtained
in such fields as physics, metallurgy, chemistry, cartography, engineering, mathematics, meteorology, and oceanography. The opportunities will be in administrative, personnel,
technical, and professional positions; salaries range from $3,670 to $4,525.

At present turnover rates, between 8,000 and 10,000 of these positions would be vacant each year—all of them ‘naturals’ to
fill from this examination. Application forms have already been made available at college placement offices or may be obtained from
the nearest Commission office.

College students who have completed (or will complete within 9 months of filing application) either one, two, or three years
of study leading to a bachelor’s degree with major study in one of the optional fields listed above may apply.
Government representatives will visit most campuses before November 18 to explain the new program in detail. College placement offices will
be given full information concerning the representatives’ visit. Interested students should contact that office.

Mr. Young emphasized that any senior passing the examination can be hired as soon as he graduates, whether that is
in February or in June, provided he has come within reach of agency selection on the list of eligibles. This
means his name must be among the top three names on the list. The higher the examination mark, the more
quickly the name can be reached for appointment.

A student may tell a Federal agency representative, either before or after the examination, that he would like to work
for that agency. Similarly, an agency representative may, at either time, ask a student to consider appointment only with that
agency. Those taking the examination will be given an opportunity to express preference for employment in a particular area or
for a particular agency. Such appointments can be made once the three conditions of passing the examination, graduation, and availability
for selection are complied with.

The new Federal Service Entrance Examination, for the first time, gives the non-specialist senior or graduate an opportunity to compete
for a Federal management internship. The new superseded Junior Management Assistant examination for this purpose had been open only to
persons who specialized in certain fields.

All candidates will be given a 3-hour written examination on the morning of December 10. Those wishing to try for
management internships will take an additional 3-hour written test later in the day and will be given a group oral
test in March. The marks made in the two examinations will be tallied separately so that a poor mark in
one examination will not lower a high mark made in the other. However, a failing mark in the first examination
will eliminate the candidate. Separate lists of eligibles will be made up from those taking only the first examination and
from those taking both examinations.

Further information and application forms may be obtained at many post offices throughout the country, or from the U.S. Civil
Service Commission, Washington 25, D.C. Applications must be filed with the Board of U.S. Civil Service Examiners for Scientific and
Technical Personnel of the Potomac River Naval Command, Building 72, Naval Research Laboratory, Washington, D.C., and will be accepted until
April 18, 1956.

Sigma Upsilon Votes Ten Into Membership

BY JOHN HARMON

Davidson’s Blue Pencil Chapter of Sigma Upsilon, exclusive literary fraternity, chose by the ball system ten additions to its already
distinguished membership at its first meeting on October 6 in the recently and attractively redecorated Beta Theta Pi fraternity lodge.

Five of these new members were carefully gleaned from the faculty. These are Professor George B. Watts, Professor L. S.
Champion, Professor J. B. Ficklen, and Professor B. Gillespie. Dr. Karl G. Jung was extended an invitation to attend all
the year’s literary meetings and other activities, but because of his limited stay at Davidson, he was not officially voted
by the active brothers into the hood.

It was somewhat harder to get good student members with literary interest, let alone talent. The group did, after much
collaboration and collusion, decide upon five students whom it deemed worthy of bearing the distinction of SU. Foremost among these
is Jim Beaumont Marshall. He is foremost because he is one of the two members of the present senior class
who were elected to membership, and also because he has a long line of distinctions at Davidson and elsewhere to
recommend him, and also several influential friends in the group. Likewise outstanding is Dick Morehead, who has honors which it
is not necessary to enumerate. Dick will add, it is hoped, prestige, if not productivity, to the fraternity.

Harry Antrim is the only one of the “Sigma Upsilon Elect” who is a member of the junior class. Harry
is precious, however, and will fit in nicely. Somewhat unprecedented was the election of two sophomores, John Bernhardt and John
Frye, into a group usually reserved for older heads. However, they are both quite nice persons and they will without
doubt have the good sense to remain silent unless spoken to directly—a virtue sadly lacking in some of the more
witty among the clever people so common to Sig Up’s select set.

At the time of the first meeting, John Harmon, who was unanimously elected secretary at the final meeting of last
year, was away from the city. Joel Conarroe ably filled his splendid secretarial shoes, however, and wrote some terrific minutes.

The October 6 meeting was devoted entirely to routine business and to the election of new members, so no reading
program was given. The second meeting, on October 20, however, is a donkey of another hue. After preliminary business and
the usual trivia, a fabulous little program was enjoyed by the fabulous little group. This was at the Phi Delta
Theta re...

Male Chorus Reveals (Continued from Page One)

Harry A. Wells, a member of the sophomore class. The members of the chorus by sections are as follows:

I Tenor: Jeter Abernathy, Grier Davis, Bob Klugh, Bob Martin, Steve Norton, Doug Oldenburg, Curtis Patterson, Lawton Posey.

II Tenor: John Adkins, Joe Brown, Bob Buchanan, John Crawford, Tony Guiles, Charles Loftin, Maurice Ritchie, Dan Woods, Jim Wool.

I Bass: Gordon Ballou, Jim Boyce, Buddy Bullock, Hugh Craig, Stuart Fountain, Hadley Hunt, John McVay, Ed Moore, Buster Sharp,
Tom Thrailkill.

II Bass: Henry Bucher, Chuck Daugherty, Joe Garrison, Jimmy Jones, Jim Kuist, Harold McKeithen, Bob Mack, Tom Miller, Tim Teachey,
Pat Woodward.

...of a raunchy tidbit from Marcel Ayme’s novel, La Jument Verte (which being translated means, “the mare is green.”). Fred
has been in France for a year, and his performance was no less than would be expected from one steeped
in continental culture and tendencies. Needless to say, Myers received rave reviews from the critics (every member is a critic,
either real or self-styled) in the after-session, during which refreshments were adequately administered by the co...

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Bridge Tournament To Feature Blind Expert Judge Beauty Contest

Dr. A. M. Dye, nationally known bridge expert, will be a special guest at the first Duplicate Bridge Tournament of
the year. The tournament is for students, faculty members, and townspeople at 7:30 on Tuesday night in the ballroom of
the College Union. Dr. Dye will play with Dan LaFar and will use his special set of braille cards since
he is totally without sight. In spite of his handicap, he is expected to obtain a rating of Senior Life
Master, the Hall of Fame for Duplicate Bridge, at any time.

All people in the Davidson Community who are at all interested in bridge are urged to take part in this
event. The tournament is for beginning and average players, and no previous experience is necessary. Mr. J. A. Postell of
Charlotte will be on hand to explain the duplicate system and direct the tournament. All you need bring is a
partner and 50c per couple to cover expenses.

Since its recent advent, duplicate bridge has become one of America’s greatest pastimes. By moving systematically from table to table,
each pair plays against each other pair. Each pair also plays the same hands. Score is figured by comparing the
result after everyone has played every hand. It is hoped that there will be a...

Cross Country (Continued From Page Three)

...from another triumph. The “Spiders” had one excellent star in Warren Chukinas—a strong candidate for the Conference championship—but Davidson had
everything else. Chukinas raced the course more than 1 1-2 minutes faster than Pete Ashcraft, who tried to follow for
the first two miles. Hard work has been the melody for Coach Whittle's boys this fall, and the opening races
have shown that this is the way to progress in this tough game. The team has several meets in the
coming weeks, and the climax of the season is the Conference meet here on November 21.

Results Duke meet: 1) Dave Hanner, Duke 23:45. 2) Henry Brown, Davidson 24:25. 3) Pete Ashcraft, Davidson 24:48. 4) Al
Elder, Davidson 25:03. 5) Oyvind Norstrom, Davidson 25:12. 6) Bill Jackson, Davidson 25:17. 9) John Patterson, Davidson 26:03. 10) Steve
Huntley, Davidson 26:07. 11) “Knocky” Page, Davidson 26:18. 13) Gerald Wilson, Davidson 27:18.

Richmond: 1) Warren Chukinas, R. 21:30.5. 2) Pete Ashcraft 23:07. 3) Henry Brown 23:16. 4) Oyvind Norstrom 23:33. 5) Al
Elder 23:46. 6) Bowden, R. 24:06. 7) Bill Jackson 24:13. 9) Gerald Wilson 24:25.11) “Knocky" Page 24:40. 12) Steve Huntley
24:45. 17) John Patterson 28:05.

Jayvees Lose Two (Continued From Page Three)

ODE TO A JANITOR

“Morning, Boss... . .” This is the first in a series of articles paying tribute to those men who have
the sometimes terrible task of making our “home away from home” a little more comfortable. To those janitors who have
been associated with Davidson College for many years and have become almost a tradition here, we dedicate this column.

BY ANDY WATSON

Today, in the first of a series of articles, we salute the true workers of our college, the men who
keep our secrets, such as where we hid the remainder of that “Homecoming Bottle,” the men who wet nurse us,
shake us out of bed, and clean our rooms while we, under terrific burden, struggle through another day at Davidson
College.

We salute the men who listen to our petty gripes, our snide remarks, and our stale Davidson humor. Not the
faculty and the administration but rather our noble friends, the Janitors.

The first of these men is Clint Torrence, janitor on the first and second floors of Watt's Dormitory. Clint has
been employed by Davidson College since 1924, except for a period of seven years during which time he worked for
a local asbestos concern. Clint’s first job at Davidson was as janitor in the “barracks” located, at the time, in
front of East Dormitory. This structure was the World War One counterpart of our present cardboard village. Clint’s heart, however,
belongs to Rumple Dormitory, where he served as sole janitor until this past year, when due to accumulated filth and
evil reputation, it was razed.

Rumple graduates will long remember Clint’s dependability, friendliness, and generally happy nature which have made him an integral part of
our campus life. To get out of bed at seven a.m. on a particularly cold morning, when the heat is
not functioning properly, which could be any morning, is not exactly a rewarding experience nor one that leads to a
truly Davidson outlook on the coming day. But to see Clint pop his head in the door and, with a
twinkle in his eye, say, “you gotta get up sometimes, might as well smile,” gives one the feeling that at
least something is right in an otherwise dreary world.

It is these traits of friendliness and the ability to project them into all who know or come in contact
with him, that make Clint so popular and liked at Davidson College. When asked how he felt about the recent
removal of Rumple from our midst Clint replied, “Progress and development are the main objectives of Davidson College. Only through
continual pursuit of these aims may we enhance our position, and maintain our leadership in the field of liberal education.”
Yep, that’s what he said...

We might add that in cooperation with Davidson College, Clint has carried on a lifelong experiment in the field of
Social Economy, the title being, “How to raise eighteen children on thirty dollars a week.” We feel that his progress
along these lines, while not being the greatest achievement of our decade, rates alongside such noteworthy accomplishments as the invention
of space satellites and the production of Color Television.

It has been said that books and courses determine one’s curriculum and that associations govern one's education. If such is
the case then the majority of us as a student body say thanks to Clint Torrence for helping us a
part of the way along the road to a better education.

Jon Whitcomb Will Judge Beauty Contest

Students are reminded that Jon Whitcomb of Darien, Connecticut, noted magazine illustrator, will judge the “annual” Quips and Cranks Beauty
Contest. Students interested in presenting beauties for his consideration are asked to leave them with either Hampton Mauze or Henry
Faison in the basement of East, or at the desk in the College Union. Whitcomb will choose a winner and
six runners-up, and the return of entrants is guaranteed.

A large turnout for this tournament is expected. It is not for the experts, but for anyone who enjoys bridge.
Play will begin promptly at 7:30 and end at 11:00. Refreshments will be served.

Class Ring Orders Set For Oct. 24, 25

Orders for class rings will be taken in the Student Store of the College Union next Monday and Tuesday from
2 p.m. to 6 p.m. This will be the only chance Juniors and Seniors will have to order their rings
until next Spring. A ten dollar deposit is required at the time the order is placed.

Huge Magic Show (Continued from Page One)

It might also be said that Princess is the only living heiress of note who has never sought publicity. She
has never been known to give an interview to the newspapers, and has never voluntarily been quoted or had her
photograph taken. She comes from the Dutch West Indies, is ten years old, and weighs one hundred and fifty pounds.
The current tour is Birch's twenty-fifth annual one, and his attractive personality makes him one of the most pleasing entertainers
the magic world has ever produced. He has been interested in magic and its manifestations since he entered high school.
Birch is ranked along with such great all-time performers as Houdini and Thurston.

DR. A. M. OYE Bridge Expert

Cats Claw Generals (Continued From Page Three)

Few fans anywhere were witnesses to a more spectacular offensive display. It was even more amazing since Tom Newton, the
leading pass receiver of the Southern Conference, was unable to play. The fact that Belton was “back of the week”
in the Conference, that he led in passing yardage and is second only to Wyant of West Virginia in total
offense came as a surprise to no one. Newton and Gramley are first and second in pass receiving, while Dyke
Little is fourth in passing yardage. Don McRee, with a fine day, came up to seventh in rushing in the
conference.

“I believe that magic appeals to both young and old—at least to those between the ages of six and ninety-six,”
the distinguished magician declared. Tickets for the show may be purchased at $1.00 per student.

Chinese Student (Continued From Page One)

Finally, in order to see his aged father, he was permitted to go to Hong Kong. There, after three more
years of seemingly hopeless waiting, he was permitted to enter the United States. Now he is here, after five years
of waiting, and his beaming smile comes from the heart, for he is having his long-desired education in freedom. His
entire family is widely traveled. His father was for 25 years a YMCA secretary, and an aunt who studied at
NYU is a YWCA secretary. His mother is still in Shanghai, unable to join his father who is living in
Hong Kong. A brother is working with the American embassy on Formosa, and there is a sister in Zuerich, Switzerland,
and one in Orlando, Florida, who went to Agnes Scott.

Surprisingly, he has already found connections here with his life in China. His Sunday Bible class was taught by the
father of Sam Magill, and his algebra teacher in high school, he has learned in an after-dinner bull session, was
Ellis Tucker, whom many boys know from Woodberry Forest. Alfred attended St. John’s University in Shanghai from 1950 to 1952,
and is now enrolled at Davidson until he completes his studies. He intends to major in English literature, but he
hopes also to study on his interests of art and music. Although he modestly refuses to perform without practice, he
is an excellent pianist. Whenever it becomes politically possible after graduation and graduate study, he plans to return to China
to teach. His goal is to become a bridge between China and the West, transmitting the cultures from one to
the other. Already he has learned much about the West, and we on our part are certainly proud to have
with us a student with such spirit.

PARKER-GARDNER CHARLOTTE 2, N. C. 118 West Trade Street Phone ED. 2-8257

Drink ‘M

O

Joe Conarroe Maurice Crouse Al Simpson Hobby Cobb food-chairmen, Joe Garrison and Jim Kuist (there's a long story behind why
there are co-food-chairmen this year, but suffice it to say that we're eating more than we used to). The evening
was an unadulterated success. Judging from the first two meetings, the stars augur well for Sigma Upsilon this year.

1955-56 FRATERNITY OFFICERS

BOARDING HOUSE MANAGER Roy McCormick

Dr. Spencer's selection, Fred Myers took the floor and gave the unexpurgated version of his translation in an after-dinner bull
session, was enthusiastically received by the fraternity. After

INTERFRATERNITY COUNCIL Phil Koonce

TREASURER Bill Stewart

RUSH CHAIRMAN Franklin Bloodworth

Joe Gaskin Bob Alexander Curtis Patterson Chas. Nanney Carl Cooper David White Jim Brice Dan LaFar Gordon Bondurant David White
Dick Morehead Bo Abernethy Larry McIntosh Gerald Cathey Blake Brinkerhoff Johnny Gilmer Dickie Adams

Phi Delta Theta Jason McManus Doug Oldenburg Bunny Perkinson Bunny Perkinson Don Stewart

Phi Gamma Delta Buddy Bullock Allen Beck Stafford Query Buddy Liles Jerry Kivett

Pi Kappa Alpha Joe Billy Phare Lee Hand Kerry Spiers Jack Crymes W. P. Conger

Pi Kappa Phi Carl Jackson Bill Bard Al Moreau Jack Williamson Jack Williamson

S.A.E. Watt McCain Steve Norton Jerry Bishop Boyce Martin Ed Speir

Sigma Chi Jeter Abernathy Jimmy Kiser France Jordan Dave Shaw & Ray Harding Bob Shaw

SPE. Bayles Mack Joel Blackwelder John Partridge Jerry Eller Tal Broughton

Mooresville, N. C. Phone 3-2861

Jack Graham

CLEANING PRESSING ALTERATIONS MENDING DYEING LAUNDRY TOP QUALITY SERVICE GUARANTEED

Jackson Cleaners FRANK L. JACKSON, JR. MAIN STREET DAVIDSON, N. C.
