THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL HOUSE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

The Davidsonian

FORTY-SECOND YEAR OF CONTINUOUS PUBLICATION | VOLUME 43 — NUMBER 19

Commencement

VELMA MIDDLETON

HUMMAN TALMADGE

Lili St. Cyr to appear in D. C. Artist Series

The Davidson College Artist Series Committee has successfully completed its quest of the spring semester by clinching the coup of its career, Lili St. Cyr. The committee has expressed tremendous optimism concerning the attention that Miss St. Cyr will receive at Davidson and is anticipating a large sale of tickets to the public of the nearby cultural centers of Cornelius and Mooresville.

Miss St. Cyr is scheduled to display her abilities in Chambers Auditorium on April 8, beginning at 8:15 a.m. An overwhelming majority of the faculty has expressed its consent to the suspension of classes for the day so that Miss St. Cyr will be able to exhibit her entire repertoire rather than try to squeeze herself into anything as short as the usual two-hour performances of the Artist Series.

The Committee has some reservations that a number of students, particularly underclassmen and the unenlightened of the upper classes, will not fully comprehend nor appreciate Miss St. Cyr’s artistry. Nevertheless, they hope the esthetic value derived from performance by the sophisticates will be such that the expense involved in securing this engagement will be justified.

Professors Peak, Purcell, and Lilly form a small but staunch minority declaiming the appearance of a “vulgar show” which should not be allowed to “desecrate these halls made sacred by the memory of Woodrow Wilson.” Most of the remaining professors concur with this analysis of the act but decry any attempt to abridge the cultural entertainment and liberal education of the students.

Miss St. Cyr has revealed her talents before unrestrained audiences at such educational institutions as Julliard School of Music, Union Theological Seminary, and Ciro’s. Her most recent and highly publicized appearance before a session of the Beverly Hills Justice Court was hailed as “a symbol of initiative and ambition which has become synonymous with American free enterprise.”

The feature exhibition of Miss Cyr’s production is entitled “Interlude Before Evening” and exhibits ebullient thermae. Coffee will be served in the Union Ballroom following the performance. Men are expected to wear ties.

Above is an artist’s conception of a statue in honor of Woodrow Wilson to be placed immediately in front of Davidson’s new and outstanding Wilson Fine Arts Building. Wilson, who attended Davidson during the college year 1873-74, was later distinguished as President of the United States.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C.

FATHER DIVINE

Bargeron, Cooper, and Hayes flunk out

The administration announced today that the following students, Robert Hayes, Eugene Bargeron, and Cortez Cooper, have been dismissed from college for failure to meet academic requirements.

Upon being pressed by Davidsonian reporters, an official who preferred to remain anonymous elaborated further on the dismissals. In regard to Bargeron, the official said, “When the Davidson standards fall so low that we can allow students with grades so disgracefully and pitifully low to remain in attendance here, then we will frankly admit that PC ranks highest in liberal arts.”

A search of files containing high school transcripts revealed that Bob Hayes did not have a high school average which is acceptable for entrance into Davidson College. This had been overlooked at the time of Hayes’ application. Considerate officials immediately notified Hayes that he was no longer a member of the greater Davidson family.

The Cooper dismissal resulted from the rapid rise of this student in the ranks of a widely known communist front organization (number 69 on the Justice Department’s list of subversive organizations), the Reserve Officers Training Corps. As soon as this affiliation became known to college officials, who desired to protect Davidson from McCarthy criticism, Cooper was dismissed under the pretense of unsatisfactory scholarship.

Library adds two popular magazines

Among the recent additions to the College Library are the popular magazines Sunshine and Health and Playboy. Dr. Chalmers Davidson, director of the library, termed the acquisitions “a great step forward in our cultural advance.” Continuing, he added, “You know, of course, that the editor of Sunshine and Health was a Davidson graduate. We have tried for years to get Mr. Boone to send us a free subscription, but he is so chinchy that he wouldn't even consider it. After careful study, we decided to cancel our subscription to The Presbyterian Outlook and apply the money to the new subscription.”

Playboy was added as a result of numerous faculty and administration requests. Dr. Davidson expressed the opinion that the content of the magazine might be “above the heads of most Davidson students.” Dr. James S. Purcell of the English Department called attention to the subtle humor and famous classics printed monthly, and fine arts professor Douglas Houchens praised the superb artwork. Himself a child-care expert, he was very pleased that a Playmate section had been added especially for the kiddies.

“To tell the truth,” said Dr. Davidson, “I had expected opposition from the trustees. We made the announcement of our subscriptions at 3 o’clock and at 3:03 not a single trustee had registered a protest. I think that’s a very encouraging sign.”

But Talmadge, Divine, Middleton slated

Dr. John R. Cunningham, President of Davidson College, today announced the complete program for Davidson's 115th Commencement Exercises. The long weekend of events will begin Friday, June 10, and conclude with the graduation exercises on June 13.

The commencement season will be officially opened on Friday night with a concert by the internationally known coloratura soprano Velma Middleton. Miss Middleton is currently enjoying an unsurpassed season with the Metropolitan Opera Company in New York where she is literally overwhelming her gaping admirers by her very physical size. She has recently returned from a very successful European tour. The only mishap on this trip was the sinking of the Ile de France as Miss Middleton boarded in La Harve harbor. In her concert here the artist will sing the “Cafe Song” from “Carmen Jones,” the “Sextette” from “Lucia de Lammermoor,” and “I Ain't Got Nobody” from the smash Broadway musical of the same name. Her accompanist for the concert will be the noted French pianist Louis de Strongarm.

The baccalaureate sermon will be delivered Sunday morning, June 12, by the internationally known religious figure Father Divine. This deeply sunburned self-styled deity is a resident of Philadelphia. He has organized several very promising “heavens” in Atlantic City, Pittsburgh, and other Eastern cities. However, he is most well known as an inter-racial marital expert. Divine will also be awarded an honorary DD degree from the college in closing ceremonies.

High spot of the entire weekend will be the graduation address. It will be delivered this year by the well-known arch-liberal governor of Georgia, Herman Talmadge. Governor Talmadge, who has just returned from weeping on the grave of Walter White, indicated to Dr. Cunningham today that he would be able to be here for the services. It is understood from usually reliable sources high in the administration that Talmadge will stress in his talk one of his favorite projects, the admission of Negroes to Davidson. Governor Talmadge has been accredited with the famous statement, “There are only two things I hate, niggers and prejudice.”

It is understood that 69 seniors will be awarded degrees in the final exercise, 1 BS1, 2 BA2s, 1 BA1 (you fool!!!), and 65 BS2s. Among those who will receive honorary LLD degrees in the exercises are Hugh F. (Hugo) Sapp, Davidson sundriest, and former mayor of Davidson, who overwhelmingly defeated former mayor Ernest Beaty in the 1949 election (see Davidsonian, Friday, April 1, 1949); and Clyde Moore, well-known composer of Davidson and Mooresville; and Mary Potts, for her devoted service to Davidson students and faculty. In addition to Father Divine, an honorary DD degree will be awarded to Daddy Grace of the Charlotte House of Prayer.plaque (value $20,000) will be dedicated. This plaque, located in the narthex of the college church, commemorates those who contributed up to 50 cents for the 1954 Gift Fund Drive. Jerry Brooks Says: “Before I started using famous GASTONIA, I felt terrible. I still do.”

FRIDAY, APRIL 1, 1955

Floyd Feeney and Leighton Green, the two principals in the recent government shakeup, are seen respectively at the depth of degradation and the height of victorious confidence. Feeney, trapped by Green’s Guerrillas as he tries to detonate the local armory, futilely commands his former troops to lay down their arms. Green stands in front of his capitol after proudly affirming that “If Feeney tries to make a comeback, I'll wash him clear to Cornelius.”—(Staff photos by Daniel.)

ROTC dept. is abolished

Washington—As a result of its showing in the Federal inspection of March 15, the Davidson College ROTC has been abolished. The move, officially proclaimed by the Defense Department, will, it is feared by college authorities, condemn that small monastic institution to oblivion as an educational center. Reason for the removal, as corroborated by the Pentagon’s higher echelon, is rumored to be the failure of the regiment to meet the specifications of efficiency prescribed by the Department of the Army. This deficiency was detected during the annual Federal inspection conducted 15 March 1955.

This latest revelation from Washington partially exposes the occasion for the evacuation maneuvers being enacted by the campus ROTC corps. Rumors have been rife among the student body since the dismal inspection of said contingent on March 15 bared its inefficiency and disorganization. The authorities that be were deeply impressed by the unusual intelligence displayed by the cadets during classroom inspection. They were particularly affected by replies received in answer to such complex intellectual queries as “Who is Commander-in-Chief of the United States military forces?” (David Schine, Mick Cannon, Nikolai Bulganin) and “What is the preparatory command given to form a platoon?” (Gung Ho! Stand Up! Gravitate Inwardly!). An especially sparkling drill performance introduced novel executions of orders undoubtedly created for the occasion by the adroit corps commander Colonel Cooper. Noteworthy was the extemporaneous rendition of the National Anthem while peon Gragg was expostulating on the merits of Tolstoyian pacifism. Also impressive were Colonel Sapp’s white bucks and the unfortunate trampling of Company A by Company B as the former was trapped against the stadium wall. The Davidson unit was credited with its first thirty-six fatalities.

Following this exhibition, there has been a notable deterioration of morale among the cadre. In their own demented fashion, they have at last grasped the realization that their concentrated endeavors to mold efficiently regimented companies of automatons have come to naught. This degenerate spirit is evidenced by the confusion of a bevy of sergeants scurrying aimlessly, but industriously, attempting to assemble Barrels, M1916D11; Manuals, Editorial Silencing, Principles of, M1955-MCH14; and Sticks, Fire, M1 for storage and transport. It is with dewy cheeks that we bid farewell as the khaki convoy slogs obdurately Braggward. Anyone for opinions?

Mt. Mourne Freeway is shown above in the graceful curve around Chambers Building. Crossing it is the Davidson overpass of the new Concord-Cornelius Turnpike.—(Staff photo by Daniel.)

Charlotte-Mt. Mourne Freeway is completed

John Fite was recently appointed assistant professor of Sociology at Davidson College.

Notice!

Tender Hearted Reader: We hereby make a special request that you do not believe a word on either of these two pages. So far as we have been able to ascertain, every fact has been rendered false. This has been done in order that you, with us, may have a clean and enjoyable, funny APRIL FOOLS DAY. Please don’t bring suit, ye who are slandered hereby. We're kidding, honest! THE EDITORS.

Wednesday, March 30, the new Charlotte-Mount Mourne Freeway was opened in ceremonies conducted by Governor Luther B. Hodges and John Heath of the Davidson College Administration. The freeway, which has been under construction for over a year, is an integral part in the Davidson building campaign, “Cloud over Davidson,” initiated by Dr. J. Rood Cunningham in 1941. Governor Hodges listed the freeway as “the greatest achievement in Carolina highways since Kerr Scott built the Haw River-Washington turnpike upon his victory in the Senate race last year.” In a statement to the citizens of North Carolina delivered during the ceremonies atop the porch of historic Eumenean Hall, Governor Hodges was happy to announce that “with the support of your tax money and the Davidson College Christmas Gift Fund we were able to put through one of the vital links in our economic system. Mount Mourne, seat of nearly half the state’s whammy revenue, is now connected directly with the Queen City of the Carolinas, and strategically located between them stands historic old Davidson College, alma mater of L.L. Polk and Woodrow Wilson, to mention only a few.” Said John Heath, who was Davidson's official representative to the opening, “Toot, toot.” Dr. Cunningham, whose tireless efforts to have an erection of the road during the past years have roused the admiration of all concerned, spoke for the student body of the college when he said that “Now at last, after so many tedious years of bumming on Highway 21, the Davidson student will have only to leave his dormitory to take advantage of the magnificent outdoor opportunity of ‘thumbing on the freeway’.” “The only regret,” said Cunningham, “is now that we will have to dig up our little white signs on the outdated highway which say ‘Approaching Davidson College, A Liberal Arts College for Men’ and call our magnificent yard force to replant them on the new highway.”

Rain,

A MORNING EDITION

Administration ousted in campus revolution

Christian-Socialists seize government!

Christian Socialist leader Leighton Green led a coup yesterday which unseated army-backed Floyd Fulton Feeney dictatorship in Davidson. Latest authoritative resources indicate that the Green forces have all but mopped up the last remaining Feeney holdouts. Late last night, according to Col. Alonzo Cooper, military attache for the Feeney regime, only one small stronghold of the Feeney adherents held out stubbornly in Hattie’s. The dictator himself, trapped finally in the upper story of the library, was flushed down by Green’s guerillas and trapped in front of his army headquarters while trying to blow up the arsenal. He awaits trial.

M. Alfred Crouse, Davidsonian war correspondent in the battle zone, released the following commentary on conditions at the front during the late evening: Leighton Green, head of the Christian-Socialist party on the campus, appears to have been completely successful in his revolution against the Floyd Feeney regime, which he termed “reactionary to the nth plus one degree.” Only a few Loyalists are reported holding out in such remote spots as the third floor of Rumple and the back room of Hattie’s. After 18 hours of bitter fighting, Green’s troops hoisted their flag over Georgia dormitory, headquarters and armory of Feeney’s regime. Blake Brinkerhoff, Green's right-hand man, estimated that some 20 Christian-Socialists had been killed in the struggle and hundreds wounded, but he added “No price is too high to pay for our cause.” Blond, well-tanned Green from El Paso, Texas, set up his revolutionary government’s offices in the lobby of the College Union. Shaw Smith, director of the Union, reportedly was hostile to the new government but withdrew his opposition when offered an undisclosed position in the cabinet. Although tension had been building up between the two factions for several weeks, the major cause of the revolution was the revelation by Pat Ward (testifying in New York) that members of the Feeney regime had been among her best customers. The Christian-Socialists immediately began agitation for a vote of confidence, hoping to take over the student government by legal means. Armed fighting broke out yesterday after demagogue Feeney read in chapel a notice banning Green from Davidson on the grounds that he was a “potential enemy to our tradition.” Apparently Green had been expecting the ban, because Feeney had hardly finished speaking when a machine gun opened fire from the balcony. Feeney was wounded in the left little toe and toppled from the platform into the lap of Herb Russell, organist. Reactionary faculty members tried to take over the machine gun position, but the Green forces quickly mowed them down with automatic rifle and grenade fire. “I didn’t take ROTC for four years for nothing,” commented Green, “I used the tactics of reaction to destroy reaction.” Green was formerly an officer in the Student Army, but he repudiated his commission several days before the coup. His reason: “You can’t expect progress from a backward organization.” Feeney could not be contacted by the press. Rumor has it that he retreated into the impenetrable barricades of the library on the theory that the Christian-Socialists would not attack and destroy the storehouse of knowledge. “He will have to come out for food soon,” said Dr. W. O. Puckett of the biology department, “he can’t live on cellulose.” Fuehrer Green said that although they were still alive, Feeney and his cohorts were thoroughly discredited. “Feeney has shown us nothing except procrastination and a do-nothing policy since he fooled the gullible in last year’s election. I'm glad I had the guts to throw him out of office.”