The Davidsonian
The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

EDITOR .......... Y BROCKMANN
BUSINESS MGR. .... TIM COOPER
Managing Editors ... Maurice Crouse, Tom Warlick
Sports Editor ........ Jim Holshouser
Feature Editor ....... Dick Morehead
News Editors ........
Copy Editor .........
Photographer ........ Hank Daniel
Assignments ......... Jim Brice
Business Staff ....... Tommy Taylor, Larry Parrott
Circulation .......... Bob Carmichael

Published each Friday during the college year except during examination and holiday periods. Member of the Associated Collegiate Press and Intercollegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service. Subscription rate: $2.00 per year. Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N.C., under the Act of March 3, 1879. Offices in David Ovens College Union, Davidson College.

Page Two
Friday, March 4, 1955

The Georgia Group

In the current issue of The Christian Century there appears an editorial concerning the reports of the annual meeting of the evangelism and social service board of the United Church of Canada. The editorial cites with praise the unusual emphasis in the reports on the active meaning of evangelism in the life of the Christian. Among the statements in the reports The Century found one which said that “unless believers in Christ and members of his body, the church, mean business, lead a new life, enter the strait way, witness boldly and know the indwelling love and joy of the Savior, any formal recording of conversions will add to our complacency and be more of a danger than a help.”

In a sense this statement has been borne out in the recent surging of interest in voluntary prayer groups on campus, centering in the worship service held each Wednesday night on the third floor of Georgia. Many of us have been unable to understand the overwhelming interest in this informal and voluntary group led by one senior psychology major. Davidson for so long has been called a religion-infested campus, and for so long the students have been so apathetic to religion and so opposed to the very mention of a worship service, that many have found this new interest not short of amazing.

No one can have the answer to the upsurge in the prayer group. Many students have shrugged their shoulders and said simply that “God moves in a mysterious way.” Some have been a little cynical, and some hopeful that the new interest would mean a new meaning of faith on the part of most students.

We feel that Harry Petersen’s endeavor has come as an answer to prayer in fulfilling a basic need on the part of students here. Too often in college we are tempted to overdo the intellectual search for God to an extent where faith is stifled in reason. We hear of the “search for meaning” and the “search for truth” and all the other searches in which the college student is especially involved. And often we do not realize that our search must have an ending, that God is beyond our reach, and that there is a point at which our powers become nothing and we must lean upon the truth of a God who has said that in faith alone can come the meaning of truth.

The writer to the Hebrews recorded that “faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen.” It is when we come to realize that faith is not knowledge, for it must reach beyond knowledge, that we see the worth of the evangelism of Georgia as a needed addition to the reasoned deliveries of chapel services, vespers and the UCM. We go from a man-centered theology to one which is God-centered, and in so doing we have the experience of a man coming upon an oasis in the desert. It is as Kierkegaard said. We reach the “end of the rope” of reason, lean upon the Reality of God, and become “like the bird which alights on a frail twig of a tree, which may break at any moment beneath its weight, and yet sings its care-free song, knowing that it has wings to bear it up; so the man who believes in Christ, though existing in the midst of uncertainty, is not tossed in despair, for he knows that the wings of faith will bear him up when all else breaks away beneath him.” Perhaps Kierkegaard spoke to Davidson as well as to the world in saying “Faith begins where thought leaves off.”

How Liberal Are Our Liberal Arts?

The recent action of the Bell Telephone Company of Pennsylvania in sending some of its executives back to college to get a liberal education focuses attention on the liberal arts, and in particular, the liberal arts at Davidson. Our college catalog states: “Insisting on the training of the mind as the first task of an educational institution, it (Davidson College) seeks to impart to its students a knowledge of the forces which have determined the pattern of our civilization, thereby fostering the understanding which gives meaning and purpose to the present.” How well are we measuring up to that statement?

Admittedly, Davidson is far ahead of many institutions with its requirements for History, Bible, English, Mathematics, Science, and Foreign Language. But it may well be doubted that the institution is really giving a liberal education to its students. Among other books Bell executives read the Autobiography of Cellini, the Iliad, the Bhagavad-Gita, Brinton's Ideas and Men, and plays by Sophocles. These books are on practically every recommended reading list issued by liberal arts colleges, yet few of them ever feel the touch of a Davidson student’s hand. A student may never read a great Russian novel if he is not enrolled in an advanced Literature course, and unless he is an Economics major he may never hear the name of Thomas Mun mentioned.

One way to break through the walls of our self-contained departments of study would be to inaugurate a required course in the Humanities or Contemporary Civilization such as the program at Columbia College and other institutions. Such a course would give the student a much broader view of his cultural heritage and introduce him very early in his college career to men and ideas which will be important throughout his course of study. By cutting across departmental lines, it could show the relationships between History, Economics, Government, and Philosophy, departments which are greatly affected by each other. The program could supersede the present required History course and might be extended into a second year to include studies in American civilization and institutions. There would, no doubt, be many difficulties in implementing the program, but the advantages to be derived from it would more than compensate for the difficulties.

—M.A.C.

The Paperbacks

The inexpensive, well-bound and printed Modern Library books that have ministered for so long to the needs of literate but penny-shy college students, are now coming available in less expensive paperback editions. It’s a new paperback series for Modern Library (though titles are old) and the first ten releases are big guns aimed at all the competition in the field. Among the new releases (which stands exactly 7½ inches tall and 4 and seven-sixteenths inches wide and cost 95 cents) are Crime and Punishment, The Divine Comedy, The Republic, Gulliver's Travels and comparable giants.

We stopped by the Intimate Bookshop the other day and listened to Paul Smith tick off the list of paperback publishers with whom the new Modern Library books will have to deal. “The English started it all,” he said. “The Penguin series is the oldest of the paperbacks we carry. Simon and Schuster probably rates as the father of the American paperback business. Oh, there are others—Rinehart has a series and Doubleday (Anchor). Knopf (Vintage). Meridian, Evergreen, Viking and Dover.”

What this means to book buyers is that almost every great work of literature is available in the best translations for less than a dollar. Paperback titles numbering in the hundreds range from Homer to Faulkner and include Dumas and Darwin and Randall Jarrell. The paperbacks seem to make everybody happy. The one dollar Unpopular Essays of Bertrand Russell have sold 269 copies in a year and a half at the Intimate—a record not approached of course, by any hard cover in the house. The rest of the stock likewise goes like hotcakes. The age of the paperbacks is on us full steam; college students never had it so good.

—Daily Tar Heel.

Even Though Regrettable: Higher Tuition Necessary To Maintain College Philosophy

When the spring comes to Davidson, it is more difficult than ordinarily to escape the infection of Graggism — either galloping or sedentary. When the warm sun tends to put a halt to intensive academic work, it is rather easy to think of the pleasant aspects of Davidson rather than of the seamy side. This particular spring has recorded the announcement that in the future the tuition will be higher than in past years. This is indeed a regrettable change and many of the gripes which some students have proffered are well founded. Although regrettable, this increase in the tuition reflects proper thinking in the face of a tough situation. It is undoubtedly the only realistic approach. The administration is faced with the constant problem of meeting expenses, and it is obviously their decision that this increase must be made or services would have to be curtailed.

NOT AN ECONOMY SCHOOL

Davidson is not an economy school. And it would be a mistake to try to make it one. The aim of the college seems to this senior to be something more than that which a city college would attempt. We are not here to earn college credits—not even to get a diploma. The program of the institution seems to be to provide a four-year experience in intellectual, social, and spiritual associations that will pay rich dividends for the rest of life. This sort of program requires more than the minimum expense, and its scope should not be narrowed even as an economy move.

In order to provide something more than routine classroom instruction, the faculty must continue to consist of men with more than the ordinary amounts of personality and character as well as academic competency. Although the college may have an advantage in attracting such men because of its tradition and numerous contacts, it cannot afford to offer salaries that do not compare favorably with those in high quality schools.

SPORTS

This policy of developing the man who is prepared to live pleasantly and productively instead of the man who is simply trained to spit out historical dates or chemical formulae involves much more than the classroom. It involves athletics. While attempting to avoid the difficult problem of how to finance the major sports, Davidson now needs more tennis courts and a playable golf course. These are sports which we might develop to such an extent that they could achieve for the school the reputation which we have missed in the three major sports. This improvement, as will the rest, requires money and it is necessary if the full program of the college is to develop.

CULTURE

The development of cultural enjoyment is very essential to the program of Davidson. The Dublin Players seem to be both well received and quite enjoyable. The Artist Series needs to provide us with more really first quality attractions. Such a program would be anything but an economy move.

In the above paragraphs, a brief attempt is made to show a few of the reasons why Davidson should and must spend more per student than many other colleges. It is expensive to maintain a position among the best. It may be that by offering the extras of education and charging what is necessary to pay for them, someHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

People will feel that Davidson has broken from its heritage as a church-supported school operated for the enlightenment of Presbyterian children. Because of the higher cost, it cannot be doubted that many good prospects are forced not to attend Davidson. But the philosophy of the college has always been to provide the superior training that is never available to all; and this aim should be maintained regardless of the inevitable cost. Considering this fact, a serious obligation falls upon each student—to make the most of this opportunity to improve and to broaden himself. A challenge is provided every dedicated faculty member—to offer something of himself as well as something from a text.

What Others Are Saying...

About Humanities, Segregation, and Intellectuals

The Imaginative Grasp

Nathan M. Pusey, president of Harvard, is disturbed at the decline of the Humanities in American universities. In 25 years, the number of students in Harvard has risen by more than a thousand. But Humanities students have dropped 300 in number. That statistic is repeated, more or less, at most universities, this one included. And why is that bad? Let President Pusey answer: A college in which the studies traditionally called the Humanities are weak runs the risk of being less liberal than it should; for our full humanity is best quickened and developed through imaginative grasp of the subtler experiences of individuals as revealed through arts and letters. The chief aim of undergraduate education is to discover what it means to be a man. A college or university will be strong, therefore, only where those studies flourish whose principal value is to arouse such awareness and where they are taught with charm and vigor, and win respect. —Daily Tar Heel.

Emilygration

The Haverford College sociologist, Dr. Ira Reid, speaking on the problems of implementing the Supreme Court Decision on segregation, struck a vibrant and troublesome string when he spoke of “patterned evasions.” “Patterned evasions” are not limited to proposals to abolish the public school systems, to attempts to fight integration by elaborate paperwork—all the typical byways being invented in quarters openly hostile to the decision. There is another, deeper and deadlier “patterned evasion.” And Dr. Reid touched briefly on that evasion when he mentioned those who make their tolerance of minority rights a matter of etiquette or “democracy.” For them, as the sociologist said, racial justice becomes a matter of shaking hands gracefully; or of sitting beside a member of a minority race in a classroom because Emily Post would perhaps approve. —From Dr. Reid’s remarks, we can gain this: Compliance with moral obligations may become as false, as perfunctory, as doctrinaire as defiance. The picture of racial justice we lay before the peoples outside our own boundaries will stand on weak legs if our actions are but doughfaces for attitudes which remain unchanged. Prejudice, diluted and concealed by a thousand pages of Emily Post, covered by procedures followed only because they are “noble” or “democratic,” is still prejudice. —Daily Tar Heel.

With Association It May Be Contagious

“Intellectual—a kind of poison which with association may be contagious.” Could the last part of this definition be a saving grace? Mr. Webster says that intellect is “the power or faculty of knowing as distinguished from the power to feel and to will; esp., the power of reasoning, judging, comprehending, understanding” and that an intellectual is one “endowed with intellect.” From this it may be said that each of us is an intellectual. Perhaps intellectuals are more like plain students than plain Hollins students think. And if they are complicated ones, different, is that really bad? The irony of the whole thing is that we are all intellectuals about something. If you are one about basketball strategy, why look with resentful distrust at someone who is about quartets or French Renaissance literature? Continuing in this line we each then have something to give... with association it may be contagious. A poet writes poetry in order to understand his own life, and because he is human gives insight to all human life. The artist performs a means of release to the viewer for pent-up thoughts and emotions, and the writer is a translator of the thoughts and ideas of his time, a sensitive interpreter of moods, one who creates the enjoyable, delightful, and sometimes the shocking. Each of us has a bit of the artist, the poet, and the writer in her make-up. Each is an interpreter and recomposer. Just the phrase “college atmosphere” implies contact with people inquiring and interesting—beneficial contacts which serve as stimuli. It implies a collection of people who are constantly questioning, trying to find the answers. But a student at Hollins when she has a question or when she thinks she’s found an answer is afraid to voice it. She may be accused of having some intellect—an accusation tantamount to vilification. The person who can make us feel what we haven't felt, see what we haven't seen, and understand what we haven't understood is a friend. If she knows more than we know about something, that is an invitation to us, not an indictment of us. And it is not an indictment of her either. —Hollins Columns.

Letters To The Editor

The Davidsonian always welcomes letters from members of the college family on matters of general interest to our readers. The letters should be short, typed, double-spaced, and signed. Occasionally permission may be obtained to withhold publication of the author's name. In any case, however, the editor must know the identity of the writer.

RACKS IN THE CLOISTER

By LEIGHTON McCUTCHEN

The Human Predicament

Four years gone, and in retrospect, there is the stark fact of ideals unrealized, of goals not reached, of possibilities not actualized. Who of us hasn’t felt this frustration, whether looking over long periods of living, or rethinking a single day. It seems that we are always haunted with the imperfection of our living; with the rudeness of the gap between word and deed.

SOUND FAMILIAR

Certain ideals of good scholarship come to most of us at least fleetingly during our stay here—a well-disciplined study habit, a mastery of material, the competent handling of significant ideas—all this ending so often in the cry “I should have done better, but...” Or again a Y cabinet with high goals of service and devotion realizes abruptly that a lot of talk has produced just more talk. Or a student council which has some concept of the ideal bases on which to found a student community producing mature individuals nevertheless is willing to take second best because these ideals have been broken time and again in the past by actual student living. Or note the feeling of decaying incompleteness as persons realize that again and again they have broken their highest personal goals, have resolved to do better, but have foundered again; failure to win in competition, failure to live as we ought, etc...

WE ARE ONLY HUMAN

But mister writer, you are just expressing the human predicament. As humans we know and desire goals that are higher than we can ever produce. Therefore take your ease. Just reduce your goals and be realistic. That will ease your anxiety, and will keep you from being neurotic. Wise words those. And yet haven't the most creative leaders of the human race been those that did long after this perfection, this escape from the human predicament of frustration? Some people claim that one person actually did live a life of fulfillment. That one really did actualize the highest possible goal in down-to-earth flesh and blood.

WORDS INTO DEEDS

They claim that the Word—the logos or expression of God himself—actually became man in answer to the fruitless quest of man trying to live out the word in his own strength. Not only that this one broke down the dividing wall between ideal (word) and fact (deed), but that he is now breaking down that wall in specific instances through his men here on earth. Can then Christians be perfect people? Again a sharp no. But when these people condition their goals and ideals by this Word made flesh, it moves them on in the path of the realization of true humanity. They can feel rested, and yet yearn after perfection with a creative fervor. Maybe this is what “... reconciling the world unto Himself means.”

MIND AND SOUL?

Once upon a time there was a little boy. When he grew old enough in years, this little boy—we'll call him David—went to college. Now, when he got to college, he was wise enough to see what direction his course should take. He knew clearly that in order to win friends and influence people he would have to amass a certain amount of knowledge. Along with this, of course, he saw that he would have to shed many of his former Christian inhibitions and free himself from the Nietzsche-termed slave morality. Many of the things taught him dealt with this matter of how to get ahead. His study of economics showed that, after all was said and done, a man did have to look out for himself; history was presented, not from a Christian perspective, but as a conglomeration of people, dates and events; math and science taught him what a wonderful series of cause-effect, inter-related events had occurred and would occur in the materialistic age to which science held all the answers; ROTC gave him ample opportunity to assert himself and relieve his wonderings about basic security...

All along, he was surely thankful that he was being taught in all his courses from an open-minded perspective, and not from any particular point of view (this was a Christian college). Religion courses? Well, of course he had them; but they were just other courses and, in spite of them, he got along well. And through the years he saw how great a truth the intelligentsia had—not by saying that the mind was God-given and should be used to direct the whole body, but by saying that really the mind was all you needed, that a smart man could do anything. His confidence in himself kept growing. If only he could always have self-control by his mind! If only he were always man enough to keep out of the slave morality, to keep from developing deep feelings along with deep thought. Sissies cried when they saw children growing up without knowing what “tree” means, or Negroes being mistreated, or general exploitation of people—he just thanked his lucky star that he was smarter than all that. Why take the world’s cross when you can have your own Cadillac? Passions, feelings—these were to be crushed and kept under control to the point of annihilation by the mind; in the Spring, you think of new ways of harnessing water power to force another man out of business; you don’t stop, reflect, and thank God for water.

So this fellow—this David—graduated. He had the ability to use the skills which he had learned; more important, he could manipulate people much more easily now. He was well on the way to being a success. Of course some of his classmates had different ideas, but by and large most of them were smart enough to see with him that, after all, Protagoras had it when he said, “Man is the measure of all things.” And, of course, you had to measure things in terms that don’t let you go overboard for anything but create emotional sterility by intellectual rigor, terms of self-interested power. And David had a son, who of course, followed him. Some say, like father, like son.