The Davidsonian
The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

EDITOR
HENRY BROCKMANN

BUSINESS MGR.
TOM COOPER

Managing Editors .... Maurice Crouse, Tom Warlick
Sports Editor .... Jim Holshouser
Feature Editor .... Dick Morehead
News Editors .... Watt McCain, Copy Editor
Photographer .... Hank Daniel
Assignments .... Jim Brice
Business Staff .... Tommy Taylor, Parrott
Circulation .... Bob Carmichael

Published each Friday during the college year except during examination and holiday periods. Member of the Associated Collegiate Press and
Intercollegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service. Subscription Rate: $2.00 per year. Entered as second class matter
at the Post Office at Davidson, N.C., under the Act of March 3, 1879. Offices in David Ovens College Union,
Davidson College.

Page Two
Friday, February 11, 1965

Constitution: No Room For Gripes

As a member of the committee that has drawn up the draft of the new student government constitution, I would
like to state briefly a personal opinion as to the attitude that I think the student body should try to
assume as it examines this new constitution.

In the first place, I think that all of us have realized for some time that some changes were needed
in our old constitution. Amendments were proposed, and this patchwork didn’t prove satisfactory to the student body. I believe that
everyone felt that a completely new constitution was in order. The student council felt that way also, and a committee
was appointed which got to work very soon on this problem. Basic things had to be decided in many cases
before we could have a basis for the regulations that we kept from the old constitution, modifying and interpreting them
in the light of new attitudes, etc. I particularly wanted to work on this committee because I had sat on
cases all last year and knew that changes had to be made in certain of our rules.

The attitude of the committee is the attitude that I would urge the student body to accept—one of interested persons
trying to improve conditions about us through this one means of improving the laws of the campus. On the other
hand, however, I think that it is imperative that the students realize their responsibility toward these laws once they are
passed. If the psychologists are right in telling us that rebellion is a sign of immaturity, then surely the Davidson
Gentleman will not approve of a basic plan and then, forgetting that approval, continue to gripe about the “lousy system
around here” and even scoff at the student council when they are faced with enforcing these laws. Responsibility is a
sign of maturity, and here again is the crux of the problem of student government here at Davidson.

The students are not by and large responsible enough to their own government. Never do we hear of those who
make the loudest cries against our system actually offering concrete solutions for the problems at hand. If the feelings of
malcontent are so widespread, why in the world don’t some of the completely dissatisfied gather up a reform movement—a term
which even they would scoff at. The point I am getting at is that this committee of the Student Council
has examined the problems of student government here at Davidson and present in this new constitution basic ideas that we
hold to be a good framework upon which we can build a student government that can hold the respect of
both student and faculty. This is by no means a perfect work, but I do think that it provides a
better framework than we have had in the past, upon which the student body—if it has enough interest to do
so—can work toward influencing decisions that vitally affect it, instead of merely voicing opinions with no organized way to present
them to the proper sources.

When we are considering this new constitution we should also keep in mind the coming elections this spring. If, as
has been charged, the student council is always composed of “popular” guys who are not really representatives of the student
body, then the elections this year should definitely be controlled by the student body by an overwhelming vote in favor
of the real representatives of the student body. If this does not happen, then let us not hear any criticism
from those who maintain that real representatives are not elected.

We are faced with the problem here at Davidson of trying to grow up. To answer this problem some completely
rebel and never have the genuine interest to follow up that rebellion with some real action that makes sense. Others
completely accept the situation as it stands here and never share in the experience that is supposed to be engendered
by education—conflict with attempts toward resolution. Still others have realized the needs of the student here at Davidson and are
using the best means at their disposal to ameliorate the existing conditions that do not contribute to the aims of
the college and to the students’ needs for an educational experience. It is with the latter attitude that this committee
has met the students’ problems, and certainly anyone who has sat on student trials realizes far better the extent of
these problems than someone on the outside who is not faced with the decision of protecting the student body’s rights
and ruining a boy's life possibly, or letting the boy go and see the rights of the student body go
by also. I hope that there will be a great deal of interest in this proposed new constitution, and that
the student body will take this matter seriously, or if not, never mention any criticism of the faculty and administration
for treating us like the children we will be manifesting ourselves as.—Swain Loy.

Challenge To Students

Today is a great day for the Davidson student. Throughout recent years, editorials, bull sessions, home epistles, campaign orations, and
Monday morning complaints have been filled with student disgust at strict administrative regulations. Now life is reasonably different. As a
result of the new cut system, we are partially freed from regulation and released to individual responsibility.

Let’s look at the main feature of this system. Now, anyone who goes beyond probation, who overcuts a course by
two, forfeits quality points in that particular course. In regard to other institutions, as Dean Spencer has pointed out, few
if any major colleges and graduate schools regard a student’s quality points as important. By Davidson standards, 122 quality points
are required for graduation. Some have attained this mark by the end of the first semester of their sophomore year,
and it is estimated by the registrar’s office that the average student obtains the requisite by the end of first
semester of the junior year. He may overcut before this, but it is not advisable. This means that any student
having over 122 quality points is able to cut up to the 25% limit (11 class lectures on the average)
without penalty other than loss of quality points. Of course, in many subjects it is academic suicide to be “conspicuous
by absence” very often. It is entirely up to the student, however, to make the decision in regard to cutting.

Student responsibility based on academic achievement, then, is the core, the emphasis, of this new system. The committee also recognized
a basic division between upper and lower classes in regard to chapel and vespers. Juniors and seniors receive equal cuts,
as do sophomores and freshmen. There is now no such thing as an aggregate or freshman cuts.

The liberality and philosophy of this system is brought to sharper focus when compared to the system recently established at
North Carolina University. According to their plan, if a student overcuts the limit of three per course, he automatically fails
that course. There is no buffer zone or probation period, and “minor emergencies” (not defined) are included within the limit
of three unexcused absences. Here the emphasis is on regimented attendance, and many Carolinians feel “very deeply cut” over the
matter.

The new system here recognizes that students vary in ability to learn best from class and their own efforts: That
instructors vary as to stress on class lecture, parallel, and teaching! That such accidents as oversleeping and missed rides do
occur. The student is now responsible for his own actions. Our absence system is on trial. A professor may still
take any measures he feels necessary, if in his estimation a student has been cutting more classes than advisable or
profitable for passing the course. This program is subject to reversal by the faculty committee at any time they feel
it is unsuccessful or abused. Let us therefore make wise use of this opportunity, and prove that the Davidson student
is mature, responsible and capable of determining his own educational program.—R.H.M.

In New Constitution: Shroud Of Secrecy Must Be Lifted, Student Voice Increased

By the time you read this article, the new Student Body Constitution will have been unveiled. Unless I miss my
guess, there will be considerable discussion of its merits and demerits. If this period of discussion is to be worth
anything, we must all have in mind certain standards for judging this new document. The question will be: “Can this
new constitution broaden the base of participation in student government and is it designed in such a way as to
break down the isolation that has characterized the conduct of student government affairs?” If it is not so constructed, the
mere adoption of a new constitution will have little effect upon the chronically bad feeling that exists between certain large
segments of the student body and its elected representatives.

At this writing, I have not had the privilege of studying the final version of this new document and have
formed no opinions concerning its real worth. But I, and you, recall the numerous occasions during the past few years
when the campus was rocked by rumor rather than fact and when the Student Council has been the object of
criticism and condemnation because of its isolation from the majority of us, the students who elected it. These unfortunately numerous
occasions may well be considered typical of the past history of Student Council-student relationships. The continuation of this bad situation
does not make the future development of student government seem likely, and so long as the Student Council, itself, does
not enjoy the esteem and confidence of the student body, the future of the honor system seems endangered.

AN INTERMINABLE DELAY

It was for the achievement of these broad goals that ODK last year made its proposal for the separation of
the judicial function from the legislative and representative functions of the Student Council. It was for these broad goals that
the “Crutchfield Amendments” were proposed last spring at a time when respect for the student government was at a low
ebb. The present administration opposed the adoption of these amendments to the old constitution on the ground that they were
make-shift proposals, as indeed they were, and promised to present to the student body a new constitution designed to eliminate
the basic causes for these frequent misunderstandings and conflicts of interest. After an interminable ten-month delay, during which the Student
Council has again floundered on the rocks of undefined procedure and unspecified authority, the proposed remedy is being presented to
the patients.

If this remedy is to cure the disease, it must eliminate the clandestine nature of Student Council activities. The Student
Council is the representative authority of the Students of Davidson College and not a ghostly inquisition that meets by midnight.
Only if the new constitution removes the veil of secrecy from the Council’s activities will rumor and insinuation cease to
be the chief means of communication on the campus. The grapevine is a venerable institution, but the morale of the
student body will only be improved when facts become generally and immediately available. Thus the new constitution must provide for
open meetings of the council with the possible exceptionof trial cases in which the accused student requests secrecy, or it
will fail to eliminate the evil conditions that prompted its drafting.

GREATER STUDENT VOICE

A second provision that must be found in the new constitution is one for broadening the base of student participation
in our government. If the new constitution does not consider this need, it does not have much chance to broaden
the base of student support for the projects of the council. Perhaps a clause making possible the referendum both on
the initiative of the council and the student body would be the best means of increasing the direct participation of
the students at a relatively small and compact school such as Davidson. I trust that the new constitution will include
provisions similar to those outlined above and that this article will be a congratulatory message to those who have written
it. But if the new constitution does not make any such provisions for making the student council a functioning representative
of the student body, we would be foolish indeed to expect that its adoption will remedy the unfortunate situations that
are so often a part of the Davidson scene.

MUST UCM GO?
By BILL SCHOLL

“What did you think of UCM?”

“I thought it was pretty good on the whole—most of the speakers really seemed to know what they were talking
about and led me to look at some things in a different light. Take, for example, the scripture lesson that
was read one of the times about the pompous fellow who was praying. You know—the one who thanked God that
he wasn't like other men but was upright and okay, i.e., really didn’t need a Savior at all. That really
meant a lot to me. And you know, it made me realize how fortunate I really am to be past
the level of that first guy; I'm really glad that doesn't apply to me. I might have prayed like that
at one time; but now I am thankful that I don’t pray as other men do, that I've grown enough
to rise a little higher than all those poor fools who boast about their rectitude.”

Luke 18:14b: “For everyone that exalteth himself shall be abased; and he that humbleth himself shall be exalted.”

“What did you think of UCM?”

“I didn’t like it so much; as it went on, I got more and more peeved. Here were some fellows—mostly
Yankees—who were trying to tell us how to live. Now, if I wanted my thoughts controlled and wanted to be
dictated to, I'd join the Roman Catholic Church; I'm a Protestant and proud of it, and nobody’s going to tell
me what to do. Why, these guys even tried to say what rules we should go by in choosing the
people we live with. And the nerve of the guy who said there were rules to govern ways we treated
employees in our businesses! Everybody that is anybody realizes that you've got to go after what you want and use
everybody and everything for that. This is a free world; I'm a free American and I'll live my own life.
Religion is important but it isn't everything; I'll go along with helping pay for a church’s work and going to
services but the way I run my life is my own business. I'm willing to let religion take its proper
place but I'm tired of everybody’s trying to make me a fanatic.”

Nietzsche: “What is good? To be brave is good ... All that heightens in man the feeling of power, the
desire for power, power itself.”

Student Council Exposition

The following articles, written by members of the committee on constitutional revision, are an attempt to explain a few of
the more important changes in the new document.—Editor.

Student Attitude
By PERRIN ANDERSON

An important item which I feel should be dealt with in the presentation of the constitution has to do with
an attitude of the student body. I sincerely hope that the members of the student body will not approach this
revised constitution as something that the student council and the faculty combined are trying to put over on them; but
that they realize that the revision of the constitution was undertaken because the students of Davidson College, from whom any
self-government stems, felt that the existing constitution was no longer adequate for the needs of the student body. With the
idea in mind that the constitution under which we now attend school no longer expressed the desires of the students,
the revision was undertaken. We have drawn up a revised version which we believe and which we hope sets up
the kind of government desired by the students. I invite each of you to examine every article and section with
a critical eye and with this in mind.

Trial Procedure
By JOHN CHILD

The apparent need for some definite line of procedure to be regularly followed in cases before the Student Council has
been witnessed increasingly, both on the part of the Student Body and the Council. Four parties would seem to benefit
from such action: the students, the defendants, the accuser and/or the witnesses, and the Council. This increased framework is needed
out of fairness to each of these groups, but particularly to the defendant; and to the Council, to further aid
them in a more orderly and thorough investigation of the case. It was in the light of the foregoing that
Article XVII, Trial Procedure, was drawn up and given an integral part in the proposed constitution.

The primary areas of the proposed article that no doubt raise the most questions are two. First, it was felt
that the accused should be presented with the charge, after which he would plead guilty or not guilty; then the
progress of any ensuing trial, it was felt, would be greatly facilitated by the introduction of a leader of prosecution
who would direct and coordinate it. A counsel for the defense was introduced, believing he could aid the accused by
familiarizing himself with the facts of the defense, and making certain that these are kept before the council at all
times during the trial. Neither the leader of prosecution nor the defense counsel would vote. Secondly, it was felt that
the continued existence of student government necessitated the provisions of Section 9. These provide that all pertinent questions, with the
exception of self-incriminating ones, be answered in any case involving an infraction of the Student Body Regulations. Punishment would be
scaled by a sliding rule based on the nature and seriousness of the case that is under consideration at the
time.

Publications
By AUSTIN STRAND

Mr. Strand, although not a member of the Student Council, was a member at large on the constitutional revision committee.—Editor.

Article XII, Publications Board, has been changed in several ways. Probably the major change in this article that will interest
the student body is the fact that there will be no campaign speeches in the election of the editors of
any of the three major publications. The elimination of speeches in the election of editors of the publications is due
primarily to the feeling of the Publications Board that editors are first writers and men of the printing trade, not
orators. The feeling among the members of the Publications Board was that the proof of a man's ability should not
be in the number of laughs that they can get from the student body on any certain day, but rather
in his writing ability. The second reason for this elimination of speeches was that of shortening the time taken up
with elections in the spring. By eliminating the speeches from the Publication Board’s nominees, the time for elections may be
shortened by a week or more.

AC LOISTER
By GILBERT GRAGG

Dad On Davidson Maturity

Mr. Gragg and Mr. Leighton McCutchan will alternate writing this column each week.—Editor.

Charlotte, N. C. February 11, 1965.

My dear son:

Let me say again that it was wonderful having you home from prep school for the recent holidays. Now that
you will soon graduate it is my responsibility to advise you about your prospective college home. You know that I
have always wanted you to go to Davidson, my alma mater, since you plan to be a doctor and need
a school with high academic standards as well as one which will help mature your faith.

COLD SABBATH

Several days ago after I had been snowballed passing fraternity court when bringing little Gordon and your sisters home from
Grandfather Gray’s I decided to forgive this immature outburst as an unfortunate overflow of exam tensions and drove up to
Davidson Sunday night to worship in the lovely sanctuary. Imagine how surprised and provoked I was to discover no vespers
because of exams (how different in my day)—not even a service for the townspeople who probably were not studying but
thoroughly enjoying the Sabbath-night holiday with television. There had been a new snow that afternoon, and it lay innocently over
the campus as if to offer the students another chance. It soon became UGLY, however, as my seeking to worship
ended in another ferocious snowball attack by around 150 well-dressed students in front of the library; I wondered how they
would have felt had an ambulance needed to get by that mammoth snowball they made to block the road. Rationalization
may have excused the first outburst as youthful energy, but I am afraid, my son, that its repeated occurrence on
a larger scale of mob violence necessitating a cop shows a basic emotional, intellectual, and yes, even religious immaturity for
a surprising number of Davidson students.

A DAY ON CAMPUS

But these two instances and all the broken windows resulting from the snow merely illustrate one symptom of the disease
of immaturity, as I found on a recent trip to the campus during the day. In chapel there was decided
irreverence during the hymn and discourtesy to the speaker by some students reading and talking: a faculty member told me
also about the infamous balcony back rows at vespers, and at one of the boarding houses I witnessed a riotous
blessing said! I enjoyed a basketball game but was shocked by some of Davidson’s sportsmanship and also the unexcusable noises
during the national anthem. After the game, I visited the well-functioning College Union, but here again I found evidences of
immaturity with the juggled letters on the sign. It was a memorable day at Davidson!

UNIVERSITY CHRISTIAN MISSION

This week at Davidson, son, I had the privilege of attending the overwhelmingly successful UCM (although the liberals found its
theology too fundamental and the fundamentalists its theology too liberal) and was tremendously impressed by the work of the conscientious
committees in planning and the superior quality of the leaders. I could not understand why even more students did not
take advantage of the enlightening seminars, lectures, and bull sessions, and all should have had at least one personal conference
with one of the splendid speakers. What better opportunities could have been given for religious and intellectual and emotional growth?
It will be interesting to see how many students really join Apostolics Anonymous in relation to their fraternities, personal ethics,
and by taking a part in promoting a scholarship for a deserving Negro. I have heard that the faculty has
offered the students a real opportunity to show their maturity with the new cut system emphasizing “student responsibility” over “rigid
paternalism.”

MANNERS AND MORALS

So there are definite glimmers of maturity at Davidson in spite of heavy evidence to the contrary, my son. Nevertheless
until they become more pronounced I believe Carolina is the place for you—perhaps they are not as strong in their
professions of faith and devotion to duty as Davidson students, but at least they have rectitude (don’t they?) and most
important—good manners!

The family joins in sending love,

Devotedly,
Your Dad.

P.S. Perhaps in my next letter I'll try to tell you what I mean by maturity!
