DEPARTING - FAREWELL EVALUATIONS (Page 2) VOLUME XLII

WORLD HONORS EDITOR BROCKMANN WINS TWO FELLOWSHIPS FOR FURTHER STUDY

Henry Brockmann, former editor-in-chief of the Davidsonian, is the recipient of one of the 50 fellowships announced this week by
directors of the Danforth Foundation. This notification was immediately preceded by the additional announcement that Brockmann also has been awarded
a fellowship by the Rockefeller Foundation.

The Danforth grant specifies that the winner shall enter the teaching profession upon completion of sufficient preparation to enable him
to pursue this career remuneratively. However, the Danforth fellow holds this award for life and may continue his own formal
education at the expense of the Foundation at any time he realizes the need for further instruction. The Foundation has
been created by William H. Danforth, a leading St. Louis industrialist, to provide capitalization for a group of scholars working
cooperatively toward degrees as Doctors of Philosophy. The stipend attached to this award may amount to $1800 annually for single
students and $2400 for married students.

The Rockefeller Brother Theological Fellowship Program was inaugurated a year ago for the purpose of discovering and developing “new talent
for the Christian ministry.” The fellowship awards, financed by the Rockefeller Brothers Fund, are sponsored by the American Association of
Theological Schools. Expenses of room, board, tuition, and monthly allowances are covered by this fund.

Brockmann, doing honors in his- (Continued on Page Four)

CRITICS GIVE

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., Host To N.C. Academy of Science

By BILL POMEROY

Today and tomorrow the annual meeting of the North Carolina Academy of Science is being held on the Davidson campus.
Faculty members and students from colleges all over the state as well as representatives from industrial firms throughout North Carolina
are here for the annual sessions of the organization. Dr. W. O. Puckett, professor of biology at Davidson, is president
of the Academy. Headquarters have been set up in the lobby of the Ovens College Union and registration began this
morning at 9:00. Mrs. Little, supervisor of dormitories, has disclosed that members of the Academy will be housed in the
new Belk dorm.

The main feature of today’s program was a symposium on “Science in Industry in North Carolina” held in the ballroom
of the Union. Presiding over the symposium, Dr. Puckett introduced the following speakers: Dr. D. E. Voyles of the Duke
Power Company; Dr. William W. Bates of Liggett & Myers Tobacco Company; and Dr. Howard J. Phillip of the Celanese
Corporation of America.

Of particular student interest was the Collegiate Academy session held in the basement of Martin Science Building at 2:00 p.m.
today. During the session, papers were presented by college students from all over the state. A Davidson student, Fairman P.
Cumming, presented a very interesting and informative paper on “Distribution of the wood thrush and the veery in the Black
Mountains of North Carolina.”

In the ballroom of the Union tonight at 7:00, the Academy dinner will be held. The evening session will begin
at 8:00 with Dr. A. D. Schaftesbury of Woman’s College, Greensboro, vice president of the Academy, presiding. The feature of
the evening will be the presidential address on “The Regeneration Problem” by Dr. Puckett. Announcements and awards will also be
made at the dinner.

Sectional meetings will begin tomorrow morning, and meeting in conjunction with the Academy will be the North Carolina Psychological Association
of which Dr. Donald K. Adams of Duke University is president, and Dr. W. G. Workman of Davidson is secretary-treasurer.
During the various sectional meetings, two Davidson professors will read papers. Reading their papers will be Prof. George W. Crawford
in the Physics and Mathematics section, and Prof. Tom Daggy in the Zoology section.

New YMCA Council Holds First Meeting

The new council of the Davidson YMCA held its first official meeting last Wednesday afternoon at Erwin Lodge. Opening worship
was led by Vernon Hunter. Outgoing president Leighton Green spoke on the opportunities which will challenge the “Y” next year.
Sam Magill outlined the history of the “Y,” and the relationship of the Davidson “Y” to the national movement. Following
these speeches, the Council divided itself into three groups which discussed ways of making the new program vital to individual
students. Fellowship was emphasized while the Council had supper together. Incoming president Blake Brinkerhoff closed the meeting by leading the
group in worship.

Vereen Bell Award Won by Frank White

During Thursday's chapel program Mr. Randall Jarrell, internationally famed poet, novelist, and critic, presented the Vereen Bell Award for 1955
in the field of creative writing to Frank White. This presentation is made annually to that writer adjudged to have
submitted the most outstanding literary work to the Vereen Bell Contest committee. White won this year’s prize for his short
story, “Tell Me a Christmas Story,” which is an imaginative treatment of a common subject, the Christmas passion. Second and
third place considerations and Other Poems” Armistead. Mr. Jarrell has come from Princeton University to a post as associate professor
of English at Woman’s College in Greensboro. He has recently published Pictures of an Institution, a novel lampooning small educational
institutions with “wicked wit.” Mr. Jarrell read and discussed

Fraternities Planning Weekend Functions

By JOHN BERNHARDT

This weekend is a big one for most of the fraternities on campus, for seven of the eleven have their
spring functions scheduled then. The only exceptions are the SAEs, Sigma Chis, and SPEs, who have recently held theirs, and
the ATOs, who will hold theirs May 14.

The KAs will put on their best southern costumes, rented from Pennsylvania, for their Old South Ball. Since taking over
Davidson today, they plan to defeat Charlotte tomorrow afternoon with a motorcade through the streets of the “Yankee” City. After
this heroic Armageddon, there will be a victory ceremony at the courthouse reminiscent of Lee's surrender at Appomattox Court House.
A lawn party at the home of Mr. and Mrs. Frank Thompson will keep up the festivities until the climax
that night in the banquet and dance at the Selwyn Hotel.

The annual Fiji Island Ball forms the conclusion of the year’s activities for the Phi Gams. This year it will
be held, appropriately, at a cabin on the Catawba River. In keeping with the title, the official uniforms for the
boys and their dates will be South Pacific class costumes. Besides the usual dancing and swimming, other sports are expected.

For the Betas, it will be the Bowery Ball as the big event of the spring. In a den of
mobsters and underworld characters, they will honor their departing brothers with their Senior Banquet. Afterward, there will be much shady
action as the hoods and their molls finish the night with a dance.

The Pikas will hold their annual Dream Girl Ball at the Selwyn Hotel in Charlotte. Music after the dinner will
be provided by Watt McCain’s student combo. This is perhaps the first time a group of students has played for
a fraternity dance, and it should give them a good start in the performing world.

The Kappa Sigs have reserved the American Legion Home at Belmont for their formal function. After a barbecue supper, the
couples, dressed in Bermuda shorts or slacks, will dance to a local combo.

The Phi Delts will have their Blue and White function at Honey’s in Charlotte on the site of the Old
Time Grill. After the dinner, they will adjourn to the dance hall adjoining it to spend the rest of the
evening dancing.

The Rose Ball of the Pi Kapps will be held at the Red Fez. They too will have a dinner
and dance.

NOTICE

Sunday night the College Union Cafeteria will feature its regular buffet supper. Mr. Murphy, manager of the cafeteria, has announced
that this will be a Mother's Day supper.

The second in a series of band concerts will be given by the Concert Band Tuesday, May 10, at 7:00
p.m., on the lower Union terrace.

The Davidsonian FRIDAY, MAY 6, 1955

S. C. TENNIS TOURNEY ENTERS FINALS(Page 3)

NUMBER 24

Anderson Installed; Council Starts Work

STUDENT LEADERSHIP

Edmunds White New Ass’t. Dean

Dean Spencer announced today that beginning in July, H. Edmunds White will become Assistant Dean of Students. Dean White will
assist both Dean Spencer and Mr. Hengeveld, the Director of Admissions. In addition, he will help to administer the scholarship
program.

While at Davidson, Mr. White made an impressive record. In both 1946 and 1947, he was captain of the basketball
team. Even though he was only five feet nine inches tall, “he fought himself into the first Night of Southern
Conference basketball play.” Besides his athletic fame, Mr. White was named to Who’s Who Among Students in American Colleges and
Universities, was tapped for ODK, and was a member of Kappa Sigma social fraternity. He graduated in 1947.

After his college career, which was interrupted by two years of service in the Army Air Corps, Mr. White taught
and coached for two years at Darlington School in Rome, Georgia. At present, he is basketball coach, and Assistant Principal
at Eau Claire High School in Columbia, South Carolina.

For some time now, the Faculty has been interested in finding a man to help in the admissions department. From
his record as a Davidson student, and his experience in prep school work, Mr. White is an ideal choice to
help in this department.

Mr. White is the son of Dr. and Mrs. Locke White, and originally from Raphine, Virginia. He is married to
the former Carol Mead, and they have two children, ages five and three. He has a master’s degree from the
University of South Carolina.

MEET OPENS MAY 13

Davidson College is holding a student leadership conference on May 13 and 14 for leaders in the rising senior classes
of seventy North Carolina high schools. The purpose of this meeting is for each delegate to receive beneficial aid in
the leading of his or her high school in student government, school publications, social and athletic organizations. By exchanging ideas
with the other invited schools and learning from able campus leaders of Davidson College these delegates will be able to
have well-rounded and well-planned school years in 1955-56. Conferences like this have been found very satisfactory in such schools as
the University of North Carolina and Emory.

The planning and organization of this conference has been placed in the hands of a committee headed by Doug Oldenburg.
Serving on this committee are Dan Lafar and Bob Shaw, correspondence; Bunny Perkinson and John Childs, program and arrangements; Bob
Martin, social; George Scott, discussion groups and speakers; Gordon Bondurant, housing; Boyce Martin, finance; Bob Talbert, advertising and arrangements.

Final Presbytery Vote Defeats Union Attempt

Seventeen years of action from successive General Assemblies of the Presbyterian Church, U.S., was stymied in 1954-55 when 86 Southern
Presbyteries completed balloting on the proposed question of Union with the U.S.A. and United Presbyterian Churches. With smoke clearing the
last week in April, the vote stood 43 to 42 against union with one ballot ending in a tie. However,
the issue had been officially defeated earlier in the winter as only a negative vote of 21 Presbyteries or one-fourth
of the Assembly was required to defeat the proposal.

Ten Presbyteries are sending overtures to the General Assembly which meets in Richmond, June 2-7, asking that the Permanent Committee
on Cooperation and Union be dissolved, some insisting that all efforts looking toward union be discontinued. Three ask that the
committee be changed to a permanent committee on co-operation only. Seven ask that the committee be continued, and five of
the seven would have the committee explore further all possible avenues for co-operation and fellowship with other Presbyterian bodies. This
exploration is in no way limited in necessary time for action from the committee.

Results on the balloting in North Carolina are as follows:
For Union — Albemarle, Granville, Winston-Salem.
Against Union — Asheville, Concord (87-41), Fayetteville, Kings Mountain, Orange, and Wilmington.

The question of church union has not been solved and is still in the minds and hearts of many Southern
Presbyterians. Another aspect which remains unsolved is the concept of the Presbyterian Church and the popular 20th Century Ecumenical Movement.
Whether or not the committees of the General Assembly in Richmond will be able to effectively deal with the problems
facing the church in the next five years remains to be seen.

Council to Support Subsidized Athletics

By LLOYD CHAPIN

Perrin Anderson, new president of the Davidson student body, officially installed the recently elected representatives to next year’s Student Council
this morning in chapel. Floyd Feeney, who has served as president for the past year, installed Anderson.

Anderson, a rising senior from Union, South Carolina, served as second vice president of the student body for the last
two semesters. He is a member of Sigma Chi social fraternity, and holds a Union Carbide scholarship.

Bunny Perkinson, first vice president, is a rising junior, and a member of Phi Delta Theta. His home is in
Chattanooga, Tennessee.

The second vice president of the student body is Stuart Vaughn, who was the sophomore representative to the Student Council
this year. He is a member of Kappa Sigma, a rising junior, and comes from Winston-Salem, North Carolina.

Ross Smyth from Charlotte is secretary-treasurer, a rising sophomore, a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon, and a Union Carbide scholar.

Joe Conarroe, president of next year’s Senior Class, also possesses a Union Carbide grant and is president of Beta Theta
Pi. His home is Bradenton, Florida.

President of the Junior Class is Dan Lafar, a native of Gastonia, and a member of Kappa Sigma fraternity. Pat
Woodward, a Phi Delta Theta, is president of the rising Sophomore Class and hails from Quincy, Fla.

Shown above is the 1955-56 Student Council following their installation this morning in chapel. After out-going president Feeney’s farewell speech,
president Anderson made his inaugural address to the student body. He then informally briefed the new council on its forthcoming
meeting.

Sigma Chi Frat Wins Interfraternity Sing

The front lawn of Chambers Building last night was the scene of the eighth annual “Interfraternity Sing” sponsored by Gamma
Kappa Chapter of Phi Mu Alpha Sinfonia, national honorary music fraternity. For the second consecutive year, the Sigma Chi fraternity,
directed this year by Joe Garrison, won first place and possession of the coveted gold cup for another year. The
prize-winning selections were: “Go Not Far from Me, O Lord,” “Shenandoah,” and “Fellowship Song of Sigma Chi.” After the results
were announced the jubilant victors carried director Garrison, who won the award for the best director, off on their shoulders
in true hero style.

Second place went to the Kappa Alpha fraternity under the direction of Allie Cone. The sea was their theme, and
they burst forth with “Eight Bells,” “Away Sir,” and “Old Man Noah” as if they were “old salts.” Pi Kappa
Phi, with Thorny Frick and Jack Williamson directing, finished in third place. “Drink to Me Only with Thine Eyes,” “A
Whale of a Tale,” and “Rose of Pi Kappa Phi,” were the selections they offered.

Dr. Chalmers Davidson, in his role as Master of Ceremonies, kept the audience in a gay mood with his commentary.
The chairman of this year’s sing was Sandy McGeachy, and the judges were: Mrs. John Satterfield, wife of Professor John
Satterfield; Mr. Harvey Turner, band director at Kannapolis; and Mr. Robert Klepper, band director at Mooresville.

Taking on the post of freshman adviser is John Childs, a rising senior, who served as a junior representative to
the Student Council this year. He is a Kappa Sigma from Hopedale, Massachusetts.

The four Senior Class representatives are: John McLaughlin, vice president of Beta Theta Pi from Raeford, North Carolina; John McManus
from University City, Missouri, president of Phi Delta Theta, and a member of Phi Beta Kappa; (Continued On Page Four)

KOONCE ANNOUNCES RUSH WEEK PLANS AND DANCE DATES

Phil Koonce, president-elect of the Inter-Fraternity Council, announced that the new council at its recent meeting decided to follow the
same general policy next year for rush week and the dance weekends as it did this year.

Rush Week will run from Monday, September 19, through Friday, September 23. Fraternities are reminded that no dates may be
made with prospective rushees prior to August 15 or during the Freshmen Orientation Period, Thursday, September 8 through Tuesday, September
13. Dates may be obtained during the latter part of the summer until school starts, and then for a period
of four days after classes begin. Dates will be confirmed Monday, September 19, and Thursday, September 23.

Dr. Colwell of Emory Is Vespers Speaker

The Reverend Ernest C. Colwell, Dean of the Faculties and Vice President of Emory University, will be our Vesper preacher
this coming Sunday, May 8.

Dr. Colwell was born in Hallstead, Pa., January 19, 1901, and graduated from Emory in 1923. From 1924 until 1928
he served as instructor of English and Bible at Emory, and he received the B.D. degree from Emory’s Candler School
of Theology in 1927. In 1930 he was awarded the Ph.D. degree by the University of Chicago, where in the
same year, he became assistant professor of New Testament Literature. He was in 1939 appointed professor of New Testament Literature
and chairman of the department. Later he was named Dean of Chicago's (Continued on Page Four)
