Rare indeed is the American person who exhibits no interest in any form of athletic activity. Most all of us are attracted to one or many sports, depending on our time and tastes. Active participation at one stage of life or another has given knowledge of the fundamentals and with knowledge, a greater enjoyment and appreciation of any sport. From the mutual understanding of a sport in particular has grown a jargon peculiar to the activity. However, some words have been applied to sports in general and even become an integral part of our American language.

ALUMNI-VARSITY GAME SET FOR NEXT WEEK

The Davidsonian

PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 1955

Southern Swim Finals Here Tomorrow

Wrestlers Prepare For Southern Meet

By CHARLES McGIRT

The Wildcat '54-'55 wrestling season is drawing to a close with only one match and the Southern Conference Tournament left. The final match will be with VPI there Saturday, February 26. The tournament will be held March 4th and 5th at Washington and Lee. VPI, which will be in the Saturday contest as well as the tournament, is undefeated this season. Last week they beat Washington and Lee, 38-0. Washington and Lee beat Davidson, 24-10, but Davidson is expected to make a better showing against VPI than did Washington and Lee. From all indications, VPI will undoubtedly come out on top in the tournament. West Virginia has a good team this year and will probably be close behind VPI for a second place. From second place down it's no telling how the schools will fill in. Davidson, which has two wins and five losses at the present, had three boys in last year’s finals. Coach Parker commented, “I don’t guess we will do as well this year, but we will make a good showing.”

Cats Hit W&L Tonight; GW Seen as Tourney Foe

By BUNNY PERKINSON

Davidson’s Wildcats wind up their 1954-55 basketball season on the road this weekend, playing Washington and Lee tonight and V.M.I. tomorrow night. Both games will be played at Lexington, Virginia. The Cats hold a win over the Cadets, but the Generals of W.&L. boast a somewhat one-sided record.

Keydets Remain Heavy Favorites; Meet Sets New Record For Entries

By NED PAYNE

The 1955 championship swimming meet of the Southern Conference, held here at Davidson for the first time, enters into its third and final day tomorrow with finals in the swimming events. Full teams representing V.P.I., V.M.I., Washington and Lee, West Virginia University, and Davidson College are entered in the meet, which makes the 1955 championships the largest on record. Defending champions VMI loom as the overwhelming favorites to capture the conference crown as the finals approach, but they are finding strong competition from the Wildcats of Davidson College, the Gobblers of Virginia Tech, the Generals of Washington and Lee, and the Mountaineers from West Virginia. During the conference meet in 1954, VMI swept all firsts and walked off with everything but the VPI pool. VMI ran up a total of 178 points to 29 points for the second place team. VMI has four winning swimmers returning from last year’s conference meet. They are: Boxey—winner of 50 and 100 yard sprints; Hoyt—winner of 100 and 200 yard backstroke; Van Fossen—winner of the 1500 meters, 440, and 220; Ridgley—winner in diving. Of the over 80 entries, Davidson College has Ed Spier, Tom Rivers, John Winfrey, and Stafford Query participating in the sprints. Al Ormond, Alex Shephard, Bill Carrell, Curt Ormond, Jim Travis, John Edwards, Frank Kiker, Larry Parrott, Bob Oliver, Chuck Blake, and Charles Stowe are entered in the distances. Basil Sharp, Curt Ormond, Jeff Smith, and Roger Bates are entered in the diving events. Davidson managers, Carl Bitten, Fred Brandt, and others are also participating.

IFC TRACK MEET TO BE HELD HERE ON MARCH 9 & 10

Coach Pete Whittle announced this week that the annual Interfraternity track meet will be held on March 9 and 10. On Wednesday (9), the preliminary trials will be held in the following events: 100 yd. dash, 220 yd. dash, low hurdles, shot, discus, and broad jump. On Thursday, the finals in these events will be held, and finals will also be held in the 440 yd. dash, 660 yd. run, 3-4 mile run, high jump, and 1-2 mile relay. Each fraternity may enter two men in each event. Men with track letters or numerals are ineligible as are any who have scored 5 or more points in intercollegiate track competition. Cross-country men who won letters or numerals are ineligible in the running events. In the Southern Conference Indoor Meet last week, Davidson finished third with 20 points. VMI won the meet with 56 and 19-20 points, while VPI was second with 27 and 3-20 points.

One such word is class. It can be used to describe a baseball player or a midwinter’s date. Employed too frequently, it will perplex more than it will illuminate. Deeds and feats that exalt and yet defy explanation are lumped together and called class. Many variations arise in attempting to express it. Class in automobiles to a certain segment of Americans is depicted by the English lines, while a souped-up ’39 Ford with flying fox tails and sans fenders constitute class for another portion. Within the spectrum of class are dignity, courage, decency, control, and poise in crisis. Its elements so permeate a man that he will battle back against hopeless odds, accept victory and defeat without a marked personality alteration, and it can go to such extremes that tough pro football players will burst into tears in defeat. Sportswriters employ it when they run out of praise or are at a loss to express themselves. In some cases, like the Golden Gloves bouts, it can give the loser more prestige than the winner. Many times it, as love, is beyond description. Most important is that its scope is far broader than mere fundamental ability. All that we respect in the behavior of man is within it. Primarily, it appeals to us because it is the way we desire to react in times of stress and elation. Background and social position have nothing to do with it. When we are brought into contact with class, it is recognized, whether it be in professional boxing, in a professor on the campus, or in sandlot football. Joe DiMaggio, with his grace and talent, had it in abundance. Ben Hogan, perhaps somewhat selfish with it, displayed it in his comeback from a crippling car wreck. Although the epitome of ignorance and innocence, illiterate Beau Jack had class. In professional ball, those that seemingly give more than they have contain it—and are identified as “old pros.” At Davidson, we catch glimpses in miniature and recognize it. In our case here, a type of general class enshrouds the whole campus.

Kappa Sigs Drop Sigma Chis by 10 To Take Greek Lead

By JOHN JOHNSON

The Kappa Sigs took over undisputed lead of the interfraternity basketball loop Tuesday night as they bumped the Sigma Chis into second place. Although the Kappa Sigs led by a safe margin through most of the game, the green-shirted boys had to fight off a final surge of the white-shirted Sigma Chis. Trailing by three points with only a few minutes remaining, the Sigma Chis missed two foul shots. The Kappa Sigs, capitalizing on this break, sank several fast shots, and won the game by a final margin of ten points. Three Kappa Sigs broke into the double figures: Brewer had 14 points, Clark had 14, and Feeney had 18. Anderson with 13 was high man for the losers. Also in Tuesday night’s court action, the Phi Delts outscored the SPEs, 42 to 26, in a friendly game of football. John Thorpe led the scoring for the Phi Delts.John Buxton is the only senior on this year’s varsity team. Buxton has had an outstanding record through the four years that he has been a varsity wrestler. For the past two years, he has been captain of the matmen and before that he was one of Davidson’s most outstanding wrestlers. In the coming tournament play, Coach Miller will have to rely on a new combination minus Hobby Cobb and Mike Martin, both of whom are out with injuries. Cobb suffered a broken finger and Martin an injured leg in recent workouts, so the Cats enter their final games greatly hampered, to say the very least. When the tournament opens next Thursday, it is almost certain that George Washington, team in the nation, will be the team Davidson will play in the opening round. The Colonials are firmly set in second place, while the Cats are in seventh. The chances are pretty good that the teams will finish in these positions. If so, Davidson will hit G.W.—probably on Thursday afternoon. Despite Cobb and Martin’s being on the sidelines, the Cats defeated Catawba College in an overtime game by the score of 72 to 70 last Monday in the final home game of the season. Ray Harding paced the scoring for both teams with 28 points, hitting 10 of 18 field goal attempts, or 56 percent. Ish Bennett played an outstanding floor game while bucketing 16 points, and Dave “Pappy” Fowle followed close behind with 11 points. Both Ish and Pappy had five field goals. The leader for Catawba was Jack Lyndon with 20 points, followed by Summy and Cline, each of whom dumped in 17 points. The game was close all the way, and Catawba held a two-point advantage at the half, 32 to 30. However, midway in the second half the Cats took the lead briefly, and then it was nip-’n-tuck the rest of the way. At the end of the regulation time, the score read 63 to 63, so the five-minute overtime period began. During the overtime, all Davidson scoring was done by Bennett and Harding, with four and five points respectively. Last Thursday, February 17, the Cats journeyed to Greenville, S. C., (Continued On Page Six)

THE DAVIDSON STUDENTS PICK ‘EM
Lyle Llewellyn won last week’s “Pick the winner” contest as he picked 13 winners in 15 attempts. Murray Page was runner-up, missing only four guesses.

In these two games, as well as the tenth-sided victory over the Wildcat five, a group of athletes, who are sacrificing for love of their sport, played outstandingly. Pete Ashcraft won the one and two-mile runs, Phil Koonce was second in the 60-yd dash, Jack Huffaker was second in the high jump, and Roswell Mallory was fourth in the shot put. Coaches display it when the value of the player’s health, as well as mental attitude, is placed above victory. The coach who sees a careless blunder lose a game and is still able to accept blame for the defeat without voicing his emotion has it. Davidson College is particularly fortunate in the men who direct its athletic program. Moulding men is their object, and they have class because of it.

The unofficial standings through Wednesday are:
Phi Gams 4 3
Phi Delts 4 3
SAE 4 3
Beta 3 3
SPE 3 4
Campus Club 0 7

YOU HAVE TO GO NO FARTHER THAN OUR STORE!
See the “DAN RIVER WRINKLE-SHED” COTTON CORDS BY HASPEL AND FAMOUS STERNBERG NOW! Light Blue, Tan, Grey, Char Gray. Regulars, Longs, Extra Longs. $6.50
Wilson-Wright’s Inc.

Want to travel and study abroad? Take a university-sponsored tour via TWA this summer! Visit the countries of your choice... study from 2 to 6 weeks at a foreign university. You can do both on one trip when you arrange a university-sponsored tour via TWA. Itineraries include countries in Europe, the Middle East, Asia, and Africa. Special study tours available. Low all-inclusive prices with TWA’s economical Sky Tourist service. For information, write: John H. Furbay, Ph.D., Director, Air World Tours, Dept. CN, 380 Madison Ave., New York 17, N.Y. Be sure to mention countries you wish to visit.

When the stag-line wolves rush your delectable date... But you're the guy she steps out to have a cigarette with... that’s PURE PLEASURE! For more pure pleasure... SMOKE CAMELS! No other cigarette is so rich-tasting, yet so mild! No other brand has ever been able to match the pure pleasure in Camel's exclusive blend of costly tobaccos! That’s why Camels are America’s most popular cigarette! B. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., Winston-Salem, N.C.