The Davidsonian

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF ............ Dick Morehead
ASSOCIATE EDITORS. . Maurice Crouse, Tom Wartick
Managing Editors. . Jim Batten, Franklin Bloodworth, Jim Brice
Sports Editor . - Leon Howell
Copy Editor . John T. Harmon
Feature Editor —.—..Watt McCain
News Editors Lloyd Chapin, Bill Pomeroy, Glenn Robertson
Staff Photographer Hank Daniel
Assignments John Trask
File Clerk Bob Beall

Member of the Associated Collegiate Press and Intercollegiate Press
Friday, Nov. 18, 1965
Page Two

Davidson Politics

In this day of political planning, indecision, and tension it is imperative to a sound and continuing democracy that each
member of that democracy be informed and interested in affairs of the current scene. We hope that the Davidson student
is intelligently aware and thoughtfully provoked about the current political crisis, especially since over one-fourth of the student body will
be of voting age for the next presidential election. We further assume that such reflection is recorded in the opinion
poll of November 4th conducted by Editor Brice. The final tabulations revealed some notable contrasts and thinking points.

First, it is an interesting fact that 40 percent of the student body, 90 percent of whose membership is from
the deep South, are Republican by preference. This is a higher number than evident in popular elections in which the
GOP has polled on the average about 34 percent of the vote of the South over the last half century.
It was generally agreed (85 percent) that Ike would be President if he ran again, but 65 percent felt that
he would not run. Ike’s popularity is individual popularity according to the '52 election figures which gave him 48.9 percent
in the South, while GOP Congressmen received only 21.4 percent of the total Southern vote. If Eisenhower does not run,
will his popularity be transferred or transferable to his party nominee for '56? In a recent national Gallup Poll, “No
alternate GOP nominee now on the scene polled much more than the token vote normally accorded a Republican presidential candidate
below the Mason and Dixon line,” Stevenson outlasting both Warren and Nixon by sizeable majorities in individual preference.

The independent vote in the student body was 17 percent of the total. On another recent Gallup, party affiliation of
Independents was: Republican 35 percent, Democratic 25 percent, no difference and no opinion catching the rest. However, Davidson doesn’t always
follow the national norm; it more often deviates therefrom.

In the realm of preference and expectation questions, the Republican party preference sheet closely approximated the expectation scores on presidential
nominees. It was an entirely different story in the Democratic party. 75 percent of the students contacted believed that Stevenson
would receive the Democratic nomination; but only 42 percent of the Democrats listed him as their personal choice. The man
who vaulted on the preferential poll was Senator Russell of Georgia: 3 percent expected that he would be the nominee,
while 33 percent desired that he become the nominee. Evidently much political favoritism remains from the days of the last
electional period when Russell was in prominent contention and appeal.

Again on the Brice poll, it was quite evident that Republicans are more generally diffused on their preferential strength vote
than the Democrats. Stevenson and Russell compiled 75 percent of the preferred ballots while it took four Republican candidates to
accumulate this percentage. There may be many reasons for this locally, although this tends to be the national feeling also.
Harriman, Williams, and Lausche are fairly sectional candidates, not known or popular in the South. Kefauver while better known does
not carry the popular vote here that he does in some border and midwestern states.

It is the responsibility of students and future citizens to carefully consider these matters, for there is not only a
need for intelligent voters today, but a tremendous and crying challenge for honest, and capable candidates. Many questions are posed
by the present political scene. Think carefully, for your answer and your vote may well be tomorrow’s government.—R.H.M.

Changing Views.

POLITICAL HATS IN THE 1956 RING---A SYMPOSIUM

The recent political preference poll conducted by the Davidsonian, which was widely disseminated by the United Press, invites comment and
comparison with a similar poll which was conducted by the Davidsonian in the spring of 1952, six months before the
recent presidential election. There are certain fundamental differences between the polls which should be noted. Approximately one-half of the student
body or 417 students participated in the most recent poll while 824 men or virtually the entire student body took
part in the 1952 poll. In this respect the latter poll could be considered as more representative. On the other
hand the 1952 poll makes no provision for the votes of independents or those who prefer “others.”

To the question, ‘Which party do you prefer?” there is a marked difference in the answers received. In 1952, 471
students preferred the Republican Party while only 353 preferred the Democratic Party, whereas at the present time 177 students prefer
the Democrats while only 168 prefer the Republicans. The most obvious answer to this great difference is that many students
in 1952 didn't prefer the Republican Party; they preferred Eisenhower. Another possible answer is that there has been a fundamental
ideological shift in the student body from Republican to Democratic leanings in four years, and a third possibility is that
the results would not have been the same if the entire student body had been polled.

In 1952 the Republicans most prominently mentioned were Eisenhower, McArthur, Stassen, Taft, and Warren. Of these, three have been incapacitated
by illness, death, or old age. The two left, however, are prominently mentioned in the present poll. Those appearing on
the present list that did not appear in 1952 are Nixon, Knowland, Dewey, and Milton Eisenhower. The most noticeable change
in the Republican ranks is the emergence of Nixon and Knowland as possible Republican standard bearers. Both Stassen and Warren
have more than doubled their party popularity in four years. It would seem that with the removal of the two
giants, Eisenhower and Taft, the Republicans have widely distributed their favor with no candidate standing far ahead.

The most striking change shown by the comparison is in the relative popularity of Stevenson and Russell. In the 1952
poll 155 Democrats (44 percent) preferred Kefauver, and 150 (42 percent) selected Russell, while Stevenson ran a very poor third
with only 42 students (12 percent) picking him as their candidate. The current figures show an amazing change. Now 73
students (42 percent) favor Stevenson; 58 students (33 percent) pick Russell; and Kefauver runs a poor third with 20 students
(11.5 percent) selecting him. This shows two things, a continued though lessening support of Russell in a predominately Southern student
body and a complete reversal of the positions of Stevenson and Kefauver. Only Senator Kerr in addition to these three
was mentioned in 1952. A large number of additions, however, are found in the present list. These are Harriman, Symington,
Lausche, and Mennen Williams.

Sixty-five percent of the students are undoubtedly right in believing that President Eisenhower will not run again. Even the Republican-dominated
Charlotte Observer has stated editorially that Joe Martin and other Republican leaders who would run Eisenhower despite his heart attack
are not only engaging in wishful thinking but are in reality doing their country a disservice by putting their party
above the national welfare. Their motive of course would be to dictate the future President of the United States by
party controlled selection of a vice-presidential candidate. Unfortunately, eighty-four and five-tenths percent of the students are probably right in asserting
that Ike will win if he seeks re-election. —T.W.W.

BUSINESS MANAGER _Larry Parrott
Advertising Manager. Bob Carmichael
Subscription _.---- Warner Hall
Circulation_. Bob Majors, Stan Miller
Business Staff___ Tony Guiles, Bill Bondurant

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 Madison Ave. New York, N.Y.
Chicago + Boston + Los Angeles + San Francisco

Subscription Rate: $2.00 Per Year
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1879.
Offices in David Ovens College Union, Davidson College

STEVENSON: Humble Optimism
BY JIM MARSHALL

Adlai Stevenson is getting a new deal for the 1956 Democratic presidential nomination, and he is drawing the high cards.
The reshuffling has given the Republican party those low cards which he drew and played with an aristocratic poker face
in 1952. Now the party in power must stand on its record, draw from the political grab-bag an ungroomed candidate,
and be subjected to the “time for a change" motif. This time the Democrats have the symbol—a symbol of rationalism,
literacy, humble optimism, and integrity above success. Adlai’s support neither begins nor ends with the intelligentsia which is identified with
him as well as with his wit which is the main bone of contention of those who resent anything above
a pat answer or generalization.

Stevenson comes from a rich political tradition. One Grandfather was a founder of the Republican Party and the other was
Vice-President during Grover Cleveland's second administration. Although Adlai is somewhat of a political hybrid, the Democratic genes turned out to
be dominant perhaps as a result of that fine fertilizer: Choate-Princeton-Harvard-Northwestern. After a brief law practice, he began his government
service with the AAA over 20 years ago. Recalled to Washington from the Daily News-Midwestern Liberalism battle against Colonel McCormick’s
Tribune-Midwestern Isolationism, he entered high-level service in the Navy and then the State Department. After the war his public service
was continued as a Senior Advisor to the UN General Assembly. Then, in 1948 he was elected “reform” governor of
Illinois.

For the last three years Stevenson has been assimilating his wide experiences through writing, lecturing, and study. Mr. Stevenson has
traveled throughout the country and has come to know at first hand the problems and pressures in our land. Back
home it has been his persistent effort to insert reason into political debate that has brought respect from all sides.
In his ascent as America’s most eloquent spokesman for progressive government he has not twisted his tongue. Many of us
remember last election season when he stood before the American Legion and AFL conventions and challenged many of these powerful
organizations’ best-established purposes. The sensitive were stirred while the masses were a bit baffled by this urbane man from the
plains of Illinois. Nevertheless, the politicians from Humphrey to Russell, and the polls from Gallup to the Davidsonian indicate that
the egghead-statesman will get the Democratic nomination. It seems that the people will have another opportunity to express their faith
in the most articulate conscience of our time—Adlai Stevenson.

HARRIMAN: He Knows the Ropes
BY ED STEVENS

As election time draws near one of the main topics of discussion seems, quite naturally, to be “Who do you
think will run?” We hear the Republicans mention such names as Nixon, Warren, or Stassen, although mostly as a second
choice, in the event that Eisenhower decides not to run again. On the other side, the Democrats speak of Stevenson,
Russell, or. . . Harriman. It is this last prospective candidate about whom I probably know the most, little as
that may be, for he is, at present, the governor of my home state—New York.

At about this time last year, New York State had just elected William Averell Harriman to head its Executive Department.
This was the result of a hotly contested election, in which there was much mudslinging and name-calling, both from the
Republicans, and from the Democrats. Among the charges brought against Mr. Harriman was one to the effect that he had
been involved in a highly complex example of graft and corruption on the New York City waterfront several years before.
I believe that it has really been too short a time to pass judgment on the merits on Mr. Harriman’s
role as New York’s Chief Executive, but one of his seemingly more unwise maneuvers was brought to light in the
February 16 issue of “The Christian Century,” in which he is spoken of as using ‘one of the oldest shabbiest
tricks in the politician’s bag.” Without going into detail, I will have to let it suffice to say that he,
in a Kefauver as a serious rival, is waiting to make his move should Stevenson falter. Stevenson, if he expects
to regain the nomination, will necessarily have to enter most of the primaries and will undoubtedly be opposed by Kefauver.
Harriman, of course, is under no such obligation to enter the primaries. Stevenson will have to win decisively in the
primaries in order to be nominated while a few Kefauver victories would probably give Harriman the chance to offer himself.
Kefauver’s nomination appears likely only in the event that he should win in the primaries.by large majorities and in the
event that the public should back him so wholeheartedly that the Democratic bosses would be impelled to nominate him. Too,
Kefauver has been mentioned as a possible running mate for either Stevenson or Harriman. The Senator’s presence would strengthen such
a ticket immeasurably though his feelings on the matter are not known. But at any rate, the common people have
a candidate, and it is entirely possible that, as in 1829, they may, to the dismay of the ruling elite,
swarm again into Washington to see their favorite inaugurated.

HARRIMAN

The statement concerning the legalization of bingo, and the action of numerous Protestant and Jewish religious leaders to try to
prevent this, was “deliberately trying to create a false issue and playing for support by rousing religious animosities.” It further
stated that “in the language of politics, this comes under the head of dirty pool.” Of course, it must be
said that not all Mr. Harriman has done has been in this vein, but that he has done many things
which seem to be for the good of the state as a whole, and it will be some time before
we can accurately evaluate all of his actions. Now we find this man being talked of as a possible candidate
for the Presidency of the United States. In considering him we must keep in mind that he is an able
politician, a strong leader, and one who “knows the ropes” in political circles. He has had much experience and training
for such a position. On the other hand, however, we find that he has a record that is somewhat tainted
in spots, that some of his recent actions have been of questionable merit, and that he, in all probability, would
not receive a great deal of support in some areas of our country, particularly the South.

KEFAUVER: An 1829 Repeat?
BY ERNEST TAYLOR

Estes Kefauver, coonskin cap and all, is off and running for the 1956 Democratic Presidential nomination. There are no doubts
as to his intentions. The other two top contenders, Adlai Stevenson of Illinois and Governor Harriman of New York, until
only recently have been playing coy and reluctant, but the Tennessee Senator is in no wise reluctant and it is
plain that he is again in the running. In 1952 Kefauver went to the Democratic Convention with a bag full
of votes after having captured fourteen of the sixteen states’ preferential primaries. His victories mattered little to the professionals and
big bosses who proceeded to maneuver the nomination of Adlai Stevenson, who had not actively sought the nomination. Kefauver’s position
is one of paradox. Though he is one of the few Southerners since the Civil War to gain more than
provincial support in a bid for the presidency, his own native South is the part of the country that least
wants him as the Democratic nominee. Moreover, his popularity in Tennessee, normally regarded as a typically Southern state, is all
the more unexplainable in light of his all-round liberal record in Congress. He is usually consistent with the ideals of
the Democratic Party on foreign policy, public power, and social legislation, and his record is perfect as far as organized
labor is concerned. All his political innocence notwithstanding, Estes Kefauver is not without guile. Now on the eve of the
presidential preferential primaries, the Senator’s subcommittee is beginning its public hearings on juvenile delinquency. His popularity in 1952 was perhaps
largely attributable to his status as a television celebrity.

NIXON: Young and Enterprising
BY JACK KERR

The Vice-President of the United States is forty-two years old, robust, intelligent, conscientious, ruthless, affable, articulate, competitive, telegenic, and breathtakingly
adaptable. He comes from a large state, leads an apparently blameless personal life, has an attractive family, has never been
called a security risk, and is blessed with many friends and admirers—some of whom, as we learned from the campaign
of 1952, have been willing to invest solid cash in his political career. He is a first-class influence right now.
In an administration headed by a soldier and staffed by merchants, he is the ranking politician—despite the fact that he
has been in politics less than a decade, and five years before he was Vice-President was the subject of an
article in a Washington paper headed “Greenest Congressman in Town.” Nixon, at present, takes many responsibilities in good spirits. He
sits with the Cabinet and the National Security Council, presiding over both in the President’s absences, which are frequent. He
is said to be the first Vice-President ever to chair a Cabinet meeting, and perhaps he is. He also attends
the President’s conferences with legislative leaders. Perhaps at this point you wonder why the preceding has been mentioned—it only seems
too obvious that the United States needs a man for President who has the experience of an administrator and the
foresight of an Asiatic-fortune teller. Nixon is a firm advocate of President Eisenhower’s policies and could better than anyone else
see that they were carried out, for he possesses the necessary stamina needed in rallying support on certain issues. It
may well be that if it were not for his loyalty and strength, the Bricker amendment or one of its
variants would be part of our fundamental law today. He rallied and organized the thin Republican opposition and surreptitiously encouraged
the Democrats. One of the unique things about him is that he has achieved his present eminence by concerning himself
exclusively with strategy, and ignoring the whole broad field of policy. It is astonishing that when one thinks of Nixon
in relation to the history of the past three years, there is no single item of substantive policy that one
can identify him with. Policy, it would seem, is something in which Nixon has only a mild, spasmodic interest. He
can take it or leave it alone. He does not fear it and avoid commitment, as a great many present-day
politicians do. On the contrary, there have been few public issues in his time that he has failed to take
a stand on. But there is no discernible pattern to his commitments. Why do I believe Nixon would make a
great President? As a person and as a personality, he embodies much that is held to be precious by me—as
well as by a large and growing number of Americans—especially in that segment of the middle class to which he
belongs and which is recognized by the Republican party as its best source of support.

WARREN: Social Progress
BY STUART COLLINS

Any speculation upon the GOP nominee for President must be based upon the assumption that Eisenhower will not run. I
am making this assumption in supporting the Chief Justice of the United States, Mr. Earl Warren. In my opinion, Mr.
Warren has assets that no other prospective candidate possesses. He has a record of public service that few men can
match. The son of immigrant parents, Mr. Warren triumphed over financial and social adversity to attain his present position. After
passing the California bar exam he practiced private law only a few years and then entered public life. He has
remained there to the present day. His experience encompasses all forms of government service. He has been district attorney, a
member of the California legislature, attorney general, and is the only man in history to be elected Governor of his
state three times. He served in this capacity for ten years: 1943-1953. In the campaign of 1942 he carried the
Lieutenant Governor, the Secretary of State and both houses of the legislature with him. In 1946 he won both the
Democratic and Republican nominations (under the California cross-filing system). In these primaries he won 90 percent of the GOP vote
and 55 percent of the Democratic vote. In 1950 he defeated Jimmy Roosevelt by more than a million votes. His
career reached a new high when in 1953 he became Chief Justice of the United States. During the period of
Warren’s occupancy of the Governor’s Mansion, California’s Democratic registration outnumbered their Republican neighbors by 3 to 2. The GOP is
a minority party in this country and to win a national election they must draw heavily on independent and Democratic
votes. It is my contention that other than Eisenhower there is no man in the party who can draw this
type of support outside of Earl Warren. While he was Governor of California the state’s population nearly doubled. No other
man in a comparable office has faced the problem this man has faced. No other governor in history has built
so many highways, schools and hospitals. He raised the gasoline tax to finance road construction, widened unemployment insurance coverage, reformed
the prison system, and three times tried unsuccessfully to establish a compulsory state health insurance program. At the present time
our nation faces many of these same problems which Mr. Warren has dealt with on the state level. He could
not carry any southern states after the recent decision but these states seem to be returning to the traditional fold
at any rate. Indeed, because of the recent decision these states will return to the Democratic party to maintain ascendancy
within the Party in Congress. The old Taft wing will be discontented with him completely but if the GOP wishes
to survive it must slowly cut out this element anyway. The picture is further complicated by the number of aspirants
from California. What the convention delegation from this state will do is probably largely up to Mr. Knight. Mr. Warren
is a “middle of the road” candidate and has only lost one election (the 1948 national election when he ran
with Dewey). His philosophy is well summed up in this statement: “I am convinced the American people will not tolerate
Socialist government, but are definitely committed to social progress.” For those readers who would like to pursue this matter further
and view the other side of the question I refer them to the periodical The Nation, October 10, 1953.

KNOWLAND: Formosa to California
BY TOM HALL

Known as the “Senator from Formosa,” it is needless to say that California Senator Knowland’s main interest lies in foreign
affairs—an area of our government which shall demand much time and extremely tactful handling during these next few years. But
more important than his knowledge of the Asiatic situation, we readily see that Senator Knowland's outstanding qualification is his having
been Senate Majority Leader during the 83rd Congress and now current Minority Leader. This one fact alone gives him years
of valuable insight into governmental organization and administration along with cognizance of the many responsibilities of the executive branch of
our government as well as the legislative. Knowland leaves no room for doubt in his views on Asia and Formosa.
His strong pro-Chiang Kai-Shek feelings earned the name, “Senator from Formosa,” and his forceful anti-Communist sentiments make his stand on
the Asiatic issues commendable indeed. Being appointed to an unexpired senatorial term in 1945, Knowland has proved himself in many
ways in addition to being Minority Leader. Of his more important achievements are Chairmanship of the Republican National Executive Committee
(1941-42), rising from Private to Major from 1942-45 in the Army, successive elections to the Senate (1946 and 1952), Armed
Services Committee (1951), Chairman of the Senate Republican Policy Committee (1953), and current membership in the Appropriations and Foreign Relations
Committee. A very enviable quality of Senator Knowland is his straight-to-the-point type of argument—somewhat similar to the late Bob Taft.
Knowland's few opponents are in a continual state of despair in that they are never able to “sling mud” at
him, as quite common in most political campaigns, for he refuses to employ deceitful or dishonest means to accomplish his
ends and his integrity and character are unblemished. Furthermore, we would have in the Senator from California an excellent campaigner.
His rugged, fair and honest talking makes him appeal to the public in much the same way as Wendell Wilkie
did. Then being from California, he would not only have a populous state behind him but his nomination would be
indicative of our current population shift away from the Atlantic Seaboard. Teamed with an Eastern mate, Knowland would provide an
excellent nominee.

With the national presidential election less than a year away, the attention of the nation is focusing closely on the
prospective candidates for both major parties; on their backgrounds and their platforms. This week, The Davidsonian presents its readers with
a cross-section of Collegiate opinion, dealing with six of the most outstanding figures in the impending political marathon. The editorialists
are not necessarily supporting their favorites here, but are attempting to offer an objective analysis of each man, and what
he stands for.
