REPORT FROM COACH MILLER DETROIT RESIGNS (Page 2) (Page 3) VOL. XLIV DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, DECEMBER 2, 1955 No. 10

This is the second in a series of two articles, written for the Davidsonian, analyzing a recently published report entitled “Faculty Salaries at Davidson College.”

By CLAGETT TAYLOR

In the first article taken from the report “Faculty Salaries and Faculty’s Economic Status Viewed at Davidson College,” the present economic position of the faculty and how that position has changed since 1939-40 were discussed. In this final article concerning the report, we shall look at family incomes in 1953, faculty finances, and the question of Davidson’s ability to grant salary increases.

In 1953 the average income for non-farm families was $6,393 or just slightly higher than the top faculty salary of $6,350 at Davidson in comparison. About 54 percent of these families received more than $5,000, which was about the average salary for the faculty as a whole. On the basis of an 80 percent response to a questionnaire filled in by the faculty, it is seen that the vast majority of the Davidson faculty receives supplementary income, many members engaging in outside employment—often to the detriment of their services to the college—who would not do so if their income were 50-100 percent higher. Of the faculty families with supplemental income, 45 percent of the wives found it necessary to work to make ends meet, though many of them have small children. Seventy-eight percent of the faculty find it imperative to seek summer work. Over half have recently found it necessary to borrow money to meet current expenses. Fifty percent of the faculty drive an automobile which was purchased used. From the large number of faculty bicycles seen on campus, it would seem to indicate that most faculty families have given up the idea of becoming a two-car family and have settled for one car and a bicycle instead.

The “average” faculty member spends annually a total of $7,309, which is from $1,500 to $2,000 more than the college is paying him. An important factor in the increased productivity of the economy has been the rising level of literacy and education. Though teachers have certainly contributed to this greater productivity, “They are seeing the fruits of their efforts going to others,” as has been pointed out in a similar Duke University report. The Davidson faculty member has become accustomed to the fact that the Davidson graduate will make more during his first year on the job than his former professor will even after many years of experience.

This year at Davidson each student’s college fees were raised $100, presumably to increase faculty salaries. Thus for 1955-56, Davidson's income from college fees increased by $80,000. It is common knowledge that this past spring all faculty salaries were increased—by $150. However, for sixty faculty members the total salary increase will be only a fraction of the amount needed to meet their expenses.

Hiltner to Speak On Sex Morality Theme

EXPLAINS NEW RULES: Biblical Basis for Sex Morality Clarified

Presented by ‘Y’ Group

The Red Cross Bloodmobile, like the one shown above, will be at Davidson on December 5 and 6 to conduct the fall blood drive.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE ROTC DEPARTMENT TO SPONSOR FALL RED CROSS BLOOD DRIVE

Red Cross Bloodmobiles, like the one above, travel thousands of miles yearly to obtain blood so vital in keeping Americans alive and healthy. The Red Cross needs your blood now, and the Bloodmobile will be at Davidson on December 5 and 6. The Davidson College ROTC Department has been designated to carry out the Fall Red Cross Blood Drive. This is the first of two blood drives, the second to come in the spring. Students in ROTC have already been handed forms for donations. Donors are reminded that they must have their parents’ permission before they will be able to give their blood, provided that they are under 21 years of age. The Fraternities will help coordinate the work of the drive. The Bloodmobile from Charlotte will be at the Gymnasium on both days for the students and the people of the community to donate their blood.

Council Takes Action on Parking Rules, Parties

By JOHN TRASK, JR.

At the November 28 meeting of the Student Council, the Council endorsed President Perrin Anderson's plan to present to the Administration a request to liberalize the present automobile parking rules. Anderson was instructed to present three points which the Council thought were reasonable and necessary: first, that cars be allowed to park in reserved areas on weekends; secondly, that an “after hours” parking time be permitted in reserved areas; and thirdly, that students be allowed to park their cars in these reserved areas at night.

The Council then heard the report on the meeting between the Faculty Social Committee and the senior members of the Council concerning the matter of unlimited off-campus fraternity parties. The faculty gave four reasons for the present rule of allowing only a limited number of off-campus functions. These four reasons were: (1) that many times, freshmen are unduly pressured into parties when they need the time for work; (2) that there is too much of an economic burden on many students; (3) that unlimited functions could lead to “party” rivalries among the various fraternities, each trying to out-do others; and (4) finally, that it oftentimes works an inconvenience on the faculty members who are called on to chaperone the party. A definite answer will be given at a later date.

Vernon Hunter, in his report on the Court of Control, said that the committee had come up with four points which it thought would help to clarify and to solve the problem. To make the student body aware of the problems, Hobby Cobb, the Judge of the Court, will write an article in the Davidsonian. Next, there will be a forum in the Davidsonian presenting both the pros and cons on the value of the Court. Thirdly, a student poll will be taken on the subject, and finally, at a meeting of the class officers they will voice their opinions. The members of the Council’s committee include Vernon Hunter, chairman; Hobby Cobb, and Carl Cooper.

Stuart Vaughn, chairman of the Council's committee on student body elections, will present an answer to a recent criticism of the method of student body elections. The answer will appear in the Davidsonian.

President Anderson said that he and various other interested persons were still working on the possibility of extending local telephone service to Davidson from Charlotte. He will, moreover, keep the students posted on any progress in this direction.

College Parking

In response to a request from the student body, the Administration has been studying the parking problem at Davidson College. This problem is one of the most difficult problems faced by colleges throughout the country because of the limited amount of space available near the dormitories and other college buildings. The problem is so serious, that many institutions, including such schools as Yale, Wisconsin, Notre Dame, Princeton, Miami of Ohio, and Carolina, do not allow any student cars on the campus. Others which do allow cars require that they be parked in specified areas at considerable distance from the dormitories. Many of those institutions require students to register their cars and to pay a fee for parking in those areas available to students. Because of the seriousness of the problem, Davidson has for a number of years utilized professional engineering assistance in the planning and installation of its parking areas and in the marking and control of these areas. The College has made a great effort to accommodate the needs of the students while maintaining the safety and order of the campus.

Bennett Cerf, TV Star, to Speak at Davidson Dec. 7

BY CHUCK WRIGHT

As a television personality Bennett Cerf is shy, different, and keen. The appearance belies his tremendous energy and activity. The star of the CBS network program, “What's My Line?” is a writer, columnist, publisher, and editor. One columnist has said of him that he’s “run by a storage battery that constantly recharges itself.” One of America’s most versatile personalities, this former newspaper reporter is expected to draw a near capacity audience when he speaks here on Wednesday evening, December 7, as the third presentation in this year’s Artist Series. From all advance indications, the warm and likable Mr. Cerf will prove the most popular attraction of the year.

Mr. Cerf has chosen for his subject, “Changing Styles In American Humor.” He is an authority on the subject, as his literary career covers quite a span of years. That reddish glow you may notice in the atmosphere is caused by all those irons Bennett Cerf has in the fire. The first one was injected back in 1918 when he became editor of The Jester at Columbia University, and since that date he has thrown them in with amazing rapidity. He received his B.A. in 1919, with a Phi Beta Kappa key, and his Litt. B in 1920 from the School of Journalism. It was a mere hop, skip, and jump from college to Wall Street to the publishing house of Boni and Liveright, from whom he and his life-long friend, Donald Klopfer, brought the Modern Library in 1925. In 1927 Random House was established. From 1933, when Eugene O'Neill brought his plays to Random House, to the present day, Mr. Cerf has guided the fortunes of his company to a place of national prominence in the publishing field. Among the authors represented in its list, in addition to O'Neill, are Sinclair Lewis, William Faulkner, Budd Schulberg, Elliott Paul, Ward Greene, and many others.

In his odd moments, Bennett Cerf writes a weekly column, “Trade Winds,” for The Saturday Review of Literature, and others for This Week magazine and King Features Syndicate. He also writes books; Try and Stop Me, Shake Well Before Using, and Good For a Laugh.A Laugh are among Mr. Cerf's many literary contributions. His latest addition to the world of letters is An Encyclopedia of Modern American Humor.

The Davidsonian for clarification of the campus parking situation, the Administration of the College has released the following statement: Parking is one of the most difficult problems. Despite many improvements in the Davidson parking facilities during the past five years, including new areas at Fraternity Court, the College Union area, Cardboard Village, Shearer Hall, and in the dormitory areas, parking remains a challenge. During the past summer, at least 80 new paved spaces were installed and others greatly improved. Including all of these, there are at least 280 spaces which can be used for student cars. The College prepared areas this summer for its employees as well as for its students. These areas are reserved for employee use. Many of these employees drive their cars to work, and a minimum amount of space is reserved for this purpose. These areas are on the East side of the area between Belk and the Shop and in the area west of the Laundry, where provision is also made for 15-minute parking (available also to students for that limited time) and for visitors to the dormitories or other buildings in the vicinity. Of the almost 200 spaces available in the area, only 26 are reserved for College trucks, employees’ and visitors’ cars, and 8 for the ROTC staff.

The question has been raised by The Davidsonian as to why these areas cannot be used at night. Since all of the laundry and maintenance employees come to work at 7:00 A.M., it is not practical to have student parking in areas reserved for these employees with the assumption that the cars would be moved before that time. Students may park in the ROTC area from 6:00 P.M. to 8:00 A.M. and in the other reserved areas from 1:00 P.M. Saturday to Midnight Sunday. In its editorial, The Davidsonian referred to the plight of the “homeless cars.” On weekends, there do not appear to be this many cars to park in the immediate dormitory area, but there are, of course, some late arrivals who cannot find spaces near the dormitories. There are, however, a number of other areas where vacant parking spaces are available. There are usually vacant spaces for 80 cars in the area behind Johnston Gymnasium, which is less than a block from Duke and East Dormitories and more than two blocks from the other dormitories. There are also spaces available.

(Continued On Page Four)

BY LLOYD CHAPIN

Fourteen outstanding Davidson seniors have been chosen to be in Who's Who Among Students in American Universities and Colleges for 1955-56. These are Perrin Anderson, Linny Baker, Blake Brinkerhoff, John Child, Hobby Cobb, Joe Conarroe, Joe Garrison, Dee Helm, John McLauchlin, Jason McManus, Dick Morehead, Clyde Robinson, and Harley Smith.

Perrin Anderson from Union, South Carolina, is president of the Davidson Student Body. He has been on the Student Council previously and served last year as vice-president. He holds a coveted Union Carbon and Carbide Scholarship and is a member of Sigma Chi social fraternity. In addition to this important office, this native of Montreat is a member of Omicron Delta Kappa and vice-president of Kappa Sigma social fraternity.

John Child is serving in the capacity of president of ODK, vice-president of the Business-Economics Club, and president of Kappa Sigma. Joe Conarroe is president of the present Senior Class. He is also president of Beta Theta Pi and a member of ODK. His home is Bradenton, Florida. Joe Garrison, the editor of Scripts and Pranks, is also a member of the Publications Board and of Sigma Upsilon. He was vice-president of the Male Chorus last year and also wrote numerous arrangements for the popular “Lamplighters” quartet. Garrison is a member of Sigma Chi and a native of Greensboro, N.C.

DeWitt Helm, who is hard at work as editor of this year’s Quips and Cranks, is a member of Sigma Alpha Pi honorary fraternity and an active leader in his social fraternity, Sigma Alpha Epsilon. John McLauchlin calls Raeford, N.C., home. He holds a position on the YMCA cabinet and is vice-president of Scabbard and Blade. He is also active in student government. He was president of the Senior Class as well as a member of ODK.

Jason McManus, the president of ODK, holds numerous positions of great responsibility. He is president of Sigma Upsilon and also Phi Delta Theta and acts as a ‘member at large’ for the YMCA cabinet. McManus was inducted into Phi Beta Kappa last spring. His home is University City, Missouri. Dick Morehead from Huntington, West Virginia, qualifies himself for membership in Who’s Who on the basis of his responsibilities as editor of the Davidsonian. He is also president of Scabbard and Blade, the Y cabinet, the Interfraternity Council, and Kappa Alpha.

BY MAURICE CROUSE

Dr. Seward Hiltner, Professor of Pastoral Theology on the Federated Theological Faculty of the University of Chicago, will open a three-program series on sex morality, with an address at Vespers on December 4. His topic at that time will be “The Christian View of Sex.” The program, which is presented by the Commission on Campus Life of the YMCA, will continue on Monday evening in the College Union Ballroom at 7 o'clock, when Dr. Hiltner will speak on “Sex Practices in Courting.” Tuesday's chapel will be devoted to “An Analysis of the Kinsey Report,” a subject to which Dr. Hiltner has devoted an entire book. The final address will be given Tuesday night at 7 o'clock in the Ballroom at the third YMCA meeting of the year. The topic will be “Relevance of the Christian View on Sex.”

Dr. Hiltner, a native of Tyrone, Pennsylvania, attended Lafayette College, Easton, Pennsylvania, receiving the A.B. degree summa cum laude and being elected to membership in Phi Beta Kappa. He then attended the Divinity School of the University of Chicago, from which he later received the Ph.D. degree in Christian Theology. He was ordained to the ministry of the Presbyterian Church, U.S.A., in 1935, and he holds membership on committees of the Chicago Presbytery, the Presbyterian Church, the Church Federation of Greater Chicago, and the National Council of Churches. From 1945 to 1950, Dr. Hiltner was a lecturer at Yale University Divinity School and at Union Theological Seminary in New York. In 1950 he joined the Federated Theological Faculty of the University of Chicago. In addition to his position as Professor of Pastoral Theology, he is chairman of the Field of Religion and Personality. He has done substantial work in the field of counseling and is a member of several mental health organizations, including the National Association for Mental Health, Board of Directors of the Illinois Society for Mental Health, and the Advisory Committee of the Illinois Mental Health Authority. His books include Religion and Health, Pastoral Counseling, Self-Understanding, The Counselor in Counseling, and Sex Ethics and the Kinsey Reports. He was married in 1936 to Helen Margaret Johansen of Chicago. They have two children, James Seward and Anne Porter.

Patronize Our Advertisers

The Davidsonian takes this opportunity to thank our advertisers for their cooperation throughout this semester and especially in this advertiser's Christmas issue.

An old tradition is being revived on the Davidson campus this year in the form of a Sophomore-Freshman Field Day. The last activity of this sort was held in 1951 when the present seniors were freshmen. It was discontinued at that time, and there has not been sufficient interest in the past two years for the planning of such an event, although a few attempts have been made toward arousing interest. Due to various situations that have arisen during the present school year, the sophomores have felt it necessary and expedient to challenge the freshmen to a field day. The latter having accepted the challenge, the two classes have made arrangements to meet on Richardson Field and its environs on Wednesday, December 7, at 3:45 P.M. The scheduled events are a flicker-ball game, a tug of war, a shuttle relay, a wheelbarrow race, and there will be possibly one or two others. The entire student body is invited and urged to attend.

“Who’s Who” Selects Fourteen Davidson Seniors

McLauchlin Philanthropic Literary Society receives his leadership as its president. Joe Billy Pharr serves as Regimental Commander of the Davidson ROTC this year. President of Sigma Pi Sigma and vice-president of Scabbard and Blade, the pride of his hometown, Cherryville, N.C., is also the president of Pi Kappa Alpha and a member of ODK. Clyde Robinson, whose home is Raleigh, N.C., is a member of Phi Beta Kappa and has been very active in student government. He served as president of the Student Council during the past summer session at Davidson. Robinson also is a member of the Y cabinet and vice-president of Phi Delta Theta. Harley Smith sparked the Davidson football team this year as captain and star fullback. Hailing from DeFuniak Springs, Florida, and a transfer student from the University of Alabama as of 1952, Smith is an active member of Phi Delta Theta, the D Club, and the Business-Economics Club. He was recently inducted into ODK.