PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1955

Sponsors of the Davidson College Interfraternity Council for Homecoming dances this weekend are shown above. They are, left to right: Miss Marilyn Mayo of Tarboro for Phil Koonce, Alpha Tau Omega, president of the council; Miss Sarah Adams of Gastonia for Bo Abernathy of Chapel Hill, Kappa Sigma, secretary; Miss Anne Patton of Lookout Mountain, Tenn., for Don Stewart of Kirkwood, Mo., Phi Delta Theta, treasurer; Miss Peggy Brice of Chester, S. C. for Dick Morehead of Huntington, W. Va., Kappa Alpha; Miss Rachel Thomas of Kannapolis for David White of Tarboro, Campus Club; Miss Anne Patrick of Greenville, S. C., for Jack Williamson of Greenville, Pi Kappa Phi; Miss Martha McCabe of Jacksonville, Fla., for Ray Harding of Marion, Sigma Chi; Miss Mary Virginia Newsom of Salisbury for Tal Broughton of Spencer, Sigma Phi Epsilon; Miss Barbaranelle Paxton of Paducah, Ky., for Edwin G. Speir, Jr., Morganton, Sigma Alpha Epsilon; and Miss Marion Connor of Charleston, S. C., for Gordon Bondurant of Winston-Salem, Beta Theta Pi. The Homecoming dances will be held both Friday and Saturday nights in the gymnasium, with Art Mooney and his orchestra playing. Many other activities are scheduled for students and their dates during the weekend.

Davidson ROTC Cadet Corps Responsible For Displaying School Colors this Year

The Davidson ROTC Cadet Corps has assumed responsibility for the display of the college colors during the current school year. Cadet Jim Batten, Sergeant of the Color Guard, has marched with his guard at each of Davidson's home football games and will again lead the band in tomorrow's Homecoming ceremonies. Other members of the Color Guard include Cadets Charles Gribble, Robert Jones, and Anthony Guiles. The Color Guard will march in the Kannapolis Christmas Parade later in the year. A new flag, donated by Dr. Wilson Compton of the Council for Financial Aid to Education, will be unfurled prior to the Homecoming game tomorrow on Richardson Field. Cadets William J. Martin and David Brown will raise the new flag as “The Star Spangled Banner” is played. Third-year cadets are responsible for the raising and lowering of the flag on the front of the campus. This duty is performed daily by cadets who are detailed by Cadet Dan LaFar, regimental sergeant major. Two students are assigned this duty each week throughout the school year.

Blue Hose Down (Continued from Page Three)

Score: 9-0. The first kick-off of the Second Quarter was nicely returned to midfield by McRee. We advanced into Hose territory but died on downs. The teams exchanged the ball three times. Cook was forced to kick to Rowland who caught the ball on his own 38, faked a handoff and raced 35 yards to the Hose 27. But for the fast Hose defender, Felder Cook, who made the tackle, Rowland would have scored. Our drive to the goal was stifled by penalties, and poor offensive blocking for the passes. A screen pass to Campbell was well run and might have scored but Don was tripped up by a lone defender. Finally, Belton fumbled and the half ended with the Hose on the offensive. Second half play was dominated by the relentless onslaught of the hard-charging Presbyterians. Their second touchdown was set up on a pass interception by Richard Shrigley. The Hose went from the Cat 40 to the goal on passes to Brockenbrough and Butler, the latter scoring partly because of faulty pass defense by the Cats. (Comer had to cover two men.) Webb's extra point try was good. Score: 16-0. For Davidson, Belton and Newton looked excellent on offense. McRee also did well. On defense, Price definitely stood out. Owens also looked good, as did Llewellyn. For Presbyterian, it was Cook who shined on both defense and offense. The Shrigley brothers, Donald Daniels, and Lee Frierson all played good ball in the line for Presbyterian. The Blue Hose certainly earned their win.

For October 25 Duplicate Bridge Tournament Set

The first Duplicate Bridge Tournament sponsored by the Union Games committee for 1955-56 will be held in the ballroom on Tuesday, October 25, at 7:30 p.m. J. A. Pastel will direct and he will be accompanied by Dr. A. M. Dye, past president of the Charlotte Bridge Club and a member of the Regional Board of Directors of the American Central Bridge League. Dr. Dye is unique in that he plays although he is blind, by using cards marked with braille. This is a tournament for the average student and not for experts. No previous tournament or duplicate experience is necessary. Everyone who plays bridge at all is urged to come. Cost for the affair will be $.50 per couple, and refreshments will be served.

Past Presidents (Continued from Page One)

The Convocation will feature an address by Assistant Secretary of State Walter Robertson, an alumnus of the class of 1914, and will begin at 12 a.m. Homecoming events include a meeting of the alumni’s Wildcat Club at 10 a.m., dedication of W. H. Belk Hall at 10:30 a.m., the Alumni Luncheon at 1 p.m., football game at 2:30 p.m., and open house and dance following the game.

Scripts ‘n Pranks

The editorial staff of Scripts ‘n Pranks announces that the first issue of this year's college magazine will be distributed during the last week in October (this publication is truly the college magazine, not merely a student publication—just as our Union is supposedly a College Union—it is a vehicle of expression for the entire college community). This issue is entirely devoted to humor and lighter subjects. Its original design was to emphasize the harmless frolic which is Homecoming. However, the earlier Weekend this year prevented such an appropriate publication. In a sense, it is properly a Homecoming issue yet—the official return of humor to the Davidson campus. In addition, this issue includes an announcement of tremendous importance to those members of the freshman class who harbor latent creative ability.

World Affairs Films To Be Shown by ROTC

It will be of interest to all students interested in world affairs to know that films from the National War College, shown in the ROTC department to the Cadre by government order, are now available to organizations upon request from Colonel Sapp (thirty days notice is required). These films are question and answer discussions conducted by outstanding military and civilian leaders. The films include such subjects as “What We Face in Southern Asia” led by Supreme Court Justice William O. Douglas, “Red China and the United Nations” led by Henry Cabot Lodge, Jr., “Which Way for the Germans” headed by General Bedell Smith, “Soviet Objectives” conducted by Mr. George F. Kennan, and others. These films have been viewed by several of Dr. Ford’s political science classes, and by a few organizations. The films also may be seen, if sufficient interest arises, on the days they are normally seen in the ROTC department.

Davidson Survey (Continued From Page One)

It is still on the upgrade, for 93.7% of the television families encountered would encourage a person not owning a television but interested in buying to go ahead and buy. This trend is further shown by the fact that 30.4% of the families without television plan to buy a set within the next 12 months. There has been some question in recent years as to whether or not children are disturbed by programs that they see on television. The answer obtained in this study was negative, for 71.6% of children in the television families encountered are seldom disturbed by what they see or hear on television. Television advertising received a choice bit of material for trade-drumming purposes. The survey indicated that 46% of the televiewers in this area prefer television advertising to any other medium, and that if they were merchants they would rely mainly on this method. It was revealed that 64.8% of the families that take morning newspapers spend less than 30 minutes per day reading their paper, and that 71.4% of the evening newspaper readers spend less than 30 minutes. Of the group interviewed, 48.6% take no morning newspaper and 33.5% of the families take no evening newspapers. World, national, state, and local news is learned by television by 37.5% of the respondents. It was found that 30.7% of all families have two or more radios in their home, and that 45.4% of all families have at least one car.

621 Join Davidson ‘Y’; New Budget Announced

According to a tabulation made Wednesday afternoon, 621 students, faculty, and staff members have joined the Davidson College YMCA for the school year 1955-56. Of this total, 573 are student members, and 48 are faculty and staff members. Returns are still incomplete, since many men could not be contacted during the scheduled period for various reasons. Membership cards are now in the process of being tabulated according to indicated interests. This will aid Cabinet members in contacting those persons who are interested in working with their post.

Y.M.C.A. BUDGET, 1955-56

Income
Surplus from 1954-55
Direct Membership Contributions
Pledges from Members
Vesper Offerings
Total Income

Expenses
Operating ExpensesMembership Committee
Automobile Expense
Automobile Depreciation
Literature
National Student YMCA (Fair Share Plan)
Cabinet Retreats
Conferences
Miscellaneous
Telephone and Telegraph
World Student Christian Federation
Intercollegian
Benevolences
Contingencies
Total Operating Expense

Program Expenses
Wildcat Handbook
Publicity and Public Relations
Boys’ Work
Deputations
Community Work
Scouting
Social Life
Hall Prayer Meetings
Commission on Effective Citizenship
Commission on the Mission of the Church
Commission on Campus Life
Program Committee
Service Committee
Special Services
Total Program Expenses
Total Expense

$ 141.16
1,000.00
2,500.00
1,000.00
$4,641.16

$ 75.00
250.00
300.00
0.00
275.00
75.00
275.00
75.00
175.00
25.00
400.00
0.00
41.16
$3,016.16

$ 225.00
100.00
75.00
15.00
75.00
25.00
150.00
0.00
225.00
225.00
225.00
150.00
15.00
70.00
$1,625.00
$3,016.16
1,625.00
$4,641.16

Davidson College Young Republicans Adopt Strong Program for Campus Activities

At its recent meeting, the Davidson Chapter of the North Carolina Federation of Young Republicans adopted the following program for this school year:

1) Strengthen Local Club:
   a—Membership.
   b—Activities
   c—Programs

2) Organize Additional College Clubs:
   a—Salem
   b—Queens
   c—Phieffer
   d—Lenoir-Rhyne
   e—Catawba

3) More Participation In State Organization:
   a—Meetings, Conventions, etc.
   b—North Carolina YR News

4) Through the accomplishments of the above, to make the Davidson College Young Republican Club more widely known, respected, and worthwhile.

The Club invites all who are interested in local, state, or national politics to take a part in the organization. Particularly should the interested become acquainted with the YR Club’s activities this year in order to be well organized for an active part in next year’s November elections. Several nationally known collegiate and “Senior Party” speakers are being engaged but as of this printing, dates have not been set.

This is the first of a series of twenty-two weekly articles by the membership of the Honorary Fraternity Council which will attempt to explain the purposes, aims, and functions of the various organizations which comprise the Honorary Fraternity Council.

By PROF. F. D. BENTON

Sigma Pi Sigma holds a rather unique position among honorary fraternities at Davidson in that it had its beginnings on this campus and that the local chapter is the mother chapter of the national society. For a number of years, a need was sensed in the Physics Department of Davidson College for an organization which would serve as a means of recognition for superior scholarship in physics, that would bring those who were particularly interested in this science into closer association and would encourage and stimulate them in their scientific work, and which would thereby bring about a greater cooperation between instructor and student to the benefit of both.

The hope of this group was realized when at Davidson on December 11, 1921, five students and four faculty members banded together to form a group which they designated Sigma Pi Sigma. Their first meeting was held at the home of Dr. J. M. Douglas, head of the Physics Department. A constitution was drawn up and adopted and the design for a key chosen. This organization, standing high among similar groups at Davidson, continued successful operation as a local honor fraternity.

In 1925, a small group of student members, under the leadership of Trawick and Graves, conceived the idea that the benefits which Davidson was deriving from the organization might be shared by others, that by having many chapters operating as a unit, an efficient organization in its service to physics, and one of enhanced value to its members, might be developed. Hence a movement for nationalization was launched, originally in a rather modest manner. The local constitution was declared void, a new national constitution adopted, and national officers and an executive group elected. Forms for the Seal, Charter, and Insignia were suggested by the executive group, designed by C. M. Brown, and adopted on April 14, 1925.

Under the leadership of the first National Secretary, Professor H. E. Fulcher, six additional chapters were installed in the period from 1925 to 1928. The first convention was held at Davidson in April 1928, marking the first real consciousness of a national unity. A continuous expansion into institutions in all parts of the country has now made Sigma Pi Sigma truly national in scope with 88 active chapters at present. The total membership of the society now numbers more than 11,400, of whom 2,200 are active members of chapters, the remainder being classified as alumni members.

Since the chief aim of Sigma Pi Sigma is to further interest in science and mathematics, especially physics, the local chapter has one or more projects each school year. Last year it sponsored an exhibit of the inventions of Leonardo da Vinci, which attracted more than 188 visitors. In 1953-54, one of the members, Jim Hogan, constructed a piece of apparatus to demonstrate micro-waves, a project which received nationwide publicity. This year’s project has not yet been announced, but a program to increase the interest in science in local high schools is under consideration. At times during the year, programs of general interest are held and the student body is invited to attend. Sigma Pi Sigma exists not only for the physics major, but to promote a better understanding and appreciation of the physical sciences among the non-science students.

Prof. Lilly (Continued from Page One)

Florida, sees no serious threat, for he is pretty sure few students are silly enough to try the comic book bypass. Anyway, he says, “students who read classic comics as an easy access to an assignment are doomed to failure on an exam.” Such treatment of great books, in the opinion of Leslie A. Fielder, Montana State University, can serve no purpose “except that of discouraging the students from reading the original and contributing to the already terrible trend toward giving up literacy completely.”

In contrast with the easy approach, thirty professors of literature from many parts of the nation have given the editors of the Going-to-College Handbook lists of books which they think students entering college would do well to have read. A separate poll of students indicates books they advise high school students to read now. There are notable similarities (and differences), the editors say. In addition to a longer list of recommendations, the consensus of the professors points to the following for the first twelve: The Bible, three Shakespeare plays, Huckleberry Finn, David Copperfield, Gulliver’s Travels, The Odyssey, The Iliad, Ivanhoe, the King Arthur legend, Alice in Wonderland, the Scarlet Letter, Franklin's Autobiography.

The Going-to-College Handbook is produced by Outlook Publisher, 1 North 6th Street, Richmond 19, Virginia, at 50c per copy.

WELCOME ALUMNI

Tate-Brown is very proud to have served the Davidson man with his clothing wardrobe for over 58 years.

A HAPPY HOMECOMING... and pleasant memories to you and may our association be as pleasant in the future as in the past.

THE LABEL OF DISTINCTION