Speaking sx. | The Davidsonian | ALENDA CUR UBD GRTA LIBERTAS

Sports By JIM HOLSHOUSER

PAGE THREE FRIDAY, APRIL 1, 1955

Wildcat Baseballers Face W&L Here

Davidson Tracksters To Open Next Week

Generals Offer First Conference Competition

The Davidson varsity track team opens its 1955 spring season here next Saturday when the Wildcat thinclads play host to
the teams from Mercer and Richmond in a triangular meet. The meet will be run on Richardson Field and will
get under way at 1:30 p.m. The Davidson team will present a strong array of runners and field men, with
Pete Ashcraft being the biggest name in the group. Ashcraft won the Southern Conference Indoor Meet’s mile and two-mile events
last February, and the soph runner will be a big threat in the spring events as well. The outlook for
a good season seems certain, and with a host of veteran tracksters returning from last year's varsity and freshman clubs,
things should go well. Frank Mitchener and Phil Koonce will be back in the dashes, and the weight division will
be bolstered by the rise of two sophomores, Bill Gramley and Bill Lazenby.

SLUGGERS TURN OUT!!

Amazing as it may seem, those who viewed the slugfest on the local diamond against Lenoir Rhyne last Monday will
readily admit that Coach Chuck Clements has proved that Davidson can have a good baseball club, and this year’s team
is going to be hard to beat. The familiar Davidson weakness of all field-no hit is a thing of the
past, as Monday’s 23-9 win shows. Wildcat pitchers no longer have to hold the opposing club scoreless if they want
to be sure of a win, for the low scoring mark for the season has been the 5-run game at
Parris Island. The pitchers also have an improved defensive line-up behind them which is going to show up in some
of the games.

Davidson Netters Open Defense Of Southern Conference Crown

By BUNNY PERKINSON

Perhaps the most active of all the spring sports teams are Coach Dick McKee's netters, for they have played a
total of eight matches thus far, four in Florida during a Spring Holiday, and four here on the campus. Two
more matches are set for early next week, the former to be played in Greenville, S.C. on Monday, and the
latter to be played at Davidson on Wednesday. Duke, reportedly having one of its best teams in recent years, will
furnish the Cats with some of their toughest opposition this season, and nothing would make Coach McKee and the boys
happier than to polish off this highly-regarded foe.

Yesterday, in a series of hard-fought and exciting matches, the Cats defeated a strong team from Cornell University by the
count of six matches to three, as Lacy Keesler, Corky Clark, George Snead, and Dick Makepeace won singles matches. Snead
played what Coach McKee called the “outstanding match of the day,” as he came from behind several times to take
the third set, eleven games to nine, and win the match. The Cornell squad was scheduled to play a return
match today, and the Cats were looking for a sweep of this two-game series. Earlier in the week, Swarthmore and
Michigan State invaded the den of the Southern Conference Champions and emerged from the matches much wiser, though in neither
case the victor. On Wednesday, the Cats defeated Swarthmore, six matches to three, after having defeated the Michigan State squad
on Monday by the score of 8 to 1.

Wildcat Linksters On Road Trip to S.C.

Davidson's varsity golf team returns tonight from a two-day trip into South Carolina where the linksters met Furman and Wofford.
The Southern Conference champion Wildcats were to meet the Purple Hurricane of Furman yesterday in the second conference match of
the year. The Davidson club defeated The Citadel in the first family encounter. The team traveled to Florida over the
spring vacation and could gain only one victory in five attempts. The fine Florida teams, which have year-round competition, were
too well in shape for the Cats, but the final round of the trip saw the local crew take a
conference win from The Citadel in a close one, 14-13.

By LEON HOWELL

Fresh from victories against non-conference foes, Davidson encounters its first barrier in the conference baseball race this Friday and Saturday.
In games beginning at 3:15 and 2:30, respectively, they will meet the Washington and Lee nine, whom they defeated twice
last season. Coach Clements indicated that Johnny Smith would probably be the starting pitcher in Friday's affair, while either Dick
Belton or “Ish” Bennett will work on Saturday. The rest of the lineup will probably remain the same with the
exception of third base, where John Patterson and Bob Campbell are alternating. Although the opposition is an unknown quantity at
present, all indications point to a much better club than last year’s aggregation.

For the baseball fans on the campus, there is reason for real enthusiasm about this year’s club. Proof positive is
the two games played in the past week against Catawba and Lenoir Rhyne. The pitchers on these two clubs were
given a rude reception by the booming bats of the Davidson sluggers. In the Lenoir Rhyne game they clouted four
home runs, with Bill Rowland blasting one ball in the neighborhood of 420 feet. Before the Tuesday game, four players,
Rowland, West, Little, and Hope, were hitting at a clip above .400. After doing a fine job with limited material
in the past, Coach Clements wears a satisfied look these days that is hard to conceal. Even he admits that
prospects indicate a good season.

“MURDERER’S ROW”

Thus far in the season, Coach Clements has five hitters slapping the ball at better than .300, and he has
three .400 hitters. The trio of Buzz Hope, Bill Rowland, and Jim West is Davidson’s answer to the Yankees’ famed
“Murderer’s Row.” All three are hitting at a .440 plus average, and all three have hit more than their share
of the extra-base knocks. West has hit three home runs in five games, and Rowland has had two round-trippers. Hope
has had several doubles, three triples, and a home run. No one on the club is hitting at less than
.200 (excluding pitchers and pinch hitters), and it’s quite a task for opposing pitchers to get through a line-up of
this nature. The Parris Island Marines, one of the top service outfits which is loaded with professional and former collegiate
players, could only hold the slugging Cats to 19 runs in three games. Thus far, Davidson is averaging better than
10 runs per game, and a club like this won’t lose many.

PITCHING WEAKNESS

The pitching department has been the weak spot in the line-up, even though Johnny Smith has turned in several outstanding
performances. Ish Bennett was late in getting to practice, due to the final part of the basketball season, and the
Northfork righthander has been a little slow in regaining the form that has made him one of the Wildcat mainstays
in the past. With a little more work, he will probably come around, and this will be a welcomed aid.
Dave Page and Allen Moore, two freshman lefthanders, have looked good in early games, and with a little more experience,
these two southpaws should develop into top-flight collegiate hurlers. Dick Belton, Ashcraft being the biggest name in the group. Ashcraft
won the Southern Conference Indoor Meet’s mile and two-mile events last February, and the soph runner will be a big
threat in the spring events as well. The outlook for a good season seems certain, and with a host of
veteran tracksters returning from last year's varsity and freshman clubs, things should go well. Frank Mitchener and Phil Koonce will
be back in the dashes, and the weight division will be bolstered by the rise of two sophomores, Bill Gramley
and Bill Lazenby.

Delis Take Lead In IF Volleyball

By J. JOHNSON

In the interfraternity competition, rounds of volleyball have been completed. Although several games have not yet been recorded, the Phis
are practically on top of the league. Through Wednesday, the Phis have taken eight victories without losing a single encounter.
The third place berth is held by the Pikas who have six wins against two losses. The tenth of the
eleven rounds was played today. The final round will be played next week. Because twelve games are played in a
day, the matches are beingThe plate, much stronger pitching, adequate fielding, and most important, bench strength, add up to the
best team in several years. (Continued on Page Four)

Coline Smokers know why WINSTON changed America’s mind about filter cigarettes!

Action of next week finds the golfers with only one match. They will take on the traveling Williams team in
Charlotte next Thursday in their first home match. All home events are being held on the Myers Park Country Club
course. One man on the Swarthmore squad, Tim Coss, Lacy Keesler met one of the steadiest players he has faced
this season and was defeated after a hard-fought match. George Snead lost another tough match in singles play, and he
and Leighton Green later lost their doubles match, after Leighton had defeated his opponent in singles. The Michigan lads were
no equal to the Cats’ strength, as Keesler, Clark, Snead, Green, Thorpe, and Makepeace took their singles matches.

The team will play only three more matches before the league tournament on May 5, 6, and 7. The event
will be held on the Country Club course in Danville, Virginia.

Including today’s game, the Wildcats have eight conference contests, and the opposition from V.M.I. and V.P.I. will probably be the
roughest of the year. The conference champion will be a hard trophy to win, but if the pitching comes through,
the Davidson club will be right in the thick of the fight for the conference crown, and after a winless
season only two years ago, that is an accomplishment for which Coach Clements deserves a real hand.

The unofficial standings as posted are:
Teams Win Loss
Phi Delt 8 0
K.A. 5 1
A.T.O. 4 3
SAE 4 3
Beta 1 3
Sigma Chis 1 4
C.C. 0 5
Phi Gams 0 6

Last Saturday the Wildcats basketball team defeated the University team by the score of eight to one, and thus gained
a little revenge for the defeat the Colonials administered to the Cats in the Southern Conference tournament a few weeks
ago. Competition will be rough, but the Wildcats still will be one of the top contenders.

The Kappa Sigs are leading the annual Interfraternity race, and at this point, it appears that the “Snappers” are a
sure bet to win the cup at the end of the year. With only volleyball, softball, tennis, and varsity competition
remaining on the fraternity docket, the Kappa Sigs now have a fifty-two point lead over the second-place Phi Delts who
are the present holders of the cup. The SAEs stand in third place, 76 points behind the Phi Delts, while
the Sigma Chis are fourth and the Betas fifth. It seems that the Phi Delts are the only ones who
have a decent chance to overtake the leading Kappa Sigs, but it is doubtful that, this late in the year,
the Delts will be able to overcome that large a lead. The Kappa Sigs will gain a large block of
points in the final event—varsity competition, since they have their usual large number of men participating in varsity activities this
year. With this as an added booster, they will be hard to stop.

While most students were enjoying the comforts of home during the recent Spring Holidays, the tennis team was busily engaged
in touring Florida, playing some of the country’s most outstanding college tennis players. Coach McKee took his boys to the
University of Miami, to Rollins, to the University of Florida, and to the Jacksonville Naval Air Station. While they lost
three matches and won only one, each player gained some valuable experience that will manifest itself at a later date.
The fact that folks in Florida play tennis the year ‘round in “the land of sunshine” was certainly a great
advantage for the boys at Miami and the other teams played. While the team lost, eight to one, at Miami,
Dick Makepeace was gaining a deserved win over his opponent in singles. The victory at the Jacksonville Naval Air Station,
and losses at Rollins, 1-8, and University of Florida, 4-5, ended the activity of the tour. After winning four straight
matches since returning home, the Cats are setting their sights on making a clean sweep of the rest of their
engagements.

Page Elected Captain Of Greek Cage Stars
Murray Page, hustling forward for the ATO basketball team, has been chosen as captain of the mythical All-Fraternity basketball squad,
winning the honor by virtue of being the biggest vote-getter in a poll finished last week among players in the
league. The poll chose Floyd Feeney, Tom Shaw, Corky Clark, and Perrin Anderson as the other members of the “Big
Five” in Greek cage play. Feeney and Clark were representatives of the champion Kappa Sig Club, and Shaw and Anderson
were selected from the runner-up Sigma Chis. Selected to the second squad were: Doug Andrews of the Phi Delts, Linnie
Baker of the ATOs, John Handley of the Pikas, Tom Brewer of the Kappa Sigs, Chuck Cowles of the Kappa
Sigs, and Tom Lambe of the Betas.

FIRST TEAM
Murray Page ATO
Tom Shaw Sigma Chi
Perrin Anderson Sigma Chi
Floyd Feeney Kappa Sig
Corky Clark Kappa Sig

SECOND TEAM
Doug Andrews Phi Delt
John Handley Pika
Tom Brewer Kappa Sig
Linnie Baker ATO
Chuck Cowles Kappa Sig
Tom Lambe Beta

Greek Tennis Action To Be Held in Tourney
A. Heath Whittle, director of the Davidson intramural sports program, announced this week that the interfraternity tennis competition will definitely
be in the form of a tournament this year and that rules and dates for the tourney will be set
in the near future. The champion of the league,

WINSTON TASTES GOOD LIKE A CIGARETTE SHOULD!
WINSTON brings flavor back to filter smoking! It didn’t take long for word to get around campus! Winston’s got real
flavor—the full, rich, tobacco flavor you want. No wonder so many college men and women are getting together on Winston!
Along with finer flavor, Winston also brings you a finer filter. The exclusive Winston filter works so effectively, yet lets
the flavor come right through to you. Easy-drawing—that’s Winston! Smoke WINSTON the easy-drawing filter cigarette! R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO.,
WINSTON-SALEM, N.C.
