With the spring variety of the sport working the boys just as hard as in the fall, Coach Bill Dole has welcomed his gridders back after a two-month lay-off, and the Cat mentor has already got the boys hitting hard in scrimmages. With members of last season’s varsity and junior varsity squads now working as one unit, Dole has a large turnout for the spring work. The spring practice sessions will come to an end on March 5. At that time, Davidson students and fans will have a treat in store for them on Richardson Field. The Varsity will meet an all-star team of alumni from Davidson’s 1946-49 teams. The alumni team will be coached by Bill Story, Davidson coach in the years just following World War II. Story quit the coaching profession to accept a position in the Norfolk, Virginia schools. Many of Story’s proteges will return to the campus and will once again wear the pads on Richardson Field. Some of the names will be familiar to students—like Auburn Lambeth, all-time great with the best passing record ever made by a Davidson player; Buddy Cheek, top-flight end who was also a third-team All-American in basketball, to name only a couple. The “Old Timers,” as the alumni team has chosen to be called, will probably run primarily from the single wing, since that is the formation Story used and was the one which all the players learned while in school. The Davidson varsity will probably use many of the basic plays which the Cats used last season, with a few new tricks thrown in. It will be a contest of experience versus youth. The alumni team will have less than a week to practice, and most of them will not be in the shape that college players are, but the grads will have the edge in experience and know-how. It will be interesting to see the outcome.

CAN FLOYD BE STOPPED?

Two years ago, Furman’s Paladins invaded the Davidson campus, bringing the nation’s top one-two punch. Frank Selvy and Neil Gordon were pacing the Furman attack, and Davidson's chances of winning looked pretty slim. Yet, when the game was over, the scoreboard showed the Cats ahead by a slim, three-point margin. The Davidson team, though letting Selvy put in 85 big points, had held Gordon to only nine. Coach Danny Miller had coached the big center at Wingate in his pre-Furman days, and when the Paladins took the court, Miller’s boys threw up a zone defense which stopped Gordon cold. This season, another of Miller’s former pupils leads the Furman crew into Johnston Gymnasium—Darrel Floyd, the nation’s leading scorer. If the Wildcats can stop him, the chances of taking another conference win will be pretty good. Or will the strategy be to stop the others at the expense of letting Floyd score a lot, but not enough to top the Davidson total? Only time will tell, but spectators will have an interesting evening in store for them when the two clubs meet next Thursday night.

FOOTBALL’S HERE AGAIN

Football practice at Davidson got underway this week, with the spring variety of the sport working the boys just as hard as in the fall. Coach Bill Dole has welcomed his gridders back after a two-month lay-off, and the Cat mentor has already got the boys hitting hard in scrimmages. With members of last season’s varsity and junior varsity squads now working as one unit, Dole has a large turnout for the spring work. The spring practice sessions will come to an end on March 5. At that time, Davidson students and fans will have a treat in store for them on Richardson Field. The Varsity will meet an all-star team of alumni from Davidson’s 1946-49 teams. The alumni team will be coached by Bill Story, Davidson coach in the years just following World War II. Story quit the coaching profession to accept a position in the Norfolk, Virginia schools. Many of Story’s proteges will return to the campus and will once again wear the pads on Richardson Field. Some of the names will be familiar to students—like Auburn Lambeth, all-time great with the best passing record ever made by a Davidson player; Buddy Cheek, top-flight end who was also a third-team All-American in basketball, to name only a couple. The “Old Timers,” as the alumni team has chosen to be called, will probably run primarily from the single wing, since that is the formation Story used and was the one which all the players learned while in school. The Davidson varsity will probably use many of the basic plays which the Cats used last season, with a few new tricks thrown in. It will be a contest of experience versus youth. The alumni team will have less than a week to practice, and most of them will not be in the shape that college players are, but the grads will have the edge in experience and know-how. It will be interesting to see the outcome.

Sigma ALERDA LURK UB)

Only Two Teams Remain Undefeated In Fraternity Basketball Action

After five nights of action, the standings in the interfraternity basketball competition are beginning to take shape. Both the Sigma Chis and the Kappa Sigs have perfect records. The former has four wins and no losses while the latter has three wins and no losses up to Thursday. Three teams—Phi Delts, Pikas, and Phi Gams—are tied for third place, each having two wins to one loss. Fourth place is shared by the SAEs and the SPEs with two wins and two losses. In gaining the league lead, the Sigma Chis have downed the SAEs, Pi Kapps, ATOs, and Phi Gams by margins ranging from 3 to 17 points. The second place Kappa Sigs, who look very impressive, have defeated the KAs, SPEs, and Phi Delts by margins from 5 to 14 points.

WILDCAT TANKERS SPLASH AGAINST WOFFORD MONDAY

Davidson’s aquatic team returns to action next Tuesday, Feb. 8, after the examination schedule break. Wofford College will furnish the opposition here at 3:30. Since Wofford is only in its second year of competition, they have not yet developed a strong team. However, a good sprinter and a good distance man will offer tough individual competition. The Wildcats, who have been strong all season, are working harder now than at any time in the past couple of years. According to Coach Hambright, the tankmen should hit their peak in some of the tougher meets in the future. Alex Shepherd has improved his time tremendously and stands as the most improved member. On January 17, Davidson scored an easy victory over South Carolina, 58-26. In the process, the Cats picked up six out of ten first places. The results, by event, were as follows:

300-yard medley relay—Davidson (Ormond, Edwards, and Query) 3:28.2.
220-yard freestyle—1. Carrell, D.C., 2. Shepherd, D.C., 3. Turner, S.C., 2:35.
60-yard freestyle—1. Rivers, D.C., 2. Spier, D.C., 3. Waite, S.C., 28.3.
160-yard individual medley—1. Beranski, S.C., 2. Carrell, D.C., 3. Aber, S.C., 1:50.4.

(Continued From Page Three)

THE DAVIDSON STUDENTS PICK ‘EM

Bill McNair is right on 11 of 15 predictions. Contrary to an earlier statement, the winner of last week’s Davidsonian “pick ’em” contest is Bill McNair. Bill guessed winning one more than Dick Adams and Tom Taylor. The Davidsonian is now awarding the winner of the contest five free passes to the local theatre. McNair will be the first winner to receive this prize, and the award will continue throughout the basketball season. Below are the students’ predictions for winners of games from February 4 through February 10.

Team Predictions:
- Dick: Carolina over Duke, North Carolina over William and Mary, Auburn over Georgia Tech, N.C. State over Virginia, George Washington over Maryland, William and Mary over N.C. State, Richmond over V.P.I., Duquesne over Villanova, Duke over West Virginia, Wake Forest over Clemson, Minnesota over Ohio State, Wake Forest over Duke, Maryland over Virginia, Alabama over Vanderbilt, William and Mary over VPI.
- Charlie: North Carolina, Maryland, Auburn, State, Geo. Wash., State, Richmond, Duquesne, Duke, Wake Forest, Minnesota, Duke, Maryland, Alabama, Will. & Mary.
- Blake: North Carolina, Maryland, Ga. Tech., State, Geo. Wash., State, Richmond, Duquesne, Duke, Wake Forest, Minnesota, Wake Forest, Maryland, Alabama, Will. & Mary.
- Ralph: North Carolina, Maryland, Ga. Tech., State, Geo. Wash., State, Richmond, Villanova, Duke, Clemson, Ohio State, Duke, Maryland, Alabama, V.P.I.

RENTALS FOR MIDWINTERS

See Wilson-Wright's Inc. “COLLEGIATE FASHIONS” Next to Bank Davidson, N.C.

NO STRIKE—LET’S HOPE

Andy: She got her teeth from the dentist, her transformation from the beauty parlor, her eyelashes from the drug store, and her figure from the U.S. Rubber Company.
Kingfish: Yeah. Between now and the wedding, a strike in one of them industries could kill the romance.—WBT’s “Amos 'n Andy.”

QUALITY MILK

Mooresville Creamery, Inc.SPEs, 34 to day of this week, the SPEs beat 40-34. The ATOs’ Paige, last year’s scoring leader, collected 18 points to pace his team to a 47-43 victory over the Betas, while the Phi Gams barely edged the Pi Kapps, 27-25. The second set was made up of two unusually high-scoring games; the Kappa Sigs were “hot” as they racked up 69 points to the KA’s 25. Brewer was high point-man with 22. The Phi Delts beat the Campus Club by an even 40 points, 59-19. Andrews scored 27 points, the season’s highest individual performance. On Tuesday, the Sigma Chis shot at the basket in the game against Charleston. Ray Harding prepares for a possible rebound. Davidson won, 82-71, avenging a loss suffered earlier in the season. —(Photo by Daniels).

College smokers Qe AWE QOt WINSTON for Winston! TASTES Pa FINER FILTER! FINER FLAVOR!

The Davidsonian

ORTA LIBERTAS

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Wildcat Grapplers Are Working Hard For Citadel Meet

By CHARLES McGIRT

The Davidson Wildcat Wrestlers are hard at work this week preparing for their February 12 tangle with The Citadel here in Johnston Gym. Coach Charlie Parker was quoted as saying, “This should be a close contest. Both of us beat Carolina and are about the same in strength.” Coach Parker has held long and hard practice all week with his team composed of two “last semester” boys and new men. In spite of the big turnover, things are looking good. Two freshmen are showing great progress. These boys are Henry Griffin of the 123-pound class and Bill Warlick who weighs 130 pounds. Ritzel Snider, a 137-pound sophomore, is another one of the new additions who exhibits a lot of skill and promise in the art of wrestling. All the boys are working hard on the basic fundamentals, cleaning up any little mistakes which might have gotten by before. Captain John Buxton, who holds a large number of wins, was helping some of the other boys and practicing for the meet himself. After the Citadel meet, there will be two other events before the Southern Conference Tournament. These opponents will be Washington and Lee, and V.P.I.

Winter Tracksters Off to V.M.I. Meet

By NED PAYNE

The Davidson indoor track squad will leave tomorrow morning for Lexington, Virginia, and the Virginia Relays. Coach Pete Whittle expects to take shot-putters Bill Lazenby, Bill Gramley, and David Regen; in the high jump Huffaker will enter; and in the 240-yd. shuttle hurdle relay, a four-man team will participate, composed of Frank Mitchener, Jim Weller, Roswell Mallery, Phil Diuguid, or Jim Hambright. The Virginia Relays is an open event held at the V.M.I. indoor track and will include such teams as Duke, North Carolina, V.M.I., and Navy.

(Continued On Page Four)

LIKE A CIGARETTE SHOULD!

No wonder Winston’s so popular with college smokers! It’s got real flavor—full, rich flavor you'll really enjoy. Winston tastes good—like a cigarette should! Along with finer flavor, Winston also brings you a finer filter. The exclusive JERRY SPEAKS: CAT BASEBALLERS TO START WORK ON FEBRUARY 14

PAGE THREE

Chis And Kappa Sigs Leading

Babbling Brooks

Spring is not too far away, at least when speaking in a sport vein... talking to Coach Clements Wednesday, he said that he expected a big baseball turnout. He will be banking on eight returning lettermen, which include one catcher, three pitchers, three infielders, and one outfielder... Practice starts February 14, and Coach Clements will be glad to see anyone, prior to that time, who is planning to go out.

W&L, VMI Furnish Weekend Opposition For Wildcat Cagers

By BUNNY PERKINSON

This weekend is indeed a busy one for the Wildcat cagers. Tonight Washington and Lee invades the ‘Cats’ den for the first meeting of the two teams this season, and the visitors are slightly favored partly as a result of greater height in every position. The Generals have an overall season’s record of five wins against ten losses and a conference record of 1-3. Tomorrow night the Cadets from V.M.I. make their first appearance of the year here, and the 'Cats are slightly favored in this one. V.M.I. has a conference record of no wins and five losses, while the overall record going into this week's activities was three games won and nine lost. The ‘Cats have a 3-1 conference record, and victories in these two contests would clinch a spot in the Southern Conference Tournament to be held March 3, 4, and 5. Monday night of this past week saw the 'Cats handed a defeat at Lexington by the Wake Forest Deacons. Lefty Davis with 33 points and Dickie Hemric with 32 led the Baptists’ scoring, as they piled up an impressive 101-51 victory. Again, a very noticeable lack of height greatly hampered the Wildcats, as Hemric controlled both boards most of the night. Hobby Cobb turned in an outstanding performance for Davidson, as he bucketed 19 points. A tight zone by Wake Forest kept the ‘Cats shooting mostly from the outside all night, and the ‘Cats 26% accuracy illustrates the effectiveness of the Deacons’ defense. Lefty Davis’ 35 points were a result of an

(Continued On Back Page)

the filter cigarette that really tastes like a cigarette! Winston filter works so effectively, yet doesn’t “thin” the taste or flatten the flavor. Winston lets you draw smoothly, easily—there’s no effort to puff! Try Winston, the filter cigarette that tastes good—like a cigarette should!

The big week is here as far as Davidson's basketball fortunes in the Southern Conference are concerned. Tonight, the Cats are pitted against W&L, and tomorrow night another Lexington squad, the V.M.I. Keydets, are in town. Next Thursday night, it’s Darrell Floyd and Co., from Furman. By playing heads-up ball, the Cats could boost their conference standing all the way to the top... or by losing, they could drop out of contention for Southern Conference honors. Three Big Games—all here this weekend or next week. Let’s get out and really give the Cats the backing that they are going to need!!

With the Inter-Fraternity Basketball season well underway, the Kappa Sigs are definitely the team to beat. With at least three fairly capable playing units, these boys are loaded. Their latest victory was over the Phi Gams in the closest call they have had to date, 43-40. If they continue to go at this pace, quite a few more teams will bite the dust before they are through.

Iron Men: Bill Gramley, at the present, is dividing his time between football and track, while Dave Regen is doing the same thing with wrestling and track. Bo Abernathy’s out for football and swimming, too. When baseball season rolls around, we shall see several more boys begin to divide their time.

Attention! Coach Clements has announced that Davidson baseball practice will begin on February 14, with equipment being issued on Monday (the 14th) from 2-5 p.m. All those who wish to try out for the team are asked to see Coach Clements next week.