The athletic office has released the total of the records compiled by Davidson teams this year, and Coach Whittle boasts
that it is the finest year-round showing in the history of Davidson athletics. In all games played, both in and
out of the Southern Conference, the Cat teams won sixty-seven contests while losing only thirty-nine. This means that approximately 65%
of all games played were won. In conference competition, the record was 60% of the games won, as twenty-eight contests
were won and seventeen lost. The only team to go through its regular season undefeated was the track squad, which
had an overall record of 7-0 and a conference record of 5-0. The complete record of all teams follows:

| ALL GAMES | CONFERENCE |
|----------------|----------------|
| Won | Lost | Won | Lost |
| Football | 6 | 3 | 2 | 1 |
| Cross Country | 4 | 2 | 3 | 1 |
| Basketball | 8 | 12 | 4 | 6 |
| Swimming | 7 | 2 | 2 | 1 |
| Wrestling | 2 | 8 | 0 | 4 |
| Baseball | 12 | 4 | 5 | 2 |
| Track | 7 | 0 | 5 | 0 |
| Golf | 8 | 3 | 3 | 2 |
| Tennis | 9 | 5 | 4 | 0 |
| TOTAL | 67 | 39 | 28 | 17 |

Especially successful this year were the spring sports teams, all of which compiled winning records. The baseball team had its
best season on record and still has a slight chance of ending on top of the conference, should West Virginia
and The Citadel drop a game this week. The tennis team has just won its second successive conference crown, and
the golf team last weekend took fourth place in the conference matches at Danville, Virginia. The track team, one of
two undefeated track teams in the history of the College, is one of the favorites in the meeting being held
at VMI this weekend. The men who make up these teams deserve a great deal of credit for their splendid
work.

Speaking of the personnel of these teams, there is one fact which must certainly be clear to anyone observing the
Davidson sports scene. This fact is that a large measure of the success of two of these teams is due
to boys who are here at Davidson on football scholarships. On the baseball team, there are eight boys holding football
scholarships: Don McRee, Dick Belton, Dyke Little, Don Comer, Bill Rowland, Jim West, Ollie Harris, and Bob Campbell. The value
of these boys to the squad can be understood when one notes that seven of the starters in the first
game against Furman last week were football scholarship men. The track team also benefits from the versatility of the football
players, for in six meets the combination of Billy Gramley, Harley Smith, Don Campbell, Arthur Lynn, and Dale Gramley accounted
for 156 points, an average of 26 points per meet. This is enough to mean the difference between victory and
defeat in several meets. These facts alone seem to me enough to justify the granting of football scholarships, for numerous
other sports benefit by the presence of football scholarship holders on campus.

TRACK TEAM AT CONFERENCE MEET

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

IF TROPHY HINGES ON TENNIS RESULTS

FRIDAY, MAY 13, 1955 PAGE THREE

Netters Are Conference Champions

Undefeated Tracksters In SC Meet At W&M

Cats Expect Toughest Opposition From V.M.I.

The high-flying thinclads departed yesterday morning for Williamsburg, Virginia, and the two-day Southern Conference Track Meet in progress today and
tomorrow at the College of William & Mary. The Cats enter the meet with a perfect record for the season
and are one of the favored teams, as they field Phil Koonce, who has yet to be pushed to his
limit this season, has honors in the 100-yd. and 220-yd. dashes from Fillman of William & Mary, who barely edged
out Phil in the 60-yd. dash in the indoor meet. Koonce is also counted on for an expert performance in
the broad jump. Harley Smith is the defending champion in the javelin and should repeat, while Bill Gramley is expected
to place high in the shot and perhaps to take the discus. Pete Ashcraft is definitely favored in the mile
and two-mile events, and, barring the unexpected, will return with two first place medals. Don Campbell is the number one
Cat entry in the hurdles, and with the competition so close he should be able to lower his best time
to date in the highs of 15.2. Frank Mitchener in the 440-yd dash will be aiming at the school record
when he takes to the cinders, and he is expected to lower considerably his time of 51 seconds.

Baseballers Meet V.M.I. Here Today

Under the able direction of coach Chuck Clements and the leadership of Capt. “Ish” Bonnett, Bill Rowland, and Johnny Smith,
the Davidson baseball team closed a successful 1955 season against VMI on the local diamond today. With Johnny Smith carrying
a 5-1 record into the contest, the local line-up found him on the mound, Donnie McRee behind the plate, Dyke
Little on first, Buzz Hope at second, Billy Morris at short-stop, Don Comer at third, Jim West in left, Bill
Rowland in center, and Ollie Harris in right field. A win in the final game would give the Davidson squad
a 13 won and 4 lost record. This would be the finest record in baseball since 1933, when the locals
also posted a 13-4 record. The team is one of the finest in many years to enter a strong contestant
in every event.Snyder Garrison will be the best Davidson has ever had, competing in the 880-yd run and has hopes
of getting below the two-minute mark. With strong entries in each event and excellent men behind the front line performers,
the Cats will certainly make a very commendable showing and may come away with first place honors.

NOTICE
In elections held recently by the wrestling team, Reitzel Snider was elected captain for the coming season. Snider performed in
the 137-lb class this past season but is expected to be in the 147-lb division next year.

Three Davidson players were wearing the local colors for the last time, as graduation will find Ish Bennett, Bill Rowland,
and Johnny Smith among the departing ranks. All three closed out fine seasons. Clements spoke highly of his three senior
captains, saying that they furnished leadership and drive for his young team. Depending on the final records of other Southern
Conference foes, Davidson has a strong chance of...

(Continued on Page Four)

Words sure go around campus: like a cigarette should!

* IT'S GOT REAL FLAVOR!
* AND DRAWS SO EASY!

College smokers are welcoming Winston like a long-lost friend! They found flavor in a filter cigarette — full, rich, tobacco
flavor — when Winston came along! Winston brings you a finer filter. The exclusive Winston filter works so effectively, yet
lets the flavor come right through to you.

Wildcat Of The Week
This week Pete Ashcraft of Amherst, Mass., is presented as Wildcat of the Week for his outstanding performance in breaking
the school record for the mile run last Saturday. His time was 4:20.9, the best in the Southern Conference this
year, and it should be good enough to take the championship this weekend. Pete, a member of Kappa Sigma fraternity
and an economics major, is planning to enter business after his graduation from Davidson. He has been running the mile
since his junior year in high school, and during his senior year Pete did not lose a race. At present,
he is the holder of the Southern Conference indoor mile and two-mile championships, which he won last winter, and is
favored to repeat in the outdoor meet tomorrow at William & Mary. The entire student body certainly wishes Pete the
best of luck in his quest for the first place laurels tomorrow.

SPEs Are Champions In Greek Softball
The sterling pitching of Bob Stevenson and dependable hitting by the entire squad was enough to carry the SPEs to
the crown in Interfraternity softball, as they closed out their season with an 11-7 conquest of the Phi Delts Monday.
The final win brought their season's record to ten wins against only one loss to place them two games above
the second place Sigma Chis. The Phi Delts in third place trailed the Sigma Chis by one game. The competition
for the Interfraternity Trophy has not been decided as yet, for the Kappa Sigs and Phi Delts are battling all
the way to the wire. The final results will depend on how the tennis competition ends, and it should be
completed this week. By virtue of the softball records, the Phis pulled even with their next door neighbors, after trailing
all year.

WINSTON tastes good like a cigarette should!

PETE ASHCRAFT

SUITS
Now 24.95 34.95 39.95
Were 39.00 49.30 59.95

PANTS
Now 19.95 29.95
Were 29.95 39.95

Sport Shirts
4.95 - 5.95

Walking Shorts
4.95 - 5.95

Swim Suits
1.00 off each suit

SOX GROUP
48c a pair

... All Sales Cash... ALTERATIONS EXTRA

Wilson-Wright’s Inc.
“Collegiate Fashions”

Clark Captures Singles From Teammate Keesler
By J. JOHNSON

Corky Clark won the Southern Conference singles tennis championship from teammate Lacy Keesler in straight sets on Davidson's courts May
7th. Playing near perfection tennis, Corky placed his shots well as he reversed the outcome of last year's tournament. After
playing behind Lacy for six years, two in high school and four in college, Corky capitalized on his last chance
to defeat Lacy in collegiate competition, upsetting the first-seeded Keesler, 6-2, 6-4, 6-3. Both players exhibited excellent shots, which were
frequently applauded by the gallery; but Corky’s amazing consistency made him the victor. He won the first set easily; and,
although he trailed 3-4 in the second and 1-3 in the third, he pulled ahead on both occasions. Using deep
shots, he kept his opponent in the back court and was in control of the action most of the time.
Keesler and Clark teamed together to win the doubles title, 6-1, 10-8, 7-5, from Ed Phillips and Tom Reel of
William and Mary. Still warmed up from the singles play, the calm Davidson team took the first set without difficulty.
They ran into stronger opposition in the second, largely due to Phillips’ hard serves and volleys at crucial moments. Early
in the third set, Corky and Lacy broke service only to lose their own service in the next game; however,
they broke through again and took the set in one extra game. Davidson also won the team championship for the
second successive year, with 25 points, to make a clean sweep of the three...

(Continued on Page Four)

BEGINS MONDAY, MAY 16
Stock Up For Summer
