DAVIDSON BEATS CITADEL, 62 (Page 3)

Over the grave of Rumple Dormitory (shown on the left) a new $250,000 dormitory will soon be built. Ground will
be broken for the building before Homecoming and completion is scheduled for September 1, 1956. An artist’s conception of the
four-story structure is shown on the right. Interior furnishing will be similar to the new Belk Dormitory.—(Photos by Daniel.)

Dorm Developments of Interest at Homecoming

Dormitory construction will hold special interest for Davidson College alumni during October 15 Homecoming festivities. The new W. H. Belk
Hall, completed this summer, will be dedicated, and old grads may view the beginnings of still another housing facility. Ground
will be broken this week, and completion is scheduled for September 1, 1956. The Barger Construction Company of Mooresville was
awarded the construction contract after competitive bidding. The four-story structure will cost about $250,000. Desks, closets, and dressers will be
built into the rooms of the structure, just as they are constructed in the Belk dormitory. The new facility will
house 96 students, two to a room. Two older dormitories were tagged for razing as a result of the construction
program. The newest dormitory is going up on the site of old Rumple dorm, torn down in August and September.
Georgia dormitory will be destroyed in June, at the end of the current academic year. The new dormitories are part
of a master plan for the Davidson campus, as visualized by H. Raymond Weeks, Inc., Architects and Engineers of Durham.
The $900,000 Belk dormitory, the College Church, the Johnston Gymnasium, and the David Ovens College Union have all been constructed
(Continued On Page Four).

Presbyterian Grants Available To Seniors

The Presbyterian Board of Christian Education has announced the opening of the competition for ten graduate scholarships of $750. These
scholarships will be awarded to college seniors who wish to prepare themselves for college teaching. Candidates must be members of
the Presbyterian Church. Interested seniors are required to file complete applications before December 15, 1955. Full information and application forms
may be obtained from Dr. Hunter B. Blakely, Secretary of the Division of Higher Education, Board of Christian Education, P.
O. Box 1176, Richmond, Virginia.

Davidson To Unfurl New Flag On Oct. 15

Davidson College will unfurl a new United States flag during Homecoming ceremonies October 15. It is a gift of Dr.
Wilson Compton of New York, Director of the Council for Financial Aid to Education and June commencement speaker at Davidson.
Formal ceremonies inaugurating the use of the flag will take place shortly before the kickoff of the Davidson-Washington and Lee
football game, a feature of the Homecoming celebration. The flag is in the custody of the Army ROTC detachment at
Davidson, commanded by Lt. Col. John D. Sapp, PMS&T. Two color guards will be used in the unfurling ceremony. Other
Homecoming festivities at Davidson include an address by Assistant Secretary of State Walter Robertson, dedication of the new W. H.
Belk Hall, a dramatic production featuring Helen Gahagan Douglas and Basil Rathbone, and two college dances. New alumni association officers
will be installed during the alumni convocation, at which Robertson will speak. They are President Howard B. Arbuckle, Jr., of
Charlotte, and vice-presidents Charles F. Myers of Greensboro and Karl Hudson of Raleigh.

Che Davidsonian

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1955

UNION TO EXHIBIT ORIGINAL COLONIAL MAPS OF SOUTHEASTERN UNITED STATES

An exhibit of original maps of the Southeastern United States during the Colonial period will be displayed in the ballroom
of the College Union beginning Monday. These maps were used by Dr. W. P. Cumming in a lecture at the
Mint Museum Sunday, September 25. The maps are both rare and beautiful. They include the Ortelius “Florida” of 1584, the
earliest printed map to show the interior of any part of the United States; Collet’s North Carolina (1770), the first
map naming the town of Charlottesburg; and the great 1775 Mouzon North and South Carolina, historically the most important map
in the collection because both George Washington and Cornwallis, with their generals, planned their Carolina campaigns on Mouzon maps and
it remained the basis of all maps of the Carolinas until well into the nineteenth century. Among other interesting items
in his collection are the Delisle (1718), mother map of all later maps of the Mississippi and the first upon
which the word “Texas” appears, and two rare hydrographic charts used by mariners to approach the Carolina coast. Dr. Cumming
is the author of the first comprehensive reference work on these early maps and their makers, which is in the
process of publication by the Princeton University Press. He has also recently edited the journal of John Lederer, the first
explorer of the North Carolina piedmont, which will be published this winter at the University of Virginia. His interest in
colonial cartography began in 1931, when he found in a London print shop a copy of the Speed Carolina (1675)
which showed a huge lake covering northern Georgia and western Carolina, and the Arenosa Desert across Central North Carolina. Searching
the reasons for the curious errors has led Dr. Cumming into twenty years of fascinating and constantly broadening cartographical study.

Smith Studio to Take Yearbook Photos

Smith Studio of Raleigh will be on the campus to take photos for the Quips and Cranks yearbook, and for
individual orders, on Monday, October 3rd through Thursday, October 13th. They will be taken in the College Union daily from
10:00 a.m. until 5:30 p.m., with the exception of Monday, the third, when the hours are 3:00 p.m. until 5:00
p.m. The schedule by classes is as follows: Senior Class and Faculty, October 3-5. Junior Class, October 5-7. Sophomore Class,
October 10-11. Freshman Class, October 12-13.

JOINS WITH PRINCETON, U. VA.: Davidson a Leader in Wilson Commemoration

Davidson College will play a major role in a national tribute to her most distinguished alumnus when the Woodrow Wilson
Centennial is observed in 1956. As the first alma mater of the late President, Davidson will join with Princeton University
and the University of Virginia in special activities this spring. Wilson attended Davidson for one year, in 1873, and visited
the campus while he was the nation’s 27th President. Dr. John R. Cunningham, Davidson president, said today that plans for
Davidson's role in the celebration are as yet incomplete, but will include “at least one major address from the college
campus.” Dr. Cunningham is a member of the National Citizens Council for the Wilson Centennial. The Woodrow Wilson Foundation of
New York is the coordinator of Centennial programs, as lectures, seminars, and exhibits are being developed. Bernard M. Baruch keynoted
plans for the celebration in May with an address entitled “Freedom for Man—A World Safe for Mankind.” Mr. Baruch emphasized
that the entire program is based on the impact of Wilson's ideas today, rather than a review of his role
in national and international affairs. Although at Davidson but a year, Wilson was active in campus affairs, and there are
records of his activities. He left in the spring because of illness, and attended no college the following year because
of poor health. When he did return to college he entered Princeton. When Wilson was President and his attendance at
Davidson was a popular topic for local discussion, legend had it that he had been anything but an exemplary student.
Some even said that he'd been asked to leave because of a combination of poor deportment and poorer grades. Actually,
he was a good student and had no black marks on deportment. He averaged 90 on such subjects as Ancient
Geography, Latin, Mathematics, and Greek, played in at least one varsity football game and was a member of the Eumanean
Literary Society. He was the son of a Presbyterian minister, the Rev. Joseph R. Wilson, who was with the Columbia
Theological Seminary in Columbia, S. C., when young Tom, as he was then known, entered Davidson. The elder Wilson later
became a pastor of the First Presbyterian Church at Wilmington and served as a member of the Davidson Board of
Trustees from 1874 to 1881. It is likely that Wilson engaged in his first public debate at Davidson, for he
was a member of the negative team that debated the subject “Resolved: that Republicanism is a better form of government
than a Limited Monarchy.” It was sponsored by the Eumanean society. A special section of the Davidson College library is
devoted to Wilson, his personal history, and his ideals.

FROM THE DEAN:

There has apparently been some misunderstanding about the function of the ushers at Vespers. The ushers are there to be
helpful to visitors and students alike. However, it is the responsibility of each individual student to be present on time
and to find a seat whether or not an usher is present. The following procedure will hereafter be used at
the vesper service: 1) Any student entering the sanctuary will be issued a white card up until 7:30, at which
time the doors will be closed. 2) The doors will be opened again for the seating of late-comers during the
first hymn. Students who enter the sanctuary at this time will be given blue cards. No cards will be issued
after the doors have been closed for the second time. In no case hereafter will cards be issued to students
who do not enter the sanctuary and remain for the service.

Samuel R. Spencer, Jr.
Dean of Students

NOTICE

The solicitors have made a valiant attempt to contact every member of the student body, but many have not been
available to join the “Y” or decline. If you have not been contacted, we regret it, and hope that if
you are interested in joining that you will come by the “Y” office and sign up. Thank you for your
attention and cooperation in the matter.

CHEST X-RAYS

The X-Ray machine will be back of the College Union next Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday (October 10-12). It will be the
responsibility of each student to go by and have his chest X-Ray made during the period the machine is here.
There will be sheets at the Union desk so that students may sign up for definite times and minimize waiting
in line.

‘Y’ Membership Meeting

BY MAURICE CROUSE

Dr. Harry Moffett of Gastonia spoke on “The Cost of Christian Discipleship” at the first YMCA membership meeting of the
year Tuesday night. This meeting, held in the Union Ballroom, was postponed from 7 o’clock to 8:15 so that mathematics
students would be able to attend. Using examples drawn from his varied experience as a university pastor, Dr. Moffett illustrated
his text from Romans: “Don’t let the world around you squeeze you in-"to its mold, but let God remold you
from within.” He noted that many pressures found in state universities are not found at Davidson College, but he warned
that formalized religious services might become quite as much a mold as the attitude of the anti-religious. He spoke of
two molds which are common or likely to be common on college campuses. The first is the mold of the
pious who “know all the answers” and tend to judge others by their own standards. A second mold is the
converse of this: the identification of all religion with the first group. College is the period in everyone’s life when
one is being molded, he said, and it is necessary to realize that no two persons fit the same mold
exactly. He noted also that many of the present-day molds or prejudices are being subjected to great tensions and may
change radically. Comparing the working of God within the individual with the rising of a loaf of bread, he made
the point that the bread, and hence the individual, was much the better for not being squeezed into the mold
but overflowing it because of an inward leaven. Dr. Moffett spoke to the YMCA membership after a devotional period had
been led by Harold McKeithan. Chairmen of the three commissions outlined their purposes and plans during the next year. These
were the Commission on Campus Life by Clyde Robinson, the Commission on Effective Citizenship by Jon Regen, and the Commission
on the Mission of the Church by Pat Miller. Members of the YMCA Cabinet were introduced by Will Terry, new
General Secretary. Mr. Terry stated that with the membership drive not completed, approximately 520 Davidson men had joined the YMCA
in its first year under a voluntary membership constitution.

Fred Myers Speaks To Eu Society Meeting

Eumanean Literary Society held its first meeting of the year last Monday night, October 3. Fred Myers, who has recently
returned from a year of travel and study in Europe, presented a number of full-color slides he took in France,
Italy, and Spain. Mr. Jim Marshall, newly elected president of the Society, opened the meeting with a statement to the
effect that he hoped Eumanean would remain the oldest organization on the campus and he also promised to deliver his
inaugural address at the next meeting. The meeting then turned to new business and Mr. Archie Joyner was appointed parliamentarian.
The Society then voted to immediately extend bids to several members of the student body who were deemed worthy of
the distinction. Mr. Tom Morgan, vice-president, announced that next week's program would consist of the reading of three sophomore papers,
one each by Messrs. John Bernhardt, Willard Wolfe, and Bob Sloan. Mr. Myers presented his color slides after which the
president adjourned the meeting.

Garrison and Kuist Will Address Phi

The Philanthropic Literary Society will hold its first meeting of this academic year on Monday night, October 10. This meeting,
which will be held in time-honored Phi Hall, will begin at 8:30 P.M. An inaugural address will be given by
Dick Morehead, newly elected president of the Philanthropic Literary Society, and Joe Garrison and Jim Kuist will show slides of
their European tours.

Dedication Is Set For P.K.A. Chapter Room

On the Saturday of Homecoming, the Pikas’ recently redecorated chapter room will be dedicated as the Dr. George A. Summey
Memorial Chapter Room. Dr. Summey, until his death at the age of 101 in 1954, was the oldest living alumnus
of Beta Chapter and of Pi Kappa Alpha. Dr. Summey was one of the first initiates of Beta Chapter and
graduated from Davidson at the age of 17. He entered theological seminary, receiving in the course of his studies the
degrees of A.B., A.M., D.D., and LL.D. He served as professor of Systematic Theology at Austin Theological Seminary, Moderator of
the General Assembly of the U.S. Presbyterian Church, and Pastor of the Third Presbyterian Church in New Orleans. The dedication
ceremony will take place at 10:00 a.m. on October 15. The speaker will be Dr. John McSween, an alumnus of
Beta Chapter of the class of 1908. Dr. McSween served for 41 years as a minister in the Southern Presbyterian
Church, holding pastorates in Avery County and Rowland, North Carolina, and in Dillon, Clemson College, Anderson, Chester, and Greenville, South
Carolina.

Dances, Parties Set for ’55 Homecoming

Next week at this time, the Davidson College Student Body and their dates will be swinging to the music of
that “Genial Irish Gentleman,” Art Mooney. Besides the two dances, one formal, the other informal, the weekend will also be
brightened by the many different fraternity parties, both on and off the campus. As for the Band Leader himself, few
American musicians have created such a fervor of excitement as Art Mooney. His waxing of “I’m Looking Over a Four
Leaf Clover” became a national institution, which won for him top position in every type of musical poll and catapulted
him into the most prominent position of the band world. Mooney is currently injecting some of the old Glen Miller
trademarks into his music: the clarinet leading the sax section; the trumpets muted and thin, lending to dreamy and easy
listening. Art Mooney makes no pretensions about his goal in the music business. His aim is simply to play what
the public wants. Sensing the national nostalgia for music in the Miller mood, Art began to re-stock his book with
arrangements by men like Jerry Gray and Norm Leyden, both of whom at one time did arranging for Miller. Mooney
is not trying to imitate the Miller style; rather, he is incorporating into his own music something that has long
become a national institution.

Dr. Scott Reveals Physical Ed. Dept.'s New Policy

Dr. Tom Scott, director of athletics and physical education, has announced a new policy for the physical education program at
Davidson. All juniors and seniors who have passed the physical fitness test given to freshmen are immediately excused from any
further required physical training. Those who have failed it must remain in the program for the remainder of the year.
All sophomores must take this test next week and those who pass will be excused at the end of this
year; all who fail must remain in the required program for a third year or until such time as they
are able to pass the test. Freshmen must remain in physical training for a minimum of two years, and if
they have passed the physical fitness test by this time they too will be excused. Dr. Scott proposed to the
faculty athletic committee that all juniors and seniors be excused from P.T., regardless, and this proposal was approved by the
committee. At a faculty meeting on Tuesday, October 4, the entire faculty also accepted this proposal, but with one amendment.
That amendment being that juniors and seniors would be excused only if they had passed the freshman physical fitness test.
There were two main reasons for the proposal, according to Dr. Scott. First of all, approximately half of the two
upper classes are already excused from P.T. because they are twenty-one, participants in some varsity sport, or are in advanced
R.O.T.C. Secondly, most other colleges and universities in this country also have a two-year required program of athletics. All juniors
and seniors are encouraged to continue to use the athletic facilities of the college, however, and are urged to attend
physical training classes, if they so desire, Dr. Scott pointed out.

Robertson to Address Alumni at Homecoming

An address by Assistant Secretary of State Walter Robertson headlines plans for the Davidson College Homecoming October 14-15. Robertson will
address the annual convocation of alumni in the college auditorium October 15. A stage production, dances, dormitory dedication, football game,
and traditional alumni luncheon are also included in the program. Basil Rathbone and Helen Gahagan Douglas will appear on the
auditorium stage the night of October 14. They will present selected readings in a dramatic production entitled “One Plus One.”
The new W. H. Belk Hall will be dedicated at 10:30 on the morning of the 15th, and the Alumni
Convocation will follow at 11 a.m. New officers of the alumni association will be installed, and past presidents of the
9,000-member organization introduced. Outgoing officers are George M. King of Bristol, Tenn., president; Yates Faison of Charlotte, and W. T.
Thompson of Richmond, Va., vice-presidents. Howard Arbuckle, Jr., of Charlotte is the new president. Charles F. Myers of Greensboro and
Karl Hudson of Raleigh are the new vice-presidents. Mr. Robertson, an alumnus of Davidson, with the class of 1914, will
be awarded the honorary degree of Doctor of Laws. He was elected an honorary degree recipient in 1954, but Department
of State duties prevented his receiving the award. For the past five years Mr. Robertson has served as a specialist
in Far Eastern affairs for the State Department. Previously he had gained distinction for his work under General George C.
Marshall in China, and for diplomatic conferences with Syngman Rhee before the Korean armistice was signed. Alumni will gather outside
the David Ovens College Union for the traditional luncheon following the convocation, and at 2:30 p.m. the Davidson football team
will meet Washington and Lee. Fraternities and faculty members will hold Open House after the game, and a dance will
be held in the college gymnasium that night. A Friday night dance will also be given.

Dr. Paul Tudor Jones Featured Speaker In YMCA Fall Services

Dr. Paul Tudor Jones will open the YMCA-sponsored Fall Services with Vespers on Sunday night, October 9, and will be
the speaker on several other occasions during the three-day services. The Davidson student body will hear Dr. Jones in Chapel
on both Monday and Tuesday mornings and he will also hold services in the College Church on both those nights,
to which both the student body and the local community are invited. On both Sunday and Tuesday nights, after his
talk, there will be a discussion group in the Student Lounge of the Church. Dr. Jones attended high school in
Corinth, Mississippi, and after graduating from there, attended college at Southwestern in Memphis, Tennessee, from which he received his Bachelor
of Arts degree. He continued his studies at the Louisville Theological Seminary obtaining his degree of Bachelor of Divinity from
this institution and then attended Union Theological Seminary in New York from which he gained his Master in Systematic Theology
degree. Southwestern awarded Dr. Jones his Doctor of Divinity degree. Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity claims Dr. Jones in its
membership and, being outstanding in campus life, he is also a member of Omicron Delta Kappa honorary fraternity. Dr. Jones
has held pastorates in (Continued On Page Four)
