FRIDAY, DECEMBER 9, 1955 THE DAVIDSONIAN

A Look At Basketball

A new star has risen in the not too clouded constellation at Davidson. While a small, but enthusiastic, contingent backed
the Cat hoopsters, Joe Milner, tall agile freshman from Atlanta, played his role like a veteran and pushed in 22
points Tuesday night. By the end of the half, his performance had marked him as the logical successor to Hobby
Cobb in future years. At the same time, other significant factors worked their way into a pattern that bred optimism
despite the somewhat ragged action. The most important at the moment is the great difference in height available this year
in contrast to previous seasons. Another point is that there is a great deal of strength in the two lower
classes. At one time in the Furman encounter, along with Hobby, there were two frosh and two sophomores, giving an
overall height average of close to 6’ 4”. In the games observed this far, I feel positive that when the
team congeals into a smooth unit that it will be the best in several seasons. Those on the team are
tired of being one of the few aggregations with a losing record.

By OYVIND NORSTROM

The Davidson cross country team finished its 1955 season on November 21 as hosts for the Southern Conference championship. The
excellent runners from VMI and William and Mary dominated the meet as expected, but the Wildcats got honorable third places
both in individual and team contests. A beautiful fall day, but a rather rugged course after heavy rain greeted the
more than 50 men from 6 colleges when they started on the demanding task of 4.1 miles. Pitkethly took the
lead, but lost some time and probably saved the race for VPI by a misunderstanding of the last part of
the course. That probably saved the race for VPI, who got along with Hobby Cobb in future years. At the
same time, other significant factors worked their way into a pattern that bred optimism despite the somewhat ragged action. The
most important at the moment is the great difference in height available this year in contrast to previous seasons. Another
point is that there is a great deal of strength in the two lower classes. At one time in the
Furman encounter, along with Hobby, there were two frosh and two sophomores, giving an overall height average of close to
6’ 4”. In the games observed this far, I feel positive that when the team congeals into a smooth unit
that it will be the best in several seasons. Those on the team are tired of being one of the
few aggregations with a losing record.

The Kappa Sigmas totaled up 36 points in the inter-fraternity wrestling matches held Tuesday and Wednesday nights, the twenty-ninth and
thirtieth of November, to win their second intramural sports contest this year. In fourth place was Beta Theta Pi with
29 points and fifth, Phi Gamma Delta with 25 points. One can tell by the scores the contest was very
close.

Results:
123-lb., decision—1st, Coleman, Kappa Sigma; 2nd, Alexander, Sigma Alpha Epsilon; 3rd, Smith, Phi Delta Theta.
130-lb., decision—1st, Burns, Phi Delta Theta; 2nd, Shipley, Sigma Chi; 3rd, Malinoski, Pi Kappa Alpha.
137-lb., decision—1st, Price, Phi Delta Theta; 2nd, King, Kappa Sigma; 3rd, Irvin, Beta Theta Pi.
147-lb., decision—1st, Armstrong, Beta Theta Pi; 2nd, Patterson, Sigma Chi; 3rd, Taylor, Phi Gamma Delta.
157-lb., decision—1st, Gaither, Kappa Sigma; 2nd, Martin, Beta Theta Pi; 3rd, Hood, Sigma Chi.
167-lb., decision—1st, Sasser, Kappa Sigma; 2nd, Couch, Sigma Chi; 3rd, Hamor, Pi Kappa Alpha.
177-lb., decision—1st,

Basketball Team Here Twice Next Week

Tuesday night, December 13, the Davidson student body has the opportunity to see the Cat basketeers in action for the
second time in Johnson gym. V.P.I., which furnishes an annually good contest, is the foe in the first of a
home and home series. In their final outing before the Carrousel Classic, the Wildcats will have a chance to improve
their record Saturday when they will take on the Tar Heels from UNC at 2:30, in Johnston Gymnasium. Although Davidson
won last year, it should be a close match due to the improvement of Carolina. The Cats should make a
better showing than they did in the recent meet because they are in much better shape according to Coach Parker.

Swimming

In what was probably one of the most thrilling sporting events of the year, Eastern Carolina nudged the “Cat fish”
in the last event here Saturday. With several of the athletes on the sick list and for the first meet,
their performance was outstanding. Although the squad misses three event star Al Ormond, who graduated last year, several new men
are coming along well. Curt Ormond seems to have his cousin's touch in the backstroke and will help. Rivers and
Spears will dominate the sprints, while John Edwards ought to be back to his record-breaking form soon. In the meets
that are forthcoming, none are runaways in either direction. If there is any one big weakness on the squad, it
is the lack of depth. But it can be overcome as the season progresses.

And Wrestling

Busiest outfit of all over the weekend was the wrestlers who met three of the South’s best here in Johnston
gym. Although they lost all three, there were some fine matches in each division. With these, the toughest matches behind
them, the grapplers expect to get on the winning track against UNC this weekend. Snider, Griffin, Wright, and Westervelt all
had fine moments during the meet and the prospects are bright for the rest of the matches.

An Indictment And Challenge

All fall those of us who have professed to be sports enthusiasts went to all manner of trouble to attend
the football contests. Even the freshmen were made to sit together and cheer as a body. However, as winter comes
on and the athletic activities move inside, it has become too easy for us to remain in our rooms and
stay away from the indoor sports en masse. Granted that due to the number and nature of the activities, the
attendance is naturally going to be smaller. But it shouldn’t be pathetic, as it has been recently. Here is an
opportunity for us to enjoy some outstanding sporting events and back the participants who deserve the same support given football.
What are we going to do with it?

The final football Pick 'Em closes Thursday, December 15, at 6 p.m. Wilson-Wright once again is donating the $2.50 gift
to the winner. Leading the pack for the second time were Everett Price and Jim Sell in the last two
contests.

STUDENTS PICK 'EM
Score Score
ROSE BOWL— Michigan State vs. UCLA
COTTON BOWL— Mississippi vs. TCU
SUGAR BOWL— Georgia Tech vs. Pittsburgh
GATOR BOWL— Vanderbilt vs. Auburn
ORANGE BOWL— Oklahoma vs. MarylandWestervelt, Sigma Chi; 2nd, Morris, Phi Delta Theta; 3rd, Rutherford, Beta Theta Pi.
191-lb., decision—Winner, Jones, Phi Gam; 2nd, Padgett, KA; 3rd, Wood, Phi Delta Theta.
Heavyweight—1st, Wilson, Phi Gam; 2nd, Walker, Beta Theta Pi; 3rd, Hamer, Kappa Sigma.

VMI came out on top in a four-way wrestling match with Auburn, Marshall, and host team Davidson. After the third
and final round Saturday night, the scoreboard read VMI (3-0), Auburn (2-1), and Davidson (0-3). Although the Cats failed to
win a single match, Henry Griffin made a great showing by defeating in the 130-pound class.

Basketball Mentor Danny Miller, who leaves January 1. Danny Miller, head basketball coach at Davidson for the past three years,
resigned his post December 1 and ended an outstanding basketball career. Danny was a star performer on the hardwoods for
four years at Appalachian College in Boone, N.C., where he graduated in 1942. He completed his schooling nine years later,
receiving his master's degree in education at the University of North Carolina. After his release from the Navy in 1945,
he accepted a position in the personnel department of a Winston-Salem hosiery mill and played semi-pro basketball there. In June
of 1946, Danny took over the reins of Wingate Junior College's team, where he gained his reputation as a standout
coach. His teams compiled an amazing record of 169 wins against 39 losses during the six years at his first
coaching job.

In Davidson's opening game this season, it was two of Coach Miller’s proteges, Hobby Cobb for the Cats and Darrell
Floyd for Furman, that were the high scorers. At Wingate, Danny introduced Floyd to college basketball and developed the abilities
of the nation's leading scorer of last year. Danny came to Davidson in 1951 and started a team-building program that
produced better teams and better records every year. Undoubtedly, with the help of the new material, this would have been
his best season. It was with a great deal of regret that the school learned of Coach Miller's acceptance of
a job as sales representative of National Container Corporation, for he is recognized not only as a good coach but
also as a person who has done much for the cause of basketball in this area. His most recent project
has been the promotion of the Carousel Tournament in Charlotte this month. As assistant director, he was in charge of
securing teams to play in the tournament. Before leaving, “Coach” wanted to say, “I appreciate all the kindness and courtesy
extended to me by the students, faculty, and administration in my career at Davidson. I wish to thank each one
for all the assistance they've given me.” Good luck to you in the future, Danny Miller.

The Cats take on Guilford here on December 15. In Charleston, S.C. this week, the team engages the College of
Charleston tonight and the Citadel tomorrow night. After three games under their belts, this “bigger and better” squad should be
ready to give an exhibition of its power. Like a powerful fleet automobile with carburetor trouble, the Wildcats in their
first three outings, while sputtering and stalling at times, have given definite indications of being a truly outstanding unit as
soon as the fuel mixture is adjusted.

In the first game of collegiate ball ever played in the awesome Charlotte Coliseum, December 1, Furman took advantage of
the first half lethargy to take such a commanding lead that the improved second-half Cat play was of no avail.
Led by Fred Fraley, the real star of Thursday's encounter, and All-American Darrel Floyd, who tossed in 33 points, the
Purple Paladin literally ran off with the game. Hobby Cobb led the DC charge with 18 points. Final: 86-66.

In Knoxville Saturday night, Danny’s boys ran into SEC power, Tennessee, and came out on the short end, 77-64. However,
according to all reports, the Cats, after another slow half, bore down in the second canto to narrow the UT
lead from its commanding 25 to 9 at one point. Cobb, hitting for 18 again, did a fine job of
cleaning the backboards in the battle with All-SEC star, Carl Widseth. Harding chipped in with 19 to bolster the cause.

On Tuesday night here at Davidson, the initial entry on the winning side was written in a wild and woolly
96-90 victory over Catawba. Led by Hobby Cobb’s 29 points and 27 rebounds, Joe Milner’s emergence as a college player
with 22 tallies, and the ever-steady Ray Harding and his 22, the Cats staved off a late-game rally to pull
the game out. Catawba was sparked by a deadly shot in its frosh star, Donnie Hunt, who got 26. Perhaps
the most interesting aspect for the locals, outside of the play of Milner, was the first appearance of Dave Hollinsworth
into action. In an exciting display, he combined tip-ins, push shots, rebounds, sleight-of-hand, and defense into a picture that predicted
bright things from him also. Not to be overlooked is the performance of yet another freshman, Semi Mintz, who leaves
little to be desired.

After being stunned by East Carolina in their first meet, the Wildcats bounced back Saturday afternoon against The Citadel at
Charleston. Since this is the Bulldogs’ first meet, nothing is known about them, except to expect a very close match.
In the meet with them last year, Davidson won in the final event, the 400-yard relay. “It is very difficult
for a team like ours to swim against a scholarship-implemented team; however, the ECC meet was a challenge to our
men, and we will go to East Carolina in January to win.”—Coach Hambright. Coach Hambright also noted that most teams
on the schedule are like the Cats, without swimming scholarships, and the competition is usually very keen. Close meets are
expected with Emory, South Carolina, Citadel, Wofford, and Washington and Lee. VMI, VPI, and Clemson should have an edge over
us.

Here are the results of the ECC meet:
300 yd. medley—ECC, 3:19.6.
220 freestyle—ECC, 2:32.6.
50 yd. dash—Davidson, :25.1.
150 individual medley—Davidson, 2:34.3.
100-yd. dash—Davidson, :56.8.
200-yd. backstroke—ECC, 2:33.7.
200-yd. breaststroke—ECC, 2:46.0.
440 freestyle—ECC, 5:58.1.
400-yd. freestyle medley—Davidson, 3:55.0.

Some of the outstanding Wildcats were Rivers, Carrell, and Speir.

Tickets for the big Carousel Classic to be held in Charlotte December 19-21 are now on sale in the Athletic
Ticket Office. Dr. Scott is happy to announce that the season tickets which they have available here are only $5.00
for all 12 games. Individual purchases for the finals alone will run $2.00. In all, there is close to a
50 percent saving. Only 75 of these books are available. Davidson has been given choice seats in Section H, directly
behind the box seats.

MAIN STREET NOTICE
FOR LAST MINUTE CLEANING AND PRESSING BEFORE THE HOLIDAYS, BRING YOUR CLOTHES TO FRANK L. JACKSON, JR. CLEANERS DAVIDSON, N.C.
