Speaking of Sports
By JIM HOLSHOUSER

SOME CAGE TALK

With the bowl games over, full interest of the sports world is now turned to basketball, and the big talk
in the South is the Wolfpack of North Carolina State, currently ranked as second in the nation, along with Kentucky's
Wildcats who continue to be selected as the nation’s best when it comes to the cage game. N. C. State
has been the topic of wide discussion since the Wolfpack has been placed on probation by the NCAA and is
ineligible for the NCAA tourney, the only one in which they are permitted to play according to the rules of
the Atlantic Coast Conference (naturally, they are still eligible for the AAC tournament). Since State has come up with what
many think is the finest crew Everett Case has ever assembled there, the decision is especially cruel to Wolfpack supporters.
There has been talk of a change in the rules that will permit the State club to accept a possible
bid to the National Invitation Tournament, the second of the top tourneys. Whether this happens or not will determine whether
the Carolinas have their top-flight representative in the postseason clashes. It’s too bad that it had to happen this season,
but then, if State had not used the tactics (spring tryouts of prospective players) which brought about the suspension, they
might not have the team that is tearing the opposition to shreds.

The Kentucky club got the shock of the season last week when Georgia Tech, one of the weakest members of
the Southeastern Conference, suddenly caught fire and handed the Wildcats their first home-court loss in 129 games. It was a
near-impossible win for the Jackets who are traditionally one of the league doormats, but the loss did not drop the
Wildcats from their No. 1 rating in national standings. The game which may accomplish that feat will be played in
Raleigh on January 22, when State meets LaSalle. The Explorers, with All-American Tom Gola at the controls, will probably provide
the stiffest opposition of the season for the Wolfpack, and if the State club can take the victory, they stand
a good chance of moving into the country’s top spot.

LOCAL SCENE LOOKS DARK

On the Davidson basketball scene, the outlook has become a bit gloomy. Wildcat supporters watched Tuesday as the club suffered
its seventh loss of the season, against only four wins. Nevertheless, this year’s club has made an improvement on last
year’s record, which stood at 3-10 going into exams. Coach Danny Miller’s crew has had to go without a “big
man,” and when Gaylord Walker hurt his ankle last week, it left the club with only one man, freshman George
Lyon, over the 6-2 mark. The lack of the tall guys has hurt in the early games when the Cats
got less than their share of the all-important rebounds. In spite of the overall record, the Cats are steadily moving
toward a position in the Southern Conference Tournament. Davidson has won two games while losing only one in conference action,
and all the signs seem to indicate that the Cats won't be one of the clubs that are left out
when tourney time rolls around. And with a few breaks, the Red and Black crew could easily finish high in
family standings.

PERKINSON WINS CONTEST

The Davidsonian pick-the-winners contest got off to a flying start in the last issue with the staff writers making the
first predictions. Bunny Perkinson was high man on the totem pole, picking eight winners in the twelve-game poll. Following him
were Bob Pulliam and Leon Howell with seven winners, and Jon Regen and John Johnson with six right picks. Perkinson’s
winning margin came as a result of his picking George Washington as an upset winner over Wake Forest. He was
the only one who picked the Colonials. This week’s predictions are shown below.

Ex-Cat Bobby Renn On All-Star Club

BOBBY RENN GOES BIG TIME IN SERVICE

FRIDAY, JANUARY 14, 1955

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI CREAT LIBERTAS

THE DAVIDSONIAN

DAVIDSON MEN ATTEND NCAA MEETING IN N.Y.

PAGE THREE

Davidson Cagers To Hit YP 1 tonight

Matmen In Even Break With Big Four Clubs

Davidson’s Varsity wrestlers played host to North Carolina State last Wednesday night, and the Wolfpack matmen proved to be too
tough for the Wildcats as they pounded out a 24-8 decision. The loss evened the Davidson record against Big Four
competition at one win and one loss. Previously, the Wildcats had beaten the North Carolina team in a match at
Greensboro. Although some excellent matches resulted from the meeting, Davidson was only able to win two individual matches. Captain Johnny
Buxton won an easy decision in his match, while Ritzell Snider provided the lone Wildcat pin of the night. An
unusually large crowd was on hand for the meet, and fine support for the team was shown by the students
present. This year’s team seems to be one of the best Davidson has had since the war, and future meets
will probably prove this point. When tourney time rolls around at Washington and Lee on the first weekend in March,
the Wildcat scrappers are sure to be right in the thick of the fight for the conference championship.

Babbling Brooks

A week ago, three representatives of the Davidson College Athletic Committee arrived back on the campus after attending the annual
NCAA meetings in New York City. Dr. F. W. Johnston was the voting delegate at the general meeting, Coach Whittle
was the alternate delegate and also attended the track coaches’ meeting, while Coach Dole attended the football coaches’ meeting. The
big question involved was the discussion concerning televised football. The recommendation, to be decided by a separate committee at a
later date, was to continue the practice of televising only one game a week, on a single network, as was
done in 1954. At the football meeting, one recommendation was made for a change in the substitution rule. It will
also be decided by a committee. If passed, the four-minute rule will be abolished, permitting a man to re-enter a
game after the quarter in which he started.

The hopes of the '55 edition of the Wildcat football team were given a tremendous boost recently when Coach Dole
learned that Bobby Renn, who recently was selected on the All-European Armed Service football team, will return to Davidson next
fall and once again don the togs for the Wildcats. Renn, who played football for Davidson in 1952, before he
was drafted, is considered as an excellent ball-handler and a better than average passer. Playing with the 198th Armour Division
this past year, he had a forty-five-yard punting average. Renn played quarterback for his Army team, being switched from his
halfback spot he played at Davidson. Renn will be a sophomore on re-entering Davidson next fall with three years of
eligibility left. If he can live up to the expectation, the Cats may be greatly helped by his return.The first
sprint shuttle relay team in its history at the Virginia Relays. This is a 240-yard event, with each man carrying
the baton 60 yards. As of the present, outstanding in the trials are Frank Mitchener, Phil Koonce, and Jimmy Weller,
a Charlotte freshman. Weller and Koonce have also been outstanding in the broad jump. It is evident that after Davidson's
81-63 lacing by Wofford, our basketball fortunes will remain jeopardized until Coach Miller can find that good big man. And
no one can say that coach hasn’t been trying to find that man. He has made several trips to distant
areas to interview those boys who he knows can be of aid on the boards. As far as the situation
goes, Davidson has about the best calibre of small men a coach could want, but the trouble is they're all
small as basketball goes. With the injury of Gaylord Walker, a vastly improved player over his freshman year, Davidson's rebounding
hopes are about shot. The boys have plenty of fight left and they'll need our support, so until the time
when good fortune comes Coach Miller’s way in the form of a tall man, let’s continue to support the Cats.
As one person said, “It would be quite a spectacle to have about 60 Korean veterans dispersed through the crowd
at a Davidson basketball game during the playing of the National Anthem.”

“Cats Seeking Revenge In Blacksburg Contest”

Tonight the Wildcats invade Blacksburg, Virginia, to meet the Cadets of V.P.I. in a Southern Conference battle, and the Cats
stand an excellent chance of bettering their present 2-1 conference record. Going into this contest, Hobby Cobb boasts an average
per game of slightly over 23 points, and he'll be out to up his average if at all possible. In
a pre-Christmas game here at Davidson, V.P.I. took the measure of the Cats, so the desire to avenge the defeat
should be an added incentive for Coach Miller's quintet. At present the Cats have an overall won and lost record
of 4-7, due largely to a disastrous road trip prior to the Christmas holidays. On that jaunt, the Cats dropped
a game to the College of Charleston and defeated The Citadel before traveling to Memphis and losing to Southwestern and
the University of the South. The day after returning from their trip the Cats played host to Duke. Though they
lost the game by the score of 105 to 81, the boys turned in a very creditable performance. Two days
later came the loss to V.P.I. During the holidays the team traveled to Asheboro and met the McCrary Eagles, one
of the top independent teams in this section of the country. Greatly aided by 22 points by Sammy Ranzino, the
former All-American at State, the Eagles came out of the contest the victors. Worse than the loss of this holiday
game was the loss of Gaylord Walker, outstanding center, who chipped an ankle bone in a practice session. Gaylord will
be out for the remainder of the season.

Greek Basketball Under Way With First Round Games

The interfraternity basketball season opened in Johnston Gymnasium Monday night with eight teams clashing in the opening round. The games
were played two at a time on the cross courts. In the initial battles, the SAE and Pika quintets were
victorious. The SAEs scattered their scoring among the team members as they ran up 44 points to down the ATOs.
Baker scored 14 of the losers’ 38 points while Bradford dropped in 10 for the winners. The Pikas’ Gaither was
Monday’s high-point man with 17 tallies, although the game in which he played was the lowest-scoring contest of the evening.
The Pikas beat the Betas by an even ten points, winning 38 to 28. In the second set of games,
the fast-breaking Kappa Sigs racked up 52 points to stop the SPEs. Feeney, with 12 points, led the Kappa Sigs,
but almost every playing member of that team scored one or more field goals. For the losers, Brown hit five
foul shots and the same number of field goals to amass 15 points. In what was undoubtedly the night's closest
game, the Sigma Chis edged the Phi Gams 45-43 in a hotly-contested, see-saw battle. Pitzer and Shaw shared high honors
for the Sigs, each scoring 10 points.

Davidson's varsity swimming team traveled to Greenville, North Carolina, last weekend to meet the Eastern Carolina tankers of the North
State Conference. The Wildcat swimmers brought back their third consecutive win without a loss. The Davidson team won eight of
ten first places and came out on the long end of the 60-24 score. In the individual scoring, Bill Carrell,
with 10 points, was high man for the Cats. Carrell won two first places. Prior to the Eastern meet, the
Davidson tankers had taken a victory over The Citadel and a home meet win over Eastern Carolina. Next Monday will
afford the swimmers a chance to better their mark. They will travel to Columbia, South Carolina to meet the University
swimmers.

BULLETIN

Managers wanted! There are two vacancies open for anyone interested in managing the Davidson JVs. For further information, see Jerry
Helms.

When a roommate gets you a blind date with his younger sister... and she turns out to be a real
doll...

Tuesday night of this week the Wofford Terriers invaded the Cats’ den and played as if they were thinking only
of avenging the defeat administered by the Cats in football. Superior height and reserve power enabled the Terriers to build
up an early lead that they never relinquished, as three men contributed 15 points or more. Dennie Mathis’ 17 was
high for the visitors, while Hobby Cobb's 26 was high for the game. The action was often interrupted by the
referee’s whistle, as a total of 48 personal fouls were called. In the preliminary game, the Davidson JV's lost a
close contest to Appalachian State JV’s, 65-61. A standout in defeat was Bobby Baker, who scored 26 points, 18 of
which came in the first half. The Cats took their second game of the season last Friday by defeating The
Citadel Bulldogs, 87-60. Harding and Bennett were (Continued On Back Page)

PURE PLEASURE!

For more pure pleasure... SMOKE CAMELS

No other cigarette is so rich-tasting yet so mild!

P.S. No other brand has ever been able to match the pure pleasure in Camel's exclusive blend of costly tobaccos!
That's why Camels are America’s most popular cigarette!

R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., Winston-Salem, N. C.
