The Davidsonian

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Dick Morehead

ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Maurice Crouse, Tom Warlick

Managing Editors
Jim Batten, Franklin Bloodworth, Jim Brice

Sports Editor
Leon Howell

Copy Editor
John T. Harmon

Feature Editor
Watt McCain

News Editors
Lloyd Chapin, Bill Pomeroy, Glenn Robertson

Staff Photographer
Hank Daniel

Assignments
John Trask

File Clerk
Bob Beall

Member of the Associated Collegiate Press and Intercollegiate Press

PAGE TWO
October 7, 1955

The Latest On Subsidization

Subsidization of athletics has long been a problem in American colleges and universities. It reached a focal point last year
at Davidson among students, alumni, and administration. The problem was aired, letters written, opinions expressed, and decisions reached. The editors
are relinquishing their columns this week to present this final recapitulation and revelation of letters and actions which took place
up through the summer of 1955 as explained in the Davidson College Bulletin and letters to the President of the
Student Body.

In the spring of 1954, a joint committee of five Trustees and five faculty members made a long and thorough
study of Davidson's intercollegiate athletic policy. Representing the Trustees were Mr. J. Harold McKeithen, Chairman, Dr. Kelsey Regen, Mr. J.
P. Booth, Dr. C. Grier Davis, Mr. George Crouch. Representing the Faculty were Dr. Frontis W. Johnston, Dr. William G.
McGavock, Professor John T. Kimbrough, Dr. J. W. Reid, and Dr. W. O. Puckett. Their report to the Trustees in
May 1954, which was unanimously adopted, looked first to the clear definition of the present policy. It also set forth
the terms of a “proposed athletic policy.” The essence of this policy was embodied in the following recommendation:

“We recommend to the Trustees that they authorize the President of the College to solicit and encourage a selected group
of at least six colleges and universities to join with us in promoting a program looking toward the abolishing of
subsidized athletics (that is, athletic scholarships as such) at the earliest possible date. In order that the President of the
College may understand the degree of authority given him under this recommendation, we would agree that the principles adopted by
the Ivy group indicate the general type of agreement to be desired.”

During the school year 1954-55, President Cunningham gave attention to this directive from the Trustees. Numerous conferences were held with
the Presidents of colleges within the Southern Conference and with others from institutions of congenial type. It was during this
period that Washington and Lee indicated the action of its Trustees dropping subsidized athletics. Conferences with the Presidents of the
institutions revealed by and large a deep sympathy with the whole ideal of non-subsidized athletics. Circumstances, local and immediate, with
which some of the institutions were confronted seemed to prevent any immediate action. In response to a communication from the
students to the Trustees in May 1955, urging that subsidized athletics be continued at Davidson, the Trustees replied (in part)
as follows:

“The Trustees and Faculty have taken action expressing the hope that the time will come when it will be possible
to have all athletic sports maintained on an unsubsidized basis. It was in the days of unsubsidized athletics that Davidson’s
greatest victories were achieved and that the fighting spirit of our teams was most widely known and applauded. We believe
that the return of that type of competition to the campuses of America is greatly to be desired and for
that reason have asked the President of the College to initiate conference on this subject with representatives of other institutions
of similar standing and ideals.”

“It is not the intention of the Trustees or Administration that the proposed new policy shall be instituted unless and
until we can enlist the cooperation of a solid nucleus of schools from within the ranks of the present Southern
Conference and other natural rivals of Davidson.”

“In the meantime, the present athletic policy of Davidson remains unchanged. The details of that plan have recently been published
in The Davidsonian and need no explanation here. We believe that the issues have now been sufficiently discussed to be
understood by all and that the best interest of the College cannot be served by further agitation of the matter
at this time. We would invite all parties concerned to give their support to the ideal of unsubsidized athletics as
our ultimate goal. Until that goal can be realized, we ask the support of all for our present policy which
we believe to be thoroughly honorable and reasonably satisfactory under existing circumstances.”

“The action of the Trustees is in no sense to be understood as a reflection upon the splendid group of
athletes now representing the College. We are proud of these men as athletes but feel an even greater sense of
pride in the fact that almost without exception they have proven themselves to be capable students and worthy men. We
acknowledge with gratitude the large contribution which they have made to the life of our campus during the past year.
It is our desire and purpose that, if and when a program of unsubsidized athletics is launched, it will still
be possible for such men to have financial aid in order to attend Davidson. Such aid would then be given
upon considerations of need, of ability, and of character alone, and the athlete would be eligible for it upon the
same basis as other students. No man, however, would be required to engage in an athletic sport or sports in
order to retain his scholarship.”

During the summer, President Cunningham wrote the Trustees and Faculty: “As I now see the situation there is no early
prospect of our effecting a schedule of congenial colleges to meet the conditions of our proposed plan for the future.
The desirability of such a plan is convincing to almost all of our Faculty and to me personally. The sentiment
in the educational world is strongly in favor of a marked decrease in subsidized athletics. Phi Beta Kappa, according to
its recent action after three or four years consideration, will require a strong measure of de-emphasis on the part of
colleges which will be allowed membership in the future. It is my judgment and my proposal that until there is
some change in the existing conditions among our sister institutions, we rest the efforts which you have asked me to
make—I certainly do not desire to have a continuation of the agitation of the question with its attendant misunderstanding among
students and alumni. (I have sent a note to the presidents of the colleges with whom we have conferred indicating
Davidson’s position and her readiness to reopen the matter if and when a sufficient number of institutions should desire.)”

In commenting on the above, President Cunningham stated: “I continue to have serious misgivings about Davidson's future and the present
policy. I do not know of a small Church-related liberal arts college of Davidson’s type which is investing as much
money annually upon a single intercollegiate sport as we are spending on football. Furthermore, the matter of a schedule for
the future is increasingly problematical. The lines are being more severely drawn, some colleges moving to heavier subsidizing and an
increasing number moving to non-subsidization. Before many years I predict it will be necessary for Davidson to take her stand
on one side of the line or the other. Increasingly, as I have watched the situation in Davidson and in
American colleges in general, I am persuaded that there is no permanent middle of the road course.”

This is the latest and last word on subsidization by members of the Board of Trustees and administration. Thus athletic
subsidization continues to be an unsettled problem here at Davidson. Its solution demands careful and objective consideration and the time
of another year.

BUSINESS MANAGER
Larry Parrott

Advertising Manager
Bob Carmichael

Subscription
Warner Hall

Circulation
Bob Majors, Stan Miller

Business Staff
Tony Guiles, Bill Bondurant

ADVERTISED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 Madison Ave. New York, N.Y.
Chicago, Boston, Los Angeles, San Francisco

Subscription Rate: $2.00 Per Year
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1879.
Offices in David Ovens College Union, Davidson College

JACK KERR

The Moscow Glow .. . Actions Speak Louder Than Words

(The Davidsonian, in conjunction with the International Relations Club, is beginning this week a series of bi-weekly articles concerned with
issues from beyond the campus perimeter, in an effort to stimulate and encourage interest and discussion among Davidsonians in National
and International affairs. The writers of this series are by no means experts in this field, but are alert and
vitally interested in these global issues.—Ed.)

In the seven weeks since the meeting of Geneva at the summit, a profound and universal wave of hope has
filled the hearts of millions. The “Spirit of Geneva” is a wholesome thing in itself but it conceals a grave
danger. The danger is a growing tendency, both here and abroad, to believe that peace has already been achieved. To
mistake atmosphere for accomplishment is not only an error; it is apt to make more difficult a genuine peace. The
real test for that will come on October 27, at a new Geneva, when the foreign ministers of the Big
Four sit down to see if they can reach any agreement at all on the major problems which still divide
them. Now there is even more to fear since the health of the President of the United States has become
a matter of vital concern. What effect will his probable incapacity to run for re-election have on the parley? This
adds more to the complications already at hand. Until there is assurance that the Soviets are willing to make genuine
concessions on these problems, it is a folly and a mockery to build our hopes too high. If there is
any public vice greater than unjustified pessimism, it is that of false optimism. For when it reaches a frenzy it
may take fantastic forms.

A few weeks ago Vladimir Matskevich invited some four hundred guests to a caviar-champagne party. Many prominent diplomats of the
West joined in sipping champagne and greeting the smiling Communist as he stood beneath a huge unsmiling portrait of Josef
Stalin. There is no harm in this kind of fellowship and it can do good so long as it is
recognized for what it is—just geniality and nothing more. The American farm experts visiting the Soviet Union had much the
same sort of experience, and came back feeling that the trip helped each side get a better understanding of the
other's peoples. Naturally, we are for that, and more of it. But one hardly expects to find some members of
the National Press Club applauding Matskevich when he told it “the people are the boss in Russia.” Much less can
one understand the sort of behavior displayed by Louisiana’s Senator Ellender in his current visit to Moscow. At a time
when millions of people in satellite nations are still enslaved by a Soviet-enforced Communist rule, Ellender went to a banquet
at the puppet Romanian embassy to join the Politburo in toasting the eleventh anniversary of Romania's “liberation,” which was in
reality the Soviet occupation.

If anyone doubts that this kind of speculation can be dangerous, consider what has already happened. Even level-headed people, and
some of them in high-level places, are forgetting that it is only because the free world has grown strong that
the Communists are talking more gently. Yet, though strength is what brought results, some people are now foolish enough to
believe that the “Spirit of Geneva” justifies reducing this strength. Even the administration is talking of cutting the defense budget,
and many able senators are asking for tax reductions. And NATO nations are talking of scaling down their arms plans.
The Western peoples’ uncritical acceptance of the seven months’ results of Geneva has dismayed the captive peoples who, looking at
photos of East-West friendliness at Bulganin’s country picnic, assume that the West is buying a peace on Russian terms. We
must be reminded that while Russia holds the olive leaf in one hand, she holds the dagger in the other.
Russia has maintained Communist subversives in free nations, continued the division of Germany as a major threat to Europe's peace,
continued Soviet military occupation of other nations despite peace treaties which promised to end it. We don't have to end
the friendliness spirit but we shouldn’t be blinded by its glitter. The free world must meet every honest step the
Russians prove willing to take to establish a peace which must be not only genuine but just. In order to
open the road to such a peace, the division of Germany must be ended, and free elections permitted. If this
were permitted, the United States could guarantee Russia’s security needs by an unqualified commitment to fight any renewed German aggression.
Perhaps the most important task is the question of disarming enough to remove the danger that either side might stumble
into war through blind fear. A test of Russia’s sincerity will be her final answer to Eisenhower's proposal of mutual
aerial inspection. Finally, the question of ending an occupation of Eastern Europe which can no longer be justified on security
grounds, especially if Europe’s own security is guaranteed by joint U. S.-Soviet underwriting. It is perhaps hopeless to think that
this will occur overnight; but if the Soviets will remove the troops that keep them in power, the people themselves
may be able to express their own wills. If progress can be made upon these issues, the U. S. and
Russia could then become travelers on the same plane on a flight to peace; however, until we get thisSort of
result, it is foolish to regard the “Geneva Spirit” as anything more than a token of what Russia will offer
in the way of world peace. The results which must come out of Geneva, in order to maintain a just
peace, are concrete proposals which will be acted upon by Russia immediately.

The New Voluntary YMCA... A Challenge to Everyone Involved

The Y.M.C.A. has launched forth into another year of activity under a new flag, the flag of voluntary participation. Let
us not assume that the parousia has arrived because we are no longer members because we are made to join.
The voluntary Y will be beset by many problems and is in danger of plunging into many pitfalls. We shall
suffer from many growing pains and many shrinking pangs. This article is designed to inform you what the General Secretary
believes to be the message of the Y for the Davidson Campus, and how this message can be expounded through
the various channels which the Y has at its disposal.

The association must primarily seek to go beyond a mere endeavor to be an organization which is accepted as a
continued “good thing” to have on campus, because we are a Christian College, or to propagate a Christian ethic, but
to create an atmosphere which allows its members to penetrate religious superficiality toward an allegiance to Jesus Christ which is
stronger than life itself. If our tasks carry us into unpopular areas, into them we shall go if we believe
they are our tasks. This commitment to Christ can only be developed in the individual but the Y can stimulate
the desire and antagonize the individual to begin the intellectual and spiritual struggle toward the goal of Christian surrender and
discipleship.

Some of the channels which we hope can create such an atmosphere are those groups concerned with the campus’ spiritual
enrichment. This can be one of the most important parts of our message, if the leaders of this group and
the participants in it recognize the scope it can entail and approach this adventure with reverence and good sense. From
fundamentalist pietism and irresponsible emotionalism, Good Lord deliver us! Yet in avoiding this let us not slip into a cold
and indifferent attitude toward communion with God. There must be an initial commitment to Jesus Christ as the Lord of
our lives. Yet our Christian commitment must not stop at the “mourner’s bench” for if we allow our lives to
cease to develop beyond this we are but embryos and our place in the Kingdom is as the “still born”
infant. Our Christian dedication must extend to the community in which we live. The Christian life is more than life
as an individual, separated from all else, it is a life of sharing. Through this sharing we acquire a theological
perspective (which is as important for the layman as the minister) and develop convictions. We shall gain clarity, direction, and
support as we as a group enrich our common and individual life.

Another part of the Y's message is that of Christian vocation. One of the cardinal doctrines of Protestant Christianity is
“the high calling of God in Christ Jesus.” All men are called of God to be preachers of the gospel.
It is our primary function in life. “What does it profit a man if he gain the whole world and
lose his own soul?” Much of our education is spent in preparing us for our chosen life’s work. Few of
us give much time for the developing of Christian growth. The ignorance of the average man of the Bible and
of his heritage as a Protestant is deplorable. A doctor is expected to know his medicine, a businessman his business;
he sees to it that he knows what is expected of him, however, when he is questioned concerning his faith
he states it makes no difference what a man believes as long as he is “good.” His tolerance is based
on ignorance and laziness. It makes quite a great deal of difference what a man believes and even a great
deal more difference why he believes it. Thomas Jefferson in his Bill for Religious Freedom stated that mere toleration was
a lazy man’s creed which made him indifferent. Within the framework of the Y we should find a channel which
contributes to our education as Churchmen in the Church of Jesus Christ, so that all of the works of our
hands and minds be as unto God.

Thus far we have considered the fortification of ourselves as Christians. To be always taking and never putting out makes
for an obese faith, hence Christian outreach is a vital part of our message. We, who embrace the Christian faith,
must be evangelists as surely as Templeton, Sheen, and Graham. There must be an imperative drive from within that must
make us concerned for the faith of our roommate, teammate, and lab partner. This is not to imply that the
Y proposes to establish a squad of buttonhole gospel salesmen. On the other hand, this campus saw a fellow student
last year who became concerned with the destiny of Davidsonians, his work is still evident and shall be for many
years to come. There are channels within the Y which extend our outreach beyond the campus to the surrounding area.
Through these channels the life of this area has been enriched.

The social demands of the Gospel as expressed by the Y are also an important part of our Christian outreach.
When we begin to question and to cause others to question what Christ’s Gospel has to say about political, economic,
and social practices of secular society then we have begun to develop a society with a conscience, and have sown
the seeds for the developing of a Christian conscience. It is our hope that the members of the Y will
regard their affiliation with this body as more than a member of another organization, but you are part of an
arm of the Church. Christian life cannot be lived in a vacuum; it is our hope that through fellowship i.e.
mutual help, study, work, and worship we may grow in Christian wisdom and stature.

QUESTION: Since such a sizeable number of students solidly prefer to study in their dorm rooms rather than in the
library, why is it impossible for reserve books to be taken from the library during the day? Certainly the same
time limits could be enforced, and the same fines imposed together with appropriate penalties if the book were damaged as
a result of its being taken from the library. For many students who prefer not to study in the library,
a program to allow them to take reserve books out of the library would be a distinct service. Secondly, why,
if reserve books can be checked out for the weekend on Saturday at four P.M., is it impossible to check
them out before the same hour on Sunday? Inconvenience to students is the obvious result of these two regulations. Could
they possibly be amended?

ANSWER: The reasons for having Reserve Books read in the building are for the purpose of having these books as
available as possible to the students. It is our business, in the library, to have the book you want when
you want it as far as this is possible. We have over eight hundred students to consider. The following should
be given consideration before any change in this particular rule is made: (1) Say there are five copies of a
Reserve Book and twenty men in the class. Each of the twenty must have a chance at the books. If
the men who are using the books are in the building, a student who wants a turn has only to
ask the Desk Man who has them. He can then find the men who are using the books and ask
when the user will return the book to the desk. He does not have to walk to the Library and
then back to the dorms. (2) It is human nature to put off making a trip to the library if
possible. Assume that the rule is changed and Reserve Books may be taken to the dorms. Is it likely that
the users will bring them back as soon as they are through with them—or wait until a convenient time an
hour or two later? When a student is using a book in the building, the path of least resistance (the
one most of us take) is to return it to the desk as he leaves. Reserve Books are selected and
put on Reserve by the members of the Faculty. Only they are competent to tell the time needed and the
importance of each book. For that reason, only Faculty members can give special permission with respect to taking a Reserve
Book out earlier than the hours stated or otherwise change the regulations. This rule is made for the convenience of
the largest number. If students know of college or university libraries which have a more convenient system, we will be
glad to get the names and write to them for information. We aim to please — eight hundred and seventy
of you. With respect to the rule regarding charging out Reserve Books before four P.M. on Sundays, the original idea
was that most copies would go out Saturday night for the weekend, but a few would be left for circulation
Sunday afternoon for those who preferred to study in the library. As far as we can tell, this has worked
out in practice. But we will be glad to change this if a representative group of responsible students (say the
Student Council or O.D.K. members) will so advise us. These replies constitute our best judgment.

The Library Staff

QUESTION: In connection with the program of the Y.M.C.A., does the Y intend to use the information on the yellow
cards which were filled out by the students who joined?

ANSWER: Yes, the Y.M.C.A. definitely intends to follow through with the integration of students in the capacities for which they
volunteered. The Y is in the process of tabulating the yellow cards now, and is assigning to each chairman the
men who have shown interest in his particular field. This tabulation may take several weeks, but at the end of
this short period of filing, all students who so wish will be integrated into the program of the Y. It
is the wish of the Y that each student who joined will participate actively in its program.

QUESTION: In a letter to the editor published in the Davidsonian last Friday, there was a question raised concerning the
operation of the Student Union snack bar: “... why ... is there only one lone man behind the counter on
Sunday evenings when the student body en masse charges the milk bar...?” In reply to this question, the employees of
the snack bar have written the following statement.

ANSWER: In a letter to the editor in last week's Davidsonian, one writer who signed his piece with the initials
‘T.D.S.’ manifested a profound concern over the state of the College Union. T.D.S., while he enumerated the substantial improvements in
the operation of the Union, apparently had difficulty in discerning any shortcomings in the present Union administration. He did, however,
find ‘one slight oversight.’ There has been one lone man behind the snack bar counter when on Sunday evenings there
is a rush of students to the counter. One or two additional helpers would ease the situation. The truth is
that the Manager of the College Union Services has tried to secure extra helpers for the Sunday evening shift. But
the poor hired help who have worked off and on all during the week feel that Sunday should be their
day of rest, and they have been reluctant to work the Sunday shift. T.D.S., in your concern for the State
of the Union, would you not volunteer your services to the snack bar? In the interest of your fellow students,
the hired help, and the State of the Union for which you are so solicitous, you might alleviate the plight
of the lone man behind the counter. The challenge, T.D.S., is yours.

Respectfully, “The Hired Hands”

Davidson’s Official Athletic Policy Clarified for Record

Q. What is Davidson's athletic scholarship policy?
A. The college administers an intercollegiate athletic scholarship program from funds provided by the Wildcat Club. Applicants for scholarships must
be acceptable to the faculty admissions committee.

Q. What determines the amount allocated for athletic scholarships?
A. The amount contributed by the Wildcat Club is used for athletic scholarships. In 1950 the Board of Trustees authorized
the college to spend, that year, a sum of $35,000 for such scholarships. The following amounts have since been raised:
$27,391.49 (1950), $24,322.11 (1951), $26,463.70 (1952), $26,549.45 (1953) and $32,410.24 (1954).

Q. How does Davidson’s policy compare with the policies of other members of the Southern Conference?
A. The Southern Conference is composed of West Virginia, V.P.I., V.M.I., George Washington, Richmond, William & Mary, Furman, The Citadel,
Washington & Lee and Davidson. Davidson's student body is the smallest. Some of these institutions are spending double, even triple
and quadruple what Davidson spends for athletic scholarships. Only Washington & Lee, within the conference, has undertaken a program allowing
no athletic scholarships as such.

Q. Could Davidson alumni raise more money and increase athletic scholarships?
A. It is doubtful that the amount could be substantially increased, and certainly not as high as the average spent
within the conference. The amounts of the past five years have come after hard work, including personal solicitation, by several
alumni interested in promoting a strong athletic program.
