The Davidsonian

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Dick Morehead

ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Maurice Crouse, Tom Warlick

Managing Editors
Jim Batten, Franklin Bloodworth, Jim Brice

Sports Editor
Leon Howell

Copy Editor
John T. Harmon

Feature Editor
Watt McCain

News Editors
Lloyd Chapin, Bill Pomeroy, Glenn Robertson

Staff Photographer
Hank Daniel

Assignments
John Trask

File Clerk
Bob Beall

Member of the Associated Collegiate Press and Intercollegiate Press

October 14, 1955

PAGE TWO

Davidson Spirit

“All hail, oh Davidson, our dear old alma mater...”

One of life’s finest loyalties is found in a man's relationship to his college. It is shown by alumni in their donation of time, abilities, and gifts to their beloved institution. It is shown by faculty and friends in their interest and actions. It should best and most naturally be displayed, however, by members of the student body. This loyalty can find no better outlet of obvious expression than the football games.

Throughout the past, one of Davidson’s outstanding characteristics has been its spirit. Cheering at the Saturday football melee was an all-out and continuous effort in spite of the rather discouraging string of “moral” victories that attended some of the teams. It was a full-throated enthusiasm that extended for four quarters and never diminished in vigor, participation, or degree. It was led by an ever-yelling corps of cheerleaders who would lose their voices for the cause before they lost their interest. It was an effort that challenged the strongest of opponents and outstripped any competition from across the way. Finally, it was a loyalty that earnestly supported all efforts of its team on the field whether in victory or defeat, whether on a goal line stand or a touchdown pass, whether in a cloudburst or on a sunny day.

Last year we had a victorious season, one of the best in many years. We went into last week’s game boasting a 2-0 record. And yet there was no “spirit.” The game began with a mild manner of cheering. Before the end of the first quarter, the upperclassmen had relinquished the cheering chores to the freshmen. At the start of the second quarter, the frosh turned in their hats. Before the half, the cheerleaders had laid their megaphones to rest, and the student body didn’t play the second half.

The “spirit” of Davidson is an intangible but cherished tradition. It has as many, if not more, ingredients of honor and pride than when it was originated. It was created by students, continued by them, and passed on to us in faith and trust. We as heirs of such a “spirit” would do well to evaluate “Old Davidson,” observe the interest and enthusiasm of the alumni, and recapture the “spirit” of old. It is our challenge and our opportunity. For our forefathers, for Davidson, and for the team let us accept that challenge that with due honor, pride, and volume we may indeed “follow them on and pledge our loyalty.”

Birth of a Notion

Last Thursday there was a social and political upheaval on the Davidson campus. With the spirit of the following declaration, the freshman class rose in rebellious action.

“We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all students are created equal, that they are endowed by their ability with certain unalienable rights, that among these are walking on the grass, being obnoxious, ignoring upperclassmen, and observing no freshmen regulations... that whenever any Court of Control becomes destructive to these ends, it is the right of the freshmen to alter or abolish it, and to establish its own government, laying its foundation on such principles and powers as to them shall seem most likely to effect by mass action and hysteria their safety and happiness.”

Having proclaimed this spirit of independence, the freshman mass tore through upperclass dorms, ran riot over campus, burned their hats on the main square, hooted the cheerleaders, and derisively walked out of chapel the next day. Class struggle has ended in anarchy. A new social order seems to have been formed, the upper-freshman. Where is the humble, low-walking, uninformed, green-eyed frosh of the good old days before the revolution? How long shall the peasants rule? Where is order, where is law, where is the Court of Control?—R.H.M.

The Doors Are Open ----For Naught

“When you get what you want, you don't want it,” say the paradoxical words of a recent popular tune. Removing them from their context, we find that they have a very striking relevance to the fickleness of the Davidson student body. Turn to the early issues of last year’s Davidsonian and notice the persistent theme of “Away with secrecy in the Student Council! Give the students a chance to see what is going on!” Doubtless, at that time the writers and possibly the majority of the student body thought there was a pretty good case for bringing Student Council meetings out into the open. Important decisions by the Council sometimes become known to students only by word of mouth and there was little way of confirming any of the rumors that might be making the rounds. Surely if anything was important enough to merit attention by the Council, it was important enough for the students to know about, it was argued.

But memory is short. Apparently, we have already forgotten the demands of a year ago. President Perrin Anderson has made it a policy to have meetings of the Student Council open to all students. The cynics may have smiled when he stood before the student body one day in chapel and invited the entire group to the Council’s next meeting, which was to be held in the Blue Room of the College Union. They may have reasoned that he could not have been expecting many to attend because he chose such a small room for the meeting. Regardless of the expectation of Anderson or any other student, the use of a room even so small as the Blue Room gives ample space for the seating of the student audience. Student attendance at the regularly scheduled meetings so far has averaged .5 students. No one appeared for the first meeting on September 26, and only one person was present at the meeting held on October 10.

Why the remarkable change in the climate of opinion? It could have been expected, on the basis of last year’s demands, that almost the whole student body would have converged on the meeting place on alternate Mondays. Instead, one solitary person has shown up to effect a token representation of the student body and thus keep the meeting “open.” Perhaps the revolution is over. Having forced the Student Council out of the “smoke-filled rooms” and into the light of day, perhaps there is nothing more to fear from it. Perhaps we can rest easy until another crisis arises, at which time it will again become necessary to pick up the pen and scrawl out an accusation against the vicious practices of the Council. But then perhaps not. Since we have been granted the privilege of seeing the Council in operation, should we not make it our duty to attend some meetings on occasion? Otherwise, where is the victory that we seem to have gained? Whether the Council meets behind locked doors in Chambers or with open doors in the Union will make precious little difference if we fail to take advantage of the opportunity provided. It is to be suspected that we will show little interest in the affairs of the Council until something so dramatic as the dismissal of a wayward student occurs again. Until that time we cannot afford to waste our time on the multitude of trivialities that will be considered. Francois, you do well to ask, “Where are the grips of yesteryear?” Who knows?—M.A.C.

BUSINESS MANAGER
Larry Parrott

Advertising Manager
Bob Carmichael

Subscription
Warner Hall

Circulation
Bob Majors, Tony Guiles, Bill Bondurant

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 Madison Ave. New York, N.Y.
Chicago * Boston * Los Angeles * San Francisco

Subscription Rate: $2.00 Per Year
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1879.
Offices in David Ovens College Union, Davidson College

JIMMY MARTIN

A Treatise, Candidly Portraying Davidsoniana, Past and Present

The regard of the visitor for the historic tribulations of Davidson College may be that of so much dust of antiquity, herein yclept traditions. Yet, as he looks more closely at the historic pale, he begins to discern some of the shadowy beginnings, and he becomes increasingly aware and appreciative of Davidson's development to what it is today.

The first glimmer of light to illuminate this venerable obscurity is the birth of the institution itself, with the formal laying of the cornerstone of the first building on April 7, 1836. Classes began in March of the following year with 65 students attending lectures in the homes of the three professors and living in the three original edifices of Oak and Elm Row. Since the limited capacity of these structures would accommodate only 48 students, the faculty voted to “allow” those 17 young men who arrived late to build their own wooden huts, and thus protect themselves from the elements. Evidently, the faculty realized the arduousness of this imposition, for they later granted to these students permission to sell their shacks to new students upon graduation. This tradition of graduation was not added until 1840, when the first group of educated young men completed the undergraduate requirements and performed favorably in their public examinations — which events were always well attended by the local agricultural element.

It is interesting to note that the man to whom the college is a memorial tribute, Gen. William Lee Davidson, received his education at Queen's Museum in Charlotte. Likewise, the descendant of that institution is the source of a liberal education for many Davidsonians of today.

The size of the student body was increased slightly in 1838, the year of the first faculty suspension of a student. His offense was the unprovoked assault upon a fellow student, nearly killing him. This was significant in that the first hazing practices began with the first sophomore class. This tradition grew in zeal, ingenuity, and intensity until it culminated in February, 1903, with the revolt of the entire freshman class. These 70 little Bolsheviks had endured paddlings, midnight shivarees, “featherings,” and other such “maturing influences” for an entire semester, and finally retaliated with a general walkout. Their plan was to board the train at Cornelius for Charlotte where they would assemble, give their last concerted yell, have their class picture made (in compliance with the regulations) and—go back home to their sharecropping. However, several professors overtook them on bicycle and on muleback, and persuaded the prodigals to return to their studies, not to be molested further. Since that time Davidson has observed its annual riots over one thing or another.

Homecoming Dates’ Verdict on And Dance Weekends... They

Since its inception ten years ago, the Davidson Dance Weekend has become a tradition, an institution, a legend. The most vital and basic ingredients of this institution are THE GIRLS, who, as have their predecessors in the past, will flock to Davidson this weekend from all over the Southland. We have always been impressed with the Girls’ enthusiasm for Davidson in general, and the dance weekends in particular. They frankly tell us without coyness or deliberation that Davidson is their favorite.

This week in an effort to document this enthusiasm we contacted girls from all over the South who are “veterans” as far as Davidson is concerned, asking them exactly what they like about Davidson and its festive weekends. Reprinted below, with thanks to those concerned, are excerpts from those replies received in time for publication. Vive la Weekend!

KITTY SUE FAULCONER, Queens:
I feel the wonderful atmosphere of the Davidson campus and the friendly spirit of all the boys help to make each weekend a memorable occasion. Even the usual rainy weather can't dampen the good times of these three unforgettable days.

sors overtook them on bicycle and on muleback, and persuaded the prodigals to return to their studies, not to be molested further. Since that time Davidson has observed its annual riots over one thing or another.Other, and many students still observe the rite of the walkout with a festive pilgrimage every weekend or so. One other tradition of that era is still retained in a small subversive element of our present student body. The highest honor that could be bestowed upon a freshman of the 19th century was that of snuffing out the candles at graduation exercises. Hence the malfeasant origin of the “Candlesnuffers” of today. (sic.)

The Wildcat football team had its beginnings with intramural rugby in 1889. Prof. Schenck’s father was captain and “center-rush without peer” of that first in a series of Davidson champions. Intercollegiate competition followed in 1898 with a season of moral victories (we lost both games). Progress followed in 1900 when the trustees approved the subsidization of the first hired coach. In that year the “Big Red” used the flying wedge extensively (deceptive little boogers!) in trampling Ga. Tech, 38 to 6. Duke and State College were other “patsies” on the schedule of this renascent period.

The dance weekend had its inception with the first “legal” dance held on the campus February 9 and 10, 1945. This momentous restatement of tradition consisted of the informal dance Friday night with music by the top bands in the country through the medium of “the automatic record machine.” Music for the Saturday night formal was supplied by John Peddicord's group from Winston-Salem. The popular tunes of the day were “Four Leaf Clover” and “Always.”

Here, too, there is a wealth of precedent, and we find the first mention of dancing in the 1838 report of the near-expulsion of one student, who later became a leading ministerial figure in N.C. Presbyterianism, for alleged dancing. Later, in the spring of 1898, Winthrop College sent a Y.W.C.A. delegation to Davidson, and it is written that “round games” were enjoyed by all, until the faculty intervened. The 1905 Junior speaking exercises were likewise visited by such barbarism, i.e., the waltz and 2-step, and likewise visited by the faculty. Note that the 1905 junior class was the same bunch of rabble that created the aforementioned ruckus of 1903 as freshmen. But the social progress committee of 1945 reports, and we concur, that the dance weekend is here to stay, so it is with no mean anticipation that ye scribe looks forward to “Big Apple”-ing his way around the dance floor tonight to the frantic rhythm of “I'm Looking Over A Four-Leaf Clover.”

BETTY JOYNER, Sullins: There is something indescribable about a dance weekend at Davidson which makes it different from any other college weekend. The atmosphere, the big name bands, the friendliness of all the boys, and the wonderful times had by all, make it a memorable occasion to any girl. Above all, I think it is the boys who make Davidson weekends so successful. They seem to have some special knack for planning exactly what any girl expects.

HARRIET MAHAFFEY, Converse College: What a difficult question to answer—"Exactly what do you like about Davidson?” It is difficult because the things I like are so hard to put into words. All Davidson campus seems alive with a very prominent indescribable spirit—maybe it's simply a general feeling of love. The boys are among the very finest I've ever known; there seems to be an awful lot of concern and love for each other under all their teasin’ and carryin’-on! The purely unbelievable is that they make each girl feel the weekend would have almost folded had she not come—definitely wanted?! ‘Cause the dances are great and you have nothing but the very best. Ah, Civilization! . . .

JASON McMANUS

The Harrows of Homecoming... A Sociological Survey in Miniature

There is something of the eternal in every Homecoming weekend, but it is very hard to find. Our annual celebration of the Feast of the Return is like nothing else under the sun, even when you understand “under the sun” to be merely a figure of speech. To be sure, the wise man in Ecclesiastes did not miss the target altogether in including our festivities within his glittering generalities; some of his descriptions are incredibly pointed in terms of fraternity pins and blind dates and the joys and sorrows of fifty continuous hours in a world of alien gender. For these three days will certainly provide “A time to every purpose under heaven... A time to embrace, and a time to refrain from embracing... A time to get, and a time to lose; A time to keep silence, and a time to speak; A time to love, and a time to hate...” But for the most part Homecoming is unique and without parallel in civilized experience.

There is no army in the world like that which assembles for dress parade in Richardson Stadium tomorrow afternoon: the long rows of clean-shaven, cashmere-sweatered, fraternity-pinned young men of privilege, bearing their privilege on their right arm in a tailored suit behind an enormous chrysanthemum. After the dances are over, not even the immortal six hundred who rode into the Valley of Death looked more sternly than the grim and determined gentlemen of Davidson as they emerge from the dormitories, blanket firmly rolled under one arm and eyes toward the distant hills and the rising sun. Then there are the weekend's invisible men whose Girl is here for the only time this semester, who in bands, but just being in such an atmosphere among so many fine people means the most to you. Davidson has many unexplainable things that will never die.

BECKIE WATSON, Duke: The presence of girls in class and around campus is taken pretty much for granted at my own coed university. Among the many things that I like about Davidson’s “big weekends” is that feeling that all the Davidson men give each date of being somebody really special. The courtesy and friendliness you show towards us and the exciting campus-wide and fraternity functions we get to attend make us all feel like campus queens.

EMILY SAPP, Queens: It would really be impossible to say exactly what stands out in my mind about a dance weekend at D.C. I think the most enjoyable part is the atmosphere of tradition that surrounds the Davidson campus. The intermission sings “down at the house,” big name bands, playing phantom at the boarding house, after dance parties, and seeing Mrs. Little or Mrs. Thompson waiting up when you arrive back at the dorm about 3:30 a.m. But of course the boys—or the Davidson gentlemen—play the most important role in making the weekend a big success.

Like the Arabs steal silently away. The freshmen come to college trailing clouds of glory left over from high school romances, and not infrequently belong to the best-looking girls of the weekend. By the time they are sophomores they will have learned the sad and sobering laws of Proximity, and will belong to no one. Juniors are above all the cultivators, and in three years of quiet desperation gradually have evolved a working number of contacts at Salem and Duke and Scott. Seniors are men of resignation and infinite understanding; if they are not pinned they soon will be, or they have concluded they never will be because they prefer the carefree and hearty masculine life they have grown to love at Davidson.

So novel a social situation is the dance weekend that no really authoritative study of social ethics for it has ever been worked up. It would require a new type of research worker, whose general approach would fall somewhere between Emily Post and Dr. Kinsey, with a touch of Norman (The Power of Positive Thinking) Peale. A great deal of Positive Thinking goes on during Homecoming, and various quantities of Negative Thinking. The relative ratio between the two generally determines the success of the weekend for the Davidson Man, success increasing directly as Positive predominates over Negative. (See Graph 32c on Page 83 of Brandt's fine study “Three-Six-Nine: Statistical Studies in Sociognomonalism"). Dr. Brandt with a subtle sense of humor that is rare in ponderous works of this kind also points out that the ratio of success varies inversely with the proportion of the squares among the escorts. But Dr. Brandt is a lonely man in his field, and he has not been able to cover the wide range of problems raised by this recent phenomenon, the dance weekend. There remains untouched, for instance, the whole issue of conversation. Any man who has ever had a blind date for a weekend has empirically verified what has long been suspected by sociologists: there is only a fixed quantity of conversation in the world that is available to two people thrown constantly together, and this reservoir is a relatively small one. It is usually exhausted by five o’clock Saturday afternoon, though the time varies with the verbal powers of the participants and their rate of word-ejection. There are several recognized methods of prolonging the time when at least a semblance of communication is being maintained. Partial deafness requiring your date to repeat almost everything is an excellent one. Telling her about all the other girls you've dated also fills up time nicely, and has the added advantage of letting her know how really fortunate she is to be with you. And you can give her a few little hints that every girl welcomes about how she can improve her appearance by not wearing quite so much make-up, fixing her hair differently, and switching to frilly blouses and full skirts instead of unbecoming tight sweaters and tube skirts.

Innumerable problems arise in connection with the crucial activity-decisions that a normal dance weekend schedule brings. After the dance is over, parties abound. A caravan is leaving for the sandpits, another for Cornelius. Marshmallows or ginger ale, which will it be? This is no light question, for I have seen whole relationships founder on this very decision, and one of my best friends completely lost his taste for marshmallows as a result of being forced into a sandpit party when he wasn’t a bit hungry. Well, this is enough to give you an indication of the kind of thing that needs to be done. Eventually we may work out a whole handbook for dance weekends that will offer advice and encouragement for every trying situation, a kind of Boy Scout manual on a college level telling you how to build a fire on the golf course and find your way back from Erwin Lodge when they’ve locked the gate on your car and all that kind of stuff. Meanwhile you're pretty much on your own, but that seems to be the way most everybody prefers it anyway. Don’t ever let anybody tell you Freud was wrong. Freud invented the dance weekend at the University of Vienna. So Happy Homecoming!

PEGGY HAHN, University of Ga.: It's not hard to explain why everyone enjoys themselves on a Davidsonian weekend. The atmosphere is filled with excited voices of people who come from far and wide to share their numerous experiences together. The boys treat their dates as if they were queens, preparing the campus for another wonderful weekend of dancing and informal parties. Yes, it’s going to be another fabulous weekend at Davidson College and I wouldn't miss it for the world!

JEAN McLAURIN, Queens: The most outstanding thing to me about a Davidson dance weekend is the happy, carefree atmosphere that surrounds the campus—including the friendliness shown to the visiting girls by all students, the well-planned program of entertainment, and the overall school spirit which assures everyone of a good weekend.

A Senior at Hollins, who prefers to remain anonymous: Once a girl spends a weekend at Davidson she wants to come back, not just to go to a dance or a fraternity party, but to be with boys who know the values of friendship and fun. It’s this spirit (most of all) that makes each Davidson weekend a memorable occasion.