PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN

D.C. BAND TO GIVE OUTDOOR CONCERT

Charlotte Editors to Vespers Speaker

Meet Formosan Issue! Davidson Grad and

A concert of light and entertaining music will be given by the Davidson College Concert Band Tuesday, May 3, at
7 p.m., from the south porch of the Student Union. The concert will feature a trombone solo by Fred Hudson
of Rimsky-Korsakov's Trombone Concerto. Recently the band returned from an extensive tour of the Southern states which included concerts in
Montgomery, Pensacola, Fort Benning, Cedartown, and New Orleans. During the past week, the band gave several concerts in high schools
in Winston-Salem and Shelby, and last Thursday a short concert was given for the chapel program. Tuesday is to be
the first of two outdoor concerts which will be given by the band this spring; the second will be announced
at a later time. All students are invited to attend this open-air program.

Camera Club Members Enjoy Being Shutterbugs

The picture of a dog lying in front of an ROTC officer may have caused some Davidsonian readers to think
of a canine show. But to members of Davidson’s “Camera Club,” that picture was a humorous sign of photographic skill.
Hank Daniel, the author of that picture, is the president of the Camera Club this year. Judging by the time
that he spends in the Watt’s basement dormitory, he is a very busy member; and judging by the fact that
he was recently reelected president of the Camera Club, he is a very important member. This year, the Camera Club
has sponsored a national photographic exhibit (which was on display in the Union) and a photo contest. A third school
project was to take pictures for Quips and Cranks. However, if you can push your way through the mess into
Swain Loy’s office, you'll find that some of the late-deadline mess he is in was caused by the negligence of
would-be staff photographers of the Camera Club. Perhaps if students want their annual in time next year, they had better
join the Camera Club to give it a push. In spite of the quick work of Daniel, Mendenhall, and McCutchen,
the club as a whole is mighty slow! Good faculty advisership comes from Professor French, whose picture of his small
daughter won the “Photo of the Year” contest. This picture will appear in Quips and Cranks. At the latest meeting
of the Camera Club, Harry Pascal (who was elected secretary for next year) showed colored slides of Germany and its
people. Any students who want to share this kind of pleasure, or who want to work in the well-equipped darkroom,
or who just want a 20 percent discount on all their photo supplies, should join the Davidson Camera Club.

Bible Class Elects Tony Dick President

The College Bible Class on last Sunday elected new officers for the school year, 1956-57. Tony Dick, recently elected secretary-treasurer
of the rising junior class, was chosen to be president. Tony is from Memphis, Tenn., and a member of the
Beta Theta Pi fraternity. Jerry Brooks was elected to be the secretary-treasurer. Buster Sharp and Jerry Helms are the outgoing
officers of the class. The new Bible Class officers realize that there is a great deal of untapped talent on
the campus, and they are going to make every effort to seek it out.

Artist Series... (Continued From Page One)

tion of her as one of the ten Women of the Year for 1945. In 1948 Miss Thebom was again
cited for her accomplishments, this time by Upsala College, which awarded her an Honorary Doctorate of Letters. In the summer
of 1950 Miss Thebom also appeared abroad at the Glyndebourne Opera festival in England, playing Dorabella in Mozart’s “Cosi Fan
Tutte.” While there, she received word that she had been chosen Best Female Vocalist on the air in Musical America’s
poll of 700 critics in the U.S. and Canada. Recently Miss Thebom has been heard in her world premiere performances
with the Philadelphia Orchestra under Eugene Ormandy of “Medea,” a dramatic cantata written especially for her by the noted composer
Ernest Krenek. She also scored resoundingly in the role of Baba in the Metropolitan’s American premiere of Stravinsky's “The Rake’s
Progress,” and appeared as Herodias in the New York Philharmonic's performances of “Salome.” Harriet Johnson, New York Post, wrote, “To
say that Miss Thebom is magnificent is to give her no less than she deserves,” and Virgil Thompson in the
N.Y. Herald Tribune called her “One of America’s most voluptuous voices!” Indeed, Blanche Thebom may be considered one of the
great singers of our time—or of any time.

PROF. RAYMOND TYSON

The Masquers’ production of “Journey's End” will be repeated Saturday evening at 8:30 in Chambers Auditorium. Under the direction of
Raymond Tyson, this play is reported to be one of the Masquers’ best efforts.

Members Selected... (Continued From Page One)

year. Hunter is a member of Phi Delta Theta and plans to study for the ministry. Jim Covington is in
charge of Spiritual Life, including Wednesday night hall prayer meetings. Covington, a pre-ministerial student, is a rising junior and a
member of Beta Theta Pi. The editor of next year’s YMCA Wildcat Handbook is Dick Morehead, who is a member
of Kappa Alpha and a rising senior. Morehead plans to enter law school and is majoring in English. Maurice Crouse
is in charge of Publicity and Public Relations, in which position he will edit a monthly YMCA newsletter. Crouse, next
year’s president of the Campus Club, is a rising senior and a history major. Leading the Bible Class is Tony
Dick, a member of Beta Theta Pi who is to be a junior and is majoring in English. Hampton Mauze,
in his senior year, will head the Membership Committee, which conducts the YMCA membership drive. Mauze is a member of
Kappa Alpha and a business major. Jeff Smith is the Program Chairman for the coming year and is responsible for
planning YMCA membership meetings. Smith, a pre-ministerial student, will be a senior next year and is a member of Beta
Theta Pi. Buster Sharpe is in charge of Special Services for the coming year, which post entails staging of the
Easter Sunrise service and the Christmas Vespers service. Sharpe, a rising senior, is a pre-ministerial student and a member of
Alpha Tau Omega. Jerry Helms, another pre-ministerial student and member of Alpha Tau Omega, has charge of the Service post.
Book exchanges and the responsibility for ushering at Sunday night Vespers are among his duties. He is a rising senior.
John Child, Freshman Adviser, is a member of Kappa Sigma and is a business major. His job will be to
aid freshmen during their initial months at Davidson. He will be a senior. Jason McManus, a member of Phi Delta
Theta, is to be a Member-at-Large on the YMCA Cabinet. There will be a Cabinet retreat Wednesday afternoon and evening,
May 4, at Erwin Lodge. The purpose of this meeting is to conduct an evaluation of the YMCA and arrange
plans for next year’s program.

ANNOUNCEMENT

The following petition was put before the Student Body this morning. We, the members of the Student Body of Davidson
College, believing that a program of intercollegiate athletics is a valuable phase of college life, and believing that such a
program of intercollegiate athletics within the existing Southern Conference can for the present time be carried on only through a
policy of subsidization; do hereby petition the Trustees for a definite commitment to continue our present subsidized athletic policy. And
do further recommend increased publicity and promotion of athletics at Davidson. In favor of this petition—531. Not in favor of
this petition—71. These results will be sent to the Trustees for consideration at their next meeting.

Tennis Team Downs... (Continued From Page Three)

The largest crowd of the season was on hand for the Miami match yesterday, which saw the local netters go
down to defeat by a 9-0 score. The University of Miami club ranks as one of the top teams in
the country. Coached by Bill Lufler, the Miami team presents one of the most well-balanced attacks in all college tennis.
Summary—Davidson vs. Miami: Al Harum (M) defeated Lacy Keesler, 4-6, 6-3, 6-1; Johan Kupferberg (M) defeated Corky Clark, 6-2, 3-6,
6-4; Ray Garrido (M) defeated Snead, 6-2, 6-3; Dave Harum (M) defeated Dick Makepeace, 6-1, 6-4; Larry Schoffer (M) defeated
Leighton Green, 6-1, 6-3; Vincent Buliosi (M) defeated John Thorpe, 6-1, 6-2; D. Harum and Garrido (M) defeated Keesler and
Clark, 6-2, 6-4; Kupferberg and Schoffer (M) defeated Snead and Green, 6-2, 7-5; Al Harum and Buliosi (M) defeated Makepeace
and Thorpe, 6-4, 6-0. Today the Davidson netters meet the Wofford Terriers, and tomorrow engage the Blue Hose of Presbyterian
College. Following the Presbyterian match, the Wildcats will begin preparation for the defense of their conference title in the Southern
Conference tourney which will be held here on the local courts May 5, 6, and 7.

On May 2, at 8 College Union Ballroom, there will be a discussion of “The Formosan Problem.” All students are
urged to be present at this interesting event.and informative pro- per message will be given by Dr. William A. Benfield,
Jr., of Louisville, Kentucky. Roy Covington, a member of the editorial staff of the Charlotte Observer, will take part in
this program. He will defend the islands and support the United States’ present policy there.

Waldo Proffitt, the city editor of the Charlotte News, will also take part in the discussion. He will defend a
policy of only staying in Formosa and keeping out of the other islands. Each of the speakers will present two
15-minute talks. Dr. Marrotte, a member of the Davidson College history department, will moderate the discussion. This program is being
sponsored by the YMCA’s Commission on Effective Citizenship.

Dormitory Bandit To Be Executed May 6

Jennings Fields, celebrated dorm bandit who terrorized the Davidson campus during February 1954, has been sentenced to die in the
electric chair for the murder of a DeKalb County (Ga.) patrolman during a dramatic flight from the law in March
of last year. The date of the execution will be May 6 in Atlanta. Fields was apprehended by a multi-state
police alert for a series of nocturnal thefts from dormitories on Carolina campuses at Davidson and Clemson. Immediately he escaped
the not-too-long arm of the law and fled across the North Georgia countryside until seized in the suburb of Chamblee,
whereupon he assassinated one of his captors and critically wounded another.

Wildcat Linksters...

(Continued From Page Three)

by taking the top four scores of the six men playing for each team. On Tuesday of this week, the
Cats defeated a strong Wofford team for the second time this year, 23-4. Skipper Hall took medalist honors with a
73, followed by Al Gaither’s 75. The entire team played very well in winning their sixth match of the season.
To date, the Cats have compiled a 6-2 record with their wins coming over Wofford twice, Furman, Williams, The Citadel,
and North Carolina State. The two losses came at the hands of Furman and The Citadel. Before the tournament, the
Cats have matches with VPI and North Carolina State. The junior varsity will seek their first victory of the season
May 2 at Myers Park and will play Gastonia in the final match of the season on May 4. The
Kittens are winless to date, having lost previous decisions to both of the above teams.

NAVAL OFFICER IN UNION MAY 4

The Naval Aviation Cadet Procurement Officer, from the Naval Air Station, Atlanta, Ga., will be in the Charter Room of
the College Union on Wednesday, May 4. All students interested in the Naval Aviation Cadet program are urged to contact
this officer.

Drink ‘MOOR’ Mooresville Creamery, Inc.

PARKER-GARDNER CHARLOTTE 2, N. C. 118 West Trade Street Phone ED. 2-8257

Seminary, and the honorary D.D. degree was conferred on him by his alma mater in 1949. After his first pastorate
in Louisville, Dr. Benfield accepted a professorship of Hebrew and Old Testament at Louisville Presbyterian Seminary, of which he held
the vice presidency from 1944 until 1949. He is now pastor of Highland Presbyterian Church in Louisville and instructor in
Homiletics at the seminary. Dr. Benfield spoke during Religious Emphasis Week at Queens College, and many may remember him for
his messages at the Quadrennial Youth Conference at Auburn, Alabama, in 1954.

Church leader

Lt. Arthur Cavano Fills ROTC Vacancy

The vacancy created in the ROTC department by the resignation of Capt. Lomar was filled by Lt. Arthur Cavano. He
has assumed the duties of MS II instructor. A native of Michigan, Lt. Cavano’s varied military career began in December
1943. His original branch of service was the Marine Corps, and he served with the occupational forces in the Pacific.
When he was discharged in March 1946, he was a member of the 6th Marine Regiment, 2nd Marine Division.

Of special interest to students, Dr. Benfield, in addition to his being co-author of Understanding the Books of the Old
Testament, is chairman of the Advisory Council on Higher Education for the Presbyterian Church, U.S.

Warlick Elected President of IRC

At its regular monthly meeting Wednesday night, the International Relations Club discussed plans and elected officers for the new year.
Program plans call for exchange meetings with Winthrop College’s International Relations Club and a battery of outside speakers on international
politics. Tom Warlick was elected president, Tom Tennant vice president, and Phil Kukura secretary-treasurer. Professor Marrotte will continue as the
group’s adviser.

A civilian again, Lt. Cavano attended Fairmont State College in West Virginia and the University of Denver in Denver, Colorado.
While in college, he took ROTC and received a commission. Immediately after graduation, he was in the advertising business for
a year. Upon the outbreak of the Korean War, he volunteered to become a paratrooper. His first assignment was to
the 101st Airborne, a training unit. From there he went to the 11th Airborne and eventually entered the Infantry School
at Fort Benning, Georgia. After completing work there, he went overseas in 1952 with the 1st Cavalry. While in Japan,
the jobs of Rifle Company Commander, Instructor in Leadership Schools, Headquarters Company Executive Officer, and Assistant Inspector General were given
to him at various times, both here and abroad.

FRIDAY, APRIL 29, 1955

French Lady Is Guest...

(Continued From Page One)

Starring in this comedy were Fred Summers as the slick-tongued gentleman thief, Bill Kuykendall, his sticky-fingered valet, John Harmon as
the drowsy victim, and Albert Harris, the excitable and indignant police inspector. The piece was exceedingly well done and provided
several good laughs. Next, Joe Conarroe read a paper on the contemporary French author and philosopher, Jean Sartre, and briefly
explained his idea of existentialism, a subject few understood, but which all proclaimed to understand, obviously in an effort to
impress our delightful guest. “The Contemporary French Novel” by Henri Peyre, Sterling Professor of French at Yale University, was then
discussed by Frank White with comments by Dr. Watts. After a brief interval, the room and its occupants were jarred
as John “Carmen” Harmon bounded in, dressed in a reversed bathrobe and rose, and proceeded to bump and grind his
way through “Habanera” from the opera “Carmen.” After everyone had laughed heartily at his asinine antics and distressingly off-key voice,
all settled down to listen to Sabine as she talked informally, in French, about the differences and similarities of France
and America. When the discussion turned to dating and boys and girls in general, everyone’s ego was considerably bolstered as
we learned that there wasn’t any real difference between the French and American male. After several stilted questions in French
from the students, the Madams and Mademoiselle retired to the kitchen and election of officers for the coming year was
held with Fred Myers, Larry Trotti, and Steve Huntley being elected president, vice president, and secretary, respectively. Refreshments were then
served and everyone gathered around Sabine to query her in not-so-stilted English about various things.

In 1954 Lt. Cavano was brought back to the United States and stationed at Gary Air Force Base in Texas.

(Continued From Page One)

Dr. Sam Newell will also be available to answer questions proposed by students attending. Following the banquet in the dining
hall will be a formal closing worship in Lingle Chapel conducted by Rev. Harry Moffett from Gastonia. The closing exercises
will be over at 7:30 p.m. The entire program has been planned to yield practical results for those students who
are planning or thinking toward a profession in the ministry; it will offer the chance of conversing with outstanding churchmen
of varied faiths. The meeting should prove invaluable as a means to draw pre-ministerials closer together in a relationship with
one another in Christian love. Those who have not signed up or have not been contacted and wish to attend,
please see Harry Petersen, Joe Greer, or Jim Covington by 12:00 Saturday for a reservation.

1955 Awards Day...

(Continued From Page One)

The Chemistry Award had been given to Henderson Rourk. Professor Crawford bestowed the Freshman Physics Award for the highest academic
standing in that class among physics students on Johnny Johnson. The A. K. Phifer Economics Award, which entails a stipend
of $460, was presented to Ernest Taylor by Dr. Ratliff. The Tommy Peters Award was given, as a memorial to
that former outstanding Davidson sports figure, to Bill Roland by Coach Dole. Dr. McGeachy recognized those scholars who had been
chosen to membership in Phi Beta Kappa this year. Dr. Cunningham himself conferred the Agnes Sentelle Brown Award to Jason
McManus. This honor is presented to that student who has demonstrated his outstanding quality in character, personality, scholarship, and intellectual
ability.

PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS

You'll SMILE your approval of Chesterfield’s smoothness—mildness—refreshing taste. You'll SMILE your approval of Chesterfield’s quality—highest quality low nicotine.
