THE NEWS AND EDITOR VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE VOL. XLII

Davidsonian Chooses Ten Top News Stories Of the Past 12 Months

By JIM BATTEN

Before 1955 outgrows his three-cornered pants, it might be a good idea to pause to note a few of his predecessors’ doings, as reflected in the 1954 headlines of the Davidsonian.

Nineteen-fifty-four, despite perpetual claims to the contrary, was quite an eventful year on the Davidson scene, with such heretofore unheard-of innovations as dormitory bandits, and increased athletics grants.

The year’s biggest story broke early last March with the unexpected resignation of Davidson's long-time Dean of Students, John C. Bailey, Jr. Well-liked and deeply respected by the student body, Bailey’s resignation was a cause for regret among Davidsonians, past and present alike.

In the early morning of February 4, while the school slept, Davidson unknowingly brushed shoulders with tragedy as bandit Jennings Fields quietly stole through the dormitories, making off with $360 and a $100 wristwatch. Fields was later to kill one policeman and critically wound another as they attempted his arrest in North Georgia. Ed “Cop” Linker emerged from his quietly inconspicuous role as Davidson’s faithful night watchman, as police gave full credit for Fields’ final capture to his alertness in noting the license number of the bandit’s car while parked on campus. Linker was honored for his services, past and present, in appropriate ceremonies before the student body.

Also in February, came the appointment of Dr. C. J. Pietenpol to the vital post of Dean of the Faculty by the Board of Trustees of the College. Dr. Pietenpol had served as acting dean since September, 1953.

An unprecedented change of policy came on February 26, as the Trustees called for $85,000 in athletic subsidization. This decision stipulated that if outside contributions did not meet the quota, it was to be supplied by the college, a marked departure from past policy. Met with unbridled enthusiasm in most quarters, many felt that brighter days lay ahead for the long-suffering Wildcats.

The annual spring elections saw Floyd Feeney named to the gargantuan task of heading up Davidson’s student government.

(Continued On Page Four)

“Satchmo” Armstrong Returns

By JOHN TRASK

Louis “Satchmo” Armstrong will be back on the campus February 14 for a repeat performance similar to last year’s concert. All seats for the program are reserved. Between January 19 and February 5, students may get their tickets from any Inter-Fraternity Council member for the special price of $1.75. After February 5, the tickets will go up to $2.00.

Armstrong got his start in music while he was at the “Colored Waif’s Home for Boys” where he went when he was twelve years old. He first tried the bugle, and then the cornet. In jazzy New Orleans, where the “king” got his start, he was a natural from the beginning. His clear, true, and clean notes got him his first musical job. One night when Bunk Johnson didn’t turn up at Matranga’s joint on Perdido Street, Louis sat in for him (for $1.25 a night).

When the war came in 1917, the city of New Orleans, (at the Navy's request) clamped down on the honky-tonks, night clubs, bars, and other places in the disease-ridden “District.” This clamping down brought about the mass exodus of hundreds of jazz musicians and caused the closing of famous establishments like Lulu White’s renowned Mahogany Hall. (One of Louis’ prized recordings is “Mahogany Hall Stomp.”) Louis Armstrong was one of those who chose to stay in New Orleans, and it wasn’t long until he was known as the finest cornet player in town. After getting married at 18, he took a job playing with Fate Marble’s band on the Mississippi River excursion boats Dixie Bell and Sidney.

In 1922, Joe Oliver sent for him and Louis went north—in a land just getting used to flappers, coonskin coats, bathtub gin, and jazz itself. From his modest beginning, Armstrong organized his own band, and he himself changed from the cornet to the trumpet. From then until now, Louis has been going strong. When asked how long he thinks he can last, the “jazz king” replied, “right until I get to the Pearly Gates, I hope.” When he gets to those gates he is going to pay his respects, he says, to another famous trumpet player. Says Louis: “I’m gonna blow a kiss to Gabriel.”

Budapest String Quartet Appears Here on Feb. 4

Friday night, February 4 at 8:15, the Budapest String Quartet will be heard at Davidson in conjunction with the Artist Series. Since its American debut at Cornell University in 1930, this group has become perhaps the finest exponent of string quartet music in the world today.

The history of quartet playing, which is considered to be the highest and purest form of music, dates back to the 18th Century when Hungary’s Prince Esterhazy commissioned “Papa” Haydn to write and play quartets for him. Modern quartet playing had its beginning in 1902 with Edward J. de Coppet, a Manhattan broker, who provided a practice retreat for four players at his Swiss “Villa Flonzaley.” Thus the first strictly professional quartet ensemble was born.

Now under a long-term contract to the Whittall Foundation, The Budapest String Quartet first played in the Library of Congress in 1938 and every year they average twenty-four concerts in the Coolidge Auditorium, performing on the magnificent Stradivari instruments there. This connection with the Library also affords the group opportunities for studying the incomparable collection of manuscript and recorded music.

The Quartet’s annual schedule now consists of over a hundred concerts, and their recent tours have virtually covered the four corners of the globe. In 1950 the musicians toured Europe for the first time since 1939, and were received with high acclaim in England, France, Holland, and Switzerland. South America heard the Budapest String Quartet in 1951, and an overwhelming success was the 1952 performance series in Japan. Indonesia, North Africa, Australia, and New Zealand audiences have received the group with enthusiasm. “Perfect unanimity and understanding of tonal and interpretative effects,” wrote one critic.

It may come as a surprise to some to learn of the high place which the Quartet occupies on the annual record-sale lists throughout the nation. The recorded performances of the Budapest four on Victor and Columbia have been selling about 300,000 copies per annum, and some of the Beethoven works have been described in the New York Times as the “outstanding of all records this season.” In 1946 the Budapest Quartet won the only honor in chamber music given by The Annual Recorded Music Awards.

Most people take it for granted that the Budapest String Quartet is composed of Hungarian musicians, but at present all are Russian by birth and are American citizens. However, the historic name was justified and the quartet originally started with complete Hungarian membership. It was this organization which toured the United States and Europe in the 1920s. Joseph Roisman, first violin; Boris Kroyt, viola, and Jac Gorodetzky, second violin, are natives of Odessa; the

(Continued On Page Four)

R.O.T.C. Department Reveals Awards Plan

The ROTC Department this week revealed a plan designed to increase incentive in drill and to add to general excellence of personal preparation. Effective January 11 and extending until the May Awards Day, outstanding cadets and units will be selected each drill period. This competition will constitute one of the factors in selection of the winners of annual awards.

On the unit level, there will be a selection of the Best Company and Best Platoon of the Month by the Cadet Regimental Commander and his staff. The selection is based on performance in drill as a unit, personal appearance, percentage of attendance, conduct of training, and cadet response. Both units will receive streamers indicating their excellence.

Each company will choose one outstanding cadet from each of the MS I, II, and III classes during the first hour of drill. In the second hour of drill, the Cadet Regimental Staff will observe the above cadets and choose the outstanding MS I, II, and III cadet in the regiment. Personal appearance, performance in drill, and military knowledge are the determinants of this award. Five merits will be awarded the honored cadets. Special competition each month among the Cadets of the Week will be based on drill, appearance, and military knowledge, with the winner receiving five additional merits.

Ten Davidson Men Attend National Meet

The National Assembly of the Y.M.C.A. and Y.W.C.A. was held December 27 to January 2 at the University of Kansas. A large Davidson delegation, together with thirty delegates from ten colleges throughout the Carolinas, left the Davidson campus by chartered bus on December 26 to attend the Assembly. Representing the Davidson “Y,” headed by Sam Magill, were John Baker, Jim Brice, Roy Davis, Tony Dick, Henry Griffin, Charles McGowan, John McVay, Bob Mack, and Creighton Peden.

The theme of the Assembly was the question, asked of Adam by God, “Where Are You?” During the week-long meeting, the delegates sought, through worship and study together, better to understand the question and the Christian’s response to it.

For study purposes, the Assembly was broken into four sections dealing with the individual’s search for a better understanding of himself, his relation to the university, the nation and world, and the struggle for freedom. These sections were further divided into small discussion groups of from ten to fifteen students each. The discussions were based on five workbooks, especially prepared for the Assembly by the National Student Council of the YMCA and YWCA.

The National Assembly is the legislative body of the movement. Meeting every four years, it determines the policies and program of the movement during the ensuing four-year period. For this reason, the Platform for Effective Citizenship, prepared by the Assembly, is important in guiding the social action to be taken by the movement. In the Platform, statements of the Assembly’s position on various issues, and recommendations for further study, are made as a guide for the local Christian Associations.

Each day’s activities opened with a worship service, followed by a Bible Presentation. Then, until four o’clock, with a break for lunch, the delegates met in plenary sessions, sections, or work groups, or in separate YMCA and YWCA meetings. During the afternoon free time, and at night after the evening sessions, the delegates got to know each other and exchange ideas and opinions with fellow delegates from all over the country.

In the course of the week various phases of the “Y” movement and related organizations were presented. One evening was devoted to the World’s Student Christian Federation. The Assembly became acquainted with the work of the World University Service, the Student Volunteer Movement, and World Service.

The Assembly closed on a note of Christian unity with a com-

Prof. Erwin Passes At Home Dec. 30

Professor Edward Jones Erwin, 68, died at his home in Davidson at 3:30 a.m., December 30, 1954. His death was unexpected and was the result of a heart attack.

Professor Erwin was born in Morganton, N.C., October 10, 1886, son of the late George Phifer and Corinna Avery Erwin. He was a professor of English at Davidson College, coming to Davidson in 1920. He received his A.B. degree from Davidson in 1906, and his M.A. degree from Columbia University in New York. He also studied at the University of Chicago. He taught high school in New York City, the McCallie School in Tennessee and the University of Mississippi before coming to Davidson.

Mr. Erwin was a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Omicron Delta Kappa, Phi Beta Kappa and Sigma Upsilon fraternities, a member and founder of the Red and Black Masquers, dramatic club at Davidson College. He was a member and teacher of the Davidson College Presbyterian Church Men's Bible Class, andAn elder in his church, he was a member of the Davidson Lions Club and Mecklenburg Lodge No. 176 of the Masonic Order. He founded the Erwin Lodge Recreation Center in Davidson in memory of his two sons who lost their lives in World War II. Mr. Erwin is survived by his wife, Mrs. Mary Browne Erwin; one daughter, Mrs. R. C. Dyer of Western Springs, Ill.; two grandchildren, Robin and Erwin Dyer; two sisters, Mrs. W. E. White of Morganton, and Mrs. J. D. Boger of Washington, D. C.

THE DAVIDSONIAN
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, JANUARY 14, 1955

Buddy has announced that the Reverend Clark Hunt will be unable to participate in the United Christian Mission services due to illness. Henry E. Smith of Chapel Hill, a minister in the Presbyterian Church, U.S., will take his place on the mission agenda. Mr. Smith is a native of Texas and a graduate of his state university, class of 1950. He served as chairman of the National Council of the YMCA while still an undergraduate student. In 1953 Mr. Smith received his B.D. degree from Yale Divinity School with a major in Religion in Higher Education. He officiated as chairman for the United Student Christian Council, a national group of students comprised of fourteen denominational movements. He has also been Acting Secretary of U.S.C.C. A frequent participant in religious emphasis services and a widely traveled speaker, Mr. Smith serves currently as Minister to Students at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. His writings have appeared in Intercollegian and Motive as well as other periodicals.

The University Christian Mission, which has as its theme, “The Mature Christian in the Changing South,” will present Mr. Smith as speaker in the communion meditation at the dedication service Thursday evening, February 10. He will also deliver the Chapel service on Monday, February 7.

Business Firms Will Hold Interviews Here

The following business firms have arranged to hold interviews with interested students: Lehigh Portland Cement Company, January 14; Colgate-Palmolive Company, January 28; Standard Oil Company, January 31; Deering-Milliken Mills, February 2 and 3; Enka Corporation of America, February 2; Civil Service Examiner, February 3; Burroughs, February 4. Proctor & Gamble, February 10 and 11; Burlington Mills, February 17; Guaranty Trust Company of N.Y., Feb. 21; Connecticut General Life Insurance, February 22; General Electric, March 3. Crown Petroleum, March 7; Hanover Bank of N.Y., March 7; Kendall Cotton Mills, March 8; J.C. Penney Company, March 9; Electro-Metallurgical Company, March 9; Southern Bell, March 24; Pilot Life Insurance, April 5. Others will be added at a later date.

Representatives from the following stated that their companies would be interested in interviewing Davidson men, if enough advance interest was indicated on the part of the students here: Chase National Bank of New York, Broyhill Furniture Company of Lenoir, N.C., and First National Bank and Trust Co. of Asheville.

Has Business Position With Charlotte Concern

Colonel J. D. Sapp of the Davidson College Reserve Officers Training Corps announced today the resignation of Captain Howard E. Lamar, Regular Army Officer and Assistant PMS&T at Davidson College. Captain Lamar voluntarily resigned his commission in the Regular Army in order to accept a position with the Interstate Securities Corporation, an investment banking and brokerage concern in Charlotte. His resignation is in no way connected with recently announced cut-backs in Army personnel. He will continue to live in Cornelius for the next six to twelve months.

A Davidson graduate of 1948, Captain Lamar played freshman football and was a member of the court of control while here. He was also a member of Sigma Phi Epsilon Social Fraternity and Sigma Delta Pi, honorary Spanish fraternity. On completing his ROTC training, Captain Lamar was honored by being named a Distinguished Military Student and a Distinguished Military Graduate. Captain Lamar, a native of Charleston, South Carolina, went on active duty with the regular Army on October 14, 1948. He was assigned to the 5th Infantry Division until August 1, 1949. He served as instructor at the 5th Infantry Division Leadership School and as the Executive Officer of the Headquarters and Headquarters and Service Company of the 85th Heavy Tank Battalion. He then attended the Ground General School at Fort Riley, Kansas, from August 2, 1949, to December 31, 1949. From January 1, 1950, to June 15, 1950, he attended the Infantry School at Fort Benning, Georgia. Captain Lamar was assigned to the 1st Infantry Division, European Command, from July 1950 to July 1953. He served as Platoon Leader, Company A, Platoon Leader and Executive Officer of Company D, and as Battalion Adjutant and S-1, Headquarters, 1st Battalion.

PROF. E. J. ERWIN

"The Snake Pit" Is Union Movie Feature

“The Snake Pit,” starring Olivia de Havilland, Leo Genn, and Mark Stevens, is the College Union Film Committee’s feature for tonight and Saturday night. Shows begin tonight at 7 and 9 p.m. Tomorrow night's showing will start at 9. Admission is 25 cents. Miss de Havilland was mentioned for an Academy Award for her performance in “The Snake Pit” and actually did receive an Oscar a year later for her role in “The Heiress.” Mary Jane Ward wrote the novel on which the film is based. The title refers to the ancient practice of tossing insane persons into a snake pit in an attempt to shock them back to sanity. The film presents a view of our modern-day “snake pits,” the asylums for the insane. Co-producers are Anatole Litvak and Robert Bassler, and Mr. Litvak is the director of “The Snake Pit.”

COMING FILMS

Pictures scheduled through February include “State Fair,” starring Will Rogers, on January 22; “The Cruel Sea” on January 27 and 28; “Arsenic and Old Lace” on February 11 and 12; and “David and Bathsheba” on February 26.

YMCA Membership Meeting Monday

There will be a general membership meeting of the YMCA Monday, January 17, at 10:20 a.m. in the Ballroom of the College Union. All members are urged to attend. A report of the National Student Assembly will be given and some important program proposals will be introduced.

Cleland, Duke Pastor, Leads D.C. Vespers

Returning to the Davidson campus to lead the Vesper Service this Sunday will be Dr. James T. Cleland, pastor of the Duke University College Chapel. Dr. Cleland was born and educated in Scotland. After coming to the United States he taught at Amherst before joining the faculty at Duke University Divinity School. Today he is in constant demand in campus pulpits and is considered one of the most popular college preachers in the entire country. Our speaker is especially close to this school as Davidson conferred on him an honorary Doctor of Divinity three years ago in recognition of his outstanding service to the work of the Church. Dr. Cleland presented the lectern Bible which we are using in the Davidson College Presbyterian Church.

NOTICE

The Davidsonian will not publish during the remainder of January because of semester examinations. The next regular issue is scheduled for Friday, February 4.

Eumanean Society Will Hear Davidson

On Monday, January 17, at 8:15 p.m., Eumanean Literary Society will hold its regular meeting with Dr. Chalmers Davidson of the faculty as its guest. Dr. Davidson will present to the society readings from the novel that he is in the process of writing. The novel concerns the life of Davidson undergraduates from the founding years of the college to the present. Although it is to be fiction, it is based on old letters, etc., written by Davidson undergraduates. Dr. Davidson calls it an attempt to reveal historical facts about the undergraduate life here in such a way as to attract readers, which is to say, perhaps, that a formal history of the college will attract few readers. The book to be written in five sections, should take another four or five years to complete as Dr. Davidson has time for writing only during the summer vacations. The selections to be read are from the first section and concern undergraduate life in the 1830s. It consists of letters, supposedly written by a student to his parents and his girl, or girls, back home. Have times changed too much? As I read one of the letters which concerned the usual routine on the Sabbath, I realized that we as students at the Davidson of today, have very little cause to moan about compulsory Vespers. In the 1830s, the students spent, for instance, all Sunday afternoon reading from the Bible and listening to a sermon delivered by one of the professors. In those days, studying on the Sabbath was practically a cardinal sin and simply wasn't done. One kept the Sabbath and made no bones about it. It is in an attempt to draw criticism from the members of Eu that Dr. Davidson is reading selections from his newest endeavor, which he intends to entitle “Alenda Lux.” He contends that such criticism will help him as he works further on the novel. This presentation, with the critical discussion, should not take much more than an hour and all members of Eu are urged to attend.

BUDDY MORROW

By BILL GALLUHER

“It’s magic, it’s mellow, it's Morrow” — so states the announcement made by the Interfraternity Council, which has selected Buddy Morrow and his orchestra to play for the Davidson Midwinters Dances, February 18 and 19. The schedule of Morrow performances includes a formal dance Friday night, February 18, from 9 until 1, a concert Saturday afternoon, and an informal affair Saturday evening, 8 ‘til 12. Audiences of dancers and critics have all acclaimed the rhythm style featured by the Morrow band, and disk jockeys hail his recordings among the best in the instrumental field. His performances at the Hollywood Palladium and Atlantic City’s Steel Pier have made his one of the nation’s top ranking bands in just three years since its inception. The group was voted the most promising band in 1951 by over 2000 disk jockeys polled by Billboard magazine; it has fulfilled this promise. Morrow has set attendance records at leading clubs and hotels, including the Edgewater Park in Detroit in 1952. His experience at seven Ivy League and Big Ten schools within the past year attests to his popularity in collegiate circles.

In the Morrow entourage is Dorothy Kae, an alluring blonde, who reputedly employs the utmost in musical and corporal talent while singing with the orchestra. With eyes on Miss Kae, we may take note, however, of the $10,000 insurance policy held on the custom-made trombone of leader Morrow. Morrow first played professionally during his early teens in his hometown of New Haven, Connecticut. He continued his musical education at the Julliard School of Music in New York where Paul Whiteman took notice of him and inked him into his orchestral aggregation. Now, at 35, bandman Morrow can look back on a career of experience with Eddie Duchin, Artie Shaw, Vincent Lopez, Tommy Dorsey and Jimmy Dorsey. He has been under contract with the Columbia Broadcasting System, RCA Victor Records, and Mercury Recording Company. Uncle Sam’s Navy also enjoyed the music of Morrow's trombone during a three-year stint, 1943 through 1946. In 1950 “Rio Rita,” his first disc for RCA, made a hit in the recording world. This was followed by such top waxings as “Night Train,” “Greyhound,” “One Mint Julep,” “Rose, Rose, I Love You,” and “That Old Black Magic.” Morrow, whose talents are not confined to band directing, has also composed a number of pop tunes, of which the best known is his “Boogie Woogie March.” Mr. Morrow's succession of hit recordings and club dates places his orchestral reputation among the highest in the nation.