For the first time in the memory of those now attending Davidson, it is possible to have a unique experience. Several times this spring, through eyes that are still half-closed with sleep, a glance at the morning sports page has quickly snapped us into consciousness. Our spring sports teams have registered victories, often three on one day.

The annual Southern Conference Tennis Tournament got into full sway yesterday as the first and second rounds in the singles and doubles play were completed. Teams from Davidson, VMI, VPI, William and Mary, George Washington, Richmond, and Washington and Lee are engaged in the tourney, and the Cats are favored to repeat as champions. Lacy Keesler, number one Cat netter for the past two years and singles champion last year, is seeded number one and should retain his crown. Corky Clark, runner-up to Keesler last year, is seeded number two.

Because of their clear dominance in their events, Phil Koonce and Pete Ashcraft have captured most of the newspaper space. But that is far from the whole story. The ever-improving tosses of Bill “Stallion” Gramley in the shot and discus have contributed many valuable points to the tally. Frank Mitchner, shifting in his senior year to an unfamiliar spot, and Roswell Mallory, control the 440. Floyd Feeney pushes the invincible Ashcraft in the two-mile, while in the javelin Smith, Wright, and Martin are all vying for the coveted first place. Jack Huffaker is a constant threat in the high jump and Don Campbell approaches stardom in the hurdles. The honor roll could go on.

Pete Whittle’s cindermen maintained their perfect record for this season by overwhelming the Generals from Washington and Lee 94½-37½ last Friday afternoon. The Cats have now won six straight, and for the sixth time Phil Koonce was high point man. Koonce garnered 15 points, while Pete Ashcraft and Bill Gramley, who were also outstanding, got 10 each. Koonce won first place in the 100-yard dash with a time of :09.96, in the 220-yard dash with 22.8, and in the broad jump with a distance of 21 feet 6½ inches. Ashcraft came in first in the one mile and two-mile runs in 4:48.4 and 10:24.7. Gramley took first in the shot put with the distance of 44 feet 4½ inches and then moved over to the discus area, where his throw of 128 feet and 1½ inches was good enough for first in that event.

Other first places went to Frank Mitchner in the 440-yard run in :53, Snyder Garrison in the 880-yard run in 2:04, Don Campbell in the low hurdles in :26, and Jack Huffaker in the high jump with a leap of 5 feet 11 inches. Davidson’s mile relay team of Mallory, Garrison, Duiguid, and Mitchner came through to win in 3:46.3. Winners for the Generals included Kennedy in the high hurdles in :15.35, Creel in the javelin with a heave of 171 feet 2 inches, and Pipkin and Simkins (tie) in the pole vault with 10 feet.

Tomorrow the Cats will lay their perfect record on the line again when they meet North Carolina State. Last year Davidson outpointed the Wolf Pack 89½-41½. Coach Whittle expects to have the most trouble in the distance events; Bob Jones of State is nationally ranked in the 880-yard run. This will be the last regular season meet for four seniors: Harry Peterson, Floyd Feeney, Frank Mitchner, and Jack Huffaker.

Away from the Cat scene for a moment, one of the most realistic functions on the baseball front at this time of perpetual hope is the cutting adrift of former greats. As spring replaces the decay of winter, so do young stars like Herb Score, Ken Boyer, Al Kaline, John Kucks, Wally Moon, etc., gradually squeeze out the veterans of the baseball wars. Among those who have either retired or are fast approaching the end are Ewell Blackwell, Vern Stephens, Vic Raschi, Allie Reynolds, and John Sain to mention a few. All of them have given much time to our national game, but there is no room for sentiment in the big time. They've had their time of fame and it’s time to make room for the new stars. And wonder when Ted Williams is going to decide that he had rather tag a fastball than snag a fish?

One of the sports on the Davidson scene which receives very little publicity is golf, but one of the outstanding athletes on the campus is the number one golfer, Al Gaither. A member of Pi Kappa Alpha, Al is married and is a senior, planning to graduate in summer school. In many sports, practice is a drudgery, but to Al playing golf anytime is a pleasure. Many times during the summer or holidays he can be seen playing a round on the course at Hickory, near his home at Newton, N.C. Consistently this year Al has been the medalist in the play with rival teams. His scores always range in the low 70s, while his best round of the year was a three-under-par 69 during the spring tour of Florida. This weekend, Al leads the team into the Southern Conference tournament being held at the Danville Country Club at Danville, Virginia. The Cats are defending champions, and if Al continues to shoot his usual good brand of golf there is an excellent chance that the trophy will remain at Davidson.

Still leading the interfraternity softball league is the hot SPE team.Team with eight wins and one loss, as they continued their winning streak this week to wrap up the league championship. Although losses in their final two games could mean a tie for the crown, the SPEs are expected to finish in the number one position alone. The Sigma Chis and the Phi Delts are tied for second place with 7-3 records. The Phis pulled up from fifth place last week by winning three consecutive games, while the Sigs rose one notch. The ATOs are now in the number four position after dropping two places from last week’s standings. In this week’s action through Wednesday, both the Phi Delts and the SPEs won two games; the former downed the ATOs and the Pi Kapps, the latter were victorious over the Pikas and KAs. Three teams had split records: the Kappa Sigs beat the Pi Kapps but lost to the Phi Gams; the Betas dropped the SAEs and were defeated by the Pikas; and the Phi Gams lost to the Sigma Chis but won over the Kappa Sigs. Because there was no action this Monday, the softball season will not be finished until one day of make-up games is held next week.

Switching to inter-fraternity tennis, Bill Rawson won the championship in the singles tournament by downing the Phi Gams’ Bobby Key (Continued on Page Four)

AL GAITHER

You finally meet the campus queen—on graduation day!

Murderers Row—(L. to R.): Hope, Little, Morris, Rowland, and West.

Baseballers

Davidson’s Wildcat baseballers will bring a very successful season to a close next Friday afternoon against the VMI Cadets on the home diamond. This year's nine has been characterized by good hitting and better-than-average pitching, a combination that is hard to beat, and in this case, a combination that has not often been beaten. For the first time in many years, the season’s won-lost record will find twice as many games won as lost. Tuesday afternoon the Cats added two games to the win column by taking a doubleheader from Furman, 3-2 and 6-5. In the first game, which was the seven-inning contest, Dick Belton notched his second win of the season, although he developed a slightly sore arm and was relieved by Ish Bennett in the last inning. Both teams garnered seven hits, though Furman left ten men stranded on base. Buzz Hope and Don McRee led the Davidson hitting attack, Buzz getting 3 for 3, and Don 2 for 3, while Belton's six strikeouts kept the Furman attack bottled up. Jim West batted across the winning run in the last of the seventh, blasting a triple to drive in Hope. Errorless play aided the Cat cause.

The second game saw the Cats off to a very bad start, as leaky fielding and a couple of timely Furman hits put the Greenville boys ahead five to nothing. In the fourth, Ollie Harris accounted for Davidson's first run by blasting a homer over the scoreboard in right field, the first of two hits for the versatile freshman star. In the sixth, the Cats finally got to the Furman hurler for four runs to tie the score. Ish Bennett, who came to the mound in relief of Johnny Smith in the fifth, doubled to deep left-center, and was singled home by Don Comer. Three walks, a force out, and a bad throw to first base netted the Cats three more runs before the inning ended. In the eighth, Bill Rowland walked, and with the hit and run on, Dyke Little doubled behind the runner into right to send home the winning run.

Perhaps the star of the game was Ish Bennett, who did not give up a hit in his five innings of relief. Ish’s comment, after fanning the last two batters in the ninth inning was, “Boy! I sure did shut the door on ‘em!”

And then you find her summering next to your house on the bay... and all

Athletes Set Annual Banquet For Monday

This coming Monday night, the annual athletic banquet will be held in the College Union Ballroom. This get-together is always one of the highlights of the year for the boys who represent Davidson in all phases of athletic endeavor, and the little impromptu speeches by the coaches who give out the awards always afford a great deal of humor. From last year's fete came a classic remark. When asked how his swimming team did over the season, Coach Hambright replied, “Well, purty good. We didn’t have nobody drown.”

The banquet honors boys who have lettered in a varsity or junior-varsity sport, or who have remained out for a sport all season, and all team managers. In keeping with college traditions, the food will be of the best quality, and the fellowship will be of the best variety. If you are eligible to attend, by all means don’t miss it.

In the doubles play, the Cats had two of their three teams still in the competition, as the teams of Clark and Keesler and Snead and Green took their initial matches in second round proceedings, which began early yesterday morning and continued late yesterday afternoon. There were no Davidson matches in the first round. Clark and Keesler were superb in defeating the W&M twosome of Mason Swan and Bill Clay by the score of 6-0, 6-1. In the other Cat win, Leighton Green, feeling much better from his earlier sickness, teamed with George Snead to defeat Charles Bowden and Bob Collins of Richmond, 6-0, 6-1. In a match against the number one doubles combination.

(Continued on Page Four)

M-m-man, that’s PURE PLEASURE!

For more pure pleasure... SMOKE CAMELS!

No other cigarette is so rich-tasting. No other brand has ever been able to match the pure pleasure in Camel's exclusive blend of costly tobaccos — one of the reasons why Camels are America’s most popular cigarette!

R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., Winston-Salem, N.C.