The Davidsonian

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Dick Morehead

ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Maurice Crouse, Tom Warlick

Managing Editors
Jim Batten, Frank Bloodworth, Jim Brice

Sports Editor
Bunny Perkinson

Copy Editor
John T. Harmon

News Editors
Bill Gallier, Leon Howell, Watt McCain

Feature Editor
Hank Daniel

Staff Photographer
Bob Beall

Member of the Associated Collegiate Press and Intercollegiate Press

Friday, May 13, 1955
Page Two

Tribute To A Managing Editor

Out of the facts and files of the Davidsonian office emerge many strange and unusual characters. There is one type,
however, that seems too normal to be there, too smart to admit it, and too tired to leave. Upon his
shoulders rests the responsibility of some 5,000 words, the fate of reporters and articles, and the ultimate success or failure
of the paper. He is anonymously called a managing editor.

As exams dawn upon the sleeping populace, it is fitting to recognize this unsung hero of the printed page. The
managing editor begins his usual week on Sunday evening around nine o’clock with an editorial board meeting where he receives
credit for last week’s mistakes and lays plans for another week's paper. On Wednesday evening he takes head in hand
and enters his respective office in the Union for a long night's rendezvous with the ‘student voice." Here he collects
the written words, cuts them to available space, checks for grammar, and waits patiently for “last minute scoops.” The editorial
man must move in mysterious ways to delete suspicious lines and damaging paragraphs; seek out the creative editorial writers and
cartoonists and avoid such things as “cloister-fobia” and fifth column columns.

For the front and back page editor there is the constant struggle with word space, irate presidents whose 800-word commentaries
cannot go in, and the usual headlines, cutlines, and deadlines. Then there is always the sports editor, left without reporters,
who collects the facts, applies the established jargon-expander, and produces page 3 in-between the ads. Around midnight, our hero faintly
responds to the Union call, packs up his folders and moves out. Thursday afternoon, he strolls to the printing office
to set up his respective page on the iron layout, cut the run-over, and fill up any apparent holes. Friday
afternoon also finds this newsman down among the type, making final arrangements for printing, and proof-reading the entire copy. When
the press begins to roll, he silently returns to campus life to await the reaction.

A charter member of journalists anonymous, this unseen but indispensable editor faithfully carries his page to press each week. Fifteen
hours of work and many problems find their answer in overheard comments and the knowledge of a printed page. To
the managing editor, then, a tribute long due but never forgotten.

Chapel Policy

The recently announced plans for next year’s chapel services offer one more example of the significant change in faculty and
administrative policy of this year. Realizing the dilemmas of chapel in the past, a thorough analysis of the problem was
made by a qualified committee. Acting upon the facts and results, they have presented a plan built around the policy
implied at the first of the year by Dr. Cunningham in his chapel talk on the subject.

The central concept of this policy rests not with the negative elimination of one chapel service per week, but in
the purposes (expressed on page one) which center around worship and fellowship. It was recognized that three well-planned and concise
services can be more meaningful than four or five routine exercises. Students were also given the benefit of the doubt
in regard to the number of cuts in proportion to the number of services held. It is hoped that administrative
analysis and positive recognition and action upon campus problems will continue and that student response to these changes will bear
earmarks of mature southern gentlemen.

Floyd Feene

Student Government’s Year Surveyed In Retrospect

A quick look at the state of student government at the close of the year shows no sweeping changes, and
no daring innovations since last spring. Such a look, however, does show several important improvements and points toward further development
in the future.

The new student constitution stands as the main achievement of the past year’s work. The reworking of student body regulations
toward a simpler and more general statement of infractions gives the individual students more responsibility for student conduct, while at
the same time giving the council greater flexibility in dealing with offenders. The added responsibility to the student comes in
applying for himself the more general provisions of the new regulations to varying situations. It brings him away from a
strict legalistic definition of offenses.

A more definite and an improved trial procedure affords students standing trial a better chance to present an adequate defense,
and more safeguards against violation of what are considered basic rights in our judicial system. This new trial procedure enables
the council to get at the facts of the case more quickly and more efficiently through the use of a
prosecuting attorney, all of which leads to a fairer and a juster decision.

Other provisions in the constitution provide for administrative changes which should ensure a larger student voice in the administration of
student and overall affairs of the college. I refer to the new Student-Faculty Committee and the Finance Committee.

The council has tried to seek out issues instead of waiting for them to arise of themselves. In this line
it made a stand at the first of the year as regards drinking and interpretation of pledged work. These stands
were not designed to antagonize or frighten anyone, but to state clearly in advance what the council's interpretation of these
important provisions would be. The council's concern over student attitude to the Honor System also worked toward this goal of
raising pertinent issues.

In representing student viewpoint and opinion on matters of concern to the student body, perhaps student government performs its most
important functions. Much of this work is always behind the scenes—through committees, conferences, and the like—but some, such as cutting
of reviews and athletics was done through formal statements and petitions.

Another weak point of student government program in the past, which has been strengthened is participation in outside student affairs.
Membership in the National Students Association and participation in the state student legislature should enable Davidson to be active in
state student affairs in the future, as well as affording an influx of new ideas from these organizations.

Perhaps the most vital criticism of our governmental set-up is the smallness of the base of student support and the
failure, all too often, of the council to act in any capacity but judicial. The past council has tried to
avoid these shortcomings through a program aimed at increasing both the number of students participating and the overall scope of
student government work. The council tried to accomplish this first through committees composed largely of council members, such as the
constitution committee, and secondly through more or less independent committees, such as Clyde Robinson’s Committee on NSA membership and Doug
Oldenburg’s committee for the proposed Student Leadership Conference, which although unable to be held this spring is to be next
fall.

Student government has shown itself willing and able to take on the tasks for which it exists. That it has
not done so completely is due to its own failings and to the failings of the student body in general.
In order to prosper in the future, it must seek out even more thoroughly for responsibility—responsibility for administrative and legislative
action, responsibility for representing student opinion, and responsibility for keeping students not only informed but also participating in its activities.
To the extent that this year’s administration has failed to do these things, it has failed; to the extent which
it has progressed in assuming these responsibilities, it has succeeded.

The Athletic Scene

Dickie Davis

“Our Year”

In the fall of 1951 when the present senior class reported to Davidson College as freshmen, we were soon to
grasp the optimistic enthusiasm that Davidson was embarking on a new era in athletics. The pre-season reports lauded the new
trend, and rightly so, as an unheard-of eighty-one candidates reported for early football practice. I can remember very vividly the
fact that there were 21 guards and 17 tackles crowding the freshman field twice a day in preparation for the
opening game. It took only the opening kick-off, however, to initiate the class of 1955 to the defeatist attitude. Perhaps
if Robinson's 85-yard jaunt didn’t convince some of the more enthusiastic red-capped, megaphone bearers, and Friday night’s downpour failed to
dampen the new Davidson spirit, the next week's victory over VPI was cited as the real evidence of the new
era.

However, as the seasons came and went, the records could not be denied as we came into our last year.
Football had gone from a 1-8 to a 2-7, and culminated in 0-9 in 1953—3 wins in three years. Basketball
never suffered the crash, since no pre-season prediction ever leaned toward Madison Square Garden, and baseball lost its pennant hopes
with its disastrous winless season of '53. Only occasionally was even a minor sport able to point to its won-lost
column instead of the high academic standards of Davidson.

Don’t get me wrong. Even if the 1954-55 seasons had been unsuccessful, I still would not be leaving Davidson as
a cynic or a skeptic. There are the other undisputed values which we all recognize. My feeling is that these
other values would have been tripled if we could have had winning clubs. We are proud of this year. Recognizing
it could not have been a success without the other classes, we still feel that this is “Our Year.” Every
athlete and almost every member of the senior class will look back to 1954-55, as Davidson College looks back to
the year Woodrow Wilson spent here. Unofficially this was the winningest year in the history of the school. We boast
a won-lost record better than 63%. We can leave Davidson with our heads up as far as athletics are concerned.

I often wonder how our friends of the class of ’54 feel about their last year. Well, I guess we
could leave it with this swan song of victory and justify a feeling of pride for salvaging this senior year;
but I personally can't quite forget the years of 1951-'52-'53. We had a string of moral victories going, and not
only were we proving ourselves good losers, we were mighty near perfect. Are these days gone now? I feel that
'55 will continue to mean what it does and we will be able to justify the three preceding years only
if Davidson continues to prove itself in athletics. Are there any doubts that all isn’t pointing toward this future? I
am not alone in my feelings that the athletic situation does face a very crucial future.

No summary of athletics for these last four years would be complete without a word to our old friend, “subsidization.”
We could pass it off as somebody else's baby, but I believe that Mother Davidson can well point the finger
of guilt toward us. It is as much ours as anyone else's. My personal advice for the rearing of the
child would be this: (1) Take a long and thorough look at the problem, (2) then jump in and back
enthusiastically whatever the majority decides (and for heaven's sake quit this bickering and get together), and (3) don’t, then, be
ashamed of our best for with a little appropriate publicity we can cash in on one of our best means
of enlistment by pointing to our calibre of athletes and the successes of the 1954-55 season.

Leighton Green

Intangibles Reflect Success of Y Program

In evaluating the work of the YMCA, it is important to remember that the “Y” attempts to be a Christian
organization, with the Christian gospel atthe core of its purpose and life. For this reason, the successes and failures of
the “Y” are hard to determine because they deal with intangibles. The success of the “Y,” if it succeeds, lies
in the benefit and Christian growth obtained from the program by those who work and study in it and by
those who are the recipients of the “Y” work. If the program does not attempt to lead those who have
already professed their faith in Christ to a deeper understanding of their Christian faith and to lead those who have
not committed themselves to a faith in God through Jesus Christ, then the “Y” has failed. The University Christian Mission
inaugurated this year, in place of the usual Fall and Spring Services, was designed to apply Christianity to everyday life,
using five speakers instead of one to get a variety of opinions. The intent was not to tell the student
what to believe or do, but simply to make him think about what the Christian faith demands in everyday life.
It was not intended that it should necessarily be what the students wanted to hear, but what men of known
intellectual ability and spiritual concern felt the Christian gospel implied. Many students objected to the series because they felt both
sides were not presented. This may have been true, but there are good points to any side which can be
absorbed even in disagreement, and disagreement with another's ideas should help one to reevaluate and clarify his own ideas. Also,
the other side is already well represented at Davidson, while the side presented has had little mention.

Another new emphasis in the “Y” was the emphasis on study groups. This was added in the belief that a
person’s faith grows as he studies the thoughts and beliefs of others. Seminar groups on Contemporary Theology, Marriage and the
Family, and Contemporary Social Problems were started, as well as Freshmen Fellowship Groups. Forums on Segregation and the Formosan Question
were designed once again not to tell the student how to think but to get him to think. Study Commissions,
similar to other cabinet posts, on World Citizenship and Campus Life were set up to try to make the student
take more of an interest in the problems of the world outside of Davidson and to think more intelligently on
campus problems—to apply Christian principles to these problems in looking for a solution.

The Negro Community Center, which was made possible by last year’s Gift Fund, has been in operation throughout the year.
A Teenager’s Club was organized there by the “Y” which has had a definite Christian emphasis in its program. Other
community work continues as in the past, as does Scouting, Boys’ Work, the College Bible Class, the Gift Fund, Deputations,
and the Student Volunteer Movement. There has been an added emphasis assumed by the Social Life post this year. An
effort has been made to provide social activities which would enhance and enrich the total personality of the individual. Special
emphasis has been given to bringing more people into this phase of the “Y's” work. An attempt has been made
recently to revitalize the weekly Hall Prayer Meetings. This was prompted by the meetings on third floor Georgia and subsequent
“Y” evaluations of this part of the program. There is hope that the experiences this year will help to improve
the Hall Prayer Meetings next year.

Undoubtedly, one of the big steps taken by the “Y” this year was the passing of a new constitution, or
to be technically correct, the substitution of a constitution of the YMCA in general for the old YMCA Board of
Directors constitution. The main change, of course, is from automatic to voluntary membership. The pros and cons of this change
have been weighed carefully by many thoughtful people. Neither side seems to have foolproof arguments. I only hope that this
new type of membership will prove successful. It is more in keeping with the purpose of the YMCA which demands
a definite commitment that should be voluntary if it is to be meaningful. Whether it will make the “Y” more
vital, whether it will give the members more of a share and an interest in the functioning of the “Y,”
whether it will strengthen the actual implementation of Christian purpose into the program and lessen unnecessary administration and organization—all of
this remains to be seen.

In summarizing the year’s activities, it is impossible to overlook the untiring efforts of Sam Magill. He has devoted himself
sincerely to doing the best possible job as “Y” secretary. The YMCA Board of Directors, under Chairman D. Grier Martin,
has also given much of its time to serving the “Y,” and has been extremely helpful in its advice and
support. What does all this signify in terms of success or failure? It seems to me that we have been
successful in terms of the numbers participating in the various phases of the program, in the number of different tasks
we have been attempting to perform, and perhaps to a lesser degree in the service which we have rendered to
those outside of the college. But as I stated in the beginning, numbers and organization are not the real basis
of judgment. The success or failure of the YMCA in terms of the benefit and Christian growth of individuals affected
by the program can only be judged by those individuals. I personally have felt that the Christian purpose has been
lost sight of at times. There is no doubt that we have failed in some ways. Particularly have we failed
to take an active stand on vital issues. I hope, however, that the YMCA has helped at least some people
and that your sincere prayers will be with it in the future. I am convinced that the YMCA is a
vital part of Davidson and that through the Christian Gospel it attempts to proclaim is the most important thing in
life. Only through God's guidance can it be successful.

The Week’s Correspondence:
HTU-1 Ellyson Field
Pensacola, Florida
9 May, 1955

To the Editor:
I read with considerable interest the editorial pages of Davidsonians for April 15th and 22nd, and noted all the hullabaloo
created by the recent elections for YMCA president. Similar situations have happened in the past, and they will probably happen
again. The nomination of a “party boy” for Y president is something of an annual practical joke pulled each year
by the “rougher element” of the student body, as a token of their dissatisfaction, as a means of self-expression, and
as a reminder to all the stalwart preservers of the status quo that perhaps there are some “cracks in the
cloister.” The situation is always the same, the personalities involved usually have similar reputations, and the outcome of the election
is always the same. Has it ever occurred to you jokesters that your “party boy” may be interested enough to
take this thing seriously? You sacrifice him on the altars of laughter and rebellion, and more or less expect him
to lose. I dare say that in most cases, if he runs, he really wants to get in there and
do his best to build a Y that reaches “party boy” and “holy joe” alike—a truly campus-wide YMCA. On the
other hand, has it ever occurred to you winners that your relatively narrow margin of victory may indicate that as
an organization, the Y is meeting the needs of only a little more than half the student body? If this
is true, a large part of your task for the coming year is obvious. What are you going to do
about it?

Sincerely,
NAT DANIEL, '52.

Action Called For On Science Curriculum

The proposal to substitute a general science course in the curriculum in the place of the presently required physics, chemistry,
or biology course for non-science students has been discussed at great length recently. (See the Davidsonian, Friday, May 6, 1955.)
Indeed, there are some who feel that the subject has already been discussed too much. However, the recent “storm” is
not the first time that this change has been suggested. At least one candidate for the presidency of the student
body and one editorialist have advocated the change every year that this student has been at Davidson College. The advantages
in such a course appear to outweigh greatly the disadvantages which have been advanced. Everyone here seems to favor the
plan except the members of the faculty and administration. Members of the faculty actually shun discussion of this proposal and
are invariably opposed to it no matter what department of the college they are in. Are the members of the
Davidson faculty not capable of teaching a general science course? The one disadvantage of the proposal and the objection which
is cited by those who oppose the plan is that the student would not learn a great deal about any
science. This is true, but so what? It is not involved formulas and detailed diagrams of cellular structure that a
student retains, it is the general principles of science interestingly and meaningfully presented to the student that can be of
value to him in his later life. Very few A-plus students could pass a physics, chemistry, or biology examination if
given to them three months after their final examination. An accelerated course would be offered in their respective fields for
science majors. It is to be hoped that the faculty and administration will take immediate steps to include such a
course of instruction in the curriculum for the school year 1956-57. It is probably too late for such a program
to be instituted next year. However, the program and the idea should not be allowed to die because of a
one year delay in instituting it. The year may very profitably be used in selecting textbooks and allowing professors involved
to “bone up” on the allied sciences and outline their course of instruction.

—T.W.W.

Knight In Subtle Armor -- A Challenge

Yesterday in chapel, the student body was privileged to listen to Mr. Pete McKnight, former editor of the Charlotte News,
graduate of Davidson, and winner of numerous awards in journalism. The reaction to his talk on segregation was interesting and
informative. A conservative Carolinian said, “Most thorough analysis and inclusion of facts...” an Alabama drawl, “Very objective and fair talk
for a Southerner...” a continental Floridian, “Forthright, just what the South needs.” and then from a thoughtful element this statement,
“Subtle propaganda. He assumed two things immediately but so subtly. First, that the Supreme Court had a right to say
what they said, and secondly, that what they said was right.” From the reaction and comments overheard, two homilies may
be drawn. One, some become completely overpowered by the presentation of a speaker. Too often they pre-judge him on sounds
and sight, losing the possible thought and sincerity of his conviction. Two, many form an opinion, a very strong and
vociferous opinion, from first reading of headlines. It would be very worthwhile and often illuminating to explore the problem, obtain
the facts, and analyze sincerely, as our speaker did, before making rash and often non-retractable statements.

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 Madison Ave. New York, N.Y.
Chicago * Boston * Los Angeles * San Francisco

BUSINESS MANAGER... Larry Parrott
Advertising Manager... Bob Carmichael
Subscription... Warner Hall
Circulation... Bob Majors
Business Staff: Bill Bondurant

Subscription Rate: $2.00 Per Year
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N.C. under the Act of March 3, 1875.
Offices In David Ovens College Union Building, Davidson College
