PAGE FOUR

"Among the rate, e peeping John” Bevan Takes Davidson by Storm

By JOHN FITE

Two years and five months ago the trustees brought forth to this campus a new professor, conceived in Phi Beta
Kappa and dedicated to the proposition that all men respond to both internal and external stimuli. Since that auspicious occasion,
Dr. John Morgan Bevan, associate professor of psychology, has secured the admiration and respect of students from all fields of
endeavor, and his lectures are an experience never to be forgotten. Whether he happens to be discussing the concept-formation principle
of “dissociation by varying concomitants” or the effects of stress on the albino rat, Dr. Bevan lends his whole inimitable
personality to his lecturing which indeed gives psychology the status of an experience rather than a subject.

His influence on the Davidson campus, however, extends far beyond the classroom. The successful religious emphasis week which was concluded
last week was largely due to his untiring efforts to bring to the student body a program which was both
a “varied experience” as well as a source of “greater information.” He stated recently that the basis of the University
Christian Mission was one of “good organization and an effective program.” This desire for effectiveness is indeed characteristic of Dr.
Bevan's total personality make-up.

Dr. Bevan received his A.B. degree from Franklin and Marshall College and the B.D., M.A., and Ph.D. degrees from Duke
University. He was an instructor in the psychology departments of both Duke and Heidelberg College prior to receiving an appointment
at Davidson in the fall of 1952. While teaching in Ohio he held a Civil Service appointment as Court Psychologist
in the Juvenile Division and served as an industrial consultant with several outstanding Ohio firms.

Dr. Bevan is a member of the American Psychological Association, Phi Beta Kappa, North Carolina Academy of Science, North Carolina
Psychological Association, Pi Gamma Mu (National Social Science Society), Sigma Psi (National Scientific Society), Chairman of the Committee on Information
and Publicity of the North Carolina Psychological Association, Editor of the Bulletin, President of his social fraternity at Franklin and
Marshall College, assistant for one year and a half to Dr. J. B. Rhine (Chairman of the Department of Parapsychology
at Duke University), Pastor of the Durham circuit while a graduate student at Duke, Chairman of the United Christian Mission,
and Scoutmaster of local troop No. 58.

In addition to the above list of honors, Dr. Bevan was recently appointed to conduct a survey of the status
of psychology in Junior and Senior colleges in North Carolina. In 1946 Dr. Bevan was married to Miss Louise Dabbs
of South Carolina, who is also a graduate of Duke University. The Bevans have three children and make their home
on Concord Road.

Working with his colleague, Dr. Workman, the psychology department has made strides far greater than even the wildest hopes of
the professional optimists. In less than five years, the psychology department has come to be recognized as one of the
leading undergraduate psychology departments in the South and there is no end in sight.

No sketch could possibly capture the dynamic force of this rotund bundle of neurons. Whether you find him in his
smoke-filled opium den, in the psychology lab cleaning out pigeon cages or playing with his white mice, or whether you
happen to see him on the streets of Washington leading a pack of boys from the Davidson “United Youth Movement,”
“Jungle Head” will always stop long enough to chat on the weather, chapel conduct, or his pet rat that died
of an experimentally-produced ulcer.

Tulane Scholarships Offered to Graduates

The Graduate School of Tulane University has offered a total of 47 scholarships ranging in value up to $2000. These
stipends include 29 tuition scholarships with a maximum value of $450, nine first-year scholarships of $1500 each, six unspecified scholarships
of $2000 each, five unspecified scholarships of $1000 each, and six scholarships in social studies with a value of $1700
each. Scholarship holders pay tuition and University fees of $850 for the academic year.

Preference will be given to applicants who plan to study for the Ph.D. degree. Courses of study leading to the
Ph.D. are offered in the following departments: Anatomy, Biochemistry, Chemistry, Economics, English, French, History, Mathematics, Microbiology, Parasitology, Philosophy, Physiology, Political
Science, Psychology, Sociology, Spanish, and Zoology. Applications must be received at The Graduate School, Tulane University, New Orleans 18, La,
by March 1. Announcement of awards will be made by April 1.

Med Admission Test To Be Held May 7

The Educational Testing Service, which prepares and administers tests for the Association of American Medical Colleges, has announced that candidates
for admission to medical school in the fall of 1956 are advised to take the Medical College Admission Test in
May. These tests, required of applicants by almost every medical college throughout the country, will be given twice during the
current calendar year. Candidates taking the May test, however, will be able to furnish scores to institutions in the early
fall, when many medical colleges begin the selection of their next entering class.

Candidates may take the Admission Test on Saturday, May 7, 1955, or on Monday, October 31, 1955, at administrations to
be held at more than 300 local centers in all parts of the country. The Association of American Medical Colleges
recommends that candidates for admission to classes starting in the fall of 1956 take the May test.

The Test consists of examinations of general scholastic ability, a test on understanding of modern society, and an achievement test
in science. According to the Educational Testing Service, no special preparation other than a review of science subjects is necessary.
All questions are of the objective type.

Application forms and a Bulletin of Information, which gives details of registration and administration, as well as sample questions, are
available from pre-medical advisers or directly from Educational Testing Service, 20 Nassau Street, Princeton, N.J. Completed applications must reach the
Testing office by April 23 and October 17, respectively, for the May 7 and October 31 administrations.

Hobby Demonstration

As a forerunner to the opening of the Crafts Shop on the second floor of the College Union, Johney Vogler,
of Johney’s Hobby Shop, Charlotte, will present a demonstration of hobbies and crafts. Mr. Vogler's visit is planned for Wednesday,
February 23, from 10 till 5 in the College Union Ballroom. Through his television shows, Mr. Vogler has created renewed
interest in crafts and home hobbies among people of all ages. The hobby kits being demonstrated, however, will not be
for sale.

Sigma Pi Sigma Holds Initiation

Alpha Chapter of Sigma Pi Sigma, national honorary physics society, held an initiation ceremony Tuesday evening, February 15, at which
six new members were initiated. For membership in the society, it is necessary to have completed three semesters of physics
and to have shown a definite interest in the study and advancement of physics, the student must have shown himself
proficient in other fields. The six new members initiated were Jack Curtis, senior; Sam Inman, junior; Monty Littlejohn, senior; Jerry
Pietenpol, sophomore; Joe Billy Pharr, junior; and Tommy Ratchford, sophomore.

I.F.C. Reveals...

(Continued From Page One)

Pre-initiation activities must be carried out during the period March 5 - March 15, 1955, and no Hell-week activities may
be carried on outside this period. Each fraternity is strongly encouraged to carry out a constructive project of its own
choosing as part of its Hell-week activity. Other activities of Hell-week not specified above will be interpreted in the light
of the resolution adopted by the Interfraternity Council. The Interfraternity Council has voted to empower itself to see that this
policy is carried out and any offender may be tried by the I.F.C. The maximum penalty will be a fine
of not more than $50, and a letter to the national headquarters of the convicted fraternity.

This action by the I.F.C. and the committee represents an effort on the part of the fraternities adequately to control
the past ills of Hell-week. The philosophy of the groups working on the policy has been that by self-control and
self-regulation, the fraternities can retain the autonomy which is necessary to the growth and preservation of the fraternity system.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Union Will Sponsor

OF FEBRUARY 16 MEETING:

Trustees’ Report

Dr. John R. Cunningham gave his semi-annual report to the Board of Trustees of the college at the mid-winter meeting
of that governing body in session February 16 on the Davidson campus. In the preface to his report, Dr. Cunningham
stated, “There are two important considerations which present themselves to the colleges of our type which are unprecedented in our
day and which call for action. The one is a problem and the other is an encouraging challenge. The problem
is the clearly recognized rising tide of college enrollment in the years just ahead. The challenge is the rising tide
of philanthropy throughout our country. The rising tide of philanthropy has been evidenced this past year by an unprecedented interest
on the part of individuals, foundations and corporations in private colleges and in universities. Davidson College is beginning to feel
the impact of corporation giving. This past year we received gifts from such corporations asDuPont, Danforth, Standard Oil, Union Carbide,
Ford, and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner and Beane... It is highly important that the college adjust itself for the proper
solicitation not only from the nationally known foundations and corporations but also from the smaller ones closer to home, as
they plan to enter the field of philanthropy more largely than heretofore... The sum of at least a million and
a half dollars is needed for endowment, dormitory construction, and additions to the library.

The president reported that during the present year at Davidson there are 63 teaching members of the faculty who handle
courses for academic credit. Of the 58 faculty members, not including ROTC or physical education teachers, 20 hold Ph.D. degrees,
an unusually high percentage for a small liberal arts college. Twenty-seven are associate professors, and 15 are assistant professors. The
enrollment for the first semester was 846 students; because of withdrawals for various reasons, the present number is 809.

Dr. Cunningham reviewed the religious life on the campus, referring to the chapel exercises, the YMCA program, guest speakers, Vesper
services, and the recent University Christian Mission Week. With reference to the financial report given by the college treasurer, D.
Grier Martin, Dr. Cunningham noted the gifts to the Alumni Fund this past year exceeded all former records by a
substantial amount, in the sum of $81,739.77. A word of appreciation was given to the Underwriters Club, composed of 96
persons, which gave $35,874 toward the Alumni Fund.

Baseball Schedule... (Continued From Page Three)
April 20—McCrary Eagles at Davidson.
April 22—Wofford College at Davidson.
April 26—Wofford College at Spartanburg, S.C.
April 28—The Citadel at Charleston, S.C.
April 30—The Citadel at Charleston, S.C.
May 3—Furman University at Davidson.
May 5—Guilford College at Davidson.
May 6—V.M.I. at Davidson (tentative).

118 West Trade Street
PARKER-GARDNER
CHARLOTTE 2, N.C.
Phone ED. 2-8257

THE CONNOISSEUR
A Place of Fine Foods for any taste in Eating — Specializing in Steak, Seafood, and Chicken Dinners.
Mooresville, N.C.
Phone 32-2861

Appreciation of the Administration was expressed for the effective manner in which A.H. Whittle, assistant director of Physical Education and
Athletics, and the staff have handled the athletic program since the departure of Paul Scott as director. Dr. Cunningham called
attention to a satisfactory year in athletics. In football, Davidson won 6 games, lost 3; in basketball, to date, 7
wins, 9 losses, with the Conference record of 4 wins and 2 losses; and in swimming, Davidson has won 5
meets and lost none.

Announcement is made by action of the Trustees, of the appointment of Tom Scott, formerly of the University of North
Carolina, as the new director of athletics and physical education. Now at Columbia University completing work for a Ph.D. degree
he will receive in June, Mr. Scott will begin his duties at Davidson July 1.

The report of the librarian, Dr. C.G. Davidson, to which Dr. Cunningham referred at the conclusion of his report, shows
an addition of new stacks in the library adding to the book capacity by 25,000 volumes. The total number of
books is now 62,736, or an increase of 2,733 over last year. The services of Mrs. P.A. Marrotte, wife of
a faculty member, have been secured as A.B., and M.A. reference librarian.

Announcement is also made of the election of James W. Jackson, Jr., of Columbia, S.C., as associate director of alumni
and public relations. Mr. Jackson, now completing work for an M.A. degree at the University of South Carolina, is a
Davidson graduate with the class of 1947. After receiving the M.A. degree this spring, he will come to Davidson in
June with his wife and three children, to assume his duties at the college.

The Trustees took action on the recommendation of the Administration for a slight increase in salaries of all the academic
staff and, in a lesser amount, to all non-academic employees of the institution.

‘Bishop Misbehaves’... (Continued From Page One)
Frederick Jackson, is a farce, dealing with the wiles of a bishop in settling a swindling affair. Don Meadows attempts
to even the score with Waller, who has cheated Don's girlfriend’s father out of some money. The bishop leaves his
calling card in place of some stolen jewels in a local pub, and all parties gather at his home. From
there—but, then, you had better see how “The Bishop Misbehaves.”

Mr. Raymond W. Tyson is equaling, if not even surpassing, his previous directing exhibits on this campus. Fred Summers, a
familiar figure on the Davidson stage, is turning in a job as the bishop that is worthy of many professionals.
Martha Magill, as Hester, Anne Wilson, as the bishop’s sister, and Betty Lamar as the swindler’s wife, spice things up
a bit, to say the least. Harold Hall (Don) and Tommy Mann (the swindler) are more than competent. Allie Cone
plays Tim, Tom Morgan is Collins, Warner Hall (who will be remembered for his witty performance in “Good News”) plays
Frenchy, and Mac Williamson is Brooke. A very excellent set has been designed and built by Jack Curtis and Bob
Rhodes. Incidentally, Act I is set in a taproom...

Kappa Sigs... (Continued From Page Three)
Team Won Lost
Kappa Sigs
Sigma Chis
Pikas
Phi Gams
SPEs
SAEs
Betes
Phi Delts
ATOs
Pi Kapps
KAs
Campus Club

Student Constitution... (Continued From Page One)
committee that the student body will study the proposed revisions carefully and will take an active interest in the forthcoming
voting. If this happens, 1955 may very well go down in Davidson history as the year of the fifth major
revisions to the Student Government Constitution.

CHESTERFIELD
Today You'll smile your approval of Chesterfield’s smoothness — mildness—refreshing taste. You'll smile your approval of Chesterfield’s quality—highest quality—low nicotine.

Eye Witness... (Continued From Page One)
one took this sort of talk seriously. Just as the hero was about to be executed we became aware of
flames just behind the screen. Most of the theater-goers wanted to see the outcome of the movie and waited a
few more minutes. Then flames suddenly started spouting into the auditorium above the rear left exit. Immediately the screen collapsed,
and the women and children began to quietly file out. Some people left by the side exits, and leaving these
doors wide open, the flames were quickly drawn up the side walls and ceiling. From the safety of our seats
at the rear of the flick, Al Simpson made the profound comment, “I was never in a burning building before.”
This seemed to be the attitude of several students around us who stayed in their seats until the lower section
of the auditorium was enveloped in flames. With the smoke becoming stifling and the flames racing closer, we decided not
to wait to see which wall would reach the rear exits first. All of the remaining people quietly walked out.

For a few moments we stood in the lobby and offered to help remove the merchandise from the candy counter,
but the young lady, not realizing the integrity of Davidson men, locked it up to burn. About this time, an
event typical of the general situation took place. With half of the building an inferno, some man, apparently connected with
the theatre, took a fire extinguisher from the front wall and entered the auditorium. At this point, it seemed to
be best to completely leave the building, and the rest of the story was observed by all. The fire engines
were slowly gotten from their garage across the street. The theater man screamed at some little boys who were taking
the smoky popcorn from the popper. Cop Linker helped chop holes in the front of the structure, and the flames
danced gaily against the night sky.

Cat Cagers... (Continued From Page Three)
G FG FT Tot. Av.
Cobb 16 117 123 387 22.3
Harding 15 92 47 231 18.4
Shaw 16 36 58 130 8.1
Weeks 16 34 23 91 5.7
Bennett 12 27 5 59 4.9
Martin 9 12 16 40 4.4
McSwain 16 25 16 66 4.1
Fowle 16 22 11 55 3.4
Davis 8 8 3 19 2.4
Lyon 9 6 4 16 1.8
Ferguson 11 6 4 16 1.5
Spears 1 0 1 1 1.0
Team Total* 399 323 1121 70.1
Opponents 475 325 1278 79.7

*The team total includes the totals of two boys no longer on the squad.

The leaders in shooting percentage are Cobb, who has hit 50.6% of his field goal attempts and 72.4% of his
free throws, and Harding, who has hit 46.5% of his field goals and 60.3% of his free throws. Cobb also
leads the team in rebounds, with a total of 163 for an average of 10.2 per game. The difference between
victory and defeat in many ball games has been in the fact that we have been greatly hampered by a
lack of tall men, for the team average per game on rebounds is 29.9 to 36.3 for the opposition. Though
at times the Cats have been plagued by inability to hit from the floor, the average on field goal attempts
is 38.2%, which is not a bad percentage. Our opposition, however, has hit a total of 43.3%.

Drink ‘MOOR’ QUALITY MILK
Mooresville Creamery, Inc.
