With the changing of the personnel of the sports department of the Davidsonian, it seems appropriate that something should be
said of the proposed policy that the new “regime” intends to follow. Judging from the success of the sports page
in the past, one immediately sees that to attempt to uphold the standards set by those who have gone before
is as good a policy as could be followed. During the past year, Jim Holshouser has done an excellent job
in covering the points of interest on the Davidson sports scene, and he and his staff deserve a great deal
of credit for a job well done.

SUGGESTIONS WELCOMED
The sports page, like the rest of the Davidsonian, belongs to the entire student body, so any suggestions you may
have as to how it may be improved will be graciously received and carefully considered. If you feel at any
time that something pertaining to sports at Davidson has been omitted or improperly reported on this page, feel free to
write a letter to the Sports Editor and express your viewpoint. If your criticism is valid, every effort will be
made to improve on the point in question.

INTERESTING SIDELIGHT
The exceptionally fine play of the baseball team this spring has aroused more than the usual interest in the diamond
sport, as the greatly increased attendance at the home games will testify. For those who might be interested, John Bernhardt
has taken the time to do a little research and learn how baseball had its beginning here at Davidson. The
following is what he found out, taken from the Autobiography of General George W. Melver, son of Professor Alexander McIver
of Davidson:

“In the fall of 1865, Davidson College made a fresh start, and it was noticeable that many of the students
were clad in Confederate uniforms. Some of them were crippled from wounds and others had been held as prisoners of
war in northern prison camps. It is a somewhat interesting fact that the students began to play baseball when the
College reopened, although the game had been unknown in the days before the war. The explanation I have heard is
that in some of the northern prisons, the inmates learned the game from prison guards and were allowed, or perhaps
encouraged, to play the game. Probably the same thing occurred in other localities, so it is likely that what is
now the National Game, devised by Abner Doubleday, a native of New York and a graduate of West Point, was
introduced into the South in this way.”

Perhaps the most unusual thing about this story is the fact that Mr. Doubleday was not a graduate of Davidson
College and did not first dream of baseball while in his freshman year here.

SUPPORT SPRING TEAMS
For the first time in a long while, the three major sports teams of the spring season all are boasting
winning records. The tennis team, as defending Southern Conference champions, are favored to repeat; the baseball team is off to
its fastest start in many a season and will be in contention for the crown all the way; and the
track team showed unusual strength in winning its first meet last Saturday. Coach Whittle feels that Clemson tomorrow is the
big test, and if the boys can take this one, they can definitely be labeled as very strong contenders for
the conference meet to be held at the season's end. With these facts in mind, the student body should give
each of these teams its wholehearted support and thus show that some winning athletic teams will greatly increase the somewhat
weak school spirit.

GET SET FOR THE FROLICS—
With An AFTER-SIX DINNER JACKET
Rayon 27.95
Orlon 35.50
RENTALS ALSO
Wilson-Wright’s Inc.
“COLLEGIATE FASHIONS”
DAVIDSON, N. C.

CINDER SQUAD SQUELCHES RICHMOND AND MERCER

The Davidsonian

NETTERS TO HIT VIRGINIA TEAMS TOMORROW
FRIDAY, APRIL 15, 1955 PAGE THREE

Track Team Downs Richmond, Mercer
Ed Speir Elected to Lead 1956 Swimmers

Coach Carol Hambright has announced that Ed Speir, a star performer in the 50 and 100-yard dash events, has been
elected captain of the 1956 Davidson swimming team. Speir will head a list of thirteen returning lettermen that includes Tommy
Rivers, John Winfrey, Stafford Query, Larry Parrott, Alex Shepard, Billy Carroll, Frank Kiker, Basil Sharp, Jim Traviss, John Edwards, Jeff
Smith, and manager Dick Morehead. The only man who will be lost to next year’s team is Al Ormond, the
captain this season and a four-year letterman. According to Coach Hambright, Ormond’s loss will be keenly felt, but with the
host of returning lettermen, plus the addition of several incoming freshmen who will be eligible to swim, there is no
reason to believe that the 1956 season will not be a very successful one.

The schedule next year will be approximately the same as the one played this winter, except for the fact that
V.M.I. is returning to the schedule and that Catholic University of Washington, D.C., may also be added. At present it
looks as though the tankmen will meet Eastern Carolina, Wofford, Emory, The Citadel, South Carolina, Clemson, V.P.I., Washington and Lee,
V.M.I. and Catholic University. Meets on the road will probably be at Blacksburg, Virginia; Charleston, S.C.; Greenville, S.C.; Spartanburg, S.C.,
and Lexington, Virginia, with the conference finals to be at Lexington.

Coach Hambright says that he understands that some good swimmers from all over the state are planning to attend here
next year. These boys, plus the freshmen on this year's squad who now have some solid experience behind them, will
furnish an excellent nucleus on which to build his future teams. Rising sophomores Jim Travis, Chuck Blake, Bob Oliver, Roger
Bates and Curt Ormond are being counted on for some top-notch performances next year.

This year’s team had the most successful season in the history of Davidson swimming, finishing the season with a record
of seven wins and only two losses in regular season meets and taking third place in the Southern Conference Meet,
which was held here for the first time. Coach Hambright expressed concern over the fact that many of the schools
on the Cats’ schedule will for the first time have a swimming team that is subsidized. This will undoubtedly make
the going a little rougher than usual, but the coach is counting on his boys to shape into a team
that will be a strong contender for the conference championship all the way through the season.

Softball and Tennis Begin for Greeks
The addition of the points gained in the volleyball competition has resulted in only one change in the interfraternity standings,
the K.As having boosted their position one notch. The second-place Phi Delts, winners of the volleyball tournament, gained thirty-eight points
on the front-running Kappa Sigs and now trail by only fourteen points, 846 to 832. The Phis are almost a
hundred points ahead of the third place S.A.E.s who have a total of 738. The Sigma Chi’s 624 points place
them in the number four position.

The only three remaining events are varsity competition, tennis, and softball. Bad weather has been hampering the latter two. Softball
was scheduled to begin on Wednesday of last week but was delayed one day and started on April 7. Rain
on two days, Monday and Wednesday of this week, left the fields too wet for action.and the games were postponed
until the last week of the season. In the four games that were played on Tuesday, the Pikas, A.T.O.s, Phi
Delts, and K.A.s defeated the Kappa Sigs, the Campus (Continued on Page Four)

Bill Rowland Is Named Wildcat Of The Week

In selecting an outstanding athlete to honor as Wildcat of the Week, those upon whom the task of selection falls
are faced with a very definite problem, for there are a host of boys who can be labeled outstanding in
their various fields of athletic endeavor. However, it would be most difficult to find any man on the Davidson scene
who is better in any two sports than Bill Rowland, a 23-year-old junior from Gastonia, N.C., and a member of
Kappa Sig Fraternity. Bill is a veteran of two years’ service in the Marines during the Korean War, and since
returning from the service he has performed admirably on the football field and the baseball diamond. For the past two
seasons, Bill has engineered the Cats’ football attack from the quarterback slot, displaying skillful passing and running ability. His running
was such that in spring practice the coaches (Continued on Page Four)

Coach Clements talks things over with his star outfielder, Bill Rowland.

When you’re flat broke and feeling kind of mean...

Cats Lose to V.P.I.; Meet Catawba Today

Last Friday, the defending conference champs from V.P.I. invaded the local diamond and administered a 7-2 defeat to the Cat
nine in a loosely played ball game. Dependable Johnny Smith pitched his usual fine game, allowing the hard-hitting Techmen only
six hits and one earned run, but the leaky Cat defense committed seven errors. Davidson collected only three hits, which
materialized into the two earned runs. Dyke Little got the Cats off to a good start in the first inning
with a well-placed single, and second-sacker Buzzy Hope followed by catching a fastball on the nose and blasting it out
of the park. Just prior to going to the plate Buzz had stated that if he got a fast one
he was going to put it away, and he did just that, the ball traveling some 350 feet.

Coach Clements has been well pleased with the performance thus far in the season of freshmen John Patterson, Ollie Harris,
Shelbourne Wallace, Rhett Sanders, Alan Moore, and Dave Page. He is counting on them for reserve strength and on occasion
for regular duty.

This afternoon the Cats are scheduled to face Catawba on the home diamond. Catawba is annually one of the top
teams in the North State Conference, so the boys must be on their toes if they are to regain their
winning form. The only other game with a North State team was with Lenoir Rhyne earlier in the season, and
the Cats came out on the long end of a 23-9 score. A second encounter with the Lenoir-Rhyne squad was
rained out.

Tuesday of next week the McCrary Eagles invade the campus, bringing a host of semi-pro stars, so this should prove
to be an interesting contest. McCrary always fields an excellent team and furnishes some of the toughest competition in this
section of the country. The Cats at present have a 1-1 record in conference play, which places them among the
leaders in the standings.

And Pop comes through with some spending green...

Take 11 Of 15 Firsts; At Clemson Tomorrow

By CHARLES HELMS

Sweeping first places in 11 out of 15 events, Davidson’s track team outclassed Richmond and Mercer in their first track
meet, scoring 93 points to 49 for Richmond and 21 for Mercer. Davidson took all the running events and three
field events.

Netters Face VMI, W&L and Kalamazoo

By LEON HOWELL

Davidson's tough netters will be subjected to all the tennis that they can cope with after this weekend, meeting VMI
on Friday, and moving on to Washington and Lee for a doubleheader on Saturday. There they will take on ever-tough
Kalamazoo in the morning and then meet W&L in the afternoon. Prospects are good, however, for a clean sweep of
the matches.

Last Saturday Wayne University of Detroit sampled the tennis prowess of Coach McKee's proteges and wound up on the short
end of a 7-2 score. All the singles were good, but the fact that the Cats dropped their number two
and three doubles matches was cause for some concern. Since returning from the spring tours, where they were playing against
teams that had been practicing all year, the record stands at 7 wins against a single loss.

In some of the easier matches, Coach McKee has used Thorpe and Robinson, sophomores, and Makepeace, a freshman, in varying
combinations. These three will be the nucleus of next year's squad, and experience gained now will be invaluable then.

On the whole, the team is playing excellent tennis, particularly with the limited amount of time that they have been
able to practice. Keesler, Snead, Green, and Clark are playing their usual fine brand of tennis, with Clark definitely the
sharpest of the four at the moment. In the next three weeks, many excellent teams will play against the Cats
and if Keesler hits his peak there should be (Continued On Page Four)

M-m-man, that’s PURE PLEASURE!

For more pure pleasure... SMOKE CAMELS

No other cigarette is so rich-tasting, yet so mild!

P.S. No other brand has ever been able to match the pure pleasure in Camel’s exclusive blend of costly tobaccos
— one of the reasons why Camels are America’s most popular cigarette!

B. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., Winston-Salem, N.C.
