— BY — STUDENT'S PICK 'EM OPENED TO ALL LEON HOWELL

In the Davidsonian of October 7, 1955, the final report of the committee studying subsidization of athletics was printed. After
a long and thorough analysis, this group of trustees and faculty members has presented its report, and the stand taken
has the air of finality. For some time, the matter had received a tremendous amount of discussion and debate, much
of this finding its way into print on these pages. Misunderstandings and indignation often cropped up. This comprehensive document should
have clarified many of these questions. As it stands, we are apparently going to follow a middle-of-the-road policy for some
years, with the hope of ultimately joining a completely amateur loop.

It is a great tribute to the entire football team that at present they are tied for the Southern Conference
lead, when the total athletic budget here is the second smallest in the Conference. For this reason, and as long
as Davidson continues to fare as well as they have recently, very little will be said about increasing the budget.
However, there continue to be those who would prefer a completely non-subsidized program here. When confronted with the fact that
many outstanding students are able to attend Davidson due to grant-in-aids, they immediately point out that the majority of those
on the team who need aid would have such help for the very reason that they are above average in
every respect. Very few of those who advocate a larger allotment would want athletics to assume the outsized importance that
results in such cases as the disgusting Harvey-Ronnie Knox case or Maryland's famous Case 10 with the 85 I.Q. Rather,
they desire a budget large enough to secure players with the ability to mold Davidson into a Southern power, while
holding on to the same high scholastic standards.

It is significant that the president of Yale, Dr. Whitney Griswold, published in the "Sports Illustrated" of October 17 a
penetrating article on Yale’s stand in the football dilemma. Although the extremes he represents are not fully expressed at Davidson,
certainly his ideas are applicable in many cases. A few selected excerpts follow.

“As long as organized athletics remained within the bounds of amateurism, they imparted its object lessons and its values to
the whole community. In these ways, they served the general interests of the colleges, educational as well as social. They
have become so much a part of college life that it is hard to conceive of that life without them,
even harder to imagine what might take their place.”

“Wherein lies the evil? ... This was the growing interest of spectators and the tendency of the colleges to cater
to and commercialize that interest ... To keep up revenue and, presumably, alumni loyalty, winning teams were necessary; to be
sure of winning teams, competent players had to be recruited. If academic standards stood in the way, the standards had
to be compromised.”

Whatever you as a student of Davidson favor, whether pure amateurism or strong subsidization, I am firmly convinced that it
would be congruous with Griswold’s statement that “In the total life of the campus, emphasis upon intercollegiate competition must be
kept in harmony with the essential educational purposes of the institution.”

COUSAR REVAMPS RIFLE TEAM

This year the Davidson rifle team has been reorganized by Cadet Capt. George Cousar. Capt. Cousar has revealed a schedule
for the team which includes Duke, Wake Forest, the University of North Carolina, and State.

The Davidsonian
ALENDA LUX UBI GORTA LIBERTAS
LYLE LLEWELLYN WILDCAT OF WEEK
PAGE THREE FRIDAY, OCTOBER 28, 1955

Victory Vaults Davidson Into Conference Lead
By JOHN JOHNSON

Last Saturday in Lexington, Virginia, the Davidson Wildcats downed the VMI on the Keydets’ Alumni Field by the score of
21 to 7. It was the Cats’ game from the opening whistle as they turned in their best performance this
year. The Wildcats took the opening kickoff to their own 29-yard line and started an impressive march down the field
with Dick Belton mixing running and passing plays. VMI finally halted the drive when Dick Lyons intercepted a pass on
their own one-yard line. The ‘Cat line, not giving an inch in three downs, forced the Keydets to punt. Little
came in at quarterback for Davidson. He hit end Bill Gramely for a first down on the VMI 20, used
the pitch-out play for 9 more yards, and then found Gramely again, this time for 6 points. Belton made it
7-0 by kicking the extra point.

Davidson kicked off, and two plays later James recovered a VMI fumble. The Cats couldn't keep a drive going and
the Keydets couldn't make a first down, so the teams started a punting duel. The kicks were so long and
high that runbacks were short and twice the safety men called for a fair catch. Woolwine was a superior punter
for the opponents, while the Cats were averaging about 35 yards a kick.

In the fading minutes of the first half, the Wildcats started driving again, this time from their own 26. Highlighted
by a 35-yard pass to McRee, they moved to within the 10-yard line only to have a second interception stop
the drive. The half ended, 7 to 0, but there was little doubt as to who was in command; the
Keydets hadn't been out of their own territory yet. Although the Wildcats had to spend the halftime in a bus,
for the small and old stadium had no locker rooms, they came back to the game full of fire.

A few plays after the start of the third quarter, fullback Ken Conger took a pitch out and raced 36
yards to the VMI one-yard line. Belton made the touchdown and the extra point. After Woolwine made a beautiful return
to the 40 on the kick, the Keydets fumbled and Lyle Llewellyn recovered. The Cats drove down to the 3-yard
line and again lost the ball on an interception, but Belton recovered another Keydet fumble on the next play. Dyke
Little came back in the game and scored on the fourth attempt. Again the conversion was good.

The Keydets’ score came late in the last quarter when, after two losses, West dropped back to punt only to
have it blocked by Harry Shepard on the Davidson four-yard line. Two plays later, Dale Vaughn cut through left tackle
and went into the end zone standing up. Ross converted to make the final score 21 to 7. For the
losers, Moody carried the heavy offensive load; but it was the long legs of Woolwine on kick runbacks that were
the greatest threat. Nebraska, the freshman quarterback, was unimpressive in statistics but quite the opposite in actual play. For the
winners, the backfield exhibited an ability to move the ball on the ground, an ability largely lacking in previous contests.
Davidson’s 174 yards rushing was its best to date. The backs ran with speed, power, and determination. McRee led the
rushing with 66 yards, but Conger had 51 and Campbell 47.

The line also played its best game of the season. The leather popped hard and loud on every play; there
were frequent occasions of broken shoulder pads and helmets; and three times the game was halted for VMI injuries. On
defense, the team tackled hard, recovered four VMI fumbles, and held the Keydets to less yardage than they made against
the nationally ranked teams.

The big question in the minds of most Davidson students as the weekend draws near is: will the Davidson eleven
be able to push by the Stetson Hatters in the grid battle at Deland, Florida Saturday afternoon? From all outside
indications, the Hatters will not be a pushover, but instead a game in which all the “Cats” from Davidson will
have to be on their toes. Stetson’s record this year of 4 defeats and only 1 victory is not impressive,
but they have an outstanding line that has been up and down all year long.

Lyle Llewellyn was named Wildcat of the Week for his spectacular performance last Saturday against VMI. Lyle spent most of
last Saturday in the VMI backfield when they had the ball, making several spectacular tackles, as well as stealing the
ball from one of their backs on one occasion. As is usually the case, this 210-pound combination of speed and
muscle was more than the opposing line could handle. As has been the case with the previous selections, Lyle also
is more than an average student, is very active in student activities, and is admired for his friendly nature around
the campus.

In the Wildcats’ outstanding victory to date, the line played a major role, and Llewellyn was the ringleader of this
crew of blocking, tackling demons. Good blocking allowed the backs to slip through for several long gains, something lacking in
recent weeks. Extremely strong, Lyle is rough, inspiring to his teammates, and extremely discouraging to the opposing team, especially to
the hard-pressed quarterbacks. For his outstanding performance of last week, the Charlotte News named Lyle their lineman of the week.
Congratulations are due him.Play for the entire year plays LYLE LLEWELLYN CAT HARRIERS LOSE TO STRONG N. C. STATE IN
TRIANGULAR MEET

Fast Action In Flickerball League

BY BILL PITSER

Tom Sanders accounted for two more. Blake's only extra point was the deciding margin. The Sigma Chis, possessors of a
42-point a game average, coasted to their seventh straight win by beating the ATOs 32-0. Led by the passing of
Ray Harding and P. A. Anderson and the receiving of Mal McSwain, Dave Hood, Al Moore, and Bill Morris, the
Sigs moved into first place. Long runs by Buzz Hope set up two of the touchdowns. The defensive efforts of
Don Massey, Phil Koonce, and Bob Stewart were not enough to overcome the strong Sig offense.

The Phi Delts moved into a tie for second place by beating the Kappa Sigs, 33-12. Touchdowns by Tom Rivers,
Dave Wood, Doug Andrews, John Kuykendall, and Semi Mintz enabled the Phi Delts to hand the Kappa Sigs their first
loss. Tom Brewer scored twice for the Kappa Sigs.

Earlier in the week the Kappa Sigs beat a much improved Beta team 12-6. Touchdowns by Dick Peace and Tom
Brewer gave the Kappa Sigs their seventh win. Mel Armstrong interrupted a Kappa Sig pass and then passed to Ed
Ervin for the only Beta score. The Betas dropped another close one this week, losing to the Pi Kapps 19-18.
Ossie Keown passed to Chuck Blake for one TD and runs by Ross Robinson and Dray C. set up another.

The SPEs moved into fourth place by posting two wins during the week. They beat the KAs 27-12 and the
Campus Club 45-13. TDs by John Partridge, Joel Blackwelder, Bayles Mack, and Hunter Warlick featured the wins.

The Pikas moved into the win column by downing the Pi Kapps 13-0. Touchdowns by Joe Pharr and George Scott
gave the Pikas their first win. Buck Reinhardt and Mack Hamor helped hold the Pi Kapps scoreless.

The SAEs ripped the Phi Gams 42 to 6. Led by Jerry Norvell, Ted Blake, and John Dykers, the SAEs
had no trouble holding the Phi Gams to one TD. Ed Hadley’s score prevented the Phi Gams from being shut
out.

W L
Sigma Chi 7 0
Kappa Sig 7 1
Phi Delt 7 1
SPE 6 2
ATO 4 3
Pi Kappa Phi 4 4
K. A. 3 4
SAE 3 4
Phi Gam 2 5
Pika 1 6
Beta 1 7
Campus Club 0 7

Jayvees Lose to Baylor

BY JIM PAGE

Last Saturday afternoon, Davidson's Junior Varsity closed their season with a 45-13 thrashing by the Baylor School in Chattanooga, Tennessee.
The undefeated “Red Raiders” scored three times in the first quarter to bring on the deluge. In the second quarter,
McGuirt hit Barbee for a Davidson tally but by this time the preps had an insurmountable 32-6 lead.

Baylor opened the second half in their familiar way by moving the length of the field for their sixth score.
Minutes later the “Kittens” pulled themselves together and showed, for the first time, a workable offense; driving to the Raider’s
one where McBryde plunged over for the second Davidson touchdown. Midway in the fourth quarter, Baylor powered to its seventh
and final TD and the game ended with the Raiders ahead 45-13.

Outstanding for the Kittens were Capt. Cavano, Neubauer, Burns, and McBryde. Bob Talbert showed that his toe was still sharp
by booting an extra point after Davidson was penalized 15 yards.

Plans call for six shoulder-to-shoulder matches, in addition to several postal matches. At the present time over 50 men are
out for the Mooresville team and varsity rifle team letters will be awarded.

Coach Bill Dole reported early this week that he was extremely pleased with the results of the sensational game of
last weekend when Davidson defeated VMI by a score of 21-7. Dole is convinced, however, that the game tomorrow will
be one of the toughest which Davidson will be engaged in this season. Davidson scouts have reported that the Hatters
use a split “T” formation quite a bit and it is certain that they will use that in Saturday's game.
Stetson also has a formation called the “southwestern spread” which has not been used thus far this year, but it
is nearly certain that they will be using this tomorrow also. These two formations will probably keep the Cats guessing
throughout the entire game.

Davidson scouts have reported that the thing which impressed them most about Stetson was the sensational passing attack which they
have. “This is our main worry,” says Coach Dole, “so pass defense is what we emphasized most this week during
practice.” Dole says that the team as a whole is in excellent condition. The players who looked particularly good in
last week's game were Campbell, Owen, Llewellyn, and Fagg. These boys will probably be seeing a lot of action tomorrow.
Belton, who is top passer in the Southern Conference, will be starting at quarterback. The team left Thursday afternoon for
Florida and “we're going down to win,” says Dole. Wildcats, we're behind you all the way. Good luck.

BY OYVIND NORSTROM

Though greatly improving their times from the first meet of the season, the Davidson cross country team had to surrender
in last Friday’s triangular meet with North Carolina State and William and Mary. The extraordinarily strong State team came out
with 23 points, followed by W&M with 42, and Davidson with 70 points. Mike Shea, State, set a brilliant course
record. State, who has lost only one meet since 1949, was of course, supposed to win the meet. The boys
that the Wolfpack ran in this race made great performances, and six of them finished among the best eight. W&M
turned up with a very young team, most of the runners freshmen, and still proved too strong for the previously
undefeated Wildcat squad.

Asheraft finished in 9th place, best of the home team, though breaking the old course record set in the Duke
meet earlier this fall. Also Henry Brown bettered that time. The Harriers bettered their times with from 30 seconds to
more than a minute, but the opponents were just too good.

The next home meet for the Davidson team is the Southern Conference late in November. The defeat now came early
enough to make possible a good showing in the climax.

Results:
1) Mike Shea, State 21:19 (course record).
2) Bob DeTombe, W&M 22:29.
3) Richard Curry, W&M 22:31.
4) H. Walker, State 22:52.
5) F. Walker, State 22:59.
6) Don Gwynn, State 23:03.
9) Pete Asheraft, Davidson 23:30.
11) Henry Brown 23:44.
15) Al Elder 24:06.
17) Oyvind Norstrom 24:35.
18) John Patterson 25:01
19) Bill Jackson 25:13.
20) Steve Huntley 25:17.
21) Knocky Page 25:32.
22) Gerald Wilson 25:38.
23) Henry Griffin 25:47
25) Ray Antley 26:54.

If the race had been run on a dual meet basis, State would have beaten Davidson 15-50, and William and
Mary 23-27. W&M would have defeated Davidson 20-35.

Monday afternoon at 2:30 equipment will be issued in the gym and pictures will be taken. All men interested in
trying out for the Wrestling Squad this year are asked to report to Coach Parker on Tuesday at 4:15 as
official practice begins. Since several of last year's outstanding wrestlers have gained a great deal of weight, the need is
especially acute for grapplers in the 120-140 lb. class.
