The averages that were mentioned in this column last week, those of the athletic teams, the overall fraternity average, and the student body average, have been re-released for publication. It seems that they were made available to the Davidsonian last fall, but they were never published in full. So that there can be no doubt as to the validity of the statement by BUNNY PERKINSON that the athletic teams had a higher average during the school year 1953-54 than the entire student body and the eleven social fraternities on campus, it has been decided that these averages should now be printed. These grades are computed each June after the completion of the school year, and the 1953-54 averages were chosen because they were the most recent and because many of the boys whose grades are included in these averages are still in college. The following are what was compiled last June:

Baseball Team Average: 1.766  
Track Team Average: 1.747  
Basketball Team Average: 1.680  
Football Team Average: 1.658  
All Student Average: 1.583  
All Fraternity Average: 1.573  

The above are the official averages released by the Registrar’s Office, and your editor unofficially computed the overall average of the athletic teams and found it to be 1.717, which is higher than all classes but the Senior Class average of 1.972 and above all but the two highest fraternities. These figures readily show that the athletic teams as a whole rank higher scholastically than a large majority of the student body, which is an indication of the caliber of the men who represent Davidson on the athletic fields.

TOMMY PETERS AWARD

At this time each year, in the Honors Day conducted in chapel, the Tommy Peters athletic trophy is presented to that athlete who best exemplifies the qualities that Tommy Peters himself displayed in his endeavors on Davidson teams. This year’s award, presented yesterday in chapel, went to Bill Rowland, one of the most versatile athletes to perform here in some time. The honor attached to this award cannot be overemphasized, and its importance was well expressed in an article in this column written by Jim Holshouser in the April 23, 1954, issue of the Davidsonian. He said in part, "This is one award at Davidson which represents something beyond achievement in the ordinary sense of the word. Tommy Peters came to Davidson in 1941. He was the outstanding freshman athlete of that year, and in 1942, he moved up into varsity competition. In his first year of varsity competition at Davidson, he won four letters. He was a first-line end in football, and he played one of the starting infield positions for the diamond crew. But basketball was where Peters really shone. In the Southern Conference tournament of 1943, Tommy led the Davidson team as far as the semi-final round, and Davidson lost in an overtime. Tommy was selected as the most popular player in the tournament and was a unanimous choice for the All-Conference team. But Tommy Peters was more than just an extraordinary athlete. He played the game hard, but he also played it fair. He was what Davidson students today often scoff at—'A Davidson gentleman.' He truly represented the 'Davidson Spirit.' In 1943, Tommy Peters, like many other Davidsonians, went into the Armed Services. And when the war was over, he was one of those who didn’t return. He might have been the greatest Davidson athlete of all time..."

GO THINCLADS!

Going into today’s meet with W&L, Coach Whittle’s trackmen boast an undefeated record, being the only team on campus at present with such laurels. If the thinclad men can come through with victories today and next Saturday against State, they will be the first Davidson team to come through regular season play undefeated in way yonder many years. Also, victories in these two meets would label the Cats as the team most likely to overcome V.M.I. in the Conference Meet to be held May 13-14 at Williamsburg, Virginia. No doubt Davidson athletics could use such a shot in the arm as a Southern Conference track championship would afford.

THE CONNOISSEUR

A Place of Fine Foods for any taste in Eating — Specializing in Steak, Seafood, and Chicken Dinners. SPECIAL MENU THURSDAYS — FRIDAYS — SATURDAYS ALL THE FISH OR CHICKEN YOU CAN EAT $1.50 including Tax CHILDREN ACCOMPANIED BY THEIR PARENTS 55c, Tax included Fried Chicken — French Fries — Slaw Hot Rolls — Iced Tea or Coffee Fish — French Fries — Slaw — Hush Puppies Iced Tea or Coffee Mooresville, N. C. Phone 3-2861

NEARS FINISH GREEK COMPETITION

The Davidsonian  
ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS  
CAT LINKSTERS DEFEAT WOFFORD  
FRIDAY, APRIL 29, 1955 PAGE THREE

Tracksters Face W. & L. Here Today  
Cat Nine On Road For Two Games At Citadel

Fresh from a two-game split with the Wofford nine, the hot Wildcat baseballers face The Citadel this weekend and Furman next Tuesday in conference tilts. The first of a two-game series with the strong Wofford Club last Friday saw the Wildcats drop a tough decision, 6-4. Ish Bennett started on the mound and was relieved by Dick Belton, but the Cats just couldn't get up enough steam. However, sweet revenge was gained last Tuesday in the return game played at Wofford, as Davidson took a ten-inning thriller, 8-7. Led by the dependable Johnny Smith, who went the distance, and an exceptional display of power at the plate, the Cats handed Wofford one of the two defeats it has suffered this spring, as Ollie Harris and Bill Rowland banged out homers. The entire team had a very good day with the bat, as Buzzy Hope, now hitting at a .500 clip, collected four for five, Rowland three for five, Harris two for four, and Billy Morris and Don McRee two for five.

At Charleston today and tomorrow, the Cats encounter the Bulldogs from The Citadel in two conference games. The probable starting pitcher for this afternoon's game will be Bennett, while tomorrow’s game will most likely see Johnny Smith again on the hill, with Dick Belton ready for relief work in either game. An indication of the strength of the Bulldogs is the fact that they have twice been beaten by Wofford. Next Tuesday afternoon, May 3, the home team continues conference competition in a doubleheader here with Furman, the first game being scheduled for 1:30. Pitching chores for the contests have not been definitely decided, but the starters will probably be Smith and Bennett again. Coach Chuck Clements, who has done a fine job with his boys this year, has very high praise for his squad, which now has an 8-3 record, excluding exhibitions. In answer to a question concerning his appraisal of the team, Coach Clements said, “The team this year has wonderful spirit and determination, as the records have shown. Our pitching has been holding up very well, and our hitting has also been very good, with six men hitting above the .300 mark. Our defense is very good, and I am very well pleased with the showing of the entire team.”

Wildcat Tennis Team Downs State and Furman

The Davidson College tennis team has now posted a record of twelve wins and six defeats, as a result of action this week. The netters from North Carolina State were victims number twelve, as they were walloped by the local netters, 9-0, in a match held at Raleigh. Following the State match, the local team met one of the strongest teams in the country, as they were defeated by North Carolina, 8-1. The Chapel Hill netters overpowered their former Southern Conference opponents, with the loss of only two sets and one match. Davidson's only point against the Atlantic Coast Conference school...was a hard-fought 1-6, 6-1, 6-2 victory by Corky Clark and Lacy Kessler over Carolina's No. 1 doubles team of Pete Green and Bobby Payne.

Summary—Davidson vs. N. C. State: Keesler defeated Greenberg, 6-4, 6-1; Clark defeated Cashion, 6-3, 3-6, 6-4; Snead defeated Cross, 6-4, 6-4; Makepeace defeated Frantz, 6-2, 6-0; Thorpe defeated Reichard, 6-3, 6-3; Robinson defeated Brinkley, 2-6, 6-4, 6-2; Keesler and Clark defeated Greenberg and Cashion, 6-1, 6-2; Snead and Robinson defeated Frantz and Reichard, 7-5, 6-4; Makepeace and Thorpe defeated Cross and Brinkley.

Summary—Davidson vs. North Carolina: Brown (C) defeated Keesler, 6-4, 6-4; Payne (C) defeated Clark, 6-2, 8-6; Bradford (C) defeated Sneed, 6-0, 6-1; Green (C) defeated Makepeace, 6-0, 7-5; Kerdasha (C) defeated Thorpe, 6-0, 8-6; Thompson (C) defeated Robinson, 6-2, 6-1; Keesler and Clark (D) defeated Payne and Green, 1-6, 6-2, 6-1; Browne and Bradford (C) defeated Sneed and Makepeace, 6-0, 6-2; Thompson and Kerdasha (C) defeated Thorpe and Robinson, 6-0, 6-2.

(Continued on Page Four)

Three of the four semi-finalists in the interfraternity tennis tournament have been determined. The Phi Delts’ favored James Montgomery gained one of the positions by virtue of wins over Price and Conarroe; the latter match went 6-2, 6-2. Montgomery will play the SAEs’ Rawson, who also has two victories, one from Mason (6-3, 6-3) and the other from Sharp (6-3, 6-1). Bobby Key, a Phi Gam, is the third semi-finalist; he has thus far defeated three men—Taylor (6-2, 8-6), Ingram (6-3, 7-9, 6-3), and Robinson (6-0, 6-0). Key will next play the winner of the Brown-Echols match. On Wednesday, Buddy Brown, Phi Delt, and Buddy Echols, SAE, were able to play only two sets, which they split. Since both the Phis and the SAEs have already placed one, that match will determine which fraternity will have both of its representatives in the semi-finals. The remaining four matches of the tournament are due to be finished this week.

With the softball tournament going into the ninth of its eleven rounds, the top-seeded SPEs are in the number one position; these champions of last year have five victories against a single loss. The ATOs are in second place with a five won-two lost record. The three leaders in the overall interfraternity competition are not among the top-ranking softballers; the Kappa Sigs and Phi Delts are both in fifth place while the SAEs are one notch below that. In this week's action, the SPEs retained their league lead by downing the Kappa Sigs and Phi Gams. The second place ATOs won from the SAEs and KAs, but suffered defeat from the Pikas. The Sigma Chis had three consecutive wins; they triumphed over the Betas, Pi Kapps, and Campus Club. The Phi Gams beat both the Phi Delts and the Betas, while the Kappa Sigs also won from two, the Betas and Campus Club. The Phi Delts split with the SAEs and Pikas, dropping the former and winning the latter. At the present rate of five games a day, the tournament should be finished next week, with the highlight of the activities being the game between the SPEs and the Phi Delts.

Of The Week Is Koonce

When our thoughts turn to track on the Davidson scene, we readily think of Phil Koonce. Hailing from Tarboro, N. C., Phil is a member of Alpha Tau Omega Fraternity, and in addition to being an outstanding athlete, is vice-president of the junior class and the newly elected president of the Inter-Fraternity Council. Koonce, who never participated in track before coming to Davidson, made an impression in a big way and in a hurry as soon as he got his frosh feet implanted on the cinders. Though inexperienced, he managed to become runner-up in total points scored for the Davidson thinclads. He has developed superb ability in the running of the 220-yard dash, the 100-yard dash, and the broad jump. Occasionally he participates in the mile relay. Already a two-letter man, Koonce has paced the Davidson thinclads to numerous victories. Last year he was the team’s high scorer, and his record for this season is equally impressive. Thus far Phil has chalked up 28½ points against Mercer and Richmond in a triangular meet, 15 points against Furman, 16½ points against Clemson, and 15 points against The Citadel. His consistency in every meet is indicated by an impressive average of better than 15 points per meet. Koonce is an inspirational example of how an inexperienced athlete can develop his talents. His never-ceasing determination and his strong competitive spirit have enabled him to scorch the cinders and defeat some of the best trackmen in the South.

KOONCE GETS AWAY!

Wildcats Win Over Citadel By Forty Point Margin; Favored Over W.&L.

By CHARLES HELMS

Davidson's track team, led by Phil Koonce, mopped up with the Bulldogs of The Citadel last Friday afternoon by a score of 87 2-3 to 47 1-3. The Cats won first place in 11 out of 15 events in this decisive victory. Koonce, who took three first places, was again high point man for the Wildcats with 15 points. Fischl led the losers with 13 points.

Wildcat Linksters Boast 6-2 Record

Davidson's golf team has been working hard for the past few weeks, relatively unnoticed, in preparation for the coming Southern Conference Tournament at Danville Country Club on the sixth of May. The Cats, who will be seeking their second straight title, will bank on Al Gaither, Mickey Cannon, Skipper Hall, George Scott, Carl Swofford, and Martin Foil to again bring home the championship. The tournaments will be a 36-hole medal affair with each team being allowed six entrants. The team score will be compiled.

(Continued on Page Four)

Pete Ashcraft turned in his usual good performance, winning the one-mile run in the time of 4:46. Floyd Feeney came in first in the two-mile run in the time of 10:51.3, while Snyder Garrison took the 880-yard run with a time of 2:07.4. Davidson's relay team of Mallory, Garrison, Ashcraft, and Mitchner won in the mile relay in 3:36 to make a clean sweep in the distance events. The 100-yard and 220-yard dashes went to Phil Koonce in times of :10.1 and :22.3, respectively. Roswell Mallory came through in the 440-yard dash in :53. Moving over to field events, Bill Gramley won first in the shot put with a toss of 43 feet 8¼ inches and in the discus with a throw of 138 feet 1 inch. Koonce jumped 21 feet 11¾ inches to win in the broad jump. Harley Smith's distance of 163 feet ½ inch was enough for first in the javelin. First places for The Citadel included: Fischl in the 120-yard high hurdles in :16.1 and the 220-yard low hurdles in :24.4; Lester in the high jump with 6 feet 1 inch, and Martin in the pole vault with 11 feet. Coach Whittle’s men have now beaten Richmond, Mercer, Furman, Clemson, and The Citadel, and went into today’s meet with Washington and Lee with a 5-0 record. Coach Whittle said before the track meet this afternoon that he expects particularly stiff competition in the hurdles and distance events. The meet with N. C. State on May 7 is the only one left on the Wildcats’ schedule.