The Davidsonian
The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

EDITOR
HENRY BROCKMANN

Managing Editors
Maurice Ewing, Tom Warlick

Sports Editor
Jim Holshouser

Feature Editor
Dick Morehead

News Editors
W. F. C.

Copy Editor
Photographer
Hank Daniel

Assignments
Jim Brice

Business Staff
Tommy Taylor, Circulation
Bob Carmichael

Published each Friday during the college year except during examination and holiday periods. Member of the Associated Collegiate Press and
Intercollegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service. Subscription rate: $2.00 per year. Entered as second class matter
at the Post Office at Davidson, N.C., under the Act of March 3, 1879. Offices in David Ovens College Union,
Davidson College.

Page Two
Friday, February 18, 1955

Out Of The Ashes, A Rose?

One idea emerged from the ashes of the Davidson Theatre Monday night. It was an idea which came out from
behind the charred stucco walls Tuesday afternoon and flung itself squarely in our face. This idea did not originate in
Davidson. Heaven knows where it did originate. But we first became familiar with it at Chapel Hill, seat of one
of our sister colleges.

The idea, absurd as it may seem, was this: why doesn’t Davidson, impoverished as it is, begin a long-range program
of civic improvement which would in the end result in a town whose entire architecture matches the design of the
institution around which the main business of the town is built?

We are familiar with the difficulties in time and expense that are involved, but we have been around long enough
to watch the time and expense at Carolina which through a slow development has resulted in a model township, and
one which in contrast to its putrid neighbor, Carrboro, rings with the atmosphere of purposeful scholarship in a community built
around the university.

Somehow this dream doesn’t seem so hare-brained, even in our tight little island. We cannot but have a vision of
a day to come when stucco flicks are gone forever, and when square little buildings are replaced by stores which
look as if they belong in the same community with the Davidson College Presbyterian Church.

Chapel, A New Day Dawning?

The recent report of the Chapel Study Committee, which has been adopted by the college faculty, may well mark the
beginning of a truly effective chapel program here at Davidson. This policy is remarkable both from practical and religious standpoints.
The actual mechanics of the new policy will go a long way toward eliminating student discontent and misunderstanding. The recommendation
calls for an extremely rigid schedule. On Tuesdays, Thursdays, and Fridays a purely religious service lasting up to but no
longer than fifteen minutes will be held—in brief, a short chapel. On each Wednesday convocation will be held. This will
last the entire chapel period and may or may not be preceded by a five-minute devotional. From the purely psychological
standpoint, the inflexibility of the program should considerably improve the attitude toward chapel, for the student will know each day
exactly what kind of program will be presented and how long that program will last. In this way the vicissitudes
of chapel will not result in disappointment and misunderstanding.

However, the heart of the new system is planning. Prior to this time the preparation for chapel services has been
on a week to week basis, sometimes on a day to day basis, with very little prior planning. The new
policy calls for an independent standing committee, which will be appointed by the President of the College and his aides.
This committee of five will include two representatives of the faculty and administration, two student representatives, and the General Secretary
of the YMCA. The very formation of such a committee regardless of the previously unheard-of inclusion of student representatives is
a great step forward. The responsibility of this committee will be to plan completely a semester’s chapel program before the
end of the preceding term. It is believed by many that a student is quite willing to attend a service
which he knows to be well planned and prepared in advance. The courtesy shown speakers, even though discussing highly controversial
subjects, during the recent UCM week tends to bear this out.

Another major change included in this new policy is the allocation of funds to the chapel committee on which to
operate. In this way the committee will be able to have the nation’s most outstanding speakers in the fields of
politics, art, music, sports, and other cultural activities. The spirit of the new policy also includes such entertainment as magicians,
concerts, and dramatic productions. The committee recognizes worship as the chief objective of the chapel period. However, we believe that
it is only through careful attention to the minute details and mechanics of conducting chapel that this objective may be
attained. We are glad to note in this policy the first real attempt to take this into consideration.

Conduct in chapel has improved a great deal in the last few years. This has especially been true this year
with the abolition of Monday chapel, following Dr. Cunningham's decision to take determined action late last spring. The situation has
improved so much that a freshman is baffled when running across the sub-head “Passing Back” among such innocuous headings as
“Motor Vehicles,” “Firearms and Explosives,” and “Pets” in his book of student regulations. The practice of “passing back” was quite
prevalent as little as two years ago. Increased attention and courtesy do not necessarily mean more worship, but these coupled
with a carefully prepared program will create the most favorable atmosphere for worship.

In closing, we would urge that the Chapel Committee never lose sight that the surest way of reaching its objective
of worship is to follow scrupulously the mechanical and practical schedule that has been set up. We would also urge
that the program be put into effect before next fall, possibly after spring holidays, if it can in any way
be arranged.—T.W.W.

Library Progress Noted; But Still Room For Improvement

It is gratifying to note that, although students may not realize it, the Library of Davidson College is effectively taking
steps to bring that part of the college up to standard. Major recommendations made by management engineers in a survey
a few years ago were that a Reference Librarian be added to the staff, stacks be installed on the second
mezzanine, book acquisitions be increased, and two additional reading rooms be created. All but the last of these suggestions have
been implemented to some degree.

Within the past year, a Reference Librarian has been secured, and book stacks on the upper floor have increased the
shelving capacity of the library by 25,000 volumes. Acquisitions during the years 1947-1952 averaged less than 1500 annually. The library
acquired 2733 volumes during 1954, according to a report given Wednesday to the Board of Trustees. The rate of acquisition
has thus been stepped up considerably, but it will take many years to reach the optimum of 80,000 volumes recommended
by the survey, for the library now has only 62,736.

A library with 80,000 volumes would approach the level of other institutions of the same enrollment such as Muhlenberg, Knox,
and Mount Union, but it would still be very short of the mark set by Washington and Lee with 145,848,
and Bowdoin with 224,061 volumes. The lack of books in some fields is appalling. As an example, the writer, intending
to do some research on Robert Owen, was amazed to find only one volume listed under that name—and that book
was by a spiritualist, not the English industrialist. Many standard works and reference books are not to be found.

The need for more reading space is apparent to everyone who tries to find a place to study during review
periods and other times of concentrated academic effort. The survey recommended that at least 100 new seats be provided for
by converting the seminar rooms on the second floor and the middle basement into general reading rooms. This improvement would
be welcomed by all students who want a reasonably quiet place to study. —M.A.C.

DAVIDSON SCREEN

“Movies Are Better Than Ever”

AN ULTIMATUM: Eliminate The “Hell Week” Nuisance Or Suffer The Penalty

On May 26 four years ago an ordinarily harmless hell week stunt at the University of Miami, Florida, resulted in
tragedy for a local fraternity and two boys’ families. A university freshman was crushed to death by a truck when
he fell asleep on a lonely road; his companion suffered internal injuries. The two fraternity pledges had dropped exhausted to
the road after being taken blindfolded thirty miles from the campus and told to find their way back. A year
later seven students at Hofstra College in New England received severe burns of the face and body when smeared with
an apparently innocent concoction containing mainly ketchup, mustard, egg yolk and water.

With several spring-like days this week the Davidson man’s fancy turned to pledges and paddles and the anticipation of hell
week. Although hazing practices have declined considerably in the last decade due largely to mature World War II veterans entering
fraternities, road trips, concoctions and scuffles are not infrequent during the early spring months at Davidson. So far there have
been no real tragedies at Davidson but this does not insure that it can’t happen here. For a number of
weeks representatives from every local chapter have discussed together the Davidson hell week situation, under the auspices of the Interfraternity
Council. True, the Davidson problem is relatively small, but the potential is such that one mishap could prove ruinous to
the campus fraternity setup. Yet the apparent attitude of this committee was striking, reflecting to a degree the general student
feeling on the subject. The committee’s approach embraced a negative philosophy, the obvious goal being to appease the college powers
rather than to promote the better welfare of Davidson Greek organizations... “Hope we’re pleasing them now; we’re sure giving up
enough.” “Might not even have an effective hell week on account of this.”

At the present no policy for the abolition of hell week is being considered by the college although the hope
is that steps will be taken to curb the foolish practices harmful to individuals. No doubt should a serious accident
occur, strong measures by the administration would follow. Public opinion, particularly in some church groups, is definitely weighted against fraternities.
Just recently the South Carolina Baptist Brotherhood passed a resolution which included this statement: “It seems that Furman University has
not in recent years been enthusiastically supported by our denomination as a whole and it is our feeling that one
of the principal reasons has been the disfavor with which many view social fraternities in Christian colleges.” Most fraternities’ national
laws prohibit any type of hell week. The practices have continued despite national headquarters’ threats to revoke the chapters’ charters.

REASONS FOR SUPPORTWeek backers have three reasons for their continuing support: 1) “Hell week is the climax to our entire
pledge program.” A program then built around nonsense. One in which the neophyte is relieved rather than proud to be
initiated. 2) “Hell week separates the men from the boys; we find those who can really take it.” Granted, that
is interesting. But should the man who suffers with a grin demand more respect than the boy who washes more
cars, digs more stumps, and raises the fraternity scholastic average more points? 3) “Hell week hasn't produced any major casualties
at our house yet.” Like the auto speed maniac who has not had a crash in several years, and continues
to voluntarily expose himself to danger.

The more objectionable hell week practices are usually administered by only a few members of the fraternity. This can be
traced in part to an inadequate schedule of hell week activities, the vacant hours being spent in improvised “goat” stunts.
Worthwhile projects require greater preparation and coordination and must be planned well in advance. Fraternity men supporting the idea of
a worthwhile hell week should investigate projects at once and arrange a complete schedule for the week. Various organizations, including
the Charlotte Planning Center and the Davidson Lions Club, are anxious to use free pledge labor on back-breaking jobs, and
they are willing to furnish materials for the job. The true gentlemen of fraternity row are urged to plan now
for a constructive hell week, using their better judgment for the welfare of their chapters and the Davidson fraternity system.

RACKS IN THE CLOISTER
By LEIGHTON McCUTCHAN

An Ostrich Approach To Nuclear

Can it be that the strain of living in a nuclear age can cause even the cloistered halls of the
Davidson Outlook to be shaken and cracked? Are we really living in a time in which security is less absolute
than ever before? Can the facts of atomic fission break through to the thinking of the normal student? Probably not.
Nothing short of a nuclear explosion in Cornelius could wake us up to the fact that we live in a
world in which man not only knows how to kill himself more efficiently than ever before, but is beginning to
handle the trigger of a gun aimed at the heart of civilization itself. But what the heck. We've heard all
this before. Even if it is as bad as all that (which is unlikely) what can we do about it?
Worry doesn't help. Actually, we live in the consequences of decisions made by Super Government linked with Science—that sacrosanct combination
is in essence beyond our control.

However, this ostrich approach has been rejected by some people who, rather than letting the democratic process go by default,
are still trying to face facts however difficult, and attempting solutions to them.

JUST THE FACTS, MA'AM

For example, Col. R. S. Leghorn (see U.S. News and World Report, Jan. 28, 1955) sees things this way:
1—The Soviets have nuclear sufficiency, i.e., more than two hundred atomic bombs which number is sufficient to destroy the western
world if used on the major cities;
II—The U.S. has nuclear plenty;
III—Nuclear weapons are relatively cheap in terms of dollars per death!
IV—There is neither in being nor in view any satisfactory defense against:
a) nuclear air attack—the Soviets aren't range limited—our defense screen could be only 30 percent effective—the International Ballistic Missile (prototyped
by the V2) is almost developed and no defense for it is even approximated;
b) submarine or secret agent attack is highly effective against our present defense;
c) defense by dispersal of cities is impracticable and contradictory with the basic ideas of freedom for which we fight.

WHAT OF PRESENT DEFENSE?

Leghorn says that at present we are proposing defense from a confused strategy, mixing the three following factors:
a) thinking in terms of possible massive nuclear retaliation if attacked by nuclear weapons;
b) continuing either a defensive cold war or;
c) turning to a hot war on the level of World War II fighting if the enemy attacks in this
manner.

Some objections to this type of strategy are raised by seeing these things. Massive retaliation means victory for no one,
but rather defeat for both and even so we have not committed ourselves to it for threat purposes. Secondly, the
present defensive cold war complex does not stimulate us to penetrate the contested countries of the world and wage effective
warfare against the idea of communism, and probably you can't kill an idea with weapons. Thirdly, we can be engaged,
since we sit on the fence, in a war on a non-nuclear level and be whipped on that level by
the superior number of the enemy. Fourthly, by pursuing the two policies of atomic and non-atomic strategy, we either lag
behind Soviet production and expansion on a non-atomic level, or we try to meet them through regimentation of our society,
but this is precisely what we are fighting against.

A WAY OUT

Ugly facts. Ugly cracks in our cloister. Shall we play like they don’t exist? Is there a way out? Perhaps
there is. Leghorn says first that we drop the World War II strategy, dispose of the Massive Retaliation technique and
substitute for them both the idea of Nuclear Punishment, which includes the specifying of the particular type of controlled nuclear
warfare we would use to punish particular types of aggression (localized fission for local attack, etc.). Secondly, we should announce
this program to the world, using it as a specific threat rather than the vague one that hangs on both
sides today. Thirdly, we could use the time gained by the above method for an extensive political and moral drive
for the disarmament in earnest of all nations, and the revision of the U.N. charter and powers to effectively control
nuclear production and to provide a common meeting ground for the East and the West.

Idealistic you say. You're right. Impracticable? Yes, in many respects. But what is the better way to solve the present
dilemma? Remember, we probably no longer live in a time which has near-absolute security as a goal; only acceptable security
can be hoped for. I wonder what security will mean ten years from now.

Publication Editors Clarify New Method Of Presenting Editors

Scripts ’n Pranks

Everyone is familiar, of course, with the age-old adage, “A good speaker is not always a good editor, and vice
versa.” It was with that maxim in mind that the Publications Board decided to recommend that public speeches in the
campaigns for the editorial positions be eliminated. As the situation stands now, it is quite likely that someday a shrewd
politician might, through loud demonstrations and hilarious antics on the stage, get himself elected to an editorial post which he
is incapable of administrating. This would be regrettable for the student body, as well as unjust to more qualified candidates.

The constitution committee and the publications board felt that a more logical system should be set up whereby the student
body could become familiarized with a candidate’s qualifications without being subjected to a lot of political ramblings and statements that
were not at all pertinent to the issue at hand. The result of this sentiment was the proposed constitutional change
which, if passed, will have the candidates’ platform presented to the student body through the Davidsonian. Of course, all this
means that we'll be deprived of a lot of funny stories during election time, but they'll probably appear sooner or
later in one of the publications anyway. Besides, three days without speeches will mean more minutes to be spent sacking,
studying, or gagging on Union coffee.

The Davidsonian
By HENRY BROCKMANN

One of the main reasons that the Publications Board took action to advise the Student Council constitution committee against speeches
on the part of candidates for editorial offices was that elimination of the speeches would hasten the election period. Upperclassmen
who are familiar with our election system know that one of its main drawbacks is the week after week of
continuous balloting involved. Though the nominees would not make speeches under the new system, the students would have even the
Davidsonian. It has been proposed by the present editors that all candidates for a given publication present their platforms in
the newspaper on Friday before the Monday voting. This, in effect, could give the students of the college a chance
to consider the platforms during the two-day interim before election.

In expediting elections, the proposed article would eliminate the chapel time involved in speeches for the publications and thereby enable
balloting or speeches for other offices. The Publications board is convinced that the proposed article leaves to the student body
the advantage of free elections, but provides students at the same time with a better compass of the true feelings
of the nominees.

Ruby's Report

From Earl Ruby’s column in the Louisville (Ky.) Courier-Journal comes the following quotation from an article “What Should a Student
Acquire in Exchange for Four Precious Years He Trades for a College Education?”:

“To be at home in all lands and all ages; to gain a standard appreciation of other men’s work and
a criticism of one’s own; to carry the keys of the world's library in one’s pocket and feel its resources
behind him in whatever he undertakes; to make hosts of friends among men of one’s own age who are to
be the leaders in all walks of life; to lose one’s self in generous enthusiasm and cooperation with others for
common ends; to learn manners from students who are gentlemen and form character under professors who are Christians.”
