The Davidsonian

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF...... Dick Morehead
ASSOCIATE EDITORS. Maurice Crouse, Tom Warlick
Managing Editors . . Jim Batten, Frank Bloodworth, Jim Brice
Sports Editor. _Bunny Perkinson
Copy Editor __.._____. John _T. Harmon
News Editors .... Bill Gallier, Leon Howell
Feature Editor ... Watt McCain
Staff Photographer Hank Daniel
Assignments.......... John Trask
File Clerk Bob Beall

Member of the Associated Collegiate Press and Intercollegiate Press

Page Two Friday, April 29, 1955

A New Slant

With the release of first semester cut figures on chapel and vespers, a new light has been thrown on an old question. In spite of gripes and groans, over half (53.4%) of the student body “forgot” to take their allotted limit in chapel. Only 63 individuals overcut. Many reasons for these embarrassing figures are available. Dean Spencer mentioned a significant evidence of student responsibility. Another prominent explanation rests in the new approach to chapel by the administration and students this year. Brief but planned and pertinent worship services with free communication of information through announcements highlighted most of these programs. Elimination of Monday chapel also figured in the results. Most of the student body were conspicuous by their presence at vespers, also, with only 25 students marked overcutting on Sunday nights. Regardless of the reasons involved, these figures should present a very significant revelation to the doubters from “the Hill” to the M. & M., the pulpit to the back pew percolators. Overcutting of neither service is a serious problem, and students can assume responsibility. There must be something worthwhile in these services. That many students can’t be wrong.

Student Responsibility-- A Tender Shoot

Not long ago, a seed was sown at Davidson. It occurred right after a severe cold spell, but the soil, on at least part of the field, was fairly fertile. This little embryo was entitled “student responsibility” and came encased in what scholars called “the liberal cut system.” According to instructions on the package, every student was allowed four cuts per course and five cuts meant loss of quality points. As only 120 quality points plus a few major and minor requirements were needed for graduation, the decision on cutting rested mainly with the student. By now the seed has had almost three months growth, but as we approach the end of the term (toward judgment day), life of the growing shoot has become endangered. On behalf of its existence, it would be worthwhile for us to evaluate the title “student responsibility.”

The student is responsible to himself for his education. Ask any pre-med applying to graduate school—any ROTC cadet straining for a place on a selective commission list—any business major up for interview—what the value of his education and background means in consideration of the future. If he possesses a keen conscience, he also feels responsible to those who made college life possible for him. Especially now, a student is responsible to his fellow comrades in culture, for the continuance of this policy depends entirely on the reaction to the system this semester. Perhaps it would be advantageous for those on the danger line to reconsider the various merits involved before turning off the alarm and taking that fatal dive into the sack. To those who have made themselves obnoxious by absences and have flagrantly abused the system, a word of caution. Such actions only sharpen the ax that waits, in some places quite eagerly, to cut down the shoot of increased liberality and responsibility that has been planted. It would be a tragic fall indeed, if the growing tree was felled because of a few. Such a system cannot be expected to mature smoothly into pictured reality overnight, much in the same way that a seed finds rough going in unworked soil. The natural reaction to liberal limits is to exercise the cut a little more. This does not deny or destroy the principle involved, however, that of education by initiative, not compulsion, through desire to obtain, not fear of restrictive punishment.

FRATERNITY PRESIDENTS

John Fite

Summer STORAGE... USE ONLY ON Dance WEEKENDS

Student Counselors

“See No Evil, Smell No Evil” Equals Victorian Absurdity

Last Thursday night approximately eighty per cent of the student body listened to the fraternity president read a pledge which the officers of each fraternity must sign on Monday after a college dance weekend. In brief, the pledge reads that no drinking came under the observation of the three top officers throughout the three-day festivities. Each officer signs this and has done so ever since dance weekends have been allowed on campus; by going through this formal procedure the trustees and parents and patrons of the college beam to themselves smugly that at least at Davidson there is no drinking on a dance weekend as you find on so many of the nation’s secular campuses. All this form and fanfare immediately reminds one of the ostrich who sticks his head in the ground to protect himself from danger and disturbance. By observing this prescribed ritual, our feathered friend blocks out all communication with reality and lays himself open to any real danger which might be present. Hiding from a known fact just to be able to say that it doesn’t exist, however, is sheer folly. The fraternity officers can sign the “sacred pledge of blindness” because, in truth, they have seen no signs of drinking during the weekend. Why? The answer is evident: They are forced by a Victorian rule to remain aloof from any social activity that takes place off the premises of the campus.

The administration evidently believes that by having the officers sign such a pledge (and hence keeping them from attending any off-campus parties just so they can place their names on the “purity sheet") that it has performed a great and worthy service for all concerned. In a recent poll of the student body it was found that fifty per cent of the students drink, and that another twenty-six per cent do not object to other people’s drinking. Carrying this to its logical conclusion, we might state that over three-fourths of the fraternity officers do not object to drinking and that of these over half would like to be able to attend their respective fraternity’s party after the dances. Under the present set-up they cannot do so and still sign the pledge which awaits their signature on Monday morning. What does the college think that it has accomplished by keeping the officers away from a place where they logically belong and by preventing them from taking part in any of the extra social affairs which take place on a Davidson dance weekend? I feel that the signing of the pledge does no one any good, but that, in reality, only helps to weaken the rules which the college is trying to uphold. I am not in favor of throwing the campus open to an alcoholic orgy — but feel that the administration is forcing a pledge upon a segment of the student body (which is absurd and unfair in its very makeup). If the college wants to have an effective rule it could restate the pledge whereby the officers would only have to pledge that they had seen no drinking on campus. I don't feel that any of the students would feel that this rule would be unfair, and I believe that much could be done toward improving present student-faculty relations by so revising the present rule.

There is also one more antiquated rule which should be scrapped along with the above, and that is the ruling by the administration that each fraternity is allowed only one function during the semester. I am not in favor of having functions ad infinitum but do feel that fraternities should be allowed to have group parties on college dance weekends. At present, if a fraternity wishes to meet somewhere after a dance it must be a private “birthday party” or the like which has been arranged by one or two individuals in a group who just happen to issue “invitations” to all of their fraternity brothers who just happen to accept and be there with their dates at a given time. Under the present ruling I am heartily in favor of such skirting of the law since I feel the rule concerning only one function is entirely unreasonable and lays itself open to being circumvented by various and ingenious methods. The reason I am attacking this latter rule is due to the fact that fraternity funds (which should be for the purpose of such parties) are now tied up and that the money for such “birthday parties” must come out of the individual's pocket and not the fraternity’s. I do not believe it to be fair or justifiable to limit fraternity expenditures in this way. If the college will not change the present above-mentioned rules I feel that the student body is at least entitled to an explanation for keeping these laws on record and what the administration feels that it is accomplishing by closing its eyes to the true situation as it now exists. I sometimes feel that once a law gets on the books it stays there because no one neither thinks about it nor wishes to take the time to change it. Such an enigma is not only absurd but deplorable.

Defends Gragg

Many persons, both student and faculty, in the past few weeks have been quite concerned about what is to happen to the YMCA at Davidson College now that the Association.The text has been cleaned up while preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

The organization has left the "automatic" basis for its membership and has decided to turn to the "voluntary" basis of membership. They have wondered what it will mean in terms of the kind of program and indeed, the type of membership which we will have. Man does not automatically, by virtue of his existence or presence in a given situation, commit himself to a cause or movement. He must make some conscious affirmation to the reality which confronts him; he must align himself with a movement or group by virtue of his agreement with the principles or purposes which are set forth. This is the basis on which the YMCA will seek to enlist its members next year. It will seek a conscious commitment from students to the purpose of the YMCA—"a fellowship of students and faculty united by a common loyalty to God through Jesus Christ.”

The central fact about the Christian Association is that it has within its structure and purpose the potential to become a meaningful Christian community. Emil Brunner, the famous Swiss theologian, has said that the YMCA resembles the reality signified by the Church at least as much as today’s so-called churches. “For the Church is nothing else than a brotherhood of people bound together with Jesus Christ and with each other by the Holy Spirit and leading their daily life in such fellowship.” Dr. Brunner goes on to say, “If therefore the members of a YMCA by their faith are really united with Christ, and if the love which is flowing out of this faith unites them with the fellow members whom they feel as brethren, and if these members regard their activities as service to Christ and to the brethren and sacrifice their lives in this service, they are the Church as well as any church.”

The YMCA at Davidson, therefore, has within it the potentialities for becoming a Christian community within the broader community of the College. It can be a fellowship which is truly a community of love, of love poured out in response to the love of God in Christ and pointed in three directions: toward God in Christ, towards the members of this fellowship, and toward the community at large. Within this kind of a community, all persons are seen as equals with no barrier drawn in respect to status or opinion.

The “Y,” as this Christian community, has several important functions. First of all, the most important task is to witness to Jesus Christ, his transforming love in all of life, to make Him known to all men. It is not important whether this witness is made by the spoken word or whether it is made in living action, through service to people. What matters only is the aim that young people come into a living contact with Christ. This, however, can only happen if the members of the Christian community are living Christians and if they have a living spiritual fellowship, together with others where the Bible is studied, where it is talked about, and where experiences are shared in a heartfelt, sincere, brotherly manner. The soul of the YMCA cannot live without being nurtured and purified by the sources of faith.

The function of the Christian Association might be further defined by saying that in addition to being a witnessing community, it is also a community of worship, of study, of service, and of action. Worship is central to the life of the Association and certain times must be set apart for the members to gather for corporate devotion of God. But this worship is not to be seen as the Divine Service; rather, the daily life of the individual Christians, who dedicate their lives to God as sacrifice, explicitly receive this title of divine service. Secondly, study must play an important part in the life of the student Christian Association because as Christian students we see our primary vocation as one of studentship. Therefore, we must be concerned to search for the truth wherever it may be found, be it in Bible study, the study of Christian faith and heritage, or in the natural or social sciences. Thirdly, the function of service is seen to be aimed at directing our love of God to persons both within and without the community, seeking to perform those tasks which will be of aid and edification to others. Lastly, the Christian Association has the function of action. It must seek to make relevant the dynamics of the Christian faith to its place in the world. As a responsibly involved community in the world, it will try to act in ways which will seek the transformation of institutions and society according to the law of love which Christ by His life and death showed us.

The YMCA at Davidson College has a tremendous potential for the future. Its student leadership is strong, faculty participation is active and interested, the student constituency is waiting expectantly... and all point to the fact that the YMCA has an extraordinarily good chance to serve Christ effectively in the years to come.

Rumple Renovation Demands Priority

The recent revelation by Dr. Cunningham of the plan for the restoration of the original quadrangle has been very favorably received by members of the student body and friends of Davidson College. The Board of Trustees has had plans in writing for some time now for this project. However, the time is rapidly approaching when these plans which have remained dormant for so long should be put into operation. No plan, no matter how good, is of value unless carried out.

With the completion of the new W. H. Belk Hall and the removal of Georgia Dormitory (scheduled for this summer), the dormitory situation here will be bright except for one dark corner, Rumple. This building, constructed in 1901, is a very dangerous firetrap and is also rapidly deteriorating from a physical standpoint. Its removal or complete renovation is a project which should no longer be put off as it has the potential of causing a major disaster on the campus. Unless some donor should specifically earmark funds for the restoration of the old quadrangle, the college officials should direct first their attention to the more important project, the replacement of Rumple Dormitory.

However, the restoration of the old quadrangle is a project which has also been put off too long. In the eyes of this writer, no problem other than the dormitory question should merit more attention.

FINE ARTS CENTER

It is the hope of many that this may be known as the Woodrow Wilson Fine Arts Center and may be completed in time for the 100th anniversary of Wilson’s birth next year. Wilson’s first public speech was made in the Eumanean Literary Society Hall, a building which will form an integral part of the Center. The project would include removing the hideous stucco from Shearer Hall and the facing of the building toward the church. In addition, if the building is to be used by the music department, as is suggested, it should certainly be completely renovated and modernized in the interior. Also included in the plan is the removal of the fire-house red paint from the literary society halls and the casting of these buildings into permanent form. Completing the restoration would be the construction of the “twins” to Oak and Elm row, which formed part of the original quadrangle.

UNSATISFACTORY FACILITIES

It is proposed in the plan for these buildings to house the music, art, drama, and speech departments. However, Shearer Hall would have to be provided with several additional floors if the facilities of the Music Department alone are to be adequately cared for (see editorial by Austin Strand, The Davidsonian, Friday, April 15). These buildings could not under any stretch of the imagination contain the facilities needed for the art, speech, and drama departments.

FINE ARTS BUILDING

We would therefore propose that a companion building, constructed in the same neo-classic style, be constructed across the street in the location now occupied by the cardboard village. Not only would this beautify an otherwise ugly spot, but it would allow the architects to build a building of the proper size to accommodate the facilities of the four departments as the architects and planning experts would determine the need. It would seem that only with such a building could we have a real Fine Arts Center, one which would adequately handle the departments involved.

Another long-range plan of the Trustees, but which has not been recently revealed, is the restoration and enlargement of Carolina Inn for use as a guest house. Here again we have the restoration of a historic building for a practical use, one for which it was originally constructed.

—T.W.W.

Represented for national advertising by NATIONAL ADVERTISING SERVICE, INC. College Publishers Representative

BUSINESS MANAGER... Larry Parrott Advertising Manager... Bob Carmichael Subscription... Warner Hall Circulation... Bob Majors, Stan Miller Business Staff... Tony Guiles, Bill Bondurant Subscription Rate: $2.00 Per Year Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1879. Offices in David Ovens College Union