PAGE FOUR

DEAD DEMAGOGUES..... Obituary No 3 | History OF Lamplighters |® Bh. ae | bh | $ “\, G es in
Cell Number 10, a conscientious objector.

HENRY BROCKMANN
Edited by WATT McCAIN

“Those imbecilic yardbirds in Belk’s basement have been a thorn in my flesh for twelve months. Sergeant Sketches, propaganda pictures,
bundles of trash for front page release. The PIO used to send me twenty articles a week; I'd print nineteen
and they’d fume over the lack of publicity. Just last week Hank's shot of federal inspection sent the cadre into
a military dither. They claimed we made their exhibition look like a dog show or pet shop.

“My detest for ROTC began in high school. Three years of playing GI at McCallie was plenty for me. I
was in a state of flux then and flexed the opposite way. At least Joe McCarthy’s on my side.” Henry
placed his ROTC pennant on the carrel shelf and lowered his chair from its editor’s tilt. “Then McCutchen kept telling
me how to run the paper. How can a guy be editor of the Davidsonian and answer questions for everybody
every week when he doesn't know the answers himself? I begged for scoops but the staff could never keep a
secret ‘til Friday. And my only attempt as a Washington correspondent failed; my copy never got back to Davidson.”

“The general appearance of the paper did improve, don’t you think? But there was Hiram Caton. And Gilbert. Too many
words for the type of content and too much content for the words. Gragg never argues; he just reveals. That
publication was a real sweat. Felt like I'd had a baby every Friday afternoon.”

“My views were never too acceptable. I’m the only person in school favoring compulsory Y membership. And a paper I
wrote on fraternity social life that Dr. Abernethy read in class almost caused an open revolt. The SPEs elected me
rush chairman two years because I was the least hopeful personality and would ensure maintenance of an exclusive group.”

Back at his single room in Duke, Brockmann pulled out a twisted pipe and chewed on it carefully, not letting
it slip between his two front teeth. On his chest of drawers lay a chain with Phi Beta Kappa and
ODK keys. “I’ve been doing honors work in English Constitutional History. Did you know I was the first person in
Davidson history to take an honors course in summer school?” On the closet door hung an evening dress. “My girl’s.
Got my wife picked out but she won't marry me until she graduates. On dance weekends she used to stay
at the Mebane’s. I'd move there too, to the room next door and we'd talk. When I pinned her I
missed and pinned her waist.”

“My greatest thrill at Davidson has been waking every morning to the golden sunshine and green grass. ‘Good morning birds,
good morning trees, good morning sun.’ I got a charge out of pulling the ‘ultimate’ on Will Terry. We answered
about fifty magazine ads in his name, and in one day he received two dozen chicks, a sample box of
Kleenex and a representative from Cyclone fences.”

“Will and I used to double-date together. You know I never did appreciate those exhibitions at Neisler’s cabin. I’ve got
strange views I guess. After my campaign speech last spring Dr. Davidson called me a rabble rouser. Will named me
‘Little Caesar,’ because of dictatorial ideas. But then Caesar authorized the military...”

UNION ANNOUNCES COMING FEATURES

April 27—The Special Features Committee of the College Union will present Peter Karkainene at 8:00 p.m. Peter, a Davidson student,
will speak on his native land, Finland; a film on Finland will follow.

April 29 and 30—The Film Committee announces that “The Man in the White Suit,” starring Alec Guinness will be shown
in the ballroom of the College Union.

May 4—A recruiting officer from the U. S. Navy will be in the charter room of the Union to interview
students interested in a naval career.

Gamma Sigma Epsilon Elects New Officers

Past President Zack Kilpatrick announced these officers for next year: President, Brown Goehring; vice president, Bubba Martin; secretary, Dick Pyle;
treasurer, Larry Parrott; historian, Hugh Malone.

Koonce, Garrison . . . (Continued From Page One)

Delta Theta. In voting in chapel today, three different elections held the spotlight. The rising Sophomores and Juniors are electing
their representatives to the Student Council next year, and the rising seniors are electing the freshman adviser. Remaining candidates in
the race for sophomore student councilman are: Bill Bondurant, Lloyd Chapin, Gary Maynard, and Willie Thompson. The rising Juniors, who
are electing two representatives, narrowed their list of candidates today to Carl Cooper, Vernon Hunter, and Bob Shaw. In the
race for freshman adviser, only three candidates, Linny Baker, John Child, and Jason McManus, were left in the running. Balloting
on all these races will continue after chapel Tuesday.

Cat Nine Engages . . . (Continued From Page Three)

entire staff. Particularly outstanding have been Ish Bennett and Johnny Smith, both of whom have identical 3-1 records, and Dick
Belton’s sterling performance against the McCrary team gives him a 1-0 season record. Equally praiseworthy has been the work of
freshman Dave Page, who is slated to be one of the mainstays next year. On Wednesday of next week, the
Cats meet Wofford at Spartanburg to return the game played here this afternoon, and next Friday and Saturday the boys
journey down to Charleston for two games at The Citadel.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Is Interested And Varied

By CARL COOPER

“Hello, My Coney Island Baby . . .” On the evening of September 12, 1954, the melodious words of this
familiar song rang out at the Queens College Freshman Dance in Charlotte. The music was received enthusiastically by those present;
the arrangements of this and other songs on the program were new and different; the four singers sang as though
they tremendously enjoyed singing together. As they rode back to Davidson that night, the four singers stopped singing long enough
to make some plans to sing together in the future. At that moment The Four Lamplighters, one of the most
colorful and versatile musical groups Davidson has seen in recent years, was born.

The new quartet, consisting of Sandy McGeachy, Leighton McCutchen, Joe Garrison, and Bob Martin, began to accept engagements to sing
at church suppers and club meetings; Mr. Plott of the music department, noticed them and encouraged their venture. At Homecoming
the group sang at various fraternity houses during the dance intermissions and sang at the Y party at Erwin Lodge.
Their first appearance in chapel was greeted with the enthusiastic praise of the student body. Shortly before Christmas the quartet,
who insist on being called the Four Lamplighters, lest they be confused with a nationally-known group called the Lamplighters, began
to receive many invitations to sing, in fact, more than they were able to accept.

Since each member of the quartet belonged to the Male Chorus, Mr. Plott arranged a spot for them to sing
in the Male Chorus concerts. This gave them an opportunity to sing before large groups in the South and Southwest
on the Male Chorus trip during spring holidays. Well known to Davidson students is the Four Lamplighters’ arrangement of “Mr.
Sandman,” which was done by Joe Garrison. Most of their arrangements, however, are done by the entire group. Their most
recent one is of “Blue Moon,” which they hope to sing during one of the dances of Spring Frolics this
weekend.

A concrete indication of the ability and success of the Four Lamplighters is the fact that they have been offered
a chance to make a recording. The offer is to record “Decatur St. Blues,” a new blues number by Chick
Thompson, on one side of a record, and any selection they wish on the other side. Their new arrangement of
“Blue Moon” will probably be the selection. They will be flown to Nashville in mid-May to make the recording. With
coverage promised in two nationally circulated magazines—Variety and Billboard—there is a definite possibility of substantial royalties from the record.

Sandy McGeachy, bass, from Clearwater, Fla. is a senior, a music major, and he plans to at-

Phi Mu Alpha Presents . . . (Continued From Page One)

foyer of Chambers Building.These exhibits include the "Painters' Panorama" from the American Federation of Arts under the sponsorship of the
Tupperware Art Fellowship, Creative Work by members of the Davidson community entitled "Night Studio" and a display of Art Works
by the Davidson College students. The concluding attraction on the Fine Arts Festival program will be the Red and Black
Masquers' presentation of the play "Journey's End," by R. C. Sherriff.

Leighton McCutchen, first tenor, a senior from Nashville, Tenn., also plans to attend Union Seminary. He is a history major.
Joe Garrison, baritone, is a junior from Greensboro, majoring in English. He plans to attend Princeton Theological Seminary. Bob Martin,
lead, is a junior from Welsh, La., majoring in psychology. He will attend either Princeton or Columbia Seminary. The Four
Lamplighters rehearse three times a week for about two hours. They practice wherever they can find a place—Shearer Hall, the
church, or the showers. They are genuinely sorry to see two of their group leaving because of graduation. As one
member put it, "We really get a big kick out of being together and singing together even when we are
just fooling around."

ATTENTION: In last week's presentation of the Wille Catha Award, Gilbert Hilton Gregg, winner of first place, was awarded three
volumes of the Interpreter's Bible. The choice of this award is based upon the author's need as determined by the
judge.

Outstanding Pledge... (Continued From Page One)

Pi Kappa Phi will announce its awards at its Spring function on May 7. Sigma Alpha Epsilon presented its "Outstanding
Pledge" award to Sidney Cox of Waynesboro, Georgia, and their "Scholarship" award to Ross Smyth of Charlotte, North Carolina, during
its Founder's Day banquet on March 12 at Selwyn Hotel in Charlotte. Sigma Chi's "Outstanding Pledge" award was won by
Clark Hoagland of Richmond, Virginia. This award was made at the annual Sweethearts' Ball, which was held last Saturday evening
at Radio Center in Charlotte. Sigma Phi Epsilon will present its "Outstanding Pledge" and "Scholarship" awards at its Spring function.

Five Alumni to Study... (Continued From Page One)

of Wisconsin in February, and has since won a Rotary scholarship to Chile. A similar Rotary scholarship has been won
by John Fenton of this year's senior class to study in Germany (Davidsonian, February 25). Edward C. Cumming, the son
of Dr. William P. Cumming, and a Harvard graduate, has been awarded a Rotary also for a second year's study
in Paris. He held a Fulbright during the past year. Juniors interested in applying for Fulbright Scholarships next year should
see Dr. Watts during the next two or three weeks, certainly before the end of the semester.

PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS - THE CONNOISSEUR

A Place of Fine Foods for any taste in Eating — Specializing in Steak, Seafood, and Chicken Dinners.

SPECIAL MENU THURSDAYS — FRIDAYS — SATURDAYS

ALL THE FISH OR CHICKEN YOU CAN EAT $1.50 including Tax

CHILDREN ACCOMPANIED BY THEIR PARENTS 55¢, Tax included

— Fried Chicken — French Fries — Slaw — Hot Rolls — Iced Tea or Coffee

Fish — French Fries — Slaw — Hush Puppies — Iced Tea or Coffee

Mooresville, N. C. Phone 3-2861

DR. MICHAEL TESTA

DR. MICHAEL TESTA TO BE SPEAKER SUNDAY NIGHT

On Sunday, April 24, Dr. Michael P. Testa will speak at Vespers. Dr. Testa attended Maryville College in Tennessee from
which he received his A. B. degree. He earned his Th. B. and Th. M. at Princeton Theological Seminary, and
Davidson College later awarded him the honorary D.D. degree. He has held pastorates in Massachusetts and New Hampshire. During the
war he was a chaplain with the rank of major in the 4th Armored Division of the 3rd Army, and
holds five campaign ribbons. For the past six years Dr. Testa has been a fraternal worker of the Presbyterian Church,
U.S.A., in Portugal. He has served as Dean of the Theological Seminary and as Executive Secretary of the Presbyterian Committee
on Evangelical Cooperation in Portugal. Presently, Dr. Testa is on furlough studying hospital administration at the Medical College of Virginia
and business administration at the University of Richmond.

Five More Seniors...

(Continued From Page One)

Raleigh (Harold Hall), a youngster, one week out of training camp, have been detailed to lead a daylight raid across
No Man's Land to capture a German prisoner. Judging by the horrible fate of previous raids, even the Colonel (Tom
Mann) knows that their mission is practically murder, for the Germans dominate the situation so thoroughly that they mockingly tie
red rags beside the wire where they know the raid is bound to come. Raleigh is too inexperienced to know
how slight are his chances of returning, but "Uncle" Osborne understands completely. Maintaining an undeceived and undeceiving coolness, he prepares
for the ultimate emergency. What is most remarkable about "Journey's End" as a whole is Mr. Sherriff's ability to underwrite
every scene, to suggest black peril behind the casualness of the dialogue. In the last few minutes that remain before
this foredoomed raid begins, the author has achieved the most delicate dialogue of the play — doggedly whimsical, full of
suppressed excitement, vibrant with mute determination.

All of the men in "Journey's End" are seen not as soldiers, heroes, or villains, but as individuals. With one
exception each of the officers, in this all-male cast, stands for something individually so fine that it is difficult to
choose among them. The war has made a hard drinker of the naturally temperate Captain Stanhope, played by Dunbar Ogden.
But for all this hard drinking to steady shattered nerves, Captain Stanhope is a resolute leader of men, sportsman-like and
unassuming. For all his amusing obtuseness, the corpulent Lieutenant Trotter (Albert Harris), is responsible and good-natured under trying ordeals. Lieutenant
Raleigh becomes a hero by instinctively following the rules of fair play he has learned on the soccer fields of
England. The greatness of this play lies in its universality. It breaks the bounds of 1918, for war has been
known to man since his beginning, and is a part of each of us today. Breaking even the bounds of
war, here are presented human beings in conflict and under tension. Their natures are stripped of superficialities, there can be
no chain here. The action and the idiom are simple and direct and in these men we find those we
know—and we find ourselves.

"Journey's End" will be presented each evening at 8:15 p.m. in Chambers Auditorium. Tickets may be purchased at the box
office, Chambers foyer, before each performance.

Drink...

MOORE'S

Mooresville Creamery, Inc.

CHARLOTTE 2, N. C. Phone ED. 2-8257

CAMPUS "STAND-OUTS"

"I've got L&M...and L&M's got everything!"

L&M's Miracle Tip's the greatest—pure and white. And it draws real e-a-s-y—lets all of L&M's wonderful flavor come through to
you! No wonder campus after campus reports L&M stands out from all the rest. It's America's best filter tip cigarette.
