HOWELL URGES SPIRIT FROM STUDENTS — BY — ALENDA LUX WILDCAT OF WEEK GORTA LIBERTAS LEON HOWELL FRIDAY, OCTOBER 14,
1955 PAGE THREE

With the sparkling color and fresh vitality of the autumn season, football becomes the dominant sport for millions of people,
both in school and the business world. As they line the stadiums on Saturdays, varied indeed are the motives that
bring them there. The majority come to see their team strive for victory, enthralled by the game and all its
fascinating facets. Others enjoy the color of the spectacle, merely being a part of this heaving mass. Many, as this
Saturday, are seeking a method to entertain a date. If five thousand people witness a game, five thousand distinct impressions
are garnered and carried away. No two would agree on all phases of the determinants of victory. However, in victory
or defeat, all supporters demand a fighting team, one with the element of spirit.

Webster defines spirit as “the breath of life or enthusiastic loyalty.” In the participants, the former applies, while the spectators
seem to fall in the latter category. A necessary component of the athletic scene, spirit is an oft-employed and much-maligned
word. From all the remote recesses of sport, spirit looms as one of the key ingredients in success. In ROTC,
spirit is known as “esprit de corps” and leaders are instructed to instill this in their men. A creative spirit
motivates the work in Shearer Hall, both in song and instrumental renditions. A joy seen in growth in knowledge has
brought us together at Davidson, while fraternities are molded by the idea of brotherhood.

Perhaps one of the worst experiences that can confront a college man is a date with a beautiful girl that
has no personality or zest. By the same token, nothing disillusions a true fan more than a team that is
mechanically adequate, but that lacks spirit, or enthusiasm for its task. This spirit, manifested in hustle and “extra effort,” has
carried mediocre groups to great heights. Navy last year captured the imagination of the nation with its “team called desire,”
giving more than it possessed and gaining reward beyond its paper expectations. Spirit, fired by Podres, led Brooklyn to an
unprecedented victory over New York. Presbyterian’s Blue Hose swept into the ‘Cat lair last Saturday, and “fired up” as usual,
they took the victory. The breaks went their way, but a tough, heavy line had a lot to do with
making them.

Although rain made conditions soggy for the second straight week, the spectators nevertheless saw another display of the magnificent passing
attack here at Davidson. (Belton leads conference in passing, Newton in receptions.) For the most part, however, the club seemed
a little flat. Perhaps it is good that this sag came before our big conference battles. The destiny of this
year’s aggregation appears to depend on how it responds to last Saturday’s defeat. And the bolstering of the spirit has
to come in a large part from the student body. With the bliss of homecoming, there will be no lack
of verve on the part of students and their dates tomorrow, even if they are somewhat sleepy. It has to
transcend that, however, and become an ever-present state of pride, hope, and the ability to regenerate animation after defeat.

For years the cry has gone out concerning the need of a squad that could win, a team around which
the student body could become unified. This has been done, and without sacrificing the caliber of man that Davidson desired.
Endless hours of tough work, an unusual amount of natural ability, and a desire that is outstanding have been blended
to make a good team. Just how good it will become seems to me to depend on each of us—and
the manner in which we support them. The potential is there. The key to success lies within each of us.

W.&L. To Scrap Cats Hope

With Washington and Lee providing the opposition, Davidson has hopes of adding another win to its homecoming victory column, just
as it did last year, when the Cats soundly beat an outclassed and outplayed West Virginia Tech team. It is
believed by some that Washington and Lee will be in this same out-classed field because of their new “Play For
Fun” policy and their one-year layoff from intercollegiate football. But Coach Carroll Hambright, who scouted the Generals in their game
with Centre College last weekend, says not so. Although Centre spoiled Washington and Lee's return to intercollegiate football by a
24-7 score, the Generals looked big and fast. Statistics show that W & L was facing a team that has
averaged better than 400 yards per game on offense.

Half a century of football at Davidson College will be celebrated by these prominent citizens when they convene at Davidson
College Saturday for Homecoming. They are members of the 1905 Davidson football team, and are: sitting, left to right, C.
Spears Hicks, Durham banker; R. A. (Bob) Fetzer, University of North Carolina coach; Dr. Ben R. Lacy, retiring this month
as President of the Union Theological Seminary at Richmond, Va.; and C. R. Williams of Clemson, S. C., the coach.
Standing, left to right are C. M. Lentz, Albemarle physician, now deceased; Robert E. Denny, attorney, Bluemont, Va.; Robert F.
Smallwood, New York City architect; Dr. Gabe H. Croom, Asheville physician; Dr. John W. Moore, Louisville physician, captain of the
team, now deceased; Nathaniel V. Daniel, retired Oxford lumberman and farmer; J. B. Huntington, retired Wilmington YMCA secretary; C. S.
Stockard, retired Memphis, Tenn., businessman and farmer; unidentified; Dr. Hamilton W. McKay, Charlotte physician; the Rev. L. T. Wilds, deceased,
Hendersonville minister; the Rev. J. M. Walker, deceased, Steele Creek minister; Dr. R. C. Sadler, Whiteville physician; and Dr. Frederick
S. Hentai, deceased, physician.in three contests. Coach Hambright’s scouting report reveals three distinct things about Washington and Lee in their
loss: (1) The Generals are big. (2) They are potentially strong, and (3) opening game mistakes proved very costly to
them. Washington and Lee’s new coach Bill Chipley uses the tight “T” to take advantage of his team’s size. His
first team is composed of:

DAVIDSON STUDENTS PICK EM
Wilson-Wright’s is offering a prize contest. The winner for the first two weeks was Doug Oldenberg with 13 correct picks.
Linny John led the panel last week with 9 out of 15.

Dyke Baker | McLauchlin | Little
Wisconsin over So. Cal | Wise | Wise
Alabama over Tenn. | Ala. | Ala.
Ga. Tech over Auburn | Ga. Tech | Auburn
Citadel over Furman | Citadel | Furman
Davidson over W. & L. | DC | DC
Duke over Ohio St. | Ohio St | Duke
Maryland over U.N.C. | Md | Md
Baylor over Wash. | Baylor | Baylor
Wake Forest over N. C. St. | W.F. | W.F.
VPI over Richmond | Rich | Rich
Virginia over VMI | VMI | Va
W. Va. over Wm. & Mary | W. Va | W. Va
Rice over SMU | Rice | SMU
UCLA over Stanford | UCLA | UCLA
Notre Dame over Mich. St. | N.D. | N.D.

Interfraternity Flickerball Opens as Kappa Sigs, SPEs, and Pi Kappas Lead
By RALPH TRIPLETTE

The second round of the Inter-Fraternity flickerball race found three teams tied for first place. The Kappa Sigs, defending champions,
have a 2-0 record which leaves them tied with the SPE’s and Pi Kappas. Last week the Kappa Sigs trimmed
the KA’s (33-20), as Bayles led the way. Mack led the SPE’s to a (21-7) victory over the Betas. Baird
led Pi Kappa Phi to a 19-0 victory over an improved Campus Club team. The Pika’s dropped their second in
a row to a fired-up S.A.E. team paced by Baker. Scarborough and Reinhart played well in the 12-26 loss. The
Phi Gams also dropped their second in succession (24-0) to a hustling Sigma Chi team which evened its record at
1-1. Anderson played a good game for the winners. Andrews and Wood paced the Phi Delt’s over the ATO's (24-0).

On, Wildcats!
Wilson-Wright’s Inc.
“COLLEGIATE FASHIONS”
DAVIDSON, N. C.

By JEFF SMITH

The Wildcats were outmanned and fairly outplayed in their game with Presbyterian last week. Three elements in general contributed to
this. The big Blue Stocking line proved to be too much for our pass offense and this told on the
lack of depth in the Cat forward wall. At least five speedy backs kept the Presbyterian offense looking pretty sharp
all afternoon. Finally, the Blue Hose spirit never seemed to wane whereas the Cat enthusiasm only waxed intermittently.

At first, the teams seemed to be evenly matched. The two teams exchanged punts in the opening minutes of the
game. Belton then promptly passed successfully to Gramley, Rowland, and Newton to put the Cats on the Hose 20-yard line.
The next pass was complete to Smith for a would-be score, but Davidson was penalized. Talbert’s field goal attempt was
wide. Presbyterian took over on the 20 and marched 80 yards to the Cat 20 on the running of Butler,
Webb, and Comer. However, Gene Carter made a nice mess up of a near scoring pass play. Score: 3-0.

From there on it seemed to be Presbyterian’s game. Our offensive attempt after returning the kick-off was dissolved when a
Hose lineman deflected the ball from Dyke Little’s passing hand into the arms of Bob Stevens who easily danced 20
yards to paydirt. Stevens also made the conversion, but the play was penalized. The second try was (Continued on Page
Four)

Wilson-Wright’s Inc. is offering a prize of $2.50 worth of merchandise to the winner of each week's contest. Tom Newton
and George Thomas led the panel last week with 9 out of 15 correct picks.

Your Selection
Tony | Dick
Wise | Ala | Ga. Tech | Furman | D.C. | Md | Baylor | Rich | Va | W.
Va | SMU | Duke | UCLA | Mich. St.

By BILL PITSER

The General's backfield is led by Alex Pratt, a hard-running fullback. Pratt, who is a junior, made good use of
his 200 pounds last week when he romped for a 64-yard touchdown. Carl Bailey (185) is at left half and
Don Stine (175) is at right half. Sophomore Pete Doyle (170) will be calling signals. Earl Gillespie (200) and Greg
Brantley (190) will go at the guards. John Pipkin (185) and Senior Dickey Johnson (200) start at center. The forward
wall is anchored by two giant tackles; junior Ike Smith, a 230-pounder, and senior Dean McKnight, a 220-pounder.

In the last meeting between the schools, in 1953, Washington and Lee triumphed 37-7. Davidson has won four times in
the nineteen-game series. The Wildcat of the Week for last week was Tom Newton, leading pass receiver in the Southern
Conference.

(Story continued next week.)

Campus favorites ... from every angle...
No guesswork here, Arrow’s new button-down shirt cops the style lead on campus with its soft roll collar, full-length back
pleat, back-collar button—details you'd expect from custom shirtmakers! Now available in authentic plaids and tattersall checks, $6.95 up. Combine it
with Arrow’s taper slacks in chino, $5.95 —for the new casual look.

ARROW
CASUAL WEAR - first in fashion

When you’ve worked pretty late
And the issue looks great...
Why not celebrate!
Have a CAMEL!

It's a psychological fact: Pleasure helps your disposition. If you're a smoker, remember — more people get more pleasure from
Camels than any other cigarette! No other cigarette is so rich-tasting, yet so mild!

R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., Winston-Salem, N.C.
