Speaking of Sports
By JIM HOLSHOUSER

LADY LUCK SCOWLS AGAIN

Lady Luck turned up again in Davidson’s basketball fortunes this week, and as it has been this season, Dame Fortune
gave nothing to the Wildcats except bad news. This time, the peculiarities of conference play pitted the Cats against the
country’s No. 13 team, George Washington, and the Colonials thrashed the Davidson club in the opening round of the conference
tournament in Richmond.

This year’s edition of the Wildcats has seen little of the good luck side. With a tremendous lack of height
to start with, the first slash came when Gaylord Walker, big soph center, left school at the semester due to
scholastic trouble. Improvement of frosh players like Mike Martin and Lew Spears was seen as the answer to the problem,
and these two hustlers got in their share of the rebounds. This reserve strength helped the club, and things temporarily
looked better, but then Lady Luck turned thumbs down again. Martin and Spears were both injured, with Martin out for
the season.

The biggest stab of all came three weeks ago when Hobby Cobb broke one of his fingers in practice. The
incident occurred on the day before the Cats traveled to Greenville to meet Furman, and Cobb played the game with
the finger evidently bothering his shooting accuracy. The next morning, the doctor informed him that what he thought was a
jammed finger was a broken one. Orders were to stay off the court for the rest of the season. So
the Cats played their last three games minus their leading scorer, and managed to win only one. At 5-11, Dave
Shaw became the country’s shortest center, and with one exception, the Cats had no one over 6-4 in the line-up.

That brings us up to date, and the game at Richmond last night completed Lady Luck’s medicine for Davidson. The
74-86 massacre put the Cats out of the tourney and ended a mediocre season.

There were some nice points about the season, too. The Cats slaughtered Guilford in a pair of contests, gaining revenge
for an opening night loss last year. The first three Southern Conference games provided either wins or exciting games, with
the last minute loss to V.P.I. being judged as the toughest decision the Cats took all year. With Cobb out
of the line-up, it took an all-out effort to beat Catawba’s Indians, and fans witnessed an exciting over-time contest which
saw Ray Harding and Ish Bennet burn the nets up in the final five minutes.

Now the eternal cry of “Wait Until Next Year” starts again, and if a good crop of freshmen players turn
up next year, with a little height to go with the fine crew of small players already here, Davidson will
be getting revenge on a lot of teams.

ENSIGN WINS FINAL CONTEST

The Davidsonian’s first season of “Pickin’ the Winners” came to a close this week, and Jim Ensign was the final
winner in the contest which was held over a five-week period. Ensign only missed three guesses out of fifteen attempts
to take down the top spot. Carl Jackson was runner-up with only four misses. All winners of the contest receive
passes to the Carolina Theatre in Charlotte.

BACK THE CATS...! GO TO THE GAME! TOMORROW -- 2:15 P.M.

Imported Egyptian COTTON BATISTE SHIRT By GANT
Button-down with Center Button in back and Box Pleat. White, Light Blue, Lemon and Pink.

ALUMNI-VARSITY GAME SET FOR TOMORROW

THE DAVIDSONIAN
FRIDAY, MARCH 4, 1955 DAVIDSON, N. C. PAGE THREE

‘OLD-TIMERS’ MEET VARSITY TOMORROW

CATS BOW TO COLONIALS IN TOURNEY

GW Was Too Powerful: Harding Tops Cat Scoring

Davidson's Wildcats bowed out of the Southern Conference Tournament in the first round last night as the George Washington Colonials
proved too tough for the Cats and came out with an easy 74-36 win. Corky Delvin and Joe Holup paced
a second-half attack that subdued the Cats, after the Davidson club had stayed within firing range during the first half.

Tennis Schedule Is Given by McKee; Practice Under Way
By BOB PULLIAM

The 1955 edition of the Davidson College tennis team began workouts this week and Coach Dick McKee has released the
schedule for this season. The season will begin with the annual spring tour, during which the Cats will play four
strong Florida teams. Outstanding among these teams are the University of Miami, University of Florida, and Rollins, considered by many
to be among the best teams in the nation.

The Cats, who were last year's Southern Conference champions, are expected to again have a strong team, having lost only
two of the first eight men from last year's team. Back are Lacy Keesler, Southern Conference singles champ, and George
Snead and Corky Clarke, doubles champions. With some help from last year’s freshman team and possibly this year's freshmen the
Cats may again be considered as one of the better teams in the conference.

The schedule consists of twenty-three matches, beginning with the spring trip on March the 17th. Strong teams featured on the
schedule in addition to those already mentioned are: North Carolina, Presbyterian, which features nationally known Allan Morris, and Michigan State.

1955 TENNIS SCHEDULE

March 17—Jacksonville Naval Air Station, Jacksonville, NAS, Fla.
March 19—University of Miami, at Coral Gables, Fla.
March 21—University of Florida at Gainesville, Fla.
March 22—Rollins at Winter Park, Fla.
March 26—George Washington at Davidson.
March 28—Michigan State at Davidson.
March 30—Swarthmore at Davidson.
March 31—Cornell at Davidson.
April 1—Cornell at Davidson.
April 4—Furman at Greenville, S.C.
April 6—Sewanee at Davidson (tentative).
April 9—Wayne University at Davidson.
April 11—Kalamazoo at Davidson (tentative).
April 13—Wofford at Davidson.
April 15—VMI at Lexington, Va.
April 16—Washington and Lee, at Lexington, Va.
April 21—Furman at Davidson.
April 25—N.C. State at Raleigh.
April 26—North Carolina (Continued On Page Four)

Drink Mo at Coach Danny Miller's crew played a stallingGame in the first half, waiting to get a good shot
before firing it up. It slowed the George Washington attack, and at halftime the score read: George Washington 30, Davidson
18. When the second half began, Davidson started to play a running game, and the Colonials promptly ran the score
up easily. Coach Miller used the entire team in the contest as did George Washington. Devlin and Holup each got
18 points to lead the GW scoring, while Ray Harding paced Davidson with 12. The Colonials are ranked as favorites
in the tourney despite their No. 2 seeding. They meet Richmond tonight in one bracket of the semi-finals, while West
Virginia meets Washington and Lee in the other.

Wildcat Swimmers Finish ‘55 Season With Southern Meet
By NED PAYNE

Interference is moving from the single-wing. Spring Practice Finishes; Varsity Rated as Favorite

“Old Man Football,” the king of sports, returns to the Davidson campus tomorrow afternoon at 2:15 p.m., when the Davidson
Varsity hits the Alumni “Oldtimers” squad in the first Davidson Alumni-Varsity game. The game marks the end of Davidson’s spring
practice sessions, and Coach Bill Dole will show his upperclassmen of 1955 to fans for the first time. Practice sessions
for the Varsity have eased up just a bit in the last few days as the Cats have been tapering
off in preparation for the scrap tomorrow. The Davidson club has worked into top shape, and the efforts of the
coaching staff will probably be well-rewarded. The “Oldtimers” are scheduled to hold their last practice tonight, after having had several
here and in Charlotte. The alumni squad roster is filled with ex-Cat stars, some of whom will be donning the
pads for the first time in about five years. Many are still in excellent shape, and the collegians may have
a battle on their hands. Dick O'Hair and Bill Iverson, two top-flight ends, will probably start and will do a
lot of grabbing for the tosses of Auburn Lambeth and Cliff Turner.

The 1955 Davidson College tankmen ended their season last weekend when they participated in the Southern Conference championship held here
at Davidson. The championship was won by Virginia Military Institute, which successfully defended its crown. The Southern Conference champions scored
a record 169 points and won 9 of the 13 events. The 169-point total broke the old team record of
143 points which was set last year. Following VMI in the scoring (Continued On Back Page)

Though the majority of the “Oldtimers” are from the 1946-49 era, (Continued on Page Four)

Davidson Grapplers At Lexington For Conference Meet

Coach Charlie Parker’s wrestling team is in Lexington, Virginia, this weekend for the annual Southern Conference Wrestling Meet, and Wildcat
Captain Johnny Buxton will be the major Davidson threat to bring back one of the champions’ trophies. Buxton placed third
in last year's meet, and this year finds the chances very good that he will finish in the top spot.
The meet opened with first round matches being held today, and the finals will be held tomorrow night. The meet
will be single elimination style with two undefeated matmen meeting in the final round of each weight division.

JERRY SPEAKS: Babbling Brooks.

This week I would like to do something a little bit different. I would like to devote this column to
one man. This athlete is a short-haired Yankee, who has fondly been called “the machine” by close friends, he is
more widely known as Pete. Peter Richard Ashcraft is a sophomore from Amherst, Mass., who has come to Davidson as
a blessing to Coach Whittle's need for an outstanding distance man. The list of Pete's victories and accomplishments is practically
endless. Last year he set a new freshman cake race record which may stand for years to come. He earned
two trophies and a medal from this past cross-country season and was named on the All-Southern Conference cross-country team. However,
no matter how fine these accomplishments are, greater things were yet to come. Two weeks ago, when everyone in town
was tearing loose during the Midwinters festivities, a small expedition of track men ventured to the Southern Conference Indoor Track
Meet at Lexington, Va. With only seven men, Davidson attained a third place position and a team total of twenty
points... ten of which Pete won.

Pete won the mile run in slow time and thought that he might like to audit the two-mile run just
to see how well he could do. If things weren't going too well, he was to drop out and save
himself for the mile relay. At one time midway in the race Coach Whittle was ready to pull him out,
but Pete was possessed with the idea of winning. He maintained his steady pace while most of the pacers dropped
out. Finally, with two laps to go, Pete went out in front and stayed there. A remarkable evening, but even
more remarkable when one stops to realize that Pete had not run that distance since cross-country season and was evidently
not considered to be in condition for a two-mile run.

Now we come to the final case (Continued On Page Four)

Pete Ashcraft (above), Davidson mile runner who unofficially broke the school record for the mile last weekend at the AAC
Invitational.

COLLEGE TO COLLEGE, COAST TO COAST— WINSTON is really going places!

WINSTON tastes good—like a cigarette should!

No wonder so many college men and women are getting together on Winston! It’s the filter cigarette with real flavor—full,
rich, tobacco flavor! And Winston also brings you a finer filter. It works so effectively, yet doesn’t “thin” the taste.
Winstons are easy-drawing, too—there’s no effort to puff!

Wilson-Wright's Inc. “COLLEGIATE FASHIONS”

Mooresville Creamery, Inc. QUALITY MILK
