PAGE FOUR

‘DYING DEMAGOGUES.......0 Ss GILBERT H. of Yellowstone; he developed a slight case of lockjaw which resulted in the clapping of his trap.

By JOHN HARMON

Good morning, sidewalks; Good morning, birds! Yellow air, green grass, red birds, blue sky. Joyful, Joyful, We Adore Thee! To a second-, third-, or fourth-year Davidsonian, the above paraphrase will hold real significance. To a freshman, all that can be said is, this is the most popular facet of that rare phenomenon called “Graggism.” Understood but never effectively explained, it is a combination of Deism, hedonism, optimism, humility, etc. ad infinitum. It is indeed a rich innovation to our campus, but its progenitor and most ardent protagonist is even more ... no, read the rest of the sketch and decide for yourself.

Perhaps not all of you have seen, but without doubt you have all heard of Gilbert Hilton Gragg, Jr., through his writings or through his speaking intelligently and interestingly (7) and interminably on all subjects relevant to him. Just ask him about Thomas Wolfe or Fyodor Dostoievski sometime and you'll be in for a three-hour lecture. Ask him about some fairly well-known novel by some not too important author and he will be able to tell you the complete outline of the narrative which he has garnered from his beloved summary books. To see the almost innumerable store of books which fill two bookcases in his room and three shelves on his library carrel, one would think that summary learning is hardly the correct phrase to describe Gilbert’s accumulation of knowledge, and rightly too, for the surprising thing about all the books he owns is that he stays on campus most weekends and reads them, some for enjoyment and some in preparation for his honors seminar in modern literature (he made “as close to A plus as possible” on his first semester exam under Prof. Lilly). The five most prominent book clubs in the United States are still suing him for non-payment, but his friends are enjoying thoroughly the cookbooks which they received when he submitted their names as new members in order to obtain free books.

Graggism is, however, more than a resplendent regurgitation of a random accumulation of book-learning: it is the spontaneous effervescence of a mind that has been inclined towards various philosophical outlooks on life and that has remained for the most part publicly uninhibited by ratiocination or retrospection. Judging on the basis of writings from consecutive periods of Gilbert's life, one might describe Graggism as hedonistic optimism, humble optimism, tragic optimism, or pessimistic optimism. The spiritual development of the “Graggist” has many interesting and revealing sidelights.

HEDONISTIC OPTIMISM

Gilbert’s early life in Bainbridge, Georgia, was one of the usual comfort and security. In his eleven-grade high school (he always uses his “inferior” eleven-grade background as an excuse for having had to take Math 10, and to explain such calamities as “B” in biology and Greek) he was valedictorian and was chosen the outstanding senior. During this time also he was selected as the most outstanding Y-worker in Georgia and twice winner of the state essay contest. Besides writing, his two main diversions were music and playing center on the basketball team. (After eight years of studying music, he can now play “Malaguena.”)

Gilbert has spent the summer months ever since he was in the seventh grade in extensive travel. He has visited all forty-eight states except Arkansas. During his western tour, a cataclysmic catastrophe descended upon him in Wyoming where he saw the gushing geysers for three entire days. He has been making up for those seventy-two lost hours ever since, to the delight of friends who look forward to his famed “visits,” and to the chagrin of those who do not understand his idea of “sharing” his experiences and ideas with others. Far more interesting than his American travels, however, are Gilbert’s experiences around the world: The Continent, England, Canada, Cuba, and Alaska. While he was in Europe, he shared the grandeur of the Continent with the south-Georgian farm element via weekly newsletters to the Bainbridge paper (he increased circulation by three hundred subscriptions; how many did his relatives buy?). When not traveling, Gilbert spent the summer season in a beautiful southern plantation-type home in Montreat, where his first real awareness of the beauty of nature and of the hand of God in nature caused him to exclaim: “Goodness is that which flows through valley, hill, stream, and heart down into the chasm of the abyss of the human soul in multitudinous torrents, bringing God.”

HUMBLE OPTIMISM

Upon coming to college, Gilbert lost much of his former hedonistic approach to life and after a short time donned the garb of humility. One of the chief causes of this new outlook was the realization, after a summer school experience, that the trusting and innocent attitude is not always the best. After a discussion with “friends” of the motion picture “Houdini,” while preparing to conduct a hall prayer-meeting service, Gilbert was persuaded to test his own magical abilities by trying to extricate himself from a locked trunk. When, an hour later, he was released, he found himself, clad in nothing but underwear, at Hattie’s. He missed the religious services for the evening!

During college days, his interests developed along two main lines: religion and literature. Although athletic pursuits were of necessity relegated to a status of ancillary importance, Gilbert has consistently found time to keep up his tennis game, and even now one can occasionally find him exercising with weights in his room. His religious attitude at first was one after the manner of N. V. Peale, but after he had thought positively for a while, he decided that the time had come for him to get out and do something, so he began taking an active part in Westminster Fellowship and also in the Y deputations to the Mecklenburg Sanatorium. He has agreed with another who said of Christianity, “I’m betting my life on it,” and if asked about faith, he may reply, “Faith is supra reason, supra emotion, supra intuition, because have you never looked out of the curtained French windows and seen the soft, white, dewy, crystal-like snowflakes falling gently from heaven down upon the rippling, wavy, pregnant-with-meaning surface of the silent lake lying beyond the plain of destiny?” Perhaps more in keeping with his Christian existentialism, if asked for a proof of faith, he will answer, “Who can prove the beauty of a sunset or of a Wagnerian opera?”

Gilbert’s literary endeavors have been most significantly influenced by a fellow-Southerner, Thomas Wolfe, whose works he has completely devoured, and to whose home he has made a reverential pilgrimage. Gilbert burst upon the editorial page of the Davidsonian with an article attacking a speech given on Abraham Lincoln a year ago. This minor explosion in the fall was followed by a second and major explosion in the spring with the publication of the above-mentioned “Frost on the Marsh Grass,” which had the honor of receiving third place in the Vereen Bell Contest of last year. Graggism came to be defined for the first time with the appearance of the article expounding the philosophy of humble optimism (this title was dreamed up by the editor and not used by the author himself), the result of a soul that enjoys the “little things”: the beauty of nature, the blessings of friendship, and the pleasure in singing “Joyful, Joyful, We Adore Thee!” This article, which furnished a meaningful definition of the coined word “gragment” as “two pages of description with no plot,” also nearly caused the lynching of its author, for our cynical student body did not appreciate (and didn't mind saying so) the phenomenon of a happy outlook on life.

TRAGIC OPTIMISM

After a summer’s work in the slums of New York, Gilbert understood that there is a bad, as well as good, side of life. For eight weeks he worked in a settlement house of the Church of All Nations, serving as instructor and leader of a group of seventeen unsegregated twelve-year-olds, and returned with the conviction that true Christian devotion to a worthwhile cause had brought him the most nearly perfect happiness that he had ever known.

Back at Davidson for his senior year, Gilbert has synthesized his wide intellectual background and experience in life and in literature in his editorials for the Davidsonian and in his creative works for Sigma Upsilon. Particularly worthy of note among the editorials are those on fraternities’ rush weeks and on the Homecoming expense account. He has also shown his ability to handle subtle humor and narrative, two aspects of his style conspicuously absent up to now, in his short story, “Jean-Paul Oddley,” based on a Greenwich Village experience of last summer, which appeared in the winter issue of Scripts ‘n Pranks.

PESSIMISTIC OPTIMISM

After twenty years of many and varied interests and experiences, Gilbert has concluded that “all things work together for good,” in spite of the evil that is in life. Though he admits that he does not live up to the ideals of the Christian faith (“I know little, but I use every bit of it.”), he has determined to spend his life in...teaching, preaching, and mission service just as long as he has a week of theater-going each year). To perpetrate his plan, Gilbert is going to Oxford next year to do graduate work in theology and then return to seminary in the United States. “To lose the earth you know, for greater knowing; to lose the life you have, for greater life; to leave the friends you loved, for greater loving; to find a land more kind than home, more large than earth—.” Oxford has a pleasant surprise in store next October. Davidson's loss will be England’s gain.

THE OBITUARY NUMBER 2 | RECORD NUMBER

DAVIDSONIAN

Cut System... (Continued From Page One)

Seek Baker Awards

Professor B. D. Thompson, Secretary of the Baker Scholarship Committee, has announced that a record number of applications, 170, has been made this year for the Baker and Union Carbide scholarships. These scholarships are awarded annually to entering freshmen. In keeping with this increase of applications, the committee will award seven or eight Baker scholarships, the most ever given by Davidson, two Union Carbide grants, and three honor scholarships. Although these applications are just beginning to be processed, the committee will select within a month, approximately 28 finalists from the 170 aspiring scholars on the basis of tests, character references, and high school records. These finalists will come to the Davidson campus for the weekend of March 24-26 for further testing and personal interviews. The actual recipients of the awards will be notified around the first of April.

Eu Society Initiates... (Continued On Page Four)

Boyd Wilson, Fred Scott, Bill Gallier, Don Carmichael, Dick Hellstrom, Lloyd Chapin, Franklin Bloodworth, Felix Sibley, Tom Thrailkill, Bill Daniel, Bill Tedford, Willis Briley, Tom Haupe, Edward Moore, George Kemmerer, Bob Talbert, Jim Robinson, Rhett Sanders, Neil Murray, Gordon Bondurant, Willard Wolfe, James Gardner and Arthur Martin.

Davidson Cagers ... (Continued From Page Three)

half, they were caught and passed in the second canto. A fast closing spurt gave them a well-earned victory. Cobb and Harding with 28 and 27, respectively, accounted for most of the local scoring. Now the owners of a 4-2 season mark in the conference, the Cats are on the threshold of qualifying for the Southern Conference tournament. Individually, Cobb is still ranked in the top thirty scorers in the nation with an overall 22.3 average.

Cleland Visits... (Continued From Page One)

commander of the 82d Airborne Division. With the advent of the Korean Crisis, General Cleland was again assigned to the Orient as commander of the 40th Infantry Division during the period June 1952 - April 1953. He then left Korea to assume command of the famed 1st Cavalry Division, which was located on Hokkaido, Japan's northernmost island. In August, 1953, back in the States, he was named commander of Fort Bragg and the XVIII Airborne Corps. General Cleland’s decorations include the Legion of Merit (with Oak Leaf Cluster), The Soldier's Medal, The Bronze Star Medal, The Silver Star, and the Distinguished Service Medal. He also has been awarded the Master Parachutist Badge and the Glider Badge.

STUDENTS: Note This Now:

$1,000.00 IN CASH PRIZES For the Best Essay (250 to 500 Words) On The Subject “How I Would Increase the Popularity of Cigarillos”

RULES
1. Only bona fide students of accredited colleges are eligible to compete. 1st prize $500; 2nd, $200; 3rd, $100; plus four $50 prizes.
2. Essays must be accompanied by one (1) KING EDWARD CIGARILLO band, or reasonable facsimile thereof.
3. Only one entry accepted from each student.
4. Contest now open. Closes April 30, 1955.
5. Mail entry to Box 3097, Jacksonville, Florida. Decision of judges will be final. All entries become the property of...
SNO. W. SWISHER & SON, INC. Makers of King Edward Cigarillos “You don’t have to inhale to enjoy a Cigarillo”

THE CONNOISSEUR

A Place of Fine Foods for any taste in Eating — Specializing in Steak, Seafood, and Chicken Dinners. Mooresville, N. C. Phone 3-2861

The following regulations will otherwise govern attendance at classes and required college exercises:

A. Academic Exercises:
1. In recognition of occasional valid personal reasons for absence which do not involve emergencies, students are allowed in each course one absence for each semester hour for which they need not request excuses.
2. Unexcused absences from the following academic exercises will be recorded as double, and in addition the instructor concerned may impose any academic penalty he deems appropriate:
a. Laboratories.
b. R.O.T.C. drill.
c. Scheduled hour tests.*
d. Any academic exercise on the day before and after one-day holidays and on the two days before and after holidays of more than one day.
3. Three tardies count as an absence. If a student does not appear within fifteen minutes after the beginning of the class period, he is counted as absent.
4. For exceeding by one the number of unexcused absences allowed in any course, a student will be placed on probation with regard to the class involved. An additional absence in this course will result in the forfeiture of all quality points earned in the course. In addition, the instructor may assess any academic penalty he deems appropriate.

Babbling Brooks ... (Continued From Page Three)

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 1955

Revised Constitution... (Continued From Page One)

I am not speaking to any one in particular. Take it for what it's worth. “Dame Fortune is a cockeyed wench, as someone's said before. And yet the old Dame plays her part in any winning score. Take all the credit you deserve, heads-up in winning pride. But don’t forget that Lady Luck was riding on your side."—Grantland Rice.

B. Other Required Exercises:
1. Vespers. Freshmen and sophomores, four; juniors and seniors, six.
2. Chapel and Convocation. Freshmen and sophomores, six; juniors and seniors, ten.
3. Physical Training. Freshmen and sophomores, three; juniors and seniors, six.
2. For exceeding the number of unexcused absences allowed in any required non-academic exercise, a student will be placed on probation with regard to the exercise over-cut. An additional excess absence in any non-academic exercise will place a student on probation with regard to all such exercises. Any further absence from any non-academic exercise, whether or not it is above the limit allowed, will make the student subject to suspension from the college.

Competition is solely a contest to develop the most valuable service for the benefit of those served— Sherman J. Sexton.

More than five million U.S. farms now have electric service.

PARKER-GARDNER
CHARLOTTE 2, N. C.
118 West Trade Street

You'll smile your approval of Chesterfield’s quality—highest quality—low nicotine. IN THE WHOLE WIDE WORLD NO CIGARETTE SATISFIES LIKE CHESTERFIELD

You'll smile your approval of Chesterfield’s smoothness—mildness—refreshing taste.

The composition of the Student-Faculty Conference Committee under Article XIV, Section 1, is an innovation which should enhance the workableness of the committee. Moving to Article XVI, the right of appeal to the faculty has been given to convicted students. The entire Article XVII is completely new and handles the composition, duties, and rights of the Financial Committee. In Article XVII, the University of Virginia and Princeton University served as the source from which a more effective and fairer trial procedure was modeled. Sections 3, 4, 7, 8, 9, 10, 12, are the additions in this Article.

The third category of alteration is composed of minor changes of a word or phrase and, in doing so, shattered an old rule, replacing it with another. In Article VII, Section 2, recitations have been omitted from the Honor System. “Lying under oath” has been substituted for “perjury” in Section 4. The meetings of the Court of Control have been moved from once a month to twice a month, as seen in Article XI, Section 5. According to Article X, Section 1, the Freshman Adviser is to be nominated and elected by the rising senior class, not by the Y.M.C.A. cabinet as before.

Drastic changes have been made in revising, modernizing, and revitalizing the Student Body Regulations, appearing in Article IX. In this fourth category, in Sections 2 and 3, the alcoholic offense has been broken down into two subdivisions. The first subdivision prohibits drinking or having alcoholic liquors on the campus with a penalty in Section 8 of suspension from college. That no student can be under the influence of alcoholic liquors on the campus is the second subdivision with the penalty in Section 9 being in direct proportion to the degree of influence. In Section 10, the penalty for gambling is “in accordance with the seriousness of the offense, the maximum penalty being suspension from college.” It will be noted that there have been many omissions of previously unnecessary, ineffective regulations.

DAVIDSON THEATRE
P-A-N-O-R-A-M-I-C WIDE SCREEN

WED.-THUR., FEB. 9-10
"New Faces” EARTHA KITT

FRI.-SAT., FEB. 11-12
"The Steel Cage” PAUL KELLY

MON.-TUES., FEB. 14-15
"Sitting Bull” DALE ROBERTSON

WEDNESDAY, FEB. 16
"Siege at Red River” VAN JOHNSON

THURS.-FRI., FEB. 17-18
"Deep in My Heart” JOSE FERRER MERLE OBERON

SATURDAY, FEB. 19
VAN JOHNSON