The Davidsonian

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Dick Morehead

ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Maurice Crouse, Tom Warlick

Managing Editors
Jim Batten, Franklin Bloodworth, Jim Brice

Sports Editor
Leon Howell

John T. Harmon, Watt McCain

Copy Editor
Feature Editor
Staff Photographer
Hank Daniel

Assignments
John Trask

File Clerk
Bob Beall

Member of the Associated Collegiate Press and Intercollegiate Press

Page Three
September 30, 1955

Keeping Posted

Do you have a knowledge of world affairs? Are you aware of the national and local events which affect the present and shape the future of contemporary man? These are questions which the college student must face and answer honestly in this day of “mystery” bombs and 800-mile-per-hour travel. It is quite easy to slide into one’s cell, become engrossed in the routines and forget that there is a world outside of Davidson. It would be quite logical except that most of us intend to be a living part of that world very soon.

There are many channels through which a student here at Davidson can keep himself informed. The library has an excellent daily file of leading newspapers. Magazines in the periodical room take the news and analyze it from many standpoints. The radio and news and commentary TV programs are presented at just such hours and length as to be available to you throughout the day. There are certain organizations on campus such as the YMCA and International Relations Club which sponsor discussions and panels on current affairs. These are just a few of the opportunities. You owe it to your future profession, your benefactors, as well as yourself to keep informed, interested, and active in what goes on around your community and nation.

World Figure, Power, and Tragedy

“... few men in the public life of the Republic in recent years have wielded such power yet retained such affection.” — James Reston, N.Y. Times, Sunday, Sept. 25.

Banquets buzzed, the stock market fell drastically in a near record drop, world leaders expressed their deep concern, political parties revamped policy, TV, radio and newspapers spelled the latest news to an eager nation and world, international leaders went into serious consultation, and Washington made plans to distribute presidential power. Thus the news of President Eisenhower’s heart attack spread over the world.

What reflections and long-range probabilities emerge from this tragic occurrence? They are many in number and great in consequence. Only a few can be touched upon here. First of all, it is amazing to consider in evaluation of the effects the power, responsibility, and prestige of President Eisenhower not only here but throughout the world. The President himself said in a speech to the Denver Republican party, “... humans are frail, you never pin your flag so tightly to one mast that if a ship sinks you cannot rip it off and nail it to another.” And yet many factions, nationally and internationally, had pinned their flags very tightly to the presidential mast. It is hoped that the American people have placed their faith in higher and greater things than the transient life of any individual, regardless of that person's great ability and power.

Politically, many feel that Mr. Eisenhower will not run again in ’56. Campaigning would be a tremendous strain on a healthy man. His family has always been against a second term and would especially voice their negative sentiments now. He, himself, has never been overly enthusiastic or committal on the subject. If he does not run then: who will receive the Republican nomination in '56 and what will be his views and policies? What will happen to the relatively neutral and balanced factions within the U.S.? Does this event increase the strength of the Democratic party and especially of a certain presidential candidate?

Internationally, what will be the effect of Eisenhower’s illness upon world policies and actions? It has been generally agreed that the present balance of power in American political life and the relatively peaceful conditions of the world centered on the President. He has become a symbol of America’s policy of seeking an honorable accommodation with a hostile Communist world. In the words of Asia’s great leaders, “It would be a serious blow to the free world if this great general and popular leader should be incapacitated.” The Communists seem to respect Eisenhower—but few other Western leaders. The effect of the President's illness upon world policies is great — its evaluation and future results remain to be seen.

As a college student, consider these questions and all related to this as well as other current events. Evaluate and answer them for yourself; they form a large part of the world in which you will soon be living and working; in a very real sense they apply directly to you. Regardless of political prejudices, most agree with Mr. Reston that the illness of President Eisenhower “is a great personal misfortune to one of the most popular military and political figures in American history ... a political event of world significance.” — R.H.M.

Television in 1984

A shot rings out and a form slumps to the floor of a glass-enclosed cage. After the smoke clears away, we find a man gesturing wildly and exclaiming, “Gee, I'm awfully sorry, Mr. Zaborney, but you lose the $101,000 question. Say, wasn't he a sport, folks? Let’s give him a big hand!” The studio audience claps and whistles loudly and the TV camera gets a few candid shots of facial expressions. Mr. Zaborney was the latest victim of the newest TV quiz show “Russian Roulette.”

“The $64,000 Question” in time proved to be too mild to continue its iron grip on the mentality of the American public, and a rival network vice-president, who shall be nameless, came up with the idea of “Russian Roulette.” Every week for five weeks contestants put a loaded revolver to their temples and pulled the trigger while 122 million American viewers at home look on with horrified fascination. To win the $101,000 a contestant must survive all five weeks. If he succumbs before that time, his burial expenses are thoughtfully paid by the sponsor of the show.

There are rumors that another network plans to produce a variant of “Russian Roulette.” Instead of having only one bullet in the revolver, another bullet is added each week to add to the suspense. The network predicts that “Red Russian Roulette” will be an even greater hit than its predecessor.

A somewhat different appeal to the public is made by a third network’s heartwarming program entitled “The Torture Chamber.” On this unique program, the contestant’s child is placed in some torture instrument such as the rack, the spiked box, or the hot-foot machine, while the contestant answers questions for large sums of money. With each correct answer the torture is increased until the grand prize is won, the child dies, or the parent’s sympathetic nature compels him to be satisfied with the sum he has already won. The human interest of the program lies in the struggle between love for the child and desire for big prizes. Viewers are intensely interested in seeing the twisted faces and hearing the heart-rending screams of the children as parents try to make a choice between the alternatives.

Still another popular quiz show is “Vice Versa.” Instead of playing around with the sponsor’s money, each contestant bets his own money on his ability to answer tough questions. No credit is given for correct answers, but each wrong answer costs the contestant $50,000. All the money won by the sponsor goes to charity and each losing contestant receives a letter of recommendation to that charity as a consolation prize.

I see by the paper that Robin Hood is expected to become the next juvenile idol, so I think I shall crawl into a hole and pull it in after me until someone ends all this foolishness by dropping a hydrogen bomb on the world. — MAC.

Larry Parrott
Bob Carmichael
Warner Hall
Bob Majors, Stan Miller
Tony Guiles, Bill Bondurant

BUSINESS MANAGER
Advertising Manager
Subscription
Circulation
Business Staff

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. NEW YORK, N.Y.
CHICAGO • BOSTON • LOS ANGELES • SAN FRANCISCO

Subscription Rate: $2.00 per year
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N.C., under the Act of March 3, 1879.
Offices In David Ovens College Union, Davidson College

BUNNY PERKINSON: Liberalized Cut Policy, Chapel Revisions Producing Results

Davidson has come a long way! From the small, scattered buildings of some fifty years ago, Davidson has grown into a large college plant that is second to very few in quality. In number of students, naturally, there has been a steady increase over the years. In every way the story of Davidson has been one of growth and progress, but in many respects that progress has been too slow. It seems that in some ways Davidson has had difficulty in keeping up with the times, and until this year we found ourselves behind most colleges in terms of a liberal cut system and required chapel five days a week.

This fall began the first full year under the present cut system, so we are still in a period of testing. However, only casual observance can readily reveal that this system, even though not fully tried, is superior to the old system. The new probationary cut gives the student a little more breathing space, and to some, the loss of quality points suffered by a fifth cut in a course is not enough to deter a student from taking that cut if he so desires. So, we see that if a student wishes to take a relatively large number of cuts, he may do so without too much danger.

In the past, a couple of absences over the limit and one could be suspended from college, but to a greater degree than ever the student today is left to his own discretion. This is as it should be, though seldom has the Davidson student had the opportunity to feel that he was at least in part a man and should be able to decide what he shall do. This new cut system, maybe nobody is actually trying to cram religion down his throat, and he becomes more receptive as a result. The student body as a whole seems to share the opinion that

QUESTION-ANSWER SERIES BEGINS

In order to enable Davidson students to express questions concerning any phase of student activity, The Davidsonian is initiating with this issue a program to devote a portion of the editorial page to the presentation of students’ questions and their authoritative answers. It is the wish of the editors that such a program will serve both to make students’ questions public and to move one step further in the improvement of faculty, administration, and student relationships through a better understanding of mutual problems. We invite your support of this new endeavor.

The questions, which need not be signed, should be of interest to a large portion of the student body, and could pertain to such issues as administrative, Student Council or athletic policy, the curriculum or extra-curricular activities, the social aspect, the Artist Series, or scholarships. Questions received by this office will be forwarded to the person on the faculty, in the administrative offices, or in the student body who is best qualified for their analysis and answers, and subsequently both the questions and answers will be printed in the forthcoming Davidsonians. Please leave your questions in the Davidsonian box in the Union or bring them to Bill Bondurant, editor of this column, in 251 Belk.We owe a great deal to Dean Spencer for his definite steps forward on the students’ behalf. We have made progress, but we should not come to a halt when so much more can be done. Let us hope that the reaction of the student body to these liberalities will be such that the administration will feel that the Davidson student is a man and can safely be treated as such. Let us also hope that our mature reaction to these first steps will lead the administration to further liberalize the cut system and perhaps do something about compulsory vespers attendance.

Embryo Reformers Must Retain Their Objectivity

On thumbing through last year’s peppermint-striped QUIPS AND CRANKS, we noted with interest these significant lines, recapping a DAVIDSONIAN poll of last autumn on the hotly-debated segregation issue: “... Upperclassmen have the most liberal viewpoint while the one-month-removed-from-home Freshmen were still representing Ma’s and Pa's views... .” The implication here is obvious. The upperclassman, enlightened by the Davidson Experience, has grown out of the doldrums of unthinking acceptance of anything, while the hapless freshman still clings briefly to the views which characterized his early life down home on the plantation. It seems to be a foregone conclusion that as soon as the freshman can shake off those horse-and-buggy ancestral views, he too will become a fervent disciple of the New Order.

It is common knowledge that the growing-up process of an intelligent man involves the development of a mind which relentlessly questions everything in sight: political, moral, and religious. A mature mind does not pre-judge or accept anything without investigation and consideration, whether it be the Ku Klux Klan, drinking liquor, Balaam’s talking ass, or the concept of the Trinity. Needless to say, this metamorphosis leaves quite a crowd of us wondering which end is up, if any. It would appear, however, that there are grave dangers in this process of becoming an astute, impartial observer. The danger is that we tend to get a mite carried away with ourselves and our newly-found brain power. Instead of calmly weighing facts, as was our original resolve, we suddenly tear off in the heat of a liberalistic tangent, with a revised Standard Bible in one hand and the Supreme Court Decision (or whatever the current issue may be) in the other. Too often we discard a principle or belief, simply because it has its roots in the traditional past. Having been bluntly told that we are afraid to think for ourselves, we go off the deep end, and hasten to throw our forebears’ ideas about things out the window, a little sheepish that we ever seriously entertained any of that outdated southern conservatism that the old folks laid such store by.

Progress and liberalism have their place in any society, and the South is no exception, to be sure. But we can do without the constant flow of condemnation and apology for all things Southern which issues so voluminously from our home-grown, self-styled liberal reformers.

From the New Yorker

A Harvard professor, out strolling with his small son one day last week, found the heat so oppressive that he decided to duck into an air-cooled movie house. The picture being shown was very primitive, he discovered, and crowded with scenes of passion. He worried for a while about the effect of this stuff upon his little one, but presently he was reassured. “These people,” the boy shrilled into his ear, “aren't from Cambridge, are they?”

ONE WEEK .... -THE ONLY ONE — . Hf _ Y CRA

FRED MYERS: This Too, Shall Pass .......... by Karkkainen

ANOTHER WEEK -~ONE OF MANY “GRASS ly (euscy secucaTioms))

Candid Impressions on France--- The Country and the People

So much has been said and written about post-war France, and so much has been said too often, that I am loath to add to the already over-glutted store. For us of American-- basically Anglo-Saxon—temperament, so few external observations about France and the French are valid. I wonder whether it is possible, in spite of vast areas of common political and cultural heritage, for an American ever to see beyond the great enigma of France and the French. From my own experience, I believe that such understanding is more likely to come about on the part of Americans than of the English. The Englishman tends to dismiss the French as uncouth, “latin,” and slightly uncivilized. The Frenchman, on the other hand, has an honest admiration for the great qualities of the English people, but ardently and warmly feels — and asserts (perhaps even neurotically at times)— that he is superior. Of these two irrational, oversimplified and generalized positions, I am convinced that the latter is the more valid and the more rational. Here the insular viewpoint of the English, geographically and otherwise, is expressed, as well as the continental position of the French, who are avid tourists, anxious to “know” other European countries as well as England, and to learn and digest their cultures. The Frenchman is excited and enthusiastic about American, English, German and Russian literature, for example, but he never ceases to take for granted his own literature as superior. This attitude is to other nations arrogant and egotistical, and indeed it would be, were not the French claim somewhat valid. It is true, I believe, that, inasmuch as one can generalize, the French have a greater grasp and keener understanding of foreign art and politics than any other people. And it is true that French literature, though at times surpassed, has consistently excelled for the past several centuries. Certainly in the past century, that is to say, from 1850 on, there is no valid doubt as to French superiority in the realms of literature and painting. As for their statesmanship since 1850 — or since 1950 for that matter — I am not so qualified to say. But I do know, and I do believe that I can say without fear of contradiction, that France is the most “democratic” of modern nations. It is perhaps her very liberty which makes for her seemingly chaotic political turmoil.

It is important to realize, however, that the government undergoes no internal or organic change as it changes hands. The state and governmental functions continue uninterrupted, oblivious, as it were, to ministerial crises. The only changes effected by a new cabinet are external, largely affecting foreign policy. The nation itself is aware of no interruption, no interval. To illustrate this: the headlines announcing the failure of Mendes-France, last February, were eclipsed in Paris newspapers by the death of the poet Claudel, who died in the same week.

What I set out to say is, that it is better for me to state what I believe the French think of America and Americans, than merely explain and analyze what I and American or English friends at Paris have thought of the French. It seems to me that although Americans casually touring France may be, as are all foreigners, at times somewhat coolly and even rudely received by the French (this being a basic point in the “French enigma" I have spoken of), Frenchmen have nonetheless a deep affinity for individual Americans and a profound admiration for America as a nation. This was evident at the time of the American Revolution, and is vastly obvious today. In fact, one conclusive proof of the eternal youth of the French nation is the fact that the French tourist in America is almost childishly enthusiastic about the “openness” and lack of formality in the social fabric of this country, about the skyscrapers and the prairies, the Rockies, and even Hollywood. They are, for the most part, delighted not to find in this country many of the more cumbersome conventions of polite society which restrict and, to some degree perhaps, inhibit them. They are charmed by our frank and open, if, as they sometimes say, crude, sincerity. They admire us, want to be like us, and are, I think, rapidly becoming like us, be this good or bad.

It is true that France is, even today, hemmed in by strict and narrow standards of social convention. Paris, and the sinful, pleasant Bohemian life of the Latin Quarter, Montparnasse and Montmartre are, sadly, the exception rather than the rule. The French middle class family, even at Paris, is to the Anglo-Saxon strongly reminiscent of late nineteenth century England. It is rather in realms of literature, art and philosophy that the French express their social individuality and boundless freedom of thought. Well grounded from high school in the classics and cultural traditions of their own and other civilizations, they are expertly qualified to strike new trails in art and philosophy with an unerring sense of direction. Their language itself is a sharp precision instrument, perfectly suited to keen analysis and the definition of new ideas.

Politically, to say as briefly as possible what must be said, France realizes that she is no longer a first-rate power. She knows that, as Churchill has said, in the event of a third war, if the United States does not defend Europe from the start, this time there will be no Europe to liberate. France understands this, knows that her defense is in the best interests of the stronger western powers, and is simply waiting to see what happens, determined to watch over her own interests as effectively and as advantageously as possible in the meantime. This is tragic rather than decadent. The French starved during the last war, and saw at home more death and destruction than any of us has ever known. Now they eat like kings (as only they can!) twice a day, and feel they have a right to do so. They have. The front of the home in which I lived at Tours was riddled with bullet holes. The father, a prominent surgeon, was shot by a German machine gun while transporting wounded soldiers with an ambulance corps. Sons of the family had been tortured and killed in German prisons within their own home towns. We must not be quick to judge, but slow to understand. Jean-Paul Sartre has said that the big problem and greatest weakness of the American people lie in the fact that they know nothing of, and do not understand, death. Finally, there is a statement of Andre Gide which readily applies to his nation in general: “Please do not understand us so quickly.”

State of the Union

Dear Editor:

Often in the strange and moving course of history, we must stop to examine the state of the Union. Such is our ponderous task at the beginning of this academic accolade. Some are solidly for the Union, some tolerate it, some have definite misgivings about it, and still others grace its presence without thought or opinion. Regardless of which category you may align yourself, some facts are obvious to all. This year for the first time in the Union's history mustard burgers are only 20 cents (5 cents below the average norm of the outer spheres of life), flat bottom cups are given without extra charge, mustard is thicker, coffee stronger, and sugar not quite so lumpy. There has already been one night on which all games were open to eager enthusiasts free of charge till the majestic doors closed at midnight. Freshmen were treated to free cokes on nights when all enjoyed open house in the Union. The movie committee of the Union is laying tremendous plans for the coming year, in effort to fill in the yawning gap left by the burning of the local flick-disaster of '54. Better movies (only a year old) are being shown in the Union ballroom. Indeed the State of the Union for 1955-56 looks bright and bustling. There is, however, a slight oversight. With all the progressive steps, why, cry the hungry pack, is there only one lone man behind the counter on Sunday evenings when the student body en masse charges the milk bar in quest of essential nutriments of life? For the sake of the man behind the counter, at least... huh?

Sincerely,
T.D.S

LETTERS WELCOME

The Davidsonian welcomes all letters from students and faculty on any and all subjects pertinent to the life of the college. These letters should be short, accurate and signed, although a pen name may be used if desired. The Davidsonian reserves the right to edit these epistles.