Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

ae mroreeteseean te ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS OPENED TO ALL FRIDAY, OCTOBER 21, 1955 PAGE THREE

Davidson's Wildcats, before a crowd swollen by Homecoming dates and alumni, turned loose its most devastating attack in years to
steamroll a deemphasized Washington and Lee team, 54-0, at Richardson Field.

Frustration filled most of the first half as the Cats slashed down the field only to have the Generals courageously
playing with their backs to the wall in the shadow of their own goal posts. W&L was tough inside the
10 during the first half.

With less than a minute to go into the fourth period, the Cats were still rolling. On the five, Belton
sneaked it over from the one and kicked his fourth extra point, making it 41-0. Much to the delight of
the homecoming fans.

BY LEON HOWELL

Davidson's Wildcats, before a crowd swollen by Homecoming dates and alumni, turned loose its most devastating attack in years to
steamroll a deemphasized Washington and Lee team, 54-0, at Richardson Field.

The Cross Country Squad

BY OYVIND NORSTROM

Tomorrow the Wildcats travel to Lexington, Virginia, where they will meet the Keydets of Virginia Military Academy at 2:00 P.M.
on Alumni Field. The Cats will pit their 3 win-1 loss record against VMI's winless record, but the latter team
will be a formidable foe for several reasons: they want to break into the win column, and they want to
avenge their last year's loss to Davidson.

Davidson's red-and-black-clad cross country team has two brilliant victories. In the first meet for the year, on the Wildcats' new
4.1 miles course, Duke’s Blue Devils were sent home with a 20-41 defeat, and in last week's race in Richmond,
the well-trimmed Davidson boys beat their opponents 21-38. In both races, however, the individual victory has gone to Duke's Dave
Hanner. Hanner's winning time, 23:45, is a course record, but Davidson's team strength. Duke's Dave Hanner surprisingly outpaced last year's
big name, Pete Asheraft, in the first meet. Pete Asheraft, presently a good comer in varsity cross country, and freshman
Henry Brown, showed unusual stamina by running together for the first two miles, only to have the Duke runner begin
his advancement.

The Duke meet gave a good impression of Davidson's team strength. Duke's Dave Hanner surprisingly outpaced last year's big name,
Pete Asheraft, in the first meet. Pete Asheraft, presently a good comer in varsity cross country, and freshman Henry Brown,
showed unusual stamina by running together for the first two miles, only to have the Duke runner begin his advancement.

BY JIM PAGE

Last Saturday afternoon, Lees McRae Junior College handed Davidson J.V.'s their first setback of the season, 25-6. Fumbles and a
general team letdown were the "big monkey wrenches" in the Kitten machine. The first half was an evenly fought ball
game, with neither team gaining consistently until midway in the second quarter when Lees McRae climaxed their first drive with
a touchdown. Paul Barbee and "Westy" Westervelt were standouts for the Kittens along with "Squeaky" Simpson and Landy Voight.

The following Thursday the J.V.'s journeyed to Appalachian for a game.Home a return match with the Mountaineers. Hanner, Ashcraft, and
Brown stuck, rolling up 187 yards. McRee was particularly outstanding in this; Westerfelt with a pass, and he hit Sterno
who made the first, after hitting a coming drive off-tackle. The Wildcats were out to avenge their 25-0 defeat. Despite
the slow start, the Wildcats began rolling up the yards. McRee was self-made, hitting a significant drive. The half-time score
was 6-0.

In spite of the defense which slowed the Wildcats at the beginning of the ball game, they managed to score
before giving it up on a turnover. A throng of 7,000 shook their heads at the Wildcats' misfortune. The theme
of the game was "breaks." The J.V.'s began moving the ball with several drives, but only six points could be
scored in the last seconds of the first quarter. Tom Cutting scored the initial six points of the game, jetting
51 yards around the end for the tally.

Unleashing an offense of their own, the Apps tied it 6-6 to end the half. The opening kickoff of the
second half proved to be the key play of the game. A speedy App back took the kick and raced
through Davidson tacklers down to the ten-yard line. Four plays later, the Mountaineers had scored the TD which proved to
be the margin of victory, 13-6.

(Continued on Page Four)

STUDENTS PICK 'EM

GAMES OF OCTOBER 29

Davidson vs. Stetson
Baylor vs. TCU
Georgia Tech vs. Duke
Georgia vs. Alabama
Navy vs. Notre Dame
W. & M. vs. VMI
UNC vs. South Carolina
Pittsburgh vs. Miami (Fla)
SMU vs. Texas
Tulane vs. Auburn
Vanderbilt vs. Virginia
Wisconsin vs. Michigan State

Sport Writers

The Sport's Staff felt that it would be good to open the student's Pick 'Em contest to the whole college.
Take this form, encircle your choice, indicate the score you predict, and place it in the contest box in the
Union. The winner will be the person with the most correct selections. Only in case of ties will the scores
be considered. Wilson-Wright is offering $2.50 worth of merchandise to the winner. These selections, for the games of October 29,
must be in by 6 p.m. Friday, October 28. Entries are limited to one per person. Dyke Little led last
week's panel with 9 of 15 correct selections.

Belton to McRee: T. D. Belton

For his all-around play last Saturday against W & L, Don McRee, junior halfback from Newton, N.C., is this week's
Wildcat of the Week. Don, who scored one touchdown, was a constant threat all afternoon, providing the proper balance to
take the pressure off the passing attack. Although they have both missed places, he has shown unusual ability in broken
field running as well as being a good blocker, kicker, and an outstanding pass receiver.

Since his freshman campaign, Don has been hitting his shots with astounding accuracy, leading the Conference in pass completions (30
of 44) and total yards gained in passing, 457. Belton is going to draw top consideration for All-Conference if he
continues to perform in this manner, even if Freddie Wyant is an all-America prospect.

After a sterling performance last Saturday, Don McRee moved into seventh position in rushing in the Conference. The Wildcats, as
a whole, are leading the league in stinginess with yards overall defensively, and on yards yielded by passing. On both
total offense and passing offense, they rank second only to powerful West Virginia. Belton’s honor is all the more significant
in that it is the first time in the memory of this page that a player from Davidson has received
this honor.

New high-grade shirts

By any test, this button-down Arrow shirt rates 100%... from the exact flair of its medium-spread collar, and lustrous fabric
to its rich window-pane checks and solid colors... all-but-endless wear and stitch-for-stitch value. Question: why not pick up a few
right away? Checks and solids in broadcloth, $5.00; white, $3.95. Oxford, white and colors, $5.00.

CIGARETTE SHOULD!

King-size Winston is the filter brand that’s making cigarette history. College to college, coast to coast, the chorus is the
same: "Winston tastes good — like a cigarette should!” The rich flavor really comes through to you because Winston's exclusive
filter works so effectively. Try Winston — you'll see!

R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO., WINSTON-SALEM, N.C.
