PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 1955

TRIBUTE TO A “JANITOR?”

BY JOHN TOUMARAS

The “Davidsonian” points with pride, this week, to the janitorial services rendered by Toy Withers, the sage of Duke. Toy, as he is called by those who know him, was born in Iredell county in 1896. In 1928, at the ripe old age of 32, he arrived on the Davidson campus. Toy served at the old barracks until they were torn down. He then worked in Georgia for a few years. When "Duke" was opened, he moved there and has remained its janitor ever since. From the standpoint of service, Toy is Davidson's senior janitor.

It is a well-established fact that the primary duty of a dormitory janitor is to wake up his charges in time for classes. Sometimes this can be a monumental task. Toy recalls that in order to wake up one student, he had to remove everything from the head of the bed and then wake the young man up by going to the foot of the bed and yanking one of his legs. The removal of objects from the head of the bed was a step taken to ensure not being hit by flying objects. Toy also recalls that the only way he could ever get another student out of bed was to take off his shoes and coat and attempt to get in bed with him. When asked if he could remember anyone who was eccentric, he replied, “Aren't we all?”

The question “How do you think we could achieve world peace?” was answered: “Well, if we could get the Russians on our side, we could have world peace.” When further asked how this could be done, he said, “They want too many things. I don't know what would pacify them.”

Expect 200 Here

(Continued From Page One)

The Davidson-Wofford football contest will begin at 2:30 in the afternoon. Name tags will serve as tickets for parents who wish to attend the game. The final event of the day is to be a Parent-Faculty Reception to be held in the ballroom of the College Union. The reception will be of an informal nature and will be a good opportunity for acquaintances to be made between parents and faculty.

Congressman Jonas

(Continued From Page One)

This was the first time in over 20 years that a Republican had gone to Congress from North Carolina. In this race, he defeated Hamilton C. Jones of Charlotte by a large margin. He was re-elected in 1954 to the 84th Congress when he defeated Judge J. C. Sedberry of Charlotte. While in Congress, Mr. Jonas has served on the Government Operations Committee of the House. As a member of this committee, he sponsored a bill which centralized Government Motor Pools and which resulted in a more effective handling of the vast numbers of Federal Government vehicles.

After his appearance in Chapel, the Committee on Effective Citizenship of the YMCA has arranged for Mr. Jonas to appear at a discussion in the Ballroom of David Ovens College Union. The discussion will begin at 11:00 and coffee will be served.

FERNANDEL PLAYS SIX DELICIOUS ROLES! WE HOPE HE WAS PAID SIX SALARIES!!...A JOY! A SCREAM!!

— Bosley Crowther, N.Y. Times
— Dorothy Masters, Daily News

The Incomparable FERNANDEL in a delightful “tour de farce”

Starts T-O-D-A-Y
SHOWS AT 7:00 and 9:00 P.M.
VISULITE
1615 ELIZABETH AVE. — CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Former Russian Officer Speaks to YMCA,

TO COMBAT COMMUNISM, AMERICANS MUST LEARN OTHER CULTURES

It is imperative that Americans learn the backgrounds of other cultures and religions than our own if we are to win the struggle against Communism. This was the opinion expressed by Dr. Nicholas Goncharoff of the staff of the International YMCA in an address to the Davidson YMCA membership in a meeting held Tuesday night. Dr. Goncharoff told how Communism is able to adapt itself to so many cultures and religions. Communism has no morality except that of the class struggle and the promotion of revolution. Only through a sound basis for our own religion, Christianity with its emphasis on spiritual standards, such as love and sacrifice, could we become a strong alternative to Communism. But he warned against a superficial understanding of our own religion.

Dr. Goncharoff said that the purpose of the Soviet is to spread through Eastern Europe, through Asia, and then into the United States: the greatest exponent of Marxism. He pointed out how the poor masses of the Asian world, always in need of relief from want, will welcome anyone who helps. Marxism was the first to offer a solution. He expressed the belief that a sound basis for our own religion, Christianity with its emphasis on spiritual standards, such as love and sacrifice, could become a strong alternative to Communism. But he warned against a superficial understanding of our own religion.

Goncharoff Upholds Democracy, Freedom In Address to ROTC

Nicholas T. Goncharoff, former Russian tank commander, spoke to the Davidson College ROTC Regiment last Tuesday afternoon in Chambers Auditorium.

BY FRED MEYERS
Davidsonian Arts Critic

As is all too often the case in the Davidson College Artist Series, last week's recital by Metropolitan Opera Baritone Robert Merrill was dull and mediocre. We sincerely wish, both for Mr. Merrill's sake and for the sake of his audience, that this were not true, but the fact is, unfortunately, too blatantly obvious to be overlooked or ignored.

We took for granted, before we heard him at all, that his voice was rich in potential, and moreover well-trained, since the Metropolitan Opera Association has achieved a high standard of technical competency that is possibly unexcelled anywhere. Mr. Merrill is certainly to be criticized. In the light of the total performance, he doubtless felt that any attempt at serious artistic expression would be wasted on—and would probably even offend—a yokel crowd. At the same time, he felt obliged to give them something for their money.

Col. Sapp opened the program with a prayer. Cadet Regimental Commander, J. B. Pharr introduced Mr. Goncharoff.Capitalism and free enterprise. The former Russian officer said that Americans must know what they are defending, must know what they believe in, and must develop a democratic philosophy which they can preach to the people of other countries who do not know our great freedoms. He seemed to be saying that we in America seem to take our freedoms too much for granted, and although we love and defend these freedoms of democracy, we, nevertheless, tend to be unable to explain them to others. Christianity, said Mr. Goncharoff, is the greatest force against communism. The sense of love and mercy found in the Christian is the greatest threat against the tactics of the communists. He said that communism itself is a perverted religion, and that the communists in Russia fear Christianity. He then told of his experiences in the Russian army, and how he was among the army that invaded Poland in 1939. He told of the indoctrination that a Soviet soldier went through before entering battle.

At Arizona University
The Graduate College of the University of Arizona announces that seventy-five fellowships and teaching assistantships are available for students who wish to do graduate work next year. The stipend for twelve hours a week of service usually begins at $900 plus remission of out-of-state tuition and fees. Seventy-five tuition scholarships are also available. Interested seniors should write for bulletins and forms to the Dean of the Graduate College, University of Arizona, Tucson, Arizona.

Music Dept. Readies for Busy Schedule
During the next two weeks, Davidson’s Music Department will be very busy as it puts on the finishing polish for its arrangements. Freshmen and their parents will be entertained on Freshmen Parents Day, tomorrow, by the Male Chorus under the direction of Mr. Donald Plott. Tuesday, November 15, the Chapel Choir is going to Mooresville to sing for the Ashlin White Lectures which will be in Mooresville. On November 18 at 8 p.m. in Chambers auditorium, the private students of the entire music department will present a recital. This program will not be long and should be very enjoyable. There will be no admission charge.

NOTICE
Thirty students from Charlotte are needed to usher for the Carousel Basketball Classic in Charlotte, December 19, 20, 21. It will be necessary for ushers to be at the afternoon and night games for the entire tournament. Ushers will be admitted free. Any interested students please contact Jerry Helms or Curtiss Cates.

Quickly, Comfortably, Dependably by GREYHOUND
NORTH BOUND | One Way
WINSTON-SALEM, N.C. $1.60
GREENSBORO, N.C. $2.35
RICHMOND, VA. $7.20
WASHINGTON, D.C. $8.40
NEW YORK, N.Y. $12.95
WYTHEVILLE, VA. $3.80
BLUEFIELD, W. VA. $5.20
CHARLESTON, W. VA. $8.40
CINCINNATI, OHIO $10.60
CHICAGO, ILL. $16.40

SOUTH BOUND | One Way
CHARLOTTE, N.C. $0.50
ROCK HILL, S.C. $1.20
COLUMBIA, S.C. $2.85
SPARTANBURG, S.C. $2.35
AUGUSTA, GA. $4.65
ATHENS, GA. $5.35
ATLANTA, GA. $6.85
JACKSONVILLE, FLA. $8.85
MIAMI, FLA. $14.95
TAMPA, FLA. $12.95

Plus U.S. Tax
Save an Extra 10% Each Way with a Round-Trip Ticket
131 N. Main St. Phone 2111

Concert by Robert Merrill Labelled “Dull and Mediocre” by Student
One, is certainly exceptional, and is all that could be asked. But voice and training are the most elementary qualities of a fine singer or a fine recital. Mr. Merrill's recital was inexcusably poor, and if he is a fine singer, he certainly did not submit any evidence to this effect last Friday night. His concert was a double testimony to the performer’s astonishing lack of artistic integrity, and to his audience’s lack of experience and judgment—I almost refrain from adding, good taste. As is frequently the case in a rural southern community, when New York artists condescend to appear before an assemblage of the townsfolk, Mr. Merrill clearly demonstrated his opinion of, and contempt for, our musical education, taste, and intelligence, in a recital for which he would have been verbally tarred and feathered by Manhattan critics. He all but stood on his head, and that half-heartedly. We were as bored by his antics as he himself quite obviously was. His haste to be finished as soon as possible was all too apparent. The level of artistic interpretation and expression in the songs he sang was proportionately as low as that of a third or fourth rate Carolina cracker. 

We enthusiastically proved that he was right about us. We were delighted at his grimaces, enraptured by his high falsetto laughs, and almost tearful at the exaggerated—indeed, caricatured—banality of his sentiment. We groveled with him in his ridiculous “Baa, baa, baa’s” of the Wiffenpoof Song, when we should have done ourselves infinitely greater credit to have burst out laughing. Some of us did. Many have said, “We must remember Mr. Merrill is from Brooklyn and, as he himself told us, ‘ain't had no education’.” I cannot believe that Mr. Merrill's remarks were much more than attempts to amuse himself at our expense. At any rate, they have nothing to do with his performance, or how we should judge it. A performer is a fine artist, a mediocre one, or a charlatan, and what he does or says off-stage has nothing to do with his artistry or lack of it. Toward the end of the program, Mr. Merrill doubtless sensed that his audience (though they would not admit it) were as bored as he himself was, and made some scattered attempts at “warming up” to them. Mr. Merrill performed the aria from “The Barber of Seville” as one would scan a poem he has read hundreds of times and is obliged to look at once again. The loud and casual lack of artistic refinement and authenticity manifested here and elsewhere in his program would be best characterized by a great sustained belch. I am thus vehement in the assertion of this, only because I know that he could not get by with such laxity at the Metropolitan Opera, and that it is a shame and a scandal he was able to get by with it at Davidson.

STONESTREET'S CAFE
Open Seven Days a Week
118 West Trade Street
PARKER-GARDNER
CHARLOTTE 2, N.C.
Phone ED. 2-8257

Today- Enjoy a Cool Mildness never possible before!
PUT A SMILE IN YOUR SMOKING!