SUNDAY VISITING SCHEDULE (Page Four) Che Bautdsontan 1955 POLITICAL SYMPOSIUM (Page Two) VOL. XLIV DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY,
NOVEMBER 18, 1955

Margot (Myra Adkins) struggles with Lesgate (Ed Hadley) as he tightens a scarf around her throat during the rehearsals.

On Wednesday evening, November 30, the curtain will rise on “Dial ‘M’ For Murder,” the first production of the Red
and Black Masquers 1955-56 season. This mystery melodrama, after a substantial run on Broadway, was made into a very successful
movie starring Ray Milland, Grace Kelly, and Bob Cummings. Shortly after the opening curtain, it is known to the audience
that Tony Wendice, played by Harold Hall, is planning to murder his wife Margot (Myra Atkins) when he discovers that
she has had a brief affair with an American Television writer, Max Halliday (George Kemmerer). Wendice’s plan has been some
six months in the making when the curtain goes up, and when he is ready, he calls in a disreputable
college friend, Captain Lesgate, played by Ed Hadley, and blackmails him into executing the necessary action on a night when
Wendice will have a perfect alibi. Tony’s scheme is thrown askew by fate and the ingenuity of the mild-mannered Inspector
Hubbard (Tom Mann) from Scotland Yard, assisted by Detective Thompson (Jock Reeder).

Dial “M” has a generous supply of fingerprints wiped from glasses, latchkeys transferred from handbags, and other such hocus-pocus from
the suspense-writers’ clue factory. An English thriller, it is as urbane in tone as it is sound in workmanship: an
excellent host, Mr. Knott—in terms of suspense—always refills the audience's glass before it is empty.

Frederich Knott—born in 1919—like the main character in his play is a former tennis champion. He was a member of
the tennis team at Cambridge and came to the United States with the Oxford-Cambridge team to play against Harvard and
Yale in 1937.

As the Davidson production goes into its last week of rehearsals the cast and crew are enthusiastic and preparations are
going smoothly. Director of the play, Albert Harris, a Senior English major, received experience working with several Masquers’ plays and
as director of the musical “Good News” last year. Faculty advisor for the production, Prof. Raymond W. Tyson has, over
the past few years, given freely of his time to promote drama on the Davidson Campus. Heading up the backstage
crews will be: Mcllugh Craig, set; Jim Patterson, properties; Ed Price, sound effects; and Bob Abernethy, lighting.

Presentation has been scheduled for Wednesday, November 30 and Thursday, December 1 at 8:15 in Chambers Auditorium. Admission will be
50 cents for all, and tickets may be purchased in the lobby of Chambers. Everyone who wishes to attend is
assured of an evening of exciting entertainment.

Facilities of Among Best in Nation
BY ALLAN SMYTH

Unexcelled ROTC facilities are urged by the Davidson College military department, which is located on the ground floor of gleaming
new Belk Hall. The modern layout shows great advance from the former quarters and provides ample space for the thirteen-man
departmental staff to carry on administrative and teaching operations. The new quarters include four large classrooms, six cadre offices, and
the cadet regimental staff headquarters. Ultramodern visual aids grace all four classrooms. Instructive symbols and pictures cling to green magnetic
blackboards. Each classroom contains a large built-in movie screen. A highlight of the new plant is the completely equipped NRA
standard firing range, which was opened during Colonel Settle’s October 26 inspection tour. The range is used by Davidson's crack
rifle team.

The operations room contains all equipment needed to prepare teaching devices used in ROTC classes. Operations officer Captain Brown and
his assistants mimeograph information, make photographic slides, and assemble the many visual aids used in instruction. Operations room equipment is
used by the cadre and cadets in preparing the bulletin board displays posted in the Union and in Belk Hall.
Public information work, an important service of the ROTC, is greatly aided by operations room facilities.

Numerous padlocks and heavy steel bars protect the $80,000 worth of government equipment used by the ROTC department. The armory,
maintained by Sergeant First Class Wheat, contains every light weapon used by an infantry battalion. Four hundred and sixty M-1
rifles valued at $78 each make up a large part of this arsenal. Forty-seven carbines each add $72 to the
weapons investment. The armory also contains a recoilless rifle, a mortar worth $780, six caliber .30 machine guns, and two
caliber .50 machine guns. The cost of maintaining and cleaning these weapons averages $80 a semester.

Radios, public address apparatus, and all other communications equipment needed by an infantry company is stored in the supply room.
Supply sergeant Brothers fits and issues uniforms to the cadet regiment. Beyond the supply room, a lounge offers deep leather
chairs, reading lamps, and an ample supply of magazines.

Tony (Harold Hall) rushes over to Lesgate and begins to search through Lesgate’s pockets. The Red and Black Masquers will
present Dial “M” for Murder in Chambers on November 30 and Dec.

Presented on D. C. Faculty Salaries

This is the first in a series of two articles, written especially for the Davidsonian, analyzing a recently published report
entitled “Faculty Salaries At Davidson College.”
BY CLAGETT TAYLOR

At the November 3rd meeting of the Davidson College chapter of the American Association of University Professors on Faculty Salaries
presented a mimeographed report entitled “Faculty Salaries at Davidson College.” The report consists of two parts: the first shows the
present economic position of the faculty and how that position has changed since 1939-40, and the second points out ways
by which the economic position of the faculty might be improved. This is the first of two articles written to
point out some of the more interesting facts contained therein.

Between 1939-40 and 1953-54 consumer prices rose over 92 per cent. Over this same period the average salaries for Professors,
Associate Professors, and Assistant Professors at Davidson increased by 50.9, 62.7, and 98.8 per cent, respectively. From this it can
be seen that the real income, which takes into account price increases, of Professors and Associate Professors fell 20-25 per
cent, while the position of Assistant Professors improved slightly. To look at it another way, the Professor average would have
to be $7,467 instead of $5,859 to give the same purchasing power that was held in 1939-40. Since 1939, real
income per capita in the United States has increased 66.4 per cent due to the increased productivity of the economy.
This means that even if one enjoyed the same relative economic status in 1953 as in 1939, he still would
only be able to purchase two-thirds of the goods and services that he could in 1939. Thus if a Professor
were to be allowed a proportionate share in this increased productivity, the average Professor’s salary, presently at $5,859 per year,
would have to be raised not just to $7,467 but to $12,425. No consideration is given here to increased income
taxes. A professor (with a wife and two children) who earned the top salary of $4,000 in 1939-40 paid $69.00
in federal and state taxes, while in 1953-54 the same professor paid $784.00.

In 1939 the economic position of the Davidson faculty compared favorably with the professions of medicine, dentistry, law, and the
ministry as represented by four leading Presbyterian churches in Charlotte. However, in 1951, faculty salaries were considerably lower than income
in these other professions. To have maintained the same relative economic status between 1939 and 1951, one’s income would have
had to rise by 198.5 per cent. Pre-med students will be glad to know that the average income for physicians
increased 218 per cent, or from $4,229 to $13,432. Medicine was the only one of these professions showing a percentage
increase greater than 198.5. Future college professors from our midst will be unhappy to note that the Davidson Professor's salary
increased only 34 per cent over the period 1939-51. It has been suggested in the past that college professors in
church-related colleges should be paid at about the same rate as ministers in the better city churches. In 1951 the
ministers’ salaries of four leading Presbyterian churches in Charlotte averaged at $7,792, a 48 per cent increase over 1939. However,
this figure does not include tax-free income.

(Continued On Page Four)

Cercle Francais Adds Six to Membership

The welcoming of six new members highlighted the second meeting of the Cercle Francais, which was held at the home
of Dr. Goldiere on November 15. The meeting was opened by the president, Fred Myers, and after the minutes and
roll call, there followed the initiation of the new members. As part of their initiation, each of these six had
a part in presenting the program. Bob Beall gave a synopsis of La Symphonie Pastorale by Andre Gide, and this
was followed by a very delightful little play, Les Trois Aveugles (The Three Blind Men), by Messieurs Fairman Cumming, Jimmy
Jones, Curtis Patterson, Randy Daniel, and Bob Sloan. The president then welcomed the new members into the Cercle, after which
he gave a reading—Personne Ne M’Ecoute. Then followed a game, directed by the president. Each member was allowed to look
at 26 articles on a table, and then, out of sight of the table, he tested his memory by listing
as many as possible of the objects.

The Davidson College Business-Economics Association has announced that the first full-membership meeting of the current year will be held on
Tuesday night. The guest speaker will be the noted economist, Charles Robinson.BY LLOYD CHAPIN

Les Brown and his Band of Renown, rated number one band in the nation by Metronome, World, and Down Beat
magazines, will arrive on the Davidson campus Tuesday night for the fall concert. He has one of the swingingest bands
in the country and some of his side men are the best in the business. Koonce believes Les Brown's music
will satisfy every musical taste on the campus. Members of his band have been collected from the best of Stan
Kenton, Ray Anthony, Woody Herman, and Charlie Barnett.

The sale of tickets for the Les Brown concert is going better than expected. "We are anticipating great things of
this concert," said Phil Koonce, president of the Interfraternity Council. "The IFC is doing a fine job in bringing the
best of America’s popular bands to the Davidson campus. Here’s hoping everyone will come out and enjoy a fine musical
evening."

Brown's concert will begin at 9:00 p.m. on Tuesday, November 22, and will be held in Johnston Gymnasium if the
present rate of ticket sales continues. Tickets are $2.00 in advance and $2.25 at the door. In an effort at
heavy, yet widespread, publicity, the Interfraternity Council has arranged for announcements concerning the concert on all the major Charlotte radio
stations, also WBTV, and has sent press releases to the Charlotte Observer and Charlotte News. Tickets are on sale in
all the cities in this area. This concert will be one of the finest entertainment opportunities of the year for
Davidson students. In the words of the upperclassmen, all are urged to "be there!"

The guest speaker for this meeting will be Dr. Hershal L. Macon, noted Southern economist who now holds a position
with the economics staff of the Tennessee Valley Authority. The subject of Dr. Macon’s talk will be the TVA, and
a question and answer session will be incorporated as a part of the program. Dr. Macon received his BS from
Guilford and his MA from Haverford. In 1932 he achieved his Doctorate at the University of North Carolina. Before joining
TVA, he was professor of Economics at Auburn. Since entering into the TVA organization, he has been chiefly concerned with
the analysis and appraisal of payments in lieu of taxes by the Federal Government. Being well acquainted with the overall
objectives and programs of the TVA, Dr. Macon is well qualified to present an interesting and informative talk on this
huge Federal project.

Following the meeting, an informal discussion period will be held, at which refreshments will be served. All members are urged
to attend.

At Sunday Vespers, Dr. James McDowell Richards, Moderator of the General Assembly of the Presbyterian Church, U.S., and President of
Columbia Theological Seminary, will deliver the Vespers message Sunday night, November 20. He is President of the Trustees of Davidson
College. Dr. Richards attended McCallie School before entering Davidson College, where he received his B.A. in 1922 and was later
awarded the D.D. degree. He holds an M.A. from Princeton, B.A. and M.A. from Oxford University, where he was an
Oxford Scholar, and a B.D. from Columbia Theological Seminary. He was ordained in 1928 and has held pastorates at Clarkesville,
Nacoochee, and Helen, Georgia, and the First Presbyterian Church in Thomasville, Georgia. He has been serving as Professor of Practical
Theology at Columbia since 1932, in addition to his present duties as President of the Seminary. He has been a
member of the Executive Committee of National Churches of Christ in the U.S.A., Moderator of the Synod of Georgia, Vice
President of the Federal Council of Churches of Christ in America, and President of the Presbyterian Educational Association of the
South. He is currently a member of the Permanent Committee on Christian Education, Presbyterian Church, U.S., and Chairman of the
Board of Church Extension, Presbyterian Church, U.S. A member of Kappa Alpha Order, Dr. Richards is also a member of
the Rotary Club, Omicron Delta Kappa, and Phi Beta Kappa.

Davidsonian Editors Attend Conference

This Thursday, Friday, and Saturday four members of the Davidsonian staff are attending the Associated Collegiate Press national conference at
Detroit, Michigan. The four members, Dick Morehead, Franklin Bloodworth, Jim Batten, and Leon Howell, are guests of Ford Motors, Chrysler
Motors, and General Motors while they are in Detroit. On Thursday all the guests will be taken on a personally
guided tour through River Rouge Ford Plant. Two well-known speakers who will address the group are Max Schulman, Pulitzer Prize-winning
journalist, and Charles F. Kettering, Vice-President in charge of research for General Motors. At the conference, numerous discussions will be
held for the various parts of the paper and the yearbook, such as news features, sports, business, etc. Last year
325 delegates attended from thirty-two states, the District of Columbia, and Hawaii.

Local Music Masters Give Public Concert

The Davidson College Department of Music will present a student recital on Friday evening, November 18 at 8:15 p.m. in
Chambers Auditorium. Participating will be pianists Wayne Burgess, John Garvey, Earle Lewis, and Harry Wells; singers Walter Bullock, Hugh Craig,
and Grier Davis; and organists Hadley Hunt, B.B. Miller, and Harry Wells. This is the first student recital of the
current season. These recitals are designed to give the applied music students experience in public performance, and to allow these
and other interested students to expand their knowledge of musical literature. The recital is open to the public without charge.

Sigma Pi Sigma Frat Adds Three Members

At the regular meeting of Sigma Pi Sigma, honorary physics fraternity, the following men were received into membership: Henry C.
Griffin, John M. Hunter, and Ralph A. Long. These new members were selected on the basis of their interest and
outstanding work in physics and related fields. After the initiation ceremony, a program consisting of filmstrips on the atom was
given by Professor H.E. Fulcher. For the next meeting, the society will tour the WBTV building in Charlotte to study
the technical aspects of television.

Rare Maps On Display In College Library

The interesting and valuable collection of original colonial maps of the Carolinas belonging to Dr. W.P. Cumming are now on
display in the Seminar Hall of the College Library. These maps were recently displayed in the Union and Dr. Cumming
has consented to permit a selection from these to remain in the Library for some months longer. Dr. Cumming is
generally recognized as the outstanding authority on colonial maps in the South.

Critic Reviews Guild’s Concert

BY FRED MYERS

A good and goodly number from our own and neighboring communities attended the concert given by the Intercollegiate Chamber Music
Guild last Friday night in the College Union Ballroom. It was one of those fine and rare occasions when a
real degree of intimacy between performers and listeners is achieved. The first number, a Concerto for two violins by Vivaldi,
played by Betty Gehring and Doris West, with Mr. Gehring at the piano, was a delight to hear. The Mesdames
Gehring and West performed with technical mastery and with zest. It was the sort of composition which most exactly characterizes—one
might almost say, defines—chamber music as such, and Vivaldi seemed wonderfully and strangely in context at the Union. It was
a very real and pleasant experience in which all shared.

The second number, Bach's Cantata No. 56, sung by Thomas Holt with the accompaniment of the String Quartet and Frank
West, oboist, was a somewhat more difficult piece, and was given a heavier-handed treatment and a less subtle one, due
perhaps to a certain strain on the part of the performers to cope with technical problems. Holt sang well and
exactly throughout, though the first aria was a bit strained, and, we felt, unduly heavy. The recitative, however, was admirably
rendered, with fine, poetic sensitivity. In the following portions, his voice was precise but lame, and, inasmuch as concerns expression,
unwieldy and plodding. On the whole, it was nonetheless a pleasant privilege to hear Bach, thus ably performed.

There was no intermission at this point in the program, when one would perhaps have been welcome. There followed a
string quartet by Haydn, a bit uneven in spots, but all in all most enjoyable—not so enjoyable, however, as the
final number, Ravel's Mother Goose Suite for two pianos, which was played by Philip Gehring and John Satterfield. This was
beautifully interpreted, with a subtlety of expression and warmth of feeling that were at once delightful and engaging. The third
piece, "Little Ugly One," was, in spite of cymbal effects supplied by high school homecomers outside, lovely. It is to
be hoped we will have more of these evenings in the near future.
