| MR o§- 2 OP gy co ere ery \ \ i Phae a OO Se ek Continental combo signed for ‘spring frolics’ dances ar Miss Doreas Midd Nite announces sale today

The Davidsonian, the news and editorial voice of Davidson College, has been sold to the nationwide Nite newspaper chain, it was announced today by the Publications Board, former owner of the paper. The sale price was not disclosed. Officials would not comment on the sale other than to say, “We believe it is a good thing.” Informed sources close to the Davidsonian (two doors down) stated that the sale was dictated by necessity. They said that the newspaper was showing definite signs of joining the college magazine in the Deficit Spenders Club and that such a tendency could not be permitted.

Budapest group rocks

ORTA LIBERTAS MORNING EDITION

Gragg returns from abroad; change seen

VOL. XLII—NUMBER 19 Davidson College, Davidson, N. C., Friday, April 1, 1955

ODK proposes scented, colored tissue paper

Leighton McCutchen, President of ODK, national leadership society, has announced the official ODK program for 1955-56. There had been some discussion of adopting some more suitable plan of holidays for the coming year as the official program, but according to McCutchen, “This project, the biggest ever undertaken by ODK, stands out as our opportunity to do something really big and worthwhile for the Davidson student.” This policy was adopted at Monday’s meeting, despite the weight that each ODK proposal carries with administration officials, there is no doubt that the project will be carried out.

When Mr. Oscar Gant, custodian of Chambers Building and Davidson Fire Chief, (who will also be appointed charge d’affaires de tissue under the new setup) had the following to say in regard to the proposal, “The college will save over $2,000.00 per year under the program, for no longer will typists, who prefer to type 1000 sheets before refilling the carriage, be able to claim that they made private purchases of the stock. In addition, we will be able to determine the source of any campus riot simply by a glance at a nearby tree.” ODK will recommend to the Board of Trustees and to the Administration that scented and colored toilet paper be provided for the nine major dorms on the campus. The plan calls for nine attractive pastel shades, a distinctive one for each dormitory. These would be lilac, violet, beige, tan, pansy, rose, Helen, orange, and chartreuse. It is understood that the scent for each “roll” would be different for each dorm. It is to be hoped that this program will considerably lighten the atmosphere in many of the campus heads.

Gilbert Gragg, Davidson senior from Bainbridge, Georgia, has returned from a spring holiday visit to Denmark, where he spent a week at the grave of Kierkegaard. Gragg, for many years an outstanding author and news commentator, journeyed to Denmark “to take in the exotic philosophy of the brooding Danish theologian of the nineteenth century and to breathe the yellow air of the crisp Danish mornings.” The most noticeable result of the trip is a marked change in Gragg’s physical stature and complexion. Gragg’s first book, The Humble Optimist, won the Nobel Prize for literature in 1954 “by creating the biggest explosion since 1945.” His syndicated column, “Quacks in the Cloister,” appears bi-weekly in the Davidsonian.

The interfraternity Council has signed Joseph Roisman and his Budapest String Quartet to rock Johnston Gym to the patter of two thousand fancy, flying feet at Spring Frolics, April 22 and 23. Following such hot jazzists as Andrei Kostelanetz and Guy Lombardo, the quartet’s cool renditions of the latest Wagnerian and Sibelian arrangements will provide a welcome change from Dixieland to improvised progressive jazz. Repeated failures to come to terms with Arthur Smith and His Crackerjacks, frequent performers before packed audiences of the musical elite in Charlotte's Barn, resulted in the selection of the Budapest group. This decision has received commendation from students and faculty alike. Sample comments include “Cool, Daddy!” (Dr. C. K. Brown), “Hip!” (Miss Nell Shinn), and “Arrgh” (one of the hairier among the undergraduate academicians).

The Quartet has appeared before clamorous crowds of crazy cats at San Francisco’s Horse House, New York's Swillage Standguard, and at aristocratic recherche Mars Hill College. They are recently returned from a concert tour of the Iredell area including Hiddenite, East Monbo, and Mount Mourne, during which expedition they enthralled formerly Brahms-Bach-Beethoven devotees with the ultimate in progressive jazz. Accompanying the combo are vivacious, verdurously hirsute Urgsulgrude Blunstrickner and Yma Sumac. The former is a Latin beauty of the Velma Middleton school of balladists; Miss Sumac is of the raucous Eskimo group typified by Sister Rosetta Sharpe.

BUDAPEST STRING QUARTET

The Budapest band has recorded on the Bzzt label some of the more popular dance numbers of the day, such as “Carpathian Pastorale,” “Fugue for F Flat,” and “Ugandan Rhapsody.” The aggregation was first formed under the domination of Fritz-Franz, a disenchanted French ROTC Legionnaire. Members of the present band include Roisman at 1st violin, Boris Kroyt at viola, James Gorodetzky at 2nd violin, and Mischa Schneider at cello. The Interfraternity Council has hired a highly successful Greensboro rainmaker to ensure appropriate atmospheric conditions conducive to the party spirit. Tickets will go on sale today at Copeland's Department Store, the Chez Shaw Smith, and Cridlebaugh’s East End Concession.

PBK to investigate

The Feeney government was upset during a revolution which lasted all night Thursday. The remains of the Feeney forces show no signs of counter-revolution. Informed sources seem to think he will lose his head over the matter. Upon hearing the fate of her husband, Mrs. Feeney showed definite signs of emotion.

News of the Week in Pictures

Keep all your extra buttons in a glass jar rather than a box. When you want buttons you can select those you want immediately in the jar rather than plowing through the whole assortment.

Give your shoes a rest between wearings and alternate two pairs whenever possible. Let them air after taking off, store with shoe trees to keep them in shape, and polish and buff frequently.

Daily brushing is good for hats. Brush the brim and crown counterclockwise, following the nap. Turn the brim up all the way around and take the crease out of the crown. This keeps the crown in shape.

Washcloths will last longer if you turn back the edges and stitch them. They will also be in better condition if they are hung, brushed, and aired frequently than if sent to the cleaners. A flat suit brush used often will remove hidden dirt, lift the fibers to their original texture, and lengthen the life of the suit.

RECIPE OF THE WEEK

Tuna Patties (Makes 6-8)
1 7-ounce can tuna, flaked
½ cup sweet pickle relish
1 cup fine bread crumbs
1 egg, slightly beaten
½ cup milk

Combine tuna, relish, and bread crumbs. Mix well. Add egg, milk, and salt. Blend thoroughly. Shape into patties and fry in fat in a hot skillet until golden brown. Serve immediately.on the sewing machine while they're still new. No fraying! Whisk brooms which you use on clothing can be stiffened by dipping up and down in hot water to which baking soda has been added. Shake out excess moisture and dry thoroughly before using. To press woolens most easily with a steam iron and prevent shine, fit the iron with a piece of muslin material and thus do away with a pressing cloth.

DO NOT SEND THIS DAVIDSONIAN HOME.

Sots can be kept in better condition...

Davidsonian Phi Beta Kappa has demanded an investigation of the Davidsonian for subversive elements. B. C. Brown, spokesman for the group of intellectuals, announced last night that the demand was made only after a thorough consideration of the facts in the case. “We feel it is our duty to protect the intellectual integrity of our cultural heritage from the vicious onslaughts of an irresponsible clique of iconoclasts—and the Davidsonian shows irrefutable signs of constituting such a clique,” he stated.

Evidence considered by the Phi Betes included the newspaper's support of the new cut system, the Supreme Court, the microfilm projector, and Soren Kierkegaard. “Pure red radicalism!" said Brown. “All of these questions were supported to the hilt by local cell number 4319, Communist Party of America. We have conclusive evidence that Gilbert Gragg is a member, and possibly others are fellow-travelers. We do not believe Brockmann is implicated—he is simply a tool of the subversives.”

Brown added that the Davidsonian had been suspected since the time it reprinted the “Communist Manifesto” on the editorial page, but nothing was done at that time since evidence was not conclusive.

GILBERT GRAGG

“...crisp Danish mornings...”

JOB PRINTING CALL DAVIDSON PRINTING CO. PHONE 665

Patronize our Advertiser!

For Our Coeds

We, too, cut in sizes 12, 14, 16, 18, 20, 36, 38, 40, 42, 44, 46, 48. Size 18: 5.45 yds. in 54 in. No. 100—Bunny bride and groom. All cutting pieces, assembling, stating, sewing instructions in pattern. Send 10¢ for EACH dress pattern, for each Needlework pattern, to ALL. GREY LANE BUREAU, Box 309, Madison Square Station, New York 10, N.Y. The new SPRING-SUMMER FASHION BOOK with scores of additional styles, Needlework Guide...

Moles, McGillicuddy shipped for imbibing

At a meeting of the Student Council held recently, two students, Specks Moles and Peyton McGillicuddy were dismissed from school for the “possession and use of illicit beverages on the Davidson College campus.”

In a well-planned move, members of the Student Council descended upon the lavish apartment occupied by Mr. McGillicuddy in East dormitory here. Overcome by the surprise raid, Mac quickly indicated the location of the illicit booze. Behind a false wall in his bedroom were secreted 4000 cases of tax-paid (red) liquor. Student Body President Floyd F. Feeney declared that this was “the largest cache of whisky ever uncovered in East dormitory.” The second apprehension was made as the cache was broken open. Mr. Moles’ only comment at being discovered thus was, “Hic.” Friends of Mr. Moles may reach him by addressing the Schenley Industries, Louisville, Ky. To reach Mr. McGillicuddy address your letter to General Delivery, North Wilkesboro, N.C.

Belk Hall

Miss Dorcas Midd Nite, president of the chain, told reporters, “The purchase of the Davidsonian is just part of our policy to provide uniformity among college newspapers. We are negotiating with the Lenoir-Rhynean now, and eventually we hope to take over even the Daily Tar Heel.” When asked about the editorial policy of her organization, Miss Nite said, “As far as we are concerned, Brockmann will continue as editor. He has proved to be a very innocuous nonentity, although I understand he was elected on a ‘rabble-rousing’ platform. If he begins to get out of hand, we can always invoke the constitutional clause which calls for annual election of editors. I do not believe this will be necessary, however.”

The Nite chain includes the Cactus Junction Foghorn, the California Kilowhet?, and the Cornelius Clarion-Times-Tribune-Post-Gazette-News-Bulletin-Record-Observer-Journal-Star-Bugle-Citizen-Ledger. The latter is a 4-times daily, 6 times on Sunday newspaper with the motto “All the news that’s fit to print and all the news that fits, we print.” It’s the result of a gigantic merger which delighted Miss Nite. Said she, “Competition is so vulgar—and so apt to point out mistakes. As soon as we control the major college newspapers, all the senseless bickering and the raising of spurious issues will cease. Ah, won’t that be heaven on earth! Don't you think so?”

Furnishing

D. Grier Martin, Davidson College treasurer, released this week the room furnishing plans for the $800,000 W. H. Belk Hall, which will open next fall for the slumbersome benefit of some 300 Davidson students.

Furnished entirely from the bargain basements of Belks Stores throughout the Carolinas, the dorm rooms will feature plush love seats with twin desks, dehumidized closets, deodorized heads, dehumanized hall prayer meetings, telescopes in the upper two floors, two single beds for each room, and one modernesque ceiling lamp, the patented “da Vinci junior.”

Light or Learning

“The da Vinci junior,” said Mr. Martin, “is one of the unique features of the new dorm, having directed beams to six places in the rooms. Two beams go to the desks, two to the students’ pillows for reading bedtime stories, and two to the shoe case in the closets, so that the sheen of ROTC footwear might show up to the best advantage during the federal inspection.”

Costing $400.00 apiece, the da Vinci lamps were bought at the sacrifice of the library allotment for the next three years. Said official college sources, it is part of the reformed tradition that light must come before learning.

Pornographic Photography

Action, see The Davidsonian

“Although I disagree with everything you say, I will shoot you if you say it.”—Arovet, D.

We Did It! Mae Crouse, Tom Warlick, Bill Gallier

In case of Lawsuits or Executive Committee

BELK FIXTURE Shine on me

Football Uniforms

Commenting upon further furnishings for the rooms, Martin stated that each room will be furnished with two football uniforms. This move was an afterthought presented forcibly by 3000 alumni in a march from Charlotte called “Davidson over Notre Dame or Protestantism Will Die,” in which the alumni expressed the desire on the part of well-wishers to this community that we not forget our obligation to the athletic world. Martin indicated that the money required for purchase of the uniforms will be obtained from library funds for the years 1960-63.

Hank Daniel
Henry Brockmann