PAGE FOUR

DYING DEMAGOGUES . . . Obituary No. 4 | Emory Scribe Names “Er. Wg CAM CRIDLEBAUGH ... Quality is his most prominent characteristic

By J. T. HARMON

During one of the student riots of some years past, while driving his jeep (a trademark for three years) down Main Street in Davidson, the hero of our dirge was stopped by a policeman, who evidently intended to arrest him for disturbing the “peace.” Upon being asked his name, the malicious one promptly and with the assurance that comes from long years of constant association replied, “Edward Cameron Cridlebaugh, Jr., sir.” The officer exploded and then exuded, “O.K., buddy, cut out that cheap—(sic) (it is impossible to ascertain the exact identity of this next word because of the emotional and profoundly perplexed condition of the policeman), and tell me what your name is.”

Although the name Cridlebaugh has proved to be one of Cam’s greatest assets in getting himself before the public, it has also caused a great deal of annoyance in that very few people ever learn to spell it right. It has been spelled with an initial “k,” a final “1,” and two “d’s” and upon occasion it has been written with all three, or more, errors. As unusual as the name is the character it identifies and the difficulty it causes orthographically may logically be transferred to the difficulty of accurately pin-pointing personality characteristics.

HONOR IN HIS OWN COUNTRY

In his hometown, High Point, Cam is known for his love of horses and for his active participation in events featuring the equine species. For many years he followed the horse show circuit and won many ribbons, which he proudly displays in his home. He is known also for his ability to balance several chairs stacked upon one another with the bottom chair placed at such anatomical locations as his little finger, teeth, and nose. This love for showmanship was inspired by a youthful delight in watching circus acts.

To those who have been associated with him for many years, Cam is perhaps best known for his ability to sell any product whatsoever that is vendible. While he was still in high school he worked in the afternoons for such stores as Penney’s and Belk’s and was at one time selected as the best junior salesman of the Belk chain.

CAM THROUGH THE NEEDLE’S EYE

Salesmanship remained one of Cam's most prominent invisible insignia after he came to college. While at Davidson he has at one time or another sold practically anything that would satisfy the wants of the average student—fluorescent lamps, cokes, football programs, etc. Cam says that his intention is to be a millionaire, and judging from the great magnetic effect his hands exert upon the green stuff, and from the fact that he already has his own factory for making horse bandages, it seems likely that he will attain his goal by the time he’s thirty.

In spite of his somewhat extreme championing of materialism, Cam is not known for parsimony or even frugality, for to all those whom he likes (this includes a very great number of persons) he is generous both with his time and with his resources. Many times he has stayed up all night getting notes for some friend whose good intentions of studying didn't materialize until the eleventh hour. For those who need a bit of cash (for a short while), “Cridlestein,” as he is endearingly termed by his debtors, is always willing to pinch a quarter or two from his safe and entrust it to his friend, without security or membership in the Federal Reserve.

THE WAY OF SOME FLESH

If one phrase were to be applied to Cam, the most appropriate would probably be “gung ho,” for on most of his opinions and in many of his interests he is just that. Perhaps the most significant insight into his thought can be gained by the realization of the fact that he is disciple number one of the locally formed group that goes under the cognomen “Brownian Movement.” This sect deals primarily with economics, but also has subordinate concern with social, religious, and political issues.

Equally as extreme as his views is the degree of intensity with which he pursues his extra-curricular activities, especially the Naval Reserve and athletics. The distinctive blue uniforms by which he and those whom he has recruited are recognized on Wednesday evenings mean that another of many pilgrimages is starting to the mecca of every Mecklenburg marophile, the Naval Reserve Headquarters in Charlotte. Before long, Cam will be an ensign, awaiting reincarnation into the nirvanic admiralty.

There is no one at Davidson who is more popular with coaches and athletes alike than Cam, for although he has never set any sporting records himself, he has always been present to aid and encourage those who have. The “D” sweater which he wears is the only tangible reward he has gained for long hours of managing, officiating, or doing anything else that helps make points for our teams.

THE EARLY BIRD

Cam's acknowledged superiority in matters of trade and his devotion to the Navy and to athletics are surpassed only by his ubiquitousness and by his omniscience of current and pertinent events and changes in policy. Because of the miscellaneous information he acquires through his wide contacts and many friends, a great number of students come to him first to learn the latest happenings, for he knows much about many interesting headlines before they become sidelights, and he makes quite a bit of news himself.

To say that Cam is the embodiment of self-control is to overstate the case, but the fact remains that the dignity he assumes when being introduced, the smart impeccability of his attire on important occasions, and his sometime taciturnity that gives the impression of mental note-taking have caused at least one perceptive young visitor to the campus to exclaim that Cam is the “epitome of collegiate sophistication.”

PARADOX

Ability to be cool and diplomatic seems to be incongruous with gung ho-ness, but evidence of the presence of both can be given. Of the second, enough has been cited; of the first, it suffices to mention his calmness during a command appearance before the than-which-there-is-no-higher Executive Committee. As he confidently entered the committee room, he greeted the faculty members present with a simple and polite “Good morning, gentlemen.”

For those who don't have time to read Dale Carnegie, an appointment with Cridlebaugh is suggested for the lists of serious considerations.

Are you famous too?

Buxton, Henry Faison, and Henry Griffin lost, and two of their conquerors lost in the second round, therefore giving Faison and Buxton no chance to redeem themselves. V.P.I. edged West Virginia for the conference crown as they won the final match on Saturday night. The fast heavyweight match decided the title, and the Gobblers came out on top. Warlick, Regen...

(Continued From Page Three)

"Ten Worst Movies"

Atlanta, Ga. (ACP)—"The ten worst movies of 1954" were listed in the Emory Wheel, “The South’s Most Independent Collegiate Newspaper,” by columnist Larry Custer. His choices:

“Desiree,” the ladies were costumed attractively, making the scenery quite interesting, but we will never be able to accept Napoleon as a great lover.

“Demetrius and the Gladiators”—They should have left well enough alone. “The Robe” was enough.

“The Adventures of Hadji Baba”—We could never figure out how those tire tracks got out in the middle of that desert.

“The Egyptian”—We don’t know just where they dug thisOne up. Sex in spectacular proportions. “The Vanishing Prairie”—Just a remake of “The Living Desert,” but an Oscar should go to those prairie dogs. And that lady buffalo really put herself into her performance. “The Barefoot Contessa”—A fairly good movie, but it had the most disappointing scene of the year. “Beau Brummel”—So what was all the fuss about? “Prince Valiant”—Just another one of those medieval horse operas that seem so popular today. We could have listed dozens of others. “Phffft”—The New Yorker best summed this one up: “tui.” “White Christmas”—Bing should just retire, take it easy and never make another movie—how much money can he get? Danny Kaye saved this one from being a complete flop.

Our forefathers founded an enduring republic that has probably endured more than they ever suspected it would. — Frances Rodman.

PARKER-GARDNER THE DAVIDSONIAN

Coeds Find New Fad in Smoking of Pipes

Coral Gables, Fla. — (ACP)— “Heap big smoke, but no fire,” describes University of Miami coeds with the latest campus fad—pipes. The new ladies’ accessories come in a variety of shapes and sizes, ranging from the carved or painted “day” pipe to the jeweled “evening” pipe, writes Evelyn Savage in the Miami Hurricane.

A senior coed says although pipe tobacco usually smells masculine, her Special Ladies’ Blend has a distinct feminine odor. “Pipes taste better perfumed,” she says. Another claims that pipe puffing “atomizes her room.” A scent can of tobacco goes further than a 20-cent package of cigarettes, is the general opinion. One senior said his tobacco lasted him all through college. He doesn’t smoke much, though.

Dave Brubeck Show Loses $500 at U. Wyo.

Laramie, Wyo. (I.P.)—There will be no future big name bands on the campus of the University of Wyoming, unless the Associated Students can get some other campus organization to underwrite at least half the cost. The Dave Brubeck jazz concert, which was requested by the students, lost $500 because so few people attended, Richard Brown, student body President, stated here recently.

“The students on this campus are not taking advantage of all the cultural aspects offered them here at the University,” Brown continued, “and they don’t know what they're missing.” The Brubeck concert, jazz with a longhair view, was to be a signpost to decide whether future events of the type would be held. “We don't expect to make money on events of this type,” Brown added, “but we do expect to come out somewhere near even. We thought Brubeck would appeal to a large cross-section of students on the campus, since so many had asked for a jazz concert,” said Brown. He urged the students to take advantage of the several student functions offered on the campus, including the music divisional weekly student recitals, the Wednesday Hour with Literature, and the Friday ASUW motion pictures.

Da Vinci Display Here Until March 20th

The Leonardo da Vinci exhibition in Chambers Building will remain on the campus through March 20. Students are urged to visit the exhibition before Spring Holidays. The display will be open to the public on weekdays 9 a.m.-noon, 1:30-4:30 p.m.; Sundays, 2-4 p.m., and Tuesday night, 8-10 p.m. Visiting groups are asked to come in the mornings, as there will be lesser congestion.

Notice!

The dates for re-examinations and postponed examinations is Friday, March 18. Those students who wish to take such examinations must pay the re-examination fee at the Bursar’s office not later than Tuesday, March 15.

Drink ‘M O O R’ Mooresville Creamery, Inc. CHARLOTTE 2, N. C. 118 West Trade Street Phone ED. 2-8257

THE CONNOISSEUR A Place of Fine Foods for any taste in Eating — Specializing in Steak, Seafood, and Chicken Dinners. Mooresville, N. C.

SPALDING The best ball for your game has the exclusive DURA-THIN COVER

Here's amazing new durability in a high-compression ball. The DURA-THIN® cover provides this great new Spalding DOT® with real scuff resistance ... keeps the DOT uniform and true, even on rugged high-iron shots. The new DOT has a greater compactness for truer, more uniform flight. It’s actually an economical ball for you to play. And, with all this new durability, new DOTs still offer the long, long carry every hard-hitter wants. At school, or on your home course, make your next round a better one with this greatest of all golf balls. Buy today! Spalding DURA-THIN DOTs.

SPALDING sets the pace in sports

CHESTERFIELD Largest selling cigarette

Henry David... (Continued From Page One)

engineers and scientists should get special treatment for military service, or greater prestige and higher income than other trained university personnel.

OTHER NEEDS

“Higher education must not conceive its relationship to the economy as a trainer of highly specialized manpower and as a center for research in such terms that its capacity to fulfill other needs of American society will be severely limited,” said Dr. David. “If the institutions of higher education were geared to respond automatically and with maximum efficiency only to the current needs of the economy, they would take on the appearance of high level and expensive service stations. “A system of higher education engaged in effect in supplying parts and repair operations would not only debase its name. It would do the economy a disservice.”

Football... (Continued From Page Three)

Lambeth looked as good as he ever did in college in turning loose his bull’s-eye passes: On two occasions, Alumni receivers missed getting a TD by letting an on-the-spot toss slip through their fingers. Showing the famous calm manner under fire, Lambeth often stepped back and hit his receivers, only to see them miss easy grabs. The Varsity's pass defense looked shabby, but it is doubtful that next season will provide a collegiate passer of Lambeth’s quality to meet the Wildcats. In the line, the outstanding players are too numerous to mention. The play was hard, and the Alumni line failed to become exhausted, as was expected, in the late stages of the game. The game was seen as a success by all concerned, and a crowd of about 2,500 turned out to see the scrap. Cheerleaders for the Old-timers added a lot of color to the battle, and all in all, it was a fine afternoon's entertainment for football fans.

PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS

WHITE DRUG COMPANY C. S. GOODRUM, Agent

NORTH BOUND One Way WINSTON-SALEM, N.C. . $1.60 GREENSBORO, N.C. . . . $2.35 RICHMOND, VA. . . . . . $7.20 WASHINGTON, D.C. . . . $8.40 NEW YORK, N.Y. . . . . $12.95 WYTHEVILLE, VA. . . . $3.80 BLUEFIELD, W. VA . . . $5.20 CHARLESTON, W. VA. . $8.40 CINCINNATI, OHIO . . . $10.60 CHICAGO, ILL. . . . . . $16.40

SOUTH BOUND One Way CHARLOTTE, N. C. . . . $0.50 ROCK HILL, S. C. . . . $1.20 COLUMBIA, S. C. . . . . $2.85 SPARTANBURG, S.C. . . $2.35 AUGUSTA, GA. . . . . . $4.65 ATHENS, GA. . . . . . . $5.35 ATLANTA, GA. . . . . . $6.90 JACKSONVILLE, FLA. . $8.85 MIAMI, FLA. . . . . . . $14.95 TAMPA, FLA. . . . . . . $12.75

Plus U. S. Tax. Big EXTRA Savings EACH WAY on Round-Trips.

...and for hundreds of places the sensational new Scenicruiser

SMILE in your smoking of Chesterfield’s smoothness, mildness—refreshing taste. You'll SMILE your approval of Chesterfield’s quality—highest quality—low nicotine.

FRIDAY, MARCH 11, 1955

Lambeth’s quality to meet the Wildcats. In the line, the outstanding players are too numerous to mention. The play was hard, and the Alumni line failed to become exhausted, as was expected, in the late stages of the game. The game was seen as a success by all concerned, and a crowd of about 2,500 turned out to see the scrap. Cheerleaders for the Old-timers added a lot of color to the battle, and all in all, it was a fine afternoon's entertainment for football fans.

PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS

WHITE DRUG COMPANY C. S. GOODRUM, Agent