The Davidsonian

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Dick Morehead

ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Maurice Crouse
Tom Warlick

Managing Editors
Jim Batten, Frank Bloodworth, Jim Brice

Sports Editor
Leon Howell

Copy Editor
John T. Harmon

Feature Editor
Watt McCain

Staff Photographer
Hank Daniel

Assignments
John Trask

File Clerk
Bob Beall

Member of the Associated Collegiate Press and Intercollegiate Press

Page Two
Friday, September 23, 1955

Some Vital Decisions

“What’s your major? Richmond—why I used to know someone in Virginia. What profs do you have? Have some food—I’m sure you’re hungry.” This is the ever familiar, ever recurrent jargon of Rush Week. Out of this panorama of Rush Week—the cakes, and cokes, green punch and Confederate ties, pictures of alumnus I. Wuzza Bigwheel, blaring combos and speeches that would melt the Sphinx—come many reactions and results. Some catch colds, some consume too much of the ever-present pastries, some pledge, some go to class, and some just want to go to sleep, regardless of where they are standing. This is all a part of college tradition, a time which is long talked about, remembered and cherished in the participants’ minds.

Within this atmosphere of enjoyable confusion, however, there is the inevitable agony of decision. For the fraternity man, it becomes an impossible task to meet and remember over a hundred rushees. He is faced with the crucial criteria of selection, made more extreme by the press of time. For the rushee it is likewise a critical moment of decision, perhaps his first large decision of college life.

TO THE RUSHEE

The following are tips that have been in circulation in some form for many years but which merit inspection again because of their provocative nature and present timeliness.

Make your decisions on the basis of your own situation and honest feelings. If you are planning to follow your roommate and his advice through the next four years, you are apt to lead a narrow and limited existence here at Davidson.

If you do not receive a bid—do not take it to heart. Men rushed are for the most part friends or relatives of fraternity men among alumni and boys acquainted with members of the fraternity before their arrival at Davidson. Some of Davidson’s strongest student leaders in the past have been overlooked during the first week. You may be bid anytime during the college year.

If you decide not to join a fraternity, be assured that there is a fine group of men, whether participants in the local social club or solely in the Union activities, which will heartily welcome you and of which you can become a vital and contributing part.

If you are presented with several choices on Saturday morning, then include these among your checkpoints. Look at the men—not their national record, past history, or 2” orange rugs. Look especially at the class just above you, while observing the decisions of your own classmates for they will form your special group of associates—your future brothers in the bond. Look at the interests, ideals, and spirit of the chapter and its members. Check the type of rushing program, the sincerity and forthrightness of its presentation. Check also the group of rushees down with you at the houses this past week.

Once pledged do not narrow your college life to an acquaintanceship with your brothers or pledge brothers alone. Don’t sit smugly in your own little clique; for if you do you will miss many valuable friends and influences while hurting the reputation of your fraternity.

TO THE RUSHER

During this week you have displayed with smiles and similes the best and most outstanding aspects of your fraternity and its brotherhood. In your talks, singing, scrapbooks, and literature your organization has unfolded before the expectant rushees. You have felt a very close bond of brotherhood and spirit during these few hectic days. In selling your organization, its life and membership, you have put forth your best efforts. Do not now disappoint your pledges. Uphold the character of your rushing program throughout the coming year, instilling in your future brothers that feeling of Rush Week which has contributed so much to college life in the past. Remember often what you have said and thought during this week and let those thoughts stimulate and give purpose to your membership in such an organization. Finally, consider it a challenge to live up to the spirit, ideas, and unselfish brotherhood of Rush Week in carrying forth those principles and ideals for which your organization was founded and by which its most outstanding alumni have lived.

—R.H.M.

Progress Must Go On

The month of October will be highlighted by two events of great import to the future of Davidson College, the dedication of the new and magnificent W. H. Belk Hall and the ground-breaking for the splendid new structure being built to replace the recently razed Rumple Dormitory. At present the dormitories now in use (with the exception of Georgia) provide adequate housing for the vast majority of the student body with two men being quartered in each room. With the completion of the new dormitory which will house ninety men, the rooming situation will be excellent, perhaps even allowing for an expansion of the student body without overcrowding.

College officials have shown keen judgment in removing the antiquated and hazardous Rumple Dormitory and providing for its replacement before Georgia Dormitory is removed. Although this will occasion some delay in completing the landscaping of the new quadrangle formed by Chambers Building and Belk Dormitory, the accommodations in Georgia are much superior to those of Rumple Dormitory. As the new dormitory will not be completed until next summer, creating an unsightly situation, a delay of one year in completing the quadrangle will not be serious.

Davidson College will open its doors in the fall of 1956 with the most complete and modern dormitory situation in its history. A remodeled Watts Dormitory would leave little or nothing to be desired, provided the student body is retained at its present size.

Brighter prospects, however, are visible in the future. With the easing of the rooming situation, college officials will be able to direct their attention to other long-neglected projects. These include the restoration of the old quadrangle under plans adopted several years ago by the Board of Trustees and the construction of a new fine arts building to house the music, art, speech, and drama departments. Proposals are to build this structure in either the area between the College Church and the library or in the location of the present Cardboard Village. Another long-range plan calls for the construction of a new library or enlargement of the present building.

Davidson must progress. The administration and trustees have made Davidson attractive by providing superior housing for all of its students. However, they must not stop here. They have a duty to see that every department is adequately housed and provided with needed facilities. The music department has been shuffled hit or miss into three antiquated buildings in the old quadrangle. No rehearsal or practice rooms are provided for the speech and drama departments. The art department is likewise housed in makeshift quarters. The book stock in the Davidson library is woefully inadequate for a college with the prestige of Davidson. We have fallen far behind other colleges of like size and wealth. Moreover, the book stock cannot be increased to the optimum unless the capacity of the present library is increased. These problems form a challenge which must not be ignored. It is the duty of the college officials to see that these glaring deficiencies are corrected at the earliest possible time.

—T.W.W.

BUSINESS MANAGER
Larry Parrott

Advertising Manager
Bob Carmichael

Subscription
Warner Hall

Bob Majors, Stan Miller
Tony Guiles, Bill Bondurant

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 Madison Ave. New York, N.Y.
Chicago • Boston • Los Angeles • San Francisco

Subscription Rate: $2.00 Per Year
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1879.
Offices in David Ovens College Union, Davidson College

Circulation
Business Staff

Thriving Fraternities Near Century Mark

By PHIL KUKURA

Davidson College has never been known as a party school, but students who bemoan the lack of social life on the campus today would be amazed when they consider the social conditions at Davidson in the past. The choice confronting rushees Saturday morning will be one of the most important decisions to be faced in each student’s life at Davidson, for by it he will be choosing the group of men with whom he will be most closely associated socially in his undergraduate days. In this choice, he will be following his Davidson forbears, who in varying numbers for almost one hundred years have sought to band themselves together in fraternal groups.

According to the original authorization for the establishment of Davidson College by Concord Presbytery, the school was to be a Manual Labor Seminary, with students earning a substantial part of their educational expenses by working in the fields owned by the college during their leisure hours. Within a few years, however, this plan was discarded and a more conventional system of tuition payments was instituted.

A few years after the college opened its doors in 1837 the Eumenean and Philanthropic Literary Societies were organized, and for over a half a century they served as the social activity on the campus. Their membership included almost the entire student body for many years. The societies represented the first organized student government, it being within their province to suspend students from the college for various infractions of the rules, and in addition sponsored parties, receptions, and socials, at which their ladies were the guests of honor.

The first fraternity was organized on the campus in 1858, and another in 1859. Neither had any formal acknowledgment from the faculty or administration, and in 1861, when the War Between the States began to draw great numbers of students away from their academic pursuits, both chapters became dormant. There was a brief resurrection of interest in them after the war, but soon afterwardsThe faculty banished all secret organizations at Davidson because of the activity of the Ku Klux Klan. Various attempts were made in the years following to found fraternal organizations, but all proved short-lived. Not until 1880 was any chapter able to establish itself successfully, and following its organization, a number of older, dormant chapters were revived and new ones established. Although fraternities were well established on the campus by the 1890s, there were still frequent attempts by non-fraternity students via petitions to the faculty and trustees to have them abolished. No serious action was taken against them; yet it was not until the early 1900s that fraternities became the center of the student social life which they are today. The literary societies had continued to dominate the scene. In the early teens of the century, after the creation of the Pan Hellenic Council, forerunner of today's Interfraternity Council, the fraternities began to hold the interfraternity dance weekends, although at that time they had to be held in Charlotte and called “entertainments,” the word “dance” being an anathema to the church college. 

With the coming of the Second World War and its liberalizing tendencies on the entire country, Davidson too underwent drastic changes. Returning veterans found the college ready to accept the interfraternity weekends as “dance weekends,” and willing to have them on the campus itself. Two new fraternities have been added to the campus since the war, and the future continues to look bright for the fraternity system at Davidson.

Cold War Propaganda Increase (ACP)—Even though a lot of college students don’t know much or anything about SEATO, one of the important bulwarks against Communism, ACP has found that they have some definite ideas about certain things the United States should do in the “cold war,” or whatever it is. For one thing, they think the United States should do a better job of putting out propaganda than it has been doing. The Associated College Press asked them: It has been stated by certain sources that the United States is losing the cold war because the Russians are producing more and better propaganda. Regardless of whether this statement is true or not, do you think the United States should spend more money on overseas libraries, Voice of America radio stations, the Point Four program, etc.? And here is how they answered: 66% say YES, we should spend more. 24% say NO, we should not spend more. 10% have no opinion.

Not only did most students want more propaganda, but they had very definite opinions about the matter—one way or the other. A junior at Ferris Institute, Big Rapids, Mich., declares that “the only way to win the cold war is to fight the ‘Commies’ on a common ground, more propaganda.” On the other hand, a freshman coed at Western College for Women in Oxford, Ohio, feels that the United States should spend more on “food and other positive aid than on propaganda.” Another says “Yes, if it really works,” while still another states that “It’s a better resort than engaging in an open third world war,” and adds that “we can afford it (propaganda).” “If the United States is losing the cold war it is because we aren't as interested in propaganda as the Russians,” comments a freshman coed at Southern Methodist University. A junior at Adrian College in Adrian, Michigan, says that he feels “educational propaganda will show its mark in the long run.” A student at Colorado A & M adds a moral note to his comment by saying that “definite control should exist on the type of propaganda we use.” A sophomore at Richmond Professional Institute, Richmond, Virginia, adds a philosophical touch. He believes that “one combats an ideology with ‘ideas’ not with force. The spoken word, spoken well, will win the cold war." Or, the pen is mightier than the sword!

It is interesting to note, on a question like this, how closely college opinion runs to that of the oldsters. Another polling organization checked adult opinion not long ago and found much the same thing. On the question of spending more money on propaganda, they found that 67% of the population in favor, 20% disagreed and 13% had no opinion.

From The Christian Century

Dear Editor:

Now that the colleges are soon to open the doors of the stadium and the gymnasium and possibly a classroom or two to the incoming hordes of students, it is a good time to give light again to a little classic on college life. This is a paraphrase of the Parable of the Good Samaritan in terms of present-day college life. It was written many years ago by Charles W. Gilkey, then dean of the Rockefeller Memorial Chapel at the University of Chicago. It deserves continual reprinting. Here it is:

“A certain Freshman went from home to college and he fell among critics who said that he had no style, that his manners were awkward, and that he had an unattractive personality. Then they stripped him of his self-confidence, his enthusiasm and his courage, and departed, leaving him hurt, lonely and half-dead.

“And when the Seniors saw it, they were amused, saying, ‘What a good job the Sophomores are doing on that Freshman’; and they passed by on the other side.

“In like manner the Juniors also, when they saw it, smiled and said, ‘Yea, verily, for he hath not the making of a fraternity man’; and they passed by on the other side.

“But a certain special student, as he went about, came where the Freshman was, and when he saw the Freshman he was moved with compassion, and came to him and bound his wounds, pouring in sympathy and understanding; and he took the Freshman to his room and set him on his feet again, and brought him into his own circle, and was a friend to him.

“Which of these, thinkest thou, proved a neighbor to him that fell among the critics? Go and do thou likewise.”

College papers please copy!

Yours,
SIMEON STYLITES.

FAMOUS LAST WORDS: “I’LL PROVE THAT THE IVY ISN’T ALL THAT’S HOLDING UP RUMPLE.”

“A handsome new dormitory building, of brick trimmed in granite, containing rooms for sixty students, has been recently completed. Each room has two large windows, three transoms, and a special ventilating shaft. There are six large bathrooms in the building, which is heated throughout by steam. No expense has been spared to give abundant light, air, and ventilation, with many conveniences.” —DAVIDSON COLLEGE BULLETIN (June, 1904)

Philosophical View of Progress

Progress is progress is progress.—Gertrude Pebble.

Tradition bows to progress once again... as venerable Rumple Dormitory is razed.—Davidson College News Bureau

Every Davidson student who has ever delved deeply into the technique of composition knows something of the importance of an interest-compelling opening sentence. The above perversion of Miss Stein’s comment on a rose is an example of how a quotation may be used for this purpose. Now some writers are so addicted to the use of quotations at the head of their essays that tidbits from Bhagavad-Gita are just as likely to appear as Poor Richard’s most venerable saw about the virtues of frugality. My addiction goes much further than this—I propose to dedicate this entire article to an examination of quotations applicable to the recent razing of Rumple.

Obviously all these quotations must be concerned with progress.

By MAURICE CROUSE

“All progress begins with a crime.” What crime? The grand jury finds no probable cause and the demolition squad is absolved of all complicity in a crime against either man or nature. Its actions is rather to be compared to that of the compassionate cowboy who shoots his horse after its usefulness is ended. Case dismissed.

Nietzsche is more to the point. “Every step forward is made at the cost of mental and physical pain to someone.” Truly, this man hath the words of wisdom. Those who shared the amenities of the ‘Night, air and ventilation’ and Victorian plumbing and tilted stairways and falling ceilings of Rumple during its 53 years of existence, must have felt more than the common pangs of pity upon seeing the axe laid to its roots. But Nietzsche himself would remind us that the suffering puts us on a higher level of living and appreciation—thus preparing us for Belk.

“All progress is based upon a universal innate desire on the part of every organism to live beyond its income.” There are indications that Samuel Butler had an inkling of the truth here. Who can deny that the replacement of a 60-person dormitory with one housing over 300 is a rather large financial jump? And there are those who, looking at the annual slice taken from their pocketbooks, would swear to the truth of the quotation. Be that as it may, we proceed to the final quotation.

“What we call ‘progress’ is the exchange of one nuisance for another nuisance.” It must be sadly noted that Havelock Ellis, while competent within his own field, is hopelessly astray when his comments pertain to Davidson College. Even the most fervent partisan of Rumple must admit that Belk Hall is hardly a nuisance. Yet who are we to declare that Belk is the ne plus ultra of dormitory construction? Perhaps we are standing on the edge of a brave new world which will bring even more amazing things to us. While exulting in the hugeness and modern qualities of the building, we must pay heed to these words of wisdom, “This too shall pass away...”

“Bats on the third floor... the ‘King of Rumple’ terrifying freshmen at 3 am... trying to make a bookcase stand upright on that warped flooring... watching helplessly as the ants marched down the wire by which we had suspended the cake box from the ceiling... but cheery winter evenings when we studied late after heat had been cut off at 10 o’clock... but most of all, those crazy, crazy slanting steps, that left you feeling like a cow grazing on the mountainside.”—From I REMEMBER RUMPLE (Anonymous).