Sport Shorts — BY — LEON HOWELL

In Atlanta last week, the premier quarterback of our era, Otto Graham, unleashed a blast at the methods utilized in pro football today. It was his opinion that if the owners and officials do not curb the “dirty” tactics extant, the sport is destined to “hit the rocks.” Responses resounded from across the nation, both in agreement and violent opposition. “Slinging Sammy” Baugh raised the most influential dissenting voice, and his sixteen long years of stardom in the league are testimony to the fact that the star is not always the object of enemy attack. However, “Life” had run a series of pictures a few weeks ago, clearly corroborating Graham's view and giving graphic evidence of malicious injuries.

A distant ancestor of our modern game was evidently regarded in the same light by one scribe who said in 1583 that it was “rather... a bloody and murthering practise than a felowly sporte or pastime... For doth not every one lye in waight for his Adversary, seeking to overthrow him & to picke him on his noce... so that by this meanes, sometimes their backs are broken, sometime their necks, sometime their armes; sometime the noses gush out with blood, sometime their eyes start out... an herof groweth envie, malice, rancour, enmitie, and whot not els; and sometime fighting, brawling, murther, and great effusion of blood, as experience dayly teacheth.”

In the evolution of football on the college level, there has been a firm tendency to develop a vigorous, but not overly dangerous, sport. One President, Teddy Roosevelt, even entered a reform of the brutal “flying wedge.” On the Richardson Stadium turf action, as a rule, has been crisp and tough, but rarely dirty. With exceptions, of course, the tough guys of the scholastic game seem to be far outnumbered by those that play it clean.

It appears, in the face of numerous comments, that perhaps Mr. Graham was just a little off base. Certainly pro ball is tough. When you get muscular athletes, averaging close to 240 pounds each, slamming into each other with ferocious violence, something has to give. Apparently, it is the savagery of the play, along with the perfection, that finds thousands lining the stands Sunday after Sunday. And part of this take has made Graham, rightly enough, a rather wealthy young man.

SHORT SHORTS

At the same time that the end came for the DC hopes as Wofford added a clinching TD with about five minutes remaining in the game, 68,000 people thought that the end had come for Texas A&M. Behind 12-0 and fading fast, the clock indicated 4 minutes and 45 seconds. When this time had elapsed, the scoreboard showed the count to be in A&M's favor, 20 to 12 (over Rice) in what surely must have been one of the greatest comebacks of all time...

Just forty years ago this week, Davidson routed a fighting, but weak, Furman outfit, 58 to 13. Could history repeat itself?...

There is hope for all of us. Pete McKnight, influential editor of the Charlotte Observer, was writing sport items for the Davidsonian only twenty years ago. Selah!

WOFFORD TERRIERS DROP WILDCATS, 21-9 BY JEFF SMITH

Davidson vs. Wofford, Richardson Field, November 12.

On an Autumn-like day last Saturday, the determined Wofford eleven took the field against an injury-ridden Davidson football team. There was a lot of color on the campus among the trees and in the stadium among the Converse girls, but the silent stands in part belied amazed astonishment at the work of a revengeful Spartanburg team. You see, last year the talented toe of Bob Talbert turned the tide against the struggling Wofford efforts; the Wildcats won that encounter 3-0 on a field goal.

History might have repeated itself this year if there had been no touchdowns after Dick Belton repeated Talbert’s field goal feat. But that sadly was not the case, and as daylight approached dusk it became clear how much Wofford wanted to win. The first Wofford score came at the end of a 55-yard drive on an option play which gave the Cat defense trouble all afternoon. Frank DePrete took a pitch out from Charlie Jones and skirted left end eight yards to score. Weyland Burns made the extra point.

(Continued On Page Four)

DYKE LITTLE WILDCAT OF WEEK BY JOHN JOHNSON

To Cat quarterback Dyke Little go this week's athletic laurels because of his performance in last Saturday's Wofford game. Dyke came off the bench to take over the reins of the faltering Cat offense and played his best game of the year. He personally accounted for 120 of Davidson's yards with his passes, completing 8 out of 13. An excellent player on both his freshman team and last year's first string, which he operated most of the season, Dyke took a back seat to Belton during the first part of the season; but it is a credit to him and his perseverance that he continued to play a smart and alert brand of football and capitalized on his chance to run the first squad last week. Already the 5-11", 160-pound junior has passed for 402 yards which betters his last year’s total by 16. His arm has also improved.

FROSH SOCCER

A new era in intercollegiate sports makes its debut on the Richardson Stadium field Monday afternoon at 3:00 p.m. Davidson freshmen are engaging the University of North Carolina Jayvees in a soccer match at that time. Dr. Scott introduced Soccer, perhaps the most enthusiastically supported sport in the world, into the P. E. program this year with the idea of the freshmen each year being introduced to the game. Out of this, he hoped to inculcate it into the IFC schedule if interest merited. Enthusiasm was far greater than expected.

REDUCED! BAN-TAMAC SUEDE JACKETS Were $25.00 NOW $19.95 Wilson-Wright’s Inc. “COLLEGIATE FASHIONS” DAVIDSON, N. C.

Conference Nominees Given In Press Release

With the advent of November, the football season begins to roll to its close. Around this time each year, the publicity departments of the individual schools begin to “boom” their star players for all-star mention. Davidson likewise has three men that it feels are worthy of All-Conference rating at the least. It has long been a sore point from the athletic viewpoint that the press has neglected to regard the Davidson candidates with much respect. However, with the outstanding team of this year, it is going to be very hard to overlook the Cat stalwarts in the polls.

Dick Belton, the leading passer in the conference, heads up the list. A fine all-around leader, Dick has been instrumental in the rise of the local football fortunes. Among his accomplishments was selection as Player of the Week in the Conference. Also on the publicity release was Bill Gramley, the leading pass-receiver in the loop. “The Stallion” has grabbed 21 passes, while turning in his usual vicious job on defense. Tremendously strong, Bill has been a pillar of strength on both offense and defense.Defense. Sophomore Bill Price, who has been first-string center almost since he enrolled at Davidson, is the other nominee. Working in the middle of things, where there is little glamor, Bill has been outstanding in every game. Known for his resounding tackles from the linebacker slot, he is also extremely efficient in opening the holes up the middle.

Saturday at Greenville, S.C., the 1955 Wildcat football force brings down the curtain on one of the most exciting seasons in the history of the school. Furman, matching its 0-8 record against D.C.’s 5-3 slate, will supply the competition. Parading their talents for the last time will be seven players who have given a great deal to Davidson football. Capt. Harley Smith, Co-Captain Harold Davis, Tom Owen, Tal Broughton, Dick Jones, Bill Rowland, “Bo” Abernathy, and Jim Patterson compile the group, and it is one that will be hard to replace.

With injuries still hounding them, the Wildcats have been polishing their ever-potent air attack for a supreme effort in the closing game. In addition, the running game has gotten a lot of work this week, and although such stalwarts as Comer, McRee, Smith, and West are slowed by injuries, it still packs power, led by Conger and Atkinson. Thus far, he has completed 28 of 56 throws for an even .500 average compared to .381 last year.

With seven returnees from last year’s squad and a group of promising freshmen, Coach Charlie Parker's wrestling team is looking forward to a great season. Led by Reitzel Snyder, captain, Larry Wright, Henry Griffin, Bill Warlick, Dave Fagy, and Dave Regen will form the nucleus of this year’s squad. They will be joined by Jim Covington from last year's JV squad, and Dave McLain, who is out for his first season.

Dyke is a clever field general who constantly mixes his passing and running plays. His coolness under pressure was particularly demonstrated Saturday on one play which brought the spectators to their feet. When he was seemingly trapped for a loss by two Furman rushers, he skillfully eluded them both, ran to his left, and at the last moment, threw a right-handed pass to Don Campbell for 13 yards and a first down, starting the Cat touchdown drive. Little, an S.A.E. who comes from Hickory, North Carolina, is studying to be an engineer and has one of the best scholastic averages on the football team. Friendly and considerate, he is popular with the students. Congratulations to Dyke Little, Wildcat of the Week.

Several freshmen are out, including eleven out of fifteen $2.50 in trade. Army vs. Georgia, Tennessee vs. TEAM OPENS, Boston College vs. Baylor, Florida vs. LSU, anticipated and the Freshmen organized a team with about forty practicing. Charlie Reed, Jock Reeder, and John Renfro were instrumental in the organization, while Ross Smyth aided them in practice. All of those interested are urged to support this effort Monday. Rather than an actual game, this is more in the form of a clinic, with the UNC head coach coming along to offer advice and suggestions.

No one on the squad, least of all the coaches, has been lulled by the disastrous record of the Purple Paladins. It is an accepted fact that they possess the necessary components to break loose and give anyone a game; indeed, they did last Saturday against Florida State. With Clemson the next game for them, they will be desperately trying for a win against a D.C. outfit that is far from the powerhouse it was in mid-season. Led by the indomitable Popson, All-Conference halfback, who broke up the game between these schools last season, they will provide plenty of fight in a game that could well be one of the best of the season. Many of the Davidson family will be there to urge the Cats to their sixth victory of the year and a chance at second place in the loop.

GRAPPLERS GETTING SET FOR OPENING. L.G. Wilson, Pete Coleman, and Butch Neil are showing much promise. The season opens here at Davidson against V.M.I, Auburn, and Marshall, December 2 and 3. The remainder of the schedule is as follows:
Dec. 10—Univ. of N.C.—Here
Jan. 11—N.C. State—Raleigh
Feb. 11—The Citadel—Charleston
Feb. 15—W. & L.—Lexington
Feb. 25—V.P.I.—Here

GAMES OF NOVEMBER 26. Jim Sell came out on top in last week's effort, hitting on eleven out of fifteen. For this, he wins the Wilson-Wright award of $2.50 in trade. Navy vs. Georgia Tech, Vanderbilt vs. West Va, Holy Cross vs. Rice, Miami vs. Tulane, Miss. State vs. Southern Cal, Newberry vs. W&M, TCU vs. Texas A&M, South Carolina vs. Clemson. Encircle the winner, indicate the score, and place in the box before noon, Wednesday, November 23.

Conger Plunges Through For Five. Davidson's cross-country team, led by an improving Pete Ashcraft, made an honorable showing in last Monday's State Meet in Raleigh. The squad finished third in the team competition, and Ashcraft, taking 7th place in the fight for individual honors, proved that he will have something to say in the Southern Conference Meet at Davidson Monday, November 21. About 40 runners lined up for the varsity race on State’s fine 3.9-mile course. Jim Beatty of UNC, one of the country’s outstanding cross-country and track stars, soon took the lead and was never threatened. His winning time, however, was about 10 seconds slower than his own course record. The team competition also ended with a triumph for UNC, collecting 25 points against State’s 35. Davidson had no chance against these strong Atlantic Coast Conference teams. However, Pete Ashcraft, Henry Brown, Oyvind Norstrom, Al Elder, and Knocky Page really outclassed Wake Forest.

In the swimming meet held by the fraternity sports managers, the Kappa Sigs finished first with a total of 23 points. In second place, with 16 points, were the Phi Delts, while the SAEs took third with a total of 13. The honors were fairly well divided, with no one winning more than one individual race. Results:
150 Medley Relay—Kappa Sigma
75-yard freestyle—Blake—Pi Kappa Phi
50-yard breaststroke—Stowe—Kappa Sigma
50-yard freestyle—Wood—Phi Delta Theta
50-yard backstroke—Don Stewart—Phi Delta Theta
95-yard freestyle—Norton—Sigma Alpha Epsilon
75-yard individual medley—Wynne—Kappa Sigma
200-yard freestyle relay—Sigma Alpha Epsilon

When the moon’s shining bright and the party’s just right... To top off the night—have a CAMEL! It’s a psychological fact: Pleasure helps your disposition. If you’re a smoker, remember more people get more pure pleasure from Camels than from any other cigarette. No other cigarette is so rich-tasting, yet so mild!