FORTY-SECOND YEAR OF CONTINUOUS PUBLICATION

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

FRIDAY, APRIL 15, 1955 DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NUMBER 21

Brinkerhoff, Morehead, Helm Victors In Tuesday Balloting

VOLUME XLII

Art Exhibition On Display In Union

“Painters’ Panorama,” a collection of 38 paintings by outstanding American artists, will be on exhibition in the College Union Ballroom,
April 15-24. These paintings were selected by the American Federation of Arts from the entries to the first Tupperware Art
Fellowship competition. They include paintings of the three winners of the competition who each received a $2400.00 scholarship.

According to Professor Douglas Houchens of the Fine Arts Department, the exhibition is an extremely large one. It contains 38
paintings done in oil, encaustic, and tempera, which have a total weight of approximately 1500 pounds. The dimensions of the
pictures are as large as 40x50 inches.

Creative work by Davidson students will be presented April 19-30 in the foyer of Chambers and the College Union Lobby.
Wood sculpture, paintings, and a group of quick drawings on the theme “Cats” will form the exhibition.

“Night Studio,” a collection of paintings by members of the Davidson community, now located in the College Union Lobby, will
be much enlarged and moved to the College Union Ballroom on April 25. It too will contain a group of
drawings on “Cats.”

Dr. Floyd Stovall, Professor of American Literature at the University of North Carolina, will lead an informal discussion on “Program
of Readings from Walt Whitman’s ‘Leaves of Grass’” on Tuesday, April 19.

A concert by the Davidson College Chamber Orchestra, Kenneth Moore, conductor, will be given on Wednesday, April 20.

On Thursday, April 28, a concert of “American Music” sponsored by Gamma Kappa Chapter of Phi Mu Alpha Sinfonia, national
honorary music fraternity, will be given.

The Fine Arts Festival will be concluded on Friday, April 29, and Saturday, April 30, with the Red and Black
Masquers’ presentation of “Journey's End,” a play by R. C. Sheriff. “Journey's End” will be presented each evening at 8:15
p.m., in Chambers Auditorium. Tickets may be purchased at the box office, Chambers foyer, before each performance. The play will
be directed by Raymond W. Tyson, associate professor of speech at Davidson College.

Eight Fraternities Elect New Officers

Eight social fraternities on the Davidson campus have elected officers for next year. The Kappa Alpha Order held its elections
before going home for spring holidays. Elected were: Al Simpson, president; Bill Lazenby, vice president; Larry Trotti, secretary, and Dick
Morehead, IFC.

Sigma Phi Epsilon elected Bayles Mack as its president for the coming year. Other officers were Don Campbell, vice president;
Bill Gallier, secretary; Joel Blackwelder, treasurer; and Tal Broughton, IFC.

Jason McManus was named to the presidency of Phi Delta Theta. Other officers elected included Clyde Robinson, vice president; Jim
Ensign, secretary; Doug Oldenburg, treasurer; and Don Stewart, IFC.

(Continued on Page Four)

Union Slates Second Bridge Tournament

The bridge tournament held March 30 in the College Union was such a success and aroused so much participant interest
that a second tournament has been scheduled. This encore will be held Thursday, April 21, at 8 p.m.; it is
open to professors, students, and townspeople at the nominal price of fifty cents.

Mr. J. A. Postell will be present to direct play and lecture concerning the fundamentals of duplicate bridge. As expert
Charles Goren explains, “For those who know very little about bridge and want to learn to enjoy the game, there
is no better way than duplicate.” All those interested in learning and playing are urged to be present on that
date. Refreshments will be served gratis.

The Southern Region Student Conference for YMCA, YWCA, and SCA will be held June 10-17 at Blue Ridge, N.C. The
theme is Creative Leadership. Some of the leader-speakers are Dr. John Hutchinson, editor of Christian Faith and Social Action, Dr.
Charles Johnson, president of Fisk University and authority on the South, and Dr. Frank Graham, formerly president of UNC, and
now with the UN.

The “Y” delegation last year was Sam Magill, Leighton Green, and Blake Brinkerhoff. These all felt they gained greatly from
the experience. It is hoped that the group attending this year will be much larger, so that a greater percentage
of the student body will learn the purpose and aims of Student Christian Associations in connection with world problems.

The cost of the entire trip will be about $40, but the “Y” hopes to pay some of this expense.
Anyone interested in attending this conference should see Mr. Magill at the “Y” office.

INSPECTORS WELL PLEASED: R.O.T.C. Inspection Held

Although Col. Richard D. Stevens, President of the Department of the Army inspection team inspecting the Davidson College ROTC Department,
could make no official comment today, he gave the impression of being well pleased with the whole inspection.

The annual Department of the Army inspection of the department and Cadet Corps was completed Tuesday afternoon, April 12. The
inspection was a thorough one, covering two days in which every phase of the Davidson College Department's activities was examined.

Col. Stevens, Infantry, arrived Sunday night, April 10, along with Lt. Col. Edwin D. Selby, Armor, and Lt. Col. John
S. Wood, Jr., Artillery. The inspection began Monday morning with an introduction of the inspection officers to the ROTC Cadre
and a briefing by the Cadet Regimental Staff. The inspecting party was then taken on a tour of campus facilities,
and while on this tour, called on Dr. John R. Cunningham, President of the College, the Deans of Faculty and
Students, Drs. Pietenpol and Spencer, and Mr. Grier Martin, Treasurer of the College and Military Property Custodian.

The remainder of the morning was spent reviewing different (Continued on Page Four)

BLAKE BRINKERHOFF, YMCA PRESIDENT

"Y" Holds Conference At Blue Ridge in June

Chamber Orchestra To Present Program in Chambers April 20

The Davidson College Chamber Orchestra under the direction of Kenneth Moore, will present a program in Chambers Auditorium on Wednesday
evening, April 20, at 8:15 p.m. This is the fifth attraction in the eighth annual Fine Arts Festival now in
progress on the Davidson campus. The program is sponsored by the Gamma Kappa Chapter of Phi Mu Alpha Sinfonia, honorary
music fraternity. There will be no admission charge and the public is cordially invited to attend.

Highlighting the program will be the first appearance on the Davidson campus of Victor and Sallie Schoen, duo-pianists of the
Montreat College faculty. The Schoens will play the Johann Sebastian Bach “Concerto in C Major for Two Pianos.” Sallie Schoen
is a graduate of Oberlin Conservatory of Music while her husband was graduated from Miami University in Oxford, Ohio. Each
holds a Master of Music degree from Indiana University, and has studied with Heinz Scholz in Salzburg, Austria, where they
received Performer’s Certificates from the Summer Academy of the Mozarteum. The Schoens have concertized throughout the East successfully and their
appearance at Davidson is eagerly awaited.

Sharing the spotlight with the Schoens will be Jean Morlan Moore as ‘cello soloist with the orchestra in Max Bruch’s
“Adagio” from his “Kol Nidrei.” Mrs. Moore, the wife of the conductor of the orchestra, attended the New England Conservatory
of Music in Boston and received a B.M. degree from the University of Illinois. A member of the Intercollege Chamber
Music Guild quartet, she studied violoncello with Alfred Zhigiera of the Boston Symphony Orchestra. Mr. and Mrs. Moore have both
played with the Tanglewood, Transylvania, and Charlotte symphony orchestras.

The Chamber Orchestra will also be heard in the beloved Fifth Symphony by Franz Schubert and five Rumanian folk dances
by Bela Bartok.

(Continued on Page Four)

Dr. George Labban, Jr. To Remain at Davidson

Dr. Pietenpol, Dean of the Faculty, has announced that, contrary to an earlier release, Dr. George Labban, Jr., will remain
at Davidson next year.

Dr. Labban had planned to transfer his professorship to Southwestern in Memphis, but has been released from his commitment there
to continue in his position as associate professor in the Greek Department here.

Dr. Labban took his undergraduate training and graduate study at the University of Texas, which is recognized as one of
the best classics schools in the country. He has been instructing at Davidson since 1952.Its annual Foolies preceding the dance
Friday night of Spring Frolics, the “D” Club is presenting a hilarious parody on the musical “Show Boat.” With the
addition of music, the skit this year is more elaborate than in the past and should prove to be one
of the gayest, funniest Foolies ever to be presented in Chambers Auditorium. The plot includes the worn but eternal triangle.
Tommy Breeden, Joyner is the jovial Aunt Jemima. A veteran of Foolies presentations, will play the part of the distraught
Magnolia, while the part of her insistent lover Gaylord will be portrayed by Bob Talbert. Lyle Llewellyn is the cloudy-headed
Driftwood Deadhead, and Archie Students Offered 5 Regional Law Grants By Duke University Five regional scholarships in the Duke University
School of Law, worth $1000 each per year, will be available to top applicants in North and South Carolina, Dean
J. A. McClain has announced. Worth potentially $3000 each for the full three-year law course if applicants maintain high grades,
the scholarships will be awarded on a competitive basis, Dean McClain said. “Winners will begin study with the opening of
school next fall. All residents of the two states who qualify as entering law students may apply. The initial awards
are for one year and are renewable for the full three years if holders maintain a B average or better
in the School of Law,” Dean McClain said. The competition is open to residents of the two states regardless of
whether or not their college education was completed within or without North and South Carolina. Specific eligibility requirements call for
applicants who hold bachelor's degrees now or will complete requirements for such degrees by June, 1955, in a standard college
and with an overall average of B or higher. In addition, each applicant will be required to take the Law
School Admission Test, administered by the Princeton Educational Testing Service, 20 Nassau St., Princeton, N.J. Application for taking this test
should be made at least 10 days in advance. The next date is April 23, 1955, and the test will
be given at the University of North Carolina and the University of South Carolina. “Qualities of character, personality and leadership
will be considered, as well as scholastic ability,” Dean McClain said. In the absence of fully qualified students, the right
to omit awards in any given year is reserved. Interviews for applicants will be arranged and details announced soon, he
added. In the meantime, those desiring to apply and to enter the competition should write the Office of the Dean,
Duke University School of Law, Durham, N.C. Included in the ribald humor of the skit will be the appearance of
Harold McKeithen and Jimmy Martin, giving their comic renditions of “Kiss of Fire” and “Fernando's Hideaway.” A chorus line composed
of the coaching staff of the college is also scheduled to draw laughs. A sizzling interpretation of “Steam Heat,” a
dance from the current hit “Pajama Game,” will be presented by Mary Jo Whittle and Henry Parrish. The Lamplighters will
sing “Mood Indigo.” The tender duets by Magnolia and Gaylord—"Can’t Help Loving That Man of Mine” and “Make Believe”—will comprise
the high spots of the show. The lyrics used are not the conventional ones, but original lyrics that will appeal
more to the Davidson student body have been substituted. Music for the show will be conducted by John Garvey, who
has not only arranged the traditional “Show Boat” melodies, but who has also added some very fine original music of
his own. The opening “Show Boat’s Coming” is a peppy number by Garvey which makes the first scene look like
something from Broadway. In costuming and staging the “D” Club has gone to great effort. Costumes from a professional company
are on the way, and the backdrop for the show will be the largest ever seen on the Davidson stage.
Others with speaking roles include Dave McLean, Jeff Smith, Dick Jones, and Larry Parrott. In addition to these, there is
a large chorus of “D” clubbers. Holiday Changes Announced by Dean Dean of Students Samuel R. Spencer announced to the
Davidsonian this week that at its last meeting the faculty decided to change the date of spring holidays for the
next year to coincide with the date of Easter. The number of holidays will remain the same as in the
past. As usual, the vacation will begin on a Wednesday afternoon, now the Wednesday before Easter, and end on the
following Wednesday morning. The dates of spring holidays in 1956 would then be from March 28 until April 4. Dean
Spencer said that the faculty made this change in the schedule because of the general indication of opinion shown by
the student body. Under the new schedule, Davidson's spring holidays will more closely parallel those of other institutions. GRANT JOHANNESEN
This celebrated young American pianist, who has received acclaim of both critics and audiences on three continents, will be heard
in concert here tonight in conjunction with the College Artist Series and as a part of the Davidson Fine Arts
Festival. Selected In Class Voting By BILL STEWART, Elections Reporter After a week of heavy balloting in which many important
offices were decided, voting after chapel today closed with only two classes' offices being decided. Tony Dick, a Beta from
Memphis, Tennessee, was elected Secretary-Treasurer of the Junior Class, and John Bernhardt will be Secretary-Treasurer of the Sophomore Class for
next year. John is a Kappa Sig from Lenoir, North Carolina. In every other race voted on today, there were
at least two candidates forced into a run-off, which in every case will be held after chapel Tuesday. In the
voting for President of next year’s Senior Class, Linny Baker, Hobby Cobb, Joel Conarroe, and Jason McManus were the remaining
candidates in the race. Jim Ensign, Phil Koonce, and John McLaughlin remained as Vice-Presidential candidates, and Albert Harris, France Jordan,
Watt McCain, and Clyde Robinson were forced into a run-off for Secretary-Treasurer of the Senior Class. In the other two
offices to be decided in the rising Junior Class, Carl Cooper and Dan LaFar remained as Presidential candidates while voters
will have to choose between Jim Covington and Dyke Little for Vice-President. Lloyd Chapin, James A. Jones, III, and Pat
Woodward were voted into a run-off for President of the rising Sophomore Class. All voting for the Vice-Presidential office was
voided after it was learned that a candidate’s name had been inadvertently left off the list. Earlier this week, students
chose men who will fill the offices of President, Vice-President, and Secretary of the YMCA, and editors of the Davidsonian
and the college annual, Quips and Cranks, next year. Blake Brinkerhoff, a Junior from Montreat, North Carolina, was elected YMCA
President. Brinkerhoff is a member of Le Cercle Francais, honorary French fraternity, has served as assignment editor of the Davidsonian,
First Vice President of the YMCA, and Junior member of the YMCA Board of Directors. Next year’s “Y” Vice-President will
be Gorden Bondurant, a Sophomore from Winston-Salem, North Carolina. Dan Woods was chosen as Secre (Continued on Page Four) Students,
Dates Await Spring Frolics Dance One week from tonight Davidsonians and their dates will be swinging to the smooth dance
music of Ralph Flanagan and his famous dance band. The schedule for the activities of the ever-popular Spring Frolics weekend
is similar to that of the past three years. The formal dance will take place Friday night, April 22, and
will last from 9 until 1. Dancing at the semi-formal affair on Saturday night will be from 8 until 12.
Ronald Wilson, president of the Interfraternity Council, has announced that the concert will be held on Saturday afternoon on the
lawn of the front campus. Bandleader Flanagan, whose popular band was organized in 1950, has broken attendance and gross receipt
records at some of the country's leading dance spots. Among his hit records have been “Pink Champagne,” “La Vie En
Rose,” “Hot Toddy,” “Charmaine” and “South.” Supplying the vocal portion to Flanagan’s band next weekend will be his featured songstress,
blonde Kee Largo, and popular male vocalist Johnny Amoroso. D.C. Students to Lead Religious Deputation From April 18-22, a deputation
of Davidson students will lead a religious emphasis week at Elkin and Jonesville high schools. Richard Holshouser, John McVay, Creighton
Peden, Charlie Cousar, and Jim Brice will travel up daily to make speeches on the theme, “The Keys to the
Kingdom.” This work is being done through the Deputations Committee of the Davidson YMCA as a part of its regular
duties. The Hi-Y and Tri-Hi-Y of the Elkin YMCA are sponsoring the program.
