PAGE FOUR

THE BELLES’ CHOICE

Llewellyn Takes Top Honors In Female Show

By JOHN

Lyle Llewellyn, outstanding member of the sophomore class, added another leaf to his laurel of honors during the Christmas recess.
The girls of Saint Mary’s Junior College in Raleigh chose Lyle over ten other exciting youths as the “Sweetheart of
Saint Mary’s.” The last issue of Belles featured Lyle's picture prominently atop an engraved Christmas tree. The accompanying statement of
the paper reads in part, “Belles feels that he represents the typical St. Mary’s girls' date and that he has
that ‘all-American appearance’.”

It is not surprising that Lyle, from the sophisticated Raleigh-Durham section of North Carolina, was chosen from the other candidates
for the honor, for as early as last September, he was affectionately called “Bull” by the smarter set attending the
Debutante Ball. Pictures of all those vying for the title were displayed. Underneath each picture was placed a box into
which each belle cast her ballot. From the first, it was evident that Lyle, a nice, heavy-set young fellow, was
stampeding the election, and the final tabulation showed that the peculiar pleasure of being called the “Sweetheart” of this female
institution befell a Davidson boy. When asked to comment upon this surprise achievement, Bull, usually modest because of Calvinistic stoicism,
commented in this exclusive press interview, “Fabulous, it's just great, it really is, you know!”

Davidson Chooses...
(Continued From Page One)

Usual election period proceedings were enlivened by Bob Crutchfield’s proposed constitutional amendments. Although most of them failed to pass the
student body vote, the topic was widely debated and discussed, perhaps reflecting a rumbling of discontent with the present outdated,
clumsy constitution, and a forecast of future changes in the offing.

With the opening of the fall semester, the curriculum was broadened with the reviving of the Sociology Department under the
direction of Dr. Malcolm McAfee. Business Administration formed a new department under Prof. Fred Morton. Business Administration was formerly a
part of the Economics Department.

In September, Athletic Director Paul K. Scott resigned his position to become Alumni Secretary of his alma mater, Cornell College,
in Iowa after four and a half years at Davidson.

The red-hot segregation issue came to the forefront on the campus in the weeks before Thanksgiving. Dormitory bull sessions, Letters-to-the-Editor,
and numerous forums and debates were climaxed on November 17, as the YMCA brought Dr. J. M. Dabbs and the
Reverend Beverly Asbury to the campus to lead a panel discussion on the controversy. And somewhat symbolically, a hundred yards
to the north, the new Belk Dormitory quietly raised itself to a state of near-completion, as if surveying the scene
of which it is to become an integral part.

Capt. Lamar...
(Continued From Page One)

18th Infantry Regiment. After completing this tour of service Captain Lamar was assigned to Davidson College as Assistant PMS&T, the
position he will hold until his resignation. Captain Lamar will probably continue in the Active Reserve as a member of
the 108th Division in Charlotte.

Budapest String...
(Continued From Page One)

Violoncelloist, Mischa Schneider, is from Vilna. Because of the artistic integrity, sound musicianship, and brilliance of the execution of this
group, we feel that this Davidson performance will prove to be one of the outstanding events of the college year.
Tickets may be obtained from The Davidson Artist Series, or at the door. Davidson students are admitted by their identification
cards.

SURVEY INDICATES LANGUAGE DECLINE

Lynchburg, Va.—(I.P.)—Out of the 550 members of the Association of American Colleges participating in a recent survey, only 50 institutions
during the past four years had enrollments in Greek of 50 or more students and only 11 institutions, enrollments in
Latin of 200 students or above. Graphically showing the decline of interest in the classical languages are the 1929 figures
reported in the survey when 64 institutions had enrollments of 50 or more students of Greek and 38 institutions reported
enrollments of 200 or more students of Latin.

The survey, conducted by Randolph-Macon Woman's College, to determine the trend of interest in the classical studies in a time
when there has been considerable discussion of the classics versus modern languages, revealed that 87 institutions do not offer courses
in either Latin or Greek. A number of these noted that they were planning to offer instruction in Latin or
Greek in the future. Many other institutions indicated their concern over the decline of interest in the classical languages.

According to the survey, there has been a drop in total enrollment in Latin of about 53 percent between 1929
and the present and a 20 percent drop during the same time in Greek. Among the men’s colleges, the drop
has been about 35 percent both in Latin and Greek and in the women’s colleges about a 65 percent drop
in Latin and a 62 percent drop in Greek enrollment. The co-educational institutions have shown the greatest decrease in Latin
during the 25-year period with a 55 percent drop, while in Greek the drop was only 5 percent.

It must be taken into consideration with these figures that many of the colleges did not keep records of courses
offered in 1929 or of the number of students enrolled, and also that there has been a heavy increase in
enrollment during the past 25 years. The change in status of Hunter College (present enrollment 11,132) from a women’s college
to a co-educational institution also affects the figures.

Ranking all colleges replying to the survey according to the number of students taking Latin during the past four years,
the top three institutions were Hunter College, 923 Latin students; College of the Holy Cross, 397; and Harvard University, 232.
Top colleges according to enrollment in Greek for the past four years were Baylor University with 404 students; College of
the Holy Cross, 288; and Wheaton College, 235.

Graduate Scholarships Announced For Seniors

The George Washington University Law School is offering a number of Trustee Scholarships providing a full three-year's tuition. Candidates must
graduate in the upper fifth of their class and have demonstrated qualities of leadership in addition to scholastic attainment. Successful
candidates will be required to maintain a “B” average as a condition of retention of the scholarship. Applications must be
in before February 1, 1955. Application should be made to the Dean of the Law School, George Washington University, Washington
6, D. C.

The Deans of the Graduate Schools at Duke, Emory, Tulane, Vanderbilt, and the University of North Carolina announce the establishments,
at each university, of ten special scholarships for first-year graduate students of unusual ability and promise who plan to enter
the basic fields of Arts, Sciences, and Social Studies. The stipends will range from $1,000 to $1,500. Awards will be
made on the basis of academic records, recommendations, and other evidence of superior ability. Scores on the Graduate Record Examination
or similar recognized tests will be helpful but are not required. Applications must be received by March 1, 1955.

The School of Advanced International Studies at Johns Hopkins University is offering fellowships ranging in value from $1,200 to $2,000,
as well as smaller grants, for specialized study in international affairs. College graduates whose backgrounds include training in economics, history,
and political science, as well as in at least one modern foreign language. For further information, interested seniors should write
to the Registrar, School of Advanced International Studies.1906 Florida Avenue, N.W., Washington 9, D.C.

The University of Oregon is offering a number of $1,500 fellowships in a special interdisciplinary program, involving economics, history, political
science, and sociology, for prospective college teachers. Further information may be had by writing the Dean of the Graduate School,
University of Oregon, Eugene, Ore.

UNC Freshman Dorm Standing Changes

Chapel Hill, N.C. (LP.)—“The pendulum has swung” on the question of segregating freshmen into separate dormitories and restricting them from
pledging fraternities, declares Chancellor Robert B. House of the University of North Carolina. “At one time we had that policy
of housing freshmen in separate dorms. We found that it wasn’t good. Now the pendulum is swinging back. I don’t
know where it will stop.”

About the other rule recommended by the State of the University Conference to restrict freshmen from fraternity participation, he said,
“the pendulum has swung again. When I was a freshman (in the 1910s) we had a rule like that. Around
in the twenties, it was discovered that it was of great value to a freshman to pledge a fraternity. Now
the counter idea is coming up.” He added that he did not believe that “fraternities are the cause of students
studying or not studying.”

Both rules dealing with freshmen were presented in a report given by Dr. Eugene Pfaff of Woman’s College at the
Consolidated University conference. Freshmen were segregated in separate dorms here until 1951 when the rule was changed. The Interdormitory Council
here has gone on record as opposing the proposal to house all freshmen in special dormitories as suggested by Dr.
Pfaff. An I.D.C. Court spokesman revealed that court records prove that freshmen offenses are much more numerous when they are
housed in special dormitories than when they are allowed to room with upperclassmen.

The Department of Economics at Columbia University has announced the newly instituted Seager Fellowships in Economics. There are two of
these fellowships, carrying a stipend of $3,500 each, open to exceptionally able students with the A.B. degree, who wish to
pursue graduate work at Columbia University toward the Ph.D., and who would otherwise be unable to do so. Interested seniors
may secure application blanks by writing to the Secretary, Columbia University, New York 27, New York. The deadline for completed
applications is February 21, 1955.

The Institute for the Teaching of Chemistry of the Department of Chemistry has available from funds granted by the du
Pont Company, two Graduate Fellowships for those pursuing graduate studies for the degree of Master of Science in the Teaching
of Chemistry. These fellowships carry a stipend of $1,200 plus $450 for the payment of tuition. Applications for fellowships may
be obtained by writing to the Dean of the Graduate School, St. Louis University, 221 North Grand Blvd., St. Louis
3, Mo.

The Maxwell Graduate School of Syracuse University announces a large number of fellowships, scholarships, and assistantships for 1955-56. Among them
are two fellowships (administered by the Economics Department) carrying a stipend of $900 plus tuition up to $700 for a
two-term period beginning September 1955. One fellowship in social and political psychology pays $750 plus tuition up to $700 for
a two-term period. Three college teaching fellowships are available paying $900 each plus tuition up to $700 for candidates who
wish to prepare for careers in the teaching of the social sciences at the college level. Graduate assistantships are also
available. Further information may be had by writing to the Admissions Office, Maxwell Graduate School, Syracuse University, Syracuse 10, N.Y.

Winter Track... (Continued From Page Three)

There are two fine shot putters in Bill Gramley and Bill Lazenby, distant runner Pete Ashcraft, and Roswell Mallory. Other
boys out for the squad are Tom Breeden, James Hambright, Phil Duiguid, W.B. Fisher, Jimmy Weller, and David Regen. Three
meets are scheduled for the Cats, including the V.M.I. Relays, February 5, at Lexington; Southern Conference Indoor Meet at Lexington,
February 19; and the Atlantic Coast Conference Indoor Meet at Chapel Hill, February 26.

DAVIDSON THEATRE
P-A-N-O-R-A-M-I-C WIDE SCREEN

THUR.-FRI., JAN. 13-14
“WOMAN’S WORLD” (Cinemascope)
CLIFTON WEBB
JUNE ALLYSON

SATURDAY, JAN. 15
“WILD ONE”
MARLON BRANDO
MARY MURPHY

MON.-TUES., JAN. 17-18
“BROKEN LANCE”
SPENCER TRACY
JEAN PETERS

WEDNESDAY, JAN. 19
“IT SHOULD HAPPEN TO YOU”
JUDY HOLLIDAY
PETER LAWFORD

THURS.-FRI., JAN. 20-21
“ATHENA”
JANE POWELL
VIC DAMONE
DEBBIE REYNOLDS

Basketball... (Continued From Page Three)

Standouts, along with Cobb, as the team played one of its better games. Though the Cats have consistently been hampered
by size all season, they seem to be improving as the season moves along. When the final game rolls around,
these boys will be giving somebody a hard time.

Gift Fund Falls Far Short of $4,000 Goal

Final reports on the Christmas Gift Fund were released Wednesday night by Kiki Lewis, chairman of the Gift Fund Committee
of the Y.M.C.A. Total contributions for 1954 were $2,870.48, of which $1,351.76 was paid and $1,518.72 pledged. The goal for
the Gift Fund was four thousand dollars. Pledges which have not been paid will be collected within the week, Lewis
said.

Debaters Begin Season At Agnes Scott Today

The controversial topic “Resolved, That the United States should extend diplomatic recognition to the Communist government of China” was the
subject debated as the Davidson Forensic Council began its debating year today at Agnes Scott College in Atlanta, Georgia. Debaters
on the Davidson team will be Ted Reid, Malcolm Williamson, John Trask, and David Wood.

Phi Society Elects Mac Williamson as President

Philanthropic Literary Society met Monday night to elect officers for the second semester. Malcolm Williamson of the Senior Class was
elected President, Kerry Spiers of the Junior Class, Vice-president. Other officers are as follows: Secretary, Harry Antrim; Treasurer, Jim Kuist;
Critics, Bill School and Fred Summers; and Supervisors, Zell McGee and John Gilmer.

Janet Blair, Actress: “I have the fullest confidence in LaM’s Miracle Tip... and LaM’s taste so good, I made them
my regular cigarette.”

John Robert Powers, Creator of the Powers Girls: “I think LaM’s filter is far superior to others. Great smoke... wonderful
flavor.”

Patricia Morison, Musical Comedy Star: “I love LaM Filters. Never dreamed a filter cigarette could filter so thoroughly, yet taste
so good!”

PARKER-GARDNER
118 West Trade Street
CHARLOTTE 2, N.C.
Phone ED. 2-8257

FRIDAY, JANUARY 14, 1955

THE CONNOISSEUR
A Place of Fine Foods for any taste in Eating — Specializing in Steak, Seafood, and Chicken Dinners.
Mooresville, N.C.
Phone 3-2861

This laboratory plays football... Skip looks ready for anything. Is he ready? Last spring he received a vaccine designed to
protect him from infantile paralysis. Sometime this year, after studying records on Skip and nearly two million other youngsters, scientists
will know if the vaccine works. Skip’s a football-playing laboratory, helping them out. Your March of Dimes contributions not only
make the vaccine trials possible, they also give a chance for a better life to thousands who have polio.

STANDS OUT FROM ALL THE REST!
STANDS OUT FOR FLAVOR. The pure, white Miracle Tip draws easy, lets you enjoy all the taste.
STANDS OUT FOR EFFECTIVE FILTRATION. No filter compares with LaM’s Miracle Tip for quality or effectiveness.
STANDS OUT FOR HIGHEST QUALITY TOBACCOS, low nicotine tobaccos, LaM tobaccos... Light and Mild.
MUCH MORE FLAVOR — MUCH LESS NICOTINE
America’s Best Filter Cigarette!
