ay Speaking of Sports ® By JIM HOLSHOUSER

SUBSIDIZATION AGAIN

On Wednesday night, the question of Davidson’s athletic policy came up again as President Cunningham presented the administration's views on the subject and, along with Grier Martin, the college treasurer, answered questions in a brief but informative period. Many of the questions remained unanswered, and a similar program is being planned by ODK for a date sometime in the near future.

The subsidization question was presented in the light of the college financial situation as well as in the issue of fairness to all concerned, and though no definite conclusions came out of the meeting, one point was thoroughly established—student opinion will have a definite effect on what decision will be made, and student interest in future meetings and discussions could mean a great deal when the final moment for decision comes.

In the Davidsonian's poll earlier this year, the results showed that the students were definitely opposed to the non-subsidization program which has been proposed. After Dr. Cunningham's answer (in the affirmative) to the question of whether student opinion would be an influence, it would seem that, unless student opinion swings the other way, the present policy of limited subsidization will be continued in the future.

The financial part of the situation was discussed at length Wednesday night, and we gathered that the switch to non-subsidization would mean no great change in the “money” department of the issue. The “fixed costs” of the football program would drop slightly, but only slightly, since travel expenses, pre-season practice, expenses for referees, and things along this line would remain the same whether Davidson were subsidizing or not. The amount in the college’s total scholarship program would not change in any great degree, with the only change being that there would be no scholarships designated for athletics. With these two parts of the program remaining reasonably close to the present budget, there should be no great incentive to drop the present program for financial reasons.

The issue of whether it is fair to give scholarships for athletics is one which has raised a tremendous amount of discussion on the campus in recent months, and there are naturally varying opinions on the topic. The majority of those who have expressed an opinion seem to think that an athletic scholarship is no different than one given in other fields—that as long as it is given to a deserving boy who will uphold the standards of Davidson, both academically and otherwise, there can be little criticism of such an award. With the high entrance requirements of the school preventing many athletic prospects from entering Davidson, those who have the academic record necessary would seem to give the college no reason for denying an athletic grant, just as they do in the other phases of college life. With the 1954 football team setting a clear example of academics (better than the whole student body and better than eight fraternities), the college has no just criticism which could be made in that direction.

The proposed program of playing such schools as Centre, Southwestern, Swarthmore, Sewanee, Emory, Hampden-Sydney, and others is a departure from the traditional schedule played by Davidson teams, for the Wildcats have met these schools (the entire group put together) less than ten times since football was initiated here in 1896! The traditional Davidson rivals—The Citadel, Furman, VMI, Presbyterian, Richmond, and so on down the line—have now adopted limited subsidization programs, and why should Davidson not continue to cultivate the same rivalries which have held in past years? Davidson has never played the proposed schools to any great degree, and why start now? Davidson has always had a No. 1 rating in scholastic circles, and her athletic teams, though not always winning, have also been a credit to the school. If we are to have an exceptional school, why have, in an important phase of college life, a poor athletic program?

Ready For Spring Frolics

We have a nice stock of AFTER-SIX White Dinner Jackets and Cummerbund Sets To Choose From

Wilson-Wright's Inc. “COLLEGIATE FASHIONS” DAVIDSON, N.C.

TRACK SEASON OPENS TOMORROW

The Davidsonian

AGLBENDA CUR OBI CRTFA LIBERTAS

NETTERS TO HIT WAYNE TOMORROW

FRIDAY, APRIL 8, 1955 PAGE THREE

VPI Meets Cats In Conference Game

Defending Conference Champions Appear Here In Favorite’s Role

This afternoon on the home diamond, the Cats nine meet what will most likely be their toughest opposition of the year in VPI, the team which copped the Southern Conference crown last season and is favored to repeat this year. During the 1954 regular season play, Coach Red Laird’s Techmen had a record of 12 wins and 6 losses, meeting the best competition in this section of the country and playing some top-ranking teams from the Atlantic Coast Conference. The caliber of this year’s squad can be judged from the fact that it is scheduled to play such outstanding teams as Notre Dame, Ohio, and Maryland.

Wildcat Netters To Hit Wayne Here Tomorrow

By CHARLES FONVILLE

Tomorrow, on the home courts, Coach Dick McKee's netters are scheduled to meet Wayne University of Detroit, a team about which very little is known. Like many northern schools, the Wayne squad is making a southern tour while awaiting the arrival of warm weather at home, and these boys are expected to furnish some Wednesday, on the home courts, in a series of exciting matches, Duke defeated the Cats by a count of six matches to three, as Corky Clark and John Thorpe won singles matches, while Lacy Keesler, George Snead, Leighton Green and Dick Makepeace were defeated in hard-fought battles. Clark, facing Bobby Green, played what the coach called the “outstanding match of the day,” and probably the outstanding match of his career. He was faced with superb competition, but he managed to maintain that extra punch. In a match extended to the full three sets, Leighton Green, against John Koch, came from behind to take the second set, but lost the third set. John Thorpe, a sophomore, made a brilliant comeback after losing two matches last week. Later, John teamed with Makepeace to win the Cats’ only doubles victory of the day, while Clark with Keesler.

KAPPA SIGS NEAR FRATERNITY CUP

The Kappa Sigs hold the lead in the interfraternity competition and are favored to capture the coveted cup which the Phi Delts are defending. The Kappa Sigs, with 754 points, have a 52-point margin over the Phis who are in second place with 702. The number three position is held by the SAEs, who have 627 points; all other teams are below the 600 mark. The leader's margin will be shortened when the results of the volleyball standings are scored. The Phi Delts won the undisputed championship in that field as they finished the season with a perfect 11-0 record. Three teams—the Pikas, the KAs, and the SAEs—tied for second place in the volleyball loop, all having identical records of nine wins against two defeats. The Kappa Sigs were the number five team with seven victories and four losses.

Only three phases—varsity athletics, tennis, and softball—of the competition remain to be determined. The Kappa Sigs are expected to take top honors in the varsity participation because of the high number of their members on the various varsity teams. The probable outcome of softball and tennis is uncertain, but these two sports will determine the winner of the cup for this year. Four softball games a day are scheduled. The opening round which was to be played Wednesday between eight teams was called off because of rain.

On Wednesday night the sports managers met to pass on a new type of tennis tournament which would be faster and more efficient than the system used in past years. The new system provides for three entries from each fraternity for the singles which will be held in a straight elimination tournament lasting one week. Also, straight elimination will be used in the doubles matches on the following week. Each fraternity will enter one doubles team.Official standings of the present overall competition, excluding volleyball, are:

| Team      | Points |
|-----------|--------|
| Kappa Sig | 754    |
| Phi Delt  | 720    |
| SAB       | 627    |
| Sigma Chi | 547    |
| Beta      | 523    |
| Pike      | 428    |
| Phi Gam   | 422    |
| ATO       | 307    |
| SPE       | 297    |
| KA        | 340    |
| Pi Kapps  | 320    |
| C.C.      | 193    |

Man, and the DeFuniak Springs hustler has been one of Davidson's outstanding backs in his two-year stay here. Next season, Wildcat fans will see him in his new fullback post, which those who saw the Alumni-Varsity game will certify, seems to agree with him.

Harold Davis came to Davidson from Gastonia, and the husky guard has been a stalwart in the Wildcat line for three years. Switched to tackle and back, he has shown no ill effects, and Davis will undoubtedly be one of Coach Bill Dole’s top linemen next season.

Top-notch competition. Ler and Snead with Green lost close matches. Even though the Cats were defeated by a count of five matches to two after the first doubles match was lost, they continued to give the game everything they had. Monday, at Greenville, S.C., the Cats made a clean sweep of the meeting with Furman by a count of nine matches to none. This was our second conference win, with three more conference matches (Continued On Page Four).

Cats, Mercer, Richmond On Cinders Tomorrow

Tomorrow the 1955 edition of the Davidson track squad makes its initial appearance of the season, as it plays host to Mercer and Richmond in a triangular meet scheduled to begin at 1:30. Coach Pete Whittle is expecting his Cats to be in excellent condition and feels that this year’s team may be one of his best, with lettermen returning in every position but the pole vault and mile.

Mercer, coached by Jim (Footsie) Cowan, a star performer on Davidson track, football, and basketball squads of the late 30s, is fielding a well-balanced team of twenty-two men. Coach Fred Hardy, an outstanding distance runner in his college days at North Carolina, is bringing twenty-five of his Richmond thinclads for the meet.

The Wildcats have been hard at work since March 1 and seem to be ready for a fine season. Coach Whittle is counting on veterans Frank Mitchener and Phil Koonce in the 100 and 220 yard dashes and the 440 yard relay, and Koonce is also expected to perform well in the broad jump. Two Charlotte boys, Charles Robinson and Jack Huffaker, in the hurdles and high jump respectively, are holdovers from last season and are being relied on to pull the Cats through in these events.

In the mile, the Cats will be exceptionally strong in the person of Pete Ashcraft, the freshman mile champion of the Southern Conference last year. Captain Floyd Feeney, who took second place in the conference two-mile run last spring, should do at least as well this season. In the field events, Harry Petersen and Bill Gramley will be in the weights, and Harley Smith, conference champion last year, will perform in the javelin. The Wildcats, with a squad of thirty-six, are certainly a real threat in Southern Conference competition this year.

These clubs can prove YOU'RE A BETTER GOLFER THAN YOU THINK! Bobby Jones registered woods and irons, and Jimmy Thomson registered woods are SYNCHRO-DYNED® clubs ...the only clubs made that offer you perfect balance . . . and an identical contact feel. Because every one of these clubs swings and feels alike, your golf becomes more uniform, your shots consistently better. With golfers reporting handicaps cut by as much as 1/3... these are the clubs to play. Make your next round a better one... with Spalding.

SPALDING SETS THE PACE IN SPORTS

Football Schedule For 1955 Released

Davidson’s 1955 football schedule has been completed and is shown below. The season will open on September 16, the first Friday of the fall term, with a night game against the Catawba Indians in Charlotte’s Memorial Stadium. The schedule is similar to last year’s card, with only two changes having been made. Washington and Lee has returned to the collegiate football ranks and will replace West Virginia Tech as Davidson's Homecoming opponent on October 15. The other change finds Elon College being replaced by the Richmond Spiders, who rank as one of the top clubs in the Southern Conference. The Wildcats will meet the Richmond crew in Richmond on November 5.

The schedule boasts five home contests, counting the opener in Charlotte. The Cats will meet The Citadel, Presbyterian, and Wofford at home, in addition to the teams already mentioned. Davidson will meet VMI, Stetson, Richmond, and Furman away. The schedule is as follows, with times being given for home contests:

1955 FOOTBALL SCHEDULE

| Date       | Opponent                  | Location                | Time    |
|------------|---------------------------|-------------------------|---------|
| Sept. 16   | Catawba, at Charlotte     | (Memorial Stadium)      | 8 p.m.  |
| Sept. 24   | Open                      |                         |         |
| Oct. 1     | The Citadel at Davidson   |                         | 2:30 p.m.|
| Oct. 8     | Presbyterian at Davidson  |                         | 2:30 p.m.|
| Oct. 15    | Washington and Lee at Davidson |                   | 2:30 p.m.|
| Oct. 22    | V.M.I. at Lexington       |                         |         |
| Oct. 29    | Stetson at Deland, Fla.   |                         |         |
| Nov. 5     | Richmond at Richmond      |                         |         |
| Nov. 12    | Wofford at Davidson       |                         | 2:00 p.m.|
| Nov. 19    | Furman at Greenville, S.C.|                         |         |

Coach Laird feels that his team was definitely hurt by the loss of two outfielders and the first baseman of last season by graduation, but the Techmen seem stronger down the middle and on the mound. The big winner of last year’s mound staff, Jim Beard, also graduated, but sophomore Grover Jones, a lefty, and freshman Dave Kuhn, a right-hander, are expected to replace him. The player probably most familiar to Davidson sports fans is catcher Howie Wright, one of the outstanding backs in Southern Conference football for several seasons. He is a plus .300 hitter.

In the pre-season tourney held at Rollins earlier this spring, a tournament that attracts the perennial powerhouses from all over the country, Coach Laird’s boys made a very good showing while winning two and dropping two games. They split two contests with the host squad, losing the first one by a score of 6-3 and taking the second, 8-5. They also picked up a win over the University of Alabama, 8-4, but dropped a decision to Ohio State by the score of 8-0. Judging from this record, the Cats will have their hands full.

Thursday afternoon the Cats dropped a one-sided decision to Wesleyan University by the score of 17 to 8. After playing a close game for six innings, the Wesleyan boys broke a five to five tie with an eight-run splurge in the top of the seventh inning. Cashing in on two walks and eight hits, Wesleyan teed off on three Wildcat pitchers in the big inning. The Cats garnered 13 hits, but they couldn't seem to get rolling after the bottom fell out in that hectic seventh. Leaders for the Cats in defeat were Bill Rowland, who hit three for four, Buzz Hope with three for five, Jim West with two for four, and Dyke Little, who hit two for five. Hope banged out a home run, a triple, and a single. Denault, the shortstop, led the Wesleyan attack with two hits for five trips and three runs batted in. The Cats defeated almost the same squad last year by the score of 10-9.

Next week sees the Cats taking the field twice, against Lenoir Rhyne on Wednesday at Hickory, and Catawba on Friday here at Davidson.

Phi Delts Capture Volleyball Crown

The Phi Delts, making a determined bid to overtake the Kappa Sigs in the race for the Interfraternity Athletic Trophy, ended their volleyball schedule early this week by winning two games to finish the season with an 11-0 record. The Kappa Sigs, with a 7-4 record, finished fifth in the standings behind the Sigma Chis, the SAEs, and the Pikas, who finished in a three-way tie for second place. By virtue of their winning the volleyball championship, the Phis gained some forty points in the overall standings and now trail the Kappa Sigs by only fourteen points, with tennis and softball remaining.

Drink ‘M O O R’ Mooresville Creamery, Inc.

Easter Greetings to someone far away

Say it with Flowers-By-Wire

Flowers play a special part in celebrating Easter. Even though you can’t be near all those you love on this day of days, Flower-By-Wire will speed your Easter greetings around the world in a matter of hours. Your F.T.D. Florist guarantees delivery.

COSTS SO LITTLE! You pay only for the flowers you select, plus telegraph charges.

Smith’s Flowers
PHONE 4131 — CORNELIUS
PHONE ORDERS BILLED AT FIRST OF MONTH