REPORT ON THE BOOKSTORE (Page 2) | The Davidsonian VOL. XLIV : DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, OCTOBER 21,
1955 NO. 5

Chinese Student Alfred Wang Says People Friendly Here
By JOHN BERNHARDT

“I told them I could fight Capitalism with the Communistic ideas I had learned so much of, and now I
am here enjoying the Capitalistic freedom.” The boy with the eternal friendly smile and the witty twist to his conversation
is Alfred Wang from China. The newest addition to the school, Alfred unfortunately saw Davidson for the first time under
very unusual conditions, for he arrived on Saturday night of Homecoming weekend. However, he is adjusting himself very well to
our life. To his originally excellent command of English (including such words as “Tarheel” and “Yankee”) he has now added
the term “Davidsonian.” After five long years of seemingly hopeless waiting, Alfred Wang was finally permitted to enter the United
States. Above he is shown in his new home in a Davidson dormitory.—(Photo by Gentet.)

Awards Announced For Outstanding ROTC Units

The Davidson College ROTC Department announced Monday that beginning October 18, 1955, outstanding cadets and units of the Cadet Regiment
will be selected for awards. The awards will be given to the best company of the week, the best platoon
of the week from each battalion, and to the outstanding cadets of the period. The best company of the week
will be chosen by the Cadet Regimental Commander and his staff on the basis of (1) performance in drill as
a unit, (2) personal appearance of all members, (3) performance of attendance at drill, (4) performance by cadet officers and
NCO's, and (5) cadet attitude and response to drill and training. The weekly award for the best company will be
the Best Company Streamer which will be presented at the beginning of the following drill period. Also, the company will
be dismissed from drill early so that the members may enjoy a short period of free time.

The best platoon of the week from each battalion will be chosen by the battalion commander on the same basis
as the best company. The weekly award will be dismissal from drill prior to the other units.

In regard to the outstanding cadets, two drill periods will constitute a period for the selection of outstanding cadets. Each
company commander will choose one MS I and one MS II cadet to represent his company for each period. From
these cadets, each battalion commander will select one MS I and one MS II to represent the battalion. The band
commander will also select one MS I and one MS II cadet for each period to represent the band. These
selections will be made during the first hour. During the second hour, the Cadet Regimental Commander and his staff will
select from various contestants (a) the outstanding MS I Cadet of the period; (b) the outstanding MS II Cadet of
the period; and (c) the outstanding band cadet of the period. The basis for selection will be on personal appearance,
performance in drill, military knowledge, and attitude. The awards to the cadets will be five merits each, the privilege of
acting as regimental orderlies at the next drill period, and exemption from the second hour of drill.

Eumenean Literary Society Meets Monday Night

The Eumenean Literary Society will hold its second meeting of the semester on Monday night, October 24, at 8:15 p.m.
A limited number of bids have been extended to deserving upperclassmen. The membership is urged to be present for the
Fall initiation. A program for creative works by three sophomore members will highlight the evening's intellectual stimulation. Mr. John Bernhardt
will give a paper on contemporary Germany; he spent last summer in Western Germany. Mr. Willard Wells will present a
short story, “Red Blood on the Black Earth.” This is a sensitive portrayal of Mexican immigrant workers. The story seems
to be a conspicuous synthesis of Steinbeck and Huxley, and there are symbols of the Mexican struggle for a better
life. In a less serious vein, Mr. Bob Sloan will read a short parody on Chaucer, “Cantering to Canterbury.” The
major critic's report, which will be prepared before the meeting, and after a close examination of the papers, is to
be given by Mr. Jim Batten. The minor critic, who will be selected at the meeting on Monday night, will
give a spontaneous report encompassing the entire meeting as well as the creative efforts. Preparation by the major critic is
a new tradition in the tradition-bound folds of the oldest campus organization, the Eumenean Literary Society.

Business-Economics Association Organized three years ago, perhaps the Business-Economics Association should not be classified as an Honorary Fraternity, in the
general sense of the term as used at Davidson. Not being primarily an organization to recognize outstanding students in the
fields of Economics and Business Administration, the Association instead is to recognize men in these fields who have respectable scholastic
standing—and who have proven their interest in advancing their education. Membership in the Association is made up of Faculty members
and Junior and Senior students in the departments of Economics and Business Administration. Dr. Charles Ratliff of the Economics department
is the faculty adviser, and all members of the faculties of both departments are active participants in the meetings and
activities of the club. The Association is governed by a ten-man Board of Directors, elected from the entire club membership.
The board, in turn, selects the officers for the year. Invitations to membership for the coming year will be sent
out shortly. The Association is for those who are undecided as to their vocational preference. In addition to the meetings,
plans for this year include the setting up of a bulletin board on the third floor of Chambers, to deal
with current happenings in the modern business world. Businessmen, professional economists, labor leaders, educators—all have appeared before the Association to
bring their views on current happenings in business and economics. The first meeting of this year is tentatively scheduled for
the second week of November; details of this meeting will be announced in a forthcoming edition of the Davidsonian.

Cumming Speaks At Historical Society

Professor W. P. Cumming gave an address before the annual meeting of the Wachovia Historical Society on Tuesday night, October
18. His subject was “John Lederer, Pioneer Explorer of the Southern Piedmont.” In a ceremony at the end of the
meeting, Dr. D. C. Rights, President of the Society, presented Dr. Cumming with the society’s Spangenburg Medal for his historical
research. The Wachovia Historical Society is one of the sponsors of the forthcoming book which Dr. Cumming has edited, “The
Discoveries of John Lederer.”

Colonel Settle To Inspect ROTC Unit

Davidson College's ROTC unit is readying itself this week for an inspection by Colonel Henry C. Settle, Chief of the
North Carolina Military District. Colonel Settle will inspect the unit on October 25. The inspection will include a review of
the cadet regiment, an inspection of the cadet barracks, and a critique of the ROTC program at Davidson. The cadet
regiment will be reviewed by Colonel Settle at 3:00 p.m. on the college parade ground. The cadet barracks will be
inspected immediately following the review. Colonel Settle will then meet with the ROTC staff to discuss the ROTC program at
Davidson. The inspection is an annual event and is designed to evaluate the effectiveness of the ROTC program at Davidson.

Norwegian Student Finds Differences In American Life
By CHARLIE REED

Oyvind Norstrom of Kongsvinger, Norway, landed in New York on August 29; only a month before, the Institute of International
Education had notified him that he was the recipient of one of the Fulbright Scholarships which make possible the exchange
student program. Oyvind, who graduated from high school in 1954 and worked last year for a publishing company, plans to
major in journalism. He wants to spend a year or two at Davidson, tour the United States during the summer,
and return to Norway to complete his education. As preparation for his curriculum (which includes history, political science, and English)
Oyvind plans to distance-run this winter and spring in track. In his favorite sport, track, in high school Oyvind has
found several unexpected differences in the impressions which most Norwegians have concerning the United States. Whereas American literature and tourists
give the impression to Norwegians that we enjoy a far superior standard of living, Oyvind has found that American living
conditions are only slightly better than those in Norway. Also, says Oyvind, most Norwegian educators regard the quality of American
education as inferior to that in Norway. Since Oyvind’s home town is near the Swedish border, during the German occupation
many of his neighbors were engaged in attempts to smuggle persons to the nearby neutral soil. Oyvind’s father, a school
superintendent, was active in the underground, and several times underwent questioning by the Nazis without ever being indicted. Two of
Oyvind's close neighbors, however, were convicted and sent to Germany for imprisonment; one of these never returned. Although he speaks
it quite fluently, he had never come in contact with spoken English before coming to America.

GRADUATE TO SPEAK AT VESPERS SUNDAY EVENING

The Vespers speaker for October 23 will be Dr. Marshall Coleman Dendy, Executive Secretary of the Presbyterian Church in the
United States. Dr. Dendy is a native of Georgia.Fields of Business and Economics. Bishop Spangenburg, in whose Military District Colonel
Settle studied English in high school, was one of the patriots who explored the area on which Winston-Salem now stands
and arranged for the purchase of the tract on which the Moravians settled in 1752. Colonel Settle is a native
of Georgia and has seen long and varied experience with the Army. He enlisted in 1927 and became a 2nd
Lieutenant in the National Guard in 1933. He was promoted to his present grade of Colonel, AUS, in 1952. He
has attended the Artillery Advanced Course and the Command and General Staff School in Jacksonville, Fla, where he taught and
directed the Jacksonville Symphony Orchestra.

Mr. Frank West, a native of Winston-Salem, N.C., is the new director of the Davidson Concert Band. Mr. West attended
Davidson for two years and then transferred to the University of North Carolina, where he graduated. He did graduate work
at the University of Indiana and received his Master of Music degree there this past summer. He was married the
week school opened to the former Miss Doris Lefler. Mrs. West is a public school music teacher in Charlotte and
plays the violin in the Charlotte Symphony Orchestra.

Davidson students will have a rare opportunity in store for them when Birch, America’s foremost magician, with his troupe of
assistant artists, plays here on Wednesday, November 3, in Chambers at 8:15 p.m. The event is sponsored jointly by the
Davidson Lions’ Club and the College Union. Birch in his masterful performance will present a magic potpourri of thrills and
fun. Heading the Birch staff of assisting artists is Mabel Sperry, a brilliant young musical star. This charming young lady
was featured as a xylophone soloist with the 100-piece Marimba band at the Century of Progress, Chicago. She is well
known in the concert and radio world as an artist of unusual ability, and critics hail her as the world’s
greatest girl xylophonist. Miss Sperry charms music lovers everywhere with brilliant solos on her specially built Marimba-Xylophone.

Princess, the Vanishing Pony, and many other startling mysteries will be presented by this master magician and company. Equipment, scenery,
and effects valued in excess of $25,000 are carried and will be used in the performance. Slicing a beautiful girl
into four parts, shooting a live canary into a burning light bulb, and causing a live pony to vanish in
mid-air are just a few of the wonders to be seen.

The Male Chorus looks forward to a semester of continual participation in the Vesper program. The chorus has been involved
in a full schedule of rehearsals since it participated in the second annual Spring Concert in Chambers Auditorium. Other plans
for the second semester include a concert on the Forum Series at Pinehurst, N.C.; a concert in conjunction with the
Hollins College Choir; and participation in the Commencement exercises. The Director of the Male Chorus is Prof. Donald B. Plott,
who is head of the Department of Music, and the Accompanist this year is Miss Nan Copeland.

The Duke University School of Law has announced the opening of the annual competition for five regional scholarships carrying stipends
of $1,000. Davidson seniors who are residents of North Carolina or South Carolina are eligible to apply. Awards will be
made on the basis of character, personality, leadership, and intellectual ability. Candidates are required to take the Law School Admission
Test which is administered by the Educational Testing Service of Princeton. Seniors interested in applying for the Duke Regional Scholarships
should apply at once to the Dean, Duke University School of Law, Durham, North Carolina.

The first meeting of the Philanthropic Literary Society was called to order under the historic Napoleonic Chandelier on Monday, October
25, by President Dick More. In his inaugural address, President More spoke of the society's illustrious heritage and its value.
The records of past activities and deeds of the society, which Morehead referred to in his speech, were displayed in
the front of the magnificent old hall throughout the meeting. In conclusion, the president read the preamble to the society’s
constitution.

The Concert Band is the elite member of the band triad; its membership is restricted to the more capable musicians
in the Football and ROTC Bands, and its repertoire includes much more intricate scores. The tentative itinerary for the Concert
Band’s annual spring tour includes Winston-Salem, Philadelphia, Baltimore, Washington, Richmond, and Raleigh (or Norfolk). Following is the complete list of
the Concert Band members:

Flutes—Lovette, James F. (principal); Wolfe, Williard W.; Sibley, Felix W. (also piccolo)
Oboe—Faggart, Preston M.
B flat Clarinets—Cumming, John A. (principal); Martin, James G.; McGuirt, Tom K.
Bass Clarinets—Bright, Wm. H. (principal); Grossman, Paul
French Horns—Wilson, L.G.; Garvey, John W.
Trumpets—Emerson, Frank C. (principal); Fraley, Wm. B.; Blakeney, Mercer J.; Stoval, G. Dewey
Trombones—Takakura, Philip F. (principal); Stoval, G. Dewey; Clair, John T.
Baritone Sax—Moore, James H.
Bassoons—Noah, Wm. H. (principal); Wilson, Edward E.
String Bass—Carmichael, Donald M.; Anderson, Tom K.
Snare Drums—Blake, Charles; Samuels, Henry M.
Tympani—Pietenpol, Jerry L.

The seating arrangement listed is not permanent. Permanent seating will be established later.
