PAGE FOUR TRIBUTE

"TOOT, TOOT..." — A JANITOR BY BILLY AKERS

This week we salute John Heath, janitor of Georgia Dormitory. John has been employed by Davidson College since March of 1928.

John was born on a farm here in Mecklenburg County and has lived here all his life. As John grew up, he decided to leave the farm and find a different type of work. After his application for a job at Davidson had been accepted, he began his long and devoted tenure of work as a janitor. Since that time, John has become head janitor of Georgia Dorm.

If you walk along Dormitory Row sometime in the late afternoon, you will probably observe a small crowd of students standing in front of Georgia Dormitory. The students will be laughing and talking with a janitor whose name is John Heath. The conversation is probably about who put the chicken in Pete Andrews’ room or who led the “Rapid Shave” attack on the first floor, but whatever the conversation is about, you can be sure it is on the lighter side, and that John Heath is navigating it.

Every morning between the hours of 7 and 8, you will hear what the residents in Georgia call “The Human Alarm Clock,” John Heath, going from room to room, shouting, “Beep, Beep, time to get up and go to breakfast.” One morning Bill Pfefferkorn found he was being shaken out of bed to the tune of “Oh, Davidson,” because he did not heed the first warning blast. Some residents may not like this means of being awakened, but Doug Andrews, when asked how he felt about Heath’s means, replied, “I have been living in Georgia three years, and I would have over-cut my classes fifty times if it were not for John Heath.”

Heath, when asked his opinion on which administration has accomplished the most for Davidson College, replied, “I think Dr. John has done more for this here college than any other President, and I agree with Clint Torrence about the building of all these new buildings.”

One of the influences that John Heath has on the residents of Georgia is that of neatness. Every room is, on the average, quite clean. There are very few clothes on the floor. When asked why the students in Georgia are neater than the average, John answered, “I tell them if they don't be neater now, they will keep on being sloppy until they get married and their little woman straightens them out.”

Already those freshmen that live in Georgia have agreed that John Heath is one of the best janitors that Davidson has ever had or ever will have.

Davidson Scholarship College Union Opens

(Continued from Page One)

700 applications for enrollment. Of these, 175 were for Baker scholarships, so the competition is keen. Davidson also became a member last year of the College Entrance Examination Board. All entering students must take the College Boards or similar scholastic aptitude examination, the results of which are an important factor in the selection of finalists who are invited to the campus for personal interviews and other final testing for the Bakers and other scholarships.

In addition to Baker scholarships, there are other outstanding awards. The Union Carbide and Carbon Corporation makes possible eight Union Carbide scholarships covering tuition, fees, and books. They are for students intending to seek a career in business. The Procter and Gamble company awarded a scholarship this year to a Davidson freshman and will add more in the future. They are similar to the Union Carbide scholarships in value. Other special scholarships are the Harding-Johnson and Thomas F. Staley Memorial Scholarships. Staley scholars are outstanding ministerial candidates. The Nickey Brothers Manufacturing Company of Memphis, Tenn., awards each year a full tuition-fees-books scholarship, and there are some 20 other honor and special scholarships offered by the college on a competitive basis.

These are not the only awards granted. The budget for grants this year is $35,000. About $30,000 of these are specifically for football. All athletes who receive these grants must meet Davidson entrance requirements and must first be approved by a faculty scholarship committee. Several of the varsity football players hold competitive academic scholarships; two are Union Carbide scholars, two hold honor scholarships, and Don McRee, junior halfback, is the recipient of the Stowe Scholarship, based on ability in athletics, academic record, and traits of character and personality.

Prizes also contribute to the scholarship program. The Howard chemistry prize, to outstanding sophomore chemistry majors, is worth $250; the Vereen Bell prize for creative writing is valued at $300 and is open to all students. In addition, sons of ministers and missionaries may apply for grants-in-aid, as may candidates for the ministry.

Student Support

Along with the team's winning effort, many students are taking cars and leaving here at 8:00 a.m. Saturday and will return Saturday night.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

"TO ADVANCE THE CAUSE OF MUSIC"

Phi Mu Alpha Provides Musical Outlet on Campus

BY WAYNE BURGESS

Phi Mu Alpha Sinfonia was founded on October 6, 1898, at the New England Conservatory of Music in Boston. Since then it has grown into a national organization, with 138 chapters in 22 provinces. Claiming originally to be a professional fraternity, Phi Mu Alpha has taken on a four-fold purpose. As a fraternal organization, it seeks “to advance the cause of music in America, to foster the mutual welfare and brotherhood of music students, to develop the truest fraternal spirit among its members and to encourage loyalty to the Alma Mater.”

Here at Davidson, and in many other colleges and universities, Sinfonia does not function strictly within these limits. In many schools, Phi Mu Alpha has a greater meaning as a professional and social organization. In schools with particularly large music departments, and where professional competition is strong, Sinfonia is often recognized as having certain honorary characteristics. It has long been the tradition of the fraternity at the national level to admit to its membership musicians of outstanding talent and interest, whether or not they choose music as their profession. Phi Mu Alpha is not, however, a synthesis of many diverse aims. It is rather a working organization seeking first and foremost “to advance the cause of music in America.” The common interest that joins its members is music, regardless of other qualities which the members may possess.

Gamma Kappa Chapter at Davidson has in its membership students majoring in music, as well as many who have shown outstanding interest in this field through such activities as the College Band, Male Chorus, and Chapel Choir. This year, musical programs, demonstrations, and discussions are being presented at the meetings, and an effort is being made to stimulate greater interest in music on the campus.

This is the third in a series of articles by members of the Honorary Fraternity Council, designed to acquaint students with these honorary organizations through a presentation of their requirements, aims, and prospective plans for the coming year. Ed.

(Continued From Page Two)

As you already know, a bus has been chartered to go to Richmond for the game, and numerous carloads will also be making the journey.For those of us who are seniors, Chief of the North Carolina campus. As a part of each year’s activities, the chapter sponsors several special concerts, assists in the Fine Arts Festival, and has charge of the Interfraternity Sing. On December 2-3 the chapter plays host to the North Carolina-South Carolina province chapters of the fraternity, which will meet here for the bi-annual Province Convention. The first musical program for the fraternity this year was presented last Tuesday evening by Prof. Philip Gehring. The meeting convened in the church sanctuary, with brothers and newly-elected pledges in attendance. Mr. Gehring gave a lecture-demonstration on the organ. His was a broad-sweeping introduction to the organ as an instrument with individuality and a personality all its own. Much of his lecture was devoted to the mechanics, the history, and the development of the instrument, as well as a straightforward defense of organ literature, both historic and contemporary. The conclusion of the talk was a stirring appraisal of the Schlicker Organ in the College Church.

COLONEL SETTLE IMPRESSED, SAYS R.O.T.C. HAS OUTSTANDING FUTURE POSSIBILITIES

“Future possibilities for R.O.T.C. at Davidson College are exceptionally outstanding,” stated Colonel Henry C. Settle, Military District, at the conclusion of a one-day inspection of the R.O.T.C. unit there. He added, “I saw some very good efforts, and only a glimpse at our first two years here (2 wins the first season, none the second) is needed to make us realize how far we’ve come. Let’s not fail now, with the biggest goal of all in sight. The team’s going to need our support against the Spiders, so let’s show them we're behind them.”

The charter bus is scheduled to leave Friday or early Saturday. If you want to go, let it be known and there'll be a way. Bunny Perkinson is handling the bus reservations for the Student Council, and space lists will be posted just about everywhere. School spirit has come a long way at Davidson in the past two years, but the big test stands before us. If we're going to have a championship team, let's have a championship cheering section pulling for it.

JIM HOLSHOUSER

“I heartily recommend it to all over 21.” Bill Leonard, C-B-S

“GAY AND SAUCY GALLIC FRANKNESS ABOUT LIGHT-HEARTED SEX... The brazen defiance of movie morals will stir protests but they will have to be loud ones to drown out the laughter!” - World Telegram

“THE --§ TODD DAWN DeSICA - ADDAMS A daring and delicate story of life, libertines and the pursuit of happiness! CAROL =} “The frankest sort of humor! Spicy, racy and hilarious! Definitely not for Junior!” - T. Oesty

VISULITE Now Playing 1615 Elizabeth Ave. Charlotte, N. C. Shows At 7:00 and 9:00 P. M.

Colonel Settle arrived at Davidson on Tuesday morning with Lt. Col. Herbert S. Ingram and his party to inspect the entire installation. During the course of the day, he met detachment personnel, talked with the Cadet Regimental Staff, and saw the department in operation both in the classroom and on the drill field, in addition to paying visits to college officials.

The recently completed firing range in the sub-basement of Belk Dormitory was opened with Colonel Settle and Mr. Grier Martin, College Treasurer, firing the first shots. Commenting on the range, he said, “The range here is very good. I can think of no better range in any college in North Carolina.” Colonel Settle was favorably impressed by the handling of drill by the cadets on the drill field. He said that Davidson was ahead of many schools in this respect. Davidson is now in its second year of operation with the cadets performing all staff and command duties with the supervision of the cadre.

YOUR BIG RED

1. SUPERIOR FILTER
Only L&M gives you the superior filtration of the Miracle Tip, the purest tip that ever touched your lips. It’s white... all white... pure white!

Rehearsals Announced For Dial ‘M’ for Murder

Rehearsals have begun on the Red and Black Masquers' first production of the 1955-56 season. Dial “M” for Murder, by Frederick Knott, will be presented in Chamber Auditorium on November 30 and on December 1. Dial “M” for Murder was first presented in New York at the Plymouth Theatre on October 29, 1952. Maurice Evans starred in this production, which became one of the season’s outstanding hits. Previously, this play had been very successful and had enjoyed a long run in London. Alfred Hitchcock directed the screen version, which starred Ray Milland, Grace Kelly, and Robert Cummings.

George Kemmerer, a sophomore, has been cast as Max Halliday, an American television writer. Kemmerer appeared in the Masquers’ production of Journey’s End last year. Myra Adkins, who has appeared on numerous Charlotte radio programs and appeared last year as “Babe” in Good News, will play the part of Margot Wendice.

Language Teachers Convene At Davidson

Davidson will be the host of both the American Association of French Teachers and the American Association of Spanish Teachers this Saturday, October 29. The teachers here will represent the Southern states. They will arrive at 10:00 a.m. for a joint meeting of both organizations. After the joint meeting, the groups will separate to conduct their own business meetings. The French teachers will meet under the direction of Dr. William Felt of Greensboro and the Spanish teachers under Professor Frank Duffey of the University of North Carolina. Professor Jacque Hardre of the University of North Carolina will represent the national headquarters of the American Association of French Teachers. The meetings will terminate with a joint luncheon held in the College Union.

Tony Wendice, husband of Margot and an ex-tennis star of England, will be played by Harold Hall. Hall, vice-president of the Masquers, has appeared in Everyman, The Hasty Heart, The Bishop Misbehaves, and Journey's End. Ed Hadley, a junior, will play the part of Captain Lesgate. Hadley has appeared in Everyman, The Hasty Heart, and A Chronicle of Joe. The part of Inspector Hubbard will be portrayed by Tommy Mann, who appeared last year in The Bishop Misbehaves and in Journey's End. Jock Reeder, a freshman, will be making his first appearance with the Masquers. He will play Thompson, an assistant to Inspector Hubbard.

Albert Harris, president of the organization, will direct the production. Harris directed Good News last year and served as student director for The Bishop Misbehaves. He appeared in Everyman and in Journey’s End. Bill Conine is designing the set of the English apartment, and Hugh Craig is in charge of the construction and props. Henry Parrish will do the make-up for the play. Tom Morgan is head of publicity. Raymond W. Tyson, faculty advisor for the Masquers, will serve as advisor for the production.

Les Brown (Continued From Page One)

Columbia, and again for Miss Hayworth in “Miss Sadie Thompson.” The name Les Brown has become a symbol of good, danceable music throughout the continent. Time Magazine recently quoted him as saying: “We prefer sound to noise, we prefer the beat over effects, we prefer consonance to dissonance, and we like the melody if it’s good.”

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 28, 1955

CAN BIRCH GET OUT? UNION BULLETINS

Birch, world-famous magician, will present a program on Wednesday night, November 2, at 8:15 p.m. in the Davidson College Union. He will attempt to escape from a stout wooden box now on display in the lobby of the Union. Another remarkable feat which he will perform is to make a live pony disappear on stage. Admission is one dollar.

“Death of a Salesman,” a movie starring Frederic March, will be shown on Saturday night, October 29.

On Tuesday night, November 1, films of the Davidson-Stetson game will be presented with a narration by Coach Bill Dole. There will be no admission fee.

Mr. Newell W. Banks, world-famous chess and checkers expert, will appear in the Ballroom of the College Union on Friday, November 4.

College Union director, C. Shaw Smith, is converting the Union Ballroom into a “Club Cabaret” night club on Saturday night, October 29. There will be an evening of dancing with music furnished by the "Collegians.” A floor show will entertain the couples during the break in the dancing. Waiters will be on hand to take orders for anything from hamburgers to steaks. Soft drinks will also be served. Reservations may be obtained at the Union Office, but hurry—first come, first served. Admission is $1.50 per couple. Another similar dance is planned for early December.

2. SUPERIOR TASTE
L&M’s superior taste comes from superior tobaccos — especially selected for filter smoking. Tobaccos that are richer, tastier... and light and mild.