CATS HIT GUILFORD, V.P.I. (Page 3) The Davidsonian CHRISTMAS IS FOR CHILDREN (Page 2) VOL. XLIV DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.
C., FRIDAY, DECEMBER 9, 1955 No. 11 R.D. Hall to Highlight December 13 Drill Mr. R. D. Hall of Belmont,
N. C., will be the guest of the Davidson College ROTC Cadet Regiment on Tuesday, December 13. He was the
first student commander of the Military Unit at Davidson, commanding a battalion of the reserve officers training corps in 1918-1919.
Mr. Hall was graduated in 1919. While a student, he was active in class athletics, publications, and oratory. He has
been associated with textiles since his graduation. At the present time he is secretary-treasurer of Climax Spinning Company, Majestic Manufacturing
Company, and Stowe Thread Company; assistant Secretary-Treasurer of Sterling Spinning Company; and President of Belmont Hosiery Mills and Belmont Knitting
Company. A member of the Employment Security Commission of North Carolina since 1941, he is also a member of the
Belmont City Council, the North Carolina Department of the American Legion (Past Commander), and the Rotary International.

POLL: Students Indicate Desire To Strengthen Court

The following is a preferential opinion poll. It will serve as a guide for the Student Council Committee on the
Court of Control and is not considered as a final student judgment on the controversial matter. A poll will be
taken on the proposal and suggestions of this Committee at a later date to determine the future of the Court.

In a poll taken this past week, the students of Davidson overwhelmingly indicated their desire to retain and strengthen the
Court of Control. Most students would like to see the Court's meetings returned to chapel.

Perhaps the most surprising aspect of the poll is the fact that a majority of the freshmen would like to
see the court made stronger. A total of 467 students were polled; of this total number, 168 were freshmen.

The percentage results shown below indicate the opinions of the freshmen and upperclassmen separately, then both combined.

1. Do you think the Court of Control, as it now exists, serves any useful purpose?
Fresh. U’class Overall
Yes 17% 12% 14%
No 81% 87% 85%
No Opinion 2% 1% 1%

2. Would you like to see the Court of Control put back in chapel as it was until last year?
Fresh. U’class Overall
Yes 54% 86% 74%
No 34% 12% 20%
No Opinion 12% 2% 6%

3. Do you think the Court of Control should be abolished?
Fresh. U’class Overall
Yes 28% 12% 17%
No 70% 87% 81%
No Opinion 2% 1% 2%

4. If you think the Court should be abolished, why?
a. Freshmen no longer need this sort of discipline.
b. Court has no power; therefore, it’s a farce.
c. Other reasons (Please write in)
Fresh. U’class Overall
Yes 40% 19% 30%
No 18% 28% 23%
No Opinion 42% 53% 47%

(Continued On Page Four)

The fall blood drive, held on December 5 and 6, yielded a total of 162 pints of blood for the
American Red Cross in the first of its semi-annual visits to the college. There were 58 donations on Monday and
104 on Tuesday, with several faculty and community members contributing to the total. It is hoped that the next visit
of the Bloodmobile, in the spring, will be more successful. Complete details about this blood drive will be released early
in the second semester.

The Reference Room of the Grey Memorial Library has served as a place of quiet study for many a Davidson
student.—(Photo by Daniel.)

KNOW YOUR COLLEGE: Facilities Offer Incentive to Students
BY JOCK REEDER

From a library catalog in 1841 listing two hundred and thirty-one volumes, to today’s spacious plant with a stack capacity
of 25,000 volumes, the Davidson Library has continuously offered Davidson students the best possible selection of books. The years since
1837, when the Library first began by gifts of books from friends of the college, have been eventful. In 1883,
the library became a depository for government documents, and four years later the union of the libraries of the literary
societies and the College Library was effected. Funds were donated by Andrew Carnegie for a library building in 1909-10, but
in 1921, the burning of volumes. Twenty-thousand volumes were left in the Carnegie Library, however, and in the years 1930-33,
The walls of the Grey Memorial Library contain many helpful features to complement the essential stacks. Students working in the
reference room have the benefit of both incandescent and fluorescent lighting, and to further an atmosphere of comfort and concentration.

Bennett Cerf is a good-natured, entertaining and successful man with an exceptional talent for telling funny stories and making money.
In these respects his lecture last Wednesday evening in Chambers Auditorium was all that could be expected. As concerns form,
his talk was fundamentally nothing more than disconnected, delightful, rambling. There were, however, certain departures from form. Grievously, he philosophized,
politicized, and artisticized. He made some attempt (a fundamental error) at conformity to topic. In this case, the subject was
basically only a conventional pretext, and should most definitely have been treated as such throughout. The stories which Mr. Cerf
told concerning the Governor of Iowa (or some such remote region), the King of England and Danny Kaye, were masterfully
handled. They were recounted with a remarkable sense of intimacy and with zest. We were led to believe, on the
other hand, that a sense of humor, coupled with a sense of maudlin sentimentality, was the one cure for the
age’s ills. We were led, further, to a peremptory dismissal of such serious writers as William Faulkner and Tennessee Williams
as “filthy” and having no valid context in the contemporary idiom. Is it a sense of propriety which makes Mr.
Cerf print only “printable” story? It would doubtless be appropriate to print here a joke which he told in our
recent interview, but it would perhaps be dangerous as well, though we wonder how many of our readers have any
clear idea of what buggery is. Perhaps Mr. Cerf's humanistic philosophy and prudent propriety are best explained by an idea
which he sufficiently emphasized (Continued On Page Four)

R. J. Sailstad To Join Davidson Staff

Robert J. Sailstad, Director of Development at Sweet Briar College, Va., will join the Davidson College administrative staff in mid-January.
The announcement was made today by Dr. John R. Cunningham, Davidson president. He said that one of Mr. Sailstad’s concerns
will be the continued growth of endowment, general financial development and the annual giving program. Sailstad joined the Sweet Briar
administration in 1952, and has overseen the planning and coordination of all fund raising work. Previously he had been a
director of the Davidson Development Program that began in 1947, and he has acquired a varied background in educational public
relations and fund programs. He was public relations director of the Methodist College Foundation in Greensboro, a state-wide cooperative agency
operated in the interest of Duke University, and of Brevard, Greensboro, High Point and Lewisburg colleges. Mr. Sailstad is a
native of Minnesota and a 1937 honor graduate of the University of Minnesota. He remained there until 1941 as a
graduate student and member of the faculty. During World War II he served as director of the Communications Center at
Hampton Institute in Virginia, and in 1943 became Director of Public Information for Stephens College in Missouri. Mr. Sailstad is
married to the former Patricia Kreis of Hibbing, Minnesota. They have four children, Judith 7, John 4, Jane 2 1-2,
and Jeffrey 11 months. He will continue in his position at Sweet Briar until January.

On Monday night, December twelfth, the Interfraternity Council is sponsoring its annual Christmas party for the children from the Barium
Springs Orphanage. The children will arrive in buses in the circle behind Chambers Building about 7:15 p.m. They will be
divided into groups, and various men from each fraternity will escort their groups to the ballroom of the College Union.
The Male Chorus will sing for about fifteen minutes to the massed group. Plans are also being made to have
a short movie of fifteen to twenty minutes. Following the group to the fraternity house. At the various fraternity houses,
the children will be entertained by the various members. Refreshments will be served, and each child will receive a Christmas
present from Santa Claus. The houses will be decorated with a Christmas tree and all the trimmings to further the
enjoyment of the visiting children. These parties are perhaps, the finest undertaking of the fraternities here; many hearts will receive
the warmth of Christmas cheer through this act of goodwill.

‘Y’ Gift Fund Will Be Collected This Monday

The speaker will be Dr. Fred H. Olert, pastor of the Second Presbyterian Church, Richmond. Dr. Donald Miller, Professor of
New Testament, Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, will be the teacher of Bible and Dr. Carl Pritchett, pastor of the First
Presbyterian Church, Anderson, S. C., will present a challenge on the “Mission of the Church.” On Wednesday afternoon of the
convention a series of seminars on “Christian Maturity” will be conducted by: Dr. Sam Newell, Davidson Presbyterian Church, Davidson; Dr.
Harry Moffett, Jr., First Presbyterian Church, Gastonia;

At the December meeting of the Faculty the following report was presented to the faculty and passed. The committee authorized
by the faculty to study the conditions for exclusion of students and whichDavidson To Be Scene of Christmas Youth Meet

A Christmas Youth Convention for Presbyterian young people between the ages of 16 and 20 will be held at Davidson.
Miss Eleanor Belk, Myers Park Presbyterian Church, Charlotte, and Dr. Lawrence Stell, Trinity Presbyterian Church, Charlotte, will provide further suggestions
and criticisms to those who attend the meet.

In order to deal with practical problems which people in our day face, an elective group of seminars titled “The
Christian Faces” will be led by Dr. Frontis Johnston, Davidson College; Dr. George Staples, Highland Presbyterian Church, Winston-Salem; Rev. Fred
K. Stair, Jr., First Presbyterian Church, Hickory; Rev. Sam Maloney, Davidson College; Dr. Frank Hall, Pearsall Memorial Church, Wilmington; and
Dr. Carl Pritchett, Anderson, S.C. Two other seminars in this series will be “Business Obligations” and “Church Vocations.” The way
in which the church serves Christ through Church Extension, World Missions, and Christian Education will be presented by men prominent
in these fields, including Dr. Malcolm Calhoun of Atlanta, Ga., and Mr. Clinton Harris, Richmond, Va.

Rules On Student Exclusions

The new regulations, passed by the faculty, are as follows:

1. To remain in college, all students must make satisfactory academic progress.
(a) To meet this requirement all students, except new students during the first semester of residence, must:
(1) Pass at least three 3-hour courses in any given semester report (a course passed by re-examination does not count
toward this requirement); and
(2) Earn a minimum number of semester hours and quality points in accordance with the following schedule:
(a) 24 hours and 18 points by the time of entrance into the sophomore year.
(b) 48 hours and 36 points by the time of entrance into the junior year.
(c) 75 hours and 60 points by the time of entrance into the senior year.

Under the direction of the Executive Committee of the Faculty, the Dean of Students shall confer with the parents of
new students who fail to pass three 3-hour courses during the first semester of residence and may, depending on the
circumstances, advise or require withdrawal.

2. No student who has been excluded for failure to make satisfactory academic progress is guaranteed readmission to the college
under any circumstances. Such a student desiring readmission may, however, qualify for consideration by the Admissions Committee by:
(a) Passing a minimum of nine hours in one semester at an accredited institution approved by the Registrar, with an
average grade of C or better, and
(b) Meeting the minimum schedule of semester hours and quality points in 1. above.

The following are some of the effects of the new regulations. They spell out rule 6 on page 11 of
the present rule book, which reads as follows: The records of students who have been in the college for one
semester or longer and who are barely meeting the minimum standard for remaining in the college shall be reviewed from
time to time by the appropriate administrative officials of the college and such cases shall be reported to the Executive
Committee. If a student is not making reasonable progress toward graduation after he has had a fair opportunity to do
so, the Executive Committee may either advise or require him to withdraw.

Shown above is a picture taken last year at one of the fraternity houses during the annual Christmas Party for
the children of the Barium Springs Orphanage. This year’s party, again sponsored by the IFC, will be held Monday, December
12.

The Davidson College Gift Fund Committee will hold an open meeting on Monday, December 12, in the Blue Room of
the College Union during the chapel period. Everyone who is interested in the planning for the Gift Fund is urged
to attend. The Committee will present the projects it is now considering and will be open to further suggestions and
criticisms from those who attend the meeting.

The Gift Fund drive will be held at the beginning of the second semester. A period of four weeks will
be devoted to an educational program, during which students and faculty will be fully informed of the projects of the
Fund. This will be followed by a week of solicitation. Contributions will go to two projects, one local and one
non-local.

The reasons for holding the Gift Fund drive later in the year than the usual Christmas time drive and for
having two projects instead of one are several. The reasons include:
1. It will give more time for an educational program to let students know to what they are giving and
why.
2. The Committee will have more time to secure speakers who are vitally interested in the projects.
3. Moving the drive away from Christmas will make giving a matter of stewardship rather than an obligation to contribute
just because it is Christmas.

In connection with this, it will be noted that the name of the Fund is the Davidson College Gift Fund,
not a Christmas Gift Fund. Having two projects will alleviate the problem of having to give to a project in
which they are not particularly interested. Contributors may choose which project, either local or non-local, they desire to support, or
they may support both projects.

Free Movie Slated For College Union

The entire college family is invited to enjoy a wonderful film, which stars Robert Alda, Joan Leslie, Alexis Smith, and
Al Jolson. The film portrays one of the greatest figures of American music. It begins with George Gershwin's boyhood on
New York's east side and carries his life to the peak of success. The movie will be shown on Monday
evening at 9:30 and Wednesday evening at 9 (just before the chapel period). The committee has decided that there shall
be no admission charged for this film.

Annual Yuletide Service Will Be in The College Church

The annual Christmas service will be held at the Davidson College Presbyterian Church on December 11, beginning at 7:30 p.m.
Attendance is not required, but everyone is invited to attend. The service is usually well attended, and for that reason,
persons who desire to be seated in the sanctuary should come early. The Litany of Christmas and the reading of
the Christmas story constitute the major portion of the service. The reader will be Tom Mann, and his reading will
be accompanied by appropriate music by the chorus. The singing of Christmas hymns and carols by the congregation will be
another important part of the service. Directing will be Donald B. Plott and J. Franklin West, while Philip Gehring will
be the organist. Soloists will be Nancy Sossomon, contralto, Hugh Craig, baritone, W. Robert Martin, tenor, and Grier Davis, tenor.
Students are invited to visit in the homes of professors whose names will be listed on the Vespers bulletin.

Scripts and Pranks Will Appear Thursday

Humor is the order of the day for the Christmas issue of the Scripts and Pranks, which will appear next
Thursday or Friday. The second chapter of John Garvey’s “House of Jazz” will be included as well as a feature
section of interest to all Davidsonians who pursue the gay life. Along with articles by upperclassmen Jim Armstead, Harry Antrim,
Harvey Twitchell, and Jim Kuist, freshmen will come to the fore with the inclusion of the winning entry in the
freshmen writing contest, and a double spread of cartoons by the gifted Bob Cole.

Scabbard and Blade Taps 8 Seniors

Scabbard and Blade, the honorary military fraternity, has tapped the following Davidson College cadets for membership in the organization: Philip
H. Koonce, Regimental Executive Officer, from Tarboro, N.C.; Hollis F. Cobb, First Battalion Commander, of Charlotte, N.C.; Tom D. Owen,
the 2nd Battalion Commander, of Charleston, W. Va.; Robert C. Stewart, Company A Commander, of Carthage, N.C.; L. L. Echols
of Greenville, S.C., 1st Platoon Leader of Company F; Jon W. Regen, 1st Platoon Leader of Company E, from Durham,
N.C.; DeWitt F. Helm, Commander of Company F, from Hot Springs, Va.; and John L. 2nd Platoon Leader of Company
E, from Hopedale, Mass.

Scabbard and Blade is an Honorary Military Fraternity which recognizes outstanding qualities of leadership and ability in ROTC cadets. The
Davidson chapter of Scabbard and Blade was founded in 1923. The aims of the organization are to unite in closer
fellowship the military departments of American universities and colleges, to preserve and develop the essential qualities of good and efficient
officers, and above all, to develop an intelligent understanding concerning the military requirements of our country. The eight Davidson College
seniors who received membership in the Scabbard and Blade are all outstanding cadets in the Davidson College ROTC unit.
