Perhaps by now you are very tired of hearing talk about this business of athletic subsidization and would be pleased
if it were never mentioned again. Many feel that the matter has been thoroughly aired, that all the facts, pro
and con, have been presented, and that the decision now rests with the Board of Trustees. However, a great number
of people are firmly convinced that all the arguments against continued subsidization of the athletic program have not been answered.
Among this number is your editor.

In informal bull sessions around campus, one of the arguments advanced against a program of subsidized athletics is that eventually
such a set-up would cause the scholastic standards of Davidson to be in some way lowered. After all, the argument
continues, good scholarship is the primary reason boys come to Davidson, and anything that lowers these lofty standards should not
be tolerated. If such were the case, this would be true. One would have to search a long time before
he could find a single student who would be willing to sacrifice these scholastic standards for any reason whatsoever. Students
are justly proud of the traditionally good scholarship this college has maintained. It might be added that one would have
to search an equally long time to find any proof that athletic subsidization will have any detrimental effect on scholastic
standards.

As a means of proving this point, your editor intended to publish the average of the athletic teams, the overall
men’s average, and the total fraternity average of the school year 1953-54. These facts would have shown that the athletic
teams ranked slightly higher than either of the other two groups. However, this plan met a snag. For some unknown
reason, the Office of the Registrar informed this writer, when he went there to obtain the necessary information, that those
averages could not be released for publication until (and I quote directly) “certain individuals” could be consulted. The Registrar added
that the matter of athletic subsidization is at this time very controversial, and in order not to become in any
way involved, he felt that he must be very careful as to what was released from that office. In other
words, before certain pertinent facts can be published for all to see and think about, the administration must be consulted.
Why is this the case? Is it unreasonable to believe that the readers of the Davidsonian should be entitled to
know anything of importance in this matter without the consent of the administration? The Registrar further pointed out that he
would be perfectly willing to release the information after the “certain individuals” had been informed and had approved. Undoubtedly the
information would be just as conclusive in a later issue of this paper, but the thing that is most difficult
to understand is why the publication of these facts must be cleared by the powers that be! If such a
practice were made a policy, it would not be too long before someone would hit upon the idea that maybe
the administration did not intend to let all the facts get out. We are certain that this is not the
attitude of the administration, but under the circumstances, a suspicion like the one suggested above would not be entirely unfounded.
It is to be hoped that this situation will be immediately remedied and that any information the Davidsonian might wish
to print in the future will be readily accessible.

NEW POLL TO BE CONDUCTED

At some time within the next two weeks, a member of the sports staff will be coming by your room
to obtain your views on this matter of athletic policy. We are going to attempt to give every member of
the student body the opportunity to express his opinions, so your cooperation will be greatly appreciated. It has been stated
several times that student opinion will carry great weight in determining the policy of the future, so we wish to
have the ideas of all who are interested.

BASEBALLERS HIT WOFFORD HERE FRIDAY, APRIL 22, 1955

Mary Hardwick, Famed Britisher, At Davidson In Exhibition Match

By JIM HOLSHOUSER

Mary Hardwick Hare returned to Davidson this week after an absence of seven years, and the former British Wightman Cup
star joined Davidson’s Southern Conference Champions in workouts last Monday afternoon on the local courts. Traveling around the country on
a goodwill tour with the Wilson Sporting Goods Company, Mrs. Hare is playing a series of exhibition matches at various
colleges, country clubs, and service centers. She has just returned from Florida, where she spent three weeks playing exhibitions with
Doris Hart. It is the start of the spring tour, and from Davidson, she moved on to Fort Bragg, and
then to Washington, D.C.

Mary played Corky Clark, Southern doubles champ, in a singles workout, and then she teamed with Professor Andy Paton in
a doubles match against Clark and Leighton Green. No results are available, but both matches were well-played and were enjoyed
by the small crowd which had gathered above the courts. She stated that she was very happy to be back
at Davidson and that just seeing Dick McKee again brought back many happy memories of Wimbledon. Still speaking with a
British accent, despite the fact that she has been in this country for several years, Mary had nothing but praise
for the Davidson tennis set-up, and she said that it compared quite favorably with the places she had been thus
far on the tour.

The Davidson junior varsity was playing the Myers Park high school club in a match that was just getting under
way as Mrs. Hare arrived, and she was quite impressed with the manner in which the youngsters handled themselves. She
said they really looked like they knew what they were doing out there. Mary said, following the afternoon's exhibition, that
she had thoroughly enjoyed the matches, and she has invited Corky Clark to a return match at Forest Hills next
August just prior to the Davis Cup Challenge Matches. Corky is a native New Yorker, and has played in numerous
summer tournaments in that area, so he may add the Forest Hills match to his schedule.

After the workout was completed, Mary chatted with Coach McKee about her tour and stay at Davidson. She said that
she was very happy to be back at Davidson and that just seeing Dick McKee again brought back many happy
memories of Wimbledon. Still speaking with a British accent, despite the fact that she has been in this country for
several years, Mary had nothing but praise for the Davidson tennis set-up, and she said that it compared quite favorably
with the places she had been thus far on the tour.

Keesler Is Wildcat Of The Week

When one thinks of spring sports at Davidson, the name Keesler immediately comes to mind. Lacy Keesler’s accomplishments on the
tennis court are well known throughout this section of the country. Lacy, a senior, hails from Charlotte and is a
member of Kappa Sigma Fraternity. Lacy is the last of the Keesler brothers, having been preceded by Lenoir, Teddy, and
Dewey, all of whom were outstanding tennis players. In fact, Davidson tennis and the name Keesler have been synonymous for
the past ten years, and Lacy ends the Keesler era of tennis stars in respect to the Davidson scene.

Being the undisputed number one man for the last three years, Lacy is very quiet and reserved and has been
a credit to Davidson in every way. His overall record is an enviable one, and he has faced and beaten
some of the best competition in the country. Playing in the number one spot, he is confronted with a tough
job, since he must always face the best competition an opponent has to offer. But, in spite of this, Lacy
has managed to defeat top players from Michigan State, N.C. State, Duke, Kalamazoo, and other colleges throughout the country. At
present his ledger shows a record of thirty-five victories to fifteen losses for the past three years. In addition to
this impressive singles record, Lacy has enabled the Cat netters to chalk up numerous victories in doubles. Only last year
he displayed his superb ability to wield the racket by taking the Southern Conference Championship, being the first Davidson player
to attain this distinction since Bo Roddey turned the trick in 1950. He has the opportunity to win the title
for the second consecutive year, and, if he does so, he will be the first to accomplish this feat since
1936.

Serving as captain of the netters for the past two years, Lacy, with his modest and cooperative manner, has paced
the team. Coach McKee says that Lacy is an outstanding example of the sportsmanship that prevails in intercollegiate competition, and
that he always maintains a good attitude on the court. If an all-time Davidson tennis team were selected, Lacy’s name
would surely be included on the honor roll. There is no doubt that the skillful play of Lacy Keesler is
going to be missed, and he will long be remembered for his accomplishments on the court.

Polo Short Sleeve Shirts In All New Shades
Black-Brown
Red-Black
Black-Green
Etc.
Finest Lisle 4.50
Wilson-Wright's Inc.
“COLLEGIATE FASHIONS”
DAVIDSON, N.C.

Mary Hardwick is shown above with Leighton Green, Lacy Keesler, and Corky Clark before she participated in an exhibition match
here last Monday.—(Photo by Daniel.)

Davidson was indeed fortunate to be included in her tour, and all the tennis enthusiasts here wish Mary Hardwick Hare
the best of luck in the remainder of her tour.

Spring Basketball Begins On Tuesday

Coach Danny Miller has announced that spring basketball drills will begin for the 1955-56 version of the Wildcats on Tuesday
of next week. Hobby Cobb is back in shape after missing the latter part...of the season with a broken finger,
and such first-string stalwarts as Ray Harding, Dave Shaw, and Dick Weeks will be preparing for their best season next
year. Except for guard Pappy Fowle and forward Ish Bennett, Coach Miller will have his entire team returning, and with
the addition of several JV players, the squad should be strong for next season. Any boys who are interested in
trying out for the team are urged to report for practice, which will extend into the first few days of
May.

The Week

Lacy Keesler immediately comes to mind, for his accomplishments.

LACY KEESLER

Sigma Chis Upset SPEs in IF Softball

Action in the softball league has been fast and furious this week, and three previously unbeaten teams bit the dust
in Thursday’s play. Upsets were a dime a dozen, as the SPEs, the Phi Delts, and the ATOs dropped their
first contests of the interfraternity league.

Wildcat Tracksters To Top Clemson, Furman

By LEON HOWELL

Long known as the sport at Davidson with the best record, Coach Pete Whittle’s tracksters seem to have gained added
incentive from the records that the other spring sports are compiling. Through the meet with Furman on Wednesday, their ledger
shows three wins and no losses.

In one of the biggest wins of the year, the Cats snatched a very close meet from Clemson last Saturday.
With the outcome of the meet depending upon the final event, the mile relay, Mitchener anchoring the race, finished a
stride ahead of the Clemson entry to clinch the win. Phil Koonce had an output of 16½ points to lead
the Davidson scoring, taking firsts in the 100, 220, and the broad jump. He also was a member of the
winning relay team. Other standouts for Davidson included Ashcraft, with his usual mile victory, Feeney, snaring the two-mile, and Mitchener,
who took the 440. In the field events, Gramley took the discus and placed second in the shot, while Smith
won the javelin. Jack Huffaker finished in a tie with Mitchell of Clemson in the high jump. Final score was
70-61.

Back at home on Wednesday of this week, the Cats crushed an outclassed Furman squad, 99-32. In the process, they
swept all but two first places and had several fine times, despite frequent lack of real competition. Koonce again led
the procession, with a fast 9.9 in the 100, another win in the 220, and salted away his third victory
with a leap of 22 feet 2 inches in the broad jump. Running without the aid of Frank Mitchener, the
Cats kept piling up the victories, in spite of the gap created. Mallory, in his flawless style, annexed the 440
victory, while Don Campbell took both the hurdle events. Pete Ashcraft brought the sparse crowd to its feet with a
blazing 4:28 in the mile, and Floyd Feeney followed with a strong two-mile victory. Gramley got off two of his
best tosses, taking the shot put with a 44' 5" and an outstanding 142' 11" in the discus. This, of
course, was good for two firsts. Larry Wright came through with his first javelin victory. However, the feature of the
day was the mile relay, with various substitutions designed to do anything but win the event. Much to everyone’s surprise,
even this makeshift combination showed its heels to the Furman men.

The young season. The SPEs, perennial leaders in the annual softball competition, were surprised by the Sigma Chis, 9-8, as
Walt Davis turned in an outstanding pitching performance for the winners. While this action was going on, the Phi Gams
were taking the measure of the ATOs by the score of 14-13, as a last-inning ATO rally died one run
short, with the tying run on third base. The Kappa Sigs, losers to the ATOs in a slugfest on Wednesday,
again had on their hitting clothes and downed the Phi Delts, 13-6, for their second victory of the season against
the same number of losses. Harry Heinitsh was the winner, as he had the Phis popping up throughout the game
and kept things well under control. The Phis now have a record of three wins and one loss. These results
have indeed tightened the race for the championship, for now there is not an undefeated team in the league.

In the singles matches of the tennis tournament now in session, three complete rounds have been played. Of course, it
is too early to tell what the final outcome will be, but at present James Montgomery is considered the favorite.
He is out to grab his second championship in two years, and if he continues to play his present brand
of tennis he should again nab the title. As soon as the final matches are played, the overall Interfraternity standings
will be published.

V.M.I., W. & L. and Furman By 9-0 Count

The Davidson College netmen, under the direction of Coach Dick McKee, posted three wins and one loss during the last
week to bring their overall season’s record to 11-5. Victories over V.M.I., Washington & Lee, and Furman extended the Cats’
Southern Conference record to five wins against no defeats. Kalamazoo of Michigan barely edged the Cats, 5-4, in play over
the past weekend at Lexington, Va.

Cat Nine Engages Wofford Here Today

The Wildcats blew red-hot on the baseball diamond this week, taking three straight from Catawba, the semi-pro McCrary Eagles, and
Lenoir Rhyne, in that order. This afternoon they hope to continue their winning ways with a win over the Wofford
Terriers. Ish Bennett turned in one of the outstanding hurling performances of the year last Friday in blanking Catawba, 4-0,
on four hits, while the Cats garnered only six hits off loser Fleming. Buzz Hope, with two for three, and
John Patterson, with two for four, led the Davidson hitting attack, while the entire team played an improved brand of
ball.

The Cat nine took on the McCrary Eagles on Tuesday of this week, with Dick Belton on the mound, and
came out on the long end of a 5-1 score. Jim West took hitting honors with a triple and a
single in two trips to the plate. The Eagles are always tough, and Coach Clement's boys certainly proved their strength
by downing them handily.

Johnny Smith notched his third triumph of the year Wednesday in a make-up game with the Lenoir-Rhyne Bears at Hickory,
as the Cats blasted Bear pitching for thirteen hits. Buzz Hope, who banged out his fourth home run of the
season, and Billy Morris, with a single, a double, and a triple, paced the attack. Deal, the Lenoir-Rhyne catcher, got
an inside-the-park homer and led the losers at the plate. This victory upped the Cats’ won and lost record to
7-2 for the year.

One of the major factors in the improved play of the Davidson team this season has been the outstanding pitching
turned in by the (Continued on Page Four)

CHAMPIONSHIP

The victory over VMI last Friday was a display of the strength the Cats will take into the coming conference
finals to be held here at Davidson the first weekend in May. Coach McKee’s netters downed the Cadets in all
nine matches without losing a single set, as the entire team performed in an outstanding manner. As part of a
triangular match held last Saturday at Lexington, Virginia, the Cats faced both Kalamazoo and Washington & Lee and split the
contests. W&L was easily defeated by the score 9-0, as only one set was lost in these morning matches. However,
in the afternoon play, Davidson met Kalamazoo, and the netters from way up North took the honors, 5-4.

Wednesday of this week saw the Cats repeat the score of an early season match with Furman, as they again
failed to drop a set and swamped the lads from Greenville by the score of 9-0, upping their record to
12-5. Lacy Keesler, Corky Clark, and John Thorpe did not lose a game in taking their singles matches. Coach McKee
says that he has been very well pleased with the team’s play over the first 17 matches, and he is
inclined to believe that prospects are exceptionally good for the coming tourney. Lacy Keesler and Corky Clark have played outstanding
tennis to date, Clark having lost only two matches all year, one at Miami and one at Rollins. This year’s
team is the busiest on campus, meeting more competition than any other spring sports team. Next week is no exception,
as matches are scheduled with North Carolina State on Monday, Carolina on Tuesday, Miami on Thursday, Wofford on Friday, and
Presbyterian on Saturday. All of these matches are strong tests of the Cats’ strength, and victories over these opponents will
establish the Cats as one of the strongest teams in the Southeast.

SPALDING

Look for the Spalding “Tennis Twins” Wherever Top Tennis Is Played

There are good reasons why Spalding’s tennis twins are used in more major tennis tournaments than all other tennis balls
combined. Top players want a tennis ball that can take rough treatment... and give uniform performance set after set. They
pick the Spalding and the Spalding-made Wright & Ditson over all others for uniform wear and better bounce qualities. Put
the best ball in play for your best game. The pick of top tennis men... Spalding’s famous tennis twins. Your
dealer has them now.

SPALDING
