PAGE FOUR -

Fast fingers, rhythmic feet, marked the first annual ROTC Field Day, and above all “esprit de corps.”

R.O.T.C. Field Day Held; Co. F Tops Competition

Spirit ran high on the drill field Tuesday as the ROTC Corps staged its first annual Military Field Day. Company
F, commanded by Cadet Capt. Lambe, swept to the overall laurels with a total of 34 points, taking firsts in
three events. Company D, under Cadet Capt. Davis, followed with 26 points, and Company A, led by Cadet Capt. Averyt,
was third with 24 points.

The inter-company competition featured both individual and group events, which ranged from a tug-of-war and relay races to grenade throws
and command voice competition. Planned and directed by the cadets themselves, the events proceeded with a minimum of confusion, and
a noticeable quantity of company esprit de corps. Cadet officers presided as judges over all events.

In figuring the final results, a first place counted 5 points, while a second was good for 3 points, and
a third for 1 point. The results:

Best Drilled Platoon—1) Company A, 2) Company B, 3) tie between Company C and F. Winning platoon leader—McIntosh.
Best Drilled Squad—1) Company B, 2) Company E, 3) Company A. Winning squad leader—Alexander.
Best Drilled Individual—1) Company A, 2) Company E, 3) Company B. Winner—Blake.
Outstanding Command Voice—1) Company F, 2) Company E, 3) Company A. Winner—Webster.
M-1 Disassembly and Assembly—1) Company F, 2) Company A, 3) Company E. Winner—Gilmer.
BAR Disassembly and Assembly—1) Company D, 2) Company E, 3) Company B. Winner—Moody.
Scramble—1) Company D, 2) Company F, 3) Company A. Winner—Echoles.
Light Machine Gun Disassembly and Assembly—1) Company A, 2) Company F, 3) Company B. Winner—J. H. Robinson.
Light Machine Gun Team Drill—1) Company D, 2) Company F, 3) Company E.
81 mm. Mortar Team Drill—1) Company D, 2) Company E, 3) Company B, and Company C tied.
Grenade Throw — Distance—1) Company D, 2) Company F, 3) Company B. Winner—Spears.
Grenade Throw — Accuracy—1) Company B, 2) Company F, 3) Company D. Winner—Conger.
Relay Race—1) Company B, 2) Company F, 3) Company A.

New YMCA Cabinet to Be Installed Monday

An installation service for the new officers and cabinet of the YMCA will take place Monday morning at 10:20 in
the College Union Ballroom. Retiring President Leighton Green will extend a challenge to the new cabinet to accept the opportunities
before them in their new year’s work. Response to this challenge will be made by Blake Brinkerhoff, president-elect. Mr. D.
Grier Martin, treasurer of the college, will recognize the retiring officers and cabinet and express to them the college's appreciation
for their work in the leadership of the YMCA during the current year. All members of the association are strongly
urged to attend this Monday meeting, to witness the installation of the new leaders of the Y’s work for the
coming school year.

WILLIAMSON WINS LAW SCHOLARSHIP

It has been announced that Malcolm Williamson, Jr., senior from Charlotte and Waynesville, has been awarded a fellowship by the
Duke Law School Regional Scholarship Board. A stipend of $1000 attends these scholarships, which are given to prospective law students
in North and South Carolina. Williamson is currently serving this campus as president of the Forensic Council and Tau Kappa
Alpha, as well as holding membership in Kappa Alpha social fraternity and the Red and Black Masquers. He is particularly
active in literary circles, serving as president of Philanthropic Literary Society, executive editor of the Scripts ‘n Pranks, Senior Class
poet, and as a member of Sigma Upsilon. Williamson has had a varied academic career, majoring in both history and
economics.

Dr. Colwell...

(Continued From Page One)

School of Divinity, and, in 1943, vice president and dean of the faculties. As president of Chicago, Dr. Colwell was
active in the creation of the Federated Theological Faculty, the merging of the four Protestant theological schools into the largest
body of its kind in the nation. He was also instrumental in the formation of the Midwest Inter-Library Center, a
library's library for those of the 14 cooperating universities and institutions in the Midwest. Dr. Colwell was appointed dean of
the faculties at Emory in 1951, and was named vice president of the university in 1954. An authority on New
Testament manuscripts, he is at present chairman of a group of American scholars who are working with British authorities in
the preparation of a new edition of manuscript evidence in the text of the Greek New Testament. His studies in
manuscripts and the language of the New Testament include pioneer investigation of the medieval Greek manuscripts from which the lessons
were read in early churches. Some studies by Dr. Colwell include: The Greek of the Fourth Gospel; Monuments of Byzantine
Music; Lectionaries; The Four Gospels of Karahisser; the Elizabeth Day McCormick Apocalypse; and The Christmas Carols Are True. He is
also author of St. John Defends the Gospel, The Study of the Bible, and A Greek Papyrus Reader, and a
chapter in the recently-issued Volume I of The Interpreter’s Bible. The chapter is a general article on the text and
ancient versions of the New Testament. Dr. Colwell holds three honorary degrees—a doctor of literature from Emory University, a doctor
of sacred theology from Harvard, and an LL.D. from Colby College.

Literary Societies Elect New Officers

New officers were elected by the Eumanean Literary Society at their regular meeting last Monday, May 2. Jim Marshall, a
rising senior and member of SPE social fraternity, is the new president. Other officers are: Tom Morgan, vice president; Lloyd
Chapin, secretary; and Harry Brownlee, treasurer. Diplomas were awarded by the society to senior members Dove, Lambert, Briley, Cooper, Frick,
and Brockmann. These men received the gratitude of the entire membership for their long and meritorious service to the society.
Following the main order of business, several new resolutions were discussed, chief of which concerned the establishment of the new
constitutional office, Sweetheart of Eumanean Literary Society. Despite its advantages, however, the proposal was soundly defeated.

Over 40 members were present at the recent meeting of the Philanthropic Society Monday, May 2, 1955, at which time
new officers were elected. Newly-elected president of Phi is Dick Morehead, a KA from Huntington, W. Va. Harry Antrim was
chosen vice president; Bill Pomeroy, secretary; and Karey Spears, treasurer. Other officers include: first critic, Al Simpson; second critic, David
Holloman; first supervisor, John Trask; second supervisor, Bill Fraley; and agent, Jim Kuist. The resolution was proposed and adopted that
the administration be requested to investigate the possibility of retuning the chimes of the College Church.

Student Council...

(Continued From Page One)

Linny Baker of Kannapolis, president of Alpha Tau Omega, and also Phi Beta Kappa; and Clyde Robinson, vice president of
Phi Delta Theta and a Phi Beta Kappa, whose home is Raleigh, North Carolina. Representing next year's Junior Class are:
Carl Cooper, a Beta from Durham; and Vernon Hunter, a Phi Delta Theta from Charlotte. Bill Bondurant from Winston-Salem is
the rising Sophomore Class representative. He is a member of Beta Theta Pi.

President Anderson, who promised in his campaign speech to eliminate as much as possible of the secrecy surrounding Student Council
meetings, has announced that he plans to hold regularly announced meetings every two weeks starting next fall. They will be
open to all students. A Davidsonian reporter will also be present at all meetings to write up the activities of
the Council for publication. Although Student Council trials will still be closed to the student body, as much information as
can possibly be released, will be published. According to Anderson, the overwhelming majority of votes in favor of the recent
student petition to continue subsidized athletics indicates that the Student Council should back such a program. The Council will attempt
to maintain not only the present policy, but increase the publicity and promotion of the Davidson sports program, he said.
The first meeting of the new Student Council will be held on May 11, Wednesday evening at seven o'clock, in
the Blue Room of the College Union. It will be open to all students.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Elections Completed
With Thursday's Vote
MASQUERS’ ELECT HARRIS PRESIDENT

ATTENTION!

It has been part of the gentleman’s code of living here on campus that no implements are to be taken
out ofThe Union. Since last November, however, 55 stainless steel holders (for drinking cups) have been lost and numerous coffee
cups and silverware have periodically disappeared. In keeping with the traditional gentleman’s agreement, it is hoped by the Union staff
that such losses, usually caused through carelessness, will be minimized in the future.

Outstanding Movies Coming Next Week

The Union Film Committee has announced two outstanding movies to be shown in the Ballroom of the College Union in
the coming week. On Tuesday, May 10, at 9:00 p.m., the Twentieth Century Fox production, “Foxes of Harrow,” will be
shown. This two-hour feature is proclaimed as the story of the rise, fall, and possible redemption of a daring and
reckless man who lived in New Orleans during the thirty-year period preceding the Louisiana Purchase. The film features the magnificent
plantation life of Louisiana gentry under the Napoleonic Code. Starring in the movie are Rex Harrison, Maureen O'Hara, and Victor
McLaglen.

Friday and Saturday another two-hour movie will be featured, “Wilson.” In beautiful technicolor, this film is the distinguished and historically
accurate documentary treatment of the political life of President Wilson, his fight for world peace, and his retirement from the
White House in 1920 because of ill health. The tragedy of a great man is shown as Wilson's plans for
world peace are defeated by a hostile senate. Alexander Knox portrays Wilson and Charles Coburn and Geraldine Fitzgerald play the
supporting roles.

Brockmann Wins... (Continued From Page One)

tory, has served as editor of the Wildcat Handbook in addition to his direction of the Davidsonian. He is a
member of Sigma Phi Epsilon social fraternity, Eumanean Literary Society, Sigma Upsilon and the YMCA Cabinet, and has been elected
to Omicron Delta Kappa, Phi Beta Kappa, and Who's Who Among Students in American Colleges and Universities. Brockman plans to
begin graduate work this fall at Union Theological Seminary in New York.

Drink MOORE’S QUALITY MILK
Mooresville Creamery, Inc.

REMEMBER MOM ... THIS MOTHER’S DAY
SAY - BY - WIRE FLOWERS

If you can’t be with Mother on May 8, let the beauty of your fresh, living Flowers-by-Wire tell her of
your love. Delivery world-wide is guaranteed by your F.T.D. florist.

Orders May Be Placed at the M. & M. SODA SHOP
Davidson, N. C.
Phone: Davidson 4131

Balloting in chapel Thursday completed the elections for the selection of officers for the 1955-56 college year. Elected this week
were the representatives to the Athletic Council and the head Cheerleader. Representing the student body on the Athletic Council next
year will be Hobby Cobb and Phil Koonce. Both Cobb and Koonce are outstanding athletes—Cobb in basketball and Koonce in
track. Cobb is from Charlotte and is a member of Kappa Sigma social fraternity. Koonce, from Tarboro, North Carolina, is
a member of Alpha Tau Omega. Both are rising seniors.

Leading the college cheerleaders next year will be Jeter Abernathy, a Sigma Chi from Charlotte. Abernathy served as head cheerleader
this year, but will return next year for further study.

The elections this year were conducted by the Elections Board, made up of one member of each social fraternity and
four independents. The members are chosen by the Student Council. Chairman of this year’s board was Gayle Averyt.

Koonce Announces... (Continued From Page One)

Saturday, September 24, following the customary “period of silence.” Many suggestions about bands for the three dance weekends have been
made by the fraternities. The band names will be announced next year as contracted. The Homecoming weekend is planned for
October 14-15, the football game being with Washington and Lee University. Midwinters will fall on the weekend of February 24-25,
and Spring Frolics April 20-21.

The new IFC representatives for 1955-1956 are: ATO—Phil Koonce, president; Kappa Sig—Bo Abernathy, secretary; Phi Delt—Don Stewart, treasurer; Beta—Gordon Bondurant;
SPE—Tal Broughton; Pi KA—Ken Conger; Sigma Chi—Ray Harding; Phi Gam—Jerry Kivett; KA—Dick Morehead; SAE—Ed Spier; Pi Kapp—Jack Williamson; and Campus
Club—Dave White.

At the monthly meeting of the Red and Black Masquers held Tuesday, May 3, Albert Harris was elected to lead
the organization next year. Harris, a rising senior from Macon, Ga., is a member of Alpha Tau Omega fraternity. He
has been very active in dramatic work at Davidson. This year he directed “Good News” and appeared as Lieutenant Trotter
in the recent Masquers’ production of “Journey's End.”

Other officers elected for 1955-56 are: vice president, Harold Hall; secretary, Bob Rhodes; and treasurer, Tom Morgan. Plans were laid
at the meeting for an initiation of new members and installation of officers to be held at 10:30 p.m., Wednesday,
May 11. Those who will be initiated are Allie Cone and Bill Conine. Big plans are underway to make next
year the best in Masquers’ history. Three productions of high quality are definitely proposed and a committee has already begun
to work out the details.

Interfraternity ... (Continued From Page Three)

6-1, 8-6, 6-2. Rawson and Key played in the finals by virtue of semi-final wins over Montgomery, Phi Delt, and
Echols, SAE, respectively. Twenty-four teams have now started the doubles tournament and most of the first round matches have been
played. The latter contests will be slowed down until the completion of the Southern Conference tennis tournament, which is presently
using most of the courts.

The unofficial standings in the softball league through Wednesday are:

Team
SPE
Sigma Chi
Phi Delt
ATO
Pika
Phi Gam
KA
Kappa Sig
SAE
Beta
Pi Kapp

Won
Lost
0
1
2
2
2
3
3
3
4
4
5

ROTC AWARDS DAY TO BE HELD MAY 10

The annual ROTC Awards Day will be held next Tuesday afternoon, May 10, during the regular drill period. Brig. Gen.
T. M. Mayfield, Commander of the 108th Division Reserve in Charlotte, will be on hand to deliver the most prized
of the trophies, a cup which is awarded to the commander whose company is designated as the year’s outstanding company.
Aside from the presentation of the annual awards, outstanding individual military achievement will be recognized, as Scabbard and Blade, national
military fraternity, holds its Spring tapping service.

S. C. Tennis Tourney ... (Continued From Page Three)

tion from George Washington, Dick Makepeace and John Thorpe put up a great match before losing, 6-4, 6-3. In the
first set, a comeback by the Cat combination fell one game short, but the match saw Makepeace make numerous outstanding
shots and play some of his best tennis of the season, while Thorpe’s serves were consistently well executed. The tournament
will wind up its activities tomorrow.

Mooresville, N. C.

THE CONNOISSEUR
A Place of Fine Foods for any taste in Eating — Specializing in Steak, Seafood, and Chicken Dinners.

SPECIAL MENU
THURSDAYS — FRIDAYS — SATURDAYS
ALL THE FISH OR CHICKEN YOU CAN EAT $1.50 Including Tax
CHILDREN ACCOMPANIED BY THEIR PARENTS 55c, Tax included
Fried Chicken — French Fries — Slaw
Hot Rolls — Iced Tea or Coffee
Fish — French Fries — Slaw — Hush Puppies
Iced Tea or Coffee

FRIDAY, MAY 6, 1955

Marriage and Family Life Seminar Tonight

The most recent activity of your YMCA has been the sponsoring of a weekly seminar on Marriage and Family Life.
The group has met on Friday nights for the past several weeks to discuss the questions and problems so important
in the making of a Christian home. Various capable leaders have guided the group in its discussions in the past
weeks, including several members of our own college faculty. The speakers at the last meeting of the series, taking place
tonight at the College Union, will be Dr. and Mrs. Gelolo McHugh, of Duke University. All who have attended these
seminars have felt that they have been thoroughly worthwhile.

CHAPEL SECESSION

Amidst Rebel yells, the Confederate KA forces under General R. E. Lee Cooper accepted surrender of Federal troops under Ulysses
S. Sapp and made plans to move on Charlotte tomorrow. Their goal is to remove all Yankee influences from Southern
soil for the honor and protection of Southern womanhood.

Phone 3-2861

CAMPUS “STAND-OUTS”

“I’ve got L*M...and L*M’s got everything!”

L*M Stands Out from All the Rest! L*M wins its letters for flavor... Light and Mild. And the pure, white
Miracle Tip draws easy, so you enjoy all the taste. No wonder L*M sales are soaring on campus after campus.
It’s America’s best filter cigarette.

© Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
