The Davidsonian

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Dick Morehead

ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Maurice Crouse, Tom Warlick

Managing Editors
Jim Batten, Franklin Bloodworth, Jim Brice

Sports Editor
Leon Howell

Copy Editor
John T. Harmon

Feature Editor
Watt McCain

News Editors
Lloyd Chapin, Bill Pomeroy, Glenn Robertson

Staff Photographer
Hank Daniel

Assignments
John Trask

File Clerk
Bob Beall

Member of the Associated Collegiate Press and Intercollegiate Press

Friday, Dec. 2, 1955

Page Two

Regulation with Reason

The present administrative release concerning the parking situation is a positive and necessary approach to a problem of concern to
many students. In its informative nature, it clarifies questionable clauses and adds meaning to the regulations. More of this type
of clarification and positive approach is needed and necessary in administrative-student relations. Regulations without reason are not justifiable to most,
and they often lead to misunderstanding and predicated injustice. Information, denoted by clarity, objectivity, and a positive approach on matters
pertaining to the college and the student body should be presented. Thursday's chapel service is one such program of presentation.
More are welcome, more are needed, more are requested.

The administrative release revealed that Davidson is, in reality, quite fortunate in its parking facilities, and much planning has evidently
gone into the actualization of them. Further, areas of student concern have been justified and allowances made as requested when
such were possible. It is tragic to note in light of the above that some 200 offenses have been registered
in the bursar’s office in the less than three weeks of operation of this system. Many of these are second
and third-time offenders. From informed sources, it was learned that little monetary return is realized in this program of fines—instituted
solely to enforce the regulations—when total costs of operation are considered. This adds up to one thing—the lazy driver in
the early hours should think twice before he pulls into a zoned area—in order to avoid purse pulling and painful
time expended on both sides of the financial fence.

Beyond the Polished Apple

The after Vesper hour is a forgotten opportunity. In recent years, attendance has receded to the sacred few; interest waned;
and the tragic myth of freshman days accepted for fact. First of all, after Vesper visits are not the panacea
of all intellectual ills: classes in reverse: or seminars of astronomical IQ's on classic astrology. Neither are they means to
academic ends. Rather they offer an unequaled opportunity for students and faculty to rub minds, interests, and experiences together in
an atmosphere of congeniality. It is a media of expression not found in such abundant fashion or enjoyable circumstances elsewhere
in the college calendar. A real education can truly be sought and secured in faculty homes, where topics of discussion
range from trout to tanks, from the sacred South to the hallowed halls of Hahvahd, and where the culinary arts
are not to be refused. Most objections or abstentions to this hour of charm fall into the category of lack
of time. Anything worth a person’s time is worth planning for; and this particular evening hour should require but little
foresight in the student schedule. Those who do not take advantage of these opportunities miss a real and lasting part
of their college education. Educate the whole man. Take in the after-Vesper hour.

Vesper Verdict

It has been deplorably noted by many students that the character and quality of our Vesper programs have degenerated in
recent years. Former days witnessed a parade of large men from wide areas presenting subjects in stimulating approaches, stirring the
thinking mind as well as the feeling heart. It has been questioned whether recent semesters compare favorably with former years.
Many of the speakers scheduled to appear have failed to materialize on Sunday evening. Further, most of the speakers while
qualified and capable come from a very limited and local area. There is also a greater predominance of these speakers
from one denomination than indicated by the student body percentages. In an era of chapel progress and appreciated achievement, the
interested set high levels of expectation from the Vesper program. Student concern should elicit administrative evaluation and consideration in this
matter.

R.H.M.

Reformer’s Manual

The urge to reform things has expressed itself in many different ways at many different times. And ever since Adam
and Eve in the Garden of Eden decided that a reformation of their eating habits was in order, change and
innovation have been discouraged both by those who honestly believe things are good enough as they are and by those
who are afraid that change will bring unexpected complications. The following items are suggested to provide the compulsive reformer with
some new ammunition, now that agitation for the “initiative, referendum, and recall” has lost some of its original appeal or
has secured some of its objectives.

Anyone who believes that the measurement system arose out of the practice of counting on the fingers and toes must
have reached the conclusion that some of our Anglo-Saxon forefathers had twelve fingers and twelve toes. The duodecimal system of
measuring and counting, along with the multitude of varying units, has been one of the greatest curses in our heritage.
High school mathematicians have been plagued no end by problems about the conversion of feet to inches to fathoms to
yards to miles. Science has long since given up hope on this matter and has adopted the metric system, which
makes conversion from one unit to another possible by the simple placement of a decimal point. The advantages of a
decimal system are obvious to Americans who must get out a pad of paper to figure up how much change
would be due them in Britain if they gave a five-pound note in payment for a purchase of three items
each costing three shillings and six pence.

Another source of confusion is the calendar which we use. Holidays, anniversaries, fiscal periods—all these and others change with chaotic
regularity. Businesses find it difficult to compare profits with those made during the same period of the previous year because
one such period might contain an additional Saturday, a good day for business. Holidays such as Veterans Day and Christmas
wander all through the week like the planets through the heavens, and others escape this fate only because they are
prescribed for a certain day of the week rather than day of the month. A World Calendar would stabilize the
dating of all events, since the calendar would be the same every year. Printers of calendars are not expected to
agree that the adoption of a World Calendar would be a wise move, but there is more hope that others
will see its merits.

As another project for the reformer, we suggest that he advocate the writing of dates as 2 December 1955 rather
than December 2, 1955. This practice, already adopted by much of the world, would bring the United States into agreement
with current practices. And as a parting suggestion, why can we not drop the period from common abbreviations such as
Mr and Dr? They are in such common use that they would be perfectly understood without the period. We are
not quite ready to advocate the dropping of capital letters, since mr e. e. cummings has had little luck in
gaining converts. These suggestions should give our reformer many reforms to advocate, and we rather suspect that it will be
a long time before he achieves success, regardless of the merits of the proposals.

M.A.C.

BUSINESS MANAGER
Larry Parrott

Advertising Manager
Bob Carmichael

Subscription
Warner Hall

Circulation
Bob Majors, Stan Miller

Business Staff
Tony Guiles, Bill Bondurant

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 Madison Ave. New York, N.Y.
Chicago * Boston * Los Angeles * San Francisco

Subscription Rate: $2.00 Per Year
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1879.
Offices in David Ovens College Union, Davidson College

The Court of Control and Its

BY BOBBY COBB
Judge Of The Court Of Control

What has happened to the Court of Control? This is a question that has been asked repeatedly this fall and,
I believe, justifiably so. The school year 1955-56 may be remembered as the year that the Court of Control lost
any power that it previously held, and the year the Freshmen class was allowed to break any and all regulations
without fear of reprimand. This freedom enjoyed by the class of ’59 is something that has gradually been coming to
the front for several years. Each year for the past two or three, the upper-classes have slowly but surely lost
interest in the Court and its functions. Many students feel as if the Court is not really intended to do
good, but rather is a form of legal hazing. Those who believe that the Court is a good thing and
definitely has a place in student government have failed to support their beliefs, and the result is that a group
of eight students is left alone trying to work with an entire Freshman class. There are still others who think
that the Freshman class is at fault. The class as a whole has been referred to as “a cocky bunch
who want to run the campus.” I believe thinking of this type to be out of line. Freshmen enter Davidson
not knowing a thing about the Court of Control except what they have read in the Wildcat Handbook. How can
we expect them to act any different when they see that the upperclassmen look on the Court of Control as
a joke and don’t care whether or not the Freshman Regulations are enforced? No, the Freshmen are not guilty of
a poor attitude, but rather we are responsible as upperclassmen for not displaying the proper interest. Our disinterested attitude was
carried over to the Freshmen and was reflected in their actions.

Take for example the three Court meetings that were scheduled during Freshmen Chapel—upperclassmen were urged to attend yet

LITTLE MAN ON THE CAMPUS... by Dick Bibler

Report from Detroit

By JIM BATTEN

Snowstorms, automobile plants, Pulitzer Prize winners and college newspaper editors with Yankee brogues were a dime a dozen in Detroit
two weekends ago, as the Davidsonian’s four-man editorial contingent ventured above the Mason-Dixon. The occasion was the 31st annual convention
of the Associated Collegiate Press at Detroit’s spacious Hotel Statler. The ACP, of which the Davidsonian is a member, together
with co-hosts Ford, Chrysler and General Motors, provided a lavish yet educational three-day program for the eight hundred delegates who
poured in from thirty-three states, Canada, and the District of Columbia. The convention program featured outstanding journalists and newspaper men
from all over the nation who spoke and led round-table discussions where college editors swapped ideas and aired mutual problems
encountered on American campuses across the continent. In addition, the agenda included an all-day trip Thursday through Ford’s gigantic River
Rouge plant, where mile-long buildings and astronomical daily production levels of automobiles are commonplace.

As far as the Davidson foursome was concerned, the entire expedition met with near disaster before even getting out of
Mecklenburg County, as Editor Morehead’s limousine balked and then rolled dead about two miles shy of the Charlotte Airport at
three o'clock in the morning. With Samsonite at port arms, we set out down the black road at a painful
lope, scattering loosely packed Davidsonians over the countryside. Fortunately, after a mile of this, a charitable soul rattled onto the
scene and deposited us at the terminal with ten minutes to spare. Three hours later, dawn in Detroit at a
brisk seventeen degrees shattered our thermostats after a week of Carolina's Indian summer.

Max Shulman, a versatile young playwright who recently copped a Pulitzer Prize, was on hand to handle the after-dinner speaking
chores for Chrysler Thursday night. His Broadway hit of a few seasons back provides the basis for the new Frank
Sinatra — Debbie Reynolds technicolor comedy, The Tender Trap. The heart of the meeting came Friday and Saturday as top-notch
newspaper men and members of the journalism faculties from Detroit’s Wayne University and forty-mile distant University of Michigan answered questions
and guided discussions on various phases of college newspaper publication. Personal contacts and conferences with these men proved perhaps the
most helpful phase of the entire program.

After hours, Atlanta’s own Franklin Bloodworth, the only real city boy among the local delegation managed to keep us in
hot water. His suggestion for a place to get a “good meal” led to the dubious sounding Olde Wayne Club.
Before we could resist, we were whisked to a dimly-lit table by a battery of hovering waiters with a great
flourish of “Ah, Monsieurs.” A glance at the menu confirmed our direst fears, with nothing in English except the all
too legible prices. At this point Davidson genius reared its head as Morehead suggested to the solicitous waiters that perhaps
we should return later instead for the floor show. The hamburgers in the next block were delicious.

Saturday night, General Motors, not to be outdone by her cross-townRivals trotted out eight hundred prime steaks and their Chief
Research Consultant, Charles F. Kettering. With thirty-three honorary degrees, Dr. Kettering has achieved global fame as an inventor and pioneer
in the automobile industry. His electric ignition system for automobiles was responsible for shoving the once essential auto crank forever
into history. As the Eastern Air Lines Constellation bounced onto the Charlotte runway early Sunday morning, bringing us back to
looming stacks of dusty books and impending reviews, a point from Kettering's address concerning true values in modern education in
general and on testing methods in particular proved consoling: “On an I.Q. test, Wilbur Wright, Henry Ford, and Thomas Edison
combined couldn't have gotten into the bleachers, much less the grandstand.”

Only fifty showed up at the first meeting and a mere handful the second time around. Needless to say, the
third meeting was called off. Therefore, I contend that the student body as a whole must shoulder a great deal
of the blame for the failure of the Court of Control. This is not to say that the student body
is completely responsible for the failure of the Court. On the contrary, every member of the Court is willing, I
am sure, to share in the blame. I can say, however, that the members of the student body represented on
the Court of Control searched for the answer to the problem, and no one worked harder to restore it to
its proper place than your Student Body President. With your support, I think he could have done this—it still can
be done.

If the Court of Control is to be restored as an effective organization, there will be a need for a
lot of time and study. This is being done now by the Student Council in their attempt to find the
answer.

Year of Decision

In order to get the Court back on its feet, there are three things that must be done:
1. The Court should be restored in Friday chapel. Many people feel that the Court will never be effective unless
this is done. When the Court is made to function outside of chapel, the Student Body loses contact and as
a natural result, they lose interest.
2. Secondly, the Court of Control should be put before the Freshman class as a scheduled part of Orientation Week.
This was not done this fall and the Freshmen remained in the dark as to the purpose of the Court
and its function.
3. Thirdly, the Fraternities must get behind the Court by impressing upon their pledges the importance of the Freshmen Regulations.
This was not done in several cases this year and as a result, a good deal of harm was done.

Even though these three points could do a lot toward restoring the Court of Control, there is another side to
the argument that cannot be overlooked. Many students don’t want the Court of Control and are very much against its
purposes. There is a feeling here on the campus that the court is just another one of those Davidson Traditions
that has outgrown its usefulness. These same people suggest that we should have no Freshman Regulations, but rather adopt the
policy used in northern schools. That is, have the student body create such an atmosphere of maturity that the freshmen
will want to throw away their high school habits and pick up the ways of the upperclassmen. This is just
one of the suggested solutions.

In closing, I would say that this article was written to show just where the Court failed, and to present
a few of the problems that will have to be overcome if it is to ever function properly. The fact
is that a change is needed. Whether it be to rebuild or to do away with it is the decision
that you as a student must make. Leaving things status quo should not even be considered.

Council Committee Processing Elections System Revisions

By STUART VAUGHN, Chairman, Student Council Elections Committee

The elections system at Davidson College is in part due for a change. This has been the consensus of opinion
at Davidson for a number of years, but not a great deal has been done about it. This year, steps
are being taken by the Student Council to correct the antiquated election rules and to clear up those rules which
need to be clarified. Even though there are some parts of our elections system that need revision, there are also
parts that are well and good as they now stand.

One of the major criticisms of elections at Davidson is holding them in chapel. The opposition to the chapel elections
has said that a minority rules, that the elections add to chapel confusion, and that many students vote more than
once. However, if the elections were held outside of chapel, perhaps as a voluntary meeting, there would probably be only
half the people voting that are now voting. The voluntary voting system just wouldn’t work here at Davidson, and there’s
no way to compel any student to vote who doesn’t want to vote. Since the Davidson students have to come
together in chapel, that is the most logical and easiest place to take a vote which would have a good
representation. It seems, therefore, that chapel is the most desirable place for elections under the circumstances. The main problem then
is to adjust the elections to chapel.

It is an admitted fact that elections for all the officers at Davidson take a long time. This year, with
three chapel periods a week, instead of the four which we had last year, voting will be further handicapped. The
only solution to this would seem to be to start the nominating earlier and streamline the election process. One consolation,
however, is that the revised constitution, which was adopted last year, eliminates several elections which were previously held in chapel.
The YMCA elections, for example, are now held out of chapel. This will help a great deal, but the problem
of time is still an acute one.

Another possible way to cut down on the time required for elections would be for the Student Council to elect
the Elections Board earlier than it has done in the past, thus taking advantage of all possible time in our
chapels. The Elections Board conducts all elections. It counts, files, and posts all election returns as soon as possible after
the polls are closed. This year, the Student Council will elect the Elections Board earlier, which will make possible an
earlier start of the student elections. This year’s Board will count and record the ballots on time, and do it
in an orderly and official manner.

One criticism that has been thrown at the Elections Board is that it is so rushed for time after chapel
that there is a disorganized state of affairs while the ballot counting is taking place. A possible remedy for this
bad situation would be to have the entire Elections Board meet in the afternoon of the voting day and count
the votes. By meeting in the afternoon instead of immediately after chapel, the Board would have plenty of time to
do a thorough and orderly job.

The poor distribution of the ballots has also been criticized. If the whole student body is voting on the same
office, identical ballots should be handed out at the back doors; while if a class vote is involved, separately printed
ballots should be used. Perhaps the introduction of a nominating committee would end the necessity of signing up by the
candidates, but whatever the case, this is definitely an area where some type of reform is needed.

The Student Council is now undertaking to institute a more effective elections system at Davidson, and helped by the suggestions
of Gayle Averyt, last year’s Elections Board President, Dean Spencer, and others, the Student Council hopes to be the voice
of the Davidson Students in effecting needed changes in our elections system.

SKIDS

Dear Editor:

The Sunday Vesper services are intended to play an important part in the religious life on this campus. I like
to think that the compulsory attendance at these services is designed to place men in the position, either with an
eager willingness consciously or with a begrudged presence unconsciously, to take advantage of the insights into our spiritual life and
growth, as offered by the Vesper speakers. No doubt, the services have, in the past, and are now, in some
cases, fulfilling this role. But I am of the opinion that the vesper services of this year are falling short
of their potential to affect our spiritual life.

I am not questioning the individual worth of these speakers or their right to the honor of addressing the Davidson
student body at a Sunday vesper service. I am questioning the right of these speakers to be content with bringing
to an intelligent group of men the spiritual pablum, the warmed-over Sunday morning sermons, liberally spiced with anecdotes and poems,
which we have heard on recent Sunday nights. It is wrong to think that we can dictate subjects or approaches
to subjects. It is not wrong, or presumptuous on our part, to expect something that is challenging, something that smacks
of a certain spiritual depth. In this respect, I do not feel that we are being satisfied.

Every man has his own idea of what constitutes a meaningful religious experience. There are those of us who get
more out of emotional presentation; there are those of us who get more out of sound, logical reasoning; there are
those of us who get more out of a doctrinal emphasis. And I think that we can agree that there
are ministers who differ in their strength in these areas, just as we can agree that there are ministers who
are more capable than others in addressing a group of college men.

Who makes the decisions regarding the calendar of speakers for our vesper services? There is such a committee, but it
affords no student representation. This is a failure, it seems to me, to maintain a finger on the pulse of
the student body in a matter of such importance as that of our spiritual life and growth. And there are
those members of the student body whose interest in the Sunday vesper services goes beyond that of mere compulsory attendance!

In conclusion, I feel that there is the need to seek men who will confront us with a vital and
challenging religious experience, to set up the calendar of speakers in time to allow these men to prepare a message
of such caliber, and to feel out the interested members of the student body concerning ministers who might be obtained.

Jon Regen

Better Off Dead?

Dear Sir:

Allow me to take issue with your position regarding the Court of Control. As the devil’s advocate (i.e., the freshman's)
I have some questions and some suggestions. In your editorial of November 11 (See A Plea For The Court, Davidsonian
November 11, 1955), you did not seriously consider the possibility that the court would be better off dead than alive.
Please do.

What useful purpose can you honestly say the court serves? We like to think that it matures freshmen by making
them more like ourselves. Even if we upperclassmen are paragons that freshmen ought to imitate, how effective has the court
been in the past in bringing this about? You will remember that even in the days of Good Judge Barry,
freshmen were still freshmen, and you were one just as I was. Would our character have been much worse today
if there had been no court?

There is, of course, our college's Tradition, before which you prostrate yourself every Friday night. When a school does not
have size, tradition is vital. But veneration of tradition can get out of hand, as I think it has in
your case, when the maintenance of a kangaroo court is justified on the grounds that it has been in existence
for a number of years. I have difficulty believing that you are interested purely in the freshmen’s own good. Aside
from traditional motives, then, why do you want to continue with the court? Does their insubordination disturb you? Why should
a freshman be subordinated to an upperclassman in the first place? Of course, I will not deny that freshmen are
pitifully immature as a class, but can you consider the very idea of a Court of Control an expression of
a mature mind?

For the sake of honesty, why don’t you throw out the rot about tradition and improving the immature and so
forth, and admit that it’s fun to haze freshmen. If you think that is worthy enough a reason for prolonging
the court, then go ahead, but please keep your true motive ready at hand in case someone asks why you
are doing it. If not, why not hereafter cover your newsprint with something more edifying than the pompous fraud in
last week’s Davidsonian.

Jim Armistead
