The Davidsonian
The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

EDITOR ........ HENRY BROCKMANN
BUSINESS MGR. TIM COOPER
Managing Editors .... Maurice Crouse, Tom Warlick
Sports Editor .......... Jim Holshouser
Feature Editor ........ Dick Morehead
News Editors ........ Watt McCain, Bill Gallier
Copy Editor ........ John Harmon
Photographer ........ Hank Daniel
Assignments ........ Jim Brice
Business Staff ........ Tommy Taylor, Larry Parrott, Bob Carmichael
Circulation ........ Published each Friday during the college year except during examination and holiday periods. Member of the Associated Collegiate Press and Intercollegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service. Subscription rate: $2.00 per year. Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N.C., under the Act of March 3, 1879. Offices in David Ovens College Union, Davidson College.

Page Two Friday, March 11, 1955

Davidson’s ‘Primitive’ Library To Burst At Seams Soon

The recent acquisition by the College Library of a Micro-film Reader makes available a service for which a need has been recognized for some time. At present, the library is regularly receiving micro-filmed copies of both the New York Times and The Charlotte Observer. In addition, the library can borrow micro-filmed copies of newspapers and rare documents from other libraries for the use of students and faculty. The main advantage in purchasing the new machine, however, is to eliminate the present policy of storing bound volumes of past copies of the New York Times. These volumes are large, filthy, and difficult to handle. In addition, these files occupy over 100 cubic yards of storage space, space which could very profitably be used for reading tables.

The library had no choice but to purchase the present machine. The only other alternative was for the library to become a depository for copies of the New York Times. The machine is not conveniently located, especially with regard to the location of the New York Times Index and the bound periodicals. It is to be hoped that some more convenient location may be worked out that will be consonant with the safety of the machine. If the bound volumes of the Times could be eliminated by a film edition, space for a micro-film room would be available in the basement. The present volumes of the New York Times should be replaced as speedily as possible with micro-filmed copies with an eye to donating our volumes to some less fortunate library. The expense of this (excluding the possibility of “manna” from heaven) would necessarily mean purchase over a period of 10 to 25 years.

Davidson College has every right to be proud of having improved its facilities to this extent. However, the fact remains that the libraries of UNC and Duke have had micro-film equipment almost as long as the mind of man runneth not to the contrary, and that most college and university libraries have had this equipment for several years. This is another graphical illustration that the Davidson Library is several years behind those of institutions of like size and ability. With an enlarged budget and increased interest on the part of the administration, great strides have been made in the last year or two. In accordance with recommendations made by the management engineers in their 1953 survey, a Reference Librarian has been secured, stacks have been installed on the second mezzanine, and book acquisitions have been increased. The Director of the Library plans to request a considerable increase in the book appropriation for next year. His request should certainly be adopted for according to his statement the minimum goal is 80,000 volumes.

The one further problem is that of space. The management engineers recommended converting the seminar rooms and the central basement into reading rooms. There are valid reasons for maintaining these facilities, rather obvious in regard to the seminar rooms, but no less valid in regard to the central basement. The present work-room facilities would of necessity have to be moved into the north basement, at present uninhabitable. Contractors estimate that conversion of the north basement alone would be a very expensive undertaking. Should these recommendations be carried out (which should certainly be the case if no other provision is to be made) the engineers state that seating capacity would be “almost” adequate.

However, a much more serious problem is in the offing. The absolute capacity of the present stacks (there is no room for any more) is 90,000 volumes. At the present rate of book acquisition, this total will be attained within 12 years. At that time, unless some other provision is made, the library will have the same inadequate seating arrangement it has today and not another book will be able to be crowded into its stacks.

The time to act is now before this impasse is reached. The Board of Trustees and the Administration should begin plans now for the construction of a sizable addition (estimated cost, $150,000 to $250,000) to the present structure, which would solve the present and future problems.—T.W.W.

Leonardo Among The Lilliputians

“We are like dwarfs seated on the shoulders of giants; we see more things than the ancients and things more distant, but this is due neither to the sharpness of our own sight, nor to the greatness of our own stature, but because we are raised and borne aloft on that giant mass.” Anne Fremantle uses these words by Bernard of Chartres in the introduction to her The Age of Belief, and they are significant words for our “progressive and scientific” age. Seeing and hearing little but the miracles of modern-day science, we are too prone to forget that these miracles are not solely the product of our more advanced age: we should not be nearly so far along in the march of knowledge if it had not been for our less “scientific” predecessors.

Davidson students will be able to appreciate to some extent the achievements of earlier centuries in the current exhibition of the work of Leonardo da Vinci. The International Business Machines Corporation’s display of his drawings and models represents only a small portion of his entire work, but the examples which have been chosen suffice to show the genius and dexterity in many fields of knowledge which was characteristic of that intellectual ideal, the Renaissance man. Leonardo would have felt cramped in the modern educational system with its emphasis on specialization. He refused to confine his efforts to one field, such as art, but branched out into many other areas of knowledge, at first to assist him in his artistic work but later as a task of love. He was not satisfied to rest on his laurels, but he insisted on still further conquests—a good example for us when we begin to feel as if our education were finished already.

We think of ours as an air age—Leonardo invented an airplane, a helicopter, and a parachute four hundred years before they came into use. Ours is a mechanized age—Leonardo drew up plans for a power-driven car and a forerunner of the turbine and recognized the principles of the clutch and differential used in our automobiles. Perhaps our age can be characterized by its warfare—Leonardo invented numerous machine-guns, a breech-loading cannon, intricate fortresses, aerial bombs, and long before Churchill he recognized the merits of the tank. Add to this impressive array of mechanical ability his “The Last Supper,” the “Mona Lisa,” his anatomical studies, his research in geology, and his contributions to cartography: the sum is genius.

We cultural dwarfs have an opportunity to catch a glimpse of the stature of one of the giants of our heritage, on whose shoulders we stand to lift our vision above the trivial and the commonplace. The opportunity should not be lightly dismissed.—M.A.C.

John Dewey Says

On education: “The profit of education is the ability it gives the learners to discriminate—to penetrate below the surface.”

On principles: “A man who prides himself upon acting upon principles is likely to be a man who insists upon having his own way without learning from experience what is the better way.”

On modern morality: “Conventional morality is a drab morality, in which the only fatal thing is to be conspicuous.”

On love: “Men will never love their enemies until they cease to have enmities.”

A Definite Fundamentalist Tinge: Y Must Not Thumb Noses At Georgia Prayer Meeting Group

Reform has reared its unfamiliar head out of a third-floor window in Georgia dormitory, and a new organism is seeking adjustment in the patterned environment of Davidson religious life. The success of the Georgia prayer meetings has equally surprised both their organizers and the YMCA, and neither group was prepared for the response—or quite sure what it involved. After three weeks the issues are still far from clear, but several elements are emerging.

The most obvious thing is that Georgia has touched a real need for a considerable segment of the student body. Originally, it was intended that one meeting be held to try to rejuvenate the YMCA hall prayer meetings. But the initial response encouraged subsequent meetings which have increased in numbers each week. Someone commenting on the situation drew an analogy to the Reformation, comparing the Georgia Movement to a Protestant affirmation of sincere, down-to-earth, “gospel” religion against the sterile encrustations that characterize the YMCA program which in a Catholic sense dominates formal religion on the campus. Analogies in any case are slippery, and this is a good one on neither historical nor theological grounds. But it is nonetheless suggestive in several ways. First of all, it conveys the idea of positive reform of the existing religious structures, which is the spirit in which Georgia began. And it also suggests the possibilities which may result now that the movement has grown to its present proportions.

THREE ALTERNATIVES

There seem to be three alternatives. (1) The whole movement might simply be left to run down and die out in the course of time. If it is simply a revival experience, an “emotional jag about Jesus Christ” as Dr. Beach put it during UCM, then left alone this would no doubt happen. But if it is a real reform in the sense of touching a genuine, continuing religious need, then it is made of sturdier stuff and will survive.

By JASON McMANUS

(2) This indicates the second possibility: a continuing group on the campus representing a less liberal point of view than the YMCA and operating outside of the YMCA program. This possibility is the real crux of the whole issue, and at the moment describes exactly what is the case.

(3) Perhaps the ideal possibility, certainly from the YMCA’s point of view, would be a kind of transfusion of the vitality and spirituality of the Georgia movement back into the YMCA program. Returning to our analogy, one of the great sources of the medieval Church’s strength was its ability to channel periodic spiritual reforms and revivals back into the life of the Church. Luther’s reform was one significant failure, on the other hand! This is why analogies are slippery.

THE HUMAN REACTION

But what does this kind of analysis indicate? It points up sharply a failure in the YMCA program. Somehow hall prayer meetings have degenerated to mutual spiritual admiration societies, or reluctant accumulations of nice guys who can’t say no to their hall prayer leaders. Revitalization was needed, and quite frankly the YMCA feels a little miffed that the regeneration came from without, rather than within. It is a human reaction. The leaders of the Georgia Movement are also a little proud of the success of their vehicle. This too is a human reaction.

FUNDAMENTALIST COLOR

Together these human elements have made for a slight tension in the meetings between the leaders of the two groups. Ego breaks inUpon even our divine discussions. But there is another and deeper reason for the tension. It is caused by the cleavage in viewpoint between the two sides. The Georgia Movement does have a fundamentalist color, as I think its leaders would admit. Perhaps this is the source of its appeal. In a college environment, ultimates and authority are discarded in so many realms of study and thought that it is hard to assert it in religion. So the prevailing culture-thought atmosphere tends away from fundamentalism. But many men find the fundamentalist viewpoint most satisfying for their religious needs. And these men at Davidson find this point of view does not permeate the YMCA. Why?

Does the Tail Wag the Dog?

Student Deplores Reactionary Cut System Announced By ROTC

By BILL

In recent months the student body has been encouraged by ten- istration; however, this progressive program is still dormant in some departments of the campus. Indeed, if there have been tentative demonstrations of liberality on the part of the college administration, there have been manifestations of a reactionary attitude on the part of one such department. This—the Department of Military Science.

The recent revision of the cut system has necessitated a redefining of policy by the professors toward overcutting. The ROTC department, too, has now published its manifesto concerning cuts. Issued on March 7, but effective retroactively January 29, this decision calls for the automatic failure of any student who cuts more than the allotted minimum of four hours. Retroactivity was condemned by the writers of this country’s Constitution and is generally agreed to be unethical by legislators of the present.

This redefinition is somewhat stricter than the former rules which applied to the military department. It is obvious that such reaction is contrary to the spirit of the newly liberalized system inaugurated by the administration. It seems, therefore, that our military detachment considers itself an educational institution, separate and distinct from the rest of the college. Their attitude appears to be that the college is here by the grace and benevolence of the United States Army. Such an outlook suggests that the ROTC tail wags the Davidson dog. Since Davidson did not wish this curse upon itself, it seems that the administration might well assert itself to remove said blight from the campus. If the department down the hill hopes to retain the favor of the college proper, it might be suggested—to use an analogy from the military—that the Davidson ROT Corps get in step.

It is because the YMCA is a broad, nonsectarian religious association which tries to provide a framework in which various points of view—fundamental and liberal—can together express and channel the energy of the various faiths. It ought to be a community of seekers.

MENTAL BLOCKS AND INTELLECTUALS

Somewhere the Davidson YMCA has failed to make that plain and true, and excluded a large group of men whom the Georgia Movement has reached. The more liberal hierarchy of the YMCA and the student body has an equal responsibility in the realm of Christian humility—not to throw up mental blocks when they hear the word “testimony” and peer down their long intellectual noses. The basis of the Protestant heritage which we all share is that every man can respond to the truth in his own way. The basis of the Protestant heresy is mistaking our way for the truth.

Correspondence: DC Conversation Dangerously Hit

Dear Editor:

It has been noticed by aware Davidson students that the faculty has abolished the first report of the Spring Semester. This is a move with grave consequences. I wonder whether the faculty seriously considered the void they were creating in student conversation. Now such games as “What Did Prof. So-and-So Give You?” or “What Is Your Average?” will not be able to be played by Davidsonians. This happy medium of student intercourse has been dangerously tampered with. There is some hope, however, that the seasonal game of “How’s Your Hell Week Coming?” will partly remedy this void in Davidson conversation left by the elimination of this report.

The fact that the faculty would take such a daring step suggests that they might be trying to de-emphasize the prominence of grades in favor of an emphasis on education for its own sake and the development of a common frame of reference so that we will be able to talk intelligently.

Sincerely,
TOM FIROR.

Old Timer Likes College Spirit

Box 660. Greenville, S.C.
March 6, 1955.

Editor, The Davidsonian,
Davidson, N. C.

Dear Sir:

May I express to you my appreciation for such a wonderful time at Davidson yesterday. One always has a good time when returning to the old hill even though you have to drive 100 miles out of the way to come. It is always worthwhile. The football game between the varsity and the old-timers was, in my opinion, one of the best efforts the college has ever had to promote better relations between the college and the alumni. I heard several alumni voice the same opinion. I hope it becomes an annual affair. Davidson alumni are, in my opinion, the most loyal group of alumni anywhere, and they are all proud of the fine record the Wildcats made last year on the gridiron. There seems to be a renewed interest everywhere among Davidson men in the grand old college. Let’s keep that spirit alive!

With best wishes,
M. N. ERWIN, SR.
(Old Timer)

RACKS IN THE CLOISTER

By GILBERT GRAGG

What Does The Christian Teacher Owe His Students?

Now that Davidson’s tuition is justly going up to maintain its high quality of education, it seems appropriate to turn a closer gaze on the recipients of a large part of our money. Are we actually getting our money’s worth from our professors? What do we have the right to expect of them as Christian teachers?

CLASS LECTURES

We certainly are entitled to stimulating and interesting lectures. The appalling fact, however, is that many of our professors make little preparation for their lectures, depending on notes weary of use from past years. Reading a lecture is inexcusable; after all, how do professors expect their students to remember what they are spending a lifetime studying and still do not know? With the many new books and periodicals shedding illumination on even the most static subjects, class lectures should be vital and timely; the fascinating archaeological discoveries going on constantly should be used to great advantage in History and Bible lectures, and journals in English, Science, Sociology, Education, and Economics should be relied upon heavily by our teachers to improve their lectures.

PERSONAL CONFERENCES

We have a right to expect parallel assignments in pertinent publications, since one could get a liberal education this way. Surely it is a waste of money for the library to subscribe to many specialized journals when they are hardly read. At least once a month our teachers should arrange conferences with their students to discuss these assignments and mutually stimulate each other. Every professor should feel an obligation to know his students personally and seek to relate with him a particular course with the total picture of his interests, vocational plans, and major field. Our teachers should remember that they, too, are just students who have gone a little further into the sad joyous world of learning and should be anxious to gain new insights from class discussions and personal conferences.

CLASSROOM PROCEDURE

We have the right to expect a classroom atmosphere favorable to a mutual exchange of ideas and an opportunity for constructive questions. Rather than rehash material presented more clearly in the textbooks (which should be changed often for professors’ intellectual growth), anyway, our professors should be our guides to thinking and compliment us with original and thought-provoking tests. A fifty-minute class is much too precious and expensive to be squandered by ego-flattering autobiographical excursions and irrelevant jokes. We do want the benefit of the wit and wisdom our professors have acquired on their journey through life when it is relevant to the material and keeps a balance between objectivity and subjectivity, but not otherwise!

MONKS IN MONASTERY

Our Christian teachers are in a profession which calls for self-sacrifice and service—in short, they “exist for their students.” They are not monks in a monastery but must always study with the idea of sharing new insights with their students and to always welcome a student dropping by for a chat and think maybe he is not just “brownnosing.” Our professors need a more positive attitude concerning the sincerity of students seeking to cultivate their spiritual and intellectual life; perhaps not all come to chapel the day before Christmas holidays because of no more cuts as one professor suggested from the platform and even some may be learning for knowledge, absurd as it may sound! It is difficult for professors to maintain such an attitude when they observe our conduct during the Converse concert, hear an unbelievable horse-laugh in Vespers during a Missions sermon, see students carrying chairs and not staying awake in class after early morning calisthenics and all-night scavenger hunts, failure to take advantage of faculty hospitality on Sunday nights, and claim piously that a religious revival has swept the campus when they observe little tangible difference among the enthusiasts in regard to applying the Christian Faith to materialism, fraternities, or using the talent of our minds which is a holy gift of God to be used to His glory.

MISSIONARIES TO DAVIDSON

We expect our professors to have enough time to live up to the unselfish requirements of their profession. It is indeed a shame that our school can allow some of its professors to become bogged down in a great many committees, important though they may be, that they have no time to give their best to their students. Why not with increased tuition hire two or three PhDs in committee work so our teachers can return to their work? The job of a Christian teacher at Davidson involves being a missionary to an unbelievably anti-educational and nominal Christian student body. It would indeed be difficult for any teacher to fully live up to these standards but a great many at Davidson have done more than others—these few have made Davidson what it is! A dedicated teacher’s reward is immense—the satisfaction of knowing that he has the admiration and devotion (if not popularity) of his students and is seeking to the best of his ability to serve His Lord who grew in “wisdom and stature” by following diligently and conscientiously his high calling.

ROTC Is Turned Down

You don’t say no to Uncle Sam, so the military department was rather nonplussed when a prospective freshman declined its offer of compulsory military training at Louisiana State University. In reply to an information form explaining that two years of basic military training are required at LSU of all physically fit male students between 14 and 23, one freshman wrote:

“Thank you for your generous offer to let me join the ROTC at LSU. I assure you that I would deem it the greatest honor ever to come to me. After giving the matter deep consideration, I have decided that it would be best if I declined your offer.”

The freshman refused the offer “because of the advantage that it would give me over the girls on the campus.”

The red-faced military department plans no action in the case because the he turned out to be a she—Daily Reveille (Louisiana State University) (A.C.P.)