The Davidsonian

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF: Dick Morehead
ASSOCIATE EDITORS: Maurice Crouse, Tom Warlick
Managing Editors: Jim Batten, Frank Bloodworth, Jim Brice
Sports Editor: Bunny Perkinson
Copy Editor: John T. Harmon
News Editors: Bill Galtier, Leon Howell
Feature Editor: Watt McCain
Staff Photographer: Hank Daniel
Assignments: John Trask
File Clerk: Bob Beall

Member of the Associated Collegiate Press and Intercollegiate Press

Page Two
Friday, Sept. 9, 1955

Out of Confusion A College Man

Are you bewildered? Do you find that life around you moves in confusing circles? Have the wrong room, can’t find
your counselor, lost your name tag, feel tired...? Relax, you must be a freshman, and if so the following brief
thoughts are intended for you.

First of all, the conditions in which you find yourself are only normal for orientation. By nature of the varied
motions of this period and your newness to this campus, confusion in varying degrees is expected. Besides, most of the
counselors were in the same boat at one time or another—and some still are.

Orientation is not designed to discourage you or tax your endurance. It should present a brief glimpse of the life
that is to be yours here at Davidson, the grounds and plant surrounding it, and the people involved in its
development. Relax and listen to what is going on around you and all that is directed towards you. Most of
what is imparted comes from experience and is spoken in your interest.

There is much to be gained from this period. Rethink often why you have come to college, the reasons and
motives involved; for the nature and strength of your purposes determine to a great extent your actions and their results.
The importance of a good start cannot be emphasized enough. Sincere and earnest efforts in the battle of the books,
becoming acquainted with members of the student body, and following the rules and regulations, go a long way toward establishing
your mark as a college student. Your best is expected by your college and family as well as yourself.

Take full advantage of the opportunities afforded you here. After you have acquired a successful budget of time, you will
have ample opportunity to engage in the many activities, college features, and worthwhile programs which are offered. Make your college
life well-rounded and culturally deep.

One does not become a college man by donning a freshman hat and tag, by dating every night, or by
joining a fraternity. It becomes a four-year process, one whose growth and stature is determined by the individual’s interest and
desire. To be or not to be a college man—that is your question.

As indicated during your orientation program thus far, you are not only becoming a student at Davidson of math, liberal
arts, or the sciences—you are becoming a student of life. Study accordingly. Upon looking back, you will be amazed at
how fast you have become a part of college life. You will realize that it is an honor and a
challenge to receive and continue the opportunities of the present, spirit of the past, and expectations of the future of
this your college.

What’s in a Name?

What’s in a name? Whether it is in artistic propaganda for nationally known gasoline, in a moniker for a TV
production, or the common tag by which your neighbor is known, there is something very important in a name. An
administrative official said the other day when name plates were issued: “I don’t care what you say about me, as
long as you spell my name correctly.” Another gentleman at Fort Benning ROTC camp was prepared to fight in defense
of his name which had been intentionally mispronounced.

Here at Davidson, the importance of a man’s name often becomes lost in the official recognition of everyone by a
broad smile and a friendly “Hey, Uh” or “Hey, Uh-Uh,” if he is more familiar to you. It becomes an
order to speak. If you don’t, you become a number of the Court of Control roster, banned by local organizations,
and carefully scrutinized by the social police. Don’t be satisfied, however, with a passing or obligatory greeting. One of the
greatest compliments that you can pay a man on beginning acquaintance is to call him by name. For the quicker
you learn a name, the quicker you attach characteristics and qualities—in a word—personality to it; the sooner you know the
student body, the faster you become in spirit and in truth a Davidson gentleman. To call everyone by name, to
know the members of the student body, is not a time-worn tradition: it is a privileged heritage.

Magill’s Resignation Brings New Challenge

The staff of your Davidsonian notes with regret the recent resignation of Sam Magill as YMCA Secretary. His contribution to
the life of our campus and the community has been great, and the boys with whom he has worked and
counseled are lasting evidence of his concern for the highest principles and actions of life. His new position is indeed
a fine opportunity and challenge. Our loss will be their gain.

The YMCA Board of Directors has sought diligently through interviews and conferences to replace Mr. Magill for the remainder of
this year. Their selection will have a large responsibility in guiding a new and voluntary YMCA program. This fact should
give added incentive to your consideration of “Y” membership. The opportunities for service in a voluntary religious organization of this
nature are great and varied. Your efforts and interest can indeed build the new “Y” and soundly fulfill the purpose.

Your Newspaper

A word about the Davidsonian. Contrary to the rumors you may have heard, it is the official student news organ,
a weekly newspaper usually containing four pages, which appears in student rooms on Friday evenings. (It may be found anywhere
on Saturday mornings, however.) It is your paper. Its plans are built around your interests. Contribute to its progress with
your writings, suggestions, comments, and interest. The Davidsonian office in the College Union will be open for your convenience on
Monday afternoon and Wednesday afternoon and evening.—R.H.M.

Rush Week

Just a word about Rush Week and the rushing regulations that you have probably already seen in the Wildcat Handbook.
Rush Week is a pretty important time in the life of the Davidson student and a familiarity with the rushing
rules is necessary if we are to have a successful start. Therefore, get them out and read them over at
once again. Feel free to discuss with your counselor any questions that you think need to be clarified. On Monday,
Phil Koonce, president of the Interfraternity Council, will talk to you in chapel and explain further the intricacies of the
next two weeks. One further word might be said about Rush Week, and that is to be yourself and to
act naturally. It’s a great opportunity to get to meet practically the whole student body personally, so make the most
of it.—Don Stewart, Treasurer of the I.F.C.

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. NEW YORK, N.Y.
CHICAGO * BOSTON * LOS ANGELES * SAN FRANCISCO

BUSINESS MANAGER: Larry Parrott
Advertising Manager: Bob Carmichael
Subscription Circulation: Warner Hall
Business Staff: Bob Majors, Stan Miller, Tony Guiles, Bill Bondurant
Subscription Rate: $2.00 Per Year
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March 8, 1879.
Offices in David Ovens College Union, Davidson College

THE HAT MAKES THE FRESHMAN: OF KINGS AND SENIORITY

‘Y’ Program Depends On Student Reaction
By BLAKE BRINKERHOFF

Those of you who are freshmen are witnessing the start of a YMCA program which in many ways is completely
unlike the one which has functioned in the past. Some of the major changes are as follows:

(1) The Y is voluntary now. This means that students have the opportunity to examine the program carefully and see
for themselves whether or not such an organization is worthy of their time and contributions.

(2) Much of the cabinet structure has been changed. This results from some careful evaluation on the effectiveness of some
of the posts that have characterized the old system—those serving the purpose being kept and others discarded.

(3) A theme for the year has been selected. This theme unites our fellowships as a group of students and
faculty members who through participation in the work carried on by the posts and interest in the total program, are
seeking to live according to the teachings of Jesus. Our theme itself is “Living Daily for Christ.”

Now that we have noticed how the “Y” has changed, we ought to examine some of the characteristics of the
fellowship. The “Y” is not just for pre-ministerials or others who have chosen to enter some phase of full-time Christian
work, but is open to everyone. Skeptics who are searching for answers to their problems, members of various religious faiths,
and others, are welcome as the person who is looking for opportunities to express his firm convictions. Pre-meds, pre-laws, and
pre-not-sures are invited and encouraged to become members.

I hope I am not misunderstood. The most important part of the YMCA is its Christian purpose which will not
be compromised with anything else. But the “Y” is an inclusive and not an exclusive organization.

When you received your Wildcat Handbook you probably noticed the many service opportunities available in the YMCA. Boys’ Work, Scouting,
Community Work, and Deputations to Churches and Schools all afford the chance to serve God through serving others. Through Hall
Prayer meetings, the College Bible Class, and the various Commissions, you have the chance to think through the faith you
have, for everyone deep down inside has faith in something. Through the Gift Fund you have a chance to give
to others who are not as fortunate as you are, and through the social functions planned, you can see that
having a good time in the best spirit is an important part of Christian living.

At this point your attitude may be that your main purpose in college is just to have a good time,
just to study, or to get away from doing anything connected with “religion” except what is compulsory at Davidson. This
type of attitude reflects an immature conception of the purpose of life when practiced. I am reminded of two statements
which I heard this summer. They really made me think. First of all, it was said that “although many college
students have the historical and mathematical knowledge of mature people, their religious conceptions are on a 12-year-old level.” The other
statement was that “Each day is equidistant from God.” If we accept these statements as truth, and certainly they are
worthy of serious thought, then college life can be viewed in a new and challenging perspective.

The success of the “Y” program will not be seen in numbers or statistics of any kind. It will be
measured by the intangibles of deepened convictions, enthusiastic participation, and a spirit of brotherly love. We hope that you will
examine the program of the “Y,” ask any questions you may have about it, and take an active part in
the work that it seeks to do.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

At Davidson. TRADITION The chandelier in Phi Hall is a replica of the one under which Napoleon the Third and
the Empress Eugenie were married. It was made in France about 1850 and bought by the Phi's in 1853. It
is an established fact that Woodrow Wilson planted a tree while a student at Davidson (Everybody did.) But where it
is (or was) nobody knows. Davidson had the first separate YMCA building on a Southern college campus. This was the
“old gym” which stood between Chambers and Watts and was pulled down several years ago. There have been two student
walk-outs in the history of Davidson. In 1855 a student was expelled (it was believed for rocking a member of
the faculty) and the student body was reduced from 75 to 31. In 1903 the Freshmen walked to Cornelius to
catch the train home because the Sophs broke their pledge about hazing (or so the Frosh contended). They were persuaded
to come back. The Phi Beta Kappa chapter at Davidson was the second in the South established in a liberal
arts college. .... underlying all, a Davidson student is a gentleman in every sense of the word. He is courteous,
truthful, reverent, and above all honorable.

QUEENS AND ALL SUCH THINGS Gentlemen, you inherit a great tradition. For over a century there have been Davidson men
and Queens women, and the record over the hundred years of their various and nefarious relations is, on the whole,
a pretty sordid one. The late president of Queens once described the highway between Davidson and Charlotte as “that road
paved with Davidson hopes and Queens resolutions.” Now this distinguished man had quite a sense of humor: he once tried
to quell a Davidson riot that had caravaned its operations to the Queens campus by offering them cokes. But in
this, he kidded us not. By the way, we don’t have riots anymore. They disappeared from the Davidson scene at
about the same time as the ROTC unit withdrew from the College. It will take a little background for you
to grasp the unique significance of Queens in the life of a Davidson man. Way back in the dim beginnings
of the Western World it is recorded that the Lord made man, and then he made woman because it was
not good for man to be alone. This rather handy concept survived for some 50,000 years and may have served
to keep the race going. But with a characteristically liberal and pioneering spirit that cares nothing for the past and
outmoded tradition, Davidson reversed all this. It is good for man to be alone. The world of Greek verbs and
Pavlovian dogs and the world of hairpins and smeared Kleenex do not meet—between them there is a fixed great gulf
across which no man may pass if he belongs to Davidson. Or at least this was the case until one
bleak and dismal, monohormonic year, like all the years before it since 1837, a student whose name we do not
know but whose title is Genius made a discovery that was our salvation: the weekend. For years people simply knew
when the week began because on that day they went to church. For the students, it was the day you
didn’t study. That was all. It never had occurred to anyone that you might make a positive use of it,
or that it might affect your activities on the preceding day. But finally, it did occur to one man, and
I wish we knew more about that historic Saturday night. Some historians have hinted he was just lazy and didn't
feel like studying that night. Some others have suggested he owed her father some money or needed to borrow a
book from him. But I like to think it was premeditated, a burst of that primeval creative energy that motivates
men at every crucial point in history, and that if he could tell us about it now he would say
with Luther as he went to Cornelius to call on Miss Daphne on a borrowed horse: “Here I go—I can
do no other- wise, so help me.” The skeptic may scoff at that as a cry of mere desperation, but
the fact remains that the Unknown Horseman was the first who ever did anything about the disease, and from him
has evolved our fertile social life as we know it today at Davidson. Thus, when you turn to page 86
in your Wildcat handbook, you will find a map. On this map are the directions and distances by thumb to
significant centers of that other world. Because the weekend is now an accepted concept, a hypothesis that has proved itself,
you may visit, and no doubt will, a good many of these exotic oases. And what is the significance of
Queens in all this? Simply, as a quick glance at the map will tell you, Queens is the closest of
all, the nearest pasture. Subsequently, in the never-ceasing, relentless quest for The Girl, you may find others greener in your
four years, but the first pasture for the Davidson man is traditionally Queens. Girls come to Queens to date Davidson
men—this is a recommendation for them in itself. So make the most of the Queens-Davidson Freshman Dance, for after this
week the upper-class competition moves in, and it is a hungry league. Man still doesn’t like to live alone. If
you do not know this now after three days here, you will know hereafter. Some blonde insurance is quite in
the order of business. To arms!

Davidson Students Begin Year Under Revised Constitution This fall marks the beginning of the forty-fifth year that Davidson students have
governed themselves from a written constitution. Throughout this period of self-government, never once has the faculty reversed a decision of
the Student Council. In order that we of the Davidson Student Body of 1955-56 may maintain this heritage of self-government
and strengthen it for those who will follow, I would like to briefly make a few requests of each student.
My first request is that each of you thoroughly familiarize yourself with the Student Government Constitution. Last Spring saw the
Student Body vote in a revised Constitution, and this year marks the first full school term under this revised document.
With self-government goes a strong obligation; and this obligation can only be fulfilled by having a complete knowledge of the
provisions of the constitution and determining to follow these provisions. Not only for that reason, but to ensure that no
one will suffer because of lack of knowledge, I urge each of you to know what is expected of you,
and to have no question concerning the laws which we the students have set up for ourselves. I refer each
of you to pages 48-62 of the Wildcat Handbook where you will find the complete Constitution. Take off a few
minutes and read these pages. My second request is twofold. First, find out who the Student Council members are, and
second, go see them when you have a problem, a gripe, or something you would like to see done. On
page 47 of the Wildcat Handbook you will find listed the 15 members of the Student Council. These boys were
elected by the Student Body for one reason, that reason being to serve the students. The Student Government office located
on the second floor of the College Union will be open at regular scheduled hours, to be announced later. You
are invited and urged to come in. During the first few days of school, we will try to keep the
office open as much as possible. If you are unable to find anyone there, get in touch with a Student
Council member, or come by my room, 151 Belk. It is the sincere hope of the Student Council that the
Council will play a primary role in the student life during the coming year. We hope that you, the students,
will use us to voice your opinions and to work for the type of school you desire. In conclusion, always
keep in mind that the Constitution is the creation of the students, not the faculty. Likewise, the maintenance of these
rules is a student responsibility, again not a faculty job. The students can change this body of laws at any
time, but until then we must abide by them. The sole reason for Student Government at Davidson is to enable
students to run their own affairs and to govern themselves.

PERIOD OF ADJUSTMENT NEEDED BY ALL FRESHMEN Chapel Hill, N.C. (AP)—As an individual experiencing university life for the first time,
the entering freshman encounters a significant adjustment period, according to a report of the special committee on fraternity rushing at
the University of North Carolina. For many, it is the first extended absence from home, the committee points out. Others,
developing proper study habits and learning to accept additional responsibilities is a serious problem. The full report on Rushee's Problems
follows: While the length of the adjustment period varies with the background and the maturity of the individual, a minimum
adjustment is required of all students. In the sense that the first few weeks on campus are important in establishing
the tone of an individual’s work, it was felt that as little outside pressure should be permitted as possible. The
observation was made that the grades of the average freshman in a fraternity were comparatively lower than the average non-fraternity
freshman. This was attributed to some extent to a time-consuming rush schedule which occurred at a time when many freshmen
were not adjusted. It was pointed out that, in addition, this period was frequently the period when first quizzes were
given. The committees agreed that fraternities also required some time at the beginning of each academic year to prepare themselves
both for their academic work and the related activities of the fraternity. The first few weeks of school did not
seem to be adequate, considering the additional study requirements and the myriad activities of the fall. The suggestion was made
that individuals interested in fraternities would not have an opportunity to appraise them without a longer waiting period. At the
same time, fraternity members could not evaluate the prospective rushees properly. For these and other reasons, it was felt that
a rush period at the end of the first semester might be desirable. There were a number of significant points,
however, which were brought out in support of an early rushing program. Financially, fraternities are faced with a serious problem
if a system of delayed rushing is initiated. Figures presented to the committee by the Student Activities Fund Office showed
that at the present time fraternities would lose on an average between $50 and $100 per week operating at less
than maximum capacity. It was explained that this situation was created by the fact that fewer boys were using the
facilities. Records showed that as pledge classes joined the fraternities, they were able to absorb the costs of these operating
losses so that by the end of the year most of the fraternities were able to break even or show
a small profit. If pledging were delayed, the costs of joining a fraternity would be raised considerably and would keep
some students who were now able to participate in fraternity activities from joining. A delay in joining a fraternity and
the resultant strict silence periods would cause undue pressure on freshmen and they would frequently be unable to meet socially
with friends that they had known prior to coming to the University.

Welcome, Freshmen I gladly extend to you a cordial welcome to Davidson. We admit you to a fellowship which is
real and vital in the lives of thousands of upper-classmen and alumni. Davidson is a friendly campus, I hope you
will discover it to be so, and that you will contribute to that spirit. You enter now upon an adventure
which is exceedingly important in your total life’s experience. What you do with this opportunity will determine to a considerable
extent the direction and level of your career in the later years. Four essentials to a successful college career at
Davidson are Honor, Friendliness, Will Power, and Hard Work. Anytime during this year, or the years which follow, when I
can be of any assistance to you in any way, I sincerely hope you will let me know. I want
to know each of you. You will be welcome in my office and in my home. John R. Cunningham, President.
