The Davidsonian
The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

EDITOR: HENRY BROCKMANN
BUSINESS MGR.: TIM COOPER
Managing Editors: Maurice Crouse, Tom Warlick
Sports Editor: Jim Holshouser
Feature Editor: Dick Morehead
News Editors: Watt McCain, Bill Gallier
Copy Editor: John Harmon
Photographer: Hank Daniel
Assignments: Jim Brice
Business Staff: Tommy Taylor, Larry Parrott
Circulation: Bob Carmichael

Published each Friday during the college year except during examination and holiday periods. Member of the Associated Collegiate Press and
Intercollegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service. Subscription rate: $2.00 per year. Entered as second class matter
at the Post Office at Davidson, N.C., under the Act of March 3, 1879. Offices in David Ovens College Union,
Davidson College.

Page Two
Friday, April 1, 1955

Political Open Season

Politics is politics, and politics, be it ever so Presbyterian, has blown in with the spring thaw to heat up
the talking apparatus of most wheels, spokes, cogs, and rims in Davidson. As this edition goes to press, speculation runs
high as to whom the students will choose as President of the Student Government for next year. The greatest part
of elections lies ahead, however, so a few healthy reminders to keep their feet on the ground, not to be
blown about like a reed in every little wind, might be given to students.

Walter Lippmann has pictured a politician (in A Preface to Morals, p. 281) as one who says “I will give
you what you want,” and a statesman as one who says “What you think you want is this. What it
is possible for you to get is that. What you really want, therefore, is the following.” It would be wise
if students individually and as a group took it upon themselves when they vote to ask one question: Is this
man the best at blarney and the most popular, or is he the man who can do the job? We
need to choose the men who can move us forward with the least friction, not cause the greatest explosion for
no purpose but to be heard.

Outhouses, Hothouses, Or Frat Houses

We are reminded of the habit on the part of vociferous members of the student body to rummage automatically in
old trash piles of consciousness and bring the “College” to task for opposing the social fraternities. Two years ago, for
instance, many had the idea that the administration, in providing for Union eating for freshmen, was “out to destroy the
last bit of student sovereignty, the fraternity.” Heat considerably outdid light in the controversy, students saying that once the administration
had its way the fraternity houses would be nothing more than “the outhouses of the Union.”

It would be interesting to find upon exactly what grounds the students find the fraternities the most important part of
college life. They are made up of groups of students who eat together and meet once weekly, and they elect
members to an organization known as the IFC which chooses big name bands for dance weekends. They make a lot
of fuss when they have hell week, and twice yearly they have their own private balls all over the countryside.
Some members of all of them play intramural sports, and when they do something unusual they tell national headquarters about
it. Beyond this, Davidson fraternities don’t seem to be fraternities at all, if one would define fraternity as a group
of men united under a common ideal and working toward a common goal.

Maybe the fraternities should ask themselves some questions about what use they serve to forward the College and education, since
they are accusative in speaking of College designs against them. What fraternities, for instance, have taken an active part in
sponsoring events which the College brings to campus? Have any of the groups ever approached the administration to offer their
sponsorship in publicizing an artist series feature as S&B, ODK, and the IFC have sponsored blood drives in the past?
At least one fraternity was proud of itself for some “Greek Week” work amidst all the hell week noise in
March, but has any group undertaken a project as a fraternity instead of as a group of impressed freshmen? How
many fraternities worked as groups to publicize and support the U.C.M.?

Sometimes we wonder if many people haven’t got things just backward around here, complaining about things which they themselves could
alleviate with a little effort. Couldn’t a lot of student apathy be eliminated if those students who are joined in
the eleven brotherhoods united as groups to support the activities of the College. There can be little doubt that in
return the College would both support and treat the fraternities as active organizations vital to its life.

A clear sign of progress was the production of “Good News” in co-sponsorship between the Alpha Tau Omega Fraternity and
the College Y.M.C.A. last December, to supply finances for the Christmas Gift Fund. Such activities as this on the part
of the social fraternities could well convince pragmatic thinkers that they have a place on campus, and are not just
outdated pieces of floating tradition like their forefathers, the literary societies.

New Y, Same Chapel

The all-new YMCA Constitution has passed by a stupendous vote which shows, among other things, that the word “voluntary” still
means a lot to a Student Body in which the word involuntary has been so thoroughly impregnated with regard to
religious exercises.

It is unfortunate, we feel, that the students had jurisdiction over their membership in the Y, which has been one
of the most active organizations for their benefit, while they have not had the slightest chance to be heard in
like manner regarding chapel, which is of questionable spiritual worth, and which is such a sore spot that we seldom
hear of a week gone by without some committee trying to form a sensible solution to “unexemplary student conduct.” Now
that it’s over, the Y will have to get out and dig in the fall, but we are afraid it
will have about as much trouble drumming up business as a fishmonger on the supermarket block.

Traditionally Irreligious

Speaking of chapel, we heard one of our faculty friends defending it vehemently recently. Said he, chapel is absolutely necessary,
because it is all that makes Davidson Davidson, the only great tradition left which ties the students to each other
and to the college. Hence, it must be maintained. We feel not only that his thesis was, to speak softly,
questionable, but far more important than this, that he has left religion, the reason our forefathers instituted chapel, completely out
of the picture. So far as we can tell, without its religious function, chapel is utterly undefensible, and it is
up to the committee in charge of it not to try to keep the noise down, but to see if
it has a basic purpose any longer which by any imaginative stretch can be called fulfilled. Somehow we're skeptical.

Small Denominational Fadeout?

An editorial in the March 23 issue of Christian Century throws interesting light on Dr. Cunningham's recent chapel talk summarizing
the astonishing growth in college population before 1970 (2% to 5 million) and Davidson’s part in that growth. Says the
Century, to fill the rising need “hundreds of two-and four-year colleges, built and financed through local and state governments, will
be necessary if higher education is to meet the demands made upon it.” If Davidson’s philosophy that small schools are
best and that denominational schools provide the best character in the graduate by giving him church relationship throughout his college
career, then Davidson should either begin to revise her definition of the word “small” or let the state schools have
all but the richest cream of Presbyterian youth. After all, Scots multiply mickle like everybody else.

“Follow your conscience, but first make certain that it is not the conscience of an ass."—John Ruskin.
“If you can give a reason why you love God, you love reason and not God.”—Kierkegaard.

As The Administration Sees Athletic Subsidization

The Overall Picture
By DR. JOHN R. CUNNINGHAM

I have accepted the invitation of O.D.K. to state my convictions about subsidized football at Davidson College. It seems altogether
in order that such a statement should be made to the students who are the ones most concerned. Certainly all
of the students should know the score. The best interests of the entire student body are to be considered in
this connection.

When we face the problem of football at Davidson nobody is satisfied. The Alumni, the Trustees, the Faculty, the Students,
and our friends could all wish that it might be more satisfactorily handled. We must be frank and factual about
the problem as it confronts us. We have dreamed about the good old days and hoped they could come again.
We have failed to recognize what has been happening to football in the colleges of the country generally and among
our own competitors and within our own institution.

OUR PAST RECORD

It is not fair to a student body or to the morale of an institution to place it in a
position where it must almost constantly be on the losing side of the ledger. I have checked back on Davidson's
football record from 1920. I find that there are only nine years in the thirty-four seasons in which we have
won more games than we have lost. Three of those years were in the twenties, four were in the thirties,
one was in the forties, and one in this decade—last year. It should be added that in a number of
those years we tied one or more games. At only one period since 1920 have we seemed to win with
some consistency, and that was in the year 1924, 1925, and 1926; and these were in the years before subsidization
had come on the scene.

In stating my conviction about subsidized football, I believe my position is in the main that of my associates in
the Administration and in the Faculty. Let me make it abundantly clear that these statements are without personal implications and
in no sense reflect upon our splendid staff of football coaches and the fine body of students who are receiving
athletic scholarships. Up to the present time this has been a recognized policy of the College, and those operating within
that framework are completely in the clear.

Davidson College is continuing to discuss a problem which has been settled by many of her sister institutions of like
rank and size ten to twenty years ago. It is the question of subsidizing football. Increasingly Davidson is finding herself
bereft of competition with congenial and like-sized colleges because of the number of such institutions which have in years past
given up subsidized athletics and are unwilling to play colleges which are subsidized. I have reference to such institutions in
the South as Emory, Sewanee, Centre, Southwestern, Hampden-Sydney, and more recently Washington and Lee.

AMATEUR SPORTS

A decade or more ago many small liberal arts colleges in New England and in the Midwest—such institutions as Swarthmore,
Johns Hopkins, Amherst, Williams, Hanover, Wooster, Carleton, Coe, Westminster, and others—saw the handwriting on the wall, and moved to amateur
sports. Under this arrangement they seem quite convinced and satisfied. Naturally, they do not look with any favor upon playing
institutions which are in effect buying their teams. More recently between twenty and thirty of the large institutions which were
playing “big-time” football and paying for it have given it up, assigning as their chief reason their inability to afford
the financial outlay involved.

Meanwhile, Davidson has been placed in the anomalous position of having to undertake a type of schedule which involved the
extremes between Georgia Tech on the one hand and Elon and Catawba and other like institutions on the other. It
is only within recent years that we have found it necessary to forego playing our former rivals, Duke, Carolina, Army,
and other such institutions. The winning season of last year for Davidson was, as I see it, only partly related
to increased subsidizing and very largely attributable to the fact that we did not play Georgia Tech, Harvard, and North
Carolina State. Had we done so as we did the year before, it would surely have been another disastrous year
of losses.

Our present program would seem to be a desperate struggle to carry on as we have done in the past
and a failure to recognize what has been happening all about us both in actual practice and in educational opinion.
Davidson has never subsidized so heavily as at the present time. Meanwhile, her record has not often been more unsatisfactory.
In 1948, we subsidized to the extent of $8,000 for football. In 1954, it was $30,000. As I see it,
Davidson’s best years in the sport were years when subsidizing was almost unknown. Davidson men seem always to have played
their best game when they were playing purely for the love of the sport and through loyalty to the institution.

FOOTBALL SCHOLARSHIPS

We have now moved to where practically the entire team is subsidized. Last year there were forty-three students on football
scholarships totaling $30,000. The average athletic scholarship last year was $688 apiece. This means that a considerable number of players
were receiving their entire college expenses for four years while others were receiving smaller amounts.

While considering the financial situation, let it be noted that while...spending $30,000 provided as designated scholarships by the Alumni, the
College provided in addition the salaries, travel costs, uniforms, training table, and other expenses amounting up to $32,000 more than
the income from gate receipts and guarantees.

UNFAIR EXPENDITURE

I submit that such an expenditure on one sport is hardly fair to the other sports, to the predominant number
of students who are not in any of these sports, or to the other departments of the College. An important
administrative survey made of Davidson College in 1952 by a highly skilled firm of management engineers stated, “Net expenses incurred
for intercollegiate football amounted to 557% of the total athletic and physical education expense although fifty-nine students, or less than
8% of the student body, attained intercollegiate squad status during 1951-52."

In recent years Davidson has been spending more money on intercollegiate football than on any one of the following: (1)
the College Library, Staff, books, and maintenance, (2) Its entire Religious Program, (3) All other sports put together, (4) The
entire Music Department, (5) Any other Single Department in the institution, (6) Than the entire annual gifts of the churches
through benevolent channels.

The Faculty has repeatedly taken action indicating its belief in intercollegiate football as a sport. There is no position on
the part of any in the Administration or Faculty to discriminate against this sport which has meant a great deal
to individual students and to the College. It is believed that amateur football is enjoyed quite as much by the
students and creates a morale and spirit which heavily subsidized football with its commercial aspects cannot create.

JOINT COMMITTEE REPORT

It is with many of these and other considerations in mind that a joint committee of five Faculty members and
five Trustees, after working long and hard at our entire setup a year ago this spring, came forward with the
following recommendation to the Trustees for the establishment of a policy. This was their recommendation which was fully discussed and
unanimously adopted by the Trustees:

“We recommend to the Trustees that they authorize the President of the College to solicit and encourage a selected group
of at least six colleges and universities to join with us in promoting a program looking toward the abolishing of
subsidized athletics (that is, athletic scholarships as such) at the earliest possible date. In order that the President of the
College may understand the degree of authority given him under this recommendation, we would agree that the principles adopted by
the Ivy Group indicate the general type of agreement to be desired.”

OUR PECULIAR PROBLEMS

Note the problem which Davidson’s general position creates for a football coach. He starts with unyielding academic standards for admission.
Nobody questions this requirement, and Coach Dole has been very conscientious and considerate of it. The number of football men
available for Davidson College on this condition is thereby considerably decreased. In the next place, we are a small college
in a small village where the spectator interest is greatly decreased in light of easy transportation and television. Furthermore, the
ideal of Davidson College for providing an adequate physical training for every student in attendance militates against overemphasis on any
one sport. There are few colleges in this section of America undertaking so broad a program of physical education, intramural
sports, and intercollegiate sports. There are few, if any, colleges better equipped or staffed for this kind of program.

In light of these considerations and many others which could be presented, I am fully convinced, and I believe the
Faculty of the College together with many of its Trustees and Alumni are too, that our wisest procedure is the
working out of a schedule for intercollegiate football with institutions which are willing to join us on the basis of
the Trustee’s resolution of May, 1954.

E. M. Starr

Attacks Davidsonian; Threatens To Sue For Libel

Dear Editor:

As my son, Wilson, was too busy to write due to studying and reading in the faint shadow of Woodrow
Wilson, at the library, I subscribed to the Davidsonian in hopes of getting some news. I never receive my copy
until two weeks after publication. You can’t blame this on the faculty, or can you? Your circulation manager is probably
a Tar-heel Davidson brainwashed senior. You should appoint a Yankee freshman if possible, if you want service.

My copy of February 25 has been held up indefinitely because of a very degrading, slanderous and libelous article which
assassinates the fine character of my son. The truth is stretched and implications made that will permanently injure the good
name and future success of said Wilson C. Starr. Take notice of the outstretched hand with wine glass superimposed which
reminds me of the McCarthy episode, done to implicate an innocent person. Who would dream there were Roy Cohns at
dear old Davidson!

In order to protect the good name of my son, who is a descendant of one of the founders of
Harvard College, I am forced to bring suit for partial damage of one million ($1,000,000) dollars. Such a headline should
give your paper temporary reprieve from the waste baskets. You could hold up delivery of papers (as you have mine)
and might even sell them to the faculty.

After receiving judgment I will then decide which I prefer—the Church or the Gymnasium. Probably the gym as then I
would have the concession to furnish all gym suits and supporters and then I would have them by the—throat, and
perhaps would receive an order for athletic equipment. Being a foreigner (anyone not from North Carolina) that would be fantastic.
Of course, I may have to give in to my wife as usual, she being from old Virginia—loves antiques. She
would prefer one of the DORMS, but would insist on including caretaker with feather duster for Davidson atmosphere.

My son is the FIRST to be domiciled in a furnished home in the exclusive suburb of Cornelius. Perhaps he
will be the FIRST to receive a scholarship during the last semester of his senior year. The school might prefer
to call it a Fellowship at Duke School of Medicine. So there you are,

E. M. STARR.

P.S.—Since interviewing many of the future Rhodes scholars, surgeons and business tycoons in your school I find that Davidsonian could
not be held guilty of withholding “news” regardless of time of delivery.

The Financial Side

By D. GRIER MARTIN

There was a time, before the days of television, “big time” football, and rapid transportation, when colleges like Davidson supported
their entire athletic programs with the income received from football games. These were the days when eight or ten thousand
people came fairly regularly to Richardson Field to watch the Wildcats play, requiring the erection each fall of bleachers along
the sides next to the stadium and also in both end zones!

The extent of the change is indicated by the fact that Davidson's 1954 football team, the best in many years,
drew only 8,403 spectators for the five home games at Davidson and the result was income barely sufficient to pay
the actual game expenses (travel, officials, ticket sellers, etc.) with nothing left to meet all the other football expenses of
equipment, coaches, movies, scouting, travel, publicity, maintenance, and many others.

BIG LEAGUE COMPETITION

This is a condition which is by no means peculiar to Davidson College. In fact, it is fairly typical of
those institutions which are similar in size and type of program. And the worst part of it is that the
situation may get worse instead of better. Robert Ball, former Athletic Director at Yale, writing in the January 10th issue
of Sports Illustrated stated that “college football as it is played every Saturday in the fall by over 400 teams
throughout the country is in grave danger today.” He believes that the football programs of these colleges will be virtually
ruined unless the NCAA controlled system of telecasting football games is continued. Since he wrote that article there has been
some indication that the system will not be continued in the same degree and many interpret this as the beginning
of the end of any real control.

Perhaps a few figures on this year’s athletic budget of income and expense may help to make the picture clearer:

Football Gate Receipts $23,104
Football Game Expenses $20,330
Other Football Expenses 35,213
65,643
Net Loss, Football 32,379

(Other Football Expenses includes uniforms, equipment, proportion of coaches’ salaries, early practice, travel, film, scouting, training supplies, telephone, etc.)

SCHOLARSHIPS

The expense of athletic scholarships has not been included in the expenses listed above. Approximately $30,000 in football scholarships and
$2,800 in basketball were awarded for this year. These grants were made possible by the designated Alumni Fund gifts for
Wildcat Club athletic scholarships. Last year athletic scholarships totalled $31,600 of which the Wildcat Club raised $26,600, the remainder being
supplied from the regular college budget. The college has made a commitment for a program of not more than $35,000
in athletic scholarships for 1955-56 and this has been guaranteed by the Wildcat Club.

What would be the financial effect of a discontinuance of subsidized athletic scholarships at Davidson? This is a difficult if
not impossible question to answer. Much would depend on the institutions with whom Davidson would compete. If these institutions provide
rivalries which are already “natural” ones or if they can be developed into “natural” rivalries it is believed by many
that a great deal of interest would result from such competition.

MUST MAINTAIN STANDARDS

In the matter of expenses there would undoubtedly be considerable saving in a number of different ways. Teams which are
now competing on a non-subsidized basis do not spend nearly as much on such items as scouting, uniforms, equipment, films,
telephone, recruiting, and similar things. On the other hand, many of the expenses will not change too much. Davidson would
not want on an amateur basis to provide any less skillful coaching, poor equipment, inadequate facilities, or any other substandard
items which would make the game less valuable in its contribution to the participant or less interesting to the spectator.

The elimination of contributions to the Wildcat Club athletic scholarship program would probably result in increased alumni support of other
phases of the college’s program, including increased giving for scholarships for all types of students. It is doubtful whether such
a change would result in the transfer of all giving for athletic scholarships to other purposes, since some alumni are
interested only in the athletic program of the College, but the vast majority of the alumni are interested in the
whole college program.

RACKS IN THE CLOISTER

By LEIGHTON McCUTCHEN

A Primer For Candidates--Davidson Style

Ah spring! And the sap is rising all over the campus, producing blooms and fruits, especially in the area of
politics. If you are a hopeful, then this primer is for you.

“OUR” WAY

You see here at Davidson we don't believe in campaigning or voting on issues per se, or in arguing with
each other about who or what is sensible for a particular office. That sort of open politics is naughty you
know. Under such a system, people have to think about a platform, and are forced to sell their ideas. Of
course this leads to pain and friction. Such a plan would assume that there are issues dividing us as a
college family (ugly thought) which are worthwhile enough to be fought over. And again, only “gung-ho’s” get excited enough to
campaign, and who likes those kind. So you can see that our way is much better. And moreover—we do vote
on issues now. Of course we gain knowledge of them through hearsay only since the paper, public debate, systematic presentation
and rebuttal—all are banned by the Holy Constitution. But the issues are there. Things like, is the candidate sincere—i.e., is
he nice, does he know other names besides mine, does he fit in with the “boys.” Another issue concerns whether
or not the candidate has some talent for leading. You know that means does he not take things too seriously,
and does he lead from the back row rather than from way out in front (we don't trust this kind).
Of course the candidate must believe in this third issue. Can he do the job better than it’s been done
before. If he does, that is all he needs to say for election, for we will trust him at his
word, and then forget about him in his office next year.

FOOLISH BOY

Don’t be misled into thinking that there is a better way to run an election. Don’t try to run on
issues like that of promoting Negro enrollment, liberalizing of the constitution to provide a thoughtful student body with a real
voice, or of putting more money on scholarships for boys that really need them. Don’t pass the word around that
you have a particular view on hell week activities, or on athletic subsidization, or on the drinking question, or improvements
in the curriculum of the college. Your voters won't like you if you do this. We want personalities in office,
not fellows bound to do a job promised. It’s the Davidson Way, and it’s pretty near perfect. So walk in
it, candidate, if you want to win.

(Sour grapes? Let’s hope not entirely.)
