The Bavidsonian
The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

EDITOR: HENRY BROCKMANN
BUSINESS MGR.: TIM COOPER
Managing Editors: Maurice Use, Tom Warlick
Sports Editor: Jim Holshouser
Feature Editor: Dick Morehead
News Editors: Wi
Copy Editor: Photographer Hank Daniel
Assignments: Brice
Business Staff: Tommy Taylor, Larry Parrott, Carmichael
Circulation: Bo!

Published each Friday during the year except during holiday periods. Member of the Associated Collegiate Press and Intercollegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service. Subscription rate: $2.00 per year. Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N.C., under the Act of March 3, 1897. Offices in David Ovens College Union, Davidson College.

Friday, February 4, 1955

Page Two

Case 16, A Local Possibility?

Perhaps “Case 16” was needed to disturb the complacency of those who believe smugly that big-time football is completely compatible with big-time education. True, the instance is probably an extreme example of what happens when athletics dominate intellect in a college program, but the fact that there was such a case at all points out the dangers in an unbalanced emphasis on athletics.

“Case 16” is an unidentified University of Maryland football player in his fifth year of college work. He has an IQ of 85 and his curriculum includes physical education, skills courses which are required of all freshmen, and another course which he is taking for the third time, having received D and F in previous attempts. In addition to the lowering of academic standards, the small group of athletes at the university receive a little more than one-half of the total financial aid available to students. Because of the over-emphasis of athletics at the expense of academic standards, the university is threatened with the loss of accreditation unless the situation is changed quickly.

What is the significance of “Case 16” and the Maryland crisis to Davidson? Don’t our teams usually have scholastic averages slightly higher than the all-men’s average? They do—but can that standing be maintained along with greater emphasis on sports? It must be remembered that athletic teams at Davidson now consist of full-time students who are also athletes, not musclemen who are incidentally students of a sort. It is no secret that scholastic requirements here cannot be met without some effort, and that is one reason why we lose outstanding prospects to other schools. Greater subsidization does not seem to be the answer, because more financial aid would be little inducement to a boy who is afraid that he cannot make the grades. Only a lowering of scholastic standards would help, and such action would compromise the integrity of the college.

Fundamentally, the question is whether the college is to be recognized for its intellectual or athletic program. If we want to participate in big-time athletics on an equal basis with other schools, we must revise our concept of the place of athletics in the curriculum. Does the school exist to produce well-educated men or winning teams? The answer to that question is an important one to remember when considering the merits of subsidization.—M.A.C.

L’Esprit des lois

As members of the Student Body, we are rarely called upon to report violations of the Honor System. This is fortunate both for our own feelings and for the system itself, for the system works best when there are no violations. We are seeking the honorable man; the cheater, the liar, the thief, these are imperfect products occurring where the system is weak. We have accepted for ourselves the responsibility of producing honor instead of dishonor.

There are authorities such as Dr. Frank Crane who insist that all honor systems are invitations to dishonesty. And perhaps they are wherever the students fail to believe that honor is good and that the honor system is a means of protecting and encouraging honor. The Davidson student has always placed a high value tag upon honor. The punishment of violators has been only the negative expression of this positive good present in the everyday life of the Davidson man.

Whether discovered or not, the violator undermines the basic spirit of honor. He abuses something not of his own creation—the opportunity for honor. He sees that he has compromised himself, but not that he has abused the privileges passed on to him by previous generations of students. The honor system is somewhat like a bank with each class drawing on the honor deposited by the previous classes, and in turn making its own deposits of honor for the future; all the while enjoying the respect, both self and public, which comes with trust and honor.

Our concept of honor, then, is not one which enlists everyone as a sort of secret police to ferret out offenders, but rather a positive commitment of each student to practice honor in his own daily life—always reacting quickly, however, to remove violators in order to protect not only himself and the group but also the ideal of honor. That this is tattling or snooping is obviously false. That it requires self-sacrifice and the substitution of the welfare of the group for that of one who has already placed his own welfare above all else is likewise obvious.

In the past we have prided ourselves upon our honor. We must continue to do so, justifying our pride through the exercise of the responsibilities as well as the privileges of honor.—F.F.F.

Financial Compulsion Needed In Y Program

Compulsory Y.M.C.A. membership has been one of the biggest considerations in the formation of the Y Constitution which will be presented in the near future. Dr. Cunningham has pointed out that Y membership is not compulsory as such, for students are not required to take an active part in its activities. It is the financial compulsion, however, the allotment given the Y from every student's Activity Fee, that most students complain about.

This financial compulsion is what the board and cabinet have sought to alleviate in providing for voluntary membership in the Constitution. It was felt that if Y membership were made voluntary to students there would be a less forced feeling on their part, and consequently a ceasing of antagonism to the Y. This would enable it to realize its full capacities as a Christian organization of service. The students that joined the Y under the new system, moreover, would probably consider themselves more integral to the organization and would be more active in soliciting new members and sufficient finances to run the Y business.

The main question, however, is finances. The Davidson College Y runs on a budget not far short of $10,000 per year, somewhat phenomenal for a student body of 850. Out of the budget come expenses for separate items running from fifteen to well over four thousand dollars. Services which affect all students include the costly special services (this year the U.C.M.) and the more costly Wildcat Handbook. By these two main items, and by most of the other projects of the Y, the average student is affected.

Another primary question in studying the proposed voluntary membership is the question of raising the necessary money to support the budget. If the budget is cut, which is probable, the problem would remain as to where the members would go in order to solicit money to keep their program going at its present level of efficiency and scope. Could money still come from the college? Directly or indirectly this would still be a drain on unwilling students’ pockets, and the reaction would be typical of the present widespread antagonism. Could vesper offerings still go to the Y? Vespers are college-run, and it would be feasible to question the allocating of the offering to an organization not otherwise connected with the college. The members could have variety shows, skits, paper drives, or what have you, but it is doubtful that they could ever raise the money necessary to meet the budget without spending so much time on it as to make the rest of their program ineffectual.

Regardless of their attitudes toward it, the YMCA vitally affects all students at Davidson. Granted, a relatively small percentage of students are active in its work, but in order for that important work to continue we feel that the financial support of every student is necessary. Five dollars is a cheap price to pay for the services that the YMCA renders each semester to even the most apathetic or opposing student mind.

PREVENTION RATHER THAN CORRECTION: “Active Duty” Is Necessary To Maintain Honor System

By CLARK REED

Article V. “The Honor System” of the Student Government Constitution contains six sections that deal expressly with the Honor System. These sections state that a student shall be honor bound to refrain from cheating, “either on recitations, reviews, examinations, or any other pledge work,” from stealing, and from perjury; and, that any violation of these sections that comes under the observation of a member of the student body must be reported immediately. These are the sections which contain the body and essence of Student Government at Davidson. These are the rules by which we live with a sense of freedom and security in this particular community.

However, it is not the Honor System or the rules and regulations that have been placed upon the students, whether by our own choice or by previous choice, that makes it possible for us to take examinations in the freedom of unmonitored classrooms, to leave books and personal belongings in the halls and about the campus, to leave during the middle of a test for a smoke or a drink of water, to leave our rooms open during our absence from the campus and the numerous other privileges which we now enjoy. It is the respect and responsibility which each individual student assumes that makes these freedoms possible. It is the respect for an ordered way of living and a responsibility for maintaining such a system that makes these things possible. The Honor System is no stronger than this respect and responsibility that each student assumes.

THE DEFENSIVE STAGE

One of the greatest dangers that faces this student body today is the taking of this system for granted. It is easy to condition one’s self to the belief that it is not “my duty” to actively help maintain the honor system. It is easy to take the attitude that is a purely defensive one in that the student assumes that, “I think that the system is a good one, and I hope that we can keep it.” This is the most important danger of all. Anything that is passive and de-

Not Only in the South: Need Apparent For Two Party Political System In The South

By CHARLES G. HELMS

For more than three quarters of a century our section of the United States has been known as the Solid South due to its unwavering, chauvinistic loyalty to the Democratic Party. It is the opinion of many people who put the welfare of their country and their South before party preference that this blind devotion is not a healthy thing. This article is not written in support of the Republican Party; rather, it is written in the conviction that the two-party system has been the salvation of our country, and of course it is no less un-

Editorial Correspondence:

healthy when there is no opposition to the Republicans in a particular state or section. There have been instances in certain states where an over-extended series of Republican Administrations and a long period of one-party voting has resulted in corruption and inefficiency, and an election of Democratic officials was a welcome change.

HISTORY OF ISSUE

The South was understandably Democratic right after theWar Between the States, because the Republicans were making the situation with the Negro unbearable, Red Reader Shoots Big Bad Wolfe 321 Whitehead Chapel Hill, N. C. Editor, THE DAVIDSONIAN Davidson College Davidson, N. C. Dear Sir: I just finished reading an article in the February 14 issue of The Davidsonian, bylined by one Mr. Willard Wolfe. Now, I do not know Mr. Wolfe, nor if he exists, or whether this article was some sort of joke. However, I assume that it was written in good faith by this rather misinformed gentleman who seems to view collegiate activities as well as life with a very jaundiced eye. The phrase, “winning team,” and the word, “buy,” prevail in this article. This gentleman maintains that in order for Davidson College to amount to anything, she must spend vast sums of money in order to buy a winning team. What he is saying in effect is that no sacrifice is too great in order for Davidson to have a winning football power. He even makes the absurd statement that a college cannot maintain good standing in the academic world unless it boasts a winning football team. Mr. Wolfe makes the statement that no player of any ability would come to Davidson. In answer to that, if he will investigate, he will find that one of the senior members of the football team was offered scholarships to such a power as Georgia Tech. Never have I read such asinine, ridiculous trash written by anyone, especially a supposedly intelligent college student (I assume from the remarks made in this article that Mr. Wolfe is a freshman). As an alumnus of Davidson College, I feel no shame that Davidson possesses no great athletic record (although the non-subsidized team of 1954 had a commendable record). I am proud, however, to have attended a school which has produced a long line of great men; a school which sees as its primary purpose the training of men, and not the mass production of All-Americans. Someone should explain to Mr. Wolfe just what a sense of value is, and then see that he puts it to use. Yours very truly, JOHN D. BOYETT, '54. They were not sympathetic with States Rights, and they wanted to raise tariffs. Now, however, the situation has been changed and the parties have almost reversed their stand on the questions which have long constituted important issues in the South. Consequently, this extraordinary fidelity to the Democratic Party is amazing. Another reason for the lack of two-party support in the Southern States is that the few Republicans in the South, upon viewing their party’s weakness in their particular state, will generally register and vote Democratic in state elections, assuming their vote will be wasted otherwise. A SOLUTION What then can be done to remedy this deplorable situation? First, perhaps we need an honest reappraisal and reorganization of our political convictions and a comparison of our beliefs and ideas with the platforms of the parties; thus we can intelligently decide to which fold we belong. Second, we should never lose sight of the fact that many times the party and its platform is not of the foremost importance, that often the candidate and his honesty and competence should be the primary issue. Third, Republicans in the South must realize that until they support and vote for their party’s candidates in the state primaries and elections, there will never be a successful two-party system in their state. Let us state once more that the purpose of this article was not to support the Republican Party nor to criticize the South. To the contrary, it was written through the recognition of the potential value of a two-party system in this state and the South and the need for college students of pre-voting age to consider political questions intelligently and independently. Defensive finds it difficult to cope with something that is new and different. For instance, the man who accepts the Honor System as a good thing to have and a good thing to maintain, yet, who fails to take an active part in protecting and improving the existing conditions is not accepting the responsibilities that inevitably are linked with freedoms whatever kinds they may be. In the past few years here at Davidson we have seen several different types of cases come before the Student Government dealing with the Honor System and infractions of it. When a case reaches this state—that is when it comes before the Council—it is in the stage which we shall call defensive. Everything that is concerned with the case is to be presented at this time to the best abilities of those taking part in the investigations. This is the stage of Student Government that most of us see most often. Yet, this is the stage which should be de-emphasized in favor of a more important phase which we shall call the offensive stage of Student Government. THE OFFENSIVE STAGE This phase is concerned with the prevention of violations and suspicions of violations of the Honor System in any of its aspects. It is to be developed by each individual student, and entails the realization of what is contained in the Honor System and the stress that it can reasonably undergo. For example, two principles are involved in the Honor System in regards to cheating. First of all, each student is honor bound to report any violation of this Section that comes under his observation. In this offensive phase of Student Government it should be the concern of each student to take every precaution to ensure the safety of this section. This means being careful what kinds of papers and books and notes that one brings to class during reviews, and examinations. It means consulting a professor when one is in doubt about what is and what is not pledged work. It means the re-arrangement of seats if the present arrangement hampers or places a stress on the Honor System. It means being careful about how much time is spent outside the room during the exam and in what manner it is spent. On the part of each student falls the responsibility of obtaining the most favorable conditions and the removal of anything that would lead to any kind of stress on the system. This offensive phase of Student Government can be expanded and this should be done actively by every member of this Student Body. This shifts the emphasis to prevention rather than correction after a violation has occurred. There is a definite correlation between responsibility and freedom. Without the former, the latter is not possible. Freedom’s price is responsibility, and it is high, but worthwhile. Expostulation And Reply From the Associated Collegiate Press have come the following editorials from the Hunter Arrow, Hunter College, New York City, and The Emory Wheel, Emory University, Atlanta, Georgia. The press conference referred to was held in Washington, D. C., on October 21-22, 1954. Representatives of The Davidsonian and Quips and Cranks attended. RSVP: We take this opportunity to write an open letter to Southern college editors. We were profoundly impressed by the experience of exchanging ideas with you personally at the Associated Collegiate Press conference in Washington recently. We read of the intensity of feeling and saw the amount of newspaper space devoted to the subject of integration, but conversations with some of you brought home the import of the integration question. Ideally, we think integration should be carried out from the kindergarten through university levels. If this proves economically and socially impossible when the court makes its ruling, we call on you, our fellow Fourth Estaters from the South to campaign actively for integration on the college level as have the Emory Wheel and the University of North Carolina Daily Tar Heel. If integration is to succeed in future years community leaders will have to take the initiative. As these prospective leaders, as future parents, teachers and administrators of the South, college students should rise above their heritage of prejudice and work wholeheartedly for successful integration. As formulators of campus opinion we call on our fellow editors to take a stand for integration on the college level, whatever the December decision of the Supreme Court. NOUS REPONDONS: Though the editorial (above) is not directed specifically to The Emory Wheel, we feel that something should be said in answer,” the Atlanta, Georgia, newspaper says. Its editorial reply follows: In addition to The Wheel, the University of Texas Daily Texan and the University of North Carolina Daily Tar Heel have taken editorial stands this year for integration at their respective universities. There may be other cases of which we have not heard. But of course the vast majority of the Southern university newspapers have not taken definite positive stands on the integration issue. Naturally it is easier for students in New York or Chicago to lift a cry for Southern integration. There have been moves toward racial equality in other regions, and it is considered quite “the thing to do” among the liberal students to raise the banner of equality. But we of the South hope and believe that Northern students who lift such a cry realize the imperfection of the racial situation in their own backyard. Perhaps we are mistaken, but The Wheel feels that it speaks for the editors of a number of Southern college newspapers when we say that we see virtue in social change, but that we do not seek to model our society after that of the North. The Wheel hopes that the South can do a better job than the North has done. Jarrell On Intellectuals In the January issue of Mademoiselle, Randall Jarrell discusses the current status of “The Intellectual in America.” He says, “Most of us seem to distrust intellectuals as such, to feel that they must be abnormal or else they wouldn't be intellectuals.” Today, “when politicians attack or make fun of men like Dean Acheson, they use again and again, as one of their most effective points against him, the fact that he has—gone to Harvard. Can anyone imagine their English or French or German counterparts being able to use Oxford, the Sorbonne or Heidelberg in this way? Nor is it a question of party: plenty of Democrats would have done the same thing to a Republican Secretary of State.” This attitude is not confined to politicians, Mr. Jarrell says his young daughter was telling him one day about a boy whom the other children considered odd, different. When he asked: “How’s he so different?” she answered, “Lots of ways. He—wears corduroys instead of blue jeans.” “Forgive us each day our corduroys,” says Mr. Jarrell. “Intellectuals are more like plain Americans than plain Americans think; plenty of them are plain Americans,” Mr. Jarrell says, “And if they're complicated ones, different, is that really so bad?” The irony of all this, as Mr. Jarrell points out in Mademoiselle, is that we're all intellectuals about something. “If you're one about salmon-fishing, why look with resentful distrust at somebody who's one about quartets or Sanskrit?” Mr. Jarrell’s thesis is that “the man who will make us see what we haven't seen, feel what we haven’t felt, understand what we haven't understood—he is our best friend. And if he knows more than we know about something, that is an invitation to us, not an indictment of us. And it is not an indictment of him either: it takes all sorts of people to make a world—to make, even, a United States of America.”—From Mademoiselle.