**The Davidsonian**

Published Weekly Throughout the College Year

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF: HENRY BROCKMANN

BUSINESS MANAGER: TIM COOPER

ASSOCIATE EDITORS: J. Gilbert Gragg, Swain Loy

Asst. Editors: Maurice Crouse, Tom Warlick

Managing Editors: Jim Holshouser, Dick Morehead

Sports Editor: Watt McCain

Feature Editor: John Harmon

News Editor: Jim Brice

Copy Editor: Joe G.

Photographer: Rank Daniel

Assignments: Jim Brice

Editorial Consultants: Jim Marshall, Stan Miller, Bill Stewart

Assistant Business Manager: Tommy Taylor

Advertising Manager: Parrott

Circulation Manager: Bob Carmichael

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N.C., under the Act of March 3, 1897

FRIDAY, JANUARY 14, 1955

E. J. Erwin Devoted His Life To Youth

The Grim Reaper struck Thursday morning—impartially as is his wont—and took away one of the most beloved professors who ever walked the Davidson campus. For Edward J. Erwin was much more than a professor. Generations of young men who came and went along the shaded walks of Davidson for a third of a century will remember him as a friend and helper as well as a teacher. Many of them will recall that in his classes literature took on a new meaning for them, for Professor Erwin with his fine human touch and his engaging humor could make literature vibrant and meaningful to the dullest mind. As teacher of the Men’s Bible Class at the Davidson College Presbyterian Church he likewise made the Bible a vital force. In his lectures, often emphasized with histrionic qualities, the Biblical characters came to life with all their nobility and baseness, their joys and sorrows, and became human saints and sinners.

Mr. and Mrs. Erwin lost two sons in World War II and to them they erected a memorial—not a useless monument, but a beautiful lodge of stone and timber surrounded by recreation grounds free for the use of the community. Mr. Erwin kept it up himself. Many a morning he could be seen on his way to the lodge to put in an hour or two of labor before classes, maintaining with his own hands the project nearest his heart, dedicated to the memory of his sons and to the enjoyment of Davidson youth. For young people were his hobby. He understood them as few of us can after losing the bloom of our own youth. And his hobby kept him young in spirit until the very day he was called away.—Charlotte Observer, Sunday, Jan. 2, 1955.

Hindsight

A year never ends but that one looks back upon the endeavors made during the year and tries to evaluate them. Certainly the year 1954 at Davidson was a year of change, and sometimes of flux. There remain at this moment several major issues in a state of flux. Football subsidy and the problem of segregation could be considered among these. Other problems, major and minor, which face the institution are in a state of evolutionary change that seems to be leading in definite directions. It is these that we look back upon with some sense of progress.

Progress has been made, for instance, in faculty-student communications. Amid the rumblings of the student body the past spring both students and faculty members who were aware of the situation saw the need for closer bonds in order that the administration and students might converse on matters which without deliberation would be grossly misunderstood. Toward this end Dr. Cunningham, Dean Spencer and others have worked, gathering students in frank discussion groups to hash out current problems. We might look forward to further progress during 1955, progress that will lead to final realization on the part of students that often they see red on administration procedures simply because they have not taken time to read black and white.

Revision of the cut system, with changes in penalties involved in cutting reviews and clarification of overcut penalties can be seen as but the beginning of broadening for a system which is at present, saving required chapel and vespers, moderately liberal. A faculty group busy at revision shows no sign of slacking investigation during 1955. What more could be asked? Abolition of the unnecessary Monday chapel and better organization of chapel in general is a further move forward in one of the thorniest of local problems. The question must yet be asked, however, whether chapel still serves an important function on campus that could not be answered in another way. Davidson remains one of few schools which maintain so rigorous a program of compulsory chapel.

These are but three of many signs of action and change on the campus which, we believe, have led to a more cooperative atmosphere at Davidson this year on the part of students and administration. There is an undying will here to get things done, and the will seems to be in full process of realization.

Foresight

Concentrated action with an emphasis on student body meetings can be seen for the coming semester as President Floyd Feeney presents the newly revised Constitution of the Student Body. Added to this a new Constitution of the Y.M.C.A. will cause further impact on discussions and frames of mind. From this point these two issues, involving some drastic changes, will form the capstone and keystone to a busy year. With the first issues of the coming semester the student newspaper will begin to expound on these two issues in order that they might be presented thoroughly. In passing the new constitutions, the student body will take upon its shoulders responsibility for student organization in these two important fields for years to come. Hence it will be important that each member of the present student body consider it his job to be well acquainted with the constitutions so that he may cast his vote in a measured direction.

Evaluation and scope of the University Christian Mission will come early next semester. In this new departure from the conventional special services there are likely to be many views and opinions. Already major questions have arisen about the services which are only to be amplified with time, i.e., doesn’t delivery of a social gospel with suppressed regard to the basic problem of believing show up in the titles of the talks? Titles don’t matter much. What the speakers say will be the proof of this pudding. Add to these the continuing problem of athletic subsidy, and other chance problems such as hell week or holidays, and the spring semester will be one of an argument-provoking nature. We hope that amidst the arguments there will also be room for thought.

Who Stole The Ding Dong

No class of Davidson has ever had a more diabolical idea than the men of the class which gave to us Chambers bell. Graduating before they had to listen to it sing out with its 450 daily efforts, they insured themselves against any class after them ever being able to have enough peace and quiet to do good work. Evidently Santa Claus saw the situation, and during the wild blizzards of the holidays adopted our bell to join the jingle bells of his sleigh so that he might not become a traffic fatality on foggy Christmas eve as he sped through the night delivering goodies to the kiddies. He was disappointed, however, to find that the bell stirred every creature in every house (even the smallest mouse) to which he delivered presents. Chambers bell also scared Dancer, Prancer, Rudolph and Vixen away, so he had to run on five cylinders that night. It also caused four fire alarms, deafened three old ladies, and made London bridge collapse. In despair Santa tried to give Chambers bell away. No one would take it, and as he looked around the world and saw all the fine Davidson students asleep in their beds he didn’t have the heart to put it back in its place atop Chambers. Rumor has it that he gave it finally to Davey Jones, and that it has now become a diving bell. But whatever happened to it, we thank Santa for the best Christmas present of 1954. Long live Santa Claus. Ring no more, wild bell.

The highest tribute ever given to the universality of “McCarthyism” is that it was “potent” enough to crush the hard shell of student provincialism to the extent of it being satirized in a DAVIDSONIAN cartoon.

The campus parking situation has long been a source of bitter student-administration dissension which seems to have reached the explosive proportions of a Cobalt bomb. First triggered into violence by the erection of restrictive parking areas near the recently completed College Union, the situation was made impossible by the sacrifice of many parking areas to the construction of Belk Hall. The situation had a happy climax, however, as the administration graciously consented to turn a field behind Watts Dormitory into a large and spacious parking area.

BEST CARTOONS OF 1954

THE GADFLY: ODK, PBK, Christ: Resolutions For '55

By GILBERT GRAGG

1. I resolve to make ODK.
2. I resolve to make Phi Beta Kappa.
3. I resolve to continue being a Christian in name only.
4. I resolve to continue taking every cut allowed me.
5. I resolve to spend at least three hours a day doing nothing constructive for myself or others.
6. I resolve never to be seen on campus after noon on Saturday and before seven on Sunday.
7. I resolve not to think or talk seriously about anything of lasting value.
8. I resolve not to participate in UCM or attend any of the Artist Series, as I may be stimulated and challenged.
9. I resolve to read nothing about the condition of the world as it may disturb my peace of mind.
10. I resolve to be as critical as possible of every aspect of Davidson life to show my maturity and independence.

These are some of the most frequent conscious or subconsciousNew Year’s resolutions made by Davidson students, and while none of us is guilty of all of these, nevertheless it should not be difficult to find ourselves in several. All of these deserve detailed treatment, but space only allows a brief glance at the first three.

“THOSE GOLDEN KEYS”

FRESHMEN—We have made outstanding records at our various preparatory or high schools and expect to continue at Davidson to be like Emily Dickinson's frog in the middle of a pond surrounded all day by an admiring bog—we’ve just changed ponds. It is most important to begin aiming early for those two golden keys which everyone seems to want. We are very grade-conscious and some of us were lucky enough to get easier profs than others; they may learn more but who cares since they will not have better grades! Unfortunately, there are just a few offices open to us in the spring, but we can begin subtle politicking now by watching the upperclassmen’s techniques.

Letter to the Editor:

SOPHOMORES—This is the crucial year for both grades and offices. We must lay the groundwork carefully by speaking to everyone constantly and joining all the clubs possible. There is a danger in really becoming interested in a difficult subject and being tempted to pursue it further, but we can overcome this and continue to get the best grades with the least work.

“ALL THAT GLITTERS IS NOT GOLD”

JUNIORS—If we have made proper preparations by getting in a lot of activities and selecting the notoriously easy courses for those which we do well in but which do not stimulate our thinking, things should go pretty smoothly and the hometown paper may soon have some big news to feature!

SENIORS—THIS IS IT! We have reaped what we have sown, and both keys are ours at last! No more studying and no more meetings! We can play this year and receive the adulation of those underclassmen who admire our sparkling keys with almost religious devotion. Who cares if we have really not learned much—why is it necessary if we have our Phi Bete key to give us the security that we are smart? Those poor misguided souls who actually think they enjoy learning! Whew! We did not realize how lucky we were not to get that really big office last spring, as ODK changed its policy in the nick of time for us to be classified as “Behind-the-scene leaders.” Thank goodness, we shall be spared the confusion of those poor underclassmen who do not know now whether offices are important or not.

THIRD RESOLUTION

We shall continue as CHRISTIANS IN NAME ONLY THIS YEAR. Certainly it would be incompatible for our plans always to be first in everything to take seriously someone who said: “Whosoever would be greatest among you shall be last” and wanted us to crucify self. Everyone knows that it is only the outward appearance which counts and that the consequences are more important than the motives. Who does this poor carpenter think He is to tell us that we must lose our lives to find them and apart from Him we can do nothing? Did He have a Phi Bete and ODK key?

Visitor To College Shocked By Sportsmanship Of DC Students

Asheboro, N. C.
December 15, 1954

Editor, The Davidsonian
Davidson College
Davidson, North Carolina

Dear Sir:

Last evening it was my pleasure to motor over to Davidson for the Davidson-Duke basketball game. Since this was my first visit to your lovely campus in several years, I left home early in order to have time to look over your new buildings, especially the new Union.

During the game an incident occurred which was a distinct shock to me—an incident which I had never expected to witness at Davidson. I refer to the booing of an injured Duke player. Such ill-mannered conduct is not expected from any college cheering section—and of all things, certainly not from Davidson!

Perhaps your student body might be interested in the boy who was the butt of this unnecessary jeering. He was E. C. Morgan, Jr., generally known as Junior Morgan. This is the same boy who was awarded first place in North Carolina high schools for sportsmanship three years ago. Coach Hal Bradley also thought enough of him to appoint him co-captain for the Davidson game. It appears ironical indeed that the boos should have been directed at this particular individual!

Of course, I can’t be positive that these boos were from Davidson students. However, I was sitting in the Davidson cheering section, and it appeared the jeering was rather widely spread among those sitting around me. In no way would I want to condemn any innocent person, but, judging from the garb of some of these more foul-mouthed, it would appear they were bona fide Davidsonians. The injury, a bruise and a rather nasty cut, we hope will not prove serious. It did require first aid, however, and that was all the boy asked for. Please let me know why any Davidson supporter should object to that?!!

Very truly yours,
E. C. MORGAN, SR.

Davidson College Must Have Subsidization

By WILLARD WOLFE

I believe that the subsidization of athletics is absolutely essential at Davidson. Without a liberal program of subsidies Davidson will never produce a winning team; and nothing is quite so important to a small, liberal arts college as a winning team. It has been suggested that by spending an additional $10,000 Davidson could obtain a team that would be on a par with any in the Southern Conference. But why do the thing halfway? We suggest that we spend an additional $50,000 and buy the best team in the South.

If money is what it takes to procure a winning team, then we should be satisfied with nothing but the best. Surely our trustees who have such ample funds for providing more comfortable quarters for the students, for replacing Rumple and Carolina Inn, and building badly needed music buildings; surely they could not object to the providing of the $50,000 a year that we are told is necessary to buy a winning football team. We cannot think of any other way in which the money could be spent that would do more to promote the well-being of Davidson College. For nothing is more beneficial to a college than a winning football or basketball team. What earthly good is there in an education that comes from a college that supports a losing team? Such a college might well not exist! And it is only by paying the highest prices for our players that we can obtain a winning team.

NOT MADE—SOUGHT

Great teams don’t just happen; they are bought. Unfortunately, in the past, Davidson has not been in the habit of buying her students. She somehow managed to get a student body without it. But we must be up-to-date. If Davidson is to have the kind of team she wants, she must pay the players, and pay them well, or they will never come to Davidson. Nowadays, inter-collegiate football is big business, and the fact that Davidson has refused to recognize this truth has been the major reason for her poor record in the past. After all, varsity football is no longer sport; it is the college's chief publicity agent, and it is the business of the team to win for the college—that is what it is paid to do. It must win at all costs, for only through constant victories can a college maintain a good standing in the academic world.

It is ridiculous to think that a player with any ability at all would come to Davidson merely for an education, when so many other colleges (such as Sun Tan U.) will pay him liberally to play for them, and furthermore, see to it that he has no worries in college; except football. Many people fail to grasp the point, that above all else, a college must have a winning team. Of course, there is no reason why such a team would have to affect the college’s academic standing one way or another. The important thing is that the team comes first—that is what the college is known for; and any education that a college may have to offer is purely a secondary matter.

This is the No. 1 rule of paid varsity football: Davidson is too hard; its academic standards are too high. It would never do to make high-priced football players wear themselves out trying to study on top of a full-time job playing ball. Every college that has a great winning team provides such courses as: Basket Weaving 21-22; Skull Collecting 31, and Basic Motorboat Racing 41-42 to make sure that the players can devote themselves entirely to the activity they are being paid for. This matter is almost as important as paying the team very liberally.

Someone has made the ridiculous assertion that sports exist for the students. This can’t possibly be true of big-time varsity sports; for the average, unpaid student has no contact at all with the big winning team, and the team certainly does nothing for the students. Paid varsity sports exist for the glory of the college, and for that purpose alone. The job of training the students physically belongs to the humble P.T. classes, but the varsity sports exist for the greater glory of the Alma Mater, and as such are a matter of supreme importance to the ruling hierarchy of the college.

So we must take no chances with our varsity teams. If $100,000 will not buy us the best team in the South, we can spend more, since nothing contributes so much to what a college stands for, its educational effectiveness, or its physical well-being as a winning team. The devil take those who like good, clean football—it doesn’t win! Our team must win—despite the principles involved or else there is no hope for Davidson College. Therefore I believe a subsidy is imperative, and should be inaugurated immediately.