The Davidsonian

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF ....... Dick Morehead
ASSOCIATE EDITORS Maurice Crouse, Tom Warlick
Managing Editors .. Jim Batten, Frank Bloodworth, Jim Brice
Sports Editor . Bunny Perkinson
Copy Editor .. John T. Harmon
News Editors . _. se Bill Gallier, Leon Howell
Feature Editor ... Watt McCain
Staff Photographer. . . Hank Daniel
Assignments ._.... cee oe John Trask

ESS . Member of the Associated Press and Intercollegiate Press

Page Two Friday, April 22, 1955

The New Regime

As the masthead undergoes its yearly face lifting this week, it seems appropriate and necessary to begin with a few words on expected policy for the remainder of this year. In the editorial platforms presented here two weeks ago, there were many ideas, and proposed changes. Due to the nature of these suggestions and the new staff, many of these journalistic jaunts must be taken gradually without expectation of fulfillment until next year. The policy for the remainder of this year will be one of flexible experimentation and exploration. Your ideas, comments, and constructive criticisms are welcomed and expected. Our offices will be open every Wednesday evening from 7 to 10 P.M. The sports staff is located in the charter room, the editorial board is in the student government room, and the managerial office in its usual confusion at the end of that hall.

In keeping with the atmospheric conditions produced by Spring Frolics weekend, this edition is presented in a light vein with the exception of the trustee’s report. It is hoped, however, that careful consideration will be given to these minutes from the trustees’ meeting. Subsidization has long been the subject of much concern to students and faculty and such a report should remove “assumed knowledge” and provide the basis for student opinion based upon fact.

Plaudits For The Military

In spite of demerits, inspections, and peon critics, there is something good to be said for that group of some 430 students and instructors collectively called ROTC. Last week after the thorough Federal Inspection Agents pulled away and scraggly beards began to appear; there was sent to Colonel Sapp a properly titled copy of the inspection report which went also to 3rd Army headquarters. Specifically it read, “Superior on weapons, superior on classrooms, superior on regimental staff briefing . . .” totaling an overall superior rating. Included among other very complimentary remarks was the statement by all three inspecting colonels that Davidson was the most outstanding school that they had inspected this year. As far as is known, these are the most favorable comments and the first overall superior rating received in the history of ROTC at Davidson.

Now it is recognized by cadet and cadre authority that the sole function of ROTC is not to post a superior rating on the battalion masthead for inspirational purposes. It is a significant distinction, however, that such a culminating appraisal was earned and obtained. In great measure, credit for this rating is due to the overall training program established by the PMS&T. This program is centered in student control, responsibility, and action which in a very real sense compliments the overall faculty policy of this year. It can be said with no reservations that the actions of ROTC this year have been planned, approved, and conducted by cadets. This system has had its very obvious effects. Positive student response is evidenced by the attitude shown to officers on the drill field, cleaning of weapons, and most emphatically by the increased number of sophomores applying for advanced ROTC. The administration has shown enthusiasm by being represented at all cadet regimental briefings and by personal request for a briefing delivered to the entire faculty.

All visiting army officials have delivered their commendations to the cadets. General Cleland even sent a personal letter of approval to the cadet regimental staff. Spectators have heartily praised ROTC parades and the static displays at Homecoming and freshman-parent’s day. To all of the spit-shines, polished rifles, and rolls of red tape, then, a 21-gun salute for a job well done.

A Marvelous Davidsonian with a Changing Scene

Complete and Unexpurgated: Trustees’ Official Statement On Athletic Subsidization Revealed

(The College Board of Trustees, at the request of ODK, has given permission to the Davidsonian to publish an excerpt from the minutes of the trustees’ meeting of May 28, 1954, which deals with the trustees’ recommendations on the currently controversial issue of athletic subsidization. (The following excerpt is the entire and uncut record of the trustees’ action on this question. —Ed.)

The joint committee of the Trustees and Faculty on the Athletic Policy of the College made the following report, which was unanimously adopted as amended. The report is as follows:

Amended report of Athletic Committee:

Section 1. Present Athletic Policy.

L. Policy. Recognizing the many educational values of physical education as an integral part of the total educative process, we reaffirm our conviction that a program of Intercollegiate Athletics and Physical Education is a valid and valuable part of the total educational program of Davidson College. We affirm that the objectives of the athletic program are:

a. To provide physical as well as spiritual and mental development as a part of an integrated program;
b. To provide a sufficient range of athletic activities to attain maximum student participation;
c. To provide opportunity for students to achieve recognition for outstanding athletic performance in some sport;
d. To give proper expression to the innate desire of students for athletic competition and to develop the true spirit of sportsmanship; and
e. To serve as a means for deepening and expressing that intangible but real quality known as college spirit, and for promoting the interest and loyalty of students and friends of the College.

I. Organization

In order to achieve these goals and implement this policy, the organizational structure shall be as follows:

a. A separate department, known as the Department of Student Health, under the supervision of the College Physician; and
b. A department of Physical Education and Athletics under the supervision of the Director of Athletics, this department to function as any other department of the College.

1. Control

a. The Trustees shall exercise the same general supervision and direction of these departments as they do of the other departments of the College, and appropriate committees of the Trustees shall continue to represent them in supervising the work of both the Department of Student Health and the Department of Physical Education and Athletics. The College Physician, the Director of Athletics and the members of the coaching staffs shall be elected by the Trustees, upon the recommendation of the President and the Dean of the Faculty.
b. The President and the Faculty shall have the responsibility of implementing the policy and shall exercise control of the intercollegiate athletics, this control to include such items as scheduling, eligibility standards, the awarding of scholarships, the number of intercollegiate contests to be played and the number of days teams may be absent from the campus. The faculty will continue, as in the past, to elect a Faculty Committee on Athletics, which will represent the faculty in matters pertaining to athletics. The recommendations of the Director of Athletics and the head coaches in the various sports will receive careful consideration in matters pertaining to the areas of their particular responsibility. Nothing in the above statement is to alter the fact that the President of the College is charged with general oversight of the athletic program, as of all the instruction and discipline of the College and that by virtue of such fact, he shall be recognized as occupying the place of primary responsibility in this area also.
c. An Athletic Council is to be composed of the following: three members from the Alumni Association, the Faculty Committee on Athletics, the Committee on Athletics of the Trustees, and two student members elected by the student body. The Director of Athletics shall be an ex-officio member of the Council and the Council shall determine its own Chairman, Secretary, and the time of meeting, which shall not be less than semi-annually. The Council shall be an advisory body to the President and the Trustees of the College and shall serve as a medium whereby both may become more fully acquainted with the opinions of alumni, students, and friends of the College. It may submit recommendations concerning the type of schedule played by college teams, the number of intercollegiate contests to be played in any sport, the choice of coaching personnel and other appropriate phases of the Physical Education and Athletic program. So long as the present athletic policy of the College continues in effect, it shall encourage the support given athletics through the Wildcat Clubs and may also make recommendations concerning the awarding of grants-in-aid to athletes within the limits of funds available for the purpose, and subject to the rules of any athletic conference or association to which the College belongs. Its recommendations in these areas shall not be binding but shall always receive careful consideration by the constituted authorities of the College.

IV. Athletic Grants

Subject to the principles stated hereafter, the College shall continue to award such athletic grants as may seem wise and necessary in the light of the total needs of the institution.

a. Recipients shall be selected on the basis of secondary school records which show:
1. Outstanding character and desirable qualities of personality and leadership.
2. Academic competence.
3. Athletic achievement and promise.
b. Amount of Stipend. Depending on the demonstrated need of the candidate, the amount of the award may range from a small grant to a figure equivalent to tuition, fees, room, board and books. This shall be within the limitations of the prescribed policies of the conference or association to which we may be related.
c. Like all other scholarships and grants at Davidson, athletic grants will be awarded on an annual basis. It shall, however, be the policy of the College to renew such grants from year to year provided that:
1. The conduct of the recipient is satisfactory; and
2. The recipient makes satisfactory progress towards graduation, both qualitatively and quantitatively, in accordance with the standards required of recipients of grants-in-aid and remissions from the General Fund of the College.
d. Recipients of athletic grants shall be selected by the Faculty Committee on Scholarships and Loans on the recommendation of the coaches concerned.
e. This program of athletic grants is to be financed by the College from such funds as may properly be used for that purpose. The amount to be used is to be determined by the Trustees or the Executive Committee after the submission of recommendations by the President and the Finance Committee.

Sec II. Proposed Athletic Policy.

We recommend to the Trustees that they authorize the President of the College to solicit and encourage a selected group of at least six colleges and universities to join with us in promoting a program looking toward the abolishing of subsidized athletics (that is, athletic scholarships as such) at the earliest possible date. In order that the President of the College may understand the degree of authority given him underThis recommendation, we would agree that the principles adopted by the Ivy Group indicate the general type of agreement to be desired. Respectfully submitted, J. McDowell Richards, President of the Trustees. John R. Cunningham, President of the College. From the Faculty Frontis W. Johnston. W. G. McGavock John T. Kimbrough J. W. Reid W. O. Puckett, Secretary. From the Trustees Kelsey Regen Booth

The Welcome Mat: Davidson Primer For Neophyte Frolickers
By JIMMY MARTIN

(Since many of you lovely young ladies are visiting our campus for the first time, the Social Progress Committee in conjunction with the Cheluba Traveler’s Aid Society offers as a public service this timely, informative article in an effort to enlighten you as to our local customs, traditions, history, and scenic wonders.—Ed.)

Davidson College began its role of “molding” young Southern manhood about 110 years ago, and has existed for as many years since as a predominantly male institution, because the founding fathers didn’t consult the mothers. Although supported by the Presbyterian Church (U.S.), its enrollment has been more or less Associate-Reformed-Metho-Bapt-erian.

For an appropriate motto and seal the founders hired one Peter Stewart Ney, a local itinerant school teacher who had deserted Napoleon’s army just before Waterloo. He brought with him Napoleon’s favorite chandelier, a copy of Desiree’s favorite earrings, and it may be seen today in the old Ney homestead preserved in memory of that great philanthropist. Ney's chosen seal was a sword of vengeance slaying the coiled snake, symbol of the roommate who wasn’t satisfied with his own blind date (later sources suggested that the sword was purple originally, and actually wasn’t a sword, but a spear—no motif was proposed however). Ney also composed the classical motto: “Lind? Looks Sorta Libertous” (obsolete meaning) with subscript motto, “Ney’s Ulcer.” Ney was buried in the cornerstone of the principal structure along with quite a large sum of Confederate money stolen from share-cropping tycoon Maxwell Chambers, whose vision was as faulty as his father’s.

During the War Between the States, our Davidson was the only Southern college that couldn't get its rusty doors closed, and the classical columns were used as hitching posts for the Confederate KAvalry unit, which exists to this day as a sub rosa organization easily recognizable by the fungus on their faces. Imminent in the history of our school was the expulsion of a young freshman, named Woodrow Wilson, who with the cry, “Bumenean Uber Alles!” set fire to the old Chambers building, because there “wasn’t enough chambers to go around.” He further exemplified his Davidson training by becoming President of the U.S. and A. Yea, verily, Davidson's heritage has been a glorious one.

And its present physical plant attests the splendor of its early years. Just east of the historic meeting house (designed in 1780 by Cash Jackson) stands an imposing structure which comprises the Davidson College Museum of Natural and Traditional History. In its priceless collections are to be found such articles as an old letter, a Ouija board, two Barlow knives, a piece of string, some outdated study lamps and a lot of books (of which we are very proud). On the opposite side of the campus behind the men’s dormitories is the nearly completed ROTC building with quarters for both officers and enlisted men. Ask your date to put on his soldier suit so you can watch him march. Then maybe he will take you on a tour of our 36-bench golf course, or to the Saturday night submarine races. What fun!

Be sure to visit the Johnson Family Gymnasium. Courses are offered here in outdoor ballet, primeval art, evil art, and water hockey, with a lab course in weight lifting for prospective beach-bums. We have a modern set of monkey bars with an 850-monkey capacity (no drinks served after midnight). Come and see!

Thus is Davidson. Will you recall that first ecstatic glimpse of our traditional campus this afternoon, with the traditional sun shining brightly through our traditional trees? Or if it was raining you really didn’t notice it, because your blind date turned out to be such a jewel of a guy, and the weekend holds great promise. Or if not, it has been such a pleasant afternoon reading the funny stories in Scripts ‘n Pranks that nothing else seemed to matter. And if that didn’t come through either, just forget the whole cotton-picking mess.

Gragg’s “Humble Criticism” Blasted

Dear Editor:

We wish to take this opportunity to congratulate Mr. Gragg on his fine article in last week’s issue, particularly his remarks about Mr. Mauze. We feel that Mr. Gragg showed an admirable Christian attitude in attacking the candidate who had already been defeated. Mr. Gragg stated that “Mr. Mauze reached new heights in half-truths and ‘white lies’,” and we would say that Mr. Gragg has reached new depths in humble criticism. Mr. Gragg seems to think that students should not have personal invitations to work with the YMCA; we would remind him that our Lord Jesus Christ gave personal invitations to those who became aides in the greatest religious movement the world has ever known.

“It is inconceivable” to Mr. Gragg “how a rational student could vote for” Mr. Mauze, and it is inconceivable to us how the Davidsonian can continue to publish such tripe, week after week (except, of course, as a necessary space-filler). We recognize the fact, however, that we, mere humble students, are not qualified to judge the literary masterpieces of Mr. Gragg, who has had untold experience in the social and political life of the campus. He has had, perhaps, a better “bird’s eye view” than any other student. We are filled with wonder and awe when we think of the strong, brave, courageous men (like Mr. Gragg) who are constantly working to promulgate Christian principles through kind thought, word, and deed to their fellow-men.

M.D.S.

Better, Not Bigger Davidson

Dear Editor:

In the latest issue of The Christian Century an article by Joseph M. Hopkins (p. 472) has this to say with respect to the proper size for the student body of a “small college:”

“A recent survey undertaken by Hamilton College, financed by Ford and Carnegie grants, concluded that the ideal college size is 7850 students. Below that number, overhead per student is high and operation therefore inefficient. To go beyond that figure, in the judgment of the researchers, would be ‘to risk certain personalized small college values.’ If small size is desirable for liberal arts purposes, it is even more desirable for the purposes of Christian development, and consequently should be a sine qua non for church-related colleges.”

CHALMERS DAVIDSON.

This May Be The Year For Bermuda Shorts...

Struck by the appearance of Bermuda shorts on college campuses last spring, the Associated Collegiate Press polled college students for their opinions on this warm weather wear. Here’s what they found:

Per Cent Men Women Total
YES, will grow in popularity with both men and women on campus. 2 20 21
NO, will not grow in popularity with either men or women on campus. 30 41 71
Will grow in popularity only with women on campus. 11 6 9
Will grow in popularity only with men on campus. 1 1 1
UNDECIDED. 6 6 6

Union Post Office?

Controversial issues at Davidson are frequently so intimately associated with other matters of dispute that they may not be considered on their own merits. It is the opinion of the writer that the question of establishing a post office in the College Union building, a live issue two years ago, was the victim of an anti-administration and anti-Union feeling caused by the freshmen eating status. Now that events have shown that the requirement to have freshmen eat in the College Union cafeteria during the first semester was not the fraternity-killer that zealous prophets foresaw, perhaps the post office question can be raised with more hope of objective consideration.

An obvious advantage in having a post office located in the Union building is convenience. The fraternities seemingly have been willing to forget the hostilities of two years ago, and have come more and more to rely on the Union as a student center. Student offices are located there, the Snack Bar and the Student Store are Union services, and extra-curricular events tend to gravitate to the Union. A Union post office would be a major step toward making the Union the true center of student activities. It would add one more centralized service to the many already being offered.

A second consideration would be economy. The discontinuing of “cut cards” has removed some of the force this argument had two years ago, but it is still one of the major factors. Under a possible set-up, all communication within the college, including the inter-student exchanges, administration-student communication, and organizational correspondence to members, would be distributed without the payment of postage which is now necessary. When the proposal was originally made, a flat rate rental of 50 cents per semester per box was suggested. At that time, the rate would have been less than 60 cents per quarter rate paid at the local post office. Since then, U.S. rentals have been increased to 90 cents per quarter, and the College Union rental fee would result in a considerable saving to the student.

A third consideration would be the creation of new jobs for student workers. In a town the size of Davidson, it would be impossible to have the United States Post Office open a branch at the college, but it is estimated that two students working part-time could adequately handle the quantity of mail which would pass through the Union office. Salaries for these men would be taken from the rental fees and the savings resulting from the postage-less college communication.

Space is admittedly at a premium in the Union at this time. A proposed bowling alley had to be sacrificed for storage space when the building was reworked. The most probable location of a post office would be in the ping pong recreation room in the southwest corner of the lower floor. This area could be given up without much damage to student life, for ping pong tables are standard equipment in the fraternity houses, and the activity would simply be shifted to the houses.

The advantages of a Union post office seem to override the objections, and the writer urges student, faculty, and administration discussion of the matter to arrive at a definite opinion. Perhaps the students do not want a separate post office—only time will tell the answer. The point is that no action has been taken since 1953. At that time, six fraternities voted for, and five voted against the service. It was felt then that the decision was not decisive enough for action. It is the purpose of this article to revive interest in and discussion of an important, though seemingly dead, issue.

—M.A.C.

Represented for national advertising by NATIONAL ADVERTISING SERVICE, INC. College Publishers Representative

BUSINESS MANAGER... Advertising Manager... Bob Carmichael
Circulation: Business Staff: Bill Bondurant
Subscription Rate: $2.00 Per Year

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office under the Act of March 3, 1879.

Offices In David Ovens College Union, Davidson College