“THE DOLE ERA”

Coach Bill Dole came to Davidson in 1952, bringing with him a string of successful coaching assignments which everyone said
would die at Davidson. The 1926 Davidson team won the state championship, and since that time—over 25 years ago—Davidson had
claimed only five winning seasons when Bill Dole took the reins of Davidson's football fortunes. Wildcat followers, alumni, and students
alike had known few seasons when “moral victories” were not the rule rather than the exception. Davidson teams were widely
known for hustle, scrap, and fight, but winning seasons were few and far between.

You freshmen are arriving at Davidson as the “Dole Era” is getting into full swing. In just three seasons, Dole
has brought winning football to Davidson, and Wildcat followers are convinced that his winning record will not be ruined here.
Last year’s team was the “winningest” Davidson team since 1933, winning six and dropping only three. The 1954 record has
been bettered by only 10 teams since Davidson began football back in 1896, and this season will find the Wildcats
shooting for the 7-2-1 mark set by that 1926 championship club. The road will not be easy, and Coach Dole
is far from optimistic. Nevertheless, the signs point to another winning season, and for win-starved Wildcat followers, this should be
welcomed with open arms.

LAST YEAR’S RECORD

For you freshmen who didn’t follow the Wildcat football campaign last year with eagle eyes, here’s a brief summary of
what happened to make Davidson men no longer ashamed to glance at the Sunday sports pages. The Cats opened against
rough V.M.I. in a conference scrap, and Dyke Little tossed the Red and Black to a 19-0 win. It was
the first time since 1948 that Davidson had won an opening game, and a few eyebrows were slightly raised. The
next Saturday saw the Wildcats squeak by Stetson, 19-13, as the Hatters almost removed a 19-0 deficit in a last-half
spurt. The Davidson crew traveled to The Citadel and downed the Bulldogs, 13-0, for their third win. A left-handed quarterback
by the name of Harry Hamilton proved to be too much for the Cats as a fired-up PC crew thrilled
their homecoming crowd with a 10-7 upset, handing Davidson its first loss. This year’s squad has not forgotten, and the
Presbyterian game is probably the one the Cats would rather win than any other. After a 19-7 loss to Furman,
the Red and Black got back on the winning track with a tremendous 51-6 win over West Virginia Tech in
the first Homecoming win in fourteen years. All-State half-back Jim Thacker came into his own in that one with four
touchdowns. It was hard to leave the field seeing the scoreboard register 51 points on the Davidson side, and it
marked the first time since 1946 that a Cat club had scored more than 7 touchdowns. The Davidson squad moved
past Catawba, 32-12, and then met Wofford in what turned out to be a real thriller. The big Terrier line
proved very rough, and after twice failing to score from within the ten-yard line, Coach Dole called on Bob Talbert
to try a field goal. “The Toe” booted the ball through the uprights, and Davidson held on for a 3-0
win. The closing contest against Elon found the Wildcats trying for a 7-2 record—one that hadn’t been bettered since 1905—but
the Christians upset the Red and Black, and the dream went out the window. Nevertheless, it was a good season,
and Davidson fans were pleased.

FRESHMEN — YOUR JOB

The Wildcats take the field against Catawba in Charlotte next Friday night, opening the new season. Davidson plays the next
three games here on the campus and has one other home game. With a team like we're going to field
this season, we ought to be backing them every inch of the way, and that’s where most of you freshmen
can do your part. The Freshmen Regulations say you're supposed to attend all home games, but you should have a
better reason than that to come to the games. You've got a team out there that’s representing your school, and
you ought to let them know all the time that you’re behind them to the limit. This Davidson Spirit that
has become famous in these parts extends from the field to the stands, and the students have a job, too.
That team on the field has a good chance of racking up the best record in Davidson history, and let’s
show them we think they can do it. You won't have any difficulty in getting a ride into Charlotte next
Friday night, so start the season off right by backing the Cats against Catawba.

SCOTT RELEASES FALL SCHEDULES

TO BACK CATS FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 1955

The 1955 edition of the Davidson Wildcats will get its first test next Friday night when the Dolemen journey to
Charlotte to meet the Catawba Indians. The scrap will be held in Memorial Stadium and will be the Wildcats’ only
appearance in Charlotte this season. The Wildcats plan to be ready for Catawba next Friday night, and remembering the first-half
scare the Indians gave them last year, they'll be out to win from the opening whistle. Catawba's '54 club marched
over a sluggish Davidson squad for two touchdowns last season and led, 12-0, before the Wildcats woke up and started
to move. Behind at the half, 12-7, the Cats poured it on in the last half to win by a
32-12 margin, but they haven't forgotten that first half and will try to make sure it doesn’t happen again.

Head Coach Bill Dole has been cautious about this year’s squad, warning overly optimistic followers that it will be hard
to equal last year’s mark of six wins and three losses. The schedule has been stepped up a notch, and
the Wildcats will face two of the Southern Conference's top clubs in late-season engagements. Davidson plays Richmond on November 5,
in what Dole figures to be the toughest contest of the season, and the Wildcats close out the season on
November 19 against Furman. Presbyterian College is once again on the schedule, and the Cat gridders will be out to
avenge the HaroldDavis and Harley Smith talk things over with Head "55 Version Harley Smith and Harold Davis have been
elected as the leaders of Davidson's 1955 football squad, with Smith serving as the Captain of the team and Davis
backing him as Alternate Captain. The two veteran gridders were elected by the football team last spring, and both served
in their new positions against the Davidson Alumni team at the end of spring practice. Both boys are seniors in
their last year of eligibility, and when graduation day comes next June, they'll receive their diplomas. Harley was a starter
at the halfback slot last year, and Harold was in a starting role at tackle. This season finds both at
new positions, bolstering the Davidson lineup where it is needed. Smith will be the No. 1 fullback for Coach Bill's
squad, while Davis is one of the starting guards.

The Wildcat captain, Harley Smith, transferred to Davidson in 1952 from the University of Alabama, and the Florida hustler first
donned the pads in 1953, waiting out two semesters before he became eligible. Since then, he has been a standout
in the Davidson backfield. Last spring’s practice (Continued on Page Four)

10-7 upset by the Blue Hose last year which broke a three-game winning streak. For the first time in several
seasons, the game will not be a Homecoming contest for one of the two schools. Instead, Davidson officials have scheduled
Washington and Lee, back on the schedule after a year’s absence, as the Wildcats’ Homecoming opponent.

At the present time, fifty-five gridders make up the Davidson practice squad, and included in that number are such returning
backfield standouts as Dyke Little, ace quarterback, Bill Rowland, Don McRee, Dick Belton, Don Comer, Don Campbell, Ken Conger, and
Harley Smith. The backfield is probably the stronger part of the team with plenty of speed and depth available.

Up in the forward wall, things look bright as far as the No. 1 line is concerned, but lack of
depth is more noticeable than last year. Harold Davis and Tom Owen return at the guard positions, and juniors Lyle
Llewellyn and Tom Lee will be back at the tackles. Bill Price, Tal Broughton, and Bo Abernathy are back and
scrapping for the starting spot at center, and the depth here is at least satisfactory. At the ends, veterans Tom
Newton, Bill Gramley, and Jim Patterson leave little to be desired, and if another top-flight flanker can be found Dole
will have few worries about that position.

In an interview this week, Dr. Scott, new Director of Physical Education and Athletics, disclosed plans for the physical education
program this year. One day of the three allotted classes will be given over to swimming. On the other two
days, members of the different classes in the student body will engage in the following: assigned sports within the quarter
system. Freshmen will take soccer, wrestling, basketball, and tennis. Sophomores will engage in volleyball, baseball, softball, and golf. Juniors and
Seniors will have some choice in selection of their athletic program, although basketball will be one of the prominently stressed
courses offered on the day opposite swimming. It is the hope and desire of Dr. Scott in preparing this program
that all participating will obtain a knowledge of and interest in the major sports and continue them after college while
developing physically sound bodies.

New AA Test To Be Given

All freshmen will be required to take the Athletic Ability Test during the first week of school. This will probably
be given during higher accomplishments on the scene as has been the custom in previous seasons. Freshmen are eligible for
the team and are strongly encouraged to come out for practice when the opening practice is announced. The top spots
on the varsity are wide open to the fastest runners. This year Davidson will have the Southern Conference as well
as a fine record to uphold. After last year’s fine season, Davidson will be gunning for even more noticeable accomplishments.

Cross-Country Card (Shows Maryville As First Cat Opposition)

Coach Pete Whittle’s Wildcat Harriers will begin workout in the next few days to meet what will promise to be
another successful season for the veteran cross country and track mentor. Only three lettermen are returning this year along with
a few near lettermen, which will leave several berths on the team wide open for competitive attainment. Twelve men can
make the team this year instead of eight. The schedule will be:

Oct. 7 Maryville, home.
Oct. 13 Richmond, Richmond, Va.
Oct. 21 W&L, VMI, Lexington, Va.
Oct. 29 W.M., N.C. State, home.
Nov. 7 State Meet, Raleigh, N.C.
Nov. 14 AAU Meet, Raleigh, N.C.
Nov. 21 Southern Conf., home.

Coach Jim Fasul has released the 1955 schedule for his Davidson JV's. The Wildkitten gridders will open the season against
the Baby Apps from Appalachian State here on September 22. The five-game card includes another contest with Appalachian, a scrap
with Lees-McRae Junior College, and two prep games. Baylor Prep and Gordon Military will furnish the opposition in the latter
two. The schedule features only one home game—the opener against Appalachian. Fasul has no squad at the present time, but
the team will undoubtedly be made up of freshmen and a few upperclassmen who will be sent down for needed
experience. The squad roster will not be ready until the coaches have more contact and scrimmage work with the 22
freshmen who are already out for the squad and with new candidates who will join when school opens. The schedule
is shown below:

Sept. 22 Appalachian, home.
Oct. 8 Lees-McRae, away.
Oct. 13 Appalachian, away.
Oct. 22 Baylor Prep, away.
Oct. 28 Gordon Mil., away.

Freshmen—Don’t forget the cake race next Thursday afternoon at 4 o'clock. You'll have an opportunity to win one of the
fifty home-made cakes to be given as prizes!

Drink ‘MOOR’ QUALITY MILK
Mooresville Creamery, Inc.
118 West Trade Street

PARKER-GARDNER
CHARLOTTE 2, N. C.

DAVIDSON STUDENTS—FROM OUR FREE CLOTHING WARDROBE

Open to Welcome High School and College Men

Just Register on our Third Floor.

“LITTLE VARSITY-TOWN BLUE BOOK” 172 Page Encyclopedia of Sports

NO MAIL ORDERS, PLEASE!

BACK-TO-SCHOOL

While on our third floor be sure to see the new fall fashions with the ‘Ivy Look.”

SUITS by Varsity-Town and Joseph and Feiss 52.50 to 67.50
SLACKS 14.95 to 20.00
SHIRTS by Manhattan, Wilson Bros. and Holbrook 5.00
SPORT COATS 29.95 to 45.00

PARKER-GARDNER
126 S. Tryon — Charlotte
