PAGE FOUR

The Regimental Staff of the 1955 Davidson ROTC Corps is shown above at the start of last Tuesday’s drill, the first of the year. The Regimental Staff includes Cadet Lt. Col. Joe S. Pharr, Cadet Major Philip H. Koonce, Capt. Richard H. Morehead, Capt. Maurice A. Crouse, Capt. John W. McLauchlin, Capt. George R. Cousar, SFC Dan S. LaFar, and Sgt. Andy Watson.

Greek Villages Make Good Use of Y Gift Fund

The following is a copy of the letter received by the Davidson YMCA from Mr. Orville Sherman, Director of the Inter-Church Service in Greek Villages, concerning the use of the money from last year’s Christmas Gift Fund:

Dear Sir:

Mr. Robert B. Tillman has informed me that your gift of $2,667.52 has arrived, for which we wish to express our sincere appreciation. As a steward of this money, we would like to give this report to you explaining how the money in part was spent or is to be spent.

As our work is mostly agricultural, we have a desire to use a substantial amount on our Kservalto Farm Project. In this project, we are running several different kinds of crop experiments, most of them in cooperation with the local Department of Agriculture. We have 87 different plots of wheat, nine experimental plots of grasses to be used for both hay and pasture. We are also running an experiment with potatoes under the supervision of the Greek Agriculture Department. Fertilizers are used on a part of nearly all experiments with check strips to show the effect and results. We have already obtained some startling results in fertilizing spring oats. We are trying to squeeze into this year's budget a trench silo to conserve feed for the lean winter months. Also, we are trying to work out a pasture rotation program for the shepherds of this area. There is no end to the possibilities in this type of work.

Our hatchery program is nearly at a close as far as chicks distribution is concerned. To date, we have placed over 7,000 good leghorn chicks to villagers who have built poultry houses to our specifications. Along with this, we are proposing a better feeding program, culling, and sanitation practices. It is a little early to see any net results, but we are quite pleased with the overall interest in this project. This coming year we would like to enlarge our program by obtaining another 1,000 chick battery. This will enable us to keep chicks until they are old enough to withstand the conditions of the village poultry house.

We have learned one should never generalize on beekeeping in Greece. Our program was to furnish anyone who had a good hive of bees with a modern beehive. We would help him transfer the bees to the new hive. The price of the hive made in the form of a loan is to be paid back when the first crop of honey is marketed, this to be a revolving fund. Unfortunately, in some areas, it was too dry in summer and cold in winter, therefore, the bees had to be fed to maintain existence. We have extended the loan another year in these specific cases. In other villages, where it is much warmer, we have obtained excellent results. One to four good beehives to a family means a great deal in this country.

The latrines and hotbeds are catching on fast. This is our second year for hotbeds, therefore, it was so much easier to sell the idea to the villagers. With the aid of hotbeds, the villagers can advance the harvest of their garden as much as three or four weeks. This year for the first time, we had two farmers who built hotbeds on their own initiative asking us only for technical assistance. There is quite a lot of interest in our latrine program with several schools and a number of individuals constructing latrines with our supervision.

The Riziany irrigation project is one of those things that cause us, who try to stay within budget, to turn grey-headed. The pumps were secured and paid for by another organization, but the installation was not figured in the cost. We had no idea the amount would run to nearly $1,000 before the pumps would be in operation. I am happy to say the pumps are running and worthless dry land is growing food for a hungry people. Thanks to the good people of Davidson College who helped make this possible along with others who contributed to the installation of these two pumps.

Enclosed is a financial statement showing how the money is being used in our work here. If at any time you have any questions as to our program here in Greece, I will be very happy to be of service to you. Also, if at any time a representative from your college could come to Greece, we would be only too glad to show him firsthand what we are doing.

Again, please accept our sincere appreciation for the amount you have contributed to our project. One of the things we are most desirous of is to create projects that will enable the people of Greece to help themselves.

ORVILLE SHERMAN
Director

Davidson College Projects Financial Report
Kservalto Farm $1,274.00
Bee Hives $407.00
Hatchery $492.52
Latrine and beds

By JIM BRICE

The college bookstore last year was the subject of much conversation and criticism, so the Davidsonian has decided to publish an article about the operation of this college facility.

According to Prof. J. T. Kimbrough, director of the bookstore, and to Mr. D. Grier Martin, college treasurer, the bookstore is operated by the college as a service to students. Little or no profit is realized from it. The store does receive on practically all textbooks a discount of 20% off the suggested retail price; however, from this 20% “profit” must come all postal charges on books and the salaries of the director, clerks, and bookkeepers.

The greatest expense of the store, according to Prof. Kimbrough, is the loss on books no longer being used by the college. New professors, almost without exception, use different books, leaving the bookstore with a surplus of “old” textbooks which must be sold to used-book dealers at a low price. Last year the bookstore earned a net profit of $627; had the store been required to pay rent, light bills, etc., obviously it would have lost money. According to Mr. Martin, this $627, along with all other profit the bookstore has ever made, was placed in the College Loan Fund or Scholarship Fund.

This year for the first time, the bookstore has made a contract with Barnes and Noble, used-book dealers, whereby the bookstore will

FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 1955

TWELVE NEW PROFS

(Continued From Page One)

Peak has been granted a two-year leave of absence to teach in Peru, and will return to Davidson in 1957. Prof. Monahan is a graduate of Emory University of Atlanta, Ga. The Visiting Assistant Professor of Music, Mr. J. Frank West, replaces Prof. Kenneth Moore who is completing requirements for the Ph.D. degree at the Eastman School of Music.

NEWS SPORTS - FEATURES

“Billiards is one of the greatest of all participant sports." There are approximately 10,000,000 who play in the U.S. and at least 100,000,000 over the world. Take advantage of his visit here

moving the balls around the table. It’s a scientific procedure that requires a lot of geometry.Hotbeds 172.00
Riziany Irrigation . 322.00
Total _ $2,667.52

DAVIDSON LOSES
(Continued From Page One)
year, is going to Hanover College, to take the position of Dean of Students. Several professors are gone temporarily on leave of absence for various reasons: Howard French, German Professor here, is on an exchange plan with Dr. Jung. He will return next year. Hunter Peak will be in Lima, Peru for two years. He is teaching English at the university there.

MAGILL TO HEAD
(Continued From Page One)
gill to his alma mater. A graduate of 1950, he compiled good records in leadership and track. He received a B.D. degree from Yale Divinity School in 1953 and became General Secretary here in the same year.

CLASS OF ‘59
(Continued From Page One)
to issue bids to the entire group of rushees that visit the house, but they try to choose men with whom they feel they will be most

Jackson F. L. JACKSON, JR.
Main Street an advisory function. Cadet Lt. Col. Joe B. Pharr is commanding officer of the Davidson regiment this year, being assisted in his duties by Cadet Major Philip H. Koonce, executive officer. Pharr’s hometown is Cherryville, N. C., and Koonce lives in Tarboro, N.C. Other members of the regimental staff include Captain Maurice A. Crouse of Lincolnton, N. C., intelligence officer; Captain John W. McLauchlin of Raeford, N.C., operations and training officer; Captain George R. Cousar of Richmond, Va., supply officer, SFC Dan S. LaFar of Gastonia, N. C., sergeant major; and Sgt. A. H. Watson of Atlanta, Ga.

NEW CHAPEL CUTS ARE ANNOUNCED
Because of the reduction of the number of chapels per week from 4 to 3, Freshmen and Sophomores will be permitted five unexcused absences in chapel rather than six and Juniors and Seniors will be permitted eight unexcused absences rather than ten. All students are reminded that the loss of quality points because of excess absences will affect not only the total of 122 required for graduation but also the 27 required in the major.

Freshmen and Transfers To Have Special Chapel
All freshmen and transfers will meet their faculty counselors by groups in faculty counselors classrooms at the chapel period (10:10 a.m.) each Monday. Each Wednesday there will be a special chapel session for new students in the auditorium at the chapel hour. A special seating chart for these sessions was posted Wednesday morning, September 21. Attendance at both the Monday and Wednesday sessions is required of all new students, and no unexcused absences will be permitted, Dean Spencer announced.

be furnished a list of the prices that Barnes and Noble will pay for every textbook now in use and will serve as agents for Barnes and Noble in buying used books from students here at Davidson. In exchange, the bookstore will be given the privilege of keeping any of the books which they desire. The store will remain open several hours a day during exam period so that students who might wish to sell their old books will have an opportunity to do so. A tentative list of textbooks which will be used at Davidson next year will be posted in the bookstore and on the bulletin boards, so that students will know which books to keep.

DEPENDABLE DRY CLEANING AND ALTERATIONS
PRESSING WHILE YOU WAIT
Cleaners

Davidson School of Music in New York. Mr. West, a 1947 graduate of Davidson, earned his A. B. in music at the University of North Carolina. He is an accomplished musician on the operations sergeant. The first battalion is commanded by Major Hollis F. Cobb of Charlotte, N. C., with Captain W. Harris of Charlotte being executive officer. Staff members include 1st Lt. Clifford M. Deal of Waxhaw, N. C., adjutant; 1st Lt. Curtis C. Cates of Faison, N.C., operations and training officer; and SFC Leon Howell of Copper Hill, Tenn., sergeant major. Company commanders are 1st Lt. Robert C. Steward, Company A; 1st Lt. Albert F. Simpson, Company B; and 1st Lt. Lawrence W. McIntosh, Company C. Stewart is from Carthage, N. C., Simpson from Montgomery, Ala, and McIntosh from Atlanta, Ga.

Major Tom D. Owen of Charleston W. Va., is commander of the second battalion. His executive officer is Captain Douglas W. Oldenburg of Signal Mountain, Tenn. Staff members include 1st Lt. Dewey Stovall of Waynesville, N. C., adjutant; 1st Lt. Lawrence H. Wright of Winston-Salem, N.C., operations and training officer; and Robert J. Shaw of Charlotte, N. C., sergeant major. Company commanders are 1st Lt. Thomas W. Warlick of Newton, N.C., Company D; Lt. John M. Pierce of Warsaw, N.C., Company E; and 1st Lt. DeWitt F. Helm of Hot Springs, Va., Company F.

DR. KARL G. JUNG
oboe and French horn and is a skilled manufacturer of musical instrument parts. Julian B. Fickten, instructor of English, is a 1952 graduate of Washington and Lee University. He was awarded his M. A. degree in English by the University of Virginia in 1954, and has completed additional work toward his doctorate. Another instructor of English, E. Bryan Gillespie, is an alumnus of Gardner-Webb Junior College, and earned his A. B. degree from Wake Forest in 1953. In February of this year Gillespie was awarded his M. A. degree by Duke University, and during the spring semester served as an English instructor at

Throughout the year cadet officers will perform the duties of officers in the regular army as much as local conditions will permit. Thus, commanders will actually command and be responsible for their units, and staff officers will perform the duties relevant to their positions.

You'll Find Them All in...
THE DAVIDSONIAN
Your Campus Newspaper

September 29-30 and at least learn the simple fundamentals needed for excellence in billiards. Hold cue at the balance—keep firm bridge, stand correctly, hit cue ball in the center, follow through, and keep your cue on the line of aim. “You can’t play good billiards unless you take good care of yourself.”

returns to the campus as an instructor of English also. He earned his M. A. degree from the University of Virginia in June. Prominent in extra-curricular activities while at Davidson, Mr. Champion was a member of Phi Gamma Delta, played in the football and concert bands, and will continue to play this year with the Charlotte Symphony Orchestra. Frederick Benton, the new instructor of mathematics and physics, is also a graduate of Davidson, as of last June. He served as treasurer of Pi Kappa Alpha, vice president of Sigma Pi Sigma, honorary physics fraternity, and was a member of Eumanean Literary Society and Scabbard and Blade.

The two new additions to the Army ROTC faculty are Capt. John W. Thompson and 1st Lt. Edwin Van Keuren, Jr. Capt. Thompson will serve as adjutant of the unit, and as an instructor in Military Science III. He is a veteran of armored warfare. Lt. Van Keuren is a graduate of the Military Academy at West Point, 1951, and has served with the 517th Artillery Battalion in Western Germany. He will teach Military Science I.

Drink ‘M O O R’ QUALITY MILK

Instructor Arthur T. Cavano, Jr., has been promoted to captain. He joined the college ROTC staff in March as a first lieutenant.

YOUR BIG RED LETTER DAY
Mooresville Creamery, Inc.

Marshall College, Huntington, West Virginia.