The Davidsonian
The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

EDITOR ............ HEN ROCKMANN
BUSINESS MGR. ..._..... TIM COOPER
Managing Editors _... Maurice Crouse, Tom Warlick
Sports Editor Jim Holshouser
Feature Editor Dick Morehead
News Editors . Watt McCain, Bill Gallier
Copy Editor _.___.. John Harmon
Photographer Hank Daniel
Assignments ....__._._.... Jim Brice
Business Staff Tommy Taylor, Parrott Parro
Circulation ............ Bob Carmichael

Published each Friday during the college year except during examination and holiday periods. Member of the Associated Collegiate Press and
Intercollegiate Press. Represented for national advertising by National Advertising Service. Subscription rate: $2.00 per year. Entered as second class matter
at the Post Office at Davidson, N.C., under the Act of March 3, 1879. Offices in David Ovens College Union,
Davidson College.

Page Two Friday, April 15, 1955

The Purpose Of Education

It is probably not news that private colleges and universities in the country are financially endangered; indeed, the recent growth
of corporation plans to assist these institutions points up the difficulties they face as well as the realization that they
must be helped. Yet it may come as something of a surprise to learn that the difficulties of the private
schools affect also the tax-supported institutions and thus of course all higher education. Indeed, so important in the educational structure
are the private schools that the president of the oldest state university in America believes that if a choice had
to be made between the two it would be necessary to save the private colleges. This remark was made by
Gordon Gray, President of the University of North Carolina, in a recent speech in Los Angeles.

Some of the dangers to the public colleges if the non-tax supported ones cannot keep abreast of the increasing college
population are, indeed, obvious. A far greater burden would fall upon the State schools and upon the taxpayers. And the
burden, though already great upon both, will double within the next fifteen years to a total of five million students.

There are sounder reasons, though for the state institutions to support the cause of the private schools, as Mr. Gray's
does; the state institutions are creatures of the state and are answerable to the state in ways that private schools
are not. Thus they are a safeguard for academic freedom of all schools and they maintain standards which tax-supported ones,
by their very nature, could never reach alone. It is not just the private schools that are threatened by a
lack of funds; it is the purpose of education itself. That purpose is to develop minds in an atmosphere of
free inquiry; it flourishes where there is independence; it languishes to the exact extent of government control.—The Wall Street Journal,
4-5-55.

What Do Americans Value Most Highly?

Whom do we reward most highly for services rendered? The answer to that question throws some light on the current
scale of values of American life. Physicians head the list. They receive the largest incomes, and also have had the
largest increase—80 per cent—in average real incomes in recent years. Could this have something to do with the almost universal
feeling that doctors’ bills are far too high? It might; and it could also have something to do with the
physician’s concern about “socialized medicine.” No other factor is as certain to speed the coming of socialized medicine as excessive
fees by private practitioners.

Second on the list are lawyers. Then follow dentists, businessmen, government employees and scientists. Education stands in seventh place in
the income of college graduates and the ministry in the eighth. By this rating the American people give a fairly
low valuation to intellectual and spiritual development. A national publishing house recently took a full page in The New York
Times to give the facts on salaries of college teachers. “Our colleges and universities are living on borrowed time—time borrowed
from underpaid faculty members.” it said. It pointed out that the average real wages of industrial workers have increased almost
by half in the last 14 years. But the average real salaries of all college and university faculty members decreased
by nearly 5 per cent between 1940 and 1954. A study made by the Chicago Theological Seminary indicates that the
average salary of full-time ministers in the Congregational Christian Churches is $3,484. In other denominations it would probably be lower.
No wonder the recruiting of teachers and ministers lags!

It all goes back to what the nation considers important. We are able to finance education and an adequate spiritual
ministry. But when we prodigally spend vast sums for liquor, tobacco, cosmetics and entertainment and grouse about making the necessary
expenditures for schools and churches, it is time to ask and give an honest answer to the question: What do
we really want? Do we care for the mind and spirit, or only for the body? —The Christian Century, 4-13-55.

Hard Work, No Pay

Now that the danger is past for suspicion of self-aggrandizement, we would like to put in a squib for the
editor of the college newspaper. At the Associated Collegiate Press Conference in Washington, D.C., last October we learned to our
amazement that Davidson journalists are the victims of an unusual situation. They are among the small number of college newspapermen
in the country who receive no remuneration whatsoever for the weekly marathon involved in getting an edition to press. The
managing editors, news editors, sports and feature editors spend from seven to fifteen hours a week toiling with the paper.
With the managing editors rests the responsibility of getting the edition to press. Yet these men achieve nothing but ambition
for their work. The editor spends about 20 hours at the minimum to get a good issue out. The Davidsonian
staff has no vacation or weekly break except on rare occasions, and brings over 25 Davidsonians to the students each
year. Payment, even to a small extent, for the work that these men do would add, we believe, some incentive
to them to do their jobs well, thereby improving the quality of the paper. We would appreciate some thought on
the matter, though we realize it is illogical to expect any action in the near future.

Swan Song

One of the strongest arguments used against those professors or students who are “maladjusted” to Davidson is the argument that
Davidson is what it is, and that if these people do not like it the way it is they are
free to leave. Thus students who oppose cut system, chapel, R.O.T.C., or vespers are put in their place by being
made to understand that they knew what Davidson would be before they entered it, and in choosing it they chose
these trimmings. Thus, also, faculty members and students who cry out against football subsidization in favor of library appropriations or
for an application of the purported Christian gentleman ethic to racial, social or even moral problems are accused of cramming
seditious doctrines down innocent little throats, and are asked to return to Yankeeland if they don’t like it.

Surely the cult of conformity at Davidson is the religion which takes most of our time—a religion in which individuality
is sin, and in which Christianity as such becomes “a matter of each person's heart,” which means, in effect, that
if anybody's Christianity dares seek application to life, that application should be enclosed within the shell of mores which may
be described succinctly as Southern, Anglo-Saxon, and possessed only by God's chosen gentiles. It was once said that the real
slavery of Israel in Egypt was that they learned to endure it. If there were not a few in these
environs who refused to endure the worse parts of the status quo, Davidson might well expect to continue in slavery.
These gadflies might be unpopular, for well they deserve to be, refusing to let the minds about them sleep the
sleep of utter cultural and spiritual unconcern.

As a year closes, we offer a sincere hope that those who follow will choose what is right above what
is popular. Our confession would be that we throw a near-unlit torch from failing hands. Our hope is that those
who follow might finally have guts enough to lift it high. “It is romantic foolishness to expect that by his
puny efforts man can make a heaven on earth. But to wear out our lives in the pursuit of worthy
though imperfectly attainable ideals is the essence of human dignity.”—Morris R. Cohen.

The Candidates Speak: Platforms For Scripts and Pranks

Jim Armistead

Many of you will agree that in the past Scripts ‘n Pranks has measured up well as a college magazine.
With a small circulation and limited material editors have turned out good issues in spite of some problems that they
will always have to cope with. Some students have had the idea for the last few years that humorous and
serious work should come out in different issues, some have wanted to get rid of the seriousness altogether, and still
others, I suppose, haven't cared, so long as a page of jokes is included each time. But none of this
has been done, and for good reason. The staff of Scripts ‘n Pranks, principally the editor, though responsible first to
the reader, has to think of the contributor as well. Student writing, which is not often earth-moving, still represents the
work of people who try hard and often to pen a manuscript that will do them credit, and hope it
will be read. The staff of course has to print what is available at the time, and what is worth
the space.

There is another thing that I'd like to bring out. College humor, found nowhere else, is necessary to the well-equipped
college publication, so important that it should cover a sizable portion of each magazine and even justify one all-humor issue
during the year. Ideally there should be a variety of features, cartoons, selected photographs, and what other novelties are available,
with the usual verse and prose, serious and trivial. Practically speaking there is no sense in predicting what will be
in the magazine next year. That has to be decided before each issue is organized. Serving as editor I would
try to realize a well-balanced publication from the available material. Finding the material is the biggest problem. I hope that
if you make me next year's editor, you will take some interest in Scripts ‘n Pranks by reading it, and
in some cases contributing to it. I will give it what I have of industry and imagination. In publishing the
four issues, or however many that funds permit, the editor has first to select what will be printed, while knocking
on doors to find out what will be there to print. He has to organize material into an acceptably attractive
form and walk a tightrope between an eagerly-read magazine and the censors. Then comes the time when he is tempted
into putting out a special issue on one theme, and that is when such things as reluctant writers, deadlines, and
assigned articles, that ordinarily belong in delirium tremens, come out to haunt him and the staff. The production of Slime
two years ago is an excellent example of what can be done, while last year’s 3-D issue fell somewhere short.
I am convinced that a theme issue should be attempted next year if the quality of the work is not
strained, otherwise

Armistead

Writer Hits Shearer

By A. C. STRAND

We wonder how many of the student body, faculty and administration realize that over 200 students use the facilities of
the Music Department. Two hundred students—one fourth of the student body—use antiquated Shearer Hall and what few facilities it can
offer for classes, band and chorus practice, applied music practice, and even for dormitory space! Let us state at this
point, to avoid misunderstanding, that we were not asked by the Music Department to write an article pleading their cause,
but rather we sought the department out in the interest of the Davidsonian. One fourth of the student body pass
in and out through the doors of this wonder of the 1800's quite frequently, and yet how many in Davidson
are aware that the toilet facilities for these two hundred students centers around one single “head,” to use a colloquial
term. The room in which this “head” is located is not heated, and we don't think we need to go
into details as to the probable experiences derived from it by members of the music group using it. The nearest
heated toilet facilities are in another building—the YMCA Guest House—located at a distance of fifty yards. One might just as
wellI'd rather have a good general issue. Above all, the things an editor should remember is the purpose of his
publication. Scripts 'n Pranks is for entertainment. Students can be informed through the newspaper and have their minds enriched by
textbooks, but the college magazine is, and I hope will remain, an opportunity to enjoy a few minutes of home-grown
wit and maybe some serious efforts at a worthwhile piece of writing.

Joe Garrison

A well-worn tweed was disgracefully thrown over the back of an overstuffed armchair. A lazy smoke ring wreathed the naked
light bulb in the center of the ceiling. At a desk in the corner, five busy little men huddled around
manuscripts and scribbled memoranda. A knock at the door summoned a solitary response. Telegram. “In Bosnia and Herzegovina, more citizens
read Scripts 'n Pranks than any other college magazine.” Our reading audience is obviously quite diverse. Some, like Egret Feathers,
chant for “Blood, sex, and sadism.” On the other hand, there are some who merely wish to see genre scenes
of boys frolicking about pasture-like campii and gardens filled with Garrison-friendly rivalry. This situation puts the editor somewhere between Egret
and Horace G. Harvard, III. Scripts 'n Pranks is designed to fill the role of a literary-humor magazine. Every spring,
the literary politicians have debated: How much literature? How much humor? Editor after editor has thrown down his pen and
cried, “I am tired.” Some 850 students here are all tired—tired of turning pages of small-print stories and poems and
tired of being confronted with adjectives such as “sloppy snow” and “sloshy slush,” and had one taken the time to
wade in deeper, he would have ruined his own disposition as well as his white bucks. A college magazine is
only as good as the editor’s devotion to an idea. My devotion would be concentrated on the side of the
practical, but I also would observe high standards of quality. My complaint of past years is editorial unawareness of obligation
to the student body. The opportunity to publish is granted, but I see it with the stipulation that the editor
must find favor with the students. This would be my catalogued policy:

1—I visualize the publication of four magazines, two humor, one literary, and one combination—the two humor magazines for dance weekends,
an appropriate Christmas issue, and a spring literary issue containing the winner of the Vereen Bell and Willa Cather competition.
2—I desire to do away with the present editorial caucus in the staff and notify our army of contributors of
both the theme and deadline for the magazine.
3—I would change the style of composition, for I feel that the clash between the literary and humor entries has
marred the overall effect of Scripts 'n Pranks. (I assure you that the general “appearance” of the magazine would be
a far cry from any issue you have previously browsed through.)

In the past, it has been almost a tradition for the staff of Scripts 'n Pranks to begin its year
with a silver-tongued generality concerning its intentions for the coming year. There have been few occasions when these generalities were
not dashed against the wall of cruel circumstances by the end of the year. With this dismal fate in mind,
I am putting aside all absolute promises. It would be absurd to promise anything for a literary-humor magazine which depends
so strongly upon contributions of its readers. But let me say this: I have some attractive ideas about content and
make-up, and if I am elected as editor of Scripts 'n Pranks, the magazine will wear a new appearance. This
is in the nature of a promise. It is the only promise I shall make.

A well-worn tweed was disgracefully thrown over the back of an overstuffed armchair. A lazy smoke ring wreathed the naked
light bulb in the center of the ceiling. At a desk in the corner, five busy little men huddled around
manuscripts and scribbled memoranda. A knock at the door summoned a solitary response. Telegram. “In Bosnia and Herzegovina, more citizens
read Scripts 'n Pranks than any other college magazine.” Our reading audience is obviously quite diverse. Some, like Egret Feathers,
chant for “Blood, sex, and sadism.” On the other hand, there are some who merely wish to see genre scenes
of boys frolicking about pasture-like campii and gardens filled with Garrison-friendly rivalry. This situation puts the editor somewhere between Egret
and Horace G. Harvard, III. Scripts 'n Pranks is designed to fill the role of a literary-humor magazine. Every spring,
the literary politicians have debated: How much literature? How much humor? Editor after editor has thrown down his pen and
cried, “I am tired.” Some 850 students here are all tired—tired of turning pages of small-print stories and poems and
tired of being confronted with adjectives such as “sloppy snow” and “sloshy slush,” and had one taken the time to
wade in deeper, he would have ruined his own disposition as well as his white bucks. A college magazine is
only as good as the editor’s devotion to an idea. My devotion would be concentrated on the side of the
practical, but I also would observe high standards of quality. My complaint of past years is editorial unawareness of obligation
to the student body. The opportunity to publish is granted, but I see it with the stipulation that the editor
must find favor with the students. This would be my catalogued policy:

1—I visualize the publication of four magazines, two humor, one literary, and one combination—the two humor magazines for dance weekends,
an appropriate Christmas issue, and a spring literary issue containing the winner of the Vereen Bell and Willa Cather competition.
2—I desire to do away with the present editorial caucus in the staff and notify our army of contributors of
both the theme and deadline for the magazine.
3—I would change the style of composition, for I feel that the clash between the literary and humor entries has
marred the overall effect of Scripts 'n Pranks. (I assure you that the general “appearance” of the magazine would be
a far cry from any issue you have previously browsed through.)

In the past, it has been almost a tradition for the staff of Scripts 'n Pranks to begin its year
with a silver-tongued generality concerning its intentions for the coming year. There have been few occasions when these generalities were
not dashed against the wall of cruel circumstances by the end of the year. With this dismal fate in mind,
I am putting aside all absolute promises. It would be absurd to promise anything for a literary-humor magazine which depends
so strongly upon contributions of its readers. But let me say this: I have some attractive ideas about content and
make-up, and if I am elected as editor of Scripts 'n Pranks, the magazine will wear a new appearance. This
is in the nature of a promise. It is the only promise I shall make.

The whole story of the shape of the Music Department could be summed up in the one phrase, “The Sadness
of Shearer Hall.” The Music Appreciation class of some thirty-three students takes up the largest classroom in Shearer—and that classroom
is bulging at the seams. Some of the classrooms have no blackboards, and lighting is poor in most of them,
especially in the big rehearsal hall on the second floor of the building where 100-watt bulbs without shades cause a
terrific glare. Another defect in Shearer Hall is its inadequacy of space for rehearsal. There is one big room, but
the situation of scheduling rehearsals gets confused when both the Male Chorus and the Band need to rehearse on the
same night at the same time. What is needed are two rehearsal rooms of adequate size and with adequate acoustics.
Most men in the Music Department give lessons to students and youngsters of the town—but they must give these lessons
in their own offices, and while Mr. Plott is teaching voice, Mr. Satterfield may have a trombonist at practice, and
in the office in between—that of Herb Russell—the confusion reaches a climax. Whatever we say for the Music Department could
be said also for the Fine Arts Department and, in a sense, the Speech Department, for these other two departments
also need room of their own if they are to play the roles they should in a liberal arts college.

RESTORATION OF QUADRANGLE

As recently announced by President Cunningham, the Board of Trustees of the college is now formulating plans for the restoration
of the original quadrangle, to furnish adequate facilities for the Music, Speech, and Fine Arts Departments. Such a building program
should include soundproof offices for the faculty of the Music Department. It should allow for expansion of the Music Appreciation
course; it should contain two rehearsal studios, one equipped for the band, the other for the chorus. As we see
it, Davidson must either initiate such a program or have, instead of the famous book brigade, a hammer and nail
party, in which each student takes a hammer and a nail and does his part in chipping the old stucco
off the wonder of the 1800s, the inculcation of Davidson tradition, Shearer Hall.

RACKS IN THE CLOISTER

By GILBERT GRAGG

On Spring, Change, Mauze, “Holy Joes,”

It would be difficult to see how anyone could contemplate suicide in the spring. Not only does nature put on
her finest show (the grass is still green and occasionally the air is yellow, but it has rained a great
deal since last April!), but there is enough growth and change elsewhere to make us feel that maybe there is
something “new under the sun” and life is constantly intriguing for those who look.

OUTSIDE WORLD

Beyond the narrow confines of our provincialism, this spring shows many changes—in the political field we see “golden-haired Eden ascending
to the throne of memory-laden Churchill; the seething cauldron of international tension bubbling over Quemoy and Matsu and the Asian-African
conference; in medicine, the wonderful Salk vaccine indicates more cancer research; in movies, suave Grace Kelly replacing tempestuous Marilyn; and
perhaps the most startling evidence of change is the fact that Anne Lindbergh’s Gift from the Sea is about to
do the impossible and replace Peale as number one on the best seller list. Speaking of “The New Religion” brings
us back home.

OUR OWN BACKYARD

For Davidson, the growth associated with spring may be symbolized by the “Duke Dog” whose new puppies were born before
sympathetic eyes in front of the dorm. And the news could not be better from our spring sports program (without
subsidization) after a discouraging basketball season. One of our greatest changes is the new Y Constitution which is nothing short
of revolutionary when compared to the minor changes in the much-publicized Student Council constitution! Of course, spring at Davidson means
elections “Davidson style,” and some eager candidates even begin speaking to everyone.

“BLACK FRIDAY”

Some aspiring politicos are so anxious for victory that their speeches promise everything but no more reviews. On “Good Friday”
Mr. Mauze reached new heights in half-truths and “white lies” which got him enough supporters to be runner-up in the
YMCA race. While not questioning his sincerity, personal qualifications, or the good he may have done, it is inconceivable to
us how a rational student could vote for any candidate who charged UCM as “forcing religion down our throats” (no
religious program has ever been less obviously forced—when students could disagree with Easter, Christ speakers in classroom discussions) and its
leaders as “propagandists.” Who is not going to a football game or Spring Frolics because he does not get a
personal invitation? All know where the Y office is and that it is always open for those who want to
give unselfishly of their time to something higher than themselves.

HYPOCRITES

“At least Mr. Mauze is not a hypocrite in his speech,” said one enthusiastic supporter, and it is certainly true
he did not choose to discuss the kind of Gospel he would favor being taught in Sunday Schools. But are
not any of us who come to a church school with its emphasis on Christian scholarship hypocrites when we spend
most of our time seeking sensual pleasures and waste time? But what about the orthodox Y workers who are hypocrites.
Of course, all Christians are of necessity hypocrites who profess to follow unattainable standards of conduct. Perhaps this is a
good time to remember that Christ condemned sins of the spirit as self-righteousness; pride, envy, ambition, (work in Y to
get cabinet post), and selfishness even more than sins of the flesh. We are all guilty of adultery, cheating, lying,
etc. in thought if not in deed, and this is why Christ had to go to the cross.

TRAGEDY AND TRIUMPH

The most unfortunate thing about religion at Davidson is not that we have any “Holy Joes” but none who are
willing to actually jump off the “deep end” and start taking Christianity seriously in every phase of life. But this
would involve going to the depths of our existence and great suffering since to really renounce the world for the
“depth of truth” and to enter the City of God would mean a complete transvaluation of our present value pattern.
Only after we have all taken the cross upon ourselves can we expect the blackness of sin to turn into
a crown of joy on Easter. The greatest change spring brings to Christians is the renewed realization that this earth
is not our home. It is time to heal the cleft in the students over the recent election and join
together now and in the future to serve our Risen Lord. The invitation comes from Christ—the real leader of our
YMCA—and it is open to all who are willing to explore the depths of their existence. Perhaps if we keep
talking, thinking, and writing, maybe someday we might act as if Christ really did arise—they say He did, you know.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:

Dear Editor:

Gilbert Gragg is waxing wroth again (Davidsonian, March 11, 1955), over the laxness of the faculty this time. Who can
dispute him? What alarms me most was my failure to recognize the grossness that faculty negligence reached, and I blush
to confess it. How many times have I seen professors at movie houses, at gala receptions, or driving idly down
Main Street with their families, shameless of the spectacle their frivolity must create! Is there not one righteous man in
Sodom? Can anything good come out of Davidson? Oh, I have seen them, yes, seen them all—and knew it not.
How long might we have continued along the paths of ignorance had not Gilbert Gragg brought us face to face
with reality and opened our eyes to the truth! Yet, he is merciful to the offenders: his cup is not
bitter which he would have them to drink. Thus it remains for us to right this grievous wrong. Up students,
for reform stands without the gate! Aha! Then what can we do? First, the trustees must be edified; then they
can begin to enlarge the faculty. Three Ph.D.’s for committee work are not enough. There must be more, many more,
to give students the proper attention. Let us not rest until there is a Ph.D. for every student; as it
is written, “No man can serve two masters.” Accordingly, I should like to organize a committee of far-sighted young men,
with Gilbert Gragg as chairman, to begin a movement which will prosper and triumph until we have built a Davidson
worthy of our respect and the reverence of our children’s children.

—JIM ARMISTEAD
