THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL | VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE | VOLUME 43 — NUMBER 19

Phi Beta Kappa Fraternity Elects 8 New Members
By JOEL CONARROE

FLOYD FEENEY
Floyd Feeney, from Charlotte, is the other senior in the group. Floyd's long list of activities includes president of the student body, president of the junior class, track, cross country, and basketball. He is a member of Kappa Sigma and is taking History honors as a pre-law major.

LINNY BAKER
Linny Baker is from Kannapolis and is a member of Alpha Tau Omega and Eumanean Literary Society. He has served as secretary-treasurer of the student body and is presently president of the junior class, president of his fraternity, and a member of the YMCA Board of Directors. He is the holder of a Baker scholarship.

MAURICE CROUSE
Maurice Crouse from Lincolnton, N.C., is the managing editor of the Davidsonian. He is a member of Sigma Delta Pi, honorary Spanish fraternity, Tau Kappa Alpha, the Campus Club, Sigma Upsilon, and has served as vice president of Eumanean. He is taking honors work in History.

BROWN GOEHRING
J. Brown Goehring is an Independent from Clearwater, Fla. He was the winner of the Howard Memorial Chemistry award last year, and is a member of Phi Mu Alpha, honorary music fraternity, and of the honorary German and Chemistry fraternities.

BILL KUYKENDALL
William Kuykendall is from Charlotte and is another member of the group who is taking History honors. He is a member of Le Cercle Francais, Phi Gamma Delta, and Philanthropic Literary Society. For the past two years, he has directed youth choirs at the local church and has been active in cub work. Bill is a Baker scholar.

JASON McMANUS
Jason McManus from University City, Mo., has recently been elected president of Phi Delta Theta fraternity. He is a member of Sigma Upsilon, Delta Phi Alpha, and the Eumanean Literary Society. He is a member of the YMCA cabinet and was co-chairman of the United Christian Mission. He is the holder of a Presbyterian scholarship and is taking English honors.

CLYDE ROBINSON
Clyde Robinson is another Baker scholar and is from Raleigh. He has been elected vice president of Phi Delta Theta and is a member of the YMCA cabinet and the Eumanean Literary Society. A History honors student, Clyde was a representative at the North Carolina Student Legislative Assembly this year.

Two seniors and six juniors have satisfied the requirements for Phi Beta Kappa, honorary scholastic fraternity, and have been elected to the organization. Phi Beta Kappa, established at Davidson in 1923, recognizes students who have maintained superior academic records during their years here. The group of eight will be formally initiated on April 26. The initiation ceremony will include a formal banquet and a public address. Dr. Gerald White Johnson of Baltimore will deliver the address on the subject “The Provincial Scholar.” All members of the college community are invited to the talk which will begin at 9 o'clock.

The new candidates have established outstanding records in fields other than those related to scholarship and make a large contribution to the leadership on the campus. Those who have fulfilled the requirements are:

ROY DAVIS
J. Roy Davis, a business major from Concord, who is a member of Phi Gamma Delta. An outstanding debater, Roy is a member of Tau Kappa Alpha, honorary debating fraternity, and serves as president of the International Relations Club and secretary of the Business-Economics club. He is also a member of Philanthropic Literary Society.

Davidsonian Celebrates Birthday
Newspaper Founded Forty-One Years Ago

Forty-one years ago today—April 1, 1914—the students of Davidson College met and decided to publish their own official newspaper. Dr. Frank W. Price, past-moderator of the General Assembly of the Presbyterian Church, U. S., was the first editor. The aims of the paper and its purpose in being founded were to keep in close touch with every phase of college life, represent student opinion fairly and truly, and to bring into notice all things pertaining to the students in any way. The goal of the paper was to lead and mold, not to be led and molded. For a while, the paper carried some town news. The paper also had an alumni section. Another object of the paper was to keep the alumni in touch with their old alma mater, so they sent the paper to all alumni.

Since its beginning in 1914, the Davidsonian has been published continuously. It carried on full-fledged even during the war. The paper was printed one summer, 1943, but has not continued summer publications since. Until the fall of 1947, the paper was printed by the Standard Printing Company in Charlotte. The Davidson Printing Company has had the job ever since. At one time, the size of the paper reached eight pages; but due to too much advertising and non-interesting material, it was cut to the present size. The paper carried “For a Better Davidson” as its motto until 1950. Now the motto usually changes with the editor. The paper was started to carry on the Davidson tradition and spirit and continues to be a faithful Davidsonian.

McManus, Anderson In Runoff; Perkinson Wins
By BILL STEWART, Elections Editor

In balloting after chapel today, Perrin Anderson and Jason McManus became the two finalists in the bid for President of the Student Body for the school year 1955-56. Voting was held after the four finalists had made election speeches in which each stated his platform for the coming year if elected. Anderson, a Sigma Chi from Union, S.C., placed himself in favor of less secrecy about Student Council action, continued subsidization of the athletic program, a more effective governing organization, and pledged himself to uphold the principles embodied in the constitution. McManus, a Phi Delt from University City, Mo., whose speech was cut short by lack of time, warned that as the Student Council now stands, it is little more than an honor court. In general, he pledged himself in favor of a Student Government more active in affairs directly pertaining to the student. He also favored direct communication channels between the students and the Board of Trustees.

In the race for Vice-President, Bunny Perkinson, a sophomore from Chattanooga, Tennessee, was elected as First Vice-President of the Student Body for the coming year. Perkinson, a member of Phi Delta Theta social fraternity, is active in several organizations on campus and ranks high scholastically. The outcome of the Second Vice-Presidential candidate race was still undecided at press time. The office of Secretary-Treasurer was also undecided after today’s balloting. Ross Smyth, an SAE from Char- (Continued on Page Four)

Tyson Is Directing
Professor Raymond W. Tyson is now directing a Red and Black Masquers’ production of R. C. Sherriff's famous play, “Journey’s End," which will be given at Davidson Friday and Saturday, April 29 and 30. Mr. Tyson feels that this will be one of the outstanding presentations that he has guided since his coming to Davidson College. “Journey's End” is considered to be a milestone in the history of contemporary drama. A war play, it is set in a trench of the First World War and the characters are Britishers. The tragedy of Stanhope, played by Dunbar Ogden, Osborne, played by Fred Summers, and Raleigh, played by Harold Hall, is high tragedy in that these men are English gentlemen who express their sufferings in restraint and refinement, lending a certain noble dignity to the play. “Journey’s End” centers around young Captain Stanhope, a leader of men who, in his refusal to compromise with feigned illness, has succumbed to drink as an escape mechanism—a thing he would have abhorred two years before. Within these powerful three acts are depicted men at war—with their loves, their hates, their hopes, and their fears.

Davidson Spotlighted
By WUNC-TV; Chorus, Masquers’ War Play

On Sunday, March 27, Davidson College was featured on the College Hour over WUNC-TV, Chapel Hill. The hour-long, live broadcast was one of several similar broadcasts featuring the colleges of North Carolina by the educational television studio at Chapel Hill. The purpose of these broadcasts is to spotlight the various activities and achievements of the colleges in the state. The Davidson program included a performance by the Davidson College Chorus and a scene from the Red and Black Masquers’ production of “Journey’s End.” The broadcast also featured interviews with students and faculty members about day-to-day life on the campus.

Company ‘F’ Named Outstanding for Feb.
Cadet Captain John Lambe of Winston-Salem, N.C., and Cadet Lieutenant John Blake of Winston-Salem, N.C., were named the outstanding cadets for February, it was announced on March 28. Cadet Blake, from Company A, was also recognized for his leadership and academic achievements. Capt. Lambe is a member of the Beta Theta Pi social fraternity. He is also a member of the Interfraternity Council, on which he serves as treasurer, and of the board of directors of the Business-Economics Club. Cadet Blake is a member of the Pi Kappa Phi social fraternity and the college swimming team. He was graduated from the Admiral Farragut Academy in St. Petersburg in 1954, with the rank of cadet lieutenant, holding the position of company commander of the color company.

OFFICE STAFF
A cautious look into the office on Wednesday evening reveals a literary and administrative bedlam. If one dares remain for a longer view, he could single out of the confusion of clicking typewriters a much-thumbed edition of Roget’s Thesaurus, Webster's Collegiate, rulers, red pencils, several plump erasers, and many characters. The machinery of this office crew is set in motion back on (Continued on Page Four)The program was to give a picture of Davidson College, past and present, and was designed to show how a student’s experience at Davidson will develop the four-fold man—in the mind, body, social, and spiritual. Several members of the faculty and administration presented the program depicting various phases of present life. After a brief dialogue by Ronnie Wilson and Cortez Cooper, Dr. Frontis Johnston gave a historical narration of the college. Professor E. A. Beaty and three of his students, Harold McKeithen, Bill Kuykendall, and John Harmon, conducted a typical Latin classroom. Afterwards, Henry Parrish, Ann Wilson, and Patty Kimbrough gave a dance which they did in the production of “Good News.” Lastly, Ronnie Wilson told of the activities of the fraternities, such as the parties for Barium Springs. Feeney described the Student Government and Honor System. The religious life of the campus was presented.

Cadet Col. C. A. Cooper announced during drill on Tuesday that Cadet Charles Henry Blake had been chosen the outstanding Military Science I cadet for the month of February, and that Company F had been chosen the outstanding company. Company F is commanded by Che Bauidsonian.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, APRIL 1, 1955
FORTY-SECOND YEAR OF CONTINUOUS PUBLICATION
EVENING EDITION

Ralph Flanagan Here For Spring Frolics
Dances Will Follow Regular Schedule
By BILL GALLIER

King Solomon notwithstanding—“there is something new under the sun”—and the Interfraternity Council has it! Following the Yalta precedent, the IFC has decided that it may now reveal its long-anticipated triumph: Ralph Flanagan's Orchestra will vibrate the Davidson campus during the Spring Frolics dances April 22 and 23. The desire to make this final celebration most memorable to graduating seniors and to buoy the spirits of despairing underclassmen as the end of another year draws near has led the IFC to choose Ralph Flanagan, “America's Number One Band,” to perpetuate the syncopated background for the Frolics finale. As per usual, the formal ball from nine until one Friday night will be followed by an informal dance Saturday evening. A concert on the lawn of the front campus will entertain the celebrants Saturday afternoon. The songstress will be a lovely blonde.

On April 6 and 7, the student body of Davidson College will again be asked to give blood in the Red Cross blood drive. Sponsored by the Interfraternity Council, the drive is open to townspeople, faculty members, and students. Donations may be made between the hours of 11 a.m. and 5 p.m. either day. Ronnie Wilson, president of the Interfraternity Council, has issued the statement that, as an added incentive for more pints of blood this time, the fraternity with the highest percentage of members giving blood, or attempting to give if disqualified for medical reasons, will receive a $1.00 discount per member on their dance tickets for the Spring Frolics. In Mecklenburg County alone, approximately 900 pints a month are used, so it can easily be seen that the need is great. The Red Cross assures us that the blood given will be used here in the county. Last fall, only 206 pints were given in the two-day “bleeding,” and the Interfraternity Council is requesting a better turnout this time for the painless and necessary process. All students under 21 must have signed releases from their parents. To speed up and expedite a somewhat awkward process, the council is sending out double postcards. The parents will tear off the unused portion and return it, allowing the student to give blood. If any student needs postcards, they should see their Interfraternity Council representative or Capt. Blanton in the ROTC Department. The chairmen in the various fraternities are: Dick Holland, Pi Kappa Alpha; Ed Schoenberger, Kappa Alpha; Ross Smyth, Sigma Alpha Epsilon; Dan Woods, Kappa Sigma; Chuck Blake, Pi Kappa Phi; Dave Burns, Phi Gamma Delta; Ed Stewart, Phi Delta Theta; Hunter Warlick, Sigma Phi Epsilon; Ray Harding, Sigma Chi; Bob Stewart, Alpha Tau Omega; and Sills Bunn, Campus Club. Community women have volunteered their services in helping the Red Cross conduct the blood drive.

Smith Gets Union Association Offices
Gainesville, Fla.—William E. Rion, president of the Association of College Unions, has announced the appointment of C. Shaw Smith, director of David Ovens College Union at Davidson College, to two positions with the national association. Smith has been appointed regional representative of Region 4 of the association, which includes Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Florida, Alabama, Kentucky, and Tennessee, and chairman of the Resolutions Committee of the association. Both the regional representatives and the resolutions committee will attend the 32nd annual conference of the association April 3-6 at the Greenbrier, White Sulphur Springs, West Virginia. The responsibilities of the regional representatives center around the annual conference held in each region in the fall. The regional representatives assist member unions in their regions and represent the collective thinking of the region in matters pertaining to the entire association. The resolutions committee will serve during the conference and will submit a report to the business sessions.

Grant Johannesen Will Give Concert
By D. H. OGDEN

Grant Johannesen, the celebrated young American pianist who has critics and audiences of three continents, will be heard in a concert here Friday, April 15, in conjunction with the College Artist Series and as a part of the Davidson Fine Arts Week. Born in Salt Lake City, Utah, a second generation from Norway, Johannesen began to imitate the piano teacher around the corner before he was five. His parents soon engaged the well-known pedagogue Mabel Borg Jenkins to teach the boy, and at eight, he was composing musical scores and received wide acclaim. Cadet Capt. Tom Lambe of St. Petersburg, Fla., is a member of the sessions putting on theatrical entertainments. Since his spectacular New York debut in 1944, he has appeared there annually in solo recitals and with the symphony orchestras in that city. Following Johannesen’s 1952 New York recital, Virgil Thomson wrote, “...seldom does one hear solo playing so clean, so elegant, so thoroughly competent and at the same time so completely informed with all the qualities that are called musical.” As demand for appearances in North America continues to increase, the young pianist is also finding new worlds to conquer in Europe and in South America. In 1949, he won the first prize of the International Piano Festival in Belgium by the unanimous decision of the judges, the first American to be so honored. Johannesen then toured Europe, appearing in Paris, Brussels, Berlin, The Hague, Amsterdam, and in the opening concert of the international Aix-en-Provence Festival. In 1952, he returned to Holland to record five concerti for Concert Hall Recordings. Grant Johannesen’s first tour of South America opened at the famed Teatro Colon in Buenos Aires during the summer of 1952 and took him to the leading cities of Argentina, Uruguay, and Brazil. Audience enthusiasm ran so high that at the final concert the (Continued On Page Four)

RALPH FLANAGAN
Typically tropical styled as Key Largo. Comparable in quality of talent, but definitely lacking in appeal to the reader, is male vocalist Johnny Amoroso. Flanagan, born 34 years ago in Lorain, Ohio, initiated his musical career in Cleveland in 1940 when he was hired as pianist-arranger for Sammy Kaye. Then for four years, beginning in 1942, he served in the Maritime Service. Upon release, he returned to his arranger’s studio in New York. He wrote for such name personalities as Tony Pastor, Tony Martin, Mindy Carson, and Perry Como until 1949 when he was inked to lead a recording band at RCA. He was such a smash success at RCA that he soon was inundated with requests for dance dates from colleges, ballrooms, and clubs over the nation. He responded by organizing his own band in 1950 and proceeded to break attendance and gross receipt records at many of the country’s top dance band spots. His college appearances have included Georgia Tech, Ohio University, and Ivy League dates. Flanagan's phenomenal rise to the pinnacle of success in the entertainment world has been characterized by a spectacular promotion campaign conducted by RCA Victor. It was not until March 1950 that Flanagan’s band made its first appearance—in the King Phillip Ballroom in Wrentham, Massachusetts. By October, he was atop the annual disc jockey poll conducted by Billboard, the trade mag. Among Flanagan’s hit records have been “Pink Champagne,” “La Vie En Rose,” “Hot Toddy,” “Charmaine,” and “South.”

Students Approve Y's New Constitution
Leighton Green has announced that, as a result of the balloting held Wednesday, the proposed YMCA Constitution has been overwhelmingly endorsed in toto. Approval of the Constitution was voiced by 89 percent of the student body voting, with affirmative votes totaling 502, negative 66. The Constitution goes into effect at the beginning of the 1955 fall semester. As a result of this passage, YMCA membership has been altered and clarified in order that students should not automatically become members of the Y upon payment of their college fees in September, as was previously the case. The adopted Constitution states that all students or members of the faculty who are interested in the Y program may become members by signing a statement indicating their desire to further the purpose of the organization and to contribute financially to its advancement. Other revisions of past procedure include a redefinition of Y officers. Henceforth, an elected secretary will perform the duties of the former second vice-president.