FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 1955

THE DAVIDSONIAN

ACP Poll of Student Opinion: Ike To Have Trouble With Democratic Congress

If college students are good at predicting the future, Ike will apparently have some scrapes with his Democratic Congress. In
a recently conducted national poll of collegiate student opinion, the following question was asked by the Associated Collegiate Press:

Our country now has a Republican administration and a Democratic Congress. On the whole, do you think this division will:
help, hinder, or make no difference to the chances of getting needed legislation passed in the coming two years?

Of the total answers, 22 percent believe that the split will actually help get needed legislation passed, while 47 percent
think the split a hindrance. Some 28 percent answer the split will make no difference, and 3 percent held no
opinion. There are no appreciable sex differences on this question, but some answers show a distinct party loyalty, such as
the freshman coed from New York University who answers that “Southern Democrats will not help the situation.” Other students feel
that Ike has received more help from the Democratic party than from his own. “Ike has Democratic leanings, so the
split will not make much difference,” answers a senior coed from St. Catherine’s College in Minneapolis. A pessimistic junior from
Colorado A.&M. says he believes “No matter how hard they may try, the harmony needed will never be reached.” A
number of students qualify their answers by stating that the split will help foreign policy but will hinder domestic policy.
Some students indicate a very deep grasp of political intricacies, as is indicated by the sophomore from El Camino College
in California when he answers, “I believe that the two parties actually differ very little in their platforms and basic
programs, therefore, the split should make little difference.” A male sophomore attending the Richmond Professional Institute in Virginia considers the
problem from a slightly different angle when he states “No matter which party is in power, ‘bloc’ votes can help
or hinder any legislation.”

Precise Center of Universe Discovered

Columbus, Ohio—(ACP)—A precise position for the center of our island universe or Milky Way system has been announced by radio
astronomers at Ohio State University here. “Position of the nucleus has long been sought by optical astronomers,” the Daily Lantern
reports, but it is hidden from view by vast clouds of interstellar dust. However, the nucleus is a potent transmitter
of radio waves, which are unhindered by the dust clouds and are readily received by radio telescopes. “Our own sun
and billions of other stars revolve at great distances around this hub, forming a gigantic wheel turning slowly in space.”
“In a new report entitled ‘The Radio Position of the Galactic Nucleus,’ Dr. John D. Kraus and Research Assistant H.
C. Ko, of the electrical engineering staff, pinpoint the position of the hub to a hundredth of a degree. Heretofore
it has been estimated not much closer than the nearest degree.”

Prof. Plott Chosen as Guest Conductor for Toledo Music Festival

Prof. Donald Plott, Director of Music at Davidson, left Wednesday for Toledo, Ohio, where he will be the guest conductor
of the Toledo All-City High School Choral Festival. The Festival will be held Sunday, Feb. 27, in Toledo Museum of
Arts. Each of the seven Toledo high schools, with their directors, will perform separately on the program, after which the
massed choir of 300 students, directed by Prof. Plott and with orchestral accompaniment, will present the three closing selections. The
Davidson College Male Chorus sang in the De Vilbiss High School in Toledo while on a recent tour. Mr. Plott,
a native of Winston-Salem, was graduated from the University of Michigan in 1948 with a Bachelor of Music degree, and
in 1949 with a Master of Music degree. In addition to college choir directing and teaching posts, he has had
experience as church choir director, soloist, and in radio work. He has appeared in six operas, in three of which
he had the title role. He has been a frequent guest conductor for choirs and choruses in this area. He
is a member of Kappa Sigma social fraternity, Phi Mu Alpha Sinfonia, Pi Kappa Lambda, Phi Kappa Phi, and Music
Educator National Society.

Student Group Urges End to Hydrogen Tests

New York—(ACP)—A “Students to Stop the Bomb” movement has been formed by eight students at Columbia University, the Barnard Bulletin
reports. The purpose of this group, recognized by the University Committee on Student Organizations, is to urge the cessation of
atomic and hydrogen bomb tests by the United States. A spokesman of the student group said that similar groups are
being formed at City College and New York University.

Says History Killed By Functionalism

Urbana, Ill.—(I.P.)—At the college level, and to a wide extent in the lower schools, the greatest demands in history teaching
have been the various “new approaches,” according to Professor Raymond P. Stearns of the University of Illinois. “These include a
variety of names: ‘integrated courses,’ ‘fusion courses,’ ‘problems courses,’ ‘laboratory courses,’ ‘core curricula,’ ‘world history,’ and ‘general education,’ at least
as general education is often interpreted outside the Ivy League.” Professor Stearns points out that in the eyes of the
functionalists in education, these “new approaches” are generally ineffective as instruments for education in democratic citizenship. “Those members of the
historical profession who believe that the nub of the controversy between historians and educationalists is a question merely of ‘methods’
in the classroom would be well-advised to take another—and a closer—look. Moreover, in spite of ‘new approaches,’ history is found
wanting by those very functionalists who have been so instrumental in bringing about these novelties. “And history has been affected
by the functionalists’ demands, fortified, as the latter have been, by the crises of the past half century. Broader treatment
of human affairs, especially horizontally may be accounted an improvement both in teaching and research; but the widespread ‘present-mindedness’ of
historians, as exhibited by their increasing preoccupation with current affairs, destroys perspective, belies historical-mindedness, and tears to bits the seamless
garment of Clio. “As the functionalists seem disposed to consign history to oblivion anyway, perhaps those historians who have striven
so manfully to meet the functionalists’ demands will now feel justified in ceasing their efforts and getting back to teaching
history for history’s sake.”

Evaluation Shows PCW Best in Liberal Arts

Pittsburgh, Pa. (I.P.)—Pennsylvania College for Women has a challenging opportunity to be “the finest liberal arts college in the land.”
This is the conclusion of an evaluation team that has been making “A Survey of General College Policy and Curriculum”
here. The committee, in their intensive study of the entire college, pays high tribute to the PCW curriculum, student body,
and faculty. In particular, the basic curriculum courses come in for special praise. “The basic program opens the door for
all students to obtain a general understanding of important areas of knowledge, and prevents their taking hodge-podge and ill-balanced programs
so characteristic of the old optional systems.” The tutorial program in which each student does a special research problem in
her senior year is rated as one of the strong features of the curriculum. It is further suggested by the
committee that the already excellent student-faculty ratio of one faculty member to every ten students be augmented by an increase
of eight new faculty members, who would, in addition to teaching responsibilities, lighten the tutorial and counseling loads of the
present staff. The contribution of the college to the Pittsburgh community is also examined. The committee recommends that PCW should
remain a center for citizenship and leadership training, and that the college should continue to bring outstanding lecturers and artists
to the campus who may be appreciated by the entire community. The PCW Opera Workshop, Lyric Theater, and the Laboratory
School of Music are endorsed as major contributions to the cultural life of Pittsburgh. At the same time, however, that
the college is strengthening its role in Pittsburgh, the committee feels it should also strive to become more national in
scope. The evaluation committee is comprised of Dean Emeritus Harry Carman of Columbia University as chairman, Dr. A. J. Brumbaugh,
former vice president of the American Council on Education, and Dean Stanton Crawford of the College of Arts and Science
at the University of Pittsburgh. The committee is one of several that has been appraising the college. In addition, survey
teams are examining the college’s administrative management procedures and its overall public relations. These committees are all making confidential reports
to the Board of Trustees of the College.

Marriage Seminar To Begin in Spring

The YMCA will sponsor a Courtship and Marriage Seminar for students this spring. Tentative plans include a leader and speakers
from outside Davidson in addition to movies and discussions. Meetings will begin the week following spring holidays and will continue
one night a week for six weeks. Each session will last an hour to an hour and a half. Typical
subjects for the program include “Economic Factors,” “Sex Relations,” and “Family Planning.” A YMCA committee is working out a complete
schedule to be announced shortly. Attendance will be limited to about forty men from the junior and senior classes only.
Interested students may apply at the YMCA office now.

Fraternities Under Restrictions

Storrs, Conn.—(I.P.)—The University of Connecticut is extending an invitation to national fraternities to affiliate with the locals now on campus,
according to a recent issue of the Interfraternity Research and Advisory Council publication. Mr. Reuben B. Johnson, assistant director of
student personnel, stated the prerequisites for establishing a chapter. These include:

1. The Constitution and By-laws of the national must not contain clauses which restrict membership because of race, religion, or
national origin.
2. The national organizations should have chapters located on campuses in New England and the mid-Atlantic states, preferably at institutions
with which this University has intercollegiate competition and other interchange of activities.

Wesley Group Ends Segregation at UNC

Chapel Hill—(ACP)—The Wesley Foundation, student Methodist organization here, has declared racial segregation a denial of “true Christian brotherhood” and has
extended an invitation to any student of any race to “join their fellowship” at the University of North Carolina, the
Daily Tar Heel reports. A resolution, voted favorably by a 48-3 secret ballot, declared in part: “While realizing the practical
difficulties of applying the decision of the Supreme Court concerning segregation of whites and Negroes in public schools, we believe
the decision to be a true interpretation of the Christian faith and our American democracy; and we of the Wesley
Foundation hereby make it known that we will continue to welcome into our fellowship any student regardless of his race.”

Down With Darwin: Colorado State Legislature to Vote on Ban in Teaching Evolution in State Schools

Boulder, Colo.—(ACP)—The question of the teaching of evolution is headed for the state legislature, the Colorado Daily reports. Rev. Gladden
William James, head of the Foundation for the Authenticity of the Bible and for Religious Liberty, has presented to a
state representative a resolution seeking to ban the teaching of evolution in state-supported schools. The basis of the James resolution
comes from the First Amendment of the U.S. Constitution, dealing with separation of church and state powers. When asked whether
he considered the teaching of evolution a subject of religious nature, Rev. James said, “I certainly do. The teaching of
evolution is a question of religion; it is not one of science. “If we don’t get legislative support,” Rev. James
added, “we will submit an initiative to the people of the state, and try to push across an amendment to
the Colorado constitution banning the teaching of evolution. “However,” he concluded, “we don’t mind having books by Darwin and the
other evolutionists in the library, because that is following the idea of freedom of speech and the press. Our complaint
is lodged against actually teaching it in the classrooms, or using those books as textbooks.” J. G. Mackie, a state
legislator from Boulder, took the opposite view of the issue, according to Jenk Jones, Colorado Daily reporter. Mackie stated, “I
for one will fight the James resolution. We would not even consider such a resolution in the House; in fact,
it would probably be buried in committee.” Mackie added, “This isNot something for the legislature to decide. The University should
have its choice of what subjects it wishes to teach.

New Study Groups Organized by YMCA

UNC Making Progress in Achieving Goals

Chapel Hill, N.C.—(I.P.)—The University of North Carolina is making substantial progress in most phases of its program and is gradually
achieving many of the goals set by the two State of the University Conferences, Chancellor Robert H. House reported here
recently. Among other things, he pointed out, greater efficiency and clearance have been achieved as a result of the reorganization
of the University’s administrative set-up; that closer personal relations are being established between faculty members and students; that Saturday classes
apparently are an achieved fact, and that more full-time professors are being placed in charge of undergraduate instruction.

Although enrollment has increased, classroom loads have been reduced, and steps are being taken to bring the University into closer
touch with the public schools, the Chancellor added. The admission of Negro students to the professional schools has not produced
any friction so far, and none is anticipated, he said.

Mr. Sam Magill has announced the formation of two new study groups to be sponsored by the YMCA. The subject
of the first group will be “Contemporary Theology,” and will use as a source book "What Present-Day Theologians Are Thinking"
by Daniel Day Williams. This group will meet once every two weeks on Sunday afternoon in the faculty lounge of
the College Union. The second group will study “Christianity and Contemporary Social Problems,” using "Christian Ethics and Social Problems" by
John S. Bennett. This group will meet on the second and fourth Tuesdays of the month. Both groups will have
a qualified faculty member as a leader. All students interested in these groups are urged to come by the YMCA
office and sign up.

Mr. Magill also announced the beginning of a new course of study by the Freshman Fellowship Group, which has been
in existence since November. The group meets the first and third Thursdays of each month at 8:30 under the leadership
of John Fenton.

The Converse College chorus from Spartanburg, S.C., will present the chapel program at Davidson next Thursday. The 60-voice ensemble under
the direction of Mrs. Alia Ross Lawson of Converse’s School of Music faculty, will feature sacred and secular selections as
well as American folk tunes.

U. of Colorado Frats Work Toward Quick End of Discrimination

Boulder, Colo. — (I.P.)—The Faculty Senate of the University of Colorado recently recommended to the Board of Regents that it
adopt the SOSL (student organizations and social life) policy on discrimination in fraternal organizations instead of the controversial Austin (Regent
H. Vance Austin) anti-discrimination bill. The SOSL recommendations are also designed to end discrimination in fraternal organizations on this campus,
but they differ from the Austin motions in these respects: in the SOSL policy there is no deadline for ending
discrimination, nor is there a provision for notifying potential pledges about the discrimination policies, if any, of their prospective fraternal
organizations. It does, however, include a clause exempting religious groups, which is not part of the Austin motion.

President Ward Darley, stressing the fact that there was no debate on whether or not discrimination should be permitted to
exist but on the means toward ending it, said, “Our objective is to eliminate discrimination in the University community. The
question we have here is whether a terminal date will help or hinder in reaching a true solution to this
problem.” At the faculty senate meeting proponents of the terminal date said that it was necessary so that the so-called
educational process would not drag on endlessly. Opponents of the terminal date said that the fraternities still having discriminatory clauses
would not cooperate if a deadline, such as the 1960 limit set by Austin, were imposed upon them. In that
case, the opponents argued, the anti-discrimination bill would have adverse effects.

At the meeting President Darley said that he personally would meet with the presidents of all nine fraternities that still
have discriminatory clauses and urge them to do everything possible to get rid of these clauses.

We Got Troubles? Michigan Chapels Make Us Liberal

Alma, Mich.—(I.P.)—A report on the first student council workshop of church-related colleges of Michigan, held on the Alma College campus,
disclosed that chapel programs at the various schools ranged from one to five a week, and the number of cuts
from two a month at Alma to three a semester at Kalamazoo. At Adrian College, one-hour chapel programs are held
three times a week, and students are allowed three cuts per semester. Students must attend chapel for two years of
the four or read twenty selected books. Five honor points per semester, making a total of twenty for four years,
are given for chapel attendance. Albion’s chapel meets two times a week and three cuts per semester during the four
years are allowed. For each overcut, one-half hour is added to the graduation requirement. One of the two chapels at
Albion each week is religious in nature. The chapel committee is composed of student members.

Calvin College presents three chapels per week and allows three cuts per semester. Each faculty member must speak in chapel
at least once. Chapel programs, which are broadcasted, last about fifteen minutes. Hillsdale College holds one chapel a week, with
three cuts per semester. The vice-president of the college is chairman of the college chapel committee, which selects the chapel
speakers. Students are responsible for the worship services. Programs vary in content and usually last about forty-five minutes. Chapel is
held five days a week at Hope College, and the services last about twenty minutes. Five cuts per semester are
allowed; after ten cuts the student is called before the dean and may be suspended. Kalamazoo’s chapel is held twice
a week, and three cuts per semester are allowed. The programs usually last about half an hour.

DISCIPLINE

The report also disclosed how each of the church-related schools handles discipline. At Adrian, each student must sign a morals
card before gaining admittance to the college. This card is a promise that he will not smoke or drink while
attending college. Smoking is limited to the fraternity houses. Students may be suspended for a semester or expelled, or put
on social probation, for drinking. At Albion, the student council has no power in student discipline, and smoking is allowed
only in specified areas of the campus. At Calvin, student discipline resides in a faculty board. Minor problems go to
this board, and serious problems are taken up by the faculty board. At Hillsdale, there is a dual probation system
whereby a student on social probation is prohibited from attending social functions, and certain conduct will allow the student to
attend two dances of his choice. Discipline at Hope resides in a committee consisting of the college president, two deans,
and president, vice-president, secretary and treasurer of the student council. This committee has the power of suspension or expulsion. On
his first offense, a student goes to the president and deans; for the second, he is called before the student
committee. Kalamazoo has a judicial council made up of four students and faculty advisers, who decide on discipline problems, including
drinking, and have the power to put a student on social probation for the first offense, and to expel for
the second offense.

Raleigh—(I.P.)—A modern new fraternity housing center—designed for group living and equipped with a wide range of social functions—has been proposed
at North Carolina State College. The proposal, college authorities disclosed here recently, has received the endorsement of the institution's Development
Council. Moving toward the establishment of the center, the council has authorized the appointment of a committee to obtain the
services of an advisory group to aid the college administration and fraternities in implementing the plan and in arranging the
necessary financing for the houses. The proposed center was advocated by the Development Council’s Plans and Projects Committee.

Under the terms of the tentative proposal, the fraternity center would include buildings planned especially for group living with approval
of the individual chapters, college authorities, and the Interfraternity Council. The college's 17 social fraternities are now located in Raleigh’s
residential areas and occupied buildings originally designed as family living units. A new zoning ordinance limits the fraternities to the
downtown business district or to less desirable residential areas.

Senior Placement

Seniors are reminded to keep in contact with the schedule of placement conferences so that they may take full advantage
of opportunities for jobs after graduation.

Converse College's Sixty-Voice Chorus In Chapel Thursday

The Converse College Chorus, Spartanburg, S.C., will present the chapel program Thursday, March 3, at 10 a.m. The 60-voice ensemble,
directed by Alia Ross Lawson, associate professor in the Converse College School of Music, has appeared recently before many high
school and civic groups throughout South Carolina. The March 3 appearance at Davidson will mark the Chorus’s first local concert.
That same afternoon the group will sing for members of the Charlotte Chapter of the Converse Alumnae Association. Comprised of
students from the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences as well as from the Converse Music School, the Chorus will
present three groups of sacred and secular songs as well as American folk tunes.

$7,500 in Cash Given To Monroe Understudy

(ACP)—The Associated College Press reported recently a story from the Syracuse Daily Orange that Gloria Mossalino, who studied hard for
her law degree at two universities, achieved success at last. She became an understudy for Marilyn Monroe in Hollywood. Add
to that report this item from Dorothy Kilgallen, Broadway columnist: “The girl who understudied Marilyn Monroe, Gloria Mossalino, will trek
to the altar with a Venezuelan zillionaire as soon as he’s legally parted from his present wife. His betrothal gift
to Gloria was $7,500 in cold cash—to pay her psychiatrist.”

John Rembert Drawings On Display In Chambers

The sixth art exhibition, lasting throughout the month of February, is now on exhibit in the lobby of Chambers Building,
Prof. Douglas Houchens of the Fine Arts Department, has announced. This exhibit is devoted to drawings by John Rembert. Of
the twelve drawings to be displayed, many are left untitled. Most amusing are the three small drawings on canvas board,
which are the artist’s spoof on Renaissance Man. Two drawings with the titles “Old King” and “The Clown” have been
adapted as book jackets, one for a short play, one for a collection of poetry. Rembert's drawings were organized as
a traveling exhibition by the Fine Arts Department of Davidson College. They have already been displayed at the University of
North Carolina at Chapel Hill and at the Woman's College of the University in Greensboro. Salem College will feature the
drawings during the month of March and from Winston-Salem they go to Catawba College at Salisbury.

ALABAMA NATIVE

John Rembert was born in 1920 in Montgomery, Alabama. He studied art at the University of Alabama, from which he
graduated in 1941 with a Bachelor of Arts degree. At the end of his senior year his work was presented
in the first One Man Show awarded a student at the University of Alabama. He later studied at Columbia University
in New York City, earning there a Master of Arts degree. His first One Man Show in New York was
hung at the Norlyst Gallery in 1946. He won a First Award in the North Carolina State Exhibition in Raleigh
in 1948. His work has been acquired by the Beloit College Art Museum and the Raleigh, North Carolina State Art
Gallery, and many of his paintings are in private collections. He has taught at Meredith College in Raleigh, the University
of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, and Beloit College at Beloit, Wisconsin. He and Mrs. Rembert reside in Beloit.

The public is cordially invited to visit this exhibition, which will be on display for the Dublin Players’ performances on
Friday evening and Saturday afternoon, March 25 and 26, at Davidson College.
