THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE VOL. XLII

MOREHEAD: Poll Examines Opinion On Religious Activities

Through the expressed interest of UCM and YMCA council members and particularly emphasized campus meetings, the problem of religious emphasis
among the student body was chosen by the Davidsonian as the subject of this month’s student opinion poll. This poll
was conducted by 23 reporters from all four classes, gathered cross-section opinion from approximately 50% (400) of the student body,
and covered all six dormitories, the Village, Carolina Inn, Guest House, and six town residences.

Section I—YMCA: Do you favor Y membership voluntary or automatic (by way of student activities fee—the present system)? Voluntary: 62.5%;
Automatic: 37.5%. If membership were voluntary: Would you be a member? No: 40%; Yes: 60%. Would you contribute financially toward
its program? No: 35.5%; Yes: 64.5%. This section dealt with the proposed changes now under discussion by the YMCA Council
and Board of Directors.

Section II—UCM: Did you gain anything from religious emphasis week? No: 25%; Yes: 75%. Were your thoughts stimulated (positively or
negatively) by the activities of the week? None: 12.7%; Some: 58.6%; Much: 28.7%. How many non-compulsory meetings did you attend?
Average—1.4 meetings per person contacted.

Section III—Voluntary Services: How often do you attend the following voluntary services:
Sunday School: Never: 62.5%; Occasionally: 22.5%; Regularly: 15%.
Church: Never: 30%; Occasionally: 37.5%; Regularly: 32.5%.
Hall Prayer Meeting: Never: 70%; Occasionally: 44.3%; Regularly: 29.7%.

The question pertaining to Hall Prayer meeting included here only those residing in the dormitories who would have the opportunity
to attend such meetings. In regard to Sunday School and Church, attendance was counted not only at Davidson, but at
home and anywhere else where the student is accustomed to attend.

Do you attend these services now more than before coming to Davidson? More: 5%; Same: 25%; Less: 70%. A common
opinion voluntarily given stated that compulsory religious services such as Vespers and chapel lessened the student's interest in attendance and
participation in Sunday School and Church (especially if one was detained on campus over the weekend).

Do you contribute more, the same, or less than before college? More: 17.5%; Same: 30%; Less: 52.5%. According to a
sample census taken of 146 students in 1953-54, student’s giving to all causes per year ranged from $5 to $300.
The average gift per student per year was $30. Is the majority of your giving at home or at Vespers?
Home: 79%; Vesper: 21%. This question pointed up the problem of decreasing Vesper contributions, as Vesper giving has declined in
total amount for the past two years. Included in the 18% are those who earn money only in the summer
months and consequently contribute only when at home. On the basis of figures obtained from the Y office, students gave
an average of $3.00 to Vespers in 1953-54 with certain allowances made for faculty and visitors.

This poll was taken by J. Trotti, A. Cone, B. Gallier, B. Fraley, G. Robertson, A. Myers, E. Moore, D.
Carmichael, B. Sharp, W. Harris, B. Beall, L. Carter, S. Wallace, J. Ballenger, C. Patterson, H. Wells, H. Bucher, P.
Woodward, M. Crouse, B. Sloan, J. Trawick, C. McGowan, W. Jackson.

ODK Plans Program To Inform Students

Leighton McCutchen, president of Omicron Delta Kappa, has announced that this honorary fraternity is implementing a program to inform Davidson
students about the athletic policy of the college. ODK is presenting this information in the hope that the student body,
with a better understanding of Davidson's athletic policies, will be able to think more intelligently and responsibly about the problem
of subsidized or non-subsidized athletics.

In order to carry out this program, ODK has accumulated facts revealing the Davidson athletic policy and those responsible for
making it. These facts will be presented soon to the student body through panels, fact forums, and newspaper articles. ODK
will also act as a channel through which student opinion, now better informed, will be carried to the policy-makers. This
plan by ODK is to fulfill its purpose as an organization which attempts to make students think more clearly and
wisely about Davidson problems.

Wagoner Designs Shrine

Harold E. Wagoner, architect of the Davidson Presbyterian Church, has another laurel added to his growing reputation as a leading
designer of churches and religious edifices in America today. Arizona Highways devoted its March 1954 issue in toto to the
proposed construction of a Shrine of the Ages to be located on the south rim of the Grand Canyon. Shrine
of the Ages—the canyon itself has long stood as a silent witness to the forces of eternity and God, where
men and women of all faiths have worshipped God in the splendor and beauty of the natural expanse of the
yawning chasms.

The chapel to be constructed under the direction of Mr. Wagoner will hold in reverence the land of mountains as
a place for worship, for meditation, and for inspiration in finding answers to the problems of life that confuse men.
It will stand as a monument to the birth of a new devotion to religion and as an example of
a new understanding of human brotherhood and the fatherhood of God. This is more than another religious shrine. The chapel
situated on the edge of this vast horizon symbolizes America’s godliness, reverence, and her respect for human personality.

Unique problems of design plagued Wagoner as he set about his task. National Park Service policies prohibit the separation of
individual retreats of religious worship. Therefore it was necessary to abolish the outward symbols associated with Protestant, Catholic, and Jewish
churches. Instead, one finds the clean lines of a circular auditorium and adjoining studies, conference rooms, and lounges composing the
modernistic structure. One senses the graceful elegance of this shrine to a house of God in which brothers of all
faiths may assemble as he approaches the main entrance where a granite statue of Moses and the burning bush will
set apart the essence of a common faith and heritage.

Inside the chapel, the problems of dealing with sacraments and arrangements of three faiths were ingeniously solved by hydraulic lifts
located beneath the main floor of the auditorium. At the touch of a switch, the attendant may shift altars as
the occasion arises to facilitate the mechanics of fulfilling the needs of all worshippers. Also included in the floor plan
is a wedding chapel which serves the dual role as an extra meditation room. Davidson College is proud to have
a claim in the recognition of the talents which have befallen Harold Wagoner. The genius of this servant of God
is felt over the nation whether his edifices be Georgian, Colonial, or Arizona Modern.

The Davidsonian
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 1955

DR. CARL PRITCHETT

Dr. Carl Pritchett Speaks at Vespers

Dr. Carl R. Pritchett, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church in Anderson, S. C., will speak at vespers this Sunday
night. Born in Salisbury, he was reared in Reidsville, N.C. He received his A.B. degree from Davidson College in 1930.
Following his graduation, Mr. Pritchett remained at Davidson for two years to serve as YMCA secretary.

In the fall of 1932, he entered Union Theological Seminary at Richmond, Va., where he took the regular three-year course.
He was awarded the Hoge Fellowship and studied there an extra year, receiving his B.M. and Th. M. degrees. He
accepted a call to Smithfield in 1936 and remained there until 1940 when he came to Davidson to become pastor
of the Presbyterian Church. Serving as pastor in Davidson until the summer of 1952 when he accepted his call to
Anderson, Dr. Pritchett had a fruitful ministry both to his congregation, made up of townspeople and college administrators, and also
to the students attending Davidson College.

Dr. Pritchett is married to the former Miss Anna Montgomery of Reidsville. They have four daughters: Mary Anna, Peggy, Dorothy,
and Betty.

Library Janitress, Percy Scales, Dies

Percy Scales, janitress of the college library when it was located in the present Guest House, died last week in
Davidson. She had reached an advanced age and was widely respected by both her white and her colored friends. For
nearly a quarter of a century, Percy was in the employ of Davidson College. She did her work in the
library before the students arrived so that few of them knew her, but it is the opinion of those for
whom she worked that the college never had a more faithful and loyal employee.

Union to Show More Movies In the Future

In a meeting yesterday afternoon the Film Committee of the Union voted to increase its film presentations as a result
of the burning of the local theatre and the sincere request by a large number of students that more films
be shown in the Union. It was decided that films will be shown on Tuesday, Wednesday, Friday, and Saturday of
each week when nothing else has been scheduled on the college calendar for these days.

The film committee operates on a volunteer basis, with each member contributing his time. To avoid having anyone spending too
much time working with the movies, Jerry Helms, committee chairman, announced that the size of the committee will be increased.
He requests that anyone who is interested in helping the committee contact him or the Union Office. Several boys have
already offered their services. The committee plans to continue its present type of films. There is to be no increase
in admission. The presentations will be open to any member of the college family and his guests. Helms said yesterday,
“We will continue to act on this basis, showing two films on four days each week, unless too much time
is involved by the students on the committee. We do not want any mem- (Continued on Page Six)

Lt. Col. B. C. Hassett Visits ROTC Dept.

Lt. Col. Burrell C. Hassett, of the Department of the Army, Office of the Executive for Reserve and ROTC Affairs
in Washington, D. C., made a tour of inspection of the Davidson College Reserve Officers Training Corps last Wednesday. On
hand to welcome Lt. Col. Hassett to the Davidson campus on behalf of the college were Dr. John R. Cunningham,
President, Dr. C. J. Pietenpol, Dean of the Faculty, Dr. Samuel R. Spencer, Dean of Students, and Lt. Col. John
D. Sapp, Professor of Military Science and Tactics.

The purpose of Lt. Col. Hassett's visit was to discuss ROTC matters with the PMS&T and college administration. At the
same time he conducted an informal inspection of the operation, training, and administration of the Davidson ROTC unit. The tour
of inspection began at 8:45 a.m., Wednesday morning in the office of the ROTC Department with a briefing of Lt.
Col. Hassett, Dr. Cunningham, Dr. Pietenpol, and Dr. Spencer on the operation, training, and administration of the Davidson cadet corps
by the regimental staff. The regimental staff is composed of Cadet Col. Cortez A. Cooper, Cadet Maj. Robert Kimbrough, Cadet
Maj. Jeter H. Abernathy, Cadet Maj. Floyd Feeney, and Cadet Captain Austin Strand.

Loy States Changes To Be in Annual

Swain Loy, editor of Quips ‘n Cranks, says that this year’s annual will contain some striking changes from Davidson annuals
of the past. The entire book has been reconstructed with the idea of presenting events in both a logical and
chronological order. The book will have an architectural theme and will contain many examples of modern design. The sections will
be arranged to present events in such a way that the reader ten years from now will be able to
remember what went on during the year and not simply the organizations he was in.

YOUR YEAR

One of this year’s innovations will be a thirty-five-page section entitled, “Your Year.” It will present the events of fall,
winter, and spring, asThey occurred without separating such things as sports into separate sections, as in the past. The annual
will be divided into seven sections as follows: Faculty and Administration, Your Year, Beauty Section, Activities (YMCA, Literary Societies, Davidsonian,
etc.), Honorary Fraternities, Classes, and Social Fraternities. The purpose of this arrangement of the sections is to give more emphasis
to the events of the year than to the sections which are filled with rows of individual pictures.

Philanthropic Initiates 51 Into Membership

The Philanthropic Literary Society held its meeting Monday night, Feb. 22, for the purpose of initiating new members. After the
initiation, President Malcolm Williamson spoke briefly to the new initiates about their responsibilities as bearers of the ancient and honorable
tradition of the Philanthropic Society. In the following order of business, President Williamson appointed Allie Cone as chairman of the
Graveyard Committee. An important committee which has not functioned since 1892, this group has as its duty the preservation, protection,
and defense of the traditions interred in the Davidson Cemetery. Jim Kuist was appointed chairman of a committee to investigate
the contents of the Philanthropic Society’s desk which has held the records of the society ever since its inception in
1837.

INITIATES

The new members, initiated in the shadow of the flickering candles of the Napoleonic chandelier, are: S. Curtis Patterson, Samuel
B. Mendenhall, James G. Boyce, Dewitt F. Roper, James C. Wool II, Hugh B. Craig, Jr., Robert H. Crittenden, Charles
G. Helms, John H. McVay, Charles S. Drummond, Jr., Peter T. Hall, Graham McKinnon III, Joseph C. Malinoski, Jr., David
C. Holloman, C. Grier Davis, Jr., William L. Hand, Harry O. Paschall, John H. Hollingsworth, Malcolm H. Rourk, Jr., Emmett
R. Daniel, James F. Caldwell, George H. Gilmer, Robert C. Keown, John Rufus Smith, III, Robert A. MacRae. Also, William
B. Long, Jr., William L. Pomeroy, Jr., J. Michael Gallagher, David R. McLain, Jr., Elford H. Morgan, James H. Zeh,
John Garvey, Shelbourne W. Wallace, Peter V. Sterling, Locke Y. Carter, Henry H. Bucher, Jr., Leon M. Martin, William B.
Fraley, John E. Adkins, Jr., Ivan T. Wood, III, Gilbert D. Grossman, Charles E. Carter, Gerald Wilson, Dale J. Gramley,
Walter M. Bullock, Preston Faggart, Armand J. Moreau, George R. Cousar, Jr., John M. Partridge, John H. Frye, and Frank
C. Emerson.

Sociology Department To Present Movies

A movie series, “The Earth and Its Peoples,” sponsored by the Sociology Department, will be shown, free of charge, from
4 p.m. to 5:00 p.m. in the ballroom of the College Union on the following dates: March 9, “Nomads of
the Jungle,” and “Tropical Mountain Island;” on March 23, “Desert Nomads” and “Riches of the Veldt;” on April 20, “Eskimo
Sea Hunters,” and “Adobe Village.”

Interviews Continue; GE, Prudential Soon

Because of the large number of students requesting interviews with General Electric, the company has arranged a group interview for
8:30 a.m. on March 3. This informal meeting will allow shorter personal interviews later. Southern Dairies is also interested in
a group interview at 10:20 a.m., on Monday, February 28. Interested students will note that on Monday this period is
open due to the fact that there is no chapel. Other companies who will be in the College Union in
the next week are as follows: Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, March 1; Prudential Insurance Company, March 4; Crown Central
Petroleum Company, March 7; Hanover Bank of New York, March 7.

David and Bathsheba Next Union Movie

“David and Bathsheba” is scheduled to be shown by the College Union Film Committee on Saturday and Monday nights. The
show tomorrow night will begin at 9 p.m., and on Monday there will be showings at 7 and 9 p.m.
Admission for both students and faculty is 25 cents. Gregory Peck and Susan Hayward star in the title role of
this adaptation of the famous Biblical story of the great King David and his love for Bathsheba.

Blood Drive Dates Set for April 6, 7

On April 6 and 7, the Davidson College student body once again has an opportunity to contribute its blood to
the Red Cross blood drive. In Mecklenburg County alone approximately 900 pints of blood are donated through the Red Cross
to those who need it. The Red Cross assures us that the blood will be used in the county. Last
fall only 210 pints were given and the Interfraternity Council is requesting a better turnout for this painless process. All
students under 21 must have signed releases from their parents. To speed up and expedite a somewhat awkward process, the
council is sending out double postcards. The parents will tear off the unused portion and return it, allowing the student
to give blood.

FORTY-FIRST YEAR OF CONTINUOUS PUBLICATION NUMBER 16

Blithe Spirit” Tonight's Dublin Player’s Drama

Feminine Members of Dublin Players

Constitution Passes

The revised Constitution of Student Government was adopted in this morning's balloting by a vote with outside margins, of 547
to 39, and 565 to 20 on the various articles. Student Government President Floyd Feeney released these figures at noon
today as the Committee on Constitutional Revision completed its work of several months. There was but a smattering of con
votes on an issue with which the Student Body showed amazing familiarity. President Feeney indicated that he was well pleased
with both the interest shown on the part of students and with the outcome of the voting. In a statement
to the Davidsonian early this afternoon Feeney said that he was hopeful that the Constitution would provide for more effective
student government. Its operation, however, will depend upon the continued interest and cooperation of the Student Body, he pointed out.
The revision, which has been in progress under a committee headed by Perrin Anderson since September, involved major changes in
such articles as Number Nine on student body regulations, in additions of such articles as Number Ten on Trial Procedure,
and omission of several outdated articles, including those organizing the Student Store Board of Directors, the Point System Committee, the
Student-Faculty Conference Committee, and the Student Sports Publicity Office.

CONTRAST TO ARMSTRONG: Modern Jazz Concert Set

By BILL RAWSON

With the announcement of the Dave Brubeck Concert for March 10, the Interfraternity Council has provided an interesting sequel and
contrast to its presentation of Louis Armstrong on February 14. These two artists are at opposite extremes in this music
called jazz. Louis represents the free-wheeling, hot jazz commonly called Dixieland, while Dave Brubeck is a “kingpin” in the progressive
or modern movement. The former is a loud emotional type of improvised music performed from the heart by musicians of
talent but little training; the latter is a more subdued music which retains the free improvising but which is performed
by highly trained technicians who often borrow techniques from the classical field. There are those who prefer one of these
types of jazz to the exclusion of the other, but it would be hard to deny that much enjoyment can
be had from either. While similar in some respects to the jazz of Armstrong, the music of Brubeck is in
other respects as different as night and day, so let's take a look at what is coming up on March
10.

NATIVE CALIFORNIAN

Dave Brubeck was born in Concord, California. His father was a Presbyterian cattle-rancher and his mother taught piano. As a
result of the latter, music lessons came early for Dave and he earned his first money playing hymns in a
school. He wanted to follow his father’s footsteps as a rancher and went to the College of the Pacific intending
to be a rancher; but music soon got the best of him. After a tour in the Army, Brubeck enrolled
in Mills College, where he studied under France's famed Darius Milhaud and received his M.A. Teacher Milhaud filled him with
counterpoint (a melody added to a given melody as accompaniment) and polytonality (two or more simultaneous keys) and fired him
with the conviction that improvisation of jazz was as valid for him as the improvisation of toccatas and fugues was
for Bach. “He told me,” says Dave, “If I didn’t stick to jazz, I'd be working out of my own
field and not taking advantage of my American heritage.” Thus Brubeck has undertaken to show that jazz is music.

QUARTET FORMED 1951

The Dave Brubeck Quartet was formed in 1951 and has survived with few changes in personnel. Dave is at the
piano, Paul Desmond plays alto sax, and Bob Bates is on bass, with Joe Dodge on drums. The going was
slow at first, but in a matter of four years, Brubeck fans have grown from a small West Coast clique
to a coast-to-coast crowd—particularly on college campuses. Today, the Quartet confines its playing to night clubs and occasional concert tours,
with a large percentage of the concerts being presented at colleges. The worldly success of the group can be measured
by the fact that Dave Brubeck at 33 made $100,000 last year. In regards to the music the Brubeck Quartet
puts out, Dave himself once remarked that “the challenge is to improvise on a known theme, using with taste the
most advanced ideas of our times without losing the drive and rhythmic complexity of early jazz.” Thus Brubeck’s music goes
to the head and heart more than the feet, and demands the attention of the audience. It is tremendously complex,
but free. It flows along, improvising constantly, and yet it is held together by a firm pattern. Whether it be
“Stardust” or “On the Alamo,” the melody usually appears only in the opening and closing with Brubeck and Desmond building
from there while Dodge and Bates lay down the rhythmic foundation.

Sean O'Casey Play Scheduled Tomorrow

By O. A. OGDEN

Friday and Saturday, February 25 and 26, the Dublin Players will give two performances here in conjunction with the Davidson
College Artist Series. Friday at 8:15 p.m., they will present Noel Coward's most famous play, “Blithe Spirit,” and Saturday afternoon
at 3 o'clock “Juno and the Paycock” by Sean O’Casey will be performed. Noel Coward is considered to be the
most representative of the British playwrights that emerged after World War I. “Blithe Spirit” is a hilarious comedy, set in
the home of novelist Charles Condomine, when he is living happily with his second wife. By accident, a medium conjures
up the ghost of Elvira, Charles’ first wife, whom Charles can see. How Charles copes with his two “wives” gives
us the smash hit of London, Broadway, and Dublin stages which has become a classic in the modern theatre. Sean
O’Casey is recognized as the greatest living dramatist of the Irish theatre and his “Juno and the Paycock” is one
of the finest dramas of this era. The play deals with the everyday life of the Boyle family in Ireland
during the 1922 terror of civil war. We have their hopes and disappointments, their laughter and their tears in this
picture of the courage, imagination, and faith of the Irish people—". . . poetic, high-voltage realism.” Students will be admitted
to both performances upon presentation of their identification cards. Admission price is $2. Both plays will be given in Chambers
Auditorium. The Dublin Players performed at Davidson last year, at which time they presented George Bernard Shaw's “Pygmalion.” In connection
with this presentation of the Artist Series, there is a showing of drawings by John Rembert in the lobby of
Chambers building. For full details of this exhibition, please turn to page three.

SVM Discusses Religion

Sam Magill, general secretary of the YMCA, will lead off in a discussion of the place of Christianity at Davidson
in an SVM meeting to be held after Vespers Sunday in the Student Lounge at the Church. Students are urged
to attend the discussion.
