PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, DECEMBER 9, 1955

TRIBUTE TO A JANITOR

HONORARY FRATERNITY SKETCH:

Founded at the University of Alabama in 1926, Alpha Epsilon Delta is a national honor society for medical students and educators. Alpha Epsilon Delta requires of its members general and premedical scholarship of outstanding quality. Having met this fundamental qualification, candidates must be considered by the entire chapter to possess high attributes of character and integrity. At present, approximately 14,500 members comprise the organization as a whole. The Davidson chapter, the first in North Carolina, has seventeen members. Alpha Epsilon Delta is the only national organization devoted solely to the interests and activities of the premedical student. The principal objective of the society is an educational one — to stimulate an appreciation of the importance of premedical education and to promote cooperation and contacts between medical and premedical students. Throughout the year, the group has frequent meetings, some of which are open only to members and some of which are intended for all who are interested in this and related fields. The latter generally feature prominent speakers in the field of medicine, medical movies, or some other similar type of entertainment of interest to the premedical student.

BY DICK PYLE

Dancing Dan

BY JIM MARSHALL

A South Carolina hamlet, Laurens, can claim two native sons who have made names for themselves here — Daniel Franks and John Harmon. If AP were to run a popularity poll on janitors, I feel that Dan would come out with top honors also. Indeed, Daniel has a completely clean record for his four-year reign on the lower halls of West. This cleanliness is carried over in Dan's humor which is neither canned nor corny, but is a spontaneity that is as rare as a good steak. Dan's virtues are not limited to work and wit, but a basic wisdom is his primary asset. He can cracker-barrel philosophize with the best of them.

Dan does not feel obliged to go through stereotyped antics in an effort to stir various globs of protoplasm from fetal positions to upright, respectable gentlemen by 8:10. He feels that college is where responsibility and independence should be developed. As an active Mason, Dan is a competent counselor but never a substitute mother. Many of the West alumni who have chosen to end their college careers in the eminently respectable names of Duke and Belk will not forget the sunken spirits which pervaded West two years ago when Dan suffered the loss of his wife. Our hearts were heavy for him then as they were proud for him when we heard of his children’s success at Bennett College and A & T.

There is a fraternity on the campus which feels that a hamburger fry or a clandestine jaunt to King’s Mountain is empty without Dan. At the latter point, Dan can often be induced to throw away his inhibitions and do the “rubberlegs,” between the mambo and beach boogie. All who have seen it are sure that he could only have learned it in the twenties. A vicarious satisfaction is acquired from this spirit, and no one then feels that it is necessary to swallow a goldfish if Dan serves in other than a chaperonage capacity at such gemotes — he is also the curfew. As a Trustee and Steward of the A. M. E. Zion Church for 18 years, the Dean of the stags insists that he be back in time for Sunday.

Library Facilities

(Continued from Page One)

study space to all students, although honor students are granted special occupant privileges. The Woodrow Wilson Collection, containing the first editions of all the works of our most famous alumnus, is located in the Davidsonian Room. Here all books by and about well-known Davidsonians are shelved. Also, interesting manuscripts and relics relating to P. S. Ney, the designer of the Davidson and the man contested to be Napoleon’s Marshal, are kept here. Chalmers G. Davidson, equipped with an A.B. from Davidson, a master’s degree in library science from the University of Chicago, a doctor's degree in history from Harvard, and an earnest desire to keep “Phi Bet Hall” properly useful to the Davidson students, has been Director of the Library with a faculty status since 1936. He is assisted by a professional staff, who with the aid of about twenty student workers handles the circulation, the cataloguing, and the ordering. Miss Virginia Lawson, Miss Della Shore, and Mrs. Paul Marrotte are the staff members in charge of these respective functions.

One of the Library’s most outstanding features is that of allowing open stacks. Students are permitted to enter the stacks at will, eliminating the inconvenience incurred by allowing only library workers in the stacks. This practice, in spirit a corollary of the Honor System, is a valuable and, in respect to other college libraries, unusual student privilege. In the realm of recent improvements, Davidson's library can well be proud. The library now has a microfilm reading machine which enables one to examine back issues of newspapers purchased in the microfilm form. This machine eliminates the necessity of keeping burdensome bindings of back editions. Another new feature of our Library is the map cabinet consisting of layers of trays which hold the maps. This cabinet is considered to be of the latest and best type. As for physical improvements, about two years ago the main reading rooms were air-conditioned and last year the interior of the entire library was painted.

Faculty Changes

(Continued From Page One)

In effect, the new rule lets the student know exactly how he stands by requiring a specific number of points and hours at each milestone along the way to graduation. The new rule means that freshmen will not be automatically excluded at the end of the first term. However, it is the intention of the faculty that most freshmen who do not pass three subjects will still be required to withdraw. The rule is put in to take care of the case in which the faculty feels that the boy should have a longer opportunity to prove himself. There should be rather exceptional circumstances to warrant such a decision. We would like to emphasize that the new regulation clarifies and raises requirements for readmission after academic failure. Until now, a student could re-enter provided he had 9 hours with a C grade or better. The new rule provides that he must have a C average.

Thus far during the present semester, there have been two open meetings. The first was a program intended primarily for the orientation of premedical students. Dr. K. E. Penrod of Duke University Medical School gave a talk on the importance of premedical education and its integration with a medical education. Later in the year, a moving picture of the ape and stages of normal labor was presented. Announcements of future programs will be made well in advance in Chapel, in the Davidsonian, and on posters.

The Eumanean Literary Society met in extraordinary session.Monday night, December 5, to hear three prominent Davidson faculty members discuss the general topic, “The role of the intellectual on the Davidson campus.” The three faculty members participating were Professors Johnston, McAfee, and Purcell. Each delivered an informal statement of his particular position in regard to the matter, and then the floor was opened for discussion and questions. There was general agreement among those participating in the symposium that the plight of the intellectual, on or off the Davidson campus, is to be deplored. It was pointed out throughout the evening that there is little sympathy shown to the student who is actively engaged in an ardent pursuit of knowledge for its own ends on this campus. “To be caught working in the library or engaging in conversation with a faculty member is often thought to be high treason in many circles,” as one symposium member expressed, “and it is this climate of opinion which must be changed before Davidson can be considered to be a first-rate school.” It was also suggested that Davidson students are the product of a too comfortable, if not too smug, environment, and that as long as there is complete security, creative initiative is somewhat limited. The lack of ability and the lack of interest shown by the members of the Eumanean Society have made it necessary for them to defer the Phi challenge until later when they will have time to prepare and reorganize their defunct organization.

Ten years ago the library’s budget for new books was two thousand dollars. Today it is ten thousand dollars, a figure which compares well with schools of our type in the South. This money is used in part for new books and in part to buy better printed and better edited copies of books already in the library. Perhaps the greatest problem before the library today is that of future remodeling and expansion. This is a question in line with the fate of Davidson itself, that is whether the College will admit more students to meet the increasing number of college applicants or retain the present status. In either event, at the present rate of book increase, new stacks will be necessary in about five years.

Debate, musical readings, and poetic inspiration formed the center of action at Philanthropic Literary Society during its last two meetings. At the third meeting of the Society, November 21, a resolution on the Intercollegian was debated. A motion was immediately made and passed to the effect that the General Secretary of the Y.M.C.A. should be mailed a copy of this resolution. After a long and rather warm debate during which the publication in question was carefully examined, the resolution was passed by a two-thirds majority of the members present. Following the debate the members enjoyed an exceptionally fine program of selected readings from Stephen Vincent Benet’s “John Brown’s Body.” Harry Antrim, John Trask, Bob Majors, and Bill Pomeroy participated in this program. Appropriate music was selected as a background for the readings. Antrim’s reading from the Battle of Gettysburg was singled out as one of the finer selections.

The Society's December meeting, last Monday night, included one of the better programs of the year. Joe Garrison, well known on the campus as editor of The Scripts and Pranks, presented a short story and a group of poems from his large and varied literary selections. Garrison's fresh and original style in his short story, “The Old Man's People,” was given the unanimous approval of the group. The poems were also well received by the Society. During the course of the meeting, the society across the way was issued a challenge for a competitive meet in early January. This challenge for the award cup was not accepted! The meeting ended with a post mortem on said Society.

The Davidsonian will act as the local Care office during the next week. All honorary organizations, organizational groups, or individuals who desire to contribute to the Food Crusade are requested to leave their contributions in the Davidsonian box in the Union, or mail them to Box 218, Davidson, N.C. Join the Food Crusade today. Help use our food surplus to make Christmas a happier time for our less fortunate friends around the world. Send your contribution to the Davidsonian.

The faculty has voted that the provisions regarding exclusion on a semester-hour, quality-point basis should go into effect with the present first-year class. Students in the present upper classes will not be subject to the automatic provision of new students and automatic exclusion on a semester-hour, quality-point basis. However, rule 6 on page 11 remains in effect and any student who is not making reasonable progress toward graduation may still be advised or required to withdraw. Students should notice that the new regulation states that the quality points and hours required must be earned by the time of entrance into each succeeding year. In other words, it is possible to use the summer school to help satisfy the requirement in case a student is short at the end of a given year.

As one means of promoting the progress of science, the National Science Foundation plans to award 700 graduate fellowships for graduate study in the sciences during the academic year 1956-57. These fellowships will be awarded in the mathematical, physical, medical, biological, engineering, and other sciences. The stipends for first-year fellowships will be $1,400. Applications must be filed before January 3, 1956. Further information may be had from Dr. John B. Gallent or Dr. Abernethy.

Cerf’s Lecture (Continued From Page One) later in his lecture (the term is now as always subject to redefinition). A young writer, he told us repeatedly, should go into humor, simply because there is infinitely more money there, than in serious writing. This one statement with which we certainly cannot take issue, since he himself is a consummate example of its truth. Good show, Bennett! Why not all show next time?

The new Arrow Lido shirt has a comfortable top button at the collar; you cannot outgrow it. The necktie alone closes the collar neatly. And even if your neck size grows, the “expandable” collar stays comfortable. Get yours today—wear it with a tie tonight—open at the neck tomorrow. Priced from $5.00.