WOFFORD INVADES CAT LAIR (Page 3) VOL. XLIV Che 3 aAUisn0ntan | DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 1955 200 For Pare BY RICHARD BRUBAKER Over 200 guests are expected to attend the second annual Freshmen-Parents’ Day to be held in the history of Davidson College. Officially beginning at 9:00 o’clock in the morning, the annual event will continue throughout the day and terminate with a Parent-Faculty Reception. The program for Freshmen-Parents’ Day has been designed to acquaint the parents with the faculty, the program and purpose of the college, and the problems of Davidson Freshmen. The events on the agenda for the day will center around the David Ovens College Union. Registration of guests will be carried out by members of the Freshman Council. Dr. John R. Cunningham, President of Davidson College, will be present to extend a welcome to the guests of the college. Other college officials will be introduced to the group after which several selections will be sung by the Male Chorus under the direction of Professor Donald B. Plott, Director of the Department of Music. Finally, Dr. S. R. Spencer, Dean of Students, will speak on the subject, “Problems of Davidson Freshmen.”

Immediately following the Freshman-Parent Assembly will be an informal period during which parents may get to know the freshman group advisors. Group advisors and their guests will have lunch between the hours of 9:00 and 11:00.

To The Parents: It is my pleasure to extend a hearty welcome to all Davidson parents who are on the campus this weekend. We are especially happy to welcome so large a number of those whose sons are freshmen. It is our desire to make this day a happy and helpful one to all of you and to your sons who are beginning their college careers. We believe that a mutual acquaintance of parents and faculty members can contribute much to a student's happiness and success in college. Will you allow the administration and faculty to do all within their power to make it a very satisfying day to you? Sincerely, J. R. Cunningham President

During this period the parents and other guests may become acquainted with the physical plant of the college through informal campus tours. The most formal phase of the Freshmen-Parents’ Day program, the Freshman-Parent Assembly, will begin at 11:00 o’clock in the ballroom of the College Union. Presiding during the assembly will be Charles Reed, General Chairman of the Freshman Council.

WHERE IS THE COURT OF CONTROL (Page 2) No. 8 Court of Control Student Committee to Study New Curriculum BY JOHN TRASK, JR President Perrin Anderson opened the November 7 meeting of the Student Council by reporting on his efforts to obtain direct telephone service to Charlotte. He showed the Council a letter that he had prepared, in cooperation with the Davidson Lions Club, to the townspeople asking them to support the efforts to establish a direct line between Davidson and Charlotte.

He then said that the Faculty Social Committee had asked to meet with the Senior members of the Council to discuss the matter further. President Anderson then directed the student body secretary, Ross Smyth, to write to the faculty and to thank them for proposing the free cuts for the Furman football game. As a matter of old business retained from the previous meeting, there was discussion on the idea of asking the faculty to establish a general science course. Councilman Pat Woodward said that in view of the fact that there might be other matters related to establishing new courses, he favored the idea of setting up a “curriculum committee.” Dan LaFar was appointed chairman of this committee, with Bill Bondurant and Pat Woodward as members of the committee.

At the suggestion of Clyde Robinson, Perrin Anderson appointed a committee to evaluate the Court of Control. He said that Habby Cobb, the Judge of the Court, should be on the committee. Vernon Hunter and Carl Cooper were appointed to serve on this committee. There was no audience at the meeting.

Government Study at Washington Offered The opportunity to study governmental structure and operation at first hand is now open to Davidson students through the Washington Semester Plan. This plan, which is sponsored by the American University in Washington, D.C., provides for a semester of study in the nation’s capital. The program is designed to give students a better understanding of the workings of the federal government and to provide them with practical experience in the field of public administration. Students who are interested in participating in the program should contact Dr. Frontis Johnston for further information.

HOLLYWOOD SINGER COMING WITH BROWN Les Brown’s Band, which will appear in concert at Davidson on November 22, will bring with it several exciting personalities. Jo Ann Greer, the band’s featured vocalist; Butch Stone, comedian; and Stumpy Brown, vocal stylist and bass trombonist, head the list of entertainers.

Jo Ann Greer, the pretty, dark-eyed, 24-year-old songstress hails from Hollywood. She has appeared with several famous orchestras before coming with Les Brown. Some of the better-known orchestras were Freddie Slack, Sonnie Burke, and Ray Anthony. Les Brown has always been noted for his great vocalists. To name a few of his former vocalists who are now stars in their own right — Doris Day, Eileen Wilson, and Lucy Polk. Before Miss Greer joined the Les Brown organization, Les liked her singing well enough to have her appear on several Bob Hope radio shows. At the present time she is one of the busiest vocalists in Hollywood. Between Les Brown road trips there is never a dull moment for her. She has appeared on many radio and TV shows. Her beautiful voice is used constantly by the movie studios when she sings for the stars. Her most popular success was doing the singing for Rita Hayworth in “Affair In Trinidad” for Columbia, and again for Miss Hayworth in “Miss Sadie Thompson.” Her latest Coral records with Les Brown are “Sentimental Train,” “Back In Your Own Back Yard,” “The Man That Got Away,” and “Sentimental Journey.”

“Finding ‘Butch’ Stone was one of the greatest strokes of luck I’ve had in the band business,” says leader Les Brown. In his fourteen years with the band, Henry “Butch” Stone has won a string of titles including comedian, vocalist, assistant leader, music librarian, gloom chaser. Butch has won friends the world over for his great entertaining feats as well as his smile. His recorded renditions of “A Good Man Is Hard To Find,” “Put Something In The Pot,” “Triskaidekaphobia,” and many others have made him one of the leading stylists of the past decade.

Vocal stylist and bass trombonist, Stumpy Brown is the younger brother of the renowned leader. A student of New York Military Academy, he still found time to perfect his trombone artistry. Another talent, that of acting, came to light when Monogram engaged him to play the title role in “Kilroy was Here,” after which he was featured by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer in “The Duchess of Idaho” with Van Johnson and Esther Williams. “The Band of Renown” will hold their concert in Johnston Gymnasium on Tuesday night, November 22. Advance tickets are $2.00 and tickets at the door will be $2.25. Students may purchase tickets now from the College Union or any Interfraternity Council representative.

Congressman Jonas Will Address Student Body BY BOB MAJORS Congressman Charles Raper Jonas, Member of the House of Representatives from the 10th District of North Carolina, will address the student body in Chapel, Thursday, Nov. 18. Congressman Jonas bears the singular distinction of being the only Republican Congressman from North Carolina. His immediate predecessor in this office was his father, Charles A. Jonas. Congressman Jonas was born in Lincolnton, N.C., and attended the public schools there. Following his graduation from the Undergraduate School of the University, he

Talks Featured At French Club Meeting Meyers called the first meeting of Le Cercle Francais to order at 8:30 p.m. Wednesday, October 26 at the home of Dr. Watts. After the roll call by the secretary, Frank White, the business of the evening was started with the nomination of new members from the floor. After discussion, the final list of names was decided upon. Six new members were voted upon to receive invitations. These were Bob Beall, Fairman Cumming, Randy Daniel, Jimmy Jones, Curtis Patterson, and Bob Sloan. At the end of the business meeting, Dr. Lee F. Tuttle, pastor of the First Methodist Church of Charlotte, delivered a talk on French culture and its influence on American society. Dr. Tuttle, a native of Lenoir, N.C., received his A.B. degree from Duke University, his B.D. from Yale, and his D.D. from Elon. Dr. Tuttle has held pastorates at the Humphrey St. Congregational Church, New Haven, Conn.; Brevard St. Methodist Church, Charlotte; Forest Hills Methodist Church, Concord; Main Street Methodist Church, Thomasville; and Central Methodist Church, Asheville, before coming to his present church.

Fred Bloodmobile To Be Here December 5-6 Davidson College's R.O.T.C. Department has been designated to carry out the fall Red Cross blood drive, which will be held on December 5 and 6. This is the first of two blood drives, the second to come in the Spring. Donation forms have already been distributed to the R.O.T.C. Cadets. Donors are reminded that the permission of parents is required if the donor is under the age of 21. Printed forms for this request are available through the R.O.T.C. Department. Much of the work of coordinating the drive will be done by the fraternities, as in the past. Competition between the fraternities is expected to increase the turnout for the drive. The Red Cross would like to stress the fact that the country need not be at war for blood to be needed. Blood is needed in both peace and war, although wartime demands often overshadow the peacetime requirements for blood. The Red Cross Bloodmobile from Charlotte will be at the gymnasium on both days to collect the donated blood. Members of both the college community and the town are urged to donate to the drive.

FOURTH IN A SERIES: Does one's concept of himself play any determinant part in what and how he learns? The answer, in no uncertain terms, is yes, which provides us with a moral—don’t get discouraged.Entered the Graduate School of its predecessor in the Republican Law and graduated with a Doctor of Laws in 1928. His father, Charles A. Jonas, served from 1929-1931 in the 71st Congress. While at the University, he was a member of Chi Phi Social Fraternity, Phi Delta Phi Law Fraternity, and the Honorary Order of the Coif. He has served the University as a director of the General Alumni Association since 1927.

A native of Lincolnton, North Carolina, Mr. Jonas graduated from the University of North Carolina with an A.B. degree in 1925. Upon completing his education, Mr. Jonas entered the general practice of law in Lincolnton with his father. As a lawyer, he is a member of the Lincoln County, North Carolina, and American Bar Associations. He served as President of the North Carolina Bar Association in 1946-1947. During the Second World War, he served with distinction in the Judge Advocate General's Corps, rising from the rank of Captain to Lieutenant Colonel. At present, he holds the rank of Colonel in the North Carolina National Guard. Mr. Jonas was elected to the 83rd Congress in November of 1952. (Continued On Page Four)

Jacques Delpech, of Montpellier, France, gave an informative and interesting talk on the comparison between the French Universities and Davidson. The fact that only two non-government colleges exist in France was brought out along with the differences in the attitude and approach of the students in the two systems. Delpech spoke in his native tongue; all of the meetings of Le Cercle Français are conducted entirely in French. A discussion and questions on Delpech's talk were followed by a talk by Fred Meyers, president of the organization, dealing with his impressions, reactions, and experiences as a student in Paris and as a tourist throughout the French nation. Meyer supplemented his talk with color slides taken during the past year in that country. The meeting then progressed to the most pleasurable part of the evening when the members enjoyed the cuisine of Mme Watt's and Mme Goldiere. Le Cercle Français is composed of students advanced in the knowledge of the French language and is dedicated to the pleasant and informal appreciation of that language. All conversations being carried on in French, those interested are able to gain a fuller appreciation of the language than can be obtained in the classroom.

It has been proven, through psychological experiments, that an individual under stress does not learn as effectively as individuals under normal conditions. Furthermore, many stress situations are brought about by ego-involvement. A person is said to be experimentally ego-involved when he is placed in a situation which is a threat to his prestige or to his picture of himself. The stress situation is often accomplished by presenting the subject with a group of nonsense syllables and telling him that the learning of the syllables is a measure of intelligence. The syllables in themselves could not bring about ego-involvement, but the fact that the subject thinks his intelligence is being tested does. In other instances, the subject is given material which is, in itself, ego-involved. An example of this would be when a musician is asked to learn a passage appraising the value of music in modern culture. A physicist, for example, would not be as ego-involved in this situation as the musician would.

In an experiment on the effect of stress on learning, done by the psychologist Alper, the subjects were told that the ability to rearrange jumbled sentences was an intelligence test used by the Army to select officer candidates. All the subjects were draft-age males, and the experiment was performed during the war. A male accomplice was placed in the room with the subjects and he “managed” to solve the problems quicker than the subjects, at the same time remarking about the ease of the problems. To further add to the ego-involvement, a sexy, attractive female was placed in the room, on the pretense of helping with the experiment. Actually, she added to the subjects’ embarrassment by making derogatory remarks when they failed to keep up with the male accomplice. A control group was asked to rearrange the sentences, but the ego-involved situation was not created, and they worked under normal circumstances. Both groups performed the test under normal circumstances one time, but in a second session, the experimental group was placed in the ego-involved situation. Results showed that there was no significant change in the performance of the control group on the two tests. However, there was a marked difference in the performance of the experimental group, with the ability to perform the task being greatly altered on the second trial.

A similar experiment was performed by experimental psychology students at Davidson last year. In this experiment, the subjects were presented with a simple learning task, and then were placed in an ego-involved situation. Another group was merely asked to learn the material under normal conditions. In the experimental group, after each learning trial, the experimenter made derogatory remarks about the subject's performance. Remarks such as these were made: “That wasn't so good"; “You don't catch on to this, do you?"; “If you don't do better, you're going to ruin my whole experiment."; “You aren't doing as well as the others are.”; “Are you about to flunk out of school?”; “You know, you're sort of dumb.”; “I gave this test to some grammar school kids and they learned it better than you.” Results showed that under stress the subject does not learn as well as under normal conditions. Further, it was seen that these subjects did not retain the material as well as the subjects that learned it under normal circumstances. This was proven by asking the subjects to return one week after the initial performance and relearn the material.

Some subjects break down in the ego-involved situation and use profane language, curse the experimenter, become extremely angry, or refuse to participate further in the experiment. Some subjects who made only very few errors on the first trial (two or three) broke down completely after repeated trials, and made as many as forty errors. Thus, we believe that the greater the ego-involvement or stress situation, the greater the impairment of the ability to learn.

Dr. Tuttle was married to Miss Mae Simpson in 1930, and they have two daughters, Marcia Lee, 17, and Diane, 14. Dr. Tuttle is a member of Lambda Chi Alpha social fraternity and is a national director of that organization. Dr. Tuttle is a member of the Board of Missions, Western N.C. Conference, the Methodist Committee on Overseas Relief, and is a trustee of the following: Lake Junaluska Assembly, The Methodist Home at Charlotte, The Children's Home at Camp Tekoa at Hendersonville, and Brevard College. He is a past president of the Charlotte-Mecklenburg Ministerial Association.

Dr. Cleland Ashlin Winston-Salem, Union News: Davidson Bridge Club Receives Charter

Through the efforts of the College Union, a bridge club for the Davidson community has been chartered as the Davidson Bridge Club. The club has been sanctioned to give master points and conduct tournaments. Mr. J. A. Pastell has been appointed Director, and the organizational meeting will be in the Ballroom of the Union at 7:15 p.m. Tuesday, November 15. The first tournament to be held will be a two-session individual tournament. The first session will be November 15 after the organizational meeting, and the second will be December 8. Master points will be awarded, and a silver goblet, the standard prize for any A.C.B.L. tournament, will go to the winner. The tournament will be free to members of the club. Membership for the rest of the year is $0.50 per person. Any group representing either a fraternity or a local bridge club with up to 10 members will be admitted for $3.00. This cost covers the charter, the director's salary, and the expense of operating the tournament and one other regular duplicate bridge game. On hand for the tournament will be Dr. A. M. Dye, a Life Master from Charlotte. He will play but will not be eligible to win. It is hoped that a number of fraternities will take advantage of the three-dollar fee for up to ten members. Anyone at all interested in bridge should attend the meeting and game on November 15. Any questions will be answered, and an executive committee consisting of two students, one faculty member, one representative of local bridge clubs, and one person from the town of Davidson will be elected. From these will come the officers. So if you are at all interested, come to the meeting and see what this is all about, or see Buddy Dye.

The Reverend James T. Cleland will serve as lecturer this year for the Ashlin White Bible Lectures at the First Presbyterian Church in Mooresville, North Carolina. The first of seven lectures will be given at the 11:00 church service Sunday morning, November the thirteenth, and the remaining six will start that same night at 8:00 and will continue through the following Friday, the eighteenth. The theme of these lectures will be “Paul’s Gospel of Deliverance.” The Ashlin White Lectures, held yearly, were established in 1943 by the First Presbyterian Church of Mooresville, in memory of the Reverend Robert Ashlin White, D.D. Dr. White, who was a very prominent and influential minister of the Presbyterian Church, was the beloved former pastor of this church from October 1921 to October 1941. In the course of his ministry of fifty years, he had many honors conferred upon him; and at one time he was Moderator of the Synod of North Carolina.

Dr. James T. Cleland, James B. Duke, Professor of Preaching in the Divinity School of Duke University, and Dean of the Chapel, was born in Glasgow, Scotland. He obtained his M.A. and his B.D. degrees at Glasgow University after which he came to America. After receiving his S.T.M. degree, summa cum laude, at Union Theological Seminary, he taught at such schools as Amherst College, Duke University, Union Seminary, and the Pacific School of Religion in Berkeley, California. In June 1951, he received the honorary degree of Doctor of Divinity from Davidson College and in 1954 his Th.D. degree from Union Theological Seminary in New York City. He has had a sermon published in Best Sermons, 1949-50; and his first book, The True and Lively Word, was published in 1954. The First Presbyterian Church in Mooresville extends a cordial invitation to all to attend these non-denominational lectures.