THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE VOLUME XLII

Trustees Make Plans For the Restoration Of Old Quadrangle

According to President Cunningham, the Board of Trustees has had in writing for some time now plans to restore the
original quadrangle as the Woodrow Wilson Fine Arts Center, in honor of the scholarly President, who was a student at
Davidson in 1873-74. The proposed restoration would be particularly appropriate in the near future because next year is the 100th
anniversary of Wilson’s birth. At Staunton, Va., Wilson’s birthplace, plans are underway for a large anniversary celebration next year, and
Davidson College has been invited to participate, in view of the fact that Wilson was a student here and made
his first speech in the Eumenean Literary Society hall.

The proposed restoration would involve a number of major changes in the present setup of the quadrangle. The unattractive stucco
would be removed from Shearer Hall, and the building would be made to face the church. The Eumenean and Philanthropic
Literary Society halls would be cast in a more permanent form, along with the removal of the firehouse red paint.
Two small dorms would probably be constructed, thus completing Oak and Elm Row, which in the early years housed the
student body. The music office buildings would probably remain where they are, with the church, of course, completing the quadrangle.
All of the architectural work would be in the original neo-classic style. When finished, the buildings would have student facilities
for the study of music, art, drama, and speech. Interest in helping to make the restoration has been shown by
friends of the college.

Business-Eco Club Plans Program

As a climax to a year of energetic growth, the Business-Economics Association is planning a meeting Tuesday, April 12, at
8 p.m., in the Ballroom of the College Union based on the theme of the extent of monopoly in American
business. From Boston and Charlottesville, the association has obtained two outstanding authorities with wide experience in national economics and governmental
relations to business as principal speakers for the program. The discussion will not be limited to the topic, but those
in the audience can ask the speakers questions on the myriad subjects upon which they are qualified.

Dr. Corwin D. Edwards, presently a professor of economics at the University of Virginia, has held numerous positions as an
economist in government service. From 1946 until 1953, Dr. Edwards was the director of the Bureau of Industrial Economics associated
with the Federal Trade Commission. Earlier he served as economic consultant and subsequently chairman of the Policy Board of the
Anti-trust Division of the Department of Justice. In 1936 he was principal economist for the President's Committee of Industrial Analysis.
Dr. Edwards has held special assignments as a member of the U.S. delegation on the United Nations Economic and Social
Council, as chief of staff on the American Technical Mission to Brazil, and as Consultant on Cartels for the Department
of State.

In the field of education, Dr. Edwards served as the first economist to hold the rotating professorship at Cambridge University
in 1953 as Pitt Professor of American Institutions. Since obtaining degrees from Oxford and Cornell, Dr. Edwards has been a
faculty member of Northwestern, New York, and Cornell Universities. In 1951 he was vice-president of the American Economic Association and
has been the author of numerous textbooks on technical problems associated with world economics.

A faculty member of the Harvard University Graduate School of Business Administration, Robert W. Austin is the second speaker for
the association's final meeting for the year. A lawyer, Mr. Austin is a member of the Board of Directors for
a number of firms throughout the country. He is a specialist in anti-trust, food and drug, pricing, advertising, and distribution
problems and is a counsel for several trade associations. In past years Mr. Austin has served on the Clayton Act
Committee of the Anti-trust section and as a member of the Committee on the Food Law of the Division on
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Law. In his legal career, Mr. Austin was connected with Breed, Abbott, and Morgan of New
York City and later held the positions of director and general counsel for Penick and Ford, Ltd., Inc., of New
York. He is a director and member of the Executive Committee of the Crossett Co., of Crossett, Ark.

Two Top Floors Of Belk Set For Completion Soon

With two floors of the new Belk Dormitory scheduled for completion before Spring Frolics, workmen have been busy fitting linoleum
and trimming around doors and windows on the third and fourth floors. Mrs. R. A. Little, Supervisor of Dormitories, is
pleased with the progress being made and is enjoying selecting drapes and other appointments for the rooms. Included in plans
for the first floor is a new office for the Housemother. Near the front entrance is also a room reserved
for the student body president, if he desires. Belk is to be primarily a junior and senior dorm. It is
Mrs. Little's hope to keep noise and confusion in the dorm at a minimum, and rooms are assigned with this
purpose in mind.

Each floor contains a built-in telephone booth with buzzer systems connecting the rooms from the booth. Students will be permitted
to bring easy chairs and extra tables as usual with them, but barbells and weights will be frowned upon. Students
have the choice between twin beds or double bunks, as long as the choice is available. The college already possesses
an ample supply of beds, and no new frames will be purchased at this time. Furnished in each room is
a sink, built-in closet and chest of drawers, medicine cabinet with corkscrew attached, micarta-covered desks with fluorescent lamps, and new
desk chairs. Built-in bookcases are provided above the desk, giving a well-organized work area. The first and third floors are
being finished in a light blue-green color with black scuff board trim around the floor. On the second and fourth
floors, a light yellow tint is used.

Before students move in next fall, Belk will be well broken in by visiting groups. Scheduled for May 6 and
7, the North Carolina Academy of Science is to be housed in the dorm, as well as a high school
student leadership conference May 13 and 14. The Men of the Church in the Synod of North Carolina are planning
to use the quarters for their meetings early in June. Mr. D. G. Martin, Treasurer of the College, is confident
that the investment in the new Belk dorm is one that will greatly benefit the overall plant of Davidson in
the spirit of the college as well as in physical attractiveness.

Baker Winners Listed By Prof. Thompson

The winners of the George F. Baker, Union Carbide, and Honor Scholarships have been announced by Professor B. D. Thompson,
Secretary of the Scholarship Committee. Sixteen men representing eight states and the Philippine Islands were chosen out of the twenty-eight
finalists who were on the campus last week for tests and interviews.

Winners of Baker scholarships were Aubrey Neblett Brown, Richmond, Virginia, who was a field representative for the United Christian Youth
Movement and co-president of his regional U.C.Y.M.; James McBride Dabbs, Mayesville, South Carolina, president of his class two years and
editor of the school annual; Benjamin Bernard Dunlap, Columbia, South Carolina, governor of S.C. Boys’ State; Henry Glascow Elkins, Winston-Salem,
president of the Senate of the North Carolina-South Carolina District Student Conference; Thomas Henry Gainer, Panama City, Florida, chief justice
of Florida Boys’ State; Edward Ira Stevens, Syracuse, New York, president of his high school student body and an exchange
student to Europe; John Lampros Tourmaras, Burlington, North Carolina District Governor of the Key Club; W. Laurens Walker, Spartanburg, South
Carolina, president of the senior class and co-captain of the football team.

The two Union Carbide awards went to Richmond Wiley Bourne, Spartanburg, South Carolina; co-captain of the football team and president
of the student body, and to John Wells Kuykendall of Charlotte, president of the Honor Society and Key Club at
Myers Park High.

Seven Honor Scholarships went to the following: Robert F. Phifer Scholarship to Peter Edward Morrisett, Boiling Springs, who is interested
in chemistry; R. M. Miller, Jr., Scholarship to John Roderick Heller, Kensington, Maryland, who was chief justice of his high
school Student Council; W. A. Wood Scholarship to Kenneth William Mahy, Silliman University High School, Philippine Islands; William G. Perry
Scholarship to Vernon Broyles, Atlanta, Georgia, co-captain of the football team and vice-president of the Student Council; Curtis B. Johnson
Scholarship to Richard Fretwell Brubaker, Macon, Georgia, president of the South Georgia Methodist Youth Fellowship; C. R. Harding Scholarship to
Spencer J. McCallie III, Chattanooga, Tennessee, member of the Student Senate and officer in ROTC. The first recipient of the
new Dr. and Mrs. Thomas F. Staley Memorial Scholarship is Walter O'Briant of Reidsville, North Carolina, who was a justice
of the Supreme Court at North Carolina Boys’ State and is president of the senior class.

Winners of Baker, Union Carbide, and Honor Scholarships are all chosen solely on the basis of merit. The value of
the Baker and Honor awards are based on need; the Union Carbide grants cover fees, tuition, and books.

Red Cross Collects 232 Pints of Blood

During the Davidson College Blood Drive which was held on April 6 and 7, a total of 232 pints were
collected. This spring semester's blood drive, sponsored by the Interfraternity Council, received approximately 25 pints more than the drive last
fall. The drive was open to townspeople, faculty members, and students. Even though the Interfraternity Council offered a $1.00 discount
on the dance tickets for Spring Frolics for each member of the fraternity that gave the most blood, the response
wasn't too good compared to the fall semester drive of 1953 when 405 pints were given.

Blood collected in the mobile unit will be transferred to the Mecklenburg County blood bank where it is distributed free
of charge by the Red Cross. Approximately 65 pints were used last year in the Davidson community alone. In cases
of emergency, the bank in Charlotte is ready to supply necessary quotas to disaster areas. A number of community women
voluntarily helped the Red Cross conduct the blood drive.

Vespers Will Feature Program of Music

Vespers this week will consist of aProgram of special music in place of the usual sermon. Selections of Easter music
will be presented by Mrs. Virginia Smith Sinclair, soprano from Charlotte, Mr. Philip Gehring, organist, and the Male Chorus and
Chapel Choir under the direction of Mr. Plott. Patterned after the traditional Christmas Vespers service, Sunday’s program will be a
new approach to the celebration of Easter. The Christmas ceremony has always been very greatly enjoyed by both students and
faculty, and it is hoped that this modification for Easter will be equally well received. There will be no reader
as in the Christmas service, but the selections will center around the Easter story. With a carefully arranged program, there
is a great variety of presentations from solos to choral works and from canons to classic hymns. Although only a
portion of the worship service, this sermon of music is expected to be an impressive celebration of Easter Sunday.

The Davidsonian
FRIDAY, APRIL 8, 1955

Leads Student Government
PERRIN ANDERSON...

Free Testing Services Are Still Available
Testing services for students on the subjects of personality and aptitude are still available, according to Dr. Ostwalt. These tests
cover many fields and are designed to aid the student in solving any difficulties concerning studies, vocation, or personal interests.
They are entirely free to students of the college. Although they have been offered all year to those desiring them,
some persons who wish to have this special testing and guidance may have overlooked the opportunity. Anyone desiring further information
should see Dr. Ostwalt at the Student Counseling Service office, Room 231, Chambers.

Gragg Wins Willa Cather Writing Prize
This morning in chapel, Dr. James Purcell presented the first of the two literary awards made annually to a member
of the student body. Gilbert Gragg, a member of the Senior class, was announced as the winner of the Willa
Cather prize award for the most outstanding piece of creative work done by a member of Sigma Upsilon during the
past year. Gilbert’s prize-winning story, “You Live and Die Alone,” is based upon several themes, all of which center around
death. Next fall Gilbert is going to Oxford to do graduate work in theology, after which he will return to
the United States and attend Princeton Seminary. If his present plans materialize, eventually he will be a teacher, minister, and
writer.

Tom Dove Wins Fulbright Award
Thomas C. Dove, Jr., senior from Monroe, N.C., has been awarded a Fulbright scholarship for a year's study at the
Free University of Berlin. Tom, a double major in Economics and History, is best described as a professional scholarship winner.
He has held a George Baker Scholarship his four years at Davidson, and in the summer of 1952 studied French
at the University of Grenoble, France, on a scholarship from SITA. He also held a scholarship at Phillips Academy, Andover,
Mass., where he prepped for Davidson. Apparently too busy winning scholarships to make Phi Beta (though not missing it far),
Tom’s other activities at Davidson demonstrate versatility. An honors student in History, he is IFC representative for his fraternity, Lephitd
Phe, president of Eumanean Literary Society, treasurer of the Red and Black Masquers, and active in Sigma Upsilon and Le
Cercle Francais.

(Continued on Page Four)

The eighth annual Davidson Fine Arts Festival will open Monday night with the showing of two films on famous artists
of this century. The events will continue through April 30 and will include programs of music, paintings, drama, and literature.
The festival is one of the highlights of the Davidson year and features exhibitions and performances by both local and
outside artists.

Schedule of Events
Monday, April 11, College Union Ballroom, 8:15 p.m.—Opening of “What is Modern Painting?”, presenting the important trends in art during
the past 75 years. Commentary by Douglas Houchens, Assistant Professor of Fine Arts at Davidson College.

Tuesday, April 12, Chambers Auditorium, 8:15 p.m.—Movies: “Toulouse-Lautrec, Painter of the Paris Boheme” and “Ballet by Degas,” informative color films
on the work of two great turn-of-the-century French painters. “Matisse” (in black and white). Slow motion photography is employed to
follow this artist's quick, decisive hand at work.

Wednesday, April 13, Chambers Auditorium, 8:15 p.m.—Annual Spring Concert by the Davidson College Male Chorus, Donald Plott, Director, Philip Gehring,
Accompanist.

Thursday, April 14—College Union Ballroom, 8:15 p.m.—The North Carolina artist, Warren Brandt, will discuss informally the painting and drawings which
were produced during his recent trip to Europe. Mr. Brandt is a native of Greensboro, N.C. These drawings and paintings
are the results of Brandt's trip, with his wife and small daughter, to Europe last year. A graduate of Washington
University, where he was graduated with honors, Mr. Brandt won the annually awarded traveling fellowship from that institution.

April 15-24—“Painters’ Panorama.” This exhibition was selected by the American Federation of Arts from the entries to the first Tupperware
Art Fellowship competition. Included are the paintings of the three $2400.00 scholarship winners.

April 25-30—Night Studio. Creative work by members of the Davidson community.

College Union Lobby, April 11-18—Night Studio. Creative work by members of the Davidson community.

Chambers Building Lobby, April 11-18—“What is Modern Painting?” a 14-panel exhibition circulated by the Museum of Modern Art. Written by
Alfred H. Barr, Jr., Director of the Collections of the Museum, the text is accompanied by 31 reproductions in full
color and 9 photos. reproduced in gravure and mounted on 14 large panels. The exhibition represents in readily understood terms
the important trends in art during the past 75 years: Realism, Impressionism, Expressionism, Cubism, Surrealism, Magic Realism, etc.

April 19-30—Creative work by Davidson College students.

FORTY-SECOND YEAR OF CONTINUOUS PUBLICATION NUMBER 20

Anderson New President: YMCA Voting Continues
Brinkerhoff, Mauze In Runoff For Y Presidency
By BILL STEWART, Elections Reporter

In balloting after chapel today, Blake Brinkerhoff and Hampton Mauze were voted into a final run-off vote for the office
of President of the YMCA. Balloting, which was very heavy, came after the three finalists from Wednesday’s voting presented their
platforms in speeches to the student body.

Brinkerhoff, a junior from Montreat, N.C., and a member of Kappa Sigma social fraternity, said that the “Y must step
from the crowd and initiate a more effective program.” He proposed that the YMCA, to be more effective, should hold
regular and well-prepared meetings of its membership and should publish in circular form its goals and activities—to let people “know
what the YMCA is doing.” He also put himself in favor of exchanging ideas with other YMCAs and in entering
the Davidson YMCA athletic events with nearby YMCAs.

Mauze, a rising senior, is a member of Kappa Alpha social fraternity and is from San Antonio, Tex. He attacked
the past YMCA programs for failing to attract many members of the student body who were not pre-ministerial. He proposed
that the Y should go after the doubters and scoffers, and bring into the program talented students who have so
far been passed up. He put himself in favor of “Y” sponsored programs that would be on subjects in which
the students are interested. In general, Mauze said he favored “making the Y more interested in everybody, and everybody more
interested in the Y.”

Balloting for the other undecided YMCA offices resulted in a run-off in both races. Gordon Bondurant and Vernon Hunter are
the remaining candidates in the race for YMCA Vice President, while Joe Sandifer and Dan Woods are in the run-off
for the secretarial office. Voting will continue for YMCA elections Tuesday after chapel. Earlier in the week Doug Oldenberg, a
rising senior from Charlotte, was elected treasurer of the YMCA next year. Doug is a member of Phi Delta Theta
social fraternity.

(Continued on Page Four)

Federal Inspection Slated for April 11-12
The annual Department of the Army inspection of the Davidson College ROTC Cadet Corps will be conducted Monday and Tuesday,
April 11th and 12th. President of this year’s inspection team is Colonel Richard D. Stevens, Infantry, U. S. Army. Colonel
Stevens is a native of New Hampshire and a graduate of the University of New Hampshire. In 1928, he received
an MF degree from Yale University. In addition, Colonel Stevens is also a graduate of the Army Command and General
Staff College at Fort Leavenworth, Kansas. Assisting Colonel Stevens as members of the inspection team are Lt. Col. Erwin D.
Selby, Armor, and Lt. Col. John S. Woot, Jr., Artillery. The inspection team will arrive at Davidson Sunday night. The
inspection will officially commence at 8 o'clock Monday morning with a briefing by the Cadet Regimental Staff on Operations, Training
and Administration of Cadet Corps. Following this briefing, the team will make a tour of campus facilities and will call
on Dr. John R. Cunningham, President of the College, Dean Pietenpol, Dean Spencer, and Mr. Grier Martin. A member of
the inspection team will visit each scheduled ROTC Class and will ask students questions concerning their military knowledge. A general
inspection of the records and facilities of the ROTC Department will climax Monday’s agenda. After inspecting Tuesday’s classes, the highlight
of the tour will commence at 1:45 p.m., when the team will conduct a formal

(Continued on Page Four)
