The Davidsonian

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF ........ Dick Morehead
ASSOCIATE EDITORS Maurice Crouse, Tom Warlick
Managing Editors ........ Jim Batten, Franklin Bloodworth, Jim Brice
Sports Editor Leon Howell
Copy Editor John T. Harmon
Feature Editor Watt McCain
News Editors Lloyd Chapin, Bill Pomeroy, Glenn Robertson
Staff Photographer Hank Daniel
Assignments John Trask
File Clerk Bob Beall

Member of the Associated Collegiate Press and Intercollegiate Press

PAGE TWO OCTOBER 21, 1955

Gullibility and Sponges

The world is full of educated sponges. These intellectual phenomena absorb any printed matter and voiced opinion, retaining unchanged all
that is read and heard, and bring forth its contents, when squeezed, for an intellectual appraisal of world conditions, the
true nature of society, or the view of an infallible textbook. They believe anything that they read and hear, often
accepting the first opinion expressed or the first fact presented as a rightful concept of the subject in question. Today,
much is printed, much is said; thereby creating a great need to go beyond the obvious, a need for objective
and critical analyses to discern what is fiction, what is fact, what is truth. It is most often a two-way
fallacy since most voices of fact and opinion present only one set of facts and one slant of opinion. This
applies to magazine articles, newspaper material, chapel talks, textbooks, and even some professors. Take the following examples from widely read
publications.

“Another African student told me recently, ‘I am a member of the Mau Mau movement. It is our national movement
for liberation.’ People who enjoy the fruits of freedom and stability often look at these struggles in a negative or
passive way. But our oneness with humanity demands that we identify ourselves with those who desire freedom... The truths which
were self-evident to Thomas Jefferson and Tom Paine have, in the Providence of God and through the logical evolution of
events, become self-evident to Kwame Nkrumah, Jomo Kenyatta, Dr. Nnamdi Azikiwe and the leaders of the African National Congress." The
Intercollegian, October, 1955

Compare that to these excerpts from Newsweek:

“Barely 7 miles from the governor’s palace in Nairobi, a group of African gunmen last week staged a murder in
the best Hollywood gangster style. They shot down Senior Chief Waruhiu of the 1,000,000 strong Kikuyu tribe in broad daylight
as he parked his car outside a church mission. The killers fled in a waiting automobile. Waruhiu was killed for
having denounced a secret society called the Mau Mau. He was the 26th murder (including two white women stabbed to
death) committed by the Mau Mau this year.” Newsweek, October 20, 1955

“A Kikuyu tribal headsman who had remained loyal to the British in Kenya returned home from a night of duty
on guard against Mau Mau terrorists. He found his wife and four of his children chopped to bits by the
long knives of the Mau Mau.

“This bloody incident was only one of many last week as a fresh wave of atrocities marked the conclusion of
the trial of Jomo (Burning Spear) Kenyatta, whom the British accused of organizing the Mau Mau movement. The court was
a converted schoolroom in the desolate waste of northern Kenya... the sentence... an inadequate sentence of seven years.” Newsweek, April
20, 1953

And there is more recently the case of Emmett Till so dynamically presented, thanks to a thoughtful observer, on the
bulletin board in the College Union. On one side there is IN MEMORIAM by Life Magazine which while quoting often
from the Scriptures states that Emmett’s “soldier-father was killed in France fighting for the American proposition that all men are
equal.” Life, October 10, 1955

On the other side from the Charleston Courier comes this statement: “Till’s father was hanged in Italy during the war
for murder and rape.” News and Courier, October 16, 1955

It is a fault of most publications and commentators to present only one side. It is a greater fault to
accept and be satisfied with only one presentation of the matter. It is difficult to break away from traditional approaches,
methods and views. Part of education is discernment, intelligent analyses, and a striving for objectivity. Drink from the fount of
information and opinion not with a bucket but with a well-placed straw.—R. H. M.

A Solved Problem?

Through the last few years no subject, not even subsidization, has been the object of more editorial discussion than chapel
and chapel conduct. This editor has actually had members of the administration point out to him that nothing had been
printed about chapel for over two weeks. Clearly this is one of the most acute problems that has faced the
corporate Davidson family for several years.

The chapel uproar is quieted now. No longer does this subject blemish the sedate conversation of those whom it concerns.
What is its status now? Chapel is now held on three days a week, Tuesday, Thursday, and Friday. The elimination
of the Wednesday chapel is in no sense, according to the chapel committee, an indication of a reduced religious emphasis
on the campus. Quite to the contrary, they feel that three well-planned religious exercises per week would be much more
meaningful than four routine chapel services.

Chapel conduct is much improved now from its status of two years ago. This has resulted from Dr. Cunningham’s determined
“get tough” policy of late spring 1954. No longer are students “passed back” during the services, and the noise, jeering,
whooping, laughter, and general commotion do not mar the entire service. But is chapel conduct really passable, yet alone good,
even today? Let us look at the chapel program thus far this year. Most of the services have been of
the “long chapel" variety, lasting from three-fourths to all of the allotted time. Psychologically this is undoubtedly for the best
if the chapel program is to be carried on at all. Moreover, no thoughtful student should object to this considering
the complete freedom which he enjoys two days a week compared to five days interrupted by chapel programs of unpredictable
length two years ago.

Some of the programs do indeed show evidence of careful planning. On the other hand, some of the programs do
not show strong evidence along this line. Certainly, if the religious programs are to be valuable and meaningful, they will
have to be carefully planned, and this should ever be kept foremost in the minds of the committee members. The
committee has indicated its intention to meet regularly, and for this they are to be commended.

Although in general the student conduct has improved to the point where it is no longer farcical or even downright
irreligious to hold a chapel service, the situation is still bad. Last Friday’s chapel was almost as bad as any
held last year. The whooping between the prayer and the hymn was completely inexcusable. It is not stretching matters to
say that the students act like immature children or wild animals at any time that announcements are made. The most
serious mistake made by the chapel committee is to allow announcements of any kind whatsoever to be made on Tuesdays
and Thursdays, no matter how great the emergency. Those chapel periods at which no announcements have been made are the
only ones at which a genuine religious atmosphere has existed. However, the foregoing comment is worthless. We are resigned that
no chapel plan, regardless of how well conceived, how well planned, or how well carried out it may be, will
ever succeed in the present atmosphere. However, the blame for the problem can be so clearly laid on one group,
the Davidson student body. Until they as a whole come to realize the childishness, the immaturity, the disrespect, the impiety,
and the ingratitude of their conduct and resolve to do better the situation will not be improved.—T. W. W.

BUSINESS MANAGER Larry Parrott
Advertising Manager Bob Carmichael
Subscription Warner Hall
Circulation Bob Majors, Stan Miller
Business Staff Tony Guiles, Bill Bondurant

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 Madison Ave. New York, N.Y.
Chicago, Boston, Los Angeles, San Francisco

Subscription Rate: $2.00 Per Year
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1879.
Offices in David Ovens College Union, Davidson College

LITTLE MAN ON CAMPUS
‘GETTER NOT BOTHER HIM HE'S TRYIN' TA STUDY FOR A TEST TOMORROW’ PETER KARKKAINEN

French Colonial Policy in the Near East--Beginning or End?

Most of us Davidsonians have come to know the Mediterranean as a cultural center, the very cradle of our western
civilization. War has often been called the normal situation within our culture, and the Mediterranean certainly contributes its share to
keep the situation as “normal” as possible. During the past few weeks we have again heard the old, familiar names
of Morocco, Algeria, Egypt and Israel mentioned in an old, familiar context—internal and external friction; resulting in fighting on smaller
or larger scale. As if these old and proven disputes were not enough, new restlessness has been stirred on the
island of Cyprus. We have been accustomed to hear Tunisia mentioned in this connection but this time that ancient base
of pirates has remained peaceful, due to its new form of government, which it got only this summer. According to
a plan, conceived by Mendes France, Tunisia will eventually get complete independence, and this plan has satisfied the population, thus
keeping at least that corner of the cracking French Empire in calm. Both national extremists and Communists of course have
presented more radical demands, but the French goodwill after the Italian occupation, together with the more concrete action, like giving
over 3 billion francs worth of relief to the famine-stricken country, have been enough to quiet them.

The problem of Morocco and Algeria is more complicated, especially because of the numerous French settlers living there, who have
taken an extremely firm stand against any demands made by the Mohammedan population. The question is not only of the
Mohammedan riots, where they have cut innocent men's noses and necks; also the white have made themselves guilty to similar
atrocities. The white section of the population has its representatives in the National Assembly, and they have been to a
great extent responsible for the recent development. The French do not yet want to believe the truth declared by Mendes-France,
that the days of colonialism are behind, and to be successful at all, the colonial policy has to be more
liberal, considering more the needs and desires of the colonies also.

The origin of the tumult in Morocco and Algeria is in unanimous movement against Sultan Mohammed ben Yussuf. He was
accused of heresy, and all Mohammedans were ready to resort to arms to expel him. The French readily gave a
helping hand to the righteous ones, especially when it was a well-known secret that Mohammed ben Yussuf had been the
secret leader of the extreme Nationalist party, the Istiqlal, for 14 years. The new ruler, Sultan Mohammed ben Moulay Arafa,
who in the beginning was exceedingly popular because of his social reforms, has lost his popularity because of his willingness
to cooperate with the French, and consequently the people want Mohammed ben Yussuf back. He is, however, exiled in Madagascar,
and the French are not likely to support his return; in fact he is virtually their prisoner. The main issue,
however, is the tense situation between the French and the Mohammedan population.

According to a United States senator, five Arabian oil-sheiks have given 20 million dollars to support anti-French agitation, and the
Communists naturally were delighted to give their financial support in an emergency like this. For obvious reasons we do not
know the exact amount, but the writer is convinced that it was considerably more than given to the supporting of
the victims of recent Pennsylvania floods.

Keeping this financial support in mind, it is no wonder that the hatred eventually reached its height in the recent
riots. In fact, the hostilities reached such a scale that France had to send 120,000 men to return everything to
order. Obviously this kind of armed peace was considered too expensive by the French, and consequently they promised some reforms,
which in our eyes, however, look rather superficial and pitifully late. In spite of the resistance of the Algerian French,
France is going so far as to make the Arabian language a subject in State schools, to stop supervising the
religious activities of the Mohammedans. In addition a promise has been given to give to at least one out of
three European children an opportunity to go at least to grade school. That proportion does not certainly look too impressive,
but we have to remember that only one out of 125 Mohammedan children has the chance to get elementary education.

A real war was going to start between Israel and Egypt. On the now famous Gaza strip, Egypt had an
army composed of the refugee-Arabs from Israel; and the Arab soldiers got too homesick. They started sending patrols to Israel,
to see their old homes and at the same time killing any Jewthey met. Israel reciprocated, and soon the UN
truce commission had its hands full in trying to prevent 30,000 Israeli soldiers from attacking 15,000 Egyptian soldiers. Both armor
and airplanes were already in use before the pressure from both the UN and USA brought about a new truce.
But it must have been written in the stars that there would be no peace in the Mediterranean. Already since
last December, when the UN refused to take the case of Cyprus under discussion, the Greeks have done everything possible
to get the British ousted from the island. Archbishop Makarios has been in the lead of the anti-British movement, using
the church as a means of agitation, and getting support especially from students. Of the half-million people population, four-fifths are
Greek and the rest, 100,000, are of Turkish origin, and have formed a secret pro-Turkish league of their own. When
the British offered independence to the island, Greeks got mad because that was not enough, and Turkey got mad because
the offer was too advantageous to Greeks. As a result, there were anti-Greek riots in Izmir, where the eastern headquarters
of NATO are situated, and the opposite reaction was recorded in Salonika. As for the possible outcome, we advise the
reader to draw his own conclusions basing his judgment on recent developments in the colonial world. As our own reaction,
we feel secure enough to say that in this case, as in politics generally, patience is the best means to
find the right outcome. Time will show.

Dick Biblere

TOM MORGAN

Detailed Operation of College Bookstore Bared for the Record

In recent weeks concern over the price of textbooks in the College Bookstore seems to have reached a peak. Many
of the students feel that the bookstore is charging exorbitant rates for these books and that consequently the college is
making a tremendous profit. One of the greatest bones of contention is that the students may buy the same books
in Charlotte for a twenty-five percent discount under the price of the books here. After inquiring into the question, I
have found that the problem is a quite complex one. Involved is an appreciation for the accounting involved in running
any business and a knowledge of the financial set-up of a college like Davidson.

Briefly the story is this. The bookstore is run as a service to the students, but must make enough gross
profit to take care of paying postage on the books, making up for money lost when textbooks are changed, and
paying a nominal fee to those who work in the store. Nothing is charged the bookstore by the college for
rent or utilities. To assure this profit, the books are marked up 20 percent (the usual in any bookstore) over
the publisher’s price to the bookstore. The publisher charges the bookstore an average of fifteen cents per book in shipping
costs which must come out of this profit. This fee, of course, depends upon the size of the book. One
of the biggest losses to the bookstore comes when a textbook is changed by a professor or when an author
brings out a new edition of his text, making the old edition obsolete. In the first case, the bookstore has
to sell all the copies of the book that they have on hand to a second-hand dealer for about 40
percent of the purchase price. In the latter, the book is only worth .50 to $1.00, if it can be
sold at all. The store loses approximately $500 per year in this way. I personally feel that this loss is
quite justifiable in that it signifies that the students have available at all times the best materials for acquiring a
high-caliber education.

You may have wondered why those who work in the bookstore cannot be paid from the same fund as those
who work in the administrative offices. The complete answer to this would involve a thorough understanding of the financial organization
of the college. More simply, we might say that this is a separate department just as the laundry is and
its employees are not paid from the general fund, just as the laundry’s are not. Certainly, however, they do have
to be paid something for their time, and this too has to come out of the gross profit of the
store. Thus, for an average year with $22,000 gross sales, I have figured that a brief approximate financial statement would
be as follows:

Gross profit $4,400
Postage and handling of books $500
Loss on obsolete books sold to second-hand dealers $500
Salaries to clerks and manager $1,250
Net profit $2,150

The entire net profit is turned over to the college scholarship fund each year and has been instrumental in providing
an education at Davidson for many who could not otherwise have afforded it. If this money were not available from
this source for the scholarships, it would come from some other area of the college income and might very well
cause an eventual raise in tuition. These records should make it obvious to the students that neither the college nor
any individual is making a profit from the store. Many still may not be able to understand why the prices
in Charlotte are so much lower than those of the bookstore—in fact, in some cases lower than the price the
bookstore pays the publisher for the book. I have not as yet been able to find any conclusive answer to
this problem. Surely one thing which contributes to this fact is that when a student buys in Charlotte, he has
to order the book and wait about two weeks for it to come in, while here at Davidson the book
has already been conveniently ordered and is on hand. This results in the student’s being able to use the book
from the first day of the course, and a subsequent loss to the bookstore if all those on hand are
not bought before the text for the course changes or a new edition is brought out.

The college is already investigating ways in which the books may be bought cheaper as they obviously are in Charlotte.
I believe that they would do well to try to buy their books from the same source and pass on
a saving thus made to the student. Actually, the Davidson student is much more fortunate than the students in some
of our neighboring schools where the student is required to buy a text for every course he takes from the
college bookstore and does not have the opportunity to save on second-hand books that he can buy from other students.
The bookstore at Davidson is run at a maximum of efficiency and provides a maximum of convenience to the students
in buying their textbooks. It is not obligatory that the student purchase his books here and if he feels that
he can get them elsewhere at a great savings without suffering undue inconvenience by not having a text of his
own for the first couple of weeks in a course, then he should feel encouraged to do so.

WHAT OTHERS ARE SAYING: Opinions and Appraisals of The American College Scene

(The following are excerpts from the fall edition of WHAT THE COLLEGES ARE DOING, a publication of Ginn and Company,
which seeks to record an accurate picture of college and university life and opinion in the United States today.)

Today's Student Liberal

As everyone knows, higher education has become increasingly democratized. It is no longer the haven for an intellectual elite. The
majority of students come to college looking for the know-how that will enable them to live a comfortable suburban existence.
They want to adjust to the material values held by the most vocal segment of the population. The student intellectual,
faced with his fears for the future, and not wishing to disturb the order of the present, tends more and
more, as he looks with some disgust at the non-(if not anti-) intellectuals who surround him, even in the classroom,
to retreat. His retreat may lead him into a pedantic scholarship or into a mystic embrace with an ancient religion,
or, perhaps, even into the writing of science fiction. But what of the student liberal, who is not quite of
the vanished breed he is thought to be? Although he exists, his ideas are no longer as exciting to his
contemporaries as they were in the confident years when the future still seemed to promise a Utopia. Hence his audience
is now smaller and less easily stirred. Once liberalism seemed to offer both a clear view of a new (and
better) world and the ideas with which to meet its challenge. But liberal thought today has been busy with the
fight to keep us from regressing or, to put it more positively, to preserve the hard-won social gains of this
century. It has scarcely had time to fulfill its traditional role as a guide to future action. Like the adult,
the student liberal can only hope to go on searching for the answers which will appeal to the nation—answers which
may not be found. Each college generation tries, as best it can, to get on in a world it never
made. My generation has chosen to ride out a storm on what seems to be the safe island of the
present. I, along with many others, think we should move off it before the island is inundated. I don't know
where to go, though; I only know the sea wall doesn't look very safe. — Richard Schickel, Graduate Student, University
of Wisconsin. From The Progressive.

Small College vs. Large

Some students would grow and even flourish almost anywhere; others seem immune to the whole educational process, no matter how
or where it is conducted. But the vast majority fall in between the two extremes: some of them are fitted
by temperament and background to thrive at the small college, and others at the big university. So it may be
worthwhile to ponder the advantages of each. The big university, for one thing, can command and keep top teaching talent
in an amazing variety of fields. In higher education, there is no substitute for either quality or variety. A university
or college without first-rate teachers is no college or university at all, no matter how grandiose its buildings or how
bulging its treasury. But if the “great teachers” appear only infrequently before large lecture courses, or only in advanced courses
to which admission is difficult, where is the educational profit to the average undergraduate? It is here that the small
college scores a point, and an important one. For the student at the small college has a dozen opportunities to
get acquainted with his teachers for every one that he would have at a big university. This is not, I
hasten to add, because of any lack of cordiality or goodwill toward their students on the part of university teachers
as compared with college teachers. It is rather a matter of tension versus comparative relaxation. University professors in a metropolis
(and no one knows it better than their students) are swamped with work. One result is that their students approach
them, if at all, in a mood of “I know I shouldn’t bother you about this, but...” A small college
teacher senses much less of that kind of hesitation. For the student who needs teaching stimulus and guidance to bring
him up to the university level, the small college has it “all over” the big university, in my opinion. It
must strive constantly, however, to see that its relatively relaxed intellectual atmosphere does not become relaxed to the point of
slumbering mediocrity. It should expect an ever-greater degree of maturity and intellectual interest in its students, hoping thereby to gain
some of the adult verve and vigor of the big university without sacrificing the intimacy and friendliness of the small
college. — Dr. Harold A. Larrabee, Union College. From the Union College Alumni Review.

Twin Goals of Liberal Arts

Without attempting here the impossibility of conclusive proof, I suggest that the American liberal arts college (including the church colleges)
can find a significant, even unique, mission in the quality of its historic purpose: to see men made whole in
both competence and conscience. Is there any other institution at the highest level of organized educational activity that is committed
by its history and by its program to these twin goals? This is not to say that our great professional
and technical institutions or the graduate schools of arts and sciences are something less than the liberal arts college, but
rather that they have set themselves a different task — the mission of developing a special competence. Nor am I
unaware that these institutions and the liberal arts colleges are borrowing more and more from each other and may be
moving toward each other in approaching a closer integration of all higher education. But my point is that the historic
liberal arts college has had a unique mission and that this mission has reality and validity today. — President John
Sloan Dickey, Dartmouth College, in The Atlantic Monthly.
