FORTY-FIRST YEAR OF CONTINUOUS PUBLICATION

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

Buddy Morrow Plays For Gala Midwinters

Buddy Morrow's popular orchestra will supply the music for the Davidson Midwinters Dances which begin a week from tonight. The weekend will get under way with a formal dance from 9 until 1 on Friday, February 18. Trombonist Morrow, who features glamorous Dorothy Kae as vocalist, will present a concert Saturday afternoon in Chambers Auditorium. The events of the weekend will be rounded out Saturday night with an informal dance from 8 until 12.

Two years ago when Morrow played for the Homecoming activities, he pleased his audiences with his renditions of “Night Train,” “One Mint Julep” and “That Old Black Magic.” Since that time, his orchestra has played at colleges throughout the country, including Cornell, Princeton and Vanderbilt. The orchestra leader’s musical career has included experience with Paul Whiteman, Artie Shaw, Eddie Duchin, Vincent Lopez, and the Dorsey brothers. His early triumphs in the musical world included his recording of “Rose, Rose I Love You,” which hit the top of every best-seller list across the country. This record helped boost his young group into the position of one of the top bands in the nation.

One of the reasons for Buddy Morrow's extraordinary success as a bandman is his policy of “playing the type of music the public wants to hear.” He is currently recording for Mercury Records.

Ted Andrae, chairman of the decoration committee for the dances, has stated the decorations will center around a specific theme. Plans have been made to begin decorating the gymnasium early next week. Independents, alumni and others who wish to buy tickets to the dances can purchase them from any Interfraternity Council representative.

R.O.T.C. Department Announces Awards

Each year the top military science students in the Davidson College Cadet Corps receive recognition for their performance. The following medals and awards are given for these achievements:

The Henry E. Fulcher, Jr., Memorial Medal for the graduating cadet best exemplifying the principles of good citizenship, given by the Davidson Lions Club. The award is named after 2nd Lt. Henry E. Fulcher, Jr., a Davidson graduate who was killed in World War II.

The 108th Infantry Division Cup awarded to the cadet company commander of the best company in the Cadet Corps. This cup is presented by the 108th Infantry Division.

The Third Army Leadership Certificate given to the graduating cadet demonstrating the most improvement in leadership during his ROTC enrollment. This certificate is awarded by the Commanding General of the Third Army.

The Most Outstanding Senior Cadet Medal, presented to the most outstanding senior R.O.T.C. cadet.

The Best Company Commander Medal, presented to the best all-around cadet company commander.

The Best Platoon Leader Medal, awarded to the best cadet platoon leader.

The Scabbard and Blade Medal, given to the most outstanding junior cadet.

The Most Outstanding Sophomore Medal, presented to the most outstanding sophomore cadet.

The Most Outstanding Band Cadet Medal, awarded to the most outstanding cadet bandsman.

The American Legion Medal, presented to the most outstanding freshman cadet.

Correction

The Davidsonian was in error in reporting the College Union Sunday night buffet suppers in the issue of February 4. The correct price for adults is $1.25, and the suppers will be on February 20 and alternate Sundays thereafter. The error is deeply regretted.

THE DUBLIN PLAYERS

Dublin Players’ To Give Two Plays Feb. 25, 26

By DUNBAR OGDEN

The Dublin Players will give two performances here on February 25th and 26th in conjunction with the Davidson College Artist Series. “Unparalleled,” said one critic of this troupe which is to give Noel Coward’s famous “Blithe Spirit” at 8:15 p.m., Friday in Chambers Auditorium. Saturday, the 26th, at 3 p.m., The Dublin Players will perform “Juno and the Paycock” by one of Ireland's finest playwrights, Sean O’Casey.

The Dublin Players was originally formed by Ronald Ibbs in 1947 under the name of the Ronald Ibbs Company. It has come to be made up of the outstanding actors from Ireland’s famous Abbey and Gate Theatres. Previous to 1947, Mr. Ibbs had for nine years been leading man at the Gate Theatre in the Earl of Longford’s Company. After two years of playing in Ireland, including a controversial production of “Hamlet” in modern dress, Eric Bentley, critic, author and dramatist, persuaded Mr. Ibbs to take the company to America to tour under the auspices of the International Theatre Exchange. Ibbs divided the company into two units, one of which was to tour America under the title of The Dublin Players, directed by Maureen Halligan, his wife.

The original tour of this country was so successful that The Dublin Players are now making an extended tour to encompass more than one hundred major cities of the United States and Canada. Playing with great skill and style, characteristic of these two classic Irish Theatre, The Dublin Players have given new meaning to the masterpieces of the modern drama by such men as Bernard Shaw, Oscar Wilde, J. M. Synge, and Ibsen. “. . . the finest company to come to this country in twenty years,” said Ed Sullivan of them, and Variety, the trade paper of the theatre, rated the group as “top entertainment.”

Phi Installs President; Elects New Members

The Philanthropic Literary Society met Monday night, Feb. 7, 1955, for the inauguration of the new officers. Stein Wilson, outgoing president, expressed his appreciation to the members for their cooperation and support during his term of office. Malcolm Williamson, the new president of Phi, delivered his inaugural address in which he emphasized the importance of Phi in developing the intellectual faculties of a man and how inseparable the literary society and liberal arts college are in developing the complete, as well as the scholarly man.

The business consisted of the election of new members. An honorary membership was extended to President Eisenhower, who was considered for this honor because of the high caliber of his speeches and public writings, which have contributed so much good to the society in which we live. William Henry Harrison was the last president to become a member of Phi.

Gehring Returns To Davidson Campus

Professor Philip Gehring returned to Davidson last week after a semester’s leave of absence to complete work on his master’s degree in the field of music, which he obtained at the University of Syracuse. He studied under Arthur Poister, who was also his instructor at Oberlin where he received his bachelor of music degree in 1952. Professor Gehring resumed his duties as college organist January 30 when he played for the Vespers service.

Mrs. Gehring, who was at the same time working for her master’s degree in musicology, has remained in New York where she will play the lead in the Khachaturian Violin Concerto with the University of Syracuse Symphony Orchestra this month. She is a violin teacher at Davidson.

During Mr. Gehring's absence, Mr. John T. Fesperman of Catawba College filled the position of college organist. Mr. Fesperman has returned to Catawba College where he is Professor of Organ.

FIRST PROGRAM ON CAMPUS U.C.M. Termed Success

Davidson College's first visit by the University Christian Mission, jointly sponsored by the YMCA and the National Council of Churches of Christ in the U.S.A., formally ended Thursday evening with the celebration of the Lord’s Supper at the College Church. For a great many students, the discussions centering around the problem of “The Mature Christian in a Changing South” have stimulated their thinking, promising for the future a keener appreciation of the forces and changes acting upon the South and each individual's participation in these transmissions.

Under the chairmanship of Dr. John Bevan and vice-chairmanship of Jason McManus and Cortez Cooper, the campus committee met each morning for breakfast with the mission team to examine the campus’ response to the previous day’s activities. Every possible approach was utilized by the committee in planning the program to provoke thought and the exchange of ideas among the students and faculty of the college and the team: chapel talks, class discussions, afternoon seminars, evening bull sessions, and personal conferences.

The consensus of the committee was that the five-day Mission program was highly successful in its purpose—"To examine what our response to the love of God in Christ means, what social imperatives and claims upon our culture that response involves, and what each of us can do as Christians to transform culture in the name and nature of Jesus Christ”—and in its objectives—“to present an adequate interpretation of the response of the Christian faith to racial tensions in the South, economic problems in the South, the South as a member of the world community, and the role of the Christian in politics.”

Chambers will rock to the music of Louis “Satchmo” Armstrong this coming Monday evening, Feb. 14, at 8:15 o'clock, as the incomparable “Satchmo” and his trumpet make an appearance similar to the one which had Davidson students ranting and raving last spring. Louis brings, in his all-star troupe, a group of jazz men each of whom is notable in his own right. Trummy Young is the featured trombonist, Barney Bigard clarinetist, with Billy Kyle at the piano, and Barrett Deems and Arvel Shaw at the drums and bass, respectively. Velma Middleton returns and will have the auditorium rocking before long, a fact to which will be attested by anyone who saw her perform last year. The sight of her clowning on the stage is worth, by itself, the price of a ticket. She and Louis make a world-shaking pair, a better-known modern musical pair being perhaps only Rodgers and Hammerstein.

Louis is noted for his hometown type New Orleans jazz and is a “natural” as a musician as well as a showman. He plays without written arrangements and has had the acclaim of all, even the “long-hair” critics for as long as many of us can remember. This two-hour “Valentine” will be a tremendous show and should have jazz enthusiasts up in the clouds for several days. Tickets for this performance have sold very well.but there are still some remaining. They are priced at $2.00 and are available to students from any L.F.C. representative.

LOUIS ARMSTRONG

Freshman Car-Owning Privileges Suspended, Effective Next Year

Freshmen will not be allowed to keep automobiles on the campus next year, as a result of a ruling by the faculty this week. The problem of student-owned cars has been the subject of much discussion in recent months by the faculty. Dean Spencer pointed out that many other colleges forbid students to have cars at all and that those that do permit them usually have strict regulations. One of the principal reasons for the faculty's ruling was the complaints received from parents over freshman ownership of automobiles.

Eu Society Initiates Thirty-Six Members

The Eumanean Society met on Monday night, February 7, 1955, and 36 new members were added to the roll. The meeting was called to order by President Tommy Dove, who appointed Messrs. Crouse and Marshall as committee chairmen for “Phi-Eu Day,” which is to be held in the near future. Joe Conarroe outlined to the new members the process of writing papers. Jim Batten re-read a paper which he wrote and presented before the society his freshman year. Maurice Crouse read his new creation, “Telling the Bees,” which received favorable comment. As an opening to the initiation, Mr. Dove gave a historical sketch of the society. The new initiates then signed the roll book and officially became new members. The following were initiated: Harry Heinitsh, John Bernhardt, Andy Hamilton, Dan Woods, Ken Forester, Grant Sharp, Fred Hayes, John Shaw, Ross Smyth, Tony Guiles, Bob Oliver, Peter Eller, (Continued On Page Four)

The Davidsonian
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 1955
PUBLICATION NUMBER 14

Dave Brubeck Quartet In Concert Here Soon
By BILL

“They'll flip for this far-out jazz,” is the considered opinion of the Interfraternity Council which has loosed the scoop that Dave Brubeck’s Quartet will soon rock the Davidson campus with the coolest of its renowned repertoire. Brubeck, now atop the roster of modern jazzists, has agreed to add Davidson as his final appearance, following Duke and UNC, on this short Southern tour. The IFC has inked March 10 at 8:15 as the date for this production.

Jazz is currently enjoying the greatest surge of popularity in its history. The West Coast has become the country’s most avid patron of jazz of the “cool school” which has originated as a reaction to the “hot school,” a blatant, but essentially simple, musical interpretation epitomized in Dixieland. Dave, a son of northern California, is a product of this, America’s newest center of syncopation. He has long evinced an inquisitive musical talent by his deviations from the recognized piano curriculum.

As a student at the College of the Pacific, Brubeck proved himself a true Bohemian by retreating to a cellar “bomb shelter,” along with his roommates, to maintain a continual jam session. Following an army special services enlistment, he studied under France’s Darius Milhaud from whom he mastered the art of improvisation of jazz. In 1951 Dave organized a quartet, soon developed his own recording company, Fantasy, and has now won acclaim in capturing the popularity polls of “Down Beat” and “Metronome” trade magazines. Since then he has been shuttling between his San Francisco home and the eastern jazz centers at Storyville in Boston and Manhattan’s Basin Street. Whereas jazz was once a rhythm style appealing to the emotions which vented themselves in the gyratic dances of its addicts, it now commands all the listening attentions of its devotees. It has now evolved into a series of fantastic improvisations employing counterpoint and polytonality but bearing no semblance of the old standard from which each rendition derives little but its title. “Stardust,” as played by Brubeck and his group, retains nothing of the original except the mood. The essence of this “cool” jazz, as differentiated from “hot,” is the tension between order and improvisation which grabs the audience, holding it in a spell as the performer “invents” his selection. It is in this impromptu composing that Brubeck reaches his state of trance which is to him a hypnotic ecstasy which he terms “breaking through.”

Faculty Group Makes Chapel Changes

The faculty voted this week to limit secular presentations in assembly to Wednesday and to make the Tuesday, Thursday, and Friday meetings exclusively worship services approximately 15 minutes in length. The move is designed to increase the spiritual value obtained from the worship services and is a result of the faculty’s endeavor to improve the overall chapel program. Wednesday services will henceforth be called ‘convocations” and will include various types of programs, including lectures and music recitals. Important announcements will be allowed following the service on chapel days. The ruling will probably not be effective until next year since this semester’s schedule has already been completed.

Cleland To Visit Campus
Ft. Bragg Commander Will Arrive Tuesday

On Tuesday, 15 February, 1955, Davidson College will be host to Major General Joseph P. Cleland, U.S.A., Commanding General of Fort Bragg, North Carolina, and XVIII Airborne Corps. General Cleland comes to Davidson as a guest of the College at the invitation of President John R. Cunningham. At 1:30 p.m. in Chambers Auditorium, General Cleland will address the Davidson College ROTC Cadet Corps. All Davidson students and members of the faculty and administration are cordially invited to attend the address. Other visitors to the campus for this occasion will be Brigadier General Thomas M. Mayfield, Commanding General of the 108th Infantry Division (Reserve), Charlotte, N.C., Colonel Henry C. Settle, Chief of the North Carolina Military District, Lt. Col. William J. York, Executive Officer of the District, and Lt. Col. Earl E. Sanders, Chief Reserve Instructor of the Officers Reserve Corps in Charlotte.

General Cleland, a native Nebraskan, graduated from the United States Military Academy at West Point in 1925. A veteran of considerable action in the South Pacific during World War II, General Cleland served with Headquarters U. S. Forces, Pacific, initially. In 1943 he served as Chief of Staff of the 43rd Infantry Division, was appointed Commander of the 103rd Infantry Regiment in May 1944, and later became Commanding General of the 43rd Infantry Division in June 1945. In June 1947, he returned to the United States and soon after became an instructor at the Army Command and General Staff College. He later served as commander of the 504th Airborne Infantry Regiment, commander of the 508th Airborne Regimental Combat Team and as assistant commander of the 82nd Airborne Division.