DAVIDSON OPENS AGAINST CATAWBA (Page 3)

The Davidsonian

IS QUEENS NECESSARY? (See McManus, Page 2)

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 1955

FRESHMEN EDITION

No Successor Named Yet By YMCA Board

The Reverend Samuel Hays Magill, General Secretary for the Davidson College YMCA during the past two years, has resigned his position. His resignation will be effective sometime before the end of the calendar year. No successor has been designated as yet by the YMCA Board of Directors, but should one be named soon, Magill’s resignation will become effective around November 1.

Speaking of his resignation, Mr. Magill said, “I am leaving with a great deal of regret, but I felt that I could not turn down the new position offered to me.” Although his future position was not disclosed for immediate publication, it is fairly certain.

Mr. Magill joined the Davidson YMCA as its General Secretary in August 1953. Outstanding achievements during this period at Davidson include the University Christian Mission and the passing of the new YMCA constitution which made membership voluntary. Other important achievements were the commissions established to study Christianity in its relation to the various fields of life and promote an intellectual understanding of Christianity, the setting up of a summer placement bureau during his first year at Davidson, and the increased number of freshman activities, which included the YMCA Freshman Council and fellowship groups.

Yale Divinity School conferred the B.D. degree on Mr. Magill in 1953. Prior to his study there, he was elected to membership in the Grail and the Golden Fleece, honorary leadership societies, in recognition of his accomplishments. Mr. Magill is an ordained minister in the Congregational Christian Church, and is a native of Hampton Mauze.

Tom Scott Assumes Athletic Office Duties

Tom Scott has assumed his duties as Director of Physical Education and Athletics at Davidson College. The former University of North Carolina basketball coach has moved his family to Davidson from Chapel Hill. They have been there since he completed his doctorate of education requirements at Columbia University in June.

Dr. Scott is already working on a system of budgeting and policy for the Davidson athletic department and has announced some plans which appear on Page 3.

“We shall have a good program in physical education for all students,” he affirms. “And the intercollegiate program should be a part of it for boys who are better qualified and have more ability. Davidson has a fine staff of young coaches, and I hope that we can continue on the same type of sports schedules that the college has had.”

A coach himself since 1930, Dr. Scott will take an active part in Davidson coaching. “I plan to help Danny Miller with basketball and probably coach the golf team,” he says. “In any other sports I'll help out any way I can.” He coached high school sports at Moundridge and Halstead in Kansas, and was physical education director for the Morehead, Minn., city schools. He began his college basketball coaching career at Concordia College at Morehead in 1936, and was with Central Missouri College for five seasons (1938-42) before World War II. At both institutions, he also served as Director of Physical Education and Athletics. His Central Missouri basketball teams won four conference championships and participated in numerous invitational tournaments. After serving as a physical education instructor in the Navy’s V-5 program, he returned to Central Missouri for the latter part of the 1945-46 school year.

Dr. Scott accepted the coaching position at North Carolina in 1946, and his teams compiled a 99-63 record over the next five seasons. Scott resigned in 1952 to become head coach of the Phillips 66 Oilers, perennial semi-pro champs, and the following year was in the sales department of Phillips 66.

Freshman Membership Drive To Be September 13

Tuesday, September 13, 1955, will be a red-letter day on the calendar of the Davidson College YMCA, for on that day the Freshman Membership Drive will get under way. A program informing new students concerning the “Y” and its plans for the coming year is scheduled for Tuesday morning. Following this, from 11:30 until 12:00 o'clock, student counselors will solicit membership in the group discussions.

As stated in the Constitution of the Davidson College YMCA, membership is open to all men of the college, whether a student or a member of the faculty, who are actively interested in promoting the purpose of the organization. Freshmen have already received information about the “Y” and its program. Additional pamphlets will be distributed during the Orientation Week. Also, information may be obtained from the Handbook. However, there may be many questions concerning the function of the “Y” on the campus and the part it plays in meeting the needs of each student who comes in contact with it. It is the desire of everyone connected with the “Y” that these questions regarding membership be answered. Therefore, speak to Mr. Magill, Blake Brinkerhoff, Hampton Mauze, or any other student counselors. These persons will be glad to answer any questions that might arise. Remember: Freshman YMCA Membership Drive, Tuesday, September 13, 11 o'clock.

270 Freshmen Arrive on Campus

Davidson College welcomed the Class of '59 to the campus yesterday. Some 270 freshmen reported for a five-day period of orientation and registration. The following is an article written by special request for the Davidsonian by John Child, Freshman Advisor.

By the time this edition of The Davidsonian comes off the press, the Class of '59 will find itself in the midst of this much-talked-about period called “Orientation,” and no doubt, will feel somewhat overstuffed with endless words of welcome! This period, by its very nature, has at times tended to become rather confusing with its maze of activities. Therefore, during the past few years, all items of business which could satisfactorily be taken up at a later time have gradually been eliminated in an effort to “streamline” the program and give it more meaning and direction.

This fall several new features have been added to such essential ones as physicals, tests, and explanations of student life and activities. One of these is the basis on which your class is divided into its groups. Instead of alphabetically, as has been the custom, it was done on a basis of like vocational preferences and interests, with the hope of increasing the effects of the counseling. Another feature you have already discovered and enjoyed is the informal Open House and movie given by the College Union. Other miscellaneous entertainment is also planned.

The W. H. Belk Hall, housing 306 students and the College ROTC Department, opened its doors to students for the first time yesterday. The total cost of Belk Hall, which was begun in November of 1953, was more than $900,000. This includes completely equipped rooms, lobby, offices, and the ROTC facilities. With the addition of Belk, the 795 rooms provided by the dormitories will furnish two-to-a-room housing for almost all students. Davidson thus begins its 119th school year with a building program that has seen a large part of the college built or replaced in the past 15 years.

21 Counselors Lead Freshmen

By MAURICE CROUSE

The Class of 1959 is being guided through the confusion of the first few days of college life by a capable group of YMCA Student Counselors and Faculty Counselors in Davidson College’s 1955 Orientation Program. Twenty-one students and professors are being directed in their work by John Child, Freshman Adviser, and Dr. Samuel R. Spencer, Dean of Students, and Mr. H. Edmunds White, Assistant Dean of Students.

The Freshman Adviser, John Child, is a senior from Hopedale, Massachusetts, and a member of the Student Council. 

Tomorrow night, the freshmen will meet the entire faculty and their wives. This will be followed by the trip to Queens College for an evening of entertainment and dancing with their freshman class. We sincerely feel that this will prove a most enjoyable experience during these five days. This is being done in your interest, giving you an excellent chance to become familiar with the fine people at Queens College.the petroleum company. He is a native of Pittsburg, Kappa Sigma fraternity and the Student Council. Group One is led by Perrin Anderson, a senior from Union, S.C., who is serving this year as President of the Student Body. Sigma Chi is his fraternity affiliation. He is a member of Omicron Delta Kappa. Mr. C. Shaw Smith, director of the College Union and Coordinator of Student Activities, is the group’s Faculty Counselor.

Group Two has for its Student Counselor Linny Baker, a senior from Kannapolis, N.C. Baker is president of his fraternity, Alpha Tau Omega, and is a member of Phi Beta Kappa. Dr. W. G. Workman of the Psychology Department is the Faculty Counselor.

Gordon Bondurant, vice president of the YMCA, leads Group Three. A junior from Winston-Salem, N.C., he is a member of Beta Theta Pi fraternity. Economics Professor A. G. Griffin is the Faculty Counselor.

Another Beta, Joe Conarroe, from Bradenton, Florida, is the leader of Group Four. He is President of the Senior Class and a member of Omicron Delta Kappa. The group has as its Faculty Counselor Professor C. E. Ratliff of the Economics department.

Jim Covington, a junior from Spartanburg, S.C., is yet another Beta and is the leader of Group Five. He is in charge of the Spirit-Life post on the YMCA Cabinet. Professor J. C. Bailey, Jr., of the Greek department is Faculty Counselor for the group.

Maurice Crouse, a senior from Charlotte, N.C., is the leader of Group Six. He is a member of Kappa Sigma fraternity and the Student Council. Dr. W. T. Bingham is the Faculty Counselor, a Professor of Spanish.

Group Seven has as its Student Counselor junior Walter Davis from Corpus Christi, Texas. Davis is chairman of the Deputations post on the YMCA Cabinet and is a member of Sigma Chi fraternity. Dr. A. V. Goldiere, Professor of French, is the Faculty Counselor.

Tony Dick, President of the College Bible Class, leads Group Eight. Dick is a junior, is Secretary-Treasurer of his class, and is a member of Beta Theta Pi. The group's Faculty Counselor is Dr. P. N. Trakas, of the Spanish department.

Group Nine’s Student Counselor is DeWitt Helm, a senior from Hot Springs, Virginia. Helm is editor of Quips and Cranks and a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon and Omicron Delta Kappa. Dr. George Labban of the Greek department is the Faculty Counselor.

Jerry Helms, holder of the Service post on the YMCA Cabinet, is the Student Counselor for Group Ten. Helms is a member of Alpha Tau Omega. A senior, his hometown is Lancaster, S.C. Dr. E. E. Brown, Professor of Biology, is the group's Faculty Counselor.

Vernon Hunter, a junior from Charlotte, N.C., and a leader of the Worship post on the YMCA Cabinet, is the Student Counselor for Group Eleven. He is a member of Phi Delta Theta and the Student Council. Dr. W. O. Puckett, Professor of Biology, is serving as Faculty Counselor.

Group Twelve has for its leader John McLauchlin, from Raeford, N.C. A Beta, McLauchlin is a member of the Student Council and will be in charge of the Gift Fund this year for the YMCA. The Faculty Counselor is Dr. W. G. McGavock, Professor of Mathematics.

Jason McManus, Student Counselor for Group Thirteen, is a junior from University City, Missouri. Among the offices he holds are President of Phi Delta Theta, President of Sigma Upsilon, President of Omicron Delta Kappa, and he is a member of Phi Beta Kappa. Dr. W. P. Cumming of the English department is Faculty Counselor.

Group Fourteen’s Leader is Bob Martin, a senior, and chairman of the Social Life post on the YMCA Cabinet. Martin is from Welsh, Louisiana, and is a member of Phi Delta Theta. The English department’s Professor H. T. Lilly is Faculty Counselor.

Hobby Cobb, Judge of the Court of Control, is Student Counselor for Group Fifteen. He is a senior from Charlotte, N.C., President of Kappa Sigma, and an outstanding basketball player. Dr. J. W. McCutchan, Professor of English, is serving as Faculty Counselor for the group.

Dick Morehead, editor of The Davidsonian and the Wildcat Handbook, is Student Counselor for Group Sixteen. He is a member of Kappa Alpha and Omicron Delta Kappa, and is a senior from Huntington, West Virginia. Dr. J. S. Purcell of the English department is Faculty Counselor.

Group Seventeen has as its Student Counselor Hampton Mauze, a senior from San Antonio, Texas. Mauze is a member of Kappa Alpha and serves as membership chairman for the YMCA Cabinet. Dr. Malcolm McAfee, Professor of Sociology, is the group's Faculty Counselor.

Jon Regen, a senior from Durham, N.C., is Student Counselor for Group Eighteen. Regen is a member of Phi Delta Theta and is the program head of the Commission on Effective Citizenship on the YMCA Cabinet. Dr. J. A. McGeachy, Professor of History, is Faculty Adviser.

Grant Sharp, Special Services chairman on the YMCA Cabinet, is Student Counselor for Group Nineteen. Sharp is a member of Alpha Tau Omega, a senior, and resides in Deland, Florida. Professor J. W. Reid of the Geography department is serving as Faculty Counselor.

Group Twenty’s Student Counselor, Jeff Smith, is a junior from Winston-Salem, N.C. He is Program Chairman on the YMCA Cabinet and is a member of Beta Theta Pi. Dr. L. B. Schenck, Professor of Bible, is Faculty Counselor.

Group Twenty-One is composed of transfer students and has for its Student Counselor Tommy Thompson, a junior from Charlotte, N.C. He is in charge of Community Work for the YMCA Cabinet, and is a member of Phi Delta Theta. Professor B. D. Thompson of the History department is the group's Faculty Counselor.

A special group, composed of the students from foreign countries, is being counseled by Dean Samuel R. Spencer, and has no Student Counselor.

NOTICE
The Davidsonian wishes to thank Jim Holshouser, M. A. Crouse, Dan Wood, Mike Martin, and all contributors for their efforts in preparing this edition in the absence of the regular staff.

ROTC Lieutenant Edwin Van Keuren, Jr., Captain Arthur Brown, Captain John W. Thompson, Captain Lee, and Lt. Col. John D. Sapp, Davidson PMS&T.