PAGE FOUR DYING DEMAGOGUES . . ROBERT E. & HAYES Ichabod—One or five hundred years ago, today, no difference, flowers
in any case—Reh, Rah! Tahw? Daer!—Hal By JOHN THOMAS HARMON If you are a frequenter of the Davidson College library,
you have probably seen Bob Hayes many times in the pose reproduced above—book in hand, desk under feet. As you
walked by carrel number one, you may have heard Hayes complaining more than once about slamming doors or about the
heat (he has a very apt phrase for the comparison of heat, but it is better left out of print).
If you didn’t know him already, you probably went back a second time to make sure that you had seen
and heard correctly the first time. Upon your return you no doubt found that Bob, the King of Carrel Row,
was no longer upon his perch quietly reading in stocking-feet, but was at the moment walking down the aisle to
enjoy the first of his thirty-minute study breaks with a good friend. You soon realized that it really made no
difference which friend he visited, for all the carrel dwellers on the first mezzanine soon put down their books and
went wherever he was. If you are a casual or disinterested by-stander, you perhaps wondered why all the people in
the vicinity flocked to hear the words of this unique Davidsonian, and because of all the names unfamiliar to you
that were mentioned in the ensuing conversation—Spengler, Mann, Kant, Proust, Santayana, Stendhal, Lippman, and others that you can’t remember, you
were more than likely prompted to return to your roommate and say, “Some guys are smart, aren’t they?” If, however,
you are an intimate friend of Hayes’ who loves to hear him expound in detail on ideas with which you
are barely acquainted, then you were more than disturbed when Miss Lawson tipped quietly behind the group and asked you
please to be a little more quiet and to consider the boys downstairs. The Hayes who knows Marquand, Pirandello, and
Proust is the Hayes whom the campus recognizes in an instant. But there are more Hayes’ than the one who
sits in the library avidly imbibing the philosophy of Bertrand Russell or leisurely turning the pages of a collection of
impressionistic art—many more. MAESTRO Davidsonians who know Bob as the English Honors student and member of Sigma Upsilon will not
readily believe that back home in Fayetteville he is known not for his knowledge of English and philosophy or for
his writing ability but as a pianist. When he came to Davidson, he was forced to give up all formal
training in music, but he has constantly found time out from his busy academic schedule to sit down at the
nearest piano and play a selection from Brahms, Chopin, or Debussy, or to give an impressive rendition of one of
his own compositions. There is still another interest of Hayes’, which, when added to interest in literature, writing, art, and
music, almost perfectly completes a characterization of him as the modern Leonardo da Vinci—medicine. Although he is taking only one
science course this year, Bob has more than successfully completed the requirements for a degree in pre-medical education, and has
recently won a scholarship to Harvard Medical School. He is planning to buy a pair of black shoes to take
to Cambridge with him so that all the Bostonian aristocrats from Beacon Hill will not turn up their noses at
him when they happen to exchange scalpels in a dissecting room. There is one thing that he has not yet
acquired for graduate school—a mistress; every member of the Ivy League has one, but unfortunately Hayes is rather hard put
to it in this case because he prefers the girls he dates to the students at the Sorbonne and in
his own words, “over my head.” It so happens that no girl of this type would have the necessary qualifications
and talent for such a position. One of Bob’s many interesting activities at Davidson used to be holder of the
office of historian of Beta Theta Pi. He shocked some of his more modest Beta brothers by including several words
not usually found in such reports. Insulted by their lack of appreciation, Hayes refused to give further reports, and because
of his failure to produce, he was impeached by his brothers. REVERIES IN GRAVEYARDS Bob's experiences between school years are
almost without peer among Davidsonians. Two summers ago he took in the sights of Europe, where one of his main
diversions was visiting cemeteries in which some of the great men of former ages are laid to rest. After visiting
the grave of Oscar Wilde, he recorded the experience and later had it published in this newspaper. In the essay
on Wilde, Wilde was never mentioned, though several other famous people were. (“If you knew the cemetery, you'd know who
it was.”) Upon returning to the United States, Bob found that he had to summon all the ingenuity of which
he was capable to keep the customs inspectors from confiscating his “banned literature.” He was successful, however, and his unexpurgated
edition of Lady Chatterley’s Lover delighted his hall mates for months. NO HOLOS BARRED Most of the aspects of Bob
Hayes’ character indicated above very few Davidsonians are likely to have known beforehand. Bob's uncompromising frankness and lack of hypocrisy,
however, are well-known to everyone. These aspects of his manners are often misinterpreted as being shocking or insulting, but those
who think carefully about his comments want later to thank him for telling them exactly what he thinks, regardless of
effect. One result of Bob's frank manner is the popular misconception concerning his religious views. Truly, he is unorthodox in
his religious thinking, but inwardly he is a seeker for the answers to the problems which confront human existence. As
he himself said after listening to the final movement of a magnificent Mahler symphony, “The essence of aesthetic experience presupposes
a communion with transcendent reality, which necessitates a belief in the conception of the essence, which may be called God.”
Bob Hayes is one to whom a book-length characterization can do justice. If you want an experience you will remember
to tell your grandchildren, get in a conversation with him yourself. I really can’t say where you can find him.
If you go by his room early some morning just before class you may find him there, perhaps tucking his
Phi Beta Kappa key neatly under his belt. He doesn’t want it to show, but it gives him a feeling
of security (as if he needed it) just to know it’s there. Later on in the day, you perhaps can
catch him as he starts from the gymnasium on one of his periodic runs to Erwin Lodge. At night you
may see him in the library, at the snack bar, or in the dormitory. “Obituary No. 1” Spring Drama Tour
Tryouts Announced The Red and Black Masquers have announced plans for touring a dramatic production early this spring throughout a
number of colleges in North and South Carolina. Tentatively, they plan to give the powerful war drama of R. C.
Sherriff, “Journey’s End,” under the direction of Mr. Raymond Tyson. The tour director will be Jack Curtis of the senior
class. Tryouts for the new play will be held in the Dome Room of Chambers Building on Wednesday, February 9,
from 3:30 to 6:00 p.m. All who are interested in dramatics and who would be able to tour with the
group during spring vacation are invited to be present at that time. There are a number of excellent parts in
the drama and a great deal of new talent is needed to fill these openings. Last year the Masquers took
John Patrick's play, “The Hasty Heart,” to Sullins College, Montreat, Winthrop, North Carolina State, and Queens during spring vacation and
met with overwhelming successes. This year the entire expenses of the cast will be covered and the tour will be
somewhat enlarged. The Masquers hope to establish the spring dramatic tour as an annual event in the schedule of the
Thespians. However, to successfully produce larger and more difficult plays and to surpass last year’s presentation-on-the-road, more new talent is
in demand. Therefore the Masquers want to especially encourage those who have not worked in dramatics previously at Davidson and
who could tour during spring vacation to try out on Wednesday afternoon. ROTC to Hold Smoker For Juniors Feb. 11
The Cadre personnel of the R.O.T.C. Department will hold an informal “smoker” for all members of the MS III class
on February 11. The get-together will be held between the hours of 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., in the R.O.T.C. building.
Coffee will be served, and R.O.T.C., and any other problems of general interest, will be discussed. A “smoker” for the
MS IV cadets was held on February 1. Sigma Chis, Kappa Sigs (Continued From Page Three) points apiece. The Betas
overcame the KAs, 32-28, in one of the evening’s closest games. On Wednesday night the Phi Gams beat the Campus
Club, 49-30. Conner dropped in 13 points for the winners. The Kappa Sigs downed their toughest opponent thus far by
defeating the Phi Delts, 42-37. The Kappa Sigs, showing strength in every position, were led by Feeney, who augmented his
total with six foul shots, and Clark; both had 12 points. Ensign paced the Phis with 12 points. The Sigma
Chis picked up their fourth win by downing the Pi Kapps, 47-34. Norton of the SAEs scored 18 points as
his team beat the SPEs, 38-29.school, and he says it’s a “must” bar, in Charlotte at a movie, or at
a piano improvising Chopin. Years from now, if you and he happen to be in Rome at the same time,
you may find him in a little cemetery, throwing a carnation on the grave of Keats.

The unofficial standings are:
Team Won Lost
Sigma Chis
Kappa Sigs
Phi Delts
Pikes
Phi Gams
SAE
SPE
ATO
Bets
KA
Pi Kapp

Wildcat Tankers... (Continued From Page Three)
Diving—Peele, S.C., 2. Sharp, D.C., 3. Smith, D.C.
100-yard freestyle—Spier, D.C., Rivers, D.C., Baranski, S.C. :58.2.
200-yard backstroke—1. Ormond, D.C., 2. Kiker, D.C., 3. Campbell, S.C. 2:50.0
200-yard breaststroke—Etheridge, S.C., Travis, D.C., Campbell, S.C. 2:53.0.
400-yard relay—Davidson—(Winfree, Kiker, Parrott, Sharp)—4:17.7.
440-yard freestyle—1. Turner, S.C., 2. Parrott, D.C., 3. Esthelman, S.C. 6:11.7.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Budapest String Quartet Here Tonight

Union Starts Sunday Night Buffet Suppers

The Sunday night buffet suppers will again be served beginning Sunday, February 6, and every Sunday thereafter this semester. Serving
time will be from 6 to 6:45 p.m. Prices for adults will be $1.75 per person, children 6 to 12
years old 75 cents each. Children under 6 will be charged a la carte prices for dessert and drink only.
This Sunday will feature Blue Ribbon Beef from prize 4H Club cattle, auctioned off in Chicago at premium prices. The
24-foot table will be laden with many other appetizing foods.

Forty Students Leave After First Semester

Forty first semester casualties reduced the Davidson enrollment for the second semester to approximately 805 students. The sophomore class was
the hardest hit, losing 20 boys, and the freshman class followed with 16. The junior class lost three and the
senior class one. A breakdown, by classes, of the voluntary and involuntary departures is as follows: Freshman class—13 involuntary, three
voluntary; sophomore class—17 involuntary, three voluntary; junior class—three involuntary, senior class—one involuntary. The above figures do not include five seniors
who graduated at mid-semester. As far as transfers to Davidson are concerned, two boys came to the freshman class, four
to the sophomore, two to the senior and there is one special student. As Dr. Cunningham said in chapel, this
mortality rate, about 4%, is a little higher than the usual 3%, with the sophomore class being hit much harder
than usual.

Winter Tracksters... (Continued From Page Three)

On the 19th of February, Coach Whittle will take his squad to the Southern Conference Indoor meet, which will also
be held at Lexington. The Southern Conference meet will include all track events except the discus and javelin. The next
meet for the Red and Black runners will be the Atlantic Coast Invitation Meet (in the non-conference class) at Chapel
Hill on February 26. Cat representatives who are expected to participate in the Southern Conference and ACC Invitational meet, included
with the squad which is going to the Virginia Relays, are Ted Baker, Pete Ashcraft, Jackson, Wilson and Jim Hambright
who will participate in the high and low hurdles. Last year at the Southern Conference Indoor meet at V.M.I., the
Davidson thinclads brought back eight medals and finished third in the meet. This year, with Pete Ashcraft on the varsity,
hopes are high that the Cats will better their record under the leadership of Coach Whittle. Coach Whittle also has
high hopes for his new relay team and expects a fine showing by them throughout the season.

PARKER-GARDNER
CHARLOTTE 2, N.C.
118 West Trade Street

Plays Works by Haydn, Ravel, and Beethoven

Tonight at 8:15 the Budapest String Quartet will be heard in a concert presented by the Davidson College Artist Series.
Since its American debut in 1930, this group has come to be known as the finest exponent of string quartet
music in the world. As one critic put it, “When someone says string quartet, it is of this group that
most of us think.” The Budapest String Quartet, which makes its headquarters in Washington, D.C., performs over a hundred concerts
on its annual schedule. The musicians have toured in Japan, Australia, North Africa, and they have been received with high
acclaim in the great concert halls of Europe and the Americas. One writer described the Quartet as, “a virtually incomparable
instrument.” Tonight’s program will include string quartets by Haydn, the father of quartet playing, the expressionist Ravel, and Ludwig van
Beethoven. Tickets will be available at the door and students are admitted on their identification cards.

W. & L., V.M.I.... (Continued From Page Three)

amazing 70%, as he hit 16 of 23 field goal tries. Revenge for an early season defeat was gained by
the ‘Cats last Saturday night, as they downed the College of Charleston, 82-71. The South Carolinians had handed the 'Cats
their first defeat of the season in a pre-Christmas game at Charleston, but this second encounter was an entirely different
story. Paced by Cobb and Ray Harding, with 24 and 22 points, respectively, the ‘Cats led all the way. They
held a 12-point margin at the half, leading 42 to 28. After this week's activities, the ‘Cats have four remaining
confer- ence games—two with Furman and return games with both V.M.I. and W. & L. So the ’Cats have an
excellent chance of finishing well above the 500 mark in conference play.

University Christian... (Continued From Page One)

Dr. Addison H. Leitch will conduct the Presbyterian service. Sunday afternoon the Campus Committee will have a retreat at Erwin
Lodge. Sunday evening Vespers will be led by Col. Francis P. Miller, after which a reception will be held in
the Student Lounge of the Church to which all students and faculty are invited. Each morning during the Mission, breakfast
will be served in the Union cafeteria for the Campus Committee and the speakers from 7:15 to 8 a.m. During
the rest of the morning the speakers will be in various classrooms, and personal conferences can be arranged with them
for this time. The speakers will have lunch in the various boarding houses, and from 3:30 to 5 p.m., seminars
will be held in the Ballroom of the College Union. Each evening from 8 to 9 p.m. the speakers will
lead bull sessions in the Kappa Alpha, Kappa Sigma and Beta Theta Pi fraternity houses. Each morning during Chapel and
on Monday and Wednesday evenings in Chambers Auditorium the speakers will deliver addresses on various topics. The Reverend Harry Smith
will speak on “The Nature of Man” during chapel Monday. Tuesday Dr. Waldo Beach will speak on “Economic Problems of
the South.” “A Christian Understanding of Racial Tensions” will be the topic of Dr. Waldo Beach in Wednesday's chapel, and
Tuesday morning Col. Francis P. Miller will speak on “The Christian in Politics.” At 7 p.m. Monday evening Dr. Addison
Leitch will deliver an address entitled “God, the Lord of History” in Chambers Auditorium. Dr. Lester McAllister will speak on
“The South and the World” on Wednesday evening. Tuesday evening at 7 p.m., the movie “Pinky” will be shown in
the Ballroom of the College Union, to be followed by a discussion led by Col. Francis P. Miller. As a
climax to University Christian Week, a service of dedication and Holy Communion will be held in the College Church Thursday
evening at 7 p.m. Dr. Addison Leitch will preside, and The Reverend Harry Smith will deliver the Communion Meditation.

Billiards, Bridge Tourneys Here Soon

Shaw Smith, Director of Ye College Union, has announced plans for an intercollegiate competition among students skilled in the “3
B's.” The “3 B's” represent those games which the Association of College Unions believes most likely to entertain college students
throughout their lives—Billiards, Bowling, and Bridge. Tournament play in two of these, billiards and bridge, will take place on the
Davidson campus next month. Mr. Smith urges that all who are capable of bearing the banner for D.C. enter the
lists by contacting his office. The Association has designed the pattern of play so that Davidson men match their skill
against their fellow students, thus selecting those most proficient who will compete in regional rivalries. Being unequipped, Davidson must forego
the bowling contests, but Mr. Smith anticipates a full field of card devotees and pool enthusiasts to place the college
in the winner’s circle this spring. Billiards, ever-growing in popularity among the collegiate set, will be the center of the
campaign late this month and early in March. The pocket billiards competition will be held February 22-23; straight rail, March
1-2; three-cushion, March 8-9. The recent appearance on campus by Charles Peterson, 77-year-old trick shot artist from across the continent,
has stimulated interest in pool. Mr. Peterson annually tours the lengthening list of college unions to attract new participants to
this sport. Bridge receives the spotlight March 18 when a local tournament director will supervise the playing of prepared hands
which the Association will send to college campuses.

DAVIDSON THEATRE
P-A-N-O-R-A-M-I-C WIDE SCREEN

THURS-FRI., FEB. 3-4
‘Last Time I Saw Paris’
ELIZABETH TAYLOR
VAN JOHNSON

SATURDAY, FEB. 5
‘Asphalt Jungle’
MARILYN MONROE

MON.-TUES., FEB. 7-8
‘The Adventures of Hajji Baba’
JOHN DEREK

WED.-THUR., FEB. 9-10
‘New Faces’
EARTHA KITT

FRI, SAT., FEB. 11-12
‘The Steel Cage’
PAUL KELLY

THE CONNOISSEUR
A Place of fine Foods for any taste in Eating — Specializing in Steak, Seafood, and Chicken Dinners.
Mooresville, N.C.

You'll smile your approval of Chesterfield’s smoothness — mildness — refreshing taste. You'll smile your approval of Chesterfield’s quality —
highest quality — low nicotine.

Phone 3-2861
@Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
