CATS OVERPOWER VMI, 21-7

REPORT ON FRANCE

VOL. XLIV

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, OCTOBER 28, 1955

No. 6

Shown above is the third Freshman Council in the history of Davidson College. Charles Reed is serving as chairman this
year.

Frosh Council Plans for ’55-’56

BY RICHARD BRUBAKER

The third Freshman Council to exist in the history of Davidson College has started the wheels to grind on one
of its major undertakings—Freshmen-Parents’ Day. Committees set up by the chairman and secretary of the council, along with the Freshman
Advisor, have begun to lay initial plans for the event, which is to take place in the near future. The
planning of this annual event is only an illustration of one of the many purposes for which the council was
initiated last year to fulfill.

Beginning, no doubt, from the consensus that the Freshman Class should have a voice to express its opinions and desires,
and that such a voice should be of an official nature, the idea of a Freshman Council soon became a
reality. In general terms, it was the purpose of the Council to establish a link between the members of the
Freshman Class as a body, and every other phase of Davidson College. In doing so, it would create an additional
bond of mutual understanding between the college and the Freshman Class.

The council consists of the Freshman Advisor and one elected member from each freshman counseling group. One freshman member is
elected to serve as chairman of the council and another, as secretary. Its activities are under the general sponsorship of
student government although it may work also with any other organization of the college. Charles Reed is serving as this
year’s chairman, and John Renfro, as secretary. Other members include Bill Patton, Gene Long, Richard Brubaker, Tom Jefferson, Ned Austell,
Henry Brown, Tom McCutchen, Bill Pfefferkorn, Sam Sloan, Larry Stell, Bill Couch, Ray Turpin, Bob Wynne, Bob Huffaker, Doug Stewart,
Putnam Crabtree, Tom Johnson, Tom Cutting, and John Child, Freshman Advisor.

Mr. C. Shaw Smith, Coordinator of Student Activities, has expressed the hope that the Freshman Council will become an even
more effective means of assisting new students to adjust to their roles as members of the Davidson College.

Freshmen-Parents’ Day, an annual event at Davidson, has been scheduled for Saturday, November 12. Officially beginning at 9:00 o’clock in
the morning, the program will continue until late Saturday afternoon. The Freshman Council, working through four committees appointed from its
membership, has progressed a long way in setting up the concrete details of the program. Registration and campus tours will
begin at 9:00 o'clock and continue until 11:00. The main program of the day will be held in Chambers Auditorium
from 11:00 o'clock until 12:00, during which time a welcome will be extended to the parents from the President of
the College, Dr. John R. Cunningham. A speech will be given by the Dean of Students, Dr. Samuel R. Spencer,
and a performance will be given by the Male Chorus. Presiding during the program will be the Chairman of the
Freshman Council, Charles Reed, who will introduce the freshman advisors.

The afternoon agenda calls for the football game between Davidson and Wofford, after which will be held a faculty-parent reception,
the final event of the day. Chairman of the planning committees are Bill Patton, publicity committee; Ned Austell, invitation committee;
Sam Sloan, entertainment committee; and Bob Huffaker and Doug Stewart, program committee. Lodging will be provided for visitors remaining overnight.

Puckett Announces Draft Deferment Test

College students interested in taking the Selective Service College Qualification Test have until midnight, Tuesday, November 1 to submit applications,
it was announced today by W. O. Puckett, test supervisor. The test center in this area is the Science Building.
To be eligible to apply for the test, scheduled to be given to college students throughout the United States, November
17, a student must intend to request deferment as a student, be satisfactorily pursuing a full-time course of instruction, and
must not have previously taken the test. The purpose of the testing program is to provide evidence for the use
of local boards in considering deferment of a registrant from military service as a student. The test was developed by
Science Research Associates of Chicago and New York, one of the nation’s leading publishers of educational testing, reading-improvement, and guidance
materials. Qualified students interested in taking this test to qualify for possible draft deferment in order to continue their college
education, are urged to get their applications at any Selective Service Local Board before the November 1 deadline.

The Reverend Ernest Lee Stoffel, D. D., of the First Presbyterian Church of Charlotte, will deliver the Communion Meditation at
Vespers on October 30. Dr. Stoffel is a graduate of King College at Bristol, Tennessee, the University of Tennessee at
Knoxville, and Union Theological Seminary in Richmond. He holds the degrees of Master of Theology and Doctor of Theology from
Union Seminary. Before coming to First Church in January, 1955, Dr. Stoffel had held several preaching and teaching positions. He
served at Waddell Memorial Presbyterian Church in Rapidan, Virginia, during 1947, and was an instructor in New Testament Greek at
Union Seminary from 1946-48. From 1948 to 1952, he was pastor at the First Presbyterian Church of Maxton, from which
he went to Europe.

Les Brown & Band For Concert in Chambers

Les Brown, his band, and pretty dark-eyed Jo Ann Greer will present a concert in Chambers Auditorium on Tuesday evening,
November 22, sponsored by the Inter-Fraternity Council.

Consonance and Melody

Les Brown and “The Band of Renown” will present a concert in Chambers Auditorium at Davidson College on Tuesday night,
November 22. Acclaimed as the number one band in the nation, Brown’s performance comes at a very advantageous time for
Davidson students since the second holidays begin the next day. The latest polls taken in 1955 reveal that “The Band
of Renown” has been voted number one band of the year by Down Beat, Metronome, and World magazines, and number
one swing band by the National Ballroom Operators Association. The group also holds Billboard’s award for the best record album
of the year. Brown, who has just signed a contract with Capitol Records, is considered one of America’s finest musical
arrangers as well as a song writer. His greatest composition is the famous “Sentimental Journey.”

Les is a graduate of Ithaca Conservatory of Music, New York Military Academy, and Duke University. At Duke he played
tenor sax with the Blue Devils, his first two years at school. He became leader of this band his junior
year, which under his leadership became one of the best college bands ever known. After his time at Durham, the
young musician headed for New York, and as well as playing dates as a sideman, turned to arranging. His arrangements
were used by such leaders as Isham Jones, Red Nichols, Ruby Newman, and Jimmy Dorsey. In 1940, Brown organized the
“Band of Renown,” which has moved steadily forward to number one. He joined Bob Hope’s radio program in 1946 and
has remained associated with him ever since.

Former Red Officer To Speak At Y Meet

Nicholas T. Goncharoff, a Soviet tank commander in World War II, will be guest speaker at the second YMCA meeting
of the year on November 8. Mr. Goncharoff, now a member of the staff of the International Committee.

Student Council Petition Asks Unlimited Functions

President Perrin Anderson called the October 24 meeting of the Student Council to order in the Green Room of the
College Union. The first order of business concerned the matter of fraternity off-campus functions. The matter had been discussed at
the previous meeting, so the Council passed, by a voice vote, to petition the faculty to allow the fraternities to
have an unlimited number of off-campus functions. Councilmen Jason McManus and Bill Bondurant were appointed to draw up the petition,
which was then presented to the faculty. President Anderson said that it would probably be about two weeks before the
Council heard from the faculty.

Councilman Clyde Robinson then asked Dean Spencer to explain the reasons why Freshmen were not allowed to have cars this
year. Dean Spencer said that it was generally felt that students should first prove themselves academically before they be allowed
to keep cars. Secondly, he said that he was under the impression that oftentimes upperclassmen pressurized the Freshmen into using
their cars. It was felt that if the Freshmen objected strongly to the new policy that they would use the
Council to make known their wishes.

Les Brown, his band, and pretty dark-eyed Jo Ann Greer will present a concert in Chambers Auditorium on Tuesday evening,
November 22, sponsored by the Inter-Fraternity Council.

Consonance and Melody

Les Brown and “The Band of Renown” will present a concert in Chambers Auditorium at Davidson College on Tuesday night,
November 22. Acclaimed as the number one band in the nation, Brown’s performance comes at a very advantageous time for
Davidson students since the second holidays begin the next day. The latest polls taken in 1955 reveal that “The Band
of Renown” has been voted number one band of the year by Down Beat, Metronome, and World magazines, and number
one swing band by the National Ballroom Operators Association. The group also holds Billboard’s award for the best record album
of the year. Brown, who has just signed a contract with Capitol Records, is considered one of America’s finest musical
arrangers as well as a song writer. His greatest composition is the famous “Sentimental Journey.”

Les is a graduate of Ithaca Conservatory of Music, New York Military Academy, and Duke University. At Duke he played
tenor sax with the Blue Devils, his first two years at school. He became leader of this band his junior
year, which under his leadership became one of the best college bands ever known. After his time at Durham, the
young musician headed for New York, and as well as playing dates as a sideman, turned to arranging. His arrangements
were used by such leaders as Isham Jones, Red Nichols, Ruby Newman, and Jimmy Dorsey. In 1940, Brown organized the
“Band of Renown,” which has moved steadily forward to number one. He joined Bob Hope’s radio program in 1946 and
has remained associated with him ever since.

Committee Revises Announcement Rules

Announcements from the platform will hereafter be restricted to the Student Body meeting following the Friday service according to a
policy adopted by the Chapel Committee at its Tuesday meeting. In making this decision the committee called attention to both
the official bulletin board and the Davidsonian as other means of publicizing meetings and events of interest. Announcements for the
official bulletin board are picked up and posted immediately thereafter. The Davidsonian is open for announcements until Wednesday of each
week.students who are interested, information concerning the St. Paul’s Newington Church in Charlotte telephone service to the town of Davidson,
President Anderson said that he was still working on the matter. He commented, however, that “things are looking up.” Councilman
Bill Bondurant then brought up the possibility of asking the faculty to establish a general science course, and also of
asking the Library to liberalize its rule on letting out reserve books. Action on these matters was delayed until the
next meeting.

The committee is requesting persons who lead the Tuesday and Thursday chapel services to refuse announcements regardless of the organization
or individual who may present them. Instead, such announcements are to be presented to the President of the Student Body
who will read them in the course of the Student Body meeting on Friday.

The YMCA is now engaged in a study to get the facts on Communist tactics with youth organizations and religious
groups and helping to define what might be called the Christian alternative to Communism. He is appearing before various groups
in North America giving his impressions of Communist methods of conversion to their materialistic philosophy. His appearance here is only
one in a long series of such appearances.

Jo Ann Greer, the pretty dark-eyed, 24-year-old songstress for the band, hails from Hollywood. At the present time, she is
one of the busiest vocalists in Hollywood. She has appeared on many radio and television shows. Her beautiful voice is
used constantly by the movie studios when she sings for the stars. Her most popular success was doing the singing
for Rita Hayworth in “Affair In Trinidad.”

Robert Merrill to Present Second Artist Series
BY CHUCK WRIGHT

Robert Merrill, top baritone of the Metropolitan Opera, radio, and television, will appear in concert in Chambers Auditorium on November
4, as the second feature in this year's Artist Series. Now entering his tenth season at the Metropolitan, Mr. Merrill
has sung leading roles in some two hundred and fifty performances for the Diamond Horseshoe and on tour with the
opera, and is known to millions through appearances on Your Show of Shows, Toast of the Town, The Jackie Gleason
Show, and other radio and television programs.

His recordings for RCA Victor range from operatic arias and albums to “Ol’ Man River” and the famous Yale “Whiffenpoof
Song.” When Toscanini picked Merrill in 1946 to sing the elder Germont in his broadcast of La Traviata, he had
heard the powerful baritone’s voice and rich bel canto style on radio and recording, but had never met him personally.
When Merrill arrived to go over the part, the Maestro was surprised to see not the mature man in his
forties whom he had expected, but a youngster in his twenties.

In the summer of 1954, after recording an opera in Rome, Merrill was featured at the Hollywood Bowl, and with
other Metropolitan Opera stars in Milwaukee’s Washington Park. Commenting on the latter occasion, the Milwaukee Journal remarked, “The chief reason
for the immense success of the evening was Robert Merrill. He provided baritone singing such as this community has not
heard in at least a quarter of a century. It is simply a gorgeous voice from top to bottom and
it has no equal in the world today.”

KNOW YOUR COLLEGE: Are Luring the Elite

Each year Davidson College awards approximately $40,000 in scholarships, prizes, and grants-in-aid. Including athletic grants, the figure passes $118,000. The
program is directed toward entering freshmen, but upperclassmen may be eligible for competitive scholarships, too. In most cases, selection is
based upon ability and the amount of need.

The most valuable of the scholarships are those made possible by the George F. Baker Trust of New York. Davidson
was one of six colleges and universities in the United States designated in 1948 by the Baker Trust to award
these scholarships, which may be worth up to $5,000 for four years at college. Since then, six other institutions have
been chosen by the trust to grant the awards. Other Southern schools offering Baker Scholarships are the University of the
South and Vanderbilt. Davidson may award up to eight Baker scholarships in each class on the basis of ability, leadership,
character, and personality. The scholarships are renewable for the four years, provided the scholar continues to demonstrate these qualities. Fourteen
Baker scholars have graduated from Davidson, and twenty-three are now enrolled. Some of these men did not receive the scholarships
before they entered, but were awarded them upon the basis of their records at Davidson. Two such awards were made
this year.

The college last year processed tours may be gotten from Bill Bondurant. President Anderson then gave his report on the
Council’s recent request to the faculty about the matter. He commented that it will become an even stronger force in
assisting the college leadership to remain aware of changing ideas, ambitions, and needs of the incoming generations of students.

Dr. Stoffel is married to the former Betty Williams of Richmond. They have four children. The partaking of the sacrament
will be completely voluntary, those not wishing to remain will have an opportunity to leave the sanctuary.

NOTICE! The annual Fall Tap Day of ODK will be held next Tuesday in Chapel.

BY JACK TRAWICK

Do our attitudes affect things we see and how we see them? This is a question which experimental psychologists have
studied rather vigorously in recent years and which has commanded the interest of students of psychology. Experiments in various schools
and laboratories have provided results which presumably give an affirmative answer to this question.

A study made here at Davidson last year treated the subject of how attitudes toward the Negro influence size perception,
with the underlying purpose being to determine how unconscious factors influence our perceptual processes. An attitude questionnaire was given to
some 200 Davidson students, in order to determine their views on the Negro problem. The extreme views on both sides
were then chosen to participate in the experiment. The experimenter then presented the subjects with small cardboard discs, some of
which had Negro faces on them, some white faces, and some of which had nothing. This was done by presenting
the subjects with the discs, one at a time, and having them adjust the size of a circle of light
on a screen placed in close proximity to the subject until it was the same size as the discs.

The results obtained showed that the subjects with an anti-Negro viewpoint tended to slightly over-estimate the discs with Negro faces,
but not the size of the others.

One of the most well-known experiments in this field is one conducted by J. S. Bruner and Cecile C. Goodman.
These two psychologists experimented with the estimation of the size of coins, using approximately the same technique that was used
in the experiment above. A total of 20 subjects were used in the experiment, ten of them coming from well-to-do
families, ten coming from poor families. These subjects were then divided into a control group and an experimental group. The
control group was required merely to estimate the size of cardboard discs, whereas the experimental group was required to estimate
the size of actual coins. The subjects were required to estimate the size of each coin from 1 cent to
50 cents, and the control group estimated the size of discs which were the exact size of the coins. All
subjects were required to estimate the size of the coins with no stimulus (no disc or coin) present.

The results of the experiment showed that the subjects from families with low economic status over-estimated the size of each
coin to a much greater degree than did the subjects from well-to-do families, indicating that the value of each coin
was higher for the poorer subjects. It is also significant that all subjects, rich and poor alike, over-estimated the size
of the coins.
