Sport Shorts — by LEON HOWELL

Gone are the days when the students of Davidson ventured forth to an athletic event, knowing that it would produce
another in a long line of defeats. Our material for this year and for one or two more seasons at
least is capable of a fine record in all sports. The difference between mediocrity and an outstanding year lies with
the members of the Davidson family and their attitude. Smith Barrier, sports editor of the Greensboro Daily News, has expressed
this so well that I wish to reprint his article of September 16 in part:

“It was 4 p.m. on my favorite Presbyterian campus, and a couple hundred red-capped freshmen lined up for Pete Whittle’s
annual cake race. On hand were Tom Scott, the new athletic director, an old friend, and Dr. Frontis Johnston, the
faculty chairman of athletics, along with his two charming daughters.

“It was a display of the real Davidson spirit you've read about, back from the days of the ‘thin red
line’ and the Thad Brock era and the Teeny Lafferty regime and all that.

“I don’t know who won the cake race, an annual stunt over a couple cross country miles for which local
housewives baked 45 cakes today. There were only 44 prizes so they had to split the 45th cake a thousand
ways.

“When Coach Bill Dole’s football Wildcats take the field at nearby Charlotte Memorial Stadium tomorrow night against Catawba (kickoff time
8 p.m.) that same spirit must prevail to launch a Davidson season that could become the finest in school history.
It doesn’t depend, if I may insert a personal note, on the football squad and coaching staff as a working
unit. It depends on the student body...

“But Davidson, doing an excellent job on its present level, backs up from nobody when it comes to fielding a
representative football team. It never has, even in the years when it, possibly foolishly, played the David role against the
weekly Goliaths.

“It could be, mind you, could be the best year in Davidson history. I guess that old Davidson spirit, from
the top faculty office on down to the lowest red cap, will make the difference.”

PARKER-GARDNER
CHARLOTTE 2, N. C.
118 West Trade Street
Phone ED. 2-8257

IVY LEAGUE
GREENSBORO PAPER STRESSES SPIRIT
FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 1955

CATALENDA
LtUK UB abidsonian

INVINCIBLE ASHCRAFT LEADS HARRIERS
ORTA LIBERTAS

DICK BELTON

Belton Is Named Wildcat of Week
By JOHN

For his brilliant performance in the Catawba game, quarterback Dick Belton has earned the title of Wildcat of the Week.
The bullet passes of the 160-pound junior consistently hit their mark with near-perfection accuracy. He completed six out of seven
tosses for a total of 132 yards, the highest individual Cat yardage in several years. His 53-yard completion to halfback
Don Comer was Davidson's longest pass since the 1953 Harvard game.

Belton, a Kappa Sig, comes from Mount Airy, N. C., where he made All-Conference playing end and tailback. When he
arrived at Davidson, Dick was unfamiliar with the quarterback job; but, after his smart playing last Friday, there is little
doubt that he has mastered the position. Although he has been an understudy of Dyke Little for the past two
years, he started in the Catawba game. Strangely enough, Dick has yet to throw for a Wildcat touchdown, but the
season is just one game gone.

In the article “Belton: Cool, Cool Cat,” Charlotte News reporter Sandy Grady said, “the rangy, serious 20-year-old from Mt. Airy
did some pitching that would make Casey Stengel turn back-flips.” Grady also lauded Dick's calmness on the playing field. Not
only is Dick a sharp passer, but his field generalship is excellent.

Forty-five hundred spectators occupied Memorial Stadium Friday night for Charlotte’s only view of the 1955 Wildcat football edition as they
encountered Catawba. With the Cat's white uniforms glittering in sharp contrast to the smooth green turf, the scene that presented
itself was one of beauty, as well as action.

Add to this the thrill garnered in watching a spiraling pigskin which nearly always found its mark and another Davidson
victory, and you have a fine picture for the first week of 1955 football.

Hardly had the fans become settled in their seats until Davidson was on the march. Slashing backs were forcing the
ever-tough Catawba line into retreat. However, this drive faltered short of the goal, due primarily to stiffening defense. From then
on it settled into a rough swapping of the ball until Don Comer, flaring into the flat, grabbed Dyke Little’s
pass for a four-yard TD.

In between, the “big red,” led by a superb Belton, had continued to threaten, only to see Bob “The Toe”
Talbert’s field goal attempts again and again dived in for the second touchdown. Scoreboard difficulties had eliminated the clock, so
that, unaware of the exact time, the half ended before a final try could be made.

With the score 26 to 0, substitutes poured into the game and they, too, began to move the ball against
a thoroughly discouraged Catawba outfit. Tom Cutting, freshman quarterback, was impressive in his first try at college football. Other freshmen
who saw action were Craig Wall, Willard James, L. G. Wilson, Charles James, and Scott Woodmansee. These, along with Gramley
and Newton, are enough to make them the envy of the surrounding schools. Add to this backs like Comer and
Conger who did a fine job receiving, stirring in the excellent pass patterns that Coach Dole has set up, and
you have a superb passing attack.

Defensively, the team was as tough as ever. Allowing Catawba only 73 yards for the night is proof positive of
that.Davis, Lee, 84 yards for a touchdown; others were again knocking at the golden gates as the game ended. Llewellyn,
Owen, Price, and Comer were stickouts in this effort. Perhaps the most outstanding flaw was detected in the hard time
in the fray, running the score to 19-0. Another surge carried the ball downfield, and Mike Fennegan climaxed the drive
with a touchdown.

Soon after the final quarter began, Don Comer ended a drive that featured the passing arms of the Wildcats. For
the first game of the season, the Wildcats were impressive. Few will witness a better display of passing prowess. Belton,
Little, and now Cutting, throwing to two fine ends, should be corrected by the next game. However, the coaches noted
that Belton's cool and collected manner inspires confidence from his teammates, and his signal calling is vastly improved. Mix, with
his ability to handle the ball expertly on all plays, makes for a top-notch quarterback. Belton, an above-average student, also
shines on the baseball diamond in the spring as a pitcher, featuring a blazing fastball that mows down the batters.

By CHARLES McGOWAN

Coach Pete Whittle announced today that the 1955 edition of the Davidson College cross country team is in excellent condition
for their first meet, which will be October 19. Davidson will be host to Duke University, and because of the
past record of these teams, this promises to be one of the top meets of the year. Eighteen boys are
out for the team this year, and six of these boys are freshmen. The freshmen include Henry Brown, Jimmy Proctor,
Richard Hodel, Erwin Nostrom, Alfred Elder, and John Reader. Nostrom, an exchange student from Norway, appears to be in excellent
condition for the tough schedule which awaits the team. It should be noted, also, that Elder was the first-place winner
in the freshman cake race and may prove to be extremely valuable to the Davidson squad.

Three lettermen, Gerald Wilson, John Patterson, and Pete Ashcraft, have returned, and a successful season will depend largely on the
ability of these three men. Ashcraft has been elected captain this year. Ashcraft is known throughout the Southern Conference because
of the records he has made for himself in track and cross country. Last year, he was the second-place winner
in the Southern Conference Cross Country meet. He was also the Southern Conference indoor one-mile and two-mile champ. This past
season, Ashcraft broke the Davidson College one-mile record (which was 4:22 minutes) when he ran it in 4:21 minutes.

Elder and Brown Finish

Elder Nips Brown In Freshman Race

By SAM SMITH

Phone 3-2861

The big news is that Davidson will be host this year to the Southern Conference meet, which will be held
on November 21. The complete Davidson schedule is as follows:

Oct. 3: Duke at home
Oct. 18: Richmond at Richmond
Oct. 29: W&L, VMI at Lexington
Nov. 7: State meet at Raleigh
Nov. 14: AAU meet at Raleigh
Nov. 21: Southern Conference at Davidson

The freshman cake race, held on Thursday, September 15, turned out to be a close contest. Al Elder ran the
1.7-mile course in 8:49.5 minutes, beating Henry Brown by a few yards. Elder passed Brown during the last kick of
the race as they rounded fraternity court to finish. The first ten men to finish were Elder, Brown, Hodel, Nostrom,
Terrell, Pearsall, Clark, Lewis, Stafford, and Pinkney. The record for the course was set in 1953 by Pete Ashcraft.

The date race is an annual cross-country event started by track coach Pete Whittle in 1933 with the purpose of
arousing interest in track among the freshman students. The big part of the race, however, was the forty-five delicious cakes
generously donated by the faculty and administration. These cakes were so good that those who won would like to express
their thanks to the ladies for the feast Thursday night.

VISULITE ART THEATRE
1615 Elizabeth Ave. — Phone Ed 2-3471
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Jayvees Trounce Appalachian 26-6

The Davidsonian office received word that the 1955 Jayvee team opened its home season with a 26 to 6 victory
over the App. Jaycees Thursday afternoon at Richardson Stadium. Coaches Jim Fasul and Ollie Harris have done a fine job
in preparing the club, mostly freshman prospects, for this affair. Despite the drawback of being in the midst of rush
week, the Kittens did a fine job. Next week's edition will carry a complete report on the game. Reports indicate
that several new men were outstanding.
