Sport Shorts — BY — LEON HOWELL

While most of the local clan slept off the effects of rush week, the first real crisp days of fall
slipped in. On last Monday, the chilling wind swept the hair and rippled the clothes of “Pete” Whittle as he
stood on the Freshman football field and surveyed the golf course. To one side, the frosh football squad was popping
leather under the tutelage of Jim Fasul. On down the field, a fraternity was practicing flicker ball, while from the
tennis courts came the dull thud of catgut against the thinly covered rubber of the ball. Coach Whittle stood still,
oblivious to the action about him or the cold seeping into his scantily clad body. His whole concentration was directed
toward his cross-country team as they struggled around the tortuous route assigned them.

“Those guys have to work and work hard,” he stated, never taking his eyes off the athletes as they trotted
over a hill in the distance. “Lots of sweat, lots of effort without any real reward.” With increasing interest, I
observed. About twenty fellows sprinted and jogged over six miles of rough terrain, after a long session of calisthenics designed
to loosen them up. His words came back to me as I observed this in all its grueling facets. What
was it that compelled these men to push themselves to a state of exhaustion each day, knowing that even on
the days of their meets the campus would be indifferent to them and how they fared? If your name were
“Pete” Ashcraft, then it might be a different matter, because you would be good enough to win the conference championship
and therein would lie your reward. But you're not, and yet you persist in spending yourself in this manner. I
wonder just what it is that drives you on?

This same spirit pervades in our athletic scene as a whole. Don Cockell, on guts alone, took that terrible beating
from “Rocky” Marciano before he succumbed. Jackie Robinson, whose days of fame are over, keeps fighting solely on spirit. “Country”
Slaughter at 38 hustles like a rookie of 20 at all times and still turns in creditable performances. Love of
the ideals of sport and pride in displaying courage drove the above-mentioned and myriads of others like them to efforts
beyond that which might have been expected of them. Perhaps that is one reason why America is still perched at
the top of the heap. Courage born under fire and pride have been instilled into each of her offspring, primarily
through the sport’s picture. If it is a rationalization on my part to justify our national emphasis on games, it
is one that I like to make and it is also one in which I believe.

As I mounted the hill going toward my room, where the wind did not blow and where I could relax,
I turned back to them. Coach Whittle was there and, while I watched, they began the course again. As they
went, they seemed to be “trailing clouds of glory.” I was proud of them and what they stood for. A
sense of shame swept me for my own tendency to take the easy way out and for my failure to
support these valiant representatives of Davidson College.

INTERFRATERNITY PLANS ANNOUNCED By BILL PITSER

“Wait ‘till next year” is always the cry of the teams who didn't win the ones they wanted. In Davidson's
intramural sports program, one frequently hears this cry. It is this spirit of competition which is the main element in
the intramural program. Under the leadership of Coach Whittle and with the full support of the new athletic director, Tom
Scott, the 1955-56 intramural program appears to be headed for another successful and beneficial year.

Wednesday night at the sports manager’s meeting, Coach Whittle reminded those present that the object of the whole program is
to provide competitive sports to the largest number of boys possible. He urged the sports managers to promote more interest
in the contests by using more men in the effort to win. Also, he asked that they not keep boys
out of varsity sports to participate in the intramural program.

The sports managers elected to have the following sports in the program this year: tag football, wrestling, swimming, handball, track,
basketball, softball, volleyball, and tennis. All of these events are round-robin, with the exception of tennis, which is played on
an elimination basis. The sports program opens Monday at 4:00 p.m. with the Phi Delts playing Sigma Chi, ATO vs.
SAE, and Pi KAPP playing Pi Gam. Now let's make like an alligator and drag tail down to support your
team.

CATS ON THE RADIO

A unique event is taking place in the life of Davidson sports tonight. WIST in Charlotte has asked Publicity Director
Dick McKee to appear on its sports show led by Larry Keith. Keith, an outstanding sportscaster, plans to devote most
of his 6:45 program to Davidson for the next four Friday evenings. On subsequent Friday nights, he has plans to
interview the coaches and perhaps some of the players. This “Davidson Night” feature is an excellent opportunity for more people
to hear something about the ball club here. Since these interviews should be extremely interesting to the College as well
as informative, the following schedule of broadcasts is included. Each of them begins at 6:45.

Friday, September 30.
Friday, October 7.
Friday, October 14.
Friday, October 21.

A SALUTE (From Sports Magazine)

One of the most exciting college football games we have seen in the last ten years was played by two
teams that would never have ranked in the top 150, in a stadium that consisted of some weather-beaten wooden bleachers
propped against a colorful New England hillside. We don’t recall the name of the player who scored the winning touchdown
in the last 15 seconds; his name would mean something to his classmates, but he never made all New-England or
Little All-America. Yet he provided us with one of the greatest thrills we have had watching football games.

But these small colleges — and there are hundreds of them — provide as many thrills to as many fans
as do the relatively few big-time teams that dominate the national scene. And these little fellows are just as important
to football. Probably they are more important. They come a lot closer to reflecting the spirit in which the game
was originated in this country. Football was once designed to be played by students simply for the exercise and fun
they got out of it, remember?

NEW STUDENT PROGNOSTICATIONS

ALENDA LUX UBI The Davidsonian CRESCAT LIBERTAS

JAYVEES OFF TO FINE START

FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 1955 PAGE FOUR

Locals Slight Favorites On Past Performance BY NED

The first Southern Conference test of the year comes this Saturday when Davidson's red and black Wildcats engage the up-and-coming
Citadel Bulldogs at Richardson Field. The thirtieth meeting of the two conference rivals will be the first of three crucial
home games facing the Wildcats. After an idle week, only in the sense that Davidson had an open date, the
Dole men face Presbyterian and Washington and Lee after the Citadel battle before taking to the road the latter part
of October.

It was an important week in the Wildcat camp as Coach Dole sought to strengthen his running attack as well
as put some life into the key positions up front, namely, guard and tackle in the second platoon. Don Campbell,
a high-stepping lad from Salisbury, slipped into the right half spot on the first team as a result of his
opening performance against Catawba. Additional strength would be felt if Bill Rowland shakes off his injury before game time. Don
Comer, with two T.D.’s in his pocket already this year, turned in some beautiful work against the Indians and will
be considered for a starring spot again this time. Dyke Little and Dick Belton have been waging a personal battle
for the number one quarterback spot in practice this past week. The Davidson aerial attack, which picked up 212 yards
in the opening game, will be a potent factor against the Cadets. Tom Cutting, the All-Stater from Fort Smith, Arkansas,
is now a third-string signal caller and a pretty fair football tosser in his own right. With Harley Smith and
Ken Conger supplying the power at fullback, the Cat squad appears ready to meet what should prove to be a
tough Citadel outfit.The consensus of opinion of the coaches, particularly Coach Clements who scouted them, is that Citadel is making
rapid strides on the way back. Gen. Mark Clark, who intends to see Citadel become one of the powers of
the nation, brought in a new coach and he in turn procured some outstanding prospects. Better balanced than last year,
they are big and tough in the line, and faster in the back.

CATS TANGLE WITH CITADEL TOMORROW

Questions Solicited

Wildkittens Victorious In Year’s First Encounter

Those students who are interested in the Davidson sports program might like to question some of the policy behind the
moves made or to make an observation about some phase of the system. The Sports Staff welcomes such inquiries or
contributions. In all probability, they would go into print. If any are so inclined, please contact or write the Sports
Editor in care of the Davidsonian.

NOTICE

Coach Danny Miller announces he would like for all freshmen and upperclassmen interested in basketball for the 1955-56 season to
report Tuesday, October 4, in the Gym at 4:00 p.m. All boys interested in managing report to Jerry Helms, October
4, 4:00 in Gym.

Last Thursday afternoon the Davidson Wildkittens opened their season with an impressive 27-6 victory over the J.V.’s of Appalachian College.
The Jr. Apps were big and mature but Coach Jim Fasul’s charges played it like “big cats” and were a
little too tough and speedy for the boys from the mountains.

The first half was all defense. Time and again Davidson and Appalachian runners were stopped for little or no gain.
While the Davidson line led by Stancil, Wilson, Voigt, and Edwards was “cocking” App backs, beautiful punts by Barbee and
Woodmansee were keeping the mountaineers in their own territory. Only twice did Appalachian seem to threaten. The first drive was
stopped when Tom Cutting intercepted a pass on the Davidson 7. The Apps were on the Kitten’s 25-yard line when
the second quarter died.

Early in the second half, the “baby kittens” began to move. “Bustin’ Bob” Stancil started things off by blocking a
punt with Neubauer recovering on the Appalachian 35. Two plays later Moore had a first down on the 18. Cutting
sent Simpson into the line for 3 to the 15. On second, Moore crashed to the 14 for one. Cutting
hit Simpson in the flat and he was hauled down on the 12. On fourth down, Moore worked a Cutting
pitchout to the one where he was blasted out barely short of a T.D. It was a first down though
and that was all that was needed. Two plays later Davidson had scored with Cutting plunging over behind Stancil, Walker,
and Wilson. Francis’s kick for the extra point was a little off but the Kittens had tasted blood and from
then on wouldn't be denied. Several minutes later Voigt recovered a fumble on the Appalachian 30 and on the next
play Woodmansee lateraled to Cutting for a first down on the 19. One play later Simpson squirmed 19 yards for
the second score. Moore’s boot was good and the game stood 13-0.

Appalachian's only score came on an exchange of fumbles. The mountaineers by virtue of good passing and a 15-yard defensive
holding penalty against Davidson had moved the ball to the Kitten’s 10. On second and 10, Wilson recovered a fumble
and it looked as if the drive had bogged down. However, on the next play Cutting fumbled and an Appalachian
lineman fell on the ball. Seconds later the Apps had scored, passing six yards to paydirt. Stancil and Francis broke
through to smother the extra point attempt.

In the fourth quarter, Voigt grabbed another loose ball; this time on the App’s 10-yard stripe. An offsides penalty against
Appalachian moved it to the five from where Francis powered to the two. On third down, McBride scored through the
center behind Stancil, Walker, and Wilson. Francis’s kick was good and the Jr. reds were in front 19-6. Late in
the game, Davidson scored their final points when Simpson intercepted a pass on his own 37 and flashed 63 yards
for the touchdown. Moore’s kick sailed cleanly through the uprights and a few moments later the game ended with Davidson
on top 27-6.

Standouts in the running department were Francis, Barbee, Moore, Simpson, and Cutting. The “rocks” in the line were led by
Wilson, Edwards, Walker, Voigt, and a very vicious young man named Robert Stancil. The kicking for Davidson was extremely good
with Moore, Barbee, and Woodmansee carrying most of the load. One punt by Woodmansee sailed 56 yards. Coach Jim Fasul
and his assistants are to be congratulated on a fine team. If things keep on as they did against Appalachian,
there’s a bright tomorrow for future “Cat” squads.

EX-DAVIDSON TENNIS STARS MEET AGAIN

Fort Benning, Ga. — Second Lt. John H. Bremer of Wilmington, N.C., newly crowned Columbus (Ga.) City Tennis Champion, has
found an old friend at Fort Benning and he is another left-handed courtman, no less.

“Don't underestimate left-handed tennis players,” said Lt. Bremer, “Our highly successful Davidson team featured lefties as the first four players
during my last three years in college.”

Second Lt. Lacy Keesler of Charlotte, N.C., who began The Infantry School’s basic Infantry officers class No. 3 Sept. 19,
defeated Lt. Bremer in the North Carolina State high school finals twice, only to become his doubles partner for three
years at Davidson (N.C.) College.

During those college years, the young netman captained the freshman and varsity tennis teams. Davidson took the Southern Conference championship
during John's senior year.

This year he won the post tournament, Main Officers’ Mess Tournament and the recent Columbus laurels as well as finishing
runner-up in the Fort Benning Open. He also took the ROTC (summer camp) tournament at Fort Benning in 1953.

After completing the basic officers course following his entrance in the Army in July 1954, Lt. Bremer became an Infantry
School instructor assigned to the Mortar Committee of the Weapons Department. He began playing tennis when he was 15 years
old, spearheading a drive for a tennis team at New Hanover High School in Wilmington soon afterwards. When the squad
was finally formed, John took over as coach.

Lt. Bremer, a 5-foot 11-inch, 160-pounder, claims he has no secret weapon to employ on opponents. He confesses his serve
cannot be called a “big serve.” His chief tool is his head, which he uses well in sizing up an
opponent. “All I try to do,” he explained, “is play a consistent game and anticipate what the other man is
doing. I try to figure out where he’s going to hit the ball and do my best to be there
when it arrives.” If he has any specialty, it is probably his expertness at hitting a passing shot.
