by BITD connpneernaeanense THE LITTLE DAVIDSONIAN

SOUTHERN SCANDAL

DGLPLTH & JOHN DYKERS have been jeeping around town with a young Charlotte tante.

We recommend "Game of Love" to the Davidson S. S. Student Body. SARAH says she agrees with Colette that love is a delightful game.

MORGAN SPEARS is heading for the Lone Star State to see a fair young Texan. BULLOCK stayed out till 7:30 with someone Saturday night. Is it love?

BENZIONE enjoyed the songs of the chic chantress RUFUS CROWARTIE brought to the dance, costs an ac_°68ei°2 Social Chairman for you.

MACE officially opened his campaign at the dance. His best support was brought with him from Charlotte.

A dozen stags arrived at the dance without benefit of coat, tie, or ticket. Were they Davidson Gentlemen?

Couples decided to have a "steak supper" before the dance. HAZEL ALLEN was chief cook, and there was no need for a bottle washer. And SMITHY JOHNSTON proved to be as adept with an ice-cream freezer after the dance as Hazel was at the grill.

DEAN BIVINS, Dean of Women, is setting a record: four dances in four nights.

Dear Davidsonians,

Soon your campus will be returned entirely to males. We just want to let you know that this has been one of the best summers we've ever had. It's been a lot of fun meeting and getting to know you and your school.

LACY KESLER captured the men's singles at the Charlotte City Tournament. He and his partners were the champions in the men's doubles.

YO UCISK finally decided to get a crew cut. He made this moral decision when his girlfriend advised him that it would make him look thinner.

The going has been rough sometimes, but we've weathered it through together. We've worked hard with you and laughed hard with you. These brief six weeks have given us much knowledge and many friends we'll never forget.

Thanks, Davidsonians, for making us so welcome and letting us share our summer with you.

Sarah & Lynne

ED.'S NOTE: We put your letter under the Southern Scandal column because without the material you two contributed, directly and indirectly, it would have been as empty as our summer would have been without you. You're our gals, and we love you.