PAGE FOUR — DAVIDSON COLLEGE MALE CHORUS

Fine Arts Festival To Feature Male Chorus

The Davidson College Fine Arts Festival Committee will present the Davidson College Male Chorus under the direction of Donald Plott in its annual Spring concert on Wednesday evening, April 13, in Chambers Auditorium, at 8:15. This concert by the Male Chorus will mark the second attraction of the Eighth Fine Arts Festival on the Davidson campus. The Fine Arts Festival begins on April 11 and runs through April 30.

Composed of 37 selected voices, this group has just returned from its 21st annual Spring tour which took the organization to four major cities in Texas. A tight schedule kept the chorus on the move through eight southern and southwestern states covering some 3000 miles during the 13-day period.

Highlighting the program will be Jacob Handl’s “O Magnum Mysterium” for double male chorus, “Coenam Cum Discipulis” by Gumpelzhaimer, a group of Russian liturgical numbers including the thrilling “Hospodi Pomilui,” Randall Thompson's “The Last Words of David,” a group of German numbers by Brahms, Mozart and Schumann, spirituals and folk songs, and selections by Ralph Vaughan-Williams, Alec Rowley, Fenno Heath, and well-loved numbers by Sigmund Romberg and Frank Loesser. Philip Gehring, college organist, is the accompanist.

Following the Atlanta appearance by the chorus recently, Haskell Boyter made the following critique: “Mr. Donald Plott, the director of this fine group, is a sensitive musician and has the ability to impart this rare quality to his singers. In every selection there was evidence of good taste, esthetic understanding and the intelligent respect for the interpretation of words and music. I enjoy hearing music that has something to say.”

Now rated as one of the finest choral groups in the southeast, the Davidson College Male Chorus was formed more than a half-century ago by student directors. It has grown in size and quality, and offers the finest music in the choral literature. Donald Plott, the director, also serves as Director of the Davidson College Department of Music. Former directors of the organization are Earl Berg of the Queens College faculty and Thane MacDonald of Wake Forest College faculty.

The Davidson Chorus will appear with the Charlotte Symphony Orchestra in concert on April 25 and 26 under the direction of James Christian Pfohl.

Writer Gives More Data On Pianist Johannesen

By D. H. OGDEN

Grant Johannesen, the young American piano virtuoso who has risen to rank among the finest pianists in the world since his 1944 New York debut, will be heard in a concert here Friday, April 15, at 8:15 p.m., in conjunction with the Artist Series.

Born in Salt Lake City, Utah, of Norwegian parents, Johannesen has been engaged and re-engaged by outstanding orchestras all over the globe, from the Paris Conservatoire and Lamoureux orchestras, to the New York Philharmonic and the Boston Symphony. His farewell concert in Buenos Aires closing his first tour of South America was marked by an audience reception of fifteen curtain calls. Not only have audiences in the United States, Canada, Europe, and South America applauded his concert appearances, but he has won many admirers through his radio performances on the “Telephone Hour,” the “Piano Playhouse,” and the “Standard Hour,” and through his recordings for Vox and Concert Hall. In 1952 he recorded five concerti for Concert Hall Recordings in Amsterdam and among his albums are the complete Polonaises of Chopin.

After winning the first prize of the International Piano Competition in Belgium in 1949, the young pianist has been heard often in the great concert halls of Europe. He has just returned from a series of performances in Vienna, Munich, Hamburg, Copenhagen, and Oslo. A critic in Vienna called Johannesen “a dazzling technician, a thinking musician, and a poet... a strongly sensitive poet.”

We had the privilege of hearing Mr. Johannesen perform the Beethoven Fourth Piano Concerto and the well-known Grieg Piano Concerto this past summer with the Brevard Festival Orchestra. His style is a dramatic, near-flamboyant one. But the quality which we heard that sets him apart from many other outstanding piano artists is a certain warmth and life which he finds in the music that he plays and this he conveys to his listeners. When asked which composition or which composer he prefers, he replies, “The piece I am playing at the time.” He suffers and rejoices with the composer of the work which he plays and in his ability to transmit these feelings to his audience lies a greatness found only in the giants of the world of music which surpasses perfection of note reproduction.

Grant Johannesen will play the Bach “Toccata in F Sharp Minor,” “Sonata in A Minor” by Mozart, Franck’s “Prelude, Chorale and Fugue,” “Humoreske,” Op. 20, by Schumann, and works by Faure and Debussy. Tickets may be obtained from the Davidson College Artist Series and will be available at the door. Students are admitted by their ID cards.

Functions Slated By Seven Fraternities

Seven of Davidson's social fraternities have announced plans for their spring functions. Alpha Tau Omega will give its annual White Tea Rose Ball at the Hotel Barringer in Charlotte on May 7. The Bowery Ball of Beta Theta Pi will be held sometime in May; however, definite plans have not yet been made. Kappa Alpha’s Old South Ball and Pi Kappa Alpha’s Dream Girl Ball both take place on May 7 at Selwyn Hotel. On the same date, Phi Delta Theta will give its annual Blue and White Ball at Radio Center in Charlotte. The Red Fez Club will be the scene of Pi Kappa Phi’s Rose Ball on May 7 and also the Queen of Hearts Ball of Sigma Phi Epsilon on April 30. Kappa Sigma and Phi Gamma Delta have not yet completed arrangements for their functions.

On March 12, Sigma Alpha Epsilon held its annual Founder’s Day Dinner and Dance at the Selwyn Hotel, and the Sweetheart Ball, given each year by Sigma Chi, took place at Radio Center in Charlotte on March 26. The date of the Campus Club function is April 9, but definite plans have not yet been made.

Eu Society Wins In Phi-Eu Competition

In the annual Phi-Eu Competition Monday night Eumanean Literary Society emerged victorious over Philanthropic and thereby retained possession of the silver cup. Tom Dove presided over the joint meeting held in Eu Hall in which several literary contests were presented to the group and judged by Professors Labban and Wilson of the college faculty.

Included in the competition for Phi, Joe Garrison's poem, “A Hundred Hunched Men,” and a short story by Mac Williamson. For Eumanean, Lloyd Chapin read his poem, “A Davidson Trilogy,” and Jason McManus presented his short story, “Snows of Yesteryear.”

A debate on the subject “Exchanging a Group of Students with Vassar” followed these events. Charles Drummond and Dick Morehead debated for Phi; their Eu opponents were Jerry Helms and Maurice Crouse.

O.D.K. Sponsors Forum Next Wednesday Night

Another “Facts Forum on Athletic Subsidization” will be held next Wednesday at 7 p.m., in the College Union ballroom. All members of the student body are invited to participate in this discussion. At this time the side in favor of the present subsidization policy will be presented. Dr. Cunningham led the forum last week. Omicron Delta Kappa is sponsoring this forum as an endeavor to present another point of view concerning this vital question.

Republicans’ Club Meets to Organize

That heretofore most clandestine political group has, at last, placed itself in the eye of even the proletariat. No, this is not the latest of spring crop of embryonic campus politicos, but the Young Republicans Club. Possibly this boldness in facing the public after a long absence has been stimulated by the re-election of Republican Representative Charles Jonas from the Mecklenburg district to the national Congress.

This group met Monday afternoon under the direction of President Mac Williamson to discuss ambitious plans for a campus campaign to increase student interest and support of conservative political discussion. It was hoped that the resuscitation of this association might stimulate the formation of a rival Democratic clique. The meeting concerned itself with plans for the forthcoming state convention to be held in Chapel Hill on April 14-16, the selection of Dr. Andy Peyton as faculty adviser, and arrangements for outstanding speakers from national political life to speak on the importance of active participation to aid in strengthening the state and local associations. He emphasized that the present political climate is conducive to such an organization dedicated to the theory that even the South may someday have a two-party system.

In addition to the aforementioned officers, certain heretical South Carolinians were appointed to enlist guest speakers to bring the Republican gospel to Davidson. These Sons of the Old South naturally wish their names withheld from publication so that they may return to their home counties without risk to their fortune, families, future, and KKK sheets.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Easter Sunrise Service Set for 6 a.m. Sunday

The annual sunrise service will be held this Sunday morning at 6 a.m. just off the northwest corner of the freshman football field beside the upper tennis courts. All students, faculty members, community friends, and guests are cordially invited to attend. In case of rain, the service will be held in Lingle Chapel.

Schedule of Interviews For Spring Released

The following companies complete the list of scheduled interviews in the College Union for this year: Liberty Life Insurance Company, April 13; the Volunteer Life Insurance Company, April 14; Atlantic Refining Company, April 14; the Prudential Insurance Company, April 15.pany, April 15. Changes in the schedule are as follows: Union National Bank of Charlotte has requested an interview on April 18 and Ivey’s of Charlotte has cancelled their interview.

DC Pre-Min Students Plan Day to Discuss and Exchange Beliefs

Matthew 4:18-20: “And Jesus, walking by the Sea of Galilee, saw two brethren, Simon called Peter, and Andrew his brother, casting a net: for they were fishers. “And he saith unto them, follow me, and I will make you fishers of men. “And they straightway left their nets, and followed him.”

Matthew 28:18-19— “And Jesus came and spake unto them, saying, all power is given unto me in heaven and in earth. “Go ye therefore and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost.”

These verses from the gospel according to Matthew have been taken into the heart of all Christians. On the Davidson campus, there are nearly one hundred and fifty students who have professed a deep and sincere faith and belief in these words and have answered the call of Jesus Christ to the ministry of His word and life. These students are the pre-ministerial students of all the major Protestant religions. On May 2, these students will have an afternoon and evening meeting with one another exchanging ideas and beliefs. Ministers from surrounding communities have been invited to attend and meet with these students. The primary purpose of this group is to exchange ideas and reach a better understanding of their professed vocation and call. Discussion groups, talks, and question and answer periods led and delivered by such outstanding men as Rev. Fred Stair of the First Presbyterian Church, Hickory, N.C., Rev. Henry Moffat of Gastonia, N.C., Rev. William Benfield of Highland Park Presbyterian Church, Louisville, Ky., will docket the afternoon sessions. A banquet will culminate the evening’s program. All of the day’s meetings will center around the Davidson College Presbyterian Church. Meetings will be conducted by the invited ministers. All members of the student body who are interested in this meeting or wish to know something further about it can contact Harry Peterson or Joe Greer.

THE CONNOISSEUR
A Place of Fine Foods for Any Taste in Eating — Specializing in Steak, Seafood, and Chicken Dinners.

SPECIAL MENU
THURSDAYS — FRIDAYS & SATURDAYS
ALL THE FISH OR CHICKEN YOU CAN EAT $1.50 Including Tax
CHILDREN ACCOMPANIED BY THEIR PARENTS 50¢, Tax Included
Fried Chicken — French Fries — Slaw
Hot Rolls — Iced Tea or Coffee
Fish — French Fries — Slaw — Hush Puppies
Iced Tea or Coffee

Young Republicans convention on campus. Vice-President Tom Hall stressed that the Mecklenburg environment...

Mooresville, N.C. Phone 3-2861

Davidson Graduate Resigns Editorship

The Charlotte News recently announced the resignation of its editor, Mr. C. A. “Pete” McKnight. Mr. McKnight, a graduate of Davidson in the class of 1938, has been on leave since last July 1 with the Southern Education Reporting Service, acting as director for this organization. The Southern Education Reporting Service, better known as SERS, recently reelected Mr. McKnight to its directorship, which in turn caused his resignation from the editorship of the Charlotte News. The SERS was established by the Fund for the Advancement of Education after the Supreme Court's decision last May concerning school segregation. The SERS does not take sides; it merely reports what the South is doing in order to overcome the problems of school segregation. Mr. McKnight was with the Charlotte News for several years as managing editor before becoming editor of the paper. He has won top reporting and newspaper awards in the state in years past, and has been considered one of Charlotte's leading young men.

Letter to Editor

To the Sophomore Class:
Dear Class members—

Several weeks ago a collection was taken for a gift to be given to Baxter Cochran. As many of you know, Baxter became ill and had to withdraw from school for an indefinite period. Our class responded with a gift of $30.50, which we feel is true class spirit. A committee headed by Bunny Perkinson purchased several widely-read books for him. Since his illness is confining in nature, we felt such a gift would be appreciated. The books included are: Churchill’s War Memoirs, Prayers of Peter Marshall, No Time for Sergeants, and Best Cartoons of 1954. We sincerely appreciate the interest that was shown.

Tom Newton, President.
Vernon Hunter, Vice Pres.
Gordon Bondurant, Sec.Treas.

today! CHESTERFIELD
Largest selling cigarette in America's colleges

Anderson... (Continued From Page One)

Perrin Anderson, a junior from Union, South Carolina, was elected President of the Student Body in Tuesday's balloting. Anderson served as second vice president of the student body last year and as Sophomore Representative to the Student Council. He is active in interfraternity sports, is Captain of the inter-fraternity football team, and is a member of the interfraternity basketball team. He also has served as Vice President of his social fraternity, Sigma Chi, and won his fraternity’s outstanding pledge award. A rising sophomore, Ross Smyth from Charlotte, was elected Secretary-Treasurer of the Student Body. Smith, a chemistry major, is a member of SAE social fraternity, the chapel choir, and Eumanean Literary Society. He also holds a Union Carbide Scholarship.

In today’s Davidsonian appear articles written by the three candidates for Editor of the Davidsonian and the two candidates for Editorship of Quips and Cranks. The three nominees selected by this year’s Publications Board for Davidsonian editorship are Tom Warlick, Maurice Crouse and Dick Morehead. Dee Helm and Jim Marshall have been selected by the board as candidates for the Quips and Cranks position. Students are asked to read these articles and let them help decide their choice for the respective offices, since candidates will make no speeches this year. Voting will continue next week for the YMCA officers, and voting will begin for Davidsonian and Quips and Cranks editors. Nominations and balloting for class officers will also be held. Next week’s Davidsonian will contain articles by the nominees for editorship of Scripts and Pranks.

Easter Supper

A buffet supper will be served Sunday, April 10th in the College Union Cafeteria. All children will receive Easter Eggs. Prices are $1.25 for adults; children under 12, 75 cents; children under 6 at ala carte prices.

Willa Cather... (Continued From Page One)

creative writing fields. His entry, “The Snows of Yesteryear,” is a Thomas Sanction-like account of the reveries of a somewhat frustrated, though successful, businessman who returns to a favorite scene of youth, a summer camp. Vereen Bell, a senior who plans next year to attend graduate school and eventually to go into teaching and writing, was winner of the third place award. His story, “Jamie’s Sandbox,” appeared in last year’s final issue of Scripts ‘n Pranks. This sensitively written story shows a young boy’s reaction against and resentment toward his step-father. Mr. William C. Doub Kerr presents the Willa Cather award each year to the writer of the paper which he judges the best of those submitted to him. He is sole judge of the contest. Mr. Kerr’s award is named in honor of Willa Cather, who was a personal friend of his; he possesses some of the original manuscripts of this noted American authoress. Mr. Kerr attended Davidson from 1911-13, after which he transferred to Chapel Hill for special undergraduate courses. While he was at the University, he installed Sigma Upsilon, the national literary fraternity, in its Blue Pencil Chapter at Davidson. A successful writer, lecturer, and extensive traveler, Mr. Kerr is at present a teacher of romance languages at Glendale College in California. Though he has not been able to return to the Davidson campus often since his undergraduate days, he has faithfully supported the aesthetic, cultural, intellectual, and...

FRIDAY, APRIL 8, 1955

Federal Inspection... (Continued From Page One)

inspection of the Cadet Corps in ranks on the Lower Drill Field. After this inspection, the team will observe the Corps conducting Close Order Drill, including Squad, Platoon, and Company Drill. At 3:00 P.M. on Tuesday, the Cadet Regiment will conduct a formal Regimental Parade for the inspection team. This will be the final event presented for the two-day inspection. The public is invited to attend this parade, which will be held in the college stadium.

Netters... (Continued From Page Three)

slated to be played against VMI and W&L of Lexington on April 15 and 16, and Furman in a return match here on April 21. Since beginning work, March 16, the whole team has shown notable improvement. The four top men, Lacy Keesler, Corky Clark, George Clark and Leighton Greene, who are four-year lettermen, should lead the Cats to victory at the Southern Conference Tournament to be held here May 5 through 7.

...reads all the entries submitted to him and personally selects volumes which he believes, on the basis of the prize-winning manuscript, will be appropriate for the winner. This loyal alumnus’ interest in those values which are eternal is to be admired and emulated by all those who feel with him that upon the literature of aspiring young authors are erected the cornerstones that will someday develop into monuments representative of creative interest of his alma mater both with his time and money. He has faithfully supported the aesthetic, cultural, intellectual, and...

118 West Trade Street
PARKER-GARDNER
CHARLOTTE 2, N.C.
Phone ED. 2-8257

You'll SMILE your approval of Chesterfield’s smoothness—mildness refreshing taste. You'll SMILE your approval of Chesterfield’s quality—highest quality—low nicotine. In the whole wide world no cigarette SATISFIES like Chesterfield.
© Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.