FORTY-FIRST YEAR OF CONTINUOUS THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE | VOL. XLII

Midwinters Weekend Begins

Morehead to Edit Wildcat Handbook

The YMCA cabinet has announced the selection of Dick Morehead to edit the Wildcat Handbook for the 1955-56 term. The Handbook, a publication of the Y, will be distributed to all students early in the fall semester. Morehead, a junior from Huntington, W. Va., is a member of Kappa Alpha social fraternity and an English major. He served Philanthropic Literary Society as its vice-president and is manager of the swimming team.

He has gained experience in publication activities as associate editor of the Handbook, feature editor of The Davidsonian, and copy editor of the Quips and Cranks. As editor, Morehead plans an analysis of some of the better handbooks published by other colleges in order to issue a Handbook of “similar quality to last year’s commendable publication.” The nature of the new edition will be structurally correspondent with last year's; there will be a change of style, however.

DICK MOREHEAD

‘Bishop Misbehaves’ Recommended For Pre-Dance Activity

What in the world are you going to do with your date between the hours of 7:30 and 9:30 tonight (Friday)? We suggest that for two hours of fun and entertainment, as well as some good drama, you all see the Red and Black Masquer’s production of “The Bishop Misbehaves.” After last night's excellent performance to a packed house, tonight's should prove to be superb.

As well as affording you an opportunity for holding hands, this play will be a good means by which to test your date. If she acts embarrassed, a little nervous, and wants to head for the dance at intermission time, then you had best give her the other half of her round-trip ticket on the spot. If your date chuckles politely, think seriously about Saturday night’s dance. But if she howls uproariously ... a good thing.

“The Bishop Misbehaves,” by (Continued on Page Four)

The Davidsonian

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 1955

THE DUBLIN PLAYERS

A scene from “Juno and the Paycock,” with Captain Doyle (John Kelly) and Joxter (James Kenny).

Dublin Players Present “Juno”, “Blithe Spirit”

By O. H. OGDEN

On Friday and Saturday, February 25 and 26, “One of the finest acting companies that has ever come to this country ...” The Dublin Players, will perform on the Davidson stage in conjunction with the college Artist Series. On Friday, at 8:15 p.m., the troupe will be seen in Noel Coward's most famous play, Blithe Spirit, and Juno and the Paycock, by Sean O'Casey, is to be given on Saturday afternoon at 3:00.

The Dublin Players was originally formed by Ronald Ibbs in Ireland in 1947 under the name of the Ronald Ibbs Company, and was designed to be a touring company in Ireland which would play a season each year in Dublin. Mr. Ibbs had been leading man at the Gate Theatre in the Earl of Longford’s Company, where his wife, Maureen Halligan, was also a lead and a director.

EARLY IBBS COMPANY

After two years of playing in Ireland, the Ibbs Company was encouraged by Eric Bentley, critic, author, and dramatist, to make a tour of America under the auspices of the International Theatre Exchange. It was during this first two-year period that the players performed Hamlet in tweeds and modern dress under the direction of Tyrone Guthrie, famed director of the Old Vic Theatre in London. For this first American tour, Ibbs divided his company into two units, one to travel in this country under the title of The Dublin Players, and one to remain in Ireland. Miss Halligan directed this touring group.

The original American tour was so successful that the time was extended and Mr. Ibbs rejoined the company in New York. This is their second coast-to-coast series of appearances, which will encompass more than 100 major cities of the United States and Canada this year.

The Dublin Players company is composed of the finest actors from Ireland’s famous Abbey and Gate Theatres. These theaters have formed a cradle and a nourisher for modernity in the theatre in Ireland, as well as the international theatre.

ABBEY AND GATE THEATRES

Between 1899 and 1902 the Abbey Theatre experimented with an Irish theatre, with W. B. Yeats and others, and led to the founding of the Irish National Theatre Society in 1902. Such names as Lady Gregory, A. E. (George Russell), and J. M. Synge have been connected with it as directors and as playwrights. In 1904 Miss A. E. F. Horniman gave a subsidy and the free use of the Abbey Theatre in Dublin and six years later the Theatre was bought for the players by public subscription. Generally known as the Irish Players, they toured the United States in 1911-12, and twice in the thirties.

The Dublin Gate Theatre, which the Earl of Longford and Lady Longford joined in 1931, was designed to be international rather than local.

NOEL COWARD'S TALENTS

Noel Coward is considered to be the most representative of the playwrights of post-war (World War I) Britain and his exceptional versatility is evidenced in the fact that he has nearly run the gamut of theatrical expression in the quarter of a century since his first play appeared. Coward's gift for humor will be exhibited in the Friday night production of Blithe Spirit. In New York in 1941, Blithe Spirit was given the longest run that any Coward play has had anywhere. This is a “fantastic comedy” of a man, married for the second time, who is plagued by the ghost of his first wife. This smash hit of the London, Broadway, and Dublin stages is now recognized as a classic of the modern theatre.

ALSO SEAN O’CASEY

“Among the Irish dramatists who came to the fore after World War I, Sean O’Casey has no peer,” wrote one critic. We feel that in this area his one superior may be J. M. Synge. For his characterization and ability to write dialogue, O'Casey is probably the outstanding playwright of our time. Lacking in classic form, he writes of the life and the people about him; like Chekhov, Schnitzler, and O'Neill, he projects his own life before the footlights.

In 1924 “... one of the century’s great dramas...,” Juno and the Paycock appeared. The play is a tragedy, dealing with the late terror of the civil war (1922) and the struggle for security in Ireland. John Gassner has termed the work, “... poetic, high-voltage realism.”

The masterful presentations of the Dublin Players come from the pens of such pillars of the dramatic world as Shaw, Yeats, Ibsen, Synge, Lady Gregory, Oscar Wilde, and Shakespeare. “They speak more beautifully than any group I've ever heard,” said Ben Gross in the New York Daily News, and Fulton Oursler has called their performances “Sheer magic in the theatre.”

Business-Eco Mee Will Feature Forum

The Business-Economics Association features Mr. Kenneth Kramer and Mr. Ed S. Dillard in a program entitled “Current Labor Problems” in the Ball Room of the College Union at 8:00 P.M., Thursday, February 24.

Mr. Ed Dillard is familiar to many Davidson students. He was a panelist on one of the first programs presented by the Business-Economics Association entitled “Opportunity vs. Security.” Mr. Dillard is president of the Old Dominion Box Co., of Charlotte, a company having seven plants in three states.

RIGHT-TO-WORK CHAIRMAN

Since his last visit to the Davidson campus, Mr. Dillard has been elected chairman of the National Right-to-Work Committee. This committee is a new organization attempting to make “every citizen conscious of what union compulsion really means.” The president of this committee is former New Jersey congressman Fred A. Hartley, co-author of the Taft-Hartley law.

Mr. Dillard declares that his committee wants to “obtain overwhelming acceptance of the idea that no American must be a member of a union to hold a job.” He believes that a number of union members who are now bound by union shop contracts, do not approve of compulsion and would like to see it clearly banned by law. He notes that 17 states now have right-to-work laws. In the forthcoming program Mr. Dillard will express his views on this and other related issues facing management and labor.

CIO ORGANIZER

Appearing on the program with Mr. Dillard will be Mr. Kenneth Kramer, the assistant Southern Organizing Director of the Textile Workers Union of America, C.I.O. Mr. Kramer has been an organizer for the Textile Workers since 1933. He has served on the National C.I.O. Community Services Committee, and as a labor panel member of the Wage Stabilization Board in 1950 and 1951. He is well acquainted with labor problems from the position of organized labor.

Dr. Jones, Charlotte, Will Speak at Vespers

Dr. James A. Jones, pastor of the Myers Park Presbyterian Church in Charlotte will speak at vespers this Sunday night. After graduating from Davidson College with a B.S. degree, Dr. Jones attended Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, Virginia. From this institution he earned his Th. M., and Hampden-Sydney College later awarded him the honorary doctor’s degree. He has also done special graduate work at New College, Edinburgh University, Edinburgh, Scotland.

From October 1948 to March 1949, Dr. Jones, representing the Foreign Missions Committee as one of the two ministers from the Presbyterian Church, U.S., visited the mission fields of the world. He spent some time in the Belgian Congo, where he attended conferences and visited nine stations and other outposts. He preached to the missionaries during their conference and had conferences with the native pastors and leaders. After leaving Africa, Dr. Jones flew to Brazil, where he visited three missions of the Presbyterian Church. Again he held special meetings and preached to both the missionaries and native leaders.

At the request of the Board of World Missions and the American Presbyterian Congo Mission, Dr. Jones again visited the Belgian Congo in 1952. Recently he has been chosen president-elect of Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, Virginia, and he will be inaugurated later this year.

DOROTHY KAE ... Morrow’s Beautiful Songstress

Student Constitution Has Had Several RevisionsIf the proposed revisions of the Student Government Constitution meet with the approval of the Davidson student body within the next two weeks, they will represent the fifth major change in this document since its inception in 1911. Just as we have found that our present-day constitution is not completely in accord with our ever-changing attitudes and opinions, so also have previous generations of Davidsonians taken it upon themselves to ‘modernize’ their constitution when they felt it necessary to do so.

FIRST REVISION IN 1914
The first major revision came just after the first constitution was written. Under the leadership of Alfred Scarborough of the Class of 1915, the student council secured the help of Justice T. B. Fraser, an alumnus of Davidson and an associate on the South Carolina Supreme Court, and improved the existing document. The new version, which was adopted in September of 1914, was incorporated under one article with eighteen sections and dealt principally with the honor system. A second article which was attached to the first was titled “Moral Code.” There were also two further additions which defined and outlawed hazing.

SECOND IN 1920
Revision number two came in the spring of 1920 when the entire constitution was rewritten and divided into nine articles rather than the original two. This draft differed a great deal from its predecessor since the student body officers, in defining the honor system, made it extremely broad. For instance, included in the article dealing with the honor system were not only the present rules concerning cheating, stealing, and so forth, but a section which stated there would be “no playing of musical instruments between 8 p.m. and 11 p.m. except on Saturday and Sunday.” A student, thus, was on his honor to report violations of this nature.

THIRD IN 1926
In 1924 the incoming and outgoing presidents of the student body, realizing that the scope of the honor system was too broad to be effective, presented a joint revision which limited and defined the honor system as applying only to cheating, stealing, and lying under oath. A further change was made when the other provisions formerly lumped together under the “honor system” article were put into a separate article known as the “Student Body Regulations.” The year 1924 also saw the establishment of the Publication Board and the Student Store Board of Control.

FOURTH IN 1937-38
The final revision came in the year 1937-38 when some of the existing articles were divided and the sections applying to the mechanics of student government were more clearly defined. This revision also brought about a revolutionary change in the privileges of freshmen, as they were allowed, for the first time, to vote in school elections. The point system represents a further addition of this revision. Last year a group of students made an effort to bring about several amendments in the constitution, but no major changes resulted. It is obvious that if interested and conscientious students throughout the last four decades had not exerted their influence to bring about necessary changes, our constitution would be a useless and outdated document indeed. It is now a great many years since the last major revisions were made, and there is little doubt that certain changes are very much in order now. The student government committee on the constitution has spent many hours in analyzing the document article by article and section by section, and has evolved some excellent, much-needed proposals. It is the hope of those who have followed the activities of this (Continued On Page Four)

PUBLICATION NUMBER 15.

Tonight With Play Morrow Will Supply The Music For Two Dances
By JOE CONARROE
The Davidson student body is exchanging the “book look” for the formal look tonight as it settles down for a delightful weekend with the fair sex. Activities for the festive Midwinters weekend will get underway at 7:30 this evening with the Red and Black Masquer’s production, “The Bishop Misbehaves.” The play, which stars Fred Summers as the Bishop, will be presented in Chambers Auditorium.

I.F.C. Reveals Policy Governing Hell Week And Other Activities
Interfraternity Council President Ronald Wilson this week revealed a new “self-regulation” policy for governing Hell-week and its related activities. These regulations were arrived at by a committee consisting of fraternity presidents and interested individuals representing each of the charter fraternities of the Interfraternity Council. This group has met more than eight times since the second week in November, representing a total of 300 man-hours expended in seeking a workable solution to this problem. President Wilson emphasized the fact that this group was working on their own initiative, apart from any faculty pressure. The object of the meetings and the gist of the plan itself was to place fraternity pre-initiation “ceremonies” in the proper perspective with regard to the primary scholastic function of the college. The heart of the plan appears in the resolution adopted and passed unanimously by the committee and subsequently adopted by the Interfraternity Council as the fundamental policy for the year 1955: “No pledge shall be injured. No pledge shall be publicly humiliated. No pledge shall be required to carry out any action which would bring discredit upon himself, his fraternity, or the college.” Further details as viewed in the light of the broad generalities as expressed above and as interpreted by the Interfraternity Council include:
1. Pledges are required to have (a specified amount) of sleep during the week.
2. Pledges are held responsible for maintaining their studies during the week.
3. All Hell-week activities will be planned for and implemented by a specific Hell-week committee within each individual fraternity.
4. No individual fraternity member will be permitted to carry out any Hell-week activities without the authorization of the Hell-week committee of the fraternity.
5. All (Continued On Page Four)

YALE MUSICIAN VISITS D.C.: Prof. Wilson Leads Band
The Davidson College Concert Band will be presented in concert Wednesday night, February 23, at 8:15 o’clock in Chambers Auditorium. Keith L. Wilson, Yale University Band conductor, will be guest conductor. Mr. Wilson, also associate professor of wind instrument playing at Yale University, was appointed to the faculty of the Yale School of Music in 1946. After graduating from the University of Illinois, he was woodwind instructor, theory teacher, conductor of the operas and assistant conductor of the bands at the University of Iowa. He received the degrees of B.S. in Music Education, Bachelor of Music, and Master of Music from the University of Illinois, and while there was also clarinetist in both the University Band and University Orchestra. The guest conductor spent three summers on the faculty of the National Music Camp at Interlochen, Mich., where he also studied clarinet and conducting. He has conducted concerts of the New Haven Symphony, the University Orchestra, a number of chamber music orchestra concerts, and has been guest conductor for several high school and college bands. As a clarinetist, he plays numerous chamber music recitals throughout New England and the New York area. He serves as a clinician and adjudicator for high school music festivals and contests, and has recorded for Contemporary and Epic records. Featured on the program are Gounod's “Mirella Overture,” the “Military Symphony in F” by Gossec, “Folk Song Suite” by the contemporary English composer Ralph Vaughan-Williams, and a medley of famous marches. Professor Kenneth Moore of the Music Department is director of the Concert Band which will make its annual spring tour this year, beginning on March 28 to Tulane University in New Orleans. There will be no admission charge for the concert. The student body and public are cordially invited to attend.

Following the play the scene of the evening's activities will shift to the Johnston Gymnasium where the formal dance will take place from 9:30 p.m. until 1:30 a.m. Buddy Morrow, his nationally famous orchestra, and featured songstress Dorothy Kae will be supplying the music.

AFTERNOON CONCERT
Tomorrow afternoon the Davidson swains and their ladies will be treated to a concert by the Morrow musicians. The music will begin at 3:30 in Chambers Auditorium. The weekend festivities will be climaxed tomorrow night with an informal dance. The Saturday dance will begin at 8 and last until midnight. Ronnie Wilson, president of the Interfraternity Council, has announced that a permanent canopy, to be used at all future dances in case of rain, has been erected behind the gymnasium. If former Midwinters weekends are any indication of what might happen tonight, the new canopy could very well get a good workout.

RAIN DANCE THEME
Ted Andrae, chairman of the decorations committee for the dance, has disclosed that the decorations center around the theme “Rain Dance,” which, he said, “seems peculiarly fitting for Midwinters.” The theme is carried out with the colors of white and American-beauty-rose red. The committee has been working on the decorations for several days, and the results should prove enjoyable to the Davidson dancers. Bandleader Morrow, the man with the mellow trombone, is making his second appearance at Davidson this weekend. At the Homecoming activities in 1952 his dance music as well as the afternoon concert met with enthusiastic approval of the student body. Since that time he has played throughout the country and has continually broadened his repertoire to include many more instrumentals, as well as good danceable music. Morrow's musical activities began during his early teens in his hometown of New Haven, Connecticut. He received his musical education at the Juilliard School of Music in New York. His musical career has included experience with Paul Whiteman, Artie Shaw, Eddie Duchin, Vincent Lopez and the Dorsey brothers.

Eye Witness Gives Account of Theater Fire Monday Night
By MALCOLM WILLIAMSON
At 8:45 on Monday night the Davidson theater was consumed by fire. There were about 30 devotees of the arts in the building when the flames concluded the long period of service provided by the local flick. For perhaps thirty minutes beforehand, the building had been filled with smoke, but we thought it was from the cigar of U. S. Grant as he sat beneath a tree talking peace with Sitting Bull. Some of the patrons had become rather nervous, but when the ticket seller made an inspection trip to the back portions of the building and walked up the aisle with a calm serenity, we felt assured that nothing serious had happened. But as the smoke became so thick that it was difficult for the flickering light from the projector to reach the screen, many of the student patrons began to mutter “This place is on fire!” But no (Continued on Page Four)