4 THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE The Davidsonian FORTY-FIRST YEAR OF CONTINUOUS PUBLICATION VOL. XLI

DR. HUGH BRADLEY

Dr. Bradley Speaker For Sunday Vespers

Dr. S. Hugh Bradley, Field Secretary of the Board of World Missions of the Presbyterian Church, U.S., will be the speaker at Vesper Service this Sunday night, March 6.

Dr. Bradley was born in Kuling, North Kiangsu, China, of missionary parents. His father, the late Dr. John Wilson Bradley, was for some time a medical missionary to China. When he was fifteen years old, Dr. Bradley first came to this country. He finished high school in Bishopville, South Carolina, and later graduated with an A.B. degree from Davidson in 1923.

Following a year’s teaching in China, Dr. Bradley entered Union Theological Seminary at Richmond and graduated with a B.D. degree in 1927. Also from Union he received the Th. M. degree in 1928 and the Th. D. in 1935. Three years ago Dr. Bradley received an honorary D.D. degree from Davidson.

Dr. Bradley married Miss Agnes Blake of Anderson, South Carolina in May, 1928. Their son, Blake Bradley, is at the present studying for the ministry at Union Seminary in Richmond.

After being ordained in 1927, Dr. Bradley served pastorates in North Carolina, Virginia, South Carolina, and Georgia. For the last seven years he has served as a member of the Board of World Missions and for part of that time was Chairman of its Candidate Committee. During the fall of 1948, he represented the Board on a preaching mission in China, Japan, and Korea.

Dr. Bradley was elected to his present capacity as Field Secretary for the Board of World Missions in June, 1953, and took up his work with them on September 1, 1953.

In Old Dining Hall:

ACP Poll of Opinion:

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, MARCH 4, 1955

Most College Students Think Ike Will Run Again

(ACP)—College students across the nation think Ike will run for re-election in 1956. In a recent national poll of collegiate opinion, students were asked this question by the Associated Collegiate Press: “Do you think Eisenhower will run for president for a second term in 1956?”

Some students hold strong, positive opinions, such as the sophomore from New York University who says “Heaven forbid!” Or, the senior coed from the University of Akron, in Ohio, who states, “In spite of some almost positive criticism, I believe he will—and ought to.”

The answers:

A surprising number of students believe Ike should stick to the Army. Again from the University of Akron, a freshman says that he believes, “For a military man the presidency is too much.” Others take an opposite view. A freshman coed at Southern Methodist University in Texas thinks that people should “look deeper” into the problems, and then “they will find the president has done a lot of good and will want him to run a second time.”

A list of typical comments might include: “I hope so;” “I hope not;” “I still like Ike;” “I think he has had enough.” A senior coed from Holy Names College in Spokane, Washington, gives a cagey answer when she maintains that it all “depends upon the situation at the time.”

Meeting Monday

College Library Gets Micro-Film Reader

YMCA President Leighton Green announced this week that there would be a meeting of the general membership of the YMCA Monday morning, March 7, during the chapel period, from 10:20 to 10:50 A.M. The purpose of the meeting is to hear an address by Mr. Samuel N. Slie, Associate Secretary of the Southern Area Student Council of YMCA’s. The Davidson College YMCA is an integral member of the Area Student Council, participating in its conferences and policy meetings. Mr. Slie will speak on some aspect of the Area Student Council’s work.

Mr. Slie is a graduate of Springfield College in Massachusetts and Yale Divinity School. He is a native of New Haven, Connecticut and has been in his present position since the summer of 1952. All members of the YMCA are urged to participate in this meeting which is designed to bring together the membership in a voluntary gathering.

Inventions Of Da Vinci Displayed In Chambers

An exhibit of models of the inventions of Leonardo da Vinci will be on display in the old dining hall of Chambers Building, March 4-20, under the sponsorship of the Alpha chapter of Sigma Pi Sigma, national honorary physics fraternity. It will be open to the public at the following hours: Monday through Friday, 9-12 a.m., 1:30-4 p.m.; Sunday, March 6, 2-4 p.m.; Tuesday, March 8, 3-10 p.m.

PROLIFIC INVENTOR

Possibly better known as the artist who painted the Mona Lisa and Last Supper, Leonardo was nevertheless one of the most prolific inventors of all times. The helicopter, machine gun, airplane, parachute, air-conditioner, and many other things were previewed by this genius of 15th century Italy. Now actual models of these amazing machines may be seen and inspected.

The “helicopter,” a huge screw turned by clockwork, is the first application of the principle of the propeller. Two of the many weapons proposed by Leonardo were a steam gun and a rudimentary machine gun. The former was discharged by steam pressure created when water flowed into a barrel kept red hot by live coals and is said to have fired its projectile two miles; the machine gun consisted of three tiers of twelve barrels, the tiers arranged in a triangular shape so that one might be fired while another was being loaded and a third was cooling. The parachute, a pyramid-shaped “tent of linen” as Leonardo called it, was actually tested by technical students in the Netherlands. A parachute made exactly according to Leonardo’s specifications was dropped with a life-size doll from a 150-foot church steeple. Duration of the descent was five seconds.

HIS FLYING MACHINE

Most spectacular of all the inventions, however, was the ornithopter or flying machine. This (Continued on Page Four)

Recently the Davidson College Library purchased a new Kodagraph Film Reader. Located just inside the south entrance across from the telephone booth, this microfilm reader is designed to accommodate back issues of the New York Times. The New York Times and other large daily newspapers have been photographed on 35-mm film to facilitate handling and storage. Using this reader, students can easily and more effectively record data for talks, term papers and notes.

Weighing less than 50 pounds, the reader is highly mobile and stands approximately three feet high, consuming less than two feet square of desk space. The projector of this machine is located at the top of the unit and is focused at an angle to produce a clear, evenly distributed image on the screen. Images are magnified 19 times and isolated columns of interest may be refocused and magnified individually on the entire screen. This scanning device gives the effect of a much larger than 20 by 20 inch screen.

Miss Shore, Librarian, reported that the library continues to receive The New York Times daily, and simultaneously boxes of microfilm are stored in the reserve book section. The film dates from June 1, 1954, and is available to students and faculty members at all times. Duplicate files of the Book Review and Weekly News magazines are bound as usual in the basement. This film recorder will greatly improve storage problems of the old style bound volumes in the basement. Eventually it is thought that the Charlotte Observer will also publish their dailies in microfilm form.

Instrumental Contest On Campus Saturday

Floods of femininity will engulf the campus Saturday morning, March 5, as contestants from high schools of the Piedmont section of this state converge on Davidson to compete in the annual North Carolina Instrumental Contest. This competition will mark the fourth successive year that Davidson has been chosen host to this event. More than two hundred events are planned to enliven the entire day with sound of music and sight of women from 9:30 a.m. until 5:30 p.m. Competition will be held only among soloists and small ensembles from the 25 or 30 schools to be represented. Woodwind solos will be played in Phi Hall, brass solos in Eu. Woodwind ensembles are to vie for critical appraisal in Shearer Hall; brass ensembles may be heard in the College Union Ballroom.

For the entertainment of the participants as well as those from the campus who are interested in college trained talent, the woodwind quintet of the Davidson College Band will perform in Mr. Gehring’s studio at 11:45. This musical program will feature a solo by Professor Moore as an exhibition of more professional abilities. In conjunction with this con- (Continued On Page Four)

Employment Agency Offers Placement

On March 9, the North Carolina Employment Agency, which offers placement in both summer and regular jobs throughout the state, will have a representative in the College Union to interview interested students.

Also in the College Union on that same date will be representatives from the Electro-Metallurgical Co., and J. C. Penny Company. Rich's Inc., of Atlanta is interested in a group interview on Monday, March 14, at 10:20. Other companies and interview dates for the coming week are as follows: Crawford & Company, March 10; National Carbon & Carbide, March 10; the Atlanta offices of Sears-Roebuck, March 11; Riegel Mills, March 11; and the Prudential Insurance Company on March 11.

Key Collector's Heaven:

The YMCA’s Commission on Effective Citizenship announced this week the annual Meet-Your-Government Seminar to be held March 19-22, during the spring holidays, in Washington, D.C. This seminar is sponsored by the National Student Council of the YMCA and YWCA. It is hoped that a group from Davidson will attend this seminar.

In the Meet-Your-Government Seminar students will have the opportunity to watch new domestic and foreign policies being hammered out on the floor of the House and Senate. In visits to government agencies they will learn how legislative decisions are carried out by the executive branch. A glimpse of the Supreme Court, if in session, will round

THE DAVE BRUBECK QUARTET

Progressive Music With Brubeck Here March 10

Quartet To Give Concert Of “Cool” Type Of Jazz

By BILL CUNNINGHAM and BOB TALBERT

March the 10th—an important and historical occasion on the campus of Davidson College. On this date, Dave Brubeck will bring his highly creative, impressionistic, and progressive quartet to our hallowed and chapel-worn Cham-Out the picture of government at work. All discussions at the Seminar are set within the framework of the Christian faith. Every effort is made to clarify ways in which Christians may act as responsible citizens. It is expected that those who attend will be able to give active leadership to campus and community citizenship programs. The total cost of the Seminar will be about $25, not including transportation. The YMCA will subsidize transportation costs by providing the YMCA car. Students interested should make contact with Roy Davis or Sam Magill at the YMCA office.

Greek History Outlined By JASON McMANUS

was recognized in 1884 and given rooms in Old Chambers. Sigma Alpha Epsilon had barely preceded them by a year. In 1889 the Mystic Seven merged with a dormant chapter of Beta Theta Pi, and Kappa Sigma followed a year later. The rest of the eleven social societies followed between 1904 and 1950. Although the number of fraternities steadily grew, their proportionate slice of Davidson's expanding student body did not always keep pace. In 1892 forty-two per cent of the small student body were members, and fifteen men composed a large fraternity. By 1920 only twenty-five per cent belonged. Following the depression, the percentage curved steadily upward, leveling off after World War II.

“We entered a room lit dimly by candles. A group of young men sat cross-legged in a circle on the floor. In the corner of the room on a dais Roger sat, dressed in a curiously inscribed robe. Frankincense and myrrh burned in an icon on the wall. Shylock led me to the center of the circle. He chanted: ‘I bring a man into this clan.’ ‘Hubba, gubba, Goodrich rubba,’ intoned the circle.”

With these words and a few more, Max Shulman closes a rollicking chapter about this freshman hero Asa Hearthrug's introduction to fraternity life in Barefoot Boy with Cheek. Now there is nothing quite like Asa’s mythical Alpha Cholera here at Davidson, but Hellenism of several sorts nevertheless has a very sure place in our essentially Anglo-Saxon scheme of things. Fraternities honorary, fraternities social, fraternities professional, and fraternities unclassifiable all prosper and variously label and mingle in the currents of our college common life. But it has not always been so.

ATO’s Founders Day Features Open House

All members of the faculty and administration are invited to attend an “open house” being held at the Alpha Tau Omega fraternity house in honor of John W. Vann, a former national president of Alpha Tau Omega. The reception will last from 4:30 until 5:30 p.m., and guests are invited to drop by after the football game. Vann is here as the featured speaker for the “Founder’s Day” Banquet being held in conjunction with the Charlotte Alumni Association. Other notables present are Province Chief John L. Green, Jr., of Charlotte, former Province Chief Richard Johnston of North Wilkesboro, and Dr. Warner L. Hall, pastor of the Covenant Presbyterian Church in Charlotte.

At present, eighty per cent plus Greek membership.

EXPANSION

The expanding fraternity system soon outgrew Old Chambers, and moved to Oak and Elm Row and the first floors of the literary halls in 1917. Nine years later they moved out into town, buying or renting residence space for their members. This was not a satisfactory arrangement from several points of view, particularly the college's, so the present Fraternity Court was built in 1928, and stands today as one of the best solutions to the fraternity housing problem any small college has worked out.

The latest major crisis in the social fraternity sphere came with the problem presented in 1952 when the College Union was completed. Its operation had to be financed in some way, and the college’s first proposal that the freshman class eat all year in the Union was regarded by the fraternities as a serious threat to the whole Greek system. But the present half-year compromise that was worked out has at least partially satisfied both sides. The Union is operating, and so are the fraternities still, without any noticeable loss in prestige or membership. Some of the seniors may still lament the good old days, but the pledges, who for at least a semester are able to enjoy their meals in peace, are probably pretty satisfied with things as they are—food considerations aside.

HONORARIES

The honorary fraternities began at Davidson in 1917 with Omicron Delta Kappa, the leadership society. Phi Beta Kappa was established in 1923. Most of Davidson’s twelve non-social fraternities represent recognition for excellence in some study: physics, chemistry, German, or Spanish. Some represent a recognition of talent and form functional groups to encourage men in fields like music, dramatics, creative writing, athletics, and debating. Strictly speaking, Davidson has only one professional fraternity, Alpha Epsilon Delta, which is for pre-medical students.

Two of Davidson's honoraries have the distinction of being the founding chapter for what subsequently became a national organization. Gamma Sigma Epsilon in chemistry was organized at Davidson in 1920 and now boasts sixteen chapters and over three thousand members. Sigma Pi Sigma, the physics society, was begun in 1921, was nationalized in 1925, and now has forty-three active chapters.

(Continued On Page Four)

No doubt he will be met with cold and indifferent ears as well as the warm and receptive ears of those who understand his feelings and playing. Brubeck’s touch at the piano is that of a concert pianist who can evoke the feelings of Bach, Beethoven, Chopin, and Scarlatti with the harmonic and rhythmic expressions of jazz—jazz that is progressive and improvised. Brubeck, a well-versed and scholarly musician, defines his jazz as “an improvised music based on European harmony and African rhythms.” The challenge is to improvise on a known theme (Blue Moon, Gone with the Wind, On the Alamo, Laura, Take the “A” Train, etc.), times without losing the drive and rhythmic complexity of early jazz.”

Brubeck’s concert will have no gimmicks such as a tremendous and risqué female vocalist, no screaming horns, no growling and braying bass voice, no exciting flick-fire, and last but not least, should have no illiterate shouting of adolescent boors. Comparing Brubeck’s cool music with that of the wild music we have heard in past concerts would be like comparing a blissful day with a turbulent storm. His background is that of many years of training under experienced and educated teachers. Dave comes from a musical family of great talent. His mother was a famous piano instructor. Howard, a brother, is a composer, instructor and teacher; Henry, another brother, is a musical educator. As a youngster, Dave played with local dance bands in the ‘Frisco Bay area.

By the time he was a senior at the College of the Pacific, Stockton, California, Dave was well on his way toward developing his advanced harmonic conception and individual style. During Army days he studied composition under Arnold Schoenberg. Upon discharge from the Army, he returned to Oakland to continue his studies at Mills College with the renowned Darius Milhaud. During this time Dave organized his first group, “The 8,” later formed “The Dave Brubeck Trio” and now he is touring with his remarkable “Dave Brubeck Quartet.”

Dave has in his present organization a group of extremely talented jazz musicians. Paul Desmond (alto sax) who combines with Dave on solos to create the improvisations of the group, along with Bob Bates (bass) and Joe Dodge (drum) who lay down the rhythmic patterns, blend together to make a truly sensational quartet. Brubeck, like all musicians, is temperamental and highly emotional, and should be received as such. Applause after numbers and solos is welcomed by the group, but the shouts of “Go, go, go,” are met with scorn and disdain. The quartet has something to say to the appreciative audience and only by attentive listening will one be able to understand their talent. Be sure to attend, listen, comprehend, and appreciate their progressive and exciting repertoire.

Fleischer Visits Davidson

Noted German Organist Renders Recital, Lecture

The Music Department of Davidson College will bring to the campus Heinrich Fleischer, distinguished German-American organist, for a recital and a lecture class on Monday and Tuesday, March 7 and 8. The recital will be played on the Schlicker organ in the Davidson College Presbyterian Church on Monday evening, March 7, at 8:15 p.m., and is open to the public without charge. An offering will be taken to help defray expenses. Dr. Fleischer will lecture on “The Problems of Articulation, Phrasing and Touch in Bach's Organ Works” at the lecture-class on Tuesday afternoon at 3:30 p.m., March 8, again at the college church organ, and will offer his criticism of student performances. Interested persons may register for this class through the Davidson College Music Department, Box 356, Davidson, N. C., for a registration fee of one dollar. Davidson students are admitted free to the lecture.

ALL-GERMAN PROGRAM

Dr. Fleischer has chosen an all-German program for his Davidson recital. The program is as follows: Bruhns’ “Prelude and Fugue in E minor;” the “Trio-Sonata in D minor,” three Preludes on Lenten chorals and the “Fantasy and Fugue in G minor” by Bach; two Chorale Preludes (“O World, I must leave Thee” and “O how blessed are ye”) by Brahms; and the “Toccata and Fugue in D minor” by Reger.

Dr. Fleischer is a native of Eisenach, Germany, the birthplace of Bach. He traces his ancestry to Martin Luther, and much of Dr. Fleischer’s early life was spent in a cultural atmosphere dominated by these two great historical figures. His training, both academic and musical, was gained at Weimar, Jena and Leipzig, where he was a student of Karl Straube. Later a faculty member at Leipzig State Academy of Music, he was active as organist, teacher, choral conductor, and musicologist. He won his Ph.D. in 1939 from the University of Leipzig.

COMES TO U.S.

In 1948, the political situation forced him to leave Leipzig, which is located in the Eastern Zone of Germany. He found asylum in Ravensburg, the historic old town in South Germany. There he founded and directed a Bach Chorus and was organist of the town church. However, before long, in 1949, he answered an invitation to the U.S., where he now holds the positions of professor of organ and Lutheran church music at Valparaiso University and organist at Rockefeller Memorial Chapel, the University of Chicago. During the years since, Dr. Fleischer has achieved a reputation in this country as an organ teacher, lecturer, editor and organist. He has won special recognition for his interpretation of the organ music of J. S. Bach.