The Davidsonian

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF: Dick Morehead
ASSOCIATE EDITORS: Maurice Crouse, Tom Warlick
Managing Editors: Jim Batten, Franklin Bloodworth, Jim Brice
Sports Editor: Leon Howell
Copy Editor: John T. Harmon
Feature Editor: Watt McCain
News Editors: Lloyd Chapin, Bill Pomeroy, Glenn Robertson
Staff Photographer: Hank Daniel
Assignments: John Trask
File Clerk: Bob Beall

Member of the Associated Collegiate Press and Intercollegiate Press
Friday, November 4, 1955
Page Two

My Freedom

(The following is a true story, never before revealed in its full content to anyone. It is presented in the
hope that we, as thinking Americans, might become more aware of world problems and the people that face them as
exemplified in the story of Alfred Wang, foreign student and Christian gentleman. Ed.)

BY ALFRED WANG

The mild October sun was still shining when two guards at the main entrance of Shanghai Central Police Station turned
their heads angrily and looked daggers at me. I, as usual, repeated my request while one of them, as usual,
took me to the waiting room. The room was as colorful as a photography display. The room-walls were carefully decorated
with portraits of the communist leaders, both Russian and Chinese, and on a wooden table were papers and magazines for
propaganda purposes. I waited for forty minutes, but nobody turned up; so I amused myself by looking at the picture
of Mao Tze Tung, whose face became fatter, and the remarkable mole above his double chin seemed brighter! I almost
wanted to laugh when a fierce-looking man in a blue Lenin-Suit followed by a pig-tailed girl appeared before me. The
man was in his prime of life, whereas the girl of twenty-five or six looked like a Slavic woman in
her forties, with her many-storied chin toppling upon her mighty breast.

“What do you want, Comrade Wang?” the man asked, presumably in a friendly tone, but putting one foot on a
bamboo stool, lighting a cigarette, and then pushing his starred “liberation cap” backward in a scoundrel-like manner, “Why do you
want to see the Head?”

“What do I want?” I repeated his words furiously, “I come here every day and yet you ask me what
do I want? You turned down my application for a permit to Hong Kong after two long years without any
reason given, and yet you ask me what do I want! In a university, if the president acts in such
a manner I call it bureaucracy. And I simply don’t know what you would call it in a police station!”

Their eyes opened wide simultaneously. “Don’t be angry, Comrades,” I perceived their defenseless uneasiness, “Karl Marx taught us to be
suspicious of everything. And I am suspicious.”

“Comrade Wang, I am sure you realize that Hong Kong is a feudalistic and imperialistic place only good for those
old and disabled and gangsters. Our People’s government is definitely opposed to issuing any permit for young folks, especially college
students, to go there. The ‘Ideological Reform Learning’ equipped you fully with Marxism-Leninism as if a soldier armed to the
teeth!” the fast-speaking girl jabbered ferociously, her hands almost daring to encompass me.

“Well, you surely don’t want to prevent a brave soldier from going to fight! Do you? To me, Hong Kong
is the battlefield! Have you not faith in what I have learned from the government?” I put two more telegrams
on the table, “My father is seriously ill in Hong Kong, and I want to be a filial son. You
comrades always say that the People’s government cares for every individual, now it is time for you to perform your
consideration for the people’s need.”

“To be a filial son is rather an out-of-date idea, isn’t it?” the man tried to attack in a strange,
hoarse voice, inadequate and inept.

“I don’t care what you call it,” I insisted, “I want the permit. If you refuse me today, I will
come here every day as I have already done in the past months, to repeat my request. And if you
do not receive me, well, I can read here and wait. Comrades, you may be quite sure that I will
never go to school, nor work. I will come here every day: I want my permit to Hong Kong to
see my father!”

That ended the last interview with the police authorities. I say the last interview because the very next morning, a
police officer sent my ex-permit, valid for three months, to my residence. It was raining cats and dogs when he
handed it to me under the bamboo-framed umbrella with a forced big smile! But my smile was bigger, victorious and
triumphant!

It was not at all easy for me to get permission to leave school from the college president and the
Party-secretary, without which I still could not leave. However, I left no stones unturned and finally got it by applying
the same strategy—to beat them at their own game! This precious experience taught me if only one dared to fight
with the communists, they themselves became “paper-tigers,” a term applied by them to the American-meaning strong outside but weak inside.
This is also typical of communistic ‘justice’: when they granted somebody’s request which they could refuse no more, they tried
to make you feel grateful for the “sugar-coated” favor. This, no doubt, served to explain the passivity with which the
people could endure the brutalities behind the Bamboo Curtain.

This experience also reminds me of another triumphant victory: In April of 1952, a violent accusation against the so-called reactionary
church leaders and foreign missionaries was launched by a radical group within the Chinese church, right after the entry of
the Chinese “Volunteers” into the Korean War and the intensification of “hate-America Campaign.” Their watchword then was: To hate Americans,
to despise the Americans, and to be enemies with the Americans. Almost all missionaries were denounced in public meetings, on
the air, and in the press, as missionary spies and American cultural aggressors. Dr. Frank W. Price, an outstanding missionary
in China who baptized me in Shanghai and is now my sponsor in America (who is also a Davidson graduate
and who became the Moderator of the Presbyterian Church in the U. S., 1953-54) was tried in absentia in a
mass meeting of 12,000 people. Several weeks before, the Communists threatened to make me take an active part in the
accusation. I told them that I would not, not fearing what they might do to me. As a result, I
won the first round, and realized how mean and how ridiculous their tricks were! A wolf in sheep's clothing!

Early in the next morning, I took the ex-permit and lined up at the Shanghai Railway Station, bound for Canton.
I murmured goodbye to my beloved native place and to those who loved me, experiencing what Shakespeare calls “Parting is
such sweet sorrow.” Once on the train, I pretended to be sick and refused to speak a word to the
nurse and other men in uniform who attempted to approach me. The politically trained nurse, knowing that she would get
nothing from me, handed me a hot-water bottle to soothe my stomach-pain. In Canton, the cradle of Chinese revolution, I
passed the final baggage inspection, police questionnaires, and crossed the Portuguese-Chinese boundary on a ferry sailing to Macao. As soon
as I put my feet on the soil of Hong Kong, the frontier of the free world, I mailed the
permit back to Shanghai, stating that my sick father needed me to look after him. It was October 18, 1952,
a glorious day in my life!

Indeed, it took me two years to get out of China, and three more years from Hong Kong to this
country. During those five long and anxious years, the Living Lord never forsook me. The Biblical teachings came alive to
me in a new way, and this ordeal brought me abundant spiritual blessings. Intolerance taught me to love tolerance; class-hatred
taught me to love goodwill; hardship taught me not to surrender to tyranny. “Rejoicing in our sufferings, knowing that suffering
produces endurance, and endurance produces character, and character produces hope, and hope does not disappoint us.”

The unbelievably awful dreams still disturb me once in a while, but they will soon disappear in a free world
as vapors melt into the air. Now I can think clearly about my country, focus my concentration on my study,
speak freely what is in me without fear, and gain twenty pounds of my lost body-weight.

BUSINESS MANAGER: Larry Parrott
Advertising Manager: Bob Carmichael
Subscription: Warner Hall
Circulation: Bob Majors, Stan Miller
Business Staff: Tony Guiles, Bill Bondurant

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 Madison Ave. New York, N.Y.
Chicago - Boston - Los Angeles - San Francisco

Subscription Rate: $2.00 Per Year
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1879.
Offices in David Ovens College Union, Davidson College

LITTLE MAN ON CAMPUS..... by Dick Bibler

“—you have used th’ first 10 minutes—40 to go!”

Intellectual Blind Man’s Bluff And the Liberalistic Tradition

By JIM MARSHALL, EMORY KIMBROUGH, CLYDE ROBINSON

In last week's Davidsonian Mr. Franklin Bloodworth asked us to engage in a game of intellectual blind man’s bluff in
“questioning” the Intercollegian, national YMCA journal of opinion. This game came to revolve around a mask of illusion, innuendoes, and
illogical inferences: And in addition to some rather subtle omissions (e.g. failure to denote that certain articles were by-lined), there
was the use of intellectual ruses which are not quite honest. In short, the writer persistently resorted to the lifting
from context certain references and quotations. We gladly respect the right of anyone to express his opinion on any matter,
but we must strongly object when facts and truths are distorted and maligned in expressing those opinions. We are forced
therefore to dismiss the article as an anti-intellectual vehicle.

Mr. Bloodworth’s article ran the whole gamut in trying to stir up the prejudices found in many people’s minds, and
it does this with the finesse of a bulldozer, scooping into ready-made dogmatism. Among his topics are the question of
admitting Red China to the UN, the class struggle, racial integration, the fraternity system, and Christianity. The quotations relevant to
the first three questions were pure appeals to prejudice; they were presented without support and thereby created an artificial aura
of objectivity. On such questions the reactionary instinctively draws within his shell of prejudice and short-sightedness, while the liberal strives
to weigh the situation in the terms of reality and human ethics.

Mr. Bloodworth obviously could not restrain himself from commenting on the fraternity system and Christianity; nor can we. The article
stated that the National Student Assembly recommended that fraternities and sororities lift all their discriminatory clauses voluntarily, or if this
is not successful, to urge governing agencies to outlaw such clauses through legal action in the case of state-supported schools.
What this article fails to point out is that such a stand is merely the suggested position for local YMCAs
and YWCAs, and is in no way binding. In any case, is there anything diabolical in the official magazine of
an organization, or any other magazine, publishing the recommendations of a representative group from all sections of the United States?
If we must react, at least let us be informed.

Letter to the Editor: Brinkerhoff on

Dear Editor:

This letter is written in reference to some of the sincere questions and comments of Mr. Bloodworth in last week’s
Davidsonian. At the same time that we regard the purpose of the Intercollegian, we should also examine the stated purpose
of our YMCA here on the campus. According to the constitution, the “Y” encourages “mutual growth in faith through worship,
study, and action.” Certainly the scope of the Intercollegian includes the elements of worship and study, and in more than
one instance which comes to mind, has directly inspired sincere Christian action.

The article goes on to plead for the right of selecting those whom we would have as fraternity brothers. On
this point we agree with the stand taken in the article, but not in the terms which it advocates. We
must not overlook the fact that it has been the Southern fraternity chapters who have been the principal factor in
restricting the right of free selection to all non-Southern chapters. No chapter is forced to select anyone; many chapters, however,
are kept from selecting those of non-Caucasian and non-Christian origin by their discriminatory clauses. It is consistent to demand the
right of free selection in your own chapter and to restrict any other chapter's free choice.

Mr. Bloodworth laments a quotation from an article by Arnold Toynbee which was reprinted from the New York Times in
the Intercollegian in which Mr. Toynbee appears to condone the revolutionary spirit of time as such. It is not explained
that Mr. Toynbee feels that our world is always going to be the witness of some form of revolution, wherein
Western civilization can rise above the power struggles of this globe and live where other civilizations have died, if we
utilize the dynamic Christian tradition which is the core of Western culture.

Finally, we are asked to ponder whether or not Christianity is revolutionary. Two thousand years obviously have been overlooked when
one questions the revolutionary aspect of Christianity. In fact, this is the very essence of the movement.Furthermore, the total experience
of Christian life becomes a personal revolution when an individual desires to investigate and proceed beyond the confines of the
orthodoxy of his parent’s generation, and would thus become a constructive element of society. Our only motive has been to
erase an attempted smear aimed against the free mind in a dynamic society. We defend the Intercollegian because it advocates
the cause of a free mind in our world, and because it recognizes what would be the result if such
a right disappeared from our society. The YMCA would be betraying its inherent philosophy if it fails to support those
measures which lead to a crusade for civil and social liberties. We would assume that it at least is aware
of the dynamic world of which it is a part, even if those who use its organs and criticize are
not.

‘Intercollegian’ The articles therein are written and signed by men recognized as being committed to the task of applying Christian
principles to the issues of everyday life. Thus, our purpose in subscribing to the Intercollegian is not to tell anyone
what to think or how to stand on controversial issues. Rather we are dedicated to the task of encouraging students
to think, period. This, to me, is the essence of education.

PEACE VS. REVOLUTION

The second question which I wish to speak on concerns the more general question stated as follows: “Is not the
Christian response more one of Peace than Revolution?” (Continued On Page Four)

Davidson’s Antiquated Election System Overdue for Overhaul

(The Davidson system of student elections has long been a topic of discussion and controversy. Bill Stewart, as official Davidsonian
election reporter for the past two springs, is especially well qualified to speak on this oft-debated subject. Ed. note.)

BY BILL STEWART

Last year the Student Body of Davidson College voted to accept a new and revised Student Government Constitution. Old laws,
such as those concerning the drinking of alcoholic beverages, were revised to fit a more modern and progressive student body.
Other provisions, such as the complex system of by-laws, were removed entirely. The committee that rewrote the Constitution failed, however,
in probably the most important part of their work. They left as they were the old and antiquated election laws—laws
which are blatantly unfair, that are conducive to discrepancies in both the casting and counting of ballots, that have as
their result lethargy and complacency on the part of the student body concerning the constitutional officers.

FEBRUARY ELECTIONS?

The elections at Davidson generally begin sometime in the early Spring (they have been getting an earlier start in recent
years) and the elections board considers itself doing a fine job if every office can be filled by the last
day in chapel. It would be necessary, under the present system, with only three chapels each week, to begin this
year sometime in February or early March. Spring elections in Winter! Elections are held in chapel, with only two of
the candidate groups making any speeches at all; it is assumed by those responsible that everybody will know the best
candidate simply because he is a member of our small student body, which is, of course, as always, one big
happy family. The end result is often the election of the man because of what he says in a five-minute
speech; or even more probable, because he is the one who remembered the most names and spoke the greatest number
of times to the greatest number of people during the preceding year. Freshmen with political ambitions—speak!

Elections are also unfair in that they fawn disinterest. After two months of “wait in your seat after chapel,” many
students, through no fault of their own, ask themselves, “Why sit here to vote for a candidate whom I don’t
even know, especially when he’s running for an office I didn’t even know existed?” Consequently, a large number leave without
casting a ballot and the minority rules. Perhaps this explains why in some of last year’s elections less than one-half
of the eligible voters bothered to vote.

CONFUSION

After a ballot is cast, what happens to it under existing law? An election board consisting of fifteen members (one
from each fraternity and four independents) is theoretically supposed to gather the ballots and count them behind closed doors. In
practice, it works more like this. One member or maybe two, who have a free period following chapel, rush up
to the quadrangle room, separate the ballots, and feverishly count them. I might add that they have in the past,
at least in a few cases, been aided by certain members of the administration, each having a more than average
interest in the outcome. All three, in fact, may be very anxious to see their votes counted, and there is
no representative for the hapless candidates on the other side. It should not be inferred from this that I am
accusing any student Davidsonian, or any member of our administration, of discrepancies in ballot counting; I am sure that the
integrity of both is beyond question, even in times of “impending catastrophe.” It remains, however, that the system of counting
certainly leaves room for improvement.

The election system as it now stands is not run systematically; that its procedure is changed somewhat every year is
evidence that the provisions provided in the constitution are inadequate. On some days, the ballots are simply left in the
hymnal racks; at other times they are passed out while the students leave the auditorium. None of these is a
solution. When the blank ballots are distributed before chapel, giving one ballot to each seat, the auditorium is left with
a somewhat large proportion of blank ballots. Other students have often used these ballots, not because of or even thinking
about the dishonest element, but because it is often lots of fun to see how many times one can vote.

Davidson is often accused, both by members of her own student body and by those outside her orbit, of being
a complete community, of being confined to a real ivory tower. It neither follows nor leads, nor does it care.

UNIQUE AND UNWORKABLE

Certainly, the election system furnishes a good example. There must be few colleges in America that have an election system
so unique and unworkable as does Davidson. There are few colleges in the land that, through practice, have so little
analogy to the election systems that have proved themselves in action. There are those who will say that campaigning and
its effects are vulgar, that it accomplishes nothing. These, no doubt, will be the philosophers or cynics who find fault
with everything that anybody proposes. It must be admitted that the only thing gained from our present system is a
complacent spirit, a non-aggressive government, and walls and trees void of the ugly and horrible scars left by tacks and
staples. Again, it may be wondered if the attitude of the college, as deep as it is, would be able
to submit itself to any drastic physical change. There may be doubt that enough people would even take the trouble
to try for election if much effort were involved. At least there would not be twenty-five candidates on every first
ballot, nor would there be the hand-me-down-any-office or I-can-just-run-till-I-win-something attitude.

The Student Council is supposedly now working on a solution to this unhappy situation. Let us hope that a real,
ambitious effort will be made to institute a more effective system, and that real changes and not just another yearly
face-lift will be the result.

Freedom of Thought and Opinion Periled by Modern Inquisition

BY TOM WARLICK

The investigator sat at the end of the long low table. Around the table were grouped the other members of
the Senate Investigations Subcommittee. On one side was a bank of busy newsmen, and in their midst were constantly seen
brilliant illuminations from the photographers' flashbulbs. On the other side was a hushed packed gallery of spectators. Facing the investigator
across the large table was the witness, accused of violating the International Security Act of 1950. The thin tall witness
appeared rather dignified, a characteristic of most public figures. His most noticeable feature was his bright red hair which was
resplendent in the glare of the television lighting. The whirring of newsreel cameras was all that broke the silence of
the scene.

The investigator, himself, was a squat man who spoke with a slight nasal twang and presented a generally unshaven appearance.
A hero of World War II, this man was well known for his short, curt, guttural utterances. He spoke slowly,
“You are well known in society as a conspirator, an atheist, a dangerous revolutionary, a seditionist, and a critic of
our present form of government. It has been reported that you said in a letter to W. S. Smith last
November—now don’t try to deny it, we've got the evidence—‘The tree of liberty must be refreshed from time to time
with the blood of patriots and tyrants. It is its natural manure.’ Do you deny that you wrote these words?”

“Of course not,” the witness immediately replied, “‘A little rebellion now and then is a good thing’.”

At this pandemonium broke loose in the hearing room. Repeated rappings of the chairman’s gavel were necessary to quiet the
crowd of spectators and break up the bewildered conversations of the committee members. Finally, the chairman could be heard, “Un-huh,
un-huh, un-huh. It seems pretty clear that this investigation need not proceed further. Un-huh, un-huh. Is there any final word
which you would like to say in defense?”

“Yes, there is,” the witness said, “‘when in the course of human events, it becomes necessary for one people to
dissolve the political bands which have connected them with another, and to assume. . .’”

“Come, come, man,” interrupted the investigator in shrieking, “you don’t expect this committee to waste its time listening to such
trash and excess irrelevant verbiage as that, do you? You are attempting to make a mockery and a farce of
the proceedings of this committee. If you have nothing pertinent or worthwhile to say, we will proceed.”

The witness was silent.

“Then it is the order of this committee," droned the investigator, “that in accordance with the provisions of paragraph two,
section five, subsection c of the Internal Security Act of 1950, that you be deported from this land of liberty
back to where you came from.”

“Aye, aye,” shouted the delighted committee members and the audience of loyal, secure, and red-blooded Americans. And the inquisition was
over.

This type of trial or investigation has not been uncommon in America in the last few years. Americans first became
graphically familiar with the “big lie” during the rise to power of Adolph Hitler in the 1930s. Today the “big
lie” is rampant. Repeat a falsity often enough and it will be believed as truth. In these days when security
and fear of communism are the chief concerns of men, those who prey upon such fears and desires rise to
power. If a man differs with your philosophy, you have only to label him a communist or an atheist, and
he is conveniently put out of your way. Guilt by association and trial by headline are the conventional means of
character assassination today.

In this connection, we might do well to harken back to the beliefs of John Stuart Mill, famous 16th-century philosopher.
He believed that, “The sole end for which men are warranted, individually or collectively, in interfering with the liberty of
action of any of their number, is self-protection.” He believed that an opinion even if actually false should not be
silenced. As Voltaire would put it, “I disapprove of what you say, but I will defend to the death your
right to say it.” Not only does a man have a right to his own opinion, but it is good
for others to have it expressed. “He who knows only his own side of the case, knows little of that,”
Mills would say. Nor is it enough to hear contrary opinions stated by others who do not accept them. They
should be heard “from persons who actually believe them.” “Their conclusion may be true, but it might be false for
anything they know: they have never thrown themselves into the mental position of those who think differently from them; and
considered what such persons may have to say, and consequently they do not, in any proper sense of the word,
know the doctrine which they themselves profess.”

This position is tempered, of course, in that whenever the expression of an opinion serves as an incitement to action
which would result in violating the freedoms of others, society has every right to repress it without waiting until overt
harm results to others. As Justice Holmes stated it in Schenck vs. United States (249 US 47), “The question in
every case is whether the words used are used in such circumstances and are of such a nature as to
create a clear and present danger that they will bring about the evils that Congress has a right to prevent.”

In conclusion, those who would condemn, disagree, refute, or express opinions contrary to others which have been advanced should begin
by attempting to understand the other position thoroughly, and should proceed by baring the full facts and by presenting the
material in its proper context.
