THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 1955 | 1955-56 Artist Series | Council Gets NSA Warlick Announces IKC both Mr. and Mrs. Douglas and Mr. Rathbone are known, the program will include selections from the world’s favorite love poems, a beautiful and moving story of faith, Oscar Wilde’s “The Selfish Giant.” On November 4, Robert Merrill will appear as the second guest of this year’s series. Probably the most popular baritone in the world today, Mr. Merrill is entering his tenth season at the Metropolitan. He has sung leading roles in some two hundred and fifty performances for the diamond horseshoe and on tour with the opera, and is known to millions through appearances on “Your Show of Shows,” “Toast of the Town,” and “The Jackie Gleason Show.” His recordings for RCA Victor range from operatic arias and albums to “Ol’ Man River” and the famous Yale “Whiffenpoof Song.” Musical America’s poll has repeatedly voted him the best male classic singer on the air. Born in Brooklyn and trained entirely in America, Merrill is one of the newer types of American singers, at home in both operatic and popular music. Big and broad-shouldered, he once played semi-professional baseball, and was even scouted for the Dodgers. When the famous conductor Erno Rapee heard Merrill's voice, he booked him for eight weeks at Radio City Music Hall. From then on one success followed another. In 1945, he won the Metropolitan Opera Auditions of the Air and made his debut at the Met, where he has since given distinguished performances in nearly twenty major roles.

Bennett Cerf, publisher, humorist, columnist, and TV panelist, will appear on the Chambers Auditorium platform on December 7. It has been said that one thing all great men have in common—energy beyond that of ordinary men. Mr. Cerf possesses this quality in abundance. His part-time jobs include writing a syndicated weekly newspaper (The Cerf Board), a weekly magazine column (Trade Winds-Saturday Review), lecturing all over the country, starring on television programs, writing books of his own, and editing numerous anthologies. His official occupation is President of Random House and Modern Library. Mr. Cerf, who will speak here on “Changing Styles in American Humor,” is one of the most popular figures on the lecture platform. His analysis, wit, and unique storytelling ability have justly won him the hearts of millions of Americans.

Hailed as one of the most brilliant young artists on the current keyboard horizon, David Bar-Illan will be heard here on January 13. Bar-Illan has a background that includes winning the highest awards given by the Juilliard Conservatory and the Mannes College of Music. In June 1953, he was the recipient of the Coronation Year medal awarded during the coronation of Elizabeth II. Bar-Illan’s stature as an artist of rare abilities and striking appeal has been firmly established in Israel, England, and, more recently, Canada, and the United States.

On February 7, Benjamin Swalin brings to Davidson his famous North Carolina Little Symphony. This symphony orchestra gives many performances a year, a great majority of which are free, educational programs for school children. Benjamin F. Swalin was born in Minneapolis, Minnesota. After work in the Minneapolis Symphony Orchestra, he received fellowships to study at home and abroad. After his return to the United States in 1933, Dr. Swalin took a professorship at DePauw University. In 1935, he came to the University of North Carolina.

On March 2, the famed Barter Theatre of Abingdon, Va., will bring its troupe of seasoned performers to Davidson. 

Davidson College students were called upon Wednesday to consider all new college policy before it comes into effect. Councilman Perkinson then gave a report on the efforts of his committee in its efforts to get commercial support for the college from various stores to advertise the Davidson-Catawba game in their regular advertisements. Also, he was working on the possibility of having stores buy up blocks of tickets to Davidson games. The purpose of this would be to give these tickets away with Davidson athletics. Two letters were read on the matter of athletic subsidization. One was from the Board of Trustees in which they said that their goal was for Davidson to join in a non-subsidized league consisting of Davidson's natural rivals and members of the Southern Conference. The other letter was from Dr. John Cunningham, in which he said that because of lack of progress toward this goal, he was ceasing his efforts in the matter and would wait for other colleges to do something about the matter. The Student Council decided to present these two letters to the student body at a later date, at which time more detailed information would be given. The Council also discussed and voted to eliminate the “alcohol on the breath” definition of “under the influence” rule on drinking. It then discussed but delayed voting on the definition of the gambling rule. For those students who are interested, the Student Government Office in the College Union will be open every afternoon from 1:40 to 3:00.

Homecoming Plans (Continued From Page One)

Asian affairs. The Honorary degree of Doctor of Laws will be conferred upon him at the conclusion of his address. Following this meeting, luncheon will be served to the alumni and their wives. The afternoon activities will center around the Davidson-Washington and Lee football game. Enthusiastic graduates, students paying more attention to the girl next to him, and girls enthralled by the attention being paid her and the chrysanthemum she wears—all know that there will be a victory for the Wildcats. Afterthe game, music lovers will move into Chambers Auditorium for the afternoon concert by Art Mooney and his band. From there, the couples will move to the College Union, fraternity houses, or Charlotte for supper to return just in time for the girl to dress for the Saturday dance which will begin at 8 p.m., and last until 12 p.m. Art Mooney will again provide dance music Saturday night. After the dance, many fraternity functions, hay-rides, etc., are planned by different groups and individuals. This will be the first big dance weekend that the new freshmen will know for the most part, and it promises to be one of the best yet. Slightly over three hundred girls will be housed in Belk dormitory over the weekend. Those not staying in the dormitory will stay in homes in Davidson or surrounding communities. By Sunday evening, the girls having left, the campus will settle back down to its usual routine, but with the memories of the best dance weekend yet.

Organized after three years’ growth from a church madrigal group of 12 voices, since 1947 Wagner has guided his group into international fame in concert, radio, television, motion pictures, and recordings. Lucas Hoving and Lavina Neilsen (a husband and wife team) will participate in the activities of the International Relations Club (IRC) this year. The IRC aims to provide a group for students to express their interest in world affairs. Membership is open to all students who have such an interest. The fall plans of the club include, as in the past, student programs and discussions on various topics of current interest. Last year when the Davidson IRC presented a program to the corresponding group at Winthrop College, they invited the Winthrop club to present a similar program at Davidson. This will be high on the list of tentative plans for the fall semester.

Dr. Harold P. Ford, professor of political science while on leave from the State Department, has agreed to work with the club, and he is certain to be of great value. All students, especially new students, who have an interest in the IRC are urged to attend the organizational meeting Wednesday, October 5, at 7:15 p.m., in the Green Room of the College Union. Dr. Theodore A. Distler, speaking at the college's first academic convocation this year, pointed out the major educational crisis in the United States. “The qualitative aspects are even more serious,” said Dr. Distler. “There is good hope that material needs will be met if we know how to harness good will and a sense of responsibility for higher education.” He cited the anticipated annual gifts of $100 million dollars from industry and $60 million from alumni for the support of the colleges as evidence. “But material needs are not the whole story,” said Dr. Distler.

Members of Alpha Epsilon Delta, pre-medical fraternity, will hold a supper at 7 p.m., Wednesday, October 5, in the College Union. An orientation program for pre-medical students is planned. Dr. K. E. Penrod of Duke University will be the guest speaker at the first meeting of Alpha Epsilon Delta. Dr. Puckett will also speak concerning the aims of AED and some of its plans for this year. This part of the meeting will begin at 8 p.m. in the science lecture hall. All members of the student body, especially members of the freshman class, are cordially invited to attend.

Fall Services will begin with Vespers on October 9, and continue through the 11th. Dr. Paul Tudor Jones, pastor of Idlewild Presbyterian Church in Memphis, Tennessee, will be delivering the messages. More complete information will be given in next week's issue of the Davidsonian.

Luxurious Cashmere V-neck Sweaters
Pure Cashmere in one of the handsomest sweaters you've ever seen! Oxford, light grey, navy, natural, taffy, dark brown, yellow, white, charcoal grey, medium grey, black, charcoal brown, pink, cherry. Sizes 38-46, $27.50. Men's furnishings, street floor.

Fast Color, Esquire Argyle Socks
A comprehensive collection of these famous socks, bold patterns, in uniformly good taste. All are fast-colors, wash beautifully. $1.00. Men's furnishings, street floor.

In Ivy League style... Handsome Slacks
Handsome Dana sheen gabardine slacks, in black, olive, tan, and charcoal grey. $9.95. Ivy League Flannels, in charcoal brown, blue, grey, and green. $15.00. Men's clothing, street floor.

Long-wearing Genuine Shell Cordovan
Lustrous shell cordovans are an investment in smart appearance and long wear. Sizes 6 to 13, widths A to E. Shown, Crosby Square plain toe with leather sole and heel in black or brown, or with rubber sole in brown only. $16.95. Men's shoes, street floor.

Ivy Covers the Campus
From the moment you try on one of our Ivy League suits or sport coats, you’ve gained a valuable business and social asset. You look trimmer, more self-assured. You look destined to get ahead. The secret is in the easy, natural fit; in the rich, subdued fabrics, in the careful tailoring Worsted-Tex lavishes on every suit or sport coat. We have your size and color preference, in a full selection of patterns. Isn’t it worth a try-on tomorrow? Worsted-Tex suits, $65.00. Worsted-Tex sport coats, $30.00 up. “After-Six” Ivy League Tuxedo, $45.00. Wilson Brothers authentic Ivy League shirt in lustrous combed oxford cloth, $5.00. Black knit ties, $1.50.