CATS TO HIT RICHMOND (Page 3) The Davidsonian ESCAPE FROM COMMUNISM (Page 2) VOL. XLIV DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C.,
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1955 NO. 7 Phi Beta Kappa and Omicron Delta Kappa Select Eleven ODK Speech on Maturity Given
in Chapel by Helm BY GLENN ROBERTSON The Delta Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa tapped six outstanding Davidson Seniors for
membership in Chapel Tuesday. Hobby Cobb, Vice-President of the local Chapter, presided at the annual autumn ceremony. Dewitt Helm, Editor
of the Davidson College yearbook, Quips and Cranks and an active member of O.D.K., was the speaker. Helm spoke on
maturity, giving a four-point program for self-analysis. In conclusion, he stated that a college graduate should be able to appreciate
the opinions of others and, in the final analysis, stand on his own two feet and think for himself. Following
Helm’s talk, Cobb dropped the gavel on the rostrum six times calling forth Messrs. Child, Crouse, Koonce, McLauchlin, Pharr, and
Smith to the hallowed halls of O.D.K. Qualifications for membership in the society are character, scholarship, intelligence, service and leadership
in campus life, fellowship, and conservation of Democratic ideals. Character, however, is the primary consideration for membership.

JOHN CHILD John Child, the venerable Freshman advisor, is a native of Spartanburg, but at present hails from Hopedale, Mass.
John, a member of Kappa Sigma, is serving his second term on the Student Council and his first on the
YMCA Cabinet. Upon graduation from Davidson with a major in Business, Mr. Child will become a 2nd Lieutenant in the
Army.

MAURICE CROUSE Maurice Crouse is the little man with the big stick on the campus. Besides claiming membership to Phi
Beta Kappa, Sigma Epsilon, Tau Kappa Alpha, Sigma Delta Pi, and Seabbard and Blade, Mac holds down the Publicity Post
of the Y Cabinet and is Associate Editor of the Davidsonian. Last year Crouse was managing President of the Campus
Club and this year he is President of his organization. Cadet Capt. Crouse, a native of Lincolnton, N. C., graduates
from Davidson in June with Special Attainments in History to serve his country as a commissioned officer.

PHIL KOONCE Well known to all Davidsonians, is Phil Koonce, a native of Tarboro, N. C., and an affiliate of
A.T.O. As President of this year’s IFC, Koonce is responsible for all dance weekends and their concurrent headaches. Certainly, we
should not overlook the fact that Koonce, last year, was high point man on the Track Squad and is captain
of the track team for the ensuing year. His specialty is the hundred-yard dash. Phil, as Regimental Executive Officer, is
second in command at R.O.T.C. Drill on Tuesdays and on completion of his Psychology Major, he plans to serve his
stretch for Uncle Sam.

JOHN McLAUCHLIN Personable John McLauchlin hails from Raeford, N. C., is Vice-President of his Fraternity, Beta Theta Pi, and is
chairman of the YMCA Gift Fund, Business Major. “Johnny Mac” holds a coveted post on the R.O.T.C. Regimental Staff, and
is Captain (President) of Seabbard and Blade, the Honorary Military Fraternity. Last year McLauchlin was the most feared member of
the Court of Control and strangely enough Vice-President of the YMCA.

JOE BILLY PHARR Cherryville, N. C., claims Joe Billy Pharr, a math major and Editor of the Davidsonian and Vice-
(Continued On Page Four)

BRICE POLL: Preference According to a poll taken this past week by the David- Martins to Conduct 1956 Brownell Tour
The Brownell Southern Colleges Tour for 1956 will include three Scandinavian countries in addition to the eight other European countries
which have been visited by this group in 1954 and 1955. The 51-day tour which will depart from Quebec on
June 30 will be conducted by Mr. and Mrs. Grier Martin, who also conducted the 1954 tour. Dean and Mrs.
S. R. Spencer, Jr., were leaders of the 1955 tour. The Atlantic crossing will be made on the S. S.
Homeric, air-conditioned flagship of the Home Lines. This desirable new ship has been so much in demand that the allocation
of space on it for the Southern Colleges Tour has been reduced by one-third from last year. With reservations already
made for almost one-half of these spaces, it is expected that the tour will be filled much earlier than last
year’s tour which was completely full at the first of the year. The Southern Colleges Tour has received enthusiastic praise
from the 57 tour members from 22 colleges and universities in 15 states. A majority of the tour members have
come from Duke, North Carolina, Mississippi, Agnes Scott, Stephens, Hollins, and Davidson.

Record Popu Survey Made by Psychology Class An experiment done here at Davidson and one done earlier at Heidelburg College,
Ohio, have attempted to provide the answer to this question. Results show that records do have some quality which regulates
their appeal. Specifically what quality this may be has not yet been determined, but the door has at least been
opened for further research in the field. In the experiment done here, 50 students were selected at random from the
student body. Previous musical knowledge or experience was not considered. The 50 subjects were divided into five groups of ten
each. The subjects were coated in the modern, comfortable environment of a relatively sound-proof room, were told the purpose of
the experiment, and were asked to rate ten records on a scale of one to ten. Results obtained here were
very similar to those obtained at the experiment at Heidelburg. Ratings for each record remained fairly stable throughout the ten
ratings, but ratings for different records varied markedly. This indicates that records do have something within their makeup which causes
them to be received with varying degrees of acceptance. The experiment seems to show that we buy one record because
it lifts us up, which is what we need at the moment; or we reject another record at the same
moment because it is slow and moody and (Continued On Page Four)

NOTICE Any member of the Student Body who would like to purchase an extra copy of the Quips and Cranks
for his parents, girlfriend, or friends can do so by payment of $4.00 to Hugh Malone prior to Thanksgiving.

Students Act Pretty Nice basis of Five Seniors with High Scholastic Rating Chosen Five members of the Class of 1956
have been elected to membership by Gamma of North Carolina Chapter of the Society of Phi Beta Kappa and will
be initiated as members-in-course early in December. These men are: Joe Harvey Gaskin; Archie B. Joyner, III; Pat D. Miller,
Jr.; Richard R. Pyle; and Thomas W. Warlick. Phi Beta Kappa, whose local chapter was established at Davidson in 1923,
recognizes students who have maintained superior academic standing during their years here. Six men were elected last Spring. The new
candidates have established outstanding records in fields other than those related to scholarship and have made a large contribution in
the way of leadership on campus. Those who have fulfilled the requirements are:

JOE GASKIN Joe Gaskin is a pre-medical student, fraternity, and a member of Eumanean Literary Society.

PAT MILLER Pat Miller is a member of Delta Phi, a student from Atlanta, Georgia. A student in English honors
work, he is also an outstanding German scholar and is President of Delta Phi. Miller is a brother of Sigma
Delta Phi.

TOM WARLICK Tom Warlickis from Newton, North Carolina, and a member of Alpha Tau Omega social fraternity. He is president
of the International Relations Club, a member of Eumanean Literary Society, and is doing work in history honors. Warlick has
also been designated as a Distinguished Military student.

Dick Pyle, the second pre-medical student in the group of new members, is from Del Ray Beach, Florida. He has
already been accepted at three of the top medical schools in the country and is president of Alpha Epsilon Delta,
national honorary medical fraternity. He is also secretary of Gamma Sigma Epsilon, honorary chemistry fraternity.

Graduate Fellowships for 1956-57 for the study of International Relations leading to the M.A. degree have been announced by the
University of Denver, Denver, Colorado. Fellowships ranging from tuition to $1,500 dollars and provided by The Social Science Foundation are
available to 1956 college graduates with outstanding records. Applications must be postmarked not later than March 1, 1956. Interested seniors
are urged to contact Dr. G. L. Abernethy for further information.

Archie Joyner, from Greensboro, is a business major whose greatest claim to fame is his victory in the Freshman Cake
Race of 1952. A member of Beta Theta Pi, he is the social chairman for that fraternity. Joyner is president
of Sigma Delta Pi, national Spanish honorary society.

According to a recent poll conducted by the Davidsonian, the political views of Davidson students vary greatly. There is an
almost equal number of Republicans and Democrats, and even those in the same party favor a number of different candidates.
The only opinions on which there was general agreement were: 1) If Eisenhower runs again, he will be re-elected; 2)
Stevenson will be the Democratic nominee. Six hundred students were asked to give their opinion, but only 417 of these
returned the questionnaire. This, of course, is approximately one-half the student body.

The questions asked were as follows (Number of answers and approximate percentage are given on the side):

1. Which party do you prefer?
168—40% Republican.
177—43% Democratic.
72—17% Independent.

2. Do you think President Eisenhower will run for re-election?
119—28.5% Yes.
271—65% No.
27—6.5% No opinion.

3. If he runs, do you think he will be elected?
353—84.5% Yes.
49—11.5% No.
16—4% No opinion.

4. If Eisenhower does not run, who do you think will be the Republican nominee?
147—37% Nixon.
47—12% Knowland.
91—23% Warren.
43—11% Stassen.
17—5% Dewey.
8—2% Milton Eisenhower.
41—10% Other.

5. Who do you think will be the Democratic nominee?
307—75% Stevenson.
49—12% Harriman.
18—4% Kefauver.
13—3% Russell.
4—1% Symington.
2—0.5% Lausche.
2—0.5% Mennen Williams.
15—4% Other.

6. Republicans only answer this question. If Eisenhower does not run, who do you want to be the Republican nominee?
55—35.5% Nixon.
11—7% Knowland.
39—24% Warren.
17—10.5% Stassen.
15—9.5% Dewey.
8—5% Milton Eisenhower.
14—9% Other.

7. This question is for Democrats only. Who is your choice for the Democratic nomination?
73—42.5% Stevenson.
8—4.5% Harriman.
20—11.5% Kefauver.
58—33.5% Russell.
1—0.5% Symington.
3—1.5% Lausche.
0—0% Mennen Williams.
12—7% Other.

Students who were in charge of taking the poll are: Bob King, Morrissey, John Toumaras, Kernan, Tony Huggins, Smyth, Basil
Sharp, Al Myers, Fred Streetman, and Ed Stevens.

"Y" Meeting Will Feature Former Russian Officer

Nicholas T. Goncharoff, a staff member of the International Committee of the YMCA, will be the guest speaker at Tuesday
night’s YMCA Membership meeting. His appearance here is being managed by the Commission for Effective Citizenship.

Robert Merrill, world-famous baritone of the Metropolitan Opera, upon his second visit to the Davidson campus, will appear in concert
in Chambers Auditorium on November 4. In an exclusive interview for the Davidsonian, Mr. Merrill made several comments on Davidson
College and its student body. “This is one of the quietest campuses I have ever visited. The atmosphere is wonderful
for relaxation and study, and the students seem to be the serious type—doing some work.”

Mr. Merrill said that he misses the fact he didn’t go to college, but observed that “studying to become a
musical artist is like several college educations wrapped up in one.” He advised young people to gain practical experience in
their field of interest. “Study is wonderful, but experience is the important thing. I took to music quite young, eighteen,
and took every sort of job offered to me in order to gain experience. I would say to all young
people, that they should go out and accept any job offered them in the field of their interest in order
to gain experience. A medical student cannot begin the actual practice of medicine simply on study; he must have practical
training first, and so must everyone else. If one has ability it will come out with experience.”

Mr. Merrill likes to sing in both opera and in concert equally well. “Both offer different challenges in different seasons.”
He observed that Rigoletto, The Barber of Seville, and Carmen were among his favorite operas. “One never stops learning from
Rigoletto,” he said. When asked about his favorite role, he replied with a warm smile and genial manner, “The one
I am doing at the moment.” He also mentioned that the opportunities for a successful career in music are greater
than they have ever been before. Television, radio, and records offer the chance to make a reputation in many fields.

Mr. Goncharoff will speak to the Cadet Regiment at drill Tuesday. His talk at Davidson is one in a series
given to various Y membership groups and his speaking tours are concerned with spreading information about communist tactics, as well
as seeking to define “the Christian alternative to Communism.” Mr. Goncharoff will speak to the membership after the worship service
and at the end of his speech, he will answer any questions which members might have.
