Speaking of Sports
By JIM HOLSHOUSER

SWIMMERS DOING GREAT

The winningest team on the Davidson campus at the present time is the varsity swimming squad, which now boasts a 5-0 record for the season. After winning their opening meet against Eastern Carolina, the Cat tankers have swept past The Citadel, Eastern again, South Carolina, and Wofford in rapid succession. The Wofford meet last Tuesday produced the widest margin of the year, 66-18. The swimmers are off to Clemson today and hit Emory in Atlanta tomorrow afternoon. Victory in these two meets will keep the swimmers’ record unblemished, with only two more meets remaining on the schedule before the Southern Conference meet.

The site of the 1955 Southern Conference Swimming Meet has been moved from V.M.I. to Davidson and will be held here on February 24, 25, and 26. It will be a real treat for local students since they will have the opportunity to see some of the best swimmers in the area, and the fast competition should produce a fine meet. The host Wildcat team will be a strong contender for Conference honors this season since the added strength of the freshman squad of 1954 has given the Cats the depth needed in past seasons.

HATS OFF

This week, The Davidsonian hat is tipped to Coach Pete Whittle for the fine job he is doing as Acting Athletic Director. When the resignation of Paul Scott left the position vacant last October, Whittle was asked to assume the director’s duties until a new man could be selected by the Trustees. Pete added these chores to the many already held in the track department, and he has handled the load in fine fashion. The Davidson coaching staff has been pleased with the manner in which the position has been run, and the coaches haven't hesitated to give Whittle their full support. The task of keeping things in shape until a new director can be selected is probably harder than the permanent director’s position since few definite policies can be adopted during this period, and only a very able man could do a job which could be considered better than average. Coach Whittle has done it, and we extend hearty congratulations on a job well done.

To the other coaches also goes a lot of credit. With Tom Fetzer, Elgin White, and Mr. Scott having left for other pastures, the Davidson coaches have had to do double duty this year. Each man has had to be on the job in two different departments or more, and the coaching staff has worked hard to keep everything moving at the usual speed.

CAT TRACKSTERS TO ENTER SOUTHERN

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 1955

Unbeaten Cat Swimmers On Road Trip

Davidson Cagers Hit Furman Again On Next Thursday
By LEON HOWELL

Furman’s Purple Paladins are hosts to the Davidson hoopsters next Thursday night, Feb. 17. After playing Furman last night here, the Cats will probably have their fill of Darrel Floyd and crew by the end of that evening. It will be necessary for Davidson to halt the rapid-fire scoring habits of Furman, now averaging 97.5 points per game. Part of the drama will be in the tactics Davidson employs in attempting to halt Floyd, the nation’s leading scorer.

Last Friday night in Johnston Gym, the Cats once again were made to believe the old adage, “A good big man is better than a good little man.” Washington and Lee, a rapidly improving club, sent out a starting five that averaged six feet, two inches. Davidson, forced to fire from the outside against the tight defense employed, was unable to hit. Both backboards were controlled by W&L, and therein lay the victory formula. High scoring Hobby Cobb, guarded closely by taller opponents, was held to 16 points. Ray Harding contributed 13 to the losing cause, while the very promising freshman, Mike Martin, hit for 14 in a short stint in the game. Mike garnered 10 of his points in a display of accuracy from the foul line. Storick and Flora headed the well-balanced W&L attack with 14 each.

Saturday night was more enjoyable for the Wildcat boosters. In a very exciting battle, Davidson pulled a victory out in the last few minutes, 68 to 65. After holding a comfortable lead in the first (Continued On Back Page)

THE DAVIDSON STUDENTS PICK 'EM

Results of last week’s “Pick the Winner” contest: Blake Brinkerhoff and Charlie Robinson tied for top honors as each only missed three predictions out of fourteen tries. Below are students’ predictions for games selected from the period February 11-16. Several intersectional contests are included in addition to Southern, Atlantic Coast, Southern, and Big Ten Conference games.

Jerry Curtiss Ballentine Kivett Cates
North Carolina over Virginia North Car. North Car.
George Washington over Richmond Geo. Wash. Geo. Wash.
Duke over Navy Duke Duke
Vanderbilt over Tulane Vandy Vandy
West Virginia over Wash. & Lee West Va. West Va.
Maryland over North Carolina Maryland Maryland
Minnesota over Illinois Minnesota Minnesota
LaSalle over Richmond LaSalle LaSalle
Georgia Tech over Tulane Ga. Tech Tulane
Minnesota over Indiana Minnesota Minnesota
West Virginia over Wm. & Mary West Va. West Va.
Iowa over Ohio State Towa Ohio St.
Kentucky over Xavier Kentucky Kentucky
N. C. State over Duke State State
North Carolina over Wake Forest North Car. North Car.
V. M. I. over V. P. I. V. M. I. V. P. I.

Have You Checked Your Tuxedo and Accessories For Midwinters? Need New Ones? See the most Tuxedo “PETER SIX" at Wilson-Wright's Inc. “COLLEGIATE FASHIONS” Rentals Also

Guster Sharp
North Car. North Car.
Geo. Wash. Geo. Wash.
Duke Duke
Vandy Vandy
West Va. West Va.
Maryland Maryland
Illinois Minnesota
LaSalle LaSalle
Tulane Tulane
Minnesota Minnesota
West Va. West Va.
Towa Ohio St.
Kentucky Kentucky
State State
Wake Forest North Car.
V. P. I. V. P. I.

Want to travel and study abroad? Take a university-sponsored tour via TWA this summer and earn full college credit while you travel. Visit the countries of your choice ... study from 2 to 6 weeks at a foreign university. You can do both on one trip when you arrange a university-sponsored tour via TWA. Itineraries include countries in Europe, the Middle East, Asia, and Africa. Special study tours available. Low all-inclusive prices with TWA’s economical Sky Tourist service. For information, write to Dr. Frank E. Ross, Ph. D., Director, Air World Tours, Dept. CN, 300 Madison Ave., New York 17, N. Y. Be sure to mention countries you wish to visit.

JERRY SPEAKS: ALRENRDA LUK OB) Che Pabidsonian ORTA LIBERTAS

THE DAVIDSONIAN

CAT BASEBALLERS TO START WORK ON FEBRUARY 14

PAGE THREE

Record Now Five Wins, No Losses: Clemson And Emory Next On Slate

Coach Carroll Hambright and Captain Al Ormond talk things over as the Davidson swimmers get set for the Southern Conference Tournament here on February 24, 25, and 26.

Babbling Brooks

On Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, Feb. 24, 25, and 26, the Davidson Wildcats will be the hosts for the Southern Conference Swimming Meet. There is expected to be a good representation combined with a high spirit of competition for theConference crown. Prior to the Conference meet, there will be two individual meets here in the next two weeks—one with V.P.I. and one with Washington and Lee. These will be prior to the Conference Meet, so if you are interested in Davidson’s welfare in marine competition, get down to the pool and back the “Cat-fish.”

In indoor track last week, Davidson pulled a 50-50 split at the Virginia Relays at Lexington. The 60-yard spring relay team came in fourth against nine good teams, of which the top three were: V.M.I., Duke, and Maryland. In the shot-put division, Davidson's three entries could not qualify due to unknown reasons or just plain locking up. Next week when Davidson sends nearly a full team to the Southern Conference Indoor Meet, a better showing will be expected from all participants, due to continuous heavy workouts.

This reporter would like to take a moment aside to express an opinion. After the Washington and Lee basketball game, I was talking to one of the W&L players who lives in the same area from which I come. During the course of our pleasant conversation, he asked how I liked this school. I told him I was well-satisfied. Now naturally this was a mistake, for at that moment a fellow-Davidsonian was passing us and dropped this comment in retaliation to mine—“You are lying like hell!” I have but one thing to say about this incident. It was a poor impression made on a guest. If a boy doesn't like this school, then may I say that he is quite free to leave. This is an impersonal observation, and (Continued On Page Four)

By NEO PAYNE

Davidson’s swimming team carries a five win-no loss record into competition this weekend, traveling to Clemson tonight and to Emory tomorrow. To date, the Cats have posted wins over East Carolina twice, by 61-23 and 60-24, over South Carolina by 55-28, and in a close one, 45-39, over The Citadel.

Winter Track Squad Now Working To Be Ready for S.C. Meet

By CHARLES McGIRT

Coach Heath Whittle and his fifteen winter runners have been putting in long hours in preparation for the Southern Conference indoor track meet. This meet is open to all teams which are members of the Southern Conference and will be held at V.M.I. in Lexington, Virginia, on February 19th. When asked about the contest which will be held this month, Coach Whittle said, “My boys are looking good.” The events which will be entered are as follows: the mile, the sixty-yard relay, the high hurdles, the low hurdles, high jump, broad jump with three men, and the quarter mile run made up of three men. All of the boys seem to be in good shape and it is predicted that the Davidson team will make a good showing. The local boys will be competing with many schools of this section, most of which are about the same size. Immediately following this meet, the Wildcats will take in the Atlantic Coast Conference meet. The ACC meet is scheduled for the 25th of February and is to be held at Carolina. This will be competition with the larger schools of the eastern seaboard such as Maryland, Carolina, and N.C. State.

Correction

Last week’s issue was quoted as giving Neil Gordon a total of nine points when Furman played Davidson here two years ago. After re-checking the record book, it was discovered that Gordon only hit for 7 points.

This year’s Davidson swimming squad is the largest in the team’s history. Coach Hambright said the entire squad is working hard, and he is especially impressed with the freshmen, who are inexperienced but have shown a strong will to improve. Captain Al Ormond continues his fine career after leading the team as individual high scorer for the past three years. He has turned in some fine performances to date, along with sophomore Bill Carrell. Coach Hambright is also pleased with the fine improvement shown by Alex Shephard and Frank Kiker. Both boys have been working hard to improve their time. The squad consists of: Roger Bates in the diving and sprints, “Chuck” Blake in the distances, Bill Carrell in the distances and individual medley, John Edwards in the breaststroke, Frank Kiker in the backstroke, Bob Oliver in the distances, Curt Ormond in diving and medley, Al Ormond in the distances and backstroke, Larry Parrott in the distances, Stafford Query in the sprints, Tom Rivers in the sprints, Basil Sharp a diver and sprinter, Alex Shephard in the distances, Ed Spier in the sprints, Jim Travis in the breaststroke, Jeff Smith a diver, John Winfrey in the sprints, and Charles Stowe in the breaststroke. Managers are Carl Bitter, Fred Brandt, and Dick Morehead.

The remainder of the schedule has meets with VPI on the 14th, Washington and Lee on the 18th, and the Southern Conference Meet on February 24-25-26. The Southern Conference Meet will be held at the Davidson pool this year, and Coach Hambright expects his squad to make a fine showing. Last year Davidson finished only two points out of second place in the conference meet, and this year the tankmen are out to do battle for the Conference trophy.

CAT GRAPPLERS TO HIT CITADEL

By JOHN JOHNSON

The Wildcat matmen meet The Citadel here in Johnston Gym Saturday night with the first match beginning at 7:30 p.m. This will be the Cats’ last home contest of the current season. The Citadel has a tough team that is holding a good record. They have suffered only one defeat, and that one was to highly-regarded North Carolina State. Among other victories, they have defeated V.M.I. by a score of 24 to 8. V.M.I. downed the Cats 18-15 in the first match of the season, so Davidson is expecting a hard contest tomorrow night. The Wildcat grapplers have been working for the meet under Coach Parker’s directions. The team members will be changed in two positions. Ritzell Snider will not be in the competition tomorrow night, but his departure from the line-up is only temporary. David Burns, who wrestled heavyweight in some of the earlier matches, graduated at the semester and is no longer with the team. Three members of the eight-man team are freshmen. The three are Bill Warlick, David Fagg, and Henry Griffin. Buxton, the team captain, has not been defeated yet and will probably add another victory to his list tomorrow. The wrestlers that will see action against The Citadel are:

Weight Player
123 Griffin
130 Price
137 Warlick
147 Wright
157 Buxton
167 Faison
177 Fego
Heavyweight Regen

For more pure pleasure... SMOKE CAMELS! No other cigarette is so rich-tasting yet so mild! P.S. No other brand has ever been able to match the pure pleasure in Camel's exclusive blend of costly tobaccos! That's why Camels are America’s most popular cigarette! B. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., Winston-Salem, N.C.