PAGE FOUR

D CLUB PRACTICES FOR ‘FOOLIES’

Left to right, are Jeff Smith, Archie Joyner, Tom Breeden, Bob Talbert, Lyle Llewellyn, and Dick Jones.

Davidson College Alumni Club Cabaret Dance

Produce Six New Books Planned for Union

The library has recently obtained six new and interesting books written by Davidson alumni. The Grange in North Carolina was
written by Stuart Noblin. It is a story of agricultural progress. This book contains an appraisal of the North Carolina
State Grange (farmers’ organization) and its accomplishments.

A History of the Sugaw Creek Presbyterian Church was written by Neil Roderick McGeachy. It traces one of the oldest
Presbyterian churches in North Carolina from its founding by Scotch-Irish emigrants until the present time.

The Presbyterian Congregation on Rocky River was written by Thomas Hugh Spence, Jr. This book describes the life of the
Rocky River Church from its first minister, Mr. John Clark, in 1775.

Florida Bird Life was written by Alexander Sprunt, Jr. This interesting book contains vivid and concise descriptions of all the
birds found in Florida. It also describes their history, their nesting, and their food.

Modern American Diplomacy was written by Edward O. Guerrant. This book treats the essential steps of American foreign policy from
the Spanish-American War to the fall of Dien Bien Phu.

Babcock’s Principles and Practice of Surgery was written by Karl C. Jonas. This is an extensive revision of Principles and
Practice of Surgery by W. Wayne Babcock. It is a full and authoritative presentation of general surgery and surgical specialties.

Eight Fraternities...

(Continued From Page One)

Pi Kappa Alpha recently had its annual election. The new officers are as follows: Joe Billy Pharr, president; George Scott,
vice president; Bob Crittendon, secretary; Lee Hand, treasurer; and Ken Conger, IFC representative.

The following men were elected by the ATO’s: Linny Baker, president; Al Harris, vice-president; Frank Bloodworth, secretary; Bill Stewart, treasurer;
Joe Gaskin and Frank Bloodworth, rush chairmen; Phil Koonce, IFC representative; Tom Warlick, historian.

The Betas elected the following: Joe Conarroe, president; John McLauchlin, vice president; Tony Dick, corresponding secretary; Bill Bondurant, recording secretary;
Bob Alexander, treasurer; Carl Cooper, rush chairman; Gordon Bondurant, IFC representative.

The Kappa Sigs chose: Hobby Cobb, president; Dickey Adams and Blake Brinkerhoff, vice presidents; Gerald Cathey, secretary; Bob Moffitt, treasurer;
Dan LaFar, rush chairman; Bo Abernethy, IFC representative.

The Phi Gams selected: Buddy Bullock, president; John Harmon, corresponding secretary; Buddy Lyles, recording secretary; Allen Beck, treasurer; Jerry Kivett,
IFC representative.

No report has been received from Sigma Chi, Sigma Alpha Epsilon, or Pi Kappa Phi.

Softball, Tennis...

(Continued From Page Three)

Club, the Betas, and the Sigma Chis respectively. The Pikas’ victory was their first in two outings, for they were
beaten by the Sigma Chis in their first game. The K.A.s are the only team owning two victories.

ROTC Inspection...

(Continued From Page One)

Military Science classes in session, and the afternoon was comprised of an inspection of all the records and facilities of
the Davidson ROTC Department. The physical facilities of the department were greatly improved over last year in that only in
the past week had the department finished moving into the new and not-yet-completed Belk Dormitory.

On Tuesday morning the inspector reviewed more Military Science classes, asking questions of the cadets in all classes. At twelve
o'clock they dined with Dr. Cunningham, Dean Pietenpol, Dean Spencer, and Col. John D. Sapp, Professor of Military Science and
Tactics at Davidson College.

The inspection was highlighted by an inspection of the Cadet Corps in their Tuesday afternoon drill session. After an hour-long
inspection, the inspection team reviewed a parade of the ROTC Cadet Regiment, under the command of Cadet Colonel Cortez A.
Cooper. After the parade, the party made a final call on President Cunningham and returned to the ROTC Department for
a critique by the cadre of the Davidson unit.

Bill Rowland...

(Continued From Page Three)

decided to change Bill to the left halfback position, where he will perform next fall. He is counted on to
supply the offensive punch lost by the graduation of Tommy Thacker.

At present, Bill can be seen almost any afternoon down on the baseball diamond either knocking the cover off the
ball or making

The Union Social Committee, in co-sponsorship with the Union Special Features Committee, is planning a Club Cabaret Dance to be
held in the College Union Ballroom this Saturday, April 16, at 8:15 p.m. The first dance of this type, held
in March, was so entertaining that this second is being arranged and is anticipated to be an even greater success.

Jesse Morrow will bring his combo over from the Queen City to play the same variety of music which has
delighted fraternity parties as well as those at the first Club Cabaret dance. Besides the dance music, there will be
musical entertainment provided by the Lamplighters and soloist Bob Martin, dancing by Henry Parrish, the ventriloquistic feats of Harry Paschall,
and, as a special feature, an imitative rendition of Satchmo Armstrong by Jesse Morrow.

Decorations, including tablecloths and candles, will lend a night club atmosphere to the Ballroom. Free refreshments will be served as
well. Reservations may be made in the Union office or with John Fite for the reasonable price of one dollar.
Those interested should sign early for a limit of twenty couples has been placed on the audience.

Chamber Orchestra...

(Continued From Page One)

tok. Other programs to round out the Fine Arts Festival include the annual “American Music” concert presented by Phi Mu
Alpha Sinfonia in the Ballroom of the College Union on Thursday, April 28, and the Red and Black Masquers’ production
of the play, “Journey’s End,” on Friday and Saturday evenings, April 28 and 30, in Chambers Auditorium.

Brinkerhoff...

(Continued From Page One)

tary of the YMCA. Next year’s Davidsonian editor will be Dick Morehead, a rising Senior from Huntington, West Virginia. Morehead
served as writer and feature editor on this year’s Davidsonian. Morehead is also the newly elected Council representative for his
social fraternity, Kappa Alpha, and is a member and secretary of Le Cercle Francais.

Dee Helm, elected editor of the 1955-56 Quips and Cranks by the rising senior class, is a member of Sigma
Alpha Epsilon. From Hot Springs, Virginia, Helm was in charge of the opening section of the annual his sophomore year
and the activities and honorary sections this year.

Inter-Fraternity

THE DAVIDSONIAN

HERE APRIL 13:

Sullins Girls’ Choir to Thrill D. C. Students

The Sullins College Choir will be presented in concert at Davidson College in Chambers Auditorium, Monday evening, April 18, at
8:15 o'clock. There will be no admission charge and the public is cordially invited.

The choir’s appearance here is one in a series of concerts of the 1955 spring tour. The group is under
the direction of Leon B. Fleming, Jr., head of the Sullins College voice department. Accompanist for the singers is Evelyn
McLeod Vance, also a member of the Sullins music faculty.

The 1955 concert tour marks the fourth consecutive year the choir has toured. The group will travel some 2000 miles,
presenting thirteen concerts during the eight-day period—in Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina and the nation’s capital.

Since the choir’s reorganization in 1951 by the director, Leon B. Fleming, Jr., the group has done extensive concertizing throughout
the Southern States, and is in constant demand for radio and television performances. In recent years, the group has been
heard at such places as William and Mary College, Davidson College, Richmond Professional Institute, Virginia Military Institute, Virginia Polytechnic Institute,
the United States Naval Hospital, Bethesda, Maryland, and the Walter Reed Army Hospital, Washington, D. C.

The choir program is as follows: Alleluia, Bach; If Thou Wert Near,

All Scholarship Aid Request Due April 16

The Office of the Dean of Students wishes to emphasize the fact that all applications from members of the present
student body for scholarship aid (remissions or grants-in-aid) must be in by Saturday, April 16. Application forms may be secured
in Dean Spencer’s office. All present holders of scholarship aid are reminded that they must reapply each year.

ORC Raises Nineteen Undergrad Students

Headquarters of the 108th Infantry Division ReplacementCo. announces the following promotions among Davidson undergraduates enrolled in the Organized Reserve Corps.
To be Sergeant First Class—Sgt. Zane G. Kidd. To be Sergeant—Cpl. Theodore E. Andrae, II, Cpl. Fredrick D. Benton, Cpl.
Robert B. Dalton, Cpl. Richard T. Davis, Cpl. James M. Knox, Cpl. Jesse C. Lockaby, Cpl. Charles G. McClure, Cpl.
Henry M. Pitts, Cpl. John G. Smith and Cpl. John G. Smith, Jr. To be Corporal—Pfc. Henry S. Brown, Pfc.
John S. W. Buxton, Pfc. John L. Green, Jr., Pfc. Drury L. Keesler, Pfc. Thomas W. Lambe, Jr., Pfc. Dan
B. Leach, Pfc. Alfred H. Smith, Pfc. James D. Thacker. The ORC is a permanent unit located at Davidson primarily
to enable advanced ROTC students to shorten time for longevity purposes. This program is also open to non-ROTC students who
desire to enter the Reserve Unit and thereby advance their status in the eight-year selective service required of all eligible
males. The government pays students participating in the bi-monthly meetings, and also while attending a two-week training period in summer
reserve camp.

Bach; Jesu, Joy of Man’s Desiring, Bach; We Hurry with Tired, Unfaltering Footsteps, Bach; Lacrymosa (from the “Requiem”), Mozart; Laudate
Dominum, (from “Vespers”), Mozart; How Lovely Is Thy Dwelling Place, (from “A German Requiem”), Brahms; Song of Destiny, Brahms; Let
Us Break Bread Together, arr. Howorth; Jesus Walked This Lonesome Valley, arr. Dawson; Spirit of De Lord Done Felt on
Me, arr. Cain; Ezekiel Saw de Wheel, arr. Cain; Louisiana Hayride, Schwartz; Clap Yo’ Hands, Gershwin. Soloists with the choir
include Joanne Barnes and Lenoir Faucette of Bristol, Tennessee; Virginia Hites, Shelbyville, Indiana; Pamela Thompson, Marion, Indiana; Jean Taylor, Greensburg,
Kentucky; Paula Setzer, Hickory, North Carolina; Barbara Cantrell, Winston-Salem, North Carolina; and Diane Kern, Magnolia, Arkansas. Another outstanding feature of
the program will be the group of piano selections to be played by the accompanist of the choir, Evelyn McLeod
Vance.

Flicks To Be Shown In Union April 20

Two movies, “Eskimo Sea Hunters” and “Adobe Villages,” will be shown in the Ballroom of the College Union at 4:30
p.m. on April 20. The movies complete the series entitled “The Earth and Its Peoples” which is sponsored by the
Sociology Department, the Audio Visual Aids Committee, and the College Union. No admission will be charged.

ODK will sponsor another Open Facts Forum on Wednesday, April 20, at 9:30 p.m. The forum will be held in
the Ballroom of the College Union. A second student bridge tournament will take place Thursday night, April 21, at 7:30.
Student director of the tournament, Buddy Dye, has announced that Mr. J. A. Postell, director of the Charlotte Bridge Club
will be in charge. Admission will be 50 cents, and refreshments will be served.

Rev. C. Grier Davis, Speaks at Vespers

The Reverend C. Grier Davis, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Asheville, N.C., will be our Vesper preacher this
coming Sunday, April 17. Dr. Davis was born in Wilmar, Arkansas in 1906 and graduated from Davidson in 1927 with
an A.B. degree and went on to study for two years at the Princeton Theological Seminary. From there he went
to Union Theological Seminary in Richmond and in 1931 received his B.D., Th. M. and Th. D. degrees. His first
church was the Grace Covenant Presbyterian Church in Richmond, where he remained until 1933 when he was called to the
Second Presbyterian Church in Norfolk, Va. In 1938 he left Norfolk and went to the First Presbyterian Church in Asheville,
where he is now the pastor. In 1943 both Davidson and Tusculum colleges conferred upon him the Doctor of Divinity
Degree. Dr. Davis is at present on the Board of Trustees of Davidson as well as Montreat College and King
College and serves on the Board of Directors of the Mountain Retreat Association and several other boards. In 1949 he
was moderator of Asheville Presbytery and in 1952 was made moderator of the Synod of Appalachia. He is a radio
preacher on The Presbyterian Hour and a contributing editor of the Presbyterian Outlook.

Record Number Visits Europe This Summer

This year will see an all-time record number of students visiting Europe. Students still interested in joining a chartered college
motor tour of Europe this summer will find a few spaces still available with the University Travel Club of New
York. When the remaining spaces are booked no more students can be accommodated because of lack of critical trans-Atlantic transportation
and suitable European hotel space. Remaining tours depart New York on June 29th and 30th. All-inclusive cost, including trans-Atlantic tourist
class steamers, is $1295. Air optional for additional $225. Arrive New York from Europe September 3rd, and September 7th. April
10th is the deadline for signing up. For brochure and details write University Travel Club, 33 East 48th Street, New
York City. The University Travel Club’s popular tours are for bona fide students only. Groups are limited to 30 students.
Covering the highlights of a student’s “dream trip” in Europe, as well as interesting off-beat “finds” that are Europe’s charm,
each student group enjoys its own private specially chartered modern bus throughout the tour. Besides an experienced university graduate tour
leader escort from New York, each student group enjoys the services of its own multi-lingual tour conductor throughout Europe and
a multi-lingual bus driver, as well as local English-speaking sight-seeing guides. Private charter buses have proved the most comfortable and
convenient way of doing Europe. They allow a freedom of movement not possible any other way. Another advantage is enabling
students to see the maximum in the limited time available during the brief summer vacation.

Drink ‘M O O R’ Mooresville Creamery, Inc.

PARKER-GARDNER CHARLOTTE 2, N. C. 118 West Trade Street Phone ED. 2-8257

The S.P.E.s are defending champions and are favored to repeat this year, led by the pitching of lefty Bob Stevenson.
The S.P.E. outfield is considered one of the best in the league, and they are definitely the team to beat.
The tennis matches began this week with the singles competition. Of the twenty-two entries, ten boys drew byes in the
opening round. The tournament will be played in straight elimination, with points being scored by the individual players according to
the number of matches they win. The doubles will be played in a similar manner after the completion of the
singles.

Impossible catches look easy in centerfield position. His power at the plate and his defensive ability have attracted the keen
interest of several major league scouts, but Bill’s present plans do not include any pro ball. He has an excellent
opportunity to enter a very promising business career upon his graduation, and judging from his B average, there is no
doubt that Bill will do as outstanding a job in the business world as he has done on the athletic
field.

THE CONNOISSEUR

A Place of Fine Foods for any taste in Eating — Specializing in Steak, Seafood, and Chicken Dinners.

SPECIAL MENU THURSDAYS — FRIDAYS — SATURDAYS

ALL THE FISH OR CHICKEN YOU CAN EAT $1.50 Including Tax

CHILDREN ACCOMPANIED BY THEIR PARENTS 55c, Tax Included

Fried Chicken — French Fries — Slaw Hot Rolls — Iced Tea or Coffee Fish — French Fries — Slaw
— Hush Puppies Iced Tea or Coffee

Mooresville, N. C.

You'll SMILE your approval of Chesterfield’s smoothness, mildness—refreshing taste. CHESTERFIELD Today! “Best in America’s colleges IN THE WHOLE WIDE WORLD...

Netters Face... (Continued From Page Three)

You'll SMILE your approval of Chesterfield's quality—highest quality—low nicotine.

An excellent chance of knocking off such schools as Presbyterian and Miami. Most important, of course, is the not too
far distant Southern Conference tournament which will be held here the first week in May. As defending champs, Davidson is
definitely the team to beat.

“Since God forgives us anyway, it makes little difference how we act.”—Popular 1955 Maxim.
