Che BDavidsonian

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
JIM BATTEN

BUSINESS MANAGER
BOB CARMICHAEL

ASSOCIATE EDITORS
FRANKLIN BLOODWORTH, LEON HOWELL

Assistant Editor
Bob Beall

Managing Editors
Lloyd Chapin, John Trask

Sports Editor
Bill Bondurant

Feature Editor
John Trotti

Copy Editor
John Johnson

News Editor
Bill Pomeroy

Staff Photographer
Ed Stevens

Assignments
Bob Lathan

Advertising Manager
Bob Majors

Circulation
Bob Austin, Marshall Chapman, Lee Mayfield

Represented for National Advertising by
NATIONAL ADVERTISING SERVICE, Inc.

SUBSCRIPTION RATE: $2.00 Per Year.
Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

OFFICES IN DAVID OVENS COLLEGE UNION, DAVIDSON COLLEGE

FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 1956

Constructive Pledge Period a Must

Down at Fraternity Court, October is a month of disenchantment for everyone involved. The starry-eyed pledge, fresh from the glitter of Rush Week, finds that life down at the house isn't quite as he had pictured it. The punch bowl and its accessories have been stored for the season. On the other hand, the fraternity man is waking to his perennial realization that all of his brand-new princes aren’t exactly the finished products he had imagined, and that a considerable bit of polishing will be necessary.

As pledge programs get under way now, each fraternity would do well to take a long look at its projected “cold winter.” It cannot be stressed too greatly that the fraternity has assumed a sobering measure of responsibility for the boys who compose its pledge class. The future of each will be greatly influenced by fraternity, and therefore the paramount importance of a constructive program is obvious.

First of all, a fraternity owes the pledge its friendship. It must be made plain that above and transcending all else, the fraternity has a sincere and genuine interest in him and his career at Davidson. With this comradeship as a backdrop, each fraternity must let its freshmen know what it expects academically. Many of them are only now coming to the realization that study is a serious business. Six-weeks’ grades coming up will emphasize the fact to those still unconvinced. Tutoring by upperclassmen in classroom weaknesses has helped many a frosh to make the grade.

Freshmen should be stimulated through pledge training to enter into the extra-curricular life of the campus, for herein lies another vital part of the well-rounded education offered here. Often latent talents go untapped for the lack of a little prodding.

Pledge programs have become increasingly temperate in the past few years. Sweeping reforms have marked the system even within the experience of the present senior class, as tradition after tradition has gone by the board. This transition has been hotly debated on both sides, but that is not the point now. The fact is that public opinion and pressure, focused on the local situation chiefly by the faculty, has unequivocally demanded these changes. But these reforms have not completely satisfied those who are keeping a watchful eye on Fraternity Court. The pressure is still on. Constructive handling of the new pledge crop will serve as a powerful argument, should we have to argue again. And we undoubtedly will.

The Union Comes of Age

Davidson’s old gymnasium went by the boards and the beautiful structure now known as the College Union was erected in the school year of 1952-53. Without a great deal of enthusiasm, it was accepted as the house of the Y, the publications, the stud, et al. The previous conditions under which these areas were met, if not luxurious, had served the purpose adequately and the need for such extravagance was often questioned.

This attitude of placid submission prevailed until it was torn asunder by loud cries of anguish when the administration pronounced its edict that all freshmen would spend the first semester eating in the cafeteria located therein. Frantic fraternities regarded this as the death blow to the fraternal organizations at Davidson. How else could the brothers get to know their pledges? By what other means could a truly integrated group grow here except around the dinner table?

At about the same time, it became known that there was a full-time director for the Union on campus. In their anxiety, this smacked ominously of a conspiracy by the “powers that be" to further anathematize individual social organizations. It appeared to be aimed directly at the provinces henceforth reserved for fraternities.

Four years later these fears seem rather hasty and ill-founded. Under the capable leadership of Shaw Smith, the Union has assumed the status it once despaired of attaining, that of a unifying factor on the campus. Far from supplanting anything else, it has supplied a common ground on which all extra-curricular activities can meet. Rather than attempting to dominate these areas, it has served as a coordinator. The functions it originated were generally long-neglected needs.

Maturity has not been an easy development for the Union. Laughter and scorn often greeted its attempts to grow. Disinterest quickly scotched many opportunities at service. Criticism, both merited and unmerited, abounded. The fact remains that despite this opposition and discouraging setbacks, the Union has assumed a position of great importance to our campus. Now it not only stands but it “is”. This has been done without sacrificing its philosophy of existence, i.e. that the Union is an assisting unit only. Opposition has died almost completely.

The Union is ready to begin to serve Davidson in a more profound way. Work has begun on a constitution and a Board of Directors will be established, with both student and faculty representatives. Greater quality and wider variety in presentation will develop. It appears to several observers that the building is available and the outline of operation has been presented. A great deal has been accomplished, but the surface has barely been scratched.

The Union has come of age. Whether it moves forward to achieve its latent capacities or is relegated to a non-functioning slot is up to you and me.

—F.L.H., Jr.

Noise Hurts Court

Dan LaFar’s remarks prefacing this morning’s meeting of the Court of Control were all too true. If upperclassmen regard the Court as they have in years past, its long history will indeed “end right here.” Upperclass reaction was varied. While many attempted to preserve the stony silence necessary for effective operation, others smelled the blood of years gone by, and their behavior regressed accordingly. And it was obvious that the freshmen, solemn at the outset, soon sensed the big-joke attitude of too many vociferous sophomores, juniors and seniors, and immediately chimed in.

It is unfortunate that the student body was not more effectively forewarned to the consequences of rowdyism before this morning. Fraternity meetings last night carried a plea for restraint, but it was only partially effective. The Court of Control will die a sudden death this year unless upperclass cooperation improves. That fact is obvious to anyone at all close to or interested in the project. We hate to see it go, especially since a sizable majority of the students seem to want it retained. But go it will, unless cooperation improves, and soon.

Letters to Editor

Vital Shot in Arm Needed by IFC Sports

The action taken last Wednesday by the Interfraternity Council concerning intramural athletics is a realistic approach to a problem that has wearied fraternities and independents for several years. Trying to round up a team of fellows vexed with labs, term papers, reviews, grades, and meetings, has made the intramural program burdensome instead of an outlet for good competitive exercise. When such an attitude develops, a reform in the nature proposed by the IFC is in order.

As presented to the individual fraternities Thursday, the IFC is seeking to revise the intramural activities along the line of the varsity athletic program. Under this designation, games such as ping-pong, handball, and volleyball would be withdrawn from the intramural listings. Feeling that the primary purpose of intramurals is to afford an opportunity to those not so accomplished in a sport as to play for the intercollegiate varsity, the present suggestion provides the needed outlet. The proposal would make the interfraternity standings based on seven sports: football, basketball, and softball, plus swimming, wrestling, track, and tennis. Depleting the other sports would enable the fraternities to concentrate on somewhat fewer sports and should correspondingly raise enthusiasm which has been noticeably dragging recently. The ultimate outcome of the idea should be that interest would rise, competition become keener, and more time divided between studies and athletics.

Perkinson and the IFC are to be recognized for this forward-looking move, which has won the overwhelming support of the fraternities.

Yours Truly,
Bob Jones

Calls Upperclassmen To Check

Long, long ago, during the ‘51-‘52 school year, I wrote a column for the Davidsonian, usually lambasting the status quo on campus, seeking the bauble reputation even in the cannon’s mouth of the powers that be.When the Navy was kind enough to grant leave last May, I visited the campus and was overcome by a long-repressed desire to become a “college kid” again. Unfortunately, Jim Batten is plagued with that chronic malady of Davidsonian editors: “no-copyitis.” Even more unfortunately, Batten has the memory of an elephant. So I’m stuck with a deadline, and you, dear readers, are stuck with me, for better or for worse. The general theme of these first few columns will be, naturally, “Davidson Revisited.” I’d planned to begin with generalized discussions, but a specific campus problem of such seriousness as to warrant our immediate attention has been brought into focus during the past two weeks.

Upperclassmen, this is a call to the colors! We are confronted with a group of cocksure, egotistical high school seniors who dare to mouth such heresies as: “I’m not afraid of the Court of Control; what can they do to you?” We were nice to them during rush week, and it went to their heads. We have attempted to treat them as adults, and they have reverted to type.

By DON MASSEY

Rush Week at Davidson is a loosely employed phrase connoting a minimum amount of sleep and a maximum amount of malnutrition for freshmen and upperclassmen alike.

Freshmen, just as an experiment, I gigged two of them on my way to class Monday for having their beanie bills turned up. They complied reluctantly, after looking at me as though I were nuts. Of course, it was an undignified stunt for an old retread, but the principles of a great Davidson tradition were at stake. For years, Davidson's upperclassmen have accepted the responsibility of making the freshman’s transition from adolescence to maturity as painless and as efficient as possible. We are failing to accept that responsibility, and the Court of Control cannot do it alone. Let us meet the challenge before us with immediate and effective action. Each and every one of us should participate in the strict enforcement of the freshman regulations, reporting all violations ruthlessly, without fear or favor. We must treat the Court with the respect it deserves from the freshmen, in order that they may be reminded by our example that it really means business. It is up to us, as men of maturity and experience, to give them a sense of direction, guiding them toward that ultimate goal of every student within the confines of this campus—the Davidson Gentleman. Let us begin our task now—before it is too late.

By the Way, Who is Maltby?

Not White House Timber

Kefauver, Nixon Candidacies Necessitate That President Live

By GERALD WILSON

There was a time when no one really cared who was elected Vice President of the United States. As late as the 1930s, a holder of that office made the keen observation that the Vice President was merely “the spare tire on the automobile of government.” Former Vice President Barkley used to tell a story that epitomized the position. A man had two sons. One joined the navy and was lost at sea; the other went into politics and was elected Vice President: neither was ever heard from again.

BARKLEY BEGAN CHANGE

Alben Barkley began, and Richard Nixon continued, the idea of making the second highest elective office in our land a real position with definite powers and decided influence.

Post-Rush Rush

Hence be now those vain delights
Short as were the rushing nights
Wherein we spent our social folly
To leave us now this melancholy
Seduced by sweet Procrastination
We rushed ourselves to Prof’s damnation
So now amid a maze of matter
Aside we thrust all idle chatter
Down to work at last we must,
Pledges safely bound in trust,
To strain in class to pay attention
Though rushee’s names held strong retention
Yes, we must adjust at last
To the awful fact of class
That study lamps now press the dawn
Following sleepless rush week on

John B. Trotti

Who is this Dick Nixon that one Republican delegate found so wanting that he nominated a mythical Joe Smith instead? Who is this Estes Kefauver that couldn’t even get one vote from his home state in his bid for the Vice-Presidential nomination? The background of the two is uncannily similar. Both are storekeeper's sons brought up in small towns. Both worked their ways through college, became lawyers, were elected to the House, and then on to the Senate. Here the likeness terminates. Many Republicans have resigned themselves to the fact that they are “stuck with Nixon” and set about rather grim-facedly supporting him.

RICHARD NIXON

Few people of either party like him, but even fewer voters can say specifically what they dislike about him. One writer, in view of this fact, has characterized the widespread wariness about Nixon by reference to an old English rhyme:
“I do not love thee Dr. Fell:
The reason I cannot tell;
But this I know,
And know full well:
I do not love thee, Dr. Fell.”

Kefauver is regarded as something of a “necessary evil” on the ticket by many Democrats. Here the objections are more concrete in nature. Kefauver is looked on by many Southerners as a “traitor” to the South. He consistently supports labor, he has voted for so-called Civil Rights measures, and he is the only Southern Senator (excepting Johnson of Texas who was not asked) who refused to sign the much-publicized Southern Manifesto. Significantly enough, the delegates of eight Southern states voted for Northern-Catholic John Kennedy for the second place rather than support Estes.

KNIGHT USES EXPEDIENCY

California Governor Goodwin Knight supported Nixon only after it became apparent that there was no other alternative. If Nixon loses, then he will find the opposition of Knight and Knowland blocking him in any try for a “comeback” in California. Kefauver, reelected in 1954, has four more years in the Senate. But it is inconceivable that a Governor who refused to give him even a complimentary vote in the Convention will allow Kefauver to go unopposed in 1960. Regardless of which ticket is elected, it seems as though the prayers of the American people for the next four years will be for the health of the President.

IFC MEMBER COMMENTS ON RUSH WEEK

Freshmen Should Confirm Own Dates to Save Time

Davidson campus (to a lesser degree, of course). At five o'clock, September the twenty-first, I observed joyful students who were not quite so joyful. However, they all had one thing in common; they were unspeakably happy to have the rush week over. During the past years, the IFC and the College administration have made many well-founded rule changes in this system. There is one part of this system which has not received the proper amount of attention from the pre-mentioned group. I ask that the matter of confirmation be given special recognition. As it stands now, this situation is a sore spot in the present system. During the two-hour confirmation period, much undue pressure is brought to bear on many freshmen to change their dates. A system of confirmation which is to be deemed workable should eliminate all wasted motion and time. Here is a laconic proposal which meets this challenge.

During the summer, the freshmen would receive date cards as in the present system. During the orientation period or the first week of school, the fraternity men would be allowed to talk to any freshmen concerning his dates; possibly, he could add new ones if the freshman desires. This activity would cease the morning of the confirmation day. On confirmation day, the freshmen would be given in chapel mimeographed sheets which would contain a blank schedule of the coming rush week. They would then affix their rush schedule accordingly. That afternoon, during the two hours of confirmation, they would go to the Union ballroom on a staggered schedule, bringing their mimeographed sheets and their date cards. It should be mentioned here that the freshmen should take care not to misplace their date cards from the time they receive them until they reach the ballroom. Upon reaching the ballroom, the freshmen would go to the chart which corresponded with their name. Having ten charts equally divided would assure relatively little waiting in line during this time. After the individual's confirmation, his date cards would be given to the rush chairmen concerned by the IFC. The freshman would keep the mimeographed sheet as his permanent record.