Cd ”*

o

THE SUMMER SCHOOL DAVIDSONIAN

Volume MDXOXLKMZIIT 7

WEDNESDAY NIGHT SOCIALS

This past Wednesday night the College Union sponsored a watermelon cutting for the fifteen or twenty students who were lucky
enough to drop by. A lack of publicity, caused by the failure of the editors to publish a paper last
week, was largely responsible for the small crowd.

The affair was considered such a success that it will be repeated next Wednesday. Watch the bulletin boards for the
details, and be at the Union next Wednesday.

DR. STAPLES ARRIVES ON CAMPUS

Dr. George E. Staples, new Minister to Students, has arrived on campus recently to assume his duties.

Dr. Staples comes well-prepared for his task. He is a graduate of Presbyterian College, has received his B.D. and Th.D.
degrees from Union Seminary, and his M.A. degree from Columbia University.

We welcome Dr. Staples to our college community and wish him every success in this new endeavor.

ELEMENTS OF THE GAME OF BRIDGE

First and most important, shuffle the cards (stack them too if you get the chance). Next, the person to the
right of the dealer cuts the deck and tries to see the card that will be on the bottom, for
that will be the dealer's. Next, the dealer deals the cards from left to right (from the bottom of the
deck if need be) until all the cards have been dealt. Next, the bidding commences. First, having looked at none
of the cards dealt to you except the last one, begin to bid this way: If the last card is
an ace, open with two of that suit. If the last card is a king, open with one of that
suit. (All this before you look at the other cards, mind you.) If the last card is a queen or
jack, turn up the next card. If the next card is a face card, open with seven no-trump. Winner takes
all. Watch for future installments of the Elements of the Game of Bridge.

by Professor Knowitall of Davidson College

Number 4.

MOVIES ARE RESUMED

Movies, which have been noticeably absent from the campus for the past three or four weeks, will be resumed by
the College Union in the next day or two. One, the title of which is unknown, is expected to arrive
today and will possibly be shown tonight.

Several good films have been scheduled and will be shown intermittently during the next two weeks.

Watch the Union bulletin board for date and time!

ELEGY WRITTEN IN A MECKLENBURG MONASTERY
(New translation from the Dead-tired Scrolls, this one slightly sad.)

By the highway twenty-one,
In the country called the Piedmont,
Stood the building on the campus,
On the green and growing campus.
There it stood in yellow splendor,
Stood and watched the fifty summers,
(Likewise watched the fifty winters)
And it saw the passing students
As they came and went to classes.

In its heart it held the keeper,
Faithful John who's called "toot toot"
And he loved the aging building

And he oft did chide the students

When the careless, thoughtless, students
Carved their names into its vitals.

But the building not complaining,

Fought a lesson of great patience;

It did not cry with the hurting

Of its often broken windows,

Neither did it flush with anger

When the new dorms called the students --
Called and left it naught but freshmen--
Freshmen boys who did not love her.

But she kept them notwithstanding,

Kept them warm and dry in winter

And she dreamed with John the keeper

Of her better days of glory.

So she stood for fifty summers
(Likewise also fifty winters)

And the new one came behind her
Rising with a haughty grandeur
Greatly blessed with size and beauty
Which the old one only dreamed of.
