FRIDAY, APRIL 20, 1956 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

Slants Sports§ By JOHN JOHNSON

A START FROM SCRATCH

Last year the Wildcat netters reigned supreme in the tennis circles of the Southern Conference but this season they have
won six of their 12 matches, not a spectacular record. What has made the difference? Obviously, the loss of players
has been the stumbling block. Six of the top six men of 1955 have either changed schools or graduated, including
Lacy Keesler and Corky Clark who played each other for the conference championship last year. John Robinson, a junior who
alternated at the six and seven positions last year, has held down the number one bracket most of this season.
Backing him up have been four freshmen and a lone sophomore, not an impressive team on paper. The squad has
made up for their decrease in experience by an increase in inter-team competition. As Robinson, the captain, put it, “nearly
every man out there figures that he can beat the next man so it keeps everyone on his toes.” Consequently,
the boys have been working harder than they would if they thought their positions were secure. Semi Mintz moved up
from the number three position to the top of the ladder just last week. John Poindexter started at number six
and is now playing at four.

A HEAVY LOAD FOR A NEW FOUR

The newcomers are no strangers to the courts. Dave Pearsall won the North Carolina State High School Singles crown in
1954. A Raleigh boy that he met in the semi-finals of the same tournament last year was Semi Mintz. Dave
finally won that match but not until after three sets that lasted a total of four hours. John Poindexter saw
action at McCallie Prep for three years, and Bob Huffaker played second to Pearsall at Myers Park High in Charlotte.
Down through the years the Wildcat netters have always held a position of esteem. In the days of the former
big Southern Conference, Davidson always ranked third behind Duke and North Carolina. When the latter two joined the ACC in
1952, the Wildcats were left on top of the heap where they have remained until this year.

A HAZY OUTLOOK

And this season? Thus far no conference team has bettered the Cats, but the big powers will not be met
until the Conference Tournament in Williamsburg, Virginia, May 1, 2, and 3. Davidson scored 24 points in that last year
and has not one returning letterman. William and Mary scored 17 and has five returnees, Richmond scored 14 and has
six returnees. However, the Red and Black squad is not without hope for they have been learning by playing some
of the best teams in the East. Michigan State won the Big Ten in 1952 and could do it again
this year. North Carolina and Duke are traditional court powers. Colgate, Rollins, and Kalamazoo all rank in the top ten
on the eastern seaboard. Said Coach McKee on why he schedules such difficult opponents, “It is for the boys’ own
good. If they are going to improve they must play top-flight competition.” He also mentioned that students will turn out
to watch matches with teams that boast such standouts as Kalamazoo’s Dodson, who made honorable mention on the Junior Davis
Cup team. The Wildcats will enter the tournament next month as definite underdogs for the first time in several years,
but their competitive spirit and recent experience could cause them to show surprise strength.

Advantage, You

You'll make more fine shots with these rackets than any in their class. The reason? Both the Spalding KRo-BaT® and
the Spalding-made Wright & Ditson Davis Cup® deliver the “feel” you must have for full power and better control. Both
come in every weight and grip size for better tennis, match after match. Use Spalding-made tennis balls. They're official for
more major tournaments than all others.

By JIM PAGE

Phil Koonce jogged by, moving easily down the track. Coach Pete Whittle, standing on the infield, watched him go past.
“Koonce is the best,” he said, “one of the finest track men in this part of the country.” “Why, he
hasn't lost in the hundred this year and only twice in the two-twenty. And he’s just as dangerous in the
broad jump. There are mighty few men in the Southern Conference who can talk of out jumping Phil!” “Last year,
you know, he won the Southern Conference Championship in the hundred and the two-twenty. If nothing happens, like an injury,
I predict he'll be a repeat again this season.”

“Speaking of his freshman year brings up another point of interest. Before Phil came to Davidson, he had never run
track! It just goes to show you how quickly a little effort can develop natural talent.” “Why, if it hadn't
been for a boy in my P.T. class, I never would have heard of Phil. It happened this way. One
day while we were discussing track this boy mentioned that he knew a fraternity football player who, he said, ‘could
run like a rabbit!’ He told me his name was Phil Koonce, and as soon as I could, I got
in touch with Phil. The boy was right. Koonce could run like a rabbit! Natural ability, however, wouldn't win meets
by itself, so I gave him a uniform.”

By JIM HOLSHOUSER

Davidson's up-and-coming Wildcats will try to get back on track as they take the field for three important loop contests.
After splitting a pair of games to V.M.I., the Red and Black record stands at 1-3. Three wins in next
week’s battles would put the Cats back into the thick of the fight for the league pennant. The diamond crew
will travel to Greenville, South Carolina on Tuesday to meet Furman’s Purple Hurricane, and Mack Dagenhart is slated as the
probable starter. The junior left-hander is having his best season and he has given up only 6 runs in the
last twenty innings. On Friday of next week, The Citadel’s Bulldogs invade the Davidson campus, and the Cadets will stay
over for another battle on Saturday. Coach Clements has not selected his starters for those contests, but Allen Moore and
Dave are likely candidates.Page appear to be the logical choices. Allen Moore went away on the mound for Davidson as
the Cats avenged an earlier defeat at the hands of the Bears. The past week has seen the Wildcats snap
out of a slump.

Hope 2, Campbell, West, Morris, Little, Reagen. 2B—West. 3B—Little. HR—Buff. SB—Campbell, Morris. S—Kimmell. DP—Kimmell-Glover-Cornwell. Left—Lenoir Rhyne 9, Davidson 4. BB—Thomas
3, Moore 3. SO—Baird 3, Thomas 2, Moore 7. HO—Baird 6 in 3, Thomas 4 in 5. R-ER—Baird 5-4, Thomas
2-2, Moore 3-2. WP—Baird, Thomas. PB—Reagen. Winner—Moore. Loser—Baird.

With a .381 average, Captain Bill Morris is currently topping the list of Wildcat hitters. Four of the Cat baseballers
belting above the .300 mark have elevated the starting team average to a high .287. Jim West, after a slow
start, has recently been making some of the most powerful clouts of the season.

Player AB H 2B 3B HR Ave.
Morris 42 16 3 0 0 .381
Hope 52 18 3 1 1 .346
Campbell 34 11 3 0 0 .324
West 30 12 4 0 1 .400
Comer 37 10 1 0 0 .270
Reagen 35 8 1 0 0 .229
Little 30 7 1 0 2 .233
McRee 54 11 0 0 0 .204
TOTALS 338 97 16 4 2 .287

Lenoir Rhyne AB H O A
Peeler, cf 5 1 2 0
Carnwell, 1b 3 3 9 0
Buff, rf 4 1 4 0
Glover, ss 4 2 1 0
Johnson, c 4 1 6 1
Baird, p 2 1 0 1
Thomas, p 2 0 0 1
TOTALS 35 8 24 11

Davidson AB H O A
Comer, 3b 5 2 2 4
McCree, cf 4 1 3 0
James, lf 3 0 2 0
Campbell, lf 5 1 6 0
West, rf 4 2 1 0
Little, 1b 4 1 3 2
Reagen, c 3 0 8 1
Moore, p 3 0 0 1
TOTALS 32 10 27 6

Lenoir Rhyne 001 010 10-3
Davidson 100 600 00x—7

R—Peeler, Buff, Baird, Comer 2, Campbell, West, Morris, Little, Moore. E—Glover, Comer, Hope. RBI—Kimmell, Cornwell, Buff.

Baseball Team Faces Furman And Citadel

GOLFERS ENCOUNTER Action On Home Court at Club Next Tuesday

The Myers Park Country Club in Charlotte will host the Davidson Golf team as they take on the Wofford College
linkmen for the second time this season. The last match was played at Wofford with Davidson winning, 21-9, in the
rain on an uncut green. Coach Scott expects that the match next week will be much closer.

The Cat's top two men, Skipper Hall and Larry Parrott, both carded 78's. Numbers three and four, Sam Sloan, a
freshman, and George Scott both shot 79. Stuart Vaughan shot an 80 with Ned Payne carding a 79. Bucky Dennis,
a freshman who has yet to lose his first match, placed a 78, while Dan LaFar pulled in a 79.

As these figures show, the team is about the same strength throughout. After Wofford, one match remains before the Southern
Conference Tournament at Danville, Virginia, and that is with The Citadel.

Three successive defeats in recent days have marred the bright early season hopes. On April 12, the linkmen lost to
Furman, 18½-18½. The next day they dropped a close one to The Citadel, 15-12. April 16 found the Cats falling
before N.C. State, 25½-10½.

The match Tuesday may shape up to be a big one for the team. Coach Scott hopes to field the
same eight men that played Wofford earlier in the season. Their scores were good then, considering the weather and the
poor shape of the course, but under better conditions, the match next Tuesday will probably reveal greater strength on both
equals.

When your big theme rates “A” And you’re feeling real gay To top off the day—have a CAMEL!

Man, that mart It’s a psychological fact: Pleasure helps your disposition. If you're a smoker, remember—more people get more pure
pleasure from Camels than from any other cigarette! No other cigarette is so rich-tasting, yet so mild! R.J. Reynolds Tobacco
Co. Winston-Salem, N.C.

WOFFORD TERRIERS

He began to practice. You know the rest of the story. In his freshman year, he was a uniform second
place man in point totals. From then on, he was second to none. This season, with a 6 win and
5 loss record behind them, the Davidson tennis team is in top condition for the battle.

KOONCE, CONFERENCE TRACK STAR, WAS LOCAL ‘FIND’

This best captain is looking for another Southern Conference Championship in the hundred and the two hundred, and he’ll get
it too. If dedication and love of sport have anything to do with it, he can't miss. The team, however,
don’t know as much about that as I do about his track record, but I know it’s been outstanding. He's
Interfraternity Council President and a member of the D and Beaver clubs, and he’s also a member of O.D.K. As
a Lt. Colonel in the R.O.T.C., he is a Distinguished Military Student and a member of Scabbard and Blade. His
major, he told me the other day, is psychology. How is he able to do all that track? I'd say
the answer is that something that draws out the best in men. These responsibilities and honors come naturally to him,
as does his natural ability and the determination to develop it. That’s the greatest contribution he has made to the
team and to his school. Those first-place finishes, those victories, would not have happened if it hadn't been for his
dedication.

Something about his campus life? Well, he’s no boy. And you can believe me,” he added, “Koonce is no boy.”

Netters To Clash With South Carolina

With a few changes in the lineup, the Davidson tennis team will clash tomorrow with the Gamecocks of South Carolina.
The two teams will meet with neither knowing the strength of the other since their first match was postponed because
of rain. South Carolina has met some strong teams, however, and its wins and losses reflect that. Davidson has met
some tough competition in the east and has a record above 500 percent. The match promises to be a thriller.

Mintz will be starting in the No. 1 spot for the first time this season. Two other players, Martin and
Poindexter, have looked good in the Washington and Lee match. Martin hit his stride and played his best game when
Davidson was leading the match before it was postponed because of rain.

The season will officially be over for the Cats when they meet Rollins at home on April 27. Rollins is
ranked among the top ten tennis teams in the nation, so the local netters will be up against their toughest
competition in that match. The remaining important matches for the Cats are with Washington and Lee on Saturday and The
Citadel at the end of the year. These two matches will be extremely important for the Wildcats. Not only do
they need two wins to improve their record, but they also need the experience and preparation for the Southern Conference
Championships, which will finish the season. At any rate, when the Cats reach the courts on Saturday afternoon, they'll be
looking forward to both of these matches and expecting to win them.
