PAGE SIX THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, APRIL 13, 1956

By JEFF SMITH

Austin Blake Brinkerhoff, a native of Montreat, N.C. Born in 1933 in a depression, he soon came out of it when his kindergarten class elected him chaplain. The story of that campaign reveals the hard fiber and winning endurance of the mind of the rising statesman. Youthful enthusiasm was translated into athletic determination, and success once again crowned the new hero with the title “Ping-pong champion of Montreat.” But the best was yet to be. Hard years of study and taking public speaking honors at Woodberry Forest were preparation for a career in the cold world of Davidson. By 1952 the character of ABB had been built: religious leader, athlete, orator. As such will the class of ‘56 remember him.

Arriving at Davidson, the quick-minded worker took an influential position on the Davidsonian. As paper boy, he soon established many important local contacts — these proved beneficial. An avid reader, he had mastered the Wildcat Handbook, Presbyterian Outlook, Robert’s Rules of Order, and the Quips and Cranks far ahead of his slower classmates, and was promptly awarded the vice-presidency of the YMCA. Independent means were established as an advisor to Dale Carnegie. From there it was only a step to the presidency of the “Y.”

Dangling weed, warm Schlitz, four aces, dark room—characterize the nocturnal activities of Blake Brinkerhoff, former “Y” President and Cub Scout, as portrayed by this picture printed from a hidden negative. The chief now makes it a policy to date every semester the evangelist, who affectionately calls him “Bill,” the chief modestly denies that he “let Bill win.” The chief's real athletic joy, however, is as a fan, basketball particularly. Most of the present senior class suffered for three years through the repeated accounts of the miracles of the shot artist, Frank Selvy. The chief's Selvy craze went through three main stages: '52—half crazy, '53—crazy, ‘54—magnificent obsession. Perhaps one of the leading living authorities on Selvy's record, the chief has absorbed enough statistical data to be a research source for some years to come.

The chief's personal habits are simple, clean-cut, and admirable. Unaffected, friendly, and agreeable, the chief can be found recreating amidst the Union game rooms on a given Saturday night. Quite moderate in his pleasure seeking, the chief counts Saturday supper at the College Restaurant as the highlight of the weekend, and occasional trips to the Oriental for lobster are equated as downright orgies. Although not a real “party boy” at Woodberry, the chief's spontaneous shrieks of laughter have been described as a cross between the braying of a donkey and the crowing of a rooster. 

As to the future, some plans have been made. In his recent visit to his alma mater-to-be, Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, the chief introduced me to thirteen acquaintances five minutes after we hit campus. The entire weekend he missed only one name and that was a foreign student—just couldn't pronounce it.

But the chief's days are not over yet. They have just begun. We prophesy an abundant career for him.

No. 6/IRC Presents Film

A program concerning Red China and its relationship with the United States and the United Nations will be presented next Wednesday evening, April 18, by the International Relations Club in cooperation with the College Union. The program will be held in the Union ballroom at 7:30 P.M. A film entitled “Red China and the U.N.,” featuring the Honorable Henry Cabot Lodge, Jr., the United States representative to the U.N., will be shown. Following this movie, Dr. Harold P. Ford, of the Department of Political Science, will critique Mr. Lodge’s presentation. Open discussion and questioning will conclude the program.

The Club considers this topic particularly timely as the United States is being urged by most of the nations of the world to reevaluate its policy toward Communist China. Among pertinent questions are: Will the U.S. inevitably be forced to recognize Red China soon regardless of our election outcome? Why do we take our present stand in regard to Red China? The public is cordially invited to attend this meeting. The Winthrop College and Queens College IRC’s will be special guests of the local club at that time. Refreshments will be served.

SGT. JERRY K. CRUMP Medal of Honor Winner Joins Staff Of ROTC Department

Sgt. Jerry K. Crump, Congressional Medal of Honor Winner, has joined the Davidson College ROTC Department, where he will serve as small arms repairman and rifle team coach. Sgt. Crump, whose home is in Lincolnton, N.C., was awarded the C.M.H. for action in Korea near Chorwon on 6 and 7 September, 1951 while serving in the famed 7th Infantry Regiment, 3rd Infantry Division. The acts which earned the nation’s highest award for Sgt. Crump included exposing himself to deliver effective fire into the ranks of the assailants, observing, charging, and bayonetting enemy soldiers attempting to capture a friendly machine gun position, as well as absorbing the blast of an enemy grenade by throwing himself upon it to save his four wounded comrades from certain death. Crump’s heroic action also earned a Purple Heart with Cluster.

Federal Inspection Of Corps April 16-17

The annual Federal inspection of Davidson's ROTC Cadet Corps will be held on April 16 and 17, when an inspection team from the Third Army will visit the unit. The two-day inspection will be climaxed by a full-dress parade on Tuesday afternoon at 3:20 p.m. The public is invited to attend this parade. The inspection will include President John R. Cunningham, visits to normally conducted classes, and a detailed inspection of the unit.The annual Federal inspection of the Cadet Corps while delayed until the new Court is appointed. Continued From The Council released the following statement concerning recent violations of the gambling rule: “The Student Council convicted 20 students of violating the Student Body Regulations on gambling. Various penalties were given, penalties varying in accordance with the seriousness of the offense. These penalties ranged from probation to being put on campus for varying lengths of time.”

Plans were discussed for the NSA meeting which will be held this summer. The only other topic of business was a report on the Court of Control which will be Inter-Semester... the Cadet Corps. It includes an introduction to the assigned military personnel, a briefing by the Cadet Regimental Staff, a tour of the ROTC facilities, which are among the best in the Southeast, a call on officials of the college.

McManus... (Continued From Page One) given this year for the first time. McManus is a member of Phi Beta Kappa and is president of Omicron Delta Kappa and of Sigma Upsilon. He is also president of Phi Delta Theta social fraternity, a member of the student council and is the recipient of many other campus honors. Last year he won second prize in the Willa Cather competition. Prof. Kerr was a close personal friend of Miss Cather, and this year gave the Wilson award as a special tribute during the 100th anniversary year of the birth of Wilson who attended Davidson as a freshman. John Harmon won first honorable mention in the Wilson competition and Fred Myers received second. First honorable mention for the Willa Cather award went to John C. Bernhardt and second to James Kuist.

How can I make the most money next year? Is a business of my own possible? How will I be able to put new life in my family’s business? Can I afford a new car next year? Shall I go to graduate school now or service? Death or further serious injury. His aggressive action, devotion to duty, indomitable fighting spirit, and willingness to sacrifice himself, reflect the highest credit on himself, the Infantry, and the United States Army. Sgt. Korean Service Ribbons.

Is a big company or a small one better for me?

STONESTREET'S CAFE Open Seven Days a Week... BUT IF YOU WILL BE A Davidson College Answer As Many As You Can... YOU ARE A NOSTRADAMUS, SVENGALI, OR What have other Davidson graduates of recent years done to become successful? Can we make it on what I'll earn next year? How can a fellow put his extra money in a new business that will grow? What can a life insurance contract do for me? Should I sell or take the other job? A small town or a large one? How can I save money? Where will I get a practical budgeting method? PERHAPS YOU KNOW THE ANSWERS... IF NOT... AND YOU WOULD LIKE TO FIND OUT... USE THE O’HAIR AGENCY

One back-slapping spree to the Rhode Island red rooster, and if it is not true, as one observer puts it, that “three cackles produce one egg,” at least the chief is the only student in Greek 22 who can out scream Labban. The athletic record is equally impressive. The possessor of an excellent and well-known set shot, the chief also stars in tennis and miniature golf, and just recently became self-appointed checkers king of Belk dorm. The hallmark of this multi-varied career came, however, when the chief with his partner took one out of three sets in a doubles tennis match against Billy Graham 0-6, 7-5, 0-6. One of the few intimates of the evangelist, one so truly interested in life. United Nations and Wherever there are people there will be the chief in their midst—always willingly and cheerfully helping. Sgt. Crump is now residing with his wife and two daughters in Cornelius, N.C.

Treat yourself to new leisure smartness with these comfortable team-mates handsome shirt-’n-shorts ensembles. Here are the smart go-togethers that always look immaculate, yet are so cool and comfortable you'll feel completely at ease during your leisure-or-sports-hours.

a. Shirt of Galey & Lord combed cotton. Large checks in blue, green or red with black and grey. S-M-L-XL. 3.95 Jantzen walk shorts in black, charcoal, olive green or tan chino. Sizes 28 to 40. 5.95

b. Placket-front cotton knit everglaze shirt with alligator motif. White, light blue, dark blue, yellow or light green. S-M-L-XL. 4.95 Ivy League Bermuda shorts, fine cotton kayak, classic stripe. Sizes 28 to 38. 7.95

c. Capri-striped perma-pressed cotton no-iron shirt. Stripes in grey, red, blue or brown on white. Sizes S-M-L-XL. Crisp rayon linen walk shorts, in charcoal, navy or beige. Sizes 28 to 42. 8.95