PAGE SIX TRIBUTE TO BY BOB MAJORS

“James, James” echoes the raucous voice of Dr. John Gallent through the environs of Martin Science Hall. To all those unfamiliar with the Davidson Chamber of Science, these words probably sound like the beginning of a reprimand for a student who has erred in his laboratory technique or who has committed some other lesser sin, but to all those who chose to call themselves pre-medical students it means that James William Howard, Professor of Chemistry (without portfolio) will soon be seen running to answer his boss’ call. During his 6-year tenure on the Davidson campus, James has performed assiduously his tasks of caring for his building and its students and in doing so he has endeared himself to many a Davidson science student.

James was born January 19, 1929, in Charlotte. In the midst of the Depression, his folks moved the family out in the country near Huntersville High School (now Torrence Lytle High School). In June of 1947, James started summer school at North Carolina Agricultural and Technical College in Greensboro. As he puts it, “Financial problems soon forced a strategic withdrawal.” Late in the fall, he reached the Davidson campus looking for a janitor’s job. Finding Mr. Hobart on a two-week vacation, he took on a job as a common laborer at the then-under-construction Johnston Gymnasium. Upon the return of Mr. Hobart and after a 1-hour conversation with him, James finally landed a job here at Davidson. He's been here ever since. His only complaint about working here echoes the sentiment of the whole janitorial service, “You've got to pay a good man to keep him.”

A pillar of his community, James was married to Dovie Houston in February of 1949. He has two daughters—Brenda, 6 years old, and Cassandra Alise (named in part by former Davidson Professor Alex Vavoulis) who'll be 1 year old tomorrow.

THE DAVIDSONIAN SIXTY YEARS AGO YESTERDAY A JANITOR

Use of X-Ray in America Initiated by Davidson Men

On the night of January 12, sixty years ago yesterday, three Davidson College students made the first x-ray picture ever taken in America. This was 11 days before the announcement by the German scientist Wilhelm Conrad Roentgen that he had discovered the x-ray through experimenting with a device known as a Crookes tube. Roentgen had made his first picture on November 8, 1895, but had not announced his findings.

Osmond L. Barringer of Charlotte is the only living member of the trio. The others were the late Eben Hardie of New Orleans and Pender Porter, who became a prominent New York physician. They had heard of the x-ray experiments and had slipped into the science laboratory of Dr. Henry Louis Smith on a cold Sunday night. One of the boys then slipped into the “stiff” house, where bodies for dissecting in the medical laboratories were kept in a pickling vat. He reached into the vat and severed a finger from the hand of a corpse, and slipped back into the science laboratory. They placed the severed digit on a Kodak plate. A ring was still on the finger, and they added several small objects on the plate for identification. After keeping the current on for three hours, they turned the plate over to Barringer, an amateur photographer. He then developed the first x-ray picture ever taken in the United States.

Because they had broken into the laboratory and illegally used the equipment, including the finger, the boys kept quiet about their feat. Dr. Smith was therefore credited with the first x-ray picture in this nation some six weeks later when on February 27 cuts of radiograms made by him were published in the Charlotte Observer. When Dr. Smith, who later became president of Davidson and still later of Washington & Lee, achieved national fame for his “first,” the college learned of the boys’ activities and released their story to the press.

Dr. Smith continued with his experiments and soon after was credited with saving the life of a young girl. She was ill with a throat ailment that had been identified as either a disease or a tailor’s thimble caught somewhere in the throat. Dr. Smith was transported by wagon with his x-ray machine to the girl's farm home in Cabarrus County. Three of five doctors consulted had discredited the thimble story, but Dr. Smith's x-ray showed it distinctly “for a fleeting second,” as he later recalled. She was operated on in a Charlotte hospital, but only after Dr. Smith had taken his equipment to the hospital and let the doctors see the thimble themselves. The story was widely published and widely disbelieved, according to Dr. Smith, but it was the first medical use of x-rays, perhaps in the world.

It should be pointed out that in 1896 Davidson was also the site of the North Carolina Medical College, chartered in 1892. It was removed to Charlotte in 1907, and later to Chapel Hill. This accounted for the “pickled stiffs.”

PHILANTHROPIC SOCIETY ELECTS NEW OFFICERS FOR SECOND SEMESTER

The final meeting of the Philanthropic Literary Society for the present semester was called to order by President Morehead at 8:30 Monday night. Due to its unusual nature, the program was presented first. Vice President Antrim introduced John Bernhardt, who presented an informal program of American Folk Music. Bernhardt's discussion included music from the past three centuries of American folk literature, which he rendered with the aid of his guitar in a manner not unlike that of Burl Ives. One of the more popular selections was the well-known railroad working song.

College Laundry . . . (Continued from Page One)

the entire South. “We haven't lost over two laundry bundles in the past year. I am heartily in favor of the type honor system in use in the laundry. Its only disadvantage is seen when a student picks up a bundle by mistake and does not return these.

Cunningham Will Address A. A. C.

St. Louis, Mo.—John R. Cunningham, president of Davidson College, will address a discussion panel on “College Development Programs” during the forty-second annual meeting of the Association of American Colleges which began Tuesday (January 10) at the Jefferson Hotel, St. Louis, Mo. President Cunningham is one of more than 800 representatives of state and privately endowed colleges and universities who will be present at the three-day meeting on “Liberal Education: Scholarship and Teaching.” Principal speakers on the program include: His Excellency Arnold D. P. Henry, Ambassador of Canada; The Honorable Herold C. Hunt, Under-secretary of Health, Education and Welfare; and William McPeak, Vice President of the Ford Foundation.

Davidson Fund... (Continued From Page One)

der Home of Charlotte. This is a therapy home for mentally disturbed children. These children come from environments which often cause these disturbances, or cannot afford to pay for the therapy which they need. This home is the only one of its kind in the Carolinas. The Gift Fund Committee has arranged four chapel programs.

The Inter-fraternity Council has announced the procedure for choosing a Queen of the Mid-Winter’s Dance Weekend for 1956. Each social fraternity in addition to the Campus Club will nominate one girl for the honor. Members of the IFC and the IFC Faculty Committee will observe and converse with the twelve candidates during the first half of the formal dance. They will announce their decision as to the winner and two runner-ups just before intermission. Decisions are to be based on beauty, personality, and overall social poise.

The D Club of Davidson College initiated thirty new members into its fellowship on Tuesday night, January 3. The Club’s purpose is to promote Davidson's athletic interests, especially when they concern cordial relations with other schools, and to encourage student participation in athletic activities. Pete Ashcraft, Max Bryan, Bill Carrell, Curtis Cates, Phil Diuguid, Al Elder, Dave Fagg, Jim Foil, Henry Griffin, Bill Jackson, Charley James, Dick Makepeace, Roswell Mallory, Dick Morehead, Oyvind Norstrom are new members. Dave Page, Murray Page, RhettSanders, George Scott, Basil Sharp, Alex Shepard, Ralph Setzler, Reitzel Snider, Don Stewart, Craig Wall vy: for students’ dates due largely to last minute cancellations. She and Wright, the IFC are attempting to find a solution. The present plan is to have no one sign up for a room until after exams.

Officers for this year are: Ed Speir, president; Bo Abernathy, vice-president; and Dave Regen, secretary.

STONESTREET'S Davidson Student. . . (Continued From Page One) scholarships bring students to Oxford from the United States and the British Commonwealth nations. In accordance with Mr. Rhodes’ own wishes, selection is based on a four-point qualification of intellect, character, leadership, and interest in sports.

Mooresville dealing with mental health and International Affairs in connection with these two chosen projects. There is to be a concerted effort on the part of the Committee to use every available method to educate the Student Body in the areas of mental health and the Southeast Asia Affairs. It will be possible for the contributor to designate to which project he would like his money to go, or to contribute to both. Solicitation will begin the last week in February.

Woody Herman. . . (Continued From Page One) Woody and His Third Herd have arisen to among the tops in American Music.

PARKER-GARDNER CHARLOTTE 2, N. C, 118 West Trade Street Phone ED. 2-8257

Open Seven Days a Week PHONE 3-6241 450 S. Main

Using some of the wallet-feeling methods of Johan Slickensis, he was held Wednesday evening at the S & W Cafeteria in Charlotte, accept the challenge for a literary day. A member of Davidson Lodge No. 511, Prince Hall Free & Accepted Masons, James is a Master Mason in that group. As a Trustee and Acting Deacon of the Davidson Presbyterian Church (U. S. A.), his dreams at present center around the building of an educational building for his church. 

The regular January meeting of the International Relations Club was held Wednesday evening at 9:15 P. M. During the business session, plans were outlined for the second semester program to include joint meetings with the Winthrop and Queens College IRCs. Plans for holding a public meeting in the spring to feature a well-known retired diplomat were also discussed.

The program topic for the evening was the recent French elections. Jacques Delpech, Davidson’s special student from southern France, outlined the results and significance of the elections from the standpoint of the Frenchman. This was followed by a very lively question and discussion period. The conclusions drawn were that Americans, who would wish to impose an idealistic government on France, have no idea of the intricacies of the French political situation, that the French people in general are not nearly so fearful of Communism as Americans are, and that there is no hope in the near future for a significant change in the French electoral system.

Commenting on the general Davidson scene, James says, “Boys are goin’ to be boys as long as there are boys. Now ya got three classes of boys—the do, the won’t do, and the will do—I think that we’ve got more of the ‘will do's’ now than we've had in a long time. Students today want to be prepared for anything that’s comin’ as compared with those several years ago, who frittered away Uncle Sam's money under the G. I. Bill.” This guardian of Davidson's Ivory Tower foresees a need in the future for two secretaries and another janitor to staff his building (and more pay for the present inhabitants—including the professors). James and his cohort in the Martin Science Hall, Alonzo Jackson, are the originators of the janitorial “staff meeting.” Held very frequently, these meetings seldom solve many problems relating to the building but they're good as far as campus bull sessions go. Our hats are off to James Howard, Janitor of the Week, who wouldn’t be at home without hearing the cry of “James! James!” from Dr. Gallent at least twenty times a day.

EUMANEAN ELECTS NEW OFFICERS

Eumanean Literary Society held its final meeting of this semester Monday night, January 9. Nelson Grice read a psychological treatise and Richard Cumming read several of his poems. Mr. Jim Marshall presided over the election of officers for the second semester. Responsibility for Eumanean superiority was delegated to Mr. Harry Brownlee, treasurer, Mr. Bill Daniel, vice-president, and Mr. Nelson Grice, president. A runoff for secretary was postponed until the next meeting. Before adjourning, the Society took due notice of the ethics of the Davidsonian staff in permitting the deletion of the last paragraph of the Eumanean article of December 9 and the substitution of a literary attempt by a member of the group across the way.

RUSSIA and the IRON CURTAIN Countries can be in YOUR summer travel plans for 1956 SCANDINAVIA: RUSSIA (4 weeks): BUCHAREST BUDAPEST: VIENNA: MUNICH: PARIS LONDON ALL INCLUSIVE: $1930.00 For detailed information write: KEN STEINBECK Georgetown University Washington, D. C.

THE CONNOISSEUR A PLACE OF FINE FOODS FOR ANY TASTE IN EATING Pit Barbecue (Cooked Daily) Broiled Steaks Fried Chicken Sandwiches PHONE 3-2861 MOORESVILLE, N. C.

Satisfy Yourself with a Milder, Better-Tasting smoke—packed for more pleasure by exclusive Accu-Ray The more perfectly packed your cigarette, the more pleasure it gives... and Accu-Ray packs Chesterfield far more perfectly. CHESTERFIELD MILD, YET THEY Satisfy To the touch...to the taste, Firm and pleasing to the lips mild yet deeply satisfying to the taste — Chesterfield alone is pleasure-packed by Accu-Ray. An Accu-Ray Chesterfield satisfies the most... burns more evenly, smokes much smoother.