HOBBY COBB NAMED ALL-CONFERENCE (Page 3) The Davidsonian COURT OF CONTROL PROPOSALS BARED (Page 2) VOL. XLIV DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON,
N. C., FRIDAY, MARCH 2, 1956 No. 18 Space helmets and implements of discipline march in cadence count as the
Kappa Sig platoon swings down to the “Tomaine Tavern.” SAE initiates practice a rigid manual of arms with their N.C.
Sack, Calibre 2 1-2 feet, B-2... Out of their Roy Palmer Speaks COURT-MARTIAL SCENE Sigma Pi Sigma Honor Physics Society
met Tuesday night, February 28, and received five men into membership. Those initiated were David Brown, John Hill, John Johnson,
Don McRee, and Frank Robert. The Red and Black Masquers have begun rehearsals for their annual spring production. Prof. R.
W. Tyson is directing the play, The Caine Mutiny Court-Martial. The tentative dates for the performance have been set for
April 11 and 12. The Caine Mutiny Court-Martial had its first performance in the Granada Theatre, Santa Barbara, California, on
October 12, 1953. After a tour across the United States, it opened in New York at the Plymouth Theatre on
January 20, 1954, with the same cast, including Henry Fonda, Lloyd Nolan, and John Hodiak. Herman Wouk based this play
on his Pulitzer Prize-winning novel The Caine Mutiny, but this cannot be called a dramatized version of the novel, for
no stage is large enough to hold that vast and turbulent narrative. Instead, Mr. Wouk has taken the unforgettable climax
from the novel as a pivot about which the rest of the story revolves. Interwoven through the dialogue of the
play is the whole story of what had happened on the Caine—the events leading up to the court-martial. Laurens Walker,
a freshman, is playing the part of Steve Maryk, the officer that is facing court-martial for relieving his commanding officer.
This is Walker's first appearance with the Masquers. The part of the defending attorney, Barney Greenwald, will be portrayed by
Harold Hall. Harold has played in several productions, including The Bishop Misbehaves, Journey's End, The Hasty Heart, and recently he
played the lead in Dial “M” for Murder. He is vice-president of the Red and Black Masquers. Albert Harris, President
of the Masquers, will play the part of Jack Challee, the prosecuting attorney. Albert has played in productions of Journey’s
End and Everyman, and he recently directed Dial “M” for Murder. Commander Queeg will be portrayed by Ed Hadley, secretary
of the Masquers. Ed has appeared in Dial “M” for Murder, A Chronicle of Joe, and The Hasty Heart. Pat
Miller, a senior from Atlanta, Georgia, will portray Tom Keefer, the novelist. This is Pat’s first appearance with the Masquers.
The remaining cast includes George Kemmerer as Willie Keith, Warner Hall as Urban, Grant Sharp as Captain Blakely, Creighton Peden
as Captain Southard, Chuck Babcock as Dr. Lundeen, Hugh Craig as Dr. Bird, Ed Stevens as the Stenographer, and Jim
Proctor as the orderly. Sigma Pi Sigma has a four-fold purpose: to award distinction to those of high scholarship in
physics by election to membership; the advancement and diffusion of knowledge and interest in physics; to promote acquaintance and fellowship
among the advanced students and the faculty in physics and closely related sciences; and to provide an organization which furnishes
opportunity for the promotion of the extracurricular activities of the physics department. KNOW YOUR COLLEGE Important Role Faculty By LLOYD
CHAPIN Davidsonian News Editor Committees of the Davidson College faculty perform a large number and wide variety of functions. Divided
into two categories, appointive and elective, there are twenty-eight of these committees listed in the present college catalogue. Since Davidson
is a faculty-governed institution, subject to the control of the trustees, these committees are of great importance, and their recommendations
are usually accepted. Dr. C. J. Pietenpol, as Dean of Faculty, is one of the key figures in the committee
system. He serves as chairman of the Curriculum Committee and is a permanent member of the Executive Committee. Both of
these committees are elected by the faculty and submit their reports and recommendations to the faculty for approval. CURRICULUM COMMITTEE
The Curriculum Committee is made up of six members beside the Dean of Faculty, three elected from the faculty at
large, and one elected from each of the three main divisions of curriculum, that is, natural science, social science, and
the humanities. In addition to Dean Pietenpol, Professors C. K. Brown, Cumming, Gallent, Johnston, Lilly, and McGeachy are the present
members. Some of the problems facing these men at the present time are those of planning course descriptions for the
new catalogue, re-examining the present basis of awarding A. B. and B. S. degrees, (Continued On Page Four) Dr. Watt's
House Le Cercle Francais held its February meeting on Tuesday, February 28, at the home of Dr. and Mrs. Watts.
After the meeting was opened by the president, Fred Myers, all the members sang together “Le Marseillaise”. The minutes were
read by the secretary, Steve Huntley, and then the program was introduced by Larry Trotti, the vice-president. The four new
members presented part of the program, reading selections from various works. Bob Wooten read “Le Theiste,” by Voltaire; John McVay
and Bob MacRae rendered a dialogue, and Gray Lewis read Psalm 23 from the French Bible. After this, Jack Trawick
read a paper on “Love in the Work of Marcel Proust.” After the program, the members had a grand time
singing old French songs and ballads, with the accompaniment of Mrs. Watts. Col. Sapp to Attend Army Maneuvers On March
23-25, 1956, Davidson's PMS&T, Lt. Col. John D. Sapp, will go to Ft. Bragg, North Carolina, for three days of
participation in operation “Lucky Flash”. Lt. Col. Sapp will be special weapons advisor to the Commanding General, 30th Infantry Division,
which is the North Carolina National Guard Division. As a special weapons advisor, Lt. Col. Sapp will make recommendations to
the Commanding General on the tactical employment of atomic weapons. The operation will be under the command of Lt. General
Thomas F. Hickey, Commanding General, Third Army. “Lucky Flash” is a 3rd Army tactical exercise which has been planned and
will be carried out in compliance with directives from the Department of the Army. Each year, all National Guard and
Reserve units must participate in such operations. Operation “Lucky Flash” will involve the participation of all of the reserve and
National Guard divisions in the 3rd Army area, which comprises seven Southeastern States. The purpose of operation “Lucky Flash” is
“to provide commanders and staffs with an opportunity to apply sound tactical and logistical principles to the solution of combat
problems which involve current considerations of new weapons systems available to the Army, and of other battle-tested means employed in
mutual support.” D Club Prepares for Annual Foolies Show The “D” Club held its third meeting of the year last
Monday night. After President Ed Speir opened the meeting and disposed of the preliminaries, the day’s hearty activity we homey
troughs the PiKA quadrupeds find nourishment for another Mirrored in the Confederate setting are several of the many KA projects
and projectors—painting woodwork, cleaning walls, fixing scrapbooks, and cataloguing records. Fraternities Plan Varied Activities for Greek Week in Full Swing;
Continues Through Mar. 4 Pledges; Unique Costumes Worn by Many By BOB LATHAN The Student Council, at its February 27
meeting, heard and voted unanimous approval of two committee reports, the first being on the Court of Control, and the
second dealing with the matter of an inter-semester break. The committee on the Court of Control, headed by Councilman Vernon
Hunter, presented its report to the Council. Hunter presented several recommended changes in the Freshman Regulations. He said that the
purpose of the changes would be to eliminate those rules which are vague and difficult to enforce. It was also
recommended that the Court be brought back into Chapel. By screening the cases before they were presented in chapel, the
Court could lend real constructiveness to maintaining the Freshman Regulations. There was lively discussion on the regulation that Freshmen should
“show respect to upperclassmen at all times.” Hunter's report recommended that this phrase be incorporated in another rule, stating simply
that Freshmen speak “respectfully” to everyone they meet on the campus. Some members favored continuing the present and separate rule
that Freshmen should “show respect to upperclassmen at all times.” A motion to keep the rules separate was defeated. There
was also some discussion on another point recommendWatt McCain put on a one-man preview of what could develop into the
1956 “D” Club Follies, the first event of Spring Frolics dance weekend. It is supposed to be a musical comedy
centered in a Geisha house in Japan; it was put at the disposal of the club by its editor, Bob
Rhodes, a former Davidson student. As there is a shortage of available directors, any persons who are qualified to be
directors are requested to see President Speir.

Being in good shape financially, the club discussed a possible scholarship or other project which it could suitably sponsor. The
present Davidson athletic policy made the scholarship idea infeasible; therefore, it was decided to locate a project associated with athletics
which is not taken care of by the athletic budget and which is within the “D” Club financial means. The
cost of purchasing white “D” sweaters for senior members has proved prohibitive and unattractive. A “D” Club award blanket which
was proposed for senior members received enthusiastic response from the club.

A scene from “Cyrano de Bergerac,” by Rostand; names of authors and their works. Finally, with quantities of Mrs. Goldiere’s
and Mrs. Watt's famous Boston Cream Pie under their belts, the members sadly returned to their rooms for less interesting
intellectual pursuits.

The committee, headed by Hunter, recommended that the Freshmen be allowed to take off their caps and name tags before
the regular time if they win the Freshmen-Sophomore Day contest. Councilman Bondurant said that he agreed on the point of
allowing the Freshmen to take off their caps if they won the contest, since the purpose of the caps is
to build class spirit. However, he said that the committee was putting the wrong emphasis on the matter of the
name tags, since the purpose of the name tags is to learn the names of the Freshmen. The Council concurred
on this observation.

Elsewhere in the Davidsonian, a complete outline of the recommended changes on the Court of Control will be found. Next,
the Council was presented with a plan to have an inter-semester break. Councilman Bill Bondurant showed the Council a plan
that he, President Anderson, and Councilman Linny Baker had drawn up. The plan called for a shortening of the registration
period at the beginning of school in September and several other changes which are designed to streamline the time it
takes to get classes started in September. In addition to gaining an extra day in September, another day would be
gained by cutting off one day at the beginning of the Christmas holidays. The result of these two extra days
would be a possible inter-semester break. Details of this plan were not completed at the meeting, but they have been
drawn up since then and can be found elsewhere in the Davidsonian. The motion was unanimously passed, and the final
recommendation will be presented to the Faculty before its March 6 meeting. President Anderson urged all students to make known
their views on this subject to their various professors.

MR. CAPUS WAYNICK

Mr. Capus Waynick — To Talk to Business-Economics Club

The Business Economics Association’s first meeting of the second semester will feature speaker Mr. Capus Waynick, noted North Carolina administrator
and statesman. The topic of Mr. Waynick's talk, at the meeting on Tuesday, March 6, will be the North Carolina
Small Business Development Corporation, which has been very active recently in attracting and developing businesses in this state. He made
the original study for this organization and has spearheaded the project's development.

A resident of Guilford County, near High Point, Mr. Waynick has been very active in the affairs of the State
and of the country. With the State Department, he served as Ambassador to Nicaragua and Colombia. During the Truman administration,
Mr. Waynick organized and was the first administrator of the Point-4 Program of Aid to other countries. In North Carolina,
he has served in the state legislature, as Chairman of the State Highway Commission, and is presently engaged with the
Small Business Development Corp. He is a former Chairman of the State Democratic Committee.

All members are urged to attend this meeting, which will begin at 7:30, in the College Union Ballroom. A runoff
election will be held to select one member of the Board of Directors. Refreshments will be served following a discussion
period.

Greek Week

Greek Week of the long, hellacious Brimstone Week is practically over. All of the eleven fraternities have endeavored to call
it Help Week. Therefore, it shall be noted just how and in what ways the notorious pledge “help” has been
utilized by the famed Greek Brotherhood.

The ATO pledges have spent a large part of their time at the Center Presbyterian Church at Mt. Mourne, repairing
the church building and cleaning up the grounds. Also, many of the pledges have been doing such worthwhile projects as
bringing breakfast in bed to some of the brothers who chose not to eat at the boarding house.

Davidson pledges of different fraternities have been required to carry different brands of cigarettes on them for the brothers to
smoke at their choosing. In view of this situation, the pledges have resorted to such “popular” brands as Kools, English
Oval, or Home Runs to satisfy the brothers' craving for weed. The pledge classes of the SPE's, KA’s, and PiKapp
have been greeting the brothers with fruit juice at “the top of the morning.” Other examples of the food aspect
of “Help Week” reveal that the Beta pledges have been carrying candy around for the brothers and that several of
the fraternities are having pledges run the “stud” for the brothers.

The Kappa Sigs and Mouseketeers have come out with space helmets and paddles to match. However, the bold grotesque Vikings
have not conquered all of Vineland as yet. Professor Jung’s apt remark when he saw the “Vikings” was: “So was
ist das, jungle horns, No?” Other pledge classes have responded to the fashion parade with common but distinguished-looking Sunday clothes.
The Beta pledges have been lugging their bags of bricks around and the SAE’s likewise. These two pledge classes have
been indoctrinated in the manual of arms with the N. C. Sack, Caliber 2 1-2 feet, B2. The Pika pledges
have been seen with their brooms accompanying them everywhere they go.

Other bizarre sights: the KA’s and Kappa Sigs marching in ranks backwards, the PiKapp's walking activities this week have been
centered around their house—the Pika’s eating out of troughs on the floor with no utensils—the Phi Gam’s playing airplane games
at the boarding house.

Other fraternities have had the usual pledge duties of shining shoes, singing songs, and telling jokes and stories at the
boarding house, and cleaning up the fraternity house. The Sigma Chi's stayed up a good part of one night giving
their house a thorough going-over. When the traditional smoke and fire dies out, the positive and constructive elements of Greek
Week will remain. This most prominent aspect of the week is denoted by alumni letters, house painting and remodeling, walk
laying, and landscaping. All fraternities are engaged in these projects, usually in the afternoons, with some nights devoted to their
realization.

Greek Week, or Help Week, whatever name one wishes to title it, concludes Sunday evening in actuality. This week has
been—and still is—a hellacious week of time, but it leaves many unusual memories, snapshots, accomplished programs, and improvements to give
it lasting value.

Dr. Ben Lacy Rose, Jr. Will Conduct Spring Services March 11-13

“Encounter with Christ” will be the theme of the Spring Services, to be conducted March 11-13 by Dr. Ben Lacy
Rose, Jr., of Wilmington. The services will begin at Vespers, March 11, with Dr. Rose speaking on “Encounter With God's
Love.” “You Get What You Really Want” will be the topic for Monday Chapel, and Monday evening the message will
be “Encounter With Christ.” The concluding address will be given at Tuesday Chapel, when the subject will be “Results of
the Encounter.”

Dr. Rose, an outstanding Presbyterian pastor, was born in Fayetteville, N. C., and was graduated from Davidson College. He received
from Union Theological Seminary the degrees of B.D., Th. M, and Th.D. He has seen service as a chaplain and
has received several awards for outstanding service. He was an outstanding speaker at the Auburn Convention of the Presbyterian Church
in 1953. Before assuming his present pastorate, he served at Central Church in Bristol, Tennessee-Virginia. He is now pastor of
the First Presbyterian Church of Wilmington, N. C.
