The Davidsonian

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Dick Morehead

ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Maurice Crouse, Tom Batten

Managing Editors
Jim Batten, Franklin Bloodworth, Jim Brice

Sports Editor
Leon Howell

Exchange Editor
Bob Beall

News Editors
Lloyd Chapin, Bill Pomeroy

Staff Photographer
Harry Paschall

John Trask Assignments

Member of the Associated Collegiate Press and Intercollegiate Press

Page Two
Friday, March 9, 1956

Academically...

The recent poll of faculty opinion (see Open Forum) presents some rather interesting comparisons. It is worthy of note that 82% of the faculty participated in this evaluative endeavor, which is somewhat indicative of their interest and concern in these matters. Figures, of course, are not finite in themselves, nor can there be any definitive evaluation of college academic rating. But the present faculty compose perhaps the most competent board of judges available to us. A large majority (83.6%) rated Davidson in the top 5% among liberal arts colleges in the South, which level seems to be consistent with normal expectations. Notice that in the United States, Davidson is only ranked in the upper 25% of the liberal arts colleges by 38.6% and in the upper 15% by 36.3% of those taking the poll. Some (18.3%) ranked Davidson in the top 50%. This can be construed as a critical appraisal of Southern education in light of its national comparisons. It also serves as some indication of our national prestige, an evaluative factor often hidden in the local prominence of "The Myth." The question inevitably arises—should we consider how we stand as an institution in relation to colleges other than those in the South? The answer must be an unequivocal yes. There are many obvious reasons for this position. One is that more of our graduates are now attending graduate schools in the North and East. With subtle but effective erosion of geographic lines, competition and association with other than Southern elements in our society is an ever-growing reality. Further, Davidson must not limit itself to the level of Southern educational progress. Academically, then, we still have a great challenge before us—to keep pace, to advance, but never to relax our educational endeavors.

Another interesting and somewhat revealing facet of the opinion returns is the faculty vote on enrollment. It is logically correct to assume that the 12% who voted to reduce our present enrollment would not wish any further raise in present limits. Adding this figure to the 58% who desire present population, we have 70% voting against any further increase in student body enrollment. This is certainly a strong majority, contrary to recently established college policy, and contrary to rumored faculty representation. It is but another very clear indication that the college community is against further increase at the present time—a fact which ought not to be taken lightly.

To the Voters

Previewing the avalanche of nominations, the “Hey” boys, “Circle One” slips, and charming platitudes that highlight the election season, it is healthy for us to consider a few guideposts of our system. First, every student must vote. It is an obligation and duty to student government and its elective offices, to the school, and to yourselves to vote and to vote intelligently. Your failure to participate is detrimental to the system and the principles for which it stands.

Elections here should not be popularity contests, regardless of former conceptions or senior witticisms. Elective offices by their nature and by their present responsibilities are demanding proof that capable and interested men are needed. In order to vote wisely and effectively, you must study the candidate, his assets and liabilities. Examine his experience in the field for which he seeks office—how much time has he spent in that activity, how would he handle the office? Examine his interests—is he thoroughly interested in working after election, does he have the interests of the students and of Davidson foremost? Examine his opinions and views on issues of vital importance to the college and student body—where does he stand on segregation, enrollment, academic improvement, student opinion, etc.?—for his views now will be his actions of tomorrow. Examine his platform and his proposed plans for the betterment of his selected office in light of their singular and comparative value. Finally, examine his capabilities of performance and execution of duty.

The student body is sufficiently small to enable thorough knowledge of its candidates for office. It is the voter's responsibility to ask questions—it is the candidate's obligation to answer them. Failure of either may result in failure of both. This is student government. It rests entirely in student control, having great potentialities for failure or for success. It is your decision—judge wisely for your vote will be tomorrow’s leadership.

History Repeats?

The virtual impasse that has resulted from the South's unwillingness to accept the Supreme Court’s ruling on the integration of public schools is reminiscent of events of the middle decades of the nineteenth century. Then as now, institutions were on trial. Then it was the question of the perpetuation of slavery; now it is the perpetuation of segregation. Basically the problem was the same: What is to be the social relationship between the races? The emancipation of the slaves did not solve the problem. Rather it made it more intense, and segregation was the South's “solution,” a solution which stopped the gap for almost a century.

Constitutionally, the point in question seems to have changed little over the years. Much of the South still believes, rightly or wrongly, that state sovereignty is prior to federal power, and insists on the right of the state to interpose its original sovereignty to stay the action of the federal government whenever necessary. The current interposition theory differs little from Calhoun’s nullification theory, which was indecisively tested in the tariff controversy of 1832. The problem then as now was what is to be done when a portion of the nation refuses to obey a national law. President Jackson acted promptly by calling for and getting a bill authorizing the use of the military in collecting tariffs. The necessity for action was removed when the offending tariff was modified to the satisfaction of South Carolina. The Force Bill was then itself nullified and both parties claimed a victory.

The split in the Union came not over the tariff, but over alleged interference with state institutions, which is much the same argument as that used today. Ironically, in 1860 it was the South which was upheld by the Supreme Court, while the Republican North was very much dissatisfied with the Dred Scott decision. The problem remains. At the moment, it is doubtful that we are living in the days of another impending crisis, although to many the conflict does indeed seem irrepressible. But this is not the time for rash action by either side. Many states and communities, especially the border ones, have complied with the Court’s rulings, and there is growing conviction in religious circles that segregation is not morally justifiable. On the other hand, it cannot be denied that racial relations have been set back in many other places. Tuscaloosa is only one example. The problem obviously will not be solved overnight. It will require many difficult years for the South to accept the Court’s ruling, but such acceptance will come. Whether it will come with bayonets or peacefully depends on the moderation shown by all elements in our country. William Faulkner’s advice to would-be hasty elements is good: “Wait, wait now, stop and consider first.”—M.A.C.

BUSINESS MANAGER
Larry Parrott

Advertising Manager
Bob Carmichael

Subscription
Warner Hall

Circulation
Bob Majors, Stan Miller, Tony Guiles, Bill Bondurant

Business Staff

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. NEW YORK, N.Y.
CHICAGO * BOSTON * LOS ANGELES * SAN FRANCISCO

Subscription Rate: $2.00 Per Year
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1879.
Offices in David Ovens College Union, Davidson College

Academic Evaluation by Department Chairmen Begins

The Davidsonian, reflecting the mounting interest among members of the student body concerning the work being done in various departments of the College and how Davidson compares with other similar liberal arts colleges, has submitted five pertinent questions to the chairman of each of Davidson's twenty-seven departments. The answers to these questions offer a basis for an analysis of the progress of the departments over the past three years, together with suggestions of the changes that may be forthcoming. The result is a partial evaluation of the Departments of Davidson College.

Questions A and B of the study were to be regarded as “tone” questions and were to be answered optionally if time permitted. The answers received to these two questions are omitted here, but they will probably be presented shortly through alumni publications and a later feature article in the Davidsonian. This is the first of a series of four articles in which we hope to offer the statements of all of the Department Chairmen. The following answers are copied verbatim from their reports. The Davidsonian is indebted to the Department Chairmen for their interest and support.

The “tone” questions were as follows:
A. If you were to persuade an excellent high school student to send in an application for admission to Davidson, what general arguments would you be inclined to use?
B. If this student were thinking of majoring in your department, what argument would you use?

The three basic interrogations of the questionnaire were the following:
1. What are the changes that

LITTLE MAN ON CAMPUS by Dick Bibler

“Don't worry ‘bout my experiment, Prof... I wasn't doing anything very important anyway.”

Homogenized Men

(The following is an article first published in the January issue of the Peabody Journal of Education. Ed.)

One crisp night last November our Student Council sat discussing the possible sponsorship of an exchange student from Soviet Russia for next year. Assent was general to the point that we ought to make sure that our candidate was not biased, and would not use his year here as an opportunity to sell Marxism and criticize our capitalistic culture. I did not assent, nor did I say anything; but all during the discussion I felt an uneasiness about the tone and the attitude of the proceedings. The following morning I noticed a college lavatory in the process of being repainted. Spread out all across the floor to protect the tile were copies of The Wall Street Journal.

NEED FOR EVALUATION

It has been observed that “for an integrated education... America has never had the equal of her little hill-top colleges.” My college is one of these: a small, church-related institution which can justifiably be proud of its reputation and of the record of its graduates. Today the small college faces economic difficulties in keeping stride with the universities in an era of spiraling costs. More than ever its virtues need to be advertised and its raison d'etre proclaimed. And at the same time, its deficiencies need to be examined with a view toward constantly improving the product—which is good education as well as good economics. Very shortly I shall become one of those products and receive the stamp Grade A.B., and while still immersed in it I want to venture a few comments on that process. These are not hostile criticisms, but ones offered in love from a debtor and an investor in the value of small college.

ISOLATION FROM REALITY

The great danger to liberal education is that the small college will make the process too smooth. My college has a student body largely homogeneous: most of us are white, male, Southern, Protestant, and middle to upper-middle class inOur economic backgrounds. This homogeneity makes for a kind of hot-house situation, an isolation from reality and the real issues of life and from a majority of the sort of people who make up America. It results in a lack of conflict, and a pattern of conformity that stifles initiative and inhibits tolerance. We fail to mature fully because we don't have to—there are no factors or people in our environment to confront us with ideas and ideals sufficiently different from our own to force us to examine ours. We never learn the depth that comes from a stout defense of what we believe, or the tolerance that grows from an encounter with the good case of the good man on the other side. Security corrupts as surely as power, and in our similarity of backgrounds and interests we are surely too secure.

CURRICULUM VS. ENVIRONMENT

Now to be certain, it is difficult to encourage the non-Protestant, the non-Southern, the non-white, the lower-income student to venture into our homogenized midst. But few of our small colleges are making a serious effort to recruit him. In failing to do so, they are failing to fulfill half of their responsibility to the student: they provide him the curriculum but not the environment to prepare him adequately to inherit the problems of the modern world. And in a commendable and necessary effort to preserve the best things of our culture, they are also preserving the worst—retaining the spiritual values of the fathers, but the prejudices of the fathers as well. A little diversity encouraged among their academic associates would go far toward preventing the sons from being the homogenized men of liberal education.

1. What improvements have been made in your department in the last three years?
2. What improvements would you like to see made in your department in the next few years?
3. Would you comment further on the academic standing of Davidson in relation to other similar liberal arts schools as you see it?

These are the answers to questions 1, 2, and 3, quoted verbatim from the reports of the Department Chairmen:

DEPARTMENT OF ECONOMICS

Question 1: New Courses:
1. Development of Economic Thought.
2. Senior Seminar.
3. Economic Theory.

Question 2: The department is actively interested in revising the departmental honors work. In the past, we have had a number of students doing honors work in economics. We expect to encourage this in the future.

Question 3: In our judgment, the work at Davidson compares favorably. We think our graduates hold their own in the best universities with men from other institutions.

DEPARTMENT OF POLITICAL SCIENCE

Question 1: I changed existing courses substantially upon arrival in 1955 and plan in 1956-57 to modify two present two-semester courses to four one-semester courses. We will also in the coming year, subject to faculty final OK, add honors work and a special joint seminar.

Question 2: I consider the department as presently inadequate to the functions of this type of college. A number of constituted steps would be necessary to improve the quality of preparation in political science for general citizenship needs, and for careers in law, government, or graduate studies. To this end, subject to student demand and college OK, the department in the next few years might:
(a) offer additional coursework (National and state governments, public opinion and propaganda, public administration, international law and organization);
(b) increase such qualitative experiences (perhaps with outside financial aid from interested foundations) as student participation in political processes, field trips, and discussions on campus by outside experts;
(c) make staff changes; and
(d) attain a regular yearly flow of three Davidson students per year to the Washington Semester Program at the American University, Washington, D.C.

Question 3: Davidson is probably among the best of such schools in this general region of the country, though probably not the equal, overall, of the top liberal arts schools in the country.

DEPARTMENT OF APPLIED MATH

Question 1: A course in Descriptive Geometry is to be offered next year. This course will follow the Engineering Drawing course and will conform to similar courses offered in engineering schools.

Question 2: I would like to see the Applied Mathematics department expanded both in scope and in teaching staff.

Question 3: I think the quality of work done at Davidson compares favorably with work done in similar liberal arts schools.

DEPARTMENT OF MUSIC

Question 1:
A. Credit for music theory was increased from two hours to three per semester along with two theory drill periods per week.
B. Physical training credit is now given for participation in the football band during the football season.
C. The past three years have seen the birth and growth of the Intercollege Chamber Music Guild, a successful concerted effort on the part of the combined Music Department students and faculties of Queens, Catawba, and Davidson.

Question 2:
A. The construction of a completely new music building or Fine Arts Center.
B. The establishment of music scholarship funds to meet the increasing competition from other schools in attracting talented music students.

Question 3: My guess is that Davidson rates high in comparison with other schools. I am positive that there is not another all-male school of comparable size anywhere in the country that can boast a better department of music.

WEEK'S CORRESPONDENCE

Implications of Segregation Presentation Analyzed, Criticized

"It has always been the habit of privileged groups to deny the oppressed classes every opportunity for the cultivation of innate capacities and then to accuse them of lacking what they have been denied the right to acquire." —Reinhold Niebuhr, Moral Man and Immoral Society

Since Religious Emphasis Week of last year, many of us have complained that we have been forced to hear a one-sided presentation of the segregation issue. Last week those people who had complained watched Prof. C. K. Brown take the stage and speak out loud and clear the things they wanted to hear. Prof. Brown, perhaps the logical man for the speech, reopened interest in the bi-racial controversy that has languished of late, and in presenting what he called the Southern position he gave heart to students who had resigned themselves to the bitter lot of hearing only church leaders and liberals give their views on the subject. I believe that even those who were most shocked by the things Prof. Brown said should admit his speech was long overdue and was most edifying in a number of ways.

There are several points of Prof. Brown's speech I should like to discuss. I am afraid at several places he sacrificed historical accuracy for the benefit of his racial theories. The reader will remember that Prof. Brown claimed almost all recorded history for the white man. Now, in the event that the falsity of his statement is not apparent enough, suffice it to say that the paper the reader is holding (if he has continued this far) was first an invention of the Chinese, and that the characters he is reading stem from Asia and Africa.

Prof. Brown also made the remark, I believe, that the white man under the Providence of God has been commissioned to propagate Christianity among all peoples. As a matter of fact, the Western Europeans are comparative newcomers in the apostolic movement. As late as the fifth century, Christianity was brought to the Anglo-Saxons by a swarthy African, Saint Augustine.

These facts have great significance for us today. The heyday of the European races is but one of the periods in the long history of the world. It is not only erroneous, but dangerous, to assume that we are a superior race with a superior culture, and will forever enjoy the good life that in many cases we have usurped at the expense of others.

I want to make it clear that the historical errors in Prof. Brown's speech do not concern me nearly so much as what they spell: Racialism. Asiatic and African peoples are today focusing their attention on America. We can no longer safely believe that the South’s jealously guarded local autonomy can be used in such a manner that the democratic ideal which this nation is so strenuously trying to sell abroad is sullied at its fountainhead. We are being watched, and Americans are being held accountable for the South's present embarrassing racial policy. It would be ironic indeed if we were to alienate Asians and Africans to the extent that they would fall to Communism, from which there is no return, and form the determining factor against us, so that we someday would find ourselves relegated to the separate-but-equal side of the tracks!

Finally, there are a few things to be said about Prof. Brown's religious sanction for segregation. He explained that Christians are brothers in Christ but in no other sense. He rejected the idea that this concept should be interpreted to mean worldly equality. Christ did not endorse the struggles of men for prerogative, and the negro would do well to escape the materialism with which many whites are afflicted. Now, I am not a theologian, and I cannot attack Prof. Brown's interpretation of the Scriptures per se. But, although the reader may disagree with me, I see implications that are certainly to be criticized, and those implications again amount to racialism. Can it be that we whites are so unselfish as to monopolize the struggle for power in order that the negro may remain untainted? Or should we really say that we are seeking to eliminate a competitor? If anything can be inferred from the scriptural account of Jesus’ life, the brotherhood of man is not an ideal which should be excluded from the realm of practice.

—JIM ARMISTEAD.

In an endeavor to evaluate Davidson’s place among liberal arts colleges and to determine faculty opinion on items important to all concerned, the Davidsonian distributed the following poll to all members of the faculty. Effort was made to have the poll purely objective, and no names were mentioned. Of the questionnaires going out to the entire faculty, 82 percent were returned. The results of the poll are both interesting and enlightening. It is of interest to note that the personal viewpoints of the majority of the faculty members concerning enrollment are directly opposed to the ruling of the trustees. Some of the faculty members preferred the term “average” for “adequate” in question two, voting that there was a change of implication as the poll was originally stated. Other results of the questionnaires are to be discussed in a forthcoming article. The Davidsonian wishes to express its appreciation for the enthusiastic response of the faculty to this poll and to the questions submitted to the Department Chairmen. The three questions, with the returns in percentages, are as follows:

1. Which of the following do you personally favor?
a. Enrollment at present 58%
b. Enrollment of 1,000 26%
c. Enrollment of over 1,000 4%
d. Enrollment of less than present 12%

2. Are Davidson’s academic standards and requirements as you interpret them:
a. Very high 2.0%
b. Relatively high 67.3%
c. Adequate 26.5%
d. Relatively low 4.2%
e. Very low 0%

3. Where do you rank Davidson in regard to liberal arts colleges?
a. In the South:
1. Top 5% 83.6%
2. Next 10% 14.3%
3. Next 10% 0%
4. Next 25% 2.1%
5. Last 50% 0%

b. In the United States:
1. Top 5% 4.3%
2. Next 10% 36.1%
3. Next 10% 38.3%
4. Next 25% 9.1%
5. Next 50% 2.2%