Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Gaus from the World of Literature
Excerpts from the Dead-Tired Scroll

MEDITATION I

1. And it came to pass in these days that there went out a decree from Samuel Spencer that all
the children should cease to detonate dangerous firecrackers in their dwelling.
2. (And this decree was first made when Slick John, the Divine, was ruler over Davidson.)

3. And every man then departed even unto his own place and thought on this thing which had come to
pass, which Samuel had made known unto them.

4. And in his heart, each man was glad, for they had been sorely distressed with the combustion and sudden
noises in the night watches.

MEDITATION II

1. Now after Samuel had spoken before the multitude in Davidson in the days of Cunningham the mighty, behold, there
came wise guys in the night to the dormitory,

2. Saying among themselves, "Who is this man to say these things unto us, for lo, are we not free
men?"

3. And is there not given unto us certain rights that we may say phooey, and it is phooey? And
if we choose to detonate firecrackers and startle our fellows, who is this man to say yea, or nay?

4. So they came with haste and found firecrackers and matches and darkness all together.
5. And they took the firecrackers and did detonate them with resounding great noise and did awaken others sorely in
need of sleep, and great was the crash thereof.

6. And when Samuel heard of this thing, he was sorely troubled, and all the Davidson men with him, for
these wise guys were not acting with respect for their fellows.

MEDITATION III

1. But nevertheless, there was suddenly with these wise guys, a goodly number, raising their voices and saying, Phooey to
Samuel, the Dean, and unto all our fellows, let every night sound even as the Fourth of July.

MEDITATION IV

1. But behold, I open my mouth and say unto you:

2. Blessed are those who study, for they shall remain.

3. Blessed are those who patiently endure the noise, for it shall eventually cease.

4. Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall have the love of their fellows, neither shall they run
the risk of discipline.

5. Unfortunate are you whom men shall pop firecrackers around you, and make noise, and disturb you, for it is
unnecessary.

6. But take comfort, for so persecuted they those who suffered in like manner before you.

MEDITATION V

1. Suffer the little children to open their firecrackers, for of such is the evidence of their youth.
2. But I say unto you, when thou studiest, be not as the little children who make commotion that they
may be seen of men, for they have their reward.

3. But when thou studiest, enter into the quietness of thy room and do that which thou hast to do,
and learn well, and let thy fellows do likewise, for great shall be thy reward at graduation.

———Written by a Unanimous author, c. 1669
This paper is edited by Brice-Majors Newspapers, Inc.
