PAGE FOUR

DISILLUSIONED DESPOTS........No. 4

TURING THE LATE DEWITT HELM, SENIOR

“He was in the world and the world knew him not.”

Here Lies DeWitt Fredrick Helm, Jr.
Who believed in
1. Virginia Hot Springs, Inc
2. Woodberry Forest School
3. Quips and Cranks

Born April 23, 1933
Died May 15, 1956

The deceased was born the son of a Presbyterian Minister at Presbyterian Hospital, Charlotte, N.C. His early years were spent
in North Carolina and in Georgia, where he lived till the age of 12. In 1945 Mr. Helm moved to
Hot Springs, located in the Warm Springs Valley, “The Garden Spot of Virginia.” He readily became a transplanted Virginian, and
with no premonition whatsoever, disregarded his Tar Heel heritage.

Environment greatly influenced his life, for his great delight was to enunciate the distinction of the Homestead Hotel, while he
castigated the neighboring Greenbrier, which had lured a “local boy,” Slamming Sammy Snead, away from the favored Valley.

Mr. Helm prepped at Woodberry Forest School prior to his attendance at Davidson. He long continued to support his Alma
Mater verbally if not financially. The deceased entered Davidson College in September, 1952 with the distinguished class of 1956. For
two and a half years he avoided the public eye until that fateful day in the spring of his Junior
year, when he was elected to that high and honored position of Editor of the 1956 Quips and Cranks.

An autopsy revealed that his untimely death may be attributed to frustration, exhaustion, and lack of support in his endeavor.
The publication of Editor Helm’s finished product could only be effected by means of the Federal Service. The former remained
hesitant to suggest a wager that would prove remunerative to the deceased. Editor Helm’s honor and integrity were never questioned.

His death greatly bemoaned by his faithful friends, cohort, and right-hand man, Hank Daniel, who both tolerated and appreciated his
idiosyncrasies. The coffin with Mr. Helm was his cherished copies of the Old Testament, “Candy Striped Apocrypha,” and his own
New Testament with its gilded edges.

The cadets of Company F, which he commanded, attended his funeral en masse, and the members of Sigma Alpha Epsilon
Fraternity over which he presided, served as pallbearers.

“He was in the world and the world knew him not.”

The family requests that flowers not be sent; it would appreciate contributions to Mr. J. H. Malone to settle the
debt incurred by the 1956 Quips and Cranks.

Do you pause for a few moments over ice-cold Coca-Cola? Refresh yourself. It’s sparkling with natural goodness, pure and wholesome—and
naturally friendly to your figure. Feel like having a Coke?

BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY THE COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD

‘Arms and the Man’ Hailed as Highlight
By FRED MYERS

“Arms and the Man,” produced by the Dublin Players last Tuesday night at Ovens Auditorium, was not the highlight of
the dramatic season in Charlotte; it was the season. The momentary establishment of order, pure and intimate, isolated in those
wilds of space too large for a theatre, too small for opera. Seated in chromatic armchairs, tinted to match the
plumbing (and as comfortable), a large and enthusiastic audience applauded unknowing.

Faculty Committees
(Continued From Page One)

The latter recently raised from subcommittee status, also appointed, but includes two students. This year they are Perrin Anderson and
Vernon Hunter. The Chapel Committee meets the first Monday of every month to plan programs for the following month.

An important committee in the past was the Examinations Committee, whose original duties broadened into the Baker Scholarship Committee. This
committee began in 1947 with Dr. W. P. Cumming serving as chairman and Professors Abernathy, Gallent, Gold, Grier, and Thompson
working with him. One of its principal functions was to compare the performances of Davidson students on the Graduate Record
Exam with the performances of students from other institutions.

ACTIVITIES

Saturday, March 10
Movie “Martin Luther”

Sunday, March 11
Vespers—Dr. Ben Lacy

Monday, March 12
Provident Insurance Company—Interviews
Beaver Club

Tuesday, March 13
General Electric—Interviews
MS I ROTC Review
Business and Economics Club
Scabbard and Blade
Bridge Club
Chapel—Dr. Rose

Wednesday, March 14
Burroughs Machine Company—Interviews All Day
General Electric—Interviews All Day
Employment Security Commission—Interviews All Day
Naval Recruiting Team—Union All Day
MS II ROTC Review
7:00 Sigma Delta Pi
7:15 Delta Phi Alpha
7:15 Red and Black Masqueraders
8:15 Omicron Delta Kappa
9:15 International Relations Club

Thursday, March 15
Winn-Dixie—Interviews All Day
Prudential Insurance Company of America—Interviews All Day
American Trust Company—Interviews All Day
North Carolina Employment Agency—Interviews All Day
Alpha Phi Omega
9:15

Friday, March 16
Reynolds Tobacco Company—Interviews All Day
Movie—"High and Mighty” 7:00 and 9:00

Bridge Club Gives Results of Last Meet

Results of the last game held by the Bridge Club were as follows:
North-South: first, Mrs. Martin and Mrs. Spencer; second, Rush Wilson and J. W. McCall.
East-West: first, Mrs. Mebane and Mrs. Steugh; second, Nancy and Creecy Copeland. Eight tables participated. The next game will be
a Master Point game and will be held in the College Union on Tuesday, March 13, at 7:30 PM. Mr.
J. A. Postell will direct. The cost is 25¢ for members and 50¢ for non-members.

ART EXHIBITION SET

An exhibition of Da

THE DAVIDSONIANBridge Club are as follows:

FRIDAY, MARCH 9, 1956 (Continued From Page One)

the Legion of Merit, and receiving five battle stars for the five major campaigns in Europe. From 1946 to 1955,
he served as pastor of the Central Presbyterian Church, Bristol, Va. In January, 1955, he became pastor of the First
Presbyterian Church in Wilmington. Dr. Rose has been quite active both in civic and in church activities. Among many things,
he has been on the Board of Directors of the Boys’ Club of Bristol, on the Board of Directors of
the Community Chest, on the Board of Church Extension of the General Assembly of the Presbyterian Church, U.S., on the
Board of Trustees of Peace College in Raleigh, and has been much in demand as a Religious Em-

(Continued From Page One)

transparent charm. The technical competence with which she handled herself on the stage, together with the engaging naivete which she
conveyed, was a praiseworthy and difficult achievement. Perhaps the most popular performance of the evening was that of Dorothy LaVern
as Maude Larrabee. Miss LaVern is quite obviously a seasoned veteran of stock theatre and would perhaps be the first
to admit that she lacks artistic insight. The artistic failure of her performance, which more than any other set the
inappropriate farcical style for the rest of the production, can doubtless be attributed to the director rather than to herself.
If one actor or actress is "carrying" a scene, as Miss LaVern played each scene and each line for what
it was worth on the surface, the content and weight of the play, thanks most especially to her, were lost.

The male performers were, to the man, weak if not incompetent. Richard McKenzie as Linus Larrabee was not even worth
mentioning. This is sad, since he had some important lines. The two sons and the chauffeur were all too young,
and too obviously straining at technique (i.e., movement, enunciation, and projection), to achieve any sort of characterization. We must not
make the mistake of thinking that Alfred Muscari’s performance as David was good because he delivered one or two bits
of ironic repartee with rather effective timing. The Frenchman’s performance was embarrassing and distasteful.

The two Davidson debutantes who were recruited for the garden hideaway handled their walk-ons wonderfully well. If the simple, underplayed
restraint of these scenes had been sustained throughout the production, we should have had no cause for complaint.

(Continued From Page One)

the exhibition, which consists of drawings, paintings, sculpture, and prints, will contain works of students. The purpose of the examination
and the advantages of various types of performances of other student productions in the South and in the whole nation.
Its greatest achievement was the establishment of the scholarship program at Davidson. They are the basis and future by which
such a scholarship and honors program continues.

There have been two changes in the nominating procedure this year. The Student Council will nominate the candidates for head
cheerleader and the Athletic Council. Voting on these candidates, as in the past, will continue to be done by the
student body.

STONESTREET'S

Open Seven Days a Week
PHONE 3-6241
450 S. Main Mooresville
7:00 - 9:00

RECORD SHOP
“Opposite Ivey's Fifth St. Entrance”
126 WEST FIFTH STREET
CHARLOTTE
All Day

Now you can get 20 beautiful photos, same size as shown, on luxurious double weight paper for only $1.00, or
50 photos for $2.00, from one pose. The perfect gift for your classmates, friends, and relatives. Ideal to use for
job or college applications, passports, etc. Minimum order 20 pictures from one pose. Satisfaction guaranteed. Just send $1.00 with each
picture or negative of any size. Your original will be returned with 20 top quality, satin finish, double weight photos,
or 50 for $2.00.

JACK RABBIT CO.
Spartanburg, S.C.
Send coupon today!

PLAY THE RIGHT SPALDING BALL!

The new DOT® is made to give maximum distance for the long-hitting golfer. And its DURA-THIN® cover keeps the DOT
uncut, unscuffed, and perfectly round far longer. Priced at $14.75 a dozen, 3 for $3.75.

New tough Spalding TOP-FLITE® has an extra-strong cover that takes far more punishment than an ordinary ball... yet gives the
maximum in long-distance performance. Priced at $14.75 a dozen, 3 for $3.75.

The popular-priced PAR-FLITE® gives an unbeatable combination of playability and durability. Its tough, resilient cover makes it an outstanding long-service
ball. Priced at $11.40 a dozen, 3 for $2.85.

Spalding’s economy-priced TRU-FLITE®, like all other popular Spalding golf balls, is made with True-Tension winding for a longer, more active
game. TRU-FLITES are priced at $9.00 a dozen or 3 for $2.25. Sold only through golf professionals.

SPALDING SETS THE PACE IN SPORTS

PACKS MORE PLEASURE because it’s More Perfectly Packed!
Satisfy Yourself with a Milder, Better-Tasting smoke— packed for more pleasure by exclusive Accu-Ray.
