REGEN WILDCAT OF WEEK (Page 3) The Davidsonian SENIOR SKETCH: J. F. HELMS (Page 4) VOL. XLIV DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON,
N. C., FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 1956 No. 17

Dr. Caroline T. MacBrayer of Mooresville will become the first woman faculty member in the history of Davidson College. Her
appointment as Visiting Associate Professor of Psychology was announced today by Dr. C. J. Pietenpol, Dean of the Faculty. The
experience will not be a new one for Dr. MacBrayer, for previously she was the first woman faculty member of
the Psychology Department at the University of North Carolina. She is currently a member of the Queens College faculty and
will complete the current semester there before coming to Davidson. Dr. MacBrayer is a native of Mooresville and is a
graduate of Hollins College in Virginia. She earned her Ph.D. in Psychology from the University of North Carolina, and taught
at Sophie Newcomb College of Tulane University in New Orleans. The appointment of Dr. MacBrayer was approved by the Davidson
Board of Trustees at their Feb. 15 meeting. She joins Dr. W. Gatewood Workman and Dr. John M. Bevan in
the Psychology Department and will probably teach courses in Schools of Psychology, Business and Industrial Psychology, and Educational Psychology.

Teaching Careers To Be Discussed

On Wednesday, February 29, Mr. Ernest Stabler, Chairman of the Master of Arts in Teaching at Wesleyan University in Connecticut,
will be at Davidson to talk with students who may be interested in a career in education. The program is
designed primarily for those students who have few courses in education. For this reason, Mr. Stabler would like to speak
to those students who are interested in secondary school teaching as a career. The school will honor Mr. Stabler with
a reception in the Ballroom of the College Union at 10:20 a.m. The faculty will meet with Mr. Stabler for
a luncheon after the reception.

New Faculty Salaries

Davidson College faculty members will receive up to $8,000 per year under a new salary scale announced today. Dr. Cunningham
made public the new scale approved by the trustees Feb. 15 and explained it to the faculty this week. The
scale takes place immediately. Until now the highest paid Davidson professor made only $6,500 per year. Professors may now receive
as much as $6,500. Instructors will receive as much as $4,500 for the nine-month academic year, and never less than
$3,000. Dr. Cunningham also announced that a merit system for advances in pay has been put into effect. Hitherto automatic
increases have been provided within rank. Present faculty members will continue to be paid the automatic increases as long as
they hold their present rank, but will be increased by merit should they advance to a new grade. The new
scale is as follows: Full professors, $5,500 to $8,000; Associate professors, $4,500 to $6,500; Assistant professors, $3,500 to $5,500; Instructors,
$3,000 to $4,500.

Cobb Kuykendall

HOBBY COBB AND BILL KUYKENDALL RECEIVE MEDALS

Hollis F. Cobb, Jr. and William H. F. Kuykendall received medals from the Mecklenburg-Union County alumni chapter of Davidson College.
The two Charlotteans were chosen as the outstanding Davidson seniors from the area. Normally, only one such award is made
each year. Presentation of the awards highlighted a meeting of almost 300 chapter members at the Fellowship Hall of the
Covenant Presbyterian Church.

Davidson students and faculty members will be heard twice a week during the next three months over Charlotte radio stations.
"The Collegiate Roundtable" will begin a 13-week series tomorrow afternoon at 5 over station WBT, featuring a student forum on
topics of public interest with students from Davidson, Belmont Abbey, Queens, and Johnson C. Smith participating.

Phi Beta Kappa Elects New Members

Eight seniors and one junior have been elected to membership by the North Carolina Gamma Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa,
honorary scholastic fraternity. Perrin Anderson, Joe Conarroe, John Harmon, Bubba Martin, Dick Morehead, Fred Myers, Larry Parrott, Joe Billy Pharr,
and Larry Trotti have fulfilled the requirements for the Society and will be initiated April 26, prior to the annual
banquet. Established at Davidson in 1923, Phi Beta Kappa recognizes students who have maintained superior academic standing during their stay
here. Last fall five men were selected. The new initiates are:

PERRIN ANDERSON
Perrin Anderson, president of the student body, hails from Union, S. C. He is a member of Who's Who and
O.D.K. In addition, Anderson serves as vice-president of Phi Chi and holds one of the highest academic averages in his
class.

JOE CONARROE
Joe Conarroe, from Bradenton, Florida, is president of the senior class and president of Beta Theta Pi. A Union Carbide
and Carbon Scholar, Joe is also a member of Who's Who, O.D.K., and Sigma Upsilon. Conarroe has been secretary and
vice-president of Eumanean Literary Society.

JOHN HARMON
John Harmon from Laurens, S. C. holds down places on both the Davidsonian and Scripts 'n Pranks editorial staffs. Harmon
is a member of Eumanean Literary Society, Sigma Upsilon, Phi Gamma Delta, and has been vice-president of Le Cercle Francais.

BUBBA MARTIN
Bubba Martin, son of Mr. and Mrs. Hollis F. Cobb of 1330 Durwood Drive, claims Columbia, S. C., as his
home town. A member of the D. Club, Bubba hurls the javelin for the D. C. cindermen and was Football
Manager last year. Martin is a member of A.E.D., the honorary pre-medical fraternity.

WILLIAM H. F. KUYKENDALL
Kuykendall is the son of Mr. and Mrs. William H. F. Kuykendall of Charlotte. He is a cadet lieutenant colonel
and a member of Scabbard and Blade, the military fraternity.

Dr. J. H. Ostwalt, Director of the Student Office, announced that Davidson students and faculty members will be heard twice
a week during the next three months over Charlotte radio stations. "The Collegiate Roundtable" will begin a 13-week series tomorrow
afternoon at 5 over station WBT, featuring a student forum on topics of public interest with students from Davidson, Belmont
Abbey, Queens, and Johnson C. Smith participating.

The Interfraternity Council has designated the week of February 24-March 4 as Greek Week. Dr. W. B. Bradford of Charlotte,
chapter president, presented the awards. Pre-initiation activities will insure against interference with students’ scholastic work. Dates of formal initiation ceremonies
are at the discretion of the individual fraternity. No fraternity shall initiate freshmen on more than four days of this
period including at most one Friday.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Mrs. James B. Kuykendall, Jr. heads the complete guidance service that is available to Davidson students. Nations Ford Road. He
is holder of a Baker scholarship, is a member of Phi Beta Kappa, Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity, Le Cercle
Francais, and the Philanthropic Literary Society. He has directed the youth choir of the Davidson College Presbyterian Church and has
been active in Cub Scout work.

Entertainment for the meeting February 24 was provided by the Davidson Male Chorus, directed by Donald B. Plott.

Dr. J. H. Ostwalt, Director of the Student Counseling Office, made known to the Davidsonian this week the complete guidance
service that is available to students. The first general service is a vocational guidance program. Any student at Davidson who
has difficulty making a vocational choice may use certain services available. One of these services is a testing program which
is designed to obtain information about five areas which may be significant in the making of a vocational decision: 1)
mental abilities, 2) academic skills, 3) interests, 4) personality traits, and 5) special aptitudes. A testing schedule is worked out
with the Counseling Office. Some tests are taken by the student in his room and others are taken in the
office. The whole testing program ordinarily runs from eight to ten hours. After it is completed all results are scored
and summarized on an individual basis. The student may use the vocational reading room maintained by the Counseling Office. Special
interviews in vocational fields can be arranged also for the student. The purpose of the vocational guidance program is to
provide the student information he can use in choosing for himself a vocation. There is no attempt made to sell
the student on any particular field.

The second general service of the Counseling Office is in connection with remedial academic work. Tutors may be contacted; special
remedial training may be given in such skills as mathematics, reading, and English; or improved study techniques may be worked
out with the student. A special remedial and speed reading course, directed by Mrs. H. T. Lilly, is now in
its third year of operation. This program has proved generally successful with students who wish to attain an average reading
speed as well as with the more advanced student who wishes to further increase his reading speed. Any students desiring
program scores, including freshman orientation test scores, can also pick up these at the Counseling Office.

Dr. Patrick D. Miller of Atlanta will speak on the topic “The Christ We Forget” at Vespers on February 26.
Dr. Miller is a native of Georgia and is a graduate of Davidson College and Union Theological Seminary. He has
served as pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Raleigh, North Carolina, the First Presbyterian Church of San Antonio, Texas,
and Druid Hills Presbyterian Church in Atlanta. Last year, Dr. Miller became secretary of the Board of Church Extension. He
has devoted much of his life to the expansion of the home mission program in the Presbyterian Church, U. S.

Virginia's famed Barter Theater will present Samuel Taylor’s light comedy, “Sabrina Fair,” in the Chambers auditorium of Davidson College on
Friday evening, March 2, at 7:00 p.m. Taylor is a former Barter actor himself, adding to the enthusiasm of the
group in presenting a Broadway hit. It will be the next attraction of this year’s Davidson Artist Series. Jeannette Randall
stars in the title role of the chauffeur’s daughter who returns home from several years in Paris as a glamorous
beauty, and not the wispy mouse who left home. Gentlemanly David Larrabee falls in love with her, and the plot
thickens when Sabrina’s chauffeur-father divulges that he, too, is a millionaire. It’s a Cinderella story set in Long Island society,
and parlays a gay plot with clever lines and amusing chatter. Miss Randall, the star, is a native of Macon,
Ga., and studied at Wesleyan College before turning to the professional theater. She is only 18 years old, but has
won the acclaim of critics for her skill and vivacity.

Junior Ed Hadley has been reporting campus news, both general and sports, through the Davidson Department of Alumni and Public
Relations. An expanded program is planned for television, with conventions, interest and experience being hosted through the Davidson Department of
Alumni and Public Relations. Tentative plans have been made to hire Mrs. J. Phillips Little, professional bridge instructor, for a
series of ten lessons on the point count system and other special techniques. Cost for the whole series will be
$6.00. This includes text books. Each lesson will be taught twice, once in the afternoon and once at night, and
students may attend one or both sessions. If enough response has been received by Monday, February 27, the plans will
become final. If you are willing to take this series under the above terms, please send your name on a
post card to—A. M. Dye, Box 628 Davidson, N. C.

The Roundtable, which has run for the past two years, is produced through the radio workshop. Members of the faculties
of the participating schools will alternate as moderators of the forum. The Davidson College News is produced by the Davidson
Public Relations Department. Both programs are presented as a public service by the respective station.

No individual fraternity member will be permitted to carry out Hell Week activities unless he is specifically authorized to do
so by his fraternity. Therefore, for the actions of an individual member of the fraternity, or the fraternity as a
whole, the following rules apply:

1. On Sunday through Thursday of this period pledges must not be initiated between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and
8:00 a.m. Informal initiation ceremonies may be carried on outside the four-day period no later than 6:00 p.m.; this, however,
must be within the prescribed period February 24 - March 4.

2. No individual fraternity member will be permitted to carry out Hell Week activities unless he is specifically authorized to
do so by his fraternity.

3. Each fraternity is strongly encouraged to carry out a constructive project during Hell Week. The Civic Committee of the
Davidson Lion's Club and the Social Planning Committee of Charlotte have a number of specific projects which could be carried
out by various fraternity pledges.

4. All informal initiation activities of each fraternity must be submitted in detail to the I.F.C. for approval by the
I.F.C. in line with the principles required by faculty regulations (page 31 of Regulations For Students) that no initiation activities
shall interfere with the regular academic program of the college.

5. Each I.F.C. member is to turn in any violation of the above rules.

---

This cleaned text maintains the original meaning and punctuation as requested.
