The Davidsonian

Editor-in-Chief: Dick Morehead
Associate Editors: Maurice Crouse, Tom Warlick
Managing Editors: Jim Batten, Franklin Bloodworth, Jim Brice
Sports Editor: Leon Howell
Copy Editor: John T. Harmon
Exchange Editor: Bob Beall
News Editors: Lloyd Chapin, Bill Pomeroy
Staff Photographer: Hank Daniel
Assignments: John Trask

Member of the Associated Collegiate Press and Intercollegiate Press

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 1956

PAGE TWO

Roses to the Chorus

This week's bucket of roses goes to the Davidson College Male Chorus. Often unexpressed but strongly felt is a warm
feeling of pride in the Chorus. Their presence has significantly and memorably enhanced chapel programs, alternate Vesper hours, and other
college presentations. Those who have been fortunate enough to hear them concertizing in hometowns realize the esteem in which the
Chorus is held abroad in the U.S. Praise is duly attributable to both leader and individual members whose time and
interest as well as ability have made the Male Chorus a pleasing reality. It would not be at all amiss
for the Chorus to record some of its more popular numbers along with traditional Davidson songs in an album for
students, friends, and alumni. Such albums filled with rich music and memorable college songs have been produced at many institutions
of lesser quality. Male Chorus—rise to the challenge.

Frosh Council a Success

Also in line for a semester award is the Freshman Council. Begun two years ago as an idea, the Council
has recently realized itself in strong and productive terms. Progress was made last year upon the original social meetings, but
this is the first significant year in its brief history. It has displayed ability and aggressiveness in three particular fields
thus far. First, in the leadership and government of the freshman class, it has given a very helpful and encouraging
hand to Freshman Advisor John Child. Especially noticeable was the fluent and fruitful way in which Freshman Parents Day was
conducted. Secondly, the Freshman Council has been instrumental in forming and continuing a soccer team. New to the Davidson campus,
it was composed mostly of freshmen; but future plans call for inter-collegiate competition on a regular schedule with representation from
the entire student body. Third, the Council’s response to the IFC proposal on housing dates for dances was vital to
the success of the student program. They took over complete arrangements for room assignments for Midwinters—and should continue to do
so for Spring Frolics. It has been suggested from several sources that a freshman be allowed to sit on the
Student Council. Although it does not seem advisable to have a freshman voting member for the first semester, it would
be advantageous and effective to include such a representative second semester. Not only would an important voice be added, but
the benefit of closer coordination with all classes through student government could also be strongly realized. So to the Freshman
Council—congratulations and our continued support.

IN MEMORIAM

On Monday, February 13, the family and friends of Daniel Blain Woods met to pay tribute to him in a
corporate way for the last time. Yet to a man like Dan our tributes can find a continual expression. In
his personality, intellect, and achievement all find an expression of those qualities which men covet. This life contained depth, consecration,
and integrity to which thoughtful men aspire, for these are the characteristics of a life lived in the light and
example of God. The family and friends of Dan are establishing the Daniel Blain Woods Memorial Scholarship at Davidson; here,
too, is the channel of living tribute, for the help of others who strive to live for these same ideals.

Resultful Teaching

The Children Were Nestled ...... by Cole

In the face of constantly changing conditions, there are some principles of teaching which remain everlastingly true. One of them
is this: The teacher has not taught until the student has learned. Students learn in an atmosphere of praise and
cooperation. There is something about every student that the teacher can praise. Even when praise is undeserved, an expression of
confidence on the part of the teacher will spur on the student in a way that censure never can. “The
teachers I remember with most regard,” wrote a famous journalist, “are those who saw to it that I learned. That
is the teacher’s job. If he does that, nothing else matters much; if he does not do that, nothing else
that he does will compensate. Of the scores of teachers I have had, the only one I remember with any
conscious lack of appreciation is a teacher who, through easygoing but mistaken kindness, failed to make me learn.” There is
no substitute in teaching for sympathetic understanding and a kindly, encouraging attitude toward students. A knowledge of the “tricks of
the trade” is not enough. It is the dimension of personality which lends color and vitality to the teacher's work
and which, in the long last, is the motivating force in learning.

Rowe Budget

Editorial by Charles G. Reigner
President of The H. M. Rowe Company

Grapeshot

“Money returns from higher education: It is worth what it cost: Here are some statistics on earnings classified by education:
the average elementary school grad in a lifetime will earn $116,000; the average graduate of a high school in a
lifetime will earn $165,000; the average graduate of a college in a lifetime will earn $268,000. A college education on
the average costs $9,000—compare it with returns. If some young people ask you, show them these figures.”—Kiplinger Letter.

The following was a brief letter to the editor printed in The Daily Tar Heel, 17 January 1956.

Editors:
Re: Tatum.
You are stupid. Do you hear? Stupid. Stupid. Stupid. You should have gone to Davidson.
George Albright, Salisbury, N. C.

Ed. Note—We recall the story somewhat transposed of the man who flunked out of Davidson, transferred to N. C., and
thereby raised the academic standing of both institutions. This is not to minimize or refute the stand of the worthy
editors of the Tar Heel, whose intellectual veracity we heartily commend.

“Davidson College has chosen as its major goal for 1956 the raising of faculty salaries. The income of the highest
salaried professor at Davidson is $43 less than the average income of non-farm families in the United States.”

Who can say that it is absolutely wicked to pitch horseshoes on Sunday, or that he who does so stands
a slim chance of getting into Heaven? But as this is the day of “preparedness” and “safety first,” let's be
on the safe side and cut it out. At any rate, we have noticed that very few gentlemen indulge in
the sport on Sunday. Davidsonian, March 21, 1917.

It has been sadly noted by the dialing contingency that dormitory telephone operators are amazingly inactive at times. Long ringing
of the Bell system often brings loud silence. Annual contacts, dating systems, and ‘Y’ works are seriously impaired. Are the
answerers on strike, perennially sacked, or conscientious objectors? Perhaps what we need are a few female switchboard co-ops.

BUSINESS MANAGER: Larry Parrott
Advertising Manager: Bob Carmichael
Subscription: Warner Hall
Circulation: Bob Majors, Stan Miller
Business Staff: Tony Guiles, Bill Bondurant

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. NEW YORK, N.Y.
CHICAGO • BOSTON • LOS ANGELES • SAN FRANCISCO

Subscription Rate: $2.00 Per Year
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1879.
Offices in David Gvens College Union, Davidson College

Reader Blasts Sports Editorial

Dear Editor:
From where does your so-called sports editor receive his views on college athletic policies? Is it that he has been
harbored under Davidson’s ideals, e.g. that by losing she will retain her sacred name of scholarship and thereby remain chaste,
too long, or is he simply so pig-headed as to think that along with winning athletics comes the damnable curse
of countless vices? He surely must think that all athletes are goons; yet why do the athletic teams consistently have
higher averages than the all-men’s average? Is all we are to gain from college to come from the pages of
books or the orations of professors? Davidson could obtain better athletes if, first, she could give them a good offer,
for naturally a boy will generally favor the better scholarship offer. Secondly, he would like to go to a place
he has heard of and if he is from out of the state it is more than likely he has
never heard of this citadel of learning. Third, and lastly,

By JIMMY MARTIN
Sketches By Karkkainen

‘Twas on a cool Midwinter’s eve that the prospect of a glorious Davidson weekend had collapsed for young, cunning, man-about-campus,
Joe Coolidge, for he had just learned that the last-minute blind date he had accepted so foolishly had no merits
or advance notices other than the dubiously valid distinction of rooming with somebody’s sister. This was indeed a slash to
Joe's pride, but what could he do...?

While thus contemplating a resolution of this fate, Joe passed the dorm phone booth, where a sad-eyed, disillusioned Felix Freshman
was showing every evidence of having just received an ill-fated Wednesday-night-phone-call. “Well, here's a shafted pledge. I'll get him up
to my room tonight, and I’m sure he can be ‘persuaded’ to accommodate me, if I call his attention to
a few circumstances.” And so it was that Felix’ memory was directed toward a few “cir-he would want to go
to a school where something practical is taught and which is not just a prep school for post-graduate work. If
your editor would spend more time writing about athletic events on which he could just present facts and not his
own warped, biased, childish thoughts about events which are apparently outside his own tight orbit of morals, he would have
a much more informative and enjoyable column.

Sincerely,
A “Remotely Removed” Friend

Exam Exemption?

Dear Editor: Let’s give them a break. The students who have worked hard all semester and have an A, or
better, on any of their courses before exams should be exempt from the exam in that course. I think this
would be a good line of action because if a student has worked hard enough throughout the semester to have
an A, or better, he knows the material in that course and a review of it for the exam won't
appreciably add to his knowledge of that subject. Then too, the students themselves will be benefited for these two following
reasons. First, the study he would have spent on the exempted course can be applied to his more troublesome course
thereby improving it. Secondly, this plan will offer an incentive for other students to try to do better.

Sincerely Yours,
L.E.W.

Tampa, (AP) — Franklin D. Roosevelt Bloodworth today was accused of assault on his nephew, Booker T. Washington. The case
in peace justice court was postponed until George Washington can be called as a witness.

Only when the Trailways pulled in at White’s bus station did Felix suspect that Joe wasn’t quite the buddy-buddy he
pretended to be. For leering out the bus doorway at him was about 16 tons of number 9 pig. Felix
just then remembered the letter he had promised to mail for his roommate and was just initiating the necessary steps
toward fulfilling that obligation, when a reassuring hand on his shoulder reawakened his memory concerning the one or two rather
extenuating “circumstances.”

“I'll mail those letters for you and I'll be right back for the luggage!”

“Pardon me, sir, but could you tell me where I might find Mr. Joe Coolidge?”—It wasn’t the big one! Felix
did his best to explain himself to the delicately proportioned creature who had just spoken to him and found that
she was extremely understanding: “I finished my term paper last weekend so I could come for the dance (in a
lyrically expressive voice).”

“Excuse me, Sally, this is my pal Joe! He'll take your luggage up to Belk while I show you around
the campus.”

JIM MARSHALL
Publisher

Robinson’s Foreign Policy Talk a Conglomeration

Mr. Robinson's observations on U.S. foreign policy read much better than he read them in Chapel. He failed to disturb
either our matinal slumber or our lack of international concern. But anyone who heard his passionate anti-McCarthy address two years
ago knows that Mr. Robinson can stimulate our student body. It was unfortunate that Mr. Robinson discarded that Harvard crusading
approach on his return engagement, particularly since he chose the equally famous Harvard motif of the stuffed shirt. His appeals
to the ego of the audience were as inefficacious as that of our ordinary platform pedants. The nature and material
of Mr. Robinson’s address was, however, a distinct compliment to the Student Body. He assumed that we knew something about
world affairs, and it is possible that he assumed too much. At any rate, he spread before us a smorgasbord
of contemporary foreign affairs. Any regurgitation here, therefore, is limited.

UNITED NATIONS

Mr. Robinson, President and Publisher of the Charlotte News, agreed that the United Nations was one tool in our quest
for peace, but drew the conclusion from experience that the U.S. must act unilaterally until the U.N. becomes stronger and
more cohesive. The irony of his position, however, is that the U.N. cannot become stronger or more cohesive as long
as we continue to project and practice unilateral policies outside of the U.N. Although it may not be feasible to
entirely derive our international strategy from the U.N., there are organizations like WHO and UNESCO which can be further utilized
to strengthen the U.N. and promote universal amelioration. By channeling our foreign economic aid through the U.N. we could prove
to the world that we are men of good will and that our aid was not an honorarium for air
bases or military support. With India and much of Asia and Africa dividing their critical glances between us and the
U.S.S.R., can we afford not to rise to a level higher than Realpolitik? We all know, and Mr. Robinson reminded
us, that the Soviet Union is sending scientists to these areas in an attempt to prove that Communism is the
dynamic force which is the panacea for all their ills. The U.S.S.R. recently made loans to India with which she
is to build hydro-electric dams and aluminum plants. We must send technicians and economic aid, for, indeed, prayers do not
quite reach the half-starved masses.

DIPLOMACY THE BEDROCK

Yet Mr. Robinson insists that, despite military and economic supports, diplomacy must be the bedrock of our foreign policy. He
redefines diplomacy as “the great art of understanding and getting along in a peaceful fashion with people of an entirely
different heritage, outlook and economic status.” In brief, his definition is challenging, but his application is regressive and anachronistic in
its contingencies. His call to take up the Democratic Cross reminds one of the ludicrous and ineffective fervor of a
Somerset Maugham missionary. This is not to say that Mr. Robinson is wrong when he urges some of us to
give up our search for material comforts and to devote our personality to this “rewarding crusade;” indeed, he is right.
But is not he forgetting his own definition of diplomacy when he speaks of “taking the light of our American
Democracy into some dark corner of a foreign land.” An attitude of internal superiority reinforced with superiority by comparison will
be repulsive to any nation, particularly those who are beginning to feel a pride in the color of their skin.

NATIONAL CULTURES

For one system to presume to have the right or the ability to superimpose itself upon any other system is
arrogance. Our diplomats must look beyond the trappings of American Democracy to an ideal which can be integrated in all
cultures without the deracination of time-honored political myths and religious faiths. To destroy the roots of a culture is to
introduce the protocol of open antagonism and overt rebellion. The relationship between nations must be a reciprocal one where the
ideas and attitudes of the one are understood and coalesced with those of the other. Only then will peace and
brotherhood be realized in One World which provides a multiplicity of outlets for self-expression. Unfortunately, Mr. Robinson cannot see the
world forest for the American tree, sequoias though they be.

MIDWINTERS NIGHT SCHEME

The band gave full accompaniment to the voice humming in our hero's ear that night, and his equilibrium was shaken
every time she asked to sit this one out.—Another fast dance. Don’t you prefer slow music, Fe-e-elix? Oh, wasn’t that
Joe behind me? It was so nice of him to get you to date me, Fe-e-elix!” “Mmm-hmmm!” Thus was our
Felix beset with such strategy as could have subjugated the strongest of male will powers. However, he had long since
(since the tour of the campus that afternoon, to be exact) realized the folly of resistance. An extended siege was
unnecessary, and the attacking force soon presented its terms with a deceptive smile: “Fe-e-elix, wouldn’t you like to go outside,
so we can get a little priv . . . fresh air?” Gen'l Lee himself was no more urbane at
Appomattox Court House than was our Felix at Johnston Gymnasium that night, for each knew his struggle was over.

“How Do I Love Thee?” Elizabeth Barrett Browning.

At this point the facts are terminated and we are left to our own imaginative speculation. Whether the weather was
fair outside or not was no certainty to Felix, and possibly wasn’t even evident to him. He did come to
class the next day wearing a noticeable “red badge of courage” but wasn’t too communicative about the nature of the
award. A thorough review and analysis of this and other dance weekends leaves me with this one concluding thought: I
prefer slow music, don't you?
