FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 1956 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

Slants

PHI DELTS UNAPPROACHED RUNNER-UPS

On the strength of three first-place champions and five runner-ups, the Kappa Sigs grappled their way to the interfraternity wrestling
championship. Although the second-place Phi Delts also had three men take first places, they only produced one second-place winner. Led
by Tom Ridenhour, the Phi Gams grabbed third place. After almost four minutes of even wrestling with Brown Hamer, Ridenhour
finally pinned him for the heavyweight championship.

Team Points:
Kappa Sig 103
Phi Delt 86
Phi Gam 35
A.T.O. 16
Beta 16
Pi Kapp 9
S.A.E. 9
Sigma Chi 9

Few varsity contests, much less any other of the interfraternity sports, could match the excitement, shouting, and commotion that was
predominant at the interfraternity wrestling matches on Tuesday and Wednesday of this week. There was little doubt as to who
the crowd's favorite was on the first night. Avid anticipation spread through the stands as the time for the heavyweight
bouts drew near. Suddenly into the excited gymnasium stepped the Masked Avenger who dispersed all questions of his athletic prowess
when he removed the immaculate robe and revealed his physique. There was none—no ability, no physique. To the fans’ great
surprise and delight (and just maybe because of the sympathy of the bemused opponent) the Avenger lasted through the first
round. The rest period was long enough for the lad to take a drag from a cigar and sip from
a questionable bottle.

On the more serious side of the tournament, one very dangerous practice was permitted by the referees throughout both nights.
Many boys, wrestling without experience and ignorant of the amateur rules, consistently attempted to lift their opponents and slam them
to the mat. Collegiate wrestling rules ban a man who does not have at least one knee on the mat
from lifting and throwing his foe. When falling after this illegal maneuver, the thrown man usually lands on his head,
neck, or shoulders. The danger of such an impact to the vertebrae or head is obvious. It was this type
of throw that knocked one wrestler unconscious Tuesday night. The fault lies primarily in the large number of contestants who
are unaware of many rules, making their strict enforcement impossible. However, with a practice as potentially crippling as this procedure,
participants in the future should be made aware of the rule and should be penalized for its violation.

WALLY PHARR, the Masked Marvel of ATO, receives helpful assistance from referee Charlie Parker and opponent Tommy Ridenhour.

New Harmony trio headliners all!

ARROW —first in fashion
SHIRTS - TIES - SLACKS

Appearing with them: an eternal campus favorite, the University crew neck sweater. Glen, $3.95 and $5.00; Squire, $5.95; University sweater,
$11.95; twill ties, $1.50. Don’t miss this variety show. When it comes to personal appearances—dress-up or casual—you can’t do better
than this Arrow pair. We have them in the latest and most flattering of collars (button-down Glen for dress and
neat, short-point Squire for relaxing in style) ... patterns and colors. Why not look in on them now? IVEY'S OF
CHARLOTTE

Sig Matmen Take Three Firsts, Cop Title

Individual weight class champions and their fraternities were:
123 lbs.—K.A.
130 lbs.—Price, Phi Delt
137 lbs.—Gee, Beta
147 lbs.—Street, Kappa Sig
157 lbs.—Brown, Phi Delt
167 lbs.—Sasser, Kappa Sig
177 lbs.—Porter, Kappa Sig
191 lbs.—Jernigan, Phi Delt
HWT.—Ridenhour, Phi Gam

Flickerball All-Star Team Headed By KAs

The 1956 All-Campus flickerball squad was announced this week by Coach Heath Whittle, director of intramural sports. The selection was
made by the starting seven men of each team which participated in the action this season. Each of the voters
picked a starting team, and the results were tabulated by the athletic department. Only the league champion KA’s with Shelbourne
Wallace and Dave Page succeeded in placing two players on the starting seven. The two teams are:

1st Team (Phi Delt)

After wandering around in a slight daze late last Saturday night, the Davidson football team was wondering where the yellow
went. Clad in yellow helmets, yellow striped pants, and jerseys, Wofford unleashed a barrage of power that denied the best
defense in the Southern Conference. The Terriers rolled for three touchdowns in the last half, a 27-14 victory, and their
seventh consecutive win over Southern Conference opposition. Having played consistent ball from game to game ever since the start, Coach
Bill Dole was in charge of maintaining a scarce quality among Davidson teams of finishing the season in a blaze
of glory. A rejuvenatedTerrier squad | Dave Wood made a Davidson tradition hold for Shelbourne Wallace (K. A) at least
one more year. Tom Brewer (Kappa Sig) The Wildcats completed five of Don Massey (A T O) eight passing attempts.
Dave Page (K A) George Scott (Pika) Gruelling practice sessions have been the order of the week as Read McGehee
(Sigma Chi) the Cats take advantage of tomorrow’s open date in preparing for 2nd Team a final battle of the
season against Tom Rivers (Phi Delt) Furman’s Purple Hurricane in Lew Spears (S A E) Charlotte’s Memorial Stadium. Ralph Bright
(S A E) Did someone mention Purple? Henry Massey (Beta) Let’s hope it doesn’t know where Roger Bates (Sigma Chi)
the yellow went. Roswell Mallory (Beta) Ted Baker (S A E) In particular for his outstanding soccer play against Washington
and Lee last week and for his contributions throughout the year, Ross Smyth has earned the athletic honors of the
week. Smyth has been the starting center forward in every match this season, and his spirit and aggressiveness have been
a binding force among the team members. After a disabling injury to Captain Danny Crates in the Duke match, Ross
was elected acting Captain for the remainder of the season. In scoring one of Davidson's two goals last week against
W&L, Smyth put on an exhibition of persistence and aggressiveness. Having his shots blocked twice, he continued to drive in
with the ball until he finally broke through the defensive fullback and made his attempt good. This almost singlehanded scoring
effort was regarded as one of the outstanding plays of the match. Last year Ross along with several other upperclassmen
spent a great deal of time helping freshmen organize a soccer team, something new in Davidson athletics, the forerunner of
the year’s varsity unit. In addition to his work with soccer, Ross is active in other phases of campus life,
having been Secretary-treasurer of the student body last year, a section editor for Quips and Cranks, and a member of
the Beaver Club. He maintains a high scholastic average as a Union Carbide Scholar and is active in Sigma Alpha
Epsilon social fraternity. ROSS SMYTH (20), Wildcat center forward, in action as Warren Wilson’s goalie reaches to stop an attempted
Davidson score. The Cats won the soccer action on Richardson Field 2-0 last Saturday. At the far right is Gordon
Neville (26). Davidson’s red-and-black cross country men repeated their performance of last year with a third place in the North
Carolina State Meet at Raleigh Monday. Angus McBryde once more ran an outstanding race, finishing 6th against strong opposition. UNC
and Jim Beatty entirely swept the day, Beatty by running a new course record time and beating State’s Shea by
a whole minute, and the UNC squad by capturing 1st, 3rd, 5th, 9th and 10th for a low score of
28 points. STATE SECOND State, taking second, ended up with a total of 71. Davidson just barely beat Wake Forest,
87 to 88, while Duke finished last and fifth with 95 points. McBryde's time on the fast four-mile course was
22:15, compared to Beatty’s record-breaking 20:06.5. Among the rest of the Davidson runners, Al Elder captured 14th place, with Henry
Brown in the number 20 spot. Ray Antley (21st) and Graham George (26th) rounded out the scoring Davidson five. SOUTHERN
CONFERENCE NEXT A nine-man squad will travel to Lexington, Va., for the Southern Conference meet Monday 19th. With Pete Ashcraft,
the injured Cat captain, out of the picture, it is up to McBryde to defend the Wildcat traditions. He could
place among the top 3. As for the team chances, third place behind William and Mary and VMI should be
within reach. Soccer Squad Downs Warren Wilson, 2-0 A greatly improved Davidson soccer team, scoring once in each of the
first two quarters, won its first match of the season last Saturday by defeating Warren Wilson College on the local
field. Early in the first quarter Gordon Neville climaxed a Wildcat offensive drive by drilling home Davidson's first score. In
the second quarter with Davidson still controlling most of the play, Ross Smyth fought through the defense and drove the
ball past the outstretched fingers of the Warren Wilson goalie for an insurance point. We Have the In 1414-1614 36-inch
sleeves in and stripes. “Collegiate SHORT OR LONG ARMS...! Button Down Collar neck sizes Wilson-Wright’s Inc. DAVIDSON, N. C. Popular
and 32 to white, blue, linen Fashions” Here's a cigarette you both go for! You'll like the rich, full taste
you get from a Winston. You'll like the way the flavor comes through, too, because the exclusive Winston filter does
its job so well. For finer filter smoking—get Winston! Switch to WINSTON America’s best-selling, best-tasting filter cigarette! R. J. REYNOLDS
TOBACCO CO. WINSTON-SALEM, N. C.
