RADIO FREE DAVIDSON AND RESPONSIBILITY (Page 2) VOL. XLV0.

ARRIVING ON EASTERN AIRLINES from New York Monday night, Hungarian refugee ‘Steve’ (foreground) spent three days here this week giving
first-hand reports of the recent Soviet barbarism in his homeland. Only three weeks out of Budapest, Steve's identity must be
concealed as his wife and family still live under the Red regime. (Photo by Hank Daniel)

Action Rally Features Two Native Hungarians

Two native Hungarians, one only three weeks out of Budapest, revealed the grim drama of Hungarian suffering to the “Action
for Hungary” Rally Wednesday morning in chapel. Dr. Szentivanyi explained the maneuvers which enabled him along with other Hungarian government
officials to escape from their native land with the national treasury. The former Hungarian bank official explained how 36 tons
of gold worth $360,000,000, in addition to numerous bonds and securities, were placed on the floor of a train fleeing
from Budapest. To conceal the treasure, it was necessary for the women and children on the train to sit on
this floor. This flight to freedom led them to an Austrian monastery where they hid the valuables in catacombs, brushing
ancient bones aside to make room. Dr. Szentivanyi expressed to the student body his deep gratitude for making possible the
coming of a Hungarian family to America. He emphasized the fact that for such a family this would be the
first time in fifteen years that they will know peace and security. The young architect, whose identity was withheld because
of a wife and relatives still in Hungary, was introduced to the assembly as “Steve.” Szentivanyi interpreted for the patriot
who termed being in America a “good dream.” Jim Martin closed the rally with the reading of a petition to
the President of the United States from the Davidson student body urging action to aid the Hungarians' struggle for freedom.
Students were asked to add their signatures to this petition.

IN FALL TAPPING

Scabbard and Blade Selects Six Cadets

Scabbard and Blade tapped six cadet officers last Tuesday during ROTC drill. They are: Cadet Major John Gilmer, Cadet Capt.
Bill Martin, Cadet Capt. Richard Weeks, Cadet Capt. Bob Shaw, Cadet 1st Lt. Ken Conger, and Cadet 1st Lt. Tom
Rivers. These men will be initiated in January into Company B, Fifth Regiment, of the National Society of the Scabbard
and Blade. Scabbard and Blade, a national honorary military society, recognizes outstanding achievement and leadership. Major Gilmer is the commander
of the First Battalion of the Davidson College ROTC Regiment. From Bristol, Tennessee, he is President of the Honorary Fraternity
Council, and a member of the Kappa Alpha Order. Capt. Martin, Regimental S-2, or intelligence officer, is from Louisville, Kentucky.
Capt. Martin is a member of Beta Theta Pi fraternity, and Le Circle Francais. Capt. Weeks is Regimental S-3, or
operations officer. Weeks, from Savannah, Georgia, is captain of the basketball team, and also a member of the Kappa Alpha
Order. Capt. Shaw is the First Battalion executive officer. He is from Charlotte, and in Sigma Chi fraternity. Lt. Conger
is the commander of D Company. Conger is the IFC representative for Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity, and is from Statesville.
Lt. Rivers commands Davidson's crack Honor Platoon. Captain of the swimming team and a member of Phi Delta Theta fraternity,
Rivers is from Charleston, South Carolina.

Perkinson Directs Gift Fund Drive

Gift Fund solicitors met Tuesday night in the College Union for a briefing by chairman Bunny Perkinson. The fund received
its first big boost from a contribution by Dr. Zoltan Szentivanyi, featured speaker at Wednesday's “Action for Free Hungary” rally.
This year’s student gifts will be worked on a pledge card system similar to that used by the Y.M.C.A. Payments
may be made immediately or can be deferred as late as January 10. However, the Gift Fund Committee urges payment
as soon as possible. Perkinson is aided in this work by Ed Stuart. Together they have selected thirty-eight members of
the student body to act as solicitors in this drive. These men were chosen on the basis of interest as
shown by their Y membership activity cards. As solicitations closed tonight, committee officials expressed marked optimism at the results.

VESPERS CONDUCT IN MONDAY MEETING

The Student Council in a meeting Monday night expressed the opinion that conduct in Vespers has become steadily worse. The
Council discussed plans for improving the conduct. President Dan LaFar said, “It is the job of the Student Council to
do something about this.” He also said that the Council would enforce the first section of the Student Body Regulations,
that “No student shall be guilty of conduct unbecoming a gentleman and student of Davidson College.” After some discussion as
to what conduct in Vespers would be “unbecoming a Davidson gentleman,” the Council decided that conduct which interferes with the
worship of others would be so considered. Students found guilty of violating this regulation shall be punished according to the
seriousness of the offense. Radio Free Davidson was also a topic of discussion at the meeting. It was the general
opinion of the Council that Radio Free Davidson is not breaking the dormitory regulations. On the contrary, they consider these
broadcasts a welcome break from studies and have received no complaints about them. Councilman Sonny Ferguson presented a petition from
the Davidson Safety Council requesting student cooperation with their proposed safety program. In an effort to stop speeding on Concord
Road, the Safety Council has asked students to cooperate in this matter, although they realize that the majority of the
speeders are not students. They also plan to place crosswalks on Concord Road and request that students use them.

IFC, Faculty Study Fraternity Problems

The Interfraternity Council and the Faculty Fraternity Committee have appointed a committee to investigate current and anticipated fraternity problems on
the Davidson campus. This committee, composed of two faculty members and six students, was organized following an earlier meeting of
the fraternity presidents and the Interfraternity Council. The Committee has been instructed to study particularly the effects of increased enrollment
on the present fraternity system. In its two meetings to date, the newly formed group has established a sub-committee to
investigate certain national fraternities known to be interested in establishing chapters on the Davidson campus. The committee has also given
much attention to the fraternity housing situation. Several suggestions, including the construction of an entirely new fraternity court in the
area behind the gymnasium and the building of duplex boarding houses, have been made, but thus far no concrete action
has been taken.

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, DECEMBER 7, 1956

AICOUNCIL DISCUSSES

Billy Graham To Speak; SWIMMERS HIT CATHOLIC UNIVERSITY (Page 3) No. 11

Overflow Crowd Expected

“World Dilemma” Subject Of Evangelistic Message

“The Christian Answer to the World Dilemma” will be the subject of Billy Graham's Vesper message to the Davidson campus
this Sunday evening. Due to a tight schedule, Dr. Graham will leave immediately following the service. The expectation of an
overflow crowd has called for a change in the ordinary seating procedure. The church will be reserved from 7:00 p.m.
until 7:20 p.m. for Davidson students. After this time the church will be open to the general public. Dr. Graham
is in the sixth year of his evangelistic work. He and his associates together compose the Billy Graham Evangelistic Team.

A HOVERING HELICOPTER drew curious crowds of students and college personnel as “The Davidson Story” filming continued Monday. On loan
from Fort Bragg, the helicopter bore cameramen aloft for two and one half hours, shooting aerial views of the campus.
“The Davidson Story” is the first of 26 colleges and universities to be filmed in the “Banner of Freedom” series
being produced by the Protestant Radio and Television Center with headquarters in Atlanta, Ga.

HUNGARIAN TREASURY HERO

Szentivanyi Holds Key To Door Forever Closed

By GRIER DAVIS

Holding the key to a door in Budapest which can never be reopened, Dr. Zoltan Szentivanyi still breathes the defiance
of the Hungarian people against Red domination. His eyes flash as he recounts stories of Russian barbarism against his country.
His intensity is that of a dedicated patriot, who, though twelve years absent from his homeland, is a patriot still.
In relating some of his personal experiences, Dr. Szentivanyi told how, as an official in the Hungarian National Bank, he
engineered a plan to secure Hungary's gold reserve when the Russians were entering his country. He vividly described how he
escaped from his country with thirty-six tons of gold and bonds and securities, together worth over eight hundred million dollars.
The “Holy Crown” and many other objects of national pride and relations underwent a vicious Russian...of artistic value were hidden
in the catacombs of an Austrian monastery. Dr. Szentivanyi’s move anticipated the arrival of the Russians, who remained in Hungary.
Only two escaped the Russian vengeance. His sister-in-law reported that Szentivanyi’s brother had gotten out of bed one night to
answer a knock at the door. He has not been seen since. Szentivanyi painted a bitter picture of the Communist
juggernaut, which reaped destruction across Hungary. At first, the Russians let the people think that they were independent; then they
dropped the Iron Curtain. One method of breaking the people’s spirit was the merciless, impersonal deportation of thousands to Siberia.
A family never knew if the father would come home from work. If one of the captives died on the
way to Siberia, any man might have been picked up off of the street to replace him.

The early years of the Team's ministry concentrated on the national scene in the form of crusades in the major
cities of America.

CRUSADES ABROAD

More recently, the group has gone abroad to spread the Gospel. Korea, Great Britain, continental Europe, and portions of central
Asia have heard its message. Danger has proved no obstacle to Dr. Graham's determination as witnessed by a gigantic rally
of 80,000 listeners held in 1954 in Berlin, 120 miles behind the Iron Curtain. Early in 1956, the team made
its latest tour, traveling throughout India and the surrounding countries. In addition to his crusades, evangelist Graham reaches the public
through the means of radio and the press. ABC and NBC carry each Sunday his program, “The Hour of Decision,"
and “My Answer” circulates daily in the columns of 110 American newspapers. Short-wave stations in increasing numbers are carrying his
message abroad. Literature has also served as a field of Dr. Graham’s word in his publications, “Peace with God" and
“The Secret of Happiness.”

“When I left Hungary, I was declared a war criminal and I cannot return.” All his possessions were taken, his
own house was used by the Communist Secretary. His relatives, who remained in Hungary, felt the repercussions. Only two escaped
the Russian vengeance. His sister-in-law reported that Szentivanyi’s brother had gotten out of bed one night to answer a knock
at the door. He has not been seen since.

Union Committee Plans Spring Vacation Trip

Preparations for a trip to New York City are tentatively being planned for the Spring vacation by the College Union
travel committee, headed by Henry Parrish. During the Thanksgiving vacation, this committee, in connection with a similar committee from Queens
College, sponsored a New York journey which Parrish described as “being an education in itself.”

GETS 400 SIGNATURES

Davidson Petition Advocates Increased Support for Hungary

Increased United States support of the Hungarian people was called for in a petition signed Wednesday by 400 Davidson students.
The petition, accompanied by an explanatory letter, is to be sent to President Eisenhower, the Department of State, and the
United Nations. Jim Martin presented the petition to the student body during a Gift Fund-sponsored “Action For Free Hungary” rally.
The text of the petition reads:

To the President of the United States:

We the students of Davidson College, recognizing the right of all men to live in freedom under a government of
their choice, strongly support the desire and right of the people of Hungary for freedom, as evidenced in their recent
attempt to overthrow the regime which has held them in a state of oppression since the end of the Second
World War.

As interested citizens, we realize the intense nature of the dilemma facing the United States, one arising from the belligerently
imperialistic policy of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. Any military support of the Hungarian people by the United States
could well precipitate the total war of which all humanity lives in dread; yet a continuation of our present policy
can only serve to alienate those peoples seeking a leader, to whom our attitude must seem dishearteningly disinterested. Our proposal
would solicit a much more forceful and forthright course of intermediate, but definite, direction, which we feel could have been
followed, and should be adopted for the future.

When the people of East Berlin and East Germany rose up against the oppression of the Soviet occupation in June,
1953, the United States government was evidently caught unaware, and our policy was without vigor or direction. The weakness of
our response at that time might possibly be explained by the fact that this was the first time the United
States had actually been faced with such a situation. It seems to us inexcusable, however, that no apparent policy had
been formed to meet such a situation when, three years later, the Poznan workers rioted in Poland in July, 1956,
yet there was no American response except inaction. Finally, and most tragically, in the recent Hungarian struggle for freedom, all
the free world looked to the United States for some sign of forceful leadership in answer to the unparalleled Soviet
barbarism, but instead encountered only an American indecision which did nothing to prevent, or even mitigate, the crushing of Hungarian
lives and hopes by Soviet tanks.

While these criticisms are made of past events, we by no means feel that the United States has surrendered the
opportunity for vigorous action but rather that there remain several positive steps which we might take. To this end we
urge upon the United States government...

(Continued On Page Four)

AED To Hear Discussion Of Pathology By Reece

Dr. John C. Reece, pathologist at Grace Hospital, Morganton, N. C., will speak to the Alpha Epsilon Delta pre-medical fraternity
next Wednesday at 7:15 p.m. The topic will be “Pathology as a specialized field of Medicine.” Dr. Reece’s program will
be supplemented by color slides illustrating the various pathological conditions described.

CARROUSEL

Tickets for all twelve games of the Carrousel Basketball Tournament in Charlotte on December 17, 18, 19 are now on
sale in the Athletic Office. Price for the entire tournament is $6.00.

Brokerage Executive Addresses Bus-Eco

James S. Burns, accountant executive for Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner, and Beane, will speak to the Business-Economics Association on the
topic, “Investments and Trading on the Stock Exchange,” December 10, at 8 p.m. Burns is a native of Kentucky and
received his B.S. Degree from the University of Kentucky in 1953. After spending two years with the New York Stock
Exchange of New York City, he went with the Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner and Beane brokerage firm. Presently he is
with the Charlotte branch. The meeting is open to all interested in the workings of the stock exchange. Following Burns’
talk a discussion will be conducted.

Phi Mu Alpha Sends Four To Convention

Curtis Patterson, Hugh Craig, Fairman Cumming, and Earle Lewis, members of Davidson's Gamma Kappa Chapter of Phi Mu Alpha, national
music fraternity, attended the bi-annual convention of Phi Mu Alpha chapters in North and South Carolina, which was held at
East Carolina College in Greenville, N. C., last Sunday and Monday. As part of the program on Monday, Patterson sang
two selections by McDowell and Lewis played two Intermezzos by Brahms. Representatives from each chapter there took part in the
program.

REASON AND RELIGION

English Professor Frye Will Speak to Seminar

Dr. Roland Frye, assistant professor of English at Emory University, will be a guest of the Davidson College Interdepartmental Seminar,
December 10-11. Dr. Frye will discuss with members of the seminar and other interested people the place of reason in
the life of the religiously oriented person. He has done extensive research in this area as it relates to Dante,
Langland, Bunyan, and Milton. The seminar will meet on Monday evening, December 10 in the Green Room of the College
Union at 8:15 p.m. All who are interested are invited to attend and to participate in the discussion. The basis
for the discussion will be an article entitled “Reason and Grace,” an original study by Dr. Frye on the position
of reason as it is revealed primarily in Piers Plowman, The Divine Comedy, and Paradise Lost. Copies of this article
are available at the desk of the College Union. Among the divisions of study in this paper are “The Place
of Reason,” “Reason and Love," “The Perversion of Knowledge,” and “God's Accommodation.”

Dr. Frye's doctoral dissertation was on Christian ideas in the dramas of Shakespeare. He has been the author of several
articles on Shakespeare, Milton, and Donne which have appeared in scholarly periodicals. He has recently been awarded a Guggenheim Fellowship
for further study in his field. As chairman of the Professor's Section of the Presbyterian Educational Association of the South,
Dr. Frye is widely regarded as a specialist in the field of religion as it is revealed in literature. He
will address the student body at the Tuesday Chapel service.
