FRIDAY, DECEMBER 7, 1956

Slants ~ oA ~on- hy, f sv ie Sports ps,” By JOHN JOHNSON

“Spark.” In the first 20 minutes of the season’s action, the Wildcats had been “sparked” into a 20-point lead three different times in an unexpected power drive. In the waning minutes of the game, the freshman played with the same “spark” for all but 33 seconds. On last Tuesday, the Red and Black came out of a first-half deep freeze during intermission and caught fire with that “spark,” getting them the lead at 67-66, culminating an effort to overcome a 14-point deficit with 15 minutes remaining. The brains of the Davidson basketball machine are still wondering how cold defeat slipped through a “sparkling” fire with victory gleaming. But this “spark” is still alive, and with it glows the aspirations of the Wildcats in the remaining 18 regular games and two or maybe three tournaments. More specifically, this “spark” has been credited with 36 points in two contests. And more technically, this is no “semi-spark”—it’s the Wildcat of the Week, Semi Mintz.

ON THE HARDWOOD

With only two games played, it is difficult to tell how the Cats will perform on the hardwood throughout the season, but a few things have been worthy of notice. Probably the most notable is a lack of experience. Of the starting five listed on the roster, three are sophomores—Semi Mintz, Joe Milner, and Dave Hollingsworth. Of the remaining two, Mike Martin is a junior who saw limited action last year, and Captain Dick Weeks is the lone senior. There are only two other four-year members of the 16-man squad. Val McSwain, however, as a group, the boys are tall. The held-over height of Joe Milner, Dave Hollingsworth, Mike Martin, and Lew Spears is augmented by that of newcomer Bud Hunter, who Coach Scott has been putting into frequent action. All five have shown the ability to bring in the rebounds.

FASTER, FASTER

Commenting on the team after their 72-70 loss to Catawba, Scott said, “the boys were slow; they needed more speed.” In an effort to gain that speed, Scott may turn to his freshmen, five of which—Bud Hunter, John Huie, Larry McNeil, Ed Stewart, and Jim Allison—he has had dressed out for both games. Experimenting, he worked an all-freshman team during the closing minutes of the Guilford contest. Dr. Scott will try Semi Mintz as a forward, bringing in Larry McNeil to fill the vacated guard position. John Huie may also be used at the forward post.

DOUBT ERASED

Basketball fans have noted changes in the physical appearance of Johnston Gym. The red lights behind the backboards have been added as a result of last year’s extremely close and exciting game with VPI. Many will remember that with Davidson leading by only two points in the closing seconds, the fans’ deafening crescendo of shouts made it impossible to hear the final buzzer. Almost instantly after the time ran out, a VMI player shot a field goal that could have tied the action. Because of the ensuing debate about whether he shot before or after the buzzer, the red lights have been installed this season to give a visible indication of the buzzer sounding, particularly to indicate the end of the half or of the game.

TOURNAMENT SCENE

The schedules for the starting rounds of the holiday tournaments in which the Cats will participate have recently been announced. Davidson will open against St. Joseph on December 17 in the Carrousel Classic at Charlotte's Coliseum and will meet Pennsylvania in the first round of the Richmond Invitational on December 27. Both are stiff tests.

Opening the season last Friday and Saturday with a quadrangular meet, Davidson's wrestling team won one match and dropped two others. The meet, held at Marshall College in Huntington, W. Va., matched Auburn, VMI, Marshall College, and Davidson. The grapplers, meeting Auburn and VMI on Friday, lost to Auburn 26-0 and to VMI 22-10. However, they avenged one of these losses Saturday morning by taking Marshall College 16-14. Auburn, who has won the wrestling crown for eight consecutive years, won all three of its matches. Each of the other schools won one and lost two. Pete Coleman lived up to pre-season expectations and was the outstanding performer for Davidson. He won one match by a pin and decisioned another opponent. Dave Fagg, Westy Westervelt, and Milton Gee also looked good for the Cats. Gee won one match and got a draw in another to take runner-up for Davidson. It was just by a stroke of luck that Pete Coleman was able to get to the match. When the team left Davidson last Thursday, Pete couldn't go because he was reported overcut. After searching through the cut records, Pete found that he had an excused absence and was therefore eligible to make the trip. Since the team had already left, he caught a plane from Charlotte and arrived in Huntington only two hours later than the team. Tomorrow the squad meets in an away match. Since this is only the second year that Pfeiffer has had a team, they should not offer too much competition. However, a tough match is scheduled for next Tuesday when the team wrestles at UNC. The Tarheels have one of the best teams that they have had for several years.the Famous Open Kitchen for a... PIZZA the famous OPEN KITCHEN 1318 W. Morehead Charlotte, N. C.

DO YOUR CHRISTMAS SHOPPING NOW
Save that Time at Home for Merry Making

Few Ideas for Gifts:
WOOL CHALLIS AND SILK REPP NECKWEAR
WOOL CHALLIS TIE & BELT SETS
SIX-FOOT MUFFLERS
DARK STRIPED SPORT SHIRTS
IMPORTED WOOL ARGYLE SOCKS
CREWNECK SHETLAND SWEATERS
TAB OR BUTTON DOWN COLLAR DRESS SHIRTS
TWEED CAPS

Wilson-Wright’s Inc.
“Collegiate Fashions”
DAVIDSON, N.C.

by Hank Daniel.

DAVIDSON’S DAVE HOLLINGSWORTH (35) pulls in 2 rebounds in the Catawba clash Tuesday night. Joe Milner (2) is also in the action for the Cats. The Indians won, 72-70, on a field goal in the waning moments of the game as Coach Scott substituted freely, finishing the game with five freshmen on the floor.

Catholic Davidsonian SPORTS

Cats in Charleston For Two-Night Stand
By JIM HAMILTON

The Davidson Wildcats, with a one and one record in their first two games, journeyed to Palmetto land today for a two-night stand against the College of Charleston and the Citadel in Charleston. The Wildcats take on the quintet from the Medical College Friday night and tangle with the Bulldogs on Saturday evening.

The Davidson five are rated as favorites over the squad from the College of Charleston. Gone from the latter team is their big center, Koempke, who was the backbone of the squad last year.

CITADEL POWER

The Bulldogs of Citadel present a different story. Big freshmen recruits, lured by General Mark Clark's revamping of the athletic program, have made the Citadel a potential power on the hardwood. Despite the fact that they have dropped three conference games to date, one to Richmond and two to William and Mary, Coach Scott feels that at the end of the season the Bulldogs will be one of the teams to beat in the Southern Conference. “All they need is experience,” Scott commented.

OPENING GUN

Davidson opened the season last Friday night by downing the Guilford Quakers 85-71. The Wildcats were in command all the way, leading by 20 points at halftime. Semi Mintz led the scoring with 24 points, followed by Joe Milner with 18.

FINAL SECONDS

The Indians’ fate turned against the Wildcats in the Catawba game as Sonny Clayton, a ball hawk at guard all night long, lofted a high, arching, one-handed shot through the hoop with six seconds remaining to down the Cats 72-70. The Indians out-rebounded the Cats all night as they continuously had two or three men to Davidson’s one down court on the fast break. The Cats, led by Semi Mintz, grabbed the game anyway as they went ahead 70-69 on Joe Milner's jump shot with 1:50 minutes left in the game. Clayton tied it up when he threw in a charity toss with 1:40 remaining. The Cats then missed a shot and Clayton let go with his game-winning shot.

Action in Sight

WRESTLE PFEIFFER TOMORROW
Matmen Win 1, Lose 2

Davidson’s wrestling team will take on Pfeiffer tomorrow. The Wildcats have won one and lost two matches so far this season. Coach Parker requests that any boys who are interested in wrestling and weigh about 130 pounds or under get in touch with him.

Wildcat Swimmers to Open U. Tomorrow
Veterans to Strengthen Coach Thompson’s Debut

Davidson’s swimming team will plunge into the 1956-57 season tomorrow afternoon when they take on Catholic University in the Davidson pool. First event starts at 2:30 p.m. In addition to Catholic U., two other meets are slated before the Christmas holidays, both taking place at Davidson. On Monday, the 5th, the VMI swimmers invade the Wildcat stronghold, closely followed by East Carolina on Saturday, the 15th. Starting times are respectively 2:30 p.m. and 2:30 p.m.

The Catholic U. meet will be the debut of swimming Coach George Thompson, who in commenting on tomorrow's meet, said, “If we're beaten, it will be because they are a better team, not because of a lack of conditioning.” Thompson has been going all out to whip his men into shape. For the past six weeks they have been undergoing grueling workouts designed to work off all traces of flabbiness.

Brightening the outlook is the return of five varsity lettermen: John Doe, 100 yard backstroke; Jerry Clark, 220 yard freestyle; Bill Carrell, 200 yard individual medley; Tommy Rivers, 50 yard freestyle; and Basil Sharp, diving. Coach Thompson declined to single out any one of his numerous freshmen, but did mention the good work of freestyler Bill Hellier and backstroke men Art Miller, John Scott, and Joe Bell. Another freshman, Bill Cobb, is coming around nicely in the diving department.

REMEMBER DAD!
Christmas time is the time to reward Dad for his kindness all year. Get him a gift before you go home. Give him a distinctive gift from our third floor!

AND YOU, TOO!
While you’re here... use your charge account! Christmas is near... and money is dear, so charge it and pay Jan. 10, Feb. 10, Mar. 10. Our “IVY” selection is most complete on shirts, ties, belts, sport coats, sport shirts, belts, socks, etc!

TATE-BROWN’S FOR MEN AND NEW UNIVERSITY SHOP THIRD FLOOR

December 8—Basketball—Citadel, there. Wrestling—Pfeiffer, there. Swimming—Catholic U., here.
December 10—Swimming—VMI, here.
December 11—Wrestling—UNC, there.
December 12—Basketball—Catawba, there.
December 14—Basketball—Furman, here.

HAVE A REAL CIGARETTE... Camel!
Discover the difference between “just smoking” and Camels! B. J. Reynolds Tob. Co., Winston-Salem, N.C.

“I first tried Camels back in college. I liked them best then and I still do. They're a real cigarette. That's for me. I’m a real smoker.” Paul O’Shea, TOP SPORTS CAR RACER

You'll find Camels taste richer, fuller, more deeply satisfying. The exclusive Camel blend of quality tobaccos brings you smooth smoking. You're sure to enjoy Camels, the most popular cigarette today. They’ve really got it!