ORIENTATION EDITION

Che Davidsonian

EDITOR .... JIM BATTEN
BUSINESS MANAGER BOB CARMICHAEL

ORIENTATION EDITION STAFF: Bill Bondurant, Lloyd Chapin, Phil Kukura; Bob Lathan.

FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 1956

Orientation and Rush Week—Your First Hurdles

Nags Head, Daytona, and Myrtle Beach seem pretty remote tonight as we find ourselves plunged together in the shadow of
Chambers after another of those proverbial “shortest summers ever.” Early arrivals include you, the Class of 1960, plus a handful
of sunburned upperclassmen assigned the slightly dubious honor of orienting you—on Davidson, and the life of a college man in
general. The bulk, however, of the Davidson Gentlemen are still scattered over the countryside, prolonging the agony of making the
break until early next week.

For the next few weeks, you, the freshmen, will be the center of attention for the entire college family. These
weeks are crucial for you individually and as a class. The days which follow immediately now will greatly influence and
direct your career at Davidson. The first case in point is the Orientation program, currently in full swing. Yearly, this
traditional period has been evaluated and re-evaluated, resulting this fall in a modernized, streamlined program designed to offer you the
most solid foundation possible in the time available.

The purpose of Orientation is not to attempt to turn you into a college man overnight. Neither, however, is its
intent merely to help you locate the campus coke machines, or to test your powers of mental and social stamina
by subjecting you to countless batteries of tests and hundreds of smiling hands to shake. In essence, Orientation is designed
to allow you to get to know Davidson; its physical facilities and its personalities, while perhaps allowing you to sense
the rudiments of its philosophy of education and of life. At the same time, a very necessary task is accomplished
in allowing Davidson to get to know you and something of your mental and physical capabilities. This information will facilitate
initial placement now, and be of value to those who will be your counselors in days to come.

With Rush Week looming only 10 days off, now is the time for you to familiarize yourself with the rushing
regulations and the peculiarities of our particular rushing system. The WILDCAT HANDBOOK offers a good explanation of the Davidson fraternity
system, and should be required reading for all freshmen when it arrives. Bunny Perkinson, president of the Interfraternity Council, is
the man to see in case you have unanswered questions after reading up on the matter. Thorough knowledge on your
part of the basic workings of the system will make Rush Week less bewildering and smoother for you as well
as for the fraternities, and will go a long way toward enabling you in the long run to make the
proper choice.

Queens—A Tender Trap

Not a word about this can be found in the Davidson catalog. No mention is made of this evil before
Orientation. Baker scholars are not even told about it. What is this thing, this overpowering force that is so carefully
guarded from Freshmen before they arrive at Davidson? What is this terrible scourge that awaits the unsuspecting Freshman; that may
lead to poor grades, a dishonorable discharge from college, and disgrace?

Now it can be told. The word is out. This disrupting influence on a Freshman’s life is that den of
females located in Charlotte known as Queens College. This collection of youthful maidens is the downfall of many a Davidson
man. Before Queens, Davidson Freshmen spent weekends as weekends should be spent, in quiet study and peaceful meditation. Now with
the advent of Queens, the weekend has become merely a time of three-minute telephone calls, hurried trips to Charlotte, and
boring evenings spent at some stuffy movie or watching television in the ladies’ game room at Queens.

These lassies from Charlotte are terribly adept in stalking young males. They are particularly fond of tender young Davidson Freshmen.
Once they have succeeded in making a catch, the unlucky Freshman must bid farewell to his peaceful solitude. Endless letters
must then be written. Visits must weekly be paid to their den. At least three times a year these ladies
must be invited to Davidson for the weekend, to be wined and dined and danced in the Davidson fashion. Gifts
must be bought on their birthday, and Christmas must not be overlooked.

Then that fateful day, late in spring, that day which is as inevitable as spring itself, will come. And with
it will come that very special something at the local letter office. As that long, purple shaft is carefully plucked
from the Freshman’s heart, his life for the past nine months often flashes through his mind. Then, and only then,
does he realize his mistake. It all started with that innocent, oh, so innocent, dance with the Queens College Freshmen
in early September. It is then that these young maidens are first given the scent of young blood. There it
is each year that the future of many a Davidson Freshman hangs in the balance. So next Saturday, at that
seemingly innocent affair, Davidson Freshmen beware! Beware lest you too should fall prey to these clever young Queens. Beware, men,
beware—A.W.F.B.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Wildcat Gridders Drill Hard

FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 1956

For Opener Against Catawba

WARDEN, HART HEAD 19 FROSH

Thirty-one upperclassmen and 19 impressive freshmen reported to Head Coach Bill Dole and his revamped staff for early season drills
on Sept. 1. The spirited squad, 50-strong, includes 14 lettermen and 17 other veterans as well as a bumper crop
of frosh headed by All-State back Dave Warden of Bluefield, West Virginia, and George Hart, the three-letterman from Charlotte’s Harding
High. Both are listed as halfbacks although Hart may be used at end.

Quarterback is a healthy spot for the Wildcats. Dick Belton, top passer in the Southern Conference and leading scorer for
the ‘Cats in 1955, and Dyke Little, both experts with the Dole T, will lead the number one and two
platoons. Together they accounted for 1276 yards through the air with Belton figuring for 839 while Little flipped 32 strikes
out of 70 attempts for a 437 net gain. The Davidson pass offense was tops in the Conference last year
with an average of 150.1 yards per game, a new league record.

A trio of lettermen return at the flanks: Craig Wall, Shrine Bowl star in 1954 and one of last year’s
most promising freshmen; Bill Price, the veteran center who was shifted to end in spring practice; and Bill Gramley, leading
pass receiver in '55. Soph Westy Westervelt (5-10, 160) adds depth to Dole’s ends.

At tackle, Tom Lee, 210-pounder from Durham and Dave Fagg, the rugged High Point junior, are currently the top men.
Fagg has put on additional weight and will scale over 200 pounds. Two rising sophomores pressing the first stringers are
Lanny Voigt (6-0, 215), an All-State tackle from Greensboro, and Paul Biggers, Myers Park product packing 266 pounds at an
even six feet.

Only one letterman returns at the vital guard spot, a position in need of rebuilding this season. Dave McClain, understudy
to Tom Owen who graduated in June, will move up to a first string job with Dale Gramley being the
other likely guard. Charlie James, one of the prize freshmen finds, takes over the center spot.

Backfield is the bright spot of the 1956 Wildcat eleven. Probably the strongest in three years, it boasts a senior
crew of running backs. The “Flying Dons,” paced by leading ground gainer Don McRee, includes two other speedy ball carriers,
Don Campbell and Don Comer. Ralph Setzler is the

ACROSS THE PRESIDENT'S DESK

DAN LaFAR
PRESIDENT OF THE STUDENT BODY

One of the most important phases of the orientation process is becoming familiar with the Student Government of Davidson College.
Though we are handicapped by not having access to the Freshman Wildcat Handbook earlier this summer, I hope that soon
they will be available. Of particular importance is the Constitution of the Student Government of Davidson College. This will be
made available shortly by means of the above mentioned Wildcat Handbook. It is of particular interest to the Student Council
that each member of the Student Body become not only familiar with the Constitution but that he also understands it
clearly.

The outstanding characteristic of the Constitution and indeed of the student life at Davidson is the Honor System. Every virtue
of the system of honor that is manifest on the campus at this time has been passed on by many
generations of Davidson men. However, it is in your hands that lie the means for the continuation of the Honor
System. The Honor System is Article VIII of the Student Constitution. I urge that you become familiar with it, understand
its consequences, and determine you will never agree to compromise it.

Christian Growth Vital To College Experience

(Dr. Staples has recently assumed his duties in the newly-created post of Minister to Students. His duties will include supervision
and coordination of the religious life of the campus.—Ed.)

You are entering Davidson College at a time when the program of campus Christian life stands on the threshold of
a new vitality and importance. Trustees, faculty, alumni, and students alike are aware of the necessity of giving an increased
dimension of depth to the spiritual aspects of college life. This is, therefore, a crucial year, as the college seeks
to give vigor and unity to its religious activities by coordinating them through the office of the Minister to Students.

The aspect of our program of which you will be made aware immediately is the YMCA. It is a voluntary
organization of students and faculty, united by a common loyalty to Jesus Christ and motivated to search for the will
of God.through worship, study and service. For more than 100 years, the “Y” and its predecessors on the Davidson campus
have been the means by which Davidson men have given practical expression to their Christian faith. The “Y” program is
sufficiently extensive to provide an activity of interest for each of you. It is not an organization for pre-ministerial students,
but for any student who has an earnest desire to discover, to understand, and to appreciate the highest ideals of
Christian living and service, and who desires to have a part in making these ideals effective in their own lives
and in the lives of society. A second means by which we seek to make religion vital is through the
services of corporate worship in which the entire college community participates. Three days each week we gather in the auditorium
for chapel and on Sunday evening in the College Church for the vesper service. You may have a little difficulty
at first reconciling the “required” aspect of these services with the idea of freedom in worship. But we must remember
that to achieve the goals which you honestly desire for your college career, you will live and work during the
next four years under a number of rules and regulations, governing not only the spiritual aspects of your life, but
the intellectual, physical, and social as well. A third—and in many ways the most important aspect of campus Christian life—is
in the area of counseling. All members of the faculty and administration are desirous of assisting you in any way
possible. It is the particular responsibility and privilege of the Minister to Students to talk with you about anything you
may have on your mind. There are times when your Christian faith may be shaky. The college would not be
doing its duty toward you if it did not make you examine your faith in the light of human knowledge
and experience. That is the only way it will become your own, rather than something you have inherited. Often those
rough spots can be made smooth by seeking the help of someone who has been along that same way ahead
of you. Similar help is available as you make social and moral adjustments. Your Christian faith is an important part
of your higher education. President Bevis of Ohio State University reminds us: “Never in all the world's history has there
been so much knowledge. Seldom has there been so much darkness and misery and want. The great need of mankind
is for vision—vision which by the eye of Faith sees beyond the temporal maze of formulae and theories to the
simple realities of living. For want of such vision the people perish.” It is the aim of the program of
campus Christian life at Davidson College to help you attain that vision.

WELCOME, To the Members of the Freshman Class

Dear Friends:

For 119 years Davidson College has experienced an uninterrupted schedule of training of young men in the area of Christian
higher education. As you, this week, enter the Class of 1960, we bid you welcome and assure you of our
highest hopes and best wishes for these very important and influential years which lie ahead. I hope that you may
have here a rich experience in warm and abiding friendships, in true learning and spiritual growth. Davidson College is, as
you know, a Church college and seeks to develop in each passing generation of students strong Christian characters. I hope
that each of you will lend yourself wholeheartedly in this direction. As President of Davidson I stand ready to do
anything possible for your happiness and success.

Cordially,
J. R. CUNNINGHAM
President

Co-Captains Dick Belton and Don McRee

A fourth letterman of the halves. Extra depth among the halfbacks is represented by Jim West, Paul Barbee, and John
G. Francis. At fullback, senior Ken Conger, the best blocking back on the squad, is the sole letterman returning. Conger
appears ready for one of the banner years but will be pushed for his job if Warden, the 208-pound frosh,
is shifted over to full. Coach Dole, who is looking for extra weight in the backfield, may have the answer
in fullback bulldozer Warden, most sought after high school backs in the nation. Fleet ends and glue-fingered receivers in this
year’s backfield make for another potent passing attack. Coach Dole, although pleased with his aerial circus, devoted the major portion
of spring practice to strengthening the running game. “In order for Davidson to have a well-balanced team,” he noted: “we
must combine a strong ground offense with our passing attack.”

Slants On Sports By BOB LATHAN

Coach Bill Dole is frank in his enthusiasm about his highly-touted frosh phenom, Dave Warden of Bluefield, West Virginia. “This
boy, Warden, had many football scholarship offers from outstanding universities but chose Davidson because of the preparation he could get
here for medicine.” Continuing to meditate on his prize freshman catch, who, incidentally, was an All-State fullback in high school,
the affable mentor stated that Warden is “looking first toward getting an education at Davidson.”

Sharp With The Books, Too

“Have you seen him? He’s a hoss... 210 pounds... had a 97.1 average in high school for four years... was
valedictorian and in the National Honor Society, of course... among other activities, he was president of the student body, threw
the discus and shot on the track squad, and sang in an A Capella choir in Bluefield.” Sounds like quite
a record... but the big boy apparently is all he’s made out to be. He’s already been placed on Dole’s
present first string backfield, along with Belton, McRee, and Conger.

“Now is the time a football team has to be made,” Dole explained. “It must be before classes start. Therefore,
the work now is intense and rough.” The personable coach Dole disclosed that senior Ken Conger from Statesville had been
“shifted to right half to take advantage of his running ability there, which this year, is better than his line-busting
at full last fall.”

Good Depth At QB

“We have exceptionally good depth at the quarterback slot with Belton and Dyke Little expected to have another banner season.”
The dynamic duo is backed up by soph Tom Cutting, who showed up well last year, second-year man Sam McQuirt,
and frosh standout Bobo McEarthern, who prepped at St. Christopher in Richmond. “McQuirt has made the most improvement of any
of our players in the space of one year,” Dole talked on, “but still won’t play too much... three good
men in front of him.”

Wall, Price, Gramley At Ends

At end, Dole is set with three returning lettermen, a sophomore, and three sparkling freshmen. Craig Wall, Shrine Bowl star
of ’54, temporarily has been put at right end on the first team. Backing him up is Westy Westervelt, who
has “improved tremendously” from his freshman year, and a pair of yearlings, Charlotte’s George Hart, All-City in football and baseball,
and Freddie Whitaker (5-11, 180) from Kannapolis. Bill Price, 6-2, 188-pound junior, is performing as left end on the first
platoon. Price was switched from center during spring practice. The leading pass catcher on the '55 Cats, senior Bill Gramley,
from Winston-Salem, (6-3, 207), and rookie Jim Bloomfield are the other two flankmen on the left side. With so much
talent at end, Dole confesses the positions “may change any day.”

Question Mark At The Middle

Coach Dole faces the perennial problem of depth in the interior of the line: “The success of our season will
depend to a great extent on the development of replacements at guard and center. We are changing personnel constantly with
no definite combination established as yet.” However, Bob Stancil and Diggs Gramley are currently holding down the vital guard spots
with letterman Dave McClain and Little Howard on the second team. Sophomore Charlie James has nailed down the starting nod
at center. Adding strength to the pivot position are John “Hoss” Nix and Lewis Moore, first-year man from Durham. Lettermen
Tom Lee and Dave Fagg add beef and know-how to the tackles, which have “ample experience.” Husky soph Lanny Voigt
has been looking good and Paul Biggers, Myers Park product, is expected, Dole says, to “play a lot of ball.”

Seven Halves Return

Seven hard-hitting but light halfbacks, led by the “Newton Comet,” alternate captain Donnie McRee, are back. These include lettermen Don
Campbell, Don Comer, and Ralph Setzler with Paul Barbee, John G. Francis, and Jim West in reserve. Dole plans a
two-team system, no jayvees. The coach is really impressed by the 19-strong bumper crop of frosh. “The best I’ve had
in several years.”

FRESHMEN DIRECTED.... (Continued from Front Page)

of Beta Theta Pi. Professor John Bevan of the Psychology Department is Faculty Counsel for the group. Davidson's favorite golfer,
George Scott, a senior from Statesville, N. C., is Student Adviser for Group Eighteen. He is a member of the
Student Council and President of Pi Kappa Alpha. Faculty Adviser for the group is Dr. Frontis Johnston, Professor of History.
Joe Sandifer is Student Adviser for Group Nineteen. He is a senior from Charlotte, N. C., active on the YMCA
Cabinet and a member of Phi Delta Theta. Professor John C. Bailey of the Bible Department will work with the
group as Faculty Adviser. Group Twenty is led by Richard Weeks, a senior from Savannah, Ga. Dick handles one of
the guard slots on the basketball team, represents the Senior Class on the Student Council and is a member of
the Kappa Alpha Order. Professor Bradley D. Thompson of the History Department is the group's Faculty Adviser.
