FRIDAY, MARCH 23, 1956

Cat's Meow
LEON HOWELL

Until you reach the top, or participate in scattered “big-time” matches, golf is a lonesome game. To be good, you have to depend on a combination of calculated skill and strong faith in yourself. There are no spectators to give you a boost with their cheers or teammates to aid you in recovering a bad shot. Because of the very nature of the sport, a great many of the very best golfers are concerned entirely with fierce concentration and mechanical precision. Ben Hogan is the noted example of such a machine of golfing perfection. Robbed of both the color of other spectator sports and the acclaim that accompanies them, college golfers have to derive their satisfaction from the feeling of a job well done... or in moments like the one last Saturday.

While engaging the Morganton Country Club in a practice match, the Cat golfers had an opportunity to watch and actually play against one of America’s best known and most colorful golfers, Billy Joe Patton. His scintillating play and brilliant daring in the 1954 Masters endeared him to fans the world over. George Scott, who played several leisurely holes with him before the regular match, remarked that Patton was in the rough every time but one, yet he birdied one and had a par on all the rest. He was friendly, chattered constantly, and swung with utter abandon. In the match itself, Larry Parrot and Skipper Hall locked horns with Billy Joe and his brother, “Shorty,” also an excellent player. Both of Davidson's men played well, but could not, of course, be expected to win against such competition. Larry felt that Patton's drives, which remained on the fairway during the match, were his forte. Few in the game can outdistance him consistently, and even when he slapped one into the rough, his recoveries, which he tried from any angle, placed him right back in a good position. Larry added that he swung with tremendous speed and it was apparently his wrist action that accounted for his power, rather than size, etc. No matter where he is or what the score is, Billy Joe shoots for the hole. He is never cautious or plays for a position. Perhaps the secret of his fame is in this freedom and unconventional daring that he exhibits on the course.

It’s a psychological fact: If you're a smoker, remember more people get more pure pleasure from Camels than from any other cigarette. No other cigarette is so rich-tasting, yet so mild!

Now you can get 20 beautiful photos, same size as shown, on luxurious double weight paper for only $1.00, or 50 photos for $2.00, from one pose. The perfect gift for your classmates, friends, and relatives, to use for job or college applications, passports, etc. Just send $1.00 with each picture or negative of any size. Your original will be returned with 20 top-quality, satin finish, double weight photos, or 50 for $2.00. Satisfaction guaranteed.

JACK RABBIT CO.
Spartanburg, S.C.
Send coupon today!

Enclosed is $___ for ___ prints from one pose.
Name: _______________________
Address: _______________________

THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

Track
By JOHN JOHNSON

The baseball squad will play Catawba on the Indians’ home diamond during the spring vacation and will play Lenoir-Rhyne on March 27. The team will travel through South Carolina and Georgia to play Robbins Air Force Base twice, counter Newberry, then Mercer, and will play a four-game circuit. On Tuesday, the 1956 version of the Wildcat baseball team crashed their season by overpowering the Blue Hose of Presbyterian by a score of 11 to 7 on Davidson diamond. 

Despite the fact that the calendar proclaimed the first day of spring, the thermometer, along with the players and fans, failed to agree. The wind extended the length of the hits and the low temperature heavily handicapped the pitcher. Although the weather prevented the game from being a true indication of the Cat’s abilities, the team definitely showed strength. Harold Regen, the only newcomer to the ranks, was a standout. The Freshman catcher, who filled in the vacancy left by Stalos last year, not only tripled to drive in the first run of the decisive second inning but made two good pegs to put out runners attempting to steal second. The infield was whipping the ball around with speed, and in hitting the squad looked as good as last year’s team which was the best in 22 years. With all the fielding positions ably filled and with returning power at the plate in the form of Hope, West, Patterson, and Little, the only big question this season will be the pitching staff. The number one and two pitchers of last year both graduated. Coach Clements was happy to win from P.C. but was disappointed with the number of errors made by his boys. “We will have to work on those mistakes because one can’t win games in conference competition with errors like those,” he said.

The 1956 track season, which looks like one of the toughest in several years for coach Pete Whittle’s cindermen, gets underway Monday, March 26, at the Richardson Stadium. The opposition will be furnished by teams from Furman and Williams. The indoor season showed that Pete Ashcraft, the star miler, will be better than ever on the Wildcat squad. There has been great interest shown in the workouts this year; several new men are out and have qualified for the team, and the crucial positions are well covered by experienced letter-men. Two intra-squad meets have been held the last weeks to let the men see some real action before the opening meet. The “Black team,” captained by Phil Koonce, obtained two victories over Ashcraft's Reds. More important, however, the meets gave an indication of the collected team strength.10 and 23 seconds on the 100 and 220. Freshman Al Elder has been impressive in sprints. Last year’s Con Phil Koonce is on the quarter mile, running a 52.0 Wednesday. In this event, Roswell Mallory may be missing due to a leg injury. Pete Ashcraft is in brilliant shape for the 880 and the mile and could break the school record (1:59.2) in the race. The two-milers have not been directly impressive as yet. The weight events are dominated by Bill Gramley, who is hitting for 45 feet in the shot and who made a very promising 140-foot discus throw Wednesday. He is also a top man in the high jump. In the javelin, Harley Smith and Bubba Martin are the aces. Koonce is the outstanding broad jumper, while John Holshouser takes care of the pole vault for the ‘Cats. In the hurdles, some of the best men have dropped out, and Max Bryan has just started workouts. These events may be weak spots for Davidson, though Scott Woodmansee looks good on the lows. Furman is an unknown quality this year, and the same goes even more for Williams. The outcome of Monday's meet is therefore very open, according to coach Whittle.

Davidsonian: “When Spring’s in the air and you haven’t a care, enjoy pleasure rare—have a CAMEL!” Winston-Salem, N.C.

The No. 2 position is being contested by both Pearsall and Mintz, with the loser getting the No. 3. The other three positions will be filled by Huffaker, Poindexter, and Martin. Each man is working hard in order to better his style as well as to gain a higher position. The big problem McKee is facing this year is doubles. The problem is still unsolved because almost all the men are new and it’s difficult to pick combinations this early. It looks like now that Robinson and Mintz will join hands in the No. 1 doubles team with Poindexter and Martin holding down the No. 2.

Volleyball Leads

By JIM PAGE

Because of rain washing out play on the three outdoor courts, the volleyball tournament has gone slowly. Seven of the eleven rounds have been played, but several of the games were postponed because of the rain. That leaves four more rounds, plus the games which were rained out. Leading so far are the powerful Phi Delts who have gone undefeated in seven starts. Following the Phi Delts are the Sigma Chi's with a five out of six record, and Kappa Sig with four victories out of five. Both Sigma Chi and Kappa Sig have lost only to Phi Delt. Following close on the heels of the three leaders are ATO and Kappa Alpha, both with three wins out of five. ATO has lost to Phi Delt and Kappa Alpha, while the K A's have lost to Phi Delt and Kappa Sig. Rounding out the list of teams which have scored victories so far is the Campus Club.

Immediately following the spring holidays, when volleyball is completed, and the sun begins to shine, softball will make its entrance on the scene—tennis also begins then. As the IFC draws toward an end, the competition for the Sports Athletic Award becomes more and more keen.

Do you prefer “IVY” styling? Then we're... “NATURALLY YOURS.” We have gone all out to secure for your selection while you are home for your holidays, the greatest collection of “IVY” Clothing and furnishings you have yet seen—SEE WHAT WE HAVE BOUGHT FOR YOU—ESPECIALLY 3rd FLOOR—FOR YOUNG MEN. Pleatless trousers and look at the brands: Haspel, Joseph & Feiss, Varsity Town, College Hall, and Palm Beach. 27.50 thru 59.50, 25.00 thru 45.00, 5.95 thru 20.00, 4.95 to 12.95, 5.00, 2.50, 2.50 and 3.50.

Check this new collar style—the ARROW Glen. Here’s a broadcloth shirt with features that please the college man with an eye for style. The collar, (button-down, of course), is a shorter, neater-looking model. The fine broadcloth cools you throughout the warm days ahead. The trim checks are available in 7 color combinations, including blue, tan, and grey. $5.00. And, an Arrow repp tie always sets off an Arrow shirt just right. Tie, $2.50. 

ARROW SHIRTS—first in fashion. TIES. SLACKS.