EDITOR-IN-CHIEF — JIM BATTEN
BUSINESS MANAGER — BOB CARMICHAEL
ASSOCIATE EDITORS — FRANKLIN BLOODWORTH, LEON HOWELL
Assistant Editor — Bill Pomeroy
Managing Editors — Lloyd Chapin, John Trask
News Editor — John Johnson
Sports Editor — Bill Bondurant
Feature Editor — John Trotti
Copy Editor — Che Davidsonian
Staff Photographer — Ed Stevens
Assignments — Bob Lathan
Advertising Manager — Bob Majors
Circulation — Bob Austin, Marshall Chapman, Lee Mayfield

Represented for National Advertising by NATIONAL ADVERTISING SERVICE, Inc.
SUBSCRIPTION RATE: $2.00 Per Year.
Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.
OFFICES IN DAVID OVENS COLLEGE UNION, DAVIDSON COLLEGE
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 5, 1956

Tri-State Poll Should Be Revealing

With Adlai clobbering the Administration with an abandon which must make Harry proud, and Mr. Eisenhower retaliating as if he’d never had a bad day in his life, campus interest in affairs beyond the city limits is hitting its quadrennial peak. No national or international issue seems to stir undergraduate brainpower to activity quite so much as a hard-hitting presidential campaign. And this one seems to be made to order.

The Democrats have realized all along that to even come close in November, they must make enough racket to arouse some wholesale question in the public mind about the solidarity of the Eisenhower regime. Mr. Stevenson, suddenly devoid of his 1952 “eggheadedness,” is swinging from the basement, to the joy of the party bosses. Inside the White House, Ike and the Republican brass are finally waking up to the fact that everything is not quite as cut-and-dried as it appeared a few months ago. Talk of a campaign composed chiefly of a few major TV speeches to the nation by the President, with Dick Nixon doing the leg-work and name-calling, has long since ceased.

In essence, this fall will witness a humdinger of a battle, with nothing shoo-in about it. Both sides are throwing everything in sight at each other. The political atmosphere is conducive to keen interest and discussion among college students. And both parties fully recognize the vital importance of the vote of the youth of the country.

In the next few weeks, the Davidsonian will attempt to survey the presidential preferences of college students in Virginia and the Carolinas, believing that significant trends may be indicated in a representative cross-section of college opinion. This week the feature department has contacted the editors of 87 college newspapers in the tri-state area. These newspapers, which are read by well over 75,000 students, have been asked to poll their respective student bodies on their presidential choices. This data will be returned to us to be assimilated and compiled, and the results will be returned to each participating newspaper for publication during the last week before the nation goes to the polls. The total wrap-up of the results will be featured in the Davidsonian of November 2.

Now is the time for you as a voter or potential voter to weigh the candidates and issues carefully. Though trite to say, the future of America obviously rests in the hands of an informed electorate.

Problems Loom For Fraternity System

On Tuesday evening last, the ballroom of the College Union witnessed the initial discussions of a problem that will in time affect every fraternity man at Davidson. The Faculty Committee on Fraternities, consisting of Dr. W. G. McGavock, chairman; Dr. Chalmers Davidson, Dr. A. V. Goldiere, Dr. Harold Ford, and Dean Spencer, along with Mr. D. Grier Martin, met with the presidents and I.F.C. representatives of Davidson’s eleven fraternities and the Campus Club.

The purpose of this meeting was to study the problems that will arise in connection with fraternities as a result of the proposed increase of Davidson's enrollment. This meeting was called by Dr. McGavock to discuss with the fraternities these problems and possible solutions to them before any action is taken by the Faculty. This policy of discussing proposed actions concerning fraternities with them before any definite plans are made is a policy that will result in mutual benefits for both Faculty and fraternities. This will allow the fraternities to present their own ideas to the Faculty while at the same time giving them an opportunity to discuss with the Committee its ideas before they are acted upon.

Contrary to the belief held in some circles that the Faculty is anti-fraternity, it was a welcome relief to discover that the Committee was most interested in discussing these problems with the fraternities, interested in helping them to find the solutions to them, and interested even to the point of strengthening the fraternity system at Davidson. The Committee presented a number of proposals concerning these problems for discussion, and welcomed all suggestions from the floor.

Tuesday evening saw no final plans adopted. No definite solutions were agreed upon. No magic formulas were offered. The answers to the problems which confront Davidson’s fraternities because of the Trustees’ unpopular decision to increase enrollment are not answers that can easily be found. Tuesday night was only a start in the right direction. A smaller committee of six students, three fraternity presidents and three members of the I.F.C., will be selected to work with the Faculty for more detailed and intensive study.

The Faculty Committee got off to a good start Tuesday night toward eventually finding a solution to the problem. But the work must not stop with the appointment of a committee. It is hoped that the Faculty Committee on Fraternities will reconvene in the near future to continue its work. Unless the Committee does meet again soon, and thereafter at regular intervals, the groundwork thus far laid will go to waste, and by the end of this school year no progress will have been made toward finding a solution. If, however, the Committee does meet again soon to continue its work, a solution to the problem will be found before the problem itself becomes unbearable.

—A.W.F.B.

P. C. Must Go

Presbyterian College is a nuisance. They enjoy stealing our freshmen's hats, for one thing. Been doing it for years, whenever they come up here for a football game. But even more audacious, they take a peculiar pleasure in upsetting our football team. They've been doing that for years, too. For no good reason. Those people down there would rather beat Davidson than anything they can think of. Especially at Homecoming. We're sick of it. P. C. has got to go. Tomorrow night.

There’s going to be a pep rally back of the Union tomorrow at noon when the team pulls out for Clinton. Let’s be there and let them know we're tired of this nonsense. And then let’s follow ’em to P. C. and be on hand to see things squared away. It's high time.

What evil in the hearts of men?

Ending the Draft is Another Dud Plan by Desperate Mr. Stevenson.
By JACK KERR

Election year is here upon us again, and as usual, the Democrats are again promising “the pie in the sky, an increase in foreign aid, plus income tax reductions.” To any level-headed person this is just downright ridiculous and impossible. Of course, that doesn't concern me, for I've still several years of college left plus my duty to Uncle Sam — however, I am twenty-one and Mr. Stevenson did say he'd like to do away with the draft as soon as possible. Yes, while talking before the American Legion Convention, Mr. Stevenson suggested eliminating the draft as soon as possible. But what does that mean? To me, it means no compulsory service to give my country. But it also means that our armed forces would be drastically cut to the bone, for draftees constitute more than one-third of the enlisted men in the Army.

SOUNDS GOOD TO MOTHER

But on the other hand this sounds good to mother and father.

FROM THE TOP OF THE DOME with TOM MORGAN

(This issue marks the beginning of a regular weekly column of rambling notes and occasional essays. Nat Daniel and Tom Morgan will alternate as writers. Your comments and reactions will be appreciated. THE EDITOR.)

To the freshmen: Don't lose your sense of balance in the midst of the barrage of freshmen regulations, name tags, beanies, pep rallies, hat checks, etc., etc., etc. As far away as it seems now, you will someday be an upperclassman and if you are to get the most out of your college experience you must plan now to utilize every year at Davidson to its fullest advantage. This includes taking advantage of those abilities that you have outside the field of regularly assigned classwork. Select one extra-curricular activity that interests you and begin now to work up to a position of leadership in that field. If you try to get into several extra-curriculars, chances are that you won't make a valuable contribution in either those activities or your regular academic career.

Don’t let the fact that you are working in some activity on an equal basis with upperclassmen make you feel cocky. You are still freshmen and if you are to benefit to the fullest extent from your education, you must serve to the fullest extent as a freshman and a pledge. Show spirit, but at the same time be respectful of authority and tradition. Remember the adage: “Be not the first on whom the new is tried, nor the last to lay the old aside.” Freshmen revolutionaries never get further than the Blue Room of the College Union!

Speaking of the College Union, here's a personal to Mr. Murphy. Don’t you think, sir, that it would be a bit more sensible to put two or three extra men behind the snack bar at rush hours like Sunday night at 10 o’clock. I'm usually a pretty patient fellow, but waiting 45 minutes to get a 10c orangeade would try Job. The same goes for chapel periods Monday and Wednesday. The Union would get much less criticism if little matters like this were planned out ahead of time.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Like this from the administration, I think that we owe them (and ourselves in this case) a favor like helping to ease the Vesper traffic jam by arriving five minutes earlier and moving on down to the front when we enter. In case of fire, the front exit is still good!

After Vespers on Sunday nights, many of us are missing one of our best opportunities to broaden our college education. Faculty homes are not open on Sunday nights just to receive apple-polishers. Rather, visiting a faculty member out of the usual classroom atmosphere can prove beneficial to both you and the prof. You become a personality instead of a name to him, and he becomes a human being instead of a machine which doles out 55-minute lectures. Besides, most of them have very charming families and delicious refreshments. This might solve the problem of the 10 o'clock Union crowds!

‘Cause now they won't have to worry about my having to go back to Ft. Benning for two years: the results would be worse than that — a Direct Invitation to Russia to move as she pleases and where she pleases! It’s not enough for Mr. Stevenson to criticize the Eisenhower Administration for casually dismissing his proposal last spring to halt further testing of large nuclear devices. Now he wants us to stop rearming! He may not say so in black and white, but I've yet to see the U.S. raise an adequate fighting force on volunteers alone as he proposes.

DIDN’T LEARN LESSON

Didn't we learn our lesson at Pearl Harbor? Evidently not. How ‘bout Korea? Again we found ourselves not adequately armed; however, we were in the process of building up our armed might. Now all we have to do is to let this “all’s well if you vote for me, right now we're going to Hell” philosophic bug bite us and then we'd have a repeat performance of Pearl Harbor, unless you have more faith in Russia’s sincerity than I do. Lieutenant General W. K. Harrison stated that if persons assume that the policymakers of Russia are honorable men then we will be destroyed. But after all “ole’ soldiers just fade away,” so what do those utterances mean? Nothing, if men think they don’t mean anything.

HOLD RUSSIA AT BAY

But to me, the only safe way to hold Russia at bay is the continued build-up of our relatively high military strength and readiness. Weaken those, and we will be inviting a devastating attack against our own country. Mr. Stevenson’s suggestion is just what Russia wants — she wants nations to trust her. Then, once they have subsided, the knife is used. Historically, until after the beginning of the Korean War, we have refused to face the threat of war until after we have found ourselves actually engaged in combat. The utter unreadiness of the United States for World War II is common knowledge. Fortunately, the resistance of the British and French gave us time to prepare after we entered the Second World War. But if there's a next time we’ll have no time to prepare if we aren’t already armed to the teeth. Therefore, Mr. Stevenson, the next time you make a proposal please think about your duds of the 1952 campaign in which you promised the people more than they could stomach; all of which are ridiculous.

EDITOR'S MAILBOX

Cheer Up! Maltby’s Music’s Among Best

Dear Sir:

Upon returning to campus last Friday night, following an evening in “the wicked city,” I found that the first phrase which met my ears was: “Who's this guy Maltby?” This seems to have been the most asked question since that time, and it is often accompanied by something like: “For that price we should at least have a decent orchestra!” Some seem to object to the I.F.C.’s choice merely on the grounds that his orchestra does not have a big name, conceding that the music may be good, while others have decided that the whole weekend is destined to be a flop because we will not be blessed with Les Elgart or Stan Kenton. I myself certainly do not claim to be a music critic, or to speak for anyone else, but, believe it or not, I have heard of this band, and have enjoyed it very much. Their recording of “Midnight Mood” was among the top ten around home for over two months last year.

Also, I may toss in this bit of information for what it is worth — Syracuse University had Maltby for one of its weekends a year or so ago, and, though I cannot say much for the school academically, its 13,000 students do enjoy quite a social life and seem to have been well pleased with “Poor Richard's” offerings. I think that one thing which you will find about the music is this — it is danceable, and dancing is, after all, supposed to be one of the main objectives of these get-togethers with our friends from Queens, W.C., Salem, etc. At least I am sure Maltby will not feel as if “Well, here is a little one-horse school, now we can try out all that experimental stuff and get some practice on it,” as I have been told others have done.

Admittedly, all, or at least almost all, of us would rather write to that girl with the news that we are going to have a big name, and that thus she simply must come to hear him, but I'm sure that if she really wants to come, she will do so, whether it’s Maltby or Ray Anthony. At least we'll know if it’s us or the orchestra’s name she wants to be with. Cost is another angle. For those who are on a pretty close budget, this orchestra at half the price of many others is certainly a welcome thought. Surely as far as the quality of the music itself goes, I cannot see the great differences in prices. The sum of all I've been trying to say might be put like this: “Cheer up, it will be better than you think.” Don't gripe so much because you've never heard of the Richard Maltby Orchestra before — I think you will many times in the future. The IFC has done what they consider to be the best thing, and I, for one at least, am not displeased with their choice.

Ed Stevens

Charlotte Musical Groups Include Symphony And Song

Dear Sir:

We are fortunate to find ourselves in a wonderful materialistic machine age. Every dorm hall vibrates to cross rhythms from the ubiquitous hi-fi. Beethoven, Adler, Bach, Rodgers come screaming 20 to 15,000 cycles from tangled rigs of pre-amps, woofers, and tweeters which, as “Play Boy” assures us, is as much a part of the college man’s possessions as the 3-button coat. But let us not forget that somewhere in the past a real orchestra played the music that was caught in those wonderful disc-cans; an orchestra made up of living, breathing human beings, who through their fiddles and flutes keep the composer from being bound to marticulate manuscript.

But when these fiddlers and flutists brought their art to the cannery, they became anonymous, their art became immutable, indelible — captured on black vinyl forever. Charlotte has three or four musical groups which give several programs each year. The Charlotte Symphony performs music of high quality in five subscription concerts and a number of student concerts each year. That group doesn’t sound exactly like the Boston or Vienna, but it doesn’t claim to, or even need to. The fact is that it is a live, functioning body of thinking musicians who come together surely because they want to (for the pay is not tempting) to recreate the treasures of the art. Dr. James C. Pfohl, one-time head of the Davidson music department, presents interesting, well-planned programs, not afraid of the more difficult works and believing that contemporary works should be performed along with the older accepted ones.

On October 16, Mildred Miller and Brian Sullivan will appear with the orchestra to sing excerpts from Carmen and works by Wagner, Lalo, and Mozart. The orchestra plays the overture to Russian and Ludmilla by Glinka, a contemporary work for orchestra and 10 percussionists by Georgia-native Wallingford Riegger called Dance Rhythms, and concluding with the Capriccio Italien, the old warhorse which all hi-fiers know at least from memory. The concerts are held in the new David Ovens Auditorium. Mr. Earl Berg, also at one time on the D. C. faculty, conducts the Charlotte Oratory singers in two programs this year. Mr. Berg is perhaps the keenest and most sensitive musician around and you have to go a long way to hear an equal to his excellent chorus. In Charlotte also is an Opera group and a Chamber Music Society which brings chamber ensembles to those who enjoy that more intimate form of music.

Preston Faggart

IF SOUTH SECEDES MISS AMERICA GOES WITH US

“Was this the face that launched a thousand ships And burned the topless towers of Ilium?”

THE NEWS and Courier warns that it doesn't take secession talk seriously but “if the South should secede we intend to take Miss America with us.” That goes for No. 3, too — Anne Ariail of Alabama, whose name runs so musically with her state’s that she must surely be a states rightist. What would the Supreme Court say of its handiwork then? How explain the bitterly unconstitutional loss of Anne Ariail and Marian McKnight — two-thirds of a nation's whole triumvirate of charm, talent, and tape-recording? What psychology would save then the Nervous Nine who held hands and jumped?

Helen of Troy, the goddess reduced to human — too human — form, caused a thousand ships to be launched and many men to die. Immortal in story is the expeditionary force with which the Greeks tried to retake her to her husband and the wooden horse trick with which they succeeded and burned Troy. Will Atlanta burn again — and this time for beauty’s sake? Will Sumter be fired on once more — and now because of a woman fair?

(John Temple Graves, in the Charleston (S.C) News and Courier.)

---