EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
FRANKLIN BLOODWORTH

BUSINESS MANAGER
LEON HOWELL

ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Assistant Editor
Bob Beall

Managing Editors
Lloyd Chapin, John Trask

Sports Editor
John Johnson

Feature Editor
Bill Bondurant

Copy Editor
John Trotti

Page Two
Che Davidsonian

Represented for National Advertising by
NATIONAL ADVERTISING SERVICE, Inc.

SUBSCRIPTION RATE: $2.00 Per Year.
Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

OFFICES IN DAVID OVENS COLLEGE UNION, DAVIDSON COLLEGE

JIM BATTEN
Editor-in-Chief

BOB CARMICHAEL
Business Manager

News Editor
Bill Pomeroy

Assignments
Bob Lathan

Advertising Manager
Bob Majors

Circulation
Bob Austin, Marshall Chapman, Lee Mayfield

Friday, October 19, 1956

Union Sore Spot Needs Attention

The David Ovens College Union in its four years of operation has probably been the recipient of more barbs, good-natured and otherwise, than any other facet of campus life. But today, even its most vehement detractors will grudgingly admit that while it still takes a beating in bull sessions, the Union has come to fill what at one time was a gaping hole in the overall program of the College. It is hard for us to picture the campus before 1953 when there was no Union to provide a hub for student life and activities. All signs indicate that this growth in the importance of the Union functions will continue. Tuesday’s chapel explanation of the new concept in Union organization, in which students dominate the scene, indicates the furtherance of the trend. New committees are operating this fall in the realms of travel opportunities, and round table discussions on timely problems, both of which should contribute to the program of service to the community.

But with all the sweetness and light, there remain the old and legitimate gripes leveled at the service and food available in the Snack Bar. The situation has come to a head in recent weeks, with a crossfire of letters to the editor and general campus controversy. It is true as charged that during the week-night rush hours, service is pitifully slow, and on Saturday nights, it is impossible, simply because of insufficient manpower to handle the crowds. Union officials are the first to admit this, and since the beginning of the semester have been looking desperately without success for students interested in part-time employment, in order to plug the gap. The amazing fact is that students needing work have become almost non-existent. This seems especially strange in light of the fact that the College has always gone to great lengths to provide an adequate self-help program to assist boys who need financial aid to complete their education. Now this number has seemingly diminished to the point where the bulk of this phase, at least, of the self-help program is going begging.

If all possibilities for securing more student help have been exhausted, as they apparently have, the Union should seriously consider hiring one or two more full-time non-student employees. Action should be taken immediately to alleviate this condition, since one sore spot such as this hurts the entire program of the Union in the eyes of the student body. It is over the coffee and doughnuts that the Union performs one of its most vital services, and it is imperative that it be performed as efficiently and pleasantly as possible.

A.B. Degree Requirements Outmoded

The present program of Davidson College leading to a Bachelor of Arts degree requires the completion of two years of Latin and/or Greek. That this requirement no longer meets the demands of modern educational programs is emphatically emphasized by the fact that only eleven men out of the present Freshman Class of 239 have indicated that they plan to follow the Bachelor of Arts program. The number of men graduating with a Bachelor of Arts degree at Davidson has been rather small for a number of years. The only difference between the two degrees as far as requirements are concerned is the necessity for Greek or Latin to graduate with an A.B. Evidently most Davidson men agree that there are other courses here that will be of more benefit to them than Latin or Greek. The men who graduate with a Bachelor of Science degree in history or a Bachelor of Science degree in English feel that this distinction between the two degrees, based solely on the completion of two years of Latin or Greek, is somewhat unfair. They complete the same courses as those who graduate with an A.B. degree with the exception of this classical language requirement. Yet they must be content with a B.S. degree.

It is very interesting to note, too, that a great many other colleges and universities do not now require Latin or Greek for a Bachelor of Arts degree. A study of some twenty-five colleges and universities in the United States discloses that only one of these colleges, Hampden-Sydney College, still requires completion of a course in Latin or Greek for a Bachelor of Arts degree. The colleges and universities in this study include the University of Alabama, Amherst, Baldwin Wallace, Bowdoin, The Citadel, Dartmouth, Duke, Duquesne, Emory, the University of Georgia, Gettysburg, Hampden-Sydney, Harvard, Hollins, Johns Hopkins, Mercer, the University of North Carolina, Princeton, Rutgers, Tufts, Vanderbilt, Virginia Military Institute, Wake Forest, Wesleyan and Yale.

Any change in the present Davidson degree requirements is up to the Curriculum Committee of the Faculty. Then a favorable vote by the entire Faculty is necessary to effect any change. It is hoped that the Curriculum Committee will consider a revision in the present program as soon as possible. It is further hoped that they will see fit to change the requirements, so that in the future English and history majors who do not wish to take Latin or Greek will not forever have to graduate from Davidson with Bachelor of Science degrees.

—A.W.F.B.

Need Some Syrup

Since the Snack Bar seems to be the topic of considerable comment this week, this might be an opportune time to give vent to one of our long-standing pet peeves. While the prices are too good to be true, and the fountain offers good variety, especially with the addition of that grape juice which took the campus by storm last spring, there remains the sad fact that the traditional milkshake 'n hamburger, Union style, just don't hold a candle to those available in the Outside World. While super-thick milkshakes are the specialty of the house in downtown establishments, the Union variety sells at a piddling rate, simply because they're lacking something vital. Some say it's the syrup, others blame the insipidity on any one of a variety of factors. As for the venerable old hamburger, the local model is not so venerable, though not quite the ball of "congealed grease" which one writer has suggested. At any rate, we'd be mighty happy to see some changes along these lines. A good juicy hamburger and thick milkshake make up for a multitude of reviews and other sins.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Snack Bar Corps Charges That Thompson Hit Below Belt

Dear Sir:

We of the Snack Bar felt that Mr. Thompson was a bit too harsh in his letter of last week. To start, Mr. Thompson engages in a little below-the-belt mudslinging by calling us the authors of “gross injustice and simple stupidity.” Mr. Thompson ought to inquire about the facts before making such a sweeping and severe accusation.

WE APOLOGIZED

We realize that Mr. Thompson had to wait a long time for his two hamburgers and for that we apologized several times when we gave him his hamburgers. Evidently, he wanted more than apologies. This situation was an extreme one and in all probability will not happen again. The man-in-charge had car trouble and was late. The number of workers was few because few people applied for jobs. Now, for the first time, Mr. Wilson has a full corps of workers.

GOT MIXED-UP

As for the numbers situation, we had only one working, when normally there are two, on the sandwiches and because of the rush and the change from the end of one book (No. 100) to another beginning with No. 1, we got mixed up. We are sorry about this and we feel sure that Mr. Thompson, had he been working, would have made no such error.

REMARK ABOUT FOOD

To top off his cynical essay, Mr. Thompson had to make a remark about the food. In order to in some way remedy the whole situation, we would be glad to have Mr. Thompson work any rushing time.

The Snack Bar Corps

Students’ Sloppy Dressing Shows Immaturity

Dear Sir:

Davidson men have argued, often unrealistically, that we are on a par with the Ivy League schools and that we certainly are the best in the south. However, our level of maturity fails to bear this out.

MATURITY INVOLVES MORE

Excellence in scholastic exercise is no more a measure of adulthood than hair on the chest. Maturity involves much more in the field of manners, judgment, and consistency. As an institution, we are striving for the balance of personality development through the proper integration...of curriculum, social life, and recreation. But to what goal are we students moving? Do we want to become good examples of the well-rounded College Joe when we graduate, or rather do we wish to be a mature individual who is equipped mentally and socially to cope with the problems of daily living in a critical world?

STUDY OF REPORTS

The Student Council is conducting a study of reports from faculty members expressing their department’s views on the nine required courses at Davidson. Any interested students are urged to attend this regular bi-weekly meeting.

LAWYER FOR TELEPHONE

Davidson Student Government is participating on behalf of the Student Body in securing a lawyer to investigate the report submitted by the Bell Telephone Company. Several local businesses and individuals are also participating in this venture. This report deals with the possibility of placing Davidson on a direct exchange with Charlotte. The Student Council has also applied for a private line to Charlotte since the improbability of the more ideal system is discouraging at least for the present. This private line has been promised us by the first of March.

INTO COAT AND TIE

I estimate that 90% of the Davidson graduates step directly from college into a ‘coat and tie’ job (civil or military). In this phase of day-to-day appearances, our practical preparation has not been simply poor, it has been retarding. We, “the cream of the south” as we have been called, are a disgraceful, motley-looking crew from Monday through Friday, although our hypocritical weekend appearance is really Ivy League. By our shoddy appearance, we not only affront the gentlemen who are our instructors but also any visitors on campus (be it parents, friends, or guest speakers).

W&L STUDENTS

We do not consider it mature or praiseworthy of the W&L student to wear coat and tie every day because they have no choice. But how much less worthy is it of us to choose our sloppiest attire when we have the freedom to set the styles, and thus the atmosphere, at the level of our choice. Have we made the choice which would mark us as students on the “brink of manhood?” It is not piety nor intellectualism which prompts this criticism, but a deep feeling that the Davidson Man should exist in fact. It is common sense for the socialite, the pre-min., the businessman, or the professional man to prepare for the type of living which he will meet.

NEATNESS IS THE WORD

Neatness is the word, not uniformity. It is not what you wear, but how you wear it. Look to the men who have attained high rank in the student body. You rarely see your leaders with beards, drooping shirt-tails, and soiled clothing. Remember, in a society where you are free to dress as you like, what you wear is a measure of what you are.

John B. Trotti

Thanks to College Union For Vital Information

Dear Sir:

On behalf of the entire student body of Davidson College, I would like to express our appreciation to the College Union for its small, but informative sign which boldly declares: Review Period, October 8-20. Were it not for the Union, how else would we know when to study, or when to riot?

B.F.W.

DEGREE IS MISNOMER

Arts Requirements Change is Necessary

By PHILIP F. KUKURA

Progressive change has been the outstanding characteristic of the attitude and philosophy of Davidson College the past few years. Liberal forces have been at work introducing basic advances both in the curricular and non-curricular activities of the college. Yet in the basic program for the Bachelor degree, the consummation of four years of study at a liberal arts institution, Davidson adheres to a policy long since altered by most of the leading liberal arts colleges of the nation, the requirement of Latin and/or Greek for the Bachelor of Arts degree. A survey of degree requirements of twenty-nine leading liberal arts colleges in the South and the nation—such schools as Swarthmore, Kenyon, Amherst, Haverford, and the Ivy League colleges—showed that only five stipulate an ancient language for the Arts degree, and three of these five permit the substitution of mathematics for the language. The results of this survey definitely imply that Davidson is behind other colleges of its type in demanding the classical language for the Arts degree.

The Bachelor of Arts degree is commonly conferred for work done in the humanities and social sciences; the Bachelor of Science for mathematics, the physical and biological sciences, and business administration. Yet with over sixty percent of last year’s Davidson graduates completing their study in the humanities and social sciences, only fifteen percent were eligible for the Arts degree as a result of the classical language requirement. Thus Davidson is granting Science degrees to a great majority of her Arts graduates.

A variety of possible solutions to Davidson’s degree problem present themselves. The most obvious is to take the step that most liberal arts colleges have made in the last fifty years and eliminate the classical language requirement for the Bachelor of Arts degree, substituting a course in philosophy or the humanities, now a requirement in many of the schools included in the above survey. Science degrees could be maintained for the traditional Science courses of study. Another solution, which is gaining adherents in educational circles, is to abolish the Bachelor of Science degree entirely for the liberal arts college, i.e., to give all graduates an Arts degree, in effect eliminating the classical background requirement for the degree, yet spreading it to the traditional Science majors.

For the past three years the Curriculum Committee of the Faculty has been studying the problem, and there is some intimation that a decision will be forthcoming in the near future. Sufficient student interest in such a change might generate enough steam to get such a change in time for the Class of ‘62 to profit by it.

FROM THE TOP

TOM MORGAN

One of the many advantages of which we do not often avail ourselves is the periodical room in the library. To keep abreast of current happenings in the world and in our major field of interest, we should spend at least thirty minutes a day browsing through the periodicals. The library has added several new subscriptions this year and consequently your field of interest is bound to be included somewhere. Ready and readable are:

Atlantic Monthly — a 72-page supplement on the Arab world. —articles in support of the Democratic and Republican parties.

Theatre Arts — the complete script for the play Bus Stop. The movie was funnier, but the play is more subtle and has an interesting character omitted in the movie.

DAVIDSON DOGGEREL

The annual freshman test on rules, regulations, and yells proved that the younger generation is original, to understate the case. The hallowed old Alma Mater, desecrated by freshmen each fall for years, came in for unusual punishment by this year’s aggregation. Our choice for the prize mangling:

All hail, O Davidson, we sing out loyalty. Our fathers lived through it, why can't we?

After Monday night's riot, an upperclassman in Belk finally resumed study around midnight only to look up to see his closet door slowly open, revealing a freshman huddled among the coat hangers. Seems some upperclassmen were trying to put him in the shower, and he ducked in until the heat was off.

The Ford Foundation grants to raise faculty salaries were augmented this week as two professors’ panhandling kids passed the hat for 77 cents on the boulevard to Belk Dorm during the class-change hour.