The Davidsonian

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF: Dick Morehead
ASSOCIATE EDITORS: Maurice Crouse, Tom Warlick
Managing Editors: Jim Batten, Franklin Bloodworth, Jim Brice
Sports Editor: Leon Howell
Copy Editor: John T. Harmon
Exchange Editor: Bob Beall
News Editors: Lloyd Chapin, Bill Pomeroy, Hank Daniel
Other Staff: Photographers, Assignments

Member of the Associated Collegiate Press and Intercollegiate Press

PAGE TWO

Out of the Greek Forum...

Out of the hallowed halls of the “t- into the forum place has come an old yet unsettled problem. The subject is Greek Week: its goal: reorganization and redefinition; its time: immediately.

The first assumption that must be made in consideration of Greek Week is that any decision proposed thereon theoretically affects 90 percent of the student body or some 750 men. Therefore, possible solutions and propositions should be carefully weighed in the balance of the total number affected.

Friday, Feb. 3, 1956

The main criticism from the college has been caused by disruption of the academic schedule by Greek Week activities. In the past, anemic initiates have been prone to slumber during class, using textbooks solely for head support. This is certainly a just and realistic criticism of a program that has often resulted in a period of academic stagnancy for most and poor marks for many who could not afford them.

On the other side, fraternities want to retain the constructive and traditional practices which have highlighted their own fraternal experiences and traditions and for which pledges have expressed a strong desire to participate in this year. Thus the problem is one of reorganization of Greek Week activities in accord with the academic schedule.

Reorganization

In the light of this goal, it is only logical and diplomatically just to expect the parties concerned to strive toward equitable support of a mean solution. As in the past, lessons can be prepared in advance if projected schedules are given by the professors. Further, daily requirements such as writs and reviews should be lessened for that particular week with attention focused on class lecture and discussion.

It is noted that Eastern institutions of the green vine variety, which we often emulate, have great respect and consideration for collegiate customs which have become a part of the life of their respective colleges. On the other side, it will be necessary for some fraternities to reorganize their activities to coincide with the limits prescribed by the IFC in order to allow sufficient sleep and study time for initiates. Failure to work toward a solution or to abide by the decision of the whole by any element involved can only reflect a definite lack of understanding and immaturity of insight, which failure might well result in serious reactions.

The problem must be seen in the light of individual responsibility; and its solution rests with the individual integrity of each fraternity to uphold the endeavors of the whole to accommodate the parts. Violation of the agreed program can only result in penalty to the violator and reflection upon the whole.

Redefinition

Another important aspect to this problem is one of redefinition. The activities of this particular week have been dubiously dubbed Hell Week, Purgatory Pass, Valley of the Shadow, etc. The old battle between Hell Week and Greek Week has been waged on many fields in the past, and regardless of change, the week always emerged as Hell Week.

Fraternities here as a general rule do not have what most experts on the situation consider Hell Week. There is no hazing, unbearable embarrassment of pledges, or daring endeavors to wreck the constitution or the psychological self. None but the neurotic and morbid desire Hell Week in its pictured reality. Instead, most fraternities plan a constructive program centered around the fraternity house, community, and the brotherhood itself. Greek Week activities can be generally grouped into three categories: 1) those that benefit the fraternity and the community such as alumni writing, house cleaning, redecorating, and community projects; 2) those that respect individual traditions and produce memories such as elements of wearing apparel, boarding house exercises, and group singing; and 3) those that point toward formal initiation through instillation in the whole fraternity of the purpose, functions, and meaning of its brotherhood. Alumni, actives, and initiates testify to the worthiness of this program.

The problem now posed must, therefore, be considered in the light of reorganization and redefinition. Thoughtful evaluation by all elements concerned is necessary for the perpetuation and enrichment of this program. Greek Week can be effective and memorable—the decision rests with faculty and students.

I Dare You

The following are tributes to William H. Danforth, who gave so generously of his time and talents for the betterment of mankind, and who in particular had contributed so much to Davidson through the Danforth Fellowships, Faculty-Student Relations fund, and the Vesper fund.

“When one must die, what a wonderful way to go! William H. Danforth passed away peacefully, full of age and honors and good works, waiting for the Christmas Carolers whose group he founded.

“Mr. Danforth founded and guided fine groups for many years, but in addition to this, he was an eminently successful businessman who established one of the country’s finest corporations, the Ralston Purina Company, and brought it from a humble beginning of a handful of workers to a great corporation with 47 plants across the land.

“Business success still left him time for many important directorships and even beyond this, time for vast contributions to the civic, philanthropic and religious life of this and other communities. His many benefactions include 13 chapels in many parts of the country and special funds for religious education and community service.” —St. Louis Globe Democrat

“I have known Mr. Danforth for a good many years and consider him typical of the finest type of American citizen who has made our way of life strong and effective.” —Dr. J. R. Cunningham.

The Davidsonian sincerely seconds these fine tributes to the memory of Wm. Danforth, Christian gentleman, humanitarian, businessman, author and perpetrator of “I Dare You.”

One of the long-standing, venerable institutions here on campus, the Forensic Council, has made a positive attempt at re-activation. It will strive to continue the purposes, principles, and activities that so distinguished them of old and produced renowned orators, thought carriers, and well-traveled intellects. A search into old newspapers revealed the fact that the debating team was at one time as actively followed and supported as the athletic teams which were doing quite well themselves. Around six potential fire-eaters form the nucleus of the modern Council. Trips to Agnes Scott and New Orleans (Tulane University Tournament) are in the offing, along with possibilities of contests within the state. To any interested gentlemen and potential debaters, a strong encouragement to participate in these honored activities; and to the Forensic Council, best wishes and hearty support for an active and growing year.

Next Week — Student opinion, national viewpoints, and D.C. student body opinion poll on the pressing subject of enrollment.

BUSINESS MANAGER: Larry Parrott
Advertising Manager: Bob Carmichael
Subscription: Warner Hall
Circulation: Bob Majors, round filer
Business Staff: Tony Gailes, Bill Bondurant

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON Ave. New York, N.Y.
Chicago • Boston • Los Angeles • San Francisco

Subscription Rate: $2.00 Per Year
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1879.
Offices in David Ovens College Union, Davidson College

THE IMPENDING CRISIS

Should Davidson Raise Her Enrollment to 1000?
By TOM WARLICK

Statistics revealed during the recent White House conference on education and numerous other studies concerning the rising tide of enrollment which is to be expected in American colleges and universities in the next few years have unveiled an impending crisis of tremendous scale. The ever-increasing flood of applications for admittance into Davidson has brought this problem home to such an extent that no member of the Davidson family can afford not to be fully informed on this vital subject.

The report of the Fund for the Advancement of Education has indicated that “college enrollments are likely to reach double the 1954 level (of 2,478,000 students) sometime between 1966 and 1971.” The United States Office of Education estimates the total of college students at 5,035,000 by 1973, while another projection, based on the trend of the last few years, places the figure at 7,231,000. Another report concludes that applications for admission into colleges will be one-third greater by 1960 than the present level and will be 80 percent greater by 1965 or 1,037,000.

THE LOCAL PROBLEM

The problem here at Davidson is equally serious. Last year almost seven hundred applied for admission to the freshman class, meaning that one was turned down for every one accepted. This year applications are running far ahead of last year's figure. This brings up the very serious problem of whether or not the enrollment at Davidson should be increased. Committees of the faculty and Board of Trustees have been meeting together for many months and their recommendation on this matter is expected to receive action within the very near future.

There are two fairly well-defined positions on this matter. One group feels that the enrollment should be increased to 1000 students. A second group feels that the enrollment should be decreased to 750-850.

Those who favor lowering the enrollment base their position largely on the intangible values which result from a small college fellowship. They also make a strong point in the matter of finances, at least for the present. One of the most important documents in the field is the Hamilton (N.Y.) College report. Their conclusion was that operation at an enrollment of less than 750 was not economically feasible and that any college that was doing so was working under a serious financial handicap. However, they felt that...

Reader Answers Attack on College’s Christian Atmosphere

Dear Editor,

In answer to R.E.G.'s question, “Where is the Christian Atmosphere which Davidson advertises?”, I would ask him to crawl out of his shell to think and to look. This applies also to the many other students who have the same outlook as he has and to the student body and faculty as a whole.

First, I would ask, what constitutes a Christian atmosphere? If it is a preconceived idea of something someone is going to hand to us, or something which will benefit us to our selfish ends at others' goodwill, a place which supports our own selfish ideas, I am afraid we will not find it for there is no such state of being. I would offer the opinion that a Christian atmosphere consists in an unselfish concern for one’s fellow-man and his well-being.

Are Bible courses ruining it? Or are they presenting a larger picture of our faith? A childhood faith is good—for a child; but a Christian faith grows as we and our knowledge do. We can't live on baby food all our lives.

As for Religious Emphasis Week, which is an example of all religious activity, it is what one makes it. Religion is not dished out on a platter, only the opportunity. Granted that at times one side is all that is officially presented, but this doesn’t stop us from looking at both sides and the factors leading to their and our conclusions. Also, we should look at the procedure of using these facts and the basis on which they are built. Are diverse opinions evil?

These have been only examples of part of the advantage of Davidson and the manifestations of the Christian atmosphere. I would mention a few more. How many schools offer a faculty of dedicated...Christians and God-related education? How many schools offer the faculty-student relationship opportunity that we have? Look at the opportunity of Christian service. Have you ever seen the relationship between students at other schools? These aspects of Davidson are not perfect or by themselves make it Christian; and no one claims them to be. But one must have a worthy target and a desire to shoot a worthy score before one can shoot for that worthy score. —B. P. S.

A PEDESTAL RELIGION?

Dear Editor:

A letter from “R.E.G." in the last issue of the Davidsonian aimed a blast at the Christian atmosphere which Davidson advertises. Particularly it discredited the Bible classes “where God’s Holy Word is taught to be filled with discrepancies, and where ... faith... is destroyed” and the seminar groups “where we are told that the Bible is the ‘Word of God only when one reads it and applies it to oneself.” Is “R.E.G." afraid to put religion to any test? Does he want it put on a pedestal to serve only as a refuge for peace of mind? He evidently does not want it dragged down to earth where he might encounter it unexpectedly. The Bible he exalts is worth no more than newsprint if it is not applied to man. It provides great religious insights, but what good are insights locked within a book?

James Dabbs, Jr.

MISSING: TWO PHYSICS COURSES

Dear Editor:

There has been much dissatisfaction on the part of the students in regard to the curriculum offered by the college. The greatest controversy seems to have been over the establishment of a proposed General Science course for non-science majors. But what about the curriculum for science majors? The Chemistry Department offers a fairly wide variety of courses so that a student wishing to major in Chemistry or Pre-Medicine may choose whichever courses he desires and possibly omit some. But the Physics majors have no choice at all. The Registrar’s booklet entitled “Courses of Instruction” gives the requirements for a Major in Physics as “Physics 21-22, 31-92, and any other eight hours in Physics.” The conflict comes from the fact that those “any other eight hours” are not available except as one two-hour, one three-hour, and one four-hour course (Physics 61, 51, and 42, respectively). Physics 52 (Direct and Alternating Currents) and Physics 62 (Theoretical Physics) seem to be in the catalog purely for the benefit of the ... a rise of enrollment above 750 necessitated a loss of the values to be received from a small college atmosphere.

HARVARD AND YALE

The position of those who would prefer a smaller enrollment is perhaps most aptly stated in a report which was written by a faculty member who holds a very vociferous opinion on this subject and from which I quote, “The best evidence that there is a correlation between the size of student body and educational values comes from Harvard and Yale. These universities, and others, have now divided their undergraduate bodies into what amounts to separate ‘small colleges.’ The Headmaster of Lowell House at Harvard wrote me (the faculty member) concerning the movement there and at Yale: ‘In both places we are getting an increasing number of students who derived nothing but the benefits of the formal curriculum for their time at college. They were men who spent three, and sometimes four, years without making any friends, and the friendships when made were increasingly matters of small groups. The primary object then, was to provide architectural forcing beds for extra-curricular effects which had come without conscious effort when these two places were small colleges in small towns dominated by the college.” — “Davidson is about to throw away what Harvard and Yale have spent millions to achieve.” The article then proceeds to outline various sociometric tests which would indicate that the enrollment should not rise above the level of 750 and concludes by outlining some of the intangible values which are preserved as student tradition. Among these are student democracy, the importance of religion, respect for authority and tradition, mutual respect and trust, and good manners. There are on the other hand a large number of Davidsonians who would like to see the enrollment rise to 1000 or even higher. They point out the impending rise of enrollment and the responsibility that Davidson has of educating both the sons of her alumni and the other qualified young men who seek admission.

THE FINANCIAL QUESTION

From a financial standpoint there are arguments both for and against this position. The report from the group of management engineers who surveyed Davidson several years ago as well as the report of the Committee on Church Related Colleges of the Synod of North Carolina recognized that as far as major physical facilities were concerned (classrooms, gymnasium, etc.) that Davidson could adequately handle an enrollment of 1000 students. From another standpoint, however, the situation is not so satisfactory. At the present time Davidson has an endowment of almost $8 million, or approximately $8,000 per student. The desirable endowment for a college like Davidson is considered to be $10,000 per student, so that Davidson is somewhat behind in this goal now. This makes it perfectly clear that if the enrollment increases, the endowment must also increase, or the standard of education will fall. It has been estimated by informed sources that an additional endowment of $2 million would be essential if present educational standards were to be maintained with an enrollment of 1000 students. A feeling of the trend of opinion at this time would indicate that the enrollment will be raised to 1000 students within the next few years but only after the necessary additional funds are raised to bring the endowment to its optimum level. This is a time of action for those who feel strongly in either direction and should be a time of thought for every member of the Davidson family.

MODERN TOWER OF BABEL

By JOHN TROTTI

A modern version of the Tower of Babel lies behind the bloody riots of India today. India is internally divided into 14 major languages and 700 dialects. Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru’s plan to relieve this tangle of tongues brought about the biggest political upheaval since the 1947 Hindu-Moslem religious massacres. Both Hindi and English are recognized as official national languages now, but the constitution states that only Hindi will remain by 1965. This presents certain problems in that only one half of India’s 300 million people understand Hindi. Due to the recent British rule, English is now the common communication from region to region, therefore hundreds of government officials and clerks will have to learn a new language. The national language problem is small because of its long-term program, but the local conflicts have harassed the government since its independence. State appeals for new internal boundaries according to language prompted Nehru’s plan, though its application has been almost universally received with hostility.

HOSTILE MARATHAS

The first and most serious riots have occurred in Bombay—the wealthiest, most modern, and second largest city of India. Bombay's 16 million Marathas are demanding their own state with Bombay as capital. These Marathi-speaking people are the proud descendants of the warrior race that once ruled India from coast to coast. The opposing 11 million Gujarati-speaking people who now rule Bombay politics were encouraged by the British to control business while the Maratha warriors were suppressed. Therefore the Marathas dislike their socially inferior economic oppressors. In this crisis, Nehru proposed that the Bombay Province (equal in size to California) be divided into two separate states and Bombay itself be ruled by the government in New Delhi. Chief Minister Desai foresaw Communist intervention in this issue and seized 435 Communist, Socialist, and United Maratha Party leaders; however, hundreds of thousands of Maratha workers left their jobs crying, “Death to Nehru” and joined in bloody rioting. Communist influence reveals itself most clearly in the Marathas’ attacks on Gandhi and nonviolence, the burning of effigies of Desai, and the hanging of old shoes on Nehru's picture (a measure of high contempt).

NEHRU RETALIATES

When 118 Maratha members of Bombay’s 315-member state legislature threatened to resign, Nehru countered with the threat of political excommunication. After a meeting at Poona, the 118 elected to stick with the party. Nehru took this firm measure because it was the unity of the Congress that won independence and, too, this would encourage India’s factions not to resort to violence. The rioting has spread to Orissa, Bihar, Calcutta, Punjab, and New Delhi. Each struggles with its neighbor for more territory than the new boundaries give. With this violence, strikes, and threats by India’s many states in all quarters, India has reverted to its old local feelings and disputes which it was hoped independence would unite. Despite anti-Nehru Communist activity, there has been no talk of disunion. However, the Communists are pleased by the prospect of mobocracy supplanting democracy and are using all means to provoke a split in the union. Despite the apparent friendliness of the recent Russian visit, Nehru realizes that these outbreaks are Communist agitated. Some say that the gravest weakness of the Nehru plan is that two Communist strongholds will be united in one state and thus have an excellent chance of carrying the next election in that state. The nation is at an uneasy state of tension and an ominous curfew hangs over most of the land. This division of the tongues is a vital issue with which Nehru’s government must contend if the union is to be preserved from the threat of a Communist wedge of separation. Perhaps the Russian visitors' smiles were the result of Communist pleasure at the cracks in India’s union and the large opening for Communist intervention.

Question: How is the examination schedule set up?

Answer: With the exception of the R.O.T.C. and Mathematics Departments’ exams, the examinations have been revolving according to schedule in a cycle over the past several years. Through special permission, the R.O.T.C. Department has been given the perpetual exam positions of last in the Winter semester and first in the Spring term. Conversely, the Mathematics Department, acting also as a unit, has been given first position in the Winter exam schedule and final place in the Spring exams. The rest of the examinations are listed according to the class hour, and are rotated each semester in groups of two, with the last two of each period becoming the first two, inverted, of the succeeding examination period. The exams in the middle of the period move down accordingly. The occurrence of certain mornings and afternoons having no exams scheduled, such as Monday morning, is always constant, and the occasion of three exams in a row, unavoidable since there are only eight days allotted for exams, is held until the end of the period to permit a maximum of time for preparation.

Question: Are colleges ranked scholastically on a nation-wide scale? If so, where does Davidson stand on the list?

Answer: There are certain publishers of college guide books which sometimes attempt to rate colleges. However, I know of no responsible accredited agency which does so. So many factors are involved in determining an institution’s quality that such ranking would be very difficult to justify.

Samuel R. Spencer, Jr.
Dean of Students

Question: It has been called to our attention that the Otts Lectures are to be held this year. Exactly when are they to be given, and who has been asked to speak? What will the general theme for the 1956 Otts Lectures be?

Answer: The 1956 Otts Lectures will be given on May 8, 9, and 10, with Dr. George Arthur Buttrick of the Harvard Divinity School delivering the series. Dr. Buttrick was formerly pastor of the Madison Avenue Presbyterian Church in New York and taught at Union Theological Seminary there. He is Commentary Editor and contributor to The Interpreter’s Bible. Not all the details of the lectures have been worked out yet. Dr. Buttrick will probably speak five or six times during the three days. His subject has not yet been announced. Details will be released through the Davidsonian as soon as plans are completed.

Question: Is the Interfraternity Council’s place in controlling Hell Week, or Hell Week itself, to be changed this year?

Answer: The opportunity of governing and controlling Hell Week has again been given to the Interfraternity Council. The IFC is working with the Faculty Committee on Fraternities and will present the plans for this year’s Hell Week upon completion, which should be just after exams.