THE DAVIDSONIAN

LEON HOWELL

THE SPECTRE OF SPECTATORITIS

There has been some concerning evidence this year for the lagging interest in active participation in IFC sports. In no
sport is there a complete league of concerned teams. Those with a chance at the championship manage to field a
representative group that plays together over the season, but this is not so all the way down the line. On
top of that, a decreasing number each year makes use of the excellent facilities for individual work-outs and informal sporting
activity. In view of the fact that an amazingly large percentage of the Davidson student body gained proficiency sufficient to
letter in at least one high school sport, this is even more surprising. Except for those who are actively engaged
in a varsity activity, few indeed are those who maintain any degree of physical fitness. It has become too easy
for us to remain in our rooms, drop by the stud, or lounge in the frat house to bother with
exerting ourselves. This is more than just a Davidson enigma. It is, in fact, a nationwide trend that seems destined
to make America into a country of spectators. Now I am aware of the fact that studies, organizations, other commitments,
etc., eat away at our time, but there is still plenty left for some daily exercise that is so necessary
to maintaining one’s health and increasing the zest for other pursuits.

THE WHITE HOUSE LUNCHEON

Last fall the consequences of this attitude on a nationwide scale were vividly outlined by distinguished scholars, athletes, and doctors
in a luncheon held at the White House by President Eisenhower. A simple test to distinguish physical fitness had been
administered to 5000 youngsters in the U.S. and approximately the same number in Northern Europe. 57.9 percent of the Americans
tested failed one of the six determinants, while only 8.7 percent of the Europeans failed. These were designed only to
determine a minimum level of fitness, not an optimum. In short, this indicated that in some part of his body,
the failure did not have sufficient strength to meet the demands of everyday life. Add to this the fact that
around 50 percent of those called up for their physicals in World War II were not able to serve because
of physical inability and you have a shocking, as well as distressing, situation for a country that prides itself on
its hardiness. The conclusion was drawn that the reasons ranged from a captive infancy when most children are in the
cradle or playpen constantly to automobiles and television sets. And it was brought forcefully home that even a minimum of
exercise could have given passing scores on the above tests. More important to us right now, as we attempt to
plod through an education, is that as prospective “Men in Grey Flannel Suits” all our education and potential will go
to waste if we succumb to a heart attack, etc., from lack of adequate activity.

THE DAVIDSON P.T. CONTRIBUTION

By TED DINGLER

ning of the baseball season. This year, the opening has been accompanied by rain, rain, and more rain. However, the
records of last year, none of the pitchers this year had the chance preceding one. After scoring four runs in
the first inning, they were held runless while Washington and Lee slowly racked up runs to beep score, 11-4. Moore
opened for Davidson, but was relieved by Thomas in the 6th and McCaw in the 8th. Reagan and Wall were
behind the plate. Dagenhart combined beautiful control with a blazing fastball to limit the Generals to three scattered hits in
the first inning. In the nightcap, Buzzy Hope and Shelbourne Wallace got four of the 11-7. They dropped two to
Catawba. They added one each in the 4th, 5th, and 6th innings to make it 13-1. Capt. Morris crosses second
on a fast double-play. Dagenhart hurled the entire game. Page started strong, but was relieved in the 6th by Tom
Moore. Wall was behind the plate. Cliff Heathcote for V.M.I. contributed heavily to his side as he fanned seven, hit
three singles, and added three runs in the afternoon.

So far this year the golf team has done a tremendous job, as is shown by their four won and
one lost record. There is a large number of men out for the team among which there are many talented
freshmen. The team is a well-balanced group, every man shooting around the same figure. The depth, rather than individual ability,
is what has sparked the team to its collection of victories. Yesterday the Wildcat team played Furman, who beat them
the last time they met, but the results were not available at the time of this writing. The setback at
the hands of the Furman team is the Cat's only loss this season. Today the Cats played the Citadel, whom
they had not played before, and therefore knew nothing of their strength. The Cats engaged Furman at Myers Park Country
Club and the

NOTI

There will be a meeting of those interested in acquiring the Red Cross instructor’s award on Monday, April 23, at
7 p.m. at the pool. Arrangements will be made at the meeting.Citadel at Charlotte | that they are both excellent
golfers | 26-1. This brings the total to a 41 final test. The pool is open for recreational swimming from
4 to 6 each weekday and from 3 to 5 on Saturdays. Netters Surprise... To bring it back home, one
of the positive ways in which this condition of unfitness can be met is in the physical education programs of
the various educational units. This leads me to question more than criticize our own procedure here. With major emphasis on
the team sports, are we really being prepared for any kind of individual activity that we can use as we
get older and aren’t able to play on a team? Granted that learning about a sport like Volleyball, Basketball, Soccer,
Softball, etc. increases one’s interest. But it seems to me that this will tend to leave us hanging as spectators
once we're out of Davidson. Are we as individuals and as a country really ready to sit back and watch
someone else do the playing?

“Opposite Ivey's Fifth St. Entrance” ™ 126 WEST FIFTH STREET CHARLOTTE

(Continued from Page Three) Softball Action Will Begin Monday. Tuesday the Phi Delts led by Jon Regen downed their closest
opponent, the Sigma Chis, to win the 1956 inter-fraternity volleyball crown and complete their second undefeated year. In the unofficial
standings, the defeated Sigma Chis cinched the number two position with a record of 8 wins and 2 losses. With
make-up games left to be played, the Sigs are in third place at five wins. The end of the regular
season is the result of the heavy rains which made courts unusable during several days scheduled for action. The general
competition of the tournament has not been as keen as that which has vividly marked the other IFC sports.

Team Won Lost
1—Phi Delt 10 1
2—Sigma Chi 8 2
3—Kappa Sig 7 3
4—K A 7 3
5—ATO 6 4
6—SAE 4 2
7—Pi Lam 3 5
8—Phi Gam 2 6
9—Independent 2 6
10—Betas 1 5
11—S P E 1 7
12—Pi Kappa 0 9

The brightest outlook for Davidson tennis is in the future. The squad is in a building stage. Though still a
winning group, they are not the champions of the last two years. But they can be. With a little more
experience, they should be the equal of any team in the conference. All they need is a little more play
under their belt. And as four of the top six are freshmen, they've got plenty of time in which to
get that play.

Drink QUALITY MILK Mooresville Creamery, Inc.

Is your White Dinner Jacket Clean for Spring Frolics? If not, bring it and your Tux Shirt and Pants to
us for our expert attention. JACKSON

Members of Spalding’s DAVIDSON

Besides the blooming of plants, Spring heralds the beginning of the season. The team has had luck in that line,
since only one game has been rained out. Coach Clement's game with Reagan and Wall catching the only weakness in
the club is in its pitching. However, this weakness is because of inexperience, not incompetence. By the end of their
Spring trip, the trip produced one game rained out (Newberry), and three losses: Robbins AFB, 3-4 and 12, and Mercer.
The ‘Cats got back in the swing last Saturday against Washington and Lee on the home diamond. Davidson broke into
a fast lead in the opener by pounding out 7 runs in the first inning and three in the second.
Needless to say, they never lost the lead. They met the situation being that the relay winner would capture the
entire team contest. Clemson has this year beaten NC State by 3 points and may be a hard opponent, though
the meet should bring 414 pros--SPALDING! (You'll stop a lot of horsehide with either of these fine Spalding gloves. These
are the very same gloves used by two great names in baseball: Alvin Dark, shortstop captain of the New York
Giants and Phil Rizzuto, veteran shortstop of the New York Yankees. Both these gloves are made with the finest leather,
grease pocket, and solid web in trap. You don't have to break them in; Spalding does that for you. You
can see the complete Spalding line of fine gloves at your Spalding dealer's now. Alvin Dark, shortstop captain of the
New York Giants and Phil Rizzuto, veteran shortstop of the New York Yankees.) SETS THE PACE IN SPORTS

Phil Koonce, middle distance weight, and Bill Gramley, post: Saturday's meet will be the opening meet of the year here
at Davidson before the spring holiday ended with an overwhelming ‘Cat victory over Furman and far-traveling Williams, while Florida State
University proved too strong in the field events in last Saturday's contest at Macon, Ga. The individual highlights of the
season thus far is Ashcraft’s smashing of a 51-year-old school record in the 880 yds run. Saturday's meet against Clemson
promises a lot of fine performances. Last year the relay proved decisive in Buzzy Hope, relaying from second, is Davidson's
leading hitter.

Track Team Off to Another Brilliant Season; Koonce, Gramley, Ashcraft Lead Onslaught. A powerful track team, headed by sprint star
champ Pete Ashcraft, and a 3-1 record when going into Richardson Stadium where Clemson will Coach Whittle his 95th victory
in 22 years of coaching track here. The top scorers on this year’s strong track squad thus far (those having
scored 10 or more points): (1) Phil Koonce 52 points, (2) Bill Gramley 46, (3) Pete Ashcraft 42 ½, (4)
Al Elder 24, (5) Dave Regen 20, (6) Harley Smith and Oyvind Norstrom, both 16 points, Scott Woodmansee and Don
Stewart, both 14, (10) Bill Lazenby 12 points, (11) Henry Brown 11, and (12) Max Bryan 10 points.

HASPEL (75% DACRON 25% COTTON) Take a remarkably good-looking suit, bless it with the attributes of being able to be
washed and worn the next morning without need of ironing...and you've got an amazingly practical suit! Just about a one-suit
wardrobe. Choose your Sir Perior from handsome combinations of coin-edge stripes in light and dark tones. $59.75 INCORPORATED COLLEGIATE FASHIONS
Davidson, N. C.
