PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN

H.F.C. Makes Plans, Sets Up Schedule

Presidents of Davidson's honorary fraternities met last Wednesday to determine the schedule of the Honorary Fraternity Council for 1956-57 and to outline plans for forthcoming activities. Only minor changes were made in the schedule of last year. Various dates were considered, so that each honorary fraternity member would have a minimum of time conflict. Secondary discussion centered around publicity needs of the honorary fraternities. The council agreed to a tentative arrangement for bulletin board information in the College Union lobby and a series of informative articles covering each fraternity in the Davidsonian. Through these two outlets, the H.F.C. hopes that freshmen and sophomores will become better acquainted with the purposes and goals of Davidson's honorary fraternities. Officers of the H.F.C. for this year are John Gilmer, president; Pete Ashcraft, vice president; Sam Sutton, secretary; and Tommy Rivers, treasurer.

DC Noses W. & L. In Cross-Country Meet

Coach Heath Whittle’s cross-country squad won one and lost one in the opening triangular meet at Lexington last Saturday. The Wildcat harriers nosed out Washington and Lee but dropped the decision to V.M.I. in the three-way meet.

Varsity Soccer Team Meets Duke in Opener

Davidson’s soccer team, the first formed since pre-war days, took the field against Duke in the opener this afternoon at 3 p.m. Danny Crates was elected captain at a squad meeting held Wednesday night. The first contest for the Wildcat booters was played at Richardson Field, the initial test of a six-game schedule. Athletic Director Tom Scott has named Dr. John W. McCutchan, professor of English, as Head Soccer Coach. The young ambitious squad, numbering thirty, will travel to Chapel Hill for a game with the Tarheels later this month and will meet Washington and Lee on a home and home basis. The complete Davidson soccer schedule:

October 19—North Carolina at Chapel Hill.
October 26—Washington and Lee, at Davidson.
November 3—Washington and Lee, at Lexington.
November 10—Warren Wilson College, at Davidson.
November 17—Warren Wilson College, at Swannanoa.

Davidson’s brand-new soccer team absorbed a 10-0 shellacking this afternoon at the hands of an experienced Duke Blue Devil squad.

N. C. State Dept. Needs 400 For Foreign Service

The United States Foreign Service will appoint 400 qualified candidates in the next fiscal year, says Richard R. Selby, Foreign Service Officer from the Department of State. Mr. Selby spoke to interested students in the Ballroom of the College Union this morning. Davidson applicants have an acceptance record over the past three years which is “a little phenomenal.” Forty per cent of candidates from Davidson have been accepted. Mr. Selby is one of 25 Foreign Service Officers currently touring 288 college and university campuses. These personnel constitute the Department's principal means of recruiting men for a career in the Foreign Service. After completing a prescribed training program, successful candidates will either be sent to the State Department in Washington or to one of the hundreds of American embassies or consulates abroad. Opportunities for travel, according to Selby, are unlimited. The starting salary range is from $4,750 to $5,350, plus additional allowances. 400 appointments in one fiscal year is a new high for the Foreign Service, with only from 50 to 200 men being chosen in the past. It is probable that after 1957, this figure will decrease to its former proportions. “Students interested must apply to the Department by October 26. Written examinations will be given in Raleigh and Columbia, S.C., on December 8, with interviews to follow for those under consideration.

Humanities 13-14 (Continued from Page One)

The enlargement of the class depends upon the interest and enthusiasm displayed by the upperclassmen. The initiative rests with the students themselves. Dr. Cumming remarked, “Enrollment will continue to be selective, for freshmen will remain.”

Court of Control (Continued from Page One)

Conduct during the last meeting of the court was John Watwood and for failure to wear a hat at hat check was Don Dublin.

GABRIEL DOOM

Take your pleasure big! IT’S FOR REAL! by Chester Field

Once every month Gabriel Doom locked himself up in a sound-proof room; then he laughed out loud and rocked with glee at a life that was funny as life could be! He laughed at the weather, sunny on Monday... rainy on Saturday, rainy on Sunday. He laughed at the news so loaded with grief that an ax murder came as a pleasant relief! He cried, “what with worry, hurry, and strife you couldn’t ask for a funnier life!” In this fast-moving world it’s good to sit loose, relax and enjoy the real satisfaction of a real smoke... a Chesterfield. More real flavor, more satisfaction and the smoothest smoking smoke for real... smoke Chesterfield!

Football Band Gives First Halftime Show

The 1956 Davidson College football band will make its initial halftime appearance this Saturday at the Washington and Lee game. The band has been working for the last two weeks under the capable leadership of Mr. West and drum major Scott Puckett to prepare the show, which will also be given at the Stetson game on October 20. The band will leave about 3:00 Friday afternoon and stay near Roanoke, Va., Friday night. They will return Saturday night to the campus, immediately after the game. Halftime entertainment at the game will also include a performance by the Washington and Lee band.

Ashcraft Captain Of Cross-Country Team

Pete Ashcraft, senior from Amherst, Massachusetts has been named captain of the Davidson cross-country team for the 1956 season. Ashcraft, one of the most brilliant track and cross-country men to compete here in years, has been a sensation ever since his freshman days. The stocky New Englander finished third in the Southern Conference meet in 1955. He won the Conference Mile run last Spring and holds the Davidson school record in the mile and 880.

Scabbard and Blade Holds First Meeting

Scabbard and Blade, honorary military fraternity, held its organizational meeting Tuesday night in the ROTC department in Belk Hall. Plans for the annual Fall Tap Day were discussed in addition to the proposed public service projects for the year. Outstanding speakers will be featured throughout the college year.

Proofs Being Shown Now In Union

Proofs of the pictures taken for the Quips and Cranks are now being shown in the annual office on the second floor of the College Union. These pictures should be checked by students before next Tuesday so that the final pictures which will be presented in the yearbook may be those of the student's choice.

COLLEGE PLAYMATES

Proving that PLAYBOY is as popular with the young woman-about-campus as with her male counterpart, is the wave of correspondence received from co-eds like the charmer above. This lissome co-ed is Susan Counter of Orange Coast College, Costa Mesa, California, who says that she would consider it a great honor to be chosen as Playmate of the Month. Her letter of application, along with others of its kind, is printed in the Dear Playboy columns of the September issue of PLAYBOY magazine.

You Can Win a Cash Award— and Scholarship Money for Your College in Reader’s Digest $41,000 CONTEST

Open to All College Students (Faculty, too!) Nothing to buy...nothing to write...and you may find you know more about people than you think! How well do you know human nature? Can you tell what subjects interest people most? Here is a chance to test your judgment—show how good an editor you are—and you may win $5,000 for yourself, plus $5,000 in scholarship funds for your college. It’s fun to try. Maybe you can top other students in colleges across the country... and you can match wits with the editors of Reader’s Digest. Why do far more college graduates read Reader’s Digest than any other magazine? What is it that makes the Digest the most widely read magazine in the world — with 11 million copies bought each month in the United States, plus 9 million abroad? Why is it...Read each month by at least 60 million people, in 12 languages—Arabic, Danish, English, Finnish, French, German, Italian, Japanese, Norwegian, Portuguese, Spanish, and Swedish? Can you spot in a typical issue of Reader’s Digest the universal human values that link scholars, statesmen, scientists, writers, businessmen, housewives? Can you pick out the articles that will be most popular with the average Digest reader? You may find... you know more about people than you think! Here's all you do. Study the descriptions (at right) of the articles in the October Reader's Digest—or, better still, read the complete articles in the issue itself. (But you are not required to buy The Reader's Digest to enter the contest.) Then simply list the six articles—in order of preference—that you think readers of the magazine will like best. This will be compared with a nationwide survey conducted among a cross-section of Digest subscribers. Follow the directions given below. Fill in the entry blank, paste it on a postcard, and get it into the mail before the deadline. Additional blanks are obtainable at your college bookstore. All entries must be postmarked not later than midnight, October 25, 1956. Don’t delay. In case of ties, the entry with the earliest postmark will win. Just pick in order the six articles you think most readers of October Reader's Digest will like the best.

READER'S DIGEST CONTEST, Box 4, Great Neck, L.I., New York

In the space opposite the word “FIRST” write the number of the article you think will be the most popular of all. Opposite the word “SECOND” write the number of the article you think will rank second in popularity. List in this way the numbers of the six top articles in the order of their popularity. (Note: Use only the numbers of articles you choose. Do not write the title of any article.) Clip and paste this coupon on a Government postcard.

Name: ___________
Address: ___________
City: ___________
State: ___________
Name of college: ___________

YOU CAN WIN:
$5000 cash 1st prize plus $5000 for the scholarship fund of your college or...
$1000 cash 2nd prize plus $1000 for the scholarship fund of your college or...
Any of TEN $500 cash prizes plus $500 for the scholarship fund of your college or...
Any of 100 $10 prizes in book credit from your local college bookstore

And if your entry is the best from your college you will receive an extra award—an additional $10 in book credit at your college bookstore.

FOLLOW THESE EASY RULES
1. Read the descriptions in this advertisement of the articles that appear in October Reader’s Digest. Or better, read the complete articles. Then select the 6 that you think most readers will like best.
2. On the entry blank at left, write the number of each article you select. List them in what you think will be the order of popularity, from first to sixth place. Your selections will be judged by comparison with a national survey which ranks in order of popularity the 6 articles that readers like best. Fill in and mail the coupon. All entries must be postmarked not later than midnight, October 25, 1956.
3. This contest is open only to college students and faculty members in the U.S., excluding employees of The Reader's Digest, its advertising agencies, and their families. It is subject to all federal, state, and local laws and regulations.
4. Only one entry per person.
5. In case of ties, entries postmarked earliest will win. Entries will be judged by O. E. McIntyre, Inc., whose decision will be final. All entries become property of The Reader's Digest; none returned.
6. All winners notified by mail. List of cash-prize winners mailed if you enclose a self-addressed, stamped envelope.

Its popularity and influence are worldwide.

WEDNESDAY
THURSDAY
SOCIAL CAMERA CLUB
FRATERNITIES
ALPHA EPSILON DELTA
SIGMA UPSILON SECOND AND FOURTH WEEKS
SIGMA DELTA PI
SOCIAL FRATERNITIES (2nd Only)
DELTA PHI ALPHA
RED & BLACK MASQUERS
LE CERCLE FRANCAIS
ALPHA PSI OMEGA

Which six articles will readers of the October Digest like best?

1. Norfolk’s friend to troubled teenagers. Story of the arthritic cripple to whom youngsters flock for advice.
2. The great Piltdown hoax. How this famed “missing link” to human evolution has been proved a fraud from the start.
3. How to sharpen your judgment. Famed author Bertrand Russell offers six rules to help you form sounder opinions.
4. My most unforgettable character. Fond memories of Connie Mack—who led the Athletics for 50 years.
5. How to make peace at the Pentagon. Steps to end ruinous rivalry between our Army, Navy, and Air Force.
6. Book condensation: “High, Wide and Lonesome.” Hal Borland’s exciting story of his adventurous boyhood on a Colorado prairie.
7. Medicine's animal pioneers. How medical researchers learn from animals new ways to save human lives.
8. What the mess in Moscow means. Evidence that the Communist system is as unworkable as it is unnatural.
9. Master bridge builder. Introducing David Steinman, world leader in bridge design and construction.
10. College two years sooner. Here's how extensive experiments proved a bright 10th-grader is ready for college.
11. Laughter the best medicine. Amusing experiences from everyday life.
12. What happens when we pray for others? Too often we pray only for ourselves. Here’s how we gain true rewards of prayer when we pray for others.
13. European vs. U.S. beauties. Why European women are more glamorous to men.
14. Trading stamps—bonus or bunkum? How much of their cost is included in the price you pay?
15. Living memorials instead of flowers. A way to honor the dead by serving the living.
16. It pays to increase your word power. An entertaining quiz to build your vocabulary.
17. Are we too soft on young criminals? Why the best way to cure juvenile delinquency is to punish first offenders.
18. Medicine man on the Amazon. How two devoted missionaries bring medical aid to jungle natives.
19. Creatures in the night. The fascinating drama of nature that is enacted between dusk and dawn.
20. What your sense of humor tells about you. What the jokes you like, the way you laugh reveal about you.
21. The sub that wouldn't stay down. Stirring saga of the U.S.S. Squalus’ rescue from a depth of 40 fathoms.
22. Madame Butterfly in bobby sox. How new freedoms have changed life for Japanese women; what the men think.
23. Doctors should tell patients the truth. When the doctor operated, exactly what did he do? Why a written record of your medical history may someday save your life.
24. “How wonderful you are...” Here's why affection and admiration aren’t much good unless expressed; why locked-up emotions eventually wither.
25. Harry Holt and a heartful of children. Story of a farmer who singlehandedly finds homes for hundreds of Korean war orphans.
26. Our tax laws make us dishonest. How unfair tax laws are causing a serious moral deterioration.
27. Venereal disease now a threat to youth. How V.D. is spreading among teenagers—and sane advice to victims.
28. Secy. Benson’s faith in the American farmer. Why he feels farmers, left alone, can often solve their own problems better than Washington.
29. Your brain’s unrealized powers. Seven new findings to help you use your brain more efficiently.
30. Britain’s indestructible “Old Man.” What Sir Winston Churchill is doing in retirement.
31. Are juries giving away too much money? Fantastic awards juries hand out because they confuse compassion with common sense.
32. My last best days on earth. In her own words, a young mother, learning she had cancer, tells how she decided to make this the “best year of her life.”
33. Foreign-aid mentalities. How the billions we've given have brought mainly disappointment and higher taxes.
34. Out where jet planes are born. Story of Edwards Air Force Base, where 10,000 men battle wind, sand, and speed barriers to keep us supreme in the sky.
35. Life in these United States. Humorous anecdotes revealing quirks of human nature.
36. Man's most playful friend: the Land Otter. Interesting facts about this amusing animal.
37. Why not a foreign-service career? How our State Department is making foreign service attractive to young men.
38. A new deal in the old firehouse. How one town got lower taxes, greater protection combining fire and police.
39. Crazy man on Crazy Horse. Meet the man whose statue of an Indian will be the largest in history.
40. Their business is dynamite. How the manufacture of this explosive has been made one of the safest industries.
41. His best customers are babies. How a kitchen strainer and a pint of mashed peas became the Gerber Products Co.
42. Smoky Mountain magic. Why this, our most ancient mountain range, has more visitors than any other.
43. Call for Mr. Emergency. Meet the Emergency Patrol who get 8 million New Yorkers out of trouble.
44. Beauty by the mile. How landscape engineers prove roadside planting is lifesaving as well as beautiful.
45. Humor in uniform. True stories of the funny side of life in our Armed Forces.
46. Seven economic fallacies. The American Economic Foundation explodes misconceptions about our economy.
47. Admiral of the Greek Oil Fleet. Story of Stavros Niarchos, who has won a fortune betting on—and carrying—oil.