Che Davidsonian

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF: JIM BATTEN
BUSINESS MANAGER: BOB CARMICHAEL
ASSOCIATE EDITORS: FRANKLIN BLOODWORTH, LEON HOWELL
Assistant Editor: Bob Beall
Managing Editors: Lloyd Chapin, John Trask
News Editor: John Johnson
Bill Bondurant: John Trotti
Sports Editor: Bill Pomeroy
Feature Editor: Bob Lathan
Copy Editor: Bob Majors
Advertising Manager: Bob Austin
Circulation: Marshall Chapman, Tom DuPuis

Represented for National Advertising by NATIONAL ADVERTISING SERVICE, Inc.
SUBSCRIPTION RATE: $2.00 Per Year.
Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.
OFFICES IN DAVIDSON COLLEGE UNION, DAVIDSON COLLEGE

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 1956

Stevenson For President

With the presidential elections only four days off, the American people face the gigantic responsibility of choosing the man who will guide the destinies of this country and the free world for the next four years. Events of the past two weeks have graphically underscored the momentous importance of the nation’s decision. As this dullest of campaigns has unfolded, we have waited and watched, hoping that the candidates’ stands on the issues which concern the country would enable us to arrive at a clear-cut, decisive choice for the presidency. This has not been the case. Sharply conflicting viewpoints on basic, fundamental questions have been scarce. And so it has been necessary to weigh the parties and their candidates in the light of the issues on which they do differ to a degree, and in view of the men themselves who compose the two major tickets. With these criteria in mind, we herewith formally announce our endorsement of Adlai E. Stevenson for President.

In many respects, the choice for us is a lesser of evils. We are not wild about Stevenson, and our choice must be thoroughly qualified. Moreover, it is not simply support of the Stevenson candidacy as such, but stems from the comparative merits of both tickets, including the vice-presidential candidates, and of the political parties which they represent. Perhaps the most valid argument which can be made for Stevenson’s candidacy is that his concept of the presidency is in direct contrast to that of the ailing President. Even before Eisenhower’s two major illnesses, much of the government was run by personal appointees—Hagerty, Sherman Adams and the rest. In addition, Ike has repeatedly refused to take responsibility for the often irresponsible actions of Dulles, Nixon and other subordinates.

In Stevenson, the Democrats have a candidate in the tradition of Woodrow Wilson and Franklin Roosevelt, who believes that the proper function of a president is more than that of a coordinating administrator. Stevenson believes in the necessity of presidential initiative, and would, we feel, push his program of positive legislation to the hilt, working closely and directly with the Congress, something which Eisenhower has notably failed to do. Republican foreign policy under John Foster Dulles has been sadly wanting. There has never been a concerted effort to attain definitely defined goals in our relations abroad. It has been vest-pocket diplomacy at its worst. American prestige all over the world has deplorably slipped in the past four years, primarily because allies and potential allies never could be sure just what our attitude towards them was.

In agriculture, on the other hand, the Eisenhower administration has steadfastly refused to make political hay at the expense of our overall economy. Great strides have been taken to alleviate the situation of tremendous surpluses inherited from the Truman regime, and now the farm economy is gradually finding stability. The health issue, which the Democrats have not abused as thoroughly as they conceivably might, still looms large in the minds of many voters. In a word, the prospect of Richard Nixon in the White House completely appalls us. Yet this possibility is certainly conceivable with a Republican victory next Tuesday. Nixon’s cloudy record, with its opportunism and wavering allegiances leaves him as an extremely bad presidential risk.

Regardless of the results of the election, the embattled South can expect no sympathy from the successful candidate as it attempts to face realistically the situation which has provoked more hatred and stagnation of progress than has been seen here since the days of Reconstruction. Nonetheless, we feel with a Democratic President and Congress, the South will be in a better position in its struggle for time and local authority which it needs in order to cope with this problem with a minimum of bloodshed and violence. Southern Democratic leaders have recognized this fact and have accordingly ignored third party attempts, while more or less actively supporting Stevenson.

While our endorsement of Stevenson is of necessity and conscience qualified, we believe that under his dynamic and farsighted leadership in both domestic and foreign affairs, the United States will, in the next four years, be better able to deal with the sobering challenges which constitute today’s civilization.

Court Makes the Grade

This year’s Court of Control died a quiet death Monday afternoon. Its executioners were the objects of its own persecutions, the Freshmen. They accomplished their coup d’état, however, in a completely legal fashion. They beat the Sophomores in their annual field day competition. Monday evening saw this year’s Court fold up its robes for another year and retire to the pages of Davidson College history.

For the Court of Control this was its year of decision. Last year’s Court was an utter failure. They lost control of the Freshmen, failed to instill Davidson tradition in the class, and were removed from chapel because of the lack of cooperation on the part of the student body. If the court had failed in its function again this year, if it had failed to win student body cooperation and support, this famous old Davidson institution would have gone the way of the five-day chapel and the double-breasted tux.

However, under the powerful leadership of Judge Reitzel Snider and his seven associate justices, this year’s Court regained its rightful position in campus life and opinion. Judge Snider reformed, revitalized, and renewed the Court, presented squarely to the student body the fact that if they did not cooperate, the Court was doomed. Most important of all, he returned the Court to its necessary place in chapel. The Court met with remarkable success in its efforts. Freshmen, for the most part, either obeyed the rules of the Court and the traditions of Davidson, or they paid the consequences. Freshmen riots were held to a minimum.

It is to be noted and praised that the Court met death while it was still functioning properly, that the Court of Control retired while the Court was still in control. The Court can be buried with the knowledge that it had a job to do and that it did it well. Judge Snider and his associates have set the example of a dignified, competent court dedicated to the purpose of instilling the Davidson tradition in the Freshman class and of punishing those who violate the Freshman regulations. It is up to future courts to follow this example.—A.W.F.B.

Adlai E. Stevenson: Dynamic Leadership Necessary to Implement The “New America”

By GERALD WILSON

“The defect of democracy,” concludes the philosopher Spinoza, “is its tendency to put mediocrity into power.” At no time in the history of our great democracy has this weakness been more apparent than at the present day. In 1952, the American people went to the biggest white elephant sale in the history of the country, and they bought starry-eyed. There is but one real issue in the 1956 campaign—the candidates. The so-called “Grand Old Party” has again chosen a successful soldier, trained in the military tradition, but sadly lacking in administrative ability, and naive in politics. The American electorate must choose between the two.

There have been many attempts made by the Republican Party to present Eisenhower to the American people as a man above party, above the taint of politics. But in doing so they have overlooked two fundamental weaknesses in this policy. First, by placing Eisenhower above his party, they have admitted frankly, that it is he, and not the party that the people will vote for. Thus they are forcedHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

to repudiate their own policies and political philosophy. Secondly, by separating Ike from politics, the Republicans have divorced him from the business of government, which is by definition “politics.” The Republicans have attempted to sell us Eisenhower again with the slogan “Peace, Prosperity, and Progress.” Yet these words appear readily as the utterances of false prophets. There is no peace in the Mid-East. The East is held down only by an “armistice.” Prosperity is a real thing for big business, but it has failed to “trickle down” to the smaller enterprises and to the midwestern farmer. Progress has passed by aid to education, public housing, and foreign policy. But the American people must not vote merely AGAINST something. They must have a candidate that they can vote FOR. This man is Adlai E. Stevenson. Stevenson’s past record has proved his ability to carry out the progressive policies of the Democratic Party. The strength of the Democratic Party has always been in its philosophy that government should be for all the people and not just a privileged few. Stevenson will further the positive government action vitally needed in the fields of education, agriculture, and social welfare. The American People once again have the opportunity to elect dynamic leadership in the tradition of Jackson, Wilson, and Franklin D. Roosevelt. Adlai Stevenson is a great American, he would be a great President with a positive program for a “New America.”

Political Glossary

So many words have crept into our language which men use differently that I thought I might make a glossary to aid those readers who like such things...

Reactionary: A fellow who believes that in the 8,000 or 9,000 years of recorded human history, something happened before 1933 that is worthwhile.

Republican—Eisenhower: A Republican, Democrat, New Dealer, or arch-reactionary who believes that President Eisenhower is the greatest President since Harry Truman and that his success is assured.

Republican—Taft: An old-timer with some memories of Harding, Coolidge, and Hoover who wanted Robert A. Taft to be nominated in 1952 and never got over it.

Middle-of-the-Road: I am particularly perturbed about the middle-of-the-road because if it is impossible to define with precision what is right wing or left wing, how does one find the middle?

Fascist: A fellow who disagrees with the New Deal but is not a Communist. The term may be applied to anyone, particularly to a Son and Daughter of the American Revolution and to one who believes that the United States can get along without the United Nations.

Democrat—Southern: A Democrat living south of the Mason-Dixon line, who is emotionally conditioned not to vote for a Republican even when he prefers to.

Democrat—New Dealer: An adherent of Franklin D. Roosevelt. (George E. Sokolsky in The Charlotte Observer.)

Dwight D. Eisenhower

Republicans Declare War on Socialism

Ike’s Leadership Assures Abundance

By JOHN TRASK, Jr.

“Peace and Prosperity” is only the slogan of an election year campaign. The real issue of the campaign, however, lies not in slogans but in fundamental beliefs, and in a personal philosophy of government. The basic question in this campaign, and the question

PLATFORMS

DEMOCRATS
- Raise Personal Exemptions
- Rigid Supports
- Federal Aid to Hospitals
- Repeal Taft-Hartley
- “Reappraise” Foreign Aid
- Equality for All Minorities
- Develop “Federal” Plants
- Keep Strong Forces
- Special Tax Relief and Credit
- Work for Balanced Budget

REPUBLICANS
- Tax Cuts for All Levels
- Flexible Supports
- Sound “Advances”
- Changes in Taft-Hartley
- “Realistic” Disarmament
- Equality for All Minorities
- Aid “Private” Development
- Superior Air Force
- Loans and Tax Cuts
- More Cuts, Reduce Debt

STUDENT AND FACULTY OPINION

Davidsonians View the Election

By LAURENS WALKER

As election eve approaches, it is interesting to note the reaction of the Davidson faculty and student body to the issues of the campaign, to the thousands of words of propaganda poured out by both national parties, and to the personalities of both presidential candidates. The reactions of typical “Davidsonians” follow:

Doug Ballentine, “Considering the Suez crisis, I believe that Eisenhower will be re-elected.”

Professor Beatty, “As a firm believer in the party system... I shall have to support the Democratic Candidate.”

Dan LaFar, “Eisenhower... due to the Middle East situation, ‘a shoo in.’”

Professor Ratliff, “Thus far, I haven't seen enough difference in the candidates’ positions... However, I see Stevenson as the man most qualified for the Presidency.”

Lee Chapman, “I support Eisenhower.”

Professor Chalmers Davidson, “All my life I have been devoted to lost causes, and while I’m not willing to admit this is one, it’s beginning to look like it. I'm for Adlai!”

Pete Morrisett, “I'm for Eisenhower. He's done a good job.”

Brownie Hamer, “Personally I don't like either one.”

Tom Lee, “Conger and I are for Stevenson.”

Professor Johnson, “I'm not one hundred percent for either.”

Doug Stewart, “I support Eisenhower because I know that he has a strong Christian faith.”

Ed Young, “... A conflict in personalities rather than issues.”

Professor Ford, “Stevenson by a narrow margin.”

Jim Kuist, “I think that Mr. Stevenson is a very intelligent and able man... President Eisenhower can give the country the leadership which we need.”

Bill Cobb, “Ike by a closer vote than in ’52.”

Tim Kimball, “Eisenhower, the lesser of two evils.”

Harold Westervelt, “I'd vote for anybody to keep us out of Egypt.”

Professor Cumming, “Eisenhower, I am not happy about the foreign affairs achievements of Dulles, but I see no evidence that there would be any improvement if the Democrats come into government.”

Lanny Voight, “We need Eisenhower’s military knowledge.”

Bill Wilkinson, “The way things are now, I'd be scared to death if Stevenson won.”

Tweedle Dee and Tweedle Dum...

by Bross

that spells the difference between the Republican Party and the Democrat Party is: what is the proper role of government in the lives of men?

Abraham Lincoln, the first Republican President, took his stand on the side of the great truth that the legitimate object of government is to do only those functions which the people cannot do in their separate capacities. President Eisenhower has said that the proper function of government is to be liberal in dealing with people, but conservative in dealing with the people's money. To promise everything to every minority group, to court every political bloc, and to tax and tax, and to spend and spend is not, therefore, the proper role of government.

Today the most aggressive force of left-wing minds that ever commanded a position of national importance has captured the party of Jefferson and Wilson. Organized labor, regimented minorities, and collectivist dreamers have infiltrated and subverted the once proud bulwark of individual freedom. The Republican Party, however, under the Eisenhower leadership, will guard against those who would substitute short-term expediency for long-run statesmanship in order to woo the AFL-CIO, the ADA, and the NAACP. The party of Lincoln and Eisenhower will stand watch against creeping encroachment of government to master the lives of men.

Dwight Eisenhower and the Republican Party offer American “dynamic” leadership, and they take their stand on the side of true liberalism. The true liberal believes in the widest latitude of personal freedom within the bounds of society. They believe in the right of the individual to pursue his own happiness, and not have some alphabetized agency pursue it for him! Playing Santa Claus to the public and posing as the Great White Father will not fool those who know that whatever the government gives you, it must first take from you. The party of Eisenhower is, therefore, the party of true liberalism, dynamic conservatism, and free enterprise. Because it is the party that rewards and glorifies success rather than penalizing initiative and imagination, the hopes and aspirations of future generations will share in the “American Dream” — the reality of the greatest abundance for all resulting from the greatest measure of individual freedom and enterprise.