PAGE FOUR

The USCC is the Student Work Section for the Department of Campus Christian Life of the National Council of Churches. It is composed of the YM-YWCA, the Student Volunteer Movement, the Interseminary Movement, and ten major denominations. Pat Miller, THE DAVIDSONIAN

DURING CHRISTMAS VACATION

Christian Youth Body Meets at Davidson

The United Student Christian Council’s Southeastern Regional Conference will be held on the Davidson College campus from December 27, 1956, through January 1, 1957. Seven such conferences will be held throughout the nation during the same period. Beach of Duke University, the platform speaker; Dr. Albert Winn, the Bible study leader, graduate of Davidson and a member of the faculty at Stillman College; the Reverend Irvin Elligan, pastor of the All Souls’ Presbyterian Church of Richmond, Virginia, who will be leading the worship services. Davidson ‘56, is serving as Vice-Moderator of this organization. The conference is designed for both students and faculty members. The interdenominational, interracial, and international group will be composed of approximately 350 delegates from the southeastern United States and several foreign countries. The theme is “Our United Witness in the College or University.” Campus problems will be studied at length in lectures, study groups, and general discussion periods. Among the conference personnel will be several well-known leaders in the area of Christian life among students and faculty. Dr. Malcolm McIver of Richmond, Virginia, is serving as conference director. Dr. Malcolm McAfee of Davidson College is serving as co-ordinator of the faculty area of the conference and has done extensive work in planning the study material for the conference. Guest leaders include Dr. Waldo

PROFESSOR W. N. MEBANE explains the operation of a milling machine to John Hunter (left) and George Gilmer (right). Unknown to most students, a well-equipped metal working shop is located in the north basement of Chambers Building.

NOOKS IN THE CURRICULUM

Physics 61 Art of Metalworking

The following article is the first in a Davidsonian series, “Nooks in the Curriculum,” designed to acquaint students with a number of interesting, though little-known, courses in the college curriculum. One of the little-known courses offered to the students here is Physics 61, more commonly known as metalworking. The purpose of the course, offered only during the fall semester, is to familiarize physics and chemistry majors with the technique of machine shop work and to give them an understanding of the problems involved in the construction of research lab equipment. Professor Mebane, instructor for the course, was quick to point out that in no way is the aim of the course to make skilled machinists of the students, but only to prepare them for future work in research laboratories.

TWO-HOURS CREDIT

The class of the two-hour course meets sixth period Monday, and the lab is held on Tuesday afternoons. This lab is held in the basement of Chambers Building, directly beneath the physics labs on the first floor. The lab, approximately 20 by 40 feet, is divided into two rooms, each containing varying types of machine tools. These include metal lathes, drill presses, grinders, one shaper, and one milling machine. Mebane estimates the value of this equipment as being between five and seven thousand dollars. Most of the lab periods are spent demonstrating to the students the correct method for operating each machine. The students are then able to use this knowledge in building equipment for the lab as well as making such items as cigarette cases and ash trays for their personal use. Physics 61 has been a part of the Davidson curriculum since 1950 when it was included at the suggestion of Professor Mebane, the present instructor. Since that time the demand for the course has been steady, if not large. At present the class enrollment is eight, a maximum number according to the instructor. Due to this necessary limit in number, the course has been restricted to physics and chemistry majors. However, Professor Mebane feels that there are many students who would like to have a knowledge of metalworking who are not able to take the course at the present time. Professor Mebane also stated that there had been several requests that the course be offered in the spring, but that plans were still indefinite. Grades are given in Physics 61 on the basis of work taken from the textbook, certain assignment projects, and general impression and ability. Professor Mebane hopes to improve his lab equipment as much as possible and expand the scope of the course as the need arises. He points out that “most of the stuff in the lab is very small equipment, almost on the homeworkshop level.”

INDIANA AND N.Y.U.

Two Universities To Give Graduate Fellowships

Two American universities are offering graduate fellowships to qualified college seniors, Dr. George L. Abernathy, Chairman of the Scholarship Committee, announced Wednesday. The two universities whose graduate schools are giving these scholarships are: Indiana University and New York University.

NUMEROUS AWARDS

Indiana University is offering a large number of graduate awards, with stipends ranging from $300 to $3,600. Recipients of all awards pay only in-state fees. A number of John H. Edwards Fellowships, which provide a maximum value of $1,500 each, will be available to students in any of the graduate and professional schools of the University. These fellowships range in value from $750 to $1600. All completed applications must be received before March 1, 1957. A considerable number of other fellowships, with stipends ranging from $600 to $1500, are also available. In the School of Business the awards range from $600 to $4,000. In the School of Health, Physical Education and Recreation approximately twenty-five assistantships, with compensation of $1,000 to $1,200 for fifteen hours of work per week, are available. Applications in completed form must be submitted by February 15, 1957. Further information may be secured from the Dean of the Graduate School, Indiana University, Bloomington, Indiana.

NYU FELLOWSHIPS

New York University Graduate School of Arts and Science announces a number of University Fellowships which will be awarded to specially qualified graduate students. These fellowships range in value from $750 to $1500. All completed applications must be received before March 1, 1957. Interested students should write for further information to Dean Harold W. Stoke, Graduate School of Arts and Science, New York University, Washington Square, New York 3, N. Y.

Several members of both the faculty and student body of Davidson College are serving as discussion leaders at the conference. The YMCA office will receive and coordinate registration from members of the student body at Davidson.

Action for Hungary

Though the Hungarian speakers will definitely be here, interested students today were reportedly forming a Student Committee for a Free Hungary and will present a petition at the rally for those who are interested in signing. The petition will be forwarded to the United Nations. The text was still unknown as of noon today.

FORMER OFFICIAL

Dr. Szentivanyi, a former prominent official of the Hungarian National Bank, along with other officials saved the Hungarian national treasury from falling into Red hands when the Soviets moved into Budapest in December, 1944. Now residing in Waynesville, North Carolina, he will arrive here Tuesday afternoon, speaking to the Quadwranglers at 3:00 P. M. in the Union Ballroom. There will be a discussion in the Ballroom at 7:00 Tuesday evening, and he will address the rally Wednesday morning.

WEDNESDAY CLASSES

Due to the “Action for Hungary” rally slated for next Wednesday morning, the Executive Committee of the Faculty has voted to shorten all classes Wednesday morning by five minutes. The schedule runs as follows:
8:20-9:05—First Period.
9:15-10:00—Second Period.
10:10-11:00—"ACTION FOR HUNGARY” RALLY.
11:10-11:55—Third Period.
12:05-12:50—Fourth Period.

Mrs. Roosevelt

(Continued From Page One)

She spent the years 1899-1902 at “Allenswood,” a school a short distance from London where she garnered her secondary education. She traveled extensively during holiday seasons, and by the time she was eighteen Europe was almost “old hand” to her. She had even ventured to Florence, Italy, alone.

MARRIAGE TO ROOSEVELT

In 1903 she “felt the urge to be a part of the stream of life, and so when Franklin Roosevelt, my fifth cousin once removed, asked me to marry him, though I was only nineteen, it seemed an entirely natural thing.” The wedding took place on the seventeenth day of March, 1905, not quite 21 years after Eleanor had burst forth to light the world. Since the bond of matrimony joined two who have helped shape our nation, their family has increased commendably. Mrs. R., as she is affectionately called by her close friends, has five children, no less than nineteen grandchildren, and five more descendants who give her the right to bear the title “great-grandmother.” Eleanor Roosevelt's desire to be a part of the stream of life has indeed been realized. What course the stream has taken has often been a puzzle to many. She is a woman of inexhaustible energy, normally retiring at one A. M. and rising no later than seven A. M. Her day naturally begins with setting-up exercises and she supplements her short sleeping hours with brief cat-naps during the day. As one would expect, her daily mail arrives in consistently large quantity. Innumerable requests and invitations to speak, visit, sponsor, and write, pour in. Those world-savers, whose schemes for the salvation of the planet are many, write Mrs. R. for her backing.

FREE LP’s...

Earn FREE LP’s with your purchases from us! Come in and join the Joe Little Record Club tomorrow. No obligation! You select your own FREE LP’s from our entire stock!

“Opposite Ivey’s Fifth St. Entrance”
126 WEST FIFTH STREET

PIZZA

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for the famous OPEN KITCHEN Charlotte, N. C. 1318 W. MoreheadKoo stated the influx of western culture ideas early in the nineteenth century created various tensions with which the last 50 years have had to come to grips. From these various tensions, Dr. Koo selected four areas for discussion. First, he discussed the political tensions stemming from the rise of nationalism. The old order was centered first around the family clan, a household of three generations which ranges from 40 to 90 persons, which demanded that the honor and interest of the clan be placed above that of the nation. The tremendous conflict of loyalties between this political view and the concept of a government “of the people, by the people, and for the people” is evident. Dr. Koo said that he joined the movement toward the 1912 revolution because it offered a challenge towards a greater and broader life.

Secondly, he touched on the area of tension in education. The conflicts between Buddhist upbringing, Confucian secondary education, and modern Christian collegiate education is a source of great tension. There was much value in the old system of education which trained the youth how to live a life through ethical and philosophical training as opposed to the modern education which trains its youth how to earn a living. Dr. Koo pointed out that the Far East had suffered materially by the old emphasis, but that our culture has suffered spiritually and ethically by the new emphasis. Thus this tension can be solved only by compromise. Also in the realm of education, there has come a new stress on athletics and physical fitness, whereas the old system put these things aside at early ages as childish games. This conflict will greatly change the complexion of the entire population.

Thirdly, in the realm of social tensions, we find the conflict between the old order parental dictatorship in betrothal as opposed to the modern idea of personal choice in marriage. There is also the broader conflict of modernism against the strict segregation of sexes.

The last area of tension was that of religion. Dr. Koo showed that many converts to Christianity or prospective converts fell back to their Confucian background because the Christian ethic demands too much of the person and holds seemingly unobtainable goals. This is especially demonstrated in the concept of loving the sinner but hating the sin, which Dr. Koo resolved by saying he must learn not to bring sin and the sinner together and reject him in toto, but we must love the person and despise his sin. Following the talk, Dr. Koo presented a few melodies on a Chinese flute. An informal discussion and coffee hour followed.

Alumnus to Address Physics Fraternity

Professor Edward S. Bettis will speak to an open meeting of Sigma Pi Sigma next Tuesday evening. Originally from Morristown, Tennessee, Professor Bettis took his undergraduate work at Davidson College, where he was elected to Phi Beta Kappa and served as President of Sigma Pi Sigma. He graduated in 1932 and received the M.S. degree in physics from Cornell University the following year. During the next ten years, Professor Bettis was a research engineer for the Pet Milk Company in St. Louis. At present, he is in the Instrument Department of the Oak Ridge National Laboratory. The program will be presented in the Union ballroom at eight p.m. The public is invited.

Cumming Selected by Language Group

W. P. Cumming, '21, professor of English at Davidson College, was elected president of the South Atlantic Modern Language Association at the meeting of the association in Atlanta, Georgia, November 22-24. Professor John A. Moore, '42, professor of Spanish at William and Mary College, was elected chairman of the Spanish section and Professor Pedro Trakas of the Davidson College Spanish Department was elected co-chairman. Professor Trakas read a paper at the meeting on “Culture in the Foreign Languages Classroom.” Professor Gordon R. Wood, '35, professor of English at the University of Chattanooga, read a paper on “English Usage” and was elected secretary of the English section. W. P. Cumming, of the Queens College English Department, read a paper on “Ways of Meeting the Special Needs of Women Students in Freshman English.” The association, which includes teachers of English and modern languages in the Southeast, has a membership of about 1200. Approximately 500 attended the meeting last week. Dr. and Mrs. A. V. Goldiere and Professor W. J. Monahan also attended the meeting.

917 Men Received Free Chest X-Ray

Dean S. R. Spencer announced the results of the chest x-ray program, held last week. 917 members of the Davidson College student body, administration, and faculty received their free x-ray from the North Carolina State Board of Health mobile unit. In commendation, Dean Spencer commented: “Dr. Woods and I are very much pleased with the fine response of the student body.”

Y Holds Design Contest

The YMCA is sponsoring a contest for the purpose of providing a thematic design for the Winter Services to be held in February. The winning design will be placed on the front of the literature concerning the Services. First place will receive five dollars, second place three dollars, and third place two dollars. All entries should be in the Y office by next Friday, Dec. 7. The theme of the Winter Services this year will be “The Power and Practicality of Faith: Biblical Perspectives.”

Chamber Music Guild Holds First Contest

The season for the Intercollege Chamber Music Guild at Davidson College will open Monday evening with a concert at 8:15 P.M. in the College Union ballroom. This year's first concert will include the Christmas Cantata for voices and instruments by Luebeck; Tartini’s “Violin Sonata in G minor”; a contemporary sonata for trombone and piano by McKay; and Beethoven's “String Quartet, Op. 18, No. 6.”

Philosophy for Today

“You ask me why I smile,” he said, “When H-Bombs hang above my head, My car’s a wreck... my gal has fled My money’s gone... I’m in the red... Why do I smile? ... You ask me why? CHESTERFIELDS! THEY SATISFY!”

Everything looks bright with your Chesterfield alight! Cheer up every smoking moment with more real flavor, more real enjoyment. Smile, friend... with the smoothest-tasting smoke today, packed more smoothly by ACCU-RAY! Like your pleasure big?... Smoke for real... smoke Chesterfield!