PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN

ART EXHIBIT INCLUDED

Solisti di Zagreb In Tonight’s Artist Series

Solisti di Zagreb, a Yugoslavian chamber music ensemble, will be featured tonight at 8:15 in the second event of the Davidson Artist Series. The concert will be held in Chambers auditorium at Davidson College. The public is invited, and tickets will be on sale at the door.

Solisti di Zagreb, or “the soloists of Zagreb," have been given critical acclaim in the major cities of the continent and in New York. They are hailed as the foremost touring musical group since the lifting of the Iron Curtain for cultural organizations. The 14-piece ensemble was hand-picked by Radi Zagreb, Yugoslavia, three years ago. Every member of the organization has been a soloist, and the leader, Antonio Janigro, is considered one of the world’s foremost ‘cellists.

VISITORS FILLED THE BALCONY and the faculty filled the stage last Tuesday as Dr. Arthur S. Link spoke at the formal Academic Fall Convocation. The ceremonies were a part of Davidson's observance of the centennial celebration of the birth of Woodrow Wilson, who studied here as a freshman in 1873.

FOR SCIENTIFIC STUDY

800 Science Foundation Fellowships To Be Given

Trakas Elected Prexy Of N.C. Spanish Group

Davidson College Spanish professor Dr. Pedro N. Trakas has been elected president of the North Carolina Chapter of the American Association of Teachers of Spanish and Portuguese. Trakas was elected at a joint meeting of the A.A.T.S.P. and the American Association of Teachers of French held at Meredith College in Raleigh last week, and the announcement was made today.

A native of Spartanburg, Dr. Trakas is a graduate of Wofford College and began teaching at Davidson in 1947 as an instructor in Spanish. He has since earned the master’s degree from the Universidad Nacional de Mexico, and the doctor’s degree from the University of North Carolina. Trakas has also studied at Harvard University, and was a member of the teaching faculty of the University of North Carolina. He is a member of Phi Beta Kappa.

Two complete string quartets are part of the ensemble, and both are recognized as Yugoslavian. The ensemble includes four first and three second violins, three violas, two cellos, and one bass viol.

The National Science Foundation has announced its plans to award approximately 800 graduate and 175 postdoctoral fellowships for scientific study during the 1957-1958 academic year. These fellowships will be awarded to citizens of the United States, selected solely on the basis of scientific aptitude and achievement. This examination, administered by the Educational Testing Service, will be given on January 19, 1957, at designated centers throughout the United States and certain foreign countries. The evaluation of each candidate’s application is made by the appropriate Academy Research Council selection panels and boards. The final selection of Fellows will be made by the National Science Foundation. Fellowship awards will be announced on March 15, 1957.

Graduate fellowships are available to those who are working toward the master’s or doctoral degrees in the first, intermediate, or terminal year of graduate study. College seniors who expect to receive a baccalaureate degree during the 1956-1957 academic year are also eligible to apply. Post-doctoral fellowships are available to individuals who, as of the beginning of their fellowships, have a Ph.D. in one of the fields listed above or who have had research training and experience equivalent to that represented by such a degree. In addition, holders of the M.D., D.D.S., or D.V.M. degree, who wish to obtain further training for a career in research, are eligible provided they can present an acceptable plan of study and research.

The annual stipends for graduate Fellows are as follows: $1600 for the first year; $1800 for the intermediate year; and $2000 for the terminal year. The annual stipend for postdoctoral Fellows is $3800. Dependency allowances will be made to married Fellows. Tuition, laboratory fees, and limited travel allowances will also be provided. Further information and application materials may be secured from the Fellowship Office, National Academy of Sciences-National Research Council, 2101 Constitution Avenue, N.W., Washington 25, D.C. The deadline for the receipt of applications for postdoctoral fellowships is December 24, 1956; for graduate fellowships, January 7, 1957.

All applicants for graduate (pre-doctoral) awards will be required to take an examination designed to test scientific aptitude and achievement. This examination, administered by the Educational Testing Service, will be given on January 19, 1957, at designated centers throughout the United States and certain foreign countries. The evaluation of each candidate’s application is made by the appropriate Academy Research Council selection panels and boards. The final selection of Fellows will be made by the National Science Foundation. Fellowship awards will be announced on March 15, 1957.

WANT THE TRUTH?

Up to 6,000 traffic accident deaths this year won’t be “accidents” at all! Forty thousand Americans will die in traffic accidents this year, according to the present mounting rate. And nearly six thousand of those deaths will be crimes—because of driver negligence—according to the FBI!

HERE'S HOW YOU CAN HELP STOP THESE TRAGEDIES

1. Drive safely and courteously yourself. Observe speed limits and warning signs. Where drivers are careful and obey the law, deaths go DOWN!
2. Insist on strict enforcement of all traffic laws! Wherever traffic laws are strictly enforced, deaths go DOWN! Support your local safety organization.

Published in an effort to save lives
Davidson Safety Council
In cooperation with The Advertising Council
The National Safety Council

NEW DISTRICT CHIEF

Col. Keithly Pleased With ROTC Regiment

Col. Thomas G. Keithly, head of the North Carolina Military District, stated that he was pleased with his inspection of the ROTC Regiment.

IKE VICTOR IN TRI-STATE POLL...

(Continued from Page One)

Although as a body the co-educational colleges supported the Republican Party, one third of them favored Stevenson-Kefauver on the individual college level. The co-ed institutions submitted more votes for the Independent Party than did the men’s and women’s colleges combined. Unofficial returns show that one candidate is still in there fighting. With 00.02089% of the total vote, the man (,) for the job, at least to two people, is Pogo Possum.

Student Vote Statistics BY COLLEGE...

Dem. Rep. Indep. Others
Limestone — 58 70 10
Catawba — 2 2 99 1107
U. Virginia 2474 90
Coker — 62 158 407
Gardner-Webb J. C. — 147 39 781
Asheville-Biltmore 330 7 81
Davidson 184 429 9 5 637
Erskine 107 96 49 252
Anderson — 52 67 119
Presbyterian J. C. 63 53 3 119
Lander — 131 116 18 8 273
Warren-Wilson 42 107 7 156
Louisburg 94 28 13 135
Belmont Abbey 90 142 232
Sacred Heart J.C.

IT’S FOR REAL!

They play not only early music, but masterpieces from early baroque to the chamber works of such modern masters as Paul Hindemith. Artist series officials consider their appearance the outstanding attraction of the eight-event schedule.

ART EXHIBIT

In addition to the musical presentation, tonight’s program will include an art exhibit in the lobby of the Chambers building. It consists of recent lithographs by the Graham, N.C. artist James Moon. Moon drew and printed them this year in Italy, while studying at the Universita Italiana per Stranieri.

ENDS COURT ACTIVITY

Winning the annual Freshman-Sophomore Day contest last Monday, the Freshman class brought to an end the activity of the Court of Control. The Court, returned to the Friday Chapel this year after one year's absence, served to direct the activities of the Freshman class in the realization of Davidson traditions. Originally scheduled for three meetings, only two were held. The final scheduled meeting of the Court was prevented because of insufficient time last Friday.

Reitzel Snider, Judge of the court, expressed his satisfaction with the outcome of the Court’s activities and accomplishments this year. “It is the cooperation and support from the student body that has enabled the degree of success accomplished,” added Snider as he discussed the semester's Court program.19 35 54 Stranieri. He is now at the Richmond Professional Institute, and Randolph-Macon is a former teacher of design at Sullins the Woman's College of the University of North Carolina. Ferrum College Queens Mars Hill Lynchburg Columbia For Writing Novel TOTAL BY STATE... North Carolina South Carolina Virginia TOTAL BY SEX... men women Co-ed TOTAL

At the last meeting of Sigma fraternity, members made plans for the writing of a novel. President Jim Kuist will write the first chapter of this novel, which is to be about some familiar phase of college life. He will present this first chapter soon at a regular meeting, and at seven successive meetings a different member will present a new chapter. In addition to president Kuist, John Bernhardt, Bill Martin, Harry Antrim, Chuck Wright, John Frye, and Jock Reeder are to contribute chapters to the novel. Also at this meeting Professor J. W. McCutchan presented the first part of a novel he is writing about the life of a boy in Egypt. Richard Cumming read an essay and a short story, and John Trotti read three of his poems. President Kuist extended his welcome to the newly elected members. These new members are: Professor Lloyd, Professor Nilsson, Grier Davis, Bill Martin, Ed Young, and Tom Kernan.

Freshman Council... (Continued from Page One)

a Davidson Freshman.” Lunch period is from noon until 1:45. At 2 p.m. Davidson clashes with the Richmond Spiders. Parents will receive free tickets for the game. Afterwards, parents are invited to a faculty-parent reception in the Union Ballroom.

FAMILY FELLOWSHIP

Freshman-Parent’s day is planned and conducted by the Freshman Council and is entirely a freshman activity. It has been created to be a day of family fellowship and to acquaint parents with their sons’ new surroundings and activities, thus providing an understanding and appreciation of his new situation.

by Chester Field.

THOUGHTS FOR TODAY $1.98

I met a man with a rather large head Who looked at me and finally said: “If ever you're caught Without any thought And you think that you ought To be thinking a thought, Buy one from me before it’s too late. Thoughts for today, only one-ninety-eight.” "A reasonable price,” I said and bought The following brainy, thoughtful thought—

SAINT PLEASURE AIN'T PLEASURE!

Take your pleasure big! Smoke the cigarette that gives you more of what you're smoking for... more real enjoyment, more real rich flavor... more smoking satisfaction. Smoke a Chesterfield and enjoy it to the hilt! Smoke for real... smoke Chesterfield!

College Unions Become Strong Educating Forces

(L.P.) College Unions are becoming a stronger educational force in higher education than ever before, according to Mrs. Tracy Johnson, Memorial Union program director on the campus of Oregon State College. Mrs. Johnson cited two examples of the use of memorial unions for graduate study. Studies conducted at the University of Wisconsin were “Does union service really prepare students for better citizenship?” and “Basic designs for the activities program of college unions.” She also stated that the use of unions as art centers, both for promoting art exhibits and housing permanent collections, is gaining importance. At the University of Toronto, Canada, Hart House has a permanent collection of paintings by Canadian artists. The OSC Memorial Union has acquired three original paintings during the past year, Mrs. Johnson continued. The M. U. has also led in leadership training and social education. Mrs. Johnson has the distinction of being the only woman appointed to the National Research Committee of the Association of College Unions. This committee is composed of nine people and their objective is to improve the educational, cultural, recreational, social, and service aspects of college unions.

NYU Announces Annual Fellowship Competition

The New York University School of Law has announced the opening of its annual competition for the Root-Tilden Fellowships. These Fellowships carry a stipend of $2,300 a year for three years. Interested seniors should write to Dean Russell Niles, School of Law, New York University, Washington Square, New York City, for further information and application blanks.

For Goodness Sake, Just Try Our DeLuxe T-Bone Steaks

If you had a million dollars you couldn’t buy a finer steak than our blue ribbon quality, DeLuxe T-Bone... juicy, tender, delicious, with gobs of French Fried Potatoes... the best! Meal Tickets available to Students at a very nice discount. See Mr. Dewese or Cashier at Restaurant.

College Restaurant MAIN STREET DAVIDSON, N. C.

of the Davidson ROTC regiment last Tuesday. Commenting after the completion of the inspection, Col. Keithly said, “I am pleased with both the excellent facilities provided by the college and the human material with which the ROTC department is working.”

WAR RECORD

Mentioning the review made of the unit’s history, he stated, “Davidson’s record during World War II is one the corps can well be proud of, and I am sure the college has no fears of the ability of the cadets of today to uphold the record.” The Colonel, who was formerly military attache to the U. S. Embassy at Managua, Nicaragua, made the visit as part of a quarterly inspection program of each ROTC unit in North Carolina Military District. It was his first tour of the Davidson unit since taking over his new command on August 13 of this year. Lt. Col. Sapp, P.M.S. & T. of the local unit, met with Col. Keithly on his arrival Tuesday morning and after conferring with him showed him the department’s facilities which are housed in Belk Dormitory.

DISCUSSES PROGRAM

At nine a.m. the Cadet Regimental Staff briefed the Colonel on the functioning of the regiment and then held a general discussion with him on the Reserve Officers Training Corps program. Lt. Col. Sapp, Col. Keithly, Dr. Pietenpol, Dean of the Faculty, Major John M. Linnell, also a member of the inspection team, and Cadet Colonel Snider lunched in the College Union. During the afternoon's drill Keithly observed the regiment on the field and personally inspected both the band and the honor drill platoon.

Phi Beta Kappa... (Continued from Page One)

fraternity and vice-president of Alpha Epsilon Delta, honorary pre-medical fraternity. Duke is a member of Gamma Sigma Epsilon, honorary chemistry fraternity, and of the Concert Band.

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... PIZZA

the famous OPEN KITCHEN 1318 W. Morehead Charlotte, N. C.

ALL CAPITOL AND DECCA LP’S 20% OFF DIAMOND NEEDLES FOR ALL POPULAR RECORD CHANGERS ONLY $12.95

PARKER-GARDNER CHARLOTTE 2, N. C. 118 West Trade Street Phone ED. 2-8257

"Coca-Cola does something for you, doesn't it?" You feel so new and fresh and good—all over—when you pause for Coca-Cola. It's sparkling with quick refreshment... and it's so pure and wholesome—naturally friendly to your figure. Let it do things—good things—for you.

BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD "Coke" is a registered trademark. ©1956, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY