FRIDAY, OCTOBER 19, 1956

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Slants On Sports
By JOHN JOHNSON

IT’S NEEDED

Davidson’s 48-6 victory over Washington and Lee last Saturday in Lexington, Virginia, was a strange spectacle. Every team needs at
least one easily-won game on its schedule in order to give the squad some release from the strain under which
it operates most of the season and also in order to give the less experienced players a chance to gain
seasoning. However, from the spectator’s point of view, the contest Saturday had very little to offer. Where is the excitement
to be found in crossing a goal line that is already well worn with paths?

SOMETHING WRONG

Until ten minutes before the kickoff, it appeared that the home team would have almost negligible support, and once the
game was underway, the cheering was about as inactive as this writer has ever seen. Only when the Generals’ Platt
broke away for 65 yards and shortly thereafter scored did spontaneous yells rise from the Virginia members of the crowd.
A visitor could not help but be impressed by the omnipresent attitude of dissatisfaction about winless football on that campus.
What pride could a W&L student have in a team that just dropped its tenth consecutive game? What pride could
he have when the opposition ran so easily through the lines that it never had to punt? In disgust, many
W&L students left their own game at halftime and went to another stadium in Lexington to cheer Lehigh to victory
over VMI.

WRONG CURE?

Perhaps by turning amateur, W&L has done away with the problems of subsidization that plague some schools, but it seems
that their solution is worse than their trouble. It is generally agreed that in theory, an entirely amateur policy would
be best for college athletics if all schools participated. Abuses such as recruiting, payments to players, and easy scholastic courses
would be abolished and good football could possibly exist as the current Ivy League teams demonstrate.

WRONG DIRECTION?

However, it is difficult to compare the current situation in the small Southern school with that of the heavily endowed
Northern college. The Ivy League schools can do away with athletic grants and lean heavily on their vast quantities of
other types of scholarships and work programs to draw in sports-minded students. Not so in the case of this region.
The number of opportunities for Southern boys to attend college should be increased rather than decreased. There is no reason
to believe that those who contribute heavily to football scholarships would do the same for scholastic scholarships if the former
were abolished. Those that form Davidson's athletic policies can take just pride in the fact that the school is attracting
athletes of a high personal caliber, maintaining its stiff scholastic requirements, and fielding highly respected sports teams.

Craig Wall (foreground) hauls in a pass from Quarterback Dyke for a first down in last Saturday’s 48-6 victory over
Washington and Lee. Other players are Ken Conger, Fritz Russell, and John Kuykendall.

DUKE VICTORIOUS 9-0

An exciting new sport, soccer, made its debut at Davidson last Friday, Oct. 12, as the Cats tangled with the
Duke Blue Devils on the football field. A very good Duke aggregation soundly spanked the locals, all of whom were
playing their first varsity game, 9-0. The thoroughness of defeat, however, failed to detract from the enthusiasm of the students
who attended the affair. It seems apparent that some of the lively action that captivates the whole European continent reached
the onlookers here. This afternoon, the team, under the direction of Dr. J. W. McCutchan, journeyed to Chapel Hill to
attack the Tar Heel delegation. Although victory was not expected, enthusiasm displayed in the first engagement, a crowd of students,
along with their dates, should be on hand Friday afternoon, October 26, as the soccer team officially opens homecoming weekend
against W&J.

GOALIE ACTIVE

A lonely man and a frantically busy man present the contrasts evidenced in the first official game against Duke. While
Freddie Butler was gallantly attempting to slap down the whistling Blue Devil shots at his goal, the Duke goalie stood
deserted by his comrades at his end of the field. Only occasionally was he called upon to defend when Danny
Crates, an aggressive offensive performer and captain of the foot troops, was injured. The Wildcats were unable to maintain an
offensive drive long enough to threaten Duke. Gordon Neville, George Sutcliffe, and Ross Smyth stood out in the rare offensive
sallies, while Butler, a magnificent effort in the W&L fray, increased his rushing average significantly.

HALFBACK

By LARRY

Paul Barbee, chosen for Saturday's 48-6 rout of W&L on the basis of his season's record, has earned top sports
honors. Barbee romped 109 yards in eleven carries against the Generals for an average of 9.9 yards per try, his
best performance to date. His 109 yards came within one yard of equalling last season’s single-game rushing record of 110
yards made against Washington & Lee. Paul scored the Cats’ first T.D., a one-yard plunge which brought his season total
to 12 points.

Barbee's aggressive play against the Generals tightened his grip on two ground-gaining departments. He leads in rushing with a net
gain of 208 yards, having yet to be thrown for a loss. His aggressive offensive performance has been outstanding. Paul
gained 4 yards in one carry against Catawba, 48 yards in 4 carries against the Citadel, and 47 yards in
13 carries in the P.C. game.

Discover the difference between “just smoking” and Camels! R.J. Reynolds Tob. Co., Winston-Salem, N.C. You're sure to enjoy the most
popular cigarette today.They've really got it! Dave Fagg, 76; Dale Gramley, 68; and Charlie James, 51.

WILDCAT OF WEEK

You'll find Camels taste richer, fuller, more deeply satisfying. The exclusive Camel blend of quality tobaccos gives you smooth smoking.
Little (arrow) to give the Wild- & Lee in Lexington, Va. Other tis tok tee te

By BOBBY PAGE

Richardson Field is prepared to host its first collegiate football clash of the season as the Hatters from Stetson University
roll in fresh from last week and their first win of the campaign to meet the Davidson Wildcats who will
be gunning for their fourth triumph in five outings. North Western Louisiana fell to this week's invading forces who had
previously been toppled by V.M.I. and The Citadel. Having suffered defeat at the hands of the Wildcats in 1954 and
55, the Hatters will try to rejuvenate the spirit of 1912 when the two met for the first time with
Stetson walking away with the win.

With a new running attack being emphasized, Davidson knocked off Washington and Lee last Saturday afternoon, 48-6. Halfback Paul Barbee
rolled up 109 yards rushing to set a new individual rushing record and account for one fourth of the total
'Cat offense. The fleet sophomore scored the first tally on a one-yard sweep to right end and Don Campbell followed
closely with a 12-yard jaunt to gloryland. A tremendous kickoff return by Alex Platt for 65 yards set up the
W&L touchdown. Three plays later Platt scampered across with the lone score for the Generals.

The third period saw the red and black reach paydirt three times. A one-yard line smash by Ken Conger, and
passes from Dyke Little and Dick Belton to John Francis and George Hart, respectively, netted 18 more points. Dave Fagg
converted three of four tries and Belton made good once. From eight yards out, Belton scored on a keep play
in the third period and Jim West closed the scoring in the fourth on a blast through the middle. Fagg
and Sam McGuirt added the extra points.

STETSON STARS

Unknowing fans will want to keep an eye on the green and white backfield on Boyd Hildebrand, Dick Saltrick, and
Ray Henry. The Hatters employ a versatile offense in an attempt to make amends for the difference in experience which
will not be as great as last year when the Davidson forces won in Deland, Florida, 25-13.

KAs, Kappa Sigs Hold

The K.A.’s and the Kappa Sigs, last week’s interfraternity flickerball leaders, still share the top spot with unblemished records at
the end of seven rounds. Competition for first place narrowed slightly as both the Sigma Chi's and S.A.E.’s dropped crucial
games during the week, leaving the Phi Delts as the foremost contender. Led by Andy Watson and Shelborne Wallace, the
K.A.’s downed the Sigma Chi's, 12 to 6, in one of the real big ones last week. In two other
important contests, the Kappa Sigs turned back the S.A.E.’s, 20 to 0, and then edged the Sigma Chi's, 13 to
7, in a thriller. Since Wednesday's games were called off because of a cold rain, the following results include games
from Thursday through Tuesday only:

K.A.—12 Sigma Chi—6
Kappa Sig—20 S.A.E.—0
Pi Kapp—25 Phi Gam—18
Phi Delt—12 Beta—7
K.A.—40 Sig Ep—18
A.T.O.—27 Campus Club—0
S.A.E.—25 Pika—0
Kappa Sig—13 Sigma Chi—7
Phi Delt—63 Phi Gam—6
A.T.O.—19 Pi Kapp—7
K.A.—20 Beta—9
S.A.E.—59 Campus Club—6

Unofficial standings through Tuesday, October 16, are:

Won Lost
K.A 7 0
Kappa Sig 6 0
Phi Delt 6 1
S.A.E 5 2
A.T.O. 4 3
Sigma Chi 3 3
Pi Kapp 3 4
Pika 2 4
Beta 2 5
Sig Ep 1 6
Campus Club 1 6
Phi Gam 0 7

PAUL BARBEE

LAST CHANCE! to enter Reader’s Digest $41,000 CONTEST

It’s fun to do—and you may find you know more about human nature than you think! Just list, in order,
the six articles in October Reader's Digest you think readers will like best. Couldn't be simpler—and you may win $5,000
cash for yourself plus $5,000 in scholarships for your college. Have you sent in your entry yet? Entries must be
postmarked by midnight, Thursday, October 25. Entry blanks available at your college bookstore.

126 WEST FIFTH STREET

FREE LP's... purchases from us! ... Come in and join the Joe Little Record Club tomorrow. No obligation! You select
your own FREE LP’s from our entire stock!

CHARLOTTE

IMPRESS YOUR DATE...! WITH AN "AFTER-SIX" TUXEDO FROM WILSON-WRIGHT'S

Priced from $42.50 up ALSO COMPLETE LINE OF ACCESSORIES RENTALS ALSO

Wilson-Wright’s Inc. “Collegiate Fashions” DAVIDSON, N.C.
