FRIDAY, MARCH 9, 1956

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Cat's Meow — BY — LEON HOWELL

Nosing Around

Three consecutive days of spring sunshine have brought forth a mass of athletes who are participating in one of the four spring sports. Before long, the various fields will be dotted with IFC volleyball and softball, thereby giving the afternoons a sound and a motion that has been missing during the winter months. Perhaps one reason beyond the “Call of the outdoors” during this season for increased enthusiasm in the sport scene is the success these teams have enjoyed during recent years. Just by way of a refresher, the track team had a 7-0 season and finished second in the conference; the baseball squad compiled a 12-5 slate; in tennis, a 14-8 record was posted against several national powers, along with the Conference championship; and the golfers wound up 7-7, fourth in the Conference. As impressive as these statistics are, they do not express adequately the enjoyment of observing outstanding individuals and the teams work as units. Davidson also proudly claimed Conference champions in different fields. But, as some sage has noted, this isn’t last year and it is interesting to sneak a preview of things to come, in order to have an idea of what to expect.

On The Diamond

Perhaps the most impressive reversal of form witnessed last season was the rejuvenation of the baseball team. From a complete deficit to a sparkling 12-5 standing is quite an improvement. Leader in this cause was Bill Rowland, one of Davidson’s all-time standouts. Johnny Smith and “Ish” Bennett anchored a sterling mound staff. These three are the only graduation losses, but they may prove to be the difference. A powerful infield with Dyke Little, Buzzy Hope, Billy Morris, and John Patterson around the horn, backed up by Bondurant and Kiser, is the brightest spot. Hope (who hit .453 last season), Little, and Kiser Morris offer plenty of stick potential. McRee, Wallace, Campbell, Comer, and West will perform ably in the outer pastures and also chip in with plenty of hits. The catching staff appears better staffed than in any recent year, with Sanders, Reagan, and Voigt in the fore. Which leaves us with the “unknown quantity,” the pitching staff. Only one, Belton, has worked more than 15 innings in his college career. Dagenhart, Page, Moore, and several frosh ought to come around quickly to fill the gap. It appears that the most important individual will be Belton, whose arm miseries have prevented him from fulfilling his terrific potential. If he is able to burn them in as of old, then the Baseball outfit could be the big story of the spring.

To The Oval

The track team, however, has long been known as the “winningest” aggregation on the Davidson campus. With losses nearly negligible, there is a chance that it can come close to repeating its undefeated season last spring. Coach “Pete” Whittle’s all-time record hovers at 91 wins and only 44 defeats, and with 10 meets this year, an all-out effort could put him in the exclusive “century” category. Leading the thinclads in their onslaught in the conference and against existing records will be Phil Koonce, Conference 100 and 220 champ, and “Pete” Ashcraft, mile and two-mile winner in Conference. Others who figure prominently in pre-season plans are Bill Gramley in the shot and discus, Harley Smith, the javelin ace, and Roz Mallory in the 440 and 880. Overall strength in the distance, help in the field events, and promise in the hurdles should rank this squad right along with last year’s group.

And The Clay Courts

For the past two years, Davidson has reigned supreme in the Southern Conference tennis world, claiming team and individual honors. Gone forever is the great 1955 nucleus of Keesler, Corky Clark, George Snead, and Leighton Green, who swept all opposition aside save such powers as Miami, North Carolina, and Duke. With scanty hopes for a Conference position, Coach McKee begins rebuilding for a later day with only John Robinson returning. Leading the healthy turnout of 25 prospective racketeers will be Pearsall, Huffaker, Clark, Martin, Mintz, Hodel, Poindexter, Lewis, Dykers, Rawson, Lee, Ham, and McCutchen.

Or The Links

Another group that is rebuilding after holding the Conference diadem (’54) is the golf team under the direction of Dr. Scott. Three lettermen return to give a strong impetus to the effort; they are Skipper Hall, Larry Parrott, and George Scott. Two freshmen who hold their state Junior crowns and should see a great deal of action before the schedule is completed are Tom Johnson of Tennessee and Bill Purks of Mississippi. John Mackorell, Bob Armfield, and Ned Payne, along with several frosh, are counted on to press for a starting berth by the end of the year. All in all, the sunshine season ought to prove interesting to fans about the campus as well as successful. Action begins next Thursday. Don’t forget to come out and add your support!

PARKER-GARDNER CHARLOTTE 2, N. C. 118 West Trade Street Phone ED. 2-8257

Says Milner to Weeks, “Grab that thing before it gets away!” indicative of Conference annual track meet tournament action.

Betas, in F.C. Track

By JIM PAGE

On the afternoon of March 1, the Greeks met in their annual track meet. The Phi Delts strained past the Betas to take first place. Third was earned by the KAs while fourth place went to the Kappa Sigs. It was a cool afternoon. There was little breeze. Standing behind the starting line for the hundred, you could see the white lines stretching straight and very clean looking along the smooth blackness of the cinders. Runners jogged by warming up. Their shoes made a soft spatting sound against the track. On the infield, the weight men limbered up. Their sweat clothes loose and gray against the new, green grass. It seemed very quiet. The only sound was the easy breathing of the runners warming up and the soft spat of their shoes on the track. Finally, it came. First call for the hundred. The runners knelt at the line and dug their holes. Second call and then last call passed. The starter raised his pistol. “Runners to your marks.” The runners looked down the track. “Get set.” The runners crouched, looking tense down the white lines of the track. The starter squeezed the trigger and then they were off. Digging down the hundred yards of cinders to the tape.

And so it went all afternoon. Each with the same beginning but ending with different heroes. In the hundred and two-twenty, it was Armstrong for the Betas with a...

Larry Wright

...on the squad. The fact that Larry never had any experience on the mat before he came to Davidson, but yet is one of the top wrestlers on the squad, causes him to stand out. He has been wrestling this year in the 157-pound and 147-pound classes and is a tough opponent in either class. The best match of the season for Larry was against Washington and Lee. In this match, he defeated Fowler, the same boy who pinned him in a match last year, by a score of 15-3. He also wrestled two good matches in the Southern Conference tournament this year against two men in his class from The Citadel and Washington and Lee, placing third. Being a two-letter man in Track and Wrestling, Larry has proved...himself versatile in sports. Even though he has had only two years of experience in wrestling, he is further along than the average man on the team. Because of his winning personality and good nature, Coach Parker says that he is the coach's ideal material and the kind of boy you enjoy coaching. So again we tip our hats to Larry Wright, the hard-working senior wrestler, who is being saluted this week by the sports staff as Wildcat of the Week.

Coach Charlie Parker describes Larry as a mentally alert, young wrestler and the most improved man on the team. Larry Wright, who added to his basketball honors, was named Wildcat of the Week. 

Hollingsworth out “Hot-Rods” Hundley as he (Hundley) looks on in dismay. "You going to stand on it, Dave?"

GOLF TEAM TO OPEN THURSDAY: STARTERS ARE STILL UNDETERMINED

With the qualifying rounds this week, Coach Tom Scott begins re-scheduling a tentative match with Rollins College of Florida, for March 20. However, if this falls through, a scheduled match is with North Carolina State on March 20 at Raleigh. The linkmen will have some practice though, before the event, with a practice round with the Charlotte Country Club.

In the high jump, low hurdle, and broad jump it was Hambright of Pi Kappa Phi with a height of 5'8", a time of 14.4 sec, and a jump of 20.10% feet. Taking the 3 quarter and the 880 with times of 3:32.1 and 1:32.3 was the K A’s Antles, while his teammate, Kiker, tied with a second time. In the weights, Bigger of Kappa Sig took the shot with a 43'1" put. Wilson of the Phi-Gam was victor in the discus with a 107'10" hurl.

The 880 relay was the last event of the day. It turned out to be the most important. Going into the event, the Betas led the Phi Delt by one point. The starter raised his pistol. He squeezed the trigger. They were off. One minute and forty-two seconds later, the Phi Delt anchor man crossed the finish line and Phi Delta Theta had snatched the Track Championship from the Betas, 22 to 21. The K A's followed with 18 and the K S's with 16.

Next Monday the volleyball tournament will begin. The tournament will continue for eleven days with one round played each day. There will be six courts, three inside and three outside.

Grappling Champs

On Friday and Saturday, the second and third of March, the Southern Conference wrestling meet was held at Washington and Lee University. VPI’s team, that won five out of the eight championship matches, came through with first-place honors. The teams in order of finish were VPI, VMI, Washington and Lee, West Virginia, the Citadel, and Davidson College. VPI’s team outclassed all competitors. VPI had the second-place team, VMI, by only 43 points. Of the five championships VPI won, three were won by freshmen and two by sophomores. This presents a pretty dim outlook on the wrestling scene for all the colleges in the Southern Conference for the next two or three years.

Davidson showed very well; Pete Coleman captured fourth place, wrestling in the 123-pound division. Dent Acree, wrestling in the 177; Harvester, 167; and Henry, 130 all won fourth place. Larry Wright, who lost his first match and won the next two to capture one of the third places, is to be commended on his fine efforts, since he wrestled two freshmen and won the second half by a mere one point. Thereafter, the game was nip and tuck, up until the closing minutes when West Virginia got ahead. Despite continuous harassment, the fabulous “Hot-Rod” hit enough to sink Davidson—Notice Cobb getting inside on the rebound.

Wildcats Scare West Virginia

HUNDLEY-LED CREW EDGES CATS 59-53

By TED DINGLER

During a week when the attentions of the majority of the student body were elsewhere, the Davidson basketball team gave West Virginia, ranked 14th nationally, a rough time before succumbing, 59-53. The Cats took an early lead and held it to the half, when they led, 30-27. Rod Hundley, West Virginia’s clowning forward, tried his “stuff” much too soon. He was removed by the coach from the game after the score went ahead, 22-21, with minutes remaining in the half. The Mountaineers never regained their advantage until late in the game when they went ahead. West Virginia kept a five-point margin which ultimately won them the game. The Wildcats were decided underdogs both in rank and height. The seventh-place Cats were four inches per man shorter. Mintz and Cobb were high-point men for Davidson, with 17 and 13 points each, while Hundley led West Virginia with 14.

In an affair that was played deliberately and with skill, the incomparable Hundley was held down by Mintz, although he racked up the winning points on two driving lay-ups.

QUALITY MILK
Mooresville Creamery, Inc.

SPRING IS COMING

It’s time to get out your Spring clothes and have them freshened up for your best appearance. For all your cleaning needs come to JACKSON CLEANERS, MAIN STREET, DAVIDSON, N. C.

When the songs are light and the fire’s bright, for real delight—have a CAMEL! It’s a psychological fact: Pleasure helps your disposition. If you're a smoker, remember more people get more pure pleasure from Camels than from any other cigarette! No other cigarette is rich-tasting, yet so mild!