WILDCAT OF WEEK (Page 3) DOC WHITE NAMED the Davidsonian PROSPECTIVE EDITORS GIVE PLATFORMS (Page 2) NO. 20 Richmond, Va.—Ed Young of Davidson College has been named to the College Board of the next volume of the Going-to-College Handbook, annually published here. The book is designed to offer practical help for students in and looking forward to college. Nominated by college or national youth officials, members of the College Board serve as advisors to the editors in planning and developing the book. At the present time, the College Board is being polled to discover attitudes and opinions on a number of lively campus problems. Scheduled for publication next August in time for hometown going-to-college functions, the Handbook will be used during the remainder of the year by students looking forward to college. Sigma Pi Sigma Honor Physics Society met on Tuesday night, March 6, in the Green Room, and was led into discussion by a report given by President Joe Pharr on some new concepts in the field of physics. It is now thought by some scientists that the velocity of light is not constant but is changing. Values calculated after World War II are strikingly different from those arrived at immediately before the war, and it is thought that this may be due to an actual change in velocity and not to experimental error. It was also brought out that it is perhaps possible to have a temperature lower than absolute zero. This could be due to nuclear spins in the individual atoms. The famed Roger Wagner Chorale will be presented by the Davidson Artist Series on Wednesday evening, March 21, at 8:15 P.M. in Chambers Auditorium. Artist Series Presents Roger Wagner Chorale The Davidson College Artist Series will present the famed Roger Wagner Chorale in Chambers Auditorium on Wednesday evening, March 21, at 8:15 P.M. The Chorale will be assisted by the duo-pianists, Stecher & Horowitz. Roger Wagner, the son of an organist-composer, was born in Paris but in 1945 became a naturalized American citizen. He has trained choruses for Koussevitzky, Stokowski, Klemperer, Ormandy, Wallenstein, and many others. Formerly an organist in France, he has studied with Toch, Cailliet, Dupre, Biggs, Herford, and Zweig, and earned his Doctorate of Music at the University of Montreal. The Chorale, originated in Los Angeles, is making its first transcontinental tour. It has appeared in London's Royal Festival Hall, Paris’ Salle Gaveau, in both Amsterdam and the Hague, and also broadcast on the BBC, Radio Paris, and the Dutch radio. The 24-voice group was invited to take part in the Coronation Festivities program in London, and has appeared with many famous orchestras. They record for Capitol Records. The Chorale will present a program of music by Vittoria, Palestrina, Lasso, and Monteverdi; excerpts from Idomeneo by Mozart; Debussy’s “Trois Chansons”; Brahms’ “Seven Liebeslieder Waltzes”; a group of Spirituals and folksongs; and excerpts from Porgy & Bess. The duo-pianists appearing with the Chorale, Barron Smith will appear as organist for the group. D. C. News Bureau—The school seniors. Finalists in the college's competitive scholarship program began arriving Thursday morning. Almost all will be tendered scholarships of some type, and most will be granted awards ranging in value from $2,000 to $5,000. Fourteen finalists came in Thursday, met with the college scholarship committee and took written tests. Thursday night they were feted at a banquet in the college union. Tests and interviews continued through this morning for them, and now a second group of finalists has come to the campus. Group Two is being tested Friday and Saturday and given a dinner Friday night. After the three days of tests, the scholarship committee will meet for final decisions on awarding of the scholarships. At least eight of the George F. Baker scholarships will be given; they are chosen on merit, and the amount of the award is determined by need. The finalists in Group One include six South Carolinians: Howard Craig of Anderson, Carroll Grant of Chester, Robert Morrison and David Robinson of Columbia, James Owens of Myrtle Beach, and Scott Pyron of Taylors. From North Carolina are Peter Kellogg of Winston-Salem, Herbert Spivey of Mount Gilead, Rudolf Thunberg of Fayetteville and Joe Verreault of Valdese. Outlook Is Excellent On Petition to Join Charlotte Exchange Approximately 850 out of 1050 telephone owners have signed a petition to the Southern Bell Telephone Company asking for the addition of Davidson and Cornelius to the Charlotte exchange. Mr. H. C. Broyles, Publisher of the Davidson Gazette, says he hopes for 85-87 percent of telephone owners to sign by the time the petition is completed. Although a small amount of opposition has been encountered, most people, Mr. Broyles reports, have been very enthusiastic about the project. The petition should be completed by the middle of next week. Sponsors for the move to add the townships to the Charlotte exchange are the Lions clubs of Cornelius and Davidson, the North Mecklenburg Business and Professional Women’s Club, the Industrial Committee of the Charlotte Chamber of Commerce, and the Davidson College Student Council. Mr. Broyles hopes the Charlotte Merchants Association will also support the petition. In the past three years, Southern Bell has added Huntersville, Mount Olive, Belmont, and Dallas to the Charlotte exchange so, although nothing is certain, the chances are good that Southern Bell will add Davidson and Cornelius to the main line. In continuing its series, the Davidsonian Feature polled members of the student body concerning their evaluation of the various Davidson departments and their opinions on how Davidson ranks with other liberal arts colleges in the South and in the United States as a whole. Students were asked to rank the departments in which they had completed 3 or more semesters' work and to comment on the courses, facilities, and staff in the departments. The poll showed that the average Davidson student thinks that his school ranks among the best in the South and in the United States. DAVIDSON STUDENTS RATE DEPARTMENTS By JIM BRICE and BOB MAJORS AED to Present Noted Charlotte Psychiatrist Alpha Epsilon Delta will present Dr. Malcolm McAfee, head of the Sociology Department, leads a discussion with students during an informal seminar. KNOW YOUR COLLEGE The field of Sociology covers the structure and operation of institutions and societies. Sociology shares with Psychology an underlying interest in the relation of the individual and the society. With History, Geography, Political Science, and Economics, it shares an interest in the specific patterns of human activity. While the concern of Sociology is with the structure and operation of institutions and societies, the job and purpose of Sociology is to build tested theories about man in his relationships to others. As a part of a liberal arts education, this job must be done within the wider job of helping students to understand themselves, their circumstances, and their ‘way out’ of their predicament. This fact means that Sociology must be related to the Humanities and Philosophy and Theology, while retaining its own basic function of building tested theories about man in society. Here at Davidson, the Sociology Department is manned by Dr. Malcolm McAfee. From the amount of sociological discussions (often indistinguishable from psychological discussions) heard on the campus, we may conclude that the subject is filled with many controversial and unsolved problems in the sociological field. Although the Sociology Department does not offer a course in “How to be Happy, Though Married,” it does offer several courses in the sociological field. The introductory course (Sociology 3) surveys the field of sociology with special emphasis upon helping the student to understand his society and his place in it. Two courses in the second semester survey primitive societies (Sociology 32) and modern American society (Sociology 22). Two advanced courses deal with social problems and social theories, and two courses on the family deal with research and theory. There is also a course on preparation for marriage. The Sociology Department has a Social Research Center in the Carolina Inn. At present, a project is underway studying the young people of Mooresville. The project focuses on the interest of the award determined by need. SCHOLARSHIP GROUP MEETS THIS WEEKEND The R.O.T.C. medal for the outstanding cadet has been announced.#seball team man Daniel B. Woods Award In his campaign this morning he in of Cadet Daniel Blaine! emphasized the continuation of the Wor who was a second year; Student Council's efforts for the RO cadet until his fatal ill. procurement of the Charlotte -tele- n the award will be presented phone exchange for Davidson, the outstanding MS II cadet on need for an inter-semester break May 8, along with awards to other between exams and the beginning cadets. of the second semester, and the desire The Daniel B. Woods Award is for a student representative on the on display in the lobby of the Col curriculum committee. A representative from the fresh- lege Union. In addition, the man council should be on the Stu- will present other awards. dent Council, but without vote, and Dr. Paul Donner, a Charlotte a revision of the regulation con- PSY department in which they planned big Wednesday evening, ty major. These appraisals will be The poll asked the student to March 21, in the large lecture hall turned over to Dean Pietenpol of Martin Science Building. In addition to the poll, which Excellent (100-97), Very good: (90) Dr. Donner’s talk will begin The results of the poll, which (85), Fair (80), Poor (70), and at seven thirty. Everyone is in covered approximately one-half of Unsatisfactory (60) both on the vited to attend this program. the student body (Freshmen were nature of the courses taught and on excluded from the first part of the the presentation in each course. poll), showed that students ranked the majority of the various depart- The results are presented numeri- ments in the good (85-numerical cally on the basis of total returns. score) strength and minor department ALPHA PSI OMEGA numerical scores. and interviews for a $5,000 prize began yesterday at Davidson for 27 outstanding high INITIATES MEMBERS fees a cdaanen son of Maitland, Robert Living- Four new members were ini- Students Numeri- Ma- ston of Sebring, Larry Meyer of tiated into Alpha Psi Omega, cal Score jors St. Petersburg, and Bruce Van honorary dramatic fraternity Bible and Religion 244 83.1 Sant of Fort Lauderdale. yesterday afternoon at 4:30. The new Biology 71 91.9 92 Others are Mike Gulas of Clarks- initiates are: Hugh Craig, Ed Had- Business burg, W. Va; Thad Long of ley, George Kemmerer, and Tom administration 45 82.2 87 Dothan, Ala; Dan McAlister of Moore. Chemistry Maplewood, N. J.; Brent Martin, Under the leadership of its Classical of Louisville, Ky., and Lamar president, Harold Hall, Alpha language 46 92.9 Riggs of Little Rock, Ark. Psi Omega recognizes men Economics 7 89.0 89 who have made outstanding con- English 251 86.9 88 tributions to dramatics at David- French 87 86.5 Executive Committee on. The group forms the nucleus German 85 85.5 for the production of drama History 123 92.6 95 Makes presentations on campus. Albert Mathematics 113 85.9 88 New Ruling Harris serves as secretary for Military Science fraternity and Kerry Spier and Tactics 177 84.8 No courses that are not taken at treasurer. (Continued on Page Four) Davidson will be accepted for credit towards graduation without previous approval by the chairman of the department in which the course is taken. This was announced by Dr. C. J. Pietenpol, dean of the faculty as having been decided by the Executive Com- mittee of Davidson and sub- mitted to the Registrar, who must give final approval to the entire program of study proposed. Courses taken at other colleges and universities must have the approval of the chairman of the department in which the course is offered and must be judged as equivalent both in quality and content to a corresponding course at Davidson. This approval must be secured one week before the beginning of the examination period. “A written statement of such approval must be obtained by the student from the department chairman and submitted to the Registrar,” stated by Bondurant as necessary. Constitution Voted Debates with non-council partici- pants at open meetings of the Stu- dent Council was emphasized. Bondurant stated for his pri- mary objective letting the voice of the student body set the tone of the Council’s actions. DAN LAFAR Dan LaFar is a history honors student from Gastonia and at pres- ent member of the Student Coun- cil. He served on the Freshman Council his first year at Davidson. A member of Kappa Sigma social fraternity he held the position of pledge class president. He is a member of Eumanean Literary So- ciety. For his platform LaFar stated the need for coordination with the administration as primary in his estimation for the president of the student council. He called for the removal of the non-fireproof Georgia dormitory as well as a full realization of the telephone project now pending with the Charlotte of- fice. (Continued on Page Four) Thirteen professors met in dormitory discussions with students on Tuesday night in a unique follow-up to Spring Services, which were delivered this year by Dr. Ben Lacy Rose of Wilmington. The discussions were supervised by the Hall Prayer Meeting group leaders, and the professors were used to give direction to the dis- cussion and to interject their own comments, opinions and ques- tions. Student participation was, however, the goal of the discus- sions. Dr. Rose’s series of evangelistic addresses began Sunday night at Vespers with “Encounter with God’s Love.” Monday Chapel’s address was entitled “You Get What You Really Want.” The key address was delivered on Tuesday night, and its title “Encounter with Christ” was also the theme of the entire series. Dr. Rose departed from his announced address on Tuesday and spoke on the subject “Don't Let Me Down.” Shown above is the gathering on the first floor of Belk Hall, where the discussion was led by Dr. George L. Abernethy, profes- sor of philosophy. Harold McKeithen and Rhett Sanders were the students in charge of the group. (Photo by Paschal.)