FRIDAY, APRIL 13, 1956 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

ASPIRANTS TO QUIPS ’N CRANKS EDITORSHIP OFFER PROGRAMS

Boyce Martin

The publication of the 1957 Quips and Cranks presents the editor with both a responsibility and a challenge: a responsibility to the Class of 1957 to present impartially Davidson College as they remember it; and a challenge to surpass standards established by earlier publications. To meet this responsibility, many factors must be taken into consideration.

First, the staff: it should be composed of representatives of all phases of Davidson life, impartially chosen from each and every organization. This staff, working closely with associate editors, composed of members of the senior class, would comprise a publication nucleus of not just one man, but of the school as a whole. Weekly staff meetings should be held to adjust the work of each member toward the composite publication. These meetings would also afford closer coordination between members of the staff, the editors, and the Student Body.

A most important improvement needed in the Quips and Cranks is a revitalized sports section, not only to include more qualified writers, but also an enlargement and centralization of all sports within the book. This section should be enlarged to give equal and adequate coverage to all sports. This could be accomplished by assigning a member of the staff to each sport during its entire season.

An annual is judged on the quality of photography presented. Herein lies a field where there can always be improvement. Each picture must be carefully planned even before it is executed so that the editors might envision its relationship to the overall organization of the book. The individual portraits must also be improved; more informal pictures; and a more complete coverage of all campus activities should be the very basis on which the annual is constructed.

The copy is another aspect to be taken into consideration. It should not be stilted and dull, but fresh, accurate, consistent, and readable. Not only should it possess these virtues, but it should also balance with the photography. Other qualities which would improve and revitalize the publication would be a lasting and unique cover, composed of a conservative primary and secondary color scheme. The use of color photography, and a more attractive print would also be along this line. Printing and engraving must also be improved upon. If this is not possible through the companies now under contract, then a change is necessary.

As this is a book representative of the Class of 1957, the decisions on major issues, such as the dedication, should be decided by ballot of the Class. The Class is also entitled to be informed as to the progress of the publication through periodical reports through the medium of the Davidsonian. By thus bringing more decisions to the Class itself, the 1957 Quips and Cranks can be truly a publication of the Class of 1957, to include not only their senior year, but a picture of their entire four-year sojourn.

I believe that if the improvements I have mentioned are carried out, the 1957 Quips and Cranks will meet the challenge that has been presented to it by the three preceding years, and will be the best yet published. If elected, I promise to comply with these improvements, and will publish a book that is truly representative of the Class of 1957 and Davidson College.

Tom Morgan

Of Davidson's three major publications, the Quips and Cranks alone is permanent. Since this is a book which will be kept and occasionally thumbed through decades from now, it is of utmost importance that it be absolutely accurate and contain material of only the highest quality. To strive to produce the finest yearbook possible is my sole aim in seeking election. I believe that this goal can best be realized through a thorough and dynamic reorganization and revitalization of the staff.

First, a concerted effort must be made to enlarge the staff and to enlist in its membership the most talented literary and graphic artists on campus. All writers of organizational copy must be selected early in September rather than at the last minute. Contrary to custom, they will be asked to become regular members of the staff attending all its meetings. Thus, they will gain a perspective of the entire book and the place of their contribution to the whole.

The staff should be well informed on the progress of the book and should function actively throughout the year. This can be achieved through semi-monthly meetings of the entire staff and weekly meetings of the section editors. At these meetings, progress will be checked and the staff will consult on any matters concerning the makeup of the book. These frequent meetings will ensure, first, that deadlines will be met and consequently the book will be published early. Second, they will ensure that the book will not be merely a creation of one person but a true representation of the collective effort of the staff.

Departmental Heads Continue Critical Review of Changes

The final installment in the series of self-analyses by Davidson’s Department Chairmen is contained in this issue of the Davidsonian. Reflecting the mounting interest of the student body in departmental changes which have been made recently or which are forthcoming, the Davidsonian asked the department chairmen the following questions:

1. What are the changes that have been made in your department in the last three years?
2. What improvements would you like to see in your department in the next few years?
3. Would you comment further on the academic standing of Davidson in relation to other similar liberal arts schools as you see it?

DEPARTMENT OF CHEMISTRY

Question 1.
1. Development of instrumental analysis in the course in advanced quantitative analysis.
2. Installation of a department shop.
3. Visits to the campus by prominent chemists, both academic and industrial. They make talks and are available for questions and interviews by interested students.

Question 2.
The continuing maintenance and adaptation of current developments in undergraduate chemistry curricula as they appear, or as their need becomes apparent.

DEPARTMENT OF FRENCH

Question 1.
In beginning French, new texts have been chosen. Added stress has been put on the use of the spoken language. In French 21-22 and 31-32, we have recently adopted some of the newer review grammars, reading texts, and anthologies. The course in the Contemporary French Novel has been completely revised, with added attention given to the psychological and existentialist novelists.

Question 2.
We would like to see a modern language laboratory established in cooperation with the other foreign language departments, as is being done in arts colleges. The ideal would be that language students would spend one or two hours in the laboratory and receive partial credit. We would like to see placement tests of various types introduced for students of French 11-12 and 21-22, so that they might be assigned to appropriate sections.

Question 3.
Davidson has made great progress in recent years, both from the point of view of physical plant, additions to the faculty, and in recruiting and selection of high-quality students. We still need to build up our library. Consideration might be given to reducing the teaching load of some faculty members, especially those giving new courses.

DEPARTMENT OF PSYCHOLOGY

Question 1.
Changes in the Psychology Department in the last three years.
A. The introduction of new courses.
(1) Physiological Psychology (1953)
(2) Psychology of Personality (1953)
B. Considerable increase in the annual budget with consequent purchase of important apparatus and films.
C. Changes in the courses required of majors allowing a wider choice of courses for students with various occupational aims.
D. The appointment of a third member of the department for 1956-57 with the consequent approval of the following new courses:
1. Systems of Psychology.
2. A second semester of experimental psychology.
3. A senior seminar and the possibility of smaller sections in Introductory Psychology, Individual Adjustment, and Business and Industrial Psychology.

Question 2.
Desired Improvements.
I think that we'll be primarily concerned for the next two or three years with consolidating our gains and adding to our store of apparatus and films. I do not see the likelihood of adding new courses; I'd rather see the present courses taught more adequately. A major aspect of the consolidation of our gains will, I hope, be a greater emphasis on research by the members of our staff.

Question 3.
Comparative Academic Standing.
I think that we have a faculty as able as that of any school in our region. I think that the emphasis is correctly placed on teaching as more important in the liberal arts college than individual research; but I think that, without detracting from the quality of instruction, we should increase the amount of quality research by our staff. This can be accomplished (1) by reducing the teaching load in two ways: (a) decreasing the number of classroom hours for several faculty members, and (b) establishing smaller sections for the courses with large enrollment, and (2) by providing financial aid for research materials and publication costs. The administration is taking steps in these directions. I think that we have a better qualified student body than most schools in our region, but I think that we should be even more vigorous in our admissions policies.

As I see it, our greatest weakness academically is in the overvaluation of extra-curricular activities. I do not think that the majority of our students regard the academic, the intellectual, opportunities as the most important aspect of going to college. I believe that some of our faculty and administrative policies tend to reinforce student emphasis on non-intellectual interests. Our second greatest weakness, I think, is in the prevalence of anxiety among the students with respect to tests (reviews) and examinations. A student should not be “panicked” by two or three examinations in successive periods. I think that the major reason (but not the only one) for the prevalent anxiety is the widespread tendency toward cramming, and I am rather certain that the practice of cramming is based largely on the emphasis on extra-curricular functions. Notice, for example, how the current method of fraternity rushing gets Freshmen and upperclassmen nearly two weeks behind in their work: consequently, the student must cram for his first reviews, and while devoting exclusive attention to one course gets further behind in another. I believe that the students themselves could remedy this situation without impairing the effectiveness of their rushing.

Our third weakness, lack of space and deficiency of books and periodicals in the library, is recognized by the administration and faculty and is being forced realistically with some promise of strengthening.

MATHEMATICS

Question 1.
Two advanced courses, Projective Geometry and Theory of Equations, have been dropped, the former having attracted few students, the latter being considered somewhat obsolete. Vector analysis has been added as a result of a definite need (it is listed under Physics and Mathematics). Math 41, formerly taught as Theory of Equations, is now taught as a higher algebra course. Parallel reading has been introduced into the freshman courses for the first time this year. An optional seminar is offered in statistics. No credit is given, but good attendance has been encouraging. A letter is now sent out in the summer to all incoming freshmen informing them of the options available to a freshman in Mathematics and also pointing out other matters of interest. This year an optional meeting is planned for any interested students who want to find out what mathematics is needed in various fields, what post-college opportunities are available to mathematically trained graduates, etc. Math 13 will be open to any student next year with those who are expecting to enter the science field urged to take it. The division into Math 10, 11, will be made next year at the beginning of school on the basis of a placement test and the College Entrance Exams. Formerly the division has been made several weeks after College opened.

Question 2.
The addition of several advanced courses such as complex variable, modern algebra, elementary topology, modern geometry. A course introduced at an elementary level to present the idea of what mathematics is, how a mathematical science is developed, how mathematics fits into the development of human thought through the centuries. Such a course would not be “easier” than the more technical courses, but would answer questions like: What is the structure of mathematics? What is the postulation method? What is the relation of mathematics to scientific method? Why has mathematics been so important in our technological advances and in our cultural heritage? Answers to these questions and to related ones will be the aim of an experimental freshman course to be offered by the Mathematics Department next year.

At a recent meeting of the Curriculum Committee, the Mathematics Department was given permission to set up two sections of approximately fifteen men each from next year's freshman class to take such a course. Only non-science students will be admitted to these classes and no one will be required to enroll in one. An explanation will be made to prospective students that this is an experiment designed to determine whether a course can be offered that will be of more value to the non-science major than the present algebra-trigonometry combination. This course will not be a watered-down mathematics offering intended for those men who cannot pass Mathematics 11-12, but will be an effort to furnish a more stimulating and interesting approach for men who will have little use for the technical procedures and manipulative abilities that Mathematics 11-12 are supposed to develop. If the course proves to be successful, it will probably be opened in subsequent years to all of those freshmen whose future careers will be of a non-scientific nature.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

I assume the extent and quality of our curriculum must be continually evaluated to determine its effectiveness. At the request of the faculty, the regulations are designed to cover typical elementary courses but should appeal to the student who does not expect to use the technical skills developed in mathematics and yet who does want to know something of the processes of mathematical reasoning.

Question 3. I assume you mean here, the standing mathematically. We are making an honest effort to keep our offerings in line with those of other liberal arts schools with which we like to be compared. Our students who have gone on for graduate study in mathematics, physics, and physical chemistry have made very creditable records in graduate school. We try to keep in touch with these men and frequently make changes in material offered as a result of their suggestions.

R.O.T.C. DEPARTMENT

Question 1. The major changes are as follows:
A. In September of 1954, a system of “Applicatory Leadership Training” was introduced by this department. Under this system, the operation and administration of the Cadet Corps were delegated to the cadets themselves, with the Army personnel acting solely in a supervisory capacity. This system was inaugurated in order to better teach the student the following major principles, which will be useful to him both in civilian life and the Army:
(1) The principles of organization.
(2) The functioning “Chain of Command.”
(3) Administration.
(4) How to “think on their feet” and express their ideas to others.
(5) The responsibilities of leadership and command.
(6) How to make decisions.
(7) Self-confidence in his ability to meet and cope with problems.

This system of operation has proven to be highly successful, creating a better understanding of the program, and causing a marked rise in “esprit de corps” within the unit and the morale of the individuals concerned, in addition to material benefits gained by the students.

B. The department has occupied new quarters in Belk Dormitory. The present facilities are among the finest in the south and have contributed materially to the quality of instruction presented by the department, since they allow greater latitude in the use of visual aids, counseling of students, and maintenance and administrative facilities.

C. The standards of instruction presented by the department have been materially improved due to:
(1) Facilities available for the presentation of instruction.
(2) Greater and more varied use of visual aids.
(3) Formation of central lesson plans and reference files for each hour of instruction presented.
(4) Inauguration of a system of review of all tests, reviews, and examinations by a board of officers prior to their administration and a review of their validity after administration.
(5) Rehearsals of instruction prior to presentation.

Question 2. A. Continuation of the Applicatory System of Leadership Training, with decided emphasis on improvement of training aids and improvement in methods of instruction.
B. More extensive counseling of individual students.
C. Continued orientation of all students to explain their military obligation to their country and the important position this curriculum has in the defense of the nation in order to create better understanding among the students, faculty, and administration.

Question 3. I would rank Davidson among the top 5% of the top 25% of colleges in the nation.

BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION

Question 1. The Dept. of Business Administration is a new department, established only last year. A “core” course curriculum has been established, covering the major areas of business administration functions. In addition, some elective courses have been retained. A teaching method quite new at the undergraduate level has been instituted in some of the courses. This is the “case method.” Greater responsibility for preparation, thinking analytically and creatively has been placed on the student. More oral and written expression of ideas, thinking, and decision-making is required.

Question 2. We believe that our curriculum must be revised continually and that our teaching methods must be continually evaluated for the purpose of determining that learning is or is not taking place. To this end, we are analyzing the content and methods existing in individual courses and comparing the objectives of the respective courses. We hope that the Business Economics Association, which we took the lead in establishing, will continue to increase its effectiveness in more live contact between students and the active business world.

DEPARTMENT OF SPANISH

Question 1. A. The Department of Spanish has added for its Spanish Majors a Minor in Business. Through the years other minors were possible, but this year this new Business Minor has been added in order to further equip our majors for careers in firms that require this added training.
B. New Courses:
(1) Spanish 52—Advanced Composition (Advanced composition, including training in correspondence)
(2) Spanish 81—A Survey of Spanish-American Literature (The most important works of Spanish-American prose and poetry. Conducted in Spanish.)

Question 2. The Spanish Department has requested that a language laboratory become an integral part of its teaching program and is happy to say that it is now in the budget for next year. With a language lab operating and the emphasis placed on oral Spanish, our department thinks that placement tests should be given to students entering Spanish 11-12 and Spanish 21-22 in order to determine their ability so that they can be sectioned accordingly. In this way, these students could be taught at the proper rate of speed, and the instruction they receive would be much more effective.

Question 3. It is the opinion of the Department of Spanish that Davidson College stands within the first five percent of the colleges of the South from the standpoint of academic rating. On the other hand, it is our belief that our national academic rating would place us down the ladder in the area of the top twenty-five percent of colleges.

A STATEMENT FROM THE STUDENT FACULTY CONFERENCE COMMITTEE

In accordance with a motion passed at the closed student body meeting several weeks ago, the Student-Faculty Conference Committee met this week to discuss the faculty attitude towards the practice of Hell Week. The following facts came out of this meeting:
1) The plan that was followed this year was originated by the Interfraternity Council at the request of the faculty. The regulations were imposed by the Interfraternity Council and the Council carried out the entire program. As a result of infractions of rules, fines were imposed on individuals.
2) The faculty and the administration of the college are repeatedly urged by representatives of the national fraternities to put restrictive curbs on Hell Week practices.
3) The Faculty Committee on Fraternity and Social Life and the Interfraternity Council have met several times to discuss this situation. Concerned students should attempt to work through their Interfraternity Council member and are urged to contact members of the Faculty Committee if they wish to discuss the issue.
4) The faculty feels that it is entirely necessary to exert some control over Hell Week. This is done not only in the interests of the fraternity men seeking initiation but also in the interests of fraternities in general. Instances such as the unfortunate accident at MIT this winter serve to harm all fraternities everywhere.
5) Quite a few of the freshmen now on probation place part of the blame for their academic failure directly on the stresses of Hell Week. Some of this is rationalization, but some is undoubtedly true.

These are the facts and reasons behind the Hell Week policy as followed this year. The faculty in no way wishes to take complete control of fraternities or to abolish them. The best way of working out a mutual understanding would seem to be to work through the Interfraternity Council, which has given the matter much consideration. The Student Government is always ready to discuss this issue and to take directives from the student body.

Perrin Anderson