FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 1956 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

Slants On Sports
By JOHN JOHNSON

The sound of popping shoulder pads on the local football field has died away for another year, but before the
winter sports of basketball, wrestling, and swimming completely take over the spotlight let's glance back at the season. One of
the most outstanding features was the individual performance of Captain Donny McRee running from the halfback position. The talented senior
from Newton, N. C., led the squad in nearly every department of individual statistics—rushing, punting, kickoff returns, punt returns, and
scoring.

McRee tallied one touchdown in the final game with Furman to bring his total points to 36 and to capture
the scoring crown for the second consecutive year. Rugged fullback Ken Conger was second with 24 points.

In rushing, McRee had a net gain of 464 yards averaging almost five yards a carry. Paul Barbee, the sophomore
surprise, had the best average at 5.2 but did not have as high a net gain.

TD JAUNTS
McRee received nine kickoffs and carried them back for 334 yards including the spectacular 98-yard touchdown jaunt against V.M.I. that
electrified the packed homecoming crowd. He also turned a punt return into a score against the Citadel. Don Comer was
the only other Wildcat to place high in the punt return yardage. The same two boys, McRee and Comer, were
the best punters on the squad with the former again commanding a sizable lead with a 36.6 yard average.

Bill Gramely, the leading pass receiver in the Southern Conference last year, placed third in that department on the team
this year. Paul Barbee was first, followed by McRee.

PITCHING PIGSKIN
Quarterback Dyke Little who fought all season with Dick Belton for the starting position captured the only remaining crown. The
Hickory senior completed 28 passes for a net gain of 462 yards to lead the hurling. Belton, top passer in
the conference his junior year, pitched the pigskin for less than one-third of his record-setting totals of last season.

The Wildcats’ forward wall played a greater role than it has in several years past, since the ability of any
ground offense to roll depends upon the line’s ability to block and open the holes.

LINE TOUGH
Led by tackles Tom Lee and Dave Fagg and center Bill Price, the Wildcat line performed its mission well, under
the watchful eye and booming voice of Coach Pride Ratterree. On the defense, they reached their peak when they three
times held Richmond for downs while the Spiders were within scoring distance of the goal.

The Cats finished with five wins, three losses, and one tie for a third consecutive winning season. Davidson, long an
underdog that usually had to be content with “moral” victories, has since 1954 produced better records than at any time
since the 1920s and the credit must go to Coach Bill Dole. Hindered by the school's natural emphasis on scholarship,
he has sought out boys that are a credit to the college and made them into teams in which the
students and alumni can well be proud.

By BILL HELLIER
At the completion of the first two interfraternity tournaments, flickerball and wrestling, the Kappa Sigs hold first place with a
14-point margin over the second place Phi Delts. Pikas, in tenth place, are separated by only three-tenths of a point.

Next Wednesday and Thursday, Dec. 5th and 6th, are the dates set for the swimming meet. All rules and other
information are posted on the bulletin board.

Although the first, second, and third place teams have a good hold on their positions at present, any one of
the next four could, by a good showing in swimming and basketball, shove themselves to the top.

Unofficial standings and total points to date are as follows:
Team Points
Kappa Sig 257.8
Phi Delts 243.6
K.A. 226.0
A.T.O. 176.1
S.A.E. 150.8
Phi Gam 120.0
Pi Kapp 109.5
Pika 109.2
S.P.E. 100.3
Campus Club 59.1

Davidson Rifle Team To Encounter Wofford
Davidson's rifle team, which has a 1-2 record in shoulder-to-shoulder meets and a 4-4 record in postal meets, will entertain
Wofford in a dual meet on November 30 on the local range. The squad lost to P.C. at Clinton, and
in a dual meet at Davidson, was edged by Furman and beat Wofford in the shoulder-to-shoulder competition. The postal matches
are conducted by having schools shoot on their own range and then comparing their scores through the mail.

The team, in its second year, is composed of 21 members, of which the majority are freshmen and sophomores. The
sharpshooters are led by Bob Alexander, Carey Pickard, Charlie Stowe, and Mercer Blankenship. Coach Capt. Cavano says that with a
little more experience the team should become much stronger and provide stiff competition for any opponents on its schedule.

Coach Charlie Parker's wrestling team opened the season in a four-way meet with Auburn, V.M.I., and Marshall College today at
Marshall College in Huntington, W. Va. The team wrestled two matches today and will wrestle one tomorrow.

One of the most promising newcomers is freshman Milton Gee who performed for Woodbury Forest Prep School last year. As
was the case last year, Davidson should do considerably better than last year's 3-5 record. As Coach Parker put it,
“We shouldn't be a definite underdog in the wrestling scene this year with W. & L. trailing close behind. However,
with all the returning lettermen, we should be a big help to the team.”

Before the game, two Southern Conference officials explained the new rules that have been adopted for the incoming season. One
of the most important of the changes is that “dunking” is no longer legal. It was the old rules, however,
and not the new ones that plagued both squads all night. Repeatedly the referees’ whistles blew for violations such as
traveling, double dribbling, and personal fouls. Coach Scott commented that the slow start won the tilt, 66-39.

WAWC CORRESPONDENCE
1415 ELIZABETH AVENUE
Charlotte’s most complete music center offers the finest in HIGH FIDELITY COMPONENTS. Presentation of this ad entitles the bearer to
a 20% discount on all record purchases. Offer good until February 1, 1957.year, V.P.I., in any match except V.P.I. and
W. & L. this year.” The meet includes: 123 lb.—Pete Coleman, 130 lb.—Henry Griffin (Capt.), 137 lb.—Milton Gee, 147 lb.—Butch
Neale, 157 lb.—Dave Brown or George Rhyne, 167 lb.—Harold Westervelt, 177 lb.—Ritchie King, and heavyweight—Dave Fagg. All of the men
are returning lettermen except the 137 lb. and 157 lb. weights.

HONORS
Junior Henry Griffin, who was elected captain at the close of last season, is expected to be one of the
outstanding performers for the grapplers. The resident of Davidson was selected as an Athletic Honor Man last year for his
work in the 130 and 137 pound weight divisions. He is now concentrating on the 130 bracket only. A newcomer
to the mats last year, Harold Westervelt will be another of the regular workhorses. The 167-pound sophomore switched sports only
two weeks ago at the close of the football season. On the gridiron, he doubles as an end. Last year’s
experience makes him one of the most valuable members of the team.

SOPHOMORES
Coach Parker is expecting a good showing this year from sophomores Pete Coleman and Ritchie King. Both boys were standouts
last year.

WE HAVE A GOOD SELECTION OF SPORT COATS AND SUITS
From which you can pick one just for your taste, olive tones, greys, and browns.
Sport Coats __ $29.50 to $49.50
Suits __ $49.50 to $69.50
Wilson-Wright’s Inc.
“Collegiate Fashions”
DAVIDSON, N. C.

LARRY McNEILL (25) scores two points for the freshmen in the Tuesday night intra-squad encounter between the frosh and the
upperclassmen in Johnston Gym. The upperclassmen, after a rough battle for the ball, managed to down the frosh 66-39.

By JIM HAMILTON
The Davidson Wildcats Varsity Basketball Squad, ahead by only a few points at the end of the first quarter, turned
on the steam during the remainder of the game and swamped the freshmen, 66 to 39, Tuesday night in the
college gym. The uneven play was probably due to the fact that the players had little warm-up before the game.
Coach Scott, letting all the players see an equal amount of action, ensured no one boy did any great amount
of scoring. Semi Mintz led the varsity with 13 points and Jim Allison dropped in seven for the freshmen. Since
Coach Scott substituted freely, no one player dominated the scoring.

Davidson Basketballers Begin Action In Johnston Gym At 8:00 p.m.
By LARRY MEYER
The 1956-57 edition of the Wildcat basketball team takes the floor against Guilford tonight in the initial contest of the
season. A large crowd is expected to be on hand by game time at 8:00 p.m. The ‘Cats, twice-victorious last
year over Guilford, enter at full strength, with the team rounding into top physical shape. In their two encounters last
year, Davidson emerged on the long end of the count, winning by a whopping 108-65 score in the first game
and squeaking by with a 5-point margin, 84-79, in the second.

SQUAD NUCLEUS
Tom Scott has named a tentative starting lineup with returning lettermen forming the nucleus of his squad. The starting quintet
includes: Mike Martin, 6’ 3", and Dave Hollingsworth, 6’ 4", at forward; Semi Mintz, 6’ 2", and Richard Weeks, 5’
9", bringing the ball down at guards, and 6’ 6" Joe Milner patrolling the key. Expected to exert a steadying
influence are Mintz and Weeks, both having hovered around the 10-point per game mark all last season. Weeks, the captain,
will handle the team on the floor.

FRESHMEN
Breaking into the varsity roster this year are five freshmen. They are Ed Stewart, Bud Hunter, Jim Allison, Larry McNeill,
and John Huie. Hunter is expected to put up a commanding fight for the starting spot. His lanky six-foot-five-inch frame
and a great deal of hustle are commanding a lot of respect, and he will probably see action soon. Sorely
missed will be Hobby Cobb and Ray Harding, mainstays of last year’s club. Filling their shoes will present a knotty
problem, but Coach Scott is rumored to have something up his sleeve which will offset the loss.

TWO TOURNAMENTS
In addition to their regularly scheduled season of 20 games, the Wildcats will play in two tournaments during the Christmas
holidays—The Carrousel Classic in Charlotte starting December 17, and the Richmond Invitational on December 27, 28, and 29. Davidson will
act as host in the Carrousel tournament for the second straight year. The ‘Cats are playing in the Richmond affair
as a result of V.P.I.’s decision to enter the Sugar Bowl tournament.

NEXT ACTION
The Wildcats take on Catawba in another home contest on December 4 and hope that they can get off to
a fast start, enabling them to better last year’s 11-14 record. Displaying reluctance to go out on a limb, Coach
Scott praised the work of the freshman members of the squad and said, “This is our first test; it’s really
too early to make any predictions.”

Interceptions Hurt As Davidson Drops Final Contest, 27-13
While steam-rolling Davidson into being content with a 5-3-1 record for 1956, Furman’s Hurricanes intercepted two and a half times
as many passes in their 27-13 victory last Friday night as they managed to swipe in last year’s ten outings.
Ranked last in a list of 115 major colleges, the South Carolinians intercepted only two aerials in 1955 but made
up for lost time by plucking five of the Cats’ 18 attempts. One theft resulted in a 72-yard touchdown return
and two others were major factors in Furman scores. Seven completions netted the Red and Black 98 yards, four of
which were by Dyke Little and three by Dick Belton. Bill Gramley was on the receiving end of three connections
totaling 47 yards. An effective offense compiled an average of 4.5 yards per try in the rushing department to go
with 50 yards via the airways to give the victors a versatile attack. With the aid of a 40-yard scoring
jaunt, Don McRee covered 63 yards in eight cracks in supplying the Wildcats with their only offensive threat on the
ground.

Where the compliments are ladled out these days, it’s very often that you find a guy wearing this Arrow Glen
button-down. It rates plenty of praise for its trim-tailored collar and harmonizing colors (newest is a subtle blue). There are
a dozen shades to choose from in oxford or broadcloth and a new Arrow silk striped tie to top it
off. Glen White shirt, $3.95; patterns and solid colors, $5.00; tie, $2.50.

ARROW — first in fashion
SHIRTS + TIES

What else, with this Arrow Glen button-down? You will find it’s right for any occasion (and any suit) as it
is right up to date. That’s because its subtle new colors are perfect mixers. We have a rainbow-full of them
to show you, anytime you would care to drop in. Shirt, $3.95 and $5.00; all-silk striped tie, $2.50.

IVEY'S OF CHARLOTTE
