WRIGHT WILDCAT OF WEEK (Page 3) ACADEMIC EVALUATION OF COLLEGE (Page 2) VOL. XLIV DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY,
MARCH 9, 1956 NO. 19

By STEVE HUNTLEY

Dr. Ben Lacy Rose, well-known minister of the First Presbyterian Church of Wilmington, North Carolina, will come to Davidson on
Sunday, March 11, to begin the Spring Services Series, which will last through Tuesday evening. The Spring Services Committee, which
is composed of Don Stewart, chairman, Phil Kukura, Jim Foil, Linny Baker, Leon Howell, Steve Huntley, and Jim Murr, has
been making plans for the program and it is hoped that the Services will be a real success and a
benefit to the student body.

The theme of the Spring Services is ENCOUNTER WITH CHRIST. It is felt that this theme, and the talks, will
be matters of special concern to Davidson students. The four topics are as follows: (1) Sunday Vespers—“Encounter With God's Love.”
(2) Monday Chapel—“You Get What You Really Want.” (3) Monday Evening—“Encounter With Christ.” (4) Tuesday Chapel—“Results of the Encounter.”

The Monday evening service, which is to be informal, will be at 7:00 at the Church. The time was set
in the attempt to be most convenient to students. This service will last about an hour. Following the service, Dr.
Rose will lead a discussion in the Student Lounge.

On Tuesday night, on the various floors of the dorms, professors will lead follow-up discussions on the four talks of
Dr. Rose. These discussions, which will begin at 10:30 P.M. and last about an hour, will take the place of
the Wednesday night prayer meetings. The hall prayer meeting leaders will be the hosts. It is in these discussions that
students will have the opportunity to come to grips with the vital issues brought up by Dr. Rose. All students
are encouraged and urged to take part in these discussions. Such a follow-up program hasn't been tried in recent Religious
Emphasis Weeks, and these discussions may well prove to be the event that will contribute to making this Spring Services
the most successful religious emphasis program in quite a while.

Dr. Rose has had a full life of experience and service. Born at Fayetteville, N. C., he graduated from Davidson
in 1935 and from Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, Va., in 1938. From Union Seminary also he received the degrees
of Master of Theology in 1950 and Doctor of Theology in 1954. In May, 1952, King College, Bristol, Tenn., conferred
the honorary degree of Doctor of Divinity. Dr. Rose was ordained by Wilmington Presbytery in 1938, and from 1938 to
1941 was pastor of the Chinquapin, Bethel, and Beulaville Presbyterian Churches in Duplin County. From 1941 until 1946 he was
a Chaplain in the United States Army, serving in the European Theater, and being decorated twice, with the Bronze Star
Medal and with (Continued On Page Four)

DR. BEN LACY ROSE

An important meeting of the College Coffee Committee comes to order in the Union.

KNOW YOUR COLLEGE Committees set

By LLOYD CHAPIN Davidsonian News Editor

As the above picture of the Coffee Committee shows, there are many quite active faculty committees not listed in the
college catalogue. Of a more serious nature, however, are the Library, the Religious Exercises, and Chapel Program Committees. The Library
Committee makes recommendations concerning the purchase of library books. Headed by Dr. H. T. Lilly, these six men, appointed by
the president, regularly confer with Dr. C. G. Davidson, Director of the Library, and attempt to purchase the most desirable
books within the limits of their financial resources. Last year, with the help of a generous gift from Dr. Charles
G. Reigner, the committee spent a total of $10,241.67 on books and periodicals. Each department is allowed a certain quota
on the basis of number of students in the department, amount of circulation of reserve books, and the average cost
of the books per department. The committee welcomes student requests for books, and it attempts to satisfy their desires if
financial resources allow it.

Other members of this committee are the Religious Exercises Committee, which picks Vesper speakers, and the Chapel Committee which plans
chapel programs. The former is made up entirely of faculty members appointed by the President and meets once a semester.
(This is the second in a series of two articles on committees of the Davidson Faculty. The first in the
series appeared in last week's issue. Ed.)

Grim Reapers of elections returns sit in solemn council to deliberate on the immensities of voting and tabulating. Shown above
is the 1956 Elections Board as chosen by the Student Council.

Twenty-nine high school students from eleven states today were named finalists in the Davidson College scholarship competition. Selected from 260
applicants, they will come to the Davidson campus for interviews and further College Entrance Examination Board aptitude tests. Nineteen of
them will be awarded scholarships ranging in value from $2,000 to $5,000, and almost all will be tendered scholarships or
grants-in-aid. At least eight George F. Baker scholarships, worth up to $5,000 each, will be granted. Other scholarships are the
Procter and Gamble Co., Union Carbide and Carbon Corporation, and the Duke Power Company scholarships.

Fifteen of the finalists are from the Carolinas and Virginia, and five are from Florida. Three are from Georgia and
one each from Arkansas, West Virginia, Kentucky, Tennessee, Alabama, and New Jersey.

Selected from North Carolina: Terry Scott Carlton, Reidsville; William Happer, Jr., Lenoir; Boyd Hight, Jr., Salisbury; Peter John Kellogg, Winston-Salem.

The Sauter-Finegan Orchestra will play for Spring Frolic April 20-21. The selection was announced today by Phil Koonce, president of
the Interfraternity Council. Headed by two of the country’s top arrangers, Ed Sauter and Bill Finegan, the group records for
RCA Victor and has been described as the greatest thing on the popular music scene to come along in years.
Handpicked by Sauter and Finegan, the musicians of the new band, organized in 1952, are uniquely qualified to play the
approximately ninety musical instruments utilized by the twenty-two top musicians to interpret the unusual arrangements created by the talented co-leaders.
The band attempts to vary the instrumentation of each section (aside from the drummer) to color and broaden the musical
spectrum of the arrangement.

The distinctive music of the Orchestra can best be summed up in two words, color and mood. There are no
preconceived styles, rather a broadening and blending of the products of Sauter’s and Finegan’s musical genius. Among the band’s recent
recordings are “Concerto for Dance Band and Orchestra,” which was played with the New York Philharmonic Orchestra. Also popular are
the products of the Sauter-Finegan collaboration, such as “Doodletown Fifers,” “Midnight Sleighride,” and “The Honey Jump.”

The Elections Board, headed by Archie Joyner, has drawn up a smooth-working, five-week election period to be followed this spring.
This is a decrease in time of one week over last year's elections that has been done to cut out
dragging out elections over a longer period of time than is actually necessary. The elections are to start this morning
in chapel with nominations for the three student body offices. The first runoff for these offices will take place Monday
morning in chapel and the final runoff will be held next Friday. Voting will be done in the post office
on the second floor of the Union on the days when voting takes place. There will be four ballot boxes—one
for each class and one for the student body offices.Second will be on Tuesday, 9:00 in the first-floor lobby. In
and character counted in the Richard Hill Robinson, Greens. Speeches for the office of student body president by the remaining
candidates will take place Friday in chapel. Further voting on student body offices will also be at this time. All
other nominations than those for student body offices will take place this year only during Tuesday chapels. Two nomination slips
for each row will be found in the hymnal racks. If more are wanted, they can be gotten from another
row or from a member of the Elections Board in the rear of the auditorium. Each day's nominations will then
be posted at conspicuous points over the campus. Also, the representative for each fraternity on the committee indicates.

Student Council Submits Amendment To Constitution

At a called meeting this past Monday night, March 5, the Student Council unanimously passed requests concerning student elections. The
first was a request from the Publications Board, and the second was from the Elections Board. Dee Helm, speaking for
the Publications Board, said that the Board wished to nominate four (4) candidates for the head of one of the
publications. However, the student body Constitution specifies that only three (3) candidates shall be nominated. The Student Council, therefore, was
faced with two alternatives: (1) to submit an amendment to the Constitution to the student body, or (2) to interpret
the Constitution to mean that the Publications Board could nominate four candidates. Councilman John McLauchlin said that he felt that
the only course that the Council could legally take would be to submit the revision to the student body in
the form of an amendment. In a motion by Councilman Joe Connaroe, the Council voted unanimously to submit an amendment
to the student body changing the word “three” to the word “the” in Section III Article XV of the student
body Constitution.

Next, the Council heard from Archie Joyner, Chairman of the Elections Board. Joyner requested that the Council change a section
of the By-Laws to permit the Elections Board to re-arrange the order of elections as stated in Section IV of
the By-Laws. On a motion by Councilman John McLauchlin, the Council gave its unanimous consent.

Ballots will be counted during the third period behind locked doors by members of the Election Board. Election results will
be made known shortly after lunch except on Fridays when they will be announced in the Davidsonian that evening.

In the next issue of the Davidsonian (Continued On Page Four)

Martin Named Editor Of Wildcat Handbook

Bill Martin, a rising senior, has been elected by the YMCA Cabinet as editor of the “Wildcat Handbook” for next
year. Bill is a member of Beta Theta Pi social fraternity, Le Cercle Français, Eumanean Literary Society, the Chapel Choir,
advanced ROTC, and serves as chairman of two committees for the College Union. That Martin is thoroughly qualified for the
post is evidenced by his experience as associate editor of this year’s Handbook. When questioned about his plans for the
book, Martin stated, “I hope to expand it somewhat if funds and time permit and make it into the kind
of book that even the most undiscerning freshman would appreciate. However, I hope to make it of value not only
to the incoming freshman but also to the student body and faculty.” Martin continued, “I haven't chosen my staff as
yet but you may be sure it will include only the finest talent available on the Davidson campus.” “By the
way,” he added, “anyone, particularly freshmen and sophomores, interested in working on the Handbook should see me as soon as
possible.”

Amateur barbershoppers and future “met” stars take notice. It's time to dust off your metronomes. The annual interfraternity sing has
been set for Thursday, May 3. A list of rules and regulations concerning the sing will be given to each
fraternity. The rules, though similar to those of last year, have been altered somewhat for this year’s contest. Each year
two trophies are presented: one to the outstanding conductor and one to the fraternity which gives the most outstanding performance.
Any fraternity winning a trophy for three successive years is entitled to keep that particular cup. Three judges from the
Charlotte-Davidson area will be selected by the Phi Mu’s. The Sigma Chi's have won the performance trophy two years in
a row and need a win this year to keep the cup.

FRED MYERS MR. HARRY GOLDEN MR. LEWIS HOSKINS

Students will be given the opportunity to engage in debate on questions of pacifism and power politics in the conduct
of foreign policy on Wednesday, March 14. At that time Mr. Lewis M. Hoskins, Executive Secretary of the American Friends
Service Committee, will be the guest of the college. His visit is being sponsored by the YMCA Committee on Effective
Citizenship. Lewis Hoskins, a native of Oregon, graduated from Michigan University with a Ph.D. in International Relations. He was with
the Service Committee in China for two years before becoming National Executive Secretary of the American Friends Service Committee in
1950. Many of his remarks will be taken from the pamphlet “Speak Truth to Power.” Mr. Harry Golden of Charlotte,
the Editor and Publisher of the Carolina Israelite, will be Mr. Hoskins' friendly adversary during the discussions. Harry Golden, who
is a native of New York, is known to Davidson students for his talk in Chapel several weeks ago. Both
of these men will be in the Union Ballroom and all students are invited to make use of the opportunity
to talk with them.

The fact that the Virginia State legislature has seen fit to subsidize Robert Porterfield’s repertory company both at Abingdon and
on National Tour (nine states), is deeply encouraging to those who are following with intense interest the scattered signs of
increasing cultural awareness in the United States and in the South. This support given Porterfield is certainly in the best
interests of the Virginia State Chamber of Commerce, and yet there is no reason why it should not be. If
Shakespeare can be gotten into the backwoods, it does not particularly matter why or how. The Barter Players are coming
and going as the group changes from a resident company in the summer to a road company in the winter.
Thus, standards are bound to fluctuate from season to season and from production to production. This year’s touring troupe, which
made its only appearance in North Carolina last Friday evening at Davidson, was unfortunately not of that quality which this
writer has remarked in Barter companies of previous seasons.

The play, “Sabrina Fair,” a recent Broadway success, is a warm and engaging romantic comedy which has something good-natured and
mildly significant to say about American capitalism. It is not farce, nor does it in any way deserve the heavy,
farcical treatment which it received at the hands of the Barter actors. The humor of the dialogue is quiet and
“interior.” If the lines are delivered in a rowdy, “exterior” manner, this humor is either grotesquely exaggerated or destroyed altogether;
characterization becomes caricature, and the soft harmony of the script is violated. These players perhaps feel that subtlety is wasted
on rural audiences. If so, they should have chosen a script devoid of subtlety, such as “Aaron Slick from Punkin
Crick.” The performance of the title role by Jeanette Randall was, however, a happy exception. She played Sabrina as, to
our mind, the role should have been played—with simple warmth and quiet, interior humor.
