AY, ae CAMPUS TALKS ABOUT MALTBY (Page 2) a VOL. XLV of ye Davidsonian The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, OCTOBER 12, 1956 | CATS HIT W.&L IN LEXINGTON (Page 3) NO. 4 ON EXPERIMENTAL BASIS Humanities 13-14 Offers Challenge to Students This semester Davidson College offers for the first time Humanities 13-14 as part of its curriculum. The course examines some of the basic ideals of Western culture as they appeared in selected masterpieces of European and American literature. To develop a course in the humanities and to provide a challenge to the increasing number of students entering Davidson College well prepared in techniques of form and usage are its dual purposes. In the trial period enrollment is limited primarily to freshmen. Because of the emphasis on discussion, the size of the class is also small. STUDENTS COMPETE Students of the course were chosen on a competitive basis. High proficiency demonstrated on the verbal section of the College Entrance Board tests enabled twenty-five men to qualify for a further examination. Four members of the English department reviewed the results of this examination, a compositional one devised by the College Entrance Board. Effectiveness in use of English, grammatical proficiency, and ability to analyze and interpret selected readings determined the thirteen men who compose the class. DIFFICULT CHOICE “Selection was difficult,” stated Dr. W. P. Cumming. Dr. Cumming’s effort and energy are largely responsible for the installation of the course. Concepts of honor, glory, love, and justice in the culture of the West present the theme of study for the year. Among the works through which these ideals will be examined are Homer's Iliad, Cervantes’ Don Quixote, Plato’s Symposium, and Dante’s Divine Comedy. Dr. Cumming also plans to use William Faulkner’s Absalom, Absalom, Sophocles’ Oedipus Cycle, Tolstoy’s Anna Karenina, and other works of equal stature. Since major aspects of Western civilization first appeared among the Greeks, the course began with the study of the Iliad. “From the Greeks stem our culture and our basic institutions, such as democracy, philosophy, drama and poetry,” explained Dr. Cumming. LISTED TWICE The Davidson College Catalogue (1956-57) lists the course twice. The department of English includes it as English 13-14, an advanced freshman composition course. As an upper class elective course it appears as Humanities 13-14, with no departmental ties. (Continued On Page Four) Suez Crisis Effects Discussed By Ford Dr. Harold P. Ford spoke on “The Economic and Political Effects of the Suez Canal Crisis” at a meeting of the Business-Economic Association in the Green Room of the College Union Tuesday night. Dr. Ford traced the events leading up to the precipitation of the canal crisis, first pointing out how Britain bought out interest in the Canal Company. “America has taken a middle-of-the-road policy towards the crisis,” Ford noted, “ever since Nasser nationalized the canal in August.” He further explained how a policy of this kind affects the United States’ relations with her allies. “The U. S.,” he said, “wants good relations with her close allies, France and Britain, but, at the same time, doesn’t want to offend Nasser and other leaders in the Arab world.” In discussing the crisis’ effect on Russia, Dr. Ford declared that the Soviets, although they have sent arms to Egypt, are, for the most part “sitting back and watching.” A question and answer period followed the talk. DRUM MAJOR Scott Puckett leads the Davidson Football Band as they warm up for the half-time show tomorrow afternoon in Lexington as the Cats hit Washington and Lee’s Generals. Freshman Council Plans Parents’ Day CATS HOST TO KEYDETS Football, Dance, Highlight Homecoming Celebration The Homecoming weekend of October 26-27 is increasingly becoming the focus of Davidson campus interest. Festivities this year will feature football, the theater, and historical tradition. A brief memorial pageant will celebrate the restoring of two tradition-laden college buildings, the Eumenean and Philanthropic Literary Society Halls. Restoration of the century-old structures is being completed this month through the generosity of Mrs. Clarence Hed- Carl Cooper presided over the Freshman Council last Monday, as that group met to discuss the plans involving men in the coming year. The Freshman Parents’ Day, which was started three years ago, was set tentatively for November 3. Committees and chairmen were elected which will plan and make arrangements for that event, one considered by many as an important step in establishing the freshman into the Davidson tradition. In the past several years the Freshman Council has proved to be a valuable addition to the class organizations of the campus. Though not having a vote in the Student Council, the freshman class is represented by the Freshman Advisor at the Student Council meetings. The members of the Freshman Council this year are: Fiem Mauney, Chris Brenier, Hank Escue, Jim Earnhart, Bob Livingston, Dabney Stuart, Bobby Avinger, Brownie Thurman, Bob McGirt, Gus Burgdorf, and Alfred MacKay. Also Dave Warden, Smitty Smith, Buford Grier, Gaither Sanford, Pete Kellogg, John Huie, Harry Broom, Ken Pless and Dick Smith. ROTC Awards Denote Academic Achievements A total of 36 ROTC cadets have been awarded the Academic Achievement Wreath for their scholastic accomplishments of last year. The men, members of the sophomore, junior and senior classes, earned the honor by ranking in the upper ten per cent of their military classes in grades. Col. Sapp, commander of the local unit, stated that the honor was a “reward for a job well done.” He said, “It not only aids the morale of the cadets; it is an indication of appreciation by the teaching staff. It gives the men an object for which to work and rewards them on attainment of the goal.” JUSTICE FOR FRESHMEN is meted out by the Court of Control at its second trial of the year Monday night in the Green Room. Court members offer constructive advice to the offenders, as fifteen convictions are handed down. 15 FROSH CONVICTED Tradition Again Stressed At Court of Control Trial The Court of Control held its second trial Monday night in the Green Room of the Student Union. Tradition was again stressed and the accused were given a chance to discuss the court procedure. All the freshmen were not convicted of their charges. Don Rhame and Tom Inman were acquitted. Convicted of extreme cockiness and disrespect to upperclassmen were Larry Renolds who was sentenced to run stud for a court member; Bobby McClure, sentenced to shine shoes for a court member; Vic Hill, sentenced to run stud for a week; and Bill Horne who was sentenced to shine football shoes. Hill was also convicted of failure to wear a hat and a general bad attitude. Milton Gee, convicted of extreme tag and conduct unbecoming of a Davidson gentleman, and Jim Bloomfield, who failed to know freshman regulations. Sentenced to fold Davidsonians were: Ed Armfield, who failed to wear his name tag, Dave Warden, who was convicted of failure to wear a hat and name tag, and Dick Smith. Rhodes Scholarship Interviews Scheduled Students who wish to apply for Rhodes Scholarships should see Dr. W. P. Cumming, the representative for the Rhodes Scholarship Committee at Davidson College. The Rhodes Trust requires that a candidate obtain a written endorsement from his college before applying to the State Committee of Selection. Applications should be sent in as early as possible in October. Because of the numerous affidavits and letters of recommendation required, a student expecting to apply to any of the major scholarship committees should obtain the necessary blanks and request the approval of the Davidson College Graduate Scholarship Committee by the middle of October. LEWIS MAKES REPORT Council to Stage Mock Legislature At the Student Council meeting last Monday night, Phil Lewis gave a report of the state planning committee for a mock Student Legislature to be held in Raleigh November 15-17. Fellowship Awards To Be Presented To Davidson Seniors The Southern Universities Fellowships Fund of Chapel Hill, N. C., has announced an experimental program of college teaching career fellowships. A limited number of these fellowships will be awarded to students now enrolled in the senior classes of twenty-five selected colleges and universities in the South. Davidson is one of the selected institutions. The purpose of the program is to enable seniors to prepare themselves for a career of teaching in southern colleges. The stipend of each fellowship for the first year of graduate study will be $1000 plus tuition. If a fellowship holder does satisfactory work, his fellowship will be renewed for a second and a third year of graduate study. The stipend for the second year will be $1500 plus tuition and for the third year $2000 plus tuition. Married students will receive additional allowances.Gillis, who refused to accept constructive advice in a respectful attitude, and Bruce Van Sant, who showed general cockiness and conduct unbecoming that of a Davidson gentleman, were reprimanded for disrespectful laughter during a meeting of the court. Gillis was sentenced to run errands for a member of the court. Joel Spragins, Tommy Price, and Bud Hunter, convicted of walking on the grass, were sentenced to polish shoes for the football team.

Reprimanded for disrespectful conduct, Gillis was sentenced to run errands for a member of the court. Joel Spragins, Tommy Price, and Bud Hunter, convicted of walking on the grass, were sentenced to polish shoes for the football team.

Graduate Record Examinations scores will be required. A candidate must be recommended by the Faculty Committee on Graduate Scholarships. Each university or college participating will have two delegates in the Senate and representation in the House according to the size of the school. Davidson College will have three delegates in the House. One purpose of this Student Legislature is to show the state government how students feel about issues of importance in the state. Governor Luther Hodges will speak at this convention, and later will be presented a copy of the bills passed by the students. Phil Lewis is the chairman of the Davidson delegation. Anyone interested in attending this convention should contact him and discuss the possibilities of attending as a delegate or alternate delegate.

FRESHMEN REQUESTS

Freshman adviser Carl Cooper reported that brothers from some fraternities have ordered their pledges to do things contrary to regulations of the Court of Control. This has confused these freshmen about what to do. The Student Council stressed that fraternities impress brothers with the fact that the Court regulations are still in effect. The Freshman Council also requested a Coke machine for West Dormitory, with student directories and telephones on each floor of the freshman dormitories. They also wanted to know more of the details concerning Homecoming, such as finances and arrangement of places to stay for their dates.

RIOT

There was some discussion about the riot Wednesday night of last week. Reitzel Snider, Judge of the Court of Control, said that upperclassmen were treading on freshman grounds at their own risk. President Dan LaFar said it was the duty of the Council to be at riots. He also commented that school spirit was not exceptional at the pep rally before the P.C. game last Saturday.

The gold woven wreath, which measures one and one-quarter inches by two inches, is worn on the right sleeve of the recipient for a period of one year following the year for which it was awarded. The recipients of the award are: N. H. Brown, J. K. Batten, D. R. Beckham, Jr., C. H. Blake, W. R. Boland, J. B. Caldwell, C. H. Chastain, J. M. Dabbs, C. H. Daughtery, and K. P. Forester. Also receiving the award are: J. C. Gilmer, W. B. Harris, E. L. Irvin, J. R. Johnson, J. W. Kuykendall, S. R. Lathan, E. L. Lewis, W. J. Martin, W. S. Mitchem, P. E. Morrisett, J. L. Overall, E. M. Payne, III, H. M. Persinger, W. F. Price, G. W. Ramsey, and J. F. Renfro. Further designated to receive the award are: V. R. Snider, D. W. Stewart, G. W. Sutcliffe, J. L. Toumaras, W. R. Turner, Jr., L. J. Trotti, W. L. Walker, R. G. Weeks, I. T. Wood, III, L. Zemp, and L. E. Walter.

Young Republicans To Attend Convention

The Davidson College Young Republicans met this past Wednesday with a good turnout of both old and new members. Plans were made to send a delegation to the state-wide College Young Republicans convention this weekend at UNC. This convention will make plans for the role of College Young Republican clubs during the finale of the present campaign. The convention will be called to order by Tommy Hall (Davidson '56).

Membership Drive Nets Strong Response

The Membership Committee of the Y Cabinet reports "strong, encouraging response" among the members of the upper classes to its campaign for membership. Solicitation for enlistment in Davidson's Y program at this writing is far from complete, however, and statistics of Y strength, numerical and financial, are uncompiled. Solicitors are urged to complete their visitation, so that the campaign can be carried to a swift and effective completion. The Y, anticipating unprecedented support this year, is continually endeavoring to provide a vigorous and meaningful program, geared to the level of student support. The Planning Committee is scheduled to meet soon to determine projects for the year.

Ford Foundation Gives Research Fellowships

For the fifth year, the Ford Foundation is granting a large number of fellowships for Foreign Area training and research. The awards are made for study in an American university in the following areas of study: the Near and Middle East, South and Southeast Asia, the Far East, the Soviet Union, and East Europe. College seniors are eligible for these fellowships. In many cases, the fellowships can be renewed for further study in this country and abroad. Interested students may consult Professor George L. Abernethy for further information.

Project Is Scheduled For Television Showing

"The Story of Davidson" and the liberal arts education offered here will be featured in a motion picture slated for television presentation, with work to begin late this month. Davidson has been selected as the first college to be featured in a series of motion pictures of church-related colleges in the United States. The series, which will be called "Banners of Freedom," is being sponsored by the interdenominational Protestant and Television Center of Atlanta in an effort to show that contributions have been and are being made by church-related private colleges. The movies of Davidson, which will comprise the pilot film of the series, are intended to be released to television stations all over the United States. The entire project is still in the planning stage. During the past month, several conferences have developed here at Davidson and at the Center in Atlanta between Dr. Cunningham and other Davidson College officials and officials of the Center. Dr. Ernest J. Arnold, former Assistant to the President at Davidson, is the Vice-President of the Center. To write and direct this series, the Center has hired George P. Gunn, who has had a long career in radio, the theater, and television. Gunn, a graduate of the University of Florida, is a former ABC network announcer and, before his employment by the Center in September, was a freelance actor and announcer in New York.

STARTS THIS MONTH

The Center hopes to begin actual shooting of scenes at Davidson by late October even though the script has not yet been written. The 30-minute film will be dramatic and will attempt to gain and hold the national TV audience, but will also strive to be accurate in its depiction of Davidson and the program here. The filming, which will be both color and black and white, will be shown on TV in the nature of a public service program. Gunn and J. A. Brown, a technician in lighting and camera work at the Center, were here on October 5. Brown inspected the campus and found that almost all the buildings are electrically suited for the production of the filming. It is the purpose of Davidson in joining the Banners of Freedom motion picture series to accomplish several objectives. Generally, it is Davidson's intent to show the place of the church-related private college to as many persons as possible. In addition to this overall objective, Davidson should also hope to enhance the academic prestige of the college on a national level, attract worthy students to the college, and gain, at least indirectly, support for the college program, financial and otherwise. A significant aspect of the Davidson College education which might well be brought into the film is the four-part program of the Christian college: intellectual, spiritual, physical, and social. The individual student is encouraged to develop in each of these ways. If the project achieves maximum success, that is, if all television stations solicited agree to show the film, it is possible that more people will learn about Davidson College than have known about it since its founding in 1837. The national television audience is better than three-fourths of the entire population, and it is conceivable that the film could be shown to armed forces and to television stations in countries all over the world.

WORKMAN TO PRESIDE

Minister to Students Will Speak at Vespers

Dr. George E. Staples, Minister to Students, will speak at Vespers this Sunday night. Dr. W. G. Workman will preside. Dr. Staples, the first person to be named Minister to Students at Davidson, is a native of San Antonio, Texas. He received his B.A. degree at Presbyterian College, and earned his B.D. and Th.D. degrees at Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, Va. Before coming to Davidson, Dr. Staples was pastor of the Highland Presbyterian Church in Winston-Salem. He was instrumental in the founding of the church and during his five-year pastorate, the church membership grew to 500. Its new physical plant was dedicated this past spring. As Minister to Students, Dr. Staples is responsible for the vespers’ schedule and will appear as speaker once each semester. This is his first appearance as vespers’ speaker, although he has conducted each of this year’s vespers. In addition to assuming the task of Secretary for the YMCA, Dr. Staples is serving as a counselor and guide in the spiritual life of the students.

College Given $2,000 By Pure Oil Company

Davidson College has been awarded $2,000 by the Pure Oil Company as a contribution to the 1956 Davidson Fund. The gift was announced by President John R. Cunningham, who said that it was unrestricted and could be applied by the college to any need. Presenting the check to him was Mr. John O. Little of Charlotte, Southeastern District Manager for Pure Oil. Dr. Cunningham termed the award a “stimulating and welcome addition” to the Davidson Fund, which comes from alumni, parents of students, corporations, and foundations. “It is another evidence,” said Dr. Cunningham, “that American business and industry acknowledge the value and the need of the private college.”