PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, MARCH 23, 1956

Robert Wagner ... (Continued From Page One)

half of the program. It was powerful and absorbing, and powerfully and absorbingly delivered. We only wish that the Society
for Second, Third and Fourth Performances of Contemporary Works would make it possible for us to become better acquainted. There
is little need to comment on the lighter portions of the program, which evoked continued and resounding ovations from the
audience. Suffice it to say that never before in the history of the Davidson College Artist Series has any performer
or group of performers inspired such complete enthusiasm without resorting to horseplay of some sort. This is in itself a
unique achievement, for there was no horseplay on Wednesday evening. The performers went about the business at hand with perfect
dignity, never once resorting to systematic cracks or grimaces at the audience.

IRC Group to Attend National Conference

Delegates from many of the 600 colleges and universities in the Association of International Relations Clubs are making plans to
go to Philadelphia for the Ninth Annual AIRC Conference, April 4. Davidson will be represented by a large group of
members of the local IRC including Phil Kukura, Boyce Martin, Bill Pfefferkorn, Tom Tennant, Tom Warlick, and Faculty Advisor Dr.
Paul A. Martin. The opening address on this theme will be by Mr. August Heckscher, an advisor of the Woodrow
Wilson Foundation, which is giving much support to the AIRC Conference this year. The title for this year’s conference will
be “A World Safe for Mankind Decisions USA.”

Studies Latent Learning

RATS, MAZES, PATIENT STUDENTS, AND MUCH TIME CHARACTERIZE EXPERIMENT

By JACK TRAWICK

Psychologists, for years, have kicked around theories involving the learning process and as yet have not come up with an
answer to satisfy everyone. There are many aspects of learning, and quite a few theories centering around each aspect. An
experiment was done here at Davidson this year on latent learning. There are two main theories about latent learning—the Hull
theory and the Tolman theory. But just what is latent learning? Latent learning is a learning that is not manifest
in performance immediately and accurately. According to the results of this experiment, latent learning can be explained in terms of
the reward factor inherent in the cul de sacs.

The purpose of the experiment was to see if there is any reward aspect involved in a rat's running a
constricted cul de sac while running a maze. The hypothesis was that latent learning can be explained by factors of
reward—the reward here being getting out of the maze. The actual running was carried out in the same fashion. This
procedure was followed with both experimental and control groups. The control rats were given no previous experience in the maze,
as the experimental group had. The actual running was carried out in the same fashion. This procedure was followed with
each rat until he had three consecutive trials without error.

When the rat reached the goal box, he was allowed to eat for 30 seconds and then was again placed
in the starting box. The same procedure was followed for each rat until he had three consecutive trials without error.
The experimental group in the narrow maze ran better than any of the other groups. (That is, significantly fewer trials
were required.) In other words, the experimental group in the maze with narrow cul de sacs performed better than the
control group in the narrow maze and better than the experimental group with wide cul de sacs. There was no
significant difference between the latter three groups in the number of trials required to run the maze.

The secret? They're SYNCHRO-DYNED® Clubs—scientifically and exactly coordinated to swing with perfect dignity, never once resorting to systematic cracks or
grimaces at the audience.Maze with the narrow belief that reward factors do ac- will stay handsome and new look- Their
good taste was a compliment; a compliment both to ourselves and to them. Two mazes were used in the experiment—one
in which the cul de sacs at the end of each alley were narrower than the alleys and the maze
with the wide cul de sacs. It was found that the experimental rats were obtaining the reward offered for correct
performance. Hull and his followers feel that reward itself is responsible for latent learning, and the Tolman theory tends to
disprove Tolman’s “cognitive map” theory.

The new Spalding PAR. 4 FLITES, also fine-quality clubs, are offered at a popular price. The irons also feature Spalding’s
exclusive tough alloy steel with a high-polish finish that will last and last. Like the FLITES, they're sold through Golf
Professionals only.

The problem set up here involved rats, mazes, two struggling future experimental psychologists, latent learning, a little rat food, and
increased accuracy in performance. The experimental rats were placed in the maze 12 hours after being fed and were allowed
to explore. Lighting was arranged so that illumination was equally distributed throughout the maze. Doors were placed halfway down each
alley so the rats could not back-track.

CHARLOTTE 2, N. C.
8 West Trade Street Phone ED. 2-8257

STONESTREET'S CAFE
Open Seven Days a Week
PHONE 3-6241
450 S. Main Mooresville

Drink MOOR QUALITY MILK
Mooresville Creamery, Inc.

Of course, most everyone does—often. Because a few moments over ice-cold Coca-Cola refresh you so. It's sparkling with natural goodness—and
naturally friendly to your figure. Feel like having a Coke?

BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD
“Coke” is a registered trade-mark. © 1956, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY

Two Weeks only—from RCA Victor on future record purchases... all for only $3.98! New RCA Victor “Save-On-Records” Coupon Book brings
sensational savings to record lovers! You want to be at your dealer’s counter!

126 West Fifth St. Charlotte 2, N. C.

You buy the RCA Records Coupon Book for $3.98. You immediately save one dollar on any two RCA Victor Albums.
Every month you decide which records you want. The Coupon Book contains coupons, each of which saves you one dollar
on RCA Victor Albums. PLUS Three Free Bonus Coupons in advance of the year. Take your free $3.98 RCA Victor
Coupon Book down to your dealer’s counter!

Here’s the whittled-down, lean-lined look of authentic IVY LEAGUE styling... in lightweight suits, sport coats, and slacks, tailored for us
by TROPI-TEX. Tailored, did we say? Needled would be a better word! Soft, modulated, needlework that molds the jacket lightly
to the shoulders, drapes the trousers to flow naturally from the waist! There’s an IVY LEAGUE Suit, Sport Coat, or
Slack for every occasion. Why not see our vast selection today?

MEN’S SHOPS, STREET FLOOR
