FRIDAY, MAY 4, 1956 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE FOUR

YMCA CABINET MEMBERS FOR 1956-57 are seen above. Left to right, top row: Bunny Perkinson, Membership and Gift Fund; Jim Covington, Worship; Joe Sandifer, Mission of the Church; Lloyd Chapin, Effective Citizenship; Vernon Hunter, representative to the Religious Activities Committee. Second row: Tony Dick, Spiritual Life; Bob McRae, Social Life and Hospitality; Bill Martin, Publicity and editor of the Wildcat Handbook; Bill Lazenby, president of the College Bible Class. Third row: Willie Thompson, Boy’s Work; Tommy Thompson, Community Service; Creighton Peden, Programs; Carl Cooper, Freshman Adviser. Bottom row: Rhett Sanders, vice-president; Gordon Bondurant, President; Phil Essen, Treasurer, and John Esataerenatte, Publicity.

HADLEY HUNT GIVES MUSICAL RECITAL

L. Hadley Hunt will be presented by the Department of Music in his graduating senior recital on Friday evening, at 8:15 P.M., in the Davidson College Presbyterian Church. The public is cordially invited to attend this program.

Mr. Hunt is the son of Mr. and Mrs. L. R. Hunt of Pleasant Garden, N. C., and will be graduated with a BS degree in this year’s Commencement exercises.

While at Davidson as a student, Mr. Hunt has studied for the past four years with Philip Gehring, a college organist. A graduate of the University of North Carolina, he received his B.A. degree. In the summer of 1955, before joining the Davidson faculty, he received his Master of Music degree from the University of Indiana. He began his studies with Mrs. Ralph Hodgkin, a prominent musician of Greensboro, and has also studied under Catherine Crozier, a noted organist.

The featured works on this organ recital will be the Handel “Concerto No. 5 in F Major,” three Schubler Chorales, and the “Fantasy and Fugue in G Minor” by Bach, Cesar Franck’s “B Minor Chorale,” Walter Piston’s “Chromatic Study on the Name of BACH,” and “The Litanies” by Alain.

For the past two years, Mr. Hunt has served as Chapel organist for the college, as assistant organist and choir director at the West Market Street Methodist Church in Greensboro, and as President of the Gamma Kappa Chapter of Phi Mu Alpha Sinfonia, national honorary music fraternity. For four years, he has been a member of the renowned Davidson College Male Chorus and also has served as its accompanist for one year. A reception open to the audience will follow the recital.

French Club Selects Next Year's Officials

Le Cercle Francais met Tuesday evening at the home of Dr. and Mrs. Goldiere. Alternate dates of May 11 and May 15 were selected for the annual dinner at the Chez Montet in Charlotte.

New officers elected for next year were: Bill Martin, president; Jack Trawick, vice-president; Emory Kimbrough, secretary; and Dr. Goldiere, treasurer. At that time, the treasurer expressed the urgent need of funds to allay the critical state of the treasury.

Spanish Club Meeting Features ‘El Billete’

“El Billete,” an original Spanish play written by Archie Joyner, will be presented at the May 9th meeting of the Spanish Club. The meeting will be held at 7:30 in the College Union Ballroom, and guests from Spanish Clubs at Queens College and Mitchell College will be present. Refreshments will be served.

Joyner served as President of Sigma Delta Pi and the Spanish Club this year and will direct his own play. Members of the cast include Jackie Polley as Maria, Ruth Page as La Senora, Lietta Marrotte as Augustina, Sam Sutton as Juan, John Woodall as Ramon, Bill Pfefferkorn as Pedro, David Wood as Anciano, Dave McLain as Corregidor, and Ed Young as the Alcalde.

Are you playing the right Spalding ball?

For the low handicapper, Spalding’s new high-compression AIR-FLITE offers maximum distance. The exclusive DURA-THIN cover withstands scuffing and bruising far longer. $14.75 doz., 3 for $3.75.

The Spalding KRO-FLITE couples distance with superb durability. The tough cover will stand up under surprisingly rough treatment and the ball stays round, white, and puttable. $14.75 doz., 3 for $3.75.

The Spalding OLYMPIC is a medium-priced ball with a very tough skin. It combines exceptional wearing qualities with a playability usually associated with higher-priced balls. $11.40 doz., 3 for $2.85.

Many golfers choose the Spalding HONOR. Popularly priced, it offers good durability and playability. Like all Spalding balls, it features True Tension winding for extra resilience. $9.00 doz., 3 for $2.25.

Get economy and quality in this golf ball. Spalding’s VICTOR is an “economy” ball with plenty of distance. The extra-thick cover promises great durability. $7.00 doz., 3 for $1.75.

PROFESSORS ANSWER ‘Selling’ Criteria?

In search for the opinions of individual faculty members on a matter of interest to present and prospective Davidson students, the Davidsonian asked the Department Chairmen the following question:

“If you were to persuade an excellent high school student to send in an application for admission to Davidson, what general arguments would you be inclined to use?”

The two replies quoted below contain essentially the remarks of the entire body of answers. Davidsonian invites further comment by the faculty and student body on this question.

The replies from the Departments of Education and Political Science follow:

1. These are some of the points that might be presented to such a prospective student:

a. Academic excellence of Davidson, as evidenced by:
(1) Records of former Davidson students in graduate and professional schools.
(2) The number of our students who win outstanding fellowship and scholarship awards for graduate study each year.
(3) The general level of ability of Davidson undergraduates as demonstrated by entrance tests and orientation tests. This is a fair point to mention but it should NOT be over-emphasized because the general level is still well below what it should be if we are to be compared favorably with some of the better liberal arts colleges in the United States.

(4) Reasonably strong emphasis upon effective teaching.
b. Excellent physical plant and equipment — with certain notable exceptions such as the science and fine arts buildings.
c. Availability of a respectable quality of liberal arts training with a considered emphasis upon religious and ethical orientation.
d. In all honesty, perhaps the general quality of the Faculty warrants some mention.

These Davidson qualities, several of which are mentioned below, should be called to the attention of the prospective student:

Seriousness of purpose. Academic standards high. A good liberal arts education with lots of laughs and extra-curricular activities as well. Good spirit among the Davidson students, among the faculty, and between faculty and students. A real interest in creating the opportunity for the student to grow in a total sense, not merely in knowledge or the social graces.

The Vivaldi “Concerto in C Major for Two Trumpets” with Frank Emerson and Bill Fraley as soloists and the Overture to the opera “Iphigenia in Aulis” will highlight a program by the Concert Band in Chambers Auditorium at 8:15 p.m. on Wednesday. Franklin West, a gifted oboist and outstanding woodwind instructor, will conduct the Band. An excellent musician, Professor West attended Davidson before receiving his B.A. degree from the University of North Carolina.

Marshals Are Elected by Literary Societies

The two campus literary societies have completed their elections of marshals to serve at the commencement exercises. Each society selects two marshals from the junior class.

Chief Marshal, and John Trotti, Jim Brice were elected by Philanthropic Literary Society. Marshals Bill Daniels and Tom Morgan were elected by the Eumenean Literary Society.

New Ruling to Raise Semester Hour Limit

The Curriculum Committee approved the following regulation regarding the number of hours that may be carried by a student:

Except for basic R.O.T.C. no student shall be allowed to carry more than 16 hours of work provided:

1. Any student having an average of 2.0 in the preceding semester may carry as many as 19 hours.| hours. | chosen by Eumanean Literary So- | 2. Any student having an aver- | ciety age of .15 in the preceding | semester may carry 17 hours | — two 4-hour courses are in- Helms Leads | cluded. | This action shall become ef- fective with the session opening in September. FRATERNITIES by Paul Biggers of Company A and | Bill Redding of Company B. | Three more social fraternities | have recently completed their elections of new officers. John Maultsby is the new presi- dent of Pi Kappa Phi. Other Phi Kapp officers are: David McFadyen, treasurer; Bill Duke, secretary; Walter Bishop, historian; Sam Fretwell, warden; Neil McMillan, chaplain; and Tommy Griffin, rush chairman. The Sigma Chi's elected Jim Kuist as their new president. Others elected were: John Trotti, vice president; Bill Pitser, secretary; Jim Daniels, treasurer; Grier Davis, corresponding secretary; Willie Thompson, editor; Jim Pressley, historian; and Bruce Shipley, rush chairman. Drink ‘M O O R’ QUALITY MILK Mooresville Creamery, Inc. The new president of Sigma Alpha Epsilon is Chuck Wright. Assisting Wright will be: Roger Powell, vice-president; Sam Smith, secretary; Ed Young, treasurer; and Ross Smyth, Rush Chairman. PARKER-GARDNER CHARLOTTE 2, N. C. 118 West Trade Street Phone ED. 2-8257 IFC CHANGES RULING ON RUSH WEEK; By TOM THRAILKILL I. F. C. President Bunny Perkinson of Phi Delta Theta presided over the first meeting of the newly-elected Council Monday night. The new council members are Secretary Ken Conger, a rising senior from Statesville, N. C., representing Pi Kappa Alpha; Treasurer Jimmy Martin, a member of Beta Theta Pi from Columbia, S. C., and a rising senior; Don Massey from Nashville, Tennessee, representing Alpha Tau Omega; Gerald Cathey from Gastonia, N. C., of Kappa Sigma; Also, Charlie Brown of Ivanhoe, N. C., representing Sigma Phi Epsilon; Dave Shaw of Charlotte, representing Sigma Chi; Tommy Hawpe of Waynesboro, Va., representing Phi Gamma Delta; John Trask from Beaufort, S. C., representing Kappa Alpha; Jimmy Jones from Richmond for Sigma Alpha Epsilon; Joe Huskins of Gastonia for Pi Kappa Phi; and Randy Daniel of Richmond, representing the Campus Club. RUSHING RULES One of the main items of business concerned rushing regulations for next year. There will be only one change in the rules which were in effect this year. There will be no confirmation of dates on the Thursday of Rush Week. Instead, rushees will place return-date cards in boxes in the lobby of Chambers. I.F.C. members will then place these names on the master chart and give each rush chairman a list of the rushees who gave them return dates. Tom McCutchen of the Freshman class has just received notice from the Danforth Foundation that he has been awarded a William H. Danforth Scholarship to the American Youth Foundation Leadership Training Camp for this summer. This Camp is held annually at Stony Lake, Oceana County, Michigan for a period of two weeks. The Camp this year will be held the latter part of August. Sixty of these scholarships are awarded to outstanding freshmen from colleges and universities all over America. Nominations for the scholarships are made by a Faculty Committee, selected at each competing school. Tom is the second Davidson student to receive this award in the past three years. Dan LaFar of the Junior Class attended the Camp on a Danforth Scholarship two summers ago. NEW WF COUNCIL ORGANIZED At its recent elections, the Davidson Westminster Fellowship elected Bob Jones to be its president for the coming year. Also elected were Steve Huntley, vice-president; Charlie Helms, secretary; and Barry Benton, treasurer. The new council also includes several members appointed by the officers. These include Ben Farley, Tom Cutting, Jerry Eller, Roger Minassian, Basil Sharp, Al Myers, and Peter Andrews. Left to right: Dr. W. A. Paton, head of the Accounting Program in the School of Business Administration at the University of Michigan; Dr. C. K. Brown, Davidson professor of economics; Mr. Willard Graham, head of the Accounting Program at the University of North Carolina, and Dr. C. E. Ratliff, Davidson professor of economics, enjoying themselves at the Business-Economics Association meeting which was held in the College Union on May 4. ODK Taps Thirteen. . . (Continued From Page One) The new dormitory, on the site of the old Rumple Dormitory, is nearing completion. Unless any unforeseen event takes place, it will be ready for habitation by the beginning of the fall semester. Rooms have been assigned and there is little doubt but that it will be completed. However, if any problem arises in the way of labor, building supplies, or weather conditions, those to whom the rooms have been assigned will have to be housed elsewhere temporarily. BUNNY PERKINSON A member of the Philanthropic Literary Society, Perkinson has served as First Vice-President of the Student Body, Sports Editor of the Davidsonian, and Boarding House Manager for Phi Delta Theta. He is President-elect of the Interfraternity Council and of the Senior Class for next year. He is from Chattanooga, Tenn. CLYDE ROBINSON Clyde has distinguished himself as a member of the YMCA Cabinet for two years, as a Senior representative to the Student Council, as a Baker Scholar, and as Vice-President of Phi Delta Theta. DON STEWART Stewart from St. Louis, Missouri, has served as Rush Chairman for the Cross-Country team, member of the track team, AED, treasurer of the Spanish Club and the Interfraternity Council. He was selected for inclusion in Who's Who. His hometown is Raleigh, N. C. ED SPEIR Speir, from Durham, N. C., has been vice-president of SAE social fraternity, on the Board of Directors of the Business-Economics Association, Recorder of the Court of Control, Captain of the Swimming Team, President of the D Club, vice-president of the Honorary Fraternity Council, and also a member of the Spanish Club and the Interfraternity Council. ED YOUNG Recent winner of the Agnes Sentelle Brown Award, Young hails from Louisville, Ky. He was president of his pledge class of SAE, won its scholarship trophy, and is now its treasurer. He will serve next year as editor of the annual, member of Scabbard and Blade, on the staff of the Going to College Handbook, and again as cheerleader. A touch will tell you . . . an Accu-Ray Chesterfield satisfies the most . . . burns more Satisfy Yourself with a Milder, Better-Tasting smoke— packed for more pleasure by AccuRay