The Davidsonian

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF: Dick Morehead
ASSOCIATE EDITORS: Maurice Crouse, Tom Warlick
Managing Editors: Jim Batten, Franklin Bloodworth, Jim Brice
Sports Editor: Leon Howell
Copy Editor: John T. Harmon
Exchange Editor: Bob Beall
News Editors: Lloyd Chapin, Bill Pomeroy
Staff Photographer: Hank Daniel
Assignments: John Trask

PRESS
Member of the Associated Collegiate Press and Intercollegiate Press

PAGE TWO

A Look Forward

Mid-semesters offer a natural and often rewarding time for evaluation. It is appropriate to survey the past semester, total up the won and lost columns, and see how the game was played. It is further a time to project our future out of past experience and present conditions. The following are only a few random projections of the many, both on individual and college levels, which may bring profitable results.

Friday, Jan. 13, 1956

Scholarships... To graduating seniors, the bountiful extent of scholarship offers available now presents opportunities for study and experience in all fields represented here at Davidson. Full advantage of these offers should be made while there is still time. Underclassmen should also investigate scholarship requirements and suggestions for their future reference. Those seniors who plan to step into the economic world this June would do well to consider carefully the Placement Service now in operation in the College Union.

Pastoral Counselor... There has long been a need on this campus for a pastoral counselor: one who would interpret, understand, and help fill the needs of the individual student in his relationship to his God and fellow men. There is further a need for interested, organizational, and coordinating activity on behalf of the some 340 non-Presbyterian students here. It is encouraging to note that a committee is considering this problem. A student and faculty committee from the Y Board is studying the position and duties of the Y General Secretary in the light of these needs. The present Y Secretary has made long strides in this direction, but his position is limited by definition and construction. Student response and comment on this matter are requested by the committee.

Organizational Evaluation... This is a time when each element of student representation and organization should be evaluated in the light of purposes, accomplishments, and campaign speeches. Along this line, Student Government and President Anderson are to be commended for their work and accomplishments of the first semester. Extra-Curriculars should be studied for the nature, value, and time consumption of the entire program as well as the component parts. Individual evaluation of time spent away from the basics may also be helpful as well as revealing. Some have too many activities; some lack enough—in the struggle to develop the whole man.

The College Program and Plant... Although this is “a safe place to—” the college and its program should always be evaluated in the light of progress, present needs, and inadequacies. How about the laundry, College Union, Vesper series, etc.? Is the physical training program meeting the needs of all the students, and is the present PT test adequate? How about the Curriculum? The faculty is urged to evaluate the college educational system to fill deficiencies, strengthen weak points, and develop in positive directions. How about such courses as general physics, introductory law, more seminar-type instruction, and expanded philosophy and political science departments? What will Davidson’s answer be to the tremendously increasing number of applicants for admission to college? Already 450 high school seniors have applied for entrance into Davidson in next year’s freshmen class. What will be the student answer to Greek Week? A total revamping of Greek Week is demanded from the Hill. Its success will depend on student interest, voice, and creative suggestions.

Along with the exterior view should come an inner evaluation. It may be rewarding to project “the old man” 10 or 20 years hence. One aspect of “the old man” is reflected every day in his chapel maturity. Whether you favor “wars” on management and “splendid strikes;” or whether you like industrial diplomacy and vacations at Myrtle Beach, it is a quality of the mature man to allow the speaker a courteous reception. Those students who reveal their emotions and their age for public perusal speak all too adequately for themselves. So before the rumble dies out on Belk’s Boardwalk for this semester, let us stop to evaluate the present position before we reach into the future.

R.H.M.

Homogeneity or No?

It will come as a surprise to no one that Davidson is almost strictly a Southeastern college. The question of how more students from other sections can be attracted has been considered recently in some circles, and some proposals for accomplishing this have been made. A breakdown of the enrollment in 1953-54, which may be taken as typical, clearly shows the sectional composition of the student body. Of 834 students, 782 were from the Southeastern states (those east of the Mississippi and south of the Ohio and the Mason-Dixon line). Eight were from those states with Southern characteristics, eight more were from the border states, leaving only nineteen from other states. There were seven students, some the sons of missionaries, who made their homes in foreign countries. Well over half the students came from North Carolina. This pattern is not one forced on the enrollment by the college. The Admissions Committee has neither geographical nor religious quotas, each application being considered solely on the grounds of scholarship and character. The College Board scores are the major, but not the sole, criterion for admission. Those applicants who score above a minimum score and stand in the upper half of their classes are admitted, provided that they are not disqualified on the basis of character. Those making a lower score may be admitted upon further examination of their records.

Several reasons can be given for this pattern. Perhaps the major cause is the general ignorance about Davidson outside the Southeast. This is shown by remarks which circulated around the Harvard campus after a Davidson football game: “Yesterday we beat Davidson—whoever that might be.” Davidson is known and respected in the Southeast, especially among Presbyterians, but most Easterners are as blissfully ignorant of us as we are of comparable institutions in their states. Much could be done through active alumni club promotion, which is not being done at the present time, although there are large groups of alumni in other sections. Such clubs should perform the valuable task of presenting Davidson to outstanding students in their areas and encouraging them to attend. A further source of information to prospective students is the advertising of the George F. Baker and other scholarships. Unfortunately, most of this publicity is distributed in the areas from which most of our students already come. An expansion of the campaign to include at least the highest-ranking preparatory schools in all parts of the Union would do much to attract students who would not otherwise enroll.

Davidson's sectional pattern is reinforced by the lack of large funds for scholarships. Many Eastern colleges grant scholarships solely on the basis of ability, while Davidson must give consideration to the need of the applicants. No tabulation has been made of those who apply and then do not enter, but it is known that many of the approximately 150 applicants for scholarships do not enter when they do not receive grants. Even some of those who have won Baker scholarships have enrolled elsewhere when they have been offered larger scholarships at other institutions. Until enough scholarships are available to attract outstanding students, Davidson will continue to be at a disadvantage and will continue to lose good candidates to other colleges.

—M.A.C.

BUSINESS MANAGER: Larry Parrott
Advertising Manager: Bob Carmichael
Subscription: Warner Hall
Circulation: Bob Majors, Stan Miller, Tony Guiles, Bill Bondurant
Business Staff

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON Ave. New York, N.Y.
Chicago * Boston * Los Angeles * San Francisco

Subscription Rate: $2.00 Per Year
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1879.
Offices in David Ovens College Union, Davidson College

Into Each Life...
By Garrison

Student Prexy Anderson Gives Report on Council’s Activities

I would like to pause here at the end of the first semester and outline just what your Student Government has attempted to do during these past months. In the first place, an attempt has been made this year to make the student body aware of what Student Government is doing. For the first time, regularly scheduled Council meetings have been held and have been covered by Davidsonian reporters. All students have been invited to attend these meetings. In addition, the Student Government office on the second floor of the College Union is open every weekday from 1:40-3:00 P.M.

Council Policy

The Student Council has tried to take a serious interest in those things which are of concern to the student body and has tried to avoid adopting projects, committees, or investigations merely for the sake of appearances.

Local Club Seeks to Stimulate Interest in Foreign Affairs

(This is another in a series of articles on the various members of the Honorary Fraternity Council, reviewing the organizations’ purposes and functions. Ed.)

In 1914, on the eve of World War I, the first four International Relations Clubs were formed on the campuses of Harvard, Yale, Princeton, and Columbia Universities. From this small but impressive beginning, the movement quickly spread until there are at present over 600 IRCs in the United States and a large number in other lands. In 1948, the present national organization, the Association of International Relations Clubs, was formed. The Davidson club is also a member of the International Relations Clubs of North Carolina. The purposes of the Davidson club as well as the AIRC are to promote interest in and to inform its members and others on issues of international relations and to contribute to the advancement of world peace based on justice and freedom.

In 1924, the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace undertook the responsibility of further developing and leading the club movement. This group, an independent, non-political organization, was founded in 1910 by Andrew Carnegie and has been providing valuable assistance to IRCs since becoming associated with them. It seeks to encourage more and better international relations studies in American colleges and universities.

Local Organization

The Davidson club was organized in 1918. For several years it was known as the International Policy Club. Since 1921, however, it has been known as the International Relations Club. Meetings are held the first Wednesday evening in each month at 9:15 P.M. and on other special occasions. Membership is open to any student in attendance at Davidson College. The only requirement is that the student have a sincere and continuing interest in problems relating to international relations. Anyone interested in membership should contact the president of the organization. This year’s officers are Tom Warlick, President; Tom Tennant, Vice-President; and Phil Kukura, Secretary-Treasurer. Our very able faculty advisor is Dr. Paul A. Marrotte. Dr. Harold P. Ford, professor of political science while on leave from the State Department, has also consented to work with the club during the year. Our policy is that the students themselves prepare and present the programs for all of our regular meetings. Our programChairman, Tom Tennant, is especially well-qualified for this work. On special occasions, we sponsor programs featuring prominent outside speakers as well as faculty members. In this connection, we hope to bring to the campus during the second semester two speakers who are well acquainted with various fields of international relations. These meetings will be open to the general public.

Intercollegiate Meetings
We also participate in joint meetings with other IRCs in North and South Carolina. Last year, one of the most successful activities of the club was a joint meeting held at Winthrop College in Rock Hill, S.C. Arrangements are nearing completion for a joint meeting to be held with the Winthrop group here in the spring.

Wilson Centennial
The Davidson club has a unique opportunity for service this year. The centennial of Woodrow Wilson will be celebrated in 1956 with the theme “Freedom for man—a world safe for mankind.” The AIRC has also adopted this theme for the year, and IRCs everywhere will be participating in the celebration. As Davidson, where Woodrow Wilson attended from 1873-4, has been designated by the Woodrow Wilson Foundation as one of three institutions around which the celebration will center, the Davidson IRC hopes that it will be able to contribute something of real value to the centennial.

Student Government
However, it is the object of the Student Government not only to pursue courses of action which are concerned with student desires but also to do all possible to aid the efficiency and welfare of the College. To be more specific, let me list the main accomplishments of Student Government during this semester.

As a result of a petition by the Student Council, the ROTC department reversed its decision of last year and now grants a probationary cut in accordance with the practice of the rest of the college departments. One of the most time-consuming projects of the first semester has been an extended and extensive effort to get the telephone exchange of Davidson included on the Charlotte exchange. Of necessity, any such action had to emanate from the townspeople and consequently, this project has not been widely advertised. As it now stands, both the Davidson and the Cornelius Lions’ Clubs have endorsed the project and a poll of the 1077 phone owners of this area will be taken by these groups within the next couple of weeks. If 70 percent of the phone holders sign the petition, the Davidson area will be in a strong position to bargain with Southern Bell for the extended service.

Parking Investigated
The parking situation, which aroused much student discussion, was thoroughly investigated and was found to be the best possible under existing circumstances. However, as a result of this investigation, Mr. Martin did open the restricted parking areas to student automobiles from noon Saturday until midnight Sunday. Since the beginning of the year, Student Council members have been active on the Chapel Committee concerned with chapel programs. I feel that all will agree that chapel programs have greatly improved this year and we hope for still more improvement during the next semester.

The Social Committee of the faculty, as a result of a petition by the Student Council, has agreed to allow any fraternity an extra off-campus social function if special circumstances seem to justify such an additional event.

Anderson
The Student Government has also been participating actively in the National Student Association. In conjunction with this organization, we are currently engaged in attempting to secure an exchange student from the Soviet Union for the coming school year. The association is still in the process of clearing such an exchange through the State Department.

Athletics
Throughout the fall months, Bunny Perkinson, as head of an Athletic Promotion Committee, worked to boost attendance at football games and in general to promote athletics. His committee got free advertising in the Charlotte newspapers and over Charlotte radio stations for Davidson home games, and the Council pushed student interest in athletics at every turn. Several attempts were made at selling tickets in Charlotte to home games; however, these met with no success.

Before going into activities that the Council is currently pursuing, let me say that there are also some areas where Student Government has fallen down. An example of this is the failure of the Court of Control. In an effort to remedy this, Vernon Hunter has been appointed to head a committee to investigate the Court. There have been other instances where the Student Government could have been more active. We can only say to this that Student Government is trying to improve and to be active and effective in any issue where combined student feeling is evident. This is what Student Government is doing. We invite your support, your criticism, and your thought. The Student Council feels that this first semester has been a good one. We are grateful for the fine cooperation given by Dr. Cunningham, the faculty, and the administration. We hope that the coming semester will go as well. Davidson College is blessed with many strong and good traditions. It is our hope that Student Government will grow in the tradition of being the authoritative and unified expression of student opinion.

THE OPEN FORUM
Question: There has been a good deal of talk about withdrawals during the current year. Have the number and the nature of the cases been really unusual?
Answer: There have been 15 withdrawals during the first semester: 14 voluntary and 1 involuntary. I do not have exact figures for preceding years. However, it is my impression, and this checks with that of other administrative offices, that the number is about average. Nor do I believe that the nature of the withdrawals has been really unusual. Of the 14 voluntary withdrawals, 3 were because of physical illness and most of the others involved academic difficulties. To sum the matter up, I do not believe that there is any real cause for concern.
Samuel R. Spencer, Jr.
Dean of Students

Question: If a student would like to suggest a change in the present curriculum, such as the inclusion of a new course, how and through whom may he best accomplish this?
Answer: Should a student be interested in suggesting a new course for our curriculum, he should first of all contact either the professor who would teach the course or the chairman of the department in which the course is to be offered. The department involved may have good reasons for not offering such a course or it may be interested in learning how much student interest exists for such a course. Assuming that the department approves the student’s request, the next step involves the Curriculum Committee of the Faculty. The description of the course together with the reasons for its offering is presented to the Committee for discussion and action. If it is approved by the Curriculum Committee, its description is included in the next college catalogue.
C. J. Pietenpol
Dean of the Faculty

Question: Under what conditions would a break between semesters, say two days, be possible? Has such an intersemester vacation been attempted before?
Answer: The Southern Regional Accrediting Association, of which Davidson is a member, requires 45 contact teaching hours in every subject each semester. Davidson is geared to run on exactly that many semester-class hours. The introduction of a two-day vacation in the middle of the academic year would require, therefore, an extension of days at the beginning or the end of the year, or the removal of one day from both the Christmas and Spring vacations (one from each semester). A College regulation requires that school open on the Wednesday nearest the 15th of September. This date, the starting point from which the yearly calendar evolves, has been determined for numerous reasons, such as allowing for the proper length of time between the closing of summer school and the opening of the regular academic year. An addition of days at the beginning of the year would, as things now stand, thus be impractical. An addition at the end of the year similarly meets with numerous conflicts. The Commencement Exercises, to be conveniently timed for the largest number of people, must be held over the weekend, and the closing of the final exam period is determined accordingly.

An extension remains the possibility of borrowing a day from the Christmas and Spring vacations. This has been suggested to the Student Body in a previous year and was voted down. It seems to be, however, the only practical source. Several years ago, a vacation was given to the College between semesters; it lasted only one year. Among the reasons for its discontinuation was the fact that the Administration received numerous letters from the students’ parents stating that they thought this vacation was following illogically close behind the Christmas vacation. The element of the financial burden placed on the students who have to travel long distances for this relatively short vacation was also noted by many parents. The Faculty and parents, as well as the Student Body, seem to be divided as to whether or not an inter-semester vacation is practical in view of the aforementioned circumstances. If, however, a large element of the Student Body, after considering the conditions that must be met, would nevertheless like to petition the Faculty Calendar Committee to institute a vacation after the first semester exams, they may count on their petition receiving the fullest possible consideration.

Question: As things are shaping up now, approximately when will the Quips and Cranks be distributed? What new features are to be included in the 1956 Annual?
Answer: The Editors of the Quips and Cranks hope to have the completed yearbook on campus by May 14 to allow two days for distribution before the beginning of the final exam period. The Annual is larger this year than in previous years, giving four pages to each of the fraternities and including a sixteen-page opening section about the College. Every football game of the past season will be represented by a photograph. The ones included which were taken at off-campus games by photographers from other colleges are the result of a sports coverage and yearbook exchange with other institutions. The 1956 Yearbook will contain a Kodachrome print and an aerial shot of the campus. Old English script will be used intermittently. The entries for the Beauty Queen section have been sent to Mr. Jon Whitman, one of the ten top illustrators and artists in the nation, and will be returned in February. His decision is to be withheld until the publication of the Annual. The cover of the book will be black; the second color, dark green. Generally speaking, the Yearbook is progressing on schedule. Any students who can assist the Editors by typing will certainly be welcomed in the offices of the Quips and Cranks.