The Davidsonian

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF: Dick Morehead
ASSOCIATE EDITORS: Maurice Crouse, Tom Warlick
Editors: Jim Batten, Franklin Bloodworth, Jim Brice
Sports Editor: Leon Howell
Copy Editor: John T. Harmon
Exchange Editor: Bob Beall
News Editors: Lloyd Chapin, Bill Pomeroy
Staff Photographer: Hank Daniel
Assignments Manager: John Trask

Member of the Associated Collegiate Press and Intercollegiate Press
Friday, Feb. 10, 1956
Page Two

To the Trustees

Davidson must not enlarge its student body at the present time. The question of enrollment involves three primary factors—facilities, standards, and qualified opinion. If these factors are ignored, it will be to the detriment and gradual deterioration of the prestige, quality, and life of Davidson College.

In our present circumstances, we do not have the facilities to adequately house, teach, or handle an increase of some 150 students. A greater enrollment would impose the following conditions on all concerned. First, available dormitory space can only manage 850 students with the proposed destruction of Georgia dorm. More students would necessitate three to a room. Second, the ratio of students to faculty would be greatly enlarged. Average classes would rise to around 37 in place of around 23 which is the normal size now. The benefits sought by many such as more seminar-type courses, smaller classes, enlarged curriculum, and general courses for the layman would be impossible and forgotten. In fact, the aims for which they stand and the principles which they espouse would be destroyed. Third, increased enrollment would necessitate more instructors and make unanswerable demands on certain classroom facilities. It would abandon any raise in faculty salaries, a step which is long overdue, both in regard to attracting top-flight professors as well as to retaining the present ones. Fourth, there would not be adequate seating in chapel or Vespers, particularly the latter. It is inconceivable that these services would be dropped or their buildings enlarged. Fifth, the library, already deplorably low in comparative standards and capacity, would be dwarfed by the figures of a larger enrollment. And sixth, other aspects of campus life would feel the pressure of cramped conditions, especially fraternity houses, some boarding houses, and the gymnasium. So much for facilities.

All of the above factors would affect the quality of student and caliber of man to graduate from Davidson. Granted that we owe to society a greater measure of graduates; but we have a still greater and peculiar challenge to produce a man of high quality, characterized by educational and spiritual maturity and promising ability for Christian leadership. Not only would the standards of the Davidson graduate be lessened by quantitative measures, but the quality of Davidson as an academic institution would noticeably decrease on all standards by which colleges are rated today. We are not interested in maintaining present standards but in reaching higher educational levels—progress, not stagnation or mediocrity. It is not conceivable that those closely associated with Davidson, its past and present, would want it to commit academic suicide in the future.

Finally, the element of qualified opinion must be considered as a strong determining factor in this question. In the recent vote of the student body, 56.5% expressed a desire to remain the same in size, while only 33.5% wished to enlarge. This is a clear-cut majority of over half of the student body. It was evident in analysis that those for the status quo were decidedly more emphatic in their opinions than those in favor of a bountiful increase. Also in conversation and contact with members of the faculty, it has been revealed that many of Davidson’s outstanding professors, both in regard to longevity as well as high educational position, are in strong favor of retaining the same enrollment. Several prominent and respected members of the administration are of the same opinion. Certainly these vital elements of the college—students, faculty, and administration—who are closer to the actual life and situation than any other groups, are best qualified to express the correct position for Davidson today.

Therefore, on the basis of present facilities, quality, and opinion Davidson cannot and must not enlarge at the present time. Should Davidson enlarge its enrollment toward 1,000 in the future? Yes—but with an emphatic IF. Only if the facilities can be adequately enlarged to accommodate larger numbers, only if the quality of the present can be met and enhanced, and only if contemporary deficiencies can be corrected. To accomplish this in financial terms would require an increase of $1,800,000 in endowment according to figures just released from the treasurer's office. To accomplish this in educational terms will require much forethought, planning, and careful consideration of all the conditions involved.

It is true that Davidson has a direct and challenging obligation to the greatly rising tide of those seeking admission to colleges today. It is true that we can meet this obligation without serious loss to the atmospheric elements of a small liberal arts college. It is further true that an increased enrollment, if adequately publicized beyond the limits of our present territorial expansion, could attract men who will add variety, depth, and educational stimulants to a student body often deplorable in stereotyped homogeneity. But the benefits and demands of a larger enrollment should not and must not come without first meeting the prerequisites. The problem is one of time and quality. Enlargement must come on a gradual basis and only after present conditions have been satisfied and surpassed. We should be concerned now with enhancing the quality and caliber of Davidson and adequately filling the deficient gaps in our educational, physical, and financial situation. We should also make careful plans for future consideration of an enlarged enrollment—to accept the challenge of educating more men in the Christian traditions for a better tomorrow. To enlarge in the present, however, can only mean crowded conditions, lowered standards, decreased quality, and an unhealthy atmosphere pervading the whole.

The question rests with the trustees. They are urged to consider wisely—for the future of Davidson weighs heavily in the balance.

Layman’s Lament

In a letter to the editor last week a physics major expressed the strong need for an enlarged curriculum and increased intensity of present courses within the Physics department. This is one side to a proposal we have advocated before. The other side would be a greater science course for the layman. Under this system, a student could choose from biology, chemistry, or physics for his first semester; second semester would be devoted to the history and philosophy of science. A science major would take a different course, one geared to meet the advanced requirements of his particular field of study. Another suggestion along this same line would be to take the present courses as now offered, strip them of unnecessary detail and intellectual technicality, and present them with emphasis upon instruction and application of the scientific method and with special attention on modern developments. This need not be a crip course nor one that is too general; but suffused with practicality and new methods, it can hold great promise for the layman.

This course has been initiated with success at such institutions as FSU, Michigan State, Washington and Jefferson, and Chatham College in Pennsylvania. The layman wants and needs science in his educational background—but science that is modern, understandable, and stimulatingly useful.

Larry Parrott
Bob Carmichael
Warner Hall
Bob Majors, Stan Miller
Tony Guiles, Bill Bondurant

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON Ave. New York, N.Y.
CHICAGO • BOSTON • LOS ANGELES • SAN FRANCISCO

Subscription Rate: $2.00 Per Year
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1879.
Offices in David Ovens College Union, Davidson College

BUSINESS MANAGER
Advertising Manager
Subscription Circulation
Business Staff

AS TRUSTEES MEET
Campus Leaders Speak as Enrollment Debate Roars

Prospects of astronomical increases in the American college population in the immediate future have brought forcibly home the question of what role Davidson is to play. This week the Davidsonian presents a cross-section of opinion from student leaders on this pressing problem.

BLAKE BRINKERHOFF: I am by no means a staunch apostle of change. Nor do I believe that tradition, simply for the sake of tradition, is good. However, weighing in the balance as many facts as I can obtain, both pro and con, I feel that the increased demands should be met and our enrollment raised to 1000. Of course, this could be done logically only when the financial need is met and the increased number of students adequately handled. I personally do not believe we would be sacrificing quality for quantity; yet recognize the fact that many people have different interpretations for the word, “quality.”

JASON McMANUS: I am in favor of an enrollment of 1000. Davidson with 150 more men than she has now would not differ substantially in the “intangibles” I think, and Davidson must expand with the college population. I would like to see the expansion include a diversification in type of student—more non-Protestants, lower to upper-middle class economically, more non-Anglo-Saxon. Part of education is environment, part is curriculum. Our environment is stereotyped, homogenized. With more students there will be at least the possibility of a broader representation in type, and more students will lessen the pressure to conformity.

BUNNY PERKINSON: It is generally accepted that Davidson has a great deal to offer both as an educational institution and as a way of life. If the physical plant can accommodate 1000 men, as stated in the editorial page of this paper last week, it seems unfortunate that as many men as possible are not benefiting from what Davidson has to offer. I hardly think an increase of approximately 150 in the student body would destroy the small school atmosphere.

JOE CONARROE: The most significant contribution Davidson can make to society will come by

Dick Bibler
“—Or there’s forestry—I may decide to go into the lumber business,”

AT CHAPEL HILL
Freedom of the Press?
By PAT MILLER

We who are members of an academic community would do well to take note of what is going on at our sister institutions. The University of North Carolina is involved in a situation that is appalling to many minds that have always regarded the university as the citadel of free thought throughout the world. Now, however, we witness the attempted restriction and denial of one of the basic human rights and freedoms. It is a situation that challenges all who believe in a democratic society and way of life to cry out at the injustice that is inherent in these attempts at restriction.

The Daily Tar Heel, which is the official student publication at UNC, is regarded by many as one of the best university newspapers. It has often presented the most concise picture of the news on the campus, in the state, in the nation, and in the world. While its coverage has sometimes been inadequate, The Daily Tar Heel is to be congratulated on its attempts. The present editors of the newspaper are two of the best in a long line. Both Louis Kraar and Ed Yoder are top students, the latter being a Rhodes Scholar.

AGREEMENT IS DULL

Their editorial outlook has been stimulating and challenging. Very few may agree with all their opinions, but their views have been carefully thought out and given with conviction. Their editorial policy is correct, and they should have the right to present their opinions without limitation. Before last spring's elections Kraar and Yoder stated what their editorial policy would be and were elected on this as part of their platform: “While the news pages and letters to the editors column are designed to reflect student opinion, we do not believe that the editorial columns should necessarily mirror the prevailing opinions on the campus. Constant agreement is dull. We will attempt to put out a newspaper which will stimulate opinion, challenge unjust prejudices...” (The Daily Tar Heel, Feb. 2, 1956).

Believing in freedom of the press, the editors have carried out this policy and provided one of the few powerful liberalInfluences on the campus. Because of this stand, the editors now face a recall election and potential defeat in what looks to an outsider like complete absurdity. Upon the announcement of the hiring of Jim Tatum as football coach, the editors spoke out against this as the introduction of professionalism to the campus. Whether one agrees at all with this viewpoint, one should not deny them the right to express it.

RECALL PETITION

Yet a strong and large faction has arisen on the campus of UNC that would deny the editors this right. Headed by E. L. “Junior” Nance of Charlotte, a petition was drawn up asking for the recall of the editors. Approximately 700 names were on this petition. The school constitution requires only 10% of the student body in order to hold a recall election. Consequently, on February 14, a new election for the job of editor will be held. Nance, as leader of the opposition, says that the petition was not drawn up solely because of the Tatum editorial, but because of the paper. He maintains that because the paper is financially supported by the students and that the editors are elected by the students, the students should have their views represented in the editorial policy.

It is strange to me how a large university such as UNC could be so conservative. One would imagine that the University would reflect the liberal imagination and feeling not only in the academic realm but elsewhere. It is a great shame that free thought and liberalism face strangulation in a democratic university.

Through raising its standards to an optimum level, becoming a truly superior institution, and turning out a truly well-educated man, the admission of additional students can only hinder this development. Davidson can reach its potential only if it admits as many students as possible without any lowering of the standards. Neither the facilities nor the endowment are adequate for an increase. Much of what is best about Davidson can be lost if her size is increased. A Davidson education is unique because it allows for individual guidance, a friendly democratic atmosphere, and rapport found in student-faculty relations.

PAT WOODWARD:

In view of all the factors involved, I feel that the best course for Davidson in the near future would be that of increasing her enrollment to 1000. There are adequate, and unused, facilities for the handling of these few extra students, and this increase could be made without turning Davidson into a “big” college. The enrollment would not necessarily have to increase over that number. Although this would certainly not relieve the problem of increased applications, it should lead to an even better small college atmosphere than that existing at present.

PERRIN ANDERSON:

I am at present in favor of maintaining the present enrollment policy of the college. There are several considerations which lead me to this decision. Among these is the fact that some of the small campus atmosphere and benefits would be lost if the enrollment were expanded. In addition, it would take an enormous amount of money to offer to an increased number of students the type of education that now is available. I feel that our first objective ought to be the improvement of present standards and facilities. If this can be accomplished to a satisfactory degree, then the question of increased enrollment can be reopened.

JOHN CHILD:

Recognizing the increasing number of qualified students who will be seeking enrollment in Davidson during the next five years, and the fact that a group of management engineers report that with our physical facilities we could adequately handle 1000 students—I am still of the opinion that our role might best be played by maintaining enrollment with 850 as a very maximum. There does seem to me to be an obligation to the economy, so to speak, but I wonder if this could not be met by even going the other way, which in all probability would necessitate a raising of our requirements and standards.

JOE BILLY PHARR:

Of the two positions defined in the Davidsonian of February 5, I would definitely favor increased enrollment to 1000 students. This position is based upon several factors: (1) Economic feasibility of enrollment of 1000 students without too great

ODK STAND ON ENROLLMENT

BE IT RESOLVED BY OMICRON DELTA KAPPA: that it is our considered feeling that any consideration of an increase in enrollment be postponed until the facilities, faculty, and endowment are available to maintain and improve the quality of the type of education that Davidson represents. In no case should quality be sacrificed to quantity because of alumni, church, or population pressures. We feel the pressing issue now is the improvement of the present educational process, by such means as enlarging the library, increasing faculty salaries, etc. Then what is involved in an increase in enrollment may be considered.

a loss in “intangible values of a small college” (2) An “obligation” to meet educational needs of the time (3) Belief that Davidson misses a number of outstanding students who apply because of its small enrollment (4) Confidence of increased endowment to keep the present average per student and even increase this average because of industry's realization that our nation's colleges and universities furnish it most of its executives, managers, etc. I, however, do not favor a continuous increase of enrollment.

ROSS SMYTH:

It is my opinion that Davidson should increase its enrollment to approximately 1000 students for the following reasons: Davidson, as an institution of learning, and especially as a Christian institution, has an obligation to boys who want a college education and who can meet Davidson's requirements. It would be entirely possible to increase the present enrollment by some 150 students and still maintain the present caliber of Davidson men. I do not feel that this increase would seriously affect the “small college atmosphere” which is indeed an integral part of Davidson.

STUART VAUGHN:

I think that the Davidson College enrollment should be increased to approximately 1000 students. There are several reasons why I hold this opinion. With so many boys applying for entrance to Davidson, there are many good boys who are not accepted because of the limit placed on the number of freshmen who can be accepted each year. If the limit were set at 1000 students, Davidson men would still have the benefits of a small college but would also have these other boys who are not able to enter now because of the limit.

DEE HELM:

Davidson has long been acknowledged as a leader in academic circles. To maintain this position of respect, the college must expand its enrollment in order to help relieve the problem caused by an overall increase in college attendance. Nevertheless, before the college takes this inevitable step, it must not only assure that its academic standing does not suffer but should also provide more adequate facilities for its current enrollment. Specifically, our library demands improvement. This one necessity has retarded our progress for over a decade and should be the immediate concern of the Trustees.

YMCA Surveys First Semester Of New Voluntary Program

By BLAKE BRINKERHOFF and WILL TERRY

Now that four full months of voluntary “Y” at Davidson have passed, it is time for the general membership to consider some of the questions which have been posed by this new venture. Where have we failed and where have we met with success? The program of the “Y” has been a busy one. One which has brought leadership to areas of our community which would have lived without certain needed guidance. Most of this leadership has been provided through Boys Work,

THE MAILBAG

A THING OF BEAUTY...

Dear Editor:

The recent fixtures to the landscape at the north end of Chambers have given me a wonderful idea. Why doesn’t the college put fences around all the plots on the campus? Really, it would add so much, and also it would keep the grass nice. Of course, it must be realized that this undertaking would be somewhat expensive, and thus the project might have to be started with only beautiful white stakes like those near the Union, but in time perhaps a rich alumnus would become so interested in the work he would finance its completion in the proper manner. In the meantime, the funds devoted to the upkeep of the grounds should be centered on the task at hand since otherwise the campus looks almost perfect (what with the attractive lamp posts, telephone poles, etc.). Also, it must be noted that cable is to be preferred over wire, though the introduction of the former might have to be postponed for a while. Such as that may be, all efforts should be made to go ahead with the idea because it would effect a disciplined atmosphere such as that needed at Davidson. I believe the general consensus of the students has always been that the wide expanse of ground, especially on the front campus, needed to be artistically broken by something like galvanized pipes. The college is certainly advancing, and its progress is clearly reflected in this recent development.

BOB JONES

BEST SINCE 1954?

Dear Editor,

I'd like to make a few comments about your learned music critic’s article last week. It was stated that Mr. David Bar-Illan’s recital was the best since Isaac Stern’s in 1954. The critic must have had in mind the view that sound is only sound when interpreted by a sensible receptor, e.g. if a tree falls in the forest it really doesn’t make a sound unless the vibrations find understanding ears. So when the Budapest String Quartet and Blanche Thebom gave their recitals, those vibrations only echoed back and forth against the dead wood of those who were not so fortunate as to be in Paris. What is an ‘authentic musical artist’? A foreigner who can discuss Kant at the Connoisseur? I guess that was the trouble with Bob Merrill, the kid from the States who tried out with the Brooklyn Dodgers the same year he auditioned for the Met, and who probably can’t even pronounce Dostoevsky’s name, much less know what he wrote. The review of his recital came as a big surprise to me. I was out of town that weekend, but members of the music department and voice students said he gave a splendid performance. We'll be looking with interest for the N. C. Little Symphony Concert review.

P. FAGGART

Community Work and Scouting. Through these posts, the young people of the Negro and White communities have participated in athletic events, scouting, discussions of their vocation and how they could be made Christian vocations. There has been an added emphasis on the spiritual life of these young people.

DEPUTATIONS

Weekly, men have gone to various schools and churches on deputations and taught Sunday School at the sanitorium. The Social Committee has sponsored exchange days and parties on dance weekends. There has been a real attempt to encourage study groups by the Commission Chairman. These commissions have been responsible for bringing such men as Seward Hiltner and Nicholas Goncharoff to the campus. Approximately 200 men are engaged in active work, but it would seem to us that the “Y” should be more than an organization to keep so many people engaged in busy work.

PRIMARY FUNCTION

Work is a result of faith in the Person of Jesus Christ. The primary function of the “Y” on the Davidson Campus is to stimulate the latent spiritual energy on this campus and to stimulate the desire for a greater commitment to God. If the “Y” fails to do that, it has failed in its task, even if it has 850 people working. The “Y” fails if the claims of Christ on our corporate and individual lives do not shake our spiritual complacency and stimulate us to fulfill our Christian destiny to glorify God and enjoy Him forever. You, the general membership, fail if you do not demand that we make a spiritual impact on your life and suggest to us ways in which we can fulfill our obligation as a part of the Church and servants of Jesus Christ!