The Davidsonian

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF: JIM BATTEN
BUSINESS MANAGER: BOB CARMICHAEL

ASSOCIATE EDITORS:
FRANKLIN BLOODWORTH, LEON HOWELL

Assistant Editor: Bob Beall
Assignments: Bob Lathan
Managing Editors: Lloyd Chapin, John Trask
Advertising Manager: Bob Majors
Circulation: Bob Austin
Sports Editor: John Johnson
Feature Editor: Bill Bondurant
Copy Editor: John Trotti
Photographer: Marshall Chapman, Tom DuPuis, Hank Daniel

Represented for National Advertising by NATIONAL ADVERTISING SERVICE, Inc.
SUBSCRIPTION RATE: $2.00 Per Year.
Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.
OFFICES IN DAVID OVENS COLLEGE UNION, DAVIDSON COLLEGE

FRIDAY, DECEMBER 7, 1956

‘Steve’ a Symbol to Free World

A young refugee straight from the rubble-filled streets of Budapest stands out in our mind in a week jam-packed with
an almost unbelievable array of colorful personalities visiting the campus. Wearing pants torn from hitting the ground to avoid being
shot down by border guards during his flight into Austria, his sadly quiet smile vanishes when queried about his wife
and family. They remain in Budapest. His face is sober as he explains that he has had no word since
his flight three weeks ago. It is for them that he must conceal his identity, and be only known as
“Steve.”

Steve bears the air of a man who has spent his young adulthood under the shadow of brutalism and atrocity,
not dance weekends and overdue term papers. He tells of the blinding flash of rockets landing around him one night
three weeks ago as he hurried through the darkness toward the border and freedom, while we studied for reviews. He
grimly speaks of the rape of grandmothers and five-year-old girls by the Russian soldiers, and of the insane shelling of
empty Budapest homes.

Yet through it all, Steve's sense of humor has remained intact. When the language barrier became too great, he offered
a Hungarian-German pocket dictionary for assistance. Asked how he got along with an all-female audience at Queens, his comment was,
“Ah, fünfhundert pretty girls!” in the first English words he used all day. His constant companion was a Vienna version
of the College Outline Series, “Englisch in 30 Tagen.”

And now Steve has returned to New York to continue to speak for the people of Hungary to the people
of the United States. Then in the next few weeks he will go to work for an architectural firm in
New York City. Steve is an exception to the rule. Most of his contemporaries still remain, if not in Hungary,
then on the Austrian side of the border, ready to fight again. His countryman, Dr. Szentivanyi, has returned to Waynesville
before beginning a speaking tour up and down the Eastern seaboard.

Here at Davidson, the Gift Fund is officially underway. No project has ever received the impetus given this one. Never
has student interest run so sincerely deep. Never before has the whole community asked in on a student fund-raising project.
The prospects of Christmas at home with all the traditional food and fellowship can't help but seem a little tainted
at the thought of young men like ourselves living in the ruins of Budapest without food or fellowship. A Hungarian
family here will be a symbol of our belief in the dignity and freedom of man. This is a chance
to show the stuff of which we like to think Davidson is made. These people gave their lives for freedom.
We should be able to spare a few dollars.

R.F.D. Must Realize Responsibility

Don Oberdorfer, the Charlotte Observer’s chief political writer, came to Davidson Monday evening to cover a story, a big story,
Radio Free Davidson. Reared in the deep South, Oberdorfer attended Princeton University where he was editor of the daily student
paper. A respected journalist, Oberdorfer covers top stories for the Observer. When he heard about Radio Free Davidson, he realized
that it could be a powerful story, and indeed it could have been just that.

Aided by a photographer, Oberdorfer visited Davidson to interview the founders of the college’s first and only “radio” station. Then
he waited around for its broadcast to begin. What he heard in fifteen minutes surprised and shocked him. Oberdorfer, hardened
to the facts of life by his reporting experiences, and himself not too far removed from college life, was disillusioned
and disappointed by R.F.D. Like so many others in the outside world, Oberdorfer believed Davidson to be what she says
she is. Although this might be debated in some respects, the events of Monday night did not help her reputation
any.

What he heard from R.F.D. was fifteen minutes of prejudice and off-color humor. Had Oberdorfer written the story of R.F.D.
just as it happened, Davidson would have received a smear that would have taken it another one hundred and twenty
years to live down. Such a story might have been picked up by the wire services, and in a matter
of hours Davidson could have been front-page news all over the country, but not in a very favorable light. Think
of the ammunition that just such a story would have provided Northern radicals who seek every opportunity to crucify the
South. Unfortunately Oberdorfer did not find at Davidson the kind of story he thought he would.

Radio Free Davidson can be a good thing. Already it has captured the fancy of the student body. It is
democracy in action, the voice of the students. But there are certain limits which the operators of R.F.D. must not
go beyond. There is a certain responsibility that goes with Radio Free Davidson which its operators must respect. To those
of us who are so intimately tied up in the Davidson way of life, R.F.D. may seem like a harmless
joke. To an impartial observer, however, R.F.D. is Davidson at its worst, not its best. To be funny does not
require being at the same time distasteful. Good clean fun can be had without sinking to the level of Monday
night's broadcast. Davidson may thank her lucky stars that a man like Don Oberdorfer covered the story, a man who
had enough decency not to write what would of necessity been a story of indecency.

—A.W-F.B.

Pledges Bleed For the Lady

Apparently pledges “bled for the lady” at an unprecedented rate this week. The Interfraternity Council is to be commended for
an unusually effective handling of the whole affair. 365 pints is considerably more than was donated in both drives put
together last year. The drive was notable for the strong support given by the individual fraternity chapters, most of whom
had active get-out-the-blood campaigns. R.O.T.C. and P.T. cuts, along with a dollar reduction on Midwinters ducats plus a plaque to
go to the fraternity with the highest percentage of donors, all helped to spur enthusiasm and competition.

MAN WITH A MESSAGE

Evangelist Preaches Repentance And Salvation to Whole World

By TOM CUTTING

Billy Graham has captured the hearts of the American people as no other Christian evangelist in our history. There have
been more newspaper and magazine articles about this man and his work than any other preacher in our country. People
from all across the United States have flocked to hear his message. His ministry has not been confined to a
limited area. In the last five years he has taken his evangelistic crusades to important places in Europe and Asia.
During the Korean War, he spent several weeks during the heart of winter seeking to bring encouragement and salvation to
the hearts of our fighting men. Every place he goes, whether in a large American metropolitan center or an insignificant
little village in India, his message is the same.

PREACHES REPENTANCE

He preaches a gospel of repentance and salvation. It is his conviction that Jesus Christ is the answer to our
world problems. On his coast to coast radio and television program, his constant theme is that our nation was founded
upon Christianity and it can only remain strong as the American people seek and do the will of God. In
our generation and those preceding us, there has been much comment about the evangelist who is in the ministry for
monetary gain. It seems that the most criticized part of the evangelist’s program is his handling of offerings and expenses.

ACROSS THE PRESIDENT’S DESK

DAN LaFAR
PRESIDENT OF THE STUDENT BODY

In an attempt to make a survey of the actions of the Student Government over the last few weeks several
things should be noted. In the realm of old business, the Council was pleased with the manner in which the
Court of Control was handled this year both from the standpoint of freshmen and of upperclassmen. Acknowledgement and appreciation were
extended to the Faculty Committee on Fraternities concerning their having extended the Friday night dance weekend curfew to 4:30.

Perhaps the most significant facet in the form of things new has been the monthly meeting of the Student-Faculty Conference
Committee. This is a group, outlined in the Student Body Constitution, that is composed of five members from the student
body and five from the faculty. The students are represented by the Davidsonian Editor, the Senior Class President, and the
Student Body President and two Vice-presidents. The Faculty representation consists of the College President, the two Deans, the College Treasurer,
and an elected member of the faculty.

Thus far this committee has been very successful in discussing problems of mutual interest, and it is the hope of
each member to be able to contribute to the overall good of Davidson through this opportunity for an exchange of
thoughts and ideas.

The Student Council has taken a definite stand by expressing its intention to carry out the wishes of the Student
Body. By removing three students from theDormitories for the remainder of the first semester for violations of the Student Body
Regulation regarding dormitory conduct, the Council feels it is making evident its intent to enforce the rules of our Student
Government. Along this same line, the Council has made clear in Student Body Meeting its interpretation of the gentlemanly conduct
section, and its regard to vespers. To say that a student who interferes with the worship of another constitutes ungentlemanly
conduct would seem unnecessary, but the definition is made for the sake of clarity. I hope each member of the
Student Body will heed this position the Council takes in re-pledging itself to a conscientious enforcement of the Student Body
Constitution.

Billy Graham cannot be censured for his failure to use properly the offerings given to him by the American people.
Two years ago, Time magazine published an article which told of the excellent manner in which the Billy Graham Evangelistic
Association has solved this problem. This is one of the reasons for Billy Graham’s success among our people.

NOT LACKING FOLLOW UP

Another fault of many revivals in America has been the lack of a sufficient follow-up program for the new converts.
People have said that they are forgotten when the revivalist leaves town. Mr. Graham has devised a plan which goes
into effect after the actual crusade has been completed. This has proved successful in counseling the new converts and helping
them become active in a church of their community.

Billy Graham comes to Davidson College as a man with a message for our time. This message is that Jesus
Christ is the Saviour of the world.

DAVIDSON DOGGEREL

Last week “Steve The Visiting Hungarian” was informed in his second language, German, that his audience at Queens College would
be composed solely of women. Wildly gesticulating, he cried, “Mein Gott!” Ah, yes, true wisdom certainly knows no nationality.

Wednesday at dinner, the bilingual Hungarian glanced through Grier Davis’s First Year German Text Book. He noted that the universal
routine used in one of the stories (“Miss, is this the pencil you left in Biology class? No, kind sir,
I don't take Biology, but would you like to come up to my flat for a cup of tea?”) has
survived even in suppressed Hungary. (Has anyone seen a “Bleistift” with Eva Gabor’s name on it?)

The latest in “Stalinisms” making the rounds in Budapest concerns the large statue of Uncle Joe that was seen in
last week's Life. The truth of the matter, according to Steve, and he was there, is that ropes, bulldozers, and
cutting torches could not phase the bronze giant. Finally, success was achieved when one of the students placed a U.S.
dollar at the foot of the colossus. You guessed it, kiddies! When old Joe bent to pick it up, all
of Budapest kicked Joe you-know-where, and Mr. Stalin bit the dust in an awesome fashion.

PROFESSOR DOUB KERR

Personalized Giving Aids Creative Writing

By JOHN BERNHARDT

Davidson is proud to have on its campus this week one of its most loyal alumni, Professor Doub Kerr of
Glendale College, California. Prof. Kerr entered Davidson in 1911 and remained until 1913. At that time, he left to take
a special language course at the University of North Carolina more in line with his choice of specialization, and in
1915 he graduated from there with honors.

SHOWED LOYALTY

Unlike other of Davidson's distinguished alumni who did not remain for the full four years, Prof. Kerr immediately showed his
loyalty to his part-time alma mater by returning to institute some changes he felt were needed. Though he intended to
teach languages, he had an active interest in creative writing, and, having profited at Carolina from membership in a society
encouraging creative writing, he felt his other school should also benefit from such a group. Therefore, in the same year
that he graduated from Carolina, he helped found the Blue Pencil chapter of Sigma Upsilon at Davidson.

Since 1929, Prof. Kerr has taught Romance languages at Glendale College in California, in his spare time writing much both
for publication and for pleasure. Despite this preoccupation at his new school, he has always managed to maintain his interest
in Davidson.

The enthusiasm of the Student Body over the YMCA’s proposed project for this year’s gift fund is extremely encouraging to
those of us who hear so much cynicism about “Christian Charity” being bandied about in student conversations (a polite term
for bull sessions). It is hoped, however, that the members of the “Y” Council and the college authorities will be
able to make the Hungarian family’s presence in Davidson an educational and intellectual, as well as a charitable project. In
view of this desire, it is suggested that the family selected for residence here be from a higher intellectual and
cultural stratum than a manual laborer. He should be one who can, after a period of language and environmental adaptation,
participate in the intellectual life of the campus in such a way that students and faculty members alike may be
able to learn something from him.

We see very little of the college maintenance force, local service station attendants, etc., except in a vague and impersonal
sort of way, and there is a real danger that a Hungarian family of this type might be pushed into
this same background after the novelty wore off. On the other hand, an educated, intelligent businessman, university professor, doctor, dentist,
etc., would be more useful to the college and the community. Such a person would be more quickly assimilated into
the community, he would be better able to establish self-respect on the basis of merit and achievement, and he would
be in a better position to participate in a realistic exchange of ideas between the people of Eastern Europe and
college students of Southern America.

Davidson, as a preserver of ancient (and sometimes obsolete) traditions of Southern gentility, has temporarily neglected one aspect of a
tradition so prevalent among private endowed institutions of higher learning, with the result that approximately ninety-four students have become nonentities;
they have a nameless home. It looks as though it might be a long wait, and although dorms aren’t named
in a day, the residents of “New” feel left out, surrounded as they are with the many memorials to Davidson’s
benefactors such as Watts, Shearer, Belk, Grey, Chambers, Richardson, Ovens, Martin, and Duke. We protest this delay, and suggest that
the new dormitory be named “Rumple”. This would preserve tradition, give us a home we could call by name, and
return to the campus the name of that distinguished gentleman who made no small contribution to Davidson during its formative
years.

Immediate Change Would Be Unfair

Dear Sir:

I have been glad to note the progress of the agitation to change the foreign language requirement for the A.B.
degree from four years to only two. The present requirement is obviously, I believe, antiquated. Some have suggested, however, that
the requirement change be made in time for members of the present senior class to receive an A.B. degree with
only two years of foreign language. I feel that an immediate change would be unfair to a minority of the
present senior and junior classes. Some of us came to Davidson seeking an A.B. degree. When we discovered in the
catalogue that the school required four years of foreign language, we planned our schedules accordingly so that we might meet
the requirement. In many cases, the two extra years of foreign language involved a sacrifice of two electives which the
student would have preferred to take but chose not to take in order to earn the A.B. degree in accordance
with the printed requirements.

As I said, the requirement change is needed. But to allow the change to benefit members of the senior and
junior classes who were not willing to make the “sacrifice” of taking the two extra years of foreign language would
be to do a real injustice to those who were willing to do so. The requirement change should apply to
the present sophomore class and all succeeding classes because the members of these classes have not already begun their third
year of foreign language in order to meet the A.B. requirement.

Carl Cooper

He established the Willa Cather award for creative writing, and for many years has been giving a valuable prize of
books for the outstanding work submitted to him from Sigma Upsilon. This year he established a new award, the Woodrow
Wilson, to run in conjunction with the Willa Cather and to be awarded for the outstanding piece of creative research.
The value of this second award should do much toward stimulating interest in historical and literary research at Davidson.

This fall, Prof. Kerr retired from teaching, and for the purpose of renewing his acquaintance with the college as well
as personally encouraging its creative program, he is here on the campus this week for visits and lectures.

HAS MADE IMPRESSION

Every institution should be proud of its traditions and should seek to instill that pride in its members. It is
because of that pride that we here at Davidson are able to enjoy such things as scholarships, modern buildings, and
relatively low tuition. However, there are other gifts which, though on a less grandiose scale, may involve even more consideration,
interest, and sacrifice. It is in this type of giving that Prof. Kerr has made such a deep impression on
Davidson. He feels that creative writing should be encouraged, and in the strength of that conviction, he has materially aided
the broad educational program of the school.

FROM THE TOP of the DOME with NAT DANIEL
