PAGE FOUR

We - THE DAVIDSONIAN

Graduate Record | BEGINS 34TH YEAR

Sigs Pledges To Be Given

Court of Control Plans

NERVOUS KNOTS of fraternity men stood in front of their houses as Freshmen came down to pledge up.

“QUITE AN INTERESTING BOTTLE” Eumenean Find Reveals Society’s Shrouded Past

BY JIM PAGE

Let me tell you about a whiskey bottle that's really been around . . . even in a faculty meeting!
Chalmers Davidson says it's historical. Dr. Cunningham had it in his office for a while and says it’s “quite an
interesting bottle.” Then Grier Martin grabbed it and locked it in his safe . . . for safe keeping. Archer
Neal got it next. He waited till Mr. Martin was sick and then hustled the squat brown bottle with the
long neck into his own cabinet. It’s in there now wrapped in newspaper. Every now and then he takes it
out and looks at it . . . holding it up to the light.

SMALLPOX AND CHOLERA

“The smallpox,” said the writer, “was spreading from Greensboro very rapidly. The cholera was in Virginia and in this state.”
After naming the members of Eumenean Society when the hall was erected: A. Alexander of Charlotte signed the document.

ARCH KNOWS

“It's a whiskey bottle alright,” said Jim Jackson, Publicity Director. “I agree,” said Jim Jackson, Publicity Director. “It’s either a
whiskey bottle or maybe some kind of wine bottle.” “How do you know,” I asked. “Oh,” he said, “that’s a
personal question. I'm afraid I can’t answer that.” Professor Fulcher agreed with Jackson and Arch.

NO SOFT DRINK

“It’s sure not a soft drink bottle,” he said. “I've studied the history of soft drinks and I can tell
you it’s not a soft drink bottle. And I don’t think it's a beer bottle.” He drew a picture of
the bottle on a pad. “Look at that inverted bottom,” he said, “Beer advertises volume and they're not going to
sell beer in a bottle with an inverted bottom. Inverted bottoms are for whiskey.” “Or for wine,” said Jackson, “it
could be a wine bottle. You know back in the days when this bottle was made they drank wine at
every meal.” He looked thoughtful for a minute. “It makes you kind of wonder,” he said, “about progress and all...
it makes you kind of wonder.”

The infamous bottle first popped up in early August. Phi and Eu halls are being renovated. Lawrence Murdock, a Mooresville
construction man, was tearing away rotten trimming on a scaffold high up on a Eu wall.

MURDOCK’S ACCOUNT

“We were tearing away the trimming near a corner,” said Murdock, “when all of a sudden there the bottle was...
just kind of laying in a corner. I didn't think anything about it then... it just looked like any old
whiskey bottle to me. “I even started to throw it down, but then I thought maybe I'd better not because
it would break and someone would step on the pieces. So to get it out of the way I gave
it to this boy who was working with me. He took it down and then, ‘hey,’ he called, ‘there’s some
kind of a paper in this bottle.’ He and another boy took it out of the bottle and read it.”

What the two boys read was a document dated 1849, telling of the construction of Eu hall and who built
it and financed it . . . the president of the college, Samuel Williamson, and a list of the 26
members. “This Hall was erected by the members I have already named. The Library at that time was 1,200 volumes.
The Hall cost 2,500 dollars. We as members have built it for the purpose of the Eumenean Society.”

This part of the document brought up an interesting point. Who actually owns Phi and Eu Halls? If the society
members built the halls on their own with no assistance from the college, then the college would need some kind
of deed or title to claim legal ownership. “As far as I know,” said Dr. Cunningham, “the college has no
deed or title. I'm sure however that the members of the society meant for the Halls to be part of
the school.

MEMBERS PAID

“It is interesting to know, however, that the members took it upon themselves to pay for the Halls. In fact,
at one time when we were 5,000 dollars short on the renovation I remembered what the document had said and
thought that maybe the present members might like to make a repeat. But then Mrs. Clarence Hudson, who is paying
for the renovation, said she wanted to see the Halls finished and so I didn't need to worry about raising
the money. Mrs. Hudson is certainly a fine woman. She lives in Orange, N. J., and had two brothers who
graduated from Davidson. Her improvements on the two Halls have certainly helped the looks of our campus.”

Mr. Gant, the college maintenance man, also brought out an interesting point. “I walked into the faculty room one day,”
he said, “and saw this old brown bottle sitting on the window sill. I picked it up and started down
the hall to throw it away. Then somebody stopped me and told me what it was. But how was I
to know? I just thought it was an old whiskey bottle somebody had left in the room.”

The Graduate Record Examinations, required of applicants for admission to a number of graduate schools, will be administered four times
in the coming year, Educational Testing Service has announced. During 1955-56 more than 9,000 students took the Graduate Record Examination
in partial fulfillment of admission requirements of graduate schools.

This fall candidates may take the Graduate Record Examination on Saturday, November 17. In 1957, the dates are January 19,
April 27, and July 6. Applicants are advised to inquire of the graduate school of his choice which of the
examinations he should take and on which dates. Applicants for graduate school fellowships should ordinarily take the designated examinations in
the fall administration.

The Graduate Record Examination tests offered in these nationwide programs include a test of general scholastic ability and advanced level
tests of achievement in sixteen different subject matter fields. According to Educational Testing Service, candidates are permitted to take the
Aptitude Test and or one of the Advanced Tests. A Bulletin of Information which provides details of registration and sample
questions, may be obtained from college advisers.

By BRUCE BROOKS

Beginning its thirty-fourth year, the Court of Control, headed by Reitzel Snider, is planning a strictly-enforced yet just program of
activities. The Court hopes to make this program a fair one in the eyes of the freshman class, while still
not relinquishing any of its regulations.

Periodic meetings of the Court will be held Fridays in Chapel before the entire student body instead of just the
freshman class, as was the practice last year. Violators can be turned in to the Court by the Court members
themselves, or by any upperclassman. By way of making this year's program more just, an accusation will not necessarily mean
conviction, but will be fairly reviewed by the members of the Court. The freshman violator’s name will be announced at
the Friday meeting, while the trial will be held the following Monday in the Student Union. Snider announced that a
list of the accused and whether or not they were convicted will be published each week in the Davidsonian.

The eight members of the Court of Control are: Reitzel Snider, judge; Bill Gramley, Ken Conger, senior members; Bill Price,
Dave Fagg, junior members; and Craig Wall, Vernon Broyles, sophomore members. These members were chosen last year by the Student
Council.

PENALTIES VARY

All convicted violators will not receive the same penalty. If the violation is minor and unintentional, such as a freshman
forgetting to wear his hat, the violator may be given a reprimand. An offender who appears to be cocky or
who has intentionally not followed the rules will be given a more severe penalty.

Jim Robinson, 'Y' Membership Drive Will Begin Oct. 4

The Davidson College YMCA will begin its annual membership drive for upperclassmen with a special chapel program Thursday, Oct. 4.

Members of the committee for the drive, headed by Bunny Perkinson, have planned a canvass of the entire campus with
canvassers on each dormitory hall the nights of Oct. 4 and 5. The membership drive aimed at the freshman class
held during orientation succeeded in enrolling 92% of the class.

“We hope to duplicate this in the drive for upperclassmen,” emphasized Gordon Bondurant, YMCA president. “We want as close to
100% as possible, for we feel this year's program is broader and can include every student's interest.”

One of the newest fields on the program, Gordon pointed out, is the non-varsity, intercollegiate athletic program. Basketball and handball
teams made up of Davidson “Y” members will play against similar non-varsity teams from other colleges, and it is hoped
that teams can be organized to play other sports.

One of the new fields for active participation in the “Y” is the non-varsity intercollegiate athletic program, which has scheduled
games with other “Y”-sponsored teams at various colleges in basketball, handball, and other sports.

French, Crawford Resume Teaching

Davidson, Sept. 21—Professors Howard P. French, Jr. and George W. Crawford have resumed their teaching duties at Davidson College after
an absence of one year. Dr. French, Associate Professor of German, was for the past year an exchange professor with
the University at Tubingen, Germany. Dr. Karl Gunther Jung of Tubingen served on the Davidson faculty in his absence. Professor
Crawford, Assistant Professor of Physics, was at Ohio State University completing work toward the Ph. D. degree in physics. He
is a graduate of Davidson, earned the master’s degree from the University of North Carolina and has taught both in
the public schools and at N. C. State College. Dr. French is a graduate of Swarthmore College, and earned both
the M.A. and Ph. D. degrees from the University of Indiana. Before coming to Davidson he was a faculty member
of Indiana, Idaho and Cornell universities. He is a member of Phi Beta Kappa, Delta Phi Alpha, the American Association
of Teachers of German, the Linguistic Society of America, and the Modern Language Association of America.

Car Influx... (Continued From Page One)

PARKING EXTENSION

Plans have been made to extend the parking lot beside Belk dormitory southward about 75 feet to the street which
stretches from the rear of Watts dormitory to the highway. This area is graveled now and is available for parking.
The development of this space coupled with the re-opening of the street behind Watts will provide approximately 30 more parking
places.

Cars may be kept on the campus for less than ten successive days without their owners having to buy permits,
but these cars are not to be parked in the areas immediately adjacent to the dormitories. These spaces are to
be reserved exclusively for cars with permits.

$1 PER SEMESTER

The permits, which cost one dollar per semester and can be purchased at the Bursar’s office, are in the form
of a block “D” decal with the name of the college and a serial number printed thereon. Slightly over 200
have been purchased thus far. Students have been asked to display theirs on the front windshield behind the rear-view mirror.
Those who own cars and others who will be bringing family cars to the campus during the year are urged
to study the parking regulations posted on bulletin boards around the campus.

BAKER DESIGNATED HIGH ATO HONOR

Davidson College graduate Linny M. Baker of Kannapolis has been chosen for the Thomas A. Clark Award by the Alpha
Tau Omega social fraternity. The award is the highest that the fraternity can bestow, and selection is made from the
thousands of fraternity members all over the United States. It included an all-expense trip to ATO's Mackinac, Mich. Congress September
5-8 and a specially designed ring.

Baker was president of the ATO chapter at Davidson during the past two years, and one of the outstanding all-round
students. He was a member of Phi Beta Kappa and Omicron Delta Kappa, and wasof America and the Universal Esperanto
Association.

Linny is the son of Mrs. Bertha Baker of Route 5, Kannapolis, and salutatorian of the class that graduated May
31. Professor Crawford is a member of Sigma Pi Sigma, Sigma Xi, the French Circle, the American Association of Physics
Teachers, the Southeastern Section of the American Physical Society, and the Reserve Officers Association, in which he is a lieutenant
colonel. He is a graduate of J. W. Cannon High, where he was president of the student body. He attended
Davidson on a George F. Baker scholarship. This fall he will enter the Duke University School of Medicine.

EUMENEAN’S 107-YEAR-OLD SECRET
“It’s a whiskey bottle alright...”

If a freshman appears extremely obnoxious and continues to break the freshman violations, he is subject to appear before the
Student Council. The Court of Control was established in 1923 to serve as an arm of the Student Council and
to carry out a program of freshman development. Because Davidson College is steeped in traditions that graduates have come to
appreciate and to respect, the Court's main purpose is to bring the freshman class to an understanding and an appreciation
of the traditions. If the freshmen do not come to appreciate and accept these traditions, then it is the job
of the Court of Control to strictly enforce them.

In commenting on the Court this year, Snider said, “Each member of the Court feels that the Court program is
a constructive and beneficial instrument for developing the freshmen, and furthermore, each member of the Court of Control this year
is dedicated to carrying out this purpose.” So far this year the Court is pleased with the conduct of the
Class of 1960. For example, having been given the prerogative of whether or not to wear their caps at the
football game Friday night, the class voted, on their own accord, in favor of wearing them.

CLOSING EARLY?
The Court of Control plans to disband after Thanksgiving this year, and, at that time, the freshman class may stop
wearing their caps. Of course, if the freshmen were to beat the sophomores in the annual field day, the caps
could automatically be discarded.

W. C. CHANCELLOR COMMENTS ON N.S.A.
Greensboro, N. C.—(LP.)—Commenting on the findings and implications of the NSA study, entitled “Student Government, Student Leaders, and the American
College,” completed by the United States National Students Association, Dr. Edward K. Graham, chancellor of the Woman's College, University of
North Carolina, stated: “The important thing about the NSA study of student government is not that it has completed something.
The important thing is that, if properly followed through, this vital NSA project will have started something.”

Career As Teacher To Be Discussed
Students interested in a career as a teacher in a Christian college may informally discuss the latest developments in the
field with Doctors Hunter B. Blakely and W. Taylor Reveley at 8:30 p.m. Sunday, Sept. 30, in the Student Lounge
of the Davidson College Church. Dr. Blakely is secretary of the division of higher education of the Presbyterian Church in
the U. S. Dr. Reveley is professor of humanities and chaplain at Southwestern University in Memphis.

The YMCA’s Commission on Effective Citizenship is planning chapel talks and membership meetings in which notable lawyers will explain the
political issues surrounding the coming elections. Dr. Samuel W. Newell, Jr., Th. D., pastor of the Davidson College Presbyterian Church,
will give the Vespers sermon Sunday, Sept. 23. Dr. Newell, a native of Mississippi, attended Davidson, Emory University, and Union
Theological Seminary and has served as a member of the faculty at Battle Ground Academy and Georgia Institute of Technology.

Strict But Fair Program
Snider added that if the freshmen showed unusually good spirit and demonstrated that they were well on the way to
developing into college men, there was a chance that the regulations might be lifted prior to the announced time. Though
some of the freshmen may resent the regulations imposed on them, it is the feeling of the Court of Control
that these regulations, when looked back on in a few years, will make the freshman year seem more colorful and
memorable than it would be otherwise.

The freshmen are urged to remember that, although during rush week the regulations may not have been strictly enforced, after
Friday all upperclassmen will bear down in full force on the enforcement of these rules.

ANNOUNCEMENTS
The swimming pool will be open for recreational swimming starting Monday, September 17, from 3:30 to 5:30 p.m.

Anyone interested in playing in the Football Band this fall should either get in touch with Mr. West or any
member of the band at the earliest possible date. No audition will be required to become a member. The Football
Band will make a trip to the Washington and Lee game at Lexington, all expenses paid.

Safety Committee Is Organized By Davidson Citizens
D. C. News Bureau — Safer streets and children are the goals of a safety committee which held its organizational
meeting last Monday in the town offices. The meeting followed an endorsement by the mayor and town council Monday night
of a citizens’ petition to launch a safety drive on Concord Road. Seventy-seven residents of Concord Road and vicinity, from
the town limits to Main Street, signed the petition.

Last night’s meeting was designed to elect officers and set the pattern for immediate action. Several plans were included in
the petition, among them:
1. A stop-and-go traffic signal at the intersection of Concord Road and Thompson Street.
2. A speed trap at the same intersection.
3. Reduction of the speed limit from 35 to 25 miles per hour on Concord Road.
4. Request the Highway Department for more and larger “Watch For Children Playing” signs.

The petition, drawn up by Mrs. H. P. Ford, noted that the road is a trouble spot for speeding and
reckless driving, and carries a heavy load of commercial vehicles as well as local traffic. She noted that it might
be possible or necessary to organize a volunteer corps to stop cars entering Davidson by Concord Road, ask the drivers
to proceed carefully, and give to them a mimeographed presentation of Davidson's safety needs.

After hearing the petition, and a delegation of citizens who appeared to endorse it, the council named a safety commission
to project the move. Members are Ernest A. Beaty, from the council; Col. John D. Sapp, representing the P.T.A.; Mrs.
Ford; Kenneth Brotherton for the Catawba Avenue neighborhood; Kenneth Caldwell for the Walnut Avenue community; Dan S. LaFar, Jr., for
the Davidson College students; and D. D. Hulburt for the North Main Street neighborhood.

ALL CAPITOL AND DECCA LP’S 20% OFF
DIAMOND NEEDLES FOR ALL POPULAR RECORD CHANGERS ONLY $12.95
PARKER-GARDNER
CHARLOTTE 2, N. C.
138 West Trade Street
Phone ED. 2-8257

FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 1956

RHODES SCHOLARSHIP COMPETITION OPENS
Rhodes Scholarship competition for 1957 was announced recently by Dean W. C. Davison of the Duke University Medical School. Dean
Davison is secretary of the selection committee in North Carolina for next year’s candidates for the coveted two-year scholarships at
England's Oxford University. Application deadline for interested competitors is Nov. 1, 1956.

“The selection committee is interested in good all-around young men; that is, those who have shown some definite quality of
distinction in scholastic ability and physical vigor,” Dean Davison said.

Any unmarried man between 19 and 25 who is at least a junior in college is eligible to compete for
one of the awards which each year sends 32 American men to study at Oxford. “The Rhodes scholar may choose
studies in any of Oxford's 23 colleges,” Dean Davison, himself a former Rhodes scholar, pointed out. “The award may be
extended to three years in certain cases approved by the Trustees,” he added.

A Rhodes scholarship is worth six hundred British pounds annually, which with care is sufficient to cover a Rhodes scholar’s
expenses for term time and vacation. “The Oxford school year comprises three terms of two months each, leaving six weeks
vacation at Christmas and Easter, as well as three months during the summer to tour Europe and other places,” he
noted.

Some 21 former Rhodes scholars are now living in North Carolina, including the following eight members of the Duke faculty:
Dr. William M. Blackburn; Prof. William B. Bolich; Dr. W. C. Davison; Dr. William H. Irving; L. W. McKenzie, Jr.;
Bayard Carter; Dean Frank K. Mitchell and E. R. Wicker.

Any interested student may apply either in the state in which he resides or in the state where he is
attending college. Application may be obtained by writing or telephoning (Durham 9011; ext. 8277) to Dr. W. C. Davison, Duke
University, Durham, North Carolina.

Union Sets Up New Committees
Two new College Union committees have been added to those which have been serving in the past several years. The
Round Table committee headed by Leon Howell has been set up this year to serve as a basic nucleus in
the discussion of problems and controversial topics which face the student’s life on campus and affairs in general on the
broader aspect of world affairs. In charge of debates, forums, and open discussions, the Round Table committee will offer an
outlet for students to participate in the discussion of topics of interest.

Travel Committee
The second new committee which has been added this year is the Travel Committee headed by Jock Reeder. It is
the intention of this committee to provide travel information with respect to summer vacations and maintain a file of information
with respect to travel opportunities. Starting quickly into action the committee has been discussing plans for a trip to New
York City during one of the vacation periods which may be held in connection with a group from Queens College.

The remaining committees are continuing the work which has been started in the past several years. John Trotti is leader
of the Bookshelf committee which is active in providing reading facilities and material in the lounge of the College Union.
Jerry Brooks is spokesman for the Special Features Committee which will provide such services as sponsoring bridge tournaments, and variety
shows.

Games, Theatre
The Games committee is led by Buddy Dye this year. The Theatre committee is under the leadership of Henry Parrish.
Ed Stevens is in charge of the Camera committee; Bill Martin leads the House Committee, Clagget Taylor takes over the
film committee. Harry Antrim will provide for the arrangement, display and location of works of art through the Art Gallery
committee. Entertainment for students through the College Union facilities will be handled by Jim Martin and the Social Committee. Buddy
Bullock is in charge of the Music Committee which will keep posted on student opinion of those records which are
in demand, but not represented in the record of the Music department.

Dr. Lingle...
(Continued From Page One)
Va., and Mrs. Dan Caldwell of Greensboro, Dr. Lingle was one of three sons born to Wilson Alexander Lingle and
Martha Jane Lynch Lingle of Rowan County. The elder Mr. Lingle served with the Confederate Army during the Civil War,
and returned to rear his family as a farmer. All three of the sons became Presbyterian ministers. The eldest, William,
became a missionary to China, and died in 1941 after 40 years in the foreign field.

The Lingle Chapel of the Davidson College Presbyterian Church was built in honor of Dr. Walter L. Lingle, whose name
is synonymous with the development of Davidson College and with the Presbyterian Church, U. S. during the past half-century. He
was known and beloved by churchmen and laymen of the Presbyterian Church and of other denominations throughout the world.

Welcome... Class of ’60
—And To All Our Old Friends Too, Of Course.
We are your headquarters in Davidson for all your Cleaning and Pressing needs. We invite your patronage.
Jackson Cleaners
OPPOSITE GULF STATION
MAIN STREET
DAVIDSON, N. C.
