VOL. XLIV GEORGE BUTTRICK Officers Chosen at Final I.R.C. Meeting

Officers of the International Relations Club for the school year 1956-57 were elected at the May meeting of the club held Wednesday night at 9:15 P.M. Those selected were Jack Kerr, president; Phil Kukura, vice-president; Bill Pfefferkorn, secretary-treasurer; and John Trask, reporter. The club’s delegates to the Counter-subversive Seminar in Charlotte being sponsored by the Patriotic Order of Sons of America were announced as Boyce Martin, Bill Pfefferkorn, and Chuck Haston. This meeting will feature addresses by several senators and representatives including the Honorable Francis E. Walker, Chairman of the House Committee on Un-American Activities.

THREE TAKE AWARDS

Bill Kuykendall — The theme of Dr. Buttrick’s lectures is “The Christian Faith in a Time of Crisis.” Five sermon topics listed under this theme are “Revelation and Modern Man,” “What Seems to be the Matter, Doctor?”, “The Fourfold Event of New Testament Faith,” “Individual and Community,” and “A God of Morals or a Household of Faith.” Dr. Buttrick, now the Plummer Professor of Christian Morals at Harvard University Divinity School, has just completed an extraordinarily successful ministry of 29 years at the historic Madison Avenue Presbyterian Church of New York City. He is an Englander by birth and received his undergraduate instruction at Lancaster Independent College, Manchester, and Victoria University where he did honors in philosophy. Buttrick came to the United States in 1915 and was ordained a Congregationalist minister. He served two churches before accepting a call to the First Presbyterian Church of Buffalo, New York in 1920. Seven years later he went to the Madison Avenue Church.

GREAT PREACHER

BUTTRICK TO BE SPEAKER

Harvard Professor Will Deliver 1956 Otts Series

By GERALD WILSON

Dr. George A. Buttrick of Harvard University will deliver the 1956 Otts Lectures next Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday, at the College Church and Chambers Auditorium. From his New York pulpit Dr. Buttrick became one of the great voices of the Protestant church in America. Only a few years ago Dr. Buttrick was listed by Life Magazine as one of the ten greatest preachers in the United States today. Others included in this list were Louis Evans, Billy Graham, and Bishop Fulton Sheen. He has been the author of numerous books, and his book “Prayer,” has become a modern classic on the subject. Many colleges and universities have bestowed honorary degrees on Buttrick. Foremost among these have been Princeton, Yale, and Columbia Universities. The Otts Lectures were established in 1893 by the Reverend J. M. P. Otts for the purpose of securing distinguished speakers in support of the Christian faith. Dr. Otts himself delivered the first series of lectures under the title, “Unsettled Questions.” At advisable times since, the lectures have been held. Among the other Otts Lecturers have been such great men as Dr. John R. Mott in 1939; Dr. John A. Mackay, who is presently the President of Princeton Theological Seminary; and the last series of lectures was given by Dr. Elton Trueblood in the spring of 1953.

Dr. C. R. EBERHARDT RESIGNS TO ACCEPT BIBLE SOCIETY POST

The resignation of Dr. C. R. Eberhardt, James Sprunt Professor of Bible at Davidson, was announced today by Dr. J. R. Cunningham, President of the college, to be effective June 30, 1956. Dr. Eberhardt leaves Davidson after nine years on the faculty to accept the position of Associate Executive Secretary of the Maryland Bible Society. “Our intention will be to discover a means of creating lively and genuine interest in Biblical Literature, including the realm of motion pictures,” commented Dr. Eberhardt when questioned about his new position. Before coming to Davidson, in 1947, Dr. Eberhardt held pastorates in Edgewater, and later Mount Vernon, New Jersey.

ANOTHER HONOR

Dr. Eberhardt has also been made a Fellow of the Royal Geographical Society in recognition of his color photographic slides made in the Middle East. In expressing his regret that Dr. Eberhardt is leaving Davidson, President Cunningham said, “For the past nine years Dr. Charles R. Eberhardt has rendered Davidson College a distinctive service in the teaching of Bible. We are sorry to lose him and his fine family from the community. He takes with him as he goes the appreciation and best wishes of Davidson College.”

DR. C. R. EBERHARDT

Davidson The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, MAY 4, 1956

FROM WINSTON-SALEM

Dr. Staples Joins Davidson Staff In Minister to Students Position

Dr. George E. Staples, pastor of the Highland Presbyterian church of Winston-Salem, will join the Davidson College staff in August as Minister to Students. The announcement of Staples’ appointment was made Thursday by Dr. John R. Cunningham, president of Davidson College. “His appointment is in keeping with an effort to add to the staff a person with overall responsibility for the religious life activities of the campus. Our personnel committee and the Board of Directors of the YMCA believe Dr. Staples to be extremely fitted for this responsible task at Davidson. We are fortunate to obtain the services of a man of his experience and ability,” said Dr. Cunningham. “We welcome Dr. Staples to the new physical and spiritual challenges of Davidson.”

PAST SUCCESSES

Staples, a native of San Antonio, Texas, has served the Highland church since it was formed in 1950. Under his leadership the church has grown to a membership of approximately 1500, and last June dedicated a new plant designed by architect Harold Wagoner of Philadelphia. He is an alumnus of Presbyterian College in South Carolina, Union Theological Seminary of Richmond, Va., and a 1948 graduate of the University of Edinburgh. While a student at the seminary he was awarded the Village Fellowship, and earned his Master of Theology degree.

KOONCE, YOUNG SHINE

ELEVEN HONORED AT AWARDS DAY

Eleven Davidson College men were honored at the annual Awards Day Ceremony of the college held May 1. Members of the faculty and officials of the college announced the awards to the student body. Assistant to the dean, Edmunds Smyth, spoke briefly about the purpose of the awards and the history of the distinctions before presenting the coveted award to Phil Koonce. Phil, a Psychology major, was selected as the senior who best exemplified the qualities demanded by the award. Koonce is a member of Alpha Tau Omega fraternity and the Interfraternity Council of which he was president this year. Dr. Cunningham presented the Agnes Sentell Brown Award for character, scholarship, and intellectual ability to Ed Young. Before presenting this award he spoke briefly of the significance of the distinction between scholarship and intellectual ability. Ed is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon and has recently been elected to Phi Beta Kappa.Editor of the Quips and Cranks for next year.

BIBLE AWARD
The Bible award for distinction in advanced Bible studies was presented by Dr. Charles Eberhardt to Bill Kuykendall. Bill has also been honored with a Danforth fellowship for Biblical historical study at Johns Hopkins. Coach Dole announced the George M. Kink Award for the football player with the highest scholastic average for his entire college career. Harley Smith, a member of the football and track teams, received this award. Smith is first vice president of the student body and a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon, while Bernhardt, who is second vice president of the student body, is a member of Kappa Sigma. Bubba Martin was honored by Dean Pictenpol for having made the highest grade in introductory physics. Martin is a pre-med student and an officer of Beta Theta Pi.

CHEMISTRY AWARD
A corresponding award for the highest grade in introductory chemistry was presented to Richard Brubaker. Brubaker is a Baker scholar and a brother in Alpha Tau Omega. The Economics department's awards were announced by Professors Ratliff and Morton. John Pierce received a one-year subscription to the Wall Street Journal. Larry Trotti and J. L. Smith were recognized for their excellent work in the Economics department. Trotti is a member of Phi Beta Kappa honorary scholastic fraternity and will head Kappa Alpha social fraternity next year. Smith is a Korean War veteran who has returned to Davidson to complete his education. Logan of the Chemistry department presented a joint honor.

1956
New members of Omicron Delta Kappa are, left to right, top row: Linny Baker of Alpha Tau Omega; Jim Batten of Beta Theta Pi; Gordon Bondurant of Beta Theta Pi; Carl Cooper of Beta Theta Pi; Vernon Hunter of Phi Delta Theta; Dan LaFar of Kappa Sigma. Second row: Bunny Perkinson of Phi Delta Theta; Clyde Robinson of Phi Delta Theta; Col. John D. Sapp, PMS&T of Davidson College; Ed Spier of Sigma Alpha Epsilon; Don Stewart of Phi Delta Theta; Will Terry, YMCA secretary. Third row: Ed Young of Sigma Alpha Epsilon.

RECENT CREATION
The position of Minister to Students at Davidson was created by recent action of the college and encompasses the duties previously assigned to the Secretary of the YMCA. William H. Terry of Durham, YMCA secretary for the past year, will resume his studies at Union Seminary in Richmond after the current academic year. A large part of Dr. Staples’ duties will be student counseling on matters of faith and student life, visiting the dormitories, and keeping in touch with student needs and opinions to improve the college's religious program.

Committee Plans USCC Conference
During the two-day period of April 30th and May 1st, the General Planning Committee of the United Student Christian Council's Southeastern Regional Conference met here and set up the Davidson Committee, with Bob Haywood as chairman, to take care of the detailed planning of the Conference. Seven such USCC Regional Conferences will be held throughout the United States in 1956, and Davidson has invited the Southeastern Region to use the College and its facilities for the Conference to be held during Christmas vacation from December 27, 1956, through January 1, 1957. The USCC is an interdenominational movement composed of the YW-YMCA, the Student Volunteer Movement, the Interseminary Movement, and ten major denominations of the United States. These Conferences are being held to study the problems facing the college and university world in relation to the mission of the Christian community in the university.

COMMITTEE MEMBERS
The Davidson Committee set up this week is composed of Dean S. R. Spencer, Mr. D. Grier Martin, Dr. W. G. McGavock, Dr. John Bailey, Mrs. R. A. Little, Mrs. A. V. Goldiere, Mr. Will Terry, The Reverend Samuel W. Newell, The Reverend Jerry Murray, Mr. Gordon Bondurant, Mr. Daniel S. LaFar, Mr. Robert Jones, Mr. P. A. Lewis, Mr. Robert Haywood, and Mr. William Thompson. Approximately five hundred students and faculty will gather here from ten Southeastern states on an interdenominational, interracial, and international basis for six days of intensive study and discussion centered around the theme, "Our United Witness in the College or University." The platform speaker will be Dr. Waldo Beach and the Bible study leader will be Rev. Albert Winn.

GOLFERS, NETTERS HIT TOURNEY TRAIL (Page 3)

No. 24 Johnston Makes Talk At Chapel Ceremony
The Delta Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa tapped thirteen men today in chapel as part of the annual spring tap day. Dr. Frontis Johnston delivered the major address. Following Dr. Johnston's talk, President McManus dropped the gavel on the rostrum thirteen times, calling forth as senior active members Messrs. Baker, Robinson, Speir, and Stewart; as junior active members Batten, Bondurant, Cooper, LaFar, Hunter, Perkinson, and Young; and as honorary members Will Terry and Col. Sapp. Qualifications for membership in the society are character, scholarship, intelligence, service and leadership in campus life, fellowship, and conservation of democratic ideals. Character, however, is the primary consideration for membership.

LINNY BAKER
Linny Baker has served as president of his fraternity, ATO, for two years, on the YMCA Board of Directors for two years, as Secretary-Treasurer of the Student Body, President of the Junior Class, and Senior Student Council Representative. A Baker Scholar, he is a member of Delta Phi Alpha, Phi Beta Kappa, Eumenean Literary Society, AED, and has been selected for inclusion in Who's Who Among Students in American Universities and Colleges. His hometown is Kannapolis, NC.

JIM BATTEN
Recently elected editor of the Davidsonian, Batten has long been active in publications, having been editor of the Beta Theta Pi fraternity magazine, managing editor of the Davidsonian, and on the Wildcat Handbook Staff. A Baker Scholar, he is a member of Eumenean Literary Society, Gamma Sigma Epsilon, and Scabbard and Blade. Jim’s hometown is Holland, Va.

GORDON BONDURANT
A native of Winston-Salem, Bondurant has served as a member of the Interfraternity Council, as Vice-President of the YMCA, secretary of Beta Theta Pi social fraternity, the YMCA Board of Directors, and the Varsity Baseball team for two years. He is president-elect of the YMCA. Gordon hails from Winston-Salem, NC.

CARL COOPER
Cooper is from Durham, NC. He is a member of the Beta Theta Pi social fraternity, which he has served as secretary, rush chairman, and as the incoming president, while being the recipient of its best pledge award. He was a Junior Student Council member, on the Y Board, a Baker scholar, and is next year’s elected Freshman Advisor. Carl’s home is in Durham, NC.

VERNON HUNTER
Hunter has distinguished himself as a Junior Student Council representative, member of the YMCA Cabinet and the Religious Exercises Committee, vice-president of the Sophomore Class, and as past moderator of the Assembly’s Youth Council of the Presbyterian Church, U.S. He is president-elect of Phi Delta Theta and senior student council representative for next year. His hometown is Charlotte, NC.

DAN LAFAR
LaFar is the newly installed president of the Student Body. He has served as President of the Junior Class, Rush Chairman of Kappa Sigma, vice-president of Eumenean Literary Society, and a member of the golf team for two years. He was chosen to attend (Continued on Page Four)

Strain... strain... with the tug-of-war event.

B IS RUNNER-UP
Helm Leads Company F to Field Day Victory
Company F, led by Dewitt F. Helm, swept the R.O.T.C. Field Day title Tuesday. The twenty-three. Runner-up and gaining the second-place distinction was Company E, led by L. L. Echols, Jr., which earned twenty-two points. Lawrence W. McIntosh, commanding Company C, placed third with twenty-one and one-half points. The Field day included twelve events in which the various companies of the R.O.T.C. department competed. The Best Drilled Squad award went to Company F, with Company B winning second honors and Company D and Company E taking third place. Company F was also the leader in the competition for Best Drilled Platoon; second place being won by Company C, and the Band and Company E tying for third place. Vernon Broyles of Company C captured the distinction of Best Drilled Individual; the runners-up were Carl Godsey of Company D, earning second place, and Charles Rutherford of Company F, taking third.

WEAPON ASSEMBLY
Joe Brown was the winner of the award given for Outstanding Command Voice. In the competition for the M-1 assembly and disassembly, Gordon Neville of Company A was first, Roger Minassian of Company E was second, and Allan Smyth of Company B was third. The winning time of this event was one minute. Following the M-1 assembly competition was the event of BAR assembly and disassembly, which was won in 1 minute, 58 seconds by George Gilmer of Company E. Second and third places went to Dave Wood of Company D and George Hemingway of Company B. Tom Brewer of Company B won in 2 minutes, 26 seconds the competition of LMG-A6 assembly and disassembly. He was followed by Bill Burgess of Company F and Pat Woodward of Company E. Company D took the honors of Best Drilled LMG Team with Company E second and Company F (Continued on Page Four)