COACH DOLE HONORED (Page 3). The Davidsonian THE IMPENDING CRISIS (Page 2) VOL. XLIV DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 1956

Shown above is the 1956 pre-medical graduating class which is composed of: first row—Bo Abernathy, Dickie Adams, Jim Armistead, Linny Baker, Thomas Breeden, Jim Grice, Harry Brownlee, Royster Chamblee, Stuart Collins; second row—George Cousar, Sellars Crisp, Gregory Dimijian, John Dykers, Spencer Eaves, Joe Gaskin, Charlie Harris, Bill Keiter, Bob Mack; third row—John Malone, Bubba Martin, Stan Miller, Mallory Miree, Watt McCain, W. H. Morris, Larry Parrott, Jim Patterson, Everett Price; and fourth row—Dick Pyle, Dave Regen, Pete Robertson, Charles Robinson, Allen Smith, Harley Smith, Don Stewart, and John Young.

For Medical School Study

(This week the Davidsonian pays tribute to the pre-med department—its faculty and its students. As one of our most outstanding departments, it has been held in high national esteem, annually graduating nearly 100% of its students into graduate schools of the highest calibre. This week we present only one class of the many who have distinguished themselves and their alma mater by outstanding achievements in service through medicine.—Ed.)

By BOB LATHAN

Justifying their position as the largest vocational group on the Davidson campus, a total of 35 students will graduate from the pre-med department this spring and leave for graduate medical schools around the country. The University of North Carolina Medical School will claim the most Davidson graduates next fall as nine seniors plan to matriculate there. Eight Davidson seniors chose to spend their next four years at the Duke medical school. As can be seen from these figures, almost half of the premedical students will remain in a North Carolina school next year.

The complete list of students and the medical schools to which they have been accepted follows:

COLUMBIA—Harry Brownlee; CORNELL—Gregory Dimijian; DUKE—Linny Baker, Royster Chamblee, Stuart Collins, George Cousar, Hugh Malone, Bubba Martin, Larry Parrott, Pete Robertson; EMORY—Jim Armistead, Jim Grice, Mallory Miree, Allen Smith, Harley Smith; U.N.C.—Bo Abernathy, Sellars Crisp, John Dykers, Spencer Eaves, Charlie Harris, Bill Keiter, Billy Morris, Charlie Robinson, John Young; OHIO STATE—Dickie Adams; PENNSYLVANIA—Joe Gaskin, Bob Mack, Dick Pyle; MEDICAL COLLEGE OF SOUTH CAROLINA—Tom Breeden, Everett Price, Watt McCain; VANDERBILT—Stan Miller, Dave Regen; MEDICAL COLLEGE OF VIRGINIA—Jim Patterson; WASHINGTON U. (St. Louis)—Don Stewart.

Harley Smith is the only pre-med student in the group. Most of the boys are undecided as to whether or not they will specialize. However, Joe Gaskin inclines toward surgery and Don Stewart toward pediatrics, while Jim Patterson says he'll be a pediatrician if he specializes. Of the 35 future doctors, Jim Grice and Everett Price completed their B.S. program in three years instead of the normal four.

There have always been and still are a large number of premedical students on the Davidson campus, as shown by the fact that over one fifth of the student body is inclined toward medicine and over one fifth of the alumni is composed of doctors. All of last year’s and the year before last’s senior premed students were accepted to med school. Indications are such that this year’s seniors will follow in the tradition, although at the present a few have not as yet been accepted because of late applications.

The Pre-Med department at Davidson College is believed to be the oldest of its kind in the U.S. It was founded in 1886 by Dr. Paul P. Barringer. At that time it was considered a separate unit from the college. The students were permitted to use the gymnasium and dormitory facilities but were not considered students of the college. In 1920 the Pre-Med department (as it is known today) made its appearance. It was suggested that students take the complete college course, but where this was undesirable or impossible, a course much like the one today was offered. This liberal education is preferred by many medical colleges today. Davidson’s Pre-Med graduates have had little trouble gaining entrance to medical colleges in the past years. Of these graduates, Emory has claimed the highest number (10.2 percent) with the University of North Carolina running a close second (10.0 percent). The next school in line is Pennsylvania with 6 percent. As a rule these men stand high in their Med School classes.

Rifle Team to Shoot In Triangle Meet

Davidson College varsity rifle team will compete in a three-way match with The Citadel and V.P.I. on February 4. The match will be fired on the ROTC rifle range, located in the sub-basement of W. H. Belk Hall. Members of the rifle team are Captain George R. Cousar, Mercer Blankenship, Mac Colcote, Royster Chamblee, Harry Antrim, Bob Alexander, Clifford Deal, Charles Stowe, G. C. Hemingway, Dan Kelly, David Palmer, Charles Gribble, and Walter Scott.

KNOW YOUR COLLEGE: Davidson’s Alumni Fund Tops Million

By JOCK REEDER

Since 1941, John L. Payne, former Charlotte businessman, has served as public relations director and fund director at Davidson. With the aid of several staff members he keeps track of the 8,500 living alumni, alumni officers, public relations, and the alumni fund. This January Robert Sailstad joined the staff taking charge of the alumni fund.

Most colleges believe their alumni want to contribute, but a method of properly reaching them must be attained. The Davidson fund as well as to the entire South, began in 1939. In spite of a major capital gifts program and two wars, the fund in 1955 totaled over $1,000,000 which was contributed by about 21 percent of the alumni. For the past three years the fund has increased $20,000 per year at an expenditure of 6 percent. In time and with the continuing cooperation of the alumni, a goal of $200,000 annually is hoped to be achieved. Last year many businesses and foundations contributed to the fund.

Thirty-two of the thirty-six alumni areas had meetings each year at which two representatives from Davidson were speakers. Dr. Cunningham, Coach Bill Dole, Dr. Beaty, Dr. Johnston, Dr. Spencer and Dr. McGavock are favorite speakers for these meetings. Most of the success in the past, however, has been due to direct mail contact with the alumni, telling them of the needs of the college and providing easy ways for them to join in the annual giving. Publications bulletins, as well as the entire public relations program, are aimed toward the needs and plans of the college. An expanded program of personal contact is expected to increase the percentage of giving to an even greater extent. The alumni fund is part of a plan to make Davidson the equal of any college of its size and type in the country. Almost one hundred thousand is given each year in scholarships and as alumni Secretary Payne says, “If we would get back what we give, we would have few financial problems.”

Student Withdrawals At End of 1st Semester

Dean Spencer released this week a list of the number of students, in their particular classes, who withdrew from school at the end of the first semester. The total, twenty-seven, is quite an improvement over last year's first semester total of thirty-eight. Particularly encouraging is the freshman situation. Only five freshmen have left school, while at this time last year, fifteen freshmen had withdrawn. Of the five who left this past semester, all five were voluntary withdrawals. Last year only three first semester freshmen withdrew voluntarily, leaving twelve involuntary withdrawals compared with none this year. The reason for the decrease in involuntary withdrawals is the new liberal policy of the Executive Committee. According to a rule recently passed by the Committee, all students must pass three subjects to remain in school. In the case of first semester freshmen, however, the Committee has decided to consider individual situations and, although first semester freshmen still technically come under the rule, certain exceptions may be made in their case.

Voluntary withdrawals:
Jan 1956 Jan 1955
Freshmen 5 3
Sophomores 8 5
Juniors 2 0
Seniors 1 0

Involuntary withdrawals (excluded for academic failure):
Jan 1956 Jan 1955
Freshmen 0 12
Sophomores 6 15
Juniors 4 2
Seniors 1 1

Total withdrawals for all reasons:
Jan 1956 Jan 1955
27 38

Activities Directory

Sat.—Basketball, Union movie.
Sun.—Vespers, Dr. Heltzel.
Mon.—Sigma Pi Sigma, Eu, Phi.
Tues.—YMCA Cabinet, Artist Series.
Thurs.—Bridge Club Tournament.
Fri.—Basketball, Siesta Chamber Music Guild.

DAVID BAR-ILLAN

Artist Series Scores With Bar-Ilan Concert

By FRED MYERS

At last the Davidson College Artist Series has again fulfilled its nominal function, an artist. David Bar-Ilan’s recital in Chambers Auditorium on Friday evening, January 13, was an example of that which is so foreign to us: art. Not since early in 1954 had local music appreciators had such occasion to appreciate, for not since that time, when Isaac Stern appeared, had an authentic musical artist been presented them by the artist series. Both Stern and Bar-Ilan brought to their performances formidable technical mastery such as is seldom seen, together with emotional maturity and insight which proved their spiritual superiority. Their vigorous strength of mind and sound refinement of feeling are all the rarer because all the more difficult to appreciate.

As concerns Bach interpretation, Bar-Ilan is diametrically opposed to Less Than Those of 55 who regarded were strictly limited to points.

Council Names Board, Endorses Pe Efforts for Charlotte Telephone Service

OVER 500 APPLICANTS APPLY FOR ADMISSION

(D.C. News, Bureau)

Applications for admission to Davidson are running well ahead of 1955 figures as scholarship selection time approaches. Registrar W. Hengeveld reported this week that approximately 500 applications had been submitted by prospective freshmen. More than 200 are expected to enter the competition.Freshmen are requested to take the Scholastic Aptitude Test of the College Entrance Examination Board, and most of the applications received thus far were logged in December or early this month. During the next several weeks, the college scholarship committee will examine scores of applications from secondary school students for Davidson's 18 scholarships offered competitively to entering freshmen. About 250 will be elected for admission on the basis of entrance examinations, high school academic and leadership records, and other accomplishments. The competitive scholarships are offered to outstanding all-around students, with the amount of the scholarship determined by the individual need of the winner.

A new scholarship program in memory of William Alfred Merchant has been established at Davidson College by his widow, Mrs. Henrietta Cathcart Merchant, of St. Petersburg, Florida. The fund will provide a minimum of one scholarship each year of up to $1250. William Alfred Merchant, for whom the program is named, was for many years President of the National Bank of Cuba. A native of Alexandria, Virginia, he was manager of the R.G. Dun Co. in Charleston, South Carolina, before becoming West Indies manager for the company. He died in 1932 after his retirement from the Cuban bank presidency. William Alfred Merchant, III, a son of Mr. and Mrs. Merchant, graduated from Davidson in the class of 1936 and is now living in Jacksonville, Florida, where he is associated with National Airlines.

Dr. S.R. Spencer, Jr., chairman of the scholarship committee, points out that competition is still open for the scholarships. "While the deadline has passed," he said today, "late applications will be considered. A student who has not applied for one of the Davidson scholarships and now wishes to do so may still enter the competition. However, he should write immediately to the Secretary of the Scholarship Committee, Davidson College, Davidson, N.C. Selections will be made in mid-February."

NEW POLICY SET: To Be Claimed Feb. 3-16
By CHARLES REED

For the first time in several years, Mrs. Little is not in charge of assigning dormitory rooms to students for their dates over the Mid-Winters weekend. Registration will be handled this year by the Freshman Council with the assistance of Inter-Fraternity Council members. The registration desk will be in the lobby of the College Union. It will be open from 2 to 4 o'clock in the afternoon except on Saturday and Sunday. Students will be able to register for rooms until Thursday, February 16.

The registration period is divided into two periods. In the first period, students living in Belk dormitory have through Saturday, February 11, to register for their own rooms. Also, during this period, a student living in another dormitory can register for a room in Belk if he is accompanied by the owner of that room. In short, during this part of the period, no room will be assigned unless the Belk occupant is present at its assignment.

The second part of this registration period starts Monday, February 13, and lasts until Thursday, February 16. In this period, students are assigned the remaining rooms for their dates on a first-come, first-served basis. To avoid the unnecessary vacancy of an assigned room, a $1.00 deposit will be required of all registrants. This dollar will be refunded by mail after the dance to those whose dates occupy their assigned rooms. Students who, after registering and paying the deposit, find that their dates will not need a room can cancel the reservation and get their dollar refunded at the registration desk before noon, Tuesday, February 16.

Anyone wishing further information about the assignment of Belk dormitory rooms for dates should consult the mimeographed sheet explaining registration to be placed in every student's room by the IFC, or should visit the registration desk in the lobby of the College Union.

Dr. Schweitzer has been accredited with bringing to light for our generation the glory and magnificence of Bach. Bar-Ilan wonders whether the opposite is not true, and adds that Schweitzer’s proficiency at the organ is by no means first-rate (his remarks in this regard continue on page four).

Rooms for Midwinters

Concerto in E flat for Violin and Orchestra by Mozart

By JOHN TRASK, JR.
Davidsonian Staff Writer

The Student Council, at its January 30 meeting last Monday night, elected fifteen members to the election board; approved two petitions to the faculty, one asking for the inclusion of student representatives on the Curriculum Committee, the Calendar Committee, and the Religious Exercise Committee, and the other requesting that the Faculty Curriculum Committee submit to the Council the reasons for the inclusion of each of the courses of study required for graduation; and took action on several other matters.

Acting under Article 14 of the Student Body Constitution, the Student Council set up the 1956 election board with Stuart Vaucha as chairman. The following fraternity members were chosen, with one member from each fraternity and four independents: Archie Joyner (Pi Kappa Alpha), Al Moreau (Kappa Sigma), Jim Ensign (Phi Delta Theta), Pat Miller (Sigma Chi), Seek Crymes (Pi Kappa Phi), Buddy Lyles (Phi Gamma Delta), Bill Stewart (Alpha Tau Omega), Charlie Mercer (Sigma Alpha Epsilon), and Jock Heller (Sigma Nu). Mac Crouse and Bob Buchanan were chosen for the independents.

The contents of the two petitions to the faculty are printed below. The purpose of the requests in these petitions is to give the student body a larger voice in affairs concerning them, and to generate a better relationship between the students and the administration.

President Anderson announced that the Committee on Chapel Speakers was interested in getting some student body suggestions for future speakers. Any student who would like to make a request or suggestion will please see Perrin Anderson or Vernon Hunter.

The efforts to establish direct telephone service between Davidson and Charlotte are progressing very favorably, said Anderson. In his report to the Council, he told of the petitions now being circulated among the owners of telephones in the Davidson-Cornelius areas. He added that from the results received so far, the people were showing an overwhelming approval. He urged that all fraternity house and boarding house phones be registered on the petitions.

The Council also discussed the request for an intersemester break. In general, the report said that the calendar was now operating on the minimum number of contact classroom hours, which is forty-five minutes per hour. In order to allow a vacation between semesters, said Mr. Hengeveld, several possibilities could be considered: Among these would be the taking off of days from the Christmas and Spring vacations, or beginning the year earlier and ending later. The idea of beginning earlier and ending later runs into several complications, among them the traditional policies of the school as well as some other practical reasons. However, the administration is open to any suggestions, and is willing to establish an intersemester break if the complications can be overcome. A poll on student opinion will be circulated this week concerning the matter, and every student is urged to give it his full consideration.

For the benefit of those students who get locked out of their rooms for one reason or another, master keys may be gotten from Perrin Anderson on the first floor of Belk, Cop Linker, any janitor in your dormitory, the Union, or some college official.

The council requested that the (Continued On Page Four)

Shown above are Beatrice Griffin, Concert Master, and Benjamin Swalin, Director of the North Carolina Little Symphony.

Artist Series Presents Little Symphony Concert

The North Carolina Little Symphony will present a concert February 7 in the Chambers Auditorium of Davidson College. Viviane Bertolami, violinist, will be the featured soloist. The concert is part of the Davidson Artists Series. The evening program, which begins at 8:15, will open with the Overture to the Merry Wives of Windsor, by Nicolai.

The first portion of the program will also include an interpretation by the orchestra of Haydn's Symphony Number 92, the "Oxford" Symphony. Miss Bertolami will play the Concerto in E flat for Violin and Orchestra by Mozart.

The second half of the program will include a group of dances featuring the following compositions: "Gavotte," by Bach, "Valse Triste," by Sibelius, "In A Vienna Park," by Johann Strauss, and "Roumanian Dances," by Bela Bartok.

The final selections on the program will be Ballet Music from William Tell, by Rossini, and Overture to the Opera "Il Signor Bruschino," also by Rossini.