STUDENTS AND WORLD TENSION (Page 2) VOL. XLV

SPEAKERS SELECTED

Winter Services Plans Being Laid

Winter Services are being planned by the YMCA for February 10-14. Carl Cooper, chairman of the Winter Services Committee, said
that these services will resemble the University Christian Mission of two years ago. The theme for these services is The
Power and Practicality of Faith: Biblical Perspectives. Speakers and campus leaders have already been chosen in preparation for the week.
The four speakers are Dr. John S. Whale, Dr. Eugene C. Blake, Dr. McMurry S. Richey, and the Reverend Richard
R. Gilbert.

DR. WHALE

Dr. Whale, a graduate of Mansfield College, Oxford, and Magdalene College, Cambridge, is a retired professor of church history at
Drew Theological Seminary and is visiting lecturer at Columbia and Union Theological Seminaries.

DR. BLAKE

Dr. Blake is a graduate of Princeton University and Seminary and presently is serving as Stated Clerk of the General
Assembly of the Presbyterian Church in the U.S.A., which is the permanent executive office of the governing body of the
church.

DR. RICHEY

Dr. Richey is now serving at his alma mater as Assistant Professor of Philosophy of Christian Education in Duke Divinity
School.

RICHARD GILBERT

The Reverend Richard Gilbert received his education at the University of Georgia and Princeton Theological Seminary. He now holds the
position of Secretary for Youth Evangelism in the Division of Evangelism of the Board of Missions of the Presbyterian Church,
U.S.A.

The honorary chairman of the campus committee for Winter Services is Dr. John R. Cunningham. The chairman, Dr. Harold Ford,
and the vice-chairman, Carl Cooper, are working closely with the YMCA secretary, Dr. Staples. Chairmen of the various committees for
Winter Services are: Arrangements, Walt Davis; Book Display, John Baker; Breakfast and Retreat, Steve Huntley; Continuation, John Trotti; Finance, Bob
Shaw; and Hospitality, Gerald Wilson. Additional committees include: Organized Houses, Buddy Dye; Personal Conferences, Leon Howell; Publicity, Joe Sandifer; Seminar,
Tom Morgan; Worship, Hunter; and Faculty, Dr. W. G. McGavock.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY

PU Discussion Centered On Membership at First YMCA Meeting

The Davidson College Y.M.C.A. held its first November meeting Monday evening with discussion centered around three things, membership, budget, and
the College Bible Class. Chairman Bunny Perkinson of the Membership Drive reported that to date approximately 530 members of the
student body have signified their interest in the Y.M.C.A. program. This was compared with last year’s membership at this time
which was only slightly more.

PLEDGES

However, the significant fact to be noted is that although the membership total is running slightly behind that of last
year, the amount pledged to the Y work is substantially higher. At present about $3,500 has been pledged, representing a
net gain over last year’s pledges of about $500. This includes only student pledges. Solicitations will continue for Y membership
among the faculty until the end of this week. Perkinson has asked the members of the Y Cabinet to be
responsible for these solicitations.

The President and treasurer of the Y are conferring with the individual cabinet posts before submitting the Y budget for
the year.

BIBLE CLASS

Considerable discussion has arisen concerning the proposal of the Davidson College Presbyterian Church to take over the College Bible Class
and to provide it with both leadership and financial aid. At the present time, the class is sponsored by the
Y and is taught by Professor McLane. It has been noted, however, that the Presbyterian Church is the only one
in Davidson that does not sponsor a denominational Sunday School Class.

STUDY GROUP

Upon recommendation of the Y.M.C.A. Board of Directors the matter has been referred to the Commission on the Mission of
the Church for further study. This group, headed by Joe Sandifer, will discuss first, the proposal made by the Church
for a denominational class, and secondly, whether or not to continue to have an interdenominational Bible Class.

Carmichael to Speak About Integration

Dr. Omer Carmichael, superintendent of the Louisville, Kentucky public schools, will speak to the student body in chapel on Thursday,
November 15. Dr. Carmichael will explain how and why the Louisville schools were integrated this fall. This topic has recently
appeared on television networks and in Time and other weeklies.

BACKGROUND

Dr. Carmichael was born in the Deep South—in the small town of Hollins, Alabama. He went to the University of
Alabama. He has served as superintendent of various schools in the South—Tampa, Florida and Lynchburg, Virginia, among others before coming
to Louisville eleven years ago. Dr. Carmichael started to lay the groundwork for an integrated program almost as soon as
the Supreme Court issued its decision. His educational campaign carried Dr. Carmichael to service clubs, welfare groups, civic organizations, parent-teacher
units, and to industry, labor, and farmers. He earnestly urged acceptance of the new policy.

LOUISVILLE SCHOOLS

As it turned out, the majority of Louisville schools are on an integrated basis. Of the city’s seventy-three schools, fifty-four
are mixed. Forty-one elementary, eight junior high, and five senior high schools contain both Negroes and whites. It would be
impossible for a white parent to seek a transfer to an all-white high school for his child since of the
six secondary schools one is all-Negro and five are mixed. Dr. Carmichael will hold an informal coffee discussion in the
Union for all interested students after his talk in chapel.

The Davidsonian

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

NOVEMBER 9, 1956

McREE WILDCAT OF THE WEEK (Page 3) No. 8

ODK Taps Eight Seniors In Annual Fall Ceremony

Bailey Delivers Address Citing Aims and Ideals

The Delta Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa tapped eight outstanding Davidson seniors for membership in chapel Tuesday. Vernon Hunter, president
of the local chapter, presided.

OMICRON DELTA KAPPA RECOGNIZED eight outstanding seniors in tapping ceremonies Tuesday morning. From left to right, top row: Richard Weeks,
Pete Ashcraft, George Scott, and Bob Martin. Bottom row: Don McRee, Dyke Little, Reitzel Snider, and Jimmy Martin.

Council Discusses Crusade For Freedom

A discussion on the Crusade for Freedom highlighted this week’s student council meeting last Monday night. Resulting from the need
for increased understanding between the students behind the Iron Curtain and those in America, the Crusade for Freedom program is
requesting certain colleges to conduct educational programs among its students. After thorough discussion, the council passed a motion in favor
of having such a program in the spring.

CRUSADE

The crusade to be held on the Davidson campus will include a movie, speaker, and even some mock propaganda balloons
such as are actually used to communicate to those behind the Red lines. To the school staging the best crusade,
a full, one-year scholarship to study in Munich, Germany, will be given.

STUDENT FORUM

President Dan LaFar reported that progress was being made on the Davidson-Cornelius telephone problem and that attendance at the mock
Student Legislature convention in Raleigh, November 15-17, would be open to the student body. The question of honor-binding fraternity presidents
to report drinking among their brothers on dance weekends was discussed and referred to a later meeting.

The council discussed the sleeping arrangements of both Negro and white delegates to the regional United Students Christian Council conference
to be held at Davidson over the Christmas holidays. The college staff is attempting to iron out the problems that
have arisen.

CURRICULUM

Councilman Bill Bondurant presented the departmental defenses for the required courses of the Davidson curriculum. Suggestion was made to have
a student-faculty committee study the curriculum and make recommendations for changes.

Ford Leads Discussion On Suez Developments

By BRUCE BROOKS

Dr. Harold P. Ford, of the Political Science Department, criticized the Israeli invasion into Egypt, but felt it was probably
motivated by the fact that the Israelis thought it was only a matter of time before Egypt moved against them.
Ford was leading a discussion on the Suez crisis Monday night in the Union Ballroom before approximately 100 students.

Ford prefaced his remarks by saying that “July 1914 is the nearest equivalent to this time” when so much has
been going on in such a short time. He pointed out the growing spirit of national interest and “nationalism,” which
he defined as “thinking in terms of being a member of a nation” before being a Communist or anything else.
The action of the Hungarians was given as an example.

In his speech, Ford explained the viewpoints of each of the countries involved. Israel wanted to attack before Egypt could
gain the advantage by attacking first. Ford praised the U.N. decision to send only the troops of smaller countries, making
them seem more like independent countries. Ford also discussed Russia's “general relaxation and conservation of Democratic ideals.” Evidence of strong
character and leadership was noted in the actions of the involved nations."Of tactics” policy has given countries time to re-appraise
her, and consequently, they have been acting at the annual fall ceremony. Professor John C. Bailey delivered the major address
on behalf of ODK. He described the society as a forum of representative students and faculty members, which considers problems
affecting Davidson and strives to focus attention upon various needs as revealed by the study of these problems. He cited
on-campus social functions, attraction of good students, and intramural sports as particular areas of ODK interest in the past. Professor
Bailey said that men in the society represent all phases of college activities and interest.

Following Professor Bailey's speech, Hunter dropped the gavel on the rostrum eight times calling forth as members Pete Ashcraft, Dyke
Little, Bob Martin, Jim Martin, Don McRee, George Scott, Reitzel Snider, and Richard Weeks.

QUALIFICATIONS
Qualifications for membership in the society are character, scholarship, intelligence, service, and leadership in campus life. Fellowship, however, is the
primary consideration for membership.

PETE ASHCRAFT
Pete Ashcraft, an economics major from Amherst, Massachusetts, is well-known for his outstanding efforts on the track. Ashcraft is president
of the D club and a member of Kappa Sigma, a social fraternity.

DYKE LITTLE
Dyke Little hails from Hickory, N.C., and is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity. He has proved to
be a clever and skillful quarterback for the Cats and has become a legend on the basketball court. He is
ROTC regimental S4, a Distinguished Military Student, and a Student Council member. Weeks is from Savannah, Georgia, a history major,
and a member of Kappa Alpha.

BOB MARTIN
Bob Martin, who transferred from the Citadel at the end of his sophomore year with a notable record, has distinguished
himself at Davidson as a former president of the Male Chorus, social chairman of Phi Delta Theta, member of the
YMCA Cabinet, and cheerleader. He is a sociology major from Welsh, Louisiana.

JIM MARTIN
Jim Martin is a chemistry major from Columbia, S.C. A member of Beta Theta Pi, he is president of the
Concert Band, a member of Gamma Sigma Epsilon, an honorary chemistry fraternity, active in Eumenean Literary Society, and Phi Mu
Alpha, an honorary music fraternity. Martin is a former member of the Male Chorus and is currently treasurer of the
Interfraternity Council.

DON McREE
Don McRee is a fleet halfback and co-captain of the Wildcats. A physics major, McRee’s hometown is Newton, N.C. He
plays baseball and is treasurer of Sigma Phi Epsilon. Don is ROTC battalion commander, a Distinguished Military Student, and a
member of Scabbard and Blade.

RICHARD WEEKS
Richard Weeks, in his years at Davidson, has become a legend on the basketball court. He is ROTC regimental S4,
a Distinguished Military Student, and a Student Council member. Weeks is from Savannah, Georgia, a history major, and a member
of Kappa Alpha.

BATTEN REPORTS
In answer to a question, Ford said that there was “a high degree of possibility” that the Soviet action indicates
a major power shake-up. He called it “quite conceivable” that we might see a new premier or a new head
of the party. Another question was, “How will Tito figure in the latest action?” Ford answered that Russia has spent
the last three years trying to woo him back into the fold, and this will “help to worsen their relations
with Tito. Yugoslavia will probably be ‘less middle-of-the-road-ish’ and will come back closer to the U.S.”

U.S. PRESTIGE
Ford concluded by saying that our prestige “is probably higher now,” because of our stand concerning the French and the
British on the Egyptian situation. Dr. Ford was sponsored by the Round-Table Committee of the Student Union under the leadership
of Leon Howell.

Sigma Pi Sigma Bids Dr. Bernard, McLane
Sigma Pi Sigma, a physics honor society, held its third meeting of the year last Tuesday night. At that time
two faculty members were received into membership: Prof. McLane of the physics department, and Dr. Bernard, Professor of Mathematics. After
making plans for a trip to North Carolina State College to tour the physics and engineering departments, the group entered
into an informal discussion of graduate study in physics at various schools. Since a majority of the student members are
considering some form of additional study after graduation, this was a pertinent topic.

Hits Paperless Cleveland
This is a recorded telephone conversation by Jim Batten, editor of the Davidsonian:
CLEVELAND, November 8, (via wire) Rain, scattered snow flurries, and sleet were the order of the day as the Davidsonians’
six-man editorial contingent touched down in Cleveland at dawn this morning. The Associated Collegiate Press's thirty-second annual conference got underway
here at Cleveland's spacious Hotel Statler tonight. It will run through Saturday night. Upwards of 800 delegates from 35 states,
Canada, and the District of Columbia, representing most of the nation’s college publications flocked into town today. Bob Carmichael, Bob
Beall, John Trask, Bill Bondurant, John Johnson, and myself compose the Davidson delegation.

PERT HOSTESS
Eastern Airlines got things off to a smooth start, providing quick two-hour air service from Charlotte’s Douglas Airport to Cleveland,
and a pert 21-year-old hostess who said she had been to a Davidson dance weekend. Amazingly enough to this group
of semi-country boys, getting to the Statler from the Cleveland-Hopkins airport by way of a combination of buses, trolleys, “rapids,”
and five blocks on foot took fifteen minutes longer than did the non-stop flight from Charlotte.

NEWSPAPER STRIKE
Ironically enough, for a city entertaining a national press conference, Cleveland has been without newspapers since November 1 due to
a strike which has effectively silenced the city’s presses. Papers imported from New York, Pittsburgh, and Chicago are up for
grabs at 8 a.m. each morning, but the stacks dwindle rapidly and are usually gone within a half-hour. In an
effort to keep the populace up to date on momentous events occurring at home and abroad, many fashionable show windows
in the main business section feature neatly-typed ‘up-to-the-minute news bulletins. A red-headed waitress with the typical grating, twanging voice, summed
it up like this: “You just don’t realize how much you need a newspaper till you can't get one.” In
this newspaper-hungry city, even Davidsonians would find a ready market.

Administration Sets Dates For Chest X-Ray
Students will have the opportunity to have a chest x-ray made November 19, 20, or 21. Ordinarily this has been
a part of the regular physical exam of the college required of each returning student. This year, because of it
being impossible for the mobile x-ray unit to be in Davidson at that time, this time has been set. It
is necessary for the college to have a record of this x-ray before Thanksgiving. Those who are not able to
have the x-ray made during this time are to go to Charlotte for the check before the Thanksgiving holidays. Otherwise,
the student will not be allowed to return to the campus.
