BASEBALLERS HIT CATAWBA (Page 3) VOL. XLIV

French Restaurant Is Setting for Le Cercle Francais Rendezvous

Le Cercle Francais had its regular meeting Tuesday night, March 13, at the home of Dr. and Mrs. Goldiere. The
large attendance enjoyed a delightful evening of entertainment and feasting in the French style. This rather unusual type of program
was quite informal—sans minutes, sans roll, sans business. The members merely sat comfortably down at tables and ordered dinner from
the efficient but very busy waiters Jacques Delpech and Fred Myers. Of course, M. Crymes the Proprietor of the restaurant
attended to the wants of the more demanding customers furnishing them with their choice of red or white wine (at
least that’s what it looked like). Conspicuous among the guests was “Preacher” Terry, who applauded loudly when can-can girls John
Harmon and Bill Martin went through their bumps and grinds to the exotic rhythm of Dimijian’s dynamic derivations. Boatman Brinkerhoff
was also on hand to man the oars for the performers. Charlie Robinson provided the cigarettes and candy for the
customers, but they were somewhat disgruntled to find that everything cost “un sou.” The meal was really a triumph of
French cuisine, and all the members fell to without delay. Mesdames Watts and Goldiere, who were responsible for this, are
due a resounding vote of confidence. Other talent was provided to add to the festivities by MM. Warlick, Delpech, and
Harris, who acted out a hilarious incident which might happen in any cafe. All the members joined into the atmosphere
of the occasion by singing some old French favorites, topping everything off by a vigorous rendition of “La Marseillaise.”

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, MARCH 23, 1956

ELEVEN CHOSEN FOR BAKER FUND GRANTS

(D. C. News Bureau)—Twenty-four high school seniors from ten states today were named winners of Davidson College competitive scholarships for
1956. Eleven of them are George F. Baker scholars and will receive up to $5,000 each for four years of
college. In each case the award was based on merit and the amount of scholarship need. The 24 were among
finalists screened from 260 applicants from all over the South and East. Twenty-seven came to the Davidson campus for tests
and interviews last week. The winners were chosen on the basis of academic record, College Entrance Examination Board scores, leadership
potential, personal reference, and last week’s tests and interviews. To retain the awards for four years the winners must maintain
high standards in their work at Davidson. George F. Baker scholarships began at Davidson in 1948 when the George F.
Baker trust selected six institutions from the United States to administer them. Twenty-three Davidson students are now enrolled as Baker
scholars. The eleven new winners are Joseph Bell of Norfolk, Va.; Treadwell Davis of Atlanta, Ga.; Leland Edmunds of Newport
News, Va.; Robert Livingston of Sebring, Fla.; Brent Martin of Louisville, Ky.; and James Owens of Myrtle Beach, S. C.
Also Lamar Riggs of Little Rock, Ark.; David Robinson, Jr., of Columbia, S. C.; Herbert Spivey of Mt. Gilead, N.
C.; John Strange of Decatur, Ga.; and Dabney Stuart of Richmond, Va. Other scholarships are worth up to $2500 each,
and winners are as follows: William A. Merchant memorial scholarship: Perrin Wright of Lynchburg, Va. The Curtis B. Johnson scholarships:
Mike Gulas of Clarksburg, W. Va., and Dan McAlister of Maplewood, N. J. The C.R. Harding: Thad Long of Dothan,
Ala. Davidson College Honor scholarships: Carroll Grant of Chester, S. C.; Willard James of Brownsville, Tenn.; Robert Morrison, Jr., of
Columbia, S. C.; Rudolf Thunberg of Fayetteville; Bruce Van Sant of Fort Lauderdale, Fla.; and Joseph Verreault of Valdese.

SANDERS, KUYKENDALL, KUKURA AND BERNHARDT ELECTED TO YMCA POSITIONS

By BOB BEALL

This morning's YMCA voting resulted in the election of Rhett Sanders to the position of Vice President, John Kuykendall as
Secretary, Phil Kukura, treasurer, and John C. Bernhardt Junior Board member. A run-off for the presidency of the YMCA will
be held Tuesday during the Chapel period between Gordon Bondurant, Jim Covington, and Craighton Peden.

BONDURANT

Gordon Bondurant has served in the YMCA as Vice President this year and chairman of the Athletics Committee. In his
campaign he stated as his objectives the membership meetings program should be inclusive of the various student interests so as
not to have a program independent of the student desires and interests. He advocated the advertisement of the Y's programs
in an effort to gain more student body awareness of the importance which programs play in student life on campus.
A need for more opinion from the student body in regard to the chapel programs was also stressed as of
prime importance. He pledged that those whom he would choose for positions on the Y cabinet would be dedicated men
of the campus.

PEDEN

Craighton Peden is the retiring chairman of the Southern Area Student Council of the YMCA. The keynote of Peden's campaign
was the need for discussion. He stated as his objectives for the YMCA in the coming year the Y program
being centered around those considering some phase of the ministry. He also emphasized the importance of the complete Student Council.
Peden is presently secretary of the sophomore class, secretary of the Eumenean Literary Society, and a member of the Wrestling
team while last year he was the treasurer of the Kappa Sigma pledge class. This past summer Bernhardt lived with
a family in Passau, Germany for six weeks.

John Bernhardt, Cutting Win Student Body Offices

By CLAGETT TAYLOR

Davidsonian Elections Reporter

From the heat of student body elections this week candidates LaFar, Batten, Smyth, Bernhardt, and Cutting emerged as victorious. Dan
LaFar outlasted Bunny Perkinson in a run-off battle, which had seen candidate by candidate drop by the wayside, for the
presidency of the student body. Commenting upon his election to the presidency of the Student Body LaFar said, “Upon choosing
the complete Student Council, I plan to first take into consideration all of the points brought out by those candidates
who made speeches for this office last Friday.” Jim Batten was elected editor of the Davidsonian for next year in
a final run-off with Leon Howell in Thursday's balloting. Batten had stood for a continuation of the Morehead Policy and
for certain improvements that might make for a better campus newspaper. When asked for a statement by the Davidsonian, he
said, “I will do my best to further the work now being carried on by the Student Council, and will
strive to carry out those policies which will do the most for Davidson and her student body.” In Tuesday’s balloting
John Bernhardt was elected second vice president and Tom Cutting secretary-treasurer of the student body. Perhaps known best as a
singer of folk songs and ballads around the campus, Bernhardt is presently secretary of the sophomore class, secretary of the
Eumenean Literary Society, and a member of the Wrestling team while last year he was the treasurer of the Kappa
Sigma pledge class. This past summer Bernhardt lived with a family in Passau, Germany for six weeks. Tom Cutting was
the outstanding freshman member of last fall’s varsity football team.

Bunny Perkinson congratulates Dan LaFar on his election to the position of student body president for next year. Perkinson was
runner-up in the contest.

Court Returns To Chapel

Faculty Okays Petitions

By JOHN TRASK, JR.

Davidsonian Staff Writer

The Student Council, at its March 19 meeting, was informed that the Faculty had approved its recent petitions for the
placing of students on the Calendar Committee and the Religious Exercise Committee. Also, the Council was informed that the Chapel
Committee had accepted its request for the return of the Court of Control to Chapel. The Council’s petition was accepted
on a one-year trial basis. It is expected that the Court of Control will meet in Chapel about three times
before Thanksgiving next year. Councilman Linny Baker gave a report on the Council's efforts to obtain an inter-semester break. He
said that Dean Spencer liked the idea, but suggested that the Council emphasize the fact that the sabbatical leave by
the college.

Officers of the Male Chorus discuss the plans for their Spring Concert with Mr. Donald Plott, director of the Chorus.
Officers are: left to right, Tom Miller, chaplain; Buster Sharp, coordinator; Bob Martin, president; Walter Bullock, vice-president; and Harold McKeithen,
secretary.

Davidson Male Chorus Makes Five Florida Stops

The Davidson College Male Chorus left yesterday for Macon, Ga., and the first concert of a nine-day tour through Georgia
and Florida. After spending the night in Macon they will sing in Quincy, Fla., tomorrow night, and then on successive
days in Clearwater, St. Petersburg, Palm Beach, and DeLand, Fla., and Waycross, Ga. The 36-voice group is directed by Donald
B. Plott, head of the Davidson department of music. Harry A. Wells of Chester, S. C., is accompanist. For the
past two decades the Male Chorus has toured major cities of the East, Southeast, and Southwest, and has been heard
on major radio networks. Mr. Plott is a graduate of the University of Michigan, and has been recalled by his
alma mater as guest conductor of the noted Michigan Glee Club. For the past several summers he has been choral
director of Transylvania Music Camp near Brevard, N. C. The chorus is selected each year from more than 100 students
trying out.Out for the limited number of places. Officers: W. Robert Martin, Jr., Welsh, La., president; Walter M. Bullock, High
Point, N. C., vice-president; J. Harold McKeithen, Jr., Winston-Salem, N. C., secretary; E. Thomas Miller, Hapeville, Ga., chaplain; and Grant
McG. Sharp, DeLand, Fla., coordinator. Other members are: Jeter H. Abernathy, Charlotte, N. C.; John E. Adkins, Jr., Sumter, S.
C.; Gordon S. Ballou, Knoxville, Tenn.; James G. Boyce, Charlotte, N. C.; Joseph Brown, III, Springfield, Mo.; Robert W. Buchanan,
Winston-Salem, N. C.; Henry H. Bucher, Haddonfield, N. J.; Hugh B. Craig, Concord, N. C.; John C. Crawford, II, Maryville,
Tenn.; Charles H. Daugherty, Decatur, Ga.; C. Grier Davis, Jr., Asheville, N. C.; Stuart B. Fountain, High Point, N. C.;
Joseph M. Garrison, Greensboro, N. C.; P. Anthony Guiles, Charlotte, N. C.; L. Hadley Hunt, Pleasant Garden, N. C.; James
A. Jones, III, Richmond, Va.; Robert P. Klugh, Union, S. C.; James M. Kuist, Princeton, N. J.; Charles I. Loftin,
II, Gastonia, N. C.; John H. McVay, Front Royal, Va.; Robert M. Mack, Richmond, Va.; Edward L. Moore, North Wilkesboro,
N. C.; H. Stephen Norton, Virginia Beach, Va.; Douglas W. Oldenburg, Signal Mountain, Tenn.; S. Curtis Patterson, Cramerton, N. C.;
Lawton W. Posey, North Charleston, S. C.; B. Maurice Ritchie, Concord, N. C.; W. Timothy Teachey, Richmond, Va.; Thomas F.
Thrailkill, Hapeville, Ga.; and Pat M. Woodward, Quincy, Fla.

Student participation by those who otherwise would have no knowledge of the programs of the Y. An emphasis on more
student participation as a primary objective was stated.

COVINGTON

Jim Covington has served this year as leader of the Hall Prayer meetings, which was advocated as a phase of
the YMCA’s work. Davidson’s Dr. Causey Male Chorus Spring Tour Wins Fellowship In Spain Davidson College professor James Y. Causey
has won a graduate fellowship for study in Spain and has been granted this fellowship through a grant by the
Division of Higher Education of the Board of Christian Education of the Presbyterian Church, U. S. Dr. Causey, a member
of the Spanish language faculty since 1948, will take his work at the University of Madrid. He will do research
on the modern Spanish novel. Dr. Causey has done previous research in this field and has contributed articles to the
Modern Language Journal, Books Abroad, and the South Atlantic Modern Language Bulletin. He holds the rank of Professor at Davidson,
and has taught at Emory University, the University of Alabama, DePauw University, and the College of William and Mary before
coming to Davidson. He will be accompanied to Spain by Mrs. Causey and their three children, Joanne 19, Ruth 12,
and James, Jr. 10.

A native of Concord, he graduated from the University of Virginia, received his M.A. degree from North Carolina, and his
Ph.D. from Wisconsin. He served as a Naval officer during World War II, and has had two previous scholarships for
study in Spain. They were made possible by the Institute of International Education in 1930, and by the Del Amo
Foundation of Los Angeles in 1931. Dr. Causey has also studied and traveled in England, France, Switzerland, Italy, Germany, Mexico,
and Africa. He will leave for Spain June 1, and will return in January of 1957.

Noted Bible Professor To Speak at Vespers

Dr. James T. Cleland, James B. Duke Professor of Preaching in the Divinity School and Dean of the Chapel, Duke
University, will be the speaker at Vespers on March 25. Dr. Cleland is a native of Scotland and received part
of his education there. He holds the degrees of M.A. and B.D. from Glasgow University and S.T.M. and Th.D. from
Union Theological Seminary, New York. He received his B.D. with distinction and his S.T.M. summa cum laude. Davidson College awarded
him the D.D. degree in 1951. He has taught at Glasgow University Divinity Hall, Amherst College, Union Theological Seminary, Pacific
School of Religion, and Duke University. He became a James B. Duke Professor in 1954 and Dean of the Chapel
in 1955. Dr. Cleland contributed to Volumes II and VI of The Interpreter’s Bible.

The YMCA in the form of advertisement and money, but no direct supervision by the Y to be given. A
widening of the scope of Hall Prayer meetings was advocated. The Davidson College Presbyterian Church will conclude with a Communion
service led by The Reverend Samuel W. Newell, pastor of Davidson.

The Davidson College Gift Fund is making final collections of this year's campaign. Don Stewart, in charge of soliciting the
money, expects about $3200 in the final count. Over $3000 in cash has already been collected. This compares very favorably
with last year when the Student Body donated about $2700. Stewart considers that the increase is due largely to the
fact that there was a definite goal set and that a longer period of time was allowed for payment. There
were two distinct projects presented to the students this year. One, the Alexander Home for teaching Greek farmers modern agricultural
methods; and the other was concerned with helping Radio Station DYSR in the Philippines in its attempt to reach more
people. Both needs were presented clearly in chapel by Dr. Henry Mack, Dr. Harold P. Ford, and Tom Northcott who
spoke on behalf of the radio project.

The dual nature of the project effectively combined in this year’s program. Also, it was wisely decided to move the
campaign away from the Christmas season.

The Davidson College ROTC Unit has acquired new shoulder patches. These new patches are red and black, with the words
“Davidson College” inscribed on them. In the center of the patch is woven a figure of the Davidson wildcat. These
patches are to be worn by all cadets, regardless of rank. The patches were made available by a donation from
a Davidson College alumnus. The unit has also recently added military scarves to their regular uniform. The new scarves, which
are worn only by officers in the cadet corps, designate the branch of which the officer is a member. The
following colors and branches are designated: Armor—yellow; Artillery—scarlet; Infantry—light blue; Signal Corps—orange; Medical Service Corps—maroon; Quartermaster Corps—buff; and Adjutant General’s
Corps—dark blue.

The second annual Science Fair of the South Piedmont Region will be held at Davidson College April 7. The first
was held at Catawba College last year where some 200 students had exhibits and about 400 students, teachers, and parents
were in attendance. The exhibits will be shown in the Johnston Gymnasium in one room.

The Faculty by the Student Council break would permit an opportunity for re-exams. The Faculty, however, turned down the Council’s
request to have student representatives on the Curriculum Committee. The letter from Dean Pierson stated that the Curriculum Committee would,
nevertheless, call upon the students for their opinions whenever their help was needed. As a result of the Faculty’s acceptance
of student members on the two committees, President Perrin Anderson appointed Councilmen Bill Bondurant and Linny Baker to the Calendar
Committee, and Councilmen Ross Smyth and Bunny Perkinson to the Religious Exercise Committee. Councilman Vernon Hunter gave a report from
the Committee on the Court of Control. He said that the Chapel Committee had accepted its request for the return
from the Christmas season.

The Council was reminded that a memorial fund has been set up in memory of Daniel B. Woods. Any student
who feels that he would like to contribute to this memorial should contact any Student Council member. Councilman Clyde Robinson
gave the Council his report on the North Carolina Student Legislative Assembly which met in Raleigh last fall. He said
that he thought the Assembly was worthwhile and that Davidson should continue to send delegates. It was pointed out that
the regional meeting of the Assembly would be held during Spring Frolics weekend. The selection of delegates will be left
up to the new Student Body President.

Roger Wagner Chorale Artist Series Highlight

By FREDO MYERS

The Roger Wagner Chorale sang on Wednesday evening in Chambers Auditorium. This program was unquestionably the highlight of our season.
It was, in fact, as remarkable a program as this writer can remember having heard anywhere. The music ranged in
tone and style from Palestrina to Rogers and Hammerstein. It is something of an achievement to perform so diversified a
program with such coherence and discipline as this group demonstrated. The excerpts from the seldom-heard Idomeneo which the group sang
are excellent examples of Mozart's dramatic art at its most difficult. Most performances of Mozart are altogether unsatisfactory. Wednesday night’s
performance was a revelation. Mozartian opera is an ornately gilded, highly fashionable, 18th-century proscenium, through which audiences are placed in
contact with drama of the noblest and most powerful order. Too often the interpretative level of performance never penetrates beyond
the rococo facade; the curtain is never raised and the soul of Mozart is not revealed. This is why he
remains the “most inaccessible” of them all. On last Wednesday evening, however, the Roger Wagner Chorale made us hear and
see the thunder and the lightning behind the velvet and lace.

It is regrettable that Brahms and not intermission should have followed this pinnacle of art. Brahms after Mozart could not
help feeling anti-climactic. And the Liebeslieder Waltzes in translation sounded about one-half as silly as Idomeneo would have sounded. Here,
the perfect enunciation and articulation of the singers were more a drawback than an asset, since it was impossible to
relax and listen to the music without hearing the words. Behold, I Build an House, by the contemporary Foss, was
perhaps the highlight of the second half.
