PAGE FOUR

SIXTEEN OF THE 365 PINTS of blood donated during the Davidson Fall Blood Drive leave the Johnston Gymnasium on their way to the Charlotte Regional Blood Center. Blood donated Monday and Tuesday.

365 Donors Answer IFC Fall Blood Appeal

A total of 365 pints of blood were donated during the 2-day fall Blood Drive this week. 214 were given on the first day. These figures are almost three times the amount donated during last year’s fall Blood Drive. All eleven fraternities, the Campus Club, Independents, some faculty members, and several townspeople contributed their blood in the drive. 

“We appreciate the cooperation shown by the students and the administrative helpers in making this blood drive a success,” commented John Trask, chairman of the IFC Blood Drive committee.

It has not been clearly determined as yet which fraternity had the highest percentage of its members contributing. The three top fraternities were Phi Delta Theta, Sigma Chi, and Alpha Tau Omega. As soon as the lists are compiled, the winning fraternity will receive a reduction in dance weekend tickets and will be in the lead in the competition for the plaque given to the winner of both the fall and spring competition. The Blood Drive was sponsored by the IFC in cooperation with the Davidson College ROTC Department. The Mecklenburg Chapter of the Red Cross collected the blood with the assistance of wives of Davidson townsmen.

Led by Brownie Thurman and Dave Wood, the Phi Delts splashed their way to an impressive victory in the inter-fraternity swimming meet. With three first places and eight other points, the Phi Delts racked up a 23-point total. The Phi Gams were next in line with 16, and the Sigma Chi's rated third place with 12 points. Taking a total of 10 points, the Kappa Sigs landed in fourth place, while the Betas and K.A.'s tied for fifth with 8 points each. Art Miller led the Betas with a near-record performance in the 50-yard breaststroke event. The S.A.E.'s and A.T.O.'s, with 7 and 4 points each, were the only other teams to make placement points in the meet.

Individual winners and fraternities are:
25 freestyle—Thurman, Phi Delt.
50 freestyle—Mauzy, Wood (tie), Phi Gam, Phi Delt.
75 freestyle—Thurman, Phi Delt.
50 backstroke—Simpson, Kappa Sig.
50 breaststroke—Miller, Beta.
75 medley—Alexander, S.A.E.
150 medley relay—(team), Sigma Chi.
200 freestyle relay—(team), Phi Delt.

Unofficial Standings and points for the meet are:
Team Points
Phi Delt 23
Phi Gam 16
Sigma Chi 12
Kappa Sig 10
Beta 8
K.A. 8
S.A.E. 7
A.T.O. 4

Music Department Holds First Recital

The Davidson College Department of Music will present several of its students in a recital Tuesday, at 8:15 p.m. in Chambers Auditorium. The program will be the first in a series of student recitals to be presented during the present academic year, according to Donald B. Plott, Director of Music. Participating will be J. Earle Lewis, Jere Starling, Harry A. Wells, and T. Perrin Wright, Jr. Piano students of Louise Nelson Pfohl; Arthur P. Lawrence and Harry A. Wells, organ pupils of Philip K. Gehring; John A. Daniel, who studies trumpet with John R. Satterfield; and Walter M. Bullock, Hugh B. Craig, Jr., and Alfred F. MacKay, voice students of Donald B. Plott. Many of the students who are majoring in music and participating in the various musical organizations of the Davidson campus. Admission to this program is free and the Music Department faculty is encouraging the public to attend this initial program.

Lloyd Lectures To Phi On Irish Literature

Prof. C. E. Lloyd of the English department presented a program on Irish literature at the regular meeting of Philanthropic Literary Society last Monday night. After pointing out the difficulties...

Jim Kuist won the Woodrow Wilson Creative Writing Contest with an essay entitled “Ideas and Ideals in Woodrow Wilson.” Prof. W. C. Doub Kerr made the award in chapel this morning. Willard Wolfe’s “Framework for Peace” took first honorable mention, while Tom Morgan won second honorable mention with his “Ideas and Idealisms.” The Woodrow Wilson Award is donated annually by Professor Doub Kerr, of Glendale College in California. Doub Kerr is an alumnus of Davidson. The entries were judged by Prof. Doub Kerr while visiting the campus Thursday and Friday.

Szentivanyi Holds Key...

(Continued from Page One)

the street or even the conductor of the prison train might have been seized to fill the quota. “Tell me,” he said, “what kind of security can you have in this?” The Russians bore no respect for persons. Of the nine million people in Hungary, about half were women. A Red Cross service from Switzerland went into Hungary in an effort to check the spread of venereal disease in the early nineteen-fifties. They discovered that over a million and a half of the women, between the ages of three and ninety-four, who reported for inspection, were sick as a result of the mass rape by the Russians. The Russians tried to destroy every sense of loyalty except that to the Communist. Pictures of young girls and boys, bearing the title, “National Hero,” were seen on the walls throughout Hungary. They were being praised for informing on their own parents who...

Davidson Petition...

(Continued from Page One)

government the following: That the United States seriously consider the possibility of withdrawing diplomatic recognition of the present Budapest government, now supported solely by the strength of Soviet arms, as an expression of the intensity of American sympathy for the Hungarian people. Aware of the efforts the United States is at present supporting in the United Nations to concert world opinion against Soviet repression in Hungary, we feel that more effective American efforts could be made toward organizing the vast store of moral force of the world, especially of the non-committed nations of Asia and Africa, against the brutal action of the Soviet government in Hungary. That the United States adopt as a matter of highest priority the formulation of forceful plans to meet any future contingencies, such as the Hungarian rebellion, that might arise in other areas of the world subjugated by the Communist...held secret desires for freedom, who nightly relished the news of the outside world over Radio Free Europe. Dr. Szentivanyi said earnestly, “If the people of any nation have any sort of Communism, you can be sure that they will want instead to be free. Those who have had contact with it are vaccinated against Communism.” He felt that the Hungarian revolt had been an inevitable reaction against so many years of Communist oppression. “The Hungarian people have a long tradition for fighting for freedom. But most of all, they want freedom not only for themselves but also for all the nations of the world.”

The Russians taught the children to use guns; but in the revolt, those teenagers rushed to seize the machine guns from the disabled tanks, and taught the older people how to use them against the Reds. “Nevertheless,” he reflected sadly, “I'm very sorry I had to leave. I didn’t want to leave, but freedom is most important.” For those who stayed, there remained only death in an active fight, slow death, mentally as well as physically, or deportation to Siberia. He remembered how, when the refugees were arriving in New York harbor, the women began to weep on seeing the Statue of Liberty.

Prof. John Satterfield
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 7, 1956

Translates Messiaen
Professor John Satterfield of the Music Department has just had published his translation from French to English of Olivier Messiaen's “The Technique of My Musical Language,” in two volumes, by the publishing house of Alphonse Leduc of Paris. Messiaen is a professor at the National Conservatory of Music in Paris, and, according to Satterfield, is “one of the leading contemporary French composers.” Messiaen’s book “deals with his solutions to the technical problems of composers and his methods of constructing music in a logical way.” Messiaen is best known for his organ compositions, and much of his work has been recorded here in the United States. Satterfield originally read the book in French and thought that it should be offered in English too, so that everyone would have the opportunity to read it. When he wrote the publishers offering to translate it for them, they immediately responded with a contract. Satterfield received a copy of the new translation this week, but Leduc has not announced the date when it will be offered for sale in this country.

Bridge Tournament
There will be a Master Point Bridge Tournament in the Ballroom of the Union next Tuesday at 7:30. Charge will be 25 cents per player.

1415 ELIZABETH AVENUE
Charlotte’s most complete music center offers the finest in HIGH FIDELITY COMPONENTS.

In his opinion, this revolt showed the weaknesses of the Russian Communist system. They had restricted the universities to young people from the working class. However, when the students revolted, the working class and the white-collar class were drawn together in a common cause for freedom.

Presentation of this ad entitles the bearer to a 20% discount on all record purchases. Offer good until February 1, 1957.

To look your best at dances and other social functions during the Holidays, bring us your Suits, Tuxedo, and Dress Shirt for our expert attention.

Jackson Cleaners
OPPOSITE GULF STATION
DAVIDSON

by Chesterfield
IT'S FOR REAL!

SANTA CLAUS ANALYZED
Why oh why does Santa go, “Ho-Ho, Ho-Ho, Ho-Ho, Ho!” Is it just because he’s jolly? I believe he’s off his trolley. Gifts for everyone on earth breed hysteria—not mirth. If you had his job to do, bet you’d shake like jelly too!

End your gift problems before they start. Give Chesterfield in the carton that glows for real—to all the happy folk who smoke for real! Buy lots—to do lots for your Christmas list.

Smoke for real, smoke Chesterfield.

It’s Christmas, Ebenezer!

Ten diplomas were ordered for the seniors. Wally Pharr and Ray Atkinson were accepted as new members. The main event of the evening was a debate: “Resolved that Davidson men should wear informal dress.” Members Morgan and Kimbrough debated the pro side while Atkinson and Pharr took the negative side.

Fully recognizing the risk and danger of general war, we still feel that the United States could soberly develop an overall policy, not belligerent, but less inclined to be merely reaction against other nations’ policy and more inclined to initiative on its own, without losing the support and respect of other nations.

Jack Wood, Ltd.
SOUTHWICK suits, FRANK BROS. shoes, that men of taste will appreciate.

Jack Wood Ltd.
300 S. Tryon Street

The President, Harry Antrim, read the newly drafted Constitution to the Society. Several minor revisions were made at the suggestion of the members. The members were urged to attend various lectures concerning literary matters this week.

Smart way to say “Merry Christmas”
You'll be giving (or getting) an “A” for “appearance” with this handsome Arrow Cabot. It has the newest of campus sport shirt collars. Note the neat, short points. And its cotton flannel fabric is imported; new in our own big early-shopper selection of smart plaids and stripes. Shirt, $5.95.

IVEY'S OF CHARLOTTE

ARROW —first in fashion
SHIRTS * TIES * SLACKS

Got these in your holiday plans? This all-Arrow outfit can make a Christmas morning. (With a couple of well-placed hints it can be yours.) For your Christmas checklist: this stand-out Cabot sport shirt of imported cotton flannel, with the new short-point collar; and two college standbys, Arrow slacks and University styled crew neck sweaters. Shirt, $5.95; sweater, $11.95; slacks, $12.95.

On Trips Home
CHARLOTTE, N.C. ....... 55
ROCK HILL, S. C. ........ 1.30
COLUMBIA, S. C. ........ 3.05
SPARTANBURG, S. C. .... 2.55
AUGUSTA, GA. .......... 4.95
ATHENS, GA. ............ 5.70
ATLANTA, GA. .......... 7.35
JACKSONVILLE, FLA. .... 9.45
MIAMI, FLA. ............. 15.90
TAMPA, FLA. ............ 13.55
Plus U. S. Tax

Save an Extra 10% Each Way with a Round-Trip Ticket

WHITE DRUG CO.
Main St.—Phone 2111
Davidson, N. C.