THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE OCTOBER 12, 1956

Slants “Spo S By JOHN JOHNSON

Davidson's victory last Saturday in downing Presbyterian College 26-6 was a remarkable comeback for the Red and Black squad. To suffer the trouncing of 34-7 dealt by Citadel and then retaliate seven days later to defeat an arch-rival by the greatest margin since 1919 is a feat worthy of considerable attention. The difference in the team spirit in the two contests was the difference in black and white. In a period of one week, the boys were transformed from a quiet, well-trained football team to an aggressive and spirited fighting unit. Who should take credit for such a change? Undoubtedly the coaches can take a bow; the student support and wild send-off helped; but the greatest tribute must go to the players themselves. Each man showed the determination, hustle, and ardent will-to-win that is necessary for victorious clubs.

ONLY A FEW

As Coach Ratterree said after reviewing the films of the action, “To pick out a single player for tribute would be a mistake for this was a team victory. Every man contributed.” Yet to point out none because all are worthy of mention would be a mistake, too. So, though only a few are cited it is with the realization that many more could be named. The engineer of a game must receive credit. Quarterback Dyke Little’s mixing of runs and passes kept the Hose in a constant state of indecision. He varied the use of his backfield personnel constantly and ran enough himself to bring his season average to seven yards a carry, the team’s best average.

IN THE LINE TOO

Dave Fagg not only booted two extra points but also set up the second Cat touchdown by intercepting a PC pitch-out in mid-air. His jarring tackle of a Blue Hose runner behind the line of scrimmage resulted in a Davidson recovered fumble. In the final quarter, tackle Lanny Voight broke through the defenses to block PC's attempted extra point. However, the glory of the line’s game was not so much in how they contributed directly to the score but rather the vicious way they blocked and tackled. Dale Gramley turned in one of his best performances.

RUN, RUN, RUN

Paul Barbee caught the crowd's eye dramatically when he hauled in Little’s 30-yard pass and scampered 21 yards to pay dirt. He was also a consistent ground gainer in the short runs department. Donny McRee maintained his position as Davidson’s leading ground gainer and punter. The 165-pound left halfback upped his total yards gained to 176. Big, red-headed fullback Ken Conger proved to have the power when needed as he bulled through the line for two touchdowns. His crushing kickoff tackle was one of the best-remembered defensive plays of the game.

A MISTAKE?

In preparation for games to be played in Davidson, the college is undertaking needed construction on the press booth and other stadium facilities. Consideration was given to the idea of removing the unsightly loudspeakers presently situated in front of the stands. Apparently, the latter plan has been discarded in favor of merely replacing the wooden pole with a metal one. It seems that the college would err in not placing the view-blocking speakers in an inconspicuous place at the top or side of the stadium while they have the men and equipment to make the change.

SAVE on all your LP RECORDS by earning FREE LP’s with your purchases from us! . . . Come in and join the Joe Little Record Club tomorrow . . . No obligation! You select your own FREE LP’s from our entire stock!

Phi Gams, 7 to 6.

Smiling Coach Dole displays the football given to him by the Wildcat squad after downing PC. The ball, which was used in the contest, will be retired to the trophy case as a memento to the team’s accomplishment of scoring the highest number of points ever scored against a single team in a game.

MCBRYDE FIFTH, ASHCRAFT SIXTH

Last Saturday the Davidson squad downed Presbyterian College in a fog-shrouded game in Clinton, S. C. For the Red and Black, fullback Ken Conger scored twice on one-yard plunges, Dyke Little covered 13 yards for one tally and 51 yards to Barbee for another score. For the entire action of the game, consult the diagram at right which includes every play of the contest.

The struggling Generals lost their initial scrap last week to Centre College, though looking much improved over last year and hoping for more than just smatterings of success in contrast to last season's seven consecutive losses.

Harriers Capture Second

Davidson's cross country team opened their 1956 season by placing second in their triangular meet with Washington and Lee and Virginia Military Institute in Lexington, Virginia last Saturday. As expected, the Keydets of VMI proved to be the strongest, while Washington & Lee’s Generals were soundly defeated by a well-running Wildcat team. Angus McBryde, in his first collegiate cross-country race, finished fifth and best of the Davidson men, being beaten by four VMI runners. On the fast W&L course, McBryde, as well as Pete Ashcraft who finished sixth, recorded excellent times, both under 22 minutes. The winner was Dave Pitkethly, Southern Conference champ here at Davidson last year. Henry Brown followed behind McBryde and Ashcraft, getting 7th place. Frosh Jim Alexander satisfied all expectations with a 10th place. Of the eight Davidson harriers who made the trip, only two were seniors; the team contains four sophomores and two freshmen, and should develop into one of the finest squads in Davidson's cross-country history. Next meet for the team is another triangular contest against William & Mary and N. C. State at Williamsburg. This year’s Conference meet will be run at Lexington, Virginia, on the same course that was used last weekend.

The team scores were VMI 18, Davidson 42, and W&L 83. Best individually: (1) Pitkethly, VMI 20:34.7, (5) McBryde 21:40, (6) Ashcraft 21:58, (7) Brown 22:13.5, (10) Alexander 22:47.5, (14) Elder, (15) Antley, (18) Gee, (19) Huntley.

Wednesday, the Wildcat freshmen runners were defeated by East Mecklenburg High School on the local two-mile course by a 26 to 29 win. Wilson Fincher of East placed first to pace the victors. George in third position was the first Wildcat across the tape. Positions were: (1) Wilson, East 11:15.5; (2) Fincher, East; (3) George, Dav.; (4) Alexander, Dav.; (5) Gee, Dav.; (6) Bentley, East; (7) Bridgers, Dav.; (8) King, East; (9) Little, East; (10) Scheerer, Dav.

Remaining meets on the varsity schedule include:
Nov. 3 Richmond at Davidson.
Nov. 12 State Meet at Raleigh.
Nov. 19 Southern Conference Meet at Lexington, Virginia.

Action In Sight

Football
October 13 — Washington and Lee at Lexington, Virginia.
October 19 — Soccer at North Carolina at Chapel Hill.
October 20 — Football Stetson University at Davidson.

Five Teams Battle For Flickerball Lead
By BILL HELLIER

As the halfway mark of interfraternity flickerball draws near, the competition intensifies. Recent results include:
K.A. 24 — S.A.E. 7
A.T.O. 12 — Pika 6
Beta 33 — Phi Gam 0
Pi Kapp 13 — Campus Club 6
Phi Delt 27 — Sig Ep 19

Unofficial standings through Wednesday, October 10, are:
Won Lost
Kappa Sig 4 0
Phi Delt 4 0
S.A.E. 3 1
Sigma Chi 3 1
A.T.O. 2 2
Beta 2 2
Pika 1 3
Pi Kapp 1 3
Campus Club 1 3
Sig Ep 0 4

Although off to a bad start, the Betas have come up in the ranks, and along with the Pi Kapps, A.T.O.’s, and Pikas are constant threats to the leaders. Combining teamwork with enthusiasm, the Campus Club broke into the win column for the first time in two years by edging the Phi Gams, 7 to 6. Even though leading, 27 to 7, at the half, the Kappa Sigs pushed toDefeat a determined Pi Kapp squad, 35 to 33, in an overtime contest. Bob Keown led the losers with three long touchdown runs. Results for this week are as follows:

Sig Ep 36 — Phi Gam 6

Angus McBryde and Pete Ashcraft

October 15. Because of ing, which eliminated the team will be begin practicing than last year. The team will be led by ten returning lettermen, headed by Richard Weeks, Semi Mintz, Dave Hollingsworth, Joe Milner, and Mike Martin. A turnout of about thirty or forty freshmen is expected.

Showing great teamwork and determination, the K.A.'s spilled a previously undefeated SAE squad, 24 to 7, Tuesday. The Phi Delts were dumped by the S.A.E.’s for their first setback of the season, but rebounded the next day and handed the Sigma Chi's their first loss since 1954. Kappa Sig and the K.A.’s share the lead with identical records. The Phi Delts, SAE’s, and Sigma Chis are all close contenders.

Sigma Chi 18 — Beta 12
Kappa Sig 35 — Pi Kapp 33
S.A.E. 12 — Phi Delt 7
K.A. 31 — A.T.O. 12
Campus Club 7 — Phi Gam 6
Beta 24 — Sig Ep 0
Pi Kapp 18 — Pika 12
Phi Delt 18 — Sigma Chi 7
Kappa Sig 26 — A.T.O. 7

The twenty-game season will open on November 30, with a home game against Guilford College. There are seven games scheduled before the Christmas holidays, with home games being Guilford (Nov. 30), Catawba (Dec. 4), and Furman (Dec. 14).

Davidson loyals will follow the gridiron eleven to Lexington, Virginia, tomorrow where the Wildcats will be seeking their third win of the current campaign against the Generals. The team was edged by Presbyterian College in its opening match by the narrow margin of 1331 to 1315 last Friday at Clinton, S.C. High score for the Cats in the three-position match was Harry Antrim with 276 of a possible 300. Bob Alexander with a 269 was second high for Davidson. Other members of Davidson's six-man squad, which is under the direction of Capt. Cavano, were: Charles Stowe, George Hemingway, Walter Scott, and Carey Pichard. Assistant coach of the approximately 25-man squad is Sgt. Butts of the R.O.T.C. department. Early firing indicates that the 1956 team is about 35 to 40 points better than last year’s squad. On November 2, the team will encounter Furman and Wofford in the first action of the season on the local range. Anyone who has had experience in small bore, indoor range competition is urged to try out for the team.

Doubt was erased from the mind of sophomore Jack Daughtry when the noteworthy quarterback decided to compete under the blue and white colors this fall. Daughtry has given the squad a revived spirit as of his performance last week. Deception, mixed with spasmodic power plays, is the backbone of the hosts offensively, with their forward wall averaging just under 190 pounds. Depth is a major handicap throughout the lineup with the ends and center being especially weak.

The series, which began in 1909, shows W&L to have the upper hand in the win column with 12 to 18 games, one of which ended in a tie. In 1954, the red and black machine pasted a 54-0 defeat on the Generals. The Wildcat charges have inserted a new offensive pattern, “the belly series,” a significant factor in last week’s smashing of Presbyterian. Fewer frills of deception and more strain of power give the ‘Cats a new design. As a result of this retrograding, the Dolemen have impressively compiled 667 yards rushing as compared to only 280 of last year after facing the same three opponents. Such improvement on the ground has relieved quarterbacking chores from displaying such extensive pitching form with the records showing only 274 yards via the airways this year as against last season's 373, compiled in the first three games.

The red and black starting eleven will have, tentatively, Bill Gramley and Craig Wall at ends; Tom Lee and David Fagg, tackles; Charlie James and Dale Gramley, guards; Bill Price, center; Dyke Little, quarterback; Paul Barbee and Don McRee at halfbacks; and Ken Conger holding down the fullback lot. Tomorrow's 2 PM kickoff will be the first venture for the ‘Cats from under the arcs into the afternoon sunlight, having played their first three at night.

PRACTICE GETS UNDERWAY

Varsity basketball will open practice on the local hardwood on Monday afternoon. Coach Scott urges that anyone who is interested in playing basketball to be at the first practice session. He asks that everyone dress in their gym uniforms, for only the lettermen will be outfitted until a team is chosen. Even with ten returning lettermen, Coach Scott anticipates a large turnout and says that the field is wide open for varsity berths.

Other than the twenty-game schedule, Davidson will also play in two tournaments during the Christmas holidays. Included are the Carrousel Tournament in Charlotte, of which Davidson is the host team (December 17, 18, and 19), and the Richmond Invitational Tournament in Richmond, Va. (December 27, 28, and 29).

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... PIZZA

The famous OPEN KITCHEN
Charlotte, N.C.

The play-by-play action of Davidson's 26-6 defeat of Presbyterian last Saturday in Clinton is represented in the above diagram. To follow the game’s progress use the simple code in the upper right corner.

“Coke” is a registered trademark; "Coca-Cola" does something for you. You feel so new and fresh and good — all over — when you pause for Coca-Cola. It's sparkling with quick refreshment and so pure and wholesome — naturally friendly to your figure. Let it do things — good things — for you.

BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD © 1956, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY