MALTBY: VANILLA OR CHOCOLATE? by Cole 7 Candid Quotes Tell

Che Davidsontan
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
JIM BATTEN
BUSINESS MANAGER
ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Assistant Editor Bob Beall
Managing Editors Lloyd Chapin, John Trask
John Johnson, Bill Bondurant, John Trotti
Sports Editor
Feature Editor
Copy Editor
PAGE TWO
BOB CARMICHAEL
FRANKLIN BLOODWORTH, LEON HOWELL
News Editor Bill Pomeroy
Assignments Bob Lathan
Advertising Manager Bob Majors
Circulation Bob Austin, Marshall Chapman, Lee Mayfield
Represented for National Advertising by NATIONAL ADVERTISING SERVICE, Inc.
SUBSCRIPTION RATE: $2.00 Per Year.
Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.
OFFICES IN DAVID OVENS COLLEGE UNION, DAVIDSON COLLEGE
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 12, 1956

Fleas Come With the Dog

An old mountaineer sat rocking under an oak tree on a summer afternoon as he was being pried by a
visiting newspaperman. Frail and lame, he had not been away from his home for some time. “The town’s getting big,
I guess?” he asked. Upon being assured that it was, he offered, “You never get the dog without the fleas.”
“What do you mean?” asked the reporter. “You never get the dog without the fleas,” he said. “Big dog, active
dog, more fleas.”

In his homespun way, the old timer was being quite a philosopher. It is certainly quite apropos to our day
and time. Davidson is in a state of mutability and expansion. Our nation is big and getting bigger. There are
many added problems—major and minor—inherent in this status. From an agricultural people, we have changed to a predominantly urban clan.
A kind of mass urban man is appearing everywhere in America—even in the South and West. Although the comforts and
improvement in the standard of living have been accepted gratefully, we are fearful about our standards of life. The crux
of the matter is that the individual man in this society is not solid spiritually. Discontent has arisen in him.
It is absurd to assume that we can still go on thinking in the terms of the old concepts and
formulas. It ought to be rather obvious that these conditions, with the influences of group thinking and psychology, require some
new formulas. We must solve these and other problems—and find a solution for that sensitive, wistful fear that is in
each of us. This is why we are at Davidson. Great moral courage and force, and a true sense of
spiritual values, are needed today more than ever before. As we struggle along the trail that leads to the great
mass-man civilization, we must find a way to make the great teachings of books, of minds, of religious truth, freely
available along the way. It ought to begin here if it has not already evidenced itself in our lives. We
must learn to take the fleas with the dog—the bad with the good—and press on through faith in ourselves, our
country, and our God. And, as always, there are signs that we will; that deep within us is some mysterious
indefinable element of God-given spirit which is our reservoir of strength in time of need. And this is the aim
of education—L.H.

Time Out to Take Stock

Let us pause in the evening hours for a few moments. Let us rest and reflect after a day filled
with many things. Let us see what we can be thankful for at this time. There has been the waking
up and the face-washing a little after dawn, the stroll in the brisk autumn air down beneath the still green
leaves and the dew-washed grass to a table filled with good food. Perhaps another walk to the post office where
we hope to hear from people we know at distant places allows our gladdened stomachs to stretch a little. We
go to classes and study and write and learn and listen and try to understand. We talk to friends in
the halls and make plans for the next weekend or bet on the World Series or worry about tests or
laugh at minor incidents or just kid each other. We take part in this life in many ways. We come
and rest in the room or read the newspaper or listen to music and try to forget for a while
our problems, whether they be big or small. We finish out the day with time spent in various places: in
labs, at athletic practices, at places of responsibility to the school. We eat again a couple of times and we
study some more. We really are pretty well off. We have many fine things and many opportunities to improve ourselves
and those around us. What we do each day is not so important in relationship to the outcome of the
world, but we are still building, still growing, looking, seeking, trying to understand, trying to find our own place. God
has created us and given us all things. He has given us sleep, and a new day, he has given
us food and health, friends far away and nearby, he has given us studies for development, laughter for expression, fellowship
for appreciation, beauty in the world for enjoyment, activities for growth. Let us remember our daily gifts. Let us be
thankful. (Bill Gramley, in Hall Prayer Meeting)

PC. Painting Misguided Effort

The expeditionary forces which handled the painting of Presbyterian before the game in Clinton last weekend were sadly misdirecting their
enthusiasm. Vandalism under the guise of collegiate horseplay is still vandalism. Destruction or defacing of property is an equally serious
act, whether by mischievous college students or Charlotte’s teenage hoodlums. The “thoughtless prank” label does not ease the cost of
paint remover. Many campuses, especially in the North, accept this sort of tomfoolery as a natural, unavoidable method of letting
off undergraduate steam. Statue-stealing and paint-smearing are commonplace. We'd just as soon let the Yanks keep the honors along this
line. While not within the memory of the present student generation, a few years ago, the columns of Chambers sustained
a heavy-handed midnight paint job, which was removed only at considerable trouble and expense. A repeat of an incident of
this type would be extremely unfortunate. One bright spot is that this jaunt south is clearly indicative of the spirit
and enthusiasm of the students in regard to the football team, though in this instance unfortunately channeled. If this weekend
and the next go according to prediction, football frenzy should reach a fever pitch by the time alumni swarm onto
the campus to watch the Cats hit VMI on Homecoming afternoon.

Yale and Coeds

False though it ultimately proved to be, the rumor-news that Yale would admit women undergraduates set off a wave of
surprise interest throughout the country and a resounding shriek of outrage from the Eli student body. The rumor, which was
started last week, was officially squelched Friday when President Griswold announced that “we are nowhere near deciding the question.” The
possibility of co-ed enrollment in the future has not been closed, however. Men of Yale, you have the sympathies of
those who have fought the same battle but have lost. May you successfully defend the last bulwark of the all-male
college against the bobby-sox and hairpins. (From the Cavalier Daily)

Nixon, The Man Himself, Is Great Issue In Political Race

By BILL PFEFFERKORN

“Who am I going to vote for?” cries the voter amid the din and clamor of our political fray. He
is getting no answers from the good King Ike or from Adlai, who has let down his hair and picked
up the burdens of the suppressed. But the sticks, stones, and pleas of Adlai and Estes affect the public no
more than they do the castle walls of the Republican hierarchy. The eye of the public is focused on one
man—the roving Prince Nixon. Here is the man and the issue which will decide the election. Three things—Ike's health, strong
Democratic dislike, and general public uneasiness and distrust—make Nixon the man to analyze if the right decision will be made
this election day. Democrats charge that he lacks principles, uses unfair campaign tactics, and at heart is an irresponsible reactionary.
Most important of all, the American public feels a strange, unexplainable dislike for him. Since Nixon is strongly partisan, his
campaign record cannot be judged by Democrats. The fact is that unless a man is an idol or a Southerner,
he must get down and scrap it out with bare fists to get elected—just ask Adlai. Another striking characteristic of
Nixon is his inconsistency. He has voted both liberal and conservative and this brings the disfavor of many, including Republicans.

LETTER TO THE EDITOR

Service At Snack Bar Aids Stomach Pains

Dear Editor,

I'm writing to you in an effort to call fellow Saturday night Davidsonians to arms. Men, we’re the victims of
gross injustice and simple stupidity. Like many others of our number last Saturday night, I found myself faced with the
plagued situation of spending the evening on campus. I'm too bitter towards that Queens girl to tell you exactly why
I had to spend the evening alone in Davidson.

SATURDAY SUPPER IN UNION

Having a little regard for an even smaller pocketbook, I resolved to eat supper at the snack bar in the
Union. I decided that occasionally everyone needs a change from the thick milkshakes, “Confidential", and that same green sweater which
two other establishments offer. At precisely 6:05 p.m. I gave my order to the boy behind the counter. Two boys
were working there. At 6:10 another of the hired help showed up to start cooking whatever-it-was. My ticket stub was
No. 92, the numbers having begun at No. 82 for the evening. By this time there were over thirty customers
there and the numbers soon started over again.

EMPLOYEES TAKE TOO LONG

After evidently taking time out to wash the dishes left from lunch and to set his broken leg, the boy
in the kitchen started the gradual process of getting the “food” out to us. The first number called was No.4!
The twenty-two of us ahead of this number began to get uncomfortable. It was now 6:35. My simple order of
two hamburgers had been given a half-hour ago. Then, four asinine youngsters who were just beginning their high school post-graduate
work ordered nine hamburgers. They beat on the counter with their chubby little fists until presently they received their order.
It was now 6:45.

FORTY CUSTOMERS WAIT

The number sequence was running 4, 5, 6, 18, 85, 82. I decided the boy was drawing them out of
a hat. I never have had much luck at a raffle. There were now forty customers there and still only
two people behind the counter and one in the sweat shop.

PROPRIETOR FORGETS COINS

At precisely 7:10, my order was delivered across the counter. I reluctantly paid for the food and the service, only
to find that the proprietor had neglected to put in his appearance and as a result, there was no change
whatsoever. My stomach had shriveled so by this time that I feared even trying to eat the “food.” However, after
scraping the congealed grease from what someone optimistically called a hamburger, I made a valiant effort to keep it down.

BRING US JOY

What a life! Those of us who spend our Saturday nights on campus usually aren’t too happy about it anyway.
Can't something be done to bring us a little joy? We sorely needed about five more people working in the
Union last Saturday, and we especially need better food. And the simple matter of no change was inexcusable. I guess
that green sweater and its accompanying food looked pretty good after all.

Willie Thompson

This coincides with the public uneasiness toward Nixon—they do not know where he stands. Nixon represents the new Republican, unstable
in his past voting record because of the general unstableness of the Republican philosophy during the postwar period. Recognizing his
intelligence, the critics therefore say that his recent inconsistent moves must have been made because he has no principles, no
base to stand on—a hollow politician. This conclusion is too hasty to accept. Why is he such a fence sitter?
Nixon is a genius in the art of politics. His tremendous success from nothing to vice-president in six years brings
about the criticism. He is the prototype of our society—the salesman. He has sold so much so fast that his
success finally caught up with him. Americans as a group distrust this man because they distrust themselves. Our country is
unsure of what policy we do stand for. Which principles will we go to bat for? We like to watch,
condemn, and praise, but Nixon does not offer us a steady target. We would rather have the big name or
the big idea—the determined scrapper frightens us.

All this previous discussion has been concerned with Nixon’s rise to power. The vital question is, what has he done
as a vice-president and as a Senator? His record of service cannot be equaled. No one will deny that his
clear thinking, aggressiveness, and leadership have aided both in the Senate and our foreign relations. His crowning triumph was when
his speech at Manila was put in the Senate record by none other than Mr. Hubert Humphrey, who stated that
it was the best expression of American position in the world that had ever been presented. His record proves that
his questionable tactics were adopted only because of necessity and not because of the man himself. There you have him—Prince
Nixon, heir to the throne. Is he a great Pretender or a great man? The public will judge.

Opinions of Band

By BOB JONES

Two weeks ago the Davidsonian rolled from the presses with the splashing headline: “IFC Signs Maltby!” This important news was
reacted to with such exclamations as “really?” and “is that a fact.” Amid this fever, we asked how does the
typical man on the grass (or on the walks, in the case of freshmen) feel about the band for Homecoming?
With pad and pencil in hand, your inquisitive inquirer made the rounds of the grounds searching out the real student
opinion. A considerable cross-section of the student body (approximately one per cent) was interviewed and several characteristics were noted.

The consensus of those interviewed indicated that, although enthusiasm was not what might be termed red-hot, there was general satisfaction
with the choice. The emphasis this year, for some reason, seems to be more on dancing than on “big names.”
This perhaps signifies a trend but would have to be investigated in a later survey. The pertinent opinions expressed are
given here as a matter of interest:

Charlie Drummond, Jr., pre-med: He will probably be all right, his price was. With the date I got it really
makes no difference. Anyway, he couldn't be worse than Mooney and that... (censored) Four Leaf Clover.

Bill Daniel, Sr., pre-law: I’m rather indifferent about particular bands, just as soon dance to Maltby as anyone else. Names
are nice, but dancing’s better.

Sam Zimmerman, Fr., pre-med: Who? Oh yes, well sort of reminds me of ice cream. I'd never heard of him
before. Seems to play dance music.

Roger Bates, Jr., pre-med: (interviewed while practicing surgical stitches on his sheet): Well, seems like maybe the guy can play
what we want. Getting a lesser name band that's probably trying to build a reputation, we might get something to
dance to. If he's coming to Davidson he probably needs money.

Tommy Rivers, Sr., pre-med: Well, everything I've heard about him is good. Big names just don't mean much to me.
At any rate, this'll prove if the girls coming for you or the band.

Gene Long, Soph., pre-med: I'd never heard of him before, but he suits me fine. My girl heard him the
other night in Winston, said he was real good.

Wally Pharr, Sr., psychology major, pre-marriage: It is my considered opinion, and you may quote me, that I don’t give
a d...

John Watwood, Fr., pre-med: Didn’t read about it, but like him all right. Heard some of his records. It don’t
make much difference.

Tom Ridenhour, Fr., pre-graduation: Very glad to hear they have someone to play.

Roger Powell, Jr., economics major: Well, why not be haughty with Maltby, instead of chagrined again by something like soldered
Finnigan.

Ernie Carpenter, Jr., pre-med: From all reports I've heard, he’s really got a top-flight orchestra, but with the date I'm
having down I might not even get there.

Laurens Walker, Soph., pre-law: I'll tell you, I was really happy to hear Maltby would play. I think he’s as
good as Elgart. The IFC made a good choice.

The campus characteristics which stand out most in the eyes of one who returns after an extended absence are the
changes which have taken place since the class of ‘52 donned its little red caps almost a decade ago. The
gym, the church, the Union Belk, and the new dorm have been built; Rumple and Georgia have joined the ghost
of old Chambers in the pages of history. The number of chapel exercises has been reduced, the cut system revamped,
and other regulations have been liberalized. There are many others, but these will serve to illustrate our thesis. Such modifications
are usually identified with the concept of “progress,” but they often make it easy to forget that a college's progress
is really measured by the ability and caliber of its students, and by their contribution to society after they get
those sheepskins.

An anonymous letter honoring me with the order of the “Black Spot” appeared in the mailbox shortly after the appearance
of my last column. It would be appreciated if the members of that worthy brotherhood would make themselves known in
order that I might express my sincere thanks to them. I am grateful and appropriately modest about the whole thing,
but the bonds of brotherhood, friendship, and fellowship become somewhat nebulous in an organization which is so secret that the
members don't even know each other!

Back around the turn of the century, the literary societies played a tremendous role in the extra-curricular intellectual and social
life on the campus. The social fraternities have taken over the latter function, but extra-curricular intellectual activities were and still
should be a part of the educational process. Phi and Eu are challenged to reassert their place in the intellectual
life of Davidson. If the college is willing to spend the money to restore the buildings, certainly we should be
willing to expend the effort to restore the societies. Here is a golden opportunity for students to learn something from
each other.

We are unable to understand why there is such a mass exodus from the campus between the hours of 10:00
a.m. and 1:00 p.m., each Saturday. Think of the advantages of staying here! The dorms are quiet, the Union snack
bar isn’t crowded, all those parallel books are available, and the movies—ah, the movies are better than ever. One might
even catch up on most of that back work, and wake up rarin’ to go to class Monday morning with
shining faces and bright eyes! (Anybody goin’ to Norfolk after fourth period tomorrow?)

The members of the fighting Wildcats are to be heartily congratulated on their victory over our arch-rivals to the South
last week. As the team departs for the mountains of Virginia to warm up for Homecoming, we send our three
cheers, and remind them of the immortal words of Douglas MacArthur: Not “I will return,” but “There is no substitute
for victory.”

Tom Morgan’s Adlai button seems to indicate that the dream of the Democratic Party’s paternal welfare state is even present
among the campus intelligentsia. We're registered as a Democrat to vote in local and state primaries, but we like Ike!

Limerick of the week:

A head cheerleader named Yongue
Got his megaphone hung on his tongue.
He pulled and he tugged,
Till his tongue came unplugged!
Now ex-cheerleader Yongue is unsung!
