PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN

DISILLUSIONED DESPOTS........No. 3

FEATURING FREDDY MYERS, DAVIDSON STUDENT

Red and culture, and artistic achievement. Fred Myers, a study in brilliance, By JIM KUIST graduation in three years has absorbed his full energies. But when he allows himself to relax, over a cup of coffee, he finds himself addressing a captive audience, amazed and sobered by his astute chatter. He cherishes these rare moments of fluent conversation. Freddy's immediate thoughts are of the Davidsonian diploma. He has some designs about revisiting Europe—for he spent last year abroad as a period of consolidation before the climax of his Davidson career. It is quite fitting that genius should experience a Grand dispatch. And Freddy has achieved, in this time, a brilliant record. The announcement of his election to Phi Beta Kappa in last week's Davidsonian hardly surprised the world. Freddy is a native of Spartanburg, S. C. He prepared for Davidson at the high school of his community and on the basis of his fine career was awarded a Baker Scholarship. There is within Freddy a capacity for culture, and during these tender years he immersed himself in literature and art and music. He studied for a summer at the Northwestern University School of Speech. Freddy Myers was quite prepared for the challenge of higher education at Davidson. By now, Freddy has established himself among the literary figures of our campus. The Eumenean Society elected him to membership in his freshman year. As a nineteen-year-old sophomore, he wrote “A Chronicle of Joe,” which the Red and Black Masquers presented to the Davidson audiences. Freddy's stature as an artist was secured when he won the Vereen Bell Award that year. As a senior, he has been elected to the vice-presidency of Sigma Upsilon. Freddy is also President of Le Cercle Francais. These have been substantial years for Freddy. His campaign to complete the requirements for graduation in three years has absorbed his full energies. But when he allows himself to relax, over a cup of coffee, he finds himself addressing a captive audience, amazed and sobered by his astute chatter. He cherishes these rare moments of fluent conversation. Freddy's immediate thoughts are of the Davidsonian diploma. He has some designs about revisiting Europe—for he spent last year abroad as a period of consolidation before the climax of his Davidson career. It is quite fitting that genius should experience a Grand dispatch. And Freddy has achieved, in this time, a brilliant record. The announcement of his election to Phi Beta Kappa in last week's Davidsonian hardly surprised the world. Freddy is a native of Spartanburg, S. C. He prepared for Davidson at the high school of his community and on the basis of his fine career was awarded a Baker Scholarship. There is within Freddy a capacity for culture, and during these tender years he immersed himself in literature and art and music. He studied for a summer at the Northwestern University School of Speech. Freddy Myers was quite prepared for the challenge of higher education at Davidson. By now, Freddy has established himself among the literary figures of our campus. The Eumenean Society elected him to membership in his freshman year. As a nineteen-year-old sophomore, he wrote “A Chronicle of Joe,” which the Red and Black Masquers presented to the Davidson audiences. Freddy's stature as an artist was secured when he won the Vereen Bell Award that year. As a senior, he has been elected to the vice-presidency of Sigma Upsilon. Freddy is also President of Le Cercle Francais. These have been substantial years for Freddy. His campaign to complete the requirements for graduation in three years has absorbed his full energies. But when he allows himself to relax, over a cup of coffee, he finds himself addressing a captive audience, amazed and sobered by his astute chatter. He cherishes these rare moments of fluent conversation. Freddy's immediate thoughts are of the Davidsonian diploma. He has some designs about revisiting Europe—for he spent last year abroad as a period of consolidation before the climax of his Davidson career. It is quite fitting that genius should experience a Grand dispatch. And Freddy has achieved, in this time, a brilliant record. The announcement of his election to Phi Beta Kappa in last week's Davidsonian hardly surprised the world. Freddy is a native of Spartanburg, S. C. He prepared for Davidson at the high school of his community and on the basis of his fine career was awarded a Baker Scholarship. There is within Freddy a capacity for culture, and during these tender years he immersed himself in literature and art and music. He studied for a summer at the Northwestern University School of Speech. Freddy Myers was quite prepared for the challenge of higher education at Davidson. By now, Freddy has established himself among the literary figures of our campus. The Eumenean Society elected him to membership in his freshman year. As a nineteen-year-old sophomore, he wrote “A Chronicle of Joe,” which the Red and Black Masquers presented to the Davidson audiences. Freddy's stature as an artist was secured when he won the Vereen Bell Award that year. As a senior, he has been elected to the vice-presidency of Sigma Upsilon. Freddy is also President of Le Cercle Francais. These have been substantial years for Freddy. His campaign to complete the requirements for graduation in three years has absorbed his full energies. But when he allows himself to relax, over a cup of coffee, he finds himself addressing a captive audience, amazed and sobered by his astute chatter. He cherishes these rare moments of fluent conversation. Freddy's immediate thoughts are of the Davidsonian diploma. He has some designs about revisiting Europe—for he spent last year abroad as a period of consolidation before the climax of his Davidson career. It is quite fitting that genius should experience a Grand dispatch. And Freddy has achieved, in this time, a brilliant record. The announcement of his election to Phi Beta Kappa in last week's Davidsonian hardly surprised the world. Freddy is a native of Spartanburg, S. C. He prepared for Davidson at the high school of his community and on the basis of his fine career was awarded a Baker Scholarship. There is within Freddy a capacity for culture, and during these tender years he immersed himself in literature and art and music. He studied for a summer at the Northwestern University School of Speech. Freddy Myers was quite prepared for the challenge of higher education at Davidson. By now, Freddy has established himself among the literary figures of our campus. The Eumenean Society elected him to membership in his freshman year. As a nineteen-year-old sophomore, he wrote “A Chronicle of Joe,” which the Red and Black Masquers presented to the Davidson audiences. Freddy's stature as an artist was secured when he won the Vereen Bell Award that year. As a senior, he has been elected to the vice-presidency of Sigma Upsilon. Freddy is also President of Le Cercle Francais. These have been substantial years for Freddy. His campaign to complete the requirements for graduation in three years has absorbed his full energies. But when he allows himself to relax, over a cup of coffee, he finds himself addressing a captive audience, amazed and sobered by his astute chatter. He cherishes these rare moments of fluent conversation. Freddy's immediate thoughts are of the Davidsonian diploma. He has some designs about revisiting Europe—for he spent last year abroad as a period of consolidation before the climax of his Davidson career. It is quite fitting that genius should experience a Grand dispatch. And Freddy has achieved, in this time, a brilliant record. The announcement of his election to Phi Beta Kappa in last week's Davidsonian hardly surprised the world. Freddy is a native of Spartanburg, S. C. He prepared for Davidson at the high school of his community and on the basis of his fine career was awarded a Baker Scholarship. There is within Freddy a capacity for culture, and during these tender years he immersed himself in literature and art and music. He studied for a summer at the Northwestern University School of Speech. Freddy Myers was quite prepared for the challenge of higher education at Davidson. By now, Freddy has established himself among the literary figures of our campus. The Eumenean Society elected him to membership in his freshman year. As a nineteen-year-old sophomore, he wrote “A Chronicle of Joe,” which the Red and Black Masquers presented to the Davidson audiences. Freddy's stature as an artist was secured when he won the Vereen Bell Award that year. As a senior, he has been elected to the vice-presidency of Sigma Upsilon. Freddy is also President of Le Cercle Francais. These have been substantial years for Freddy. His campaign to complete the requirements for graduation in three years has absorbed his full energies. But when he allows himself to relax, over a cup of coffee, he finds himself addressing a captive audience, amazed and sobered by his astute chatter. He cherishes these rare moments of fluent conversation. Freddy's immediate thoughts are of the Davidsonian diploma. He has some designs about revisiting Europe—for he spent last year abroad as a period of consolidation before the climax of his Davidson career. It is quite fitting that genius should experience a Grand dispatch. And Freddy has achieved, in this time, a brilliant record. The announcement of his election to Phi Beta Kappa in last week's Davidsonian hardly surprised the world. Freddy is a native of Spartanburg, S. C. He prepared for Davidson at the high school of his community and on the basis of his fine career was awarded a Baker Scholarship. There is within Freddy a capacity for culture, and during these tender years he immersed himself in literature and art and music. He studied for a summer at the Northwestern University School of Speech. Freddy Myers was quite prepared for the challenge of higher education at Davidson. By now, Freddy has established himself among the literary figures of our campus. The Eumenean Society elected him to membership in his freshman year. As a nineteen-year-old sophomore, he wrote “A Chronicle of Joe,” which the Red and Black Masquers presented to the Davidson audiences. Freddy's stature as an artist was secured when he won the Vereen Bell Award that year. As a senior, he has been elected to the vice-presidency of Sigma Upsilon. Freddy is also President of Le Cercle Francais. These have been substantial years for Freddy. His campaign to complete the requirements for graduation in three years has absorbed his full energies. But when he allows himself to relax, over a cup of coffee, he finds himself addressing a captive audience, amazed and sobered by his astute chatter. He cherishes these rare moments of fluent conversation. Freddy's immediate thoughts are of the Davidsonian diploma. He has some designs about revisiting Europe—for he spent last year abroad as a period of consolidation before the climax of his Davidson career. It is quite fitting that genius should experience a Grand dispatch. And Freddy has achieved, in this time, a brilliant record. The announcement of his election to Phi Beta Kappa in last week's Davidsonian hardly surprised the world. Freddy is a native of Spartanburg, S. C. He prepared for Davidson at the high school of his community and on the basis of his fine career was awarded a Baker Scholarship. There is within Freddy a capacity for culture, and during these tender years he immersed himself in literature and art and music. He studied for a summer at the Northwestern University School of Speech. Freddy Myers was quite prepared for the challenge of higher education at Davidson. By now, Freddy has established himself among the literary figures of our campus. The Eumenean Society elected him to membership in his freshman year. As a nineteen-year-old sophomore, he wrote “A Chronicle of Joe,” which the Red and Black Masquers presented to the Davidson audiences. Freddy's stature as an artist was secured when he won the Vereen Bell Award that year. As a senior, he has been elected to the vice-presidency of Sigma Upsilon. Freddy is also President of Le Cercle Francais. These have been substantial years for Freddy. His campaign to complete the requirements for graduation in three years has absorbed his full energies. But when he allows himself to relax, over a cup of coffee, he finds himself addressing a captive audience, amazed and sobered by his astute chatter. He cherishes these rare moments of fluent conversation. Freddy's immediate thoughts are of the Davidsonian diploma. He has some designs about revisiting Europe—for he spent last year abroad as a period of consolidation before the climax of his Davidson career. It is quite fitting that genius should experience a Grand dispatch. And Freddy has achieved, in this time, a brilliant record. The announcement of his election to Phi Beta Kappa in last week's Davidsonian hardly surprised the world. Freddy is a native of Spartanburg, S. C. He prepared for Davidson at the high school of his community and on the basis of his fine career was awarded a Baker Scholarship. There is within Freddy a capacity for culture, and during these tender years he immersed himself in literature and art and music. He studied for a summer at the Northwestern University School of Speech. Freddy Myers was quite prepared for the challenge of higher education at Davidson. By now, Freddy has established himself among the literary figures of our campus. The Eumenean Society elected him to membership in his freshman year. As a nineteen-year-old sophomore, he wrote “A Chronicle of Joe,” which the Red and Black Masquers presented to the Davidson audiences. Freddy's stature as an artist was secured when he won the Vereen Bell Award that year. As a senior, he has been elected to the vice-presidency of Sigma Upsilon. Freddy is also President of Le Cercle Francais. These have been substantial years for Freddy. His campaign to complete the requirements for graduation in three years has absorbed his full energies. But when he allows himself to relax, over a cup of coffee, he finds himself addressing a captive audience, amazed and sobered by his astute chatter. He cherishes these rare moments of fluent conversation. Freddy's immediate thoughts are of the Davidsonian diploma. He has some designs about revisiting Europe—for he spent last year abroad as a period of consolidation before the climax of his Davidson career. It is quite fitting that genius should experience a Grand dispatch. And Freddy has achieved, in this time, a brilliant record. The announcement of his election to Phi Beta Kappa in last week's Davidsonian hardly surprised the world. Freddy is a native of Spartanburg, S. C. He prepared for Davidson at the high school of his community and on the basis of his fine career was awarded a Baker Scholarship. There is within Freddy a capacity for culture, and during these tender years he immersed himself in literature and art and music. He studied for a summer at the Northwestern University School of Speech. Freddy Myers was quite prepared for the challenge of higher education at Davidson. By now, Freddy has established himself among the literary figures of our campus. The Eumenean Society elected him to membership in his freshman year. As a nineteen-year-old sophomore, he wrote “A Chronicle of Joe,” which the Red and Black Masquers presented to the Davidson audiences. Freddy's stature as an artist was secured when he won the Vereen Bell Award that year. As a senior, he has been elected to the vice-presidency of Sigma Upsilon. Freddy is also President of Le Cercle Francais. These have been substantial years for Freddy. His campaign to complete the requirements for graduation in three years has absorbed his full energies. But when he allows himself to relax, over a cup of coffee, he finds himself addressing a captive audience, amazed and sobered by his astute chatter. He cherishes these rare moments of fluent conversation. Freddy's immediate thoughts are of the Davidsonian diploma. He has some designs about revisiting Europe—for he spent last year abroad as a period of consolidation before the climax of his Davidson career. It is quite fitting that genius should experience a Grand dispatch. And Freddy has achieved, in this time, a brilliant record. The announcement of his election to Phi Beta Kappa in last week's Davidsonian hardly surprised the world. Freddy is a native of Spartanburg, S. C. He prepared for Davidson at the high school of his community and on the basis of his fine career was awarded a Baker Scholarship. There is within Freddy a capacity for culture, and during these tender years he immersed himself in literature and art and music. He studied for a summer at the Northwestern University School of Speech. Freddy Myers was quite prepared for the challenge of higher education at Davidson. By now, Freddy has established himself among the literary figures of our campus. The Eumenean Society elected him to membership in his freshman year. As a nineteen-year-old sophomore, he wrote “A Chronicle of Joe,” which the Red and Black Masquers presented to the Davidson audiences. Freddy's stature as an artist was secured when he won the Vereen Bell Award that year. As a senior, he has been elected to the vice-presidency of Sigma Upsilon. Freddy is also President of Le Cercle Francais. These have been substantial years for Freddy. His campaign to complete the requirements for graduation in three years has absorbed his full energies. But when he allows himself to relax, over a cup of coffee, he finds himself addressing a captive audience, amazed and sobered by his astute chatter. He cherishes these rare moments of fluent conversation. Freddy's immediate thoughts are of the Davidsonian diploma. He has some designs about revisiting Europe—for he spent last year abroad as a period of consolidation before the climax of his Davidson career. It is quite fitting that genius should experience a Grand dispatch. And Freddy has achieved, in this time, a brilliant record. The announcement of his election to Phi Beta Kappa in last week's Davidsonian hardly surprised the world. Freddy is a native of Spartanburg, S. C. He prepared for Davidson at the high school of his community and on the basis of his fine career was awarded a Baker Scholarship. There is within Freddy a capacity for culture, and during these tender years he immersed himself in literature and art and music. He studied for a summer at the Northwestern University School of Speech. Freddy Myers was quite prepared for the challenge of higher education at Davidson. By now, Freddy has established himself among the literary figures of our campus. The Eumenean Society elected him to membership in his freshman year. As a nineteen-year-old sophomore, he wrote “A Chronicle of Joe,” which the Red and Black Masquers presented to the Davidson audiences. Freddy's stature as an artist was secured when he won the Vereen Bell Award that year. As a senior, he has been elected to the vice-presidency of Sigma Upsilon. Freddy is also President of Le Cercle Francais. These have been substantial years for Freddy. His campaign to complete the requirements for graduation in three years has absorbed his full energies. But when he allows himself to relax, over a cup of coffee, he finds himself addressing a captive audience, amazed and sobered by his astute chatter. He cherishes these rare moments of fluent conversation. Freddy's immediate thoughts are of the Davidsonian diploma. He has some designs about revisiting Europe—for he spent last year abroad as a period of consolidation before the climax of his Davidson career. It is quite fitting that genius should experience a Grand dispatch. And Freddy has achieved, in this time, a brilliant record. The announcement of his election to Phi Beta Kappa in last week's Davidsonian hardly surprised the world. Freddy is a native of Spartanburg, S. C. He prepared for Davidson at the high school of his community and on the basis of his fine career was awarded a Baker Scholarship. There is within Freddy a capacity for culture, and during these tender years he immersed himself in literature and art and music. He studied for a summer at the Northwestern University School of Speech. Freddy Myers was quite prepared for the challenge of higher education at Davidson. By now, Freddy has established himself among the literary figures of our campus. The EMasquers are constantly in search of new talent and would seek to encourage anyone who is interested in dramatics to take part in every production, whether as an actor or as part of the crew. It has been said that drama is important because it most nearly depicts real life. If this be true, then he who is not acquainted with drama is not fully ready to take his place as an active and contributing factor in our modern society.

Philosophy Students
Dr. George L. Abernethy, of the Davidson philosophy department, and a group of his students were the guests of Emory University and the University of the South at a philosophy conference held in Atlanta over the weekend. Students from Agnes Scott were also present as guests. Davidson students included Clyde Robinson, Harold McKeithan, Kerry Spiers, Richard Holshouser, Jeff Smith, and Joe Conarroe. The program included reading and discussion of papers entitled “What is Justice?” and “Love, Justice, and the Individual.” Dr. Lemker of Emory and Dr. Marshall of the University of the South head the philosophy departments of the two schools which sponsored the event. Emory philosophy students were responsible for the planning and execution of the conference.

The convention was highlighted by a reception at Charlotte following the Banquet, “caucussing” into the early hours of Saturday morning, direct participation on the Convention floor, the Lincoln Day Dinner on Saturday night for which Congressman Hillings of California was the main speaker, and a bit of socializing afterward. Among the internal developments of the local club, there has been a minor change in the current organization structure: President—Tom Hall; Vice-President—John Maultsby; Secretary—John Dykers; Program Chairman—Bob Majors; Treasurer—Watt McCain; Membership Chairman—Stan Miller; Publicity Chairman—Bill Morrow; and Faculty Advisor—Professor R. W. Tyson.

Important Role... (Continued From Page One)
The committee also decides how many credits a student may carry, what courses are to be offered, and under what conditions they are to be offered.

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
The Executive Committee is made up of nine men including the President, chairman ex officio, the Dean of Faculty, the Dean of Students, three members elected from the faculty itself to serve for three years in staggered terms, and one each elected by the natural science, social science, and humanities divisions to serve for one year. This group acts for the faculty in an emergency on almost any topic of general interest. This is because they can be assembled more conveniently than the entire faculty. They handle all major disciplinary action with the assistance of the Dean of Student's subcommittee, and any student may appeal a ruling of the Student Council to them. In addition to Dr. Cunningham and Deans Pietenpol and Spencer, Professors Beaty, Bevan, C.K. Brown, Eberhardt, Kimbrough, and Trakas now serve on the Executive Committee.

One of the committees of most direct concern to students is that dealing with fraternities, clubs, and social life. This group, headed by Dr. W. G. McGavock, is appointed by the President and consists of Professors McGavock, Bevan, Davidson, Goldiere, Schenck, and Spencer. Two of their major functions are the planning of Greek Week in cooperation with the Interfraternity Council, and the regulation of social affairs, such as the number per year, chaperonage, and places.

The major problem facing them at present is that of determining the number of fraternities and the inadequacy of fraternity housing on campus with relation to an increased enrollment. The solution to this and other problems must be found in cooperation with the administration.

Dr. John A. Redhead, Jr., pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Greensboro, N.C., will deliver the Vespers sermon on March 4. Dr. Redhead is a native of Mississippi and did his undergraduate work at Southwestern. He earned the B.D. and Th.M. degrees from Union Theological Seminary, and Davidson College awarded him the D.D. degree in 1937. Before going to Greensboro, Dr. Redhead was pastor of Farmville Presbyterian Church, Farmville, Virginia; First Presbyterian Church, Tampa, Florida; and what is now Covenant Presbyterian Church, Charlotte, N.C. He has written “Getting to Know God” and “Learning to Have Faith.” He is married to the former Miss Virginia Potts and they have three children.

WANTED
PRE-MEDICAL SENIOR to serve as campus representative for the world’s largest exclusive manufacturer of microscopes. For further information write to: Reichert Optical Works, 82 Beaver Street, New York 5, N.Y.

KARBATE
America's foremost manufacturer of carbon and graphite products offers positions to B.S. and M.S. graduates in the fields of Chemistry, Physics, Business Administration, Accounting, Industrial Relations, Industrial Management, etc. Positions are available at National Carbon Company’s 15 factories, located in the following states: Iowa, New York, North Carolina, Ohio, Tennessee, West Virginia, and Vermont, and throughout the country in our sales organization. Interesting and rewarding careers in research, process and product development, production engineering, product and process control, office management, industrial relations, sales, and production supervision. A National Carbon representative will be on campus MARCH 6.

NATIONAL CARBON COMPANY
A Division of Union Carbide and Carbon Corporation

Saturday, March 3
N.C. Vocal Solo and Ensemble Contest All Day
Movie—“Arsenic and Old Lace” 9:00

Sunday, March 4
Vespers—Dr. John A. Redhead 7:30

Monday, March 5
Security Life and Trust Co. Interviews All Day
Local Composers Concert 7:00
Student Council 7:00
Philanthropic Literary Society 8:15
Eumanean Literary Society 8:15

Tuesday, March 6
Union Carbide Interviews All Day
Ernest Ellison Insurance Co. Interviews All Day
Math 12 Review 7:00
YMCA Cabinet 7:00
Business—Economics Club 7:30

Wednesday, March 7
Riegel Mills—Interview All Day
Camera Club 7:15
R.O.T.C. Interest Film 7:30

Thursday, March 8
Southern Bell Telephone Interviews All Day
Social Fraternities 7:15

Friday, March 9
Movie—“Martin Luther” 7:00 & 9:00
Organ Recital 8:15

PARKER-GARDNER
CHARLOTTE 2, N.C.
118 West Trade Street
Phone ED. 2-8257

So quick on the draw! Yes, the flavor comes clean—through L&M’s all white Miracle Tip. Pure white inside, pure white outside for cleaner, better smoking. KING SIZE