PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN

DISILLUSIONED DESPOTS...... No. 2 Prize of Vereen Bell

F. HELMS, SENIOR

“The Man With The Golden Rules” By FRANK BLOODWORTH

Jerry Helms, Senior, may well go down in the history of Davidson College as “The Man With the Golden Rules, the Silent Movies, and the Silver Offering Plates.”

Without Jerry’s tireless service to Davidson, the basketball team would never have anyone to tuck them snugly in their beds at night, students would never get to see the almost extinct phenomena of silent movies, and those who attend Vespers would have nowhere to deposit their offerings, a sad plight in the mind of any Davidson gentleman.

Jerry has served for the past two years as head manager of the basketball team. In this capacity, he has been forced to accompany the team on many long trips thus unfortunately missing numerous days of school. Last Tuesday evening Jerry had the pleasure of retiring Hobby Cobb’s jersey, and with equal pride and a great deal more pleasure he also retired his own striped manager’s shirt, to be preserved along with Hobby’s for posterity.

As co-chairman of the Union Film Committee, Jerry helps to pick out the films that most people have already seen or don’t want to see, that most likely have no sound, and that will break during the showing. But being in charge of admissions has its advantages, Jerry, when you can let your professors in to see the pictures free.

The eight distinguished-looking young men who carry the collection plates on Sunday evenings are all recruits of Helms' Vesper Brigade. Each Sunday evening Jerry inspects these gentlemen to make sure that they have worn a coat and tie, combed their hair, and washed behind their ears. He also makes an inspection after the service, this time to make sure no one forgot to leave the offering at the altar. Practice is held each Sunday afternoon in the center aisle of the Church.

Despite these activities, Jerry finds time to keep his room looking like the Sunday morning after a dance weekend all semester long. Never without his trusty umbrella to keep off rain and young children—that is whenever he can find it in his room—Jerry is known affectionately as “Granny” by those who listen to his classes each day. Rather than deprive anyone of a seat in the library, he spends much of his time officiating at many of the sports contests. He is conscientious in his work, making sure that the team offering the biggest bribe wins the game.

Finally, as proof that he is a well-rounded man of distinction, the leader, the athlete, the epitome of the Davidson gentleman, Jerry goes to chapel three times a week.

Phi Society Initiates Outstanding Literati

On Monday, February 20, the Philanthropic Literary Society welcomed into its ranks many outstanding literati of Davidson College. The neophytes were initiated into the society in the traditional ceremony. Among the initiates were Fred H. Currie, John Farley, Robin N. Edgar W. Heath, John J. Richard M. Hamor. Freshmen entering were: Charles H. Chastain, Carl Daniel, Ralph S. Williams, James M. Dabbs, Jan Mat, John W. Denham, Ledrow W. Dingler, Roger Min, Charles Loftin, Bill G., Bill Purks, John Caldwell, Griffith, Bob Lathan, Walter Scott, John Renfro, J. E. Yarborough, James C. Mc.

The society, well known for the establishment of the hypercritical society, has now enjoyed fifty million members. That's where the pause that refreshes with ice-cold Coke began. Case times a day. Must be something to it. And there is. Have an ice-cold Coke.

BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY THE COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD

Carry the Carter Contest Set at $75

Mr. D. Grier Martin, Treasurer of Davidson College, and Professor J. W. McCutchan, chairman of the Department of English, have announced that, beginning this year, the Vereen Bell Memorial Award for Creative Writing will carry a prize of $75.00. They have stated that this amount will be a permanent feature of the annual contest open to Davidson students.

Rules of this year’s competition, as released by the Department of English, follow:

1. Any regularly enrolled student of Davidson College is eligible to compete.
2. All entries must be the original work of their respective entrants and may fall in any recognized category of creative writing: viz, essay, short story, drama, poetry, etc.
3. A student may submit entries in as many different categories as he wishes, but he may submit one entry only in each category with the exception of poetry. In poetry, the student may enter one poem, or a sequence or group of poems; if he submits more than one poem he must designate them as one unit and so enter them.
4. All entries must be typed, double spaced, and appear on one side of the paper only.
5. Name of the writer must be enclosed in an envelope bearing the title of the entry and attached to it.
6. All entries must reach some member of the Department of English on or before 5:00 p.m., Friday, April 6, 1956.

Howard M. Per Streetman, William Milton Tankersley, Bobby Groome, Fred W. P., John Sherrill V., John C. Parks, Ad Shore, Charles H. Johnson, Jerry Crotwell, Larry Stell, James Redding, Julian W. Reid, Aldrich, Archie Whiting, Don Stein, Arthur Lawrence, Addison Bross, A. Johnson, Evans James C. Proctor, Walter A. O'Briant, Markley.

At its regular meeting, Scabbard and Blade was honored by the presence of Brigadier General Robert H. Wienecke. At present, General Wienecke is Assistant Division Commander of the 82d Airborne Division at Fort Bragg, North Carolina. Shortly after his arrival on Tuesday, Feb. 21, he...was conducted on a tour of the Davidson R.O.T.C. Department by P.M.S. & T. Lt. Col. Sapp and Cadet Col. J. B. Pharr. At the evening a

ACTIVITIES

Saturday, February 25
Wrestling—VPI 7:00
Movie “Of Mice and Men” 7:00 & 9:00
Intercollege Chamber Orchestra 8:15
N. C. Instrumental Solo & Ensemble Contest All Day

Sunday, February 26
Vespers — Dr. P. D. Miller 7:30

Monday, February 27
Union Central Life Insurance Interviews All Day
Student Council 7:00
Beaver Club 8:15
Movie “Of Mice and Men” 9:00

Tuesday, February 28
Sigma Pi Sigma 7:30
Seabbard and Blade 8:15
Phi Mu Alpha 8:30

Wednesday, February 29
Camera Club 7:15
AED 8:15
FEC 9:15

Thursday, March 1
Social Fraternities 7:15
Movie — “Snake Pit” 9:00
Sigma Upsilon 9:15

Friday, March 2
Artist Series — Barter Theatre—“Sabrina Fair” 8:15

Joseph R. Cole, S. Bennett, Lachicotte Zemp, Robert E. Austin, Lyon Red, Biggers, of this area, and Biggers, of 5 and 12 years, who are homeless, unwanted, and unloved. At present the Home receives *4 of its support from Presbyterian churches, and the rest of its donations are met by private contributions. This project would serve to supplement this latter category, and would help to support the full-time teacher, a case worker, and the medical and psychiatric consultants.

The Alexander Home in Charlotte offers a program of psychological care for 30 boys and girls between the ages of 5 to 12, who are homeless, unwanted, and unloved.

Solicitations For Gift Fund to Start Monday

On Monday, Feb. 27, a team of volunteers will begin soliciting donations for the 1956 Davidson College Gift Fund. Solicitations will continue until Friday, March 2, but the drive will carry through one more week to the following Friday. The two goals for the gift fund this year are the Alexander Home for disturbed children at 1252 E. Blvd., Charlotte, N. C., and the “Ears and a Voice for Asia” project at station DYSR at Silliman University, Philippine Islands.

The Alexander Home offers a program of psychological care for 30 boys and girls between the ages of 5 and 12 years, who are homeless, unwanted, and unloved. The overall cost of care and training of one child for one day is $5.50, or about $2000 per year.

With the Philippine radio station, about which Dr. Henry Mack spoke in chapel, there are several needs which our gifts could help meet. Station DYSR can, with $2000, install the equipment needed for the extra transmitter wattage necessary to cover the entire Philippine Islands. With programs prepared on the campus of Silliman University by the native population, DYSR serves as an effective organ against the spread of Communism in the Philippines. Programs are prepared on the campus of Silliman University by the native population. The missionaries, such as Dr. Henry Mack, who is in charge of the station, act as guides for the thinking of the writers and others. Without seeking to impose on the listener the American approach, the radio is an effective organ against the spread of communism in this area of the Philippines.

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 1956

Dick Morehead, editor of The Davidsonian and the Handbook, comes from Huntington, W. Va. Dick represents Kappa Alpha on the I.F.C. and last year, was awarded the Dan J. McKeithen, Jr. Memorial Award, one of the highest awards of Kappa Alpha.

FRED MYERS

Davidson’s eleventh Rhodes Scholar, Fred Myers, is from Spartanburg, S. C. and is a Phi Gamma Delta. Fred also holds a Baker scholarship and is a member of the Red and Black Masquers. Myers is president of Le Cercle Francais and vice president of Sigma Upsilon.

LARRY PARROTT

Larry Parrott is a pre-med student from Charlotte and vice-president of AED. Larry includes Golf and Swimming among his varied activities. He is a member of the D Club and is treasurer of Gamma Sigma Epsilon in addition to being secretary of the publications board and a member of Beta Theta Pi.

JOE BILLY PHARR

Joe Billy Pharr, regimental commander of the R.O.T.C. unit, is a native of Cherryville. Pharr is president of Pi K A and is also president of the I.F.C. As a distinguished Military Student, Pharr is a first Lieutenant in the Scabbard and Blade and joined the ranks of O.D.K., and Who’s Who this year.

LARRY TROTTI

Larry Trotti from Decatur, Georgia, distinguishes himself as the only junior among the spring candidates. A business major, Larry is a member of the Business-Economics Association, secretary of K.A., a member of Philanthropic Society, and vice-president of Le Cercle Francais.

Phi Beta Kappa...
(Continued From Page One)

Gamma Sigma Epsilon, Eumanean Literary Society and Beta Theta Pi

A PLACE OF FINE TASTE IN FOODS FOR ANY EATING

PARKER-GARDNER
118 West Trade Street
CHARLOTTE 2, N. C.
Phone ED. 2-8257

THE CONNOISSEUR
Pit Barbecue
Fried Chicken
Sandwiches
(Cooked Daily)
MOORESVILLE, N. C.
Phone 3-2861

Scabbard and Blade had as its guests Dean Pietenpol, Dr. Ford, Lt. Col. Ingerham, Deputy for ROTC of North Carolina Military District, and the MS III cadets. General Wienecke talked informally on the subject of “Chinese Tactics.” As Assistant Chief of Staff, G2, of the Eighth United States Army in Korea, he was able to relate first-hand information and experiences of the military tactics used by the Chinese during the Korean War.

DIRECTORY

Packed for more pleasure by exclusive Accu-Ray

PACKS MORE PLEASURE because it’s More Perfectly Packed

Chesterfield satisfies... to the taste, to the touch... the more you smoke, the more you enjoy.