ENDING THE DRAFT IS ANOTHER DUD (Page 2) Th ¥ VOL. XLV UNIFIES LIBERAL ARTS Plans Laid For Social Seminar The Interdepartmental Seminar Program at Davidson is designed to help students “tie together” their own liberal arts experience. This program actually originated with the faculty in 1955. As a preparation for the University Christian Mission of that year, sixteen members of the faculty met in a series of discussions on Ethics in a Business Society. During the summer of 1955 several faculty members saw that students needed to tackle the problem of tying together their liberal arts experience regardless of whether the faculty had or had not already achieved a working synthesis of its own. This resulted last year in a joint student-faculty seminar seeking to tie together this experience. SUBJECTS Under the leadership of Professor Malcolm McAfee of the Sociology Department and Professor Harold Ford of the Political Science Department, this seminar program has been further developed. This year the students and faculty meet separately, and the faculty are pursuing more intensively the single problem of the relation of Biblical Faith and Modern Knowledge. The student seminar is now incorporated into the curriculum as a course for credit, although the tendency is to audit it. The list of topics for 1956-57 affords a better understanding of the nature of the Seminar: “Social Science View of Human Nature,” “Social Science View of Current Situation,” “Natural Sciences-Model Building,” “Literature and the Recovery of Meaning,” “Music and Liturgy in the Recovery of Meaning,” “Art in the Recovery of Meaning.” Two sessions are devoted to each topic, with a session being held every two weeks. For each topic there is an instructor with theological training as well as an instructor who is a specialist in the particular field. A typical session consists of a half-hour paper by the instructor in charge followed by an informal discussion for about an hour and a half. The instructors do not attempt to put a framework into the material, but let each individual work out his own “tying together” of his own liberal arts experience. PROBLEM STATED The instructors assume that the problem in a liberal arts education is relating one’s basic world views to the various ways of knowing about reality. The Seminar thus revolves mainly around the sciences and humanities and their relation to whether one is a skeptic, authoritarian, humanist, or Christian. At the present time, participation in the Seminar program is open only to those recommended by the individual departments, chiefly Political Science, Sociology, Music, and Psychology. Other students who might be interested in such a program are invited to discuss it with Professor McAfee or Professor Ford. $$$ Ed Stewart Wins First Burlington Scholarship Edward T. Stewart has been named the first Burlington Industries Scholar. Ed is the son of Dr. D. H. Stewart, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church in Kirkwood, Missouri. His brother, Don Stewart, graduated from Davidson in May of this year and received at commencement the Algernon Sidney Sullivan award. Stewart is a member of Phi Delta Theta Social Fraternity, publicity chairman for the Y.M.C.A., a cheerleader, and a member of the track team. REVIEW TOMORROW BY JIM “Come on,” he said, “I’ve got a review tomorrow.” “All right.” I said. “for who?” “For Charlie... the fat one with the big glasses.” “No,” I said. “that’s Bill.” “Anyway,” said the freshman, “I've got a review tomorrow and look at this order he gave me,” and he showed me a long list of ice cream, hot dogs and cherry as the revenge-minded Wildcats meet the Blue Hose tomorrow night. Local merchants got into the spirit of things, boosting the game and urging students to follow the Cats to Clinton. A NIGHTLY RITUAL Coffee, Talk, Pool It was 10 p.m. and some people called it the “Onion.” This freshman called it “the stud.” Changes Announced In Notification of Cuts This year the administration has adopted a new policy concerning the sending of cards noting excess absences in both a particular course and a non-academic exercise. As in previous years, one probationary absence in each course is permitted, but there will be no notification from the administration concerning this probationary absence. Two excess absences above those allowed in the course will result in the automatic forfeiture of all quality points in that course. The administration will notify the student of this loss. NON-ACADEMIC CUTS In the case of non-academic exercises, one probationary absence is also allowed, but a notification of this probationary absence will be sent to the student. A second cut above the total allowed in a non-academic exercise will result in the student being restricted to the campus for one month. Excused absences should be cleared from the Dean's office prior to the absence itself. Students are warned that regardless of their caliber of class work, no one may for any reason be absent from more than 25 per cent of the classes in a course and still receive academic credit for that course. Upperclassmen are especially urged to watch this 25 per cent limit in their major subject. The absence cards are sent merely as a reminder; each student is responsible for keeping his own absence record. The official absence records will be open for inspection in the Union building on Mondays and Wednesdays from 10:20 a.m. to 10:40 a.m. and Fridays from 2:45 p.m. to 3:45 p.m. These records are kept up to date as far as is possible. Ford Addresses First Business-Economics Meeting The Davidson College Business-Economics Association will hold its first meeting of the school year next Tuesday at 8:00 p.m. in the ballroom of the College Union. Dr. P. Ford, Associate Professor of Political Science will speak on “The Economic and Political Effect of the Suez Canal Crisis.” Dr. Ford is in his second year as a member of the Davidson faculty, and is a former member of the State Department. He is well qualified to speak on foreign affairs. NEW OFFICERS NAMED The officers for 1956-57 are: Richard Weeks, president; Larry Trotti, vice-president; Roswell Mallory, secretary; and John Robinson, treasurer. These men are part of the ten-member Board of Directors who initiate, plan and direct the programs of the Association. Two programs have been planned for the fall; a third program is scheduled for December. The Association is composed of majors, those majors, and others who are interested in the old dining hall of Chambers. With Proper Humility The Court of Control held its first trial of the year Monday night in the Green Room of the Student Union. The members tried to stress the importance of the traditions of the Court and of the Freshman regulations by constructive discussion and by penalties of the necessary degree of severity. The freshmen seemed to realize the significance of the Court's place on the Davidson campus and accepted their sentences with expected humility. ALL CONVICTED At this first Court trial, all of the freshmen who were accused were convicted. For not wearing the required name tag, Bill Cobb, Zon White, Jerry Gatis, Freddie Whitaker, Ted Henry and Madison Mauze were sentenced to fold and hand out Davidsonians on Friday evenings. Henry Ramsey was directed by the court to run stud for the first floor, center, of Duke dormitory, and carry laundry, hand out freshman test announcements, and received a restriction to campus, which was suspended. The court convicted him of wearing neither name tag nor freshman hat. Marshall Dunaway who was sentenced to run stud for the second floor of Duke dormitory, east side, was convicted of wearing neither hat nor name tag and of displaying a cocky attitude in front of the court during the chapel exercise. Flem Mauncy, sentenced to aid the football managers and given a suspended restriction to the campus, was convicted of bad attitude about putting his freshman hat on when instructed to do so. Jimmy Hamilton, convicted of conduct generally unbecoming to a Davidson gentleman and disrespect to an upperclassman, was sentenced to run stud for the president of the student body for one week. SENTENCES Clint Schaum, sentenced to run stud for the third floor of Duke dormitory, east side; Brownie Thurrion, sentenced to run stud for the second floor of Duke dormitory, west side; and Bobo McEachern who is to run stud for the first floor Duke dormitory, west side and serve personally the judge of the court. He is to carry laundry for the court members, and hand out freshman test announcements. Frank Anderson, convicted of not wearing a name tag, was sentenced to run stud for the third floor, Duke dormitory, west side, hand out freshman test announcements and to be restricted to campus. The latter was suspended. The Salk polio vaccine will be available to those students who would like to take it. It will be given on a voluntary basis at a cost of $3 per shot. The vaccine must be ordered in advance, and all students who wish to take it should leave their name at the infirmary no later than Saturday, October 13. COMMENTS ON ASIA Templeton Calls Drama Neglected Religious Field BY DABNEY STUART “The Christian church is not American. God loves Russia.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

an Episco-! .p;, you tell him about the re- re. ; sow" Tas pal Church here. The present officers are: Lt. Col. Yew?” I asked. Documents now in the possession “Sure,” he said. Miss Johnsie Shelton, dating back to February, 1890, name the John D. Sapp, Warden; Mr. Thomas S. Saddler, Treasurer; and Mrs. J. S. Purcell, Secretary. “Well, what did he say?” “Well, what do you think,” the freshman said, “Get the ice cream, way.” “Fools rush in,” said the senior, and then we all went down to get some coffee.”

PRODUCTION LINE

And let me tell you that place interested in the economic affairs: sians just as much as Americans. There are no denominations in the United States and the wont: in- His truth.” Charles B. (Chuck) Templeton spoke these pertinent words following his sermonette in the Davidson College Chapel service, Tuesday, October 2. Mr. Templeton, whose six-day mission in Charlotte ends today, of the Buenos Aires Convention are provided by the United States Government and the host governments. Several Davidson students have won Fulbright scholarships. Among the more recent are Kenneth Wilson-Jones for study in France, Tom Dever '55, and Bob Mitchell '54, for study in Germany, Mae five million in my lifetime.” community. Referring to his statement that and a list of forty individuals who pledged a total of five hundred and nine dollars to be used by the church in addition to property to be used as a building site.

CANTERBURY CLUB

Although there is no other written evidence of Episcopalian activities in the community prior to 1955, services have been conducted in borrowed facilities by visiting clergy for the past sixty-six years. Last year the organization of an Episcopal student group, the Canterbury Club, called attention to the growing interest in the Anglican church among the student body. Now presided over by Bill Rawls, this group meets each Sunday night in the Student Union building after Vespers. In December of 1955, the Bishop of North Carolina approved a petition for the establishment of an Episcopal Mission here, to be known as “St. Albans.” Its construction near the Phi Gam boarding house is scheduled to begin November 10 of this year. The church will consist of a chapel seating sixty-five and a Common Room for student activities.

NEWTON

Mr. Albert Newton of the St. Matthews Mission in Mooresville will serve as Priest-in-charge. The Chapel will offer proper opportunity for reaching the sixty-seven Episcopal students now enrolled at Davidson and churchmen from the surrounding area. At present, services are being held at 8:30 a.m. on Sunday and 10:20 a.m. Wednesday in the basement of Belk dorm. People have been exceedingly cooperative and helpful in providing needed facilities. St. Albans will establish the Episcopal Church as a definite part of the Davidson community and fulfill a long-existing need.

Hall Scheduled For Vesper Service

Dr. Warner L. Hall, Pastor of the Covenant Presbyterian Church in Charlotte, will be guest minister at Davidson vespers on Sunday evening. Dr. Hall received his Doctor of Philosophy degree at the University of Edinburgh. He previously attended Southwestern in Memphis and the Louisville Theological Seminary. His work with college students includes very successful pastorates at the University of Alabama and the University of Kentucky. While at Charlotte, Dr. Hall has led his church in an extensive building program. The newly constructed church plant is considered one of the finest in the Presbyterian denomination. Dr. Hall is a member of the Davidson College Board of Trustees. He also served as chairman of a special committee organized to investigate Presbyterian educational facilities in North Carolina. The new Consolidated Presbyterian College to be founded at Laurinburg is a result of his committee’s report.

“On well,” he said, “what's the use of dreaming. I used to think about it a lot last year but now it doesn’t make any difference. Anyway, we've got “Dam Busters” and there's this terrific part see where this girl comes out and...”

“Sure,” I said and walked over to a group standing before a cardboard poster announcing a Thanksgiving trip to New York by bus. Davidson and Queens, it read. Sign call The Student Union. And it's sure a nice place alright. Jackie Gleason, easy chairs and right then a movie. The big poster advertising the movie hung on the wall. It showed a man with a long pointer and a determined look. “Dam Busters,” the poster read and inside the ballroom I could hear the movie making a lot of noise busting the dams.

“DAM BUSTERS”

“Dam Busters,” a sophomore said, standing by the door. “Yeah,” I said. “I saw it last night but there's this part I've just got to see again. There’s this girl see and...”

“Say,” I said. “What do you say to Davidson going Co-Ed?” The sophomore got this kind of hungry look. “Co-eds,” he said, “well, gee... Co-Eds!” Then the excitement died and he gave this shrug. now, end of the counter where they serve the coffee! First they rattle down the saucers. Then they rattle down the cups. Then they slop in the coffee. Then, “pass the sugar” dump, stir. Then “pass the cream” squirt, stir. Then rattle, slurp, suck and rattle and then always, ... “all over my new crew-neck sweater!” Then, “that'll be a nickel,” from Mack or Lewis or Bob and then 15 minutes later, “where's my change ... I gave you a quarter!” Over at the table the good talk continued. “Say,” a freshman said, “Is this any good?” He was holding a 35 cent paper-bound book. “Yeah,” said the owner, “Crime And Punishment, it’s a pretty good book.” “What's it about?” “Oh,” said the owner, “I guess you'd say it was all about Crime And Punishment.” “Are there any good parts?”

GOOD PARTS GALORE

The Association is a vital part of the community, bringing distinguished people in different fields to the campus to make talks and hold discussions on topics of particular interest to the Association and the student body. He appreciated his attentive audience. “Contrary to what I have heard, I did not find it difficult to speak here,” he smiled.

FAITH AND DRAMA

The creation of drama holds a high place in Mr. Templeton’s life. His concern for the communication of the Christian faith has spurred this interest. “The Church has missed the ball. They have failed to take advantage of a great medium of communication. A television play into which a Christian lesson has been skillfully woven can be a powerful instrument. On a single night fifty million people watch a television play; I will speak to no more than five million in my lifetime.”

VALUES

“Too many men of college age have accepted a set of ‘hand me-down’ values. They have not stopped to analyze themselves.” A mention of Billy Graham brought light to Mr. Templeton’s eyes. “Billy has grown and matured in the past five years. He's a terrific guy.” In a sort of self-appraisal he continued, “Our theology differs, as do our methods. I try to be honest and straightforward and I tend to be a little more liberal.” This honesty and straightforwardness permeate his conversation. To any question he has a thoughtful answer.

CHINA

On the subject of Communism he observed, “Russia did not win China, America lost it. To the Chinese people, any type of existence was better than their own. It was not Communist ideology that swayed them, it was the promise of an improved economy.” “The great awakening today is in Asia. The peoples are beginning to realize their right to independence. Until the free nations recognize this, the strife, discord, and disunity of today will continue.”

CHARLES “CHUCK” TEMPLETON

“God Loves Russians...”

“Sure,” the owner said, “lots of good parts.” “Listen,” the freshman said, “always mark the good parts so you can come back to them. I've got one in my room now called ‘Passion in the Pines.’ It’s got a lot of good parts and I’ve marked them all so I can go back when I want to.” “Yeah,” the owner said, “I see what you mean.” The freshman looked at the book again and then dropped it on the table. “I don’t know," he said, “those (Continued On Page Four)

Seminary Meeting

Representatives of Union Theological Seminary in Richmond will be on the campus next Thursday, Oct. 11, to confer with students planning to enroll next year, or who are considering the possibilities. Conferences can be arranged through the YMCA office. A discussion on the subject, “Religious Ethics in Politics,” will provide the theme of the next Y membership meeting on Oct. 15.

Three Delegates Attend College Union Meeting

Davidson will be represented at the Southern Convention meeting in Tuskegee, Alabama this week, by John Trotti, Eddie Booth, and Ralph Bright. Shaw Smith, Representative for District Four of the National Association of College Unions, and Dr. Samuel Spencer, the principal speaker for the Friday night session, will also make the trip. At the first meeting of the Board of Union Committee Chairmen, John Trotti was elected Chairman, and Ed Stevens was elected Secretary. The first constitution for the College Union was drafted and is now awaiting official college approval.

Revely Was Speaker At Initial Y Meeting

Why the Y was the subject of the speech given by Dr. W. Taylor Revely at the first Y membership meeting last Monday night. Dr. Revely serves Southwestern University in Memphis as a Professor of Humanities. The program began at 8:00 in the Union with a devotional by Creighton Peden, who is in charge of all Y membership gatherings. Gordon Bondurant followed with a short explanation of the functions of the Board of Directors of the YMCA before the main portion of the meeting got underway.