CATS CLASH WITH CATAWBA (Page 3) VOL. XLV The Davidsonian | The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College COURT FACES CRUCIAL PERIOD (Page 2) DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 1956 NO. 1

SOLISTI Di ZAGREB, a Yugoslavian Chamber Orchestra, is featured as one of this year’s top Artist Series attractions.

Artist Series Features World Famous Actors

Mrs. Franklin D. Roosevelt will appear at Davidson as part of the 1956-57 Artist Series. Mrs. Roosevelt, because of the international regard gained through her work in the United Nations, has been called “First Lady of the World” and the “Number One World Citizen.” She will speak December 7 on the subject “United Nations.”

The Series begins October 26 with the celebrated stage and screen star, Arthur Treacher. Mr. Treacher, who is famous for his butler roles, will bring a program of readings from modern humorous literature. As he puts it, “I hope to amuse people with a little of this, something of that—mostly humor.”

Davidson College is one of the three stops in the entire Southeast for the Solisti di Zagreb, a Yugoslavian Chamber Orchestra making its first American tour. Conducted by Antonio Janigro, one of the world’s leading cellists, this ensemble will present on November 2 a program running the entire gamut of musical history.

Philippe Entremont, popular young French pianist, will appear at Davidson November 19 for the first time. He is renowned for his brilliance and mastery of the keyboard.

On January 11, one of the outstanding stars of the Metropolitan Opera, Brian Sullivan, comes to Davidson. Mr. Sullivan’s tenor voice is noted for its extraordinary range and flexibility, which combined with an ingratiating personality makes him one of the most sought-after stars of concert and opera.

Billed as America’s finest repertory theatre company, Players, Inc. will appear at Davidson February 19 in Shakespeare's Henry IV, a combination of drama, romance, and humor.

Returning to Davidson for a second time April 4-5, are William and Emily Muir, a husband and wife art team. They will be on campus two days, giving anyone a chance to meet them and become familiar with their work before the regular demonstration.

The Columbus Boychoir, considered one of the world’s most beautiful choirs, closes this year’s Artist Series April 26. Under the direction of Herbert Huffman, the Columbus Boychoir School is regarded as one of America’s foremost educational institutions.

Dr. Walter Lingle Dies After Extended Illness

(D. C. News Bureau)—Dr. Walter L. Lingle, 88, distinguished churchman and educator of Davidson, died Wednesday night at 11 p.m. in a Mooresville hospital after an extended illness. Since 1941 he had been President Emeritus of Davidson College, and had served as president from 1930 until his retirement. Previously he had been chairman of the college's board of trustees from 1906 to 1929.

The funeral was held this afternoon at 3 p.m. in the Davidson College Presbyterian Church.

Born in Rowan County in 1868, Dr. Lingle graduated from Davidson College with both the A.B. and M.A. degrees. He earned the B.D. degree from Union Theological Seminary in 1896, and was in 1897 ordained a minister of the Presbyterian Church, U.S. For the next half-century he was one of the church's leaders. He was pastor of the Presbyterian Church of Dalton, Ga., from 1898 to 1902, of the First Presbyterian Church of Rock Hill, S.C., from 1902 to 1907 and of the First Presbyterian Church of Atlanta, Ga., from 1907 until 1911.

He joined the faculty of the Union Seminary as Professor of Church History in 1911, and served in that capacity until 1924, when he became president of the Presbyterian General Assembly's Training School at Richmond. He left that position to become president of Davidson.

In 1915 he was elected Moderator of the Synod of North Carolina, and in 1920 of the General Assembly of the Presbyterian Church, U.S. He also served as editor of the Union Seminary Review from 1912 until 1922, and as a member of the International Sunday School Lesson Committee from 1914 until 1923. He was editorial writer and author for the Presbyterian of the South, and supervised the publication of the Presbyterian Hymnal and revision of the Presbyterian Book of Church Order.

Dr. Lingle was author of several books, among them: Presbyterians Their History and Beliefs; The Bible and Social Problems; Memories of Davidson College; Why I Believe in the Deity of Jesus Christ; and Presbyterianism—A Heritage and A Challenge. For 10 years he was chairman of the program committee for the Presbyterian conferences at Montreat, and served as chairman of the executive committee of the Federal Council of Churches. From 1910 until 1924 he was manager of the church conference at Montreat.

Dr. Lingle was a member of Beta Theta Pi social fraternity, of Phi Beta Kappa and of Omicron Delta Kappa. He was awarded the Doctor of Divinity degree by Davidson College in 1906, and the Doctor of Laws degree by Southwestern College in 1920, by Duke University in 1932 and by the University of North Carolina in 1933.

He is survived by Mrs. Lingle, the former Miss Merle Dupuy; by three daughters, Miss Louise Dupuy Lingle and Miss Nan Russell Lingle of Davidson and Mrs. Fred Lester of Cartersville, Ga.; by one son, Walter L. Lingle, Jr., of Cincinnati; by four grandchildren, Miss Judith Dupuy Lingle, Mr. John Hunter Lingle and Miss Susan Lee Lingle of Cincinnati, and Miss Caroline Dudley Lester of Cartersville, Ga.; and by two nieces, Miss Mary Lee Sloan of Richmond, (Continued On Page Four)

Quips and Cranks Staff Begins Work

Quips and Cranks, the Davidson yearbook, is now in the process of formation, Ed Young, editor of the annual announced this week. Contracts with the printer, engraver and portrait photographer have been completed, and the staff is already beginning to prepare the material which will make up the volume which will be distributed to students at the end of spring semester.

Both editorial and business staffs of this publication have begun what they term as “extensive work to present a readable, durable, and well-planned yearbook.” Young has expressed special interest in finding new writers, photographers, and office personnel to join him and his staff.

The individual portraits of students will be handled in a different manner from that of previous years. Representatives from Smith Studios will begin to photograph students September 25. Pictures will be made by fraternity rather than by class. Notices will be posted as to the exact date for each fraternity to be photographed.

Car Influx Reason For Parking Permit Plan

ELEVEN NEW ADDITIONS to the faculty include (left to right): Prof. Bruce Jackson of the Mathematics Department; Prof. Benjamin Bray of the Education Department, Prof. Caroline McBrayer of the Psychology Department, and Professors William Culp and John Williams of the Business Administration Department.

Eleven Faculty Members Added for 1956-57 Term

Dr. C. J. Pietenpol, Dean of faculty, today announced the addition of eleven new members of the college teaching faculty. One of them, Dr. Carolyn T. McBrayer, is the first woman ever to serve on the Davidson faculty. She is Visiting Associate Professor of Psychology.

The wife of a Mooresville physician, Mrs. McBrayer taught last year at Queens College, and was previously on the faculties of the University of North Carolina, Sophie Newcomb College of Tulane University, and the College of Charleston. She is a native of Statesville, and a graduate of Hollins College, as well as of the University of North Carolina graduate school, where she earned the M.A. and Ph.D. degrees.

Other new members of the faculty are Benjamin F. Bray, education and counseling; William Hammon Culp, business administration; Robert Bruce Jackson, mathematics; David H. Littlejohn, Spanish; Charles Edward Lloyd, English; Jerome Wayne Nilssen, English; S. Brooks McLane, Jr., physics; Pride G. Ratterree, physical education; George L. Thompson, Jr., physical education; and John P. Williams, business administration.

Prof. Bray is Visiting Assistant Professor of Education, and acting head of the Guidance and Counseling department. He is a graduate of William and Mary, and earned the M. Ed. degree from the University of Virginia.

Prof. Culp is Assistant Professor of Business Administration. A native of Gastonia, he attended Davidson, graduated from the University of North Carolina, and holds the M.B.A. degree from the University of Michigan. He is also a Certified Public Accountant.

Prof. Jackson graduated from Davidson in 1950, and attended Duke University from 1953 till 1956, completing class requirements for the doctor's degree in mathematics. He is Assistant Professor of Mathematics.

Prof. Littlejohn, Visiting Instructor in Spanish, is a resident of Charlotte and a graduate of the University of North Carolina. He also has studied extensively at the University of Barcelona, Spain, and the University of Costa Rica.

Prof. Lloyd, Instructor in English, is a graduate of Biltmore College in Asheville and of the University of North Carolina, where he taught both English and German. He also was a member of the University of Mississippi faculty, and taught in the Volkshochschule of Wiesbaden, Germany, and the Westminster School of Atlanta.

Prof. Nilssen is a graduate of St. Olaf College in Minnesota, and has studied for a year in the graduate school at Duke University. He is an instructor in English.

Prof. McLane graduated from Austin College in Texas, and has done graduate work at Illinois Institute of Technology, Harvard University, Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Texas A. & M. He is Assistant Professor of Physics.

Mr. Ratterree and Mr. Thompson joined the athletic coaching staff during the summer. Both are assistant coaches in football, while Thompson will also coach swimming and Ratterree baseball. Mr. Ratterree graduated from Wake Forest and earned the M.A. degree at Appalachian State College, while Mr. Thompson earned both the B.S. and M.A. degrees at the University of North Carolina.University of North Carolina. Prof. Williams graduated from Davidson in 1916 and earned the M.A. degree from New York University. He has had a varied and successful career in business and is Visiting Professor of Business Administration. Beginning with this semester, Davidson College has yielded to the example followed by most of her neighboring institutions in requiring that the automobiles which remain on the campus during the school session have a parking permit displayed on their windshields. The inauguration of this plan has been necessitated by the growing number of cars belonging to members of the student body. This in turn has caused it to be much more difficult to secure a parking space, not only for students but also for the ever-increasing number of visitors on the campus. The money received in payment for the permits will be applied with certain other funds toward further improvement of campus parking facilities.

(Continued On Page Four)

ceremonies this afternoon.

POSTMASTER SAM STOUGH and his post office force went to work at 5:30 this morning as fraternity bids poured in for distribution to the waiting Freshmen. Rush Week ended with Pledging.

SNIDER COMMANDS R.O.T.C. REGIMENT

Reitzel Snider, a senior from Winston-Salem, has been named Cadet Regimental commander of the Davidson College ROTC Regiment for the coming year. Lt. Col. Snider's record in ROTC has been outstanding for the past three years and he made an excellent record this past summer at ROTC Camp at Ft. Benning, Ga. Second in command of the Cadet Regiment and an able assistant to Snider is Cadet Ist Lt. Harry Antrim of Sarasota, Fla., and the newly organized Honor Drill Platoon by Tommy Rivers of Gastonia. The Cadet Battalion Commanders are Cadet Major John Gilmer of Bristol, Tenn., 1st Bn. and Cadet Major Don McRee of Newton, 2nd Bn. The Cadet Regimental Staff is composed of Cadet Capt. Jim Batten of Holland, Va., Rgt'l S-1, Cadet Capt. Bill Martin of Louisville, Ky., Rgt'l S-2, Cadet Capt. Andrew Watson of Atlanta, Ga., Rgt'l S-3, and Cadet Capt. Dick Weeks of Savannah, Ga., Rgt'l S-4. SFC Charles Stowe of Belmont, a junior, is the Rgt'l Sgt. Major. The 1st Battalion Staff includes Cadet Capt. Bob Shaw of Charlotte, Bn. Executive Officer, Cadet 1st Lt. Lawrence Trotti of Decatur, Ga., Bn. S-1, Cadet 1st Lt. Franklin Bloodworth of Atlanta, Ga., Bn. S-2, Cadet 1st Lt. Mack Dagenhart of Fayetteville, Bn. S-3, and Cadet 1st Lt. Boyce Martin of Louisville, Ky., Bn. S-4. Cadet Sgt. Ned Payne, a junior from Beckley, W. Va., is the Bn. Sgt. Major. The 2nd Battalion Staff is composed of Cadet Capt. Ed Young of Louisville, Ky., Bn. Executive Officer, Cadet 1st Lt. Tony Dick of Memphis, Tenn., Bn. S-1, Cadet 1st Lt. Leon Howell of Copperhill, Tenn., Bn. S-2, Cadet 1st Lt. John Lennon of Whiteville, Bn. S-3, Cadet 1st Lt. Sam Sutton of Bryson City, Bn. S-4, and Cadet Sgt. Ross Smyth, a junior from Charlotte, Bn. Sgt. Major. The six Company Commanders are: “A” Co., Cadet 1st Lt. Don Campbell from Salisbury; “B” Co., Cadet 1st Lt. Bill McCaskill of Savannah, Ga.; “C” Co., Cadet 1st Lt. Reese Middleton from Copperhill, Tenn.; “D” Co., Cadet 1st Lt. Ken Conger of Statesville; “E” Co., Cadet 1st Lt. David Patterson of Davidson; “F” Co., Cadet 1st Lt. David Brown of Davidson.

FIVE NEW EXCHANGE STUDENTS ARRIVE

Davidson's group of eight foreign students, representing seven different countries of the world, includes five new faces this year. The new foreign students are: Hugo Misle, a sophomore from Ecuador; Edgardo Pantigoso and Sung Kyu Kim, two freshmen representing Peru and Korea, respectively; Nam Young Park, a special student from Korea; and Dirk Bax, a special student who hails from the Netherlands. Three of last year’s foreign students have returned to Davidson this fall. These are: Jacques Delpech, a special student from France; Oyvind Norstrum, a senior from Norway; and Alfred Wang, a junior from China. All of the students are receiving some form of scholarship aid. Bax has been given a scholarship by the Charlotte Rotary Club. Wang, Norstrum, and Kim are Mary Lynn Richardson Scholars. Kim is also on partial scholarship from Rev. W. S. Delpech, Misle, Pantigoso, Park, and Bax are receiving scholarship aid from the college. Park’s scholarship is mainly provided for by Reynolds Foundation of Bristol, Va.-Tenn.

Social Fraternities Pledge 212 New Men

Rush Week Closes With Afternoon Ceremonies

Davidson's 5-day Rush Week was climaxed this afternoon as 212 men flocked to Fraternity Court for pledging ceremonies. The number of new pledges constitutes 88 percent of the freshman class. Beta Theta Pi had the largest number of pledges with a total of 30 new men. Kappa Sigma was second with 28, while Alpha Tau Omega and Sigma Chi had 23 each. The members of each new pledge class are as follows:

SIGMA CHI
Louie Carrington, Bob Croom, Harry Shaw, Tony Wiles, Don Hiles, Paul Frierson, Jim Black, Larry Reynolds, Leland Edmunds, Ben Farley, Clifford Lovin, Bill Babcock, Tommy Spence, Jr., Mercer Blankenship, Frank Norris, Walter Clark, Bob MacRae, Tom Inman, Kepler, George N. Rhyne, Gus Borgdof, Joe Verreault, Jimmy Carruth, Blount Batton, Kay Kilpatrick, George Hart, Charles R. Atkinson, Charles Bridgers, Joseph V. Bell, Woody Morcock, Marvin Parker, John W. Brooke, Noel McDevitt, Bob McGirt, John Scott, Dave Lyon, Don Killian.

KAPPA ALPHA
Buford Grier, Marshall Dunaway, Topper Ruggles, Joe Wearn, Carroll Pitts, Phil Payne, Julian Pleasants, Dee Green, Ed Stewart, Bruce Wilder, Don Rhame, Mac McLean, Luther Brown, John West, Bud Hunter, Jim Holman.

PHI DELTA THETA
Graham George, Bobby Page, Craig Ray, Warren Leaman, John Huie, Gene Jernigan, Smitty Smith, Marvin Bently, Harry Broome, Ted Henry, Jim Black, Larry Reynolds.

SIGMA PHI EPSILON
Bob Hoagland, Flem Mauney, Julian Love, Bill Horne, Jim Williams, Frank Nye, David Lloyd, Lewis Fogleman, Jerry Gattis, Russell Pease, Jere Starling, Roy Hoffner, Oliver Proctor, Buddy Farnsworth, John Daniel, Bill Cobb, Dave McAlister, Joel Spragin, Brownie Thurman, John Gandy.

PI KAPPA ALPHA
Otis Warr, III, John Curtis Stone, Willy Boyce, Mickey Thrower, Bill Eckbert, Bruce W. Van Sant, Walter Hefner, David Atchison, Fred Richards, David McCarty, W. J. Lohman, Jr., Thomas A. Freeman, Jr., Brent Martin, Harry Landis, Charles Henderson, III.

KAPPA SIGMA
Bobo McEachern, Jim Bloomfield, Ed Armfield, Newt Quantz, Larry McNeill, Tommy Price, Ervin Funderbark, Scott Puckett, Jim Paterson, Vic Hill, Donnie McQueen, Bobby McClure, Gary Heeseman, Alex Porter, Pete Sterling, Sutt Alexander, Ed Richmond, Freddie Whitaker, Lewis Moore, Tom Hollingsworth, Dick Hunnicutt, Gay Sanford, Arthur Venable, Dave Warden, Jim Hodges, Ken Owen, Dave McCullough, Charlie Smith.

PI KAPPA PHI
Bruce Richmond, Darby Cannon, Jimmy Herlong, John Monahan, Stuart Nickles, Jerome Herring, Harry D. Powell, Henry M. Esure, Jr., Robert A. Wilson.

PHI GAMMA DELTA
Charles Mauzy, Jim Earnhardt, Tom Ridenhour, Jim Dusenberry, David Kennedy, Preston D. Miller, John R. Poag, III, Bob Pate, Neil McFadyen, Charles A. Engh, Truman G. Rumberger, Chet Alexander, John D. W. Cassada, Jr., Joseph D. Dulaney, David Black Gillis, Jr., James Edwin Bear, III, Charles Bremer.

BETA THETA PI
Art Miller, Pep Dargan, John Glenn, Jim Hamilton, Billy Davis, Milton Gee, Dabney Stuart, Bobby Avinger, Madison Mauze, John Wilsey, Jim Reynolds, Dune Cater, Ed Plott, Morrisette, Richmond Rucker, Eb LeMaster, Tom Maxwell, Jim Richards, Butch Farabow, David Davis, John Glenn, Donald Lamm, Lawrence McNeill, Robert Martin, Curtis Patterson, and Lawton Posey.

SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON
Bill Welborn, Sam Zimmerman, Don Coffey, Paul Frierson, Jim Alexander, Bill Thompson, Archie Allen, Bobby Jones.

ALPHA TAU OMEGA
Larry Baggett, Charles Benson, Joe Braswell, Jack Carter, Charles Davis, Bill Hellier, Woody Hunt, Pete Kellogg, Tommy Kersey, Alfred Mackay, Fred Morris, Charles Rich, Charles Roberts, Clint Schaum, Doug Skelton, Dick Smith, Harold Smith, Mike Stone, Rusty Wagner, Zan White, Billy Whitesell, Perrin Wright, Bobby Livingston.

1956-57 Male Chorus Members Announced

The Davidson College Music department announced this week the appointment of 34 members of the student body to membership in the Male Chorus. Selection for membership in that organization comes as a result of private auditions with the Director of Music, Donald Plott. Membership in the Chorus was extended to John Crawford, Grier Robinson, Ralph Asbury, Lee Chapman, Larry Meyer, Bob Martin, Ned Gwathmey, Gordon Spaugh, Bob Street, Lamar Riggs, Fred Lane, Francis Carter, Ward McKeithan. First tenors are John Adkins, William Boyce, Joe Brown, Donald Dublin, Charles Loftin, Maurice Ritchie, Lawrence Stell, William Thompson, and James Wool. The Baritone Section is composed of James Boyce, Walter Bullock, Hugh Craig, Stuart Fountain, John McVay, Alfred MacKay, Reece Middleton, Edward Moore, and Jere Starling. Singing bass will be Walter Clark, Charles Daugherty, James Jones, Robert Jones, Henry Otten, Edward Spivey, Timothy Teachey, and Harold Smith. Recordings of selections sung by the Male Chorus may be obtained from the Music Secretary.

MASTER DATE SHEETS told the story last Sunday afternoon, as confirmation proceedings heralded the opening of Rush Week Sunday night.