FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 1956

Slants On- UNUSUAL

In a day when magazines and newspapers are crying in loud voices of the professionalism in college football, an almost
unnoticed incident on the local campus comes as quite an encouragement to fans of collegiate sports. After second-string center Frank
Anderson was aided off the field with an injured leg during the P.C. game, Coach Bill Dole was left with
a line whose middle spot was weak in reserves for the next several encounters.

BUT TWO MORE

However, it was not a problem of great concern until two more centers, Lewis Moore and Charlie James, were hurt
in practice only a few days before the Stetson game. Needing reinforcements, Dole turned to a boy who had not
even practiced with the team in over a month. John Nix, a non-scholarship athlete who last year as a freshman
played junior varsity football, returned to school early this fall for pre-season drill and was a leading center prospect, but
dropped out when school began because of his studies.

TWO HOURS

The coach attempted to see John the night before the game but not finding him in his room left a
note. Very much surprised to find the message, Nix was happy to aid the team but did not hope to
see action. Unexcited, he did not report until two hours before the game Saturday afternoon. The big surprise came in
the fourth quarter when the Cats were enjoying a comfortable lead. Sending in replacements, Dole turned to Nix and asked
if he wanted to play. Anxious for his first (and probably his last) chance to play college football, John readily
said yes. He played about six minutes of the game.

ANYONE ELSE

Seeming a little amazed that such an occurrence would attract any publicity, the modest center said later, “I don’t feel
that I’ve done anything special. Anyone else would have done the same if he had been in my position; I
was glad to have the opportunity to help and to play.” Perhaps “anyone else” would have, but the simple incident
still seems worthy of note not only because of its unusualness but also because of the spirit of amateurism it
reveals. With football considered little more than big business on many campuses, it is obvious that such an occurrence couldn't
happen often today.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Jordan as Cat halfback Donny McRee races around right end for a gain in the waning minutes of the first
half in Saturday's game on Richardson Field. McRee was the big offensive punch for the Red and Black which battled
to a 13-13 tie with the Keydets. Other VMI players are Evanusich (83) and O'Neill (78).

Undefeated KAs Emerge Flickerball Champions

By BILL HELLIER

Going strong all season, the K.A.’s racked up eleven straight victories to walk away with the interfraternity flickerball championship. Although
the Phi Delts, A.T.O.'s, and Kappa Sigs were close behind, they never were able to match the speed and evasiveness.
This year, the Sig Eps and Pi Kapps showed unusual strength, either beating or coming close to winning over teams
in the top bracket.

Wildcats Tie Keydets, Bare Claws On Richmond Next

See Victory Margin Fade With 54 Seconds Left

The Wildcats, held to a 13-13 tie in last week’s Homecoming tilt with V.M.I., will try to get back on
the victory trail tomorrow when they meet Richmond. Game time is 2:00 P.M. at Richardson Field. Richmond, possessors of an
indifferent 2-3 record for 1956, should nevertheless prove a stern test for Dole’s squad.

McRee’s first score came on a 98-yard kickoff return after V.M.I's initial touchdown. The run stands as a place in
Southern Conference scoring with 30 points. The Spiders are strongest in the stands.

THE DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS

SOCCER SQUAD BOWS TO GENERALS, 2-0

By CHARLES McGOWAN

The Wildcat soccer squad fell in defeat last Friday when The Generals of Washington and Lee out-booted the locals 2-0
on the home field. The Davidson team played fast, aggressive ball the entire game occupying Washington and Lee's portion of
the field almost half of the game. It was late in the second quarter when the opposition kicked their first
goal and stepped out in front of the Wildcats.

FREE KICK SCORE

During the second half, the local squad played outstanding defensive ball as they have all season, but a penalty against
the Cats cost them another goal when the Generals made the free kick. Both teams made desperate attempts to score
in the few remaining minutes, but were unsuccessful. When the whistle blew ending the game, the score was still 2-0.

Shining for the Cats both defensively and offensively were Smyth, Reeder, Russell, and Andrews. Butler, the goalie, deserves special attention,
not only for his outstanding job in last Friday's game, but also for the superior defensive work which he has
been doing all season.

OFFENSE DRILL

The Cat footsters worked hard this week in preparation for tomorrow’s return game with Washington and Lee in Lexington, Va.
Most of the emphasis in daily drill was put on offense, a weakness of the squad since they have been
scoreless thus far in the season. The defensive squad of the Wildcats is as strong as any team’s which they
have met, a fact proven when Davidson held powerful Carolina to 2-0 in a contest two weeks ago, although they
were unable to score themselves. The contest with the Generals will begin at 3:00 tomorrow afternoon. It is the game
that Coach McCutchan is hoping to win because the Cats know W&L's tactics along with their weak points. According to
McCutchan, this week's intensive drills and W&L's weak points are liable to pay off Saturday by producing Davidson's first soccer
victory.

Probable starting lineup for Davidson:
Butler—Goalie.
Russell and Kuykendall—Fullbacks.
Andrews, Ramm, Smith, Halfbacks.
Smyth—Center.
Neville—Inside left.
Reeder—Outside left.
Ervin—Inside right.
Suttcliffe—Outside right.

Harriers Run Wild; Take Deacons, 26-32

The Davidson harriers came victorious out of Tuesday's meet with Wake Forest. On a 4.3 miles course in the Deacon's
new home town, Davidson's better team balance proved decisive in the close contest which ended with a 26-32 score. Angus
McBryde once again led the Wildcat runners with a second place. Individual victor was Medlin of Wake Forest, whose finishing
kick was too much for McBryde. Both men ran tactical races and depended on a fast finish, where Medlin turned
out to be the better sprinter. Henry Brown took third place, well behind the two leaders, and was followed by
a duo of Wake Forest runners. Al Elder, Ray Antley, and frosh Jim Alexander completed the scoring Davidson quintet, and
another freshman, Milton Gee, followed immediately behind. Pete Ashcraft, senior.

SHOWROOM

Free-swinging comfort from the word “go”

Eight o’clock class or 4 o’clock lab, you can take them in your stride with these Arrow Ties and Guards.
Any position you're in, this all-knit underwear assures you soft yet firm comfort. And the Tee is as right for
sports as it is for underwear. We offer you a wide assortment of Arrow underwear, Tee, $1.25; Guards (knitted briefs),
$1.20.

How to get off to a flying start

The way to keep moving in free-and-easy comfort is to start with Arrow underwear. This popular Arrow Tee Shirt and
Guards won’t bind or chafe, won’t sag. When you consider their fine-spun fabric and their perfect fit (that “gives” with
every move you make), you know that you'll have it pretty soft. Pick yours today. Tee, $1.25; Guards (knitted briefs),
$1.20.

SHIRTS • TIES • HANDKERCHIEFS • UNDERWEARand captain of the Cat harriers, did not see action because of a recent
leg injury. This Saturday Coach Whittle’s 1956 squad matches strength with the University of Richmond in the only home meet
of the season. Richmond seems to have an improved team from last year and has a top man in Warren
Chukinas, a worthy opponent for McBryde and Ashcraft. Davidson's won-lost record is now 2-2. The best results from Tuesday: (1)
Medlin, WF 24:01; (2) McBryde, D. 24:02; (3) Brown, D. 24:30; (6) Elder, D. 25:23; (7) Antley, D. 25:55; (8)
Alexander, D. 26:03; (9) Gee, D. 26:33; (11) Huntley, D. 27:26; (14) Allen, D. 29:22.

The only teams that really threatened the rebels in actual games were the Kappa Sigs and the Sigma Chi’s. The
Kappa Sigs fell short by a single point in one of the best games of the year, while the Sigma
Chi’s were edged, 12 to 6, in another very good contest. After a fine start at the beginning of the
season, both the Sigma Chi’s and S.A.E.’s began losing important games toward the end and eventually tied for fifth place.
In contrast, the Betas and A.T.O.’s began the season rather weakly but came in strong at the finish. The Taus
got started faster and ended up in a second place tie with Phi Delts and Kappa Sigs, while the Betas
took seventh place.

At certain times during the competition this year, there has been especially sharp competition among the teams in the middle
and upper part of the standings. Many of the teams used pledges, whose great interest and ability promised to help
in making their teams real contenders next year. Official final standings are:

Won Lost
K.A. 11 0
A.T.O. 8 3
Kappa Sig 8 3
Phi Delt 8 3
S.A.E. 6 5
Sigma Chi 6 5
Beta 5 6
Sig Ep 4 7

REBEL DAVE McCAW laterals teammate Joe Brown as Phi Delt Bill Hopper covers the play in a flickerball contest which
the KAs won 19-16. This action on Monday earned the victors a perfect 11-0 season and the interfraternity tag football
championship.

Richmond has a strong backfield, with such standouts as halfbacks George Riggs and Mickey Marinkov, and fullback Buddy Davis. Backing
them up are several other fleet runners. Speed is the forte of the Richmond backfield.

LINE PLAY
Richmond has good depth at guard and end, but the vital center and tackle spots are somewhat weaker. The ‘Cat
line is expected to hold its own against the Richmond forward wall. Citadel, victors over Davidson by a 33-6 count,
dropped a 7-3 contest to Richmond. V.M.I., the only other common opponent, caught the Spiders napping in their web and
managed to defeat them. Bad breaks have played a large part in the rather dismal Richmond showing thus far, and
they cannot be discounted on the basis of their record alone. Line coach Pride Ratterree, who has scouted the Spiders,
had this to say: “They have a strong ball club — probably one of the toughest teams we'll play all
year.”

V.M.I. TIE
In last week's game, V.M.I. pulled a defeat out of the fire and turned it into a tie by knotting
the score at 13-13 with but 53 seconds remaining to play. The tying touchdown came on a twelve-yard pass play,
after a ‘Cat fumble had given the Keydets the ball deep in Davidson territory. A perfect kick, which traveled out
of the stadium, completed the effort. Offensively, Don McRee was the whole show, scoring both Davidson TD’s. He is now
in fourth place.

Gramley Wildcat of Week
By BOBBY PAGE
If it had not been for one exceptional individual last week against V.M.I., Sam Woolwine would have undoubtedly increased his
already impressive rushing record and the Keydets might still be singing a victory song. But when Woolwine dared a venture
into his own right side of the line, there he met, more times than not, a big red jersey covering
the 6-3 frame of end Bill Gramley. There was not a halfback on the visiting bench that could dispose of
the crashing number 87 on an end sweep nor a flanker that could complete the assignment on a line plunge.
The towering stalwart was unable to break into the starting lineup at the beginning of the current season after setting
a conference record in pass receiving during the '55 campaign. Such potential can stay bottled up for only so long.
As a result of racking up 10 individual tackles along with a number of untabulated assists, Gramley was given credit
by V.M.I. coach, John McKenna, who has faced Army, George Washington, Lehigh, and Virginia, as having played the best game
at end that he has seen all season. His efforts were not noticed by coaches alone, as was indicated by
stories in the two local Charlotte papers. What else can be said or done other than to award Bill Gramley
the honor of Wildcat of The Week.

NOW AT WILSON-WRIGHT'S, as a season record, and was last approximated by a 97-yard runback by Roy White against Harvard
in 1952. The other score came on a two-yard slant off left tackle.

EVEN MATCH
Statistics reveal how evenly matched the teams were. Both clubs had sixteen first downs and were penalized almost the same
distance. The total offensive yardage differed by four yards — 217 for Davidson and 221 for the Keydets. Although the
Homecoming crowd of 7,000 was dissatisfied with being robbed of a victory in the final minute, the game was regarded
as a remarkable effort on the part of the Wildcats. Head Coach Bill Dole, commenting on the rest of the
schedule, said: “The last 3 games (Richmond, Wofford, and Furman) are all tough, and we’ll really have to be on
top of our game to win them.”

Cagers Emphasize Fundamentals in Drill
The Wildcat basketball team is stressing fundamentals as the third week of early practice draws to a close. Of the
forty-eight hopefuls who turned out for the initial practice, twenty-eight remain as candidates for varsity positions. No distinction will be
made between varsity and JV’s until about the middle of November. Coach Tom Scott says that this is being done
to give the freshmen and sophomores an opportunity to prove themselves and win a varsity berth. The group, practicing daily,
is stressing only fundamentals. Ball handling, passing, and learning to work together have comprised the main emphasis of these early
workouts. Coach Scott, asked to comment on the progress, said that it was too early to single out any individuals
as outstanding. However, he stated, “In looking at it from this stage of practice, the freshman group, in general, looks
better than last year's, and a few of the freshmen are giving stiff competition to some of the lettermen for
a varsity position.”

This model suit combines the trim easy lines of the “natural look” with smart, casual, comfortable fabrics that are “natural,”
too. This week try on this model—you'll like it. 50.00 - 69.50

Wilson-Wright’s Inc.
“Collegiate Fashions”
DAVIDSON, N. C.
