Cat's Meow
LEON HOWELL

THE FURMAN SPIRIT

If there has been any one game of basketball in the three years that I have been at Davidson that
I would have hated to miss, it would be the Furman game immediately before exams. Not only was the whole
team playing superbly as a unit, but several individual plays remain indelibly impressed in my memory. However, the most impressive
aspect of that game to me was the wonderful backing which the team received from the fans. From an almost
jammed gymnasium came vociferous and spontaneous outbursts at outstanding plays and particularly memorable was the standing ovation which the squad
received as they huddled during several time-outs.

This type of support has been a missing element here at Davidson for a period that has extended too long.
Several of the players commented that they certainly feel like giving much more when the school demonstrates in such a
convincing manner that it is behind them. No one deserves more credit and support for the way they perform on
and off the court than the cagers. It has been particularly hard for them to face the tough schedules of
the past few years with a student body that remained indifferent, or even hostile to them. Now we have an
unusually capable squad. Let’s give them an indication of our appreciation by backing them at the games.

ESSENCE OF SPORTSMANSHIP?

Despite the need for enthusiastic spectators, it has become a point of increasing concern for some people that basketball fans
have fallen into the habit of booing every decision made by an official against “our” team. Being human, a referee
will miss an occasional call, some more frequently than others. But on the whole, they are well qualified and in
a better position to see the action than those in the stands. Some consideration of just what sportsmanship constitutes and
the demands it should make of a fan, no matter how avid, are in order. We have become heirs to
traditions at Davidson that we must protect if we are to continue to be recognized as outstanding in the college
ranks.

For another example of behavior below that usually credited to people of college age, I cite the treatment that Darrel
Floyd received here during the Furman game. An outstanding player, his conduct in the face of a barrage of hoots
and jeers (certainly undeserved) was to be commended. Not only did he show that he was a team man as
well as a scorer here, he also displayed that he was bigger than a good many of the people who
booed him.

ALL FOUR WINTER DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS SEE ACTIVITY

CONGRATULATES DOLE NEXT WEEK FOR HIS SERVICES

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

PAGE THREE

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 1956

VMI, W&M Invade Cat Lair This Winter

Track Season Opens Tomorrow
By OYVIND NORSTROM

The indoor track season, which this year includes only three meets for Coach Pete Whittle’s Red and Black Wildcats, gets
under way this Saturday with the traditional Virginia Relays in Lexington, Va. Though being handicapped by lack of an indoor
track, and also suffering from lack of practice during exams, a four-man team will try to defend Davidson's track honors
garnered in previous years. Best chance to return victor among the four Wildcats is Pete Ashcraft, who has been promising
in work-outs and should make a fine 2 miles race. In this race, Norwegian Oyvind Norstrom makes his first try
at indoor racing. Bill Gramley and Bill Lazenby will compete in the shot put, and Gramley looked good in his
workouts.

The Virginia Relays, of course, is mainly a relay meet, with only a few open, individual events. About 30 men
have this far signed up for practice for the track season, among them many of the “veterans” from last year.
There are also several new men out, among which coach Whittle keeps an especially open eye on frosh sprinter M.
Armstrong, cross country letter man Elder (who is out for the 440), C. Godsey and Andy Hamilton, 880 men, hurdler
J. B. Hambright and another sprinter, J. W. Weller. The track squad did not lose very many of the top
men by graduation, and the Conference Meet in Blacksburg, Va., in the middle of May is already the great goal.
Davidson finished third last year, and is out to better that.

The next meet, after the Virginia Relays, is the Southern Conference meet, also in Lexington, on February 18. It is
the plan to take a complete team up there, and with the two weeks of practice that the men will
pick up till then, a good showing should be possible—in spite of the moral depression under which the team will
be suffering from having to go away from the Mid-Winter celebration. The third and last meet of the indoor season
is the Atlantic Coast Conference in Raleigh on February 24, where Davidson will be represented in the open-conference events.

Outdoor track gets started in the beginning of April, with a meet against Florida State and Mercer in Macon, Ga.
Work-out for outdoor track will get under way February 27, and coach Whittle encourages new talents to come out.

At the halfway mark with six teams in the interfraternity basketball league boasting records of at least three wins and
one defeat, it would appear that the competition this year will be the keenest in many years. As of Wednesday,
the Betas and ATO’s were tied for first place by virtue of having won one more game than the rest.
With only two defeats, the SPE’s and Phi Gams are still very much in contention and both have shown that
they are capable of beating the best. The Phi Gams proved this earlier in the season when they dropped the
Sigma Chis from the unbeaten ranks.

IFC BASKETBALL

Team Won
Beta
ATO
Sigma Chi
Kappa Sig
SAE
Phi Delt
SPE
Phi Gam
KA
Pika
Pi Kapp
Phi C

When classes are through
And your girl’s close to you
It’s a psychological fact:
— more people get more

DAVIDSON

CONFERENCE POSITIONS HANG ON THESE CRUCIAL CONTESTS

On February the third, fourth, and seventh, the Davidson basketball team has three games, two of these conference tilts. Tonight
the Wildcats engage William and Mary here at the Johnston Gymnasium. William and Mary has a fine ball club and
the game tonight should prove to be very exciting.

In their last game together the Wildcats edged out William and Mary in one of Davidson’s best games. But the
results of their contest don’t mean anything because William and Mary will put up a strong fight.a me genie Guilford
could give them lots of trouble since they are playing on their own floor. Tomorrow night Dr. Tom Scott's Davidson
has an excellent basketball team this year with a record of long leases. This game will also be played in
Johnston Gymnasium, and it is the first game of the series. Davidson will have to fight to win this one
also. Leading the Cats in their winning ways are Captain Bobby Cobb, Ray Harding, Joe Milner, Richard Weeks, Semi Mintz,
and Dave Hollingworth.

Spring practice started one week ago under the watchful eye of Coach William Dole. Next year’s hopefuls and stalwarts began
working together. Their chance of forming a winning team is high because they are under the direction of probably the
best football coach in Davidson’s history. Coach Bill Dole came to Davidson in 1951 and has built the Cats into
a respectable team. In 1954, the team had a 5-4 record on a rough schedule, which was the best since
1926. This past season's 6-3 record was also impressive.

Meet VPI and Wofford Next Week
By JIM PAGE

On Monday, Feb. sixth, Davidson's swimming team goes to VPI for what will probably be their toughest meet of the
season. On Wednesday the eighth, they will swim against the Wofford Terriers. Wofford isn’t considered by Coach Hambright to be
quite the threat that VPI is. They have several good sprinters but are lacking in depth. Grossman, their sprinter, holds
the conference record in the fifty and is also strong in the hundred. Plymale, a former high school state champion,
is a constant threat in the breaststroke. The lack of depth has hampered Davidson up to their current position of
respect.

Davidson's tough scholastic standards and limited number of scholarships have multiplied the difficulty of the task which Coach Dole and
his staff have accomplished. 1954’s total of 5-4 record on a rough schedule was the best in the school’s history.
Coach Bill Dole came to Davidson in 1951 and has built the Cats into a respectable team. In 1954, the
team had a 5-4 record on a rough schedule, which was the best since 1926. This past season's 6-3 record
was also impressive.

Coach Bill Dole received his degree from the University of West Virginia in 1952 and then went abroad the following
year to Germany, where he traveled throughout the country studying education. He earned his master’s degree from New York University.
His coming to Davidson greatly changed the Wildcats' gridiron scene. No longer do graduates return to the campus expecting to
see the Cats lose even their homecoming game. Besides being a feared team that tied for second place in the
Southern Conference last year, the red and black boasts individual stars such as Belton and Gramley, who have shone on
the conference record books.

Spring practice will indicate the success of next year’s team. Coach Dole’s main objective in these twenty days is to
develop the running attack. He said that major attention is being given to the offensive line play. Also, the staff
is striving to develop the effectiveness of the blockers. Coach Dole pointed out that the incoming freshmen will have to
give depth to the team, as the Cats have only four returning guards, four tackles, and two centers. If anyone
can shape the 1956 Wildcats into a victorious team, it is Coach William Dole.

PARKER-GARDNER
CHARLOTTE 2, N. C.
118 West Trade Street
Phone ED. 2-8257
