Page -2-

The purpose of these midweek socials is to provide some form of entertainment to break the week-long monotony of studies,
etc., and to bring the student body a little closer together during the summer months.

The Wednesday night social committee members are: Dave Hood, Craig Wall, Gary Maynard, John Morgan, Morgan Speir, and Jane Bailey
in charge of the hostesses. We need your suggestions; don't hesitate at any time to offer them.

We are anticipating each Wednesday night as a big success and counting on your attendance to make it so. See
you there!

W.D.H.
Chairman Social Committee

URGENT NOTICE

Will the person who borrowed the record of Beethoven's Concerto No. 5 (Emperor) from room 266 please return same immediately
so that the occupants of the room might improve their sadly lagging cultural education?

NOTICE

I am prepared to pay a high price for large-sized live turtox to go in the Union aquarium.

C. Shaw Smith
Director of College Union

The date for the first dance of the summer school session has been set for July 14. Our plans are
now in the process and suggestions are encouraged. Start making your plans now!

Social Committee

DAVIDSON INDOCTRINATION COLUMN

(For the benefit of the new students, we print the following story of the Battle of Cowan's Ford, where General
William L. Davidson, for whom the college was named, met his death. The brave general's pistols are in the library.)

THE POSTPONED RIDE OF W.D. DAVIDSON
(with apologies to H.W.L.)

Listen, my fellows; I'll wave my sword
And sing of the Battle of Cowan's Ford
On a certain day in some past year,

There's hardly a man attending here
Who by this tale has not been bored!

Brave General Greene said to his men,

"Boys, they're trying to cross again,
We'll know at dawn, my friends and mates,
Whether it's Cowan's or whether it's Beatties!
Brave William D., you take your crew
(They all are brave, though but a few.)
And move down south to guard the river;
I'll take the rest and they shall never
Drive me from this sacred glen!"

And so brave William and the troops
Went down the stream, and there in groups,
They watched - each silent as a ghostie
(Wishing they had taken ROTC!)

The long night passed and on each wily
British face, there was a smile,
For they knew the battle plan -
As they moved SOUTH - in every man,
Courage mounted with each mile.

How the rebels - all so tattered,
With their forces all so scattered,
Could dare to dream in moments vain
Of a victory, was insane!

And on to Cowan's Ford they clattered!

And in the dawn on our side grim
The men's eyes all are turned on him.
- - A bug on his neck - - the General wiggles - -
One of the men breaks into giggles - -
Hark! The General now is hushing - -
There is a gentle sound of slushing - -
Someone's wading in the river!

What do we see in the dawn's early light -
THE RED COATS ARE COMING! - we'll give 'em a fight!

Brave William D. leaps on his horse;
"I'll fetch brave Greene - he is the boss!
