EDITOR-IN-CHIEF ...... FRANKLIN BLOODWORTH
BUSINESS MANAGER ...... LEON HOWELL
ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Assistant Editor ...... Bob Beall
Managing Editors ...... Lloyd Chapin, John Trask
John Johnson, Bill Bondurant, John Trotti
Sports Editor ...... Jim Batten
Feature Editor ...... Bob Carmichael
Copy Editor ...... Bill Pomeroy
PAGE TWO Che Davidsonian
Represented for National Advertising by NATIONAL ADVERTISING SERVICE, Inc.
SUBSCRIPTION RATE: $2.00 Per Year.
Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.
OFFICES IN DAVID OVENS COLLEGE UNION, DAVIDSON COLLEGE
Staff Photographer ...... Ed Stevens
Assignments ...... Bob Lathan
Advertising Manager ...... Bob Majors
Circulation ...... Bob Austin, Marshall Chapman, Lee Mayfield
FRIDAY, APRIL 27, 1956

Council Has Shaken ‘Police’ Label

Perrin Anderson and his administration bowed out in chapel this morning, climaxing the most active and productive year student government has seen here in some time. The perennial charge that the Council constitutes only a police force, concerned solely with violation of the honor system and student body regulations has been completely shaken this year. The bulk of Council activity has been that of other than a watchdog agency. Accomplishments range from securing probationary ROTC cuts to having coke machines re-installed in the dorms. The long-pending telephone issue has been pushed vigorously toward completion. A 947-name petition was delivered to Southern Bell offices this past week. The Court of Control has been salvaged from the ludicrous position it was left in last fall by combined actions of both freshmen and upperclassmen. Now thoroughly overhauled, the Court will be reinstated in Chapel next September on a trial monthly basis. Its ultimate success or failure in this make-or-break year rests almost completely with the attitudes adopted by the three upper classes in its administration. Student government has also performed the heretofore neglected and obviously vital function of keeping the Trustees of the College properly aware of student opinion and preferences on controversial issues before us. This necessity has been graphically illustrated in recent weeks. The list reviewing the year’s progress could be continued almost indefinitely. Aside from tangible, concrete achievements, the Anderson regime has been instrumental in fostering the indefinable atmosphere of genuine goodwill which now exists between the student body and the faculty and administration. This was not always the case, as juniors and seniors will be quick to testify. While backed by an unusually able and dedicated Council, in the final analysis the essence of the year’s success must be attributed to the dynamic leadership provided by Perrin Anderson. His capable spearheading of the Council’s individual and collective efforts has made the difference between mediocrity and exceptional excellence in Davidson student government. Dan LaFar, his incoming Council, and the student body which they represent are faced with an evident and enormous task. Student government is stronger and healthier than it has been in years. The challenge is obvious.

Tragedy By-Product of a System

To a country that is in a state of universal armament, to young men expecting military service momentarily, and to parents who are going to have sons in training, the Parris Island episode of April 8th created a furious uproar. On the surface, it appeared that six lives had been needlessly squandered in a foolish attempt at discipline. Sgt. McKeon, the drill instructor who had led the disastrous night march, was immediately thrust into the brig and the Marine big brass, including the commandant, was conducting an extensive inquiry into this “unprecedented” form of training. Almost daily the local papers note that a military aircraft has exploded on a training mission, crashing inexplicably into the sea or plain. Paratroopers, engaged in their dangerous and necessary practice jumps, make occasional mistakes. Men die. Capricious fate leads personnel to death in maneuvers with what seems to be accusing uselessness. If it had been one of the above situations, only cursory attention would have been given the item mingled with other stories clamoring for attention. The sergeant is not to be excused for making a tragic error. But we must be aware that he and his company had an enormous amount of bad luck—and six men had worse. As it appears from scattered reports, McKeon will be the scapegoat for the system of training. A court-martial, a public chastisement will be tendered him and the higher echelons will escape criticism. Although the reports coming from Parris Island glossed over the disciplinary angle on this march, qualified persons declare this method of training is the commonplace occurrence. And, indeed, why shouldn't it be? Parris Island and its drill instructors are a legend. From recruits softened by the comforts of America, the men must learn to move automatically, propelled by reflexes toned by the exactness of the training and rigid discipline until they are ready to perform as the elite fighters they are. It is an affront to remind many people that the soldier is trained to do two things: to kill and to survive. The best troops are those who undergo the most rigorous training. It is so far better that we lose six men now than to see thousands die from sloppy preparation in combat. McKeon had had the theme of the drill instructor training, “Be sure no man's ghost will ever say ‘If only your training program had done its job!’” drummed into him from the outset of his own instruction. He made a mistake, but an honest mistake. Check on the program, examine the discipline practices, inquire into the methods of the drill instructors. But remember that the Marines must be tough, must be ready for anything. In moments like this, we learn that the peacetime death of a soldier is somehow sadder than in war. Yet there are those who cry for war. And there are those who mock others who seek to build the United Nations into an agency capable of preventing war in any form. Until it—or something else—is able to do so, we will read the sad bulletins of men who have died for their country in peace because of human error. Sorrow is greater and grief more bitter. F.L.H. Jr.

Tradition Intact

Vernal equinoxes, robins, and Pope Gregory’s calendar to the contrary, spring traditionally comes to Davidson with Spring Frolics. Not before, not after. Spring Frolics came and went last weekend. So did the 600 girls. But still no sign of permanent warm weather. A persistent nip in the air had the audacity to hang around three whole days after The Weekend. For a while, we were worried. Then came Thursday and the sweltering sun, at long last. Maybe it was the Convocation. More probably the Dodgers’ spring stranglehold on the National League lead. At any rate, it got hot, fast. Tradition is now happily intact and the Frolics are still potent medicine, weatherwise and otherwise. Hand down the sun tan lotion and that old blanket. See you at the river.

LITTLE MAN ON CAMPUS

“I know you made ‘A’ on th’ test... but you just look like a ‘C’ student.”

DAVIDSON’S FAVORITE SON

President Wilson Was

Woodrow Wilson was the first American to achieve worldwide fame and honor as a world statesman rather than just as an American statesman. In the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, the United States produced some few men who rose to worldwide eminence. They were eminent, however, only as great Americans. For instance, George Washington was acclaimed as a brilliant military strategist and as a liberator of a colonial people. Thomas Jefferson was praised for his democratic ideals in American government. Abraham Lincoln was revered as the emancipator of a suppressed race. But Wilson was the first American to become a citizen of the world. Wilson meant for the other peoples of the world a vision of world peace and harmony, just as he did for the citizens of the United States. His was a plan and a dream which knew no national boundaries or local prejudices. The development of Wilson’s internationalism came late in life. Even in the first years of the war, he supported American neutralism.

ACROSS THE PRESIDENT’S DESK

DAN LaFAR
PRESIDENT OF THE STUDENT BODY

From an article written several years ago in The Davidsonian I quote the following: “The major field in which peace reigns supreme is that of the student government. The present administration has achieved an amazing success in its acceptance by the students. Never before has there been so little criticism of any regime. Never before has the council gone about its duties so unhampered by student interest or concern. “But perhaps this is to be expected when practically no information of that body’s activities ever reaches the student’s ear—not even through that ancient institution, the grapevine. If this administration's goal was the maintenance of the status quo, they seem to be achieving it since time is passing, and there is no sign of any imminent change.” The situation expressed in the above quote is one which I would hope the student body of 1956-57 will not experience. As I attempted to stress in my campaign talk of not long ago, I am convinced that it is not the duty of student government to do away with differences of opinion nor even campus ferment, but rather these should be the very things which mold unified student policy. In order to reach decisions which are both representative and sound, the Student Council installed today will seek the broadest opinion from as many students as are willing to express themselves. In order for students themselves to be presented with as much actual information as possible, it is for this reason that this column will be maintained—to present students with as much information of what is going on as possible. This past year under the system of open Student Council meetings, an article was written by the Davidsonian reporter following each regularly scheduled meeting of the Student Council. The Student Body was enlightened as to the mechanics of operation and the actual decisions of the Student governing body; and this enlightenment has done much to make the Student Council a more representative body. It is my understanding, and hope that this article will continue. This coming year, in addition to these regular Student Council articles, I will attempt to write an informal column of the actual problems in existence as they appear to me, and conduct a behind-the-scenes view of the various activities that are connected with Student Government. The plan will be to use the advantages of this personal method of communication only when issues of vital interest or of much effect to the Student Body are at hand.

Florida Minister Lauds Chorus

(The following are excerpts from a letter to Dr. Cunningham from Dr. Daniel P. McGeachy, Jr., of Clearwater, Florida, concerning a recent appearance there of the Male Chorus. Ed.) ....Last month the Davidson Male Chorus sang in Clearwater under the auspices of the American Guild of Organists here, and sang at our two morning services on Palm Sunday. The Male Chorus gave an excellent concert, and I was so very pleased with the impression that the Chorus made on our community; both in the homes in which the boys stayed and by their general conduct while they were here, and by the music that they provided. They gave an excellent presentation of the quality and spirit of Davidson.
D. P. McGeachy, Jr.
Clearwater, Fla.

400,000 VOLUMES IN LIBRARY
Wesleyan Comparison Squelches Davidson Delusions of Grandeur

“A hot-bed of intellectualism” ... “brain-trust” ... and an “institution for budding Phi Betes” ... these are terms sometimes used to describe Davidson College. Many feel that our academic standards are not only as high as could be desired but that in many cases they are entirely too high, and for this reason there is sometimes a self-satisfied attitude manifested where the scholastic excellence of the school is concerned. It goes without saying that this feeling is unhealthy, for unless an institution is reaching its academic potential and obligation there is hardly room for self-congratulatory complacency. Davidson is, indeed, an excellent institution, but in any institution there is always room for improvement.

Professor Ernest Stabler, a visitor to our campus this year, spoke to interested students about his college, Wesleyan, in Watertown, Conn., and gave some insights into what is being done in a small liberal arts school comparable in many ways to our college. Wesleyan has 750 students, and even though its endowment exceeds 19 million dollars, the school has absolutely no intention of becoming larger. How the college can justify its limited enrollment is explained by its president, Victor L. Butterfield: “At the last meeting of the Executive Committee of the Board the optimum enrollment was voted to be 750 undergraduates. How can we justify this action in the face of a college population that will double within the decade? Why should we not take our proportionate share? Because we believe that by focusing our resources we can steadily improve the quality of our contribution. Our responsibilities to society will be fulfilled only as we graduate men who far out of proportion to their numbers will help give our country strength of moral and intellectual leadership.”

In a school with the reputation of Wesleyan, it is natural that there should be hundreds of applicants turned down each year, and that many of these should be the sons and nephews of alumni. As Dr. Butterfield explains, however, “Whatever the criteria for admission, they must be applied to every man without favor, whether he be the son of a plumber or of an alumnus, whether he be Methodist, Presbyterian or Jew, whether white, yellow or black these things count neither for nor against him.”

There are definite reasons why Wesleyan, with other excellent liberal arts colleges, is able to attract the most promising young men in the country, and why it is able to keep its standards on a high plane. With 750 students, Wesleyan has a library containing over 400,000 volumes. Our library holds somewhat over 62,000 works. The Wesleyan student-faculty ratio is approximately 8-1. There are 14 professors in the English department, 7 in History, 5 in Psychology, 3 in Philosophy, 5 in Classics, 6 in Economics, 4 in German and 6 in the Romance languages. There are more than 64 Doctors of Philosophy on the faculty. At Davidson, on the other hand, we have only 1 1/2 teachers for over 140 students taking German, a subject which demands small classes and individual attention.

There is little doubt that Davidson, being where it is, and having the resources and reputation which it has, has a tremendous opportunity for academic leadership, yet it seems that this opportunity could be better met through raising even higher the quality of the education offered rather than through the raising of the enrollment. As Dr. Butterfield writes, “A college of liberal arts and science is first and foremost an academic institution. If a college seeks distinction for quality, it will brook no compromise with this principle. It will place high premium on intellectual distinction in its faculty and in its student body. It must oppose unalterably the mood of the times which distrusts knowledge and intellect as worthy in themselves.”

Commission Plans Outlined
(The following is the last of a series of two articles presented to acquaint the student with his military obligations as determined by present laws. Ed.)

NAVY
Besides NROTC, not available to us here, the Navy has three other chief ways of gaining commissioned officers, all requiring college education.

Choice No. 1—The Officers Candidate School for civilian and enlisted personnel with four years of college graduates commissioned Ensigns who are required to serve three years on active duty and five years Reserve time. This program is extended to those interested in aviation also. During the first four months you will be paid $85.80 a month; when commissioned an Ensign your pay will increase to $222.30.

Choice No. 2—The Reserve Officer Candidate Program is a means through which members of a Naval Reserve Unit (there is one located in Charlotte) may obtain a commission by successfully attending two six-week summer camps with pay according to rank.

Choice No. 3—The Naval Aviation Cadet program is offered to men not over 25, unmarried and with two years of college. It involves approximately 18 months of training with pay of $109.20 a month plus other benefits. On completion you will be commissioned an Ensign in Naval Aviation.

MARINE CORPS
As a college student you are eligible to apply for Marine Officer Candidate Training under one of the following programs.

Choice No. 1—The Platoon Leaders Class is open to qualified college freshmen, sophomores, or juniors. As a PLC you will receive training during two six-week summer camps, no classes or drills being required during the school year. For the first summer you will be paid as a corporal—$158. The second camp you will be paid as a Sergeant—$200. At the end of this time candidates are promoted to Second Lieutenant on agreement to serve three years active duty after graduation from college, and maintain a C average. The remainder of your eight-year obligation is spent in Reserve. If interested, you may apply for aviation training after college.

Choice No. 2—The Officer Candidate Course is open to qualified college seniors or graduates. On successfully completing a ten-week training course you will be commissioned a Second Lieutenant in the Marine Reserve. Following this you will attend Officers Basic School as the beginning of your tour of active duty, with pay ranging from $4062 to $4986 a year.

Choice No. 3—The Aviation Officers Candidate Course is offered to college seniors or graduates having completed the ten-week training course mentioned above. You will receive, under this program, from 15 to 18 months of flight school with officer's pay.

Choice No. 4—Commissions in the Marine Corps may also be obtained through NAVCAD, U.S. Naval Preparatory schools, and NROTC.

AIR FORCE
Opportunities for a commission in the Air Force are open to qualified graduates from Basic Military Training as Airmen 3rd Class.

Choice No. 1—The Aviation Cadet program comes under two divisions—Pilot Training and Aircraft Observer. No college education is required under Pilot Training, but priority is granted to those with at least two years. Pilot candidates who successfully complete basic flight training with pay of $161.15 a month are forwarded to advanced training as Second Lieutenants. The Aircraft Observer program requires at least two years of college plus an aptness for mathematics or physics.

Choice No. 2—The Air Force Officer Candidate School is open to Airmen with two or more years of college. OCS graduates are eligible for specialized training and assignments in such fields as Research and Development, Aviation Engineering, Electronics, and Guided Missiles.