FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 1956 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

Slants -On- Sports
By JOHNNY JOHNSON

A NEW LOOK

Look for something different tonight when the Wildcats battle Catawba. Davidson’s football strategy has undergone a basic change since last season. Last year Davidson boasted the number one and number four passers in the Southern Conference, the number one pass receiver, and the number one passing offense. Even though the same throwing and receiving combinations are intact, the Cats will not be striving to set more aerial records.

Fred Russell, in a Saturday Evening Post article one week ago, observed, “Foot soldiers are taking over football. The college game of 1956 promises to glorify the hold-on-to-the-ball infantry to a degree unparalleled in modern play.” Davidson, in line with the national trend, is shifting more emphasis to the overland attack. However, unlike several of the major teams, the Cats will not abandon passing but will search for a healthy combination of the two types of offense.

BALANCE IS A MUST

Coach Dole, commenting on the change, said, “Last year we were known as just a passing team because our running attack was hampered by a lack of blocking. No team is good unless balance is attained.” Dole added, “The running must complement the passing and the aerial attack must compensate the ground game. We are striving for a balance of attack, and if we can develop a running offense we will be a better team.” Summing up the advantages of such a strategy, Dole said, “The running draws the defense in and the passing loosens the defense up. If we can instill in our opponents indecision as to what to look for, we can play better football.”

FOUR TOP LINEMEN LOST

Such a change in tactics might not be anticipated by those who point to the fact that most of the players graduating last year came from the line. Owens, Davis, Llewellyn, Abernethy—all mainstays of the '55 forward wall—will be missing from this season’s roster. The ‘56 line, though rather inexperienced, is tough, primarily because of excellent conditioning. Pride Ratteree, the new line mentor, has worked his boys extremely hard.

In the backfield experience is abundant. Dole has two complete sets of senior halfbacks and quarterbacks. At the halves, all three of the “Dons”—Campbell, McRee and Comer—have been running well. McRee, the ‘55 leading ground gainer, broke away for several long gains in last Saturday's scrimmage. Conger, who was out last week with a knee injury, is back in action. Quarterbacks Belton and Little look good as ever. Starting at fullback will be John G. Francis who gained again and again Saturday by getting through the holes quickly. Backing him up will be the much heralded freshman, Dave Warden, whom Wildcat fans are anxious to see in action. The 210-pound newcomer will add needed weight and power to the backfield.

Catawba’s massive line should be a good test for Davidson’s New Look.

“Opposite Ivey's Fifth St. Entrance”
126 WEST FIFTH STREET
CHARLOTTE

FOR FALL, THAT IS

We are crowing about our selection of Sports Coats and Suits made of Tweeds and Flannels. COME AND LOOK THEM OVER.

HERE ARE THE FRESHMEN WINNERS OF THE DRAWING

Bill Welborn, Sport Coat; Madison Mauze, Slacks; Mike Stone, Sweater; Bill Davis, Sport Shirt; Gordon Spaugh, Dress Shirt; John Glenn, Wool Argyles; Jean Jernigan, Tie; Bill Whitesill, Tie; and Russell Peace, Belt.

Wilson-Wright's Inc.
“COLLEGIATE FASHIONS”
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Football rushes in at 8:00 p.m., tonight in spacious Memorial Stadium on the heels of Davidson's fraternity rush program. In their opening game, the Wildcats will be hosts to the Catawba Indians, whom they beat last year by a score of 26-0. A much closer game is expected tonight. One reason is that from tackle to tackle, Davidson will spot Catawba an average of about 40 pounds per man. Davidson's starting backfield will be light since John Francis has replaced Warden as starting fullback. The Cat backfield, of Francis at full, McRee and Conger at halves, and Belton at quarterback will average less than 170 pounds.

Harold (Westy) Westerveldt, the surprise of the year for the Wildcats, will start at left end. The scrappy sophomore is the smallest end on Davidson’s squad and undoubtedly one of the smallest in the Conference. David Fagg, who has been the outstanding lineman in scrimmage thus far, is at the left tackle post, and Charles James, a sophomore, will be the left guard. Bill Price has been moved back from end to center, the position he played last year. Dale Gramley will start at the other guard slot beside big Tom Lee at right tackle. Sophomore Craig Wall at right end fills out the starting lineup. Bill Gramley, brother of Dale, is expected to see plenty of action. Bill led Southern Conference pass receivers last year. Dave Warden, freshman fullback, will be used to add weight and power to the backfield. Dyke Little, backing up out-

Preps For Big Season

The Davidson cross-country team, outstanding representatives of the Wildcat spirit each season, is once more getting ready for action under the capable guidance of veteran coach “Pete” Whittle. With most of last year’s mainstays back, and with eleven freshmen at present trying out for the squad, prospects are bright for the six scheduled contests.

Pete Ashcraft, Henry Brown, and Al Elder, top three from the 1955 team, are all looking good after the first week of practice, according to Coach Whittle, who has especially strong confidence in Elder, a sophomore from Richmond, Va. Other men from the successful 1955 squad are John Patterson, Steve Huntley, Henry Griffin, and Ray Antley. Only one man was lost by graduation, while three other lettermen “retired” for various other reasons. Miler Angus McBride is out for his first cross-country season. In spite of the loss of four lettermen, says Whittle, this year’s team should be as good or better than the '55 version. Among the freshmen who are working out, Charlotte’s Jim Alexander has unusual potentialities. He proved himself in the cake-race last week. Another frosh who will be right up there is Graham George, whose first contact with the sport was in the same cake-battle.

The schedule is clear, and the team will have only one home meet, against Richmond. There are two triangular meets, and towards the end of the season the traditional State meet and the Southern Championship.

COACH BILL DOLE and his co-captains, Belton and McRee look confident as they go Indian-fighting tonight.the Cats’ big offensive standing passer Dick Belton at Quarterback, will give Davidson a two-pronged passing attack. The Wildcats will be expected to do plenty of passing tonight. Although Davidson has a small squad (41 men), Catawba is weaker in reserve, with only 35 men. The Cats are in pretty good physical condition. George Hart, outstanding Harding high athlete, has an infected hand. Tom Cutting, third string quarterback, and Ken Conger have bruised muscles. The coaches indicate that team spirit is good. The Catawba-Davidson series began back in 1910. Davidson has won all five of the games.

ONE CAKE RACER took a tumble and was almost trampled by the thundering herd, as 230 freshmen took off on the annual cross-country jaunt. Charlotte's Jim Alexander breezed to an easy win and a homemade layer cake.

Cats Hit Catawba Tonight | Tough Contest Expected From Heavier

PT Program Is Explained By Dr. Scott

“Davidson's two-year’s of compulsory physical training designed to provide a program suited to individual needs and interests,” says Dr. Tom Scott, Athletic Director. The physical ability test administered to all freshmen today, will aid the department in assigning the frosh to activities appropriate to individual needs and preferences. Those failing to pass the test will be placed in a “fundamental” group for the first quarter ending Nov. 5, at which time they will be retested and allowed to join their classmates in one of the four activities offered. Any failing the second test will be retested for a third time at the conclusion of the sophomore year, and are required to fulfill physical training requirements. Those passing the test on their first attempt will be placed in one of the four following athletic programs, alternating quarterly: soccer, wrestling, basketball, gymnastics, and tumbling. Swimming classes will be attended once a week by all who pass the test.

Davidsonian Alexander Edges Wiles In Run for the Cakes

The Wildcat grid scene boasts two new faces on the coaching staff with the addition of George Thompson, Davidson's new backfield coach, and Pride Ratterree, who will assume the duties of line coach. Coach Thompson is replacing Chuck Clements who resigned to undertake duties outside the coaching field.

PRO EXPERIENCE

Ratterree, former Wake Forest guard who played on the powerful Deacon teams of ‘44 and ‘45 and with the 1946 Chicago Cardinals, has a rich background of experience both as player and coach. The 33-year-old native of Kings Mountain, in his eight-year tenure in the coaching profession, has served as line coach at Lenoir-Rhyne and Wake Forest in addition to a year as head coach at Staunton Military Academy.

DOLE IMPRESSED

Head Coach Bill Dole feels the addition of Ratterree will help some of the forward wall Wildcat problems. “Back in the North State Conference when we were on opposite sides of the field, Coach Ratterree’s lines impressed me. Now that we are on the same team I am looking for that ruggedness up front that he developed at Lenoir-Rhyne and Wake Forest,” Dole said.

Coach George Thompson, a 35-year-old native of Raleigh, joined Dole’s masterminding forces in August. Coach Dole is high in praise of his new aide: “I have observed Coach Thompson's work for the past eight years. He is a real student of the game and has compiled a fine record. I have looked forward for the past five years to eventually having him on my staff and feel extremely fortunate in obtaining his services.”

GEORGE THOMPSON and Pride Ratterree, recent additions to the coaching staff, map pigskin strategy with Boss Dole. Thompson is coaching the backfield, while Ratterree handles the forward wall.

Hailing from the Queen City, Jim Alexander stepped into the Davidson sports limelight last Friday as he set the first official record in the annual freshmen cake race. The race began with several boys holding down the lead position, but Alexander soon pulled out ahead with Tony Wiles, of Hagerstown, Md., close behind. After 11:33 minutes Alexander stepped across the finish line before an unusually large crowd with Wiles a few feet behind him. Alexander attended Woodberry Forest where he was an outstanding leader as well as their top cinderman. Here at Davidson, Alexander plans to run the 880 and also the mile as he did at his alma mater. In spite of the excellent ability which Wiles exhibited, he does not plan to join Davidson's cross country forces and commented that he was “just homesick for some good homemade cake.”

CATS

ENDS
Herold Seigle 6-1 185
Jim Bloomfield 6-1 180
Craig Wall 6-0 190
George Hart 5-11 180
Freddie Whitaker 5-11 180
Lanny Voigt 5-11 198
John Watwood 6-0 205
Tom Lee 6-1 210

GUARDS
Bob Staneil 5-9 190
Winston Tastes Good! No lecture here — just a promise of the full, rich tobacco flavor college smokers want! Try America’s favorite filter smoke. You'll like the taste.
Little Howard 5-11 180
Dave McClain 5-11 185
Charles Smith 5-11 210
Dale Gramley 6-0 185
Charlie James 6-0 194
Joe Spragins 6-0 178

CENTERS
Bill Price 6-2 190
Frank Anderson 6-3 235
Lewis Moore 6-1 180

QUARTERBACKS
Dyke Little 5-11 161
Sam McGuirt 5-10 145
Tom Cutting 5-9 160
Dick Belton 6-1 160
Duncan McEachern, Jr. 6-3 185

HALFBACKS
Don Comer 5-8 157
Ralph Setzler 5-9 165
John Heath West 5-10 170
Dave McCullough 6-0 200
Charles Benson 6-1 178
Don Campbell 5-11 175
Don McRee 5-10 165
Brownie Thurman 5-9 165
Paul Barbee 5-10 165
Ken Conger 5-9 175

FULLBACKS
John G. Francis 5-8 166
Dave Warden 6-1 208
Jim West 5-11 190
Mike Fennegan 5-11 192

Switch to WINSTON America's best-selling, best-tasting filter cigarette!