a

CUNNINGHAM, LAFAR WELCOME FRESHMEN (See Page 2)

Oh The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 1956 ORIENTATION EDITION

The Davidsonian

Orientation Opens for Class of ’60

CONYERS TO SPEAK AT FROSH VESPERS

The first vespers service of the fall semester will be held for freshmen on September 9 at 7:30 P.M., in the College Church. The preacher will be the Rev.

STAPLES ASSUMES MINISTER’S POSITION

Dr. George F. Staples has assumed his duties as Minister to Students at Davidson College. A large part of Dr. Staples’ duties will be in student counseling on matters of faith and personal life, visiting the dormitories, and keeping in touch with student needs and opinions to improve the college religious program. He is in charge of the Sunday Vespers services, chapel exercises, the college Y.M.C.A., and other religious activities.

The position was created earlier this year and includes the duties previously assigned to the Y.M.C.A. secretary. Dr. Staples is the first person to be named to the office. A native of San Antonio, Texas, and a graduate of Presbyterian College in South Carolina, Dr. Staples earned the B.D. and Th.D. degrees from Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, Va. He was pastor of the Highland Presbyterian Church of Winston-Salem from the time of its founding in 1950 until coming to Davidson. During this time the church grew in membership to 500, and this spring dedicated a new physical plant designed by architect Harold E. Waggoner of Philadelphia, who designed the Davidson College Presbyterian Church.

HOUSED IN BELK BASEMENT

DR. GEORGE STAPLES Minister to Students

ROTC Unit Opens 37th Year of Training Leaders

Thirty-seven years old this month, the Davidson College Reserve Officers’ Training Corps again sets its sights for the accomplishment of its goal—that of training men for positions of leadership in our army of today. Today, the ROTC Department is exceptionally well qualified to carry out its mission. It has a staff of five officers and six non-commissioned officers, commanded by Lt. Col. John D. Sapp, the professor of military science and tactics. Each of the officers has a broad and varied background in the military service, and all are well qualified to present the military subjects taught in the military science program. In addition, each of the non-commissioned officers are skilled in their own particular field of military service, and typical of these is Sergeant Jerry Crump, the detachment armorer, who won the Congressional Medal of Honor while fighting in Korea.

FACILITIES EXCELLENT

The program of instruction is greatly aided by the physical plant itself, which is located on the bottom floor of W. H. Belk Hall. Here are provided all the modern-day instructional aids which make each class period both interesting and highly informative for each cadet. In addition to the excellent classroom facilities, there is a well-equipped supply room, a large armory for weapons storage and cleaning, an excellent small bore indoor rifle range, and an operations and training aids center, where all instructional aids are made and repaired.

ADVANTAGES LISTED

Many advantages are offered to the student under the present-day ROTC program. For those students who take only the two-year basic course and later serve in the military, the program serves as an orientation or foundation for this service. In addition, the program helps to prepare the student for advancement in his selected civilian occupation by giving him the opportunity to observe the advantages of orderliness, allowing him to develop his supervisory ability through practical application, imparting in him a sense of responsibility, developing his ability to organize and supervise activities, and by developing in him an understanding of people.

For those students who desire to complete the four-year ROTC program, and are qualified, the advantages mentioned still apply, plus many others. Some of the more important of these advantages are:

(1) A military deferment, granted during the second semester of the freshman year, which will enable the student to complete his four-year college education prior to being called to military service. A contract indicating the student’s intent to complete ROTC training and accept a commission in the Army Reserve, if tendered, and complete an active duty requirement must be completed prior to granting a deferment.

(2) A commission as a second lieutenant in the United States Army Reserve is offered to students who successfully complete the four-year program and meet the requirements for commission.

(3) One of the few opportunities to obtain a Regular Army commission, other than by attending one of the service academies, is through the advanced program. Students designated as distinguished military students are eligible for consideration as a second lieutenant in the Regular Army of the United States.

(4) During the last two years of the four-year program, the student is paid at the rate of $0.90 per day. During the six weeks summer camp period, between the junior and senior year, the student is paid approximately $78.00 per month plus travel pay to and from his home to camp.

READY FOR ANOTHER YEAR of training college students who will serve as tomorrow’s leaders of the United States Army is the officer cadre of the Davidson Reserve Officers’ Training Corps. Shown in the ROTC headquarters in Belk Hall are, (left to right): 1st Lt. Edwin Van Keuren, Jr., Capt. John W. Thompson, Lt. Col. John D. Sapp, PMS&T, Maj. Lee R. Brown, and Capt. Arthur T. Cavano, Jr.

W. Priestly Conyers, III, minister of the First Presbyterian Church of Belmont. Mr. Conyers is a native of Spartanburg, S. C., and a graduate of Davidson and Union Theological Seminary. He spent a year at the University of Basel in Switzerland. His first pastorate was in the Presbyterian Church at Morehead City, N. C. He was a member of the North Carolina Educational Study Commission and has been a vesper preacher at Davidson on several prior occasions. The service will be conducted by Dr. John M. Bevan, who is serving this year as chairman of the Board of Directors of the YMCA.

UNION ACTIVITIES

Friday, Sept. 7—12 O’Clock High
Saturday, Sept. 8—Talent Night
Tuesday, Sept. 11 and Wednesday, Sept. 12—East of Eden
Saturday, Sept. 15—A Star Is Born

FRESHMAN ADVISER CARL COOPER talks things over with Department is serving as the group’s Faculty Adviser. Long active in Student Council and YMCA Cabinet work, Vernon Hunter is serving as Student Adviser for Group Eight. Vernon is President of Omicron Delta Kappa and of Phi Delta Theta. The group's Faculty Adviser is Dr. Malcolm McAfee of the Sociology Department. Bill Bondurant, a junior from Winston-Salem, N. C., is Student Adviser for Group Nine. He is feature editor of the Davidsonian, an active member of the Student Council, and Theta Pi. Counselor for the group is Dr. Charles Ratliff of the Economics Department. Quips and Cranks editor Ed Young is serving as Student Adviser for Group Ten. In addition to his work as Treasurer of Omicron Delta Kappa, he is a member of Scabbard and Blade and of Sigma Alpha Epsilon. Dr. A. V. Goldiere, Professor of French, is Faculty Adviser for the group. The Chairman of the YMCA Social and Hospitality Committee, Bob McRae, a junior from Mt. Gilead, N. C., is Student Adviser for Group Eleven. He is a member of the Campus Club. Dr. W. G. McGavock, Professor of Mathematics, is Faculty Adviser for the group. Dan LaFar, President of the Student Body, is Student Adviser for Group Twelve. He is a senior from Gastonia, N. C., and a member of Kappa Sigma. Dr. R. R. Bernard of the Mathematics Department is Faculty Adviser for the group. The Student Adviser for Group

Rush Week Opens Next Sunday Evening

Rush Week will open on Sunday, September 16, operating on a revamped schedule this year, Bunny Perkinson, IFC president announced today. Due to the football game with Catawba Friday night, the traditional timetable has been moved up, with three 45-minute rushing periods set for after Vespers on September 16. Three hour-long rushing periods will be held Monday through Thursday nights, with the period of silence beginning at 10:00 p.m., Thursday night. Pledging will take place late Friday afternoon, permitting freshmen to attend afternoon classes before joining their chosen fraternity. The pledges will then attend the Davidson-Catawba football game with their respective fraternities. The game is slated for Charlotte’s Memorial Stadium Friday night, September 21, at 8:00 P.M.

By PHIL KUKURA

With but a few days of summer vacation remaining for the upperclassmen, the Class of 1960 has begun its work in Davidson College's 1956 Orientation Program. A capable group of professors and students are being directed in their work as advisers by Carl Cooper, Freshman Adviser; Dr. Samuel R. Spencer, Dean of Students; and Mr. H. Edmunds White, Assistant Dean of Students.

Freshman Adviser Carl Cooper is a senior from Durham, N. C., and has been active on both the Student Council and the YMCA Cabinet. A Baker Scholar, he serves as Vice President of Omicron Delta Kappa and as President of his fraternity, Beta Theta Pi. The class has been divided into twenty groups, on the general basis of stated student interests, each with a Faculty and Student Adviser. Group One is led by Bill Lazenby, a senior from Beckley, W. Va., who is active on the track team and Vice-President of the Kappa Alpha Order. Dr. Paul A. Marrotte of the History Department is the group’s Faculty Adviser. Jim Robinson, a senior from Clinton, N. C., is Student Adviser for Group Two. Heis a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon and a Pre-Med major. The group's Faculty Adviser is Dr. George Labban, Jr. of the Greek faculty. Group Three has as its Student Adviser junior Pat Woodward of Quincy, Fla. A member of Phi Delta Theta, he has been active on the Student Council and is Vice-President of the YMCA. Professor Henry T. Lilly of the English Department is Faculty Adviser for the group. The President of the Junior Class, Bill Fraley, is serving as Student Adviser for Group Four. Hailing from Gaffney, S.C., Bill is a member of the Kappa Alpha Order. Faculty Adviser for the group is Dr. Pedro N. Trakas of the Spanish Department. Tony Dick, a senior from Memphis, Tenn., is Student Adviser for Group Five. He is Vice-President of Beta Theta Pi, and is active on the Student Council. Dr. William O. Puckett, Professor of Biology, is working with the group as its Faculty Adviser. Group Six has Bob Jones, a junior from Norfolk, Va., for its Student Adviser. Bob is President of the Westminster Fellowship and is a member of Phi Gamma Delta. Faculty Adviser for the group is Dr. Lewis B. Schenck of the Bible Department. Student Adviser for Group Seven is Tommy Thompson, a senior from Charlotte, N.C., active in YMCA Community Work. He is a member of Phi Delta Theta. Mr. Samuel D. Maloney of the Bible Department is the Faculty Adviser.

Pre-medical or dental and ministerial students are offered many additional advantages by the program. These students will be allowed to complete their graduate work and will accrue longevity for pay purposes while completing this work, which will reflect a pay increase of approximately $900.00 per year when they perform their active duty upon receiving their degree and commission. These are the major advantages available to the student who enters the ROTC program. For any additional information concerning this program, students will find that the ROTC headquarters is ready and able to answer their questions. The ROTC Department looks forward in the coming year to train the student cadets of today to be the leaders of tomorrow.

Music Department to Audition Next Week

Auditions for membership in the Davidson College Musical Organizations will be held Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday afternoons from 3:00 P.M. to 5:00 P.M., at the Department of Music. Auditions for Football Band and Concert Band will take place in Prof. West's studio in Oak Row and auditions for the Male Chorus and Chapel Choir will be held in Prof. Gehring’s studio in Oak Row.

Secretary of Beta: his 20 Orientation Advisers at a briefing session Wednesday night in the Union Ballroom. Under their supervision, freshmen completed registration Thursday, and began the formal orientation program this morning.

Freshmen Directed By 21 Student Advisers

Thirteen is Baker Scholar Tom Morgan, a senior from Jackson, Miss. He is President of Alpha Psi Omega, national dramatics honorary, and a member of Alpha Tau Omega. Faculty Adviser for the group is Dr. Harold Ford, of the Political Science Department. Group Fourteen has as its Student Adviser junior Willie Thompson from Spencer, N.C. He is a Baker Scholar, active in the work of the YMCA and Secretary of Sigma Chi. Professor Alexander McGeachy of the History faculty is Faculty Adviser for the group. Phil Kukura, a senior from DeLand, Fla., is Student Adviser for Group Fifteen. A Baker Scholar, he is Treasurer of the YMCA and a member of Beta Theta Pi. Dr. William P. Cumming, Professor of English, is serving as Faculty Adviser. Long active in the work of the YMCA, Jim Covington is working as Student Adviser for Group Sixteen. He is a senior from Spartanburg, S.C., a member of the wrestling team, and of Beta Theta Pi. Mr. C. Shaw Smith, Director of the College Union, will serve as Faculty Adviser for the group. Group Seventeen is being led by John Edwards, a senior from Rocky Mount, N.C. He served as YMCA President during the 1956 Summer Session, is active on the swimming team and is a member (Continued On Back Page).

Campus named. Removal of Georgia stood immediately in front of W. H. Belk Hall. Built in 1909, and the only remaining non-fireproof dormitory, Georgia was razed to permit landscaping of the campus between Belk and Chambers. The new dorm, standing on the site of venerable old Rumple dorm, razed late last summer, is now ready for occupancy. Constructed at a cost approaching $300,000, the building sports all the modern conveniences of Belk, while outwardly resembling the older Watts, West, and East. It will house 94 students. Eumenean and Philanthropic Literary Society Halls underwent thorough renovations through the generosity of Mrs. Clarence Hodson, of Orange, N.J. These halls were part of the original quadrangle of the college, built in 1837. Now nearing completion, this work has seen the original brick restored to its natural beauty.

DOLE ENTHUSIASTIC OVER FROSH CROP (See Page 2)

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C.

Campus Welcomes 240 Freshmen to Davidson

Under the leadership of Dr. Samuel Spencer, Dean of Students, and Carl Cooper, Freshman Advisor, the Orientation Program for all new students began this morning in Chambers Auditorium and will continue through Tuesday evening. Assisting in the program are a group of twenty leaders from the senior and junior classes, who are serving as Orientation Advisors. This group arrived on campus Wednesday night for a meeting with Spencer and Cooper to discuss the mechanics of handling the 240 men involved in the program. Each Advisor was assigned approximately thirteen new students for his special consideration and attention during the days ahead. Yesterday the Advisors were on hand to greet new students, parents, other relatives, and friends as they arrived on campus and aided in the orderly administration of registration and room assignments.

COOPER SPEAKS

Cooper began this morning's program with a devotional talk in which he extolled dedication, readiness, and friendship as three indispensable ingredients of the successful college career. Spencer followed with an explanation of the purpose of Orientation. He pointed out that the program Friday and Saturday would primarily be concerned with testing and course registration while Monday and Tuesday would be devoted to an introduction to the college personnel and government. Following the program, A.C.E. Psychological Tests were given in order that each man might discover his own personality weaknesses and fortes. After refreshments in the College Union, Professor McGavock gave a mathematics test, the purpose of which was to disclose individual deficiencies and aptitudes. The afternoon and evening were spent in taking physical examinations, physical proficiency tests, tours of the college library, and conferences with Faculty Advisors. Tomorrow the new students will try their skill at reading tests. The purpose is to ferret out inefficient readers for remedial reading attention and English tests, which will uncover proficiency and weakness in order that English professors may direct appropriate emphases. On Sunday, the Rev. George Staples, Minister to Students, will teach the College Bible Class with a message directed toward Freshmen. Freshmen will be encouraged to attend also the regular morning worship and evening vesper services. Following the vespers service, new students will visit in the homes of their Faculty Advisors in order to begin to cultivate the warm faculty-student relationship for which Davidson is famous.

NEXT WEEK

On Monday and Tuesday information will be given to the new students on the government of the college, the purpose of a college education, the functions of student government, the YMCA and its place in Davidson life, the ROTC program, fraternities, music, and health. Of particular interest are the small discussion groups in which new students will be able to articulate questions on these subjects. The program closes Tuesday evening with a pep meeting and movie.

LEAD MEDICINE, MINISTRY

Frosh Vocation Choices Follow Usual Pattern

(O.C. News Bureau) Medicine, the ministry, and engineering are the career choices of more than half of Davidson's 240 entering freshmen. The “Class of ‘60" begins a five-day orientation program Friday morning, and most of them have already made up their minds what courses they wish to take. Only 30 are in the “don't know” category as they begin a series of tests and interviews with faculty and student advisers.

As Georgia Is Demolished

As 240 freshmen trooped onto the campus yesterday, they saw the results of the summer’s $150,000 facelifting program, as well as a recently completed dormitory, as yet unnamed. Most noticeable among the campus changes since May is the removal of Georgia, a dormitory, which stood immediately in front of W. H. Belk Hall. Built in 1909, and the only remaining non-fireproof dormitory, Georgia was razed to permit landscaping of the campus between Belk and Chambers. The new dorm, standing on the site of venerable old Rumple dorm, razed late last summer, is now ready for occupancy. Constructed at a cost approaching $300,000, the building sports all the modern conveniences of Belk, while outwardly resembling the older Watts, West, and East. It will house 94 students. Eumenean and Philanthropic Literary Society Halls underwent thorough renovations through the generosity of Mrs. Clarence Hodson, of Orange, N.J. These halls were part of the original quadrangle of the college, built in 1837. Now nearing completion, this work has seen the original brick restored to its natural beauty through removal of a coating of dusty red paint. Old timbers are being replaced, and the structures are also being waterproofed.

Sixty-five have indicated that they plan to take a pre-medical or pre-dental course, and 35 that they hope to become ministers. This is not a new trend, for almost one-fifth of Davidson's alumni are physicians or dentists, and many are ministers. The influx of budding engineers is significant, however. The college in the past several years has entered into an agreement with the Columbia University School of Engineering and with Georgia Tech. The plan provides that the student complete three years of work at Davidson, and two at one of the other institutions, whereupon he is awarded bachelor’s degrees by both Davidson and the engineering school. Twenty-seven of the entering freshmen plan to study engineering.

BELK DORM PREPARES to have its front yard landscaped as 47-year-old Georgia is reduced to rubble to make way for progress. The work was completed this summer.