PAGE FOUR

Company ‘F’ Wins ROTC Field Day Competition

Company F of the Davidson ROTC Regiment, commanded by Cadet Capt. Dewitt F. Helm, captured first honors in Field Day
Competition at Davidson on Tuesday, 31 January, 1956. The Field Day emphasized basic drill and command skills. Finishing in second
place was Company C, commanded by Cadet Captain Lawrence W. McIntosh, and in third place was Company A, commanded by
Cadet Captain Robert C. Stewart. Other companies in order of rank were Company D, Company B, and Company E.

All Field Day exercises were conducted on the front campus, with each of the six companies of the regiment competing
as an individual unit. The fifteen exercises were divided among six stations, with judges posted at each station. Cadet staff
officers served as judges for all the events.

At Station One, the company was tested in its procedure for the inspection of arms. At Station Two, with Cadets
Hollis F. Cobb and Dewey Stowe judging, the company was tested in rifle movements. Station Three was between cadet headquarters
and the position where commanders were using the time. At Station Four, the companies were tested on their ability to
stack and take arms properly. Cadets Tom D. Owen and Curtis C. Cates judged Cadets Douglas W. Oldenburg and Clifford
M. Deal. At Station Five, the companies were tested in the proficiency of arms. At Station Six, the companies performed
company drills and were judged by Cadets George R. Cousar and Lawrence H. Wright.

Le Cercle Francais Enthralled by Tales of Schneiderman

Le Cercle Francais held its January meeting at 8:15 on the night of Tuesday, January 31, at the home of
Dr. Goldiere. The meeting was opened by the President, Fred Myers, and after a gentle reminder by our “Sergeant-at-Arms” John
Harmon, the Marseillaise was sung to the stirring accompaniment of Gregory Dimijian. Twenty old members were present, and the president
welcomed into the folds four “nouveaux membres.” These latest additions were Gray Lewis, Bob MacRae, John McVay, and Bob Wooten.

The Cercle was particularly fortunate in having as its guest Steve Schneiderman, a student at Princeton and a friend of
Fred Myers. Fred and Steve were students together at the Sorbonne in Paris last year. Both have a remarkable facility
with the French language.

Any of Three Factors Will Promote Cadets

Cadets in the Davidson ROTC regiment are eligible for promotion on three factors: recommendation of commanding officer or immediate superior,
proficiency in military subjects, and position vacancy. The following promotions of cadets to date are announced:

Promoted from the rank of Cadet Lieutenant Colonel to Colonel was Joe B. Pharr. Promoted from the rank of Cadet
Major to Cadet Lieutenant Colonel were Philip H. Koonce, Hollis F. Cobb, and Tom D. Owen. Promoted from the rank
of Cadet Captain to Cadet Major were Richard H. Morehead, Maurice A. Crouse, John W. Linville, and Robert C. Stewart.
Promoted from the rank of Cadet First Lieutenant to Cadet Captain were DeWitt F. Helm, Lawrence W. McIntosh, and Thomas
W. Warlick.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Council Notes...

(Continued From Page One)

The student body should note that the new drinking rule carries with it a penalty based on the seriousness of
the offense. The first case under this new rule was tried on January 16, 1956, and because of the circumstances
and the “seriousness of the offense,” the council voted to restrict the student to the campus until spring vacation, and
to make the student pledge that he would not return to the campus for the remainder of the year within
twelve hours after having taken a drink. The new rule reflects the students' concern for maintaining an alcohol-free campus.

The council is currently looking into the possibility of obtaining additional coke machines for the dormitories. Action should be coming
soon. The Council adjourned until its next meeting on February 13.

STUDENT PETITIONS

Believing that the elected student leaders not only have an obligation to be concerned in all areas of college activity,
but also that student leadership is an untapped resource which can be put to good use by the collective college
body, the Student Council hereby petitions the faculty for the privilege of having student representatives on the Curriculum, the Calendar,
and the Religious Exercises Committees of the faculty. We hope that the faculty recognizes our interest in these matters and
that the faculty realizes that the students share with the faculty and administration the common objective of a better and
more effective Davidson.

We request permission to...have two representatives on each of these committees. We feel that student representatives carefully appointed from the
Student Council could be of great aid in increasing the rapport between faculty and students and could offer much thought
and suggestion which would be beneficial in these phases of college life.

McLauchlin, Douglas W. Oldenburg, Robert C. Stewart, and Alfred T. Prince were promoted from the rank of Cadet Sergeant First
Class to Cadet Master Sergeant. Promoted from the rank of Cadet Private to Cadet Corporal were John W. Garvey, Edward
M. Payne, and Robert C. Keown.

Steve demonstrated his ability by giving a delightful “causerie,” or chat, about his impressions of Paris. The group was constantly
kept laughing by his recital of an anecdote or a joke, and all felt much enlightened concerning French life in
general and French women in particular. After Steve’s chat, Dr. Goldiere added to the French atmosphere by showing some of
the slides which he and Mrs. Goldiere took on their trip last summer to England and France. A relative state
of calm was kept while the slides were being shown, but Dr. Goldiere was often interrupted in his explanations by
an “Oh” or an “Ah” of recognition and recollection by Steve and Fred. The meeting was brought to an altogether
delightful conclusion by the serving of “rafraîchissements,” and everybody went back to the books with a pleasant abdominal sensation caused
by “The best Upside-Down Cake I've ever eaten.”

Blue Duck 3, this is White Duck 1, heavily armed troops approaching... Down they came, the stalwart, straight and staggering
to meet their fate.

The Council respectfully requests your serious consideration of this petition and asks for a decision as soon as possible. Thank
you for your attention to this matter.

Student Council
Davidson College

Diversity Creates Opportunity

The affiliated divisions of the VICK CHEMICAL COMPANY... VICK PRODUCTS DIVISION, VICK INTERNATIONAL DIVISION, VICK MANUFACTURING DIVISION, THE WILLIAM S.
MERRELL CO., D. McKELVY CO., BAKER CO. INC., HESS & CLARK, INC., PRINCE MATCHABELLI, JENSEN-SALSBERY LABORATORIES, INC., EXTRUDED PLASTIC, INC.,
all combine to offer ‘56 graduates—interested in training for top executive management—an individually “tailored to the man” program in these
important fields: ADVERTISING — SALES — MERCHANDISING — PRODUCTION — ENGINEERING — SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT — ACCOUNTING AND FINANCE.
For a limited number of highly qualified juniors, a “Career Preview” summer training program is also available. Our representatives will
be at Davidson on February 8, 1956. For further information, please inquire at your placement office.

Artists Series . . . (Continued From Page One)

If to call any performance of a recognized masterpiece “definitive” were not to defeat the basic purposes of criticism and
scholarship, we might say this of Bar-Ilan’s performance of the “Waldstein” Sonata. What we will say is that Bar-Ilan nowhere
got in Beethoven's way, and this is the greatest compliment that can conceivably be paid him. Liszt's Hungarian Rhapsody No.
15, the final portion of Bar-Ilan’s recital, is a highly exhilarating tour de force which left us, and you, breathless.
But its stimulation is more that of stimulants than of inspiration. And these stimulants may well be dangerous. Liszt is
as far from the realms of the spiritual as a circus acrobat on a trampoline. Bar-Ilan’s treatment of the Hungarian
Rhapsody was thorough and physical. We must not, however, confuse strenuous exercise with art, and we must realize that even
Beethoven could not resist bursting forth, when he had finished what he had to say, with a brilliant coda whose
sound and energy contained no meaning. Bar-Ilan had had a hard night, and was entitled to hit his piano a
good, hard lick before leaving it.

Student Body to Learn About Gift Fund Project
By JIM MARTIN

On Tuesday morning, February 7, the chapel program will be the first in a series to inform the student body
with the two-fold goal of the 1956 Davidson College Gift Fund. The speaker will be Dr. Fisher, Director of the
Mental Health Clinic in Charlotte, N.C. Dr. Fisher’s address is to concern the first goal of the fund for this
year, that being support of the Alexander Home for the mentally infirm in Charlotte. It is the intention of the
gift fund committee that this year’s understanding of these goals will gain the support of the entire student body, and
to this end the committee has invited Dr. Fisher to talk to the student body about the problems concerned.

Dr. Fisher took his undergraduate work at the University of Montana, and studied medicine at the University of Illinois. After
serving his internship and a private practice of medicine, he returned to Illinois University and completed his doctorate in Psychiatry.
Dr. Fisher served four years during the Second World War as Chief of Psychiatry and was awarded the Bronze Star
for his service. After serving as Director of Psychiatry at the Veterans Hospital in Roanoke, Va., Dr. Fisher moved to
Charlotte, where he has for the past five years been director of the Mental Health Clinic in that city.

Café Open Seven Days a Week
PHONE 3-6241
450 S. Main
Mooresville

Ivey's Fifth St. Entrance
Opposite 126 WEST FIFTH

(c) 1956, The Coca-Cola Company

1. SUPERIOR FILTER. Only L&M gives you the superior filtration of the Miracle Tip, the purest tip that ever touched
your lips. It’s white... all white... pure white!

2. SUPERIOR TASTE. L&M’s superior taste comes from superior tobaccos — especially selected for filter smoking. Tobaccos that are richer,
tastier... and light and mild.

FILTERS
LIGGETT & MYERS TOBACCO CO.
