EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
FRANKLIN BLOODWORTH

BUSINESS MANAGER
LEON HOWELL

ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Assistant Editor - Bob Beall
Managing Editors - Lloyd Chapin, John Trask
Sports Editor - John Johnson
Feature Editor - Bill Bondurant
Copy Editor - John Trotti

PAGE TWO
The Davidsonian

Represented for National Advertising by NATIONAL ADVERTISING SERVICE, Inc.
SUBSCRIPTION RATE: $2.00 Per Year.
Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.
OFFICES IN DAVID OVENS COLLEGE UNION, DAVIDSON COLLEGE

JIM BATTEN
News Editor - Bill Pomeroy
Staff Photographer - Ed Stevens
Assignments - Bob Lathan
Advertising Manager - Bob Majors
Circulation - Bob Austin, Marshall Chapman, Lee Mayfield

FRIDAY, MAY 4, 1956

Coordination for Religious Program

Yesterday afternoon the College announced that Dr. George E. Staples of Winston-Salem has accepted the newly-created post of Minister to
Students at Davidson.

The import of this announcement is that it potentially is the most significant move involving campus religious life in some
years. There has long been a crying need for a competent and dedicated man to fill such a position as
this from all reports will be. While religious emphasis has been a guiding principle throughout the history of the college,
the program with its numerous and diverse components has always been more or less disjointed. Complete coordination of religious affairs
has never been channeled through one single individual or office. The administration has traditionally assumed responsibility in some areas. The
YMCA, the College Church, and the various denominational groups have predominated in others. Overlapping of efforts has resulted. Almost as
often there have been conspicuous gaps in the program.

Now, with one capable man at the administrative helm of all religious affairs of the College, all elements involved should
increase in their potency, as they contribute to a more purposeful, integrated program. However, even when administratively effective, the religious
program in the past has consistently fallen down in the most vital and basic realm of all: that of personal
attention to the individual religious life of the students. The four-year college experience is the most maturing, formative period in
many young men’s lives. More often than not, college offers a rugged testing ground for the faith which a freshman
brings with him from home. Skepticism is often confronted for the first time. For many, classroom studies give rise to
thoroughgoing doubts. The compulsory element in religion at Davidson is often misinterpreted, due not infrequently to failure to speak directly
with effectiveness and force to student needs.

The Minister to Students will attempt to balance these factors of intellectual and spiritual maturation which for some lead to
hard-shelled cynicism. He will serve as a pastoral counselor and as an advisor to student individuals and organizations on an
informal as well as formal basis. An essential quality in the man who will fill this post is that he
will be regarded as a man’s man, who vigorously lives his faith without apology or timidity. To be effective, this
man must command respect without reservation from all segments which make up the college. Davidson has been extremely fortunate in
securing a pastor, counselor, and administrator of the caliber of Dr. Staples. His record speaks for itself. He seems to
well fulfill the rigorous and highly exacting specifications inherent in the nature of the job. At Davidson, Dr. Staples will
find a college community long thirsting for the type of service which he can render. The opportunities are limitless.

Vesper Speakers Must Be Called Now

With less than two weeks of classes left in the 1955-56 school year, plans are now being made, or at
least should be, for the one hundred twenty-first session of Davidson College in 1956-57. With that in mind, it is
hoped that the Religious Exercises Committee of the faculty, with its new student member, will not overlook its duty. This
is the committee responsible for selecting the men who speak to us each Sunday night in Vespers.

One of the original purposes of Vespers was to bring to the college campus the most prominent preachers in the
country; men who could inspire the student body with a rich, meaningful Christian message. By bringing the top men from
all over the country to Vespers, students would be able to hear the messages of men, whom, under ordinary conditions,
they might never have the opportunity to hear. Unfortunately, in recent years, this purpose of Vespers seems to have been
overlooked. Out of the fourteen speakers scheduled for the first semester, nine were from North Carolina; and seven of these
nine were from Charlotte or Davidson. Again for the second semester, nine of the fourteen speakers were from North Carolina.
This is not meant to question the right or the honor of these men to speak at Vespers. Yet the
fact remains that if one of the purposes of Vespers is to bring the most prominent men from all over
the country to speak, this purpose is being defeated. Anyone who sincerely wants to hear these men from nearby churches
needs only to get up an hour or so early on Sunday morning and drive a few miles.

If Vespers is to remain a required exercise, the Davidson student body has a right to demand the highest quality
of sermons, which, with a few notable exceptions, has not been the case this year. In order to secure the
type of speakers desired, it will be necessary to invite them, not just a few weeks in advance, but several
months ahead of time. In the case of the Vesper schedule for the first semester this year, there were at
least three changes in speakers after the schedule was printed in the bulletin. It is hoped that the Religious Exercises
Committee will make an effort to obtain suggestions for speakers from interested members of the student body; that these suggestions
will be carefully considered by the committee, and that invitations to speak will be sent out immediately in order that
the desired speakers may be obtained. Then, and only then, may Vespers become the rich spiritual experience it should be.

A.W.F.B.

Einstein on Books

The other night on television, we heard Einstein quoted as not knowing the speed of light. When asked why, the
late genius replied: “One should never clutter one’s mind with things which can be found in a book.” Then the
interviewer said: “Then you don't believe in a college education?” To which Einstein said: “But yes, I do. College should
train one to use the mind to handle and to analyze problems not found in any book.” To pose a
question for thought: how many of us can say we are ‘educated’ in this sense?

Crimson-White, Univ. of Alabama

Reprinted below are excerpts from an open letter on the enrollment issue to the Board of Trustees of the College.
The letter originated from a committee of four interested graduating seniors: Perrin Anderson, Joe Conarroe, Pat Miller, and Clyde Robinson.
Subsequently endorsed by the 1955-56 Student Council, the statement was mailed this past week to the trustees.

Letter to Trustees Asks Enrollment Reconsideration

We believe that Davidson is a leader in education in comparison with other church-related schools and to other Southern schools.
However, to be doing her job and fulfilling her purpose she must compare favorably with the best secular schools in
the entire nation. If she does compare favorably and can continue to do so with an increase in enrollment, then
we feel that there is no reason why she should not open her doors to 1000 students. Let us make
such a comparison in three important areas: students, faculty, and instruction.

In studying the type of student attending Davidson, we discovered first of all that he has not come through such
a rigorous process of selection as we are sometimes led to believe. For instance, there were 603 applications for admission
to this year’s freshman class. Of these, 263 were accepted, 145 withdrew, and 142 were rejected. The rest were placed
on the waiting list and ultimately withdrew. Wesleyan University (Connecticut), enrollment 819, turned down 1300 last year.

Another indication of the comparatively lower learning potential of the Davidson student may be found in an analysis of College
Board scores. The score for the middle man in our freshman class was 479 verbal and 530 mathematical. The average
scores for entering freshmen at schools comparable in size and purpose to Davidson were:
Verbal Math
Union 509 581
Dartmouth 537.5 567.8
Wesleyan (Conn.) 576 596
Amherst 583 625

Thus it seems evident that in the first element necessary to Davidson's fulfilling her function and purpose, she does not
measure up to the best secular institutions of the nation.

In turning our attention to the all-important question of the faculty, the men who are leading the Davidson student in
his quest for an education, we discovered that we are lagging behind the leading small colleges of the nation in
student-faculty ratio. Kenyon College, with an enrollment of 440, has 49 professors for a ratio of one faculty member to
every 9 students; Amherst, enrollment 1050, has 120 faculty members for a ratio of 1 to 8.7; Williams, with 1075
in the student body and 128 professors, has a faculty-student ratio of 1 to 8.4; and Haverford, a school of
482 students and 86 faculty members, is blessed with a ratio of 1 to 5.6. Compared to these schools, Davidson,
enrollment 865 and faculty of 65, brings up the rear with a ratio of 1 to 13.3. If the enrollment
is increased to 1000, this fairly respectable ratio will...

YMCA OUTLOOK
By GORDON BONDURANT
President Of YMCA

As the YMCA begins to formulate its plans for an effective and inclusive program for 1956-57, it behooves the members
and non-members of the “Y” to investigate certain pertinent questions. What is to be gained by my participation in the
YMCA? There are many reasons why...One might join the "Y". I should like to discuss a few. First, the YMCA
intends to incorporate in its program activities which should be of vital interest and concern to everyone, and the “Y”
shall offer undertakings which will need the support of all interest groups. The YMCA must fulfill the spiritual needs of
the Davidson student, for this is the prime concern the “Y” has in considering and planning its program. Let us
not deceive ourselves by saying that our spiritual needs are met in Vespers, Chapel, and the Bible courses, for often
they only serve to indicate the poverty of our Christian faith. It is therefore the purpose of the “Y” to
provide other mediums of expression by which we may strengthen our witness and unite our lives to God. There will
be many areas through which opportunities for study, discussion, and recreation can and will be promoted. With the coming of
the Presidential election, there will be further political forums. Also, non-varsity intercollegiate athletic events will offer an excellent outlet for
others who desire this kind of activity. Opportunities will be given for men to work with other people in the
Davidson community and the surrounding area. But most of all, it is hoped that the “Y” will provide occasions when
students can broaden their interest and become concerned about the problems which face us in the world at large and
matters which are of concern for our campus alone. In this manner, the “Y” can contribute to our spiritual needs
and provide channels through which we can intelligently express our Christian concern on any issue and from various positions and
opinions.

Secondly, I would like to ask when you consider whether or not to join the “Y” next year, do not
do so because someone else does, but because you believe that the YMCA needs you and that you benefit from
it. This does not only include your financial support, but also your suggestions, your energies, and your moral support by
just being a member. The “Y” can use you, and it very definitely needs you.

DAVIDSON DOGGEREL

The recently-arrived Associated Collegiate Press’ official guidebook, which judges the Davidsonian against nation-wide competition, posed this question in its wrap-up
of our news coverage: “Anything odd, unusual, or violent ever happen to anybody on campus?” No sir, don’t believe so...
Anyone for a little newsworthy mayhem?

Home-grown bloopers were plentiful at Tuesday’s ROTC Field Day. While radio men in the field screamed for contestants in the
“best-dressed” squad to report for judging, the P.A. system boomed instructions for all participants in the tug of war to
“please remain in the stands” during the event.

Editor Emeritus Morehead, released from the burdens of office, left the new staff with this magnanimous morale booster as he
checked out: “If I can be of any assistance later on, don't fail to look me up. I'll either be
at the river, on the tennis courts, or in the sack.” He wasn’t kidding.

... soar to a ratio of 1 to 16.3. In order to discover how the qualifications of our faculty rate
in comparison with the qualifications of the faculties of these other highly rated small colleges, we investigated the number of
men holding Ph.D.’s, the symbol of a teacher’s mastery of his field, at the several schools. At Haverford, there are
57 Ph.D.’s, at Kenyon 30, at Amherst 70, at Williams 71, and at Davidson 27.

The quality of instruction which a college can offer is intimately associated with her library. Wesleyan University, Swarthmore, Hamilton, Union,
Reed, and Haverford, all with less than 1000 students, have libraries of more than 400,000; 162,000; 221,000; 140,000; 95,000; and
196,000 volumes respectively. Davidson's library contains somewhat more than 65,000 volumes, comparable to Maryville, 55,000; Elon, 40,000; and Gettysburg, 65,000.

Our conclusion seems obvious. Davidson is not doing her job now when her endowment and other income are being poured
into the educational necessities of 865 men. She is not now able to attract the best students because she lacks
scholarship funds and has an insufficient academic reputation; she cannot now demand the best professors because some schools pay nearly
twice her salary scale; her library has too few volumes; and consequently, her educational process is not now operating at
the high level it should be. Expansion would be expensive for Chambers is the only building which could accommodate the
additional students. There is dormitory space for 825 students only. The church, counting the choir, is filled by 1042 people;
and should the enrollment be increased, it would not allow attendance of townspeople and dates at Vespers. Science laboratories are
overcrowded now, and the library needs to be enlarged for present use. The fraternity houses, built for forty men, are
now being used by seventy. We, therefore, can see in an increase in enrollment at this time only a general
lowering of this present level of education, a distribution of poorer education to more people, under crowded conditions. The question
now becomes what should we do, and the answer is obvious. We must pour every penny we can into the
endowment in an effort to secure superior students, faculty, and instruction so that Davidson may someday soon begin doing her
duty to the Church and to the South. There is little doubt that Davidson, being where it is, and possessing
the resources which it does, has a tremendous opportunity to become a truly significant educational institution.

Scripts ’n Pranks Has Lost its Traditional Humor and Vitality

Dear Editor:

Two weeks ago another issue of Scripts 'n Pranks showed up. And quite frankly, I was pretty disappointed with the
magazine. I had hoped for (yet hardly expected) one really exciting issue this year; but this one, just like the
others for the past three years, generated absolutely nothing. There was no sparkle, no originality, no overall appeal. I found
it tiresome poring through the horrors, sex, and whiskey, and over the totally uninspired layout. In one word, the magazine
was mediocre.

Perhaps Scripts 'n Pranks is just a victim of the anti-enthusiasm attitude that pervades our campus these days. As was
said in chapel recently, a student is ridiculed by his fellows if he shows signs of the least bit “gung-ho”
in anything whether it be educational, intellectual, religious, or even prankish. I get the impression that the Scripts 'n Pranks
staff publishes the magazine more or less as a necessary evil, that no enthusiastic effort is made to give the
reader a unique and enjoyable book. Davidson expects and deserves more than an organ of mediocrity. To give its readers
something really worthwhile, Scripts ‘n Pranks must come out of its slump. The editors must generate some new enthusiasm for
the book and must prevent good writers with good ideas from slipping into this conformity to mediocrity. I hope that
Scripts ’n Pranks will continue to develop along the lines of Eastern excellence and sophisticated college wit rather than bawdy
Southern university humor, and that it will keep within the bounds of good taste and dignity rather than attempt to
impress the reader with the editors’ ability to remain just on the fringes of Davidson decorum. Let Nugget and Escapade
satisfy the college man's longing for printed vulgarities. Here then is a request to next year’s editorial staff for a
top-notch, quality college magazine that will provide the Davidson student with a little entertainment and pride.

—WATT McCAIN

N.Y. Answer to Southern Views

Dear Sir:

The recent popularly requested printing of Dr. C. K. Brown’s address to the students of Davidson College on March 1
has just penetrated that benighted land north of the Rocky River. It has caused a variety of reactions ranging from
hilarity to grim disagreement but most often utter incredulity.

Dr. Brown observes that the Negro cannot but adopt the white man’s culture but yet is not entitled to claim
it as his own for “the Pilgrim fathers can never be his fathers; the signers of the Declaration can never
be his ancestors.” Nor can those who have escaped Eastern Europe in the 1950’s, Germany in the ‘30s, the Balkan
wars of the early twentieth century. Nor can the sons of those who fled revolutions in central and southern Europe
in 1848, nor the famines in Ireland in the 1840s, nor Scandinavia in the ’80s. Of course, if mere residence
on American soil is the basis for judgment, and 1619 the year, Pilgrim descendants would be excluded while those of
Negro slaves in Virginia would be endowed with civil rights and social station. Having been responsible for bringing the Negro
to this country, is the white man now to deny him the benefits or curses of his civilization because he
(the Negro) was not expropriated from his home sooner?

Dr. Brown continues to decry that the world partakes of the material accoutrements of our civilization but does not indicate
that it “understands or respects anything that lies back of our economic productivity.” If “the world” may be seen to
include Negroes at home, who have adopted the superficialities of modern technological society (viz. Cadillac cars lining unpaved streets of
urban Negro sections and television antennae piercing the airwaves above unplumbed Negro shanties), how does Dr. Brown expect them to
“understand and respect” this white civilization if his education is relegated to ebony-pure schools?

Having spent two years at Davidson, this writer cannot believe that the faculty, administration, or student body condones such antique
social tenets as advocated by the “Southern (?) Position with Respect to the Bi-Racial System.” Can Davidson so soon have
been subverted to the Abolitionist absurdity promulgated by the Economics Department of the College: “Ship the Negroes back to Africa!”?

—WILLIAM H. GALLIER
