PAGE FOUR

DISILLUSIONED DESPOTS........No. 5

FEATURING JOE GARRISON, SENIOR

THE DAVI

Literary Societies Have Long, Intriguing History

Eumanean Began As Philanthropic Started Debating Society In Early College Days

By NELSON GRICE
By KERRY SPIERS

Davidson College and Eumanean Literary Society. The Philanthropic Society dates its founding a short time after this noble institution of
higher learning in Reform tradition came into being. From that renascence of things elocutionary, literary, and aesthetic have sprung hundreds
of literati. In the present day, of course, the entire system has undergone modification in keeping with the awe; yet,
the Society is dedicated to the preservation of qualities of manhood which must not pass from the earth. Thus, it
is still to cultivate the arts of elocution and composition... to promote a spirit of subordination to law and order;
by engendering a high regard for virtue and truth, as well as to foster a fraternal spirit among worthy gentlemen.

In olden days these lofty ideals were taken so much to heart that the Society played a role subservient only
to the classroom itself. Meetings were held each Friday evening and Saturday morning with most stringent penalties for absence or
non-performance at which time an air of propriety and dignified grace reigned. Relations with the society across the way were
conducted with formal protocol and apostates were most vehemently anathematized. Contrariwise, increased scholastic and outside pressures have diminished activity somewhat,
but not importance. Young men with an unassumed air of dignity are still meeting beneath the flickering candles of the
Napoleonic chandelier.

Davidson has the proud honor of claiming that this, her son, is the sloppiest boy ever to attain Who's Who
Among Students in American Colleges and Universities. Joe has had a long and distinguished career as a literary critic and
a creative writer. He is easily Davidson's foremost scholar in the field of American Literature, which field he intends to
pursue by graduate study to its apex—the teaching profession. That same creative and critical mind which won for him the
office of critic in the distinguished hall of Philanthropic Literary Society and the office of co-food-chairman of Sigma Upsilon Honorary
Fraternity, also brought Joe the lesser honor of the editorship of Scrips and Pranks, our college funny book. His talent
and taste in the art of cartooning has led him to produce numerous cartoons for local consumption and has inclined
him to be one of the foremost authorities on Peanuts by Schulz.

In the field of music, this three-time member of the Male Chorus reached the peak of his success during his
Junior year. At that time he sang baritone in the famous quartet known for some obscure reason as the Matches
(alias the Lamp Lighters). Despite the fame and beauty of Joe's pearly smile in quartet performances, our Schroeder has managed
to elude all admiring Luceys with the tactful Peanutian reply, “No!” Having met with such success last year, Joe has
retired from quartet competition this year. Also during his Junior year, Joe won the director’s cup in the Inter-Fraternity sing
while leading his Sigma Chi brothers to their second straight First Place.

Dirty white bucks, khaki pants, and free-flowing shirt tails are ever in vogue for Joe. He may usually be found
with pipe in hand seated among a litter of literature reading intently while his antique coffee-pot wheezes its asthmatic tune
in the steamy background. Joe shares this atrociously casual room with a fellow-traveler of last summer who accompanied him on
an incognito culture-broadening spree through Europe. Modifying Omar Khayyam a tad, we may sum up Joe's tastes thus:

A Book of Verses underneath the Bough
A pipe to smoke, a coffee Cup,
—and Slough
Beside me clinging to my Wilderness—
Ah, Wilderness were Paradise enow!

The Philanthropic Society dates its founding to the year 1837. Eumanean was first conceived as a debating society. It was
born as a result of the efforts of a small group headed by Thomas Hamilton under the title Polemic which
was changed the following year to the more euphonious Eumanean. Two mottos were adopted, the more familiar being Pulchrum Est
Colere Mentum, “It is a beautiful thing to cultivate the mind.” Dr. Sparrow, then professor of languages, permitted the Society
to meet in his classroom as long as they did not expectorate on the floor. The Society’s present quarters were
completed in 1849. Eumanean originally held two meetings weekly, one devoted to debate and the other to literary composition and
speeches. The avowed purposes of the society were and are today to cultivate potential literary ability and to develop the
art of oratory. This semester the society intends to replace emphasis on the debating aspect due to the absence of
a campus debating club. The Society will also strive to retain possession of the coveted literary cup which it has
held for the past several years.

The past records note two radical changes in the policies of the Society. Prior to 1870 the offices of the
Society were responsible for the deportment of members on the campus, with the power to impose strict punishment on ungentlemanly
acts. The second change occurred with the revision of the constitution in 1891, when all secrecy connected with the society
was abolished. In summation, it is not an archaism, but rather a pleasure and profit.

The most illustrious member of the Society was, of course, Woodrow Wilson, who attended the college from 1873 to 1874.
The minutes show that he was active both during his short career here and after he left. Jointly Philanthropic and
Eumanean have made two outstanding contributions to the College outside the field of literary achievement. Firstly, they were responsible for
campus conduct and the nucleus of campus life including social activity. Secondly, in 1886 the two societies combined their libraries,
numbering about 7000 volumes, with the then meager school library to allow all students to reap greater benefits in their
chosen fields of study.

Bunny Perkinson, a history honors student from Chattanooga, serves as Chairman of the Student Council committee on Athletics and first
Vice-President of the Student Council. He served on the Freshman Council during his first year at College and is a
member of the Philanthropic Literary Society. Perkinson holds the positions of Rush Chairman and boarding house manager for the Phi
Delta Theta Fraternity. In his campaign speeches he stated as his purposes the strengthening and improvement in student-faculty-administration relations to
bring about a better understanding between the three bodies. Stronger student support of the athletic program was stressed and improvement
of the Student Council voice in campus affairs was stated as an objective. Perkinson stated as his basic position the
objective study of the effectiveness of the honor system in its importance to each individual student at Davidson. He expressed
concern to the attention of the individual and to change it so as to mean more to that individual.

ACTIVITIES DIRECTORY
Saturday, March 17

"Coke does something for you, doesn't it? You feel so new and fresh and good—all over—when you pause for Coca-Cola.
It’s sparkling with quick refreshment... and it's so pure and wholesome—naturally friendly to your figure. Let it do things—good things—for
you."

BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD
“Coke” is a registered trademark. © 1986, THE COCA-COLA COMPANYOne must be ever alert that his demeanor shall not be
a target for repartee nor “the frown of Cato” from president, supervisor, or critic.

Sociologists . . . (Continued From Page One)

Baker Finalists

All Day Movie—‘High and Mighty’ 7:00 & 9:00

Sunday, March 18
Vespers - Communion Service 7:30
Phi Mu Alpha 8:30

Monday, March 19
Student Council 7:00
Philanthropic Literary Society 8:15

Tuesday, March 20
Procter and Gamble—Interviews All Day
Chapel—Dr. Bevan 10:00
Y. M. C. A. Cabinet 7:00
R. O. T. C. Interest Film 1:30

Wednesday, March 21
Citizens and Southern National Bank—Interviews All Day
Union National Bank—Interviews All Day
Cannon Mills—Interviews All Day
Camera Club
Roger Wagner Chorale 8:15

Thursday, March 22
Irving Trust Company—Interviews All Day
Chapel—Clyde Robinson 10:10
Math Review—Trigonometry 7:00
Social Fraternities 7:15

Friday, March 23
North America Companies—Interviews All Day
Cone Mills, Inc.—Interviews All Day

NSA SPONSORS SEMINARS ON ROLE OF STUDENTS IN INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS

Most of the people who read this article will be unfamiliar with the concept of international student relations, because they
will be more or less unaware of the existence and activities of the representative student organizations whose relationships with one
another are described by the term “international student relations.” Realizing this state in student thinking in this country, the United
States National Student Association is sponsoring educational seminars in each of the NSA districts across the country to point up
the role of students in international affairs today. The Carolina-Virginia Region’s seminar was held at the Woman's College of the
University of North Carolina 24-26 February, with Jack Kerr and Phil Kukura representing Davidson.

It is difficult for the American student to appreciate the importance of the role of students in other countries, particularly
in the newer nations of Asia, Africa, and Latin America. Where American students comprise almost ten percent of the nation’s
population, these foreign students may be less than one percent. Being far fewer, these students upon graduation are immediately called
to high positions of leadership in their countries’ governments. Staggering responsibilities of their nation’s future lie on these former students,
who are just a few years older than the average American college senior.

In order to capture the minds of the students in these newly-reborn countries, the Communists are spending sixty million dollars
annually through their International Union of Students operating out of Prague. The students of the free world are leagued together
in the International Student Conference, which in the five years of its life has undertaken a very active role in
bringing the students of the world together for better understanding of common and special student problems. Programs of student travel
have been arranged in which special tours, lodgings, and services are set up at the economic level at which they
are able to travel. Student health programs for tuberculosis and other diseases have been implemented through World University Services. Exchange
programs for students to study in foreign countries have been worked out.

Participation in international student affairs is not limited to seminars or international conferences. Every foreign student in this country is
a representative of his own nation, and as such, American students can take advantage of opportunities offered them by these
students to better understand other peoples of the world. And with the struggle between the communists and the West gripping
our thinking, it should be remembered that these students, while studying in America, are gaining an impression of this country
which will guide them in the future when they are leading their countries.

Davidson Students . . . (Continued From Page One)

In the second half of the poll, students from all four classes were asked to give their opinions on Davidson’s
academic standards. They were also asked to give their opinions regarding Davidson's rank as a liberal arts college in the
South and in the Nation as a whole. The results of the poll with numerical figures are shown below:

“Are Davidson’s academic standards and requirements as you interpret them:
Upperclassmen Freshmen
Very high 26.0% 39.1%
Relatively high 68.2% 55.4%
Average 5.5% 5.4%
Relatively low 0.3% 0%
Low 0% 0%

“Where would you rank Davidson in regard to liberal arts colleges:
a. In the South.”
Upperclassmen Freshmen
Top 5 percent 84.7% 91.3%
Next 10 percent 13.7% 6.0%
Next 10 percent 2.0% 2.6%
Next 25 Percent 0.3% 0%
Last 50 Percent 0% 0%

b. In the United States.”
Upperclassmen Freshmen
Top 5 Percent 8.4% 20.6%
Next 10 Percent 50.5% 50.6%
Next 10 Percent 30.1% 24.6%
Next 25 Percent 9.6% 3.3%
Last 50 Percent 1.4% 0.8%

In addition to the various questions asked on the poll for numerical evaluation, students were asked to give “evaluative criticism
and comments” on their major department. Samplings of typical opinions from some of the major departments are given below:

Psychology
“While I think that it is strong now, it could be improved by a wider choice of subjects.”
“Experimental Psychology... funds are low... facilities are limited... classes are too large for discussion.”
“Should change the basic course either for people who plan to major in the subject or for people who just
plan to seek credit.”

Business Administration
“Like the case method of presentation.”
“The Bus. Adm. Dept. needs more instructors so as to bring different methods of instruction to the students.”
“There should be more subjects offered.”

Romance Languages
“Absence of speaking laboratories as many schools have.”

Political Science
“There is a definite need for an enlarged department.”
“Among the strongest departments on the campus.”
“Each man well-versed in his field and able to communicate it to others.”
“Should be more material to parallel it in the library.”
“More stress needed on modern history covering shorter periods to allow for deeper study.”
“Not enough emphasis on theory as the philosophy of history.”

English
“Inadequate courses.”
“Needs a course in critical analysis.”
“Advanced courses attempt to cover such a gamut of material that they do not achieve their purpose.”
“Department falls short primarily in presentation.”
“Much better now than previously. Need associate professor.”

Economics
“The department as a whole is very good.”
“Wider variety of courses needed.”
“Present department good, but needs depth.”
“Needs smaller classes for purposes of discussion.”

Physics
“Number of courses taught is completely inadequate.”
“Physics lab equipment is very poor.”
“The department is understaffed.”
“Gives a good foundation for graduate school work.”
“Library short in good science books.”

History
“I would like to see more courses offered.”
“Need for more analytical thought and discussion. Too often courses are just memory work.”

THE CONNOISSEUR
A PLACE OF FINE FOODS FOR ANY TASTE IN EATING
Pit Barbecue (Cooked Daily)
Broiled Steaks
Fried Chicken
Sandwiches
PHONE 3-2861
MOORESVILLE, N. C.

Spring Again! by GREYHOUND

NORTH BOUND
One Way
WINSTON-SALEM, N.C. $1.60
GREENSBORO, N. C. $2.35
RICHMOND, VA. $7.20
WASHINGTON, D. C. $8.40
NEW YORK, N.Y. $12.95
WYTHEVILLE, VA. $3.80
BLUEFIELD, W. VA. $5.20
CHARLESTON, W. VA. $8.40
CINCINNATI, OHIO $10.60
CHICAGO, ILL. $16.40

Let Greyhound take out the laundry home to other places. You'll save time and $$$ too!

SOUTH BOUND
One Way
CHARLOTTE, N. C. $0.50
ROCK HILL, S. C. $1.20
COLUMBIA, S. C. $2.85
SPARTANBURG, S. C. $2.35
AUGUSTA, GA. $4.65
ATHENS, GA. $5.35
ATLANTA, GA. $6.90
JACKSONVILLE, FLA. $8.85
MIAMI, FLA. $14.95
TAMPA, FLA. $12.75

Plus U. S. Tax. Big EXTRA Savings EACH WAY On Round-Trips.

WHITE DRUG CO.
Main St.—Phone 2111
Davidson, N. C.
