The Davidsonian

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF: Dick Morehead
ASSOCIATE EDITORS: Maurice Crouse, Tom Warlick
Managing Editors: Jim Batten, Franklin Bloodworth, Jim Brice
Sports Editor: Leon Howell
Copy Editor: John T. Harmon
Exchange Editor: Bob Beall
News Editors: Loved Chapin, Bill Pomeroy
Staff Photographer: Hank Daniel
Assignments: John Trask

Member of the Associated Collegiate Press and Intercollegiate Press

Page Two
Friday, February 24, 1956

Only The Beginning

The administration is to be commended for its recent action in raising faculty salaries. The increment of increase is not,
of course, in proportion to the value received; but it is an encouraging and progressive decision. The need for educators
has been tragically synonymous with the low salaried bracket of the entire educational field. This “bracket” has been particularly evident
at Davidson, and it is sincerely hoped that the administration will continue to develop its full potential in this direction.
This should be only a beginning, not a restrictive limitation. Educators are yet to be duly recognized. The raising of
faculty salaries is but one step toward realization of the improvement program sought by members of the student body, faculty,
and administration. There are indeed many rungs remaining, but it is stimulating to note that progress has begun.

Greek Complaint

There still seems to be a philosophical struggle ensuing among the Greeks. Fraternities have submitted their entire Greek Week programs
to the IFC for administration and approval. The IFC has limited the scope and nature of Greek Week to meet
the requirements of the college academic schedule. National fraternity offices have approved the concept and practices of Greek Week. Having
taken these measures, fraternities expect some indication of acceptance and observance of this week by members of the faculty. Instead,
reviews have been heavily assigned from all departments for this week with rather disturbing results. The week was strategically placed
by faculty suggestion to avoid just such unnecessary interference with the planned review periods. Since the purpose and concept of
the week are basically sound, since many benefits accrue from it, and since fraternities have justification for their expectations, members
of the faculty should recognize and accept this one week petitioned by the Greeks. May the Greek culture not be
extinguished.

Pre-Professional Seminars

A thoughtful and practical solution to one of Davidson’s needs was unveiled in a recent organizational discussion. The advisory system
for students in their major field has been seriously lacking and in most places a relatively minus quality. Added to
this deficiency is the problem, and perhaps this is the basic problem, of the pre-professional student who is studying in
a different major field. He finds little if any guidance in his selected vocation, and the faculty advisor in his
major is not qualified to give him pertinent or particular advice concerning the student’s intended life work. A pre-professional seminar
program is now under study in the mathematics department which if extended may be a suitable solution to this problem.
The purpose of this voluntary evening seminar would be to acquaint mathematics majors and those interested in that field with
the present and future opportunities available, the obstacles involved, and the suggested subjects of study and practice. Applying this type
of seminar program to all of the pre-professional groups within the college would offer many advantages while meeting a present
need. It could adequately present scholarship opportunities, discuss the nature of the profession in general, iron out problems of curriculum
and subject matter, and create interest and thought in the intended field. This program could be conducted by qualified professors,
members of the profession from outside our college area, or by students themselves under organizational guidance. It would be voluntary,
meeting only as often as directed by the need, desire, and interest of those concerned. Pre-meds have made large strides
in this direction through their particular pre-professional fraternity and through the interested work of department professors. Pre-business men have also
made a beginning through the Business-Economics Association as have the pre-mins through Y and related field work. But there is
still a need to be met and much to be gained in these departments as well as in other areas.
To those administratively concerned and to those interested, here is a challenge to meet present needs with a program full
of future potentialities.

Support Gift Fund

The Davidson College Gift Fund campaign will be formally opened Monday for student support. The Committee has taken a very
realistic approach to this subject, setting no goal, seeking universal projects, and presenting the entire program in its full perspective.
Nothing more need be said here except to encourage each to thoughtfully and earnestly evaluate the projects in light of
his potentiality to give. We have no hounding solicitors descend on campus from the multitudinous outer organizations. We have no
pressurized campaign from within. This is the sole program of its kind here at Davidson, and it demands only individual
student consideration. Support for the Gift Fund is support for disturbed children, for Christian radiation in a foreign land, and
ultimately for a healthy and mature world.

As Taps Sound

Last Monday, February 19, the U.S. Navy declared Ensign Edward C. Stuart of Bartow, Florida, to be dead. Ed has
been missing since Monday afternoon, February 6, when the three-man naval bomber in which he was flying presumably crashed into
the Atlantic Ocean some five miles off Jacksonville, Florida. For several days following the disappearance of the plane the navy
made an extensive search of the area, but no trace was found of the men. While at Davidson Ed made
an excellent academic and extra-curricular record, and graduated with honors in 1954. His junior year was spent at the American
College in Beirut, and while still abroad, he was elected president of his fraternity. A member of Phi Beta Kappa
and ODK, he was selected for a Danforth Fellowship during his senior year, and planned to attend The Harvard Graduate
School upon the completion of his military duty. Ed Stuart never tried to impress anyone while he lived, yet few
who knew him failed to be impressed. He was an extraordinary person who was both admired and liked, and who
seemed to personify all that is finest in an individual. He was an intellectual in the word’s best sense, and
had a common touch which endeared him to all types of people. He was a fine athlete and a leader.
His obvious qualities of character and integrity gave evidence of his Christian convictions. He had a strong interest in people
and a desire to make something worthwhile of his life. His promise was unlimited. God works in mysterious ways, and
often takes the best from among us. The death of Ed Stuart seems to indicate that all of us, though
inadequate and weak, have at least the precious gift of life and the opportunity to make something of it. Ed
Stuart did make something of his life, and his influence will long be felt in the lives of those who
knew and loved him—Joel Conarroe.

BUSINESS MANAGER: Larry Parrott
Advertising Manager: Bob Carmichael
Subscription Manager: Stan Miller
Business Staff: Tony Guiles, Bill Bondurant

REPRESENTATIVES FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING: National Advertising Service, Inc., 420 Madison Ave., New York, N.Y., Chicago, Boston, Los Angeles, San Francisco

Subscription Rate: $2.00 Per Year
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N.C., under the Act of March 3, 1879.
Offices in Davidson College Union

LITTLE MAN ON CAMPUS by Dick Bibler
“Come on now—which one of you guys have our ‘Classic Comics’?—We gotta study for a lit test tomorrow.”

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Dance Weekend Due For Total Overhaul

Dear Editor:
It seems to me that the time has come, and perhaps is long overdue, for us to make a critical
evaluation of the policy under which our three dance weekends are planned. As the recent Midwinter’s weekend aptly demonstrates, there
is a lot of room for improvement. In the first place it seems to me that the cost of the
dances has gone far above the reasonable level. It just isn’t worth it to me to pay $8.00 for four
hours of music each night, especially when the band seems so uninterested in playing that it takes a sizable break
after practically each number as Woody Herman’s band did this past weekend. I just do not feel that it is
possible to get $8.00 worth of enjoyment from any band on one of these weekends even if we really had
top-notch bands; and we certainly have not had top-notch bands for Homecoming and Midwinter's this year. In the second place
I don't think the IFC is really reflecting the majority opinion of the student body when it insists on trying
to bring the biggest “name” bands to the campus every dance weekend. I personally feel that the majority of the
students would prefer less famous bands for one or even two dance weekends with maybe one really top band each
year. As I see it, most of us want a band that plays good DANCE music throughout the dances with
a minimum of breaks and purely show numbers. And I'm sure there are plenty of bands in the country who
would not cost so much. And many of these bands would, I feel, consider it a real opportunity to play
at Davidson, whereas I'm sure some of the bands we've had in the recent past have considered playing here a
chore endured for the money only. To me it stands to reason that a band which really wanted to come
to Davidson would play a better dance than we've had recently. In the third place I wonder if the policy
of financing the dances through compulsory assessments on the fraternities isn't somewhat out of place now that the dance weekends
have become functions of the entire student body. It seems to me that a social committee of the entire student
body should be responsible for planning and financing these student body dances. I feel that the financing should definitely be
on a voluntary basis, regardless of who plans the dances. This could be done by the sale of season tickets
good for all three dances, plus individual tickets for each dance so that those who don’t care to go to
all three wouldn't have to help pay for them. In closing I'd like to say that these are just one
person’s opinions and I don’t put them forward as a completed plan of revision. But I do feel that they
reflect a certain element of opinion on the campus, and I do hope that they start some wheels turning in
the direction of an improved dance weekend policy.

Why A Liberal Arts Education?

Very often at Davidson we hear students say that it is a good thing to have a liberal education, and
yet very often that is as far as the argument goes. The other day in reading an address presented at
the Centennial of Michigan State University by Ernest E. Irons, M.D., I came across some thoughts that pursued the reasons
for a liberal education, and I thought that perhaps some of your readers might also be interested in what this
man had to say. Dr. Irons is referring here to the education of a physician, yet I think that his
thoughts are applicable not only to those entering the medical profession, but to those entering any field of life work.
“The education of a physician should preparehim to participate with his colleagues of the other professions and with all citizens
in the ‘general art of the free man.’ Some knowledge of world history, and of attempts to solve social and
economic problems, will reveal the fallacies of social schemes that have followed patterns such as that of the ‘Utopia’ of
Sir Thomas More. An understanding of economics will unmask the false bases of Marxian theory and reveal the inevitable ruin
inherent in socialistic and communistic programs.

“A man may possess some ability to lead his followers but lacks character, or ideals, or a knowledge of history
and economics, or discrimination between the mediocre and the best; in short, he lacks what Sir Richard Livingston terms the
‘philosophy of the first rate.’ The foundation of the philosophy of the first rate and of sound leadership, whether in
medicine or in universities or in other activities of citizenship, is a sound cultural education and a continuing faith in
the religions of our forefathers.

“In any community there are a few leaders; the rest are followers. When good leaders are not replaced by their
kind, good leadership is slower or ceases; the followers become discontented and disorganized and readily accept inferior leadership. Spiritual, social,
and material retrogressions ensue. This sequence is evident in the history of nations and civilizations of the past. Signs of
the same progress have appeared in recent years in our own country and demand sound education to save us from
pseudoliberals and from the bad leadership of a superficially informed but unintelligent intelligentsia.”

I think that in light of the last paragraph above, we must examine ourselves and look at our motives for
coming to an institution of higher learning. If we are pursuing a four-year “stretch of service” in college merely because
it is the tradition of the society in which we live for those who can afford to attend college, then
I think we have missed the boat. Each man must come to terms with himself and realize that he has
a definite station in this world that cannot be filled by someone else, and that in order for him to
finish up his term of life on this earth with the feeling that he has given the most of himself
to doing his best, then he must begin now seriously to fortify himself with the equipment necessary to meet the
challenges of what lies before him.

Don Stewart

AROUND THE WORLD

Interview From Thailand

(The following is an interview conducted by Jack Kerr, member of the International Relations Club, with Mr. Piroon, representative from
the Parliament of Thailand. Representative Piroon was on the Davidson campus February 22 visiting with students and faculty in a
morning coffee hour and later in several classrooms. He is a graduate of Presbyterian College, Thailand, and is at present
on tour in the United States observing in particular our farming methods.—Ed.)

Q. Sir, what is the approximate population of Thailand?
A. There are twenty million in Thailand, seventeen million Thais, and three million Chinese.

Q. Do you fear the Communists from within?
A. No, the Communist Party is illegal in Thailand; however, we suspect some of the Chinese in our country because
they say they're against Communism, but if Communist China ever occupied Thailand and if they're asked whether or not they
are Communists they say yes. The majority of the Chinese are occupied in business and they want to trade with
Red China. They don’t think of themselves as Thais, but still as Chinese.

Q. From what group of people does the government encounter Communist agitation?
A. Since there is no starvation in my country the farmer has a pretty high standard of living. All of
the farmers own their farms and naturally they don’t wish to have Communism take away their farms. The people who
want Communism are those who aren’t satisfied; they wish to be the Commissars, the bosses; they have a desire to
tell others what to do.

Q. Does your country have a very hard time finding a market or markets for your ample supply of rice?
A. Yes, at present we have a very large surplus of rice because we have lost that Chinese (Red) market,
and the Japanese market. We used to supply the Japanese with a great supply of rice but after the war
this market was closed because the United States gave them rice. If the U.S. would offer to sell their rice
to the Japanese we could gain that market back because our rice sells cheaper than yours.

Q. Do your people get any aid from the U.S.?
A. Yes, your government has given us technical assistance, monetary aid, and armaments since we have no large manufacturing. This
allows us to direct some of our small economy towards the building of universities, construction of roads and dams. In
fact, we have acquired a loan from the World Bank, which is to be used for the construction of a
dam.

Q. What per cent of your economy goes to armaments?
A. Fifty percent did, but that was before the U.S. aid arrived. Now it's still a large per cent but
not fifty percent.

Q. Do you fear the Communist Chinese?
A. We fear the Chinese Army much more than we fear the system of Communism. The people of my country
are 90 percent Buddhist and 10 percent Christian and Mohammedan, and they, naturally, fear the presence of China and if
China does rule our country they fear most the destruction of their Buddhist Temple.

Q. What were your peoples’ reactions to Bulganin’s and Khrushchev’s visit to India?
A. The people know what they are actually up to, but some members of the opposition party feel that the
Russians have changed and are ready for peace.

Q. Do you feel that SEATO is a very good organization?
A. Definitely, but I don't feel that it is as strong as I would like to see it.

Q. How do you feel towards the Bandung Conferences?
A. At first we didn’t care to go to the conferences because we were afraid that the ex-British and Dutch
Colonies would accept the Chinese dove; however, since the conferences we are very proud of what those countries did. They
don’t show bitterness toward their ex-rulers.

Davidson’s Diogenes

Tho’ black the night from pit to pole
And deep the shroud of mist
That veiled some secret spot untold
Where many a maid was kissed,
Our Eveready Diogenes
Will lift his light of truth
To chase some youths from careless ease
In manner most uncouth.

By Midwinters John Post Trotti Mortem

In darkest spots and diverse ways
He tracks them tho’ obscure
Yet never finds a single pair
But sober, proper, and demure.

Creep up your work, my stealthy friend,
While we shall not forget
Lest on some future dance week-end
Cop this Linker, catch us yet.

GERALD WILSON

Party Obligations Loom Large As Eisenhower Ponders Future

A Senator and an appointed official of the executive department sat down at a table. They closed their eyes, stretching
out their sweating palms, and placed their hands on a triangular wooden object. The Senator nervously asks: “Ouija, will Ike
run again?” Slowly and just as hesitantly as the Senator had inquired, the wooden oracle comes to rest in a
spot that can only be interpreted as meaning “No.” Shaken, but still hopeful, the appointed official takes his turn. “Ouija,
will Eisenhower seek a second term?” This time the triangle goes to the affirmative side of the board. They had
just used a method as reliable as any other, and still the answer remained as indefinite as before. Since no
one knows what the right answer will be, one method of speculation is just as effective as the other. The
method described above, in which the answer is as the questioner wills it, has as much chance of being correct
as the person who tries to answer the question by systematic logic.

1952 CRUSADES

But for the sake of argument let's look at the problem logically. There’s the positive approach: Why should Ike run?
First there’s the “Crusade” that somebody from Deweyduffland convinced Ike he was going on in 1952 against corruption in government,
the so-called “Welfare State,” and for world peace. Has the “Crusade” been victorious or do we need four more years
to slay the dragon? But now to come off our high plain into the secular world of politics; is Eisenhower,
as most people believe, absolutely indispensable to a Republican victory in 1956? What other Republican is qualified for the office
and can win? Certainly Nixon could not carry the vital independent vote necessary for a G.O.P. victory, and Warren, even
if persuaded to run, could get nowhere in the South. Possibly the Republicans in desperation could repeat their performance of
1920; namely, running an amiable nonentity with not so much a clean record as no real record at all, as
Governor Herter of Massachusetts. Thus Eisenhower is faced with a very serious consideration: the fate of his party if he
does not choose to run.

DOCTORS GIVE OKAY

Now from the negative side, why shouldn’t Eisenhower run? First of course is the question of health. The doctors gave
the green light: Ike could run again, but this affirmation was tinged with negativity. The original statement of the doctors
before the White House deleted it, was that “the chances are” that Eisenhower could serve out another term. Also, for
the historically minded, is the question of age. No man of Eisenhower’s age has ever been elected President, even in
good health and lived to serve out his term. Shall the American people take the chance they took in 1944
again, and elect a man who in all probability won't be able to live out his term? If Eisenhower is
reelected a dangerous precedent will be set. He will, of necessity, be a part-time or “Chairman-of-the-board” President. Eisenhower’s work schedule
even before his heart attack was considerably less than that of his predecessor, and since his attack the routine has
naturally been reduced even more. Certainly this office demands more than a man of dubious health can give.

Thus it boils down to a question of private consideration versus party obligations. In which case, pressure will probably cause
the latter to prevail, and Eisenhower will be left in much the same position as the little boy longing to
get into the cookie jar: He knows he shouldn't but he’s gonna anyway.

THE LIMICK

The only practicing United States craftsman who is the least bit nimble with a limerick is Ogden Nash. Perhaps his
most famous contribution to the literature is:

There was a young belle of old Natchez
Whose garments were always in patchez.
When comment arose
On the state of her clothes.
She drawled, When Ah itchez, Ah seratchez!

Nash, a comic genius of sorts who lectured at Davidson last season, also dashed off this one for his book
Versus:

An elderly bride of Port Jervis
Was quite understandably nervis
Since her apple-checked groom,
With three wives in the tomb,
Kept insuring her during the service.

But even Nash has occasionally succumbed to the new pressure of capsule culture and invented a predigested form of limerick
he calls a “limick.” For instance:

Two nudists of Dover,
Being purple all over,
Were munched by a cow
When mistaken for clover.

While amusing, it just does not have the snap, crackle and pop of the real article.

The Charlotte News
