LOVERS TELL ALL (Page 2) VOL. XLV DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, OCTOBER 26, 1956 GRIDMEN LIKE NEW LOOK (Page 3) NO. 6

Dates, Alumni Descend for Weekend Set For Richardson Field

Discussed by Council

The Keydets from Virginia Military Institute invade Richardson Field tomorrow to struggle with Davidson’s Red and Black machine in the height of Homecoming excitement. Anxious to display existing potential that has been thwarted by such forces as those of Lehigh, Army, George Washington, and Virginia, these particular Virginians are figuring on such an opportunity as they step into nearer equal combat for the third time during the current season. Richmond fell to the Keydet attack three weeks ago by 35-20; and a mutual opponent, Stetson, suffered a 47-6 demolishing in their season's opener. Otherwise, the opposition has been more than the visiting squad could manage.

Looking beyond glaring final scores of defeat, the makings of rugged competition can be found in statistics. For in 178 rushing attempts an average of better than four yards a try is discovered, and a mark in pass completions of 47 per cent is also recorded. A punting average of 39.4 is the answer to what happens when offensive power fails.

JORDAN, WOOLWINE STAR

More specifically, the main contributors to such accomplishments are halfbacks Bobby Jordan and Sam Woolwine, both sporting a fancy 5.1 rushing mark. Quarterbacks Duke Johnston and Bill Nebraska are waging a terrifying feud for the starting berth, which insures increasing quality in a vital position. For a team that barely averages 19 years of age, with twice as many sophomores as juniors and seniors, the Keydets present gratifying line play with Billy Elmore, Jerry Borst, Lou Farmer, Bob Rader, and Jim McFalls as stalwarts.

A record of four impressive wins and a lone defeat, such as displayed by the Wildcats, constitutes plenty to be reckoned with . . . especially on Homecoming.

TWO PLATOON SYSTEM

Coach Bill Dole reaped the dividends last week as his platoon system, two teams of equal strength, trounced an obviously weary Stetson eleven with five touchdowns in the last half. A well-balanced mixture of aerials and ground work was another major factor the ’Cats will be trying to retain. Dyke Little, who commanded the squad last week that tallied thrice in five minutes, will open at quarterback with a rushing average of 6.8 and 18 connections in 35 passing efforts. Paul Barbee, Don McRee, and Ken Conger compose the offensive drive with rushing tabulations of 6.5, 5.6, and 4.8 yards per try, respectively.

DAVIDSON FAVORED

With an apparent “battle royal” on tap, the toe of Dave Fagg, who has made good on 10 of 14 conversion attempts and registered one field goal, will be a valuable asset. Fagg’s mates in the front ranks are also reasons that the Wildcats are made a slight one touchdown choice for victory. With wins from the two most recent contests, Davidson will be trying to continue to decrease the series lead which the Keydets maintain with 20 wins and 13 defeats. Kickoff time is slated at 2:00 p.m.

GEORGE PARKINSON GUNN (right), director of the Banners of Freedom television series currently being kicked off here, looks over the prepared script with Jim Jackson, Davidson publicity director.

FILMS ‘DAVIDSON STORY’

Gunn, Expert in TV Field, Has Rapid, Exciting Life

A stranger always attracts attention on the Davidson Campus. He is of special note when he stops to ask questions of the students—and then waits to receive answers. George P. Gunn of the Protestant Radio and Television Council in Atlanta, came to the campus only a short time ago but is already recognizable by the majority of the members of the student body as Mr. Gunn or “that man who is going to make the movie.” His appearance readily conveys the vision of an athlete, which he is. He was captain of the University of Florida basketball team that lost to Alabama’s Crimson Tide in the Southeastern Conference championship early in the thirties. The small basketball he wears in his lapel, which is a memento of that championship game, and the stopwatch he wears on the other end of the chain, connecting the two, are symbolic of the dual interests in his life—athletics and radio, television. He gave up a coaching position to go into an infant medium called radio.

While at the University of Florida Gunn divided his time between his radio work and his physical education major. As proof of his athletic prowess twenty years after his graduation from college he ran into his old roommate, George Smathers, now junior Senator from Florida. The first thing Smathers asked him was, “Well, George, are (Continued on Page Four)

Discussion centered around dance-weekend drinking at the regular meeting of the Student Council last Monday night. Several fraternity presidents were present at the meeting. President LaFar explained to the group that the Dean of Students was going to require the fraternity presidents to sign a pledge that they saw no drinking on campus during the Homecoming weekend. The question was whether the Student Council would take responsibility for seeing that fraternity presidents sign this new pledge or whether it would be handled through the Dean's office as heretofore. After much discussion, the Council decided on the latter alternative.

DEFINE TERMS

Then senior Council member Carl Cooper moved that the Council send a recommendation to the Dean that he not require fraternity presidents to act as Council members by signing the new pledge since they are not honor bound to report drinking and that the Council leave all such dance weekend pledges in his hands. The motion was passed unanimously.

A motion by Bill Bondurant, junior Council member, stating that the Council recommend to the faculty committee on fraternities that, to eliminate the necessity of boys leaving the campus during dance weekends, the fraternity house curfew allowing no one to remain in these houses all night be abolished.

A.B. DEGREE

Phil Kukura initiated discussion on the next business item of the Council, that being the requirements for the Bachelor of Arts degree at Davidson. Kukura reported that out of 29 leading (Continued on Page Four)

Sweeping Changes Alter College Scene

Friends and alumni of Davidson College returning this weekend will observe many changes in the college plant. The Davidson campus of fifty years ago was a vastly different place than the same campus is today. Then, as now, the hub of the academic life was concentrated in Chambers building. The Chambers building of the last generation, however, would not be recognized by present Davidsonians. This building not only housed classrooms and offices, it contained student living quarters as well. “Old Chambers” burned in 1921; however, Davidson was down, but not out.

FRATERNITY COURT

The past thirty years have seen the fruition of a new era. The new Chambers building and the fraternity court were constructed by 1930. Then the full effects of the depression again threatened to dominate “the Davidson spirit.” Again her sons rallied however, with a renewed interest. Came the late ‘30s and the early 40s, more new faces were added to the campus structure. A new dormitory, a new library, and a new science building heralded great strides in student life.

POST-WAR ADDITIONS

Within the decade since the war, the Johnston Gymnasium, an enlarged Davidson College Church, the David Ovens Student Union, W. H. Belk Hall, and a yet-unnamed dormitory have been added to the campus. Time and progress have necessitated the removal of Rumple and Georgia dormitories much to the chagrin of many alumni. Plans are about to unfold for an enlarging of the present library.

Tuesday Will Feature Dr. Link as Speaker

Dr. Arthur Stanley Link will be the featured speaker in the second Woodrow Wilson Convocation to be held Tuesday morning. Dr. Link, a professor of history at Northwestern University, is the author of three books on Wilson and is probably his best-known biographer. The first Wilson convocation was held at Davidson this spring, when RaleighEditor Jonathan Daniels addressed the college. The convocations are a part of Davidson's contribution to the Woodrow Wilson Centennial and recall Wilson’s allegiance to Davidson, which he attended as a freshman. Dr. Link is a 1941 graduate of the University of North Carolina and earned both his M.A. and Ph.D. degrees there, the latter in 1945. He was an instructor at N.C. State in 1943, 1944, and 1945.

PHI BETA KAPPA

Before joining the Northwestern faculty, he taught at Princeton and has held two Rosewald fellowships and one Guggenheim fellowship. He is a member of Phi Beta Kappa, Alpha Delta Kappa, the American History Association, and other professional groups. In 1947, Dr. Link published “Wilson: Road to the White House,” and in 1954 “Woodrow Wilson and the Progressive Era.” “Wilson: The New Freedom” will be published by the Princeton University Press. The 36-year-old historian will be (Continued on Page Four)

ARTHUR S. LINK Speaks at Wilson Convocation

HAND IN HAND, Davidsonians and their Homecoming queens converged on Chambers Auditorium tonight as Arthur Treacher opened the weekend with a program of humorous readings. Afterwards, it was a quick change to tux and evening dresses for the formal dance in Johnston Gym, featuring Richard Maltby and his band of danceable music.

Wilson Convocation

TO THE ALUMNI

The Undergraduate Report

Davidson College has been in a state of evolution for some time and the past two years have seen the dawn of a new era in the history of the institution. The changes made will provide for greater growth and development educationally, religiously, socially, and culturally to each succeeding class, and result in the production of the well-rounded man. Among these are:

—The great advances in the physical properties. Two new dormitories, housing approximately half the student body, are now complete. Georgia and Rumple have been razed and landscaping has been accomplished. Modern provision has preserved the spirit of the old in the renovation of Phi and Eu halls.

—Opportunity for religious growth to maintain pace with intellectual development was enhanced with the creation of the position of Minister to Students.

—Administration of the College Board exams, providing an additional means to ascertain that the incoming student will be able to meet Davidson's scholastic demands. The high overall record and the greatly decreased mortality rate of the present classes are proof of the merit of this step.

—Organization of a Board of Visitors, composed of a score of distinguished, interested persons, to visit Davidson annually.

—Increased quality in chapel programs as a result of a decrease in number to three services a week.

—Greater rapport between faculty and fraternities as both work to assume mature methods of conduct designed to satisfy fraternity men, as well as meeting the College aims.

—Increased scholarship opportunities, as provided by corporation and foundation giving, to interest the prospective college student of superior achievement in Davidson.

—A dual program of library expansion, in which the facilities as well as the number and quality of the volumes will be increased.

—Outstanding success on the athletic field, without sacrificing educational standards, and the launching of a new intercollegiate sport, soccer.

—A more realistic cut system, placing greater responsibility on the student.

—The emerging maturity of the College Union, to provide for areas of need met in no other way.

It is with a great degree of pride that we present these achievements. This is not done, however, without the realization of great problems which now confront us, and of those which will inevitably arise in the future. However, with the genuine goodwill and cooperation which now exists within the College family, there is no doubt that the difficulties to come will be squarely met and ultimately solved in the great tradition which is ours.

WILDCATS HIT VMI KEYDETS IN HOMECOMING CLASH

Colorful Annual Event Maltby, Treacher, Parties Spotlight Festivities

By BOB LATHAN

Homecoming weekend, which officially began tonight, is slated to provide a complete program of events for the two-day celebration. About 1,000 alumni are expected to attend the annual Alumni Association luncheon tomorrow morning, but perhaps an equally significant arrival on the campus this weekend was the convergence of several hundred females this afternoon in Belk dormitory.

ENGLISH HUMOR

Tonight the girls and their dates planned to listen to some celebrated English humor by Arthur Treacher, who was featured in the first event of the Artist Series. They will then head for Johnston Gymnasium, where Richard Maltby’s “Band the Dancers Demand” will play for the formal dance from nine ‘til one. Maltby's mellow music of subtle swing, which seems to answer the students’ cry for danceable music, will be danced to by both veteran upperclassmen and rookie freshmen. Numerous after-dance parties will provide extracurricular entertainment for the avid indoor sportsmen.

CONVOCATION REPORTS

Tomorrow morning at 10 o'clock the Wildcat Club will meet in the College Union. At 11 a.m. the alumni will hear a four-point report on the college during the annual Alumni Convocation in Chambers auditorium. Dr. W. G. McGavock will report on the faculty, and student body president Dan Lalar on the honor system. College treasurer D. Grier Martin will describe the college administration and John M. Akers of Gastonia the Alumni fund. President John R. Cunningham will welcome alumni.

OFFICERS INSTALLED

Ceremonies will include installation of new alumni officers. Charles F. Myers of Greensboro will be installed as president, while Alexander S. Moffett of Tampa, Florida, and the Rev. Alfred G. Taylor of Greenville, S.C., will be installed as vice-presidents. Outgoing president Howard B. Arbuckle, Jr., will preside. Also during the Convocation, an alumnus from each of seven social fraternities will present a plaque to be awarded each year to the senior member of the fraternity with the highest academic average. It is a joint effort of fraternity, alumni, and college to reemphasize scholarship.

PLAQUES TO FRATS

The presentation was originated by George M. King of Bristol, Tenn., a trustee of the college, who has given such a plaque to his own fraternity, the Kappa Alpha Order. Other fraternities taking part will be Kappa Sigma, Beta Theta Pi, Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Pi Kappa Alpha, Pi Kappa Phi, and Phi Gamma Delta. At 12 noon the Eumenean and Philanthropic Literary Society Halls will be formally presented to the college. The halls have been restored to their original beauty through the generosity of Mrs. (Continued on Page Four)

WORKMEN LAY THE CARPET in renovated Phi Hall early this week. The restored literary society halls are being presented to the college in formal ceremonies tomorrow at noon.

WITH ALL PAST GLORY Phi and Eu Halls Open Tomorrow

Davidson will honor Mrs. Clarence Hodson of Orange, N.J. Saturday during homecoming celebration and formal presentation of the restored Eumenean and Philanthropic literary society halls. Mrs. Hodson made possible the restoration of the halls through a gift to the college and will be the guest of honor during the historical pageant that will highlight homecoming festivities. Mrs. Hodson, a native of Winston-Salem, is carrying on her late husband’s interests in the field of higher education, where she has supplemented gifts of the Hodson Trust. The Schlicker organ in the Davidson College Church was a gift of Mrs. Hodson.

During the pageant Saturday, historical lore of the literary societies will be recalled. President Cunningham will preside at the presentation exercises. Dr. Davidson, Director of the Library, will serve as master of ceremonies. The pageant will be in the form of a “Voice of History” narration, with Harry Paschall as narrator. The current society presidents, Harry Antrim of Philanthropic, and Bill Daniel of Eumenean, will be presented. They will be accompanied by their Homecoming guests, Miss Louanne Self of Knoxville for Philanthropic, and Miss Betty Zeh of Winston-Salem for Eumenean. The couples will be dressed in antebellum fashion symbolic of the “Days of Phi and Eu." The program will begin at 12 noon. Mrs. Hodson will be presented with a bouquet of flowers by Dan S. LaFar, student body president.