The Davidsonian

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Dick Morehead

ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Maurice Crouse, Tom Warlick

Managing Editors
Jim Batten, Franklin Bloodworth, Jim Brice

Sports Editor
Leon Howell

Copy Editor
John T. Harmon

Exchange Editor
Bob Beall

News Editors
Lloyd Chapin, Bill Pomeroy, Hank Daniel

Staff Photographer
John Trask

Assignments
PRLSS

Member of the Associated Collegiate Press and Intercollegiate Press

Page Two
Friday, March 2, 1956

Ike Says “Yes”

The affirmative heard around the world came as no real surprise, but it has seemingly had the desired effect. Through political lenses, the months of preceding preparation reveal an extremely well-wrought publicity program, one characterized by psychological intuition, diplomatic maneuvering, and strategically timed revelations.

The public was led to believe over the waiting period that Ike would doubtlessly be elected if he would run, and that his running was paramount to the peace of the world. The ticker tape on Wall Street rose and fell with every presidential palpitation, and the prestige of heart specialists reached new heights on popular opinion polls. Newspapers were made in circulation if they carried a lead picture of the recuperating and pondering president with shotgun in hand or golf hat in place. The weekly insert magazines became compiling journals of Hagerty flashes, as administrative action and ponderous problems were subordinated to the all-powerful decision.

This whole program does not desecrate the position of the man in question nor overly emphasize the importance of the decision in world and national affairs; it merely forms an interesting example of the political system and scheme of tilting under which we operate in our present democratic society.

President Eisenhower has justly become a symbol, both to the world as well as to our nation, of peace, power, and relative prosperity in times of delicate decisions and staggering implications. As a catalyst in national politics, he has been able to weld together diverse elements, extremes, and unfortunate instigators from both parties. Attempting to transcend party affiliation on many instances, he has been able to resolve problems otherwise unanswerable in the light of political maneuvers. He has handled his position in a military manner, properly delegating authority while retaining overall command responsibility and direction. His subordinates and advisors have carried many of the great burdens and have been able to adequately run the government in his absence.

In the world arena, he has international respect and prestige, and his voice has carried the weight of a very large percentage of the American people. Here, too, he has become a symbol of peace and hope. To many international observers, the fate of U.S. policy abroad rests at present with Eisenhower—to change leaders would drastically imperil our world ship of state. That such power and importance should rest on one human individual has its obvious drawbacks and fallacies regardless of the individual, but such is our present situation. The nation sought Ike, the world looks to Ike, and now the times demand Ike.

Barnstorming in its truest sense will not likely be needed in light of the very effectual preparatory campaign just completed. With Ike’s decision came Republican sighs of relief and shrieks of political panic from their adversaries. The question of a running mate—whether the “good will ambassador” or another—remains to be solved. Recent criticisms of the administration will have to be answered and several programs strongly defended before the curtains at the polls are drawn. At the present, however, Republican prestige appears relatively ascendant in the public eye. It can certainly be said that we are living in an interesting and momentous time. The student who does not keep his eyes open and his ears attuned is much the loser—for it is indeed a great time to be walking around.

Erosion But Not Evasion

The Chapel Committee is to be heartily commended for presenting “the other side” in Thursday's chapel service. Regardless of whether you feel that our culture is in danger of erosion or whether you have conscientious compunctions to integrate, it is only healthy and mature to observe the whole question and the major solutions. Suppression of opposing viewpoints is not only detrimental to your cause but also to the mutual understanding and eventual resolution of the problem in question. The “Southern side” of the segregation issue has been conspicuous by its absence from our platform and public gatherings as have several other important issues. It is hoped that the realistic approach displayed by the Committee will underlie its future studies and programs. It can certainly be said that the speaker gave a very frank, stimulating, and sincere presentation. Speaking from honest conviction, he did not evade the issue as he saw it nor escape into undue emotion. It is a mark of the Christian gentleman to speak forthrightly from inner convictions—also to listen receptively to others' thoughts—also to reach a conclusion in the light of knowledge, effort, and prayerful consideration.

D. C. Debris

The Davidsonian opens its numerous tourist files to all those contemplating trips abroad this summer or in the near future. Every week literature comes into this office on travel opportunities and tours. These have been placed in appropriate files and all interested are encouraged to utilize them to their greatest advantage during office hours. Also into the mailbox each week come many folders on international scholarships, especially from the Lisle Fellowships. Nearly every foreign country is represented in these offers, as many opportunities are now being made available for student study and life in foreign countries. These, too, are open for student inspection.

ROTC films to be shown in the Union in succeeding weeks are both interesting and informative. Combat experiences and prominent statesmen are featured. An excellent and free opportunity to become “aware”—don't miss them. As college mowers begin the first cutting of spring and as the odor of new-mown grass invades ecclesiastical cells of meditation, a slogan found in one senior's room comes prominently in vogue. It reads “Work fascinates me, I can sit and look at it for hours.”

The Royal Commission for the Proper Evaluation and Decision on the Court of Control for the Student Council has finally moved. Its action has resulted in the resolution and proposal presented on this page. Will student apathy and administrative decision cut away the Court? Time will tell.

Where is the Magazine? Are students to be held in prolonged suspense? This is truly the Age of the Paperback. Greek and Roman Classics along with Spillane thrillers are now produced on a level with the college man’s budget. Most of these editions include penetrating introductions and evaluative comments along with readability of print. Each college man should participate in the opportunities of this new age—fill the long-neglected gaps in his personality—and enrich leisure hours with the best from knowledge, literature, and opinion. This is not a paid ad for the Emporium.

A confirmed rumor revealed that RCA has written to the Davidson College Band and Male Chorus requesting a college album of music. Our heartiest endorsement goes with this entreaty for a Davidson album, one which could easily become a yearly production. Student body elections begin next Friday. Don’t let them catch you napping, unaware, or uninterested. Also next week the Davidsonian will begin an evaluative series on Davidson’s educational program. Your interest and attention are requested in this area of our college life.

BUSINESS MANAGER
Larry Parrott

Advertising Manager
Bob Carmichael

Subscription
Warner Hall

Circulation
Bob Majors, Stan Miller, Tony Guiles, Business Staff Bill Bondurant

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. NEW YORK, N.Y.
CHICAGO BOSTON LOS ANGELES SAN FRANCISCO

Subscription Rate: $2.00 Per Year
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1879.
Offices in David Ovens College Union, Davidson College

CARL COOPER

Student Council Proposes Revamped Court of Control

REVISED FROSH RULES

The following revised Freshmen Regulations accompanied by ideas expressed in the accompanying editorial will compose a petition which the Student Council will present to the Chapel Committee. The purpose of the petition is to obtain permission to return the Court of Control.

For the past few weeks, a Student Council committee has been investigating the problem of what to do about the controversial Court of Control. Because a recent poll revealed that the students overwhelmingly wanted to retain the court but not in the state in which it operated this fall, the committee has thoroughly revised the Freshmen Regulations and proposed that, with certain improvements, the Court be permitted to function again next year. The proposals of this committee are based upon ideas gathered from the poll, a meeting of class officers, and the Student Council. The committee feels that the Court can perform such worthwhile functions as keeping the Davidson campus a speaking campus. It seems to me that compulsory speaking, which later becomes voluntary, is more desirable than an absence of compulsion which results in many Freshmen never acquiring the habit of speaking.

In the past, visitors to the campus have been impressed by the friendly atmosphere here; let's not lose this atmosphere.

CLASS SPIRIT

In addition to making friendly “Davidson gentlemen” of the Freshmen, the Court can build up class spirit, an element of campus life which has been almost completely surrendered to the fraternities. When we return to the campus as alumni, will we see members of our class whom we never met as students? The committee feels that the Court must be returned to chapel if it is to function effectively. The Court has proven impotent since its removal from chapel. A rowdy and apparently purposeless Court meeting defeats the purpose of chapel; however, a dignified and constructive Court meeting following the devotional could enhance the service. Therefore, we are petitioning the faculty to permit three well-planned Court meetings in chapel before Thanksgiving, simultaneously proposing the following constructive changes in the Court:

(1) The Court will screen all charges before any are presented before the student body in chapel. Charges which are obviously not meant to be taken seriously will be held until the Monday night Blue Room meeting of the Court. The chief punishment of a Freshman is involved in the long walk down the chapel aisle; therefore, this journey should be reserved for those who deserve it. Furthermore, the screening of charges will encourage the upperclassmen to make their charges more mature.

REGULATIONS OVERHAULED

(2) The Freshmen Regulations have been revised, eliminating those which either had no value or were not able to be reasonably well enforced. In addition, the functions of the Court have been more sharply defined; for example, the Court will begin its operations after Rush Week. We feel that attempts to conduct the Court during Rush Week, when the upperclassmen are not interested in discipline...

Dance System Needs No Change

Dear Editor,

In the last issue of the Davidsonian there appeared an...Letter which concerned the present dance weekend situation. There were several points in that letter with which I would like to take issue. First, the statement was made that “the cost of the dances has gone far above the reasonable level, and that (he) doesn’t feel that it is possible to get $8.00 worth of enjoyment from any band.” I hope that this critic realized that to bring ANY band of interest to the campus involves a rather sizable outlay of cash. Certainly, there are many bands throughout the country which would not cost much. But, I believe that this critic must agree that the quality of their music is either untested or unsatisfactory; else they would also be charging “far above the reasonable level.” Incidentally, Mr. Critic, if the student body had supported the Les Brown concert held in the gym before Thanksgiving, the cost of the past dance weekend would not have been as great. A sizable reserve could have been built up, thus cushioning the price of the Herman band.

As for any band “considering it a real opportunity to play at Davidson,” I doubt seriously if 90 percent of the band leaders or their sidemen even know that Davidson is on the map. They might play better (or sound better) if the acoustics or the audience’s reaction inspired them to do so. But, no band plays a better dance (MERELY) because they are playing at Davidson rather than some other school. No band “really wants to come to Davidson” unless the price is right. The price is the thing which makes the difference. In my opinion, the IFC has done a good job in lowering the asking price of band agents this year. The lowering of the Herman Band agent’s price was no exception. The combined cost of the Homecoming and Midwinters weekends was lowered in this manner by $2000.00. The IFC is reflecting the majority opinion of the student body. If anything, the majority of the student body desires the bands which have “big” names, provided that the IFC can get these bands at a desirable price.

I cannot understand what advantage, if any, a social committee of the entire student body would have over the IFC. The IFC plans our dances to the best of its ability. The IFC is selected through our present fraternity and independent system. What better means would this critic have? In the opinion of many on the campus, the past dance weekend was the best Midwinters dance held at Davidson in the past four years. The Herman band is a top-notch group with fresh ideas. They took no more liberty between the dance numbers than any other band of comparable renown would have done. I dare say that if this critic danced all the while during some of the longer unbroken dance periods, he had unusual unbounded energy.

Perhaps I have let my personal regard for the Herman group and the IFC’s work this year overshadow my opinion in this matter. But, being in the midst of a much larger segment of opinion on the campus, I cannot help but be outspoken on this matter. I would like to remind our critic that it is impossible to please all of the people all of the time.

D. J. Massey

Davidson Student Must Shake Off Apathy and Unawareness

Davidson College has been and will continue to be noted for many unique and outstanding qualities in its educational program. It is also known, however, for some very grave faults. Not the least of these is the prevalent attitude of unawareness and unconcern that stifles much of the possible thought and action on the campus. Most of us often do not realize this fact of our existence here until it is sharply pointed up in particular instances as it has been to me recently. It is necessary for us all to be continually faced with this problem and realize the moral obligation that rests upon us to change such a situation.

One of the international students at Davidson is very definitely concerned about what most of us consider to be the real and basic issues that are around us (and I am sure that the other international students share this concern). But he is disappointed that the interest of Davidson students lies generally within the realm of things that immediately concern them, and many of these are fairly superficial. We all spend a large part of our time and conversation in discussion of girls, sports, fraternity life, etc. This is all well and good, but it is not enough. There is too much else going on that vitally concerns us; and yet we either ignore these other questions and values, or are ignorant of them. Even though we live within the sheltered environs of Davidson, that fact does not keep us from being a part of the rest of the world. And we must face the fact that our time here is limited. This time should be spent in strenuous preparation for what we shall meet when we finish. Our perspective at present is largely self or Davidson centered and could never be said to be world centered. Where outside of the classroom and a few organizations is there any real awareness of what is going on in the rest of the world such as the universal racial tensions, national and international revolutions, American foreign policy, and the spread of the Communist faith?

Of course, these are all general and broad topics, but they are extremely relevant and of great importance to one who is intimately concerned. A Brazilian student visiting campuses in our country was extremely disappointed in what he saw. Christian students in America were completely unconcerned about what was happening to his country and his people. He saw no hope here and felt that the only help would come from Communism. In the opinion of the Davidson international student mentioned earlier, one of the few places in which he had felt a real encounter with the basic issues and values of contemporary times and of all time has been in a Bible class. This is a strong indictment against us and should cause us to question what we consider to be the important values. We may be amazed at what we find out, but it may help change a grievous situation that casts a mark against the Davidson student. In times such as these, one cannot afford to let an attitude of unconcern or unawareness kill his potential contribution for good in the world.

Freshmen have contributed to the flippant attitude with which the Freshmen have regarded the Court. Also, a date for termination of the Court’s activities has been set in the hope that Freshmen will continue to respect the Court up to that time; heretofore, the Freshmen have had only a vague idea of when they would come out from under the yoke of the Court and consequently tried to rebel as early as possible.

(3) Freshmen will no longer be required to remain in their chapel seats until upperclassmen have left the auditorium. This change is made in the hope that the cries of “Down Freshmen” will be at least partially eliminated, thereby augmenting the dignity of chapel.

INDIVIDUAL ATTENTION

(4) The members of the Court will consider it part of their job to help individual Freshmen make needed adjustments. If real problems arise that can be handled in private better than in chapel, the members of the Court will be expected to follow the necessary course. If the Court regains its place in chapel, its success will depend a great deal upon the attitude of the rising Sophomore class and upon the publicity given to the Freshmen and the upperclassmen. The Wildcat Handbook will present a full account of the purposes and functions of the Court which the Freshmen will read before they reach the campus. During Orientation period, the Judge of the Court will have a scheduled part on the program. The upperclassmen will receive instruction in a chapel talk and in Davidsonian articles. All publicity will stress the fact that if the Court is returned to chapel, as we believe it must be in order to successfully operate, it must be regarded as existing for constructive and serious purposes.

THE OPEN FORUM

Additions to College Plant Discussed

BILL BONDURANT, Moderator

Question: In view of the recent decision of the Board of Trustees concerning an increase in enrollment, what steps to that end, and to the end of enlarging the physical plant in preparation, must be taken in the foreseeable future? Do plans still include the razing of Georgia Dormitory?

Answer: According to the Report of the Committee of Population Trends, Davidson College, February 7, 1956, a report drawn up and submitted by five members of the College Faculty and Administration and approved by the Joint Trustees-Faculty Committee on Population Trends, the estimated cost of additions to plant and equipment to provide for a student body of one thousand would be $524,000. The enlarged plant and additional equipment and their respective costs are as follows: One dormitory (120 students at $2400), $288,000.00; Addition to Library, $150,000.00; Additional Fraternity Houses, $36,000.00; Changes in Food Service, $20,000.00; Faculty Offices and equipment, $20,000.00; Miscellaneous (Parking, other buildings, etc.), $10,000.00. The Committee recommended that the aforementioned steps be taken to provide necessary additions to the present plant and equipment for a student enrollment of one thousand. An increase in endowment and Faculty salary is also prerequisite to a sizeable enlargement of the student body. Regarding the razing of Georgia Dormitory, the answer of today is yes, unless action is taken by the Trustees later which would require holding it for temporary use.

Question: Why are “review periods” as such included in the yearly calendar? Are they merely suggested periods for reviews, or are they to be followed strictly? Is there a rule that professors must announce a review at least one week prior to its being given?

Answer: The review periods as printed in the yearly calendar serve mainly as guides for professors; they are not to be considered dogmatic. The suggested periods are applicable only to freshmen and sophomores and serve as a guide for the faculty in that the closing day of the review periods marks the beginning of preparation in collecting and sending out grades. For that reason, there were two review periods in the first semester and, since grades are to be issued only once in the Spring term, there will be one review period around the middle of the second semester. The review periods serve, moreover, as guides for organizations and students whose activities are scheduled to minimize conflicts throughout the suggested review period. Customarily, the professors do announce a forthcoming review several class lectures in advance. There is no statute requiring them to do so, but generally speaking, ample notice is usually given.

Question: In regard to the dormitory at present under construction: is it on schedule, so as to render possible its completion by next September? Has a name for it been determined?

Answer: The new dormitory is about six weeks behind the schedule, due to the unusually bad weather during the period since the beginning of construction. The contractor, Barger Construction Co., is making every effort to make up for some of this loss of time. Whether the new dormitory can be completed in time for the opening of College in September will depend to a large extent on the weather and the delivery of certain necessary building materials such as steel, built-in furniture, etc. Barring unusual difficulty along those lines, it would appear that the dormitory will be ready for occupancy in September. No name has been assigned to the new dormitory.

D. Grier Martin
Treasurer