| EGGNOG AND BETHLEHEM | (Page 2) VOL. XLV © TO BE ABANDONED? The Davidsonian The News and Editorial Voice
of Davidson College DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, DECEMBER 14, 1956 4 | — Fraternity Court, center of Davidson
social life since 1927, now faces possible replacement in the face of presently overcrowded houses and the prospects of an
enlarged student body in the next few years. Still in the planning stage, the new fraternity center would possibly be
located in the area north of the tennis courts. HOUSES COST $5,500 Fraternity Court Change Recalls 1927 Speculation settled by
numbering the houses, Forest Cadet officers and, after campus discussion of the prospects for a new fraternity court among the
fraternity men, both in the student body and the faculty, which believed that a fraternity row or court was the
best answer to the current problem. This group found strong leadership in Mr. F. L. Jackson, at that time treasurer
of the college and now Mayor of Davidson. The origin of the court plan is obscure. At that time, 1927,
no Southern colleges had such a system. As far as can be determined from available facts, the idea was unique
to the Davidson campus. The Board of Trustees finally decided on the court system, and construction was begun in early
1928 on eleven houses, designed by Mr. M. E. Boyer, Jr., of Charlotte. The houses were built at a cost
of approximately $5,500 each. All eleven houses, though differing in appearance, were designed to have equal floor space. The court
was completed in the late summer of 1928. Deciding which fraternity was to occupy which house presented quite a problem.
The question was writing the numbers on slips of paper, and allowing a representative of each fraternity to draw his
fraternity’s house number out of the hat. The houses were financed by the use of endowment money. The court is
actually an investment of the college and as such has been returning a respectable yearly profit to the college since
1928. This profit is realized from the $475 annual rent paid to the college by each fraternity. There were ten
fraternities on the campus when the court was built. The eleventh house was built to take care of any future
increase in that number. The fraternities of 1928 had an average membership of twenty-eight men, including brothers and pledges. This
is in contrast with the present-day situation when it is not uncommon for fraternities to have more than sixty members.
In recent years, many Southern colleges have modeled their fraternity housing plans on the Davidson system. The most recent adoption
of the Davidson plan has been by Wofford College, which has just completed construction on its campus of an almost
exact replica of the Davidson fraternity court. Woody Herman Signs For '56 Midwinters Weekend EIGHT D.C. CADETS VISIT WAKE FOREST
ROTC REGIMENT On Tuesday, eight Senior Cadets of the ROTC Cadet Regiment visited Wake Forest College to observe their regiment
in action. Lt. Col. Reitzel Snider, Maj. Dan LaFar, Maj. Don McRee, Capt. Bill Martin, Capt. Jim Batten, Capt. Dick
Weeks, Capt. John Lemmon and 1st Lt. Frank Bloodworth, accompanied by Cadre Lt. Col. Sapp, left Davidson early in the
morning and returned late in the afternoon. The purpose of the trip was to observe the Wake Forest ROTC operations
and to gain ideas which might be beneficial to the Davidson Cadet Corps. The group was met by Wake lunch,
was given an opportunity to watch and ask questions about the drill. After drill Col. Peyton, Wake Forest PMS&T, conducted
the Davidson Cadets through the new ROTC facilities, which take up much of the basement of the new gym. He
then explained the ROTC set up at Wake Forest and the various Cadet functions within the Cadet Corps. Christmas Vespers
Planned for Sunday George Kemmerer will be the reader in the annual Christmas Vesper Service Sunday evening. Music begins at
6:45, followed by the service at 7:30. Soloists will be Mrs. Delores Poovey and Alfred MacKay. Mrs. Poovey was in
the recent performance of the Messiah in Charlotte. MacKay is a member of the freshman class here. Music will begin
outside with the Brass Ensemble. The Chamber Orchestra will play inside, beginning at 7:10. Both the Chapel Choir and the
Male Chorus will sing. FACULTY STUDY BEGINS Winter Services Topics Given as Plans Progress Preliminary plans for the Winter Services,
February 10-13, have been announced by the Faculty Committee, the Publicity Committee, and a special committee formed to select the
themes and titles of the major addresses. The general theme of the Winter Services will be: “The Power and Practicality
of Faith: Biblical Perspectives.” On Sunday evening Dr. Eugene Carson Blake will deliver the keynote address on “The Power and
Practicality of Faith.” Blake will speak Monday morning on “The Nature of Our World.” Dr. John S. Whale will speak
Monday evening on “The Nature of God,” and Tuesday morning on “The Nature of History.” Chorus Record Sale Announced by
Plott A recording by the Davidson College Male Chorus is now on sale in Dr. Plott's office and in the
student store. The cost of these records is $3.95, with an additional forty cents for mail orders. These records are
10-inch long-playing discs, custom processed and pressed by RCA Victor, and carry a complete thirty-minute concert. The plans for this
year’s Male Chorus include a tour in March taking them to Raleigh, N. C., Washington, D. C., Baltimore, Md., Bethlehem,
Pa., and other points north. On Thursday evening the Reverend Richard R. Gilbert will speak on “The Nature of Man.”
Dr. McMurray S. Richey will speak Wednesday morning on “The Nature of Ethical Responsibility” and Wednesday evening on “The Nature
of Redemption.” Gerald Wilson heads the committee which chose these titles and themes. Dr. W. G. McGavock, chairman of the
Faculty Committee for Winter Services, formulated three study groups which began Wednesday in the faculty lounge of the Union to
study Dr. Whale’s book, “Christian Doctrine.” These groups include some eight faculty members who are led by Dr. L. B.
Schenck, Professor B. D. Thompson, and Professor Max Polley. Prof. Thompson's group meets at 4 p.m. on Wednesdays, Prof. Polley’s
at 8 p.m., and Dr. Schenk’s at 4 p.m. Thursdays. These groups will meet until the study of “Christian Doctrine”
is completed. Joe Sandifer, chairman of the Publicity Committee, announced that the Design Contest has been completed, and Bill Gramley
won first prize with his design expressing the theme in abstract. This design is to be used for the cover
of the program for the Winter Services. CATS HIT HURRICANE (Page 3) No. 12 Back for Second Straight YearOn February
15-16, Woody Herman and his Fourth Herd will furnish the musical background for the Davidson Midwinters Festival. Appearing here with
his band for the second consecutive year, Herman will play for the formal and informal dances on Friday and Saturday
evenings and give a concert on Saturday afternoon. Tickets will be sold for the standard price of $6.50. Not only
is Herman widely known for the music rendered by his clarinet and alto sax, but he also is famous as
a blues and novelty vocalist. In his early forties, he captured public acclaim immediately upon his entrance into the entertainment
world. Born in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, and schooled at Marquette University, Woodrow Wilson Herman is now leading the Fourth of his
Herd Series. His most recent bands have recorded such albums as “The Three Herds,” “Woody Herman and His Road Band,”
and “Woody Herman Dance Parade.” He is currently recording on the Capitol Label. Herman jazz is modernistic in its trend
and is characterized by solidly swinging music. Many of his former players are now stars of the music world in
their own right. Such personalities as Al Cohn, Stan Getz, Flip Phillips, and Bill Perkins received much of their boost
in Herman's band. A 1954 tour of Europe revealed Herman's universal appeal. From Oslo to Munich, Europeans acclaimed his as
the first truly great American band that they had heard. Herman attempts to express himself in this way: “The most
exciting thing in jazz is when a big band can make it.”

SANTA CLAUS was the featured attraction as 120 children from the Barium Springs Orphanage paid their annual Christmas visit to
Davidson last night. The Male Chorus entertained in the Ballroom after the children ate supper in the fraternity boarding houses.

Fraternities Fete 120 Barium Springs Children

Davidson College students were hosts on Thursday evening to approximately one hundred and twenty children from the Presbyterian Children’s Home
at Barium Springs, N.C. The annual occasion, sponsored by the Interfraternity Council, began at 5:30 P.M. when fraternity representatives met
the children who ranged in age from four through fifteen. Approximately twelve children were in each age group which accompanied
the fraternity representatives to their respective boarding houses for supper. Following supper, the children re-assembled with their sponsors in the
ballroom of the College Union. After several cartoons had been shown, the Male Chorus led the entire assembly in the
singing of familiar Christmas carols. The chorus and quartet also entertained with selections of their own. The highlight of the
evening was the time the children spent visiting in the seasonally decorated fraternity houses. Traditional games and activities occupied everyone's
attention until the appearance of Santa Claus, who distributed presents, candy, fruits, and nuts. The activities closed with the college
boys serenading the children as they boarded the buses returning to Barium Springs. Mr. Albert McClure, Davidson ‘31, who is
superintendent of the Home, expressed his appreciation to the Interfraternity Council and the Davidson College student body for “one of
the most enjoyable Christmas parties we've ever had."

Gift Fund Extended As Drive Misses Goal

Davidson students have contributed $1903.06 to the Christmas Gift Fund as of December 12. One hundred and eighty dollars has
been contributed by sources outside the college. “This total is approximately one-half of that expected,” said Bunny Perkinson, chairman of
the Gift Fund Committee. Perkinson went on to say, “We are certainly disappointed in the poor showing that the student
body has made. At the onset of the drive, it looked as if the freshmen were lagging behind, but now
the upperclassmen have joined them and are lagging behind too. Because of the lack of support, we have had to
extend the drive three extra days.”

Drive Chairman Urges Support of Seal Sale

Hugh Sapp, chairman of the local Christmas Seal Sale, yesterday reminded Davidson students that they could save postage by turning
in their dollar for seals to him. Sapp stressed the importance of contributing to this drive.

Hungarian Family Is Difficult to Secure

Communication has recently been made with the officials of Church World Service at Camp Kilmer in New Jersey. They related
that the effort to secure a Hungarian family to be brought to Davidson is being continued. With Hungary locked in
an almost total strike, the large number of people being forced to leave the country has intensified the refugee problem.
However, it was explained that ninety-eight percent of the people fleeing from Hungary are single men. In light of this
situation, the Church World Service suggested that there is a great need to help particularly those young students leaving Hungary.
They proposed that contact be made with World University Service in an effort to investigate the possibility of getting such
a student. The World University Service has set up an orientation course for these students to prepare them for college
work in this country.

Dr. Malcolm McAfee Accepts Stanford Post

Dr. Malcolm McAfee, professor of sociology, has submitted to Dean Pietenpol his resignation, effective June 1. Dr. McAfee has accepted
a new position as Presbyterian University Pastor at Stanford University in Palo Alto, California. Dr. McAfee stated that he would
be responsible for over 1200 Presbyterian students at Stanford in his new job. He offered the following statement: “There never
has been a time when I loved or respected Davidson more. It is an exceptionally good school. I could not
imagine anywhere I would rather have spent the past three years. I am going into this new job because I
feel I must be in a more active ministry.”

Davidson Alumnus in Rhodes Finals

Malcolm Williamson, 1955 graduate of Davidson College, won the right to take part in the regional competition for a Rhodes
Scholarship last Wednesday during the North Carolina State competition. The regional competition is to be held in Atlanta, Ga., tomorrow.
Williamson stands number one in his class in Duke Law School. While at Davidson, he took part in many varied
activities. He was president of Tau Kappa Alpha, Executive Editor of Scripts ‘n Pranks, president of the Forensic Council, a
member of Sigma Upsilon, and a member of Kappa Alpha social fraternity. He served as president of the Red and
Black Masquers, a member of the International Relations Club, president of the Philanthropic Literary Society, and on the Honorary Fraternity
Council. He received the A.B. degree in History and Economics. His home is in Waynesville, N.C. Out of fifteen participants
in the N.C. state competition, Williamson and Luther Hodges, Jr., of the University of North Carolina were the only two
selected to enter the regional competition. Twelve scholarships each year are offered by the Rhodes Foundation, four of which come
from the Southern region. Dan LaFar and John C. Bernhardt also represented Davidson in the state competition Wednesday.

Cunningham Granted Leave by Trustees

Through action initiated by the Executive Committee of the Board of Trustees last August, Dr. John R. Cunningham has been
granted a six to eight weeks leave of absence from his official duties as president of the College. This leave
is to become effective at Dr. Cunningham’s discretion. The Board of Trustees has insisted that both Dr. and Mrs. Cunningham
leave the college atmosphere for an extended period of rest. According to Dr. Cunningham, “Our plans are still very indefinite,
but at the present, Mrs. Cunningham and I are thinking about a trip abroad.” When asked what precipitated this action
of the Board of Trustees, Dr. Cunningham replied, “For the past several years it has been my custom to take
a few weeks off from my duties in the late summer and then again in January. These vacations are of
such duration that it is not entirely possible to be removed from official duties, such as speaking on certain occasions,
attending committee meetings, and handling some correspondence. With this in mind, the Committee has very graciously insisted that Mrs. Cunningham
and I get away from the college responsibilities for an extended length of time. Of course, it is very difficult
to find a convenient time for such in a crowded college schedule. However, it does look like I might find
time to leave after the February meeting of the Board of Trustees.” Dr. Cunningham mentioned that plans for administrative responsibilities
during his absence were still indefinite. He also noted that the nature and destination of his trip were still being
planned.

Cinemascope Showing Of “The Racers” Film

This Friday and Saturday, the College Union Film Committee will present “The Racers,” starring Kirk Douglas, in color and Cinemascope,
in the old dining room in Chambers. It will be shown Friday at 10 p.m. and Saturday at 7 p.m.
Filmed in Europe, “The Racers” depicts one of Europe's leading sports, Grand Prix sports car racing, and includes footage of
actual Grand Prix events.
