Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Volume II @ JocIT_

---

CUPOT AND VSPERS SUNDAY NIGHT

This Sunday night, July 22, the College Union will sponsor the usual biweekly buffet supper, followed by a vesper service, for the satisfaction of the bodies and souls of the unfortunate few who will be here.

Attendance at Vespers has been rather disappointing these past few weeks, and it is hoped that more students will take an interest in these services during the second session.

ATKINSON ELECTED STUDENT BODY PREXY

At a recent meeting of the summer school student council, Ray Atkinson of Charlotte was elected student body president for the second session, to replace Bill Fraley, who, with the help of Dr. McGavock, will be going home Thursday.

Although the student body will be small and classes informal, the honor system and student body regulations will be strictly enforced, just as in regular session.

Additional student council members will be chosen next week.

WEDNESDAY NIGHT SOCIAL

The usual Wednesday night social will be held tonight on the Union terrace at 9:00 PM. Lemonade and cookies will be served. Be there!

TURTOX DISCOVERED IN CHICAGO

After several weeks of diligent research, members of an investigation team headed by Dr. Olin Puckett of the Davidson College Biology Department have located a living specimen of the Frean Turtox near Cook County, Illinois. This very rare animal was trapped when it approached a cage baited with a piece of French toast secured from the College Union Cafeteria. Present research on the animal is centered around its embryological development. With a new grant from the Rockefeller Foundation, it is hoped that the FREAN TURTOX may be brought to the campus, where it will be placed on display in the College Union aquarium. Students who may be interested in further work on this project are urged to contact Nick Neurula or Gus Gasseria in Martin Science Hall immediately.

SAY YOU SAW IT IN THE S.S. DAVIDSONIAN

---

"The Summer School Davidsonian"

---

Number 3

LETTER TO THE EDITOR

Dear Editor,

The time has now come when we, the enlightened Davidson students of this new age, must bid a sorrowing farewell to our dear friends in the seminar.

When first they came as guests to our cafeteria, our love for them burst into a flame of passion—one that has grown more intense with the passing weeks. Never let it be said that a Davidson man failed to appreciate the subtle shades of beauty that we have seen roving around the campus—sometimes into the wee hours of the night—in search of better international relations. We are happy in the knowledge that each of you has managed to catch a vision (however small) of world peace.

And we must not stop here, for we owe you a debt that we shall probably spend the rest of our lives repaying. You have opened our eyes to some of the problems that we as Southerners are confronted with. We shall do everything in our power to profit by this experience, and you may go back to your homes knowing that it was you all who stirred us into thinking of how to deal with our problem.

Thank you people for being patient with our ideas and for giving some of us a chance to express them. It was splendid of you not to bother our busy professors and experts here in the South, and instead, to accept and debate with the ideas of our students.

Perhaps the most lasting impression you have made upon us was with your delicious cookies that night at C. Shaw's boarding house; thanks, folks; the cookies were peachy.

Love and Kisses,
J. C. Johnson

DAVIDSON STUDENTS VIEW SHMATASCOPE

The jolly old Davidson College Union has scored another smashing first on the campus. Monday night was the time for the first showing of the new miracle process picture done in thrilling SHMATASCOPE. The movie starred Marilyn Monroe, and Pete Morrissett was projectionist.

The chairman in charge of focusing the projector was struck by lightning shortly before the extravaganza.

If Cinemascope comes to Davidson, can Cinerama be far behind?