Cat's Meow — BY — LEON HOWELL

The Georgia Tech View

Georgia Tech’s astute president said a few days before his death that “Our young men, in varying degrees, like to
engage in competitive sports. At their ages I think they should. I think that competitive intramural and intercollegiate athletics are
a fine part of their education even when they do nothing but participate as spectators.

“Man doesn't live by bread alone, as the saying goes, and if we are to educate the whole man we
must concede that there is something else in the world besides a community of scholars.”

In one final word on the value of athletics, I quote the dean of the sport’s writers, the late Grantland
Rice, who penned:

“Perhaps I'm overfeatured
In the headline’s stirring plea.
Perhaps I’m more important
Than a mere game ought to be;
But with all the sins they speak of,
And the list is quite a span,
I'm the soul of college spirit,
And the maker of a man.”

Water, Water, Everywhere

Davidson's football team, along with 35 officials and 10 fans, got their Saturday evening bath early last week... Detected a
weakness in the passing attack in that neither quarterback can throw while treading water... Too bad the finale couldn’t have
been more demonstrative... Backfield with such as Conger, McRee, Campbell, Comer, Cutting, Fennegan, Setzler, et al to move behind Belton
and Little appears set. Still need depth in the line and improved blocking all the way around... Belton and McRee
ought to furnish top notch leadership for next season.

Around The Corner, Baseball!

Rain, longer days, with scattered sunshine indicate spring and baseball are around the corner on the natural front... predictions of
.350 batting averages, 20 wins on the mound, or another Cuban great on the citrus circuit introduce spring in the
newspapers... If the pitching comes through, we ought to have another crack squad... If they can get a playing field
out of that mud slough that’s down on the field... And wasn’t Clements the wise one when he scheduled a
game for almost every Tuesday... Ask the ROTC boys if it'll rain those days... Incidentally, if you would like to
buy a big league team, the Detroit Tigers are on the block for $2,500,000.

I, along with everyone else, was happy that my prediction that Hobby Cobb might be overlooked for All Conference went
awry... And how long has it been since Davidson has placed a player on this team in a major sport?...
It would have been nice to see “Hot Rod” try his stuff with Weeks and Mintz badgering him... It’s too
bad that an injury stopped Ray Harding only 36 short of becoming Davidson's second scorer of 1,000 points... This NCAA
rule that rules out men with four years’ experience from tournament play has just about eliminated any chances the South
had for the championship, either from the ACC or SEC (along with Shavlik’s wounded paw).

Inflation has struck Canadian football. The Canuck league (pro) has marked up the value of the touchdown from five to
six points... The best football name for sport’s pages belongs to Bob Zamzow of Northwestern. Ought to have exclamation points
after it... Don’t you wish that San Francisco had to make a tour of the “Big Four”? They'd be lucky
to split.

Hambright’s Departure

It’s going to be hard to feature the Athletic Department without Coach Hambright around... He’s been a great asset to
Davidson, on and off the field... From all reports Ratarree will be an outstanding replacement.

From Wednesday's observation, Armstrong and Hambright were the shining lights in the IFC track meet... There was little question about
Tommy Brewer’s captaincy of the All-star basketball team... And when has there been as close and as well-balanced a race
on the IFC front as the basketball season produced?... Congratulations to Tommy Rivers for being elected swimming captain... Selah!

Nonder Fabric — Best to Hold Crease and Resist Wrinkles

We Now Have an Excellent Selection of SUITS, SLACKS and WALK SHORTS IN THIS FABRIC
SUITS 49.50 - 62.50
PANTS 14.95 - 15.95
WALK SHORTS 11.95

Wilson-Wright's “COLLEGIATE FASHIONS” DAVIDSON, N. C.

SIGMA CHIS, ATOs TAKE IFC BASKETBALL

ALENDA LUX UB) abidsonian SEMI

MINTZ CHOSEN WILDCAT OF WEEK

ORTA LIBERTAS PAGE THREE FRIDAY, MARCH 2, 1956

ATOs, Sigma Chis Cage Champs

F.C. All-Stars Named

By JOHN JOHNSON

On Wednesday, February interfraternity for the number three position. During most of the season this Big Four jockeyed for the
loop lead with the Betas leading while going into the final round. But the most hotly contested basketball season in
recent years came to a close with the ATOs and Sigma Chis tied for first in the mad scramble for
places. The Betas and Kappa Sigs shared honors for the number three position. During most of the season this Big
Four jockeyed for the loop lead with the Betas leading while going into the final round. But the leaders stumbled
in the stretch and dropped their last two games. Any member of the first six teams stood a strong chance
of winning the crown because a large portion of their games were decided by only a few points.

In a battle that lasted through the final night the ATOs and Sigs, led by Murry Page and Perrin Anderson
respectively, withstood the pressure to come out victorious in 9 of their 11 contests. The Sigs lost only to the
ATOs and Phi Gams while the ATOs were downed by the SAEs and the Betas. The latter game was typical
of the competition of the whole season; the onlookers shook the gym with shouts reminiscent of varsity support as the
number two team beat the league leader.

F.C. Names All-Stars

FIRST TEAM
Brewer, Tom—Kappa Sig—(Capt.)
Page, Murray—ATO
McLaughlin, John—Beta
Andrews, Doug—Phi Delt
Anderson, Perrin—Sigma Chi

SECOND TEAM
Charlie—Campus Club
Bob Davis—Sigma Chi
Bright, Ralph—SAE
Baker, Linny—ATO
Brown, SPE

HONORABLE MENTION
Reinhardt Buck—Pika
Broughton, Tal—SPE
Wage, Dave—KA
Long, Ralph—Sigma Chi
Powell, Roger—SAE
Comer, Don—Phi Gam
Bradford, Dave—SAE
Bolt, John—Sigma Chi

FINAL STANDINGS
Team Won Lost
ATO 9 2
Sigma Chi 9 2
Betas 8 3
Kappa Sigs 8 3
Phi Delts 6 5
SPE 5 6
Phi Gam 4 7
KA 4 7
Pika 2 9
Pi Kapp 2 9
Campus Club 2 9

By OYVIND NORSTROM

Pete Ashcraft, Davidson's brightest track hope for the 1956 season, fulfilled all expectations in the Atlantic Coast Conference indoor meet
in Raleigh last week by finishing second in a strong 880 yds race. The only other Davidson entry, sprinter Phil
Koonce, has still a long way to go before reaching prime shape. The ACC meet was the last indoor event
for the Wildcats, who are now working for a well-composed outdoor program. The schedule has been slightly changed, and the
first meet will take place on March 26 at Davidson. The guests will be Williams College and Furman. After the
Spring Vacations the team goes down to Macon, Ga., for a triangular meet with Florida State and Mercer, and other
meets will follow through April and May. The climax of the season will be the Conference Meet with Virginia Tech
as hosts.

With football coach Pete Whittle now has about the complete squad working out: It is still too early to know
anything about the composition of the team. On the whole, this year's track prospects are bright. Coach Whittle is very
optimistic, and envisages new school records, Ashcraft, for instance, is a sure bet to break two of those. The interfraternity
track meet that took place this week may bring new men out for the teams, which has a 7-0 record
to defend.

NOTICE!

Tommy Rivers, the swimming team’s high point man and record holder in the 50 & 100 yd. freestyle, emerges as
captain of the Mermen for next season.

spring practice

WILDCAT Hobby Cobb AP All-Conference Team “Observer” that thrilled every Davidson basketball fan. To wit Hobby Cobb, Mr. Basketball around
the campus for the past four years.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

A story he found himself on the All-State squad. Davidson is proud of her basketball prodigy and she looks forward
to having him with her for three successful years. Our hats go off to Semi Mintz and we wish him
luck for a successful college career here at Davidson.

RECREATIONAL SWIMMING

Dr. Scott has announced that the Davidson College pool will be open for recreational swimming from 3:30 until 5:30 each
afternoon except Tuesday when it will open at 4:30.

“Opposite Ivey’s Fifth St. Entrance”
126 WEST FIFTH STREET
CHARLOTTE

Hobby Cobb, All Time Scoring Champ

TAKE THIRD IN S.C.

By JIM PAGE

On February 23-25, Davidson’s swimming team worked at V.M.I. for the Southern Conference Swimming Championship. The Wildcats swam into third
place. V.M.I., with a 166 pt. total, placed first out of a list of seven entries. V.P.I. followed the Cadets
with 68 pts. and Davidson came next with 41. Tommy Rivers, next year’s captain, led the Davidson scorers with 20
pts. Long Tom placed second in both the 50 yd and 100 yd. freestyles, and was also on the second
place 400 yd. freestyle relay team along with Spier, Winfrey, and Carrell.

Fourth place pts. were taken by Basil Sharpe in diving, John Edwards in the 200 yd. breast, Jerry Clark in
the 220 yd. freestyle, and the 400 yd. medley relay team. Clark’s time of 2:26.2 was good enough to break
the school record. Bill Carrell and John Edwards added two pts. apiece to the team total by placing fifth in
the 200 yd. backstroke and the 200 yd. breaststroke. Carrell was well on his way to taking second in the
200 yd. individual medley, but failed to touch at a turn and was disqualified. Edwards, holder of the school record
in the orthodox breaststroke, is counted as one of next year's mainstays along with Rivers, Carrell, and Clark. Sixth place
points, important in the third place team total, were taken by Alex Shepard in the 400 yd. freestyle and Captain
Ed. Spier in the 100 yd. freestyle.

The team, this year, has worked hard. They've cracked their guts along the water with the starting gun and they've
swum until they couldn't raise their hands above their heads. The results prove the effort. Third Place in the Southern
Conference. Next year's team should be even better. Rivers will be back and so will Carrell, Clark, and Edwards.

Career total—1470 points
Career average—16.7 (86 games)

SPRING SPORTS SCHEDULES LISTED

This season was the climax of his fine career. Starting every game, he made a score of shots, averaged 22.7
points per game, and led the team in rebounds with 14 per game. In appreciation for his contribution, he was
honored in pre-game ceremonies on February 22 when the famous No. 21 jersey was retired for all time. Not only
has he starred on the basketball court, but Hobby has held many important positions on campus and has been named
to ODK as well as Who's Who.

BASEBALL
Mar. 20—Presbyterian at Davidson
Mar. 22—Catawba at Davidson
Mar. 24—Catawba at Salisbury
Mar. 27—Lenoir-Rhyne at Hickory
Mar. 29—Newberry at Newberry
Mar. 30—Robbins AFB at Robbins, Ga
Mar. 31—Mercer at Macon
Apr. 2—Robbins AFB at Robbins, Ga
Apr. 6—W. & Lee at Davidson (2 games)
Apr. 10—VMI at Lexington
Apr. 11—VMI at Lexington
Apr. 14—Belmont Abbey at Davidson
Apr. 18—Lenoir-Rhyne at Davidson
Apr. 20—McCrary Eagles at Davidson
Apr. 24—Wofford at Charlotte
May 3—The Citadel at Danville
May 4—VPI at Blacksburg
May 5—VPI at Blacksburg
May 8—Furman at Davidson
May 4-5—Southern Conference Championships at Danville, Va

GOLF
Mar. 15—Rollins at Charlotte
Mar. 20—N. C. State at Raleigh
Mar. 23—Furman at Greenville
Mar. 28—N. Illinois State College at Charlotte
Apr. 5—Wofford at Spartanburg
Apr. 6—Presbyterian at Clinton
Apr. 12—Furman at Charlotte
Apr. 13—The Citadel at Charlotte
Apr. 16—N. C. State at Charlotte
Apr. 19—Presbyterian at Charlotte

TENNIS
Mar. 16—Wofford at Spartanburg
Mar. 17—Furman at Greenville
Mar. 26—Mich. State at Davidson
Mar. 27—Kenyon at Davidson
Mar. 29—S. C. at Columbia
Mar. 30—Mercer at Macon
Mar. 31—Ala. State at Troy
Apr. 2—Ala. State at Jacksonville
Apr. 4—Colgate at Davidson
Apr. 5—Kalamazoo at Davidson
Apr. 9—Duke at Durham
Apr. 12—N. C. State at Davidson
Apr. 14—Wash. & Lee at Davidson
Apr. 18—Furman at Davidson
Apr. 21—S. C. at Davidson
Apr. 27—Rollins at Davidson
May 3-4-5—Southern Conference Tennis Championships at William & Mary, Williamsburg, Virginia

TRACK
Mar. 24—Furman-Williams at Davidson
Apr. 7—Fla. State-Mercer at Macon
Apr. 14—Clemson at Davidson
Apr. 18—Richmond at Richmond
Apr. 21—The Citadel at Davidson
Apr. 28—W. & Lee at Lexington
May 5—Camp LeJeune at Raleigh
May 11-12—Southern Conference Meet at Blacksburg

To Semi Mintz, the freshman hardwooder who has looked good all year, the sports staff tips its hat. Mintz did
not break any records this year, but his excellence in all respects of the game of basketball deserves recognition. Mintz’s
value to the Cats cannot be mistaken because of the statistics which back him. His 223 points this season for
an average of 9.7 per game is not a matter which can be overlooked when determining who the strong men
are on any team. Mintz stepped to the free throw line 92 times this season and made 75 of his
shots for 81.5 percent accuracy which led the team in free shots.

The good-natured freshman proved that he is as good at stopping high scorers as he is at making points. In
the second game with Furman, Mintz held the All-American Darrell Floyd to 18 points, the lowest in 38 college games.
The fact that he is cool under fire, not easily excited or frightened, is perhaps the answer to his success
on the hardwood. The year of experience which he has gained on the varsity will certainly be advantageous also in
his success for the remainder of his college career.

Semi comes to us from Raleigh where he played for Needham Broughton High. He looked good as a eager all
during his senior year and at the end of the season he found himself on the All-State squad. Davidson is
proud of her basketball prodigy and she looks forward to having him with her for three successful years. Our hats
go off to Semi Mintz and we wish him luck for a successful college career here at Davidson.

Last Saturday afternoon, Davidson's football team knocked heads in an inter-squad scrimmage. The team was divided into two squads, red
and white. The red team rocked to a 6-0 victory. John Franc scored the only touchdown on a dive play
from two yards out, after Dyke Lyttle set up the six points with a screen pass to Ken Conger from
the twenty. All the men out for spring practice played in the game. The action consisted mainly of smashes at
the center of the line, with Conger and Finnegan, the two fullbacks, carrying most of the load. Wide stuff wouldn't
go. Passing was dangerous. It was too wet. The rain came down thick and steady. When a man was hit
you could see the mud spray. After a few minutes, the uniforms of both teams looked the same. The players
even began to wash off their faces in the puddles on the field. It was slow, muddy pounding.

In pre-game ceremonies, John Franc and Dyke Lyttle were elected Captain and Co-Captain, respectively, of the football team.

An Operator par excellence. It’s not just his suave “pitch” — he’s got the inside track on style and value,
too. Here, he sports an Arrow Gabanaro—the sport shirt that fits perfectly, in neck size and sleeve length. Gabanaro comes
in a new lighter weight rayon gabardine... 13 solid colors. Now available in a new medium-spread collar. Just $5.95.
