Sure, here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Oe MADHOUSE

There is a tide in the affairs of men which, if taken at the flood, may lead on to... It
has been called to the attention of this reporter that a few well-chosen words about the Union food might be
in order. However, when I offered the first (and most appropriate, I thought) words that came to mind, I was
severely chided and was told that such words were not in accord with the high standards of publication of this
worthy sheet (i.e., "no hells, no damns, no vulgar sex talk"). Hence, I shall be brief. Here are my suggestions
for some improvement; take them for what they are worth:

The first thing that we come to is the line. This line is usually much too long and I suggest
that it be abolished. In spite of the food (which I am coming to), we are always anxious to get
in the line and often we find that we are pushed further and further back by various and sundry secretaries.
Let chivalry die, I say! We eat the same stuff that they do and are therefore just as weak. Get
tough with them! Grrr...

The next thing that we come to are the trays. I have no quarrel with them. Napkins—likewise. The silverware has,
at times, been noted as being more or less slightly soiled. I don't suggest for one moment that a better
wash job be done, or even that it be inspected. Please, just put it at the bottom so those who
get there late and don't have to brave the line will have to use it.

Now we come to the food. At this point you might think that I shall launch into the body of
my treatise, but you are wrong; I haven't enough room. Besides, each man has his own gripes (I would have
said bitch, but can't—policy, you know), and what I say for myself wouldn't apply to everyone. Suffice it to say
that sometimes it's pretty awful. The dessert is usually pretty sweet, as is the tea. The butter has been observed
in a near liquid state several times. I also note that, upon occasions, the eggs have been slightly overdone. The
bacon is a bit greasy. The cereal is untampered with, and thus is good. The coffee is usually pretty bad.
When we get to the end of the line, we go to a table. I have no quarrel with the
tables, but there is a rumor that some of the pre-med students are running at present a bacteria count on
cultures from the— Good luck, boys!

I would note that there has been an attempt to suppress such criticism of the food by Mr. C. Shaw.
This is an unhealthy attitude and should not be condoned. The next time they are around, I want to hear
an undercurrent of muttering.

Thank you for your kind attention; now get in there and mutter!

— Submitted by a Very Anonymous Student
