PAGE FOUR

REPORT ON RETREAT
Y Cabinet Discusses ‘Compulsory’ Religion

Members of the Y cabinet recently received a report summing up the activities of the Y Retreat last month. This report was headed “Reflections from the Retreat—Encounter!” Several important topics were discussed at the annual retreat, among them being Hall Prayer Meetings, and “compulsory” religion.

A special evaluation committee has been set up to discuss whether or not the Hall Prayer Meetings are fulfilling their basic purpose. This committee is composed of various members of the student body, some of whom frequently attend these Meetings, and some who seldom attend. This committee will submit to the full Y Cabinet a complete report on its findings later this year.

The retreat dealt at length with the problem of how to get more people, both faculty and students, incorporated into the program of the YMCA. Renewed emphasis was placed on the activity chart in the Y office. Discussion then centered on the perennial problem of “compulsory religion.” The administration's position was stated: “The required religious program of the school confronts the students with the great ideas and ideals and information just as the year of required math presents to the students symbolic logic although they often complain.”

MORE ANNOUNCED Graduate Fellowships For Advanced Study Offered

American students of engineering, science, architecture, agriculture, and commerce may apply for foreign on-the-job training during the 1957 summer, according to an announcement made by the U.S. Committee for IAESTE, the International Association for the Exchange of Students for Technical Experience.

During the 1957 summer, American engineering students will work abroad and American industry will accept foreign engineering students for training under IAESTE’s unique program. Under this program, college students in engineering and other technical fields are sent abroad for on-the-job training during their summer vacations for a minimum period of eight weeks. In 1956, 58 U.S. students trained in 13 European countries and 75 foreign students were employed in 45 U.S. industries. In 1955, 20 Americans received foreign training assignments and 39 foreign engineering students came here. The Institute of International Education, 1 East 67th Street, New York 21, New York, is coordinating the IAESTE program.

Maynard M. Boring, Manpower Consultant at General Electric, past President, American Society for Engineering Education, Chairman of the U.S. IAESTE Committee, announced that the program is open to qualified seniors in engineering and other technical fields. Applications must be received before February 15, 1957. Further information may be had from the Dean of the Graduate School, Emory University, Emory University, Georgia.

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY

Princeton University announces the opening of the annual competition for twelve Princeton National Fellowships, each with a normal value of $2150, for entering graduate students in the Humanities and Social Sciences. Unsuccessful candidates will be considered for all other Princeton awards. Completed applications are due by March 1, 1957. Interested students should write to the Dean of the Graduate School, Princeton University, Princeton, New Jersey.

DUKE UNIVERSITY

Duke University is offering more than 150 appointments in the Graduate School to qualified applicants. Fellowships, scholarships, assistantships, research fellowships, and research associateships are available. They carry stipends ranging from $400 to $2200. Applications must be completed before March 1, 1957. For application blanks, interested seniors should write to the Graduate College, Ohio University, Athens, Ohio.

EMORY UNIVERSITY

Emory University is offering to qualified seniors twenty-five University Fellowships of $1750 for the first year of graduate study. In addition, a large number of assistantships and teaching fellowships carrying stipends from $800 to $2,400 are available. Completed applications for appointments must be received before February 15, 1957. Further information may be had from the Dean of the Graduate School, Emory University, Emory University, Georgia.

ALABAMA GRAD SCHOOL

The University of Alabama Graduate School is offering twenty University scholarships to first-year graduate students of exceptional ability. These scholarships are non-service and carry a stipend of $750 and free non-resident tuition. A large number of assistantships with stipends ranging from $1,200 to $1,650 are also available. Campus apartments, renting from $27.00 to $35.00 per month with utilities, are available to married students. Applications for students who hold scholarships, fellowships, or assistantships will, whenever possible, be given first consideration. All applications for awards must be completed before March 1, 1957.

OHIO UNIVERSITY

The Graduate College at Ohio University (Athens, Ohio) is offering several graduate appointments. Appointees live in university housing and pay room and board. Their stipend is $1600 plus the waiver of fees. These appointments are available to married men as Heads of Residence in the men’s dormitories. The compensation for these appointments consists of a furnished apartment, board for the man and wife, $500 for two semesters, and waiver of most fees.

The Graduate Record Examination will be given at Davidson on January 19, 1957. Completed applications for this Examination must reach the Educational Testing Service in Princeton, New Jersey, before January 4, 1957. Seniors who expect to attend Graduate School are urged to consult the catalogue of the school which they wish to enter to see whether the Graduate Record Examination is required for admission. Applications and additional information may be secured from Professor Abernethy.

AED Hears Talk by Reece On Field of Pathology

“Pathology As A Specialty” was the topic of a lecture given by Dr. John C. Reece, Pathologist of Grace Hospital in Morganton, at the Wednesday night meeting of Alpha Epsilon Delta, honorary pre-medical fraternity.

Dr. Reece described pathology as a specialty that has grown tremendously in importance with the advent of modern medicine. The complexity of modern clinical procedures in the hospital and the necessity for interpretation of these procedures by a highly trained specialist has raised pathology to a paramount position in the medical world.

The field of pathology today involves two major divisions. Clinical pathology, the first of these, is concerned with the examination of specimens by bacteriological, serological, and chemical methods. Dr. Reece stressed the fact that in the interpretation of these tests the pathologist plays a major role in the treatment of patients. The results may suggest to him changes in treatment which are passed along to the clinician who is actually treating the patient.

Surgical pathology is the other major division of this specialty. Here, the “chips from the surgeon’s table” fall to the pathologist for evaluation. Many times the ultimate decision regarding benign and cancerous tumors lies in the evaluation given a surgical specimen by the pathologist. As a subdivision of this field, the pathologist is also responsible for performing autopsies which are vital in many respects.

Classical Club Hears Lecture by Dr. Beaty

The Classical Club held its December meeting on Monday evening, at 7:15 in the Green Room of the College Union. Dr. Ernest Beaty spoke to the group concerning ancient Near Eastern festivals, parts of which are incorporated into our present Christmas celebration. He showed how the Christian Church had “borrowed pagan celebrations and baptized them.” Components of our present Christmas festivities were to be found in the Saturnalia of the Roman Empire, certain cult rites of Persian Mithraism, and in the Jewish Festival of Lights. These last two occasions were also celebrated on December 25th.

Grier Davis moderated a panel discussion concerning the present AB requirements as they related to the inclusion of a classical language. Members of the panel were Jock Reeder, Laurens Walker, Harry Paschall, and Phil Kukura. Dr. Labban announced that the Davidson chapter of the national honorary classical fraternity, Eta Sigma Phi, would be reactivated early in the second semester. The meeting closed with refreshments.

Chartered Bus Goes To Raleigh Exhibit

An opportunity for faculty and students to visit the 350th Anniversary Rembrandt Exhibition at the North Carolina Museum of Art in Raleigh tomorrow, December 15th, has been made available by the Guild of Charlotte Artists, according to Douglas Houchens, professor of fine arts. The chartered bus for the all-day trip will leave Charlotte at 8 o'clock tomorrow morning and is expected to return late in the afternoon. The fare is only $3 for the round trip.Mas season. Bill Pfefferkorn read a Spanish version of Dickens’ “Christmas Carol,” which was followed by the singing of carols in Spanish. “Merry Christmas, Amigos” was read by Hugo Misle. The program ended with the breaking of the traditional Spanish pinata. Members recently initiated into the Spanish Club are: Ned Austell, Joe Bell, A. H. Bracey, W. L. Hefner, Bill Hellier, Woody Hunt, Dave Lyon, J. P. Lund, Madison Meyer, Hugo Misle, Jim Owens, Ed Pantigoso, J. O. Patterson, J. M. Pleasants, Newt Quantz, John Renfro, Pete Sterling, Ralph Triplette, Bruce Wilder, E. C. Wilson, and Lash Zemp.

1957. Further information may be had from the Dean of the Graduate School at Duke University. The Duke University Commonwealth-Studies Center will supplement University fellowships and scholarships with special grants, ranging from $1500 to $2300, for a selected number of applicants. For information regarding the conditions for these grants, interested students should write the Secretary, Duke University Commonwealth-Studies Center, Durham, N. C.

GENERAL ELECTRIC
The General Electric Educational and Charitable Fund is again offering a total of 34 Fellowships in the Physical Sciences, Engineering, Industrial Arts, Arts and Sciences, Law and Business. The stipends are $1750 for a single man, $2100 for a married man without dependent children, and $2500 for a married man with children. Completed applications are due January 15, 1957. Interested seniors should see Professor G. L. Abernethy at once.

SANTA CLAUS ANALYZED
Why oh why does Santa go, “Ho-Ho, Ho-Ho, Ho!” Is it just because he’s jolly? I believe he’s off his trolley. ... Gifts for everyone on earth Breed hysteria—not mirth. If you had his job to do Bet you'd shake like jelly too! Moral: End your gift problems before they start. Give Chesterfield in the carton that glows for real—to all the happy folk who smoke for real! Buy lots—to do lots for your Christmas list. Smoke for real ... smoke Chesterfield!

COLLEGE NOMINATE
U. S. colleges have been asked to nominate qualified American students who wish practical training abroad. Candidates must be endorsed by the officials of their own schools. In addition, each applicant must have completed his third year of engineering or scientific study, must have had practical experience in this country, and must be able to pay for his international travel. Applicants may indicate their choice of country from among the IAESTE members as well as their particular field of specialization. The deadline for receipt of applications is December 28, 1956. Each American applicant will be asked to pay a $25 application fee, $20 of which will be returned if no suitable placement can be made. Candidates withdrawing before January 15, 1957, will have $15 refunded to them.

The 58 American students who participated in IAESTE’s program last summer went to 13 European countries. Austria received 5; Belgium, 1; Denmark, 3; Finland, 1; France, 5; Germany, 10; Great Britain, 8; Italy, 3; the Netherlands, 5; Norway, 1; Spain, 1; Sweden, 9; and Switzerland, 6. Other countries participating in the IAESTE program are: Canada, Iceland, India, Israel, Portugal, Turkey, and Yugoslavia.

FIELDS OFFERED
The American students were in the following fields: mechanical engineering, 12; chemical engineering, 9; electrical engineering, 4; commerce, 5; civil engineering, 4; architectural engineering, 3; physics, 3; architecture, 3; liberal arts, 2; industrial engineering, 2; chemistry, 2; air transportation, 1; metallurgical engineering, 2; zoology, 1; geological engineering, 1; aeronautical engineering, 1. The 58 students represented 24 American colleges. Institutions sending the largest numbers were Purdue University, Princeton University, University of Rochester, Cornell University as well as the Universities of Michigan and Pittsburgh. Among the other colleges represented were Mount Holyoke and Sarah Lawrence, Yale University, and the Universities of Louisville and Texas.

IAESTE was organized in 1948 by universities and industries of nine countries in Western Europe. Its aims are to train advanced students of science and technology in the theories and techniques of other nations, and to build a foundation for international understanding and goodwill among these potential leaders of science and industry. IAESTE today has 22 member countries, including the U.S.A. and Canada.

In a communication to be mailed shortly to all parents of present students and recent graduates, the committee states that “Davidson needs the full $125,000 from parents, alumni, and friends to balance and strengthen its operating budget for faculty salaries, student scholarships, and other vital areas of the college program. Each gift—large or small—from a ‘Davidson family’ stimulates additional support for the college from corporations and foundations.” Contributions from parents will be combined with gifts from alumni, corporations, foundations, and friends in an effort to reach the $125,000 goal which has been set for the annual giving program. Over $80,000 of this amount has been received to date, and an additional $45,000 must be raised by December 31 when the fund year closes, according to President John R. Cunningham's report to the group at their luncheon meeting in Charlotte last week at the City Club.

Parent members of the committee who represent recent graduates are H. F. Cobb and Dr. E. K. McLean. J. Earl Thompson and Ellison A. Smyth represent the parents of present Seniors and Juniors at the college and C. P. Johnston and Dr. Lawrence I. Stell are heading up the effort on behalf of the sophomore class parents. Leaders in the program whose sons are now freshmen at the college are Dr. J. M. Alexander, S. S. Farabow, and O. P. Wearn.

Marotte Addresses
Dr. Paul Marotte of the History department spoke on the Hungarian situation at the Tuesday night meeting of Scabbard and Blade. An informal discussion period followed his talk. The possibilities of entering Scabbard and Blade’s national rifle meet were discussed during the business session.

Inadequate Housing (Continued from Page One)
The irregular shaped room is one particular eye-catching object. It is a clam shell from the South Pacific which weighs in the neighborhood of 300 pounds. While the museum is not at present open to the scrutiny of the general public, there is hope for improvement in the future. Dr. Tom Daggy, professor of biology, expressed the following sentiments. “The cases are not adequately lighted at present, and there are not adequate display organs for protection from dust and observers. We hope in the near future to get enough time and money to put the collection in good shape. Our ultimate desire is to make it accessible for observation.”

Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... PIZZA. The famous OPEN KITCHEN 1318 W. Morehead Charlotte, N.C.

PHOTO BY DAVID SEYMOUR
THE PERFECT GIFT FOR PARENTS — GIRLS — FRIENDS
The Davidson College Male Chorus in A Recorded Program of Choral Music—a 10”, 33 1/3, SPRECTROFONIC, High Fidelity Record Custom Pressed by R.C.A. Victor ONLY $3.95 ON SALE NOW AT THE STUDENT STORE Mail Orders Accepted—Address request to Department of Music, Davidson College, P. O. Box 356, Davidson, N. C. (Add 40c Per Record For Mailing Charges)

College Union Seeks Collections to Display
The Display Committee of the College Union requests that all students having collections which they would be willing to display in the Union to contact the Union Desk.

Mr. Kenneth Whitsett will conduct a guided tour of the museum for those who wish authoritative comments on Rembrandt’s works. It is expected that a good number of students from Queens will make the trip. Admission to the museum. Those wishing to go should contact Mr. Kenneth Whitsett immediately for information as to the exact point of departure. Reservations may be made by sending the $3 fee to him at the Pictorial Engraving Company, 2082 Fourth Street in Charlotte. The telephone is ED 3-3373. This is a representative selection of the works of the greatest Dutch masters.

Must be something to it. That's where the pause that refreshes with ice-cold Coke began. Now it's enjoyed fifty million times a day. Have an ice-cold Coca-Cola and see... right now. COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD

Because hunger hurts! Because this little boy’s not interested in catcher's mitts or chemistry sets... all he asks is enough to eat! And there is. Have an... Send $1 to CARE FOOD CRUSADE NEW YORK 16, NEW YORK or to your local CARE office because a single dollar to CARE will send his family 22 lbs. of food in your name! Because your dollar will help feed a family overseas for a month! ©1956, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY