(Page 2)

GIRLS RATE THE DAVIDSON GENTLEMAN

THE DAVIDSONIAN

NETTERS MEET SOUTH CAROLINA

(Page 3)

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

VOL. XLIV DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, APRIL 20, 1956 NO. 22

By CLAGETT TAYLOR

In balloting by the junior class this week Carl Cooper was chosen as freshman advisor to the class of 1960
and Ed Young was elected to the editorship of the 1957 edition of Quips and Cranks, the college annual.

Cooper, a Baker Scholar from Durham, N. C., has been active in many aspects of student life. He is now
president of his fraternity, Beta Theta Pi, and in the past has served as secretary and rush chairman. As a
freshman he received the outstanding pledge award. Cooper was also a member of the Freshman Council and this year served
as a junior class representative to the Student Council as well as being on the YMCA Board of Directors. He
is a history honors major and is preparing for the ministry. When asked for a statement, Cooper said, “Realizing the
potential opportunity for service which is coming to me through my election to this post, I will serve next year’s
freshman class to the best of my ability.”

Ed Young defeated Tom Morgan Thursday in a runoff for the annual editor’s position. Coming to Davidson from Louisville, Kentucky,
he is the third SAE to head up the annual in four years. Young has been active on the annual
during his three years at Davidson. As a freshman he served as proofreader and general errand boy. He was Picture
Editor last year and a staff copywriter this year. Young also is Campus Editor for the 1956 Going to College
Handbook.

Concerning his election, he told the Davidsonian, “It's a heck of a big job. I hope that I can maintain
standards.”

In the final week of spring balloting next week the election of class representatives to the Student Council will be
completed. Two representatives to the Athletic Council and next year’s head cheerleader will also be chosen. In Friday’s chapel the
inauguration of the Student Council for 1956-57 will take place.

Bunny Perkinson, representative-elect for Phi Delta Theta, was elected president of the Interfraternity Council for the coming year at the
organizational meeting last Monday night. Also elected at the meeting were Ken Conger, secretary, and Jerry Kivett, treasurer. Perkinson, who
hails from Chattanooga, Tennessee, is a member of the junior class this year. He is a Union Carbide Scholar and
taking history honors. He serves as first vice-president of the Student Council and Chairman of the Student Council committee on
Athletics. He is a member of the Philanthropic Literary Society and during his first year was a member of the
Freshman Council. On the social side, Bunny holds the office of rush chairman for his fraternity.

IN FINE ARTS FESTIVAL

College Orchestra to Present Concert

The Davidson College Chamber Orchestra under the direction of Frank West will present the sixth program on the current Ninth
Annual Fine Arts Festival at Davidson College. The concert will be given free in Chambers Auditorium at 8:15 o’clock on
Wednesday evening, April 25.

Guest soloist with the orchestra will be Louise Nelson Pfohl, concert pianist, performing the Mozart “Concerto for Piano and Orchestra
in E-flat Major, K.499.” Mozart composed this concerto in 1784, and it is the first work which he entered in
his thematic catalogue of his own works. In that same year he composed no less than six piano concertos.

Mrs. Pfohl, a member of the Davidson College faculty, is a graduate of the University of Michigan, where she later
taught. She is generally recognized as one of the outstanding concert pianists in the South, having appeared as guest soloist
with numerous symphony orchestras. Her husband, James Christian Pfohl, is the conductor of the Charlotte (N.C.) Symphony Orchestra and former
Director of Music at Davidson College.

Frank West, director of bands at Davidson College, will conduct the orchestra in the “Concerto in D Major” by C.P.E.
Bach as the initial offering on the program. Other numbers will include the “Incidental Music” by Gabriel Faure to the
play “Pelleas et Melisande” by Maeterlinck. Douglas Moore's “Village Music” (Suite for Chamber Orchestra) appears as the last selection.

(Continued On Page Four)

‘D’ Club Follies Initiate Gala Weekend Festivities

By BOBBY AUSTIN

Sauter-Finegan Highlights Frolics

Tonight marks the beginning of the highlight of the Spring season as the annual Spring Frolics Weekend gets underway. This
weekend will be packed with entertainment of all types and with the annual presentation of the “D Club Follies.” This
year, the scene is to be held in one of Tokyo's famed geisha houses where several American sailors find themselves
involved in a variety of adventures.

Following the “Follies” presentation, the usual formal dance will be held in the gym. The Y.M.C.A. will sponsor a hayride
following the formal dance at 1:00 a.m. Music for the weekend will be presented by Sauter-Finegan’s band.

On Saturday afternoon there will be a concert on the front campus on the green between Phi and Eu at
3:00 p.m. In case of inclement weather, the concert will be held in the auditorium of Chambers. That evening, there
will be an informal dance in the gym at 8:00 p.m.

The Sauter-Finegan band has been an acclaimed hit all over the country. They want to be more than just another
dance band and want to play music that says something to the people and provokes them into something more than
mere listening. Sauter-Finegan doesn’t want to play music that appeals only for a moment. It specializes in music that makes
an everlasting impression. It has given to the other dance bands the privilege of playing music of this obvious type.

The two band leaders commented, “Whatever identity our band has will grow out of our own writing. We want to
be witty, humorous, and conversational. We don’t want to write anything that will be heavy. Everything will be mood, and
we feel that there is a mood for every purpose.”

NEW MINISTER TO BE HIRED

The YMCA Board of Directors has taken a step forward as they seek someone to replace “Y” Secretary Will Terry
next year as he returns to continue his theological training. The Board has approved a plan whereby a half-time position
of valuable opportunity and responsibility will be created. Though the title for this job is undecided, “Minister to Students” gives
some idea as to its nature.

This new “minister” shall be an ordained minister with at least two years experience and preferably a Bachelor of Divinity
degree. He shall have as his principal concern the spiritual life of the students of Davidson College. He would be
responsible for the administration of the religious program of the college, student counseling on matters of faith and student life,
and keeping in touch with the needs of the students.

R. O. T. C. INSPECTION

A full-dress regimental parade under ideal weather conditions, and an officer's call in the Davidson College Union, terminated the two-day
inspection tour by the Third Army. This inspection of the Davidson College ROTC detachment, on April 16 and 17, will
determine the detachment’s overall rating for the current year.

The inspection party was headed by Colonel James L. Beynon, and an officer's call in the Davidson College Union, terminated
the two-day inspection tour by the Third Army. This inspection of the Davidson College ROTC detachment, on April 16 and
17, will determine the detachment’s overall rating for the current year.

The highlight of this year’s activities for the Business-Economics Association will come on Tuesday, May 1, 1956, when three of
the most outstanding business authorities in the country will visit the Davidson campus. Discussion at the meeting will cover accounting
and taxation aspects of modern business management.the college, which will represent the field of taxation, with Dr. W. A. Paton
and Major Carlton J. Barnes, Infantry, and Major Elwood K. Patey, Infantry. Dr. W. A. Paton is a noted author
and a pioneer in developing new accounting concepts and tools. The college shall be divided into two parts. They are
those aspects which deal with the entire student body, and a select group of some thirty business leaders from Charlotte
will be invited to attend the meeting.

During the past few weeks, most of the social fraternities have held their annual election of officers for the coming
year. However, elections have not yet been held by the Pi Kapps, SAES, and the Sigma Chis. The APO's elected
Franklin Bloodworth as President, Lloyd Chavis as Vice-President, Tom Morris as Secretary, and Sam Sutton as Treasurer. Bunny Perdue was
elected as I.F.C. Representative.

During the course of the two days, the inspection party was introduced to the assigned military personnel, given a briefing
by the Cadet Regimental Staff, visited regularly scheduled classes, and made calls to college officials. They inspected the records and
facilities of the detachment and viewed Tuesday's drill and parade. Colonel Beynon and his assistants expressed satisfaction with the training
and facilities they had seen, but no official comments were immediately available, and it will be some time before the
results are known definitively.

Mr. Coleman Andrews is currently serving as Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of the American Fidelity and
Casualty Company of Richmond, Virginia. Mr. Andrews served as Commissioner of the Bureau of Internal Revenue from 1952 to 1955,
during which period the Bureau of Internal Revenue was reorganized and the Federal Tax Code was revised.

Mr. Willard Graham is head of the Accounting Program and Director of the Executive Development Program at the University of
North Carolina. He served as President of the American Accounting Association during the past year. Because of the caliber of
the speakers and the importance of the topic, a special dinner meeting of the entire Association is being held in
the Union Ballroom. All those interested in attending should contact a member of the Board of Directors as soon as
possible.

The Betas have elected Carl Cooper as President, Tony Dick as Vice-President, Laurens Walker as Secretary, Ed Bell as Treasurer,
and Jimmy Martin as I.F.C. Representative. The Eps have elected Bill Daniel as President, Jack Graham as Vice-President, Ed Moore
as Secretary, Don McRee as Treasurer, and Charlie Brown as I.F.C. Representative.

The Campus Club has elected Dave White as President, L. W. Posey as Vice-President, C. K. Barrow as Secretary, and
Randy Vereen as I.F.C. Representative. The K.A.'s have elected Larry Trotti as President, Bill Lazenby as Vice-President, Bob Majors as
Secretary, and John Trask as I.F.C. Representative.

At the last meeting of the publications board, Wednesday, April 11, the business managers for the coming year were nominated
and approved by the board. The Vereen Bell Memorial Award and address will be presented soon. This award for creative
writing is open to the entire student body. The winner of this award will receive a first prize of $75,
which is an increase of $25 over the first prize offered last year. The purpose of announcing the award a
week early is to encourage students to be present at the contest.

The following companies will be in the College Union next week to hold interviews for interested students: Security Life and
Trust Co., April 20; U.S. Internal Revenue, April 25; National Carbon Co., April 26. Seniors interested in sales work may
be interviewed by the Fidelity Union Life Insurance Company on April 30.

Out of the shadows, a familiar face inevitably emerges as Cop Linker arrives on the scene. “Okay boy, let’s call
it a night...”
