FRIDAY, APRIL 27, 1956

Slants On Sports
By JOHN JOHNSON

ON THE CINDERS

Of all the sports on the Davidson scene, the winningest team is undoubtedly the track squad under the tutorship of
Pete Whittle. Their record thus far this season has been five wins and two losses. Of the three remaining meets,
the thin clads will probably win two and drop the third. If the future holds true to these guesses, the
Wildcats will finish the season with a 7-3 record, enough to boost Coach Whittle’s overall win record to within two
places of the century mark. Pete will have been victorious in 98 meets while losing only 47 during his 22
years at Davidson. Also, during this period, every school record except the 9.6 in the 100-yard dash has been set.

RECORDS RECORDS

On the current squad, Pete Ashcraft possesses the mile record at 4:20.9. This year, three records have fallen. Ashcraft ran
a 1:58.2 in the 880 to change the school's oldest record set in 1905. Bill Gramley lengthened his own shot
put mark from 47' 2" to 47' 4". Bill is also within four inches of the discus record. The largest
margin of change was recorded by the mile relay team of Mallory, Diuguid, Ashcraft, and Elder. They knocked more than
three seconds off their event, dropping it to 3:54.4. Would all of this record-breaking indicate that the Red and Black
are a cinch to win the Southern Conference to be held May 12 at Blacksburg, Virginia? Unfortunately, no; but they
will be definite contenders for the crown. If the squad were balanced, this year’s track team would be the best
in the school’s history. However, along with the strong points, the thin clads are weaker in the high jump, pole
vault, and high hurdles.

INTO THE FUTURE

In the conference meet, all of the squad record holders will be among the favorites in their events. In addition,
Phil Koonce is likely to repeat his wins of last year in the 220 and 100. Other men who will
probably finish in the upper brackets are Dave Regen in the shot, Dale Gramley in the discus, Bubba Martin in
the javelin, and Oyvind Norstrom in the two-mile. What school will win? In the words of Coach Whittle, “It will
be a dogfight between Davidson, Richmond, William and Mary, and VPI.”

Whittle

Just look around campus. You'll see that the “custom” details of this Arrow University shirt are definitely “college correct.” The
box pleat, the soft-roll button-down collar, and the back button are basic requirements. In 9 solid colors, this is the
oxford shirt for you. Wear it with comfortable Arrow Bermuda shorts. They’re poplin, and available in 6 colors. Shirts, $5.00.
Ties, $2.50. Shorts, $5.00.

ARROW — first in fashion
SHIRTS © TEES © SLACKS

Your Financial Future is as Blank as This . . .???

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Baseballers to Battle Citadel
Dave Page To Be On Mound In Clash Tomorrow

CINDERMEN DOWN CLEMSON, CITADEL; DEFEATED BY RICHMOND'S SPIDERS

The last three meets have brought two victories and one very close defeat for the thin clads. Clemson offered good
resistance here, but the hosts won the dual meet by 70 1-2 to 60 1-2 points; however, it was so
close that a Clemson victory in the relay would have tied it. The defeat came at the hands of an
enormously improved University of Richmond team, which two days later also downed Southern Conference favorite VPI. The Citadel, visiting Richardson
Stadium in the last track meet of the year at that arena, was soundly beaten by a score of 97-34.
Figures that might have been even more impressive but for a forfeit of the mile relay.

The big men of the team are still Phil Koonce, Bill Gramley, and Pete Ashcraft. Gramley succeeded in bettering his
own school record in the shot with a heave of 47 feet 4 inches in the Clemson meet. The mile
relay team, consisting of Roswell Mallory, Phil Diuguid, Pete Ashcraft, and Al Elder, made the most outstanding performance of the
season thus far in running a great 3:25.4 against Richmond. The performance set another school record. Other outstanding results are
turned in by Ashcraft, making an excellent 4:24.7 in defeating Richmond’s Chukinas in the mile, and another sub-two-minute half-mile (1:59.4)
in the Citadel meet. In the latter contest, Koonce, slightly helped by a favorable wind, ran an impressive 9.7 on
the short dash and followed up with a personal best in the broad jump (22' 8").

SIGMA CHIS AND PHI GAMS “SPARKLE” ON SOFTBALL DIAMOND

The crack of the bat and the thud of the mitt, which are familiar sounds on the scattered diamonds these
days, are excellent signs that spring is here again in full force and that the interfraternity softballers are going strong.
The Phi Gams and Sigma Chis have fielded two top-notch teams this season and as a result have been running
side by side the entire season. Wednesday, however, found the Phi Gams alone on the loop's top rung as they
set the Betas back 13-2.

The strong pitching arm of Joe Williford, and the power at the plate supplied by Stafford Query accounts for a
considerable part of the Phi Gams’ success, while Walt Davis and John Baker seem to be the strong men for
the Sigma Chis.

IFC SPORT STANDINGS

In general, the teams look to be in good condition and in excellent competitive spirits. With the standings as close
as they are at the moment, all the Greeks see a championship in their future. The standings through Wednesday are:

Team W L
Phi Gams 5 0
Sigma Chis 4 1
Betas 4 2
Phi Delts 4 2
Sig Eps 3 2
KAs 3 3
SAEs 3 3
Pi Kapps 3 3
Independents 2 4
Kappa Sigs 2 4
ATOs 1 5
Pikas 0 4

During the 5th inning of the baseball game with Belmont Abbey on the local diamond, Wildcats McRee and Hope were
on base by virtue of singles. There was one out, and the fourth batter stepped to the plate. He let
two balls go by, and then clobbered the third. The ball streaked for deep center, hit far behind the fielder,
and with one hop disappeared over the fence. Jim West drove in two runs and collected his third double of
the season on that swing. When the game was over, the Cats had won 9 to 4.Aided by the three
hits and three runs personally accounted for by West. Whether patrolling the outfield, running the bases, or taking his turn
at the plate, one of the steadiest men on Coach Clement's baseball team is Jim “Punch” West of Salisbury, North
Carolina. Despite his big 200 pounds, Jim is a good runner. In addition to aiding him in playing his right
field position, his speed causes him to resemble a runaway locomotive on the base paths. Jim’s greatest asset, however, is
his powerful bat which he has kept busy this season. In the VMI contest at Lexington, Jim went into action
as a relief hurler. During the seventh inning of that game, he did the unexpected for a pitcher: he clouted
a home run. Jim is currently batting at the .314 mark and his hits have accounted for some of the
longest drives in Davidson games this season. His power, which has proved to be the margin of victory in several
games, has been one of the brightest spots in Wildcat batting this season. Jim has been up 35 times and
has collected 11 hits, including a home run and four doubles—good evidence of his strength with the stick. Jim, also
active in campus life, is a member of Sigma Phi Epsilon social fraternity. An all-round athlete, he is an important
cog in Coach Dole’s football machine in the fall.

Cat Golfers Stomp Presbyterian, Citadel

Tuesday afternoon at the Myers Park Golf Club, the Wildcats out-stroked Wofford 22 1-2 to 4 1-2. In the doubleheader
here Tuesday against Presbyterian College, they bettered the Blue Hose of PC by the identical score. In both meets, every
Davidson man won his match. Against Wofford, George Scott, a local Statesville threat, snared medalist honors for the day with
a three-over-par 75. Larry Parrott, Skipper Hall, Sam Sloan, and Ned Payne also broke 80. In the PC contest, as
in the majority of the Cats' previous matches, bad weather added many undesirable strokes to all scores. Freshman Sammy Sloan
was medalist with a 75.

The Wildcats have ten contenders battling for the four positions to play in the Southern Conference meet which will be
held May 4 in Danville, Virginia. Playoffs will be made next week. Although only four can play in the actual
competition, Coach Tom Scott will take six men on the trip. They will come from the following group: Captain Larry
Parrott, Skipper Hall, Ned Payne, George Scott, George Vaughn, Tom Johnson, Sam Sloan, Bill Purks, and Bucky Dennis. Any of
these men, says Scott, are capable of par golf. The squad is strong enough to place close to the top
in the tournament.

Results of the Furman match:
1. Hall (D) beat Fleming (W) 3-0.
2. Parrott (D) beat Still (W) 2-1.
Hall and Parrott beat Fleming and Still 3-0.
3. Sloan (D) beat Mace (W) 2-1.
4. Scott (D) beat Hawkins (W) 2-1.
Sloan and Scott beat Mace and Hawkins 2 1-2 to 1 1-2.
5. Vaughn (D) beat Huff 2 1-2 to 1-2.
6. Payne (D) beat Watson (W) 3-0.
Vaughn and Payne beat Watson and Huff 2 1-2 to 1-2.

Coach Chuck Clements’ Davidson nine will hit The Citadel Bulldogs tomorrow in the second half of a two-day Southern Conference
doubleheader, with lefty Dave Page slated to start on the mound for the Wildcats. The league contest is scheduled to
start at 2:30 p.m. on the Davidson diamond, and it will be the third of eight consecutive starts against conference
opposition. Next week’s schedule shows a doubleheader here Tuesday against the powerful Indians of William and Mary, and games on
Friday and Saturday against V.P.I. on the Gobblers' stomping ground at Blacksburg.

The Wildcats will close out their regular season on May 8 with a battle against Furman's Purple Hurricane. The action
of the past week has seen the Davidson nine have rough sledding as they dropped two contests—one conference game and
one non-family affair. On last Friday, the Wildcats met the invading McCrary Eagles, a strong semi-pro club, and the Eagles
downed the Davidsonians by an 11-1 count. Getting 3 runs in the first inning, the Eagles were never behind after
that, banging out six doubles and two triples in a heavy batting barrage. The Eagles used three pitchers, and Hicks,
Reeder, and Hamner held the Wildcats to 8 hits. Only in the third inning, when they bunched three hits without
a run, were the Cats able to get over one hit in an inning. The lone run for the Red
and Black came in the eighth inning when Shelbourne Wallace slammed out a home run with no one on base.

Furman's Purple Hurricane invaded the Wildcat lair last Tuesday, and the visitors downed Davidson in a wild contest, 12-10. A
big five-run inning in the third gave the Cats a healthy 6-1 lead, as Kyber, the Furman starter, was driven
from the mound. In the fourth, the Cats appeared to have put the game on ice as they scored two
more runs to go ahead 8-1. Thomas’ triple was the big hit of the inning. The Hurricanes refused to give
up so easily, however, and they banged away at the Davidson lead until they tied the game up in the
seventh. In the ninth, the roof fell in on the Cats as two errors, a passed ball, and three Furman
hits produced four runs.

DAVIDSON
Player AB H O A
Tomer, 3b 5 2 3 1
McRee, cf 2 2 1 0
Thomas, cf 3 2 3 0
Hope, 2b-p 4 1 2 2
Campbell, lf 5 1 1 0
West, rf 5 1 1 0
Morris, ss 2 0 4 4
Little, 1b 4 1 7 0
Wall, c 4 0 5 1
Dagenhart, p 2 1 0 1
Patterson, 2b 1 0 0 0
Kiser, 2b 1 1 0 1
TOTALS 38 12 27 10

FURMAN
Player AB H O A
Cooper, 1b 5 1 10 0
Dellinger, 3b 6 3 2 2
Popson, c 5 5 6 1
Gaines, cf 5 1 0 0
Penland, lf 6 1 1 0
Powers, rf 3 1 2 0
Bagwell, rf 2 1 2 0
Weir, 2b 6 1 3 3
Baltzegar, ss 4 1 4 2
Kyber, p 1 0 0 0
Watson, p 2 1 0 0
Moore, p 0 0 0 0
TOTALS 45 16 27 10

Furman 100 022 304—12
Davidson 105 200 002—10

JOE—Ey- RECORD—SHOP
“Opposite Ivey’s Fifth St. Entrance”
126 WEST FIFTH STREET
CHARLOTTE

See the Representatives of the O’Hair Agency at the College Union — All Day Tuesday, May 1st.
