Cat's Meow

ATO’S, BETAS, AND SIGMA CHIS PACE IFC BASKETBALL

— BY — LEON HOWELL

WHAT PRICE GLORY?

As Basketball, Swimming, and Wrestling enter the home stretch, and as the first faint indications that there will be spring bring thoughts of baseball and track, a certain core of athletes are engaging in spring football practice. With nothing more exciting than an intersquad game to spur the activity, it is hard to generate a great deal of enthusiasm for this period of drudgery. Yet each of the football participants displays an unusual dedication to his task. It has been brought forcefully to his attention that this is the all-important period that will determine the results come next fall. Blocking, tackling, and timing are garnered in these sessions that will pay off in touchdowns and victories next season. And with the fall session a short time of preparation at best, these men realize that outstanding performances now will tag them as worthy of starting positions during the season. Beyond the sharp thuds of bodies making contact, beyond the sweat and toil of this time of training stands a vision that each player holds before him at all times, a vision that constantly reminds him that those that are to gain the glory must pay the price.

TATUM’S TACTICS

Jim Tatum and his big move to UNC took the emphasis of sport’s pages from basketball here in the Carolinas for a few days. Enthusiastic Carolina alumni were excited as they featured their Alma Mater once again becoming a national football power. This conception was not shattered by Tatum when he said in a statement that was later qualified, “Winning is not just important. It’s everything.” As his long-awaited return to the scene of his own undergraduate days became a fact, the Maryland “Diamondback” was not as disturbed as one might imagine. “We do not feel his leaving means the end of the University of Maryland. Rather it may be a second beginning. It may mean a pause in athletics which will give us time to develop more of the academic fundamentals for which the university exists.” The Tatum era was one “in which our accreditation was partially threatened because of an overemphasis on athletic scholarships.” At the receiving end, the “Daily Tar Heel” hardly welcomed him with open arms, “Let's not think either that it will fail to take its toll on the academic health of the school. Let’s not believe that Jim Tatum... will play the game any more for the old college try here than he did at Maryland. He will play to win and win alone.” The subject of all these spontaneous outbursts of criticism, which even reached “Time” magazine, was unusually noncommittal until the proper moment. When the co-editors of the “Tar Heel” were on the verge of losing their positions to a student petition, Tatum gained prestige and a tactical victory by defending their right to voice their opinions and requesting the petition to be withdrawn. No matter how you view Tatum and the type of athletic regime that he embodies, (personally I am very happy that we are removed from the remotest danger of athletics dominating the college picture) it must be admitted that in all his years of utilizing strategy to gain victories, this one move may have been his most influential and timely.

Coach Clements announced this week that equipment will be issued for baseball practice on Monday, Feb. 20. All men who are not excused for participation in another sport at this time are expected to report for drills. Captain Billy Morris will conduct the opening drills. Conditioning, light batting practice, and fielding fundamentals will be stressed in these early workouts. Prospects are bright for a repeat performance of last year’s fine record. The infield remains intact, the outfield is almost the same, and only the pitching staff builds anew. While Clements himself is devoting time to football...

Tux Rentals
Wine Wea 3 Inc.
“COLLEGIATE”
N. C. TUXS EXPERTLY CLEANED

You can be the smartest dressed man at the dances and all year long by bringing us your clothes for our personal attention.
PRESSING WHILE YOU WAIT

ALENDA LUX UB) abvidsonian OQRTA LCIBERTAS

TOMMY RIVERS CHOSEN WILDCAT OF WEEK

The most colorful and probably the best basketball team seen here in the past four years edges toward the end of the season with two big games here tonight and Saturday night. The Generals of Washington and Lee perform on the local hardwoods tonight at 8:15 as the Cats fare out to repeat the victory of Jan. 14. The following night will see College of Charleston bring an improved squad in to attempt to turn the tables on last time’s 93-70 defeat. In W&L, Davidson meets a team that has the nucleus of an outstanding unit but their schedule has produced few victories. Coach Scott termed their victory over the Generals the best game of the year for the Cats. It will take an equally bright performance to duplicate the feat. The hopes of a good position in the tournament are riding on the outcome of this event, along with the V. M. I. and W. & M. games which are to wind up the season. College of Charleston represents one of Davidson's easiest victories of the year, but all indications are that they are fielding an almost entirely new starting outfit and should give a much better battle. This game, which will be preceded by Jayvees, will be the next to last appearance of the Cats in Johnston gym this year. After apparently snapping their lethargy, a natural result of a busy season and exams, against Guilford last Tuesday, the Cats should be ready to head down the home stretch and hit the tournament with the idea of making more than a token appearance.

On the third of February, the Wildcats of Davidson played Clemson — offered Wildcat swimmers stiff competition this afternoon and Emory will do the same tomorrow, both meets taking place on campus. Once again, Coach Carroll Hambright, who has to divide his time between football and the tankmen, has come up with a winning aggregation. Although the squad has experienced a somewhat up and down season, individual performers have been brilliant. Tommy Rivers and Ed Spiers have dominated the 50 and 100 yard dash events, with Rivers setting a new pool record. Bill Carrell has also set a new record, flashing the 200 individual medley in 2 minutes, 31 seconds. Lack of depth has hurt the record of this year’s squad (as compared with the brilliant 7-2 last season). But there are promising frosh in the present setup that should be ready to fill in admirably next season. Coach Hambright asserts that “the entire team has done a fine job and we hope to finish the season with a respectable record.” A big turnout of boosters this afternoon at 3 p.m. would certainly be a big aid as the aquatic stars meet a tough team in Emory.

WA&L, Meet Cats Here

The next night the Cats played Virginia Military Institute also in Johnston gymnasium losing 73-69. In this game, Hobby Cobb, Davidson's captain, scored 38 points, his highest for the year. The high point men for Davidson were Cobb with 38 and Mintz with 14. Top scorers for VMI were Coupland with 20, Nyman with 17, and Coombs with 16. The individual statistics through the VMI game are: F.G.Pct. TP. Av

Citadel An Unknown Quality As Cats Have First Tilt Since Exams

By JOHN JOHNSON

The Wildcat grapplers will be at their greatest strength of the season when they encounter...The Citadel tomorrow afternoon in Charleston. After a one-month layoff, the Cats will be going back into action against an unknown power. The preview will be the first contest of a triangular meet. Although he had no previous practice with the team, he wasn't pinned during any of the three matches. He hasn't been defeated in the 167-pound bracket this season for the Bulldogs. Hobby has ever scored 39 points against Guilford College on December 2, 1954. After the VMI game, Hobby’s 414 points already better last year's total of 392. Hobby is the first player in the history of Davidson basketball to score over 1000 points. Davidson and VMI were just about neck and neck in field goal points. The big difference was in free throws. Davidson had 29 personal fouls called on them and VMI 19. The Wildcats were unable to use their home advantage against North Carolina State, losing 16-15.

TOMMY RIVERS, WILDCAT OF THE WEEK
By CHARLES McGOWAN

The sports staff pays tribute this week to Tommy Rivers, who has done an outstanding job for the “Catfish” this season. Rivers was not picked because of an outstanding performance last week, but because of outstanding performances throughout the entire season. The most amazing thing about Rivers is that he came to Davidson without any competitive experience at all, but yet he was a steady point-getter from the very beginning of his freshman year. Coach Hambright says that Rivers is the most consistent man that he has in that he excels in many different events and can always be depended upon for points. Hard work, a strong desire to better himself, and the will to win characterize Rivers. He exemplified all these characteristics in the Citadel meet in which he swam the last leg of the 400-yard free relay. When Rivers entered the water, his opponent already had a one-third length lead on him, but he caught his opponent and passed him in a truly remarkable effort to win. He displayed these same characteristics in a similar performance at Washington and Lee later in the season. Not only has Rivers been a consistent point-getter, but he has broken the record for the 100-yard dash twice during the season. He broke Speir’s record of 56.3 seconds at Citadel when he splashed the 100 in 56.2 seconds. In the meet with VMI, Rivers broke his record by whipping away the 100 in 55.8 seconds. Hambright says that Rivers ranks right at the top in the Southern Conference as an all-round swimmer. Rivers is a junior from Charleston, S.C., and is pre-med. This week, the students of Davidson tip their hats to a swimmer with a fighting spirit and a burning desire to outdo himself.

IFC Basketball (Through Wednesday, Feb. 8)
Won Lost
ATO 7 1
Sigma Chi 6 1
Betas 6 1
Kappa Sig 5 2
SAE 4 3
Phi Delt 4 4
SPE 4 4
KA 3 6
Phi Gam 2 5
Ec 2 6
Pi Kaps 2 6
Pika 2 7

When it comes to real tobacco flavor, college smokers are going for Winston! This good-tasting, easy-drawing filter cigarette brings you full, rich flavor. Winston also brings you a finer filter that works so well the flavor comes right through. Join the big switch to Winston. R.J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO., WINSTON-SALEM, N.C.

In the latter match, about one half of the team were substitutes. Butch Neil, Woody Burns, Grier Davis, and Barry Benton all saw action for the first time. At the 123-pound position will be Pete Coleman from Salisbury, who, although a freshman, has wrestled in every meet and has a 3-2 record. Another freshman, Butch Neil, will probably wrestle at 130 pounds. Butch broke into the lineup against State, and his surprise win there should make him a regular. Bill Warlick, who grappled last year at that weight, will push Butch for the position. Henry Griffin will try for his fifth consecutive win of the season. In the past two years, Henry has been beaten only one time outside of tournament competition. He was unable to go against State because of a knee and ankle injury which he received while skiing during the Christmas holidays, but he will wrestle at full strength tomorrow. In the 147 and 157 weights will be two mainstays of the Cat squad, Reitzel Snider and Larry Wright, respectively. In what promises to be one of the best matches, Reitzel, a junior and captain of the team, will wrestle Joe Abeyounis, captain of the Citadel squad. Snider has been bettered only once this season. Larry, who has already earned his letter for this year, is probably in the best physical condition of any member of the team. He will oppose Shay, the same boy he wrestled to a draw last year. Westy Westervelt, also a freshman, came on the mat scene to fill an unexpected vacancy in the 177 class during the opening quad. He will wrestle tomorrow for the third time. Last year, he captained the matmen at Woodbury Prep. Dave Regan will be the heavyweight. Dave has been defeated only once this year, and he wrestled one of the season’s most thrilling matches during the meet at State. With the Cats leading by only one point, Dave went into the final match as an underdog. However, in that heavyweight contest, he fought to a draw with Al Henry, the Atlantic Coast Conference 177-pound champion. Although they saw no action during the exam period, the squad has been working hard and is in good shape, ready for the Bulldogs of The Citadel.

Indoor Track Squad Preps for Second Meet
By OYVIND NORSTROM

Pete Ashcraft, a Southern Conference (indoor mile and two-mile) time great, is having his best season ever. The junior from Massachusetts is one of Davidson's best runners, ready for the Conference meet. Working hard throughout this season, he made a strong showing in VMI's Winter Relays last Saturday, finishing fourth in a brilliant two-mile competition won by Jimmy Beatty of North Carolina. Ashcraft ran his best two-mile to date, finishing in 10:14, which is about 4 seconds better than his best time last year. He was one of the four men who broke the old meet record for the Relays. In the shot put, Bill Gramley was best among the Southern Conference men but did not get through the “prelims” because of strong ACC competition. Davidson's third competitor in the Relays, Oyvind Norstrom, running his first indoor race, finished 10th among 21 two-milers. The meet as such showed that VPI and VMI have several good runners this year, though only Dave Pitkethly of VMI was directly impressive. The Wildcats of Davidson, who are improving every day in workouts, may make a better showing than anybody expects in the Conference meet on February 18. In this meet, Pete Ashcraft will have to start as a favorite both in the 880 and the mile. In workouts this week, he ran a brilliant 2:00.6 on the half-mile and is evidently far stronger than at the same time last year. Coach Whittle does not have the team composition ready yet, but will take everybody that he feels is good enough up to the meet. Bill Gramley will have a real chance in the shot put. In the 440, Roswell Mallory and Al Elder both look promising, and the sprinters are also giving reason for hope. A team victory is outside the reach of possibility; the team finished third last year, and one step up would be very satisfying.