OF WEEK (Page 4) PEARSALL WILDCAT VOL. XLIV

The Davidsonian

STUDENT POLL ON INTEGRATION (Page 1)

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, APRIL 13, 1956 NO. 22

WBTV to Begin Airing Weekly TV Series Showing DC in Action

Davidson College will begin its first series of educational television programs April 30, over station WBTV. Geared to a family audience, the series will endeavor to explain the academic and administrative operation of a liberal arts college. Members of the college faculty and staff will explain their duties and functions to promote better understanding of a college education. Motion pictures and other visual aids will be used to implement the programs.

Davidson president Dr. John R. Cunningham will appear on the first program, which will begin at 6:15 p.m. and will last 15 minutes. Ensuing programs will be Monday evenings at the same time. The 36-voice Davidson Male Chorus, under the direction of Donald B. Plott, will be heard on the first program. Serving as host for the college during the series will be James W. Jackson, Jr. of the Alumni and Public Relations department.

Among the first programs in the series will be a presentation of the Davidson R.O.T.C. department, in which the military obligations of college-age students are discussed. Dr. W. G. Workman and Dr. John M. Bevan of the psychology department will use a lie detector and various live animals to demonstrate human emotions, and Dr. Chalmers G. Davidson will relate historical events of the Charlotte area including the Mecklenburg Declaration of Independence.

Honolulu-born Jean Erdman appears in a modern dance program tonight at 8:15 p.m. closing out the Davidson College Artist Series.

Last Artist Series Event Offers Creative Dancing

Creative dancing will be the theme of the Davidson Artist Series presentation here tonight but the cast will be different from that previously announced. Miss Jean Erdman has replaced dancers Hoving and Neilsen on the program, following an accident suffered by Miss Neilsen, and subsequent cancellation of their engagement.

Miss Erdman’s concert will begin at 8:15 in the Chambers auditorium. Tickets will be on sale at the box office for $2 each. Born in Honolulu, where her father is a Presbyterian missionary, Jean Erdman’s creative work is said to blend Eastern and Western cultures. She studied Polynesian and Oriental dances before beginning formal training at Sarah Lawrence and at the Bennington School of Dance. She has worked with prominent teachers and troupes throughout the United States, and was a soloist for several years with the Martha Graham Group. She now has a company of her own. Among her selections Friday will be Mozart’s “Salutation;” “Ophelia,” by John Cage; “Ture on a Journey,” by Harrison; “Pierrot the Moon,” by Bartok; and “Bagatelle,” by Scarlatti.

As Seaman McNair sinks drunkenly to the hardwood, inmates and onlookers of the “Geisha” House point accusingly at the spectacle.

GEISHA GIRLS DANCE

By OYVIND

Frolics to D Club

An annual highlight of the Spring Frolics festivities is the traditional “Foolies” presented by Davidson's “D” Club. The last few weeks have seen intense preparation for this year’s performance, which shows promise of being the best one in several years. It will be staged Friday night, April 20th, and Ed Speir, President of the Club and driving force behind the show, guarantees a great and entertaining production.

The 1956 “Foolies” takes place in one of Tokyo’s famed geisha houses, where several American sailors get involved in lots of action. This setting should provide for really great opportunities, and the show will be a perfect opening for another Spring Frolics success for all Davidson gentlemen and their imported dates. The plot cannot be revealed at this time, but there will be music, songs, a terrific geisha ballet, and something for every taste.

Bob Rhodes, a student at Davidson last year, is the man behind the idea. Watt McCain is responsible for the musical side of the production, and several committees are in full activity to make everything work out to perfection. The “D” Club is happy to have Miss Nancy Copeland, who has considerable experience in this field, as director of the “Foolies.” She is assisted by a producers committee consisting of Ed Speir, Dave Regen, and Jeff Smith.

The leading parts are in the best hands. Dave McClean plays the part of the geisha man; Bill McNair is the first sailor, and he gets himself into some very confusing action—which finally ends up with a happy solution for all involved. Ten voluptuous geisha girls will dance and in various other ways entertain the American sailors. There will be amorous adventures, and everything is set for another “Foolies” touchdown, home run, or whatever you like. Those who want a really successful Spring Frolics weekend can’t afford to miss the “Foolies of '56"!

Discussed by Council

The Student Council, this week, heard a report from its Committee on the Calendar. Bill Bondurant told the Council that the Faculty Calendar Committee, of which he and Councilman Linny Baker are members, had decided against the original inter-semester break proposal to the Faculty. The original proposal was a plan which would gain two days, one by shortening Orientation and one by shortening Christmas holidays, in order to allow a two-day holiday between semesters. Because of various factors and complications, the Calendar Committee rejected this plan in favor of several alternatives, such as eliminating Thanksgiving holidays, and shortening Christmas vacation by one day in order to have a one-day break between semesters.

The Student Council turned down the proposed alternatives. In its place, the Council, in a plan submitted by Councilman Jason McManus, passed a new proposal which would gain two days by (1) having a split schedule of the classes that come on the first two days of the second semester. This means that both Saturday’s and Monday's classes would be held on the same day in a split schedule arrangement. A likely day for the split schedule would be the first day of the second semester. (2) And secondly, by re-arranging the ROTC and Math schedules one day could be gained by the shortened Spring exam period. McManus’ plan was passed by a unanimous vote of those members voting. The petition is to be referred to the Calendar Committee and subsequently to the faculty.

Chamber Orchestra in Fine Arts Festival

The Ninth Annual Fine Arts Festival at Davidson College is currently in progress. Mr. Bertram Colgrave of Durham University, Durham, England, presented a lecture on “The Sutton Hoo Treasure” on April 6 and Miss Marilyn Mason appeared in an organ concert on Tuesday, April 10. The Red and Black Masquers offered The Caine Mutiny Court Martial play based on Herman Wouk’s best seller on April 11 and 12.

Future events of the Fine Arts Festival will be a program on Friday night, April 13, by Jean Erdman, creative dancer, who is replacing the modern dancers, Lucas Hoving and Lavina Neilson, formerly announced; a concert of “American Music” sponsored by Gamma Kappa chapter of Phi Mu Alpha Sinfonia, national honorary music fraternity, on Monday, April 23; a recital by the Davidson College Chamber Orchestra on Wednesday, April 25. Also, the programs on April 26 and 27 will feature Howard Thomas, professor of art at the University of Georgia, and Mrs. Thomas. The concluding presentation on the Festival program will be a recital Monday night, April 30, by students of the Davidson College Department of Music.

In connection with the Festival, an exhibit in the College Union Building will feature works from the collections of the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City.

Integration

On Tuesday morning, April 10, approximately 430 students of Davidson College expressed in a poll their personal feelings in regard to integration—academically and socially—at Davidson College. The poll, presented by the Future department of the Government Association, was introduced as follows:

The following question is presented by student request. It deals with a problem of concern to each individual here at Davidson—your thoughtful and honest “yes” or “no” is desired. The question is asked with objectivity and directness:

Do you favor integration at Davidson College:
a. In the near future
b. Eventually, but not in the near future
c. Never

The results, in terms of the percentages, are as follows:By integration is meant percentages of the four classes in realms of student life as we understand them today. The student body as a whole, favoring each alternative, are as follows:

Student Body Rooms will be held for present occupants until 4:00 P.M. on a “first come first served” basis to students who have not paid their $25.00 tuition deposits.

Percentage Freshmen Sophomores Juniors Seniors Total
In the near future 27.6 26.9 23.2 25 27.2
Never 55.2 55.7 55.7 50 54

Members Interviewed By BOB AUSTIN

Democratic-GOP Debate

J. Kukura, Bill Bondurant, Kuist Elected To Head “Y” Offices: By CLAGETT TAYLOR

In the balloting of the two most important elections this past Monday night, Gordon Bondurant and Jim Kuist were elected to head the YMCA. On Tuesday, April 10, the YMCA sponsored a debate between members of the Democratic and Republican parties. Mr. Henry Hall Wilson, president of the North Carolina chapter of the Young Democrats Club, represented the Democrats, while Mr. Marcus Hickman represented the Republicans.

The Davidsonian was able to secure interviews with both of these men before they spoke. The questions concerned the stand of the parties on certain issues. Mr. Wilson refused to answer several questions, due to his affiliation with the Young Democrats Club. According to Mr. Wilson, the Democrats will attack the present administration's foreign policy, farm policy, and the influence of big business in politics. The Republicans will stand on a “Peace and Prosperity” policy, and it was implied that the present farm situation was due to the twenty years of Democratic Administration. Mr. Hickman said he did not know who would receive the Republican nomination; certainly, it would be President Eisenhower. However, Mr. Wilson did not comment on who he thought would receive the Democratic nomination, but he did say that the nominee had a very good chance of beating Eisenhower. Hickman predicted that Mr. Nixon would be the vice-presidential candidate.

When asked the question on where their strength would lie, each of the gentlemen had approximately the same answer. Mr. Hickman said that the Republicans would carry the big cities plus a part of the rural section. Mr. Wilson implied that the Democrats would not stick to any section of the country. He said that the South would vote solidly Democratic. On the other hand, Mr. Hickman disagreed, saying that the Republicans would carry Florida, North Carolina, and Texas.

The representatives had different views on the segregation issue. Mr. Wilson stated this

McMANUS TAKES WILSON AND CATHER

Davidson College senior Jason P. McManus of University City, Mo., was today declared winner of both the Woodrow Wilson and Willa Cather awards for creative writing. The announcement was made today in chapel exercises before the student body, and the awards were presented by Dr. Frontis W. Johnston and Dr. George I. Labban of the faculty. Both prizes are made possible by Prof. W. C. Daub Kerr, of Glendale College in California. Prof. Kerr attended Davidson and was a founder of the Davidson chapter of Sigma Upsilon, national honorary literary society. Competition for the yearly prizes is limited to members of Sigma Upsilon. The Woodrow Wilson award is

Kuist, two weeks two rising seniors, were the winners in the In addition class officers and YMCA officers were elected for the coming year. Gordon Bondurant of Winston Salem was elected roommate, Joe Garrison, this year. Kuist served as assistant editor of the magazine this year and was a member of the editorial staff last year. A member of Philanthropic Literary Society, Kuist last year served as treasurer of that organization and this year holds down the post of agent. As a sophomore Kuist had the distinction of being elected to Sigma Upsilon, literary fraternity.

The election of class officers was completed last week. For the rising senior class: Bunny Perkinson was elected president, George Scott, vice president, and Stuart Vaughn, secretary-treasurer. For the rising junior class, it will be Bill Fraley, president; Gilmour Lake, vice president; and Ralph Behm, secretary-treasurer. For the rising sophomore class, the officers elected were John Kuykendall, president; Bob Huffaker, vice president; and Roy Gilbert, secretary.

Scripts ‘n Pranks, the campus organ of literary endeavor, was Jim Kuist, who will take over the editor's chair occupied by his predecessor, Creighton Peden. During the past year, Kuist served as editor of the YMCA and chairman of the Athletics Committee. In his campaign, Bondurant had stressed attention to student interests and more student participation. Commenting on the election, Bondurant told the Davidsonian, “It is my sincere hope that the program of the YMCA will be most effective in accomplishing its purpose on the campus and in answering the needs of the entire student body.”

Elected to other YMCA offices were Rhett Sander, sophomore from Winnsboro, S.C., president; John Kuykendall, freshman from Charlotte, secretary; Phil Kukura, junior from De

Balloting next week, with one slate to follow, will be for class representatives to the Student Council. The candidates will be nominated during Tuesday’s chapel. In addition, the rising seniors will elect next year's editor of Quips ‘n Cranks, the college annual.

Bus.-Eco. Association

A Southern Bell Telephone and Telegraph Co. official will outline for the Business Economics Association of Davidson College on April 17, the part played by public relations in today’s economy. Will Temple of Charlotte, customer relations supervisor in the utility's state headquarters, will address the group's meeting at the College Union at 7:30 p.m. His talk, titled “Communication Success,” will include a discussion of the importance of effective communication of ideas in business and labor relations as well as international relations and government.

JAMES C. KUIST

Prior to joining Southern Bell's Public Relations Department in 1952, Temple was United Press night bureau manager in Raleigh and worked as a reporter and photographer in Bristol, Virginia. A lieutenant in the Naval Reserve Intelligence, he is chairman of the Public Relations Committee and a director of the Charlotte Junior Chamber of Commerce and state director of public information for the Air Patrol. In January, he was selected by the Junior Chamber of Commerce as one of Charlotte's Outstanding Young Men of 1955.

The forty-piece band is playing much contemporary music with romantic and classical selections rounding out the program. Selections in the High Point concert were a Bach chorale, the Overture to the French opera Iphigenia in Aulis by Gluck, an impressionist work titled “George Washington Bridge” by Schuman, and “March for Dignitaries” by Assistant Professor of Music at Davidson, John Satterfield. This latter work was written by the composer especially for the Concert Band. In a still somewhat uncertain state are plans for a series of concerts on the Union lawn later this spring. During these programs, light classics and music from Broadway will be featured. No definite dates have been set for these concerts.

HISTORICAL SOCIETY

The North Carolina Historical Society will hold its annual spring meeting here Saturday. Dr. William P. Cumming, President of the Society, said today that the program will begin at 4 p.m.