FRIDAY, APRIL 20, 1956 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE FOUR

TWO ‘FIRSTS’ Phi Mu Alpha Sinfonia Presents Music Concert

Continuing the Ninth Annual Fine Arts Festival at Davidson College, the Gamma Kappa Chapter of Phi Mu Alpha Sinfonia, national
honorary music fraternity, will sponsor an “American Music” concert in Chambers on Monday evening at 8:15 o'clock. Admission is free
and the public is cordially invited.

Highlighting the program will be two “firsts”: Harold Frantz’s two-piano composition entitled “Variations on the French Noel ‘Entre le boeuf’”
will be played by Earle Lewis and Harry Wells, and John Satterfield's “A Festive Yule Music For Brass and Percussion”
with the composer conducting the brass ensemble. The Frantz piece was the winning composition in the 1954 N. C. Federation
of Music Club Contest. Mr. Frantz was formerly on the faculty of the Davidson College Music Department and was college
organist. The composer plans to be present for the occasion.

Professor John Satterfield will conduct the first performance of his brass suite completed in April of this year. The Davidson
College Concert Band, on its spring tour, is featuring another Satterfield composition, “March for Dignitaries,” which the composer transcribed especially
for the Band from his “Festive Yule Music” suite.

Philip Gehring, college organist and a member of the faculty, will present two of his original organ compositions, entitled “Variations
on the Chorale, ‘Lord Keep us Steadfast in Thy Word’,” and “Recitative and Fugue.” Included in the program will be
the “Suite for Oboe and Piano” by Walter Piston which will be played by Preston Faggart and Harry Wells. Vincent
Persichetti’s “Pastoral, Op. 21” for flute, oboe, clarinet, horn and bassoon will be performed by James Lovette, Preston Faggart, John
Martindale, John Garvey, and Hugh Craig. Also appearing on the program will be Hadley Hunt, baritone.

MOREHEAD

Leading the arrival of girls on the Davidson campus this weekend are the following sponsors for members of the Interfraternity
Council (left to right): Miss Marilyn Mayo of Tarboro, N. C., from Woman’s College for Phil Koonce, Alpha Tau Omega,
president of the Interfraternity Council; Miss Gerene Clark of Spartanburg, S. C., from Converse College for Bo Abernethy, Kappa Sigma,
secretary of IFC; Miss Joan Barrett of Atlanta, Georgia, from Agnes Scott College for Bill McLean, Sigma Chi, treasurer of
IFC; Miss Judy Watts of Huntington, W. Va., from Sweet Briar College, for Dick Morehead, Kappa Alpha; Miss Fran Hostey
of Greensboro, N. C., from W. C. for Jerry Kivett, Phi Delta Theta; Miss Betsy Lyon of Durham, N. C.,
from W. C. for Gordon Bondurant, Beta Theta Pi; Miss Dotty McLaurin of Sumter, S. C., from Queens College for
Ken Conger, Pi Kappa Alpha; Miss Janet Robinson of Gastonia, N. C., from W. C. for Joe Huskins, Pi Kappa
Phi; Miss “Stew” Daniel of Richmond, Va., from Queens College for Don Stewart, Phi Delta Theta; Miss Barbara Honey of
Charlotte, from Emory University for Ed Speir, Sigma Alpha Epsilon; Miss Mary Virginia Newsom of Salisbury, N. C., from Meredith
College for Tal Broughton, Sigma Phi Epsilon.

The Red Cross bloodmobile will be on the Davidson campus for the Spring blood drive on April 24 and 25.
The drive will be held in the Johnston gymnasium each day from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. The fraternities are
sponsoring the blood drive, and they will be assisted by cadets and assigned military personnel from the ROTC department, as
well as by people from the community. Beginning with this drive, there will be an added incentive for full participation
by fraternities. The Red Cross has donated a plaque which will be given to the fraternity having the highest percentage
of donors. The fraternity name will be engraved on the plaque, and the plaque will be kept by the fraternity
winning it for the preceding year. This year’s presentation will be on the basis of the Spring drive only. Parental
release forms have been sent home, and any student desiring to give blood and who has not had the release
returned should write immediately and request his parents to send it. Parental release is required for donors under 21 years
of age.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH

A symbol of principles...

On Thursday evening, April 26, the Gamma chapter of Phi Beta Kappa Society will hold their annual banquet and public
address at the College Union. The speaker for the evening is Dr. Ernest C. Colwell, BD, PhD, LLD, STD, LHD.
He is presently Vice-President and Dean of the Faculties of Emory University. His address will be at 9 a.m., and
this part of the program is open to the public. Colwell will speak on “The Pleasures of the Mind” and
will be introduced by the president of the Gamma chapter of Phi Beta Kappa, Dr. John M. Bevan. Dr. Colwell
held many positions at the University of Chicago before coming to Emory. He is the author of a number of
books, most of them dealing with the New Testament. Nine Davidson men will be initiated at the banquet.

TIRED TYRANTS

Now Men, As I See It...

A few days ago I was sitting in the Union, peacefully pondering the oil slick on top of my coffee
when my reverie was abruptly interrupted by the approach of a number of wildly gesticulating students. They were headed by
a singular character who appeared to be weighted down with a vest pocket full of pencils and notebooks. In his
hand, he carried a clipboard. The somewhat overburdened character and his followers were “journalists.” The gesticulators, babbling incessantly, crowded around
their leader at the snack bar. In bucket brigade fashion they soon emerged, transporting large quantities of coffee to a
nearby table. I nudged my companion as the strange group passed and inquired about the name of its leader. I
was told that this was Dick Morehead, crusading editor of the Davidsonian. The group by this time had taken seats
around the bespectacled, be-penciled editor, who soon quelled the noisy chatter. I overheard—— “Now men as I see it we've
only got five problems. Number One. See that Paschall gets a picture credit for that shot of Helm. Number two.
Crouse’s editorial is late again this week. Number three. Bloodworth'll have to re-write that Student Council report. Number four. We
need more coverage on the ROTC news. Number five. We need to get more people to know about him.”

Forgetting my coffee, I rushed to the Alumni Office and located the file on this interesting individual. I read “Name:
Richard Herbert Morehead. Nickname: Dickie. Born: Somewhere in the mountainous regions of North Carolina. Education: Davidson College. Achievements: Editor of
the Davidsonian, ROTC news writer, and various other journalistic endeavors.” The remainder of the page was filled with Dickie’s many
achievements at Davidson. The Alumni Office said that instead of the usual type listing they merely listed the organizations, committees,
and clubs of which Dickie was not a member. Leaving the Alumni Office, I decided it would help my efforts
to learn more about Morehead if I visited his room. I knocked on his room door and, hearing no answer
from within, went in. As I entered I noticed that a figure was crouched in a chair, staring at a
pencil point with unwavering eyes. I assumed it to be a statue representing a psychological phenomenon known as fetal regression
and walked over to the desk of the great editor. The desk top was barely visible. There were at least
twenty-three books and magazines, arranged in neat confusion, on the shelves of the desk. I rifled through the myriad of
papers on the desk top and found a note from Dean Spencer dated October 12, 1955 with the penciled notation
“print this week,” a letter from Henry Brockmann with this past week's editorial enclosed (written in Brockmann’s own hand), and
a penciled note with sheets of yellow paper. I put two and two together and threw the yellow sheets in
for good measure, and arrived at the conclusion that this bespectacled, besieged editor was indeed a man with a plan.be
the speaker at Vespers on April 22. A native of Mississippi, Dr. Oglesby attended Texarkana Junior College, Texarkana, Texas; Austin
College, Sherman, Texas, where he received his A.B.; Union Theological Seminary, where he received the degrees of B.D. and Th.M.;
and the University of Chicago. He was awarded the D.D. degree by Austin College in 1955. Dr. Oglesby has held
pastorates at the First Presbyterian Church, New Iberia, Louisiana; First Presbyterian Church, Helena, Arkansas; Pulaski Heights Presbyterian Church, Little Rock,
Arkansas. He is now the Marthina Defriece Professor of Pastoral Counseling at Union Seminary.

Number four. Leon, you still have that back page issue of the Davidsonian, a set of Sponsor’s pictures for the
Spring Frolics dances (and some left over from Midwinters too). Parental release forms have been sent out, and in the
years to come, the award will be made to the fraternity scoring highest in both areas. To be initiated into
the chapter in a ceremony at 6:30 p.m. are: From the senior class: H. P. Anderson, J. O. Conarroe, J.
T. Harmon, A. M. Martin, R. H. Morehead, F. G. Myers, L. H. Parrott, and J. B. Pharr. From the
junior class: L. J. Frotti will be initiated.

The methodical genius of Morehead impressed me so that I had to learn more about him. I knew from this
moment that I was predestined for great things in journalism. In this paper, my cartoon strip, created and drawn by
me, was known as the ‘Adventures of Sheriff Mouse’. This strip was subsequently taken over by Walt Disney and is
now ‘Mickey Mouse.’ The main feature article appearing in the paper was an epic poem in serial form, known as
the ‘Three Mousequeteers.’ Due to problems of distribution and finance, my paper did not have a wide circulation. The one
traumatic experience in this epoch of my life was the constant refusal of my father to take me fishing. As
a reaction against this, I fished all day one day in our neighbor's rain barrel, only to be informed that
there were no fish there. This was a terrific blow to me.

Later on in life, I came to Davidson College, where I befriended a boy called Henry Brockmann. He composed the
suite in 1941, and it includes many familiar American folk themes. Other musical events on the Fine Arts Festival program
will include an all-sacred Vespers concert in the Davidson College Presbyterian Church on Sunday evening, April 29. The Hollins College
Choir, the Davidson College Male Chorus, and a string ensemble with Philip Gehring at the organ, will present this service
under the joint direction of Arthur Talmadge and Donald Plott.

The Davidson College Presbyterian Church has come to occupy a vital campus role. First, as a part of the college
plant, and secondly, as a symbol of the principles upon which the college was founded and which have served as
a guide to its policies. Thus, to some members of the student body, the church is the symbol of the
things they love about the college, while to others, it means quite a different thing.

On June 24, 1837, the Davidson College Church was organized by the Concord Presbytery with twenty-three charter members. The organizational
meeting closed with the petition: “May the Lord bless this Church and multiply its members, increase its usefulness, and answer
its prayers.” How jealously the spirituality of the church was guarded is shown in an undated record sometime between June
1840 and September 1841. “A report having gained credit that about Christmas of 1838, one of our members (the member
named was a college student, who became a minister and filled important pastorates in three large southern cities) had taken
some part with a company of youths in dancing, the session held an interview with him in which he acknowledged
the crime, and professed in a satisfactory manner, a feeling of regret and repentance. His regular standing in the church
was therefore continued.”

The present $800,000 structure was the outgrowth of a plan begun shortly before, and interrupted by the Second World War.
In 1949 the groundbreaking for the new church took place, and the Dedication was held during the commencement weekend on
June 1, 1952. Dr. J. McDowell Richards, President of Columbia Theological Seminary, was the featured speaker for the occasion. The
Reverend Carl R. Pritchett was at that time the minister of the church and remained until succeeded by Dr. Samuel
Newell, Jr., in the winter of 1953.

To many students making their evening pilgrimage to the post office, there is no more impressive sight than the cross
on the steeple silhouetted against the evening sky. From the ground to the tip of the cross is exactly 152
feet, which coincidentally is the length of the sanctuary. The building is of red brick and Indiana limestone and is
a mixture of Colonial design blended with features of the classical revival period. The sanctuary of the church will seat
1042 people, while the Lingle chapel seats 168. Statisticians hasten to add that there are fifteen windows containing 460 panes.
The pulpit is elaborately decorated with symbolic objects such as wheat representing the bread of life and an olive branch
representing peace. The founders of the church would be well satisfied that their petition for the success of the church
has been fulfilled. Certainly, the church membership has increased and its usefulness has multiplied.

For the benefit of any students who may be interested, the Department of Mathematics is having a meeting in the
Chemistry lecture room at 7:00 P.M., Monday, April 23. The purpose of this meeting is two-fold: (1) To try to
outline opportunities in post-college careers for students with mathematical training. (2) To advise students who are planning to major in
another field what mathematics courses are recommended. In preparation for this meeting, a questionnaire was sent to all departments at
Davidson seeking information along these lines. Also, letters were written and replies received from a good many corporations and business
concerns. This could be a particularly important meeting for any men who have mathematical ability and who have not decided
on their major field. Any student who is interested is invited to come to the discussion.
