DAVIDSONIAN NAMES PRESIDENTIAL PICK (Page 2) VOL. XLV

29-27 VICTORY

JUDGE OF THE COURT OF CONTROL

Reitzel Snider looks on as revenge-minded freshmen clinch a close 29-27 win over the outmanned sophomores in the annual Freshman-Sophomore
Day last Monday. With the victory, the Court closed its books for the year as the frosh discarded their beanies
and trampled the grass with abandon.

Frosh Win Annual Event Monday, Emerge Hatless

The Freshman Class earned the right to shed their red beanies by virtue of their 29-27 victory over the sophomores
in the annual Freshman-Sophomore Field Day Monday afternoon. The frosh put the contest on ice with a decisive triumph in
the tug of war event. The 15-man freshman tug of war team took the first two of a 2 out
of 3 series and were awarded 5 points to clinch their win.

FLICKER BALL

Consequently, there was little enthusiasm in the final event, the flickerball game, which the sophs won 27-0. The sophomores copped
the 50-yard dash with Melvin Jones and Paul Frierson taking first and third places, respectively. Al MacKay, a freshman, finished
second. The freshmen responded with a clean sweep in the sack race. Butch Farabow, Tommy Price, and Newt Quantz finished
first, second, and third, in that order. Quantz and Price then teamed up to win the three-legged race, followed by
sophomores Manfred Emmrich and Hugh Campbell, and freshmen Smitty Smith and Joe Braswell, who finished second and third, respectively.

100-YARD DASH

Freshman Al MacKay soared to victory in the 100-yard dash. Melvin Jones, a sophomore, won second place while Chet Alexander,
a freshman, took third.

G. P. GUNN RESIGNS AS FILM PRODUCER IN SURPRISE MOVE

In a surprise move last Saturday morning, George P. Gunn resigned his duties as producer-director of the “Banners of Freedom”
series in a mutual agreement with officials of the Protestant Radio and Television Center of Atlanta. According to Dr. Ernest
J. Arnold, vice-president of the Center, Gunn's policies for shooting the “Davidson Story” conflicted with those of the Center. Bill
Lipton, the professional actor and announcer from Greenwich, Conn., who was slated to star in the lead role, will, in
all probability, not be retained. However, Dr. Arnold, speaking for the Center, emphasized that the Center is “more anxious than
ever to present the Davidson Story to America and the world.”

USE MORE STUDENTS

“As far as we're concerned,” Arnold continued, “this is only a temporary delay. Some script changes are necessary. Casting will
remain the same except for possibly more use of Davidson students.” The announcement by the Center of a new producer-director
to succeed Gunn is expected to be forthcoming within the next few days. Shots taken on the campus by Gunn
last weekend will still definitely be used.

Y Announces Results Of Membership Drive

As the YMCA membership drive comes to an end, a total of over 550 students, or about 65% of the
student body, have pledged or paid.

Davidsonian

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 1956

FLICKERBALL CROWN

KA’s TAKE (Page 3)

NO. Ike Victor In Tri-State Poll by 2-to-1 Majority

FALL CONVOCATION SPEAKER

Link Gives Authoritative Discussion On Wilson

By DABNEY STUART

tician. It was his success in each of these that made him great.” Dr. Arthur Link, professor of history at
Northwestern University, stated this broad evaluation of Mr. Wilson following his address in the Davidson College chapel last Tuesday. Dr.
Link was the principal speaker in a commemoration ceremony during the hundredth anniversary year of the birth of Woodrow Wilson.
Appropriately, Dr. Link’s address was titled “Contributions of Woodrow Wilson,” but later he discussed Mr. Wilson's faults.

ONE DRAWBACK

“One should try to see the whole man,” Dr. Link said. “His contributions are outstanding, but he had one drawback
that plagued him throughout his life. “Wilson was always able to project his ideas, but not himself. The people felt
no great love for him as a man, but they had tremendous confidence in his ideals and standards.” These ideals
and standards are the principal reasons that Dr. Link undertook such a dedicated and thorough study of Mr. Wilson. “There
was some sectional pride,” he smiled. The opening of certain Wilson papers at the time he began his doctorate study
also influenced his undertaking. The exhaustive study of Wilson grew out of Dr. Link's dissertation on the Democratic campaign of
1910-1912. Beginning in 1944, he worked steadily in research for five years. From 1949 to 1951 his

Innovations Highlight ‘Rainmaker’ Showing

Performances of “The Rainmaker,” November 16-17, mark the end of nearly a month of intensified planning and rehearsing by the
cast and stage crews. According to its director Harold Hall, “The Rainmaker” will be one of the most unique productions
to be given within recent years by the Red and Black Masquers. Several new innovations should highlight the local performances
of this well-known play. The stage is divided into a three-set area, such as is often the case in larger
playhouses. The multiple sets call for an intricate handling of lighting effects which the director has pointed out should heighten
the effectiveness of the performance.

NEW SETS

Also of interest are the entirely new sets which have recently been purchased by the Masquers at a considerable expense.
The organization feels that these should aid greatly in contributing to a good presentation. Director Hall, who along with Professor
Raymond Tyson is handling all phases of the rehearsals, stresses that this will be a stylistic play in which the
characters are especially endeavoring to create a duplication of the midwestern atmosphere which is its setting.

THE CAST

The cast of seven includes only two people who have appeared in former productions by the Red and Black Masquers.
Harry Paschall and George Kemmerer, who will be familiar to Davidson audiences, take two of the predominant roles. Outstanding individuals
in the total production are Bill Pfefferkorn, who plays the lead role,‘Carol Sherrill, the lone female performer, has the role
of Lizzie, and Hugh Craig is the designer of the new sets and the director of the stage crews. His
work was intermittent since other duties occupied his time.

SECOND FOLLOWS
The second volume of the fruits of this research and study is forthcoming. Dr. Link plans five more volumes to
complete the work. “After the seventh volume, if I have enough life left, I'll go back and write on the
early period of his life,” he injected. The present study begins in 1902. Dwelling upon Mr. Wilson's educational contributions, Dr.
Link remarked, “The people looked to him as an educational leader just as much as a political one. And he
was a great leader in both fields, although it would be difficult to compare his achievements in these different spheres
of endeavor.

WILSON’S DRIVE
“Through his drive and standards, he turned an indifferent and lazy college into the first-class Princeton we know today. His
influence in educational methods is far-flung. The honors program here at Davidson is but one example of this. His interest
was in quality education, not in mass production.” As a personal insight, Dr. Link mentioned Wilson's personality drawback in relation
to his work at Princeton. “At first, he had a loyal group of followers, but as the years wore on,
his overbearing nature cost him much.

DISPUTE WITH DEAN
With Davidson's gradual recovery from an eventful homecoming weekend, minds are beginning to focus upon the functions for the fall.
The Phi Delts, although having made no definite plans for a party, are tentatively scheduling their activity for the first
weekend in December. A Ranch Party held November 17 at Lake Lynn Lodge in Concord will occupy the attention of
the SPE's first semester, while the KA’s are holding their traditional Costume Party in Charlotte just before Christmas. The Kappa
Sigs will go to Charlotte’s Barringer Hotel for their annual Black and White Ball on the evening of November 17,
and will be followed to the fair city by the Pi Kapps, who are engaging the Policeman's Club for their
“Bridie Murphy Come As You Were” party on December 8. The ATO’s plan a costume ball of undetermined nature on
the first of December. The outing will be held at the Elks Club in Charlotte. The formal fall banquet and
dance of Beta Theta Pi will be on the eighth of December. The speaker and location have not been selected.
The Elks Club will again be the scene of a fraternity function as members of Phi Gamma Delta journey there
December 10 for their annual fall pledge function. Plans for the Campus Club, SAE, Sigma Chi, and Pika fall outings
are yet to be formulated.

Professor C. E. Lloyd Speaks to Democrats
Professor C. E. Lloyd of the English Department was the featured speaker at the Young Democrats’ Club meeting Monday night
in the College Union. Lloyd criticized the Republicans’ foreign policy and treatment of the farm problem and concluded by saying
that the Republicans are a people without a government. A door-to-door campaign in Davidson for the Democratic ticket was discussed
during the business session. The town was divided into sections, with several members responsible for directing the campaign in their
section. Plans were made to hold an election night party with the Young Republicans Club. Members will assemble in the
Union to await the election returns. Buie Sewell, Basil Sharp, Bill Curry, and Vernon Anderson were welcomed into the club
following the meeting.

26 Colleges In Carolinas And Virginia Participate
By BILL BONDURANT
Feature Editor, The Davidsonian
Ten thousand college students in the Carolinas and Virginia favor Eisenhower over Stevenson by two-to-one. In a poll conducted by
26 college and university newspapers of the three states, the students endorsed the Republican ticket with 59.8 percent of the
total vote. The Democrats trailed with 35.9 percent. The multi-school survey was initiated and coordinated by the Davidsonian. Results will
be published on each of the participating campuses. The States Rights Party polled 2.2% of the vote, the Independent ticket,
1.4%, and other candidates received 5% of the total vote. North Carolina, usually Democratic, turned to the Eisenhower-Nixon team by
58.5% of the state’s popular vote on the collegiate level. Three N. C. colleges maintained the traditional Democrat majority: Louisburg
College, Woman's College of the University of North Carolina, and Presbyterian Junior College. The Independent and States Rights tickets together
with all individual candidates polled 11% of the total North Carolina vote. The Republicans led in Virginia with 66.4% of
the vote. The Democrats were lower than in either of the other two states. The States Rights element was stronger
in Virginia than the combined States Rights, Independent, and individual candidates' votes in North and South Carolina. In South Carolina,
the Republican Party edged out ahead with 50.8% of the state’s vote. South Carolina submitted the highest number of Independent
votes and no States Rights votes whatever. The Democrats had a higher percentage of votes there than in either of
the other two states. In the women's colleges of the three states, the Democratic and Republican Parties were more evenly
matched in number than in the male and co-ed institutions. There were no collegiate women's votes submitted for the States
Rights Party, and very few were entered for individual candidates. Every woman's college except W.C.U.N.C. favored Eisenhower-Nixon. The male institutions
went, in every instance, for the Republican Party. All other parties and candidates combined totaled only 34.6% of the male
vote. These same colleges, however, returned a higher number of States Rights and individual votes.

DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER
RICHARD M. NIXON

SCHOLARSHIP RECOGNIZED
Phi Beta Kappa Names Four to Membership
Election of four members of the Class of 1957 to membership in North Carolina Gamma Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa,
honorary scholastic fraternity, was announced today by Dr. J. Wilson McCutchan, chapter secretary. Jerry Pietenpol, Tommy Ratchford, Carl Cooper, and
Bill Duke have fulfilled the requirements for the Society. Established at Davidson in 1923, Phi Beta Kappa recognizes students who
have maintained superior academic standing during their stay. The new candidates have established outstanding records in fields other than those
related to scholarship. Those who have fulfilled the requirements are:

JERRY PIETENPOL
Jerry Pietenpol is a physics major from Davidson, N. C. A member of Sigma Chi social fraternity, he is serving
as president of Sigma Pi Sigma, honorary physics fraternity, and secretary of Phi Mu Alpha, honorary music society. Pietenpol is
also a member of the Concert Band.

TOMMY RATCHFORD
A physics major hailing from North Belmont, N. C., Tommy Ratchford holds the office of vice-president in Sigma Pi Sigma,
honorary physics fraternity.

CARL COOPER
Freshman Adviser Carl Cooper is a senior from Durham, N. C., who has been active on both the Student Council
and the YMCA Cabinet. A Baker Scholar, he serves as vice-president of ODK and as president of his fraternity, Beta.
Cooper is a History major.

BILL DUKE
Majoring in pre-med, Bill is from Lancaster, S. C. He is secretary of Pi Kappa Phi social fraternity.

Winthrop Requests DC Candidate for Contest
Winthrop College is planning a “Cotton King” Contest for its Cotton Ball November 10 and has written the student body
president requesting the selection of a candidate from Davidson. The dance beginning at 8 o’clock will feature the Clemson Jungaleers.
Judging of the contestants will take place during the dance with crowning of the chosen “Cotton King” after intermission.

Scholarships Open To Yale Grad School
Under grants from the Carnegie Corporation and the Ford Foundation, the Yale University Graduate School is continuing its special program
designed to prepare graduates of liberal arts colleges for a teaching career in public high schools. This program leads to
a Master of Arts degree in teaching. The student must meet the regular requirements for admission to the Graduate School.
Scholarships with stipends ranging up to a maximum of $2,000 are available for qualified students. Applications must be filed by
February 15, 1957. Further information may be had by contacting Dr. George Abernethy.’
