CAGERS HIT WOFFORD (Page 3) Che David MIDWINTERS NIGHT SCHEME (Page 2) VOL. XLIV DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 1956

Silver-toned clarinet, arrangements and personality of “The Ole Woodchopper,” able rhythms of Herman’s Third Herd highlight Davidson’s 1956 Midwinters Weekend which begins tonight. (Photo by Daniel).

CUNNINGHAM PRESENTS REPORT

Trustees Vote To Raise Enrollment Of College

Davidson College trustees voted Wednesday to increase college salaries and to govern gradual enrollment increases with a general improvement program. President John R. Cunningham said that both faculty and administrative personnel will receive salary increases. The pay raises will commence March 1, rather than at the start of the next fiscal year. An increase in enrollment would be gradual, following further increases in faculty salaries and endowment, and improvement in the physical plant and the quality of instruction.

Dr. Cunningham’s semi-annual report calls attention to general response to the needs of private colleges, dramatically emphasized by the Ford Foundation’s grant of a quarter billion for raising faculty salaries. It also contains data on:

1. Davidson's participation in the Year of Emphasis on Christian Education being sponsored by the Presbyterian Church, U. S.
2. The important role played by private colleges in educating two-thirds of the nation’s leading business executives.
3. The responsibility of Davidson as college enrollment begins a tremendous surge.
4. The improvements in and success of the college's admissions procedures, as applications for admission increase.
5. The college scholarship program that totals $106,000 this year, and which has been awarded to 245 students.
6. An expression of appreciation for the “Quality of work being done by our Faculty in practically all areas of the teaching field.”
7. The success and plans of the college's current fund-raising efforts; gifts in the past year have totaled almost $900,000, and Mr. Robert J. Sailstad has been employed as Assistant to the President in Charge of Development. Current efforts are toward acquiring $1,500,000, and to continued improvement of the Annual Giving Program.
8. An increase in the summer school term to 12 weeks, consisting of two six-week sessions.

Dr. Cunningham noted “with sorrow” the deaths of three former trustees during the past several months. They are Mr. Charles J. Williams of Jacksonville and formerly of North Wilkesboro; Mr. Walter P. Sprunt of Wilmington; and the Rev. C. E. Hodgin, D. D. of Greensboro. The president's report also pays tribute to Fred G. Myers of Spartanburg, S. C., who became Davidson's eleventh Rhodes Scholar in December. He is a member of the senior class.

Fisher and Ford Talk On Gift Fund Projects

By MAURICE CROUSE
Davidsonian Associate Editor

Dr. M. L. Fisher and Dr. Harold Ford spoke Tuesday night at a YMCA membership meeting about projects for the 1956 Gift Fund. Dr. Fisher spoke about mental illness in connection with the Alexander Home project, and Dr. Ford gave an outline of conditions in the Philippines to support the project of aid to radio station DYSR of Silliman University in the Philippines.

Dr. Fisher said, “This is something new. You've never been told this before,” and he gave numerous statistics on the prevalence of mental illness to prove his point. Among them were that at least 54 per cent of hospital cases are mental in nature, and that over one million persons receive some psychiatric care during a given year. One in sixteen persons will probably suffer from serious mental disorder at some time in his life and one of ten will be hospitalized. Mental hospitals now have only 56 per cent of the number of beds necessary to care for mental cases, and there are only about 9500 psychiatrists, while 13,000 more are needed now. Mental illness is a large item in state budgets, with New York devoting approximately half of hers to that end. North Carolina is far behind and cannot meet current needs. Psychiatric cases appear to be a re-enactment of struggles of the first three years of life. Mental illness can be treated and cured, if it is treated at the beginning of the illness. Many children, even at their young age, need treatment, and the Alexander Home is an institution which tries to provide such treatment.

Although McKinley believed in 1896 that his mission was to take the Philippines and Christianize them, the islands were then and are still Christian. But Protestant Christians are a very small minority, only three per cent of the total, and even this small percentage is splintered into several denominations. Ninety percent of the Filipinos are Catholic, and the second largest group is Islam. Dr. Ford agreed with Dr. Henry Mack, who spoke at Tuesday’s chapel in support of the radio project, in his philosophy of ministering to the whole man by providing news, crop information, health information, and music, as well as the propagation of the Gospel.

82 Girls to Attend Midwinters Dances

Recently one of our fellow men received from his date a letter in which she expressed her looking forward to the dance weekend in this poetic way: “Midwinters seems like a bright star shining in the distance, surrounded by darkness.” Well, whatever Midwinters may be it is no longer in the distance, because a small army of 82 girls has descended upon the campus and captured the whole place on terms of unconditional surrender. The Hop Committee promises that there will be no picket fences at this dance—another innovation. The gymnasium will be decorated in a Disneyland fashion, complete with medieval castle, myriads of balloons, flowers, and anything else the Hop Committee might bestow the basketball court with.

Midwinters Schedule—1956: Friday, 9:00—1:00 Formal Dance; 1:30 A. M. Girls in their rooms, all boys in their dormitories; 1:40 A. M. Lights out. Saturday, 9:30 A. M. Room inspection for all boys; 4:00 P. M. Concert; 8:00—12:00 Informal Dance; 12:30 A. M. Girls in their rooms, all boys in their dormitories; 12:40 A. M. Lights out. Sunday, 9:30 A. M. Room inspection for all boys.

Diabolique Promised As Ideal Dating Fare

By Fred Myers
Davidsonian Art Critic

Diabolique, which opens today at the Visualite, is highly recommended for Midwinters weekend. It is an ideal film for dating, since it is guaranteed to make the Girl-of-Your-Dreams the Girl-of-Your-Arms—provided, of course, you yourself do not faint away in the more gruesome passages, or choose to take refuge beneath your seat. Diabolique is perhaps the most frightening horror thriller ever filmed. For those who will find its spectacular finish corny and disappointing (though these will doubtless be few), there is the same brilliant and ironical comic spirit, rich in erotic symbolism, which characterized The Trouble With Harry. Brooks Atkinson has said, however, that this film makes Hitchcock look silly. Diabolique, while not a lethal potion, is no draught for cardiacs. Its director, H. G. Clouzot, who produced The Wages of Fear, currently playing in this country, is a master of certain highly specialized realistic camera techniques. His style is precise yet poetic, and he creates a universe which nauseates, appalls and often scares simultaneously. He builds up, image upon image, in which every element strains toward the final impression expressed in a single powerful close-up—which sends one’s mind and senses reeling. He is in one sense a hypnotist, and those whose minds are not proof against his art are invariably, as are the characters in his plots, at the mercy of his diabolical genius. Diabolique is, as the very title will remind us, more a satanic prank than serious drama. This writer, who did not sleep for three nights after he saw the film, believes the joke was taken too far—yet he fell for it. If his readers were frightened for five minutes, they will suffer still more an hour when they see Diabolique.

DR. ELLIS

Dr. Richard Archie Ellis, Vesper speaker for Sunday night, is a graduate of Furman University from which he received his B.A. and D.D. He attended Southern Baptist Theological Seminary. Holding pastorates throughout the Carolinas, he has served as president and member of the Executive Board of the N. C. Baptist Convention, trustee of Wake Forest, Furman and Benedict College. He is quite active in community affairs, being selected for inclusion in “Who’s Who in America.”

Late Bulletin

Robert H. Wienecke, Assistant Brigadier General, Division Commander of the 82nd Airborne Division, Fort Bragg, N. C., will be the guest speaker, Tuesday night, 21 February. The meeting will be open to all senior ROTC Cadets. General Wienecke will discuss “military tactics of the Chinese,” based on his knowledge acquired while intelligence officer.of the Eighth U.S. Army in Korea. During The Thing, they intensely for see Davidson grows and grows and grows, and where it stops nobody knows — only from prominent positions throughout the Southland drove onto the campus last Wednesday to decide the fate of a vague directional program for all here to follow and obey. Behind the rather harmless generalities loomed serious and imposing implications. Davidson will enlarge its enrollment beginning in all probability with next year. There is no limit placed on the total number which the student body may eventually reach. A gradual improvement program shall be conducted concurrently with increasing enrollment. The proclamation of this edict tolled the knell of student opinion and proposals and pleas from prominent faculty and administration. We were and still are striving for progress and quality to meet the need of society for qualified Christian leaders. But lumber, brick, and mortar do not make a college, nor is it true that the bigger you are the better you are. Decision on yearly enrollment, evaluation of college improvements, estimation of proper salary increases, and all other interpretations pertaining to this program rest with certain members of the administration and with succeeding Trustee meetings. To those in power, the Davidsonian issues the following charge on behalf of all those who earnestly desire a better Davidson. Increase faculty salaries sufficiently as planned to retain the present and draw other high-caliber professors to the teaching faculty. Enlarge the library and its facilities to meet and surpass requirements of our present enrollment. Expand and enhance the educational program to strengthen deficient departments, enlarge others, develop and maintain seminar-type classes. Provide adequate housing and facilities for worship, study, and athletics so that former crowded conditions may not prevail again. Above all, maintain limits, never over 1,000, in accord with the benefits and obligations of a small liberal arts college so that the essence of Davidson may not be lost to succeeding generations. These aims are primary, and they should not be dismissed nor diminished for the sake of quantity. To the preceding challenge, the Davidsonian pledges its fullest support and efforts for a greater Davidson.

Council Changes By-Law; Shuns Enrollment Stand
By JOHN TRASK

The change came after Archie Joyner, chairman of the election board, presented the proposed revision to the Council in the form of a revision to the By-Laws of the Student Body Constitution, which deal with the method of deciding what candidates are eligible for the run-offs. As amended, the last sentence in Section I of the By-Laws now reads as follows: “If the third highest candidate's vote added to the total remaining vote equals the vote of the second highest candidate, all three top men shall be required to run again.” There was some discussion on whether or not the Council had the Constitutional power to change By-Laws without student body approval through voting. However, the Council, by a split vote, decided that it was within the power of the Council to change the By-Laws for approval. As presently planned, elections will begin on March 9 and will continue.

Next, the Council heard a report from President Perrin Anderson on the efforts to get direct telephone service between Charlotte and Davidson. He said that as of Tuesday night, 96% of the Cornelius telephone owners who had been contacted had signed the petitions. The telephone owners in Davidson were also signing at an overwhelming rate. Anderson pointed out, however, that it will be some time before any definite decision will be reached on the matter.

The Student Council, at its February 13 meeting, voted unanimously to change the method of determining what candidates shall be eligible for run-offs in student body elections.

Fraternities Plan Several Parties for After Dances
By BILL RAWSON

Tonight marks the first of three appearances of the Woody Herman band at Davidson. The scene will be Johnston Gymnasium and the occasion will be the formal dance opening of Mid-Winters. The dance is to begin at 9:00 p.m., but the Davidson gentleman and his lady usually choose to be discreetly late. An added encouragement for all to appear before intermission will be the crowning of some lucky beauty as Queen of Mid-Winters.

The Herman band will again be presented in concert on Saturday afternoon at 3:00 p.m. in Chambers Auditorium. This promises to be a musical contrast to the string of off-color jokes which characterized the concert at Homecoming. The informal dance is scheduled for 8:00 p.m. Saturday night, and along with the many casual gatherings afterwards, it will provide a fitting conclusion to a fine weekend—the weatherman willing—for all students and their dates.

The announcement that Herman had been signed to provide the music for Mid-Winters brought forth much glee from all those who suffered through the so-called Music of Homecoming. In presenting the Woody Herman band, the Inter-Fraternity Council has engaged a band which specializes in danceable music while at the same time being heralded as one of the top big bands in the jazz field.

Fronting top-flight organizations is nothing new to Woody Herman. His first band was organized back in the late thirties and presented as “The Band That Plays the Blues.” The 1944-1946 edition of the Herman band became known as the First Herd. The group was a commercial as well as a musical success for a while, but the bottom dropped out of the band business after World War II and with it went the First Herd. The year 1948 found Herman in possession of another great band. The Second Herd was in a more restrained vein than the First and is most famous for its recordings of “Four Brothers” and “Early Autumn.” It was “Four Brothers,” aptly named for the sax section, that established the saxophone voicing which has since become attached to the Herman name. Herman's Third Herd dates from 1952 and has evolved musically with the years. This band may not be as creative as its forerunners, but it is a well-rounded organization. Most of the book has been...

Parking
Students may use the following areas for parking for the weekend of February 17 from 4:00 p.m. Friday until Midnight Sunday:
West of Laundry (spaces restricted to 15 min.)
West of Maintenance Shop
R.O.T.C. Area

The Union
The Union is the center of student’s informal life
By LLOYD CHAPIN
Davidsonian News Editor

Informal life at Davidson centers largely around the David Ovens College Union. Here students and faculty alike get away from the pressure of college life and spend a pleasant hour over a friendly game of Chinese checkers, or watching a ten-gallon tropical fish aquarium with no fish, or looking at old United States currency in a glass case. Students especially enjoy relaxing in the lounge on the first floor where they may browse through such magazines as “Presbyterian Youth,” “Wildlife in North Carolina,” and “Vogue.” A corner bookcase offers The Abingdon Bible Commentary, Our Modern Banking and Monetary System, and Pilgrim's Progress for casual reading. Signs requesting, “Please keep feet and legs off of table,” “Books are not to be taken from this lounge,” and “Please do not remove magazines from Student Union Lounge,” tastefully distributed throughout the room, add to the relaxed atmosphere. The ballroom, also located on the first floor, serves as a campus theater in which silent movies, only occasionally interrupted by any music or dialogue, are shown three times a week. One of the busiest spots in the Union is the secretary's office where Miss Nancy Copeland rules supreme over typewriter and dictaphone and serves as coordinator...