FRIDAY, OCTOBER 26, 1956 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE FOUR

TWO WON LAST YEAR
French Club Picks New Members
DC Ranks High Nationally In Danforth Fellowships

HUBERT DAVIS, ex-Davidson gridder and now spotter for WAYS play-by-play broadcasts of the Cats’ games, climbs up to the recently completed press box atop the west stands in Richardson Field. “Hube” will be at his post as the Cats hit VMI in colorful Southern Conference football tomorrow afternoon.

SPOTS OLD MATES
Hubert Speaks In Press Box

Those who follow Davidson gridiron activities over Charlotte’s radio station WAYS often hear impromptu comments as “why doesn’t he tackle lower?,” “a missed block!,” and “look at that Red and Black move!” These emotional expressions are the property of Harold Davis and can often be heard in the background as sportscaster Jim Turner calls the plays. Where does Harold fit in? He is, while making comments, playing the role of Turner’s right-hand man by spotting individuals as the plays progress.

Nicknamed “Hube,” Harold handles a job that is essential to top-quality broadcasts. From his post, he undoubtedly wishes that he could either master mental telepathy with the clashing Cats or replace himself in his old number 42 jersey and knock heads personally.

FOOTBALL CREDIT
Harold did Davidson football credit beyond the call of his guard position during the past four years. Wildcat supporters will remember him as one of the “Davis Boys,” a term indispensable to the team’s line play. The Gastonia native can be heard with more thoughtful comments when called upon by Turner, comments that can come only from the experience of participation. A Kappa Sig, “Hube” can look to a joyful Homecoming Saturday with names such as Evanusich and LeBourdais staring at him from the VMI roster.

To see sports coverage at its best tomorrow, either look into the upper deck of the press box and find him, or tune in WAYS and enjoy a typical Davidson student, fan, and sportscaster.

LAFAR, SNIDER PLAY ROLES
Davidson Filming Begins Homecoming Weekend

Filming of the motion picture “The Davidson Story” began Thursday afternoon at four o’clock. George P. Gunn, director of the film, announced plans to do extensive filming during the Homecoming weekend. Friday night at 9:00 p.m. scenes of the formal dance will be filmed in the gymnasium. Saturday afternoon several shots will be made at the football game.

The script, which has just been completed, calls for three main characters and a girl. With the exception of the lead, which will be played by a professional actor, all other roles will feature students of the college. Bill Lipton, a professional actor, announcer, and narrator from Greenwich, Conn., has been designated to play the lead role in which he will portray a Davidson pre-med student. Lipton has been seen in the Broadway productions of “Life With Father” and “The Family.” He has had television experience with the program “Robert Montgomery Presents.”

STUDENTS TAKE PARTS
Student parts will be played by Reitzel Snider and Dan LaFar. These two were selected after much observation of the entire student body. Gunn stated that each of these selections was made after a great deal of consideration and narrowing down of those students fitting characteristics set in the script. Much of the filming will take place on the weekends when Lipton is to be on campus. Snider will represent the outgoing, athletic student who is active in the R.O.T.C. department. LaFar, in contrast, illustrates the more conservative student interested in campus political affairs and a member of the Male Chorus.

COOPERATION NEEDED
The picture shows the story of the Davidson students, therefore many of the scenes will include general shots of the students. Gunn emphasized the need for student cooperation, which he said is imperative if the success of this project is to be assured. The Davidson student has been variously described, Gunn has said, as “sports-minded, and not top-heavy in relation to his academic pursuits.” The qualities he is said to admire most include physical vigor, honesty, sincerity, academic excellence, and a sense of humor. These are the qualities which Gunn and his staff of scriptwriters, photographers, and technicians are hoping to capture in this film.

Davidson College ranks with the top eight colleges and universities in the United States in the number of graduates who have won fellowships from the Danforth Foundation. An announcement received from the Foundation by the college states that only seven other institutions have graduated as many Danforth Fellows as the six Davidson alumni who have been named.

Six FROM DC
The seven are Denison University in Ohio, Duke, Harvard, Pomona, Williams, Wooster, and Yale. Pomona and Duke have seven, the others six. Danforth Graduate Fellowships were established in 1951 “to bring into higher education a larger number of young men, thoroughly trained according to the highest scholastic standards, who are aware of the place for moral and religious values in teaching and counseling.” The appointments carry the promise of fellowship in an annual conference on college teaching, the assurance of financial support as needed during the years of graduate study, and every possible encouragement to the Fellow to become the most competent teacher.

BECOME TEACHERS
Since the program began, 302 Fellows have been appointed. Its basic purpose is to encourage exceptional students to become college teachers, and appointments are made by a board of seven leading educators. The Foundation has invited Davidson students to apply once again for the awards, which are limited to 60 per year. Fifty-seven were chosen last April, and two were Davidson seniors, Joel Conarroe of Bradenton, Fla., and William H. F. Kuykendall of Charlotte.

New Drinking Pledge (Continued from Page One)
liberal arts colleges and universities in the nation only two have ancient language as a required course for the A.B. degree. He also noted that there were only 22 B.A. degrees awarded at last spring’s graduation, as compared with over 150 B.S. degrees given at that time. Kukura urged the Council members to generate student interest on this subject in order for it to pass through the faculty committee so it could be brought up at the February meeting of the Board of Trustees. Kukura said it was “absurd” to have a B.S. degree in English and advocated that the language requirement for the Arts degree be lifted so that more B.A. degrees would be awarded.

The matter being discussed further, Tom Johnson moved that the Council recommend to the faculty a proposal of Kukura’s that the Arts degree be given to any graduate not majoring in science, math, or business administration. The motion passed.

STUDY CURRICULUM
The President then appointed Bill Bondurant to head a committee to make a study of the nine required courses at Davidson. First vice-president of the student body John Bernhardt and sophomore Council member Johnson were also selected to serve on this curriculum committee.

Military District Chief To Inspect Regiment
Colonel Thomas G. Keithly, newly installed chief of the North Carolina Military District, will inspect the Davidson College ROTC Unit next Tuesday. Col. Keithly, who took over his current command on August 13, will observe the physical facilities of the local unit and also the progress in organizing the 1956-57 cadet regiment. On the drill field, he will personally inspect both the Honor Platoon and the Band. After drill, the cadet regimental staff will give him a complete briefing on the functioning of the corps.

R.O.T.C.
Col. Keithly was commissioned a second lieutenant in the field artillery reserve after graduating from the Reserve Officers Training Corps in 1927. The following year he received a Bachelor of Science degree in civil engineering from the University of Missouri. Upon being called to active duty in April 1941, Colonel Keithly assumed the position of operations officer of the First Field Artillery Battalion at Fort Leonard Wood, Missouri. Subsequently, he served in a variety of domestic and overseas assignments during World War II.

KOREA
He was integrated into the regular army as a major on June 19, 1947. In that same year, he was transferred to Korea as commanding officer of the 49th Field Artillery Battalion. From 1950 until 1953 he was with the Army Field Forces at Fort Monroe, Virginia, as chief of the Review Branch, Organization and Equipment Division.

DECORATIONS
From June 1954 to July 1956, Colonel Keithly served as Military attache to the U.S. Embassy at Managua, Nicaragua. He returned to the United States and became Chief of the North Carolina Military District with headquarters at Raleigh, North Carolina, on August 13, 1956. Among his decorations is the Bronze Star Medal with the Oak Leaf Cluster.

COL. THOMAS G. KEITHLY Inspects Cadet Regiment

Scott to Lead N.C. Recreation Group
Dr. Tom Scott, Director of Athletics, has been elected to lead the North Carolina Recreation Group.

LaFar opened discussion on the much-discussed telephone project of the Council. He stated that H. C. Broyles, whose local printing firm publishes The Davidsonian, wants to hire a lawyer to investigate the proposal of the Charlotte telephone company to the Council. Broyles also wants to put Davidson on the Charlotte exchange. The President said the Council should participate in this project. A motion to this effect by Vernon Hunter, senior Council member, was passed. The motion stated that the Council should back Broyles’ move to hire a lawyer with moral support and monetary assistance to the tune of $15.

DISCUSS RIOTS
The last item of business on the Council’s agenda concerned riots. President LaFar hoped that the Council would enforce the stopping of firecracker shooting and the prevention of damage done to dormitory property at riots. He urged the Council members to make a concerted effort in this direction.

Tulane Law School Offers Scholarship
The Tulane University School of Lawis offering a Regional Scholarship to an honor student in the Davidson Senior Class. The scholarship is renewable if a satisfactory grade of work is maintained. A scholarship awarded this year may be postponed by the student until he completes his military service. Further information may be had from Professor F. S. Morton, Adviser to pre-legal students, or from Professor G. L. Abernethy.

Held Tuesday, October 10, at the home of Dr. and Mrs. George B. Watts, President Bill Martin presided over this first session, resorting to a copious supply of fractured French and other tongues. The group was pleased to hear the inaugural address of the president, and also an address by Mr. J. L. Lloyd of the English faculty concerning the values of Franco-American ties. The rest of the program was devoted to plans for the coming year, election of new members, and Mesdames Watts and Goldiere’s usual delicious refreshments. A moment of silence was observed for two departed members, John Harmon and Fred Myers. Those elected to membership on the basis of outstanding achievement in the study of the French language were: J. N. Bell, E. B. Brooks, Jr., A. C. Bross, H. H. Brown, R. F. Brubaker, J. M. Dabbs, Jr., J. P. Reeder, Jr., E. E. Wilson, Jr., W. W. Womble, H. B. Campbell, Jr., R. P. Oliver, Jr., and Charles Duncan.

Qualified Seniors to Receive Fellowships

The Southern Regional Training Program is awarding to qualified graduating seniors fellowships of $1,500 plus all fees at cooperating universities for a period of one year. The total value of this award will approximate $1,950. This training program is designed to encourage the training of executive leaders and skilled administrators for the public service. In order to carry out this objective, the Universities of Alabama, Kentucky, and Tennessee and the governments of the region have combined their resources for training and teaching in this field. Each Fellow will spend approximately three months, beginning in June 1957, as an intern in a public office in the Southern Region. The entire group of Fellows will spend the fall term at the University of Alabama, the winter term at the University of Tennessee, and the spring term at the University of Kentucky. Although the closing date for applications is March 9, 1957, early application is advised. Further information may be obtained from Professor H. Ford or Professor G. L. Abernethy. Application blanks may be secured by writing the Educational Director, Southern Regional Training Program, Drawer I, University, Alabama.

Dates, Alumni... (Continued from Page One)

Clarence Hodson of Orange, N. J.

CLASH WITH VMI

Highlighting the afternoon's activities is the clash with VMI's Keydets on the gridiron. Game time is 2:30. After the game, Maltby will set the tempo for tomorrow night's informal dance with a concert in Chambers auditorium. Fraternities and the faculty will hold open house for alumni after the game, and the informal dance will be held in the gymnasium from eight ’til twelve.

Wilson Convocation (Continued from Page One)

Introduced by Dr. Frontis W. Johnston of the Davidson history faculty, his address will be preceded by a formal academic procession. The public is invited to join with the college in the convocation, though no seats will be reserved.

Episcopal Communion Services Will Be Held

The Rt. Reverend Richard H. Baker, Bishop Coadjutor of the Diocese of North Carolina, will conduct a communion service for Episcopal students in the ground floor of Belk Dormitory at 8:30 a.m., Sunday.

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a...

PIZZA

FEATURED IN THE FIGURE at tonight’s formal Homecoming dance in Johnston Gym are the sponsors for members of the Interfraternity Council. 1st row: (left to right) Janet Robinson of Woman's College with Joe Huskins, Pi Kappa Phi, Jean Gold of Gastonia with Gerald Cathey, Pi Kappa Phi, Elaine James of Wake Forest with Randy Daniel, Campus Club, Sibet Sanders of USC with John Trask, Kappa Alpha, Lou Cowan of Randolph Macon with Don Massey, Alpha Tau Omega, and Dottie McAulay of USC with Jimmy Martin, Beta Theta Pi. Second row: Millie Morris of Queens with Dave Shaw, Sigma Chi, Jean McLaurin of Queens with Jimmy Jones, Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Betty Sell of Queens with Charlie Brown, Sigma Phi Epsilon, Kitty Sue Faulconer, Queens College with Tommy Hawpe, Phi Gamma Delta, and Ellen Forester of Queens with Bunny Perkinson of Phi Delta Theta.

Cummings Discusses Gunn, Expert in...

College Union Lists Events

The College Union presents a full agenda for next week. Tuesday is the centennial of the birth of Woodrow Wilson. The Centennial Committee has invited Dr. Arthur Link, Professor of History at Northwestern University, to the Davidson campus. Besides speaking in chapel, Dr. Link is to give a lecture in the ballroom of the Union at 8:00 p.m. Everyone is urged to attend the lecture. Other events in the Union include a faculty seminar meeting Monday, 3:45 in the Blue Room. In addition to Dr. Link's lecture on Tuesday, there will be a Woodrow Wilson Centennial Committee luncheon at 12:30 in the private dining room.

College Library Gets NBC Wilson Tape

The College Library has acquired a tape recording of the National Broadcasting Company's fifty-minute nationwide program on Woodrow Wilson. The recording was sent to Dr. Cunningham in appreciation of his recording, at NBC’s request, a number of incidents concerning Woodrow Wilson at Davidson. Dr. Cunningham has turned the tape over to Dr. Davidson to be included in the Library’s Woodrow Wilson collection. Taking note of Wilson’s relationship here, two incidents at Davidson are included. One concerns his academic record here, and the other is a story told by the late Dr. Lingle in which Wilson won a baseball game when Governor Robert Glenn was pitching.

"War and Peace"

Approximately 20 students and faculty attended the discussion of the movie and the book, War and Peace. Dr. and Mrs. Cumming led the discussion, which included good student participation as well as the Cummings’ professional criticisms. This was the first in a series of informal coffee-hour discussions of a literary nature to be sponsored by the Bookshelf Committee of the College Union. This group plans to hold discussions recognizing Davidson faculty members who have had books published, as well as discussions of other movie and book combinations, such as Moby Dick and Don Quixote.

Dr. Julian Lake to Speak at Vespers

Dr. Julian Lake, minister of the First Presbyterian Church of Winston-Salem, N. C., will be the Vespers speaker this Sunday. Dr. Lake is a native of Georgia, a Davidson graduate in the class of ‘28, and attended Union Theological Seminary in Richmond. He was for seven years minister of the Oakland Avenue Presbyterian Church in Rock Hill, S. C., and during that time was minister to Presbyterian girls at Winthrop College. The service will be an observance of Reformation Day, since this falls nearest to that day in 1517 when Martin Luther posted his 95 theses. Some of the music used in the service will be composed by Mr. Gehring especially for the occasion.

(Continued from Page One)

"Are you still keeping in shape?” Gunn's radio career led him successively from Gainesville to Charleston, then to Washington and on to New York. Gunn's work in New York has brought him in contact with many of the big names in the entertainment world including Kay Armand, Felix Knight, and June Vallee. Gunn likes to tell of his brief encounter with Walter Winchell. It seems that he ran into Winchell in the broadcasting building and they both had on identical hats. Gunn’s hat was too big for Winchell, and Winchell’s hat stood like a can on Gunn's head. As they returned their hats to each other, Winchell asked Gunn where he got his big head. Gunn replied that it came from his father. Then Gunn asked Winchell where he got HIS big head. Winchell turned abruptly and stomped back into his office. Gunn, in response to questions, answered in swift succession that he “likes Ike” very much, doesn't agree with Billy Graham's evangelistic technique but realizes that Graham is doing an effective work, and thinks that New York's greatest preachers are Fosdick, McCracken, Bonnell, and Dean Pike, in that order. When asked to give a comment on the thing about Davidson that impressed him most, he answered by quoting a sentence from his script of the “Davidson Story”: “We learned that the term extracurricular referred not only to the act of playing together, but also to the art of learning to work together.”

Made this discovery yet?

You combine some very basic elements when you slip into this Arrow Par White shirt. Its medium-spread collar and handsome broadcloth fabric give you an extra measure of style. And because it’s a soft collar (with stays), you’re assured of comfort a-plenty. Add the English block print tie for a perfect final touch. Shirt, $3.95; tie, $2.50.

ARROW — first in fashion

SHIRTS + TIES

Shirt, $3.95; tie, $2.50.

New formula for fashion

Fashion and comfort do mix. And the Arrow people offer some mighty convincing proof with this smart-looking Par. (You can choose either barrel or French cuffs.) Its soft medium-spread collar (with stays) is as easy on your neck as it is on your eyes. And nothing could look finer than its lustrous white broadcloth.

Union were filmed. Tonight in addition to the shots taken at the formal dance, the tennis and soccer teams were the subjects of Gunn’s cameras.

ROLE in the “Davidson Story” is Bill Lipton, professional actor and announcer of Greenwich, Conn. Lipton is cast as a Davidson pre-med student.

the famous OPEN KITCHEN

Charlotte, N. C. 1318 W. Morehead

IVEY'S OF CHARLOTTE