Che Dauidsonian

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Bob Beall

BUSINESS MANAGER
Lloyd Chapin

ASSOCIATE EDITORS
John Trask, John Johnson, Bill Bondurant, John Trotti

Assistant Editor
Bill Pomeroy

Managing Editors
JIM BATTEN, BOB CARMICHAEL

Sports Editor
FRANKLIN BLOODWORTH, LEON HOWELL

Feature Editor
Bob Lathan

Copy Editor
Bob Majors

Photographer
Bob Austin, Marshall Chapman, Tom DuPuis

News Editor
Hank Daniel

Assignments
Advertising Manager

Circulation
Represented for National Advertising by
NATIONAL ADVERTISING SERVICE, Inc.

SUBSCRIPTION RATE: $2.00 Per Year.
Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

OFFICES IN DAVID OVENS COLLEGE UNION, DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 1956

Louisville vs. Washington Chaos

Dr. Omer Carmichael’s straightforward, low-pressure presentation of how the Louisville, Kentucky schools were integrated this fall apparently sums up the
formula for successful desegregation in the fringe areas of the nation. Keynoted by its thorough preparation before actual integration, the
Louisville approach, where Dr. Carmichael is superintendent of schools, will undoubtedly be adopted by school boards in border states with
similar situations. Without concerted opposition and with a more or less limited Negro population, this scheme will usually be sufficient
to meet the demands of the Court.

It was fortunate that Dr. Carmichael geared his talk on the matter-of-fact plane which he did, and that he did
not intimate that his experience could or should become a pat plan for integration activity farther south. Courteous student reception
of the talk reflected creditably the attitude in which it was delivered.

We cannot help but realize, however, that integration throughout the South is not going to follow the comparatively smooth Louisville
pattern. On the other hand, it will in all probability be sadly similar to the chaotic situation now existing in
the nation’s capital.

Effectively hushed by the Washington school board for many months, a congressional investigating committee and a thoroughly aroused press have
finally taken the wraps off conditions which have virtually disrupted the effective operation of the Washington public schools. While Northern
liberals screamed, and Time magazine unloosed its smear-pots, witness after witness paraded before the southern-dominated committee, telling of the status
of the schools. The pro-integration Washington press reluctantly admitted that they have an “intolerable” situation on their hands, and the
Washington Star went so far as to say that unless drastic remedial measures were taken immediately, the condition “will deteriorate
to a point that stamps integration as a failure, with the most deplorable effects on the character of this great
city”.

While the race problem over the South cannot be compared with that of Washington or Louisville or any other one
city, it seems safe to assume that the results of integration where racial feeling is backed by years of custom
will be a far cry from the quiet proceedings in Louisville, and could conceivably make even Washington’s knotty problems look
minor in comparison.

We cannot help but wonder if such a situation as exists in Washington could ever be publicly aired from the
Davidson platform as was done yesterday with the contrastingly smooth transition in Louisville. The College has a traditionally-neglected duty to
present all legitimate sides of the issues which confront us. A community which likes to think of itself as intellectual
in outlook cannot afford to intentionally or unintentionally suppress conflicting viewpoints. And yet except in extremely rare instances, only one
side of the race situation has been presented since it came to a head in May, 1954. Both responsible and
irresponsible men have come to present the case for integration. We have no quarrel at all with the right or
even the advisability of having these men speak here. We do challenge the college’s consistent failure to present the other
side of the story, if the controversy is to be presented at all.

In our tight little world, too many of us assume that those who differ with us, and especially on this
particular issue, are automatically rabble-rousing, unintellectual bigots, who are living in the Old South of mint juleps under the moonlit
magnolias. Much too often, this charge is partly true. But this is not the wholesale Southern attitude, and there are
many dedicated, intellectually respectable speakers who could be secured to present their well thought-out views in a calm and unemotional
manner.

In the past, the college’s attitude to proposals of this type has been that if interested students would like to
secure a speaker who would deviate from the usual pattern, chapel time would be gladly allotted. But with this policy,
the College is simply dodging its responsibility for objective and complete presentation of issues which will concern us as citizens.

Presentation last year of the labor-management wrangle in the South by representatives of both sides in successive weeks provides a
model for future programs of a controversial nature, regardless of the specific matters involved.

Noted Personalities to Visit Campus

In one fell swoop Davidson will have two world-renowned personalities in its midst when Eleanor Roosevelt and Billy Graham visit
the campus on the weekend of December 7-9. Controversial and provocative, these two in particular will elicit the attention of
the students and interested outsiders. There will be no lack of interest or attendance at their public appearances.

In belonging to the Liberal Arts College family, we have indicated that we believe education is more than just knowledge
crammed in on one specialized field. Our definition of the learned man includes the ability to be at home in
many places, to be familiar with the great ideas and aesthetic expressions of the ages, and, if not a real
appreciation, at least a sympathetic tolerance for that area of life which is designated as “Fine Arts”. It is during
our college days, when we experience our greatest growth intellectually and formulate roughly tastes that will remain the rest of
our lives, that an awareness of the lasting and elevating qualities in music, poetry, dramatics, et al ought to be
awakened.

Monday night Philippe Entremont will be here. During the remainder of the year, an outstanding singer, a Shakespearean performance, a
demonstration of art in the creation, and a Boy’s Choir provide the program for the Artist Series.

One distressing note along these lines is that to the way of thinking of several of the student body the
quality of the presentations on the Davidson Artist Series has been slipping in recent years. Four years ago such talent
as Charles Laughton, Claude Rains, Robert Frost, Jan Pierce, and the Dublin Players visited Davidson. This year there is hardly
a name, with the exception of Mrs. Roosevelt, who is appearing in a role that is more educational than cultural,
that catches the student attention as the above do.

There is a need for a double-pronged challenge then. One is to the Davidson student to make an honest effort
to grow in artistic response quite as he would in other phases of campus life and the other is to
the administration to seek every method possible to obtain and present the outstanding personalities and performances to the campus.

—F.L.H.

Contrast: Home for Thanksgiving . . . by Bross

Dear Editor:

Before we let the idle pleasures of our first dance weekend slip from our memory there are a few points
which should be discussed. The administration should certainly be applauded for doing away with the outdated rule that made couples
clear the fraternity houses two hours after the dances. This is certainly an improvement and one which everyone thinks is
better. The only question is why stop halfway? If it’s all right on Friday night, what is the hold up
on Saturday? The new rule allows people to remain in the houses Saturday morning until 4:30 a.m. However, on Saturday
night the two-hour rule is back into effect. This succeeds in driving everyone off campus on Saturday night which seems
to be exactly what the administration doesn’t want to happen.

PARKING ON CAMPUS

Another point in this line of discussion is the “parking” situation. Many cities have found a similar problem to that
found by the school. Most of these places at first

Painting White Lines at Several Parking Areas Would Add Space

Dear Editor,

In hopes that this letter will somehow reach the attention of the proper college officials, I am writing to you.
It concerns a problem that has been before us for the past several years—the parking situation.

The problem is becoming more serious each year, and will probably continue doing so. The college has recognized and anticipated
this problem, and has helped to improve the situation by increasing the parking area, especially on the west side of
Belk. I believe, however, that the college has not gone far enough in providing the maximum amount of parking space
in the parking areas.

In order to improve the parking situation, I propose, first, that the paved areas behind East, West, and Duke be
lined off. At present the cars in these areas are being parked rather haphazardly, taking up too much room, and
thereby limiting the parking space. Lining these areas would solve this problem.

Secondly, I believe lining the area behind the house on the road leading to the back of the gym would
create additional parking spaces.

Thirdly, I believe the removal of the large concrete slab behind East is necessary. I know of several cars that
have been caught by this slab, and it could cause serious damage. This area could be filled in also.

Finally, the newly paved areas in the Belk parking lot should be lined off. This should have been done before
school started.

I don't believe these proposals, if carried out, would tax the college treasury too much, and I’m sure the parkingProblem
would be improved.
Jim Boyce

Many Incentives Offered to Donors in Campus Blood Drive

Dear Editor,

The Davidson student body will have the opportunity to give their blood to the Red Cross on December 3-4. The
IFC is sponsoring this blood drive, and the ROTC department is doing most of the actual mechanical details. The fraternity
with the largest percentage of donors will be given a plaque for their fraternity house. In addition, the IFC will
reduce the cost of the Mid-Winter’s dance tickets for those in the winning fraternity. As an added incentive, the ROTC
will give a free drill cut to every ROTC cadet who gives blood. Even if he gives on Monday, he
will not be required to attend drill on Tuesday.

Last year’s response to the blood drive was very poor. It is our duty to make this year’s blood drive
the most successful ever to be held on the Davidson campus. Let's all give to the Blood Drive on December
3-4.

W.G.C.

Used police force to prohibit this popular sport and later found it was hopeless. Searching for a solution they finally
realized that “if you can’t lick them join them.” As a result, most modern youths have been used to police-protected
parking areas, only to come to Davidson and be driven from their cozy haven. This results only in driving the
parkers off the campus and down the road to a less romantic and much more dangerous spot. I firmly believe
that the College ought to consider both of these proposals. If couples were allowed to stay in the fraternity houses
later on Saturday night, fewer mothers would have grey hair. Similarly, if students were allowed to “park” on the campus
rather than being forced down the road, Cop Linker would have a more pleasant weekend.

Jerry Crotwell

Mobile X-Ray Unit To Be on Campus During Next Week

Dear Editor:

I noticed in the last issue of the Davidsonian a highly pertinent announcement concerning chest x-rays. X-rays are extremely helpful
in determining whether or not any of the Davidson men have tuberculosis. No one wants to be called “Tubercular Tom”
by his ex-pals, now does he? To avoid this, won't you ask the students to give their attention to this
matter? The heavier smokers on campus will be interested to know that the unit now carries a “tobacculosis” detector which
will x-ray their chest and then inform them whether or not they are smoking the proper brand of cigarettes. This
new machine is sponsored by the R. J. Reynolds Company, a non-profit organization which is combating tuberculosis. Also, the mobile
unit offers a prime opportunity to some of the poorer scholars to pass at least one exam this semester. Even
the Administration and their secretaries are going to be x-rayed. They, too, could be carriers of the deadly germ. I
beg that the student body join in with them next week when the opportunity presents itself. After all, the students
want to be allowed to return to school after the holidays, don’t they?

Seyemore Speigleman,
Chairman of the “Bare-the-chest” Movement at Davidson College.

PENETRATES ACADEMIC PROGRAM

Movement For A.B. Demands
By LAURENS WALKER

During the past two months, student opinion at Davidson has moved against one of the several seemingly unreasoned aspects of
the college’s academic program, the requirements for the A.B. degree. This sort of movement is not new to the Davidson
campus, for some six years ago a similar student group managed to push a proposal for the elimination of the
ancient language requirement as far as the Board of Trustees, only to have it cut down by the frantic efforts
of a radically conservative faculty member.

The reason behind such a requirement change has been obvious to the student body since discussion was first begun on
the matter. Perhaps Davidsonians have been too ready to understand and then drop the subject.

NOW IS THE TIME

Perhaps this is the time to not only ask the faculty for such a change in degree requirements, but to
press for a long-needed general revision in the academic program of the college. Such a revision should include, particularly, basic
changes in the required curriculum. With these curriculum changes, the degree requirement changes would become, not just surface revisions, but
evidences of an improvement and modernization of the Davidson scholastic program.

WOULD STRENGTHEN DEGREES

Through these changes just mentioned, and by disassociating the A.B. from the B.S., both degrees could be strengthened, particularly the
B.S., considered now by many to be inferior to the A.B. This idea of a needed revision of the academic
program is not a new one to the Davidson campus.

Support

There have been many well-thought-out programs suggested. It is not my purpose to propose a detailed program, but only to
suggest that this is a time for action. The suggested improvements already analyzed and found workable should be incorporated into
the college's scholastic program immediately. The requirement matter and the action taken thus far to improve the situation have served
to make campus opinion very clear on several important points.

REVISION OF PROGRAM

First, Davidsonians definitely want the change in degree requirements, but more than that change, they are keenly interested in seeing
a general revision of the college's academic program so as to make it more realistic and more stimulating. Davidsonians openly
question many of the required courses and sometimes wonder whether they are pouring their time down academic drains.

Secondly, Davidsonians are looking to their faculty for concerned leadership in these matters. They are hoping that future proposals will
be greeted with open minds and friendly attitudes so that the general welfare of the college might be served.

HOPE FOR RESULTS

Lastly, the student body is hoping not to receive from the Board of Trustees another example of complete disregard for
student opinion and preference, similar to the enrollment decision of last year. The current degree question is then much broader
than it at first appears. It penetrates deep into the heart of Davidson's academic program and is a powerful indication
of the need for immediate reform.

Shelf after shelf in the library's Davidsoniana Room are filled with writings by and about Woodrow Wilson. Giant glass cases
are devoted to the preservation of Wilsonian relics, and some of the walls are covered with pictures of the 28th
President of the United States, who attended Davidson during a part of one school year before going North to Princeton
for his education. Ever since Mr. Wilson was elected to the Presidency, Davidson has basked in his reflected glory, and
has capitalized on every available opportunity to take some credit for his accomplishments. This year, to celebrate the one hundredth
anniversary of his birth, this has been carried to ridiculous extremes, and a protest is long overdue.

In many cases, tradition is one thing, and reality is another, and the preservation of tradition at the price of
hypocrisy is inconsistent with other, more fundamental traditions of honesty, integrity, and truth to which Davidson also proudly lays claim.
At this point, die-hard traditionalists will protest, “But Mr. Wilson always said nice things about Davidson.” Of course he did,
because Mr. Wilson was a gentleman, and gentlemen don’t say unkind things about anything, at least not in public. Do
we really know for sure what he really thought of Davidson, especially the Davidson of 1870 as compared to Princeton
of the same era?

So let us leave further eulogies to Princeton, which did more to make Wilson what he was, and was much
more a product of his ability, and let us place a sign on the edge of the campus to read
“Woodrow Wilson slept here.” It isn't as flattering, it is true, but it is much more realistic.

One of the perennial criticisms which has been leveled at Davidson on many occasions is that it pushes its students
into a narrow cultural and intellectual pattern of conformity that destroys intellectual freedom. It should be remembered that Davidson serves
an upper middle-class, Southern, white, Presbyterian business and professional clientele, and consequently, most of us were born into the pattern
we accuse Davidson of forcing around us. This has both advantages and disadvantages.

Most of us here are fortunate enough to have parents who are financially able to send us to college without
undue strain on the family budget. On the other hand, many of us come to Davidson because people in our
parents’ income bracket all send their sons to college. Within the pattern described above, security is so easily come by
that our religious convictions are seldom severely tested, and consequently do not escape from the “Sunday-School” stage. We go to
church, say and do the “right” things, and behave respectably most of the time. But how often do we ask
ourselves: “What do I really believe, and why do I believe it?”

Our cultural pattern provides us with the money, the time, and the opportunity to learn what is going on in
the world and to develop talents which will be beneficial to society. It is also a breeding ground for narrow-mindedness,
bigotry, hypocrisy, and neglect of our fellow men. The point here is that our cultural pattern is intrinsically neither good
nor bad; we create its moral values by our actions within it. Secondly, Davidson does not force us into this
pattern. If anything, its intellectual, if not actual, contact with other points of view provides us with many opportunities for
breaking the pattern. Whether we do or not, is up to us.
