DAVIDSON COLLEGE DIRECTORY (Pages 2, 5) VOL. XLV

The Davidsonian
The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 1956

RIFLE TEAM OPENS WITH P. C. (Page 4) NO. 2

ROTC Revision Increases Staff Officers’ Duties

Several noteworthy changes were in evidence as the ROTC Cadet Regiment held its first drill of the year last Tuesday, September 25. For the first time in the recent history of the Regiment, there are complete staffs at both the Regimental and Battalion levels. Most of the work now assigned to these staff officers had been handled in the past by the Cadre. MSIII Cadets also have been assigned staff functions, each MSIV staff officer having an MSIII Cadet to assist him in his duties. The whole concept of a staff officer's responsibility within the Regiment has been changed and his job has been made one of the most important and integral in the whole Regiment.

The complete roster of all Cadets and their assignments and duties was drawn up by staff officers. Staff officers are handling the issuance of weapons and other materials to the Cadets. The drill and training schedules and their execution are under the supervision of Cadet staff officers, as is all the publicity for the entire ROTC Department. Complete headquarters have been furnished for the two Battalions and the Regimental staff. The headquarters give the staff more room in which to work and operate efficiently. A conference room has also been provided. A message center, where Cadets may communicate with each other and with the Cadre, has been established. This has proved to be one of the greatest assets to communication within the Regiment.

This year the Cadet Corps is the largest it has ever been, thus presenting a greater challenge to the Cadet officers.

DC and Queens Plan Trip to New York

The Union Travel Committee is sponsoring this year a bus tour to New York during the Thanksgiving holidays. The tour will leave Wednesday, the 22nd of November, and travel directly by bus to New York. Although most of the tour members will plan to be accommodated together at the Century Hotel, individuals who have other means of lodging may make the trip at a reduced rate. Henry Parrish, the director of the tour, has indicated that only one evening's entertainment will be planned for the entire group. This evening will consist of a Broadway musical, after which the group will go to the Statler Hotel where the Dorsey Brothers are featured. For the rest of the weekend, students will be free to plan their own time in regard to entertainment, plays, and tours of the city. It is hoped that the tour will allow students of all interests to go to New York conveniently and cheaply. Those interested may sign up Monday, October 1st, at the Union desk during Chapel Period. Other details will be explained at that time.

Maltby Will Entertain Homecoming

Should Be Answer to Cry For Danceable Music

By GRIER DAVIS

The Interfraternity Council has announced that Richard Maltby’s Orchestra will supply the music for the Homecoming weekend. The formal dance will be from nine till one Friday night. Then Maltby will set the tempo for Saturday night's dance by giving a concert in Chambers after the Homecoming football game.

Maltby seems to be the answer to the student outcry of past years for a “band we can dance to.” His six-week engagement at the Cafe Rouge of the Statler Hotel in New York brought favorable reviews such as these: Billboard praised him, “Maltby’s danceable brand of subtle swing should please the school crowd.” Variety cited that “a compelling dance beat,” his band showed a “quest for new sounds and coloration.” His instrumentation is constructed along standard lines with a quintet of reeds, three trombones, four trumpets, and four rhythms. His vocalist, Miss Frankie Crockett, was a recent runner-up for the Miss Florida title. She was chosen from hundreds of applicants for the job and made her debut with Maltby at the Cafe Rouge.

Richard Maltby started his association with music playing a coronet in grade and high school orchestras. He began a liberal arts course at Northwestern not intending to make a career of music; but, after one year, he left school to study advanced harmony and orchestration under Leo Sowerby. He then began arranging for some of the more prominent band leaders such as Artie Shaw and others. His first individual recordings for R.C.A., “St. Louis Blues Mambo,” and “Midnight Mood,” established him commercially. A juke box operators’ poll called his group the “most promising new orchestra of 1954.” As the popularity of his records increased, he organized a traveling band which played last year to six Ivy League and Big Seven schools, among them Yale, Cornell, and the Universities of Michigan and Missouri.

Richard Maltby has become known as the “Master of Musical Moods.” His talent and imagination have led him to experiment with modern harmony and to explore classic and symphonic realms as well as the popular dance medium. From all reports, he promises to offer an atmosphere with just the right amount of conventionalism and a needed touch of freshness.

Class of 1960 Ranks High on Entrance Test

Professor Benjamin Bray, acting head of the Guidance and Counseling department, this week stated that the College Board Test scores of the entering freshman class were the highest in the history of the college. He said that the average score was well above the national average and that the class of 1960 ranks among the top ten percent of all college freshmen in the country.

Court Appeals For Upperclass Backing

The Court of Control has started its campaign this year with the policy of cracking down on the freshman. Reitzel Snider, Judge of the Court, has said that there will be a more intensive check made for freshmen without hats or nametags. Snider also pointed out that there will be more individual testing on the knowledge of yells, freshman regulations, etc. With the endorsement of the IFC, the court hopes to have a firm backing from every upperclassman on this policy. Those freshmen called before the court and convicted will find an unwelcome task, such as running stud on a whole floor section of upperclassmen for a period of one week, carrying laundry for the court members, or polishing football shoes.

NOTICE

The schedule for individual portraits for Quips and Cranks for next week is as follows:

Monday and Tuesday—Juniors.
Wednesday and Thursday—Seniors.
Hours—10:00-1:00 and 2:00-5:30 Daily.

White’s Is New Center Of Culture, Literature

By AL MACKAY

White’s Drug Store has changed. It’s still the only place in town one can leave from by bus, get a prescription filled, or get a decent chocolate milk, but recently it has assumed a more important role on campus. White's Drug Store is now the literary, social, and cultural Mecca of Davidson. A wealth of books fills the shelves and racks that occupy the front portion of the establishment. In addition to all the best in the literary field, they offer more than the literary and social combined. These sensitive fellows have been observed standing for hours, engrossed in the latest works of Plato, Shakespeare, and Mickey Spillane, to the accompaniment of strains of Offenbach’s Gaite Parisienne.

Swiped From Freshmen

By BOB LATHAN

The Student Council, in its first meeting this year, passed a motion Monday night, by a vote of 7-2, to reimburse all freshmen whose hats were stolen from the gym the afternoon of the Freshman Cake Race and who had reported their loss to a Court of Control member. The motion was made by Freshman Adviser Cart Cooper and followed much discussion on the incident. Judge of the Court of Control Reitzel Snider, who was present at the meeting to make a report concerning the Court, pointed out, “Since the involved freshmen were not in any way negligent, it was an incident out of the ordinary, and I would suggest that the Council reimburse them in a tangible way to show that the Student Council supports the Court.” Ross Smyth, first vice-president of the student body, noted that students “would hold the Court in higher esteem if the Council would take favorable action on this matter.” All Council members agreed that the freshmen had been done an injustice which disillusioned many of them. Student body president Dan LaFar’s contention was that it was “a matter of principle rather than money.”

An important item on the Council’s agenda Monday night was the Court of Control. LaFar stated that the “crucial point in the Court program is drawing near.” Judge Snider, who then took the floor, said that the Court would initiate a more intensive check on freshmen without hats or nametags and more individual testing on the knowledge of yells, freshman regulations, etc. With the endorsement of the IFC, the court hopes to have a firm backing from every upperclassman on this policy. Those freshmen called before the court and convicted will find an unwelcome task, such as running stud on a whole floor section of upperclassmen for a period of one week, carrying laundry for the court members, or polishing football shoes.

Templeton to Address Students in Chapel

Dr. Charles B. Templeton will address the student body at the regular chapel service Tuesday, October 2. Dr. Templeton, who is the pastor of the Second Presbyterian Church in Memphis, will speak to the students on “Ethics in Politics.”

The 1956-57 YMCA Membership Drive will be kicked off in Chapel next Thursday. Gordon Bondurant, President of the Y, and Bunny Perkinson, Chairman of the Membership Committee of the Y Cabinet, will have the Chapel program and will explain to the student body the concomitants to Y membership and what the Y has to offer.

Solicitations for membership, headed by Perkinson and Stewart, Co-Chairman of the Drive, will begin that night and will last through Friday night. These students who are not contacted either of these two nights will be seen later.To be more selective than it has been in the past. As evidence of this belief, Professor Bray points out that this year’s Freshman Class had the highest rating on the A.C.E. test of any freshman class in the history of Davidson College.

DAVIDSON WELCOMES

Benny Goodman, who made Maltby’s original score, “Six Flats Unfurnished,” one of his biggest selling records. Paul Whiteman gave him his biggest boost by placing him with the American Broadcasting Company in Chicago as conductor-arranger. Since then, Whiteman has contacted the fraternity presidents and requested that council members remind their fraternities that the Student Council does endorse the Court and to impress upon pledges to abide by the Court.

Following his talk, Dr. Templeton will be present at a coffee hour in the ballroom of the College Union. The “Y” Cabinet, sponsor of the hour, has invited all members of the faculty and student body to take advantage of this opportunity to meet Dr. Templeton. Freshmen will have a chance to talk further with this noted speaker at a dinner meeting in the private dining room of the Union at 12:30. Those freshmen interested in this will please sign up in the “Y” office before Chapel Period Tuesday because of the limited accommodations.

Dr. Templeton, better known to Davidson students as “Chuck” Templeton, is recognized by many as one of the foremost Evangelists. The success of the Y program is dependent upon this Membership Drive, first of all because interested persons are recruited to engage in Y activities and secondly because the money derived from the Drive makes possible the very existence of most of the Y programs and activities.

The last major item of business of the Council was the “telephone situation.” President LaFar stated that the possibility of having the Davidson phones would go up about $4.00 per home. “In addition,” he said, “phone calls to Charlotte in previous years were made, for the most part, by townspeople.”

Templeton will be serving as the Preacher for the Beam Memorial Services at The First Presbyterian Church of Charlotte throughout next week. These services will be held Sunday through Friday, September 30 to October 5, 1956, at 7:30 in the evening. Chuck Templeton is a Canadian by birth. He came to the United States in 1948 as a special student at Princeton Theological Seminary. After his ordination into the Presbyterian Church U.S.A. in May 1951, he joined the staff of the Department of Evangelism of the National Council of Churches.

Two years ago, Templeton became the Secretary of Evangelism for the Presbyterian Church U.S.A. Since that time, millions of people have become familiar with him through his radio work, television programs, and his book, “Life Looks Up.”

The Davidson College football band opened its 1956-57 season last Friday night at the Davidson-Catawba game. From all indications, it should be one of the finest in the history of the college. The band combined with the Catawba unit, and under the direction of Catawba band director Marvin Wittington, played the National Anthem. Among the plans for the band during the first semester are appearances at all home games, an expense-paid trip to Lexington, Va., for the Washington and Lee game, and a lawn concert at Homecoming.

The official concert season will begin after the Thanksgiving holidays. Plans for the concert season include a week-long tour through South Carolina, Georgia, and Florida, numerous campus and community concerts, and appearances at high schools and nearby towns. The football band is under the leadership of Mr. West. The drum major is Scott Puckett, a freshman from Conway, South Carolina, who played trombone and was drum major of his high school band.

The Rev. Thomas A. Fraser, Jr., will fill the Davidson pulpit for the vesper program this Sunday evening. Mr. Fraser serves as pastor of St. Paul’s Episcopal Church in Winston-Salem. In addition to his ministerial training at Virginia Theological Seminary in Alexandria, Va., Mr. Fraser has received schooling at both Hobart College of New York State and the University of Jena in Germany. Following his work at the Seminary, the Atlanta native assumed the pastorate of the First Episcopal Church of Alexandria, and six years ago, moved to his present position in Winston-Salem. Mr. Fraser combines with his ministerial duties work as a member of the Board of Trustees of the Virginia Theological Seminary and of the Board of Directors of the College of Preachers in Washington, D.C. His particular interests in his work lie in the field of religious education and pastoral counseling. He spent last summer in Haiti directing the activities of Episcopal theological students serving in the missionary districts. Immediately following the Vesper service, Mr. Fraser plans to join the members of the Canterbury Club in the Green Room of the Union for their evening program.

Dr. W. O. Puckett, Professor of Biology, has announced the dates on which the draft deferment tests will be administered. These dates are Thursday, November 15, 1956, and Thursday, April 18, 1957. Dr. Puckett said that in order for a student to be deferred under the Selective Service Act, he must either make a score of 70 or more on the test, or else be in the upper brackets of his class. Applications for the tests will be issued here in the near future. Any student who wishes to make application for the tests prior to that time may secure forms from any Selective Service Board. The tests will be administered, as previously, by Dr. Puckett in the Martin Science Building. Dr. Puckett said that he would be glad to give further information to any student desiring it.

An organizational meeting of the Young Democrats will be held on Tuesday evening at 8:00 in the Blue Room of the College Union. This meeting is significant in that it marks the beginning of organized Democrats on the Davidson campus. All students who are interested in taking an active part in the work of the Democratic party are urged to be present.