FRIDAY, DECEMBER 14, 1956

Davidsonian

Sports

On Sports
By JOHN JOHNSON

CARROUSEL

On Monday, Dec. 17, the second annual Carrousel Basketball Classic will begin in Charlotte’s giant Coliseum. That night at 7:30 the Wildcats will clash with highly regarded St. Joseph’s College in the evening’s first game. What will be the outcome? It could depend upon the spectator support the Red and Black gets from the stands. Davidson is the home team, the sponsoring school for the recently established tournament and by all means should have the support of the student body with their presence and vocal backing. Since the final night before a vacation is traditionally an “easy” evening it should not be difficult to accumulate a crowd of several hundred to make the trip to the Coliseum.

TRAVELERS

Although located in far away Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, St. Joseph’s has already had tournament season ticket sales amounting to a whopping 200 books! They are expected to send a large number of students to be on hand for their opening clash with the Cats. Anyone who has ever attended an athletic event knows the support a distant delegation of any size can whip up for their team, consequently Davidson will need every backer they can get.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

East Carolina Invades Wildcat Pool Tomorrow
By GEORGE RAMSEY

Coach John Thompson's swimming team, after breaking even in their first two meets of the 1956-57 season, entertain a strong East Carolina College squad tomorrow afternoon in the Davidson pool in the Wildcats’ final pre-Christmas meet. Davidson was twice defeated last year by the Pirates who loom as the second toughest team the Catfish will face in dual competition this season. Only VMI, which soundly thrashed the Cats last Monday, ranks as a stronger aggregation.

In looking forward to the East Carolina meet, coach Thompson declined to single out any individuals as outstanding thus far, commenting that the team effort was to be credited for the showings made in the first two meets. A strong freshman turnout has been particularly pleasing to the tank tutor, who noted that the first year men may well develop into the backbone of the team. Of the 17-man squad, seven—Bill Hellier, Joe Bell, Art Miller, John Scott, Bill Cobb, Craig Ray, and Don Dublin—are freshmen. Several of these have already shown promise by fine showings in the opening meets.

Catholic University provided the opposition for the Wildcats’ lid-lifter, in which the homelings defeated their guests in a well-contested meet. Pacing the Davidson victory were Tommy Rivers and Jerry Clark, both of whom scored a first and a second, and Basil Sharp, who captured first place in diving competition. VMI, the class of the Southern Conference swimming world, invaded the local pool on Monday and walked away with a decisive 62-23 victory. Rivers again placed first and second in the 100-and 50-yard freestyle events respectively and Sharp again took top honors in the diving. Following the Christmas holidays, the mermen will resume action in a dual meet against The Citadel at Davidson.

Cat Riflers Outfire P.C. By 1 Point, 1253-1254

The Davidson rifle team, in matches during the last three weeks, posted wins over Wofford and Presbyterian College to bring their season’s record to three wins and two losses. On November 23, Davidson won its second match of the season by one point, 1253-1254. P.C. and Davidson are trailing Furman by only one match.

DICK WRIGHT will spearhead Furman’s attack against Davidson tonight in Johnston Gymnasium at 8:15. The Paladins’ star, averaged 16.7 points per game last year and acquired a berth on the Second All-Southern Tourney Team. Coach Lyles Alley is expecting great things of the 5-11 sophomore from Lansdowne, Pa.

Cats Clash With Furman Purple on Home Hardwood
Meet St. Joseph as Host in Carrousel on Monday
By CHARLES MCGOWAN

The Wildcats will be looking for their third victory of the season when they face the Furman Hurricane tonight at Johnston Gymnasium. Game time is 8:15. The clash tonight will be the last time the local cagers will take to the hardwood before appearing in the Carrousel Tournament, beginning in Charlotte Dec. 17. The tournament, being held for the second season, is gradually becoming one of the most colorful and exciting of its kind held during the holiday season. This year fans will be watching such outstanding teams as Wake Forest, Florida University, Colgate, Clemson, and Auburn. Davidson will meet St. Josephs on the first night of play at 7:30.

LINEUP

The Wildcats will have to make up in speed what they have conceded in height. Should Coach Alley start the five who grabbed the early season starting berths, the Furman team will average 6 feet, 4½ inches compared with an even 6 feet for Davidson. Although Davidson has played Furman some close tilts in the past, it has been five years since they have topped the Hurricane. The Cats won both contests that season (1951-1952), 78-63 and 70-51.

Leading the Hurricane cagers will be Statesville’s Bill Hanks (6'8") and Jimmy Ferris (6'5") in the forward position. Dick Wright will also see plenty of action as guard.

Semi Mintz, the casual sophomore Cat, has averaged 18.5 points thus far in the season and is expected to lead the local quintet in their attack tonight. Weeks will be holding down the other guard post and Hollingsworth and Martin will add needed height at forward. Milner, who has shown rapid improvement, will tower at the center spot.

Approximately 15 students met recently to form the new YMCA basketball team, a part of the “Y”’s revamped athletic program. Under the leadership of Ralph Pricht, the squad's first game will be with the Jayvees on Saturday night, January 5, with a few other games to be scheduled in January and February. The starting lineup is not yet available, but the number of players who have revealed ability and height will count heavily.

COUNT HEAVILY

Unfortunately only on that opening day will games be played while the college is still in session, but it is all the more reason for the Davidson students to give all-out support on the one night. Referring to the coming contest, Wildcat Cage Captain Richard Weeks pointed out, “A lot of boys that have never played basketball before a crowd just do not realize how much the cheering helps the performance of the squad.”

Weeks

“We on the team count heavily on the support of the students, and I know that it helps a great deal to hear them pulling for you.”

Following Davidson’s game on Monday night, Wake Forest, defending Carrousel champions from last year, will meet Colgate at 9:00 p.m.

SELLING

General admission tickets for single games will be one dollar. Seats in the reserve sections sell for $1.25 for afternoon games and $2.25 at night. The finals which are on Wednesday evening will be $2.75. Reserve seat season tickets covering all twelve encounters are six dollars, 50 cents a game, as compared to eleven dollars if each ticket were purchased individually. On the campus these season tickets canbe purchased in Johnston Gym.

IMPRESSIVE

Speaking about the tournament, Davidson sports publicity director Dick McKee said that the Carrousel has been getting excellent coverage from the Carolina newspapers and looks as if it will be highly successful. Ticket sales are running higher than last year. To those wondering about the ability of the St. Joseph’s squad, these Wildcat opponents placed third in the National Invitational Tournament last season. This year they have already downed Rhode Island 81-41, West Chester State 93-43, and, most impressive, Manhattan 70-65.

MULES TOO

The other tournament newcomer that is unfamiliar to many Dixie fans is Muhlenberg from Allentown, Pa. The Mules, who have lost to Temple and won over Albright, are listed in Who's Who in 1956-57 Basketball and are missing only two of their top 13 scorers of last year. Every high school in the two Carolinas has been invited to send their basketball team to the clinic that is to be held prior to the tournament on Monday morning. The eight head coaches of the participating colleges will instruct the expected 1,000 boys in the fundamentals of basketball.

MERRY CHRISTMAS AND A HAPPY NEW YEAR

Wilson-Wright's Inc.
“Collegiate Fashions”
DAVIDSON, N. C.

by virtue of a forfeit from Wofford when the latter failed to appear for a regularly scheduled match.

NEXT ACTION

PC met the Cats at Davidson on Dec. 7 in a close match, which the Red and Black won by the score of 1254-1253. Bob Alexander was high man for the locals, followed by Carey Pickard and Charlie Stowe.

STANDINGS

Davidson is in a conference with Furman, PC, and Wofford. At present, Furman is in first place, Davidson and PC are tied for second, and Wofford is in fourth place. Capt. Cavano, well pleased with the PC win, feels that the team should “come around” even more and be well prepared for the tough competition that it meets after Christmas.

Grapplers Blast Pfeiffer, Lose to North Carolina

Traveling to Misenheimer, N. C., Davidson's wrestlers soundly defeated Pfeiffer College last Saturday afternoon 33-5. Leaving the campus again Tuesday for Chapel Hill, they lost a close meet to the Tar Heels by the deceiving score of 20-8, their first loss to North Carolina in four years. The grapplers completely dominated Pfeiffer, pinning seven men, winning a decision over another, and dropping only one match. Had Captain Henry Griffin been able to make the trip, the team would undoubtedly have made a clean sweep.

STANDOUTS

Pete Coleman, Dave Fagg, and Milton Gee were all standouts for the Cats. Coleman pinned his man in the relatively short time of 1:35. Fagg also pinned his man, despite the fact that the opponent had beaten Dave three times while they were wrestling in high school. Gee, who is wrestling for the first time in college, came to Davidson from Woodbury Forest where he was captain of the wrestling squad. He has been improving steadily this year, and Coach Parker is expecting a great deal from him next year.

NARROW MARGINS

The wrestlers met North Carolina Tuesday night in what they knew was going to be a tough meet. Although the Cats won two matches, Carolina took three matches by only one point, and another match by only two points. Commenting on the meet, Coach Parker said, “We should have won by two or three points, but we just couldn't take the close ones.”

BEST RECORD

Pete Coleman was again the outstanding performer for the Cats. The stocky sophomore now has the best record for the matmen, having won four and lost only one. Dave Fagg, who was the only other man to win a match Tuesday, has shown steady improvement this year. Fagg often has to work under a handicap because many of his opponents outweigh him; at one time this year he was overmatched 30 pounds. However, his quickness and stocky build make him a hard man to handle.

The grapplers, now with a 2-3 record, have a long rest before their next meet which is here with North Carolina State on January 12.

LIKE A CIGARETTE SHOULD!

WINSTON is always good company! Here’s a cigarette you and your date can get together on! Winston flavor is rich, full—the way you like it. And the one and only Winston filter does its job so well the flavor really comes through! For finer filter smoking, make a date with Winston!

A. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., WINSTON-SALEM, N. C.

Coach Ratterree is especially pleased with his starting five. At the guards he has two crack shooters in Jim Allison and Larry McNeil. Running at forward are Ed Stewart, a six-foot-three jumping jack who can “dunk” the ball with both hands and John Huie, probably the best hustler on the squad. The first five is rounded out by six-foot-five Charlie Davis at the pivot. Ratterree has plenty of depth, too. With boys like Tony Wiles, Donny MacQueen, Freddy Lane, Chris Bremer, Dave Nash, Charlie Bridges, and Ken Owen he can substitute freely without weakening the team. Bremer drew particular praise from Ratterree. “He's improved more than any boy on the squad,” the coach commented.

The Wild Kittens have played two games to date. They downed Guilford 60-51 in their first outing but were downed 80-51 last Tuesday night by high-ranking Wake Forest. Coach Ratterree commented that the weak showing was partially due to the fact that the boys have only played together as a team for a few weeks. He feels that they'll improve as the season progresses.

ALL CAPITOL AND DECCA LP’S 20% OFF

DIAMOND NEEDLES FOR ALL POPULAR RECORD CHANGERS ONLY $12.95

PARKER-GARDNER
CHARLOTTE 2, N. C.
118 West Trade Street
Phone ED. 2-8257