EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
FRANKLIN BLOODWORTH

BUSINESS MANAGER
LEON HOWELL

ASSOCIATE EDITORS
JIM BATTEN
BOB CARMICHAEL

Assistant Editor
Bob Beall

Managing Editors
Lloyd Chapin, John Trask

News Editor
Bill Pomeroy

Assignments
Bob Lathan

Advertising Manager
Bob Majors

Circulation
Bob Austin, Marshall Chapman, Tom DuPuis

Hank Daniel
Photographer

Sports Editor
John Johnson

Feature Editor
Bill Bondurant

Copy Editor
John Trotti

Represented for National Advertising by NATIONAL ADVERTISING SERVICE, Inc.

SUBSCRIPTION RATE: $2.00 Per Year. Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act
of March 3, 1879.

OFFICES IN DAVID OVENS COLLEGE UNION, DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 1956

Gift Fund Should Catch Imagination

Events of the past few weeks in Poland, Hungary, and the Middle East have stirred this student body to interest
and concern in international affairs unparalleled since the end of World War II. With this in mind, it is probable
that the 1956 Gift Fund project, which was approved in chapel Tuesday almost without opposition, will catch the fancy of
the College in such a way as never before. Personally assisting a refugee Hungarian family in finding peace and freedom
from fear should individually and collectively prove to be an extremely beneficial experience, particularly during this season of the year.
The promise of immediately tangible results adds to the appeal, since there is a good likelihood that the family could
be here before Christmas.

Already there are signs that this year’s Gift Fund may easily develop into a project which will spread beyond the
campus through the entire community, and will not follow the usual pattern of being strictly a college proposition. Dr. Staples
is at present organizing a community committee which will direct and coordinate the program through the schools, civic organizations, and
churches. It is important that this be a community project from the outset, because this family will in reality be
a part of the community. And we must realize now that these people will need far more than a job
for the man of the family, a place to live, and a collection of old clothes. They will need genuine
friendship and understanding. They must be taught how to live without fear of oppression. The challenge is obvious.

The “Action for Hungary” Rally set for Wednesday should give a real impetus to the project as the actual canvassing
starts Wednesday night. We are fortunate to have two speakers whose wide range of experiences will undoubtedly complement each other.
Aside from the immediate benefit to the Gift Fund, the rally should serve to whet student understanding and awareness of
the international scene. There is considerable sentiment here, as on other campuses across the country, that the United States and
United Nations virtually ignored the dramatically courageous efforts of the Hungarians, especially the youth of the country, to throw off
the shackles of unbearable oppression. A Student Committee for a Free Hungary was organized yesterday and will present a petition
outlining this position at the rally, to be forwarded to the United Nations.

Dr. T. Z. Koo speaking in chapel yesterday on the Communist plan for eventual domination of the world brought soberingly
home the realization that Davidson is not so far removed from the world’s hot spots as we sometimes tend to
think. Student awareness is not only an asset in these troubled times. It is a necessity and a responsibility.

Kadel Sermon A Refreshing Change

With the season of Thanksgiving having just passed, we might do well to offer thanks to the powers that be
for their invitation to Dr. William H. Kadel to speak at Vespers, and for his acceptance of this invitation and
the message he brought with him the Sunday evening before the Thanksgiving holidays. The invitation to Dr. Kadel marked what
we hope is a rejuvenation of the Vesper program to the end that Vespers may regain some of the respect
and dignity that it has seemingly lost during the past few years.

There are several reasons why Dr. Kadel and his message differed in large measure from those that we are usually,
although certainly not always, fed in Vespers. First of all, Dr. Kadel came to Davidson from Orlando, Florida. The significance
of this lies in the fact that a minister was invited to Vespers whom few students here had ever had
the opportunity to hear. This stands as a departure from the recent policy of asking someone from the Davidson community
or from nearby towns and villages to speak, week after week. Secondly, Dr. Kadel almost immediately captured student attention by
addressing his remarks directly to us, the students. He emphasized this point by using the word “fellows” as he talked,
leaving no one in doubt to whom he was speaking. Next, Dr. Kadel kept the attention (at least more so
than is customary) of those present by preaching his sermon rather than reading it. With expression and enthusiasm he said
what he felt needed to be said. Perhaps most important of all, Dr. Kadel brought a message that was aimed,
not exclusively but primarily, at the student body and the life it leads in today’s world. Omitting a lengthy chronological
summary of Biblical events, he related Christian doctrine to the events of today and to the lives we lead today.
Finally, he exercised a great deal of discretion by using a difficult yet effective device—he quit speaking before his audience
quit listening.

If in the future more ministers such as Dr. Kadel are invited to speak at Vespers, if more ministers are
invited with a message for today’s world and our student body, then perhaps writing of letters and reading of books
in Vespers will cease, and Vespers will again become the opportunity for worship that it was meant to be and
should be.

A.W.F.B.

Pooey On The Pentagon

Christmas is really coming. And it’s heartwarming to see unselfish folks dedicatedly interested in holding down all this commercialization of
the Yuletide that we hear so much about. For example. When Gen. Maxwell D. Taylor outlawed Christmas card exchange between
workers in the Pentagon this year because they clogged up the mail channels in the building, the Christmas card people
set up a howl that rippled the Potomac. One of the most fluent flows of righteous indignation came from one
Edward Aloysius Murphy of the Cheerio Greeting Card Company. Screamed our boy Aloysius: “It will take a bigger man than
Gen. Taylor to keep Christmas out of Christmas!” Yessir, it’s really good to see folks sticking up for the real
Christmas Spirit. Atta boy, Aloysius. And as for you, Gen. Taylor, fie on you! Sir.

What’s Behind the Green Door? ... WEEP NO MORE MY LADY

Mrs. Roosevelt Should Take Closer Look at New South

By DON MASSEY

Mrs. Eleanor Roosevelt is a lady. It has been said that she has charm, grace, and a wealth of personality.
Although she is an outspoken Leftist, this doesn’t alter the fact that she is an outstanding person in the eyes
of a multitude of people.

TO SPEAK HERE

On Friday night, December 7, this great lady will speak to an audience composed of Davidsonians. Was the choice of
this speaker as an Artist Series guest made because she is graceful and charming, or was it made because she
is the wife of Franklin Delano Roosevelt? Could this choice have been made because Mrs. Roosevelt is an internationally known
figure, or was it made in keeping with the present college administration's policy of grooming a more “liberal Davidson”. It
really makes little difference because the choice was probably made with all of the foregoing observations in mind.

We would be the last to deny that Mrs. Roosevelt is an intelligent and widely versed lady. She is highly
qualified to speak with authority on a number of subjects, and does so at every given opportunity. She has even
written authoritative articles on how to rear a family.

VERY OUTSPOKEN

Mrs. Roosevelt has traveled more, seen more, and indeed, talked more in one year than most of us ever will
in a lifetime. However, we don’t believe that she should be deified merely because she is an outspoken reformer. By
the same token, neither should she be damned merely for her outspokenness. Even the most casual observer must realize that
Mrs. Roosevelt doesn’t entertain any loving thoughts concerning the South.

By CHARLIE DRUMMOND and JOHN BERNHARDT

Saturday night a few students still on the campus discovered that the reception room in West was on fire. Immediately,
they began fighting it with anything at hand — several waste baskets and a hall trash barrel filled with water.
They could see nothing of the fire through the smoke, and their intermittent buckets of water, cast at random into
the smoke or poured in a thin layer on the floor, had little chance of effectively halting the flames. After
the fire truck had finally arrived and putout the fire, one MRS. ROOSEVELT

Criticism is hard medicine to take. It is particularly hard to digest when the object criticized is one’s own way
of life. And if the “way of life” is falsely generalized, the pill is intolerably bitter.

COMMENTS ON SOUTH

W. E. Debnam has made several astute observations in his “Weep No More, My Lady” which cover the point in
case extremely well. Debnam states that Mrs. Roosevelt made the following comment concerning a visit to the South: “One can
enjoy oneself superficially, but one must shut one’s eyes.” To all true Southerners, this was the straw that broke the
camel’s back. It is unnecessary for us to defend our way of life against such a seemingly ridiculous statement. We
only ask that before Mrs. Roosevelt weeps so easily over present conditions in the South that she take a longer
and more lasting look at the new industrialized South’s progress. Indeed, the South has come a long way since 1865.

FATHER COMPLEX

In a recent interview, Mrs. Roosevelt said “the voters of the nation had a ‘father complex’ for President Eisenhower; they
think that he is a man who will take care of them in any eventuality.” This is quite possibly true.
But, if our memory serves us correctly, the voters had the same psychological ailment when F.D.R. was re-elected to the
Presidency. However, the Yalta conference and other similar incidents soon cured many of the afflicted. Let us hope that Ike
will take better care of his children.

STILL HOPE

In another statement, perhaps more pertinent to Davidsonians, Mrs. Roosevelt says, “The hope in the South is the younger generation.
There I see great changes brewing but those changes will be heartbreaking to the older generation.” Perhaps, Great Lady, if
the South’s younger generation realizes the truths of their heritage, it will be several more generations before they are sufficiently
indoctrinated into your ways of thinking.

by Cole

FREE ROTC AND PT CUTS

Blood Drive Gives Life Saving Chance

By BOB MAJORS

Every minute ... every day ... over eight pints of blood are used in this country to treat the ill
and injured. These ill and injured blood users are not strangers to you as a Davidson student. They are people
like those neighbors of yours who were badly injured in a recent automobile accident. Among them might be your Dad's
boss, who's just undergone several hours of surgery for that hemorrhaging ulcer of his. These people, and others like them,
will live because of the whole human blood provided by the American Red Cross Blood Program.

TWO MILLION UNITS

The Red Cross Blood Program provides over 2 million units of blood yearly to nearly four thousand hospitals in forty
states. In addition to the whole blood supplied, blood fractions of many types, made from unused blood, are made available.
Serum albumen, one of the most important of these fractions, is now being stockpiled for use as a blood substitute
in case of a national emergency or a major disaster. All of this blood is collected, tested, stored, and distributed
without charge through Red Cross Blood Centers.

BLOOD MOBILE HERE

You, as a Davidson student, will have an opportunity to aid this program on the 3rd and 4th of December
when the Red Cross Bloodmobile visits this campus. A single donation will entitle you to an individual credit card. This
credit card is the means by which you and your immediate family may obtain blood in any cooperating hospital, without
obligation for replacement, for a period of six months.

FREE ROTC AND PT CUT

In a more tangible way, the donation of one pint on Monday entitles you to a free ROTC drill cut
on Tuesday. It also means that you get a free cut in P.T. If your fraternity comes out on top
in the number of pints donated, you'll pay less for your Mid-Winters dance ticket and your fraternity will have a
plaque to show for its effort in the drive. Don’t neglect your opportunity to help make this drive one of
Davidson’s biggest. Fifteen minutes of your time may mean fifteen years of life to someone else.

Eleanor Roosevelt is truly the first lady of the world. She stands high in the hearts of oppressed people everywhere
and in this country she is revered by minority groups whose cause she has long championed. No other president’s wife
has taken such an active part in national and international affairs. In addition, she was a gracious first lady for
almost thirteen years and always a comfort and inspiration to her husband. Those who would criticize her children's actions would
overlook the fact that they are responsible to themselves after they reach maturity. They would also overlook the character and
work of the lady herself. Regardless of your feelings for her, you are sure to find her lecture next Friday
both informative and challenging. When you go, leave behind your prejudices for Mrs. Roosevelt herself and listen for the good
that she has to say.

NO SWEAT, JUST BLOOD

A hero's bound for glory
Who battles thro’ the mud,
But glory’s piled on glory
If he sheds a little blood.
But whether you’re a brute or squirt
I've got a better deal,
Without the sweat, the strain, or hurt
Some glory you may steal.
Roll up your sleeves and grit your teeth
As though about to fight
And then fall down flat on your back
And bleed with all your might.
The girls will rush to hold your hand
And give you things to eat
But best of all you'll wear a brand
That marks you for your feat.

— John B. Trotti.

WRONG TARGET...

years, Georgia and Rumple are gone. However, minor negligences are quite as deadly as major ones. Colleges with sprinkler systems,
fire alarms, and enclosed stairwells have had their reputations blighted for years by “impossible” fires.

SHOULD BE PUT IN EVERY DORM

For the protection of students and their property, it would seem to be the duty of the college to put
extinguishers in the halls. Perhaps the best arrangement would be to put an extinguisher on every hall, or at least
on every other hall, each encased in a metal cabinet with a glass-covered handle, to be broken only in case
of fire. The students on the halls would be responsible for them, just as they are for the hall windows,
ceiling panels, and floors. In return, it would be the duty of the students, if the school installs fire extinguishers,
to act like gentlemen and good citizens, accepting them as instruments with a purpose and not as toys to be
tampered with.

“Why aren’t there any fire extinguishers?” Whatever the reason may be, human safety justifies any expense that may be involved
in correcting this situation.
