The Davidsonian

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
JIM BATTEN

BUSINESS MANAGER
BOB CARMICHAEL

ASSOCIATE EDITORS
FRANKLIN BLOODWORTH, LEON HOWELL

Assistant Editor
Bob Beall

Managing Editors
Lloyd Chapin, John Trask

Sports Editor
John Johnson

Feature Editor
Bill Bondurant

Copy Editor
John Trotti

News Editor
Bill Pomeroy

Assignments
Bob Lathan

Advertising Manager
Bob Majors

Circulation
Bob Austin, Marshall Chapman, Tom DuPuis

Represented for National Advertising by
NATIONAL ADVERTISING SERVICE, Inc.

SUBSCRIPTION RATE: $2.00 Per Year.
Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

OFFICES IN DAVID OVENS COLLEGE UNION, DAVIDSON COLLEGE

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 1956

A.B. Requirements Should Be Changed

Demand for a change in the College's degree requirements has overnight become the latest campus cause célèbre. As the rules
now stand, to qualify for a Bachelor of Arts degree, a candidate for graduation must have completed at least two
years of Greek or Latin. In most of the nation’s leading liberal arts institutions, the classical language requirement for an
arts degree has been dropped or modified in the past half-century.

Locally, the argument is this. Distinction between the arts and sciences has been lost when history, English and even philosophy
majors are awarded a Bachelor of Science degree, simply because of lack of a classical language. The basic incongruity seems
obvious. In the class graduated last June, out of 107 men enrolled in the arts curriculum, only 22 of these
received an A.B. degree. Under the present system, the number qualified seems destined to slump even more in future years,
as only eleven freshmen are currently planning to fulfill requirements for an A.B.

The movement for modification has gone through most of the normal channels designated for student-initiated reforms, and has received almost
100% endorsement. Editorials have been duly written, and one literary society has featured a program on the topic. The Student
Council formally added its considerable weight to the movement by unanimously favoring the change. As for faculty feeling, all indications
are that there is no noticeable opposition to a change. Many individual faculty members are quick to agree that the
requirement is outmoded.

At present, the proposal is in the hands of the faculty Curriculum Committee, as it has been for the past
three years. Since there seems to be little apparent opposition, it would be gratifying to see student interest and opinion
recognized by the powers that be in the near future.

Freedom Out of Darkness

A concerned world has turned its eyes toward the Middle East and Eastern Europe with great intensity in the past
two weeks. Events have occurred with such rapidity that no one has a complete view of the whole scene and
its significance. Individual elements are dealt with and there are many lessons to be learned. To those of us who
have regarded our stretch as students as a time of foment for later action, the fact that the university students
of Hungary and Poland have sparked the emotionalism of the revolt should cause us to stop and reassess our responsibilities
as citizens.

One is reminded, too, of what a complex thing man is. He has it in him to stoop to the
most degrading cruelties and inhumanities which would shame a jackal. Yet, in his best moments, he is literally sublime, and
but a little lower than the angels, even as the Psalmist has said. A lot of this latter quality has
been seen in recent days. And for both the Communists in Moscow and for us, there is a lesson to
learn. The desire for individual status, freedom, and dignity cannot be dissected out by dogma, terror or propaganda. Neither the
Kremlin nor America should fail to note the deep significance of this.

These students must range from 18 to 22 years of age, meaning they were somewhere between 6-12 years old when
Communists took over their country. From the outset, their education has been built around the Communist viewpoint and their instructors
have spouted only the dogma of communism. Today’s revolutionists are the ones who learned the slogans, who marched in the
parades, who have been taught that the individual did not count. To them, it was said that the state and
its glory was all that mattered. And, since it was a Marxist state, committed to the people, to question it
was to be a traitor and merit only death or prison. So ran the stuff that was poured into their
ears. It generally was assumed they were lost to democracy—that since they had known nothing else, they were devout Communists.
But, now they die with a gallantry which touches all our hearts and stirs our imagination.

Having been taught that they, by loyalty to the state, would be members of a Utopia in which all would
be free and share equally in the products of the Industrial Revolution, we might expect apathy and no initiative. Having
seen the truth by looking around at the lack of abundance and freedom in the countries about them, they reached
a peak of courageous action and independent thought. Would that we had the same spirit to the same degree. They
saw the lie.—F.L.H.

Poor Tar Heels

Some folks really have it rough. Chapel Hill, for instance. They've had lots of troubles over there at Carolina. A
non-winning Jim Tatum must be a big enough problem in itself. In addition, they've got parking problems. Seems the Board
of Alderman outlawed parking on Columbia Street, where several of the fraternity houses are located, and there’s no place for
the men to leave their cars anymore.

But as if this wasn’t enough, the wretched phone company had the audacity to put non-pay phones on only the
first and third floors in the dormitories. What about the poor guys on the second and fourth floors? It’s like
the Daily Tar Heel says, “Very few dormitory men are going to want to hike up and down stairs to
make long distance phone calls.” Well, we should say not!

The last word was that the insufferable old telephone company was finally installing pay phones—in every room, we presume. This
absurd walking up and down a flight of stairs just to make a telephone call must go. We sure hope
they get that mess straightened out over there. College life is trying enough without such inexcusable inconveniences.

The sovereign voice of a democratic people has spoken and declared itself overwhelmingly in favor of a continuation of the
Eisenhower-Nixon team. All Americans will loyally support the president for the next four years.

Loyal support does not mean a blind acceptance of his policies when we think they are wrong. Rather, it signifies
a reasoned compliance with general policy, while attempting to point up inconsistencies or programs which we feel are bad for
America. Democracy can only work when a healthy opposition stands ready to challenge the party in power. The Democratic Congress
will form a healthy opposition, indeed.

Many of us have been amazed at the sudden interest in foreign affairs which has developed on campus in the
past few weeks. Never before have we seen Davidson students wait up for the midnight newscast or talk of nothing
but international relations over the dinner table. We deplore the means which have brought this about, but we are pleased
with the end result. Doesn’t this yield more interesting conversation than how you flunked your last review?

Already the newspapers are carrying ads and the store windows are carrying displays for Christmas shoppers. It seems they start
a little earlier every year. In recent years the Christmas Club has made its advent to assure an economic consideration
of Christmas all year. When to give a gift equal to, or better than, the Jones’ becomes so important that
one has to plan for it all year, then perhaps we should stop exchanging gifts with the Joneses altogether.

Sunday night we were having a bull session which yielded some interesting ideas. It was pointed out that when a
college administration admits fraternities it obviously does so with the idea that they will be able to act in some
phases of college life in a manner superior to the way the administration has been acting. Such phases as social
life, disciplinary problems, study problems, and eating facilities. The idea is that a small group of 40 or 50 men
who know each other intimately can do these things better than a group of men who are removed from the
problems.

Dear Editor,

Alas! What has happened to the once familiar sight on the Salem campus, the Davidson boy? Not so long ago,
there was a time when someone thought of Salem he thought of Davidson, too. We told our incoming frosh that
even if Wake Forest would be here, most of the girls would be dating Davidsonians and there wasn’t any better
place to have a good time on a weekend than Davidson. Lightning strike us upperclassmen liars! The dateroom is almost
void of Wildcats on Saturday nights and the day has arrived when there can be only one girl in a
car going to Homecoming. Is it because the summer put a few pounds on some of us? Is it because
our ankles are not the...Right shape? Or is it because the Salem Girls have forgotten how to smile in that
certain way that appeals? (I doubt that.) Of one thing we are sure, the facetious idea that Wake Forest FROM
THE TOP of the DOME with TOM MORGAN We believe that the fraternities can carry out these functions in a
superior way. We doubt, however, that many of us in the fraternity system realize the responsibility that we have been
entrusted with. Now is a time, we believe, for serious evaluation of our present policies and the laying of immediate
and long-range policies which will strengthen not only our own fraternities, but the fraternity system as a whole.

The other night we saw the rehearsal for The Rainmaker, the Masquers’ latest production. We happened to see this same
play a couple of years ago with the Broadway cast. It’s our opinion that those who see the Davidson version
will be seeing a good proximity of Broadway talent here at little D.C.

Carl Cooper's address in chapel last Friday was, we believe, one of the best we have heard given by a
student since we have been here. Many other students agree with us. Those of us who feel this way should
remember that good talks are of no avail unless action is taken to make their principles a reality. Each of
us must begin to examine ourselves to see when we are making attempts to encourage undue conformity. Only as we
come to recognize and respect individuality can Davidson hope to attain higher goals and produce other Woodrow Wilsons. The conformist
seldom makes a significant contribution to the stream of life.

Do you ever stop to think?

LOOKING BACK ON THE ELECTION
Democrats Did Best They Could But GOP Offered Better Program

By JACK KERR
Now that the elections are over, we Americans can take things in stride for the next four years; and not
have to worry about a thing any longer. This is probably what Mr. Voter of 1956 is thinking about at
the present time; however, life won't be that easy for either the President or the majority of us Americans. We
still have a job ahead of us and it will demand the time and effort of each American, not because
he is a Democrat or a Republican; but because he is an American first and last. The thought of unity
was unheard of by both the Republicans and the Democrats, for the United States was experiencing an election campaign, which
made the two parties enemies of each other at this time but now the people have spoken. We have decided
in favor of Mr. Eisenhower’s version of peace and prosperity to the vision of a “new America” Stevenson futilely unfurled
before the voters. But this wasn't the only issue in which the people decided upon; instead we voiced our opinion
on many other issues that are more important and were brought out more emphatically during the campaign.

It is my opinion that the Democrats failed because they resorted to attacking the President from the start of the
campaigning rather than enlightening the voter on what their party would do to correct the “mistakes of the Republican administration”.
The platform failed in its effort, for the platforms of the two parties did not differ that much. The so-called
issues which were tossed back and forth would probably help to pinpoint the actual reasons for the peoples’ voting as
they did:

Peace and Prosperity: There is no doubt that this helped the Republican Party immensely, for the U.S. isn’t involved in
a shooting war and there is less unemployment than there has been in years, most of the populace has plenty
of food on the table, and the dollar is still stable. The Democrats, on the other hand, have tried to
take credit for the prosperity which they argued is a carryover from the previous Democratic administration. This the voters wouldn't
buy, especially since the dollar wasn't stabilized until the Republicans came into office in 1952.

Farm Problem: The Democrats were campaigning for 100% parity whereas the Republicans campaigned for inflexible supports at a 90% parity.
The Republicans felt that the problem lay with the great surpluses which we held on hand; therefore, the soil bank
program was their answer to ridding the country of these surpluses. It is true that no definite effect of this
program has been felt thus far, but the administration supported this program for its long-run advantages. This the farmer approved
wholeheartedly.

Draft: An invention of the Democratic clique as a desperate effort to slow down Ike's gaining supporters. The world situation
also helped to cool the voters toward accepting Stevenson’s proposal to discontinue the draft. Mr. Stevenson wasn’t even able to
provide a plan which would prove his calling the draft as being “unnecessary”. Again the voters chose security over making
a retreat in our defense efforts.

Ending H-Bomb Tests: Even Mr. Truman called Mr. Stevenson’s hand when he proposed to end the detonation of nuclear bombs.
The voters shouldn’t have been expected to accept this proposal as being in the best interest of the U.S., especially
since we had no guarantee that an enemy power wouldn’t drop that initial bomb on the U.S., after we discontinued
our tests. Mr. Eisenhower felt, as did most Americans, that the H-bomb was a deterrent to aggression, and that it
was in the best interest of the U.S. if the tests were continued. Mr. Ex-President Truman also agreed.

The G.O.P. Is The Rich Man's Party: Again the Democrats failed to gain politically from such an assertion which has
plagued the Republican party down through the years. When the Federal Reserve Board tightened money supplies to slow down inflationary
tendencies and make the dollar more stable, the Democrats shouted that the Republicans were instead helping only their banker friends
by hiking the interest rates. They completely ignored the fact that the board is an independent agency and not a
department over which the administration exercises direct control. But the average man, also, failed to be sucked in by such
assertions. Perhaps many feel as I do; that there actually weren't too many issues available for the Democrats, so they
did the next best thing—manufactured the issues as they saw fit; and they suffered the consequences as a result.

Madcaps in the Rain
Walks here a man with wit so dead
To brave the storm with undraped head?
Or of what man among our band
Doth rain no foolish hat demand?
Each fellow here at thunder clap
Invests his head with grotesque cap
And runs to join the mad cap craze.
Amid a frightful chapeau maze
Top hats, Frosh hats, panama straw hats
Golf caps, skull caps, ball caps, and rain hats
Sun hats, helmets, flat-tops, and waste cans
Join sombreros, fezzes, and turbans
Paper hats, felt hats, fur and straw
In the vilest colors I ever saw
It isn’t raining rain, you know,
It’s raining vile bonnets . . . . oh so.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
Salem College Girls Still Want Davidson Gentlemen on Campus

Salem IS NOT the reason—Davidson boys have too much on the ball and too much pride for that. Since Salem
is a place that swims in tradition, we Salemites will continue to roll our ankles on the bedsteads to get
them back to the right shape; so the Salem-Davidson tradition will not be a thing of the past.

Yours Truly,
Salemites who remember yesterday ...

Alumnus for Change In A.B. Requirements For Liberal Arts Degree

Dear Jim:
I would like to add my endorsement to the reform proposed by two writers on your editorial page of the
October 19 issue. Franklin and Phil did good jobs in presenting the inadequacy of a B.S. degree awarded for completion
of a strict liberal arts course of study. The distinction between Science and Arts at Davidson is archaic and subject
to ridicule at other colleges. Here at Columbia we have no Bachelor of Science degree for all must take complete
liberal arts programs, except engineers who are segregated in a different school. Please compliment Phil and Frank for their editorials.
Also, I thought this issue of the Davidsonian, so far as the editorial page is concerned, was greatly improved over
the past two issues. Tom's column can be very valuable. I have been passing these on to Henry Brockman too.

Bill Gallier

Thorn in the Flesh Worth Two on Bush

Dear Sir:
What's with these hot house brier patches that have appeared this week? Has Davidson College (A safe place to send
your son) gone berserk? In the past, falling from the retaining wall or battling the camouflaged fences has been bad
enough. But now think of the additional terror a dark night or a dance weekend holds, MOAN! Perhaps the powers
to be at D.C. (Note pentameter) have something else in mind. Picture the future. Davidson gentlemen surrounded on every walk
by living hypodermic needles. Thus will our virgin grass and all of its corresponding grandeur be saved for posterity. HELP
KEEP DAVIDSON FREE. LOOK THESE PERPETRATORS OF CONFORMITY RIGHT IN THE STAMEN AND PRESS ONWARD!

Yours Truly,
Pierced
