Che Davidsonian

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
JIM BATTEN

BUSINESS MANAGER
BOB CARMICHAEL

ASSOCIATE EDITORS
FRANKLIN BLOODWORTH, LEON HOWELL

Assistant Editor
Bob Beall

Managing Editors
Lloyd Chapin, John Trask

News Editor
Bill Pomeroy

Assignments
Bob Lathan

Advertising Manager
Bob Majors

Circulation
Bob Austin, Marshall Chapman, Lee Mayfield

Sports Editor
John Johnson

Feature Editor
Bill Bondurant

Copy Editor
John Trotti

Represented for National Advertising by
NATIONAL ADVERTISING SERVICE, Inc.

SUBSCRIPTION RATE: $2.00 Per Year.
Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

OFFICES IN DAVID OVENS COLLEGE UNION, DAVIDSON COLLEGE

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 26, 1956

“Davidson Story” a Tremendous Boost

Filming of the Davidson Story, which began today, will undoubtedly prove to be the biggest single shot-in-the-arm, publicity-wise, that the
College has ever enjoyed. If the finished product is up to expectations, it may well be accepted for national television
network presentation, with its audience of 50 million viewers. In any event, the documentary will be carried by a minimum
of 100 TV stations across the country, and by the Armed Forces Television Service and other government agencies. More people
will know more about Davidson College than at any time in her 119-year history.

The Banners of Freedom series, in which Davidson is the first, is intended by the sponsoring Protestant Radio and Television
Center of Atlanta to boost the contributions being made to American education by the privately endowed liberal arts institutions. In
this time of the ascendency of state-supported universities, this theme is particularly important to those who feel, as we do,
that the small private school is performing a service which is indispensable.

The beneficial and widespread repercussions of such publicity are immediately evident. Davidson has never attained, outside of the South, the
academic prestige which it deserves. This film will be a long stride in securing that recognition. Outstanding students outside of
North Carolina and the South will be attracted to consider Davidson for undergraduate work. Also, not to be forgotten is
the financial support which will be secured as Davidson is brought to the attention of the nation, in this time
of large grants to education by the country’s industrial and financial interests.

In order to enhance its promotional value, the film will be as undated as possible. The whole production will attempt
to capture the underlying ideals, purposes and philosophy of the college, which do not materially change with passing student generations,
instead of the personalities and immediate activities which compose Davidson, 1956. As the plans now stand, Dr. Cunningham is the
only person who will be mentioned in the film by name.

One of the toughest problems facing the producers is how to present Davidson as it really is without so regionalizing
it that it would be unacceptable for nationwide audiences. It would be easy to overdo the presentation in order to
make it suitable for national consumption, leaving it in such a state that students and alumni would quickly and verbosely
condemn it as not portraying the Davidson which we know. Finding a necessary middle ground will be perhaps the most
puzzling and delicate job of all.

George P. Gunn, a veteran actor and announcer who is handling the Banners of Freedom series for the Protestant Center,
has carefully studied the campus and student body in an effort to make the finished product ring completely true. He
has surveyed chapel conduct, dress and disposition from behind the curtains on the stage. He has conferred at length with
countless numbers of students and faculty members. He has consumed all the available literature on the subject of Davidson: he
is up on Peter Stuart Ney, Phi’s chandelier, Woodrow Wilson, Dr. Lingle, athletic subsidization and the Snack Bar row.

Gunn is quick to emphasize that this is strictly a big-time, professional job which he and his crew will attempt.
The novelty of grinding cameras and spotlights will quickly wear off, he predicts. However, the student body must realize the
importance and potential of the project, and be prepared to be temporarily inconvenienced as we work together with Gunn and
his associates in an effort to assure that the venture will be a success.

Real Spirit Equals Winning Team

For years the lamentations over poor athletic teams and poorer records submerged any attempts to elicit vocal evidences of school
spirit during athletic events. “Give us something to cheer about and we too will demonstrate the spirit of the universities”
was the comment generally applied to the situation.

As we are all well aware, Davidson has been provided with teams capable of winning most any contest they go
into. Especially in football, the biggest spectator sport, has success been enjoyed on the local gridiron. That this has not
solved the problem is evidenced in the spasmodic responses to cheering attempts.

To some it appears that a cynical disinterestedness in anything as mundane as football is the proper attitude for the
“pseudo-ivy league” college students to assume. Excessive outbursts of spirit are to be condemned as the sign of a gross
cultural deficiency.

After the student body meeting of last Friday, this pretension should be forever dispelled. Enthusiasm was manifested widely, particularly in
the senior section. And the unlimited support of one of Dr. Beaty’s caliber ought to sway the doubters.

As we watch the players from the stands, we demand certain standards of action from them. Among these is the
unflagging spirit that is so necessary to win games. It is paradoxical that we should demand more of them than
we are willing to give.

Rather than an indication of immaturity, cheers, groans, and spontaneous shouts of joy are the essential response of a personality
to its deeper drives. Because, basically, we all are proud of Davidson, we ought to show it at all times,
and during sporting events real support of the team is THE way.

F.L.H.

Noted Guests

This is definitely our weekend for distinguished guests.

Politicos Abram and Albright were here yesterday, humorist Arthur Treacher was on hand in Chambers earlier tonight, and Richard Maltby
and Company will make the music in the gym tonight and tomorrow.

Tomorrow morning, about 1000 alumni will be in for a chicken ’n dumplings luncheon and to see that justice is
done to Bill Nebraska and the visiting V.M.I. Keydets who provide the Homecoming competition for Bill Dole’s fired-up ‘Cats.

Mrs. Clarence Hodson, who was a belle of the ball at Davidson in years gone by, and whose recent generosity
made the restoration of Phi and Eu Halls possible, will be here for their dedication tomorrow.

But the most distinguished and welcome guests of them all found Davidson at their feet this afternoon, as a 600-strong
passel of the prettiest girls in the South took over the campus. No resistance was encountered. A 9:00 p.m. communique
from our Johnston Gym correspondent reported that the situation was completely under control. See you late Monday morning.

Tom Morgan’s description of the Democratic Candidate which appeared in last week's Davidsonian brings to mind a giant pot-bellied Greek
statue, standing poised and ready, with a shovel in one hand (to dig a canal across Africa) and a magic
wand in the other. From the front, he seems to be a dove of peace (no draft or hydrogen bombs).
On one side he is dressed in the coveralls and cap of the laborer, on the other, he appears, straw-hatted
and overalled as the farmer. The rear view bears a strong resemblance to the Democratic donkey’s posterior.

Around the statue's base, his followers, led by Estes “Stevenson is not talking sense” Kefauver, and Harry “Stevenson can't win”
Truman, prostrate themselves before him, chanting: “Hail to Adlai, Beneficent Father of our Party.”

Across the Acropolis, within the temple, experienced leaders gather around a conference table to consider the best steps to take
in the day-to-day job of running a great nation.

FROM THE TOP of the DOME with NAT DANIEL

Four years of economic prosperity and stability, and at least a balance of tensions in the outside world to justify
their decisions and warrant their return to office.

The influx of members of the fairer sex into the Holy City for the dance weekend brings to mind a
passage from Byron’s “Don Juan” which is particularly appropriate for Homecoming: “Let us have wine and women, mirth and laughter;
Sermons and Soda Water, the day after.”

The Republican Party has a tremendous campaign advantage in that Adlai Stevenson has to promise everything to everybody; all Ike
has to do is just grin.

Limerick of the Week:
“Said IFC President Bunny,
To his date, “This is tragic—not funny.
Since Maltby’s unknown,
We're dancing alone.
And it’s costing a fistful of money.”

ALL-OVER-THE-ROAD

Pogo is Best Choice As People’s Possum

By GERALD WILSON

Voters will readily recall that this is Pogo’s second try for the office after being barely defeated by a margin
of 60,000,000 to 0. (This is just a round estimate) But as the people’s possum said recently, he learned a
lot from 1952, and expects to win this time.

MIDDLE ROAD CROWDED

Pogo planned to run on a middle-of-the-road platform but found the middle of the road so crowded that he decided
to run on a left wing ticket up north, and a right wing ticket in the South. He was stunned
when he...realized that this has been done before. Unfortunately, Pogo didn’t own a spaniel or a Dalmatian, so when they
put his picture in Collier’s, he had to use a grasshopper instead. He feels that this is the real issue
of the campaign.

DAVIDSON ATHLETICS
Pogo is campaigning hard on local issues, and when asked about the Davidson College athletic policy, he said that he
was for flexible supports rather than rigid ones.

PRAISES UNION
Also, he is not the captive of the Union. He speaks highly of the Union leaders, especially Mr. Smith (not
to be confused with Joe).

SOCIAL REFORM
In the field of social reform, Mr. Possum intends to make the $64,000,000 Question the biggest “give-away” of all times.
He advocates government control of this program so as to eliminate competition.

Thus, the staff of the Davidsonian heartily endorses Pogo, with those immortal phrases of the first Gentleman, “Give him the
House (White)! and We Need this guy!"

Contrast: Before and After
by Davis

MOST DISTINGUISHED ALUMNUS
Legends of Woodrow Wilson At Davidson Are Contrasting

(With the return of many Davidson Alumni, and in connection with next week's convocation, we feel that the following article
will be of interest. The following is a reprint, in part, of an article by the late Dr. Walter Lingle,
former President of Davidson College.)

By WALTER L. LINGLE
Edited By Philip F. Kukura

Woodrow Wilson entered Davidson College as a freshman in the fall of 1873. He remained at Davidson for one year
and then dropped out of college for a year because of sickness. After that, he went to Princeton. There still
persist a good many traditions and legends in connection with Woodrow Wilson’s student life at Davidson.

WAS WILSON EXPELLED?
We received a letter which read: “I would like to know if President Woodrow Wilson was ever expelled from your
College.” Another letter inquired whether Woodrow Wilson was expelled from Davidson for stealing coal. No, Woodrow Wilson was not expelled
from Davidson. On the contrary, the College records show that he made 100 on deportment the whole time he was
here. We wonder how such a legend got started. Perhaps some student who was expelled from some school was just
looking around for comfort.

MADE HIGH GRADES
Another legend which persists is that Woodrow Wilson failed on some or all of his studies. The College records show
that he made exceptionally good grades: English, 97; Greek, 88; Latin, 94; Mathematics, 88; Composition, 95; and Declamation, 92.

INQUISITIVE INQUIRER ASKS
There is still another legend that pictures him as a lone, lorn, bespectacled boy standing on the sidelines without any
part in college activities.

GOV. GLENN TELLS STORY
How different is the story told by former Governor Robert B. Glenn, of North Carolina, who was a classmate of
Woodrow Wilson's at Davidson College: We learn from him that Woodrow Wilson was a very valuable member of the Davidson
baseball team for which Glenn was pitcher. “Davidson was playing its strongest rival and in the last half of the
ninth inning, with the opposing team up, the score stood four to three in favor of Davidson. The opponents had
a man on first and second, with two out, and the next batsman was the strongest on the opposing team.
I decided to give the batter four bad balls and take my chances with the next batter who was weak.
I threw a ball wide of the plate and to my surprise the batsman stepped out and hit it fairly.
It looked like a home-run. With the crack of the ball, Wilson started after it. Nobody believed that he could
get it, but just as it got over his head he leaped several feet in the air and the ball
hit his hand. It stuck. The game was over and Woodrow Wilson won it.”

RETURNS TO DAVIDSON
The most interesting of all the legends concerning Woodrow Wilson at Davidson is told by Ray Stannard Baker in his
official life of President Wilson. On May 20, 1916, President Wilson visited Charlotte and he came to Davidson unannounced. Not
only so, but he asked to be let alone and allowed to roam around over the campus and buildings, and
thus renew old memories.

REVISITS OLD DORM
Among other places, he went to his old room, Number 13, first floor, North Wing of the old Chambers Building.
He knocked at the door. The freshman who occupied the room said: “Who's that?” The reply came back: “Woodrow Wilson.”
The freshman, not knowing that Mr. Wilson was anywhere nearer Davidson than Washington, replied: “Come right on in; you've got
nothing on me. I'm Christopher Columbus.” When the freshman saw that it was really the President, he gave him one
agonizing look and went right out of the window. His official biographer has this to say: “Davidson College always had
a warm spot in Wilson’s heart. His correspondence in later years showed that he never lost an opportunity to express
his affection or to comply with requests of students or faculty for friendly service.”

WILSON MEMORIAL
There should be a suitable Woodrow Wilson Memorial at Davidson. His high idealism should be constantly kept before the students
from generation to generation by such a memorial.

Why Are You Dating the Girl You’re Dating?
By BOB JONES

While taking the late cup at the Union last Sunday (which is Davidson’s answer to TV’s late-late show), the coffee
sippers drifted to a subject of recent prominence: Homecoming and getting a date. The percentage of those dating in our
particular group was rather humiliating (16.23% with two doubtfuls). Why, we asked, are we in said predicament? Being of a
scientific bent, we decided an accurate poll of a group of carefully selected individuals would produce our desired answer. Those
polled were chosen on the basis of personality (i.e. snow power), intelligence, athletic prowess, good looks, campus prominence, and immediate
presence. We feel obliged to state that a good deal of editing and poetic license was exercised in the interest
of humor (?). In such cases, may those concerned note that all libel suits are being handled directly through the
Davidsonian office. Finally, our fair guests, it’s all been in fun, and we hope you enjoy the poll. It is
always a pleasure to have your attractive faces on the campus. Hurry back!

Sam Peters, Soph., pre-min: She likes me.
Gary Fisher, Jr., eco. major: She agreed to pay for the dance ticket. Just can’t beat these girls with a
supply of money.
Jimmy Jones, Jr., pre-min: I’ve brought her to six; I'm trying to maintain a tradition.
Bob Oliver, Jr., pre-med: Sex.
Willie Thompson, Jr., pre-min: (while typing off pages for a seminar dissertation) She's a good friend of the family.
George Hemingway, Jr., pre-med: She's the only one who couldn't think of a way out of it.
Roy Gilbert, Soph., pre-med: I’m trying to reform her.
Fritz Russell, Jr., English major: She's a blind date, but all the sources say she’s real nice. Gee, if only
I could have said that.
John Bernhardt, Jr., pre-med: No comment.
Vernon Anderson, Soph., business major: Well . . . no, not that. I guess . . . no, not that
either. Just put, “She’s a real nice girl.”
Charlie Morris, Jr., pre-law: I got pinned!
Ray Spangler, Soph., business major: She's the only one who replied to my chain letter.

ROVING REPORTER
Scott Woodmansee, Soph., pre-min: She’s really great. Understand my skin is worth thirty-six cents a square inch at the Beta
house.
Wally Pharr, Sr., psychology major: I'm not. Period.
Bill Patton, Jr., pre-med: She's the type who'll be elected dream girl of the fraternity. Always have wanted to date
our dream girl. How’s that?
Alex Gardner, Jr., pre-med: Her mother wants her to come to Davidson.
John Gilmer, Sr., chemistry major: Ha... can't think of any wit... she’s pretty.
George Kemmerer, Jr., English major: We have many things in common. We both like to read in bed.
Laurens Walker, Soph., pre-law: Marian couldn't come. (Ed. note, Marian’s last name is McKnight.)
Don Rhame, Fr., pre-med: Good question. Guess cause she loves me.
Mac Hamer, Sr., pre-law: She has a hollow leg and foam rubber toes.
Grier Davis, Jr., English major: This calls for careful phrasing. Divorced from personal reasons, she’s a good dancer; she’s got
a good personality, and we really have a ball together.
Larry Trotti, Sr., eco. major: I'm prejudiced toward her... pinned you know.
Brown Hamer, Jr., physics major: Well... they say in physics that opposites attract. She's kinda small.
Andy Watson, Sr., pre-law: I long for female companionship. No one understands me.
Sevry Brooks, Sr., English major: The reason I am having this young lady is to join in the fulfillment of
the pleasures of what appears to be the most hedonistic weekend experience yet.
Frank Holt, Soph., French major: She’s a good date. Likes to raise a little.
Lee Hend, Jr., pre-med: Can I claim the Fifth Amendment?
Jim Patterson, Fr., pre-med: (smiling) Been dating her for three years; I love her.
