PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1956

TRIBUTE

"If I ever catch whoever let that dog in the library..."

JANITOR — Gus Crawford Donaldson, the library janitor, probably is not too well known among the students, for by the
time most of us awake, he has completed a large portion of his work and has retired to his “office”
in the library basement.

Crawford arrives on the campus at 5:30 A.M., so he will be able to have the library in an orderly
condition by the time it opens. When one considers the amount of paper strewn on the floor every night, this
in itself is a sizeable job. Crawford also is responsible for washing the library windows and for keeping the floors
waxed. Several times each day, it is necessary for him to sweep the first floor and the "seminaries" and carrels
upstairs.

But one must not think that Crawford’s talents are limited to using a mop and a broom. After many years’
experience, he has become an excellent amateur plumber. Very few plumbing difficulties arise with which Crawford cannot cope. In addition,
he has developed into a fair embryo electrician.

Another phase of Crawford's work, and perhaps his favorite, is his frequent number of trips to the Post Office. Over
the past years, he has made so many of these jaunts that he feels he is almost qualified for a
Civil Service position.

Davidson College for many years. Much of his time was spent in the science building, and it was only relatively
recently that he “graduated” to the library. Crawford feels very close to the college, for not only he, but several
other members of his family have worked and are still working here. To use a cliché, it can be said
that Crawford Donaldson “has served long and well.”

HONORARY FRATERNITY SERIES: ODK President Calls For

No honorary fraternity at Davidson occupies a position that is quite as unique and at the same time ambiguous in
the life of the college community as Omicron Delta Kappa. It is unique because it recognizes not distinction in a
specific field, but distinction itself: leadership and service in any area of activity. But it is ambiguous because once the
recognition is accomplished and the Circle membership formed for the year, there is nothing to indicate what ODK as a
group of select men ought to do.

No one expects Phi Beta Kappa to do anything other than perpetuate itself—it is a pure honorary. On the other
hand, election to an honorary like Sigma Upsilon involves the elected in a scheduled pattern of activities in which he
is expected to participate. But the position of ODK through the years has wandered irresolutely between these two extremes of
activity. Whenever it has lapsed into the position of pure honorary, the collective conscience of the Circle has been bothered.
But, on the other hand, a patterned, directed program of activity has never been a continuous heritage from one yearly
generation in ODK to the next.

Partly this is because there is a complete turnover in the undergraduate membership from year to year. Partly it has
resulted from a cherished tradition of flexibility and self-determination: the belief that each Circle each year must define its own
goals and its own program for the year for itself.

This ideal of self-determination is both good and bad. It is good because it means there is no acceptance of
an activity-rut without thinking; ODK knows nothing of that spirit that does things because “this is what has been done
before—amen,” which characterizes too much of our life at Davidson. But it is also bad, because it prevents us from
learning from the insights of those who have gone before, and using them to begin our thinking. Instead, we always
start from scratch.

The solution is a mean between these two results, and we might describe that solution as a continuity of insight
but not of activity, a sense of responsibility but not of specific responsibilities. It was an awareness of this principle
which led ODK this year to turn down the offer of the IFC to handle the rooms for dance dates.

A multiplication of this kind of specific responsibility would render any larger leadership the Circle might want to offer difficult.
We might entangle ourselves in too narrow a definition of service. What is an adequately broad definition then? The present
Circle is not ready to answer that in formal terms, and they may never be. Any answer will come at
the end of the year in the quiet evidence of what has been done.

IRC Hears Discussion, Sees Film on Soviet Arms

The regular February meeting of the International Relations Club was held Wednesday evening, February 1, at 8:15 P.M., in the
Green Room of the College Union. Following a brief business meeting, Jack Kerr introduced the evening's program by summarizing a
widely circulated 1947 magazine article written by the Honorable George F. Kennan, for several years United States ambassador to Russia,
entitled “The Sources of Soviet Conduct.” This article was received at that time with much the same furor that has
accompanied the Dulles and Benson articles of recent days.

Mr. Kennan holds that Soviet power today is not only the product of inherited ideology, but it is also the
product of circumstances. The USSR along with England and the United States, was among the victorious nations of the Second
World War. Now that the Soviet power has expanded the Kremlin finds it necessary to continue a dictatorship to make
absolute those powers which it seized in the revolution of 1917. Since the Communist manifesto didn't call for a dictatorship
the Kremlin justifies its continuance by attributing its necessity to the “menace of capitalism abroad.” Then Stalin declared that as
long as there is a capitalist encirclement there will be danger of intervention and the organs of suppression — the
Red Army, MVD are necessary. Since the quest for absolute power has not been a complete success, Mr. Kennan believes
that this quest has produced internally its own reactions.

To combat such a power, Mr. Kennan proposes that the United States should formulate a policy directed at the gradual
mellowing of Soviet power. Since the Soviets are in no hurry to reach their goal, such a policy should be
one of a long-term nature — a policy of containment: hold the line where it is and apply counter force
on those places which are constantly shifting geographical and political points. Mr. Kennan feels that Russia will continue her present
goal within the framework of her ideology.

Soon after the appearance of Mr. Kennan’s article “The Sources of Soviet Conduct,” Mr. Walter Lippmann wrote “Cold War” which
is a critique of Mr. Kennan’s article. Mr. Lippmann doesn’t think Mr. Kennan is wise in proposing a foreign policy
directed at the gradual mellowing of Soviet power, for we actually don’t have any concrete evidence that the Soviet power
is decaying. A policy based on the assumption that a power is inherently weak and impermanent is not only the
easiest way out, but it is also murderous. He then proposes that the U.S. and Russia should work from the
provisional boundaries which are defined by the Yalta agreement. Only if the USSR is withdrawn from the Yalta line into
the frontier of Russia and the United States and Great Britain withdrawn from the Continent can peace be maintained.

French Novel Class Meets in Watts’ Home

Those studying the Contemporary French Novel under Dr. George B. Watts had the rare privilege of holding class at the
home of their professor last Monday evening. After a dinner worthy of the highest and finest of French cooking artists
and served with background music furnished by Jacqueline Francoise, the seven members settled themselves down to the business of discussing
a novel by Jean Giono. This opportunity afforded these Davidsonians is one of the most inspiring of college experiences. The
students were given a chance to meet the professor and to get to know the man who is usually found
“across the desk.”

CORRECTION

The Davidsonian wishes to correct an error which appeared in last week's edition. Headline for the “Know Your College” feature
optimistically placed the alumni at one million dollars. Facts reveal that the alumni fund is approaching $100,000 at present. John
Payne and the Alumni office welcome all contributions toward one million dollars.

Eumanean Initiates New Members

The first Eumanean meeting of the second semester was held Monday night, February 6. Mr. John C. Bernhardt was elected
Secretary of the society in a run-off postponed from the regular election meeting.

The feature of the meeting was the initiation of new members. The select group was composed of Spencer Mitchem, Jim
Overall, Edward Stevens, Richard Brubaker, Thomas Kernan, David Long, Robert DuPuis, Bill Hull, Charles M. Reed, George Harriss, Paul Jones,
John Toumaras, Peter Andrews, Ned Austell, John S. Bernhardt, David McFadyen, Warren Womble, George Sutcliffe, Morrison Brown, Peter Morrisett, Edward
Morrisett, Richard Cumming, John Harmon, Stuart Collins, Vernon Andersen, Laurens Walker, Walter Bishop, Tom Johnson, Jock Reeder, and Frank Holt.

BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY THE COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD

“Coke” is a registered trademark. © 1956, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY

By JASON McMANUSSuch a move would allow Russia and West Europe to be separated by small neutral powers, which would
act as a buffer zone, thereby making aggression easily detected if either side moves. The analysis of Mr. Lippmann’s article
concluded Mr. Kerr's presentation. After a period of discussion among the members, a recent movie featuring Mr. Kennan in a
forum presentation was viewed. This enabled the audience to note the changes which had taken place in Mr. Kennan’s thought
after several years.

In some of the controversial issues that touch the college community, no one dares approach with the ideal of accomplishment,
but only of analysis, clarification, and preparation for the future time when accomplishment is a possible goal. But there is
a definition that I would offer, a private definition of what ODK ought to be, and one to which I
must frankly admit that not all the members of ODK this year, or perhaps any year, would subscribe. But it
is one I feel strongly about, that I wish might become one of the continuing insights of ODK that we
were talking about previously. It involves a fundamental recognition by the men in ODK of who they are. For ODK
is a singular body of men when you consider it. They are not elected from the student body, but they
are perhaps a more representative group of students than the Student Council. Because of the position each individual holds in
his own sphere of activity, no group of men can speak with more prestige and a better chance of a
significant hearing than ODK on the crucial problems of the College. But ODK seldom speaks. ODK is composed of men
selected for leadership, but the Circle seldom exercises its leadership as a group for the benefit of Davidson in a
prophetic way. Why is this? The answer is partly in the great image of the Davidson gentleman that hangs over
us all. There is a strong tradition at Davidson that nobody ever must step on anybody’s toes, even when there
is a reasonable certainty that “anybody” is wrong. Perhaps this tradition restrains us. Perhaps we are just shy. Whatever the
reason, all of Davidson suffers because all of Davidson is considerate to the point of impotence, and ODK might shed
a little of this considerateness in taking an occasional stand on important issues. Somewhere we have lost that part of
the tradition of the gentleman unafraid. And my wish is that the ODK Circle might resurrect it and take on
something of the character of a prophet. It could be a prophet with honor in its own country. That country
is sorely lacking in prophets.

ACTIVITIES

Friday, Feb 10—Potomac River Naval Command Interviews All Day
Basketball—Washington and Lee 8:15
Movie—“Razor's Edge” 10:00

Saturday, Feb. 11—Basketball—College of Charleston 8:15
Movie—“Razor’s Edge” 10:00
Swimming—Emory 3:30

Sunday, Feb. 12—Rev. Vance Barron 7:30

Monday, Feb. 13—Travelers Insurance Company Interviews All Day
Student Council 7:00
“D” Club 7:15

Tuesday, Feb. 14—Burlington Industries Interviews All Day
“Y” Membership Meeting 7:00
Scabbard and Blade 7:15
Phi Mu Alpha 8:15
Le Cercle Francais 8:15
Young Republicans Club 8:15

Wednesday, Feb. 15—Meeting of Camera Club 7:00
Alpha Epsilon Delta 7:15

Thursday, Feb. 16—Mathematics Movie 7:00
Sigma Upsilon 8:15

Friday, Feb. 17—Midwinter’s Dance 9:00
“Y” Party 12:00
Intermission & After Dance 1:00

LITTLE CORD—SHOP
“Opposite Ivey’s Fifth St. Entrance”
126 WEST FIFTH STREET
CHARLOTTE

REV. VANCE BARRON
The Rev. Vance Barron is pastor of the Chapel Hill Presbyterian Church. A native of Arkansas, he graduated from Arkansas
College, Batesville, in 1938, and from Columbia Theological Seminary in 1942. He has held pastorates at the First Presbyterian Church,
Gainesville, Georgia; at the First Presbyterian, Meridian, Mississippi; at the Second Presbyterian Church, Charleston, South Carolina; and at the Chapel
Hill Presbyterian Church. He also served as a chaplain in the U.S. Naval Reserve during 1942-44.

Philanthropic Society Installs President

Monday evening, February 6, marked the beginning of a new and noble administration of the Philanthropic Literary Society. In the
time-honored ceremony of the 1800s, under the Napoleonic chandelier, Mr. Kerry Edwards Spiers was installed as president of the society
by Mr. Richard Morehead, retiring president. Mr. Spiers then delivered his inaugural address in which he restated the original aims
and purposes on which the Society was founded. He condemned subterfuge in any form and encouraged the members to hold
fast to their high ideals of honor and integrity. It was noted by Mr. Spiers that though many years have
passed, the excellent qualities of literary skill which made Phi great still live in the present membership. The program presented
to the Society was an original drama of excellent quality written by Mr. Jack Trawick. Unforeseen events preventing the presence
of Mr. Trawick, the play was offered by Mr. Harry Antrim, retiring vice-president.

Young Republicans to Hold Important Meet

A very important meeting of the Young Republicans will be held Tuesday night, February 14, at 9:00 in the Green
Room. Since two particularly important items will be discussed, all members are strongly urged to attend. Also, non-members who are
interested in the Club’s activities are invited—including “conservative” Democrats!

Vespers Speaker Will Be Rev. Vance Barron

The Reverend Vance Barron of Chapel Hill will speak on the topic “How Wide is Your World?” at the Vespers
service on February 12. The Reverend Mr. Vance is pastor of the Chapel Hill Presbyterian Church. A native of Arkansas,
he graduated from Arkansas College, Batesville, in 1938, and from Columbia Theological Seminary in 1942.

GIFTS TO U.S. COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES IN 1955 ESTIMATED AT $507 MILLION

New York, N.Y.—(LP.)—Voluntary gifts and grants estimated at $507,000,000 were received by the nation’s colleges and universities during the fiscal
year 1954-55. This is compared to approximately $339,000,000 in 1951-52, according to a survey conducted by the Council for Financial
Aid to Education. The total falls short by some $100,000,000 of the estimated annual need for the next ten years,
Dr. Wilson Compton, president of the Council, pointed out. The average amount of voluntary support received by the 728 four-year,
degree-granting institutions surveyed for all purposes and from all sources was $479,531. The highest group average, $896,031, was for 178
private colleges and universities. The next highest average was $457,000, for 149 tax-supported institutions. The group of 141 Catholic institutions
had an average of $295,308, and 233 Protestant church-related and church-controlled colleges and universities had the lowest average, $286,439. (A
total of 701 questionnaires were completed, but two represented more than one institution each.) A group of 132 Catholic colleges
received 50 percent of their voluntary support from religious denominations, a large part of it in the “contributed services” of
the clergy. Another group of 229 Protestant church-related colleges received 36 percent of their voluntary support from churches and denominational
boards. The 132 Catholic colleges and nine Catholic universities received an average of eight percent of their total in gifts
from business concerns, as against 12 percent for the entire 728 institutions. Financial support from business concerns totaled $39,432,625. If
allowance were made for income from contract research grants (excluded from the survey) and for grants to two-year colleges and
specialized schools, the projected total for all colleges would be more than $80,000,000. Some observers, Dr. Compton said, have estimated
it at as much as $100,000,000. The total for 1950, as estimated by the Commission on Financing Higher Education, was
$40,000,000.

Critic’s Knife Slashes (Continued From Page One)

Extremely good company (Mozart, Sibelius, etc.). Here is a firm verbal hand on its back. With the concluding numbers by
Rossini, the orchestra moved into its true element and hit its full stride. Rossini was, of all composers represented on
the program, best understood and best interpreted. This fact is a clue as to the true nature of the orchestra,
which has all the best qualities of a good hurdy-gurdy. Now, we all know (or should) that good hurdy-gurdies are
charming and delightful and even stimulating. They are not so rare (though I know of one or two exceptional Spanish
ones). I had wondered why Rossini was left till last; now I know. The North Carolina Little Symphony would make
a good theatre orchestra. Alas! There are no theatres in North Carolina.

Drink QUALITY MILK
Mooresville Creamery, Inc.

Echols Promoted

Cadet 2nd Lieutenant Laymon L. Echols has been promoted to the rank of 1st Lieutenant. In addition, Cadet 1st Lieutenant
Echols has assumed command of Company E of the 2nd Battalion of the Davidson College ROTC unit, at Davidson College,
Davidson, North Carolina.

Large Endowment (Continued From Page One)

Capacity, more fraternities, greater library facilities, more offices, equipment, parking area, etc., would change the face of the campus. The
Committee stresses, however, that the figures it presents “do not include resources for a much-needed increase in faculty and staff
salaries, lower student-faculty ratio, larger per-student library expenditure, additional laboratory equipment, improvement of instruction.” Such increases are estimated as the
minimum funds necessary to maintain the quality of the College’s academic program at its present level.

STONESTREET'S CAFE
Open Seven Days a Week
PHONE 3-6241
450 S. Main
Mooresville

PARKER-GARDNER
CHARLOTTE 2, N.C.
118 West Trade Street
Phone ED. 2-8257

It’s an “open and shut case” for the ARROW Lido

You don’t need a law degree to know that this is a shirt with real comfort built in. Why? The
new Arrow Lido has no top button. Your tie closes the collar neatly, always. You can wear it open, too,
and look just as smart. Arrow Lido in tattersalls, other checks, or solids, just $5.95.

ARROW
—first in fashion
SHIRTS • TIES • CASUALS
