THE NEWS AND SCANDAL OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

Published weekly or at irregular intervals, by and large, by various and sundry students.

Volume 1, Number 1
June 25, 1956

STUDENT BODY PRESIDENT DISCUSSES HONOR SYSTEM

Davidson College is like numerous other small liberal arts colleges across the country in that it has its traditions, its
eccentric professors, and all the other vital facets of college life. Davidson has its faults too, just as all other
colleges fall short of the ideal.

However, Davidson is blessed with one great advantage over many colleges in that it has a time-tested Honor System. The
Honor System, as incorporated in the Student Body Constitution, has, through the years, evolved into a Code of Honor which
actually works and is not just a written theorem thought up by idealists.

The Honor System written in the Constitution states plainly what constitutes a violation of the system. The Constitution provides for
a court - the Student Council - which is to try any student who violates the Honor Code. This Council
has the authority to render punishment for an Honor System violation. It has the power to dismiss a student from
college for a violation of the Code, and this action has been taken by the Council more than once.

In other words, a violation of the Davidson College Honor System is regarded by those students who uphold the principles
of honesty and integrity as a serious and unwarranted betrayal of the College's trust in the principles of the student
body. It is the duty of every student enrolled here to uphold those basic principles of honesty, integrity, and independence
which constitute what is possibly the most outstanding facet of the Davidson tradition.

Bill Fraley

THE NEWS
By: John Edwards

Duties of Summer Y.M.C.A.:

A) Pick people to lead Chapel (Thurs.)
B) Pick people to lead Vespers (7:30) Informal workshop and hymn sing
C) Pick people for deputations to churches on Sunday morning and Wednesday evening. Any interested are asked to contact J.
Edwards or M. Smith.
D) Show movies at Negro youth center on Thursday nights. (Any interested in helping with a project of this sort
should make their wishes known.)

CHAPEL

June 21 - Simpson
June 26 - Hallory
July 5 - Dave Hood
July 12 - Charles Reed

VESPERS

June 24 - Jerry Brooks
July 2 - (Varied)
July 8 - Jim Pressley

SOCIAL COMMITTEE NEWS
By: Dave Hood

The Wednesday night socials

You'll have to admit that summer school at Davidson isn't half bad, especially when there are activities popping up from
time to time to keep your interest from lagging.

One of these activities is the Wednesday night social. This isn't a new idea. It originated in summer school a
number of years ago and each summer has been quite successful.
