**The Davidsonian**

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
BUSINESS MANAGER
ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Assistant Editor
Managing Editors
Bob Beall, Lloyd Chapin, John Trask
John Johnson, Bill Bondurant, John Trotti
Sports Editor
Feature Editor
Copy Editor
JIM BATTEN
BOB CARMICHAEL
FRANKLIN BLOODWORTH, LEON HOWELL
Bill Pomeroy, Ed Stevens, Bob Lathan
News Editor
Staff Photographer
Assignments
Advertising Manager
Bob Majors
Circulation
Bob Austin, Marshall Chapman, Lee Mayfield
Represented for National Advertising by NATIONAL ADVERTISING SERVICE, Inc.
SUBSCRIPTION RATE: $2.00 Per Year.
Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.
OFFICES IN DAVID OVENS COLLEGE UNION, DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO
FRIDAY, MAY 11, 1956

Terry's Stay a Boon to Students

At a time of year when bouquet-tossing is especially in vogue, among many deserving there stands one man to whom
Davidson owes a special vote of gratitude. Will Terry, a 1954 graduate, returned to Davidson last September to take over
the General Secretaryship of the YMCA. Next fall he will leave to continue his ministerial schooling at Union Seminary in
Richmond.

The service which Will Terry has rendered to his Alma Mater this year is hard to describe in concrete terms.
The flourishing of the YMCA in its crucial first year of voluntary membership is evidence enough of his tangible contributions.
But more vital and lasting, and naturally more elusive, is the definite impact which his work has had on student
life in the fields connected directly and indirectly with his college-assigned duties.

Despite his status as a college official, Will has somehow been accepted as a student among students. Not long removed
from his own Davidson days, he has been able to thoroughly understand student problems, gripes and opinions, and thereby able
to elicit the confidence and comradeship of the entire student body. His ability to view Davidson's collective and individual problems
from the student as well as administrative viewpoint, thereby gearing the work of the YMCA to meet these problems squarely,
has constituted the core of his outstanding contribution to the life of college.

Euphony Attacks Everything in Sight

Monday evening last marked the occasion of the auspicious birth of an undertaking so great that it had to be
called “a journal of Liberal Opinion.” Out of the womb of the old lady known as the Eumanean Literary Society,
amid her labor pains, deemed “a Lyric Cry in the Wilderness,” emerged a struggling, ten-page bastard named Euphony. News of
the birth of this mimeographed manual of liberal intellectualism spread quickly over the campus. Many were the well-wishers who flocked
to the bedside of Eu in the hope of seeing this offspring for themselves. The child was carefully studied by
many, and it was welcomed to the campus with humble optimism, hedonistic optimism, tragic optimism, and pessimistic optimism.

Now that Euphony has attained a healthy age of four days, a critical study of the Journal finds but few
flaws in its conception. Consistency might perhaps be the keynote of Euphony. The first page states that Euphony is “officially
‘a liberal journal’,” but that “Euphony is thoroughly tolerant of opinions other than those of its own staff and writers.”
As a result, throughout the manual nothing but the kindest words for that really pitiable creature, the conservative, can be
found. They are merely described as “human refuse which litters and infects our so-called academic community.” Such adjectives and descriptive
phrases as “stupid and psychotic,” “ilk” (whatever that means), and “cesspools of small-mindedness” are simply used. My, how astounding is
this “liberal” toleration!

Euphony is consistent in other ways, too. When it criticizes, it criticizes. One thing you can always be sure to
find in a liberal publication is the ability to criticize, and to criticize adversely. Let's see. It attacks conservatism, page
one; the Davidson liberal arts tradition, page two; pre-meds, four-course seniors, and business majors, also page two; math, science, Bible,
English, history, and philosophy courses, page three; the Davidson gentleman, page four; the fraternity system, page five; a whole potful
of different things, page six; segregationalists (please excuse the use of this anti-intellectual word), page seven; the poor ole Negro,
page eight; and the whole Davidson system, page nine. Wow! Why even the venerable old bull session comes in for
its share of criticism! By covering so much in one issue, will there be anything left to attack in the
next?

One fascinating “tidbit” is found at the bottom of page eight: “Dissatisfied? Of course, there’s always P. J. C.” I
wonder if the authors of these mighty articles have ever themselves considered P. J. C., if they are so dissatisfied
with D. C.

Despite all the criticism, however, one cannot help but applaud the attack, in the article entitled “Local Somnambulism,” on those
who still believe anything that is ascribed to by their parents. It is difficult to imagine that anyone can really
think that their parents’ view, on any subject, might be the correct one.

Unfortunately, this manual of liberalism can boast but one advertisement. This single ad on page six points out the advantages
of partaking in Sigma Upsilon, the “ne plus ultra of campus literary endeavor,” so the ad says. The eleven titans
of liberalism who claim the credit as midwives of Euphony have indeed a right to be proud of their offspring.
It is but a question of time before Euphony will take the place of Life Magazine, The New York Times,
and maybe, with a little luck, even the Intercollegian. But for Euphony to achieve these successes we must all, as
the Journal asks, make Liberalism a household word. Liberalism, Liberalism, Liberalism, Liberalism. Ah shucks, think I'll go have some chocolate
pudding!

—A.W.F.B.

Escape for Mired Minds

Every once in a long while, there comes to Davidson an event which stirs students and faculty alike to a
surge of united intellectual enthusiasm and penetrating thought and discussion. Such an event was the delivering of the 1956 Otts
Lectures by Dr. George Buttrick of Harvard Divinity School this past week. Dr. Buttrick has long been rated as one
of the top preachers in America today and many feel that he stands at the apex of a very select
list. Perhaps the basis of Dr. Buttrick’s appeal this week lay in the fact that he not only is a
preacher of great note, but that he is, as one professor put it, a “sure enough scholar” in the finest
sense of the word.

The consistent gravity of his five-lecture message was a compliment to his audience. His scholarly approach to pressing matters of
faith was impressive and convincing; his arguments sound and logical. But through the weighty treatment of his topics, Dr. Buttrick’s
simple humility and intense belief in what he was saying never failed to penetrate. For many, the lectures provided a
stimulating and refreshing escape from the unthinking, plodding, uninspired grind in which all too many of us find ourselves mired
down.

REPLY TO LETTER TO TRUSTEES

College’s Southern Snobbery Bad Enough Without Copying Yankees

Dear Editor:

I write the following few words in reply to a letter to the College Trustees on the matter of increased
enrollment from Messrs. Anderson, Conarroe, Miller, and Robinson. It does not disturb me that the academic standards of Wesleyan, Amherst,
or Union are more exacting than those of Davidson College, nor does it disturb me that the students who enroll
at these elite liberal arts colleges are somewhat more superior as potential scholars than are our students at Davidson. What
would disturb me would be for Davidson to become the snobbish Southern counterpart of these so-called best schools and to
admit as matriculants only those who are of the very best intellect and of well-to-do, socially prominent parentage. Indeed, Davidson
is already a snob among Southern educational institutions, and perhaps with very little reason. Freshmen on entering Davidson are so
indoctrinated with tales of the school’s high academic standing and rigid standards that they actually believe these pompous allegations.

In the next few years, more young people will be seeking to enter our college classrooms than ever before. Many
of them will be in a position to enter college as a result of the unparalleled prosperity realized by their
parents in the years of the New Deal and World War II. Here is America’s—and Davidson’s—opportunity to educate and mold
the lives of additional thousands of youth into intelligent, effective citizens, an asset that our democratic society cannot afford to
be without.

Davidson may limit her freshman class to a small group of the intellectually superior; she may add to her library
until it has a half million volumes; she may...

EXTRA-STUDENT GOVERNMENT

By Perrin Anderson

Student Government has attempted this year to be a more active and efficient organization which has centered primarily in assuming
energetic administrative and legislative functions in addition to the judicial function. Efficiency was increased by holding regular meetings and by
making active use of the Student Government office which was kept open every weekday afternoon. Operating for the first time
under the revised constitution the Council also dealt with several cases involving infractions of the Student Body Regulations.

In its administrative and legislative capacity the Council undertook various projects which were of concern to the student body. Among
these were: a petition to the Trustees with regard to subsidized athletics, securing a probationary cut in R.O.T.C., acquiring a
row of the old “village” as apartments for married students, initiation of a petition to the Southern Bell Telephone Company,
placing coke machines in...

ACROSS THE PRESIDENT OF THE STUDENT BODY

(The following is a letter from the President of the Student Body to the chairman of the Trustee’s committee on
Buildings and Grounds.)

May 9, 1956

Mr. Olin Nisbet, Jr.
Commercial Bank Building
Charlotte, N. C.

Dear Mr. Nisbet,

In anticipation of the May meeting of the Board of Trustees of Davidson College and of the report which your
Special Committee on Buildings and Grounds might present concerning...Georgia Dormitory. I feel that it may be helpful and certainly will
be of interest to you to know the Student Body's feelings and desires in reference to this matter. As an
elected representative of this Student Body, I have received the responsibility of expressing its general opinions where need arises. I
would urge that every effort be made for the razing of Georgia Dormitory at the earliest possible date. I think
the many benefits of this removal are obvious. Only after Georgia Dormitory is removed will we be able to utilize,
enjoy, and appreciate Belk Hall to its fullest.

Sincerely yours,
Dan S. LaKar, Sr.
President Student Body.

PRESIDENT’S DESK
DAN LaFAR

Georgia Dormitory. I feel that it may be helpful and certainly will be of interest to you to know the
Student Body's feelings and desires in reference to this matter. As an elected representative of this Student Body, I have
received the responsibility of expressing its general opinions where need arises. I would urge that every effort be made for
the razing of Georgia Dormitory at the earliest possible date. I think the many benefits of this removal are obvious.
Only after Georgia Dormitory is removed will we be able to utilize, enjoy, and appreciate Belk Hall to its fullest.

Sincerely yours,
Dan S. LaKar, Sr.
President Student Body.

Pharr Helm Davidsonian and to the fact that the office and meetings were always open to all we feel that
we succeeded in the latter. We hope that you feel that we succeeded in the former.

INTERFRATERNITY COUNCIL
By Phil Koonce

The greatest problem that the inter-fraternity council faces each year is that of selecting the dance bands that will suit
the majority of the student body. In trying to accomplish this task for the past year, the IFC ran into
many difficult problems. The council made the mistake of believing that the majority of the students would be willing to
support a top name band in concert. Next year's council should certainly profit from some of the mistakes made this
year. It would seem certainly profitable for the new council to take a poll of the student body. The council
needs to know who the students want and if they are willing to pay for these bands.

Rush week for the past year ran true to form. As a result of students’ recommendations, there has already been
one change in next year's rushing regulations. Hell Week created more disfavor from the fraternities this year than in any
recent year. Since the IFC stands between the faculty and fraternities, recommendations concerning this problem from any student or groups
of students would be appreciated. Thinking back through the year, the IFC recalls no one thing from which it received
more pleasure than the Barium Springs Christmas party. There were many other things which took the attention of the IFC
this year. Examples of this are: dorm registration for dance weekends and the blood drive. Many improvements can be made
and it is hoped that the new council, which will have the advantage of three old members, will profit from
all the mistakes made by the year’s council.

ROTC
By J. B. Pharr

It has been said, on good authority, that a large number of employers realize that a good, well-supervised course in
military science gives to students many attributes which cannot be acquired in any other college course. One of the skills
acquired from the military science program is definitely that of preparedness for service in our armed forces. Undoubtedly one of
the experiences which most of us do not receive enough here at Davidson is accepting and completing responsibilities. The ROTC
program as set up by the present PMS&T attempts to meet this very vital need. Practical organization and administrative procedures,
although not emphasized too much in the basic course, come in for a good share of attention in the advanced
course. It is one thing to be able to give back to a professor principles of organization and administration of
a review or quiz, but quite another story to apply this learning even on the elementary basis of a college
ROTC drill field. Bearing, appearance, and expression of one’s ideas to other people come in for their proportionate share of
attention in the typical military science program. Could the key to the value of the ROTC program, as considered by
the aforementioned employers, excluding the military aspect, be that these desirable qualities are received in small immunizing doses?

CURRICULARS JUDGED
PUBLICATIONS
By Dee Helm

Like Edna St. Vincent Millay's more profitable candle, campus publications have this year often found themselves burning on both ends.
Business managers collectively overcame the sales resistance of almost every merchant in Mecklenburg County, and editors in time adapted themselves
to the “do it yourself” craze. Before retiring into welcome oblivion, without elaboration the Publications Board makes the following suggestions
for its successors:

1. An earnest attempt be made to interest a greater representation of the Student Body in working with publications.
2. The Scripts ‘n Pranks and the Quips and Cranks follow the example of the Davidsonian in sending representatives to
journalistic conferences and all publications join the National Associated Collegiate Press.
3. The Davidsonian follow the example of the Quips and Cranks in establishing an athletic picture exchange with rival institutions.
4. The Scripts ‘n Pranks continue the practice of dormitory circulation.
5. The Administration and the new Board work out an acceptable method of salarying editors and business managers or placing
them on the scholarship program based on need and merit.
6. EDITORS SEEK OUT CONSTRUCTIVE CRITICISM FROM THEIR CONSTITUENTS AND EVER STRIVE TO KEEP THEIR FINGER ON THE CAMPUS PULSE.

What should we remember . . .? What are some of our good old institutions that we will revere next
to God when we come back to speak in Vespers ten years from now, when we return to interest the
frantic and impressionable seniors of 1966 with joining our company, when we bring our progeny back to see “where Dad
went to school.” One of our incomparable institutions which we must boast is that of the pluperfect pathos exhibited in
the Monday morning faces, for this is one of the characteristics of our good old generation. We must not forget
the tradition of jovial profanity which emanates between dorms at all times, nor must we forget those whose names have
become traditional themselves through constant shouting, especially at nights, by those who are fond of them for their phonetic beauty
and lyrical charm. As for Davidson’s own contribution to our great generation, we will remember the few lectures which we
haven't slept through, the instillment in us all of Christian devotion to the dollar sign, the neatly cut grass on
the front lawn, redolent of prosperity, and the phallic road posts, symbolizing virility. Davidson has taught us to be cautious,
sly, and trustworthy but non-trusting. This we can take with us. To the rest of Davidson we say with tearful
triteness, “Farewell, fond father,” and we know that to forget will be ungrateful, to remember will be unnatural, to be
critical will be unkind, to be kind will be sentimental, and we are forgiving but not forgetting, yet we know
that the ultimate forgiveness is forgetting. But this is the time of diamonds and oranges, “this is the time of
tension between dying and birth.”

JOHN HARMON’S FAREWELL
What to Remember?
Vale, vale, alma mater. We say goodbye to Davidson but none of us really know what we're saying goodbye to,
for now we are still in the womb of our pedagogical mother and are not yet equipped with voices to
cry out. We are told by many, however, that we will cry out and yearn again for the security of
the matrix. It is very likely that they are right, for we are certain that the world is cold and
cruel (not like Davidson) and that after we are in it for a while we will turn sentimental, perhaps slurpily
so, in regard to the “good old conservative days” of the early fifties. Therefore, before we forget what Davidson really
is like, we had better jot down a few notes to keep our memories straight.

LEADERS EVALUATE ORGANIZATIONS
Anderson Koonce the dorms, investigating and attempting to improve curriculum, and other projects of similar nature. A letter was sent
to each of the Trustees stating the students’ view on the enrollment issue; the Court of Control was revised and
will return to chapel next year; student membership was obtained on the Calendar Committee and the Religious Exercises Committee of
the faculty. The guiding policies of Student Government were to be active and effective in areas of student concern and
to keep the student body informed of all activity. Due to the splendid co-operation of the office and meetings were
always open to all we feel that we succeeded in the latter. We hope that you feel that we succeeded
in the former.

ERNEST TAYLOR
It Happens Every May .......
by Cole

OF MOTHER
So lightly on expectant feet
Sped I from her embrace
Into a world of frenzied heat
To enter fortune’s race.
But now, amid the toil and stress,
I think I still can smell
The homemade breads, the crisp starched dress
The fresh clipped rose as well:
And thro’ the years, I yearn so oft’
For laughter and sweet song,
Which graced her tender voice so soft
Through patient hours and long.
The world may never know this heart,
But she must mark it well,
For love of her is set apart
Within its citadel.

—John B. Trotti
