The Davidsonian

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Dick Morehead

ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Maurice Crouse, Tom Warlick

Managing Editors
Jim Batten, Franklin Bloodworth, Jim Brice

Sports Editor
Leon Howell

Exchange Editor
Bob Beall

News Editors
Lloyd Chapin, Bill Pomero

Staff Photographer
Harry Paschall

Assignments
John Trask

Member of the Associated Collegiate Press and Intercollegiate Press

Page Two
Friday, April 13, 1956

Human Manifesto

“Some form of compliance with the Supreme Court's order to desegregate the public schools seems inevitable in most Southern states—perhaps
in all.”—N. Y. Times, March 13, 1956.

“A change in the written law cannot erase a traditional culture.”—Charlotte Observer.

The word segregation brings intellectual nausea to some, spiritual inspiration to others, and lethargic silence from still others. Much has
been written, much discussed, much spoken, much thought on this timely topic—too much. And yet this makes just one more.

Upon perusing the voluminous files contained in any library, it becomes evident that there are only two sides to the
question—and yet how many closed minds have been induced by just these voluminous files and the situations which caused them
to be written. Where in the annals of recently recorded history do you find emphasis upon human understanding? No one
has the whole solution, though many have tried. Regardless of the attempted solutions, however, the emphasis should be placed upon
intellectual empathy, tempering ideals and principles to accord with circumstances and the people which must receive the application of these
principles.

The extremes on both sides have produced violence, terror, human degradation, and sorrow. Their actions have bound progress and drastically
reduced all hopes and powers of amelioration. From the clicking typewriter in the Bronx editorial office to the white veranda
surrounded by Southern marshes, vivid statements have clashed, locking closed minds and barring slightly open doors. The Lucy case and
the Cole case are but tragic examples.

The solutions, whatever they may be, lie not with atmospheric principles or archaic rationalizations, but with the law and the
people. The law is general, being adaptable to the situation and the constituents of that situation. We cannot deny or
refute the law: we can only adapt it to the surrounding circumstances. What is right for New York may not
necessarily be right for Alabama. Further, what is proper in North Carolina may not coincide with what is needed in
Mississippi. The Southerner must seek to understand the purpose and power behind the law and the intentions of those who
support it. The Northerner must seek to understand the life, culture, and people of the South. We are dealing with
personalities—let us act accordingly.

Recent objective surveys have revealed that many areas of the South are making progress toward equitable adjustment. This should continue
and there are indications that it shall, but only within natural and acceptable courses. The South does not need emotional
eruptions, foreign instigators, or radical revolts; it needs intellectual understanding and time. The pages of history are full of horrible
mistakes: life and time are too valuable for us to begin another chapter of protracted errors. Let the heart temper
the mind and understanding prevail.

Observing...

As we reach the final presentation of academic evaluations by department chairmen several observations emerge. One, the faculty is not
as dormant as indicated by student supposition and exterior criticism. As evident in the printed comments, many of the departments
are actively evaluating their curriculum, their needs, and their deficiencies. Many have acted upon these evaluations, forming new courses, burying
archaic ones, and modernizing present ones. These merit student appreciation and encouragement, for we are the direct beneficiaries of such
activity. To the larger departments who have not turned over in recent years, your fallacies are self-evident, and you as
well as the students are the losers.

Second, many departments are in need of expansion in curriculum, staff, and facilities. In several of these cases the demand
is drastically apparent and immediate. These needs as expressed by faculty and student evaluations should be met and met effectively
before due consideration is given to expansion of enrollment.

Third, interest and concern in the courses pursued should continue. Such interactive stimulus between student and faculty is healthy for
and vital to the development and final graduation of the man of tomorrow.

Possible Panaceas

To list the needs of Davidson would require more time and space than presently available. But these are three subjects
for improvement not mentioned recently.

Re-organization and redefinition of required courses. It has been suggested that all courses be grouped into categories according to their
nature and subject matter. Students would then be required to choose one course from each category, these being the required
courses for graduation. The program if adopted would develop the whole man and would produce a graduate acquainted with each
general phase of a liberal arts education. Senior regrets and present requirement deficiencies and over-emphasis strongly urge such a program.

Instigation of a journalism course into the curriculum. Although unnoticed, there are several Davidson gentlemen planning to enter journalism as
a career. For the possible “majors,” for all associated with publications, and for all interested such a course would be
profitable.

Renovation of the area across from the former Village green. This would include complete demolition of that yellow monster and
erection of a suitable edifice for the promulgation of finer arts. Shearer Hall has the appearance of ancient ruins without
their glory. Sagging stucco, drafty cells, constipated keyboards, and bare floors cry out for relief—so do we.

As the Ink Dries...

The typewriter ribbon has grown thin, the mind dry, and the feet tired. Yet this is not the time nor
the place for psychosomatic complaints or sympathetic apologies. Perhaps the most profitable contribution to the new editor would be a
brief paragraphic description of what will surround him.

The challenge he has accepted will require some 15-20 hours a week and involves: organizing the news and editorial structure,
reading exchange papers, letters, pamphlets, tracts, and releases not filed elsewhere, actively participating in the collection and preparation of all
material, and palpitating with the panting press. He will face the unprinted page with empty hands, compose news and articles
on the spot, sharpen his own pencils, and sometimes draw his own pictures. He will keep his nose to all
available keyholes, argue for ideas, and seek to determine opinion. He will be up to his ankles in ink and
bowed to his knees by grammarians, critics, and intellectuals. He will vainly strive to find capable and interested writers. He
will sweat circulation, seek advertisers, and endeavor to placate a confused public. He will receive few comments from anyone—and sometimes
be glad he didn’t. He will be your new editor. Give him your understanding support—that is the least you can
do.

* * *

The editor wishes to publicly express his deep appreciation to each member of the staff; for their efficient and faithful
efforts have made the paper possible.

BUSINESS MANAGER
Larry Parrott

Advertising Manager
Bob Carmichael

Subscription
Warner Hall

Bob Majors, Stan Miller, Tony Guiles, Bill Bondurant

Circulation

Business Staff

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. NEW YORK, N.Y.
CHICAGO * BOSTON * LOS ANGELES * SAN FRANCISCO

Subscription Rate: $2.00 Per Year

Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1879.

Offices in David Ovens College Union, Davidson College

IN THE EDUCATIONAL PROCESS

Individual is Keystone

Each college student has spent nearly one-third of his normal life in the pursuit of education. Millions of dollars have
been invested in this endeavor by the state, the church, the college, and loved ones. Time, effort, and thought have
made the endeavor possible. Now these are gone—what have we got to show for them? This is a question which
each student must answer, not once, but many times during his life. What have you received from education?

There is no definitive rating scale by which to judge the educational process or its results. However, a recent car-pool
discussion produced the following points for consideration which, though not conclusive, present the situation in a rather objective light especially
when focused on the Davidson scene.

KNOWLEDGE, UNDERSTANDING, THOUGHT

Education has three general aims: to provoke thought, to promote understanding, and to present knowledge. Obviously the three are inter-related,
and must develop concurrently, but they differ in relative worth. Knowledge is necessary. Information gained from education has practical value
in earning a living and esthetic value in enjoying the knowledge of acquisition. Everyone who attends classes inevitably obtains some
information, though perhaps not intentionally. But pure knowledge without understanding is dead in value and potentially dangerous. Understanding of the
situation, the circumstances, and the people is vital to education. Many mistakes are made below the level of understanding for
far too many individuals are content with the level of knowledge alone.

Perhaps foremost in this concomitant process is thought. Based on knowledge, broadened by understanding, thought is the least employed yet
the most needed element of the educational process. It includes evaluating of information, directing understanding, and projecting conclusions on the
present and into the future. Those who climb to this level are the chosen few, chosen by individual desire and
tragically few in number.

THE COURSE

Having loosely disposed of the philosophical concepts and elusive generalities, we can further inspect more specific elements involved in education.
Three come prominently to mind—the course, the professor, and the individual student.

Courses are subject to change and should be annually evaluated. Some in our present curriculum are in drastic need of
revision. The cobwebs that shroud these presentations are an epitaph to the course as well as the instructor.

THE PROF

The professor often makes the course. Many alumni sitting in careful reflection, remember only the professor and his gems of
wisdom. Many of the undecided are influenced toward their vocation, many obtain lasting impressions of the field of study, many
receive their philosophy of life from the man who occupies the raised chair. This places a great responsibility upon the
professor—a responsibility which is unfortunately shunned by some. Lack of enthusiasm for vocation and field, self-interest, and misplaced ability are
brutal criticisms which are leveled at some in the teaching faculty.

The prof who demands beautifully bound reproduction of his class comments is a condemnation of the true spirit of education.
He imparts some knowledge, little understanding, and provokes no thought. In some institutions instructors have been dispelled for teaching “unsound”
doctrine: the same yardstick should apply to those who teach no doctrine at all.

Student efforts have pressed for more seminar-type presentations. These courses should be initiated wherever possible especially at the Junior and
Senior level. They should heavily emphasize outside reading, book and research reports, with class time devoted to penetrating discussion—a rubbing
of the minds—on the more important aspects of the text and related subjects. Such a course would cut minorHere is
the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

tests to a minimum, allowing certain academic freedoms. Now in extremely large classes and in some particular courses, this is
impractical and virtually impossible. The mind can still be stimulated in these classes through lecture, probing assignments, intelligent tests, and
the personal magnetism of the professor. The professor must further have an understanding of his students. He should determine as
near as possible the level of information and intelligence which his class as a whole presents at the beginning of
the course. He should then gear his instruction accordingly. Some institutions give tests at the beginning of a course for
the sole purpose of determining the levels of a class. The professor should also understand the circumstances under which his
students are working. For example, a test given during a dance weekend class or immediately before a long holiday period
can never obtain the maximum from students while it often destroys positive attitudes. There is a common meeting point on
such matters and this should be sought and understood by instructor as well as student.

THE STUDENT

The individual is by far the most important ingredient in the educational fermentation. Good material and inspirational lectures without student
initiative are as chemical compositions without a catalyst. The too common approach to a subject—"What will he ask—or what can
I get by with?" is evidence of individual lethargy and unhealthy orientation. The individual who pursues knowledge, understanding, and thought
through honest application and effort finds his reward lasting. The question then becomes not "What have I received from education,"
but "What have I given to education?" The question is personal and the answer must be personal. What sort of
investment have you made? Education is a process which should develop the whole man. When it only produces IBM machines
or youthful elephants it should either be disposed of or changed. Although other elements are important, the emphasis should be
upon thought while the final responsibility for its growth or decline rests with the individual. Robert Hutchins phrased the situation
when he said: "We do not know what education could do for us, because we have never tried it." —RHM

ALLEN FRY MAC CROUSE

Big City Bosses and Southerners May Cut Tail Off Estes’ Coonskin

THE UNEXPECTED is always to be expected in the game of politics, but the sudden rise of Kefauver’s star, coupled
with the decline of Stevenson’s, has caused more than the usual lifting of eyebrows among those who follow the progress
of the primaries. Kefauver's sweep of the Minnesota primary, where there was every reason to believe that Stevenson would win
easily, placed an entirely new light on the race for the presidential nomination. After that decisive vote, it was not
at all certain that Stevenson could recover and make a serious campaign for the convention’s nomination. But if the Minnesota
primary upset Stevenson, it definitely did not place Kefauver in top position. The Senator from Tennessee still has a long
way to go. The road to the nomination is so rough, in fact, that Kefauver may not make it in
spite of his strenuous efforts. The 1952 convention is a clear indication of the advantage of the candidate who has
control of the party machinery. Kefauver ran up a respectable total in the primaries that year and had a large
public following, but he was bypassed by the party leaders who felt that he was not a strong candidate.

HE WILL FACE the same problem this year, unless he can show such strength that it would be impossible to
refuse him the nomination. Eisenhower was able to win in spite of the Taft machinery at the Republican convention in
1952, but only because he had unmistakable strength. Kefauver at the present time does not have such strength within the
Democratic party. Stevenson is still the choice of the party leaders, but he may not be able to maintain this
support if he continues to lose heavily in the primaries. Should the party leaders turn away from Stevenson, this will
not mean that Kefauver will be their choice. There is no dearth of possible candidates. Stuart Symington might be a
candidate who would satisfy both wings of the party. If the convention should nominate a candidate who is not acceptable
to the South, there is a strong possibility that a third party would be formed. Kefauver would not be its
nominee, for ironically enough, the only Southerner who has much possibility of getting votes outside the South is not acceptable
to the South. Kefauver's refusal to sign the Southern manifesto makes him a marked man in Southern politics. His only
hope for the presidency lies in the regular Democratic party.

KEFAUVER HAS MANY political virtues that will probably help him in the months that lie ahead. He is a natural
campaigner in the sense that Stevenson is not. His Crockett-type headdress and similar devices capture the public fancy, which likes
log cabins, cider, and the candidate who is “just one of us.” Whatever it does for his dignity, his style
of campaigning will gain him votes. Stevenson, on the other hand, is handicapped because of his dislike of these methods
of getting votes. Although his position as an “egghead” would be an asset if he were in the White House,
it does not help him get there. The common man does not trust him as he does Kefauver. The Democratic
convention will have a difficult time selecting any candidate to run against Eisenhower. By nominating Lyndon Johnson, the Democrats would
lose their argument about Eisenhower's health. Symington also has health difficulties. The nomination of Harriman or Williams would almost guarantee
a revolt of the Southern bloc, and Kefauver might himself be repugnant enough to touch off such a revolt.

IT NOW APPEARS very unlikely that the convention will select Kefauver, regardless of his showing in the primaries that are
still to be held. He must break down strong resistance within the party leadership, and if he succeeds in this
feat, he will still have to convince the South that he is, after all, a Southerner like them. Success in
both endeavors is very unlikely. By plugging away consistently, Kefauver may build up an organization which will give him the
nomination at some later time. But 1956 is not his year. The primaries are important, but the convention is the
final examination, and the questions are loaded against him.

---

This cleaned text maintains the original meaning and punctuation as requested.
