SNACK BAR STRIKES BACK (Page 2) VOL. XLV

The Davidsonian

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, OCTOBER 19, 1956

SOCCER SQUAD STARTS SEASON (Page 3) NO. 5

BREAK FROM TRADITION

New Course Into Liberal Blends Math Education

Mathematics 11-12 S, a new addition to the mathematics curriculum at Davidson this semester, is part of a general transition
in college mathematics. For the first time in fifty years, the whole setup of college mathematics is undergoing vast study
and change. Wide experimentation characterizes this in American education. Gradual development over a period of years has preceded the realization
of the course. A need for this type of approach to mathematics has become increasingly evident here.

“Too often many good men are forced through a technical math course,” said Dr. W. G. McGavock. “They emerge from
this experience with very little understanding of what they have been subjected to.”

RELATION OF MATH

“This course is designed to show how mathematics fits into a liberal education,” McGavock continued. “It tries to illustrate the
relation of mathematics to other fields of learning.” Besides this broad outlook, Mathematics 11-12 S has three more specific purposes.
It is primarily a class for freshmen who do not plan a science major. It minimizes the technical points of
mathematics and emphasizes the theoretical. Mathematical ideas and foundations, not formulas, are its main concern. Students qualified for the class
by passing the mathematics test given during orientation week. From those who passed, the Mathematics Department selected the twenty-four men
now composing the two sections. The future of the course depends upon the reaction of both students and faculty to
this year's approach. The cross-section of students taking the course is wide, and the decided break from the traditional concept
of math has puzzled some. However, as a whole, student reaction has been enthusiastic.

STUDY OF LOGIC

A general study of mathematical logic began the semester. Penetration into such phases of mathematics as the foundation of the
number system and the anatomy of the infinite will follow. Two books comprise the text material. One of these, Principles
of Mathematics by C. B. Allendorfer and C. O. Oakley, is a highly controversial edition. Both praise and adverse criticism
have appeared in various reviews. In a final emphasis, Dr. McGavock stated, “This is not a history course in mathematics.
The study is mathematics, not about it.”

Camera Club Holds Technique Discussion

On Wednesday night, the Camera Club held its first regular meeting in the Green Room of the College Union. President
Hank Daniel led a discussion on general information and hints in the use of flash photography.

FLASH DISCUSSION

Color slides and prints illustrated many of the important points and demonstrated how flash photography can in some cases produce
better daylight pictures. Daniel discussed the uses of both electronic flash and flashbulbs and also gave an easy method for
applying the flash guide numbers to films of varied speeds. This year, as in the past, the Club has a
special arrangement with a nearby camera store so that members can buy supplies at a 20 percent discount. This discount
will also be a great help to the Club if it decides to add to its already well-equipped darkroom.

MEMBERSHIP

“The Club is for people who are interested in photography, not necessarily for the pros,” emphasized Daniel to all who
may want to join. “You don’t need an expensive camera either.” He also pointed out that members can find interest
in the bi-weekly meetings even if they don't take pictures. At each of these meetings, a member presents a program
on the general topic of photography.

OFFICERS

Other than Daniel, president this year, officers of the Club are Fairman Cumming, the secretary-treasurer, and Dr. Howard French, the
faculty adviser.

GIRLS TAKE OVER DORM

Freshman Council Plans Belk Room Reservations

Under the supervision of its president, Kenny Pless, the Freshman Council is handling reservations for beds in Belk Dormitory for
the girls who are attending the Homecoming festivities here October 26-28. Students living in Belk had until eleven o'clock last
night to exercise their priority in room assignments. There is a one dollar deposit on each reservation, to make sure
that no one will reserve his room just to keep the girls out. After Homecoming, the deposits will be returned
to those who actually had girls staying in Belk. All residents of Belk must be out of their rooms by
2 p.m. Friday, October 26, and may return by 2 p.m. Sunday, October 28. There are approximately 325 students living
in Belk, and it will be up to them to make arrangements for staying elsewhere during the weekend. As usual,
janitors will be able, upon request, to set up extra beds in the other dormitories. There will be no curfews
for the girls, and chaperones will be stationed at each of the floors at the center stairway to call the
girls for their dates. Also, if three students particularly want three girls to stay together, a third bed may be
put in the room. Bunny Perkinson, president of the Interfraternity Council, which is responsible for the room reservations, commented, “Judging
by the number of flowers sold, this should be one of the largest numbers of girls to invade the campus
in quite some time.” The IFC decided this year to handle the reservations through the Freshman Council.

STUDENT BODY POLL FAVORS IKE BY A LANDSLIDE VOTE

The Davidson College student body favors President Dwight Eisenhower for re-election over Adlai Stevenson, by more than a two-to-one majority.
In an October 11 poll of the student body, 637 ballots showed that the Republican Party received a majority of
68.9%, followed by the Democrats, Independent Electors (in South Carolina), and several scattered votes. The breakdown is as follows:

Per No. Cent
Republican 439 68.9
Democrat 184 28.9
Independent 9 0.1
Others 5 0.1
Total 637 100

The Independent Electors are a group of South Carolinians pledged to neither Eisenhower nor Stevenson. On Tuesday of this week,
they decided to support Senator Harry F. Byrd (Dem. Va.) for President. The purpose of the independent movement is to
throw the election into the House of Representatives, depending, of course, on a close electoral vote, whereby neither party gets
a majority of the electoral votes. Candidates in the group listed as “others” included Patereski (Socialist), Talmadge, Pogo Possum, and
the States’ Rights party headed by T. Coleman Andrews.

DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER Still the Davidson choice

Filming of Davidson Story Starts this Week

The launching of the filming of the “Davidson Story” is awaiting the signal to begin. As yet, the script, being
written by announcer-actor George P. Gunn of New York, has not arrived. Shooting was originally scheduled for this weekend but
may be delayed for technical reasons. However, the Davidson campus soon expects to witness the arrival of the four-man film
crew and the actors assigned to the story. The Protestant Radio and Television Center, guiding the project, has selected Mr.
Bill Lipton of Greenwich, Connecticut, for the lead role. Lipton is currently working in New York City.

Hutton Plays Organ Recital Monday

Warren Hutton, head of the organ department at the University of Alabama, will play a recital Monday at 8:15 in
the Davidson College Presbyterian Church. The public is invited to hear the concert at no charge. It is sponsored by
the music department of the college and is the first in a series of recitals that will be heard during
the academic year. Mr. Hutton has achieved a nationwide reputation for his talent and is heard on national radio broadcasts
as well as in performances over the South. He recently performed for the American Guild of Organists. Monday's recital will
include Sonata I by Hindemith; three chorale preludes by Bach; Prelude and Fugue in E minor by Bruhns; Chorale in
A minor by Franck; Fragmentation by Gruber; and Fantasia No. 2 by Mozart.

CELEBRATED HUMORIST

Arthur Treacher Appears On Artist Series Program

The Davidson College Artist Series begins its 1956-57 season next Friday night with readings of modern humorous literature by the
stage and screen celebrity, Arthur Treacher. Although Mr. Treacher has earned, through a series of films, the title of the
world’s “perfect English butler,” he makes it plain that he hates the role. According to Mr. Treacher, the key to
being the “perfect butler” is boredom and some loathing for the part. Mr. Treacher has won excellent reviews for his
performances in support of Shirley Temple, Deanna Durbin, Jeanette MacDonald, Joan Crawford, Robert Montgomery, and other stars. He has scored
personal triumphs in “David Copperfield,” “Viva Villa,” “National Velvet,” “Forever and a Day,” and dozens of other films.

FIRST APPEARANCES

He made his first appearances on Broadway during the twenties and thirties in a series of musical revues at the
Winter Garden where he appeared with such stars as Jack Benny, Jay C. Flippen, Billy B. Van, and Al Jolson.
Ethel Barrymore invited him to join her production of “The School for Scandal,” in which he played the role of
SirBenjamin Backbite. He was appearing in “The Cat and the Fiddle” when Hollywood beckoned. Seven years later, after more than
60 films, he returned to Broadway to play opposite Ethel Merman in “Panama Hattie.” Next, he performed on radio with
comedians Jack Benny, Fred Allen, Jack Carson, and others before joining Milton Berle’s production of “Ziegfeld Follies” on Broadway. A
tour of the country followed.

SUPPORT “DOLLAR DAY”

Young Democrats Plan Active Election Program

Young Democrats held their second meeting of the year Tuesday night in the private dining room of the College Union.
President Graham McKinnon of the Club introduced the other officers: Gerald Wilson, vice-president; Jack Trawick, secretary; and Jack Graham, treasurer.

ELECTIONS

The election of a second vice-president was the first order of business. Harold Hoffman was chosen to fill this position.
The election of this office was delayed a week because of an article in the state YDC constitution which provided
for the election of a second vice-president “from the opposite sex.” For obvious reasons, this article was suspended.

The newly formed Club announced plans to take an active part in the coming election. Already, posters and handbills supporting
Ben Douglas, the Democratic candidate for Congress opposing Jonas, have been distributed.

“DOLLAR DAY”

The local Democrats will also participate in the “Democratic Dollar Day.” The purpose of this “Dollar Day” is to solicit
dollars to sponsor television programs featuring Adlai Stevenson and Estes Kefauver. President McKinnon also announced the appointment of Clifton Lovin
as publicity chairman for the YDC on the Davidson campus. The Young Democrats will meet weekly on Tuesday night.

Dr. Depp Will Speak At Vespers Sunday

The Reverend Mark Depp, D.D., pastor of the Centenary Methodist Church, Winston-Salem, N.C., will be the Vesper speaker this Sunday.
Dr. Depp, a native of Pennsylvania, is known throughout the South as an outstanding speaker and minister. He serves as
pastor of one of the largest Methodist Churches in the country. Dr. Depp graduated from Allegheny College and completed his
seminary training at the Boston University School of Theology. He served as chaplain during the First World War and afterwards
held several pastorates in Pennsylvania and Maryland before coming to Winston-Salem. No stranger to Davidson, Dr. Depp proved himself a
stimulating and inspirational speaker when he spoke at the 1950 Fall Services on the theme “Faith that Lives.”

Phi and Eu Halls Set For Dedication

Phi and Eu Halls will be formally presented during Homecoming weekend. The ceremony will take place on the campus between
the halls on Saturday, October 27, at 12 noon. Dr. Chalmers G. Davidson, class of '28, will preside over the
presentation and will deliver a short address, entitled “The Voice of History,” which will sketch the history of the two
societies. Music will be provided by the Davidson College Male Chorus and the Davidson College Band. Rounding out the program
will be the introduction of special guests and the benediction. The restoration of these two buildings was made possible by
the donation of Mrs. Clarence Hodson, Orange, N.J.

Deadline Set for Draft Deferment Application

Applications for the draft deferment test to be held November 15 must be in the mail by midnight, October 30.
These applications may be secured from any local Selective Service board or may be obtained from the Registrar's office in
Chambers Building. Dr. Puckett, head of the deferment testing program at Davidson, urged all those interested in taking this test
to contact him for any additional information. The test will also be given the second semester on April 18. It
may be taken at either time.

SHAW PLAYS

In 1950, he was featured in the New York production of Shaw's “Caesar and Cleopatra” with Sir Cedric Hardwicke and
Lilli Palmer. The next season saw him again in a Shaw play, the ANTA production of “Getting Married.” Almost every
summer, he takes a swing around the summer theatre circuit. Television frequently claims his talents for comedy with such top-flight
stars as Milton Berle, Victor Borge, and Bob Hope.

READINGS

Mr. Treacher will read from the works of such noted humorists as A.P. Herbert, O. Henry, and P.G. Wodehouse for
a program of gentle wit, genial satire, and genuine humor—spiced with personal anecdotes from his long career in featured roles
with the world's top stage and screen stars. Or, as Mr. Treacher puts it, “I hope to amuse people with
a little of this, something of that—mostly humor.”

Berryhill Outlines Medical Preparation

Alpha Epsilon Delta, national honorary pre-medical fraternity, held its first open meeting of the year on Wednesday evening. Dr. W.
Reece Berryhill, Dean of the University of North Carolina School of Medicine, spoke on “Undergraduate Preparation for Medicine.” Dr. Berryhill
stated that there are three questions that must be answered by the undergraduate who has medicine in mind as a
career. The first of these is “Why are you interested in medicine as a career?” The undergraduate who enters without
having a strong motivation to study medicine will experience frustration if he is not absolutely certain that it will be
the best possible vocation for him. Secondly, the undergraduate student must ask himself, “Do you know what medicine is?” Medicine
has broadened to include general practice, teaching and research, more than two dozen specialties, and administrative medicine, which includes such
fields as hospital administration and public health.

PREPARATION

Third, and most important, he must ask, “Do you know what your undergraduate work must prepare you for?” Undergraduate training
should give you the best possible general education. There are two aspects to general preparation. Scholastic preparation, the first of
the two, is limited to four years. Dr. Berryhill emphasized here that medicine is a social science as well as
a biological science. The good physician must be able to (Continued on Page Four)

Physicists Sought By Aeronautics Committee

A representative from the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics, Langley Aeronautical Laboratory, Langley Field, Virginia, will visit Davidson next Thursday.
He is interested in employing on a permanent basis physicists and mathematicians who will complete their requirements for Bachelor’s degrees
this year. He also would be glad to consider students for summer employment.

Noted Speakers Highlight Political Emphasis Week

Discuss Pressing Ethical Problems Facing Nation

By HAROLD SMITH

Highlighting the Y.M.C.A. Political Emphasis Week will be the appearance and speeches of Morris Abram and Mayne Albright, esteemed political
figures of the South, on Thursday, Oct. 25. Mr. Abram and Albright will be introduced to Davidson students at Thursday
Chapel during which they will deliver brief speeches treating the major aspects of “Religious Ethics in Politics,” this year’s theme
of the “Y” program. Mr. Abram, a Democrat, is presently practicing law in Atlanta. He was a contender in 1952
for the Atlanta District seat in the National Congress. He obtained his education from the University of Georgia from which
he graduated summa cum laude and was granted a Rhodes Scholarship. His experience in politics, both at state and national
levels, and his ethical approach to the realm of politics, qualify him admirably to join with Mr. Albright in being
a principal around which the political program has been devised.

ALSO A DEMOCRAT

Mayne Albright, a native North Carolinian, is an attorney in Raleigh, and, like Abram, is aligned Democratically. In 1948, he
carried on a vigorous campaign for Governor of the state. Accompanied by his wife, he stumped the state in his
campaign trailer, “the Challenger,” and visited the entire one hundred counties. He attended the University of North Carolina and was
elected to Phi Beta Kappa. He was president of the student body and state wrestling champion.

LAW PRACTICE

In 1936, he was admitted to the Bar, and in the same year became the youngest state Employment Service director
in the United States when appointed by Governor Hoey at the age of 26. Aside from his law practice and
political activities, he has shown great interest in civic affairs of Raleigh and the state.

The compact chapel program Thursday is designed to focus attention on the informal evening program at 8:30 in the Student
Union Ballroom. With more time and freedom for effective expression, Albright and Abram are planning to expound upon the major
topics presented in Chapel. Some of the pressing ethical questions currently facing the United States in national and international politics
will be pointed out. Afterwards, the floor will be open to discussion. Albright and Abram are busily engaged throughout Thursday.
At noon, they will visit Dr. Ford's fourth-hour class on Communist Theory and the USSR. They will (Continued on Page
Four)

DIRECTOR HAROLD HALL OFFERS some advice to Carol Sherrill and Bill Pfefferkorn (right) as the Red and Black Masquers get
down to serious practice for the “Rainmaker.” Presentation is slated for Nov. 16-17.

HALL DIRECTS MASQUERS PRACTICE “THE RAINMAKER”

Working toward production of “The Rainmaker,” November 16-17, the Red and Black Masquers are ending their second week of rehearsals.
With the essential stage moves blocked out, the characters have begun the memorization of their parts. In the cast of
seven, several actors will be making their first appearances on the Davidson stage. These include Ray Atkinson as Noah, Jack
Lohman as Jim, and Stuart Fountain as the sheriff. Playing Lizzie, the only female in the cast, will be Carol
Sherrill, one of the few Davidson co-eds. Bill Pfefferkorn is featured in the title role. Harold Hall, president of the
Red and Black Masquers association, is directing the production with aid from the faculty advisor of the group, Professor Raymond
Tyson. Set crews have begun work under the direction of Hugh Craig, who has designed the sets. Commenting on the
play, a representative of the Red and Black Masquers said, “With four weeks of rehearsal remaining, ‘The Rainmaker’ should be
an entertaining evening of theatre in the Davidson tradition.”
