Cat's Meow
LEON HOWELL

SPORTS AND AMERICA

Perhaps there is no single element that has become more distinctly American than the rabid enthusiasm that has developed for
sports during the past fifty years. From a purely amateur, often clandestine and crude, origin to one of the nation’s
biggest businesses is quite a growth, one that could have its setting only in this country. Across the face of
the land athletic activities hold sway the year around, ranging from backyard peach-basket basketball to that staged in the Coliseum,
from vacant lot baseball to the Yankee Stadium product, and from midget football leagues to the bowl games viewed by
100,000 or more. Reasons for participation are varied, but some of the same motivation that causes a 10-year-old to seek
tennis instruction is driving a hopeful at Wimbledon. A vast capacity for enjoying competition, for matching skill against skill, desire
against desire, and in cases of equal ability, guts against guts has led myriads of people into taking part in
sporting activities of one type or another. After the frenzied drive to make America a power had neared fruition, the
game came along to give proof of the greatness of this land. Athletics and activities giving stern competition and demanding
personal sacrifice for accomplishment are the outer signs of that which has been deep within the people that constitute our
country. And a continuation of this spirit is essential to any pretense at consolidation of that which has been gained.

APOLOGIA FOR EXISTENCE

There are several tangible explanations for the existence of sport, among them the fact that it is our greatest source
of entertainment. Love of its principles is the nearest thing we have to offer as a panacea for the drabness
and dullness of making a living in a mechanized society. Somehow, I feel sorry for the person who has never
waited anxiously for the results of his beloved “Bums” or “Sox” in their contest of the day. Or for the
one who cannot forget his own troubles in the utter dejection of “the Duke” going hitless or Hogan taking a
74. Most important, it seems to me, are the character-building qualities that have done so much to relieve juvenile delinquency.
Winning is important, is the basis for competition, but not on any terms. This is why we applaud success, pick
our hero, and conceive of him as being a part of ourselves. Yet regard for the vanquished, the honorably defeated,
never escapes the view. There are many more ramifications of any analysis of the positive goods of sport that are
pertinent, among them the development of self-confidence and the ability to follow Socrates’ advice to “Know Thyself” in leaving self-pity,
alibis, and excuses behind and accepting blame with praise. And for those who have assumed an air of disdain for
sport along with their pseudo-intellectuality, I remind them that the greatest of all cultures, that of Ancient Greece, is the
only country to ever rival our devotion to the game.

DAVIDSON AND ITS PLACE

Athletics at Davidson are in a healthy position according to this view. With almost all of the teams posting winning
seasons, we have some very interesting games. At present, even if we had the money, it would be a difficult
thing to rival the “big four.” There is just so much talent to be purchased. I, for one, prefer a
Davidson team composed of congenial, high-quality athletes like we have today to a situation comparable to the UNC, State squads
with their New York cast. Dreams are fine and I admit that I would like to see Davidson listed among
the top 20 squads. But it is not very realistic to think that it is possible at the present, or
even if it were, that it would be desirable. So until a more propitious situation presents itself, let’s have sport
for its sake.

A spring practice session that has been constantly interrupted by rain and more rain reaches its climax tomorrow at 2
p.m. in the red-white inter-squad game. Fans here at Davidson have their annual opportunity for a sneak preview of the
next season’s prospects.

WHITE
Ends: Westervelt
Tackles: Lee and Biggers
Guards: McLain and Howard
Center: James
Ends: Wall and Belton
Tackles: Fagg and Voigt
Guards: Gramley and Wilson
Backs: Fennegan

RED
Ends: Nix and Little
Tackles: Cutting and McRee
Guards: Conger
Center: Barbee
Backs: Campbell

Tournament Time

Swimmers Rout S. C.
By TED DINGLER

Amid the hue and cry of Mid-Winters preparations, the Davidson Catfish made good the predictions of Coach Carroll Hambright when
they defeated South Carolina, 59-16. In doing so they broke five Davidson varsity records and presented a 5-5 won-lost record
going into the Southern Conference meet. Leading the way for the Cats was Tommy Rivers, who set two new records
in the 50- and 100-yard dashes. The 50-yard record was dropped from :24.3 to :24.1, and the 100-yard from :56.3
to :54.8. Bill Carrell was close behind, taking with him two records also. His accomplishments included the 200-yard Individual Medley
and the 200-yard backstroke. The Medley was dropped to 2:30.3, and the Backstroke to 2:47.0. Unusual among the events of
the meet was Clarke and Speir tying in breaking the 200-yard Freestyle record at 2:27.4. The previous record had been
set in 1951 at 2:29. Clark took one other record, the 440-yard Freestyle, making the new mark 5:39.0. Sharp and
Bryant in Fancy Diving, and Edwards in the Breaststroke completed Davidson's sweep of all ten events in the meet. This
meet ended Davidson’s season at 5 and 5, and provided the last meet before the Southern Conference Championship at V.M.I.
this weekend. The swimmers are going into this meet at a disadvantage, as the following time will show:

200-yd. Freestyle — 2:27.4 against 2:18.8 (220-yd)—V.M.I.
50-yd. Dash :24.1 against :23.9
200-Indiv. Medley — 2:30.3 against 2:19.2—V.M.I.
100-yd. Dash :54.8 against :54.9
200-yd. Backstroke 2:47 against 2:19.2—V.M.I.
440-yd. Freestyle 5:39.0 against 5:08.3—V.M.I.

As you can see, the Cats are up against some tough competition, but there are bright spots in Diving and
the 50- and 100-yd. Dashes. Coach Hambright stated that we should place near the top in most of the other
events, and come out of the Championship with possibly third place, which would be admirable for a team with no
scholarship supplementation and little depth. However, the team is doing the best it has all season, and we can be
sure that they will all be out there fighting at Lexington this weekend.

Davidson Wins Don Spenser Award For Editorial Excellence Of Football Program

The Davidson football programs which are printed before each home game have won the Don Spenser Award for outstanding contribution
to the editorial standards of college football programs. This award is presented annually to the twelve schools coming closest to
meeting the standards prescribed by the Don Spenser Company of New York, well-known for their work in the field of
sports publications.

Ends Season
By JIM HOLSHOUSER

Wildcats close out the regular 1955-56 basketball season tonight as they meet the Indians of William and Mary in the
final half of a two-game conference jaunt into Virginia. Last night the Red and Black met VMI in a contest
which featured a determined Keydet effort to remain in the race for a berth in the Southern Conference tourney. With
the league tournament scheduled for next week, two spots remain unfilled, and Davidson, Washington and Lee, and VMI are battling
down to the wire for these two spots.Davidson and W. to play, the Wofford ia & L. have the inside
track, but h built up a commanding 58-51. V.M.I. still had a fighting chance going into last night’s game, and
the Wildcats were ahead of the Wildcats. WOFFORD EDGES CATS 77-73

A free throw by Weeks followed Davidson's cagers finished the home season here last Tuesday night as they lost a
thriller to Wofford’s Terriers, 77-73. It was “Hobby Cobb-Ray Harding Night” at Johnston — and the two seniors were honored.

One of Davidson's top wrestlers, Dave Regen, has been selected as the week athlete of the week. Last Saturday, he
defeated an outstanding opponent 4 to 0 in conference competition and is a strong candidate for the heavyweight championship. Dave
weighs 195 pounds, which is not excessively heavy for his division, but his long 6'5" frame makes him a difficult
man to control on the mat. He pinned his opponent from W & L in 4 minutes, 20 seconds, and
the one from Carolina in 1 minute, 24 seconds. He won decisions at the Citadel and VMI, suffered his single
defeat from Marshall College, and fought to a draw with N.C. State’s 177-pound Atlantic Coast Conference champion who has gone
up to the heavyweight bracket. Big Dave's record is very surprising considering that he started wrestling in the middle of
last season with no previous experience.

An athlete of many abilities, Dave lettered in football, basketball, and baseball at Duncan Prep in his hometown of Nashville.
Besides grappling for Davidson, he throws the discus and puts the shot for the track squad and has been known
to run the hundred-yard dash barefooted. Regan is one of the few select members of the local chapter of Sigma
Delta Psi, an honorary athletic fraternity.

The twelve award-winning colleges were divided into four groups, according to the number of programs printed. Davidson captured third place
among the smaller colleges (5 to 10 thousand copies) behind Williams and Washington U. This meant that Davidson’s programs were
equal in quality to those published by UCLA, Penn State, and other large schools that printed as many as twenty-five
thousand copies per game. This was a well-earned reward for Mr. Dick McKee and Business Managers Dan La Far and
Gerald Cathey. These three spent many hours gathering information about the opponents, selling advertisements, and planning the layout of the
programs. This is the first time Davidson has won an award of this nature, so congratulations to McKee, La Far,
and Cathey for their fine work.

Drink ‘M O O R’ QUALITY MILK

Regen, Wildcat of the Week, undefeated in conference competition and heavyweight championship contender, is a pre-med student with a very
good scholastic record. He is a member of both the honorary German and Chemistry fraternities. Socially, Dave belongs to Phi
Delta Theta.

R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO., WINSTON-SALEM, N.C.

A tip-in by Cobb gave Davidson a lead with only one minute remaining. In the final minute, however, Wofford scored
a quick four points, and that was the game.

Tomorrow night at 7:00 in Johnston Gymnasium, the Davidson wrestling team will meet VPI. VPI is the defending Southern Conference
champion and has an excellent team. Coach Parker says that they are probably the best college team in the South
outside of Maryland. This will undoubtedly be Davidson's toughest match this year, and they are going into it as the
underdog. At the 123-pound position will be Pete Coleman, a freshman from Salisbury, N.C. In the 130-pound class is Henry
Griffin, a sophomore and one of the top wrestlers on the team. Wrestling at 137 will be Butch Neale, another
promising freshman. Larry Wright will wrestle at 147, and Captain Reitzel at 157. Rounding out the Cat team will be
Harold Westervelt at 167, Rickie King at 177, and Dave Regen in the heavyweight spot. The team will give it
everything to upset VPI.

On Wednesday night, the fifteenth of February at 8:00, the Davidson wrestlers were defeated by the Generals of Washington and
Lee, nineteen to ten. The Generals have a fine wrestling team and they displayed it well by winning five of
the eight matches. In the heavyweight division, Dave Regen turned in his usual fine performance by pinning his man. The
other Davidson victor was Larry Wright in the 157-pound class. Pete Coleman and Denis Snider grappled to a draw in
a hotly contested match. Butch Neale, wrestling at 137, Richardson at 147, Henry Griffin, and Barry Benton all wrestled good
matches. As a whole, the Davidson grapplers wrestled a very fine match, but the Generals of Washington and Lee proved
too much.

IFC Track on Greek Menu

On Wednesday and Thursday of the coming week, the IFC sports agenda includes the annual track meet. It will be
held at the stadium on these afternoons. The winner receives the big trophy signifying superiority in the meet, which rotates
each year. The Kappa Sigs now hold the trophy and will be out to retain possession of the coveted award.

The final results from basketball for the season are not complete as the paper goes to press, but the Kappa
Sigs knocked off the Betas Wednesday night, throwing the loop lead into a three-way tie between the ATOs, Sigma Chis,
and the Betas. Final standings, along with the all-star squads, will be published next week.

CAT TRACK TEAM JOURNEYS TO RALEIGH, PLACES SIXTH IN CONFERENCE INDOOR MEET

By OYVIND NORSTROM

The small squad that represented Davidson in last week's Southern Conference indoor meet at Lexington, Va., could do no better
than a one-point average sixth place in the stiff competition dominated by Virginia Tech and William & Mary. Davidson’s points
were earned by Pete Ashcraft (6), runner-up in both the mile and the 880, Bill Gramley (3), who finished third
in the shot put, and Noel McDowell (1), who finished fourth in the quarter mile. The rest of the team
failed to place.

This week, Pete Ashcraft and Phil Koonce represent the Wildcat trackmen at the ACC competitions in Raleigh. Ashcraft gets another
crack at Pitkethly, and Koonce will also see plenty of tough opponents up there.

NOTICE

All men interested in trying out for the tennis team are requested to meet with Coach McKee in the P.E.
classroom in the gym at 4 p.m. Monday.

WINSTON tastes good — like a cigarette should! This easy-drawing filter cigarette brings you real tobacco flavor, rich and full.
What’s more, the Winston filter works so well the flavor gets right through to you. Try Winston — you'll see!
