PAGE FOUR ; FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 1956 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Slants -OCn=- Sports By JOHNNY JOHNSON

ADDITIONS TO TRACK
The physical facilities of Davidson College have undergone rapid expansion during the past four months, and the athletic department has been no exception. Probably the most notable change is the new curb lining the track. The four-inch, cinder-block and concrete curb was largely paid for by a $260-dollar contribution of the “D" Club and a fund started by alumnus Walt Dixon. Dixon, a former track athlete, donated $390 several years ago. The new curb will now make Davidson's track a true 440 yards, and thus render the school eligible to hold official conference meets. Coach Whittle will request that the 1958 Southern Conference Track Championship be held on this campus. Because of changes in the position of the track, it was necessary to move the football field markings both north and east, centering the 50-yard line with the stadium.

ADDITIONS TO GOLF
Directly east of the upper tennis courts, the college is building a chipping green to supplement the putting green. The new 60-foot green will consist of two levels. The base of cinders and crushed brick will provide it with both proper spring and drainage. Dr. Scott says that the green will compare with any in this area.

ADDITIONS TO BASKETBALL
Most striking of the summer projects is the sanded and refinished basketball floor in Johnston Gym. During the original construction of the gym, the floor was laid too soon after the concrete base had been poured in an effort to keep on schedule. The resulting warping in some sections had never been corrected. The floor is not only more nearly level, but it is also less confused with boundary lines of other sports. The wide out-of-bounds markers make it easier for players in action to sense when they are near the lines, and the red and black “D” in the jump circle adds color.

WELCOME... D.C. STUDENTS... to MIDWAY PHARMACY AT THE SHOPPING CENTER Cornelius-Davidson At the Underpass FRIDAY, SATURDAY, SEPT. 28-29 FREE — 10c LEMONADE — FREE With Any Purchase FOUNTAIN — SUNDRIES — DRUGS

Cats After downing Catawba 20-6, the Wildcat football squad is looking for its second win of the season at 8:00 Saturday night as they meet the Bulldogs of The Citadel at Charleston, S.C. Dole and his squad clearly remember the rainy day last year when General Mark Clark’s Bulldogs invaded Davidson with the most powerful team they had had. In this game, the muddy home field and one Citadel fumble were the main factors that contributed to the ‘Cats' 6-2 victory. Again, Citadel promises to give the Wildcats a tough game. However, inexperience will be a problem for the Bulldogs since they will have to use many freshmen and sophomores in the starting lineup.

Citadel's coach, John Sauer, hopes to make it an interesting season for the fans by featuring the horse race offense — attempting three plays per minute. His halfback, Coia, who runs the 100 in 9.5 seconds, should be one of the principal speeders. Coia and his running mate Broom will make up the main vertebrae of the Citadel backbone this weekend. Calling the signals for the Bulldogs will be quarterback Campagna, who played a year of professional football.

The ‘Cats will have McRee and Comer along with the promising freshman fullback, Warden, doing most of the ground work. Handling the signals and aerial attacks will be Belton and Little. The protective wall for the ‘Cats backfield will be composed of Price at center, Fagg and Lee at tackles, Gramley and James at guard, and Wall and Westervelt holding down the end positions.

The “Cats take the field tomorrow with one victory beneath their belts. Last weekend found them at Memorial Stadium in Charlotte where they beat the passing Indians of Catawba by 14 points. After a slow 1st quarter, action abounded in the next. In the first few minutes of the second period, quarterback Dyke broke up the stalemate by scampering around right end behind effective blocking for a 45-yard run to the 2-yard line. The first score of the ball game came seconds later when Davidson's Dave Warden plowed over from the one-yard line. Only eight more plays elapsed before John Francis crashed over from the one. The second half opened with Catawba also scoring.The Interfraternity athletic program opens Monday, Oct. 8, during the rest of the season. The 56-57 Interfraternity athletic program was organized on Sept. 25, when Coach Heath Whittle met with the fraternity sports managers in the Trophy Room of Johnston Gym. Early action on the four local fields will feature the Phi Gams against the Sigma Chis, the Kappa Sigs against the Pikas, and the S.A.E.’s against the Gym.

The committee arranged an extensive sporting calendar including tag football, basketball, swimming, tennis, wrestling, track, softball, volleyball, table tennis, and handball. Due to changes in practice locations for varsity sports, two tag football fields will be located on the golf course. Four games a day will be played Monday through Friday.

A round-robin system of play will be used in the three major sports: flickerball, basketball, and softball, plus the minor sports: volleyball and handball.

The BM.O.C. is here! Big model on campus, that is. It’s the new Arrow University style in the season’s highest-rated patterns. Oxford cloth shirt (in white and five muted colors, including new model in authentic tartan stripes, $5.95; checks and stripes in cotton-rayon, $7.95). All-around choice for college men, from button-down collar in front to center button and full box pleat in back. And these men are really with their Arrow ties... $5.00; same in linen.

Wildcat quarterback Dyke Little (No. 13) rolls around the right end as he begins a 45-yard scamper that ended on the Catawba two-yard line. Davidson blockers cleared the path for this option play which worked effectively all night. The second-quarter action in Friday's game set up the first touchdown. The final score was 20 to 6.—Photo by Frank Daniels.

FIRST OF 32 MATCHES
Rifle Team Opens With Presbyterian Next Week

With a backbone of six lettermen returning from last year, Davidson's rifle team, under the guidance of Captain A. T. Cavano, is looking forward to its first match next Friday against Presbyterian College. This is the second year that Davidson has put a rifle team among varsity athletics. Because there were no matches scheduled until late in November last year, this will be the first complete season. Counting on their previous experience, the Wildcats are looking for an even better season this year. The depth of the team, however, will largely depend on men shooting for the first time. Last year’s riflemen won over 50 percent of their matches. VMI and The Citadel are looked to for the roughest competition in a schedule which includes all North Carolina R.O.T.C. units, and also all schools in the Southern Conference. Twenty-one of the matches are postal matches, in which the competing teams fire on their home ranges, and then compare their scores through the mail. There are nine other matches in which the teams actually meet on a designated range and fire shoulder to shoulder. In addition to the above 30, there are also two conference meets scheduled. Although coached by members of the R.O.T.C. department, Davidson’s rifle team is a branch of the athletic department and operates as a Southern Conference sport. Practice is held every weekday, except Tuesday, from 1:30 to 4:30. Anyone interested in joining the rifle squad is urged to see Captain Cavano or Sergeant Butts in their offices during the day or on the rifle range during practice hours.

Of course. Most everyone does—often. Because a few moments over ice-cold Coca-Cola refresh you so. It's sparkling with natural goodness, pure and wholesome—and naturally friendly to your figure. Feel like having a Coke? BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD. “Coke” is a registered trademark. © 1956, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY.

Discover the difference between “just smoking” and Camels! You'll find Camels taste richer, fuller, more deeply satisfying. The exclusive Camel blend of quality tobaccos brings you smooth smoking. You're sure to enjoy Camels, the most popular cigarette today. They've really got it!