PAGE FOUR

HONORARY FRATERNITY SERIES

Scabbard and Blade Gives Boost to ROTC Leadership

By JIM PAGE

In the tense and nervous world in which we live, our nation must be prepared. There must be a sound military program. We cannot afford another Pearl Harbor. An integral part of such a military program is the Reserved Officer’s Training Corps of which Davidson has an outstanding unit. Supplementing this unit and giving recognition to its most promising leaders is the national honorary military fraternity, Scabbard and Blade.

Company B, Fifth Regiment of Scabbard and Blade was formed at Davidson in 1923. Its charter members realized, as do its present members, that excellence in military affairs is necessary for our national defense. It is not enough to merely have a Reserve Officer's Corps. We must have a good one, an efficient, workable unit which will produce men capable of command. For this reason, Scabbard and Blade was formed to promote and recognize the qualities of outstanding military leadership and knowledge.

Recognizing that both are important to the future officer, Scabbard and Blade works to unite the military and academic departments. Its members realize that the two departments working together can do much in preparing educated men for active participation in military affairs and in the general security of our nation.

Acting on the preceding purposes, Scabbard and Blade promotes a comprehensive program of films, lectures, and discussions concerning our foreign policy, the political situation abroad, and our national defense. One example of this program is General Wienecke, who was brought to our campus for an informal discussion of Chinese tactics.

Heading the leaders in Scabbard and Blade is Captain John McLauchlin. Second in command is First Lieutenant Joe Bill Pharr, and directly under him is Second Lieutenant Hobby Cobb. Completing the officers of the military fraternity is First Sergeant Doug Oldenburg. A list of the members of Scabbard and Blade includes: Bill McNair, Doug Oldenburg, Maurice Crouse, Bob Stewart, John Child, Larry McIntosh, Hobby Cobb, Joe Billy Pharr, Jack Williamson, Dee Helm, Dick Jon, Morehead, Buddy Echols, Regen, John McLauchlin, and Phil Koonce.

81 MS II Cadets Ask For Advanced Course

Approximately 68 percent of those students enrolled in the Military Science II class have applied for admission to the Advanced Course of Military Science and Tactics. The MS II class consists of 119 students, and 81 of these have indicated a desire to continue in the R.O.T.C. program. Selection for admission to the Advanced Course is based upon demonstrated proficiency of each cadet in his academic work as well as in his knowledge and application of the principles of leadership which are constantly being taught him. Any MS II cadet who has not yet done so may still apply for admission to the Advanced Course by contacting the R.O.T.C. department headquarters.

Medical College Test Administered in May For 1957 Applicants

Candidates for admission to medical school in the fall of 1957 are advised to take the Medical College Admission Test in May, it was announced today by Educational Testing Service, which prepares and administers the test for the Association of American Medical Colleges. These tests, required of applicants by almost every medical college throughout the country, will be given twice during the current calendar year. Candidates taking the May test, however, will be able to furnish scores to institutions in early fall, when many medical colleges begin the selection of their next entering class.

Candidates may take the MCAT on Saturday, May 5, 1956, or on Tuesday, October 30, 1956, at administrations to be held at more than 300 local centers in all parts of the country. The Association of American Medical Colleges recommends that candidates for admission to classes starting in the fall of 1957 take the May test. The MCAT consists of tests of general scholastic ability, a test on understanding of modern society, and an achievement test in science. According to ETS, no special preparation other than a review of science subjects is necessary. All questions are of the objective type. Application forms and a Bulletin of Information, which gives details of the test, are available from the Educational Testing Service.Registration and administration, as well as sample questions, are available from pre-medical advisers or directly from Educational Testing Service, 20 Nassau Street, Princeton, N.J. Completed applications must reach the ETS office by April 21 and October 16, respectively, for the May 5 and October 30 administrations.

PARKER-GARDNER
CHARLOTTE 2, N.C.
118 West Trade Street
Phone ED. 2-8257

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Biology Department Offers Field Trip to Far Western States

Recently a new course has been placed on the curriculum of the Davidson Summer Session. Biology 82, field biology, has been placed on the schedule for those students who wish to further their study in biology. This is a course designed to broaden the biological horizons by offering first-hand contact with plant and animal life in physiographic provinces and biological life-regions remote from the student’s ordinary educational program. Biology 11 and 12 will be prerequisite for the course. The credit due at completion of the course will be three hours. A final examination will be given at its termination. The proposed time for the course will be the three weeks immediately following the first six-weeks term of summer school or the last three weeks of the summer session. The emphasis of the field course will be the southern Rocky Mountain region and portions of the arid southwestern and south-central part of the country. Since travel is to be done in either two or three cars, the enrollment will be limited to either eight or twelve. The route of travel will be from Davidson to the Ozark Mountains, across parts of Oklahoma and Kansas, to southern Colorado; southward through western Colorado to southern New Mexico; eastward across southern New Mexico and central Texas to coastal Texas and Louisiana; thence back to Davidson. Since the students will be camping out for the entire trip, there will be no lodging expense. An estimate of the trip is $150.00 which includes transportation, food, and the college fees. Anyone interested in this course should see either Dr. Daggy or Dr. Brown before June.

ROTC Department Is Recipient of Bible

The Davidson College ROTC Regiment has been presented with a new Bible by the College Church. The new Bible is the King James version, and it is kept in the ROTC Regimental Headquarters. The inscription in the Bible is: “Presented by the Davidson College Presbyterian Church to the office of the Commanding Officer of the Cadet Regiment, Davidson College ROTC, March 19, 1956." The Bible is signed by Dr. Samuel W. Newell, Jr., who is Pastor of the Davidson College Presbyterian Church.

WINSTON TASTES GOOD

DAVIDSONIAN SALUTES COACH CLEMENTS

Wildcat of the Week
By JOHN JOHNSON

One of the best-known smiles on the Davidson campus belongs to a star member of the athletic department—head baseball coach Chuck Clements. Under the tutorship of genial Chuck, the Wildcat baseballers have reached their highest point of success in recent years; their 1955 record of twelve wins and five losses was the best since 1933. The key to his ability as a mentor is his thoroughness; he knows exactly how to coach each position on the team. His cut-off patterns are so effective opposing coaches have made personal requests for them. Few people who have watched the Wildcat bunch have failed to be impressed by Clements' antics in giving signals. He is a magician in that skill. The most avid fan of Chuck's team is his wife, a devoted sports follower and particularly of baseball. The Clements, as anyone who has frequently visited the gym knows, have a three-year-old son, Chuck, Jr. With the boundless energy which little Chuck possesses, he could, in a few years, be the greatest athlete Davidson ever had. Little Chuck, who has no small amount of athletic knowledge himself, aroused considerable attention last year when he followed his unknowing father out to the mound during a game to talk matters over with a faltering pitcher.

Upon his release from service in 1943, he entered Catawba College where he lettered in football, basketball, and baseball. He was proficient in all three and versatile enough to play tackle, guard, and end on the football team. After graduating in 1947, he remained at the college to assume the job of assistant to the late Coach Kirkland. In the fall of 1947, he joined with Bill Dole at Fayetteville High School where the pair produced two consecutive state champion teams. When Dole moved to Eastern Carolina, Chuck transferred to Gastonia High School and continued his winning ways. Four of the five starting infielders of the current University of North Carolina baseball team were proteges of Clements at Gastonia. Coach Clements rejoined Bill Dole at Davidson in 1952. Chuck coaches the line and works particularly with ends. He is recognized as one of the best scouts in this region of the country. Scouting for weakness in opposing teams is the work Clements enjoys most and consequently he studies most of the Wildcat's gridiron opponents.

FRIDAY, APRIL 13, 1956

Dave Pearsall Displays Backhand That Has Aided Him In Victory March
By CHARLES McGOWAN

The freshman netter, David Pearsall, receives honors this week by being chosen Wildcat of the Week. This young hustler looked good at the very beginning of the season and has been improving ever since. Pearsall came to Davidson from Myers Park High in Charlotte. There he was a top-notch, all-round athlete, but found that tennis was his real game. Two years ago he won the State High School Singles championship and last year he was No. 1 on the Mustang squad. After a few weeks of practice plus a few place matches, Pearsall found himself holding down the No. 2 spot at Davidson. He has also joined hands with Semi Mintz to form the No. 2 doubles team. In both of these positions, Pearsall is doing his job well. Pearsall’s record so far in the season is an excellent one for a freshman who has had no experience in college competition. He made the entire southern spring tour and all of his opponents were turned away in defeat. Michigan State is the only team who has matched Pearsall with a victor. His best match was in the Colgate meet when he beat Abrahamson. With a career in chemical engineering in mind, Pearsall plans to be at Davidson only three years. He is, and will be as long as he is here, one of the stronger men of the Davidson Netters. Davidson feels fortunate in having him with her and wishes him success.

Netters Surprise With Early Sparkle
By JIM PAGE

Soon after March 1, Coach McKee held his annual tennis eliminations. The tournament was designed to weed out all but six men who would comprise the varsity, plus six others who would make up a junior varsity squad. In two weeks the tournament was completed and only the top six men were left. John Robinson, winner of the tournament and veteran from last year's Southern Conference Championship team, took the number one spot. Dave Pearsall, Semi Mintz, and John Poindexter, all freshmen, won the second, third, and fourth positions, respectively. Mike Martin, another veteran, ended up in fifth place while Bob Huffaker, a freshman, took the sixth berth. The first test for the green squad came against Furman. Though inexperienced, the Wildcats showed real ability in trouncing the Purple Paladins 9-0. Their second meet, a duel with Kenyon College, was won 8-1, a score almost as impressive as the 9-0 skunking. Mercer College, the third team to add its scalp to the Wildcat belt, also fell 8-1 to Coach McKee’s charges. Troy State and Alabama State Teachers Colleges made it four and five for Davidson, both going under 6-1. The arrival of powerful Michigan State, however, broke the string. The boys from up north showed some good tennis and when they left, Davidson had lost its first match 8-1. Bob Huffaker, playing in the number six singles spot, was the only Davidson man able to score against the Big Ten machine.

(Continued On Page 5)