FRIDAY, OCTOBER 26, 1956

SO IT STARTED

Today’s game on Richardson Field between Davidson and W&L was the first encounter with soccer for many spectators. Some undoubtedly
wondered how this foreign sport found its way to the local campus.

Shortly after taking over the position of Director of Athletics in 1955, Dr. Tom Scott noted that the only suitable
sport not already offered at Davidson was soccer. That year he introduced the game as a required game for freshmen
in the physical training program. It was hoped that enough interest would be generated to expand it to an intramural
and then in a few years to even a varsity sport. However, the response was instantaneous and amazing. Immediately a
latent interest made itself known. Many boys who had played the sport in prep schools and others who enjoyed the
“new” game pounced on the opportunity, and under the direction of student coaches Peter Ramm, Ross Smyth, and Danny Crates,
organized a freshman team.

NOT A WET BLANKET

The boys urged Dr. Scott to get them an intercollegiate game. The result was a post-season contest with the University
of North Carolina Freshmen, which the Tar Babies won 4-0, but the loss was no damper. Instead, it heightened interest
and provided the future team with a mentor. After the match, Dr. Scott noticed Dr. J. W. McCutchan, probably the
faculty's most active supporter of Davidson athletics, nimbly manipulating a soccer ball with his foot. As a result of the
ensuing conversation, the English professor agreed to coach the squad as a varsity sport if enthusiasm continued.

NOW TWO

During the remainder of the past school year, a group of the players negotiated with the athletic department, and this
fall it was officially announced that Davidson would become the second Southern Conference college to boast a soccer squad, W&L
being the other. This season they play a six-game schedule which will be expanded to eight in 1957 and probably
to ten the following year. The team gained experience in their opening game with Duke which the Blue Devils won
9-0. The Cats’ surprisingly strong showing in holding UNC, runner-up in the ACC last indicated they had learned their lesson
well.

McCUTCHAN

WINSTON TASTES GOOD!

What's all the shouting about? Flavor! Full, rich flavor — in a filter smoke! Yes, and Winston’s exclusive filter —
a filter that THE DAVIDSONIAN Locker Room Talk Reveals Players’ Approval

PAGE THREE

WILDCAT GRIDDERS ENTHUSIASTIC ABOUT “NEW LOOK”

By JIM PAGE

“V.M.I.," said Coach Dole, “is going to be plenty rough. There’s no two ways about it. They’ve got the running
plus a good defense and fine spirit.” It was three o'clock in the locker room. The squad was suiting up
for another afternoon of sweat. Coach Dole continued. “If you want proof of their toughness just take a look at
the record. They beat Richmond and Richmond whipped Citadel and I guess you remember what happened when we went to
see the Cadets. The teams that have beaten them are squads such as Army and LeHigh... both big-time schools.”

“What’s the reason for our new emphasis on running?”

“Well, it started last year when teams like Wofford took our deception and faking and just rammed it down our
throats. Right then I decided we had better get a good straight ground attack. So now we've got three series...
The dive and the inside and outside bellys. The outside belly is Coach Thompson's baby.”

“What are our chances Saturday?”

“Well, let's just say V.M.I. has a good squad but so do we.”

Over on a bench, junior guard, Dave McClain was tying his shoe laces. “This two platoon system,” he said, “is
something I really like. It gives more people a chance to play. Of course, you’ve got to have the personnel,
but that’s something we've got...”

“It gains yardage,” said Belton, “and that's what we want. We could pass as much as we did last year
but why do it... we’re moving the ball.”

“The type of football we're playing this year is another good thing. The blocking assignments are simpler and more effective.
It’s almost like a zone in basketball... you just take the man who comes in your area.”

“How do I think the team compares with last year?”

“Well, I think we want to win more but we're still lacking in depth. As long as we don't have
too many injuries we should play better ball.”

Dick Belton, senior quarterback, also likes the new ground attack.

OUT OF BOUNDS?

Davidson's Don Campbell (43) caught Dick Belton’s pass for an apparent touchdown in last Saturday’s game, but the officials ruled
that he was out of the end zone. A fraction of a second after the shot was taken Campbell leaped
into the air, grabbed the ball and fell out of bounds. The Cats won easily without the tally, however, as
they downed Stetson 43 to 7. —(Photo by Hank Daniel)

Wm. & Mary Spills Cross Country Squad

Davidson's cross country squad suffered its worst defeat in several years against an amazingly strong William & Mary team at
Williamsburg, Va., Monday. Only Angus McBryde, the new star of the Wildcat harriers, could in any way give the Indians
a fight, and he did with a third place. Bob DeTombe, runner-up in last year’s Conference meet, was a never-threatened
winner, while Bassett of W&M, one of the new freshman stars on the squad, nipped McBryde in the last phase
of the race. Eight other W&M runners finished ahead of Davidson's second man, Henry Brown. Team scores of the two-day
meet: William & Mary 15, Davidson 49.

LIKE A CIGARETTE SHOULD!

...does its job so well the flavor really comes through to you. Here's a filter cigarette college smokers can enjoy!
Get Winston!

Wildcat of Week

Outstanding all year long in Davidson’s powerful line, Dave Fagg has been named Wildcat of the Week for his outstanding
performance last Saturday against the Hatters of Stetson University. Fagg is known on the Wildcat squad for his rough aggressive
brand of football and this is the type of game he played last Saturday. He pestered the Stetson eleven throughout
the game, especially the hard-pushed quarterback. Fagg, a junior, played end on his high school championship team. When he joined
the Cats two years ago he was automatically assigned to the same position. Followers of the Cats have been amazed
at the accuracy of Fagg’s kicking toe. When questioned, Coach Dole said that this was no accident, but that Fagg
has worked hard in regular practice sessions on this important phase of the game. His point after touchdown record thus
far in the season is 19 successful attempts out of 14.Beginning of the 1955 season, he began work at tackle
and tries. His four extra points and one field goal against Stetson brought his total points to 13. He has
been holding down this position with the ease of an expert since that time. In addition, Dave handles the foot-
were: William & Mary 18 points! Work on kickoffs for the Wildcats. Switch to WINSTON | America's best-selling, best-tasting filter
cigarette! Winston scores top marks for flavor! R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO., WINSTON-SALEM, N.C.

"And I'll tell you one reason we've been able to. Coach Ratterree is making those linemen tough. Your own grandmother
could make yardage if there's a hole, but without good linemen to make one, you're beat. That’s where the games
are won and lost... up there in the line,” Senior Dyke Little, who alternates with Belton, agreed. “It’s alright with
me,” he said, “If I never throw another pass. I like to see us win, and right now we're winning
on the ground.”

Bill Gramely, senior end, who led the league in pass reception last year, also commented on the new offense. “It
seems like I haven’t caught a pass all year,” he said, “But like the others said, as long as we're
moving on the ground, why take to the air? Another thing I like this year is the sharp competition among
the ends. It keeps us from being lazy, knowing there's someone ready to take your spot at any time. When
I hit two strong boys like Westerfelt and Wall, I know I've come in contact with top ball players as
good as anybody in the conference. That kind of thing helps individuals and helps the team.”

Sitting on a bench taping his ankle was a junior guard who started last week for the first time. For
180-pound Little Howard, it meant more than people realize. “I never thought I’d make it,” he said, “not after having
polio. When I got out of the hospital and started trying to build myself back up with weights, I just
didn't think I could make the grade. Even after I could practice, I still didn’t feel it come back. It
was pretty discouraging.”

“Then last spring, I started feeling good for the first time. Now I’m still slow, and my legs are a
little weak, but it’s coming all the time. Every game I feel better.”

“About starting last week?” “Well, it made me feel great. It made me glad I kept on trying.”

Davidson Soccer Squad Clashes With Generals

This afternoon at 2:00 p.m., Davidson’s new soccer team battled with the Generals of Washington & Lee on Richardson Field.
The homecoming crowd watched as the booters played their third game of a six-encounter schedule. Last Friday, the determined Davidson
squad showed new spirit in a 2-0 loss to the powerful University of North Carolina team at Fetzer Field in
Chapel Hill.

BUTLER SHINES

Led by the numerous fine saves of goalie Freddie Butler, the Wildcat defenses completely frustrated the scoring drives of the
veteran Tar Heel front line throughout the first half. Midway in the third quarter, left inside Tom Rand of the
Tar Heels deflected a Davidson halfback's kick into the goal to give UNC their first score. At the beginning of
the fourth quarter, a perfect pass from left wing John Foster to right wing Rick Grausman set up Carolina's second
and final score.

LOW POINT

The Davidson defense of goalie Butler, fullbacks Fritz Russell and John Kuykendall, and center halfback Pete Ramm combined to hold
UNC to their lowest point total thus far this season, and the Wildcat offense headed by Gordon Neville, Ross Smyth,
and Ed Irvin showed increasing power as they pressed the Tar Heel defenders throughout the game.

K.A.'s Cling to Top Flickerball Spot; Two Tie For Second

With only two rounds of play left, the K.A.'s hold a commanding lead in interfraternity flickerball competition, as the Kappa
Sigs dropped into a second place tie with the Phi Delts. Both the Betas and A.T.O.’s unleashed great offenses during
the week to upset two of the top-ranking teams. The Kappa Sigs were humiliated by the Betas, 31 to 7,
while the Taus swamped the S.A.E.’s, 33 to 6. Sparked by Shellborne Wallace, the K.A.'s combined spirit with teamwork to
edge the Kappa Sigs, 13 to 12, in a contest which was as close as the score indicates.

KAPPA SIGS WIN

In another close game, the Phi Delts were dumped by the Kappa Sigs, 14 to 13, for their second loss
of the season. The Sigma Chi’s could not hold their own under the pressure of a fast A.T.O. offense and
absorbed a 34 to 13 shellacking for their fourth loss. Although the Sig Eps were off to a bad start
at the beginning of the season, they won three times this week and jumped from ninth to sixth place. The
unofficial standings through Wednesday, October 24, are as follows:

Won Lost
K.A. 5 0
Kappa Sig 4 1
Phi Delt 4 1
S.A.E. 3 2
A.T.O. 3 2
Beta 3 2
Sig Ep 3 2
Sigma Chi 1 4
Pi Kapp 1 4
Pika 1 4
Campus Club 0 5
Phi Gam 0 5

Outstanding for the Tar Heels were Rand and Foster in the line and fullback Dave Corkey and goalie Chuck Hartmann
in the backfield.

THE PLAY BY PLAY action of Davidson's 43-7 blasting of the Stetson Hatters is recorded on the above diagram. The
game was played on the local Richardson Field. Cartoons by Addison Bross.

LET'S GO "CATS"! WE CAN TAKE THEM! WELCOME HOME ALUMNI!

Wilson-Wright’s Inc.
“Collegiate Fashions”
DAVIDSON, N.C.
