FRIDAY, OCTOBER 5, 1956 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Slants On Sports
By JOHNNY JOHNSON

A fast-growing Davidson College athletic program initiates soccer as a varsity sport on October 12 when the new and ambitious
Wildcat squad meets Duke on Richardson Field. All of the indefinite plans and questionable ability that goes with the birth
of any new team are present. Several upperclassmen were inspired with the idea of a Davidson soccer team while at
the University of North Carolina.

SURPRISES PROBABLY

Those who travel to Clinton, South Carolina to see the Wildcats renew their traditional rivalry with Presbyterian should be prepared
for something new, unusual, or radical in the Davidson strategy. Coach Bill Dole has been running his boys through practice
the entire week under the cover of a complete news blackout. No releases have been made available to the newspaper
or radio wire services. The names of the boys on the starting lineup have been withheld until the day of
the game.

Such mysterious actions would indicate that Coach Dole has special plans for the action against the Cats’ arch-rival, PC. No
Dole-coached team has been able in the past to outscore the Blue Hose, and few things would give the mentor
greater satisfaction in victory than to have the Cats outperform Presbyterian.

SPOILERS

Twice in the past few years PC has been the first team to spoil the Cats’ unblemished record. In 1954
they managed a significant upset, 10 to 7, and last year they won 7 to 16. The rivalry between the
two cousin institutions is typical of what makes football the great American sport that it is. When these two encounter,
the odds and the past records can be thrown out the window for only the scoreboard at 10 P.M. tomorrow
will be the indicator of the winner. In the past five encounters only once has the margin of victory been
greater than three points. Twice it was decided by a single point.

WILL IT REPEAT?

The situation tomorrow is similar to that of two years ago when the Red and Black journeyed to South Carolina.
That 1954 squad was big and powerful. Optimism was high because the Cats had been impressive in three consecutive wins,
the first time they had managed that accomplishment since 1947. The newspaper writers rated the club a two-touchdown favorite. PC
had been winless in two encounters, but they were lying in wait for their arch competitor. It was homecoming, and
a victory over Davidson would give the grads a great thrill. During the game, the Cats were successful in passing
and running but not scoring. Although on the short end of the statistics, the Blue Hose played alert football and
came out on the long end of a 10 to 6 score. Again this year the Wildcats travel south with
a big and powerful team. Again they are picked as favorites, but also again they play before a homecoming crowd.
As in '54, the Hose are winless in the opening two games while the Wildcats are highly regarded despite their
loss to The Citadel.

THE OUTLOOK

The Wildcats have almost the same backfield that led them to their previous two successful seasons. Their line in a
few positions lacks experience but not ruggedness nor conditioning. The team will be out to prove their ability tomorrow.

BIRTH OF A TEAM

After going through some basic stages last year which involved a 4-0 loss to the Freshmen of the University of
North Carolina, several freshmen have added their talents to the nucleus, formed by upperclassmen inspired with the idea of a
Davidson soccer team. Five games are assured for the season, which will be dependent upon the scheduling of other games
in an effort to lengthen its hopeful outlook. Practices have been staged at four o'clock every day on the east
end of the intramural field with each man trying to capture plentiful and available first-string spots.

SQUAD ROSTER

The squad consists of the following boys: Pete Andrews, Fred Butler, Hugh Campbell, Danny Cates, Sam Clark, Ken Currie, Joe
Delany, Charlie Duncan, George Egerton, Jerry Green, Roy Poffner, Frank Holt, Ed Irvin, Tom Johnson, John Kuykendall, Don Lamm, Bill
Martin, Hugo Neville, John Monahan, Gordon Quantz, Peter Ramm, Jack Reeder, Fritz Russel, John Scott, Sam Smith, Ed Pantigoso, Ross
Smyth, Peter Sterling, and George Sutcliffe.

ATHLETIC RECORDS FALL TO FRESHMEN

The class of 1960 set records in four of Davidson's eight Standardized Athletic Ability Tests this fall. Freshman Newt Quantz
set new marks in both the standing broad jump and the football punt. His total of 501 points was the
highest in the tests. Other new marks were set in the dodge run by Chris Bremer. Farabow made it up
and down 25 times and Bremer covered the dodge course in 21.8 seconds.

The tests, given during Orientation Period, are to aid the “classification of students for more efficient instruction,” as Coach Tom
Scott states it. Football coaching staff lauded Wildcat right end Craig Wall for his offensive and defensive play in last
Saturday's game with The Citadel. Films of the action revealed that the 208-pound sophomore from Conway, South Carolina, was a
standout in the Davidson forward wall. The Davidson Wildcats will be trying for their second win of the season tomorrow
night at 8:00 when they meet the Blue Hose of Presbyterian College. The Cats had an unsuccessful night last weekend
when they were upset by theCitadel 34-7. Craig Wall, rugged right end for the Cats, was the bright spot in
the dim picture for Davidson. His outstanding defensive as well as offensive play drew praise from the coaching staff. Tomorrow
night's contest with PC will be the 16th in a long series between these two teams, which has been marked
by bitter rivalry on the football field. Although Coach Dole ran the squad through light drills on Monday, the team
spent the remainder of the week in extremely tough workouts. The main work was put on offense with the ground
attack being emphasized. Since Dole noted that offensive blocking was a point of the Cats' game which needed extra polish,
a large portion of the drills were spent in running blocking assignments, both dummy work and actual body contact.

P.C. RECORD
The Presbyterian squad has played two games thus far in the season. Their first game was with Clemson to whom
they lost 27-7. In the second encounter, they were downed 27-12 by the Terriers of Wofford. Scholastic hurdles have left
holes in the Hose’s roster this year. As a result, Coach Crutchfield has filled his varsity ranks with a few
key freshmen. In spite of the difficulty, there are nineteen lettermen on the squad this season. The P.C. backfield will
be spearheaded by all-state fullback Ken Webb. Rounding out the first unit will be halfbacks Gene Butler and Eddie Brockenbrough
and quarterback Felder Cook. Because of a weak pass attack, these four men are expected to carry most of the
P.C. load on the ground Saturday night.

CITADEL LOSS
The Davidson tragedy last weekend was a heartbreaking surprise to the Wildcats' fans. Citadel's speedy running attack and well-timed aerial
game could not go wrong since the Bulldogs gained strength and confidence as the game progressed. In the first quarter,
Davidson's Donny McRee returned a Citadel punt 58 yards for the first touchdown of the game. This tally was the
only score of the game for Davidson, but Citadel could not be stopped. Although the Bulldogs failed to score in
the 1st quarter, they hit dirt in the second period making the score at halftime 14-7. The third period ended
with two more touchdowns chalked up for Citadel. In the last quarter of the ballgame, the Bulldogs added a final
marker bringing the total for the game to 34 for Citadel, 7 for Davidson.

CROSS COUNTRY OPENS SEASON
Bolstered by an influx of promising freshmen, and having a good returning crop of lettermen, the Davidson cross country team
travels to Lexington, Va., Saturday for its first contest, a triangular meet with Washington and Lee, and V.M.I. Back for
another year are lettermen J. H. Patterson, Al Elder, Henry Brown, Steve Huntley, and captain Pete Ashcraft. Elder and Ashcraft
are expected to spark the squad with their performance.

FRESHMEN HELP
Freshman prospects are bright this season. Leading the pack so far is Jim Alexander, winner of the Freshman Cake Race.
Alexander and Milton Gee have won two of the eight starting positions for Saturday's meet. Time trials were held Tuesday
to determine the team for this first meet. They are, in order of finish: Angus McBryde, Pete Ashcraft, Al Elder,
Ray Antley, Henry Brown, Jim Alexander, Steve Huntley, and Milton Gee. Coach “Pete” Whittle was particularly impressed by the showing
made by McBryde, a sophomore. He also commented that freshman Graham George, presently hampered by a sprained ankle, was looking
extremely good. George finished ninth in the time trials over the four miles.

THE OUTLOOK
Whittle gave the usual optimistic forecast, but finally pinned down to state, “We'll probably take Washington & Lee, but V.M.I.
should be hard to beat, having finished high in the conference last year.”

LET’S GO TO CLINTON
PRESBYTERIAN GAME OCTOBER 8
AND BEAT PRESBYTERIAN

PRESENT YOUR TICKET STUB FROM THE
Compliments Of
MIDWAY PHARMACY
AT... THE SHOPPING CENTER

ANY DAY NEXT WEEK
FOR A FREE COKE
At the Underpass

ALL CAPITOL AND PARKER-DIAMOND NEEDLES FOR ALL POPULAR RECORD CHANGERS ONLY $12.95
CHARLOTTE 2, N. C.
DECCA LP’S 20% OFF
GARDNER
Phone ED. 2-8257

Any way you look at it, this Arrow University shirt is an eye-catcher. Collar buttons down trimly at three separate
points, front and center back. And the back sports a full box pleat. Triple threat in any league. Comes in
subtle oxford and colors galore... 6 plus white in sport broadcloth checks. Team it up with this smart, all-silk repp
tie. Shirt, $5.00; tie, $2.50.

ARROW — first in fashion
SHIRTS • TIES
