PAGE FOUR

PRIDE OF THE REGIMENT is the new ROTC Honor Drill Platoon, commanded by Lt. Tommy Rivers. Sponsored by Scabbard and
Blade, the platoon will make its initial public appearance Tuesday, parading through downtown Davidson at 2:15 p.m. The band and
color guard will also participate.

Special ROTC Units To Parade Locally

Davidson College’s R.O.T.C. band, color guard, and honor drill platoon will parade through downtown Davidson at 2:15 p.m. next Tuesday.
Prior to the parade, at 2 o'clock, Dr. John Cunningham, President of the college, will inspect the units in the
vicinity of Shearer Hall on the campus.

The presentation is in preparation for the participation of the three units in the annual Kannapolis Christmas Parade. It is
also designed to give the local citizens and school children a chance to see elements of the R.O.T.C. Regiment in
action.

The parade will proceed down Main Street turning off at South Street. It will reverse directions at the Davidson Elementary
School, march back to the Concord Highway, and then onto the “D” drive of the college’s front campus.

Officers in command are H. T. Antrim, captain of the band, and T. P. R. Rivers, commander of the honor
platoon. Cadet J. W. Kuykendall is in charge of the color guard. The honor platoon is a crack drill platoon
of selected R.O.T.C. cadets which is under the sponsorship of the local chapter of Scabbard and Blade, honorary military fraternity.

Entremont Gives (Continued from Page One)

Entremont’s playing as “already remarkably solid, architectural, powerful, limpid, and expressive.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Board of Visitors (Continued from Page One)

Also, Charlotte contractor Fred N. Thompson, Mrs. S. Clay Williams of Winston-Salem, Mrs. Margaret C. Woodson of Mocksville and E.
T. Woolfolk of Memphis, Tenn., president of the Mid-South Chemical Corp.

The men and women of the Board of Visitors were selected on the basis of their interest in Christian liberal
arts education and their ability to initiate ideas and otherwise advise the president, the faculty and other college officials. Twenty-six
persons have accepted appointments to the Board, and will take part in a continual program of planning and implementing the
Davidson program.

‘A GIANT STRIDE’

“Must Abide by the Law” Says Omer Carmichael By DABNEY STUART

Cooper Gives Plans For Winter Services

“You can’t live in a country and defy it. You must abide by the law of the land whether you
like it or not.” Such were the words of Dr. Omer Carmichael in the Davidson College Chapel Thursday, November 15,
1956.

Dr. Carmichael has been for two years the driving and guiding force behind the integration in the public schools of
Louisville, Kentucky. The success of this integration speaks eloquently of the effort of Louisville's public school superintendent.

Behind the success of the plan which he and his board formulated lie two main factors which he expresses in
this way.

“We accepted the Supreme Court decision as the law of the land. By the word of the government of Kentucky
and by my own beliefs the decision of the Court is law and is to be carried out to the
letter. By accepting this law unquestioningly, we took a giant stride over the first hurdle of the problem.

“Secondly, we immediately began a process of extensive and exhaustive preparation. The fact that we did not delay in this
action was of extreme importance to the results we have achieved.”

WASHINGTON SCHOOLS

Dr. Carmichael feels that the adversity with which the Washington, D. C., public schools have met may be attributed to
the lack of preparation.

“Others write their names in cement, but at Davidson between the years 1883 and 1910 the students wrote on the
undersides of marble top tables. While the remodeling of Phi Hall was being carried on, someone turned over the marble
top on one of the tables in the hall. On the reverse side there were eight names of students who
were here between '83 and '10. The old saying, “fools names and fools faces . . .” certainly doesn’t hold
true for these distinguished men. It is interesting to note that all but three of these men became ministers.

Neal Anderson inscribed his and Elsie Lee's names on June 25, 1883. Dr. Anderson became one of the most important
ministers of the early twentieth century. He preached in Savannah, Ga., Winston-Salem, and in Alabama. In addition, he took time
off from his ministerial work to invent the Anderson electrical carriage return for the Underwood typewriter.

It appears that W. A. Withers, class of 1883, also had a crush on Elsie Lee. His name appears with
hers beside the date June 23, 1883. Mr. Withers was one of the outstanding educators of the times. He was
head of the Chemistry department at N. C. State for many years, and eventually became vice-president of State College.

Elsie Lee seems to have faded out of the picture. The alumni office has no record of her marrying a
Davidsonian and the eternal triangle seems to have been flattened.

A. S. Maxwell graduated in 1909. He put his John Hancock on the marble on April 18, 1907. After graduation
he became a missionary to Brazil. He hasn’t been heard of since.

W. P. MacAlister who graduated from Davidson in 1899 informs us that on November 25, 1896 a dramatic club practice
was held in

Delpech Gives Talk To Le Cercle Francais

Le Cercle Francais had its regular meeting Tuesday night at the home of Professor A. V. Goldiere. After President Bill
Martin opened the meeting, there was the customary singing of the Marseillaise before any business was considered.

For the program, Jacques Delpech led a discussion on the geography of France, and the new members presented two comedies.
Following the program, those present enjoyed refreshments, sang French songs, and played French games.

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 1956

COVERED WITH AUTOGRAPHS

Phi Table Top Tells Story of Eight Lives

Some people write on walls, others write their names in cement, but at Davidson between the years 1883 and 1910
the students wrote on the undersides of marble top tables. While the remodeling of Phi Hall was being carried on,
someone turned over the marble top on one of the tables in the hall. On the reverse side there were
eight names of students who were here between '83 and '10. The old saying, “fools names and fools faces .
. .” certainly doesn’t hold true for these distinguished men. It is interesting to note that all but three of
these men became ministers.

Neal Anderson inscribed his and Elsie Lee's names on June 25, 1883. Dr. Anderson became one of the most important
ministers of the early twentieth century. He preached in Savannah, Ga., Winston-Salem, and in Alabama. In addition, he took time
off from his ministerial work to invent the Anderson electrical carriage return for the Underwood typewriter.

It appears that W. A. Withers, class of 1883, also had a crush on Elsie Lee. His name appears with
hers beside the date June 23, 1883. Mr. Withers was one of the outstanding educators of the times. He was
head of the Chemistry department at N. C. State for many years, and eventually became vice-president of State College.

Elsie Lee seems to have faded out of the picture. The alumni office has no record of her marrying a
Davidsonian and the eternal triangle seems to have been flattened.

A. S. Maxwell graduated in 1909. He put his John Hancock on the marble on April 18, 1907. After graduation
he became a missionary to Brazil. He hasn’t been heard of since.

W. P. MacAlister who graduated from Davidson in 1899 informs us that on November 25, 1896 a dramatic club practice
was held in

Delpech Gives Talk To Le Cercle Francais

Le Cercle Francais had its regular meeting Tuesday night at the home of Professor A. V. Goldiere. After President Bill
Martin opened the meeting, there was the customary singing of the Marseillaise before any business was considered.

For the program, Jacques Delpech led a discussion on the geography of France, and the new members presented two comedies.
Following the program, those present enjoyed refreshments, sang French songs, and played French games.may upturn, in idle Phi Hall. Mr.
MacAlister returned careless seeking; remember your honored Phi's.”

Classical Club Holds (Continued from Page One) appreciation of the classical languages and the ages in which they developed. Its
purpose is to perpetuate the same among the members of the student body, as well as to offer a further
avenue of study and application of the classical languages.

NATIONAL HONORARY
The Classical Club is petitioning Eta Sigma Phi, national honorary fraternity, for a charter on this campus. The members of
the honorary fraternity would be chosen from the Classical Club members who have at least a “B” average in either
Latin or Greek for two semesters. The club will meet the second Monday of each month. Anyone who is interested
in joining the Classical Club should contact either Dr. Labban or some member of the executive committee.

A New Service for You!
Christmas Shopping made easy
By special arrangement a collection of distinctive Christmas gifts created by famous concerns are available for your selection.

His musical penetration, his straightforward authority, his gifts of charm, of brilliance—in a word, his personality—all these gifts are already
manifest in his playing.”

Competition Opens For U. of Denver Fellowship Awards
The University of Denver is offering a number of Graduate Fellowships for the study of international relations leading to the
Master of Arts degree. These fellowships are awarded by the Social Science Foundation and carry stipends ranging from free tuition
to $1600. The closing date for completed applications is March 1, 1957. Interested students may consult with Professor Ford or
write to the Director, Social Science Foundation, University of Denver, Denver 10, Colorado.

18 MEMBERS ABROAD
Graduates Get Grants For Advanced Study
They moved too fast. I would not have dared try Integration in 1955." He is quick to add that in
no way does he pretend a detailed knowledge of the Washington situation. The background for this integration in the Louisville
schools played a vital role in its success. “There have never been any ‘Jim Crow’ laws governing public transportation. The
public libraries have been open to both Negro and white since 1948. A similar condition has existed with regard to
nursing in our hospitals. All these conditions cut down on the length of time required for preparation,” stated Dr. Carmichael.

The ratio of white students to Negro is approximately 3-1. The mixture of white and Negro in the schools varies
greatly over the city. “In one school there are 450 whites and one Negro, and in another this is exactly
reversed,” commented Dr. Carmichael. “Remember, however, that the to up is included and thereby irrelevant material is eliminated. Also an
attempt is made to collect the best parts of the various other texts available and incorporate their idea into one
work. The chief asset of both editions is the large number of illustrations which reduce to the simplest terms all
types of problems.

Professor Abernethy is using a book by Robert Davidson, brother of Professor Chalmers Davidson, entitled Philosophies Men Live By. He
has used it for four years. Elementary and easily understood, the book elicits the interest of many students toward more
detailed reading. It is one of few textbooks that is often bought by students not taking that particular subject. A
new book on ethics will be introduced next semester. The book was written by alumnus Thomas E. Hill and will
be used by Professor Abernethy in the Philosophy Department. History 83, taught by Dean Spencer, is using A History of
U. S. Foreign Policy by Julius Pratt. Dr. Pratt, now retired, was Dean of the Graduate School at the University
of Buffalo and is a Davidson graduate.

Eighteen members of the graduating class of 1956, in nation-wide competition, have been chosen to receive scholarships offered by various
organizations for post-graduate work. P. A. O. Karkkainen is studying international relations at the University of Denver with a Tuition
Fellowship plus $1,000.

N. C. STATE
N. C. State has presented three of last year’s students, R. L. Buchanan, S. T. Liles, and R. H. Webb,
scholarships worth $1,200 each for further study in psychology. Archie Joyner is on scholarship at Duke Law School, and Harold
McKeithan holds a Rockefeller Brothers Theological Fellowship at Union Seminary in New York. In other southern schools, J. H. Woodall
holds a $1,500 Fellowship in History at Tulane University. Jim Marshall is also taking his post-graduate work at southern schools.
He has a Southern Regional Council Fellowship in Public Relations at the Universities of Alabama, Kentucky, and Tennessee.

Two students are continuing their studies abroad. Fred Myers is studying at Oxford on a Rhodes Scholarship and John Harmon,
a Fulbright Fellowship winner, is at the University of Berlin. Three graduates have received Woodrow Wilson Fellowships. Clyde Robinson is
at Union Theological Seminary in New York. Bill Kuykendall is studying at Johns Hopkins and Joe Conarroe is at Cornell
University. Conarroe also has a Danforth Fellowship. Brown Goehing is continuing his work at the University of North Carolina. He
holds a teaching fellowship in chemistry.

A trio of graduates have chosen to further their education in the northern and western parts of our country. David
Holloman has a tuition scholarship at the University of Chicago Law School. Maurice Crouse is studying on a Hearst Fellowship
in History at Northwestern and P. A. O. Karkkainen is studying international relations at the University of Denver with a
Tuition Fellowship plus $1,000.

Several Alumni Noted
Woodrow Wilson is only one of many Davidson alumni who have made significant contributions in the field of writing textbooks
for college consumption. Several other Davidson alumni have in the course of their post-college careers produced books currently being used
by the students in the Davidson classroom. First and by far the most familiar is Trigonometry by Professor Kimbrough. This
textbook has been in use for ten years, and Professor Kimbrough’s text for analytical geometry has been serving advanced math
students for fifteen years. The main reasons for writing these books, says the author, are that only the material to
be taken up is included and thereby irrelevant material is eliminated. Also, an attempt is made to collect the best
parts of the various other texts available and incorporate their idea into one work. The chief asset of both editions
is the large number of illustrations which reduce to the simplest terms all types of problems.

Masquers Present (Continued from Page One)
The intricacy of setting and lighting make The Rainmaker a more difficult and a new type of production for the
Davidson stage. Those responsible for the successful set and stage effects include Hugh Craig, stage director; Bob Hoagland, lighting; John
Trotti, sound effects; Warren Womble properties; and a crew of some 15. Especially written interlude music for voice and guitar
has been provided by John Bernhart, who will sing and play. Admission for the play will be 75 cents for
students and adults and 50 cents for dates and children. Following the play both nights there will be a free
reception and dance in the College Union ballroom sponsored by the Masquers and the Union Social Committee. Everyone is invited
to this affair at which coffee and cookies will be served. A student band will provide the music.

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... PIZZA
the famous OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead
Charlotte, N. C.

Seaforth toiletries for men ... inspired by Scotland’s famous Highland Regiment.. See your campus representative now!

Tuesday-Thursday After Thanksgiving All-Day Display in the Stud
GORDON BONDURANT
BOB MARTIN
BILL BONDURANT
VAN WOOD
