Cat's Meow
LEON HOWELL

THE YEAR IN REVIEW

Since the past year was one of the brightest ever in Wildcat Sport’s annals and not even the “roaring twenties”
could surpass it on the national level, it seems logical to pause a moment and regard the significant events of
the past year.

January—Navy, Ohio State, Duke, and Georgia Tech begin the new year with a bang, finding bowl victories . . .
Wildcat grapplers take UNC . . . Basketeers improve record ... Bowden Wyatt drives his Cadillac from Arkansas to Tennessee
... “Babbling Brooks” makes its auspicious debut on the press front.

February—Dr. Tom Scott named new Athletic Director . . . Dwyer beats Gunner Nielsen and Wes Santee, erstwhile indoor mile
record holders . . . Cobb breaks finger, halting his scoring binge in a way opponents failed to do, after
averaging 22.2 for season . . . Swimmers have 7-0 record.

The Ides of March

March—Ashcraft wins Conference indoor 1 & 2 mile crown, taking second in Dixie Classic . . . Maurice (The Rocket)
Richards is suspended and all Montreal riots .. . The “Oldtimers” come back to wind up football spring training, losing
by 19-7 to the 1955 squad, in a surprisingly tough affair... Kappa Sigs take basketball crown in IFC.

April—Track team still undefeated with 5-0 record .. . Middlecoff runs off with Masters . . . While Dodgers are
in effect running off with the National league race .. . Bill Rowland given Tommy Peters Award .. . Subsidization
becomes primary athletic topic.

May—Tennis team repeats as Conference champion .. . Clark turns tables on Keesler for singles diadem . . . Swaps
upsets Nashua in Kentucky derby .. . Ashcraft sets school record in mile, while Koonce is high point man in
Conference . . . Baseball team winds up fine season, even applying the tape to a couple of Rowland and
Hope blasts.

“Summer Is Icumen In”

June, July, and August—Organized fun limited to those fortunates at Fort Benning . . . Fleck whips Hogan in U.
S. Open golf . . . Trabert takes Wimbledon . . . Musial belts twelfth inning homer to give Nationals
all-star game . . . College All-Stars take Cleveland in football tilt ... Nashua turns tables on Swaps in match
race, while Australia is doing same to U. S. in Davis Cup play.

September Song

September—Cats take Catawba and Citadel in football on passing power .. . Marciano clobbers Moore . . . Durocher resigns
. . . Elder cops cake race . . . Kappa Sigs awarded '54-55 IFC trophy.

October—Homecoming 54-0 success over W&L .. . Belton named player of Week in conference . . . Believe it or
not, Brooklyn dumps Yankees in series as Podres and Amoros capture headlines . . . Cross country compiling usual fine
record.

STATE WEDNESDAY WRESTLERS TAKE N. C.

ALENDA LUX UB The Davidsonian ORTA LIBERTAS

TOMMY RIVERS SETS SCHOOL SWIM MARK

PAGE FIVE FRIDAY, JANUARY 13, 1956

BY LEON

In one of the most exciting contests staged at Davidson College in the past few years, Furman’s high-scoring Paladins edged
Davidson 72-70. Out to revenge an earlier defeat at these same hot hands, the Cats came up with their best
overall effort this season in Johnston gym last night. Led by ever consistent Hobby Cobb, who had 20 for the
affair, Davidson went out at the halftime leading by a 43-40 count. The largest difference in the score occurred immediately
after the half when Weeks hit two and Cobb one to give Scott's boys a 49-42 edge. However, a fellow
of whom you may have heard, Darrel Floyd, was able to close this gap quickly. He led Furman’s pointmakers with
18.

One of the largest crowds of the year turned out to witness this grudge match between these two schools and
the continual roars of satisfaction brought many more scrambling for seats. Spirit was high as the squad gave themselves in
an all-out effort to upset the highly favored team from the Palmetto state. Mainly due to the bellicosity of Semi
Mintz and Richard Weeks, Floyd was forced to stay deep and fire at a distance. Always rushed, he still managed
to hit several beauties, although his point total was the lowest for him since the beginning of his sophomore year.
A great shot, he has never approached the brilliance of the incomparable Selvy in his appearances against Davidson.

Hustling at all times, Davidson combined astute ballhandling, accurate shooting, and alert defensive efforts to push the recent conquerors of
Richmond to the limit. When Cobb was not in a position to drive, Mintz, one of the smoothest articles these
eyes have seen, would force the situation, either firing or passing off to an open teammate, and the points began
to mount. Dick Weeks, Ray Harding, Joe Milner, Mike Martin, Lew Spears, and Sonny Ferguson all drew cheers for their
performances. Perhaps the whole performance, although not quite enough to win, can best be symbolized by one play. As the
half was drawing to a close, Dick Wright, flashy Furman guard, broke down the court for an easy layup. Mal
McSwain, two steps behind, cut across and in a tremendous play blocked the shot without fouling the man. That type
hustle was typical of the spirit of the whole team.

The tank men of Davidson are well on their way through another swimming season. The team began practice on November
1 and up to the present has met three of the ten scheduled teams. The results of these meets are
two losses to East Carolina College which is located in Greenville, N. C., and one win over The Citadel of
Charleston. This record which is not by any means perfect is no indication of the type of team Davidson has.
Coach Hambright says that he has one of the hardest working teams in the conference and that the team usually
reaches its peak in performance during the first part of February. Hambright also said that the schedule this year is
a particularly hard one with East Carolina and VMI on it. East Carolina is considerably stronger this year due to
the fact that she has added several powerful freshmen to the team and VMI seems to just naturally have a
powerful team. Hambright is expecting, however, at least a 500 per cent record when the end of the season rolls
around.

The events which the Cat tanksters seem to be especially strong in are the 100 yard sprint with Rivers and
Speir doing the work, and the 200 yard medley with Carroll pulling the Cats through. The divers are being led
by Sharp, who was a leading diver last year, and also Bryan, who is only a sophomore. Rivers, who has
made considerable improvement this year, broke the Davidson record for the 100 yard sprint. The old record, set by Speir,
was 56.3 seconds, but in the meet with The Citadel, Rivers whipped away the 100 yards in 56.2 seconds cutting
the old record by one tenth of a second.

November—Sigma Chis grab flickerball title . . . Belton and Little to Gramley and Newton gives Davidson lock on Conference
air game . . . Llewelyn lineman of week in conference .. . Tech takes Georgia, Tennessee edges Vandy, Army
scrounges Navy, and Maryland winds up number three in nation.

December—Harriers third in conference . . . Miller resigns here, with Scott taking reigns . . . Berra and Campanella
named MVPs to surprise and dismay of many . . . Sugar Ray does the monumental in flattening Bobo .
. . Soccer makes its entrance on the Davidson scene . . . Cleveland and Otto rout the Rams for
the pro title .. . Nashua is sold for $1,251,200.

And all this time the prince of the house of games, right beneath our noses, has been convincing Grace Kelly
that a girl with a sporting interest ought to live on the Riviera . . . Selah!

EXPERT MENDING and ALTERATIONS
TOP QUALITY DRY CLEANING
Jackson Cleaners
DAVIDSON, N. C.a second out this year. These men are Jerry Clark and Bob Wynne. Both men are good and
will probably rate high in the Southern Conference with two or three years of experience. Wynne is a good all-round
swimmer while Clark is better as a distance man. Hambright was disappointed with the freshmen response to the team this
year and he seems to think that the future looks dark for the team if better response is not given
in the next two or three years. The team has only two seniors, Speir and Query. Only two freshmen came
this year but both of these men will be missed next year.

The swimming season will officially end with the close of the Southern Conference Swimming Meet which will be held in
Lexington, Virginia on February 23, 24, and 25. It is much too early in the season to give any kind
of predictions as to the outcome of this meet. The schedule for the remainder of the season is a tough
one. There are only three more home meets and the team needs your support! The remainder of the schedule is:
Jan. 13—VMI there
Jan. 14—Wash. & Lee there
Feb. 6—VPI there
Feb. 8—Wofford there
Feb. 10—Clemson here
Feb. 11—Emory here
Feb. 17—South Carolina here
Feb. 23, 24, 25—Southern Conference Meet—at VMI, Lexington, Va.

Furman Whips Cats 72 to 70
FLOYD, NATION'S LEADING SCORER, BESTED BY COBB IN SCORING DUEL, 20-18

Ray Harding drives in for two important points. Wednesday afternoon at Raleigh the Davidson matmen scored a surprising 16-15 victory
over North Carolina State. Fielding an inexperienced squad, the Wildcats did well, winning four (4) matches out of eight (8),
and one tie. In the 123-pound class, Pete Coleman, outstanding Freshman, won over Clawson, 6-4. Woody Burns, wrestling his first
match of any kind, lost a decision, 4-7. Wrestling at 137 lbs., Dick Neal outlasted Magean of State, 6-4. One
of the outstanding men on the State squad was Kaplin, captain of the Wolfpack, who pinned Grier Davis in the
157 lb. match. Harold Westerfelt, at 167 lbs., pinned State's Miller in 2 minutes, 50 seconds. Larry Wright decisioned his
opponent, 6-4. Freshman Barry Benton, in his very first match, was pinned by Nardon at 177 lbs. in 3 minutes,
45 seconds. However, the big surprise of the afternoon came when Davidson's Dave Regen wrestled Al Henry, heavyweight, to a
7-7 draw. Henry was last year’s Atlantic Coast Conference 177 lb. champion, and is wrestling this year at heavyweight. Davidson
entered the match at a disadvantage, carrying a very inexperienced squad. There were five Freshmen, 3 of whom had never
wrestled before, and one sophomore with no wrestling experience. Coach Charlie Parker has ample reason to be proud of his
squad. This win was Davidson's first over N.C. State in 7 or 8 years. With this win, Davidson has won
all of its matches with North Carolina teams, having defeated the University of North Carolina earlier in the season.

BASKETBALL CAPTURES STUDENT INTEREST IN WINTER MONTHS
BY JIM OVERALL

This year at the mid-point of the season the Davidson Wildcats are going strong and have improved decidedly since the
first of the season. With a 7-7 record through the VPI game, the Red and Black of 1955-56 seem destined
to better last year's fine record. After a rusty start, the Cats won five games straight, including a thriller over
VPI. The freshmen and other men new to the first string have gained valuable experience in the early season games,
and the team has formed into a well-rounded unit that has plenty of drive and determination. Every game that is
played means that the boys become more accustomed to playing together, and they will probably finish the season with a
winning record.

The Wildcats opened their 1955-56 basketball season against Furman on December 2 at the gym in Charlotte, North Carolina. Davidson
hardwooders had the first game jitters and, after putting up a game fight in the second half, lost 86-66. Next
on the list was the University of Tennessee, who proved to be too much for Davidson, as they defeated them
77-64. The Red and Black again played a good second half.

In their third game of the season on December the sixth, Coach Danny Miller's team played Catawba College in the
home opener at Johnston Gymnasium. Hobby Cobb sparked the 96-90 win with his 29 points and also played a fine
defensive game with 27 rebounds. Joe Milner, the 6-6 freshman center from Atlanta, had his best game to date, swishing
in 22 points and collecting 15 off the boards.

On the ninth of December, Davidson played the College of Charleston at Charleston, South Carolina, and on the tenth they
played the Citadel also at Charleston. These two games are Davidson’s best so far, as the Cats beat Charleston 93
to 70 and the Citadel 93 to 64.

VPI was Davidson’s next opponent on the thirteenth of December at the Wildcats gym. This was definitely the most exciting
game this season with Davidson winning in the fading seconds of the game 78 to 76.

In winning their fifth straight game of the season, Danny Miller's Wildcats wrote a new entry in the record books.
They defeated Guilford College 108 to 65 to set a new high scoring mark for a single game. The previous
high was in the 1951-52 season against the Citadel, which the Cats won 100-66. Ray Harding led the scoring spree
with 30 points. It was Harding's best performance of his college career as he shaded teammate Hobby Cobb by one
field goal. Semi Mintz and Joe Milner showed more class on the floor, and Dick Adams, senior guard, was one
of the defensive standouts. Danny Miller, Davidson coach, was given a standing ovation lasting several minutes since it was his
final game as head basketball coach. The team presented him with one of his greatest victories since he came to
Davidson.

On December 19, 20, and 21, the first annual Carrousel Basketball Classic was held in the Coliseum at Charlotte. Various
civic clubs in Mecklenburg County responded with enthusiasm in acting as hosts to the teams, their coaches, and other personnel
who were guests in the Queen City.

Davidson's next game was with the McCreary Eagles, a semi-pro team, at Asheboro, North Carolina, on January 2, 1956. The
Wildcats defeated the Eagles, for the first time in five years, 93-78. Hobby Cobb scored 33 points, his best for
the year.

The next night Wofford College defeated the Cats 96-67 at Spartanburg, South Carolina, and on January the sixth the Davidson
Red and Black team defeated the Citadel 66-55. VPI beat the Wildcats 89-63 on the ninth at Blacksburg, Virginia. Davidson
played slow ball as in the Wofford game, but Hobby Cobb came through with 21 points. Hobby and Ray Harding
still maintain their one-two standings in individual scoring for Davidson. Cobb’s average per game puts him at the number fourteen
spot among the nation’s major college individual leaders, and he also holds down the ninth position in rebound percentages.

The individual statistics through the Wofford game (eleventh game), not counting the games since then are:
Field Goal Total
Name Percentage Points Avg.
Cobb 55.7 274 24.9
Harding 40.5 169 15.4
Milner 42.2 88 8.0
Weeks 32.0 83 7.5
Team 893 81.2
Opponents 868 78.9

J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO., WINSTON-SALEM, N.C.
YOU'LL BOTH GO FOR THIS CIGARETTE!
When it comes to real tobacco flavor, college smokers are going for Winston! This good-tasting, easy-drawing filter cigarette not only
brings you finer flavor — but also a finer filter. The exclusive Winston filter works so effectively that the flavor
comes right through. Join the big switch to Winston!
