PAGE FOUR w THE DAVIDSONIAN

DISTINGUISHED OBSERVERS

Board of Visitors To Evaluate D. C.

Twenty-six representative leaders in America’s business, civic, educational, and church life will serve as charter members of a new Board
of Visitors for Davidson College. The purpose of the Board is to promote the educational effectiveness and general welfare of
the 120-year-old, church-related college, according to an announcement Wednesday by President John R. Cunningham.

The new Board consists of men and women who were selected on a basis of their interest in Christian liberal
arts education and their ability to initiate ideas and otherwise advise with the president, administrative officials, and faculty of the
college.

MEMBERS

Included are: Charles H. Babcock, investment broker of Winston-Salem; John M. Belk, president of Belk Stores, Charlotte; The Rev. George
A. Buttrick, pastor of the Memorial Church of Harvard University; E. Ray Campbell, president of the Denver Post; Dr. Theodore
A. Distler, Executive Director of the Association of American Colleges, New York; Edward Dwelle, Jr., realtor, Jacksonville, Fla. Also, James
J. Harris, Charlotte business executive; Howard Holderness, president of Jefferson Standard Life Insurance Co., of Greensboro; Karl G. Hudson, general
manager of Hudson-Belk, Raleigh; Mrs. J. N. Hynson of Scarsdale, N. Y.; Mrs. Curtis B. Johnson of Charlotte. Also, Walter
L. Lingle, Jr., Executive Vice-President of the Procter and Gamble Co., Cincinnati; E. H. Little, Chairman of the Board of
the Colgate-Palmolive Co., New York; C. A. Knight, editor of the Charlotte Observer; David Ovens, department store executive and philanthropist
of Charlotte; W. Y. Preyer, Vick Chemical Co., executive of Greensboro; Thomas L. Robinson, president and publisher of the Charlotte
News, Charlotte. Dean Francis C. Rosecrance of Wayne State University, Detroit; Dr. Dean Rusk, president of the Rockefeller Foundation and
the General Education Board; Fred N. Thompson, Charlotte contractor; Dr. Elton Trueblood, minister and member of the faculty of Earlham
College, Richmond, Ind.; John F. Watlington, Jr., president of the Wachovia Bank of Winston-Salem; Mrs. S. Clay Williams, Winston-Salem; Mrs.
Margaret C. Woodson, Mocksville; and Ellis T. Woolfolk, president of the Mid South Chemical Corp. of Memphis, Tenn.

TRUSTEES

Additional participants in the activities of the Board are the following sixteen men who already serve the Executive Committee of
the Davidson Trustees: Scott Candler, Atlanta; George S. Crouch, Charlotte; Rev. C. Grier Davis, Asheville; Frank P. Hall, Jr., Belmont;
Rev. Warner L. Hall, Charlotte; Rev. James A. Jones, Richmond, Va.; D. R. LaFar, Jr.,

RECEIVING AN UNEXPECTED PACKAGE, a freshman stops at the Post Office window on his daily after-chapel trek. The P. O.
furnishes the Davidsonian with his contact with the outside world.

LOCAL POST OFFICE

Real Campus Center Is Slightly Off-Campus

Through rain, sleet, hail, snow, and railroad cars the U. S. Mail arrives at the Davidson Post Office; through rain,
sleet, hail, snow, and regular cars the Davidson students meet it there.

The little brick building beside the empty parking lot on Depot Street is frequented by far more students than is
any other single off-campus landmark. Its age and use-worn appearance offer vivid testimonial as to the successful accomplishment of its
purpose. Many are the boys who cross the time-smoothed threshold of the Post Office in anticipation of a letter from
the same person from whom their fathers had crossed these thresholds years ago to hear.

The volume of mail channeled through the Davidson Post Office is necessarily seasonal. Marked runs are noticed on and around
Valentine’s Day, St. Bartholomew's Day, Columbus's Day, and the night before dance weekends. Until the turn of the century, the
P. O. was officially the Post Office of Davidson College; it is now named by the City of Davidson rather
than the College. The Post Office serves 5,500 persons in the community, renting 440 boxes to the personnel of Davidson
College and receiving 60 percent of its gross income from them.

While the postmaster concerns himself with the volume of the incoming mail, the students brush past one another in the
small lobby concerning themselves with the content and source of each letter. The sources may be Salem, Piedmont Bank, or
the home-town Army Recruiting Office. The contents would probably include checks, statements for June’s Book of the Month, and an
“I'd love to come, but...” reply or two.

Every morning after chapel for over fifty years Davidson students have moved en masse to the Post Office for the
morning mail. Then again before supper and after breakfast Postmaster Stough sees more than just a few eyes peering at
him through the dusty box-windows. If one quotation could characterize one of the greatest motivating factors of most Davidson students
it would probably be, “Let’s go to the P. O.!"

A slight disturbance was caused on the night of November 2 at a concert in Chambers when an elderly lady
became ill and had to be taken from the auditorium. Students who made inquiries were told that she was a
Miss Thompson who lived in the town. The next morning, in the small-print obituaries of the Charlotte Observer, there was
a notice of the death of “Miss Thompson.”

SERVICE IN COLLEGE

The lady was not “Miss Thompson” to hundreds of alumni from the 1890s to the 1940s. She was “Miss Hattie”
who gave over thirty years of efficient, loyal service to Davidson College around which her life centered.

YOUTH

In the 1890s, Miss Hattie was one of the young ladies of the village to whom the students wrote formal
notes requesting the pleasure of her company at Prayer Meeting. She took part in the church socials and in the
plays given by the students, provided her parents considered them sufficiently decorous.

ASSISTANT TO TREASURER

In 1914, Miss Hattie took a “position” at the College as assistant to Treasurer F. L. Jackson. She wrote all
the checks in longhand as there were no machines for writing them. She kept the books and she advised with
the many students in financial confusion. She was always cheerful, a little fluttery, and always helpful beyond the demands of
her position. The students knew they had a friend in Miss Hattie.

CHOIR

On Sundays Miss Hattie played the organ in the old church. Those were the days when morning worship was compulsory.
The organ was high up in the choir loft and everybody could see Miss Hattie. She always sat bolt upright,
as a Southern lady was trained to do. There was no Department of Music then and Miss Hattie invited

Filming Resumed On ‘Davidson Story’

Filming of the ‘Davidson Story’ will be resumed in the very near future according to Mr. Robert Sailstad who has
just returned from a trip to the Protestant Radio and Television Center in Atlanta, Georgia. Although the Center has not
yet announced a replacement for Mr. Gunn who resigned as director recently, one will be appointed soon.

HELICOPTER

The next step in the filming process will consist of general shots of the campus and buildings from a helicopter.
Mr. Sailstad said that the obstructions to long-range shots caused by the numerous trees on the campus will, thus, be
overcome. Under the new schedule which is now being set up, movie-making will proceed at a somewhat slower pace than
previously planned. Various scenes will be filmed throughout the school year. ‘The Davidson Story’ will be released sometime next year
Mr. Sailstad said.

Bridge Tournament To Be Held Tuesday

There will be a Master Point bridge tournament in the ballroom of the College Union at 7:30 p.m. Tuesday, November
13. All students, faculty members, and townspeople are invited to participate. The cost will be 50c per person.

FREE LP’s...

... earn FREE LP’s with your purchases from us! ... Come in and join the Joe Little Record Club tomorrow
... No obligation! You select your own FREE LP’s from our entire stock!

“Opposite Ivey's Fifth St. Entrance” — 126 WEST FIFTH STREET CHARLOTTEmemor- students with good voices to sing in the choir
and encouraged those with an interest in music.

LINK WITH PAST

No home in the village was known to more generations of Davidson men than hers. At every Commencement, and in
more recent years at every Homecoming, many of the old boys went by to speak to Miss Hattie. She was
a link with their student days which many of the college men of the 1950s did not know. She was
just another of the elderly townspeople who lived out in the village. But the town and the college are infinitely
richer for Miss Hattie’s quiet loyalties, her unfailing courtesy and hospitality, and for her old-fashioned qualities of Southern gentility. Miss
Hattie was always a lady.

IT’S FOR REAL! by Chester Field

She looked in the mirror to see if she was still the girl she used to be. Miss Sanitation '63.
That was the day she reigned supreme. The happiest day she ever knew! “Life,” she sighed, “is never the same
after a girl has known real fame; after a girl has been like me - Miss Sanitation '63.”

Once you’ve known the real pleasure of a real smoke, no pale substitute will do. Take your pleasure big! Smoke
Chesterfield. Enjoy big full flavor... big satisfaction. Packed more smoothly by Accu-Ray, it’s the smoothest tasting smoke today. Smoke for
real... smoke Chesterfield!

Gastonia; and Spencer Love, Greensboro. Also, Dr. Hamilton W. McKay, Charlotte; Dr. John A. Redhead, Greensboro; Dr. J. McDowell Richards,
Decatur, Ga.; John I. Smith, Travellers Rest, S.C.; Dr. T. D. Sparrow, Charlotte; Rev. Fred R. Stair, Hickory; Ivey W.
Stewart, Charlotte and Rev. W. T. Thompson, Richmond, Va.

Charles F. Myers, Jr. of Greensboro, president of the Davidson College Alumni Association and John M. Akers of Gastonia, Davidson
Alumni Fund Chairman, will serve as alumni representatives on the Board. The first joint meeting of the Board of Visitors
with the Trustees’ Executive Committee will take place at the college on Friday, November 16.

Lindsay Speaks in Vespers and Chapel

Dr. Samuel M. Lindsay, pastor of the Royal Poinciana Chapel, Palm Beach, Florida will deliver the sermon this Sunday for
Vespers. A native of Scotland, Dr. Lindsay grew up in the town of Prestwick, five miles from the birthplace of
Robert Burns. There he spoke the same dialect which characterizes Burns' poetry. He is recognized by many as one of
the world's foremost authorities on Burns and his poetry. Audiences in both the United States and Europe have heard his
lectures on the subject of Burns. His is one of the finest libraries of the works of Burns in existence.

From 1915 to 1922 Lindsay served as pastor of the Hanson Place Church of Brooklyn. From there he went to
serve the Brookline Baptist Church of Boston, Massachusetts until 1952 when he went to Palm Beach. While in Boston he
was selected by the Boston Herald as one of the ten great preachers of the United States. Monday night at
8:30 in the College Union, Dr. Lindsay will lecture on the poetry of Robert Burns. At this time he will
dress the part in authentic Scottish kilts. Refreshments will be served at this meeting.

Harvard Announces Fellowship Competition

Harvard University announces that 300 scholarships and fellowships are available for graduate study in its Graduate School of Arts and
Sciences. Applications must be filed as soon as possible to receive full consideration. Applications for admission to the Graduate School
will be sent only to men who forward the application fee of $5. Awards will be announced on April 1,
1957.

Literary Societies (Continued From Page One)

The newly replaced Napoleonic Chandelier. The paramount purpose of the meeting was to discuss plans for the coming year. No
program was presented.

NEW CONSTITUTION

The president then suggested a change in the office system and appointed a committee, headed by secretary Bob Lathan, to
draft the new constitution. A discussion on this topic followed. A program committee with Bill Pomeroy as chairman was then
selected. The president then outlined a thorough schedule of activities for the year. Included in this schedule was the requirement
of every member to submit some form of creative writing during the year. After a discussion on the selection of
new members, the meeting was adjourned.

College's Editorial (Continued From Page One)

Since the formal program did not begin until 7:30 p.m. tonight, most of the day was spent in sightseeing. Avid
economics students Trask, Bondurant, Beall, and Carmichael covered Cleveland’s expansive Lake Erie waterfront, Great Lakes’ shipping. The opening convocation tonight
in the Statler's giant ballroom featured Carey McWilliams, editor of The Nation, who gave a highly pertinent speech on “Place
of the Opinion Magazine in American Journalism.” The remaining two days will be spent in a well-planned program of lectures,
forums, conferences, and informal discussions with college journalists all over America.

Sigma Pi Sigma (Continued From Page One)

Graduation, and the faculty members of the society represent a wide variety of graduate schools. He will also speak Tuesday
morning for the Chapel service.

“Coke does something You feel so new and fresh and good — all over — when you pause for Coca-Cola.
It's sparkling with quick refreshment... and it's so pure and wholesome — naturally friendly to your figure. Let it do
things — good things — for you.

DRINK

BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD “Coke” is a registered trademark, ©1956, THE
COCA-COLA COMPANY

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 1956

TAPPING IN THE BALCONY brought two seniors to the stage in Chapel Tuesday, where they joined six other men named
to membership in Omicron Delta Kappa, honorary leadership fraternity. Ed Young lays a heavy hand on Bob Martin, while Jimmy
Martin (foreground) followed suit a few seconds later.

ACT ON 1956 PETITION

Baker Leads St. Alban’s Ground Breaking Service

Groundbreaking ceremonies for the Chapel of St. Alban’s Mission were held Thursday afternoon at 4 p.m. The ceremony was conducted
by the Rt. Rev. Richard H. Baker, Bishop Coadjutor of the Diocese of North Carolina. The building site is located
on Lorimer Road, next to the Phi Gamma Delta Fraternity boarding house. St. Alban’s Mission has been meeting in borrowed
quarters, the Masonic Hall, Lingle Chapel, Phi Hall and at present meets in the R.O.T.C. classroom of Davidson College.

PETITION

The first movement for an Episcopal Church in Davidson was started in Feb. 1890, with 21 names on the petition.
The present local Episcopalians sent a petition to the Bishop of North Carolina in December, 1955. In the original (1890)
effort to erect a church here pledges to the building amounted to $509.00.

OFFICERS

Officers of the newly organized church are: Lt. Col. John D. Sapp, Warden; Mrs. James S. Purcell, secretary; Mr. Thomas
S. Sadler, treasurer; Mrs. Thomas S. Sadler, chairman of the Ladies Guild; the minister is Rev. Albert Newton of Mooresville.
Lt. Col. Sapp expressed appreciation to the people of Davidson who have been so generous, and for the wonderful cooperation
that has been given the new organization.

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... PIZZA

the famous OPEN KITCHEN 1318 W. Morehead Charlotte, N.C.

You'll save too—and often get there sooner— IN GREYHOUND LOW-COST LUXURY on hundreds of trips like these:

SOUTHBOUND
CHARLOTTE, N.C. ..... 5
ROCK HILL, S.C. ........ 1.30
COLUMBIA, S.C. ........ 3.05
SPARTANBURG, S.C. .... 2.55
AUGUSTA, GA. ........ 4.95
ATHENS, GA. ............ 5.70
ATLANTA, GA. .......... 7.38
JACKSONVILLE, FLA. .... 9.45
MIAMI, FLA. ............. 15.90
TAMPA, FLA. ............ 13.55

NORTHBOUND
WINSTON-SALEM, N.C. .. 1.80
GREENSBORO, N.C. .... 2.60
RICHMOND, VA... 7.45
WASHINGTON, D.C... 9.70
NEW YORK, N.Y... 13.75
WYTHEVILLE, VA... 3.40
BLUEFIELD, VA... 5.05
CHARLESTON, W.VA. 8.50
CINCINNATI, OHIO... 11.25
CHICAGO, ILL... 17.40

Plus U.S. Tax

Save an Extra 10% Each Way with a Round-Trip Ticket

WHITE DRUG CO.
Main St.—Phone 2111
Davidson, N.C.
