CAMPUS LEADERS REVIEW 1955-56 (Page 2)

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

HIGHLIGHTS OF ATHLETIC BANQUET (Page 3)

VOL. XLIV

NEW COUNCIL MEETS
By GERALD WILSON

The newly elected Student Council held its first meeting Monday night of this week. The drinking rule was the chief
item of discussion. President LaFar stated the necessity for this year’s council to make an interpretation of the drinking rule.
A motion was made by Ross Smyth to the effect that the new council continue the same interpretation used by
the 1955-56 council. Discussion of this motion centered around the “under the influence” clause. Further discussion of this motion brought
out the fact that although interpretation of this rule is left up to the individual member's discretion, some criteria for
judgment should be set up. It was generally agreed that “under the influence” be interpreted as describing a person who
is visibly affected by intoxicants. The motion was passed with little evident opposition.

COURT OF CONTROL

Attention was then focused on the Court of Control. The Council cited this coming school year as the decisive year
for the Court. A thorough study of the Court by members of the Council revealed that it must be made
effective this year or become virtually powerless. The need for greatly strengthening it was pointed out. One great addition to
the power of the Court will be its return to chapel. Three Fridays have been set aside for this purpose.
The duties and responsibilities of the Court toward the incoming freshman class were emphasized. Senior representative George Scott was sworn
into office. The President urged the members of the Council to listen carefully to the oath of office they had
previously taken. LaFar then requested all members to read over the school constitution before it is printed in the Handbook.
He spoke briefly of the duties and responsibilities of the council.

NSA CONGRESS

Other items of discussion included a request for members to attend the Ninth Annual Congress of the National Student Association,
and a report by John Bernhardt on the regional meeting of this association in Raleigh during April. Council members Tony
and George Scott were appointed as members of the Finance Committee.

SCHOLAR LEAVES STAFF
Tribute Paid Eberhardt For Biblical Excellence
By FRED MYERS

Dr. Charles Eberhardt has, in his nine years as Professor of Bible at Davidson College, become an institution among us.
We may say without fear of contradiction from any quarter that his presentation of Biblical literature is second to none
in the country. He has been able to invoke for us and in us that vast panoramic sweep of Biblical
history, and to suggest its unique and timeless significance in terms which are at once intelligible and compelling. He has
spoken with courage and vitality, often with audacity, but always with authority. He has brought to bear on Biblical literature
an intimate knowledge of history, geography, anthropology, philosophy, and art.

ARTISTIC UTTERANCE

In the classroom, he has exhibited that rare and necessary combination: sound scholarship and creative artistry. He has seen and
understood that which we feel that few have comprehended: that the Biblical literature is primarily an artistic utterance, and that
we as laymen can come to terms with it uniquely on poetic grounds. The prophets spoke in poetic terms, as
indeed St. Paul and Christ spoke in poetic terms. Thus, the nature of ultimate meaning within the Judeo-Christian framework is
at last neither theological nor philosophical, but artistic. This is not to say that for the theologian it is not
theological, or that for the philosopher it cannot be philosophical, but that for the layman, the spiritual heir of Abraham
and Isaiah, it is first and finally artistic. This, it seems to us, expresses the pity of Dr. Eberhardt’s work
at Davidson. Those of us who knew and loved him will be sad to see him go. But those of
us who believe in his work are glad to know that it is this work which takes him from us.

In accepting the post of Associate Executive Secretary of the Maryland Bible Society, he undertakes a task not only of
administration but of creation. He commits himself to the use of all means of artistic and creative communication at his
disposal in order to present to the public a “fresh and authentic approach” to the Biblical writings. Dr. Eberhardt hopes
to produce in the near future a series of color films reconstructing in their original locales certain Biblical writings. These
films will bear no resemblance to their comic strip “visual aid” predecessors, which we have seen too many. But they
will be works of art in their own right, transposing poetic imagery from the written word to the visual and
auditory symbol. They might be titled “The Biblical Metaphor in its Natural Habitat.” Such motion picture directors as George Stevens,
Otto Preminger, and John Huston have demonstrated that a film may appeal to all levels, from the illiterate mass to
the intellectual elite, without compromising its artistic integrity. If scripture could be presented on such a basis, which is after
all the basis on which the Psalms are presented, the result would be of tremendous artistic validity and note, and,
as we have seen, of great spiritual importance.

WELL QUALIFIED

We know, as lay amateurs, that it can be done, and we know that there is perhaps no member of
the Protestant clergy better qualified than Dr. Eberhardt to undertake the task. We assure him we are aware of the
grave significance of the enterprise he embarks on—an enterprise which in the contemporary context is novelty itself, yet, in the
historical, as old as Moses. The Maryland Bible Society, in calling Dr. Eberhardt to a position (Continued on Page Four)

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FRIDAY, MAY 11, 1956 No. 25

DIRECTOR OF DEFENSE

Mobilization Arthur S. Flemming will present the featured 1956 commencement address. Dr. Flemming’s address will climax the traditional three-day exercises
slated for May 26-28, which will witness the return of numbers of alumni, parents, and friends of the College to
the Davidson campus.

Perkinson Gives IFC Proposal for Rush Week Schedule

IFC president Bunny Perkinson announced Wednesday a proposed change in the Rush Week schedule for next year. Although awaiting the
sanction of President Cunningham, Perkinson believes it will meet with his approval.

In the past, Rush Week has started on Monday night and lasted through Friday night, with pledging on Saturday afternoon.
Because a football game has already been planned for the Friday night of Rush Week, the Interfraternity Council has approved
a new schedule for rushing next year. Rush Week would begin on Sunday night, September 16, with three forty-five minute
rushing periods after Vespers, and would continue through Thursday, September 20. Three one-hour rushing periods would be held each of
the other nights beginning at 7:00, 8:00, and 9:00 p.m. Two one-hour periods would be held on Tuesday afternoon. Dates
would be arranged during the summer for the rushing periods on Sunday, Monday, and Tuesday with no rushee being allowed
more than two dates with any one fraternity during this period. Dates for Wednesday and Thursday would be sent out
Tuesday night after the rush period through the Interfraternity Council, with no rushee being allowed more than two dates with
any one fraternity. There would be a period of silence from 10:00 p.m. Thursday until formal pledging is over Friday
afternoon, September 21. The pledging period would be in the late afternoon for the benefit of those with afternoon classes.

Sigma Upsilon’s meeting of May 3 was devoted to the election of new members, a paper by Dr. Henry Lilly,
and a sign-up meeting.

YMCA to Sponsor Emphasis Week

STUDENTS SEEK ANSWERS
BUTTRICK CITES KEEN CHAPIN

No matter where one goes, student interest in religion is high. For a while Science was the new Messiah, but
now students across America are looking for answers to the issues of today. They are asking, “Where do I look
next?” spoke Dr. George A. Buttrick, Davidson's 1956 Otts lecturer, who has been named by Life magazine as one of
the ten greatest ministers in America today and who is presently the Professor of Christian Morals at Harvard University.

Dr. Buttrick is a man of average height, dressed in a blue suit (not a clerical collar), whose dark hair
is beginning to turn gray, and whose smile is friendly, though rare. There is a light, nervous, bashfulness about his
manner that is a little surprising in a man of his wide experience, but which is also reassuring for one
feels that this is the real Buttrick and that what he says are his real opinions. He does not appear
as the stern patriarch nor the effervescent evangelist, but as what he is, a college professor, a man who might
know some of the answers.

When asked to compare the college students of the South with those at Harvard, Dr. Buttrick observed, “The student mind
is keen all over America. I talked this morning as I talk to my classes at Harvard and the response
was about the same. There isn’t much difference. The keenest questions I have heard recently were down at Millsaps in
Jackson, Mississippi. They would have kept me up all night.”

Is there any difference between the religious atmosphere of the North and that of the South? “Not really. Perhaps there
is more emotion in the South and more intellectualism in the North, but no matter where you go, thoughtful interest
in religion is high now.”

As to the importance of the mass revivals of today, particularly those of Billy Graham, Dr. Buttrick said that they
indicate a “revival of religious interest but not yet a revival of religion.” This revival of interest could become a
revival of religion, he believes, and Graham accentuates this interest. He pointed out, however, that “real revivals begin in little
groups, accepting simple truths for Christ.”Wide, very living and brave. He questioned revival, living whether it can go very deep.

REQUIRED CHAPEL

What he inquired about religious exercises found at Davidson? “That word ‘required’ is a false sort of word. If a
student is told that the college expects him to attend certain religious exercises, then he has voluntarily chosen to attend
them.”

“The great contribution to make, what I think about those exercises, is that the college has a church-related wrong.”

Summer

By BILL BONDURANT

The majority of 400 Davidson students polled recently are planning to spend their summers working in the vicinity of their
homes at jobs not connected directly with their intended life’s occupations. These students reported that their summer plans would involve
proportionally more manual labor than mental exertion. Three percent are admittedly planning to loaf most of this summer. Surprisingly few
cases are planning to travel extensively during the summer months; the majority of those are heading north. The results of
the poll are printed below in percent form.

THE POLL

Will you spend most of your time:
Manual labor 35%
Mental labor 12%
Both 53%

Where will you be:
South 18%
North 11%
Midwest 7%
West 23%
Europe 15%
South America 1%
Canada 2%
At ROTC camp 3%
Loafing 3%

Will your job be connected with your intended life occupation?
Yes 34%
No 66%

If working, will you work:
Near home 69%
Out of the Country 3%
West 7%
Midwest 1%
South 13%
North 7%

INTEREST IN RELIGION

Cooper Initiates Action Of Student Committee

The YMCA Cabinet and Board of Directors have voted to sponsor a single religious emphasis week next year to replace
the fall and spring services which were held this year. The services will be very similar to the UCM Christian
Mission which was held at Davidson February 6-10, 1955, on the theme, “The Mature Christian in a Changing South.” However,
since the UCM organization does not return to campus within a year, the YMCA will sponsor the program.

With a budget of approximately $500, the committee hopes to bring to the campus speakers of the highest caliber who
are scholarly with respect to the theme and experienced in addressing college audiences. Five speakers participated in the 1955 program.
There is a possibility that the number of men will be decreased from five to three or four, in the
hope that the best men available may be obtained.

The services will begin on a Sunday morning, perhaps immediately after mid-year examinations, and will continue through Thursday. The principal
addresses will be made during chapel time each morning and at seven o’clock each evening, with an elaborate schedule of
discussion groups and “bull sessions” to round out the program. Faculty members will be encouraged to invite speakers to visit
the classes they teach and to participate in class discussion. In addition, each speaker will be available for personal conferences
with students and faculty members during designated times each day.

COMMITTEE CHAIRMEN

The student committee chairmen are as follows: Walter Davis, Book Display; Steve Huntley, Breakfast and Retreat; Lloyd Chapin, Classroom; John
Trotti, Continuation; Bob Shaw, Finance; Gerald Wilson, Hospitality; Buddy Dye, Organized Houses; Leon Howell, Personal Conferences; Joe Sandifer, Publicity; Tom
Morgan, Seminar; and Vernon Hunter, Worship.

Each chairman will appoint five or six men to serve on his committee, and the entire group of seventy or
seventy-five will constitute the Campus Committee, which will meet several times during the fall. The smaller committees, however, will do
most of the detailed preparation.

SNIDER TO PRESIDE

Reitzel Snider has been elected Judge of the Court of Control for the fall of 1956. The student council elected
Reitzel and the seven other new members at its meeting Wednesday night. Other members elected were: seniors, Bill Gramley, Ken
Conger, and Dyke Little. Junior members are David Fagg and Bill Price. Sophomore representatives are Craig Wall and Bill Means.

The senior members of the Court are all on the varsity football squad. Bill Gramley, a Beta, is also a
member of the track team. Ken Conger is the Pika’s IFC representative for next year. Dyke Little, an SAE, recently
won the McConnell Award for athletics, scholarship, and character. Of the junior members, Dave Fagg of Phi Gamma Delta is
a member of the football and track teams. Bill Price, a member of Beta Theta Pi, is a lineman for
Coach Dole. Craig Wall, one of the two sophomore representatives, is a Kappa Sig from Conway, S.C. Vernon Broyles, from
Atlanta, is a member of Phi Delta Theta. The court will select one of its members to act as recorder.

ANNUAL AWARDS DAY HELD BY ROTC DEPARTMENT

The 1956 ROTC Awards Day was held Tuesday, May 8, in Richardson Stadium. During regimental ceremonies, the following awards were
made:

Joe B. Pharr was awarded the Davidson College Cadet Medal for outstanding performance. Cadet Colonel Joe B. Pharr was awarded
the ROTC MS IV Medal for outstanding ability. Philip H. Koonce was designated for Honorable Mention. The award was presented
by Dr. Samuel R. Spencer, Dean of Students. Cadet Lt. Col. Thomas D. Owen, C.O., 2nd Cadet Bn, was awarded
the Davidson College ROTC Outstanding Battalion Commander Medal. Colonel Henry C. Settle, Chief of North Carolina Military District made the
award. Cadet Colonel Joe B. Pharr was awarded the Third Army Certificate for Meritorious Leadership Achievement. Cadet Pvt. Charles J.
Miller was awarded the ROTC Band Cadet Medal for outstanding performance. Cadet Major Richard H. Morehead was awarded the ROTC
MS IV Medal for outstanding ability.
