The Davidsonian

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Dick Morehead

ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Maurice Crouse, Tom Warlick

Managing Editors
Jim Batten, Franklin Bloodworth, Jim Brice

Sports Editor
Leon Howell

Exchange Editor
Bob Beall

News Editors
Lloyd Chapin, Bill Pomero

Staff Photographer
Harry P.

Assignments
John Trask

Member of the Associated Collegiate Press and Intercollegiate Press

Friday, March 23, 1956

Page Two

Off the Stump

Out of the elections grab-bag each year come many proposals for the renovation and salvation of Davidson, the community, and
the world. To the seniors they are amusing—to the juniors, vital—to the sophomores, political and to the freshmen, amazing. Filtered
through the screen of practicality and promise, there yet remain some important suggestions for consideration and future action.

Establishment of committees from outside of the student council yet responsible to it offers many advantages with few obvious deterrents
as a definite and dynamic part of student government. Such committees would be an arm of vital contact between the
student body and student government, creating interest and leadership among many unused corners of campus life, encouraging thought and expression,
while leading toward an active, prominent, and effective student government program. We would then have more student government and less
student council in the total picture. There are indeed many activities, subjects, and projects which could be studied and projected
through such committees. Easy to initiate, yet laden with potentialities, this suggestion should not go unheeded.

Activation of the student-faculty committee, as created by the present Constitution, also has its merits. As an effective liaison between
student, faculty, and administrative elements it could create mutual understanding, exchange ideas current in all corners, and work toward the
solution of collective problems. It would present students with current situations facing The Hill while informing administrative personnel of collegiate
activity and thought. It could thus be an entrance into the realm of more student voice in the affairs and
actions of the college.

The need for student awareness and thought concerning campus problems was stressed by each candidate in varying degrees. Among the
solutions which seem practical and pertinent was the proposal for debates on topics of current and future interest to the
student body. Featuring non-council participants as well as council members this could develop into a driving and informative force in
student affairs.

Another realm of campus life which was approached by the candidates and which has been dramatically highlighted in recent days
is the honor code and its system of perpetuation. Several deficiencies were noted, several problems illuminated, and several solutions presented.
Yet none of these proposals as mentioned promise to remove all of the obstacles or solve the dilemmas inherently involved
in the system. It would seem advisable, therefore, to form a committee of capable, responsible, and experienced students for the
purpose of complete evaluation of our honor system and its operation. Such a committee would consider the subject objectively and
subjectively, examining past records and instances, corralling and analyzing proposals for change, determining student thought by conference, debate, and opinion
polls, and then preparing and presenting for the college community a summary of their actions, reports, and findings. Of course
such a summary would necessarily include the committee's suggested alterations and amendments. Such proposals as a flexible system of punishment
and an honor council should be carefully considered for their individual merits. Decisions in matters of this nature and moment
cannot be made by one man, nor by one council, nor in a brief span of time. Evolving from study,
informative expression, and analysis they should receive full student body support before initiation. It has been charged that few in
the student body are fully aware of how the system works, if it works effectively or why it works until
forced to face it individually. Such a charge should be either satisfactorily answered or alleviated.

Also mentioned in campaign speeches and dorm room caucuses were such proposals as procurement of the Charlotte telephone exchange, removal
of Georgia dormitory, student representative on the curriculum committee, freshman representative on the Council, and revitalization of the Court of
Control. These have been mentioned here before as well as elsewhere, and they stand on their own obvious merits.

The suggestion for the establishment of a student mail service poses several problems. Having definite negative features it seems to
have been created without sufficient need or possible benefits for the whole student body. Added expense which would in reality
be compensated for by students, less service conveniences, inherent administrative entanglements, and satisfaction with the present system are some of
the negative considerations of this suggestion. It should be carefully weighed by the entire student body before any steps are
taken in this direction.

The realm of real and forceful legislative activity has been traditionally retarded and rather dormant. Politics in action is a
word subtly shunned in better circles while receiving much coffee cup condemnation. However, the drive for more legislative control and
development, offering the benefits of practical experience, vitalized student government, and possible campus progress, is one which should be shifted
into high gear. It goes without saying that the present student council has been an untraditionally forceful, alert, and productive
organization this year. The progress and spirit of this year’s student body is the rich inheritance of President LaFar and
his new administration, its continuance and development is his challenge. The foregoing proposals represent a dynamic charge to the new
administration not to slide into the valley of complacent lethargy, but to strive forward, building upon the solid foundations of
the present, a strong, progressive, and expanded tomorrow for student government at Davidson.

Editorially Speaking...

Commendations are in order for Mr. Broyles of the Davidson Printing Company, the Davidson Lions Club, and the Student Council
for their efforts in behalf of procuring the Charlotte telephone exchange for Davidson. Such a situation has been idealistically sought
for several generations but has only been realistically approached in the present year. The satisfaction of future generations and the
gratification of alumni will be the reward of these combined and effective endeavors...

There has been much recent garble about the drinking rules prevalent at D.C. Criticisms have been lobbed at the system
as being unrealistic and in need of drastic revision. Would such critics have college-endorsed school-house parties, bourbon on tap in
the Union, or replace the college seal with the Playboy rabbit? It is hoped not! Then what are their proposals,
where are the unrealities of the present system, what are the reasonable complaints? Within the recent spirit and operation of
the student council many are adequately satisfied with the present situation—a situation not determinable by student decree in the first
place. It would behoove the capable critics to present concrete suggestions and needs for their attacks if they are to
be heard and heard sympathetically...

BUSINESS MANAGER
Larry Parrott

Advertising Manager
Bob Carmichael

Circulation
Stan Miller

Business Staff
Tony Guiles, Bill Bondurant

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 Madison Ave. New York, N.Y.
Chicago - Boston - Los Angeles - San Francisco

Subscription Rate: $2.00 Per Year
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1879.
Offices in David Ovens College Union, Davidson College

Candidates Present Platforms for Scripts ’n Pranks

Jim Kuist

I was talking with one of the men on the grounds-crew about the magazine the other day, and he commented:
“Undoubtedly your spirit is genuine. Yet, I fear that the product of your endeavor lacks a significant measure of satisfaction.
The jokes and anecdotes and, occasionally, a story or two rather amuse us, but...” I had to agree with him.
The humor of the S. & P. has been, as long as I've known it, rather half-baked. The cry has
been for humor. The editors, obeying the nebulous but formidable censorship which defines humor to them, have produced a mag
which is structurally literary, dressed up with assorted jokes and moderately sexy odds and ends with carefully contrived subtitles. Many
times a page is quite humorous.

If you have ever read Playboy, you have seen a magazine designed for the collegiate sense of humor. If you
happen to subscribe to the Columbia Jester or the Michigan Spartan, you receive magazines prepared by collegiate humorists. The two
species of vehicle are mapped towards a common destination by different routes, but each arrives and is acclaimed. There is
no question of their status. They are humor magazines.

I hope that next year, the editor of S. & P. will not frustrate themselves and their reading audiences by
publishing the three funny literary magazines which comprise our annual diet. A fourth issue devoted to serious literature is traditional
and warranted by the creative ability of budding student authors. But the other three issues must be generated by humor
itself. A college humor magazine has this foundation: a theme; one or two editorials to initiate the idea; several feature
sections to spearhead the comedy; several short stories to extend the topic; and a quantity of jokes to fill up
the spaces. Homecoming and Spring Frolics offer great possibilities for humor, and a third issue might celebrate the Davidson bachelor,
as he sits, sterile and distracted, in his Belk cubby-hole.

I went down the hall to Chuck Wright’s room a few nights ago to see how the opposition was coming.
I found Chuck sitting in the middle of the floor playing with an erector set. (A lot of guys used
to kid Chuck about his erector set, but he’s very serious about it. Chuck, Sr., is in Construction, and young
Chuck is determined to learn the business from the bottom up. He started out on Tinker Toys and has been
messing around with this erector set for the past five years.) I patted him on the head and asked him
what he was building this time. “Bar,” he said, without looking up. (It’s a funny thing, but Chuck has never
made anything but bars. He certainly has perseverance.)

BY DEPARTMENT CHAIRMEN:

Educational Analysis Proceeds

For the third successive week, the Davidsonian is presenting further self-evaluations by the Department Chairmen. The statements that follow are
the Chairmen’s answers to these questions:

1. What are the changes that have been made in your department in the last three years?
2. What improvements would you like to see made in your department in the next few years?
3. Would you comment further on the academic standing of Davidson in relation to other similar liberal arts schools as
you can see it?

DEPARTMENT OF PHYSICS

Question 1. None

Question 2. Expand the offering. In Modern Physics, we would like to have a semester in Atomic Physics and a
semester in Nuclear Physics.

Question 3. There is none better and few equals.

DEPARTMENT OF GREEK

Question 1. A revision of some course offerings so as to provide more work in translating Greek authors and an
ability to discuss and understand better Greek civilization in its “own” setting. There has been an endeavor to impart to
the pre-ministerial student especially the real possibilities of the use of Greek in his work. Work is now being done,
by cooperation with the faculty advisors, to encourage preministerial candidates especially to begin their work in Greek during the freshman
year or, in no event, later than the sophomore year, thereby affording them the possibility of studying New Testament Greek
before entrance into a seminary. Advanced courses in Greek have been reactivated.

Question 2. I should like to have the beginning course (Greek 11-12) operate on a five day per week basis.
Two of these periods could be designated as laboratory periods. This procedure would provide actually a great advantage for the
students by giving them more frequent contact with the language.DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION

Question 1.
A. The curriculum has been revised; and, I believe, integrated better with other departments in the College.
B. Particular effort has been made to build up certain weak sections of the library materials pertaining to this department.
C. Audio-visual materials have been purchased, for use in the instructional program of the department.

Question 2.
A. I should like to see the above improvements continued.
B. A new approach to the professional training of teachers needs to be studied—an action which has already begun. This
may well be a matter for broader study by a committee of the Faculty.

Question 3.
This type of evaluation is very difficult to make because of the variability among such institutions; in fact, there has
been a trend in recent years toward a decrease in accreditation groups and lists. Academic standing is, therefore, almost entirely
a matter of personal opinion. Thus, on the basis of the opinions of other persons who know something about liberal
arts colleges in America, I should say that Davidson (to the surprise of no one) ranks very well in the
South but is well below the standing of such other colleges as Amherst, Haverford, Wesleyan, and the like. I think
we should seek to take our place among the schools generally ranked at the top, in the opinions of persons
who should know.

DEPARTMENT OF BIBLE

Question 1.
Changes—in staff only—not in educational aim—not in philosophy of education. We are using a new phraseology in the catalog but
the basic offerings and requirements are the same.

“It just came by to see how your campaign article’s coming along,” I said.
“Boyce gonna write it,” he said, without looking up.
After a while, I hustled out to see his roommate. “Funny guy,” I thought. “Strange he doesn't say much. Sure
is a brave little guy.” (I don't know whether you've noticed it or not, but Chuck has two left feet.
It’s a handicap, but it also gives him his chief talent: he can make right turns quicker than anyone else
on campus.)
I never did find Boyce, so I have no idea what sort of article will be published for Chuck. Whatever
it is, I ask you to give it your serious attention. Boyce writes entertainingly.

Chuck Wright
Sitting contemplatively in the corner of the room, feet propped precariously on the desk's edge, smoke from a dangling cigarette
floating lazily toward a cracked ceiling—seeming not to care whether it got there or not—weary of writing of dull, dead
incidents, sick of being hemmed in by convention, tradition, or rules of the game every itinerant or would-be writer worth
his salt has planned to write someday, somehow, somewhere, a story. And not just any story; but some rebellious piece
sketched out in his mind, and, though he may be fired after its printing, sued for libel, expelled from school,
arrested for slander, quite enthusiastically horsewhipped by the parties concerned, or what have you, he has well pondered the penalty,
and thinks it not too harsh for the playing of the game.

This attitude is fine in theory: when the actual writing of this ghostly dream story nakedly stares one in the
proverbial face, then that is a horse of a dissimilar hue. To the somewhat different person who attempted such a
freedom of the press, one primary consequence would need be gathered to his iron-girded loins—meaning simply a sacrifice of his
sustenance. Which statement rudely bumps us from our mauve-colored cloud, down, down, down to the realm of reality. Such an
attitude may be peachy-keen on the part of the above sacrificer or the theoretical jargonist (God knows how many times
I have fancied the identical dreamy dream); but we here in our little phalanstery must keep our heads while all
around us others are losing theirs. For everyone should know that all towers, ivory or not, are surrounded by some
manner of moat. It is an old axiom that freedom of the press should be tempered with discretion. But must
our discretion be tempered with discretion?

I shall never forget the first time that I met Jim Kuist. It happened about a month after the opening
of school my freshman year. I was strolling along the old golf course, immersed in various thoughts, when, cresting a
small rise, I stumbled upon an extraordinary sight, or so I thought at the time—now I know better. There, sitting
on the ground, backed up against a lone pine, was Jim: a haunting nocturne drifted from the violin he fondled;
a divine soprano voice liltingly launched that nostalgic old air, “La Pastorella”; beside him reclined an odd-shaped bottle whose pervasive
aroma was surely distilled from the mists of the wild, heather-bound moors of Scotland; and with an orange-colored moon reflecting
from his horn-rims, it became a rather startling scene for a grass-green freshman. I eked out a timid, “Hi.” He
spun around and quizzed, “How are you fixed for blades?”

As the years have sped by, Jim and I have become fast friends. I have gotten to know the real
Jim, the Jim personified in the idiosyncrasies which bubble up within him: the niche his carved wooden idol plays in
his seclusive life; his engaging habit of taking money from the collection plate as it passes him in Vespers; the
copying of all of his short stories and research papers from French publications (who is then to be the wiser?);
his harmonization with the faculty. If any of you readers (I trust there are some) haven't met Jim, you should.
He is really a nice fellow. He can usually be found in 120 Belk or the cut office—Yes, he is
the one who initials the small yellow cards that begin, “According to our records...”

DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGY

Question 1.
There is no indication as to the type of change you have in mind. There have been no changes in
personnel and no major changes in curriculum other than the currently planned new summer travel course in field biology. Some
courses have, of necessity, to be given in much the same way in successive years. Certain features of others are
frequently being juggled to arrive at better arrangements. Equipment, of optical and other types, is steadily being improved.

Question 2.
This column is perhaps not the place for discussion of possible future changes in curriculum. We would like to see
continued improvement of equipment and a considerably increased library appropriation. Davidson has a long tradition (extending through more than half
a century) of producing large numbers of prospective medical students. However, there are other schools, no larger, that contribute six
to twelve times as many biologists to regular graduate schools. By a slight shift in emphasis Davidson could not only
perform its pre-medical functions as well as ever but could also make a broader and better-balanced general biological contribution.

Question 3.
For what it claims to be—a small, Southern, denominational, liberal arts school—Davidson appears to stand quite well.

‘SHALLOW IDEALISM’ DEATH OF ORDERLY INTEGRATION
By JOHN DYKERS

There seem to be a great many people in America today who claim the status of magnanimous Christian or herald
of the future, and as such, lead the glorious fight for integration of the white and colored peoples. These people
are, perhaps unwittingly, defeating their own propounded purpose. They have made the grave mistake of making the ideal their immediate
goal instead of their guiding principle, and in doing so they have often sacrificed their principles and defeated their ends.
These people I call the shallow idealists.

You will find shallow idealists in all walks of life, in every worthwhile endeavor, and in every struggle for improvement.
They will often do the loudest condemning, the least good, and the most harm of all those connected with a
particular undertaking. It is very sad to see a significant contribution made or step taken at great sacrifice of time
and effort, and then watch it be destroyed by a foolish extremist.

The man who abandons and returns to his guiding principles whenever it seems convenient may be either unsure of his
principles, in which case he should not claim them without further examination, or he may be merely a vile opportunist.
Many of the exponents of integration have rung forth the cry of brotherhood and consideration for one’s fellow man in
an appeal to admit colored people to white institutions, but so very often when it came to the particular application
of the principle, it was abandoned in an irrational dash past the limits of propriety and a reasonable hope.

Along this line, let us also consider the discrimination inherent in making a big hullabaloo over someone because of the
color of his skin, or in granting special privileges for the same reason, e.g. a special scholarship for a colored
student. It is discriminatory injustice to include or exclude someone solely on the basis of the color of his skin,
black or white, and I accuse the shallow idealists of such discrimination.

There are a great many people in the South today who work, carefully, quietly, diligently, and successfully for improvement of
the relations between races and for the welfare of the colored people in particular. I'm speaking now of people born
and raised in the South and who expect to live and die here, not “carpetbaggers” or “outsiders”, but white Southerners,
and colored Southerners. These people, and they are often influential and powerful leaders, have a genuine respect for the needs
and wishes of each other, and an intimate knowledge of their own position. With this group rests the hope for
peaceful integration. And the shallow idealists are rapidly exterminating them. The “moderate” position is becoming more and more difficult to
hold.

Several explanations are offered for this result. William Faulkner attributes it to the tendency to side with the underdog, which
the colored man has been and the white Southerner has become. The balance of legal power has shifted sides, and
against it have shifted the men who worked hard for the underprivileged colored people and who now will labor for
the preservation of the social system threatened with forced destruction.

I would like to add some other factors. First, is the natural reaction to being pushed too far and too
fast. Another is fear of the unknown, and racial equality in the South is certainly that, for most people. A
third is loss of the control which bred magnanimity. And perhaps most important of all is the law of action
and reaction; a radical extremist action by one party results in a radical extremist reaction by the other. The attitude
becomes one of “Either you’re for me or against me.” The lines are drawn, black and white, and the choice
of side is forced and irrevocable and total. Alignment results in alienation. The middle ground becomes a no-man’s land, and
moderation and compromise are no longer possible. The answer rests with power, and neither side can afford to give an
inch.

Again I accuse the shallow idealists of such action, and of precipitating such a situation, and be it ignorant enthusiasm
or egotistical flag-waving, it is self-defeating and harmful to the South, the Nation, and mankind.
