The Davidsonian

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Dick Morehead

ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Maurice Crouse
Tom Warlick

Managing Editors
Jim Batten, Franklin Bloodworth, Jim Brice

Sports Editor
Leon Howell

Exchange Editor
Bob Beall

News Editors
Lloyd Chapin, Bill Pomeroy, Harry Paschali, John Trask

Staff Photographer
Assignments

Member of the Associated Collegiate Press and Intercollegiate Press

Friday, March 16, 1956

Page Two

The Light Dawns

The charge has been made repeatedly that we tend to curl up into our comfortable but isolated cells here at
Davidson daring the world to break through. This has too often proven true. However, student response to the Y-sponsored debate
Wednesday night was an encouraging and challenging contradiction to our cloistered complacency. Discussion continued long past the termination of the
debate in coffee clubs, room sessions, and convenient lobbies; and it is hoped that such positive reaction will not fade
away with the exit of the speakers.

There has been a crying need for such interactive, focused, and stimulative presentation on the Davidson campus not for months
but for years. To those organs of study and expression on national and world affairs—to the IRC, Y Committee for
Effective Citizenship, YRC, Scabbard and Blade, and study groups—here is a challenge to continue the spirit and quality of enthusiasm
in this program into further presentations of similar nature, in seminars, informative literature, and other available means.

And to each of us comes the renewed challenge, pressurized by the world situation, by the imminent responsibilities and demands
of our near future, and by our present position at Davidson, to seek, to find, and to evaluate the truth
wherever it may be found.

Speakers of Stature

In recent months, new ideas, trends, and attitudes have brought about a significant improvement in the educational program offered at
Davidson in almost every field. However, there is yet one dark corner to which, despite the efforts of many, no
light has been carried. This is the dearth of outstanding and competent national authorities in many fields who could shed
valuable insights on the Davidson campus. Davidson should have these speakers. It is her duty to secure them, and her
importance is great enough to warrant their presence here; yet none appear.

This situation is not entirely due to the fact that students and various groups are not interested in national, political,
and international problems or are not attempting to bring such speakers to the campus. The difficulty lies in the fact
that this task is too large for several small groups working independently to accomplish. It should be emphasized that there
have been many outstanding programs along these lines presented during the year, and several more are on tap. An excellent
example of this is the debate held recently between Dr. Lewis M. Hoskins and Mr. Harry Golden on the topic
of pacifism and power politics in the conduct of foreign policy. Such presentations should be increased in frequency if possible.

At the same time, Davidson has never reached the zenith in such presentations, never securing the most eminent and qualified
authorities in each field, consequently never presenting many topics as effectively as they might be presented. There are several clubs,
committees, and councils on the campus who are actively seeking to promote greater student interest in politics, national and international
affairs, and other problems which face our government in these troubled times. Often these groups work at cross purposes. Certainly
their funds are not pooled effectively. What is needed obviously is greater coordination, perhaps one centralized body which would actively
promote and seek to stimulate interest in these topics. The student government favors this plan and feels that the desired
results can best be obtained through the chapel committee.

No one would disagree that this year’s chapel committee has done far more to improve the quality, usefulness, and value
of the chapel exercise than the last four or five chapel committees combined. This same committee has made a valiant,
if as yet unsuccessful, attempt to bring about the very aims being stressed in this editorial. In the secular field,
considering the financial resources available, Davidson should settle for no less than two such qualified experts per year, and in
time this could easily be raised to four or six. Purely for illustrative purposes the following names are suggested of
those who might adequately fill all specifications: Walter Lippmann, Adlai Stevenson, Reinhold Niebuhr, Stewart Alsop, Bernard Baruch, Allan Dulles, Henry
Cabot Lodge, Jr., Gen. Maxwell D. Taylor, Warren Austin, George Meany, Eleanor Roosevelt, Clare Booth Luce, Harlow Curtice, and Ernest
Hemingway. This list could be continued indefinitely.

There is no difficulty in listing suitable and desirable people. The difficulty lies in making contact with these people over
a long period of years, and bringing to a conclusion the painful process of determining which of these people would
consider coming to Davidson and under what terms. This is one of the main difficulties facing most groups today: the
necessity of starting from scratch whenever a speaker is desired. An essential step in solving this problem would lie in
combining into one unified fund all of the resources from foundation grants, student activities fees, and general college funds, which
are now being distributed in small parcels to the many separate groups. The second step and probably the key to
the whole problem is coordination. As we stated earlier, the student government favors handling this problem through the chapel committee.
Two alternatives thus present themselves. One is an enlarged chapel committee, which would include representatives from the various organizations who
by the very nature of their groups are the ones closest and most interested in many of these problems and
should thus be accorded representation. The second possibility is to form a separate committee composed of representatives of these groups
which would work closely with the chapel committee and would coordinate the activity on that phase of the chapel planning
problem.

One thing more is essential, however, and no new organization can bring this about. It is a continuation of the
new philosophy adopted by the chapel committee, an attempt to make chapel really meaningful and valuable and an attempt to
secure the services of the very people that we have mentioned.

—T.W.W.

Around the Poll...

This month’s student opinion poll, while drawing some interesting comparisons, needs a few qualifying comments. It must be noted that
student rating of the academic departments was based on two factors, the nature of the courses and their presentation. As
the expressed criticisms revealed, low rating in several cases was based on deficient number and quality of courses presented and
on the insufficient number of professors available to handle the department adequately in proportion to the students involved. The departmental
chairmen through the office of Dean Pietenpol are urged to consider the evaluative comments presented by those majoring in their
respective departments. Founded on limited experience and comparative basis, they are nevertheless given with thought and conviction in the best
interests of Davidson and ought not to be considered lightly. They represent in many cases similar needs recognized by faculty
members and department chairmen. Although all of these proposals cannot be realized, many of them can, and these merit fullest
attention.

BUSINESS MANAGER
Larry Parrott

Advertising Manager
Bob Carmichael

Subscription
Warner Hall

Circulation
Bob Majors, Stan Miller, Tony Guiles, Bill Bondurant

REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publishers Representative
420 MADISON AVE. NEW YORK, N.Y.
CHICAGO * BOSTON * LOS ANGELES * SAN FRANCISCO

Subscription Rate: $2.00 Per Year
Entered as second class matter at the Post Office at Davidson, N. C., under the Act of March 3, 1879.
Offices in David Ovens College Union, Davidson College

DAVIDSONIAN PLATFORMS ARE PRESENTED

Jim Batten

An annual platform observation, which can be made this year of the Morehead regime with untainted sincerity, is that the
Davidsonian has enjoyed a year of unparalleled success as the news and editorial voice of the college. With this in
mind, it is with natural reluctance that I would suggest anything comparable to a program of sweeping reforms. Instead, it
would be my intention to retain the established patterns and to perpetuate recent improvements, while introducing without hesitation appropriate changes
and innovations, for which there is definitely a place.

CAMPUS-WIDE NEWS COVERAGE

Complete and objective reporting of the news is the prime purpose of any college newspaper worth its activities fee appropriation.
News originating from the faculty and administration would be obtained through continuation of the two-way traffic of information between the
student body and the powers that be. This type of exchange, fostered through personal contacts, the monthly staff luncheons with
Dean Spencer, and devices such as polling the faculty, and The Open Forum, has proven a potent weapon in combating
the Almighty Rumor as the official campus source of information, and in the upswing of student-faculty relations since their low-water
mark of two springs ago.

EDITORIAL PAGE AND POLICY

The Davidsonian should take a well-defined editorial stand on all questions and issues pertinent to the life of the college,
through presentation in the regular editorial columns. While student opinion would be mirrored here, the views expressed in these columns
would be those of the editors, and not necessarily those of a majority of the student body, believing with UNC’s
fame. editors Yoder and Kraar that constant agreement is indeed dull.

The remainder of the editorial page would be devoted to the presentation of all sides of the issues and controversies
which are more or less ever with us, from the enrollment debate to the Court of Control quandary, as well
as those which will inevitably arise during the course of the year. One of the more pressing of the matters
is the recently launched and long-overdue evaluation of the Academic Process at Davidson. For all of our fervent introspection in
recent years dealing at length with the YMCA, Student Government, athletic policy, and the Military, it seems to me that
we have too long failed to pause to take stock of ourselves in the most basic and fundamental area of
all, the liberal education. The Davidsonian under my editorship would strive to continue and expand this critical self-analysis, and would
continually and vigorously fight the suggestion, popular in some quarters, that Davidson should relax in some measure its academic standards.

Close cooperation would be maintained between the Davidsonian and the new student body president, with the possibility of a bi-monthly
or monthly column by the president, devoted to informing the students of student government policy and activity. The weekly cartoon
would definitely be continued, and would be produced by home-grown cartoonists whenever possible. Light, and humorous material would be sought
to give the paper versatility and depth, with specially planned dance weekend features, conducive to tete-a-tete reading over intermission coffee
and doughnuts.

THE SPORTS PAGE

Beyond the mere run-of-the-mill pre-game announcements and post-game recap stories, the athletic scene offers a rich source of untapped material.
I would favor more colorful feature-type sports articles dealing with the players and coaches themselves as seen from the dugout
or in practice sessions, instead of entirely impersonal, authoritative, press box accounts of the team’s collective showing. Believing statistics to
be the sports fan's bread and butter, an increased and up to date volume of both team and individual statistics
would be presented, to include baseball box scores and similar summaries for the other major sports. I also feel that
published statistics would prove a shot in the arm to interfraternity competition. Keeping weekly tabs on the league leaders should
generate more interest among both players and spectators. This could easily be done with the basketball league, and with adequate
cooperation and staff manpower could be extended to include softball’s top hitters and home run producers, and in the fall,
flickerball’s leading scorers. A revival of all-star selections in sports other than basketball is also a definite possibility.

ORGANIZATIONALLY

One of the weakest aspects of Davidsonian organization over the past years has been a dire lack of a competent
and dependable nucleus of news and sports reporters. In an effort to remedy this situation, all prospective freshmen whose records
show even the slightest journalistic inclinations will be contacted this summer and informed of the workings of the Davidsonian and
of the opportunities which exist. In the fall, all interested men will be contacted and put to work, with rotation
of assignments and periodic meetings of the entire staff designed to ensure continued interest. Not all of the improvements of
the Davidsonian can stem from the gloss of appealing features and slick presentation. Many of the less conspicuous possibilities involve
basically sound reporting of the regular week-in, week-out news stories that collectively tell the story of Davidson.

Franklin Bloodworth

The editorship of the Davidsonian presents a tremendous challenge to that person chosen by the student body to fill this
important position. The responsibility of this challenge—to make the Davidsonian a potent force for progress and improvement on the campus—is
one that I will enthusiastically accept if I am elected editor. To meet successfully this challenge I propose the following
suggestions in the sincere belief that they willresult in a more interesting and influential newspaper.

REORGANIZATION OF THE SPORTS PAGE
Every sports contest, both collegiate and interfraternity, should be reported on the sports page. All interfraternity athletic events should be
given full and unbiased coverage each week, and a greater emphasis on the minor sports, as well as continued coverage
of the major sports, should be undertaken. This year there has been a very pressing need for more space on
the sports page in order to give a fuller coverage of the Davidson athletic scene. To provide more space, the
elimination of the Davidsonian “Mast Head” usually found on the sports page, which is both unnecessary and repetitious, will allow
an additional twelve square inches of copy each week. If necessary, several columns on the back page could be used
for sports stories.

A REVITALIZED EDITORIAL PAGE
The editorial page should serve a dual purpose: it should serve as a means for the student body to make
known their wishes to the faculty and administration on such matters as athletic subsidization, enrollment, curriculum and calendar changes, etc.
In turn, the editorial page should also function as an outlet for faculty expression on such matters, in the hope
that a better understanding between students and faculty will result. When any important issue faces the college family, all sides
of the question should be fully and fairly discussed and analyzed. Editorials by members of the student body should be
solicited, and the “Letters to the Editor” column should be open for this purpose. However, the Davidsonian itself should take
a definite stand on these issues, supporting that alternative which the staff feels would be in the best interests of
the college. A planned and directed editorial policy is a must if the Davidsonian is to fulfill the purpose for
which it was established. A good local cartoon, the rotation of qualified writers, shorter editorials, and careful editorial selectivity, to
ensure and improve the quality and content of the editorials, should ever be the goals of editorial policy.

RE-EVALUATION OF THE FRONT AND BACK PAGES
The primary function of the front and back pages should be to report news of interest to the college family.
In order for the news articles to be of interest, however, they must be timely. Every effort should be made
to secure the first reports of such news breaks as the resignation of faculty members and the actions of the
trustees and faculty. It is only fair that the campus publication be given first notice of such events. A greater
emphasis should be given to news evaluation in the hope of preventing the monopoly of the news columns by certain
aspects of college life. Complete and impartial news coverage should be accorded to all activities and to all departments. Unfortunately,
this year lack of space has forced the omission of many worthwhile news stories. This has been the result, partly,
of the over-emphasis placed on feature articles. Feature articles, such as the senior sketches and opinion polls, certainly have a
definite place in the newspaper, but their multiplication should never be allowed to the extent that omission of valid news
stories is necessitated. One possible remedy to this lack of space on the front and back pages, as well as
on the sports page, is the publication of more six-page papers each year. A more factual, objective account of the
news will result in shorter articles and thus more room for other news. Editorializing in the news columns should never
be tolerated.

ACCURATE, INTERESTING, WELL-WRITTEN NEWS ARTICLES
By an expansion of the staff to include members from every fraternity as well as independents, by a more careful
selection of the staff to include only those men who excel in writing, and by an intensified program of training
in journalistic methods for the staff, the general standard of the news articles would be raised. Accuracy, timeliness, clearness, and
conciseness should be set standards for news articles. These are some of the suggestions that I believe will help to
make the Davidsonian a more vital, influential publication. If you see fit to elect me editor, I promise to apply
my three years of experience on the paper and devote my full efforts to this end—a better Davidsonian for a
better Davidson.

Leon Howell

Even a small opportunity to share and participate in the traditions and responsibilities of the press is, in effect, an
awesome position to be placed in. If I am selected to the editorship, I shall attempt to uphold the high
standards established here and elsewhere to the best of my ability. An analysis of the primary functions and areas of
response that must be given complete and accurate coverage reveals three distinct departments: news, editorials, and features.

NEWS REPORTING
It should be within the scope of the news staff to procure and produce on the pages of the Davidsonian
all items of interest and importance to the Davidson student. In retrospect of this year’s news policy, I have reached
the conclusion that more emphasis ought to be placed on concise and complete presentation of specific news sources and reserving
the editorial page for the “slanted” articles, in which opinion and satire are incorporated.

Howell

In order to increase the caliber of the finished product for this year and to enhance the quality of years
to come, a concerted attempt will be made to take full advantage of qualified freshmen and to enlist a greater
number than has been done in previous years. Outstanding writers in the upper classes will also be solicited. Specifically, the
giant stride forward in informing the students of the Student Council actions will be continued; reports from the administration and
trustees pertinent to students will be stated; fraternities, sports, and other activities will continue to receive their full treatment.

EDITORIAL OUTLOOK
Whereas the news will be reported in a factual and objective manner, the editorial page will attempt to present, clarify,
and discuss both sides of all problems related to college students. These will touch on student attitude, opinions on Student
Government and faculty moves, national and international items of interest and importance. Examination and critical evaluations will be offered on
topics of current interest such as segregation, curriculum, and increasing of enrollment. In the two columns reserved for the editor
and his associates, their judgments and observations will be presented. There will be no attempt to be radical in an
effort to become a “gadfly,” but the policy will be sincerely and honestly directed toward generating and promulgating student awareness
of problems that exist. Dependent upon continued student interest, such additional editorial page material as the “Open Forum,” Letters to
the Editor, and additional questions and answers will be carried over.

FEATURES AND SPORTS
Another carry-over from recent years will be the continuation of polls on subjects of importance to the Student Body, as
well as sketches on campus fixtures and personnel to be determined later. This, of course, will be under the direction
of one capable person who will ensure the worthiness and quality of these projects. One of the most neglected areas
in reporting this past year was the Inter-fraternity Sports scene. It is proposed here to have one qualified writer to
report weekly on the IFC sports to provide adequate presentation. More aid in assignments and copy reading will be tendered
the page to improve it in form as well as content. As is clearly shown above, the purpose and guiding
aim of the Davidsonian under my “Regime” would be to collect the news, determine that which is newsworthy, project various
interpretations, prepare it with care and precision, and disseminate it on the pages of the paper each Friday night. It
should be, then, that the Davidsonian would be the total student voice.

STAFF AND ADMINISTRATION PROPOSALS
In an effort to increase the unified action in accomplishing the above goals, weekly staff meetings would be held to
discuss proposed areas for discussion, to determine and promulgate the policy upon which we are building, and to critique the
past week’s issue, determining its strong and weak points with a better issue in mind. From the circulation standpoint, a
vigorous drive will be made to increase the number of subscriptions that are being mailed out, thereby presenting more people
with an inside view of what is being accomplished and what is proposed for Davidson. The underclassmen who will be
directing the activities of the paper the next year would be given more opportunity for experience and orientation. This would
decrease the necessity of the editor and his staff “flying blind” the first few issues. Concerning the layout, there are
no radical changes offered at present. A vivid and unique, as well as pleasing, paper will be our aim. If,
through experience and outside contact, a plan we feel to be more desirable is discovered, it will be presented. This
year’s fine picture coverage is a goal to reach for, not attempt to surpass. Once again, if I am elected,
I pledge myself to presenting a paper that is truly representative of Davidson.

ACADEMIC INTROSPECTION
Departmental Critique Continues
This week marks the second in a series of articles designed to evaluate Davidson academically. With a critical analysis in
mind, the Davidsonian posed three questions to the chairmen of all departments of the college:
1. What are the changes that have been made in your department in the last three years?
2. What improvements would you like to see made in your department in the next few years?
3. Would you comment further on the academic standing of Davidson in relation to other similar liberal arts schools as
you see it?

DEPARTMENT OF HISTORY
Question 1. We have had some changes in personnel and some changes in courses. We have added two new courses
(one in Russian History and one in Twentieth Century United States History) and have revised several others. We have also
dropped one course (Latin American History), since Professor Guerrant left Davidson. In addition, we have now taken over one course
formerly in Political Science (Diplomatic History of the United States).

Question 2. I would like to see a requirement of a senior thesis for majors in the Department, if and
when adequate library resources for such work are acquired. Other improvements contemplated revolve around more use of visual aids, maps,
and of course library books.

Question 3. Davidson rates well, I think, among liberal arts colleges. Comparisons on details are difficult to substantiate, but in
a general way my opinion is that Davidson is well above the average of such colleges in the South, and
that we are not at the top among such colleges in the nation as a whole. This is not altogether
bad, as it keeps us from being complacent and gives us something to work toward.

DEPARTMENT OF ENGLISH
Question 1. The Department of English added one man in September of 1955. The department is slowly increasing its visual
aid resources. The department is slowly but steadily adding to its library materials and resources. In September of 1956, the
department plans to add English 13-14, which will be open to students demonstrating a high degree of proficiency in lieu
of English 11-12. That is, such students may substitute English 13-14 for English 11-12 in meeting their English requirements for
a degree.

Question 2. It is quite difficult to state in a short space the improvements I should like to see in
the department. Again, there are many different areas that might be involved. There are some three or four courses which
the department would like to offer if registration were heavy enough to warrant the additional personnel that would be needed.
Every instructor could probably list specific ways in which he might, under optimum conditions, improve the courses he is already
offering.

DEPARTMENT OF FINE ARTS
Question 1. Courses of instruction for the Fine Arts Department have been increased from one combination studio-art appreciation course to
three two-semester courses. These include a survey of Art History, and Basic and Advanced Studio. There is also a night
Studio class for the faculty and other members of the Davidson community. Studio space has been enlarged and necessary equipment
obtained. An etching press is the latest acquisition.

Question 2. Studio facilities should be enlarged to accommodate increased enrollment. Although, in the last three years, a sizeable library
of art slides has been built up from a rather small nucleus, the slide library is still lacking in many
areas—especially in contemporary art. An adequate slide collection is a necessity for a vivid presentation of the History of Art.

Question 3. Work accomplished in both Art History and Studio classes compares favorably with that done in institutions maintaining a
more extensive art program. For verification of the latter, compare the exhibit of art works by Davidson students with that
by the students of W.C.U.N.C., both of which are on display at the Mint Museum in Charlotte during the month
of March.
