PAGE FOUR

WATER FLEW BY THE BUCKETFUL as freshmen ‘rioted’ Monday night. Court of Control members managed to keep activities confined to the sidewalks, in accordance with the freshmen regulations. Judge of the Court, Reitzel Snider, is seen at the right foreground speaking with one of the mob.

COKES IN THE DORMS

Pless, Smith, Avinger Lead Freshman Council

The Freshman Council held its first weekly meeting last Monday at 4:45 p.m. in the Blue Room of the College Union. Freshman Adviser Carl Cooper presided until officers for this year had been elected. The first order of business was a report by Carl Cooper on freshman requests for a coke machine in West Dormitory and phones on every hall. Cooper stated that the coke machines could be obtained, but the cost of operation prevented the installation of a phone on every floor.

OFFICERS

Next on the agenda was the election of officers. The newly elected slate is as follows: President, Ken Pless; Vice-president, Tom Smith; and Secretary-Treasurer, Bob Avinger. Bunny Perkinson then asked the council to handle the room assignments in Belk for freshmen’s dates during homecoming weekend. A discussion on this followed. Carl Cooper led a discussion on Freshmen's Parents Day which is to be held Saturday, November 3, and then conducted one on the Freshman-Sophomore Field Day which is scheduled for next Monday.

COMMITTEES

The last order of business was the reports of the various committees. The committees are as follows: Invitations: Harry Broom, chairman; Dick Smith, Al McKay, Ken Pless, and Smitty Smith; and on the program committee: Bob Livingston, chairman; Pete Kellogg, and Chris Bremer. The Hospitality Committee is composed of Bob McGirt, chairman; Bob Avinger, and Brownie Thurman; and working on Arrangements are Flem Mauney, chairman, Buford Grier, and Gus Burgdorf. On the Registration Committee is John Huie, chairman, Dave Warden, and Hank Escue; and the publicity is being handled by Jim Earnhardt, chairman, Gaither Sanford, and Dabney Stuart.

Openings Are Available For Aviation

Representatives from the Naval Officer Procurement at Raleigh, N.C., and the Assignment Office of the Naval Air Station, Atlanta, Ga., will visit Davidson College on Tuesday. Interviews will be conducted in the David Ovens Student Union. Openings are available for assignment in Aviation, the General Line, and in numerous specialty categories. In addition, undergraduates who have completed two years of college are eligible for Naval Aviation Cadet training leading to a commission in the Navy or Marine Corps.

TRAINING

Candidates for General Line, Supply, Civil Engineering, and the Medical Service Corps receive initial training at the Officer Candidate School located at Newport, Rhode Island. Aviation Officer Candidates and Naval Aviation Cadets start flight training at Pensacola, Florida. Information on all Navy and Marine Corps officer and enlisted programs will also be available.

APPLICATIONS

In order to avoid delay in being ordered to active duty, applications may be initiated several months prior to attaining the required academic qualifications, but final acceptance will depend upon successfully completing these qualifications. Candidates who meet the required standards may take the qualification tests and make application with the visiting Navy Procurement Officers if they desire. Those who take qualification tests, or who make application and subsequently change their mind, are not obligated in any way.

“A Bible and a newspaper in every house, a good school in every district—all studied and appreciated as they merit—are the principal support of virtue, morality, and civil liberty.”—Benjamin Franklin

Voting is the right that guarantees all other rights. Let nothing come between you and your vote this year. Study the candidates, and hear what they have to say. Talk over the issues. Then be sure you're registered, so you can walk up to that voting booth with confidence on Election Day—and vote as a free American! Published as a public service in cooperation with The Advertising Council.

PHYSICS HONORARY HOLDS FIRST MEETING

Sigma Pi Sigma, Physics honor society, held its first meeting in the Blue Room of the College Union. President Jerry Pietenpol reported on his research in the geochemistry lab operated in Palisades, N.Y., by Columbia University. His work dealt primarily with the carbon 14 method of geological dating. This technique involves determining the ratio of carbon 14 (radioactive) to carbon 12 (ordinary) in various geological samples, by counting the radioactivity. After the report was given, the group discussed the principles associated with the procedure and apparatus. At the end of the meeting, plans were made for a future discussion of graduate study in physics at various schools.

$10,000 Yearly Salary Possible for Faculty

A $10,000 a year average salary for college faculty members is possible if teachers are willing to utilize time effectively and experiment with new methods, according to President W. Bay Irvine of Marietta College. “Larger classes, mass communication and...Other devices could be employed to make fewer instructors necessary, thus easing teacher shortages and providing more money for salaries,” Dr. Irvine said. Quality of instruction can remain just as high, he declared. “Why can't a student learn just as well in a class of 20 as in a class of 157?”

“We in education would do well to copy industry's plan of reducing the unit cost, increasing the quality of the product (student), and better rewarding the operator (teacher).” President Irvine also suggested the elimination of specialized classes offered to a small number of students as a means of better utilizing faculty time. “It’s up to us,” Dr. Irvine declared. “We can continue under the traditional ‘vow of poverty’ or we can experiment with new methods that promise help in lifting our salary standards to a respectable level.”

Noted Speakers... (Continued from Page One) also be present at the interdisciplinary sociology seminar, conducted by Dr. Ford and Dr. McAfee, associate professor of Sociology. Other activities are planned by the “Y” for Political Emphasis Week. Dr. Ford will speak at Chapel on Tuesday concerning the idea of religious ethics in politics. Wednesday night hall prayer meetings will similarly be centered around this theme. The “Y” Committee on Effective Citizenship has expressed its hope that the week, which it has planned for Davidson students, will be beneficial to them as politics becomes “red hot” in the few weeks preceding national elections.

HOMECOMING ... A Week From Today! Has your Tuxedo been cleaned? If not, don’t forget to bring it, your Tux Shirt, and your Suit to us for our Personal Attention.

Jackson Cleaners
MAIN STREET OPPOSITE GULF STATION

THE DAVIDSONIAN
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 19, 1956

FRATERNITY OFFICERS FOR 1956-57

| FRATERNITY | PRESIDENT | VICE-PRESIDENT | SECRETARY | TREASURER | BOARDING HOUSE MANAGERS |
|----------------|----------------------|----------------------|----------------------|----------------------|----------------------|
| Alpha Tau Omega | Franklin Bloodworth | Lloyd Chapin | Tom Morgan | Sam Sutton | Maurice Ritchie |
| Beta Theta Pi | Carl Cooper | Tony Dick | Laurens Walker | Ed Bell | Reitzel Snider |
| Campus Club | Dave White | L. W. Posey | C. K. Bartell | Curtis Patterson | Bill Lazenby |
| Kappa Alpha | Larry Trotti | Bob Majors | J. C. Gilmer | Dick Weeks | Buddy Dye |
| Kappa Sigma | Stuart Vaughn | Brown Hamer | Gary Maynard | Pete Ashcraft | Alex Shepard |
| Phi Delta Theta | Vernon Hunter | Bob Pulliam | Dave Brown | Baxter Cochran | Joe Sandifer |
| Phi Gamma Delta | Creighton Peden | None | R. G. Jones | John Horne | W. M. Bullock |
| Pi Kappa Alpha | George Scott | Ernest Carpenter | Charles Drummond | Dick Hodel | Cecil Dickson |
| Pi Kappa Phi | John Maultsby | Harry Paschall | None | Bill Duke | David McFadyen |
| Sigma Alpha Epsilon | Chuck Wright | John Lennon | Roger Powell | Sam Smith | Ed Young |
| Sigma Chi | Jim Kuist | Boyce Martin | John Trotti | Bill Pitser | Jim Daniels |
| Sigma Phi Epsilon | Bill Daniel | Bob Shaw | Jack Graham | Ed Moore | Donny McRee |

Berryhill Outlines... (Continued from Page One) judge the environmental factors affecting a patient as well as the physical ones.

LANGUAGE NEEDS
A thorough knowledge of the fundamentals of the English language is an essential requisite, for the doctor who cannot communicate effectively with those with whom he must deal cannot hope to practice medicine as he should. The student should also have some knowledge of foreign languages, economics, history, psychology, and other liberal arts courses to be adequately prepared for the study of medicine.

SPIRITUAL FACTOR
The second major aspect of undergraduate preparation is spiritual preparation. Much of the practice of medicine depends on the integrity and moral character of the physician. If an individual physician does not measure up to the trust that the public places in him, he will not be a good physician.

ALL CAPITOL AND DECCA LP’S 20% OFF
DIAMOND NEEDLES FOR ALL POPULAR RECORD CHANGERS ONLY $12.95
PARKER-GARDNER
CHARLOTTE 2, N. C.
118 West Trade Street
Phone ED. 2-8257

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... PIZZA
the famous OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead
Charlotte, N. C.

You feel so new and fresh and good—all over—when you pause for Coca-Cola. It's sparkling with quick refreshment... and it's so pure and wholesome—naturally friendly to your figure. Let it do things—good things—for you.
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD
“Coke” is a registered trademark.
©1956, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY

FROM OUR NEW FLOOR FOR MEN... AND UNIVERSITY SHOP
Are you dated for homecoming? Don’t be dated in appearance! You will be if you’re not wearing the new natural shoulder tux in a peak lapel model. Pleatless trousers.

BELK’S OF CHARLOTTE

A scoop for Arrow
This Arrow University sport shirt is big news with college men this Fall. We brought custom shirtmaking to casual wear with this one, from its button-down collar in front (and center back) to its action box pleat. “Custom” patterns, too... authentic tartan stripes, tattersall checks, many other stripes. Tartans, $5.95; checks and stripes in cotton-rayon, $7.95.

ARROW—CASUAL WEAR

Latest (and last) word in style
You'll be hearing a lot of talk about this shirt. For here are all the dress-up details of an Arrow University style... in a sport shirt! Button-down collar, front and back, full box pleat. And you can be as formal or informal as you like in our full choice of last-word fabrics and colors. See them soon. University (“Ivy League”) shirts, $5.95 and $7.95.

IVEY’S OF CHARLOTTE