WRESTLING TEAM MEETS CITADEL | (Page 3) | VOL. XLIV

Eight Davidson Men Finish at Mid-Term

Eight Davidson College seniors completed undergraduate requirements during the first semester and will be awarded their baccalaureate degrees in June
commencement exercises. They are Albert C. Gaither of Newton, Thomas A. Guiton of Parkton, V. Carroll Jenkins of Franklin, Tenn.,
Thomas K. McDonald of Winnsboro, S.C., Hampton Mauze of San Antonio, Texas, Fred E. Morrison of Harrisburg, William H. Rowland
of Gastonia, and Frank M. Renfrow of Mathews.

Five of the graduates are veterans of active military service, and one of them, Thomas A. Guiton, first entered Davidson
in 1942. He has since served on active duty with both the Air Force and the Army, is a first
lieutenant in the Army Reserve, and has taught in the North Carolina public schools. Davidson does not hold mid-year graduation
exercises, and all degrees are awarded at the June commencement.

Physics Group Hears Talk on Light Rays

Sigma Pi Sigma Honorary Physics Society held its regular meeting Tuesday night, February 7, in the Green Room of the
College Union. After a brief business meeting in which several new members were elected, Tommy Ratchford presented a program on
“Deflection of Light Rays by Gravity.” Plans were also made for the meeting February 28 which will be open to
the student body. At that time Mr. Roy Palmer, a well-known light engineer from Charlotte, will speak on “The Physics
of Light.” Following this, the group, stimulated by coffee and cinnamon sticks, entered into an informal discussion on the advantages
offered to an engineering student by a liberal arts college.

MYERS OVERCUTS SERIES: Critic’s Knife Slashes Little Symphony Concert

By FRED MYERS Davidsonian Art Critic

Of course, we are aware that North Carolina is culturally a very young state, and we wholeheartedly endorse the sort
of movement which produces the sort of instrumental group which we were privileged to hear last Tuesday night in Chambers
Auditorium. At the same time, our sincere and exuberant enthusiasm at the beginnings of cultural awareness would be meaningless if
we did not adopt a critical attitude toward the initial productions of such a genesis. The North Carolina Little Symphony
performed here, it must be said, an overly ambitious program. The performers in question are, strictly speaking, if not technically,
amateurs—that is to say, not only “non-professional” (in the strict if not the literal sense), but “music-lovers.” Conceiving of these
performers in the latter capacity, we cannot criticize the inclusion of the Mozart concerto in their program, though later, as
we shall see, in the former capacity, we shall have just cause to condemn and deplore this catastrophe.

We must not, however, confuse ourselves as to the primary function of the amateur, which is to attend concerts or
to collect (with some measure of discrimination and good taste, it is to be hoped) phonograph records. His secondary function
is to perform, when called upon to do so, that which he is capable of performing, and that which he
is fond of performing. He must, at the same time, be able, and careful, to discern between the two. We
sincerely hope that the members of the North Carolina Little Symphony are fond of performing Mozart and Haydn; we seriously
doubt whether they are capable of performing either.

A word must be said on the subject of Viviane Bertolami, the violin soloist of Franco-Italian parentage who undertook to
perform the Mozart Violin Concerto in E Flat. Miss Bertolami is evidently a good student. She has learned her lessons
well, plays with competent assurance (almost), has a beautiful face and an appealing figure (having taken after her father's, the
Italian side of the family), and is charmingly and disarmingly modest in conversation. In fact, this writer was enchanted to
talk with her and to look at her. She is not, however, up to a Mozart concerto. Her playing was
mechanical and uninteresting—even a bit strained technically. It was more an exercise than a performance. (Yet how could one perform
with a great bear pawing one?) There was no soul in it, and without soul there is no art. We
merely point this out, since we would rather praise the presence of soul where it is found, than criticize the
lack of it where it is not found. Miss Bertolami's playing was honest at least, which is more than can
be said of all performers who momentarily invade our local stronghold.

The conductor-director of the orchestra, Benjamin Swalin, went through his gyrations like a pirouetting bear. He was tall enough to
have performed without a podium, and wore very full, sweeping tails. This writer had not before been acquainted with Mr.
Satterfield’s compositions; the brief folk-suite played by the Little Symphony, however, was the sort of thing which he enjoys and
appreciates. Satterfield knows his business and is no amateur. Some soul (the soul of art) shines through, and this is
much to say. Satterfield, however, took something of a beating last Tuesday night. The Little Symphony's not being up to
him, on the other hand, puts him (Satterfield) in ex-

(Continued On Page Four)

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C., FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1956

“If we ain’t got it, we can get it for you.”

“The Jungle” and “Out” Sign Identify Copeland’s

By CARTER DANIEL

Among the non-college population of the Davidson community, no one is so familiar to the students as William (Bill) Creecy
Copeland, Sr., proprietor of Copeland’s Store. Beginning his eleventh year of operating his store here, Mr. Copeland has led an
eventful and valuable life.

He was raised in Rocky Mount, North Carolina, and was graduated from Davidson with an A.B. degree in 1916. After
teaching high school for a few years, he attended Columbia Seminary, receiving his B.D. degree in 1924. During the next
twenty years Mr. Copeland served as both a teacher and a minister. He taught English and Spanish at Washington High
School in Washington, North Carolina, and math and physics at Presbyterian Junior College. During World War II he taught navigation
for the Army Air Force.

The list of Mr. Copeland’s honors and activities when he was a Davidson student is impressive. For his original orations,
which every student was required to make, he won the Phi Society's Declaimer’s Medal as a sophomore, and in the
following year he earned the Junior “rep”, granting him the honor of speaking at the commencement exercises. Besides his activities
as a cheerleader and as a member of the football and baseball teams, he served as secretary of the YMCA
and of the ministerial band, and as First Supervisor of the Phi Society.

Despite the persistent rumor on the campus, Mr. Copeland says that he cannot claim membership in Phi Beta Kappa among
his honors. Two of Mr. Copeland's accomplishments here stand as mementos of his college days. He was on the committee
which met in the old library, now the Guest House, and decided to begin publication of a college newspaper. He
strongly objects to the fact that the Class of 1915 is given the full credit for founding the paper. “It
was founded in 1915," he says, “but by all the classes working together.” The other reminder of his years here
is the inscription which he suggested, “Labora Ut Vincas”—Labor to Conquer—which is inscribed at the base of the fountain in
the college well.

Years ago, Mr. Copeland opened his store in its present location. The variety of merchandise on the shelves there has
awed many a Davidson student. In a quick glance around the store, one can see such a variety of items
as winter coats, refrigerators, and sporting goods, not to mention the more familiar items such as Blitz cloths and Brasso.
Because of the wide variety of items the Davidson students affectionately refer to the store as “The Jungle.” He prides
himself on the fact that, as he puts it, “I know what the boys need and cater to their needs.”

The Copelands have many ties with the college. Mrs. Copeland runs one of the focal boarding houses. One of their
daughters, Henrietta, now married, attended the college as a coed. Another daughter, Nancy, works in the office of the College
Union, and still another, Helen, was formerly secretary to the Director of Athletics. Their younger son, Donald, will resume his
studies here in September as a junior, after spending two years in the military service.

HERMAN’S HERD HAS DONE MOST FOR THE REVIVAL OF DANCING

The band which, according to Metronome and Time, has done more for bringing back dancing than any other band, Woody
Herman's Third Herd, will make its first appearance on the Davidson campus on Friday night, February 17. “The Ole Woodchopper,”
as Herman is popularly known, will play for both the formal and informal dances during Midwinters and will present a
concert in Chambers Auditorium at three o'clock on Saturday afternoon. Students will be sure to hear his latest Capitol releases,
“Muskrat Ramble,” “Woodchopper’s Mambo,” and “Mexican Hat Trick.”

Herman's band has just finished successful engagements at the Blue Note in Chicago, the Paladium Ballroom in Hollywood, and the
Basin Street in New York. On a recent tour through Europe, listeners from Oslo to Munich claimed that this was
the first truly great American band they had heard. Davidson students are hoping for a considerable improvement over Art Mooney’s
offerings during the last Homecoming weekend.

A swimming meet is scheduled for Friday afternoon, and for those less athletically inclined there are the usual strolls around
the campus. After the dances, many of the fraternities will have informal gatherings. The banks of the Catawba river have
also been reserved.

NOTICE

According to a late report, over 96% of the populace of Cornelius concerned with Southern Bell lines have voted for
the proposed telephone exchange with Charlotte. Around 5% of the people had not been contacted at this report.

ENROLLMENT DEBATE ROARS | (Page 2) No. 14

Present Enrollment Here

Dr. H. W. Mack Speaks In Chapel Next Tuesday

The Rev. Henry W. Mack, Ph.D., Presbyterian missionary in the Philippines. Dr. Mack is head of the Bible Department of
Silliman University, Dumaguete, Philippines. His son, Bob Mack, is a senior pre-medical student at Davidson. One of Dr. Mack's major
interests at Silliman has been Radio Station DYSR, whose studios are on the campus.

Vocational Groups to Interview Seniors

Representatives from business, industry, and the U.S. Navy have been interviewing Davidson seniors for positions in various companies throughout the
past week. Seniors who have not registered to be interviewed should do so at once. Those who have are to
have application photos and grade transcripts from the registrar's office sent to the placement office as soon as possible. Juniors
looking for summer work that might lead to a permanent job should apply for special interviews which will be held
later in the year. The Vick Chemical Company has a good program for college juniors. Eighteen other business firms are
coming to Davidson later to conduct interviews.

New Rules Passed On Non-Academic Courses

Two important new regulations concerning the non-academic curriculum of Davidson students have been released from Dean Spencer’s office this week.
Both of these regulations concern the new method of handling P.E. cuts. Cuts will be changed as indicated by the
new regulations which follow:

1. No student enrolled in Physical Education will be excused from Physical classes for any reason.

2. A student will be permitted each semester five (5) absences for which he need not account and which he
need not make up.The last two years with the Army Medical Corps in Korea. The elder son, W. C., Jr.,
is an engineer with the Douglas missile plant in Charlotte. Mary, the youngest daughter, lives at home. Mr. Copeland likes
the town of Davidson and hopes to spend the rest of his days here. Though no longer associated regularly with
a church, he supplies needy churches and feels that he can help the students by talking to them about their
problems. Mr. Copeland says the Davidson students represent the best yet in gentlemanly conduct, and he is grateful to them
for their patronage. So we salute Bill Creecy Copeland, friend to the students, to the college, and to everybody in
general.

3. A student incurring absences beyond the limit of five may make up these absences by attending a Physical Education
class another period, except that:
a. No more than 4 such absences may be made up during any semester, and
b. No absences may be made up in advance.

4. Students who on the last day of classes have an excess of 5 which have not been made up
will be required to take an additional semester of Physical Education.

5. Any student who for any reason incurs more than nine absences during a given semester will be required to
take an additional semester of Physical Education. Such students will, however, continue to meet their regularly scheduled Physical Education classes.
Absences above the limit of 9 will be reported to the Dean of Students and the student concerned will be
considered subject to disciplinary action unless the absences are caused by circumstances beyond the student's control.

At its last meeting, the Executive Committee amended the rule regarding absences from non-academic exercises to insert the underlined portion
below:

111 B. Absence Regulations — REGULATIONS FOR ALL STUDENTS 1955-56, p. 23.
“For exceeding the number of absences in any required non-academic exercise, a student will be placed on probation with regard
to excess overcut. An additional excess absence in any non-academic exercise will place a student on probation with regard to
all such exercises, and in addition will result in his restriction to the campus for a period of one month.
Any further absence from any non-academic exercise, whether or not it is above the limit allowed, will make the student
subject to suspension from the college.”

Students are reminded that the above regulation refers to absences in chapel and vespers. For the information of the student
body, the limits of absences are quoted below:

VESPERS
Freshmen and Sophomores 4
Juniors and Seniors 6

CHAPEL
Freshmen and Sophomores 5
Juniors and Seniors 8

Asked to comment on the new absence regulations, Dean Spencer released the following statement:
“A good many students have asked about the addition of a campus restriction to the penalty already in effect for
students who overcut non-academic exercises twice. The reason for the addition is that there was apparently not a sufficient intermediate
penalty between the ‘probation’ which meant little to many students, and the serious penalty of suspension. I would like to
point out two things about this change:
1. Under the new system of physical education absences, physical education is no longer included in the ‘non-academic’ exercises to
which this penalty applies; for the purpose of absence regulations the term ‘non-academic exercises’ now includes only chapel and vespers.
2. This penalty would go into effect only after a student has overcut twice — that is, after he has
exceeded the normal limit of absences in either chapel or vespers by two. I urge students, however, to read the
regulations fully so as to be completely familiar with them.”

He is acting director of the station and responsible for the planning of many of its programs. Sponsored by the
Philippine Federation of Christian Churches and licensed for non-commercial broadcasting only, it offers numerous religious programs, worship services, Bible classes,
and sacred music hours. Before going to the Philippines, Dr. Mack spent one year teaching at Hungchow Christian College, Hangchow,
China, and for twelve years was professor of Bible and religious education at the Presbyterian Training School in Richmond, Virginia.
He left Richmond to become dean of the faculty and professor of Bible and religious education at Biblical Seminary in
New York. Dr. Mack is from California and is a graduate of the University of California. He also holds a
master’s degree in religious education from Biblical Seminary, New York, and a Ph.D. degree from New York University.

Also in connection with the Gift Fund project, Dr. Baughman, director of Alexander Home in Charlotte, will speak in chapel
Thursday, February 16, on the needs of that foundation. In cooperation with the Gift Fund Committee’s plan to acquaint the
student body with these two goals and with the way in which our gift will have a direct effect on
each, both Dr. Baughman and Dr. Mack will meet with the members of the committee and volunteer solicitors to explain
thoroughly to them the need, nature, and purpose of each goal.

Shown above are Mr. Archer Neal, Assistant to the Treasurer of Davidson College. These are the men who guide Davidson's
financial program.

Larger Endowment a Must for 1000 Students
By JIM ARMISTEAD

Nearly two million dollars in additional funds will be necessary to meet financial requirements for an increased student body of
1,000, the College Committee on Population Trends revealed in its report of February 7. The figure is estimated as the
minimum amount necessary to maintain present academic standards and makes no provision for the improvement of Davidson’s current educational program.
At present, the College is seeking $1.5 million in endowment and plant funds partly as a result of the growth
of Davidson College over the last twelve or thirteen years. Since the academic year of 1941-42, the student body has
added 181 to its enrollment, an increase of twenty-seven percent. The Committee feels that this million-and-a-half mark must be reached
to maintain a satisfactory quality of academic work for the present student body of about 860. Expansion of the College
to a capacity of 1,000 students would demand an estimated $1,303,580 in additional endowment, and a figure approximating $524,000 for
additions to the College plant and purchase of new equipment. Total funds for such an increase would amount to a
sum of $1,827,580. Enlarged facilities to accommodate 1,000 students would include a larger faculty of perhaps eleven more members than
its size at present. A new dormitory of 120 (Continued On Page Four)

In a poll of student opinion taken this week by members of The Davidsonian feature staff, 452 members (53%) of
the Student Body expressed their opinions on whether the College enrollment should be decreased to 750-800, retained at its present
figure of 850-900, or increased to 1,000. The results of the poll show that 56.5% of the students questioned wished
to retain the present enrollment. 33.5% desired an increase in enrollment which would result in a student body of 1,000
students. The remaining 10% held that the student body should be decreased to 750-800 students. The 452 students polled were
asked the following questions: Numerical results as well as percentages are shown beside each question.

“In light of the increasing number of high school students seeking admission to college, in view of the fact and
conditions concerning Davidson (as presented in last week's Davidsonian), and in the light of your own knowledge and judgment of
the situation, what should be Davidson’s answer to the enrollment question?”
A. Decrease the enrollment to 750-800.
46 students or 10%— “Yes.”
B. Retain the present enrollment of 850-900.
255 students or 56.5% — “Yes.”
C. Increase the enrollment to around 1,000.
151 students or 33.5% — “Yes.”

In another poll taken this week by the Davidsonian and Student Council, 453 Davidson students (53% of the student body)
expressed their opinions on the desirability of having an intersemester break. It was found that 25% of the students are
in favor of leaving the school calendar as it is, without a break between semesters. The remaining 75% wish to
see the calendar changed. The 340 students wishing to have an intersemester break were asked the following questions. The numerical
results, as well as the percentage results, are given by the side of each answer.

Would you be in favor of an intersemester break if the days to be made up:
1. Are added to the end of the school year, thereby ending school in May or early June.
Pet. Number 49 167 Yes
51 172 No
2. Are added to the beginning of the school year, thereby starting school earlier in September.
Pet. Number 41.5 141 Yes
58.5 199 No
3. Are taken, one each, from Christmas and Spring vacations.
Pet. Number 19.5 67 Yes
80.5 272 No
4. Are taken, one each, from the two exam periods, thereby having a shorter exam period.
Pet. Number 30 102 Yes
70 238 No

Which of the above four plans do you like best?
Pet. Number 38.5 131 One
27.5 94 Two
11 38 Three
23 18 Four

It is evident that the vast majority of students would like to have an intersemester break, but there is no
large-scale agreement as to how the days should be made up. Of all the possible plans, the most favored one
is to make up the days in the spring, at the end of school. Even to this plan, however, over
half the students who wanted an intersemester break are in opposition. When the 25% who prefer not to have a
break are added to this number, it is obvious that those favoring this plan are definitely in the minority. The
final decision on this matter rests with the calendar committee of the faculty. They, of course, will consider all aspects
of the situation before reaching a definite conclusion.

Student body opinion for increased enrollment was based on such reasons as: Davidson should accept the challenge of the rising
admissions question to provide more men a Christian education of high calibre; we now have the near adequate facilities for
enlarged numbers; we would not lose the essence and power of the “atmosphere” at Davidson with more students; the proposed
extent of enlargement would not lower the quality of our standards or graduates, but it would offer variety and depth
to the student body.

Student opinion expressed for retaining the present enrollment fell generally into these categorical comments: Davidson does not have the present
facilities to house, teach, or adequately handle an enlarged enrollment; an increased student body would gradually result in deterioration of
the benefits and opportunities of a small liberal arts college; increased enrollment would be a burden on the faculty, an
injustice to the student, and an emphasis of quantity over quality; our problem should be one of enhancing the present
system.

Mr. Ralph H. Morehead, father of Dick Morehead, Editor of the Davidsonian, passed away during the night at his home
in Huntington, West Virginia, after an extended illness. The staff of the Davidsonian and the college community join in expressing
their feelings of deepest sympathy.
