The Davidsonian

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
FRANKLIN BLOODWORTH

BUSINESS MANAGER
LEON HOWELL

ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Assistant Editor
Bob Beall

Managing Editors
Lloyd Chapin, John Trask

News Editor
John Johnson

Sports Editor
Bill Bondurant

Feature Editor
John Trotti

Copy Editor
Jim Batten

Staff Photographer
Bob Carmichael

Assignments
Bill Pomeroy

Advertising Manager
Ed Stevens

Circulation
Bob Lathan, Bob Majors, Bob Austin, Marshall Chapman, Lee Mayfield

Represented for National Advertising by NATIONAL ADVERTISING SERVICE, Inc.

SUBSCRIPTION RATE: $2.00 Per Year. Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

OFFICES IN DAVID OVENS COLLEGE UNION, DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO

Now or Never For the Court

The fate of the Court of Control will be decided once and for all in the period between now and Thanksgiving. These two months should be sufficient to spell out success or permanent failure.

Two years ago, inexcusable behavior by upperclassmen forced the Court to retire from chapel, where formal court meetings had been held since 1949. Last fall’s attempts to operate out of chapel proved absolutely futile. Threatened with the possibility of dissolving the Court permanently, the Student Council went to work last winter in the midst of a full-blown campus furor. Their recommendations mirrored the widely-held student belief that to survive, the Court must perform its function with a dignity and seriousness of purpose which would be recognized and respected as such by both freshmen and upperclassmen alike.

Accordingly, the Court was re-established in chapel, with three meetings scheduled between now and Thanksgiving. The freshmen regulations have been overhauled, making them more realistic and reasonable. This year’s Court was selected with special care. Each man is well qualified and intensely interested in making the new program work. They are men whose counsel and advice can and should be respected and appreciated by freshmen.

With Rush Week now behind us, the Court moves into full-scale action. To date, the attitude of this freshman class has been the most cooperative and spirited as any class in recent years. They chose overwhelmingly by voice vote to wear their freshman hats to the Catawba game tonight, when given a chance to park them for the evening. This spirit was matched by an enthusiastic pep rally before the Cake Race. So far, the class is doing its part.

On the other hand, an example of how thoughtless horseplay can ruin a good thing occurred during the running of the Cake Race, as 25 beanies were lifted from the gym lockers without trace. They are still missing, and the victims have since replaced them. New hats cost $1.25 a piece, and a little righteous indignation on the part of the freshmen involved would be completely understandable. We strongly suggest that the Court investigate the matter thoroughly, and consider the possibility of reimbursing the boys affected with Student Council funds.

The three court chapel meetings should prove decisive. If upper classes recognize the situation and show it through their conduct, in all probability the Court will be well on its way to regaining its position on campus. If rowdiness is the keynote in these sessions, the Court will undoubtedly be thrown out of Chapel and into history, for good. We may not get another chance to make it work.

Dorm Facilities Now Best Ever

This summer has witnessed the completion of another phase of a building program which has seen nearly every major building on the campus built or replaced in the past 15 years. To Dr. Cunningham goes the bulk of the credit for this face-lifting, providing Davidson now with one of the most attractive and adequate physical plants of any college in the Southeast.

Returning upperclassmen have noted with relief the long and nervously awaited demise of Georgia dormitory. There were times last year when we were afraid that Georgia’s end was to be postponed indefinitely in conjunction with the Trustees’ decision to up the enrollment in the next few years. With Georgia gone, we are able to enjoy for the first time Belk’s natural contribution to the overall appearance of the campus. That Georgia's natural beauty and near-natural plumbing can be easily forfeited goes without saying.

Completion of “New Rumple” dormitory, still lacking an official name, has helped take up the slack left by the razing of Rumple and Georgia. Similar externally to East, West, and Watts, the new dorm sports Belk’s modern decor and conveniences. Eu and Phi Halls look more like the genuine antiques they really are as their long-overdue renovation nears completion. The restoration was made possible by Mrs. Clarence Hodson of Orange, N. J., who also contributed the Schlicker organ in the college church.

This work was highlighted by the recovery of the now-famed bottle containing, in the best storybook tradition, a note left for posterity by a zealous nineteenth-century Eu. Dated 1849 and signed by one “A. Alexander” of Charlotte, the yellowed scrap outlines the history and work of the society to that date.

While the previously mentioned work drew most of the attention, the three older dorms quietly acquired new bath facilities, plus linoleumed floors and acoustical soundboard for the hall ceilings; all improvements which should prove a real blessing to their predominantly freshmen inhabitants. With this renovation complete, dormitory facilities are left without serious flaw for the first time in years.

But happily enough, there's more to come, according to Dr. Cunningham’s announcement that $250,000 has been anonymously donated for expansion of the already-crowded library. Both additional shelf and study space will become an absolute necessity with the enrollment increase promised by the Trustees for the immediate future.

Enrollment Tide Brings Responsibility

The responsibility of a college student to his family, school, and society has always been a pretty awesome proposition. Sacrifices by the home folks to make college possible loom large to the freshmen smart enough to recognize them. Dreams of success nurtured by parents, friends and relatives serve as a powerful inducement to do at least reasonably well. And the confidence placed in a student simply by admission should serve as something of an incentive to justify the faith shown by the institution.

But in the America of today, with the expected college-age population soaring with each successive September there is a mounting measure of responsibility for each student fortunate enough to find himself admitted to an academic community. School population increases, presently playing havoc with primary and secondary school systems across the country, will hit the nation’s colleges full force in the next five years. The prospects have educational circles in a tizzy. Despite constantly enlarging capacities, especially in the state-supported institutions, there remains the sad yet inescapable fact that there simply won’t be enough room for all who want to attend.

WALTER L. LINGLE

With the passing of Dr. Walter L. Lingle, one of Davidson College's greatest friends and benefactors belongs to the ages. To recent student generations, he was virtually unknown personally, due to his failing health which had kept him house-ridden for several years. And yet the legend lives on of this great churchman who was president of the college during thirteen of the most difficult years in its history.

Perhaps Dr. Lingle’s greatest single accomplishment lies in the fact that he was able to keep Davidson on a steady footing in the period that followed the crash of 1929, the year he came to the presidency. Amid nation-wide economic chaos, faculty salaries went uncut, and the size of the student body did not suffer. Dr. Lingle was also fond of pointing out the additions he had made to the teaching staff. Several of the most outstanding members of the current faculty were secured during his administration. The Martin Science Building and the Grey Memorial Library, both major hubs of activity today, were completed towards the end of his term in office. But above and beyond his contributions to higher education, Walter Lingle was first of all a churchman and a true man of God. He perhaps could be called the elder statesman of the Southern Presbyterian Church, the foremost of his generation.Familiar and beloved name in Presbyterian homes, his death will be mourned throughout the church. And as for Davidsonians, we too, know that we have lost a dedicated friend. Dr. Lingle once said, "During all these years I have learned to love the college as I have never loved any other institution." The college mourns today this man who so loved her and greatly aided in the shaping of her destiny.

DR. WALTER L. LINGLE

— Letters To The Editor —

Letters to the editor constitute one of the most widely read and enjoyed sections of the editorial page. This fact is supported by opinion polls taken here at Davidson College as well as by larger national publications. The editors of the DAVIDSONIAN urge each of you, our readers, to help make the editorial page both more interesting and a forum of student opinion by sending us your letters on subjects of campus interest. The subject matter for these letters is unrestricted. All subjects, from politics and religion to sports and social life, make interesting reading. You should mail all letters to the DAVIDSONIAN, Davidson, N.C. All letters must be signed; however, upon request of the author, the DAVIDSONIAN will withhold the name of the writer of the letter. We must, nevertheless, have the name for our files. Share your opinions with the readers of the DAVIDSONIAN, and mail us your letters of opinion.

TOM MORGAN

Live Campaign Issues Demand Keen, Spirited Student Interest

This fall the United States faces one of the greatest and most interesting political campaigns in its history. This campaign presents a splendid opportunity for Davidsonians to prove that they are interested in all aspects of national and international problems. These problems will be the issues of the campaign. One of the major foreign issues will be whether our battle against Communism is being waged successfully and with the best possible reason. An issue which concerns both foreign and domestic policy is the size of our military forces. Should all emphasis be placed on air power and nuclear warfare or should we remain prepared for Korean "skirmishes?" Though these issues are expressed here in only a few words, they may be crucial in the election if the American people can be aroused to a genuine interest in foreign policy.

Issues on the home front are numerous. These include implementation of the Supreme Court desegregation decision, private use of atomic energy, farm price supports, the effect of automation on labor, public power projects, extension of public health services, and conservation of natural resources. An issue encompassing all the others is the conception of the office of president. To this office, which has been strongly molded by five terms of Democrats, President Eisenhower has brought a military-like delegation of authority and yielded supremacy to the legislative branch of the government. The question here will be whether the people want this weaker conception of the office or a return to a strong Democratic chief executive.

From this discussion, it should be obvious this year’s election will be a crucial one. Since Davidson attempts to build good citizens, we must not let this election pass without the whole student body’s having taken an active interest in the issues.

ACROSS THE PRESIDENT’S DESK

DAN LaFAR
PRESIDENT OF THE STUDENT BODY

I was informed at the Charlotte office of the Bell Telephone and Telegraph Company last week that only under heavy additional phone charges would we be able to secure the desired arrangement. I have investigated the possibility of a “Foreign Exchange” service. This service would place one telephone on a direct line with Charlotte, meaning that calls could be made to Charlotte on this phone on a local rather than a long-distance basis. The telephone would be placed in the College Union and a charge of 20 cents or 25 cents would be made for each call. There would be no time limit except in the case where another student was waiting desiring to place a call, in which case we could place a maximum time limit of five minutes upon the call. When compared with the present rate (person to person) of 65 cents for three minutes or with the seven-mile drive to Huntersville plus a pay phone, the “Foreign Exchange” seems desirable. Please make your opinions known, whether for or against, to the Student Government office upstairs in the Union open from 1:30 to 3:00 p.m. each day.

DAVIDSON DOGGEREL

Faculty meetings have always been a breeding ground for choice quotes, and last week was no exception. It seems that Eumenean's 107-year-old bottle was on display at the meeting, as was the first lady professor ever to land at Davidson, Mrs. Caroline MacBrayer. Attributed by rumor to anyone of a number of gentlemen, it ran: "I never thought I’d sit in a Davidson faculty meeting and see a woman at one end of the table and a whiskey bottle at the other." Looks like another good year.

The Wildcat boys have always prided themselves on being keen judges of the eternal pulchritudinous female. Tradition is still intact, as frosh Bill Stanton holds the distinction of having pinched Her Serene Highness, the Princess of Monaco... on the shoulder, of course. Says she gave him a “kinda icy smile.”

Competition for admission to colleges and universities is bound to become increasingly intense in the immediate future. For each student accepted, there will be several turned away. At a small, privately endowed school of limited enrollment like Davidson, this situation will be especially true. Figures from Dean Spencer's office show that out of 700 original applications for entrance with this year’s freshman class, only 240 actually enrolled, with some 460 odd other prospects lost due to rejections, voluntary withdrawals, and incomplete applications. In addition, it must be remembered that these figures do not tell the complete story, since an indeterminable number of potential prospects each year eliminate themselves voluntarily, due to Davidson's scholastic standards, and never even notify the college of their interest. Due to the very nature and purpose of the college, this situation, caused by the increasingly competitive admission processes, will grow in proportion each year. So to the traditional responsibility to self, family, and school, of “making good” in the college world, comes the added weighty realization that highly selective admission to an institution of higher learning carries with it today an added measure of trust. It is the trust not only of home and college, but of the country, and indeed, of our atomic civilization.