PAGE FOUR

DANCES SCHEDULED

Seven Fraternities Plan Late Spring Functions

Seven Davidson College fraternities have spring functions planned for the three remaining weekends before exams. These functions will be highlighted by banquets, dances, and the crowning of fraternity sweethearts.

Tonight the members of Sigma Phi Epsilon are holding their annual “Queen of Hearts” banquet and dance at the Red Fez in Charlotte. The social chairman, Jim Zeh, is in charge of the function. Tiny Jackson’s band will provide the dance music. Fraternity president Bill Daniel will preside and present awards to the best pledge, scholarship awards, and the award for the outstanding intramural athlete. Miss Jo Ann Arnold of Fort Mill, South Carolina, will be crowned “Queen of Hearts.”

On May 5 both Phi Delta Theta and Phi Gamma Delta will hold their spring socials. Phi Delta Theta will hold its annual “Blue and White” banquet and dance at the American Legion hut in Belmont. The social committee making preparations for the event is headed by John Robinson. The Phi Delt dream girl, Miss Angie McCaskill from Queens College, will be recognized.

On the same night at the Bartinger Hotel in Charlotte, the brothers of Alpha Tau Omega will present their “White Tea Rose Ball.” The dance will feature the recognizing of the fraternity sweetheart, Miss Frieda Beth Kelly of Cherryville. Another of the four functions being held that night will see the brothers of Beta Theta Pi at the El Morocco. Ed Bell is in charge of the evening's entertainment, which will consist of a banquet and dance afterwards. At this time the sweetheart of Beta Theta Pi, Miss Anne Beckman, will be recognized.

The Fiji Island Ball will also be in progress on the same day. The day will feature activities on the Catawba River and will find the Phi Gams dressed in sarongs and leis. Exotic South Sea fruits will be served. The highlight of the day will be the choosing of the couple whose costumes are the most representative of Hawaiian dress.

Kappa Alpha's “Rose Ball” of 1956 will be at the Red Fez on May 12. Social chairman Andy Watson is handling the preparations for the banquet and dance. Miss Jo Ann Hoyle will be crowned “Rose Ball Queen” and the best pledge award and Dan McKeithen award to the most outstanding rising senior will be presented.

Some girl at the Pi Kappa Alpha Dream Girl Ball will be pleasantly surprised when the fraternity’s Inter-Fraternity Council member, Ken Conger, breaks on her and presents her with a bouquet of long stem roses. This will signify that she is the fraternity’s choice for their Dream Girl. At the banquet which will be held earlier, the best pledge award, the awards for scholarship, and the most improved scholar will be presented. Johnny Mackorell is the social chairman.

Young Republicans To Converge on W.C.

The College Council of the North Carolina Young Republicans Clubs will meet in Greensboro this Saturday night. The featured speaker and workshop director will be Mr. Charlie McWhorter, Chairman of the National Federation. Mr. McWhorter is from New York and is working out of Washington at the present. Ben Johnston, John Kimbrough, Dave Adams, and John Dykers have been chosen as delegates from the local club. Bill Morrow, John Maultsby, Joe Hall, and Pete Reves will also be in attendance. T. J. Hall, the local club president, is the chairman of the College Council and will be in charge of the program. A social gathering has been scheduled by the Woman’s College club after the business meeting, and any members desiring dates or transportation should contact Bill Morrow Friday night or early Saturday morning.

ODK Spring Tap Day is scheduled for Chapel on Friday, May 4. The annual banquet for alumni and initiates will be held at 7 p.m. Friday night in the College Union.

Seventeen items of long-lost clothing are now being held by the Lost and Found department of the College Union. If these articles are not claimed by May 5, they will be given to someone in need of them. Students are also reminded to check by the Union for their dates’ sunglasses, purses, compacts, notebooks, texts, and numerous other such articles.

Enrollment Lagging For Summer Session

The 1956 Davidson College summer session will extend from June 1 (June 6 for non-laboratory courses) to August 23 and will consist of two terms of six weeks each. Officials state that only eighty students have enrolled so far for the first term, and a number of these are individuals who are not in the regular session at Davidson. Students are urged to register immediately so that the administration may schedule courses in accordance with the desires of the students.

During the Summer Session the normal scholastic load is six hours per term for non-laboratory courses and eight hours for the laboratory courses. It is possible for a student to obtain as many as fourteen semester hours credit in twelve weeks or as many as three hours in three weeks. For one term, normal expenses for the boarding student are $231.50 for science courses (plus lab fee) and $187.00 for non-science courses. Laboratory courses will not be offered in the second term. For the listing of courses, prospective students should consult the Summer Session issue of the Davidson College Bulletin. For further information, interested students should contact Mr. Hengeveld's office at their earliest opportunity.

Lions to Present Show For Benefit of Scouts

The Davidson Lions Club will present its annual spring show in the form of a talent hunt on Friday, May 4, at the local Junior High Auditorium. Several Davidson College students will appear on the program. The Lions Club has designated all proceeds from this show to go to the Davidson Boy Scouts’ building fund. This fund will be used to build a hut this summer for use by the local Boy Scouts.

Spencer Is Quoted in Times’ Word Puzzle

Friends of Dr. S. R. Spencer have learned that The New York Times Magazine (Sunday edition) of July 31, 1955, carried a quotation from his recently published biography of Booker T. Washington. Puzzle fans have long been familiar with the Kingsley “Double-Crostics” that have featured The Saturday Review of Literature and the magazine section of the Sunday Times. The typical puzzle consists of two parts: first are the definitions of key words listed vertically; second are the words forming a quotation.

On page 42 of the issue mentioned, the complete puzzle reads, “His stepfather agreed that Booker might attend school only if he would put in five hours at the salt mine between four in the morning and nine, and two hours after school in the afternoon. This hard bargain Booker accepted joyfully.” The initial letters of the key words read, “S. R. Spencer, Jr., Booker T. Washington.”

Seminars ... (Continued From Page One)

In addition to the faculty leading specific sessions, a number of other faculty have helped in planning and advising, attending regular sessions and special faculty planning sessions. Professors Abernethy, Schenck, Polley, Eberhardt, McCutchan, McGavock, Ostwalt, and Deans Pietenpol and Spencer have been involved in various ways in the program.

On the basis of this experimental year, the seminar will continue next year as a seminar for credit. It will continue to meet alternate weeks, during the entire year for three hours of credit. It is listed in the new catalogue as Political Science 101-102 or Sociology 101-102.

THE DAVIDSONIAN ACTIVITIES DIRECTORY

SATURDAY, APRIL 28
Baseball—Citadel
Movie — “The Private Life of Henry VIII"

SUNDAY, APRIL 29
Vespers — Concert — Hollins College Chapel

MONDAY, APRIL 30
IFC Fine Arts Festival — Student Recital
Philanthropic Movie — “PrivateLife of Henry VIII

TUESDAY, MAY 1
Baseball — William & Mary
ROTC Reviews
Bridge Tournament

WEDNESDAY, MAY 2
ROTC Reviews
Camera Club
I.R.C. Meeting

THURSDAY, MAY 3
Social Fraternity Meetings
Bridge Tournament
Interfraternity Sing

FRIDAY, MAY 4
Chemistry Dinner
ODK Banquet
Lions Club Talent Show
ROTC FIELD DAY

Phi Delts to Build Pit
OFFERS COMPETITION For Service Project

The Phi Delta Theta fraternity will take part in a National Community Project. The brothers of the local chapter have chosen to build a barbecue pit for the Davidson Negro Youth Center.

The annual military field events day sponsored by the ROTC Department will be held in Richardson Stadium during the regularly-scheduled drill period next Tuesday. Competition will be on a company basis, with each company entering every event. The competition will be open to all MS I, II, and III cadets, with MS IV cadets acting as judges and timekeepers. No individual can participate in more than one event with the exception of those participating in the individual, squad, and platoon drill events. These are eligible for participation in the 81-mm. mortar and tug-of-war events. Scoring will be five points for first place, three points for second place, and one point for third place.

There will be twelve events in the competition. The first will be the best-drilled squad. This event is open to MS I cadets. Judging will be based on column and flanking movements and on port arms, inspection arms, and present arms, and will include other aspects of correct drilling. Rifle disassembly and assembly events for the different types of rifles are open to MS I and MS II cadets. MS III cadets are eligible for competition in the outstanding command voice category. Freshmen will be able to try their hands at the grenade throw. Places in this event will be awarded on the basis of accuracy and distance. Tug-of-war teams made up of twelve men each from MS I, II, and III cadets will be straining for victories. Uniforms for the day will be Class “B” without tie.

Davidson Welcomes Students to 4-Week Summer Seminar

Thirty college students from 20 nations will meet together at Davidson College this summer to seek a solution for world peace. For one month, from June 22 to July 21, they will live and study together, focusing their attention on the theme “International Tensions and Peaceful Change.” The four-week seminar is one of four being sponsored this year by the American Friends Service Committee. Others are in California, Minnesota, and Vermont. The Davidson seminar is sponsored by the Southeastern Regional Office of the Society of Friends in Greensboro. Five or six of the coeducational group will be Americans, and all will be graduate students at American colleges and universities. All will be over 21 years of age and under 35. They will live in college dormitories and will cook their own meals in the college dining hall. Mornings will be devoted to study and discussion under a visiting leader in political science, economics, international relations, or religion. During the afternoons the students will work with a local Boy Scout group, seeking to test the human relations theories they develop during the morning. Evenings will be free for discussion and recreation.

Directing the seminar will be Clarence Yarrow, Associate Executive Secretary of the American Friends Service Committee in Philadelphia. Mrs. Yarrow will serve as Assistant Director. Prof. McLeod Bryan of Mercer University, Macon, Ga., will serve as academic dean of the session. He is professor of Christian Ethics at Mercer. A dietician will assist in the preparation of the food, which on certain days will consist of representative dishes from the foreign countries of the students. The American Friends Service Committee is an agency of the Society of Friends, and the service is supported by that organization and by various foundations and private contributions.

FRIDAY, APRIL 27, 1956

ALL MUSICAL PROGRAM
Hollins Girls To Join Male Chorus in Vesper Concert

One of the musical highlights of the Ninth Annual Fine Arts Festival now in progress at Davidson College will be an all-musical vespers service on Sunday evening, at 7:30 p.m. in the Davidson College Presbyterian Church. Appearing in the joint, all-music service will be the Hollins College Girls Choir of Roanoke, Virginia, and the Davidson College Male Chorus. The service is open to the public.

Mr. Arthur Talmadge will direct the Hollins Choir in a group of selections from the pens of Bach, Vittoria, Thomas Norris, Flor Peeters, John Diercks, and Anthony Donato. Miss Roberta Howard will be the soprano soloist in the “Laudate Dominum” from Mozart’s Vesperae solennes de confessore, K. 339.

The Male Chorus, under the direction of Donald Plott, will present “May God Smile on You” from the Wedding Cantata by Bach, “Two Pieces” from the Prayers of St. Francis of Assisi by Poulenc, “Tenebrae Factae Sunt” by Palestrina, and “Coenam Cum Discipulis” by Gumpelzhaimer. Joining forces, the combined choirs will sing the Pachelbel “Now Thank We All Our God,” motet for double chorus, and the Agnus Dei from the Haydn “Second Mass in C.” The combined group will be accompanied by Philip Gehring at the Schlicker organ. Assisting the singers will be Betty Gehring and Doris West, violinists; Mary Alice Pappas, cellist; and Philip Gehring, organist. They will be heard in the Corelli “Trio Sonata for Strings and Organ, Op. 1, No. 1, in F Major” and the Mozart “Sonata in E-flat.”

Chapel Choir Sings At Concord Church

On last Tuesday evening the Davidson College Chapel Choir sang a twenty-minute concert at the First Presbyterian Church in Concord, N.C. The concert was a part of the week-long annual Spring Preaching Mission at the Concord Church. The choir, under the direction of Donald Plott, chose its selections from the best of this year’s vespers music. Chapel Choir organist, Harry Wells, played an organ solo. The speaker for the services was the Reverend John Redhead, a recent vespers speaker at Davidson.

An album, which will be recorded by the Davidson College Male Chorus on May 7, will go on sale to Davidson students and the general public this fall. The recording is being made by an RCA affiliate. More information about this will be available later.

Travel Bibliography Aids Foreign Tours

Students and teachers planning trips abroad this summer should find self-help in the bibliography, “Traveler's Information.” This 84-page booklet, compiled by The Council on Student Travel, lists and briefly describes more than 900 pamphlets, films, records, books, and other guides that can help the student orient himself before he goes abroad. It gives publications that offer travel tips on 18 countries: where to stay, what to see, where to eat, and what to buy. Priced at $1.00 a copy, “Traveler’s Information” is available from The Council on Student Travel, 179 Broadway, New York 7, N.Y.

L&M’s superior tobaccos. Richer, tastier—especially selected for filter smoking. For the flavor you want, here's the filter you need. Miracle Tip. Pure white inside, pure white outside for cleaner, better smoking. So quick on the draw! Yes, the flavor comes clean—through L&M’s all white filter. Make Today Your Big Red Letter Day!