MRS. ROOSEVELT: PRO AND CON (Page 2) VOL. XLV

IN HUMANITIES FIELDS

Reigner Donates $1500 To Library Book Fund

‘Action For Hungary’ Rally Set For Wednesday; Two Patriots To Speak

Dr. Charles G. Reigner, President of the H. M. Rowe Company of Baltimore, Md., has given the Library $1500 this year. Yearly since 1950 he has presented the library with $500 to buy large numbers of books in the general field of Humanities with no strings attached, and this year he has added an extra $1000. As Dr. Reigner has a special interest in candidates for the Presbyterian ministry, a large portion of funds have been used for purchases with that in mind. The books comprise “The Charles G. Reigner Collection.” The Reigner Seminar in the Davidson College Library is also named for him. He is a successful businessman, an outstanding writer in the field of business education (having published more than 40 textbooks in this field), a poet of much “human appeal,” and a leading churchman, being past president of the Presbyterian Union of Maryland, president of the Westminster Foundation at the U. S. Naval Academy, a member of the Board of Directors of the Westminster Foundation of the Synod of Baltimore, and secretary of the Maryland Bible Society. As president of the H. M. Rowe Publishing Company of Baltimore, Dr. Reigner exerts a wide influence in the field of business education.

DISTINGUISHED SERVICE AWARD

The list of Dr. Reigner's honors in Who's Who in America would do credit to a college president. They range from the Distinguished Service Award by the National Association and Council of Business Schools to LL.D's and Litt.D’s by American colleges and universities. The list of his philanthropies is almost equally impressive. Not only Davidson, but also Union Theological Seminary, Hampden-Sydney College, Waynesburg College, and the Lutheran Hospital of Maryland, Inc., in Baltimore are recipients of his bounty. Dr. Reigner is an alumnus of Princeton University's college of liberal arts. He studied also at the Wharton School of Commerce and Finance of the University of Pennsylvania, at New York University, and at the University of Pittsburgh.

Sigma Delta Psi Takes R. Mallory, B. Warlick

Since the beginning of school, two men, Roswell Mallory and Bill Warlick, have qualified for membership in Sigma Delta Psi, national honorary athletics fraternity. The new additions increase the total membership on the Davidson campus to four, the other members being Bill Lazenby and Bill Gramley. Twelve men, however, lack only a few events to be eligible for membership. They are: Reitzel Snider, Pete Ashcraft, Max Bryan, Dave Warden, Frank Cenegy, Ken Currie, Dave Wood, J. V. Williford, Angus McBryde, M. C. James, Al Elder, and Mel Armstrong. The aspirants for membership must make qualifying scores in thirteen events. The events include a baseball throw, football punt, mile run, 20-foot rope climb, 100-yard dash, front handspring landing on feet, handstand for ten seconds, fence vault at chin height, 100-yard swim, 120-yard low hurdles, high jump, broad jump, and shot put.

IN ARTIST SERIES

Mrs. Roosevelt Speaks On The United Nations

By DABNEY STUART

Mrs. Eleanor Roosevelt will speak in Chamber’s Auditorium next Friday at 8:15 P.M. as part of the 1956-57 Artists’ Series at Davidson College. Her subject will be the United Nations. Mrs. Roosevelt has been actively associated with the United Nations since Harry Truman appointed her to the American delegation soon after he took office in 1945. She now serves in the American Association for the United Nations, being no longer an official delegate. That Mrs. Roosevelt attaches tremendous importance to the U. N. is no surprise. She feels that the United States must lower the boundaries between it and other nations and demonstrate its democracy to the world. The means of this demonstration is the United Nations.

Anna Eleanor Roosevelt has lived on her own since her illustrious husband's death some eleven years ago. Her life as a private citizen has been a “goldfish-bowl” existence. However, she relishes the “greater freedom to do and say what I wish.” Gray and stylishly stout, she obtains her greatest pleasure from her work and the fact of having “no people dependent on me to take my time.” Her time is her own, but at no time does this seem to be true. Hundreds of public appearances and speaking engagements demand most of her waking hours. Many organizations receive her support. Numbered among these are the Americans for Democratic Action, the board of directors of Howard and Brandeis Universities, and the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People.

Born on October 11, 1884, Mrs. Roosevelt spent most of her childhood in New York City. At the tender age of five and one-half she (Continued On Page Four)

Davidsonian

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 30, 1956

FALL BLOOD DRIVE MONDAY NEEDS FULL STUDENT SUPPORT

The annual fall Red Cross Blood Drive, sponsored by the IFC, will be Monday and Tuesday, December 3, and 4, in the lower gym, near the wrestling room, from 11 until 5. Four incentives for donating blood are offered. There is a free ROTC drill cut for all cadets who participate in the drive. He can donate any time during the two days and still be eligible for the cut. A free PT cut is also offered. He may give blood during his regular PT period and have the rest of the period free. If they are not collecting blood during your class, you can give that afternoon and take your cut during your next regularly-scheduled PT class. The fraternity having the greatest percentage of brothers and pledges participating will receive a plaque in recognition of their achievement. The winning fraternity will also be given a reduction in the price of their Mid-winters Dance tickets. It will be billed for only 75 percent of their membership instead of the regular 85 percent. Last fall only about 150 gave blood, while there were slightly more at the spring drive. Students are suggested to donate on Monday if possible, to avoid the Tuesday rush.

Dr. E. Stanley Jones To Speak in Chapel

Dr. E. Stanley Jones, a Methodist missionary in India since 1907, will speak in chapel next Tuesday morning. Dr. Jones is currently on a speaking tour in the United States. A graduate of the City College of Baltimore, he has received several honorary degrees from colleges and universities, especially from Duke University. Dr. Jones has been a member of UCM teams on a number of occasions and was twice the Lenten speaker for the Greater New York Federation of Churches. He was elected a bishop of the Methodist Church but declined in order to remain as a missionary in India. There he was a personal friend of the late Mahatma Gandhi. Dr. Jones has published over 20 books, two of which sold over a million copies each.

Crossing to a Free Land

Fleeing Soviet oppression in their native Hungary, these refugee families took to a small makeshift bridge to cross the borderline canal into Austria. One of these families will arrive soon in Davidson, thanks to the College Gift Fund which is getting under way.

Emphasizes Spirit of Ma

By LAURENS WALKER

“I see no hope that there will be a revolt in Red China similar to the recent revolt in Hungary,” said Dr. T. Z. Koo, a native of China and for more than forty years a leader of student Christian movements throughout the world. Continuing Dr. Koo stated that the U. S. had lost face in the Far East by not going to the aid of the Hungarian rebels. “You have not followed up your assurances to the people of Hungary. Your radio promised aid in a fight for freedom, but all you have offered is refugee aid. This will make the people of China think a long time before they revolt.” When questioned concerning the possibility of future U. S. recognition of Communist China, Dr. Koo, situation. Dr. Koo did add, however,Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

that “the United States does gain some psychological value from continued support of Nationalist China.” Asked to comment on the future of India, Dr. Koo thoughtfully pointed out that the entire Orient is in the process of going through two types of revolution, political and economic. “Nationalist China,” Dr. Koo said, “won the political revolution in China but, because of preoccupation with the Japanese, lost the economic revolution to the Communists.”

REVOLUTION IN THE ORIENT

Applying this pattern to India, Dr. Koo predicted that since there was no war to distract Nehru, he would be able to “remain in control and direct the economic revolution along safe lines, thus saving India from Communism.” Dr. Koo added that in a showdown situation Nehru would side “with the West,” but “He would be the last to admit it.”

Turning to religion, Dr. Koo was asked what the strength of the Christian Church is today in China. Dr. Koo began his answer by saying that, from a numerical standpoint, the Church is still small, but, from the viewpoint of influence, “the church is large out of proportion because of its pioneering in the field of higher education.” After a moment of thought Dr. Koo added in somewhat of an understatement that “of course, since the Communists have come, things are some different.”

Continuing in this vein, Dr. Koo said that three alternatives face the Christian in Communist China. “He can follow the political line of the Communists and try to be Christian at the same time. Very difficult to do. He can speak out and voice his faith, but he is then likely to be ‘eliminated.’ The last alterna- (Continued On Page Four)

NOW LIVING IN WAYNESVILLE

Rally Speaker Helped To Save National Treasury From Soviets

Wednesday's “Action for Hungary” rally will feature a former Hungarian official who saved the Hungarian National Treasury when the Soviets took over Budapest in 1944. A young architect, fresh from the chaos of Budapest, will also address the rally.

Dr. Zoltan Szentivanyi, a former official in the Hungarian National Bank, will give the first address. Dr. Szentivanyi, now residing in Waynesville, has been branded a “war criminal” by the Budapest Communist government and is prevented from returning to his native land by threat of a death penalty imposed by the Reds.

Szentivanyi’s story of heroism began in December of 1944. The Russians at that time were entering the front gates of Budapest while Szentivanyi was escaping through the back way. On a special train, the patriot loaded 36 tons of gold worth $360,000,000, plus some $300,000,000 worth of bonds and securities. But he did not leave empty-handed. In addition, there was $150,000,000 in foreign currency. Even more important from the point of national pride and morale, Dr. Szentivanyi escaped with the “Holy Crown” and many priceless paintings and documents from his country's libraries and museums. This treasure was delivered to an Austrian monastery where it remained until it could be turned over to a special United States task force.

Since the closing of the war, the Doctor has worked with the U.S. military government in Austria and came with his family to America in 1949. Dr. Szentivanyi is presently working as an accountant in Waynesville and Canton, North Carolina. His versatility is revealed by the fact that in pre-war days he was on the faculty of the University of Budapest where he taught economics, history, geo-politics, mathematics, and civil engineering. He holds six degrees and speaks several foreign languages.

The International Rescue Committee in New York is providing the second speaker, a 26-year-old architect who recently arrived from Hungary. His name cannot be released for security reasons. A Hungarian native, it is indicated that he will be able to give a first-hand account of the role of the Hungarian youth in the anti-Soviet uprisings. He speaks Russian, German, and Hungarian, but does not speak English. Plans are underway to secure an interpreter. Both speakers will be utilized in classroom seminars and discussions open to the public.

GUILFORD CAGERS HERE TONIGHT (Page 3)

No. 10 Students Vote Refugee Family For Gift Project

An “Action for Hungary” Rally is set for Chambers Auditorium next Wednesday morning. Dr. Zoltan Szentivanyi, a former official of the Hungarian National Bank, and a 26-year-old architect, who recently arrived in New York from Budapest, will be the featured speakers. The rally, operating on a completely voluntary basis, will begin immediately at 10:10. All Wednesday morning classes have been shortened by five minutes to allot a full hour to the rally.

Sponsored by the Gift Fund Committee, the assembly is in connection with the project to bring a refugee Hungarian family to the Davidson community which drew overwhelming approval in a student vote Tuesday morning. Dr. Roland Elliott of the Church World Service in New York is in constant contact with Vienna, and has been instructed to secure a family group suitable for this project from the thousands of refugees congregated there. While definite information is expected momentarily, it is probable that the family will arrive here before Christmas.

There are reports that interest in the project is growing rapidly throughout the town of Davidson, and indications are that it may well become a community-wide effort. A committee of representatives of local civic and service organizations as well as church leaders and members of the College faculty, administration, and student body is at present being organized. The family selected will be brought to Davidson to live. The College has agreed to provide a job for the breadwinner of the family. The funds raised in the next two weeks will go for the cost of passage to Davidson and toward providing, in cooperation with the college, a home in the community.

Details of plans for the Wednesday rally are still incomplete. (Continued On Page Four)

RUINED FURNITURE AND BADLY SMOKED WALLS resulted when a blaze of unknown origin gutted the reception room in West Dormitory last Saturday night. Damage has been estimated at $1,000 by college authorities.

Prof. Kerr to Speak To Sig Up Thursday

One of Davidson College's most distinguished alumni, Professor William C. Doub Kerr, will return to the College Thursday as an honored guest. Prof. Kerr will speak to members of Sigma Upsilon Thursday evening, following a talk at 8:15 in the College Union. The address will be on Willa Cather, and the public is invited. On Friday morning Kerr will lecture to English classes of Dr. James S. Purcell.

Prof. Kerr is from Glendale College in California, where he has served as a teacher of the romance languages since 1929. Prof. Kerr has taught at Columbia University, the University of Paris, and the University of California, and has delivered lectures in many cities of the United States. In recent years he has established two literary awards at Davidson, the Willa Cather and the Woodrow Wilson, both for creative writing. The Cather award is given annually for the best original creative literature by a Davidson student.

Holiday Blaze Damage Estimated At $1000

A fire of undetermined origin swept through the reception room of West Dormitory last Saturday night. Damage was estimated at $1,000.

The fire was the first major catastrophe of its kind on the campus in 33 years. Repairs will include the painting of the first floor corridor of West and the replacing of the destroyed furnishings. The work will begin as soon as authorities iron out the business details.

The reception room of West had been smoldering presumably since Friday evening or shortly thereafter before its discovery by Davidson students who had remained on campus. Speculation has arisen as to the origin of the fire. The most logical one seems to point to a cigarette carelessly left on the sofa. Arson is not suspected and no investigation is being made.

The efforts of Bobby Livingston, Larry Reynolds, Bruce Van Sant, Al Myers, and Steve Huntley brought the blaze under control. The local fire department under the leadership of Oscar Gantt extinguished the remains.