THE DAVIDSONIAN

Generals Squad of W&L

A much-improved Washington and Lee soccer team crammed all of its scoring into one period last Saturday at Lexington to
defeat Davidson for the second time in two weeks. Playing in a misty rain before an enthusiastic Parent's Day crowd,
the General offense showed new-found skill as they pressed the Wildcat defenders throughout the contest. Held scoreless throughout the first
quarter, the W and L foot-slingers found the range in the opening minutes of the second quarter. After the Generals
scored the first goal in the opening seconds of the period, the Wildcat offense took possession of the ball and
a few seconds later, right wing George Sutcliffe drilled home the first Davidson score of the season. W and L
roared back to score three times in the next four minutes and once more just before the half. The second
half developed into a see-saw affair, with each team being foiled in all attempts to score.

When Professor Bailey complimented Coach Heath Whittle in the speech which preceded ODK’s tapping, he brought to light a point
that has been almost overlooked by recent generations of students. Interfraternity athletics are so much a part of the normal
life of boys on campus, we accept them as a fact and pay no attention to how or why they
came into being.

AROUND THE TRACK

However, Davidson's athletic program has not always been what it is today. Before 1928 intramurals were practically non-existent. If a
boy couldn’t go out for a varsity sport he was limited in exercise primarily to running around the track, playing
tennis on one of the few courts, or whacking at a golf ball. In '28 Captain Norton Prichett came to
the college as athletic director, instigated an intramural program, and two years later asked a graduating senior to join the
coaching staff. That senior, who captained the 1930 track team, was part—on last count, approximately 80 per cent.

SQUADS, SQUADS

Originally the sports were few and the teams were limited. The four classes provided the basic competitive units but dormitories
occasionally challenged each other. As the fraternities grew in importance and size during the late 1930s, they also began sponsoring
squads. Because of the duplication of a single player on several teams, the fraternities plus a group of independents became
the sole competitors starting in 1946. The sports were primarily the same we have today—volleyball, track, basketball, etc.—but over the
years a wide array have been tried. Of particular early importance was gymnastics, and others included were boxing, soccer, golf,
horse-shoe pitching, badminton, and bowling.

AND NOW

Under the current program, the sports are selected at the beginning of the year by the athletic managers from the
fraternities and the Campus Club. The primary change in recent times was the switch from football to flickerball six years
ago. Intramural competition in the former sport was producing more injuries than varsity football because the contestants wore little protection.
Swimming has been added since the construction of Johnston Gym.

The Davidson offense displayed an attack which was greatly improved over all previous efforts. Sutcliffe, Ed Irvin, Ross Smyth, and
Gordon Neville initiated many fine drives, which pressed the Washington and Lee defenders throughout the contest. Forwards Belden Butterworth and
Billy Boyles were outstanding for the Generals. Tomorrow afternoon at 2:30 on Richardson Field, the Wildcats meet the Warren Wilson
College booters, a team which boasts players from fifteen different countries. The game will be the last home encounter for
the Davidson team this season.

Swimmers Preparing for Tough Schedule

By JIM HAMILTON

The Davidson College swimming team opened practice for the coming season Monday, October 21, in the college pool. Tom Rivers
is acting coach of the squad until the end of football season when Coach Thompson will take over.

Returning members from last year’s team are Basil Sharp—diver, John Winfry—who shares in the school’s 400-yard freestyle relay record, Jerry
Clark who holds the school record in the 200-yard freestyle, Bill Carroll record holder in individual medley and co-holder of
the 400-yard freestyle relay, John Edwards record holder in 220-yard breaststroke and member of the record 300-yard medley team, Fritz
Russell and Tom Rivers record holder in 50-yard and 100-yard freestyle and member of record 400-yard freestyle relay team.

Newcomers out for the team include Art Miller, Bob Jones, Don Dubblin, Dave Robinson, Harry Landis, Larry Stell, Woody Hunt,
Bill Hellier, and Craig Ray.

It is the opinion of acting coach Rivers that this year’s schedule is much tougher than last year’s. The Catfish
open their schedule against Catholic University, December 8, at Davidson. The rest of the schedule is: VMI, December 10, at
home; East Carolina, December 15, home; Citadel, January 12, home; University of Georgia, February 8, away; Emory, February 9, away;
Washington and Lee, February 15, home; VPI, February 23, home; and the Southern Conference meet on February 28.

Interfraternity wrestling starts next Tuesday, November 13, with weigh-ins beginning at 8:30 in the morning and continuing until 4:00 that
afternoon. The actual bouts begin the same day after drawings have been posted. Drawings will be made immediately after 4:00,
Tuesday, and will be posted as soon as possible on the bulletin board at the south end of the gym
floor. The weight class with the most entries will hold its bouts first. The winners in any weight class that
has more than eight entries will wrestle a second bout on Tuesday night. All bouts will be of five-minute duration.

Past Richmond 25-33

By OYVIND NORSTROM

Angus McBryde, who this fall converted from football to cross-country, led the Davidson harriers to a 25-33 victory over Richmond
Saturday on the local course. The sensational Durham sophomore became the first individual winner for Coach Whittle’s men in the
last two years. McBryde's victory was by a 10-second margin over Angus Cochran—a new Richmond man—with ex-star Warren Chukinas in
third place. Henry Brown and Al Elder took the next places, and three Davidson Freshmen—Graham George, Jim Alexander, and Milton
Gee—all got in ahead of Richmond's fourth man. Good depth thus proved decisive in the only race to be seen
on campus this year. Next on the schedule for the cross-country team is the State Meet at Raleigh. The squad’s
regular season record stands at 3-1.

Turn Guns On Cat Harriers

Speed Wildcat of Week

By BOBBY PAGE

Cat Defense Thwarts Spiders in 7-0 Victory

By LARRY MEYER

Though beaten in rushing yardage 216-122, the 'Cats more than compensated.Made up for the lack by their indomitable refusal to
let Richmond score. Most of the last half was played deep in Davidson territory. Three times the Spiders penetrated within
the 5-yard line, only to see the gallant defense stiffen. The last stand, which proved to be the game-saver, saw
tackle Tom Lee and end Bill Gramley bring Richmond fullback Zupipich to earth four inches short of the goal. Davidson's
big break came after an exchange of punts and a holding penalty had put Richmond on their own 4, from
where they punted out. Don Comer returned the 27 to set the stage. Dick Belton, faking masterfully, pitched to George
Hart for a first down on the 5. Don McRee cracked beautifully over left guard for the score. After the
conversion by Dave Fagg, the 'Cats led 7-0 with 4:03 remaining to play.

Spurred by the prospect of their best season since 1926, the ‘Cats take on Wofford tomorrow at Snyder Field in
Spartanburg, South Carolina. Game time is 8:00 p.m. Psychologically, Davidson goes into the fray better prepared. Wofford was the unhappy
victim of an upset by Catawba last week, while Davidson won a 7-4 thriller over Richmond. There is no love
lost between the two squads — Wofford having contributed to Davidson's big collapse last year. The 'Cats will be going
all out to erase the tinge of last year’s 21-0 chewing by the Terriers.

Don Comer. Comer's leg was fractured in the last contest. Also on the shelf is Frank Anderson, a promising Freshman
center. This twentieth renewal of the Davidson—Wofford rivalry promises to be a good deal closer than last year’s debacle, when
the big Wofford backs ran roughshod through the Wildcat line for more than 400 yards. The tremendous showing made last
week by the ‘Cat forward wall augurs trouble for unwary Terriers.

HOPES HIGH

The rampaging ‘Cats brought their season record a notch closer to the hoped goal of 7 wins. Davidson's young rifle
team was edged by Furman and was victorious over Wofford in a triangular match held on the local range Friday,
November 2. Taking Wofford by a considerable margin, the squad lost to Furman 1916-1823. In a match where some thirteen
hundred points are scored, the margin of eight points was extremely close. “They're still inexperienced, but they'll come along,” ventured
Captain Cavano, the team’s coach, nodding in the direction of the cracking rifles four days afterwards. Evidently, all that the
team needs is a little more depth because the two high men for the team: Pickard (280) and Alex McBryde
(274). In all, the team is comprised of some fifteen or twenty members; however, only six of these fired Friday.
Only the scores of the top five men were used in the final scoring.

Playing probably their best game of the year, especially on defense, the Red and Black denied the efforts of the
spirited Spiders. An often heard phrase in conversation is: “The backs always get all the credit.” There are very few
people who, after contemplation, deny the truth of the statement. But a football fan of long standing might add this
popular proverb: “Credit where credit is due.” Pete Ashcraft, team captain and outstanding harrier, is out for the season with
an injury. The loss will weaken the team’s chances in the concluding meets of the present campaign. Only William &
Mary and VPI appear to have decisively greater strength than the Wildcats. Saturday results: Davidson 3-2.

This week, halfback Don McRee is selected as Wildcat Of The Week, not because he is a back, nor because
he played his best all-round game against Richmond last week. But such an honor has been possible every week of
the season and this is but an attempt to secure some of the credit due to a typical Davidson Wildcat
who has been a tremendous credit to his school.

VICIOUS DEFENSIVELY

After scoring the game-winning touchdown late in the action last Saturday, McRee rose to his defensive pinnacle and stopped Bob
Ames from scoring the tying tally in a last chance effort, culminating a 40-yard run. On the next two plays,
breaking in from his defensive halfback post, McRee threw the Spider offense for reeling losses which thwarted their bid for
paydirt and a possible second consecutive tie for the Cats. Ever since September 21, McRee has maintained a rushing average
of better than five yards a shot and a punting average of over 37 yards a try. Two weeks ago,
he reeled off what was probably the most thrilling Black and Red feat of the year, a 98-yard kickoff return.
Of course, he had tremendous blocking—all the way to the V.M.I. 45, but in this article, we are talking about
McRee and will have to point out that many fans are still wondering, as are several Keydets, how he got
past those remaining four white jerseys.

SAYS DOLE

No one could know better how to appreciate a job well done than Coach Bill Dole, who says: “In four
years of football, McRee has never offered an alibi or rationalized by making an excuse for himself, but rather has
striven to do the job. This attitude not only in athletics, but in his academic work also, is reflected in
the splendid record he has achieved at Davidson.” Therefore, in an effort to reflect the verified sentiments of many Davidson
football fans and students, Don McRee is unanimously named Wildcat Of The Week.

Bought an Overcoat Yet...?

We have several good patterns in Alligator tweeds at only— 34.75

— ALSO —

RAINCOATS in Cotton Poplin at 15.95 Dacron-Cotton Poplin at 25.00

Wilson-Wright’s Inc. “Collegiate Fashions” DAVIDSON, N. C.
