The Summer School Davidsonian

Volume HCMOCTI Published Every Now and Then, Mostly Then. Number 2

FILM COMMITTEE ANNOUNCES PROGRAM

Pete Lorrisett, Chairman of the Board of Censors of the Summer School Film Committee, has announced the schedule for the popular outdoor movies for the next two weeks. The schedule shows a double-feature and also one of the classics of Alfred Hitchcock, the modern-day master of suspense.

On Friday, July 6, "Mr. Blandings Builds His Dream House" will be the feature. The faculty is especially invited to watch the showing of this delightful comedy. Saturday is double-feature night, with the suspense of Hitchcock's masterpiece, "Strangers on a Train," being added to the problems of "Mr. Blandings." "Strangers on a Train" will be offered again Monday night, July 9, for the benefit of the weekend travelers.

On Saturday, July 14, and also on the following Monday, "Desert Fox" will be the attraction. "Desert Fox" concerns the life of the German Field Marshal Rommel, nicknamed the Desert Fox because of his brilliant campaigns against the Allies in North Africa in World War II.

MIDSUMMER BACCHANALIA

The Davidson College Midsummer Bacchanalia will be held on Saturday evening, July 14, from 8-12 P.M. It is rumored that either Les Elgart or Ray Anthony will play for the dance, but final arrangements have not been made as of press time. Dress will be semi-formal, and free refreshments and stunts will be featured throughout the evening. Tickets are on sale in advance at 75¢ for stags and $1.25 for adults. They may be purchased from Messrs. Hood, Hoffner, Pressley, Fountain, K. Currie, Cox, and Miss Sarah Pait. Dates will not be furnished.

SPECIAL NOTICE

At a recent meeting of the Board of Directors of the College Union cafeteria, the following resolution was passed: No student shall be allowed more than two slices of Citrus Limonia Fruit (lemon). Those who fail to adhere to the requirements of this resolution will be denied peanut butter privileges for the remainder of the session.

VESPER SERVICES

The Vesper Service this Sunday evening, July 8, will be led by Jim Pressley. (This is not the same Pressley who appeared in the Coliseum last week.)

A full house is expected, so come early and get a good seat.

MEDICAL SERVICES

Students who may require the services of a physician during the Summer Session may call Dr. James B. Woods, Jr. at 2651 (office) or 4831 (home). At night, Dr. W. Harding Kneedler, a local resident who practices in Concord, may be reached at 61 or 8181. A first-aid kit is located at the College Union desk for minor injuries.

BRIDGE TOURNAMENT

Next Tuesday, July 10, the second Bridge Tournament of the summer session will be held on the terrace of the College Union. Students, faculty members, and townspeople are urged to attend and participate.

On Wednesday night, the social committee has a special treat in store. It is understood that two expert dancers will put on an exhibition at the Union. Everyone is cordially invited to observe this phenomenon.

ANNOUNCEMENTS

The regular biweekly buffet supper will be held in the College Union this Sunday from 6-6:45 P.M. Students are assured that French toast will not be served.

The Summer Session Athletic Committee, composed of Dr. Olin Puckett, John Morgan, and Mike Fenneyan, has announced the selection of the following men as the Davidson All-Star Basketball team: George Castrula, Bobby Blastocdele, Sonny Planchnopleure, Sammy Sertoli, and Allen Mantois.

The coach selected for this fine team of tongue-twisters is Charley Chaleza.