Who’s Who Announces Selection of Fifteen Seniors at Hunter
By DAVID ROBINSON

Mr. H. Pettus Randall, publisher of Who’s Who Among Students in American Universities and Colleges, confirmed the selection of fifteen Davidson students for this distinction last Wednesday. The organization, in its 23rd year of existence, selects students on the basis of scholarship, leadership, cooperation in educational and extracurricular activities, citizenship, and promise of future usefulness.

Chosen from the Davidson campus were: Jim Batten, Gordon Bondurant, Carl Cooper, Tony Dick, John Gilmer, Vernon Hunter, Jim Kuist, Dan LaFar, Dyke Little, Donny McRee, Tom Morgan, Bunny Perkinson, Reitzel Snider, Larry Trotti, and Ed Young.

Jim Batten, a Baker Scholar, has continually served the Davidson literary world, in the past on the Wildcat Handbook Staff and as managing editor of the Davidsonian, and now as the school paper’s editor-in-chief. A member of Beta Theta Pi and ODK, the Holland, Va. native finds time for military interests, as evidenced by his position on the ROTC Regimental Staff and his status of Distinguished Military Student.

Gordon Bondurant, hailing from Winston-Salem, N. C., centers his interest in YMCA work, serving now as president after working as a vice-president and director. His activities vary to include baseball and membership on the IFC and in ODK. In the past, Gordon has been IFC representative of his fraternity, Beta Theta Pi.

Carl Cooper, known to freshmen as their adviser, is a resident of Durham, N. C., and president of Beta Theta Pi. The Baker Scholar and ODK member in previous years has served as junior class representative of the student council and as a director of the Y.

Tony Dick, student adviser and senior student council member, is the vice-president of Beta Theta Pi. Tony works actively in YMCA work, last year serving as president of the Bible Class, this year holding the post of Spiritual Life. He makes his home in Memphis, Tenn.

John Gilmer serves as president of the Honorary Fraternity Council in addition to his duties as head of Gamma Sigma Epsilon. A Baker Scholar and Distinguished Military Student, John busies himself also with his jobs as treasurer of Kappa Alpha and as a Battalion Commander. His home is Bristol, Tennessee.

Vernon Hunter, a Charlotte native, presides over ODK and Phi Delta Theta. His student council service includes membership as junior and senior class representative and in the Y he has worked as a member of the cabinet. A past moderator of the Assembly’s Youth Council, Vernon was formerly vice-president of the sophomore class.

Jim Kuist serves Davidson as the editor of Scripts 'n Pranks, president of Sigma Chi and Sigma Upsilon. Calling Princeton, N. J. home, Jim is a past member of the male chorus and a member of the Philanthropic Society.

Dan LaFer, president of the Student Body, is a Kappa Sig and plays on the golf team. Elected to ODK in the spring, Dan holds the distinction of having had his father attend Davidson before him and serve as president of the senior class of 1931. The LaFars live in Gastonia, N. C.

Dyke Little, outstanding football quarterback and baseball player, serves as president of Alpha Psi Omega, honorary dramatics fraternity.

Bunny Perkinson, president of the senior class, busies himself in the fraternity world with the presidency of the IFC and the rushing program of Phi Delta Theta. Living in Chattanooga, Tenn., ODK member Bunny is a Union Carbide Scholar.

Reitzel Snider, Distinguished Military Student and Judge of the Court of Control, captained the Davidson wrestling team and commands the ROTC regiment. Reitzel is a member of ODK and calls Winston-Salem, N. C., home.

Larry Trotti, KA president and battalion staff member, obtains distinction as a member of Phi Beta Kappa. The Decatur, Ga. native also has membership in Scabbard and Blade and Le Cercle Francais.

Ed Young holds the office of editor of Quips and Cranks and treasurer of ODK. An SAE and Distinguished Military Student, Ed is vice-president of the Eumenean Society and a member of the Scabbard and Blade. Louisville, Ky. is his home.

Classical Club Holds Organizational Meeting

The Classical Club, Davidson College’s newest organization, held its initial meeting last Wednesday night in the Quadwranglers’ Room in Chambers Building. There were slightly over thirty members present at this organizational meeting. Dr. George Labban, faculty sponsor of the club, conducted the business session until the charter officers had been elected. The following men were chosen: President, John Trotti; Vice-President, Grier Davis; Secretary, Willie Thompson; Treasurer, Tom Kernan. The newly-elected president appointed a program committee, chaired by the vice-president and a refreshment committee headed by Barry Benton.

PROGRAMS

President Trotti and Dr. Labban led the discussion concerning dues and programs for the year. Several programs are already in the planning stages. These include a film and visits by noted speakers and authorities on the classical languages and the Graeco-Roman civilization. According to the president, one of the club’s initial discussions will be centered on the examination of the A.B. requirements for graduation. In the lighter vein, a genuine facsimile of a Roman banquet, complete with regalia and ritual is also being planned. Club membership is open to all who have an interest and an understanding of the classical languages and the Graeco-Roman civilization.

IRC invites Davidson To Regional Meeting

Representatives from Davidson College have been invited to attend the organizational conference of the Southeastern Regional Association of International Relations Clubs, to be held December 6, 7, and 8, on the University of South Carolina campus at Columbia. Other South Carolina colleges participating as co-host for the conference include The Citadel, Coker College, Columbia College, Converse College, Furman University and Winthrop College. Speakers at the conference will include Dr. Philip E. Mosely, head of the Russian Institute of Columbia University, and John C. Broger, principal advisor to Admiral Radford on the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Permanent officers of the region will be elected at the conference. Sylvia J. Hanna and Carl M. Reynolds, both of the University of South Carolina, are temporary chairman and secretary, respectively.

Dr. T. Z. Koo to Address 'Y' About Far East Religious Tensions

Dr. T. Z. Koo, visiting professor at Bucknell University and formerly Secretary of the World's Student Christian Federation for 14 years, will speak at a YMCA Membership Meeting on Wednesday night, November 28, at 8:15 in the Union. He will discuss the religious situation in the Far East in general and China in particular in his talk, “Religious Tensions in the Far East.” Then, in a chapel speech Thursday morning, his topic is “The Future of Nationalistic China and its Relationship with the Communists.” Dr. Koo has been a leading figure in the spiritual life of the world. From his Federation headquarters in Geneva, Switzerland, he traveled extensively on every continent and visited the great majority of the world's countries.countries of the world.

CHINESE YMCA

Born, raised, and educated in China in the modern city of Shanghai, Dr. Koo entered the service for the size of their houses would have to be enlarged because of the large percentage of students who belong to fraternities at Davidson. Also discussed at the meeting was the annual Christmas Party for the Barium Springs Orphanage. The date for this was set at December 13. The general procedure for the IFC meetings is to bring up subjects and then have the representatives for each fraternity in turn bring them up at the fraternity meetings. In this way, matters are thoroughly discussed before the IFC makes them definite.

BACK STAGE HANDS were busy tonight as the curtain went up on the Red and Black Masquers’ production of “The Rainmaker.” Ray Craig (left) handled the curtain and prompting chores, with John Trotti (foreground) in charge of special effects and Bob Hoagland operating the lighting.

Board of Visitors Meets With Trustees Today

PHILIPPE ENTREMONT ... with the spirit and fire of youth.

SOLID, POWERFUL ARTIST

Entremont Gives First D.C. Concert

of the club for the ensuing year. Also elected were John Morgan, vice-president, and Bill Ferguson, secretary-treasurer. Dr. Tom Scott serves as the adviser for the club. The new members are selected from the sophomore and junior classes on the basis of athletic ability and leadership ability.

ROTC Dept. Holds Annual Turkey Shoot

Returning to America by popular demand, Philippe Entremont, French pianist, will be featured in the third event of the Artist Series next Monday, at 8:15 p.m. in Chambers. This is the first appearance at Davidson for the brilliant young artist. Critics dub him as a “master of the keyboard possessing the spontaneity of youth in one brilliant performance after another.” In January and February, 1953, he toured the United States for the first time, as the visiting artist on the interchange program of the National Music League and the Jeunesses Musicales de France. Highlighting his tour was his Carnegie Hall appearance, presenting the American premiere of the new Jolivet Concerto with the National Orchestral Association, Leon Barzin conducting, a performance which “brought down the house. It was a performance done with the spirit and fire of youth, plus a technical and musical mastery of an extremely talented musician.” Entremont has received nothing but the most favorable reviews and responses from his performances both in America and Europe. Commenting on his style, a review from Bayonne, France cited (Continued on Page Four)

Dr. Wm. Kadel Will Lead Vesper Service

Vespers this Sunday evening will be conducted by Dr. William Howard Kadel of Orlando, Florida. Dr. Kadel is presently the minister of the First Presbyterian Church in the state of Florida. A native of Pennsylvania, Dr. Kadel did his undergraduate study at Gettysburg College and received his Bachelor of Divinity degree from Western Theological Seminary in Richmond. From 1938 to 1942 Dr. Kadel served as pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Trafford, Pennsylvania. During the Second World War, he was Deputy Staff Chaplain of the Third Air Force. Returning to the parish ministry in 1945, Dr. Kadel filled the pulpit of the Palma Ceia Presbyterian Church of Tampa until his call to Orlando in 1953.

Plans for the future of Davidson College began to take shape here today when the Executive Committee of the Board of Trustees met with the newly-formed Board of Visitors. A combined attendance of more than 30 heard a report by Dr. John R. Cunningham, president of the college, and inspected the college plant. The first meeting began at 9:45 a.m. and was followed by a tour of the campus at 11:30 a.m. After a luncheon in the David Ovens College Union, the group held a second meeting at 2 p.m.

Reception and Dance Follow Presentation

Tonight and Saturday at 8 p.m. in Chambers Auditorium the Red and Black Masquers’ production of The Rainmaker takes the stage for the first of this year’s performances. The presentation comes as the climax of several weeks of intensive preparation by actors and stage crew. Appearance on a color television program by several members of the cast prefaced tonight's production. Four of the cast gave a short skit Thursday afternoon on WBTV in announcement of the play. In full dress for the play, the four gave an idea of their individual character and also something about the play. Those participating in the skit were Carrol Sherrill, George Kemmerer, Bill Pfefferkorn, and Stuart Fountain. The three-act romantic comedy has its setting in a western state in a time of drought. The play revolves around the Curry Family. Pop (Harry Paschall) and his sons, Noah (Ray Atkinson) and Jim (Jack Lohman) are worried as much about Lizzie (Carol Sherrill), the daughter in the family, becoming an old maid as they are about the cattle dying in the drought. Their attempts to mate her with the sheriff's deputy File (George Kemmerer) seem futile. Then suddenly from out of nowhere appears a picturesque character with a flowing speech and the most grandiose notions a man could imagine. He calls himself Starbuck and claims to be a “rainmaker.” In this title role is Bill Pfefferkorn, and also involved in the final outcome (Continued on Page Four)

Andrews Will Speak Concerning Taxation

T. Coleman Andrews, defeated candidate for President of the United States on the States’ Rights ticket, has tentatively agreed to speak here on the subject of taxation sometime early in December. Mr. Andrews will be sponsored by the Business-Economics Association. Andrews was an official in the Bureau of Internal Revenue in the Eisenhower administration but resigned because he disagreed with the President's tax policies. The abolition of the income tax was one of the planks in his platform in the recent campaign. The Association is also planning this week to issue bids for membership to juniors and seniors, primarily business and economics majors, although this is not a prerequisite for membership.

Prominent leaders in business, public affairs, church life, and education were represented in both the Visitors and Trustee groups. The purpose of the Board of Visitors, holding its first meeting, is to promote the overall effectiveness and welfare of the college. Control of Davidson is in a 55-man Board of Trustees, headed by the Executive Committee. The Board of Visitors will serve in an advisory capacity. Among the trustees who were present are George S. Crouch, Dr. Hamilton W. McKay, Dr. Thomas D. Sparrow, and Ivey W. Stewart of Charlotte; Dr. C. Grier Davis of Asheville; and Dan R. LaFar, Jr. of Gastonia. Also, Frank P. Hall, Jr., of Belmont, Dr. John A. Redhead of Greensboro, John I. Smith of Travellers Rest, S.C., the Rev. Fred R. Stair of Hickory, and the Rev. W. T. Thompson of Richmond, Va. John M. Akers of Gastonia, chairman of the Alumni Fund, and Charles F. Myers of Greensboro, president of the Alumni Association, also attended. Eleven of the newly-appointed Visitors have accepted invitations to attend. Included are Edward Dwelle of Jacksonville, Fla., Mrs. J. N. Hynson of Scarsdale, N.Y., and Mrs. Curtis B. Johnson of Charlotte. Also, Charlotte business executive James J. Harris; Howard Holderness of Greensboro, president of the Jefferson Standard Life Insurance Co.; C. A. McKnight of Charlotte, editor of the Charlotte Observer; Dr. Dean Rusk of New York, chairman of the Rockefeller Foundation.

ESCAPE TO FREE CHINA

In September 1944, disguised as a peddler of women’s underwear, Dr. Koo set out from Japanese-occupied Shanghai on a hazardous journey to Chungking and Free China. He walked 850 miles in 44 days through hundreds of towns and villages of his war-ravaged native land. The suffering and destruction he witnessed and the personal hardships he endured on his long trek have deepened and made more moving his previously (Continued on Page Four)

Loved and respected throughout the world by those who have come to know him as artist, sage, prophet, and statesman, he is one of the few men in our time who has done so much to bring the diverse peoples of the world to a greater understanding and appreciation of each other's culture and manner of life.