Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Then the mighty chieftain, Slick John,
Sent the word that this old building
(Faithful still and loved by "toot toot")
Marred the planning of the campus--
Blocked the view from mighty Chambers
Of the new-built dormitory--

(Likewise blocked the view of
Chambers from the new-built dormitory).
Then did Cunningham, the chieftain,
Summon up the board of trustees
Summoned them and told the story

Of the aging dormitory--

Pointed to his new creation

Said 'to hell with this old building'
Let men see our new creation

Let old faithful John called "toot toot!"
Have a floor in this new building.

So they called the grim destroyers
Called them with their swinging engine
Bid them strike the dormitory

Strike it down and plow it under

Tear from it all that is useful

Tear from it also old "toot toot".

Now the act is accomplished

Gone from us the aging structure

Gone to where good buildings go to

Not to where great Slick John said to!
Thus the passing of the building;

Soon the spot will all be gone too
And no more will it be thought of--
Save by one-- the faithful "toot toot".

---

FURTHER EXCITING DISCOVERIES AMONG THE
DEAD-TIRED SCROLLS

---

EXODUS

Then the most high one spake unto the
children of Davidson, saying;

Get thee hence out of this place of thy abode,
and with thee take thy books and thy pencils.
Yea, also take all that which thou dost call
thy own and take with thee thy janitors.

For the place before thy dwelling has become
as a desert land, where strange men (who are
not of my people) do make exceedingly great
disturbance, and the way is covered with the
dust of their creation, and the air is filled
with their profanity.

For I have caused this place to be cleared,
and for the beauty of the campus have I
struck down the former dwelling.

Therefore get thee hence, ere Tuesday
falleth, to that land where did dwell the
Philistines.

For I have returned it into thy hands and
have caused it to be purified so that the
air doth smell as sweet perfume.

And if thou doeth this thing, it will be
easier for thee, for it is as silent as
the still waters.

When the children heard these words, a
great cry rose up through all the land,

for great was the inertia of them.

But those who sit in the place of the mighty
did prevail and ere Tuesday had come to
pass, there was a great migration, and all
did go and did take their books and their
pencils. And did take all their possessions,
and truly did their janitors go with them.
And they found that the new dwelling had
indeed been given over into their hands,

and the air did smell with some strange odor.
And the water did run warmly and a new
path for strangers had opened beside them
so that there was noise, and dust of their
creation covered the way, and the air was
filled with their profanity.

But it was good, for so ordained they who
sit in the seat of the wise.

--By the Beard of the Prophet
