FRIDAY, MAY 4, 1956 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

Slants Spo By JOHN JOHNSON

36 HOLES TODAY

The Wildcat golf team enters the conference competition with their best chance in several years of finishing in the high
ranks. The squad, supported by unusual help from freshmen, has made a surprise showing this year. In 11 matches, Dr.
Scott's linkmen have won 7. Their only losses have been to NC State, whom they had previously beaten, Furman, and
the Citadel, whom they lost to by only three points. Furman particularly will make it tough for the Red and
Black in the tournament. Since the Cats have not played against any of the teams in the northern part of
the conference, it is difficult to anticipate the latter’s strength, but several undoubtedly have good teams.

NOT A STANDOUT

The squad has no outstanding individual performers but rather a large range of men who shoot consistently good golf in
the mid 70’s. In regular matches, teams are required to enter at least six men, but the healthy depth has
permitted the Cats to compete with as many as nine. Due to the rotation system used, at least eight men
will letter, an unusually high number for a six-man sport. The golf team works under a double handicap; they have
no spectator support nor do they have a place to practice. All “home” matches are played either at the Charlotte
Country Club or Myers Park, both too far for student onlookers to travel. The greatest hindrance, however, is the difficulty
of practicing. The place designated for the boys to work on strokes is the lower drill field, but with two
softball games being played on the same ground, it is discouraging to any attempt to work out. The best place
to practice is 20 miles away in Charlotte, but such a trip requires a full afternoon. Most boys cannot spare
the time, so workouts generally amount to occasional trips to Mooresville’s course, and the rest of the golf is picked
up in actual competition, about one or two meets a week.

WHAT ABOUT IT?

The Davidson campus has land allotted for a golf course but is rendered useless by a lack of greens. Anyone
who has ever noticed the number of golf bags in the dorms or who has seen the number of boys
chipping balls on the lawn between West and Duke dorms on a sunny day realizes that there is enough interest
in the sport to make even a short course worth the investment. Dr. Scott is of the opinion that if
three greens could be installed in one year, the use that they would receive would warrant future gradual expansion. A
three-hole course would greatly facilitate the practicing of the golf team, but its primary purpose would be for the enjoyment
of all students. If students reveal sufficient concern, such a plan could become a reality.

JUST RECEIVED STRIPED BATISTE SHIRTS Button-down Collar, Box Pleat The Very Thing For Summer $5.50 White and Blue—4.95 Wilson-Wright's Inc.
“COLLEGIATE FASHIONS” DAVIDSON, N. C.

With the final home game having been completed, Davidson's Wildcats will take the field against V.P.I. at Blacksburg tomorrow in
another Southern Conference contest. The Cats were scheduled to meet the tough Gobbler outfit this afternoon in the first half
of the two-day doubleheader, and Coach Chuck Clements announced yesterday that his top lefthanders, Allen Moore and Dave Page, would
go to the mound against the V.P.I. club. Furman’s Purple Hurricane will play host to the Red and Black next
Tuesday, and it will mark the close of the 1956 Davidson schedule. The contest was originally scheduled as Davidson's home
game, but a mid-season change has slated the battle for Greenville. Two conference opponents visited the Wildcat diamond during the
past week, and Davidson split two doubleheaders. Against The Citadel last Friday and Saturday, the Cats lost the first game,
but they came back to grab the second contest. On Tuesday, William and Mary was the foe, and the Indians
managed to take a close second game after Davidson had won a slugging duel in the first, 10-7.

Koonce, Elder Spark Wildcat Cindermen To Sixth Win Of Year By OYVIND NORSTROM

Headed by team captain Phil Koonce and the year’s outstanding freshman star Al Elder, the Wildcat track team last Friday
romped to its 6th victory of the season. Washington & Lee was soundly defeated on their home track in Lexington,
by the score 87 2-3—43 1-3. Koonce, as usual, took care of the sprints and the broad jump for Coach
Whittle’s troops, and was this time excellently backed by the new frosh hopeful, Mel Armstrong, who took second place in
all three events. Koonce also ran the first leg on Davidson's winning mile relay team. Al Elder took a double
by winning both the 440 and the 880 yds; he tied for second in the broad jump, and for a
change watched the relay from the stands. Two of the usual standouts, Pete Ashcraft and Ross Mallory, did not compete
this time but will be back in this week’s contest with N.C. State at Raleigh. The Marines of Camp LeJeune,
who originally were supposed to take part in that meet, have had to withdraw. The contest—the final windup before the
Conference meet—will therefore be a regular dual meet, where middle distance champ Ashcraft may have to break his own records
to keep his unbroken winning streak intact. The team victory should normally be rather safe for the Davidson squad. Twenty-nine
men have to this time made the team’s scoring list, which is headed by captain Koonce and weight man Bill
Gramley. The top ten after the W&L meet are as follows: (1) Phil Koonce 99"; (2) Bill Gramley 94'5; (3)
Pete Ashcraft 70; (4) Al Elder 47; (5) Dave Regen 34; (6) Harley Smith and Oyvind Norstrom, both 32; (8)
Henry Brown 26%; (9) Don Stewart 25; (10) Scott Woodmansee. Four of the top scorers are seniors; three are juniors,
and three come from the freshman class.

Quality Dry Cleaning

For That Final Spring Function, Bring Your White Dinner Jackets, Tux Shirt, and Pants To Us For That Extra Touch
In Cleaning and Pressing.

Jackson Cleaners Phone 5196 Davidson

KAs, PIKAS SHARE

Dick Weeks and Bob Crittenden dropped only one table tennis match apiece to win a tie for their fraternities, the
KAs and Pikas respectively. The results in the overall IFC race give the front-running KS a 44-point lead over the
number two Phi Delts and a spread of 98 over the third-place Sigma Chis.

Dave Page lost a three-hit heartbreaker as four Cat errors gave W&M 3-1 win.

Final results Won Lost Pika 10 1 Kappa Sigs 9 2 Phi Delt 7 3 Sigma Chi 5 5 Independent
5 6 T1 4 7 Phi Gam 2 9 Pi Kapp 1 10 SPE 0 11

Don Comer, Wildcat third baseman, blasting out one ofthe three triples in the second game of Tuesday's doubleheader with William
and Mary. The hit scored Dave Page but was not enough to provide the victory as the Red and Black
lost 3 to 1.

RECORDS IN RECEIVING AND SHOT PUT
BILL GRAMLEY WORKHORSE FOR TRACK AND FOOTBALL
By JIM PAGE

an amateur astronomer, as well. The little boy watched the big painter, who maintains a high B average as a
major in English. “Say,” he said, “ain't you Bill Gramley, the football player?”

“I guess,” said Bill.

“Ain't you the one that catches all them passes this season?”

“I try to,” Bill said. “Sometimes I do, sometimes I don’t.”

“Whatcha doin’ with that brush?”

“I'm trying to paint,” Bill said.

“Paint that building?”

The boy looked disappointed. “What's the matter?” Bill asked.

“Ah gee,” the little boy said, “you ain't Bill Gramley the football player! No real football player would paint pictures!”

And so went the opinion of the little boy. Perhaps it should have been adopted by last year's Southern halfbacks.
They might have fared better. As it was, Davidson's artistically inclined end caught a total of 22 passes and gained
for his team 330 yards. When the season ended, the football-playing artist was first in the Conference in pass reception
and had earned a place on the All-Conference Academic squad. Commenting on Gramley’s play, Coach Dole has said, “Bill has
what it takes to be one of the finest ends in this conference.” Not bad for a part-time artist.

Bill Gramley is also a workhorse for the track team. As a trackman, “The Stallion” Gramley has written an impressive
record. With a total of 94½ points, he is second in points scored for the season. Before this Spring, Bill
had never participated in the high jump. This year he leads the Cats with a bar clearance of 5'10", and
never drops below 5'8". In shot and discus, however, are his real strengths. When the big man begins handling those
weights, he really opens up. In the shot put, he holds the school record. Last year’s Southern Conference Meet saw
him place second with a distance of 47.4 feet. Now, the school record in the discus has eluded him, but
he’s working on it. The record stands at 146 feet. Bill has spun the discus 145'7¼".

Tomorrow the team runs against North Carolina State, and that meet could be the big day for Davidson's tennis squad.
They will enter the tournament undefeated by Conference opponents, but they have not yet faced the strongest teams. The Wildcats
have won the singles, doubles, and team competition in previous years, but this season they enter as underdogs. The squad,
consisting of five freshmen and a lone junior, includes Captain John Robinson, Semi Mintz, John Poindexter, Dave Pearsall, Bob Huffaker,
and Tom McCutchen.

KAPPA SIGS LEAD IFC SPORTS RACE

With exams looming in the near future, the race for the IFC sports championship is thundering down the home stretch.
Two teams have the inside track, and a third closely follows these two. With only the results of tennis, softball,
and varsity sports remaining to be added to the standings, the Kappa Sigs are only a few points in front
of the Phi Delts, closely followed by the Sigma Chis. Steve Ni, SAE, won first place in the tennis singles
by defeating Ned Austell, Beta, and following these two were Echols, SAE, and Sharp, ATO. The doubles have begun, and
as of Wednesday had not progressed far enough to give any one team the favorites role.

The Wildcats edged out The Citadel 15 to 12 yesterday to even their earlier loss. Sloan, Parrott, Vaughn, and Johnson
won the match for the Davidson squad, but the Citadel was a finalist last year and remains a strong contender.

Team W L Behind
Phi Delts 5 0 -
Sigma Chis 4 1 1
Kappa Sigs 4 1 1
SAE 4 2 1½
Beta 4 2 1½
ATO 3 4 3
Kappa Alpha 2 5 4
Pi Kapps 2 5 4
Independents 2 4 4½

Bill Gramley, holding a Union Carbide as well as an athletic scholarship, shows his versatility. His summers also speak of
a truly well-rounded individual. Summer years in singles, doubles, and team competition, but this season they enter as underdogs. The
squad, consisting of five freshmen and a lone junior, includes Captain John Robinson, Semi Mintz, John Poindexter, Dave Pearsall, Bob
Huffaker, and Tom McCutchen.

SHOP “Opposite Ivey's Fifth St. Entrance”
126 WEST FIFTH STREET
CHARLOTTE

WINSTON
YOU'LL BOTH GO FOR THIS CIGARETTE!
WINSTON
Enjoy filter smoking!
Winston is the cigarette that gives you flavor in filter smoking — full, rich, tobacco flavor! No wonder Winston’s so
popular with college smokers clear across the country. Along with real flavor, Winston also brings you a finer filter that
works so well the flavor comes right through. Try Winston!
WINSTON
America's No.1 filter cigarette!
