PAGE FOUR

MRS. MOORE ... New Supervisor of Dormitories

AWAY FROM HOME

Mrs. Moore, Our New Mom

By DAVID ROBINSON
Davidsonian Feature Writer

“I am very happy to be at Davidson and am thoroughly enjoying my associations here,” commented Mrs. J. B. Moore, Jr. after three weeks of service in her new capacity as supervisor of dormitories. Since beginning work on April 8, she has found her days filled with final room registrations for the coming year and with new personalities. “It's such a pleasure to work with college men who are so cooperative, mature in their thinking and actions, such fine gentlemen.”

Mrs. Moore is originally from Texas and is the mother of three children. Brice, bound for an engineering career, is a former Davidson student now attending Mars Hill Junior College near Asheville. Susan, 16, and Patricia, 12, are still “undergraduate” and are attending school in Charlotte.

Mrs. Moore graduated from Baker University in Kansas and soon applied her A.B. Degree in Education to the teaching profession. Marriage ended this career and began another which has taken her so recently as last year to Iran where her husband worked as an engineer. Her life in the Near East typifies many incidents of her experience which have developed a sincere, well-rounded interest in people.

Residing now in a city apartment, the Moore family plans to move to Davidson in early June when they will occupy the “Puckett” house on Main Street. Davidson's new housemother has established office hours each afternoon in the hope that her job might exceed its professional limits: the students are “free to call upon me anytime I can be of service,” either in Belk, or later in her Main Street home.

New Council
(Continued From Page One)

The three class presidents on the Council are John Bernhardt, Roy Gilbert, and Dave Robinson. Bernhardt, from Lenoir, N. C., was secretary-treasurer of his Sophomore Class, vice-president of the Student Body and is a Baker Scholar. He is a member of Kappa Sigma and belongs to Sigma Upsilon honorary fraternity.

Roy Gilbert, of Alpha Tau Omega, serves his fraternity as Chaplain and Pledge Trainer. Gilbert, from Birmingham, Ala., is on the Y.M.C.A. Board of Trustees.

Dave Robinson, of Columbia, S. C., is president of the rising Sophomore class. He was president of his pledge class in Beta Theta Pi, where he will be recording secretary next year.

FRESHMAN ADVISOR

Fraley, Freshman Advisor, was president of the class this year. He was on the Freshman Council and president of his Sophomore class. From Gaffney, S. C., Fraley is a member of Kappa Alpha Order.

There are four councilmen elected from the rising senior class. Bill Bondurant, from Winston-Salem, N. C., will be president of Beta Theta Pi next year. He belongs to the Honorary German fraternity and the Eumanean Literary Society. Bondurant is business manager of the Wildcat Handbook. He recently won the Agnes S. Brown Award. Bondurant has served on the Student Council both his Sophomore and Junior years.

Ralph Bright, of Greensboro, N. C., former secretary of the Junior class, has held several offices in Sigma Alpha Epsilon Fraternity. He has been elected to the rising Junior class. Rutherford, from Mobile, Ala., is a member of Beta Theta Pi. Bob Huffaker, of Charlotte, N. C., was vice-president of the Sophomore class. He is on the tennis team and was secretary of the Y.M.C.A. this year. A Union Carbide Scholar, Kuykendall, of Charlotte, is pledge master for his fraternity. Dabney Stuart, from Richmond, Va., is secretary-treasurer of the Student Body, a member of Beta Theta Pi and a Baker Scholar. He plays baseball and will be alumni secretary for his fraternity next year.

AIR-CONDITIONED BOOTHS

Language Lab Will Be Required Of Beginners

Next fall an innovation in educational methods will be installed at Davidson—the language lab. All students taking 11-12 courses will be required to spend one of the three class hours and two hours outside class in the lab. This was prompted by the action of a Language Committee, headed by Dr. Watts, which wrote to over one hundred colleges which now use the labs for recommendations and advice. The Committee also made trips to a number of colleges to observe the labs in operation. On the basis of their findings, the Committee made a request to the College for the labs, which was approved. Financing the labs then remained the only problem.

Mr. James Jervey, whose son, a former Davidson student, died in South America, contacted Dr. Cunningham and Mr. Sailstad, wanting to give a contribution to the College in honor of his son. At the suggestion of Dr. Cunningham, Jervey agreed to contribute toward the establishment of the language labs.

Dr. Miller Makes Literary Award

Dr. F. DeWolfe Miller, Associate Professor of English at the University of Tennessee, will deliver the annual address and make the award in connection with the Vereen Bell Memorial Award for Creative Writing. Dr. Miller will speak in Chambers Auditorium on the morning of May 9 and will announce the winners of the 1957 contest.

Miller, a graduate of Davidson College, Class of 1930, secured his Ph.D. degree from the University of Virginia. Since then he has been on the faculty of the University of Tennessee. Carrying an award of seventy-five dollars as first prize, the Vereen Bell contest has for many years attracted the interest and participation of students concerned with creative writing.

Marine Program On Campus Friday

Captain Charles B. Redman, U. S. Marine Corps officer procurement officer whose headquarters is in Raleigh, will be on campus Friday, May 10, to interview freshmen, sophomores and juniors for acceptance in the Marine Corps “PLC” program. Seniors are eligible to enroll.

After studying the information that they had collected, the Committee recommended that the College buy twenty booths to install on the third floor of Chambers. The booths will be air-conditioned and will contain earphones and recording machines. Additional devices used will be movies and audio-visual aids. French, German, and Spanish classes will require attendance in the labs next year. Students will be allowed to come at their own convenience, as the labs will be open all afternoon. Examinations will be given on the basis of the oral work.

Dining Hall Work Nears Completion

Re-modeling of the old dining hall in Chambers will be completed within the next week. The room will continue to be used for conferences, meetings, dinners, movies, registration, and other miscellaneous needs. The new lights were installed in order to accommodate classes and exams which are occasionally held in this room.

Three Boys Caught By Student Council

Wednesday night, the Student Council held trial for violations of student body regulations. It was reported that three students were caught by a council member while in the process of setting off firecrackers. The main activity centered around Watts dormitory, although it was reported that much of the trouble actually stemmed from New Dorm.

Outstanding
(Continued From Page One)

W. E. Kestler, Jr., and Baxter M. Ritchie, both of Concord. Dr. John B. Gallent awarded to J. E. Adkins, Jr., of Sumter, S. C.

Sigma Pi Sigma

Sigma Pi Sigma, physics honor society, elected new officers at a meeting this past Wednesday night.C.. the David H. Howard memorial award, which goes to the outstanding senior chemistry student who plans to make chemistry his life work. Dr. Gallent also announced that A. H. Bracey, II, of South Hill, Va., had been designated as this year’s president; James Dabbs, holder of the highest average in chemistry among freshman students. President Cunningham awarded William L. Bondurant of Winston-Salem the Agnes Sentelle Brown scholarship of $450. Winners are chosen on the basis of character, personality, intellectual ability, and scholarship. In addition, Dean S. R. Spencer recognized those students who have been elected to “Who’s Who Among College and University Students.” Dr. George Abernethy recognized seniors who have won graduate scholarships in national and regional competition.

Delta Pi, the honorary Spanish fraternity, and Kappa Alpha will be represented from the Fifth District: Alpha, U.S.C.; Beta, N.C. State; Gamma, Duke; Delta, U.N.C.; Epsilon, Davidson; Zeta, Wake Forest; Eta, High Point; and Theta, Lenoir-Rhyne. Bill Daniel, assisted by George Gilmer, will serve as president, Henry Griffin as vice-president, and Johnny Johnson as secretary-treasurer. Following the election, the society adopted a new set of by-laws. The program consisted of a talk by Bill Daniel on the philosophy of science. Bill outlined the general principles of the scientific method and then presented some arguments against the assumptions of science. Plans were made for the annual fish fry which will be held next week at Erwin Lodge.

Dr. MacLennan Speaks In Chapel

Dr. David A. MacLennan, pastor of Brick Memorial Church, Rochester, N.Y., will speak in chapel on Tuesday, May 7. MacLennan was Professor of Preaching and Pastoral Care at Yale University Divinity School for sixteen years before coming to Brick Church. He served as visiting professor at Westminster College, Cambridge, England, in 1954-55, and while abroad delivered the noted Warrack Lectures at the Universities of Aberdeen and Glasgow, Scotland.

Pomeroy Chosen To Head AED

FRIDAY, MAY 3, 1957

THIS WEEK IN DAVIDSON

SATURDAY — MAY 4
2:00 p.m. Southern Conference Tennis Tournament.
7:00 p.m. Movie — “View From Pompey’s Head”

SUNDAY — MAY 5
7:30 p.m. Vespers — Rev. Ernest Gordon and the Sullins College Choir.

MONDAY — MAY 6
12:00-1:00 p.m. Class Movie — Green Room of Union.
7:30 p.m. Blindfold Checkers — Union Ballroom.

TUESDAY — MAY 7
10:10 a.m. Dr. David A. MacLennan — Chapel
8:15 p.m. Student Recital — Chambers.
2:00-5:00 p.m. R.O.T.C. Film — “The True Glory” — Union Ballroom.
7:30 p.m. R.O.T.C. Film — “The True Glory” — Union Ballroom.

WEDNESDAY — MAY 8
7:00 p.m. Inter-fraternity Sing — Chambers or Auditorium.

THURSDAY — MAY 9
10:10 a.m. English Department Awards in Chapel.

FRIDAY — MAY 10
8:15 p.m. Movie — “Walk in the Sun”.

New officers elected for the 1957-58 year were: Bill Pomeroy, president; Charles Drummond, vice-president; Alex Gardner, secretary; Henderson Rourk, treasurer; Jerry Eller, historian; and Arthur Lynn, publicity chairman. After elections, Ray Atkinson presented a program on “The Military Aspects of Venereal Disease in the Far East.” Author of four books and several devotional booklets, MacLennan is also homiletics editor of the magazine, Church Management. He is a graduate of the University of Manitoba, McGill University, and holds honorary degrees from the University of Toronto and Yale University.

ODK Taps (Continued From Page One)

The Philanthropic Literary Society met last Monday night and elected its officers for the coming year, as well as its marshals for commencement. Officers elected were Lee Hand, president; John Gilmer, vice president; Harry Paschal, treasurer. Bob Wooten and Jim Morris were named critics. Jim Morris and Harry Paschall were selected to serve as marshals for the society at commencement.

NOTICE

Room reservations for summer school may be made with Miss Moore beginning Monday. However, a $10 academic registration fee must be paid first.

Graduate — Then Fly... U.S. AIR FORCE AVIATION CADET PROGRAM

The flying U.S. Air Force is a team of men who command the aircraft and men who plan the attack. These are the pilots and navigators, both equally important to the defense of America. You, as a young man of intelligence and sound physical health, may join this select group in the world’s most exciting and rewarding adventure. Your training will stand you in good stead, whatever your future plans may be—and you'll be earning over $6,000 a year 18 months after training.* If you are between 19 and 26½ years of age, investigate your opportunities as an Aviation Cadet in the U.S. Air Force. Priority consideration is now being given to college graduates. For details, write: Aviation Cadet Information, P.O. Box 7608, Washington 4, D.C. *Based on pay of married 1st Lieutenant on flight status with 2 years’ service or more.

OUR LAWLESS LANGUAGE*

The laws that govern plural words
I think are strictly for the birds.
If goose in plural comes out geese
Why are not two of moose then meese?
If two of mouse comes out as mice
Should not the plural house be hice?
If we say he, and his, and him
Then why not she, and shis, and shim?
No wonder kids flunk out of schools
English doesn’t follow rules!

MORAL: The singularly plural pleasures of Chesterfield King make a man feel tall as a hice. So don’t be a geese! Take your pleasure BIG. Take Chesterfield King. Big length... big flavor... the smoothest natural tobacco filter. Try ’em. Chesterfield King gives you more of what you're smoking for!

Paul R. Salomone, City College of New York

Statistic! The other day our vice president in charge of good news announced that someone, somewhere, enjoys Coke 68 million times a day. You can look at this 2 ways: Either we've got an incredibly thirsty individual on our hands. Or Coca-Cola is the best-loved sparkling drink in the world. We lean to the latter interpretation.

SIGN OF GOOD TASTE

Bottled Under Authority Of The Coca-Cola Company By THE COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD

© 1956, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY