FRIDAY, APRIL 26, 1957

Sportsstuff BY GEORGE RAMSEY

“I’m mighty happy to see the boys doing so well.” For a Davidson coach who is in the throes of producing an undefeated athletic team, these may seem like calm words. But as Heath Whittle speaks, you can feel the excitement in his voice. Whittle’s track team needs but to sweep their three-way meet with N. C. State and Wake Forest next Saturday to compile a perfect 9-0 slate for the 1957 season. If he does it, it will mark the third undefeated season for the “Cinder Master” while at Davidson. Early in the year he figured on a strong outfit, but several performers have come on strong to surprise even Whittle.

BIGGEST SURPRISE

The biggest surprise, he says, is the arrival of sophomore Mel Armstrong as a top sprinter. Following the departure of conference champion Phil Koonce last year, Whittle wondered what in the world he was going to do. Armstrong, however, stepped right into Koonce’s shoes and, participating in the 100- and 200-yard dashes as well as the broad jump, is at present the leading individual scorer. Whittle rates the strength in the javelin throw as another surprise on this year’s outfit. Angus McBryde, versatile distance runner, has moved into this event, and along with Stuart Nickles and Walter Edwards, comprises a strong threesome in this department. McBryde also rates an excellent chance of breaking the school record in the two-mile run, according to Whittle, who added that the rangy soph may run the mile next year following the departure of ace Pete Ashcraft, Wildcat record-holder in the distances.

TOUGHEST FOES

Looking back over the '57 campaign, Whittle ranks the Clemson and Richmond meets as his toughest. For the eighth consecutive year, the Davidson-Clemson tangle was settled in the mile relay. The victory over Richmond avenged a defeat which the Spiders hung on the locals in 1956. As for the prospects for the coming conference meet, he looks for William and Mary to be very strong, closely followed by V.M.I. and V.P.I. Hesitant about a specific prediction, Whittle added that “My boys have always seemed to do their best in the conference meet.” Because not a great number of points is necessary to win the meet, and because he has several individuals who should cop top honors, Whittle is obviously very optimistic concerning the meet.

Bermuda Shorts Cotton, Dacron-Cotton and Dacron-Wool. Stripes, Solids and Plaids $5.95 to $9.95 Wilson-Wright's Inc. “Collegiate Fashions”

Linksmen Cop Win Over West Virginia

Davidson’s golf team nabbed a 16½-10½ victory from West Virginia on Monday afternoon for their third conference victory. The win brought the ‘Cats’ record to 5-6. Sam Sloan and Ned Payne copped 3-0 victories over the Mountaineers’ Lane and Ritkervich, respectively, and Bucky Dennis and Stuart Vaughan added 2-1 victories for the majority of the locals’ points. Coach Tom Scott, commenting on the match, said, “We were happy to make a clean sweep with the West Virginia team.” With hopes of evening the season’s record at 6-all, the linksmen will take on the Furman squad on May 2 at Danville, Virginia, in a warm-up for the Southern Conference tournament which is set for Danville on May 3.

JAYVEE ACTIVITY

The junior varsity was not so fortunate in their Tuesday match with Myers Park High School of Charlotte. The Mustangs, sparked by Verner Stenley, who fired a two-under-par 70, dropped the Davidson JVs, 18-9. Sut Alexander and Ed Bell took the only Wildkitten wins in the Myers Park meeting. The loss marked a split in the season's matches for the JVs, both of their matches having been with the Charlotte team.

THIS WEEK’S STARS

BASEBALL — Jim West, the leading batter on the Davidson nine, blasted a homerun in the loss to McCrary for the lone Wildcat tally.

TENNIS — Tom McCutchen, ever-improving member of the only Wildcat win in the loss to Duke last week, defeating Jack of the Blue Devils, 6-3, 6-0.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

WILDCAT TENNIS SQUAD, shown above, who will travel to North Carolina and N. C. State next week, prior to the conference tourney, are (l. to r.) captain John Robinson, Tom McCutchen, Dave Pearsall, Bob Huffaker, Dick Hodel, and Semi Mintz.

Davidson Netmen Prep For Tournament Action Travel To UNC, State BY BOBBY PAGE

With the Southern Conference Tournament staring them in the face on next weekend, May 2, 3, 4, the Davidson College netmen will be striving for peak performances against North Carolina and N. C. State on Monday and Tuesday, respectively.

TOP WEST VIRGINIA

Davidson’s track team remained undefeated last Saturday afternoon as they trounced West Virginia, 81-2/3 to 45-1/3. The Wildcats grabbed off their sixth straight win by capturing eleven of fifteen first places. Davidson had doubled their opponent’s score after five events, and the outcome was never in doubt after this point.

ARMSTRONG, ASHCRAFT LEAD

Again the Davidson thinlies were led by Mel Armstrong and Pete Ashcraft. Armstrong was second inIndividual scoring with 13 points as he romped home ahead of the pack in his two specialties, the 100- and 220-yard dashes. He picked up an additional three points by placing second in the broad jump. Ashcraft, reliable as usual, walked off with the 880 yard and mile runs. West Virginia’s Riley pushed the conference champ in the mile run but Ashcraft started kicking in to win by ten yards.

MOUNTIE TOPS SCORERS

The Mountaineers, however, had the meet’s top scorer in well-built Dave Tork. Tork, the Southern Conference pole vault champion, took firsts in this event, the broad jump, and tied with the Wildcats’ John Huie in the high jump. Tork vaulted 13’ 6” and then missed a chance to break the conference record of 13’ 10-1/8". Bill Gramley again led the ‘Cats in the shot put and the discus throw. The rugged 200-pounder took the shot put with a heave of 47’ 1-1/4", and hurled the discus 147’ 5-1/2”.

JAVELIN SWEEP

The Wildcats took all three places in the javelin throw. Freshman Stuart Nickles copped first with a throw of 166’ 10", followed closely by Angus McBryde and Walter Edwards. McBryde and Scott Woodmansee took firsts for Davidson in the two-mile run and the low hurdles, respectively. West Virginia was forced to forfeit the mile relay. The Wildcat cindermen laid their perfect record of 6-0 on the line this afternoon in a dual meet with Washington and Lee on the local track.

University of Illinois, who swept both matches, 9-0. New Carolina Coach Vladimir Cernick will probably have junior Steve Bank, team captain, in the number one singles position and sophomore Geoffrey Black of Montreal, Canada, stoking number two. Davidson mentor Dick McKee put every boy in a vulnerable spot during a three-day break this week with challenge matches being reeled off up to several a day.

Not too much

I-F Overall Standings

Phi Delts 914.7
Kappa Sig 784.2
Sigma Chi 698.3
A.T.O. 695.7
K.A. 675.3
S.A.E. 621.2
Beta 556.1
Phi Gam 500.0
Sig Ep 472.3
Pika 452.5
Pi Kapp 418.8
C.C. 243.1

PAGE THREE

TENNIS PLAY PROGRESSES

Four Vie For First In I-F Diamond Race

BY BILL HELLIER

Although the K.A.’s, Sigma Chi’s, Phi Delts, and Phi Gams are still tied for first place, they were all defeated once during the past week of Inter-Fraternity Softball play. The S.A.E.’s were downed twice and fell to fifth place. Both the Betas and Pi Kapps pulled surprise victories during the week and are tied for seventh place. The Betas beat the K.A.’s while the Pi Kapps defeated the Sigma Chi's. Both losing teams were previously unbeaten.

TENNIS ACTION

In the singles tennis tournament, Ned Austell dropped Don Whitley 6-4, 4-6, 6-3, and Billy Hopper won over Pete Andrews 6-2, 6-0. Austell, a Beta, and Hopper, a Phi Delt, had not played their Championship match as of Wednesday. In the doubles, Gray and Wilson of the Phi Gams, and Cartell and Milner of the Sigma Chi’s were the only ones to play and win their matches in the first elimination.

The Phi Delts, with 914.7 points, lead the field in the overall standings. They hold a comfortable margin over the second place Kappa Sigs, whose total is 784.2. The Sigma Chi's in third are a scant two points ahead of the fourth place A.T.O.’s.

CAT NINE SWINGS VIRGINIA

BY JIM HAMILTON

The Davidson baseball squad pulled out of the Holy City Tuesday afternoon and headed north for a four-day sojourn in Virginia. They will return tomorrow night. William and Mary played host to the Cats in a doubleheader Wednesday afternoon at Williamsburg. Coach Stevens and squad then moved to Lexington for games with W. & L. this afternoon and one Saturday.

TENTH DEFEAT

Last Friday the Cats suffered their tenth defeat of the season at the hands of the strong McCrary Eagles. The Eagles slammed three Davidson pitchers all over the field to gain an 8-1 win. Jim West's home run accounted for the only Davidson tally. The following afternoon Mercer edged the ‘Cats in ten innings, 5-4, despite a fine performance by Davidson hurlers, Page and Green. Donny McRee had two for three and West two for four to lead the locals.

WEST VIRGINIA FALLS

Monday afternoon the flow of fortune changed and the ‘Cats got all the breaks to swamp West Virginia, 15-4. Allen Moore allowed the visitors only six scratch hits. Comer, West, and McRee were the big guns at the plate for Davidson. Due to powerful hitting in the last three games West held on to the batting average lead, with a .437 mark after sixteen games. Both Coach Stevens and his players were optimistic about the trip. Stevens believes the time has come for the Cats to start winning if, as he puts it, “they get the breaks they've been deserving all year.”

PLAYERS COMMENT

The players too are in high spirits. Freshman slugger George Hart feels that “We've finally stepped out of our slump." Moore added in an authoritative voice, “We'll make a clean sweep this week.” Manager Dave Beckham agrees, for, as he said, “What ‘Bam Bam’ says around here is the law.”

CLASSICS - POP - JAZZ

YOUR HEADQUARTERS IN CHARLOTTE FOR THE BEST IN RECORDS

PARKER-GARDNER

CHARLOTTE 2, N. C.
118 West Trade Street
Phone ED. 2-8257

You smoke refreshed

A new idea in smoking...all-new Salem

menthol fresh
rich tobacco taste
most modern filter

Created by R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company.

Think of a Spring breeze blowing over fresh, green grass and you'll have a good idea how refreshing all-new Salem Cigarettes taste. The freshest taste in cigarettes flows through Salem’s pure white filter. Rich tobacco taste with new surprise softness...menthol-fresh comfort. Try Salem — you'll love ’em.

Salem refreshes your taste