FRESHMEN PLEDGE TOMORROW p. 3 ° VOL. XLVI

Concert Dropped To Save Money

Claude Thornhill and his Orchestra will play for both Homecoming Dances, Friday and Saturday nights, October 25-26, Bob Jones, president of the IFC, announced tonight. The Wildcats play Presbyterian College in the football game scheduled for Saturday afternoon.

REDUCTION IN PRICE

Tickets for the Homecoming Weekend are expected to cost about five dollars apiece, as compared to eight dollars for last year's Spring Frolics. Thornhill and his orchestra have recorded a number of albums and singles for both Columbia and RCA Victor.

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 1957

GENERAL IKE USES ARMY PAGE 2 No. 2

Dance Scholarships Limited To Ten Years

Baker Scholarships will be discontinued at Davidson College after this year. Acting President C. T. J. Pietenpol made this announcement at his regularly scheduled news conference with DAVIDSONIAN reporters Tuesday morning. Dr. Pietenpol explained that participation in the Baker Scholarship Program is limited to ten years by any one college. Davidson began ten years ago in 1947. 

The IFC made an effort to secure a band which was not quite so in demand as previous bands, but which are still top-notch, in order to cut down on the price of the ticket. In another economy measure, the regular lawn concert has been canceled. 

The group that Thornhill will bring to Davidson will have sixteen pieces plus a vocalist, including a French horn, one of the distinctive features of his group. 

Not an entirely unfamiliar visitor to the Davidson campus, Thornhill appeared here once before, for the Mid-Winter Dances in 1951.

INSPECTS—Judge Phil Lewis of the Court of Control watches the freshmen at a recent pep rally. In front are the cheerleaders.

Cafeteria service in the College Union is now handled by the Slater System, a national service, explained the Dean. This service was brought in to give better service at cheaper costs.

CLAUDE THORNHILL will play here

DR. PIETENPOL at news conference

Nothing Definite On Curriculum Change

Ten R.O.T.C. Men Designated D.M.S.

Lt. Col. William Adams, Davidson’s Professor of Military Science and Tactics, recently announced the designation of ten cadets from the local regiment as Distinguished Military Students. Those honored were seniors Ralph Bassett, Kenneth Forester, John Johnston, Gary Maynard, David McLain, Edward Payne, Ross Smyth, Charlie Stowe, William Teachey, and Shelbourne Wallace.

ENTIRE ACHIEVEMENT

The selection is on the basis of the cadet’s entire ROTC accomplishment, including both class and field work at the college plus performance at summer camp, which was held this year at Fort Bragg. Only those students who are so designated are eligible for commissions in the Regular Army. Over the past two years, Davidson has been honored by the fact that every student applying for these RA commissions under the program has been tendered one, making a total of 10 officers. By comparison, several outstanding colleges in the Carolinas had only one third or one half of their applications accepted over the same period.

The four distinct criteria enumerated by the Army are:
(a) Possessing outstanding qualities of leadership, high moral character, and definite aptitude for military service.
(b) Attaining an academic standing in the upper half of his college class. An exception may be made only in case of an individual cadet whose standing is in the upper 10% of his ROTC class.
(c) Demonstrating leadership ability through his achievements while participating in recognized campus activities.
(d) Having sufficient standing in military subjects to warrant subsequent designation as a Distinguished Military Graduate.

Frosh Air Views On Rush Week

“Rush Week was run very efficiently” is the opinion that dominated a cross-section poll of this year’s freshman class.

The first question put to the Class of ‘61 representatives was for comments about the unofficial (but legal) practice of upper-classmen visiting in the under-class dorms. “It was a necessary preliminary to Rush Week," commented one first-year man. Others reflected that it was “A good thing, helped a lot." Only two men interviewed had adverse comments. One was “against it, period,” and the other offered the suggestion that only one hour a day should be allowed for informal dorm visiting.

Little Criticism

Surprising as it may seem to many upper-classmen, little criticism was voiced on the present confirmation plan. However, many felt that the “date system” should have been clarified earlier in the summer. “I didn't understand after you got here you could make more dates. The IFC should send out all date cards with a letter of explanation at the same time,” was heard more than one time.

It is interesting to note that most of those interviewed had an average of over nine different fraternity parties on schedule for the first three nights—many had eleven. One man felt that “There is a need for one more date period for the twelfth fraternity.”

Varied Replies

The annual question on the timing of the Rush Program brought forth many varied replies. “—so early (in the year) may result in a desirable boy’s being overlooked.” “Should be this early—because you get to know the other fellows sooner.” “Frankly I would rather have it any time besides now.” “May get you behind in studies, but teaches you how to study and keep ahead,” were but a few of the comments that reflect the almost fifty-fifty split that the poll encountered on this topic.

And then there was the lad who looked at his tall stack of unopened books and quipped, “I don't see how Hell Week could be any worse.” But he was a minority of one.

RECORDING STAR

Besides touring hotels and night clubs all over the country, Thornhill and his orchestra have recorded a number of albums and singles for both Columbia and RCA Victor.

VESPER PREACHERS FIRST SEMESTER — 1957-58

September 22—The Reverend Eugene Carson Blake, D.D., LL.D., Litt. D., President, National Council of Churches, Philadelphia, Pa.
September 29—The Reverend Samuel W. Newell, Jr., Th.D., Davidson College Presbyterian Church.
October 6—The Reverend David W. Yates, Chapel of the Cross, Chapel Hill, N. C.
October 13—Sacrament of the Lord’s Supper.
October 20—Dean James T. Cleland, Th.D., D.D., Duke University, Durham, N.C.
October 27—The Reverend B. Frank Hall, Th.D., D.D., Pearsall Memorial Presbyterian Church, Wilmington, N.C.
November 3—The Reverend George Staples, Minister to Students, Davidson College.
November 10—To be announced.
November 17—The Reverend Benjamin Rice Lacy, Jr., D.D., LL.D., L.H.D., Chaplain, Hampden-Sydney College, Hampden-Sydney, Va.
November 24—The Reverend Kenneth J. Foreman, Ph.D., D.D., Louisville Presbyterian Seminary, Louisville, Kentucky.
December 8—The Reverend Joseph R. Sizoo, D.D., LL.D., Litt.D., George Washington University, Washington, D.C.
December 15—Christmas.Vesper Service. January 5—The Reverend Vernon S. Broyles, Th.D., D.D., North Avenue Presbyterian Church, Atlanta, Georgia. January 12—The Reverend Lawrence I. Stell, D.D., Trinity Presbyterian Church, Charlotte, N.C. January 19—The Reverend John Bright, Ph.D., D.D., Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Va.

SCENES FROM THIS WEEK AT DAVIDSON
Fraternity men are seen confirming rush party dates with the new freshmen. Confirmation took place in the old dining hall in Chambers on Monday afternoon.

95% Of Freshmen Respond In Y Drive
Ken Forrester, membership chairman for the “Y”, stated that out of 271 freshmen, approximately 230 have joined the Y.M.C.A. during this membership drive. This is almost 95% of the present freshman class who have joined the “Y” on their own volition. Since 1956, membership has been on a voluntary basis. Membership for upperclassmen will begin on October 3rd, with the first membership meeting being held on October 8th. Dr. T. Z. Koo, past president of the World Student Christian Federation, will be the speaker. He has taught in several colleges throughout the United States.

Two Dormitories Honor Alumni
Two dormitories have been given new names. West Dorm, now Cannon, is named in honor of Mr. Archie Cannon, Class of 1904. Mr. Cannon has served twenty years as Vice-President of Davidson College Trustees. While Chairman of the Building and Grounds Committee, under Dr. Cunningham's administration, seven major buildings were constructed on campus. As an undergraduate, Cannon was a member of Beta Theta Pi social fraternity and Omicron Delta Kappa. Little Dorm receives its name from Mr. Edward F. Little, Chairman of the Board, Colgate-Palmolive Company of New York City. Mr. Little is a native of Mecklenburg County and is a member of the Board of Visitors of Davidson College.

Use Of Old Court
Plans for disposal of the old fraternity court are not definite. Part of the court may be used for institutional purposes. Using some of the houses for faculty offices possibly would relieve the overcrowded facilities in Chambers Building. Conversion of part of the court into residences for married students or staff has also been proposed.

Henderson New Business Manager
Pat Henderson will serve as business manager of the Davidsonian for the 1957-58 year. A native of Maxton, N.C., he transferred to the University of North Carolina. Henderson is a junior business major and a member of Kappa Sigma Fraternity. He began his duties as business manager with the issuing of the first edition of this year's Davidsonian.

Enrollment High
On the question of increased enrollment, the answer was that the enrollment now is "as high as it ought to be." Pietenpol emphasized the fact that increased enrollment is strongly tied up with the facilities of the College to handle more men. "We must never reach an enrollment which will jeopardize the quality of the education offered."

Trustees Search
"I have the utmost faith in this committee (of the trustees) selecting a good man," replied the Acting-President in response to a query by one reporter on the subject of the Trustee search for a successor to Dr. Cunningham. The committee of the Trustees interviewing candidates will meet at the College late in September. However, Dean Pietenpol could give no definite statement as to the progress of this body.

Premiere Tonight Begins Film Series
Eight films calculated to appeal to the discriminating taste of the students will be shown in a special series at the rate of one per month from October through May, sponsored by the Film Committee of the Union. Series tickets for six of the eight films may be obtained in October from Film Committee members. Films to be shown are:

IS IT NECESSARY?
Rushees Not Sure About Dorm Visits
Amidst notable excitement and a measure of apprehension, the Class of 1961 has been formally introduced to Davidson College fraternity life this week. Rush Week, increasingly referred to as "Hell Week" by certain upperclassmen, began in the furor of confirming dates on Monday afternoon and will conclude in the customary festive air of Saturday afternoon pledging rites.

COMPETITION KEEN
Due to a more careful selection of the members of the student body by the administration, the competition of rushing has been especially keen this year. The promise of new fraternities and the prospect of the new fraternity court have added much to the clamor of the annual rushing season. As usual, there were varied reactions to Rush Week from different areas of the college's life. Several professors cast haughty glances and disparaging remarks about "that period," while others have faithfully made their professorial appearances at their respective fraternity houses.

RUSH OPINIONS
At least one freshman said that the week bore a resemblance to "a big family reunion," while another imaginative rushee termed it a "subdued Mardi Gras in Calvinland." Several freshmen were overheard remarking that the week was "a trial with the rushees as the accused and the fraternity as the jury." Eavesdropping upperclassmen nodded to each other, acknowledging that the trial atmosphere was present, but knowing that the fraternities themselves were on the stand and the rushees were serving as jurymen.

RUNNING SMOOTH
Bob Jones, President of the I.F.C., reported that everything appeared uniformly smooth "on the surface." He admitted it would be a relief when the formal rushing period had been completed and all final decisions made by the Davidson students. Until those decisions have been made, however, freshmen abandon their caps, upperclassmen abandon their books, and many professors abandon all intellectual hope.