EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
JIM BATTEN

BUSINESS MANAGER
BOB CARMICHAEL

ASSOCIATE EDITORS
FRANKLIN BLOODWORTH, LEON HOWELL

Assistant Editor
Bob Beall

Managing Editors
Lloyd Chapin, John Trask

John Johnson
Bill Bondurant
John Trotti

Sports Editor
Bob Lathan

Feature Editor
Bob Majors

Copy Editor
Ed Morrisett

Assignments
Marshall Chapman

Advertising Manager
Tom DuPuis

Circulation
Hank Daniel

Photographer
Represented for National Advertising by NATIONAL ADVERTISING SERVICE, Inc.

SUBSCRIPTION RATE: $2.00 Per Year.
Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

OFFICES IN DAVID OVENS COLLEGE UNION, DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 1957

Playboy And Company--A Trend

At a time in our history when many thoughtful Americans are pondering the significance of the abnormally heavy emphasis on
sex in our society, we might do well to pause to consider the general situation and some of its specific
aspects familiar to the campus.

In the years since the war, the American public has been served a steadily increasing diet of sex through the
various public media. The motion picture industry has set the pace, perhaps more with their suggestive advertising than in the
actual films. Television has followed eagerly, though at a necessarily slower pace. The country’s yellower newspapers have cashed in on
the sex bonanza by splashing lurid headlines of rape and scandal across their pages. With this atmosphere as the tenor
of the times, it has hardly been surprising to note in the highly competitive and progressive magazine industry the rise
of a type of publication which in magazine form parallels the trends already mentioned. We refer specifically to the whopping
success of Playboy, Nugget, Escapade, Gent, Caper and the rest, whose circulation hit an amazing high almost overnight.

There has always been a considerable market for sex literature, which through the years has been pornographic to varying degrees.
But the significant departure initiated by these magazines is that the tawdry side of sex is suddenly getting the slick
paper treatment, in contrast to the obviously cheap pulp magazines which have heretofore dominated this market. Expertly composed and cleverly
written, most of these magazines are put together with as much, if not more, professional finesse as the most eminently
respectable long-time standards of the American newsstands. With this slick paper approach as the vehicle, a fashionably smart attitude toward
the sex theme is presented. Seduction and infidelity are subtly endorsed as merely the sign of the times in which
we live. This attitude is not new or novel or even surprising. The same outlook has often been expressed before.
But here as never before, it is glossed over and afforded a deceptive aura of respectability by the slickly professional
style of presentation.

The implications seem to be plainly evident. Immorality is no longer labeled as wrong, but, with a shrug of the
editorial shoulders, is merely considered to be a part of an urbane, “sophisticated” society. The dangers seem equally evident. While
the true beauty of sex is sneeringly snubbed and lost in this pornographic rat-race, the American public is ravenously consuming
an attitude toward sex which can only end in degeneracy.

Will Wheels Turn Or Stall?

“Progress, therefore, is not an accident, but a necessity.” So wrote Herbert Spencer. Last month it seemed that the wheels
of Progress were again set to turn at Davidson, at last it seemed time to call a spade a spade,
at last it seemed time to label an A.B. degree an A.B. degree, and a B.S. degree a B.S. degree.
But at the final minute the proverbial monkey wrench was thrown into the works, the wheels were stalled, and Progress
was delayed, but not stopped. Now, with a new supply of oil, the wheels of Progress are again ready to
turn. Whether or not those wheels will actually move this time depends on whether or not the faculty wants them
to turn.

At last month’s faculty meeting, the vote to eliminate the requirement of either Latin or Greek for an A.B. degree
was tied. Thereupon the faculty voted to send the matter back to the Curriculum Committee “for further study.” The fact
that the Curriculum Committee has been studying this very question for the past three years, the fact that Davidson stands
almost alone in her archaic Latin or Greek requirements for an A.B. degree, the fact that the Committee was unanimous
in proposing a change—all this seemed to be overlooked by the faculty in their vote.

Last month’s proposal submitted by the Committee was so simple and so logical that alternate proposals and counter-proposals served only
to confuse and defeat the issue. What could be fairer or more reasonable than what the Committee proposed, B.S. degrees
for majors in the natural sciences and math and A.B. degrees for majors in the liberal arts? What proposal, if
any, the Curriculum Committee will submit to the faculty at its meeting on February 12 is of course unknown. But
the wheels of Progress at Davidson have been stalled long enough! This misrepresentation of fact, which clearly the awarding of
a B.S. degree to a History major means, must be corrected. On the birthday of the “emancipator” of one type
of slavery, let us hope that we shall at last be emancipated from academic slavery.

—A.W.F.B.

Language Lab

We noted with pleasure this week the announcement that a language laboratory will be set up in the Quadwranglers’ Room
in Chambers for operation beginning next fall. Other schools have found the laboratory approach extremely helpful in teaching foreign languages,
in that it gives the student an opportunity to practice pronunciation and understanding of the spoken word. Individual practice along
this line has been well nigh impossible in the usually overcrowded classes, especially on a basic level. Its inclusion in
the instruction should arouse added interest in the student, and generally strengthen the language curriculum at Davidson.

Grads Pick English

What is the most valuable course to study in college, from the standpoint of both success in business and enjoyment
of leisure time? A survey by the General Electric Company among 13,000 of its college graduates produces this opinion: English.
Non-engineering graduates listed it first among courses contributing most to their success. Engineering graduates listed it second after mathematics. Both
groups voted English literature the most important as a background for pleasurable leisure-time activities.

U. S. News and World Report.

By LAURENS WALKER

For the past four years the winner of the Interfraternity Sports Trophy has been decided by the winning fraternity’s varsity
athletes and not through interfraternity competition. This seeming incongruity in the intramural sports program has been caused by the “Varsity
Competition” clause in the By-Laws for Intramural Sports. Under this rule, the fraternity with the largest percentage of its men
out for varsity athletics receives the same number of points as the winner of the football, basketball, or softball competition.

Coach A. Heath Whittle, founder of the intramural system at Davidson, stated that emphasis had been placed on the varsity
competition category so that fraternities would encourage their men to stay out for varsity athletics, and leave the interfraternity program
for those lacking in either time or ability for varsity competition. Coach Whittle’s purpose in including the “Varsity Competition” category
is quite legitimate, but, in actual practice, few fraternities urge their men to stay out for varsity sports to build
up interfraternity points. Certainly, intramurals must be kept for those who, for various reasons, are not varsity material. However, the
spirit of competition, so necessary in such a program, would seem to be endangered when the winner of the coveted
trophy is decided by a coach's pencil, a mathematical formula, and varsity athletes.

In recent years the possession of the sports trophy has gained added importance among the fraternities. It has become one
of the biggest “selling points” during rush week, and so often taken as an indication of the spirit and unity
of a fraternity.

Forty Days And Forty Nights

By Cole

DEFENSE SECRETARY CHARLES WILSON

Blunt Remarks Are Refreshing Relief From Spineless Mumbling

“He is a blunt man. He speaks what he thinks. He more or less always has. Most of the time
what he thinks is true.” In this manner last week Mrs. Charles E. Wilson summed up her husband, the Secretary
of Defense. Secretary Wilson has gotten himself once again into hot water for giving vent to his feelings when perhaps
it would have been more politic to have kept his mouth shut.

DRAFT DODGING

On Monday of last week Secretary Wilson while appearing before a Congressional committee stated that the National Guard duringThe Korean
War was a “sort of scandal” because it was used by some enlistees for draft-dodging purposes. Reaction was immediate from
the citadels of National Guardism across the country. Major General E. A. Walsh went so far as to call Wilson’s
statement “a damn lie.” This was not the first time that “Engine” Charlie had stuck his foot in his mouth.
Once previously, Wilson brought the wrath of every pedigreed dog owner in the country down upon him when he compared
unemployed workers to kennel-fed dogs. That time the matter was of little consequence except to those who thought their dog
had been insulted.

FOR NEW LAW

This time, however, the situation is different. The Department of Defense is now trying to get Congress to require all
National Guard enlistees to put in six months of basic training duty upon joining up with the Guard. The higher
echelons of the National Guard are opposed to a change in the present law because the new provision would hurt
enlistments, they say. Secretary Wilson’s statement will surely make it all the more difficult to get a change in the
law through Congress because Wilson will now have all the big guns of the Guard trained on him. It must
be remembered that every Congressman has many constituents who are members of the Guard.

This then is the reason President Eisenhower in his press conference last week said that he did not share Wilson’s
opinion and that his Secretary of Defense had made “a very unwise statement.” A public reprimand such as this is
almost inconceivable. Certainly, Secretary Wilson should be able to expect the President to be at least neutral since Eisenhower has
recently gone so far out of his way in backing up his Secretary of State, who also has been having
a rough time of it.

ELEMENT OF TRUTH

It must be admitted that Secretary Wilson's statement had an element of truth in it. All of us had friends
who joined up with the National Guard during the Korean War in hopes of escaping active duty. Many of them,
it is true, were called up with their units, but some succeeded in their purpose. Nevertheless, Charlie should have held
his tongue for political reasons.

For the past four years, Mr. Wilson has served ably and well as Secretary of Defense. We hope that he
will be able to survive once more the cries for his resignation. It is nevertheless gratifying to know that there
are still men in government who say what they think as compared to those who mince meaningless words. During the
past four years, we have been pleasurably diverted many times by the big business executive turned government administrator who speaks
his mind in some of the most picturesque language being used in government circles today.

This respect for the trophy and enthusiasm for the intramural program is good and a healthy sign of student body
spirit. For this very reason, it seems that the possession of the trophy should be decided on the field of
competition where the winning fraternity can fairly demonstrate that it had more teamwork, spirit, and desire to win than any
other. With the purpose in mind of having the winner decided by actual competition, I propose two rule changes. First,
the “Varsity Competition” category should be moved from the heading “Major Sport” to the heading “Minor Sport.” This would reduce
the number of points from 100 to 60 awarded to the fraternity with the highest percentage of varsity athletes. Second,
I would propose that under no circumstances should the possession of the trophy be decided by points gained through varsity
competition. All points should be counted in determining which two fraternities place first and second in the intramural competition. Then
these two should subtract from their respective totals the points gained from varsity competition. The actual possession of the trophy
should then be decided on points gained only through competition. It would seem that this compromise offers enough reward for
varsity competition to encourage the fraternities to urge their men to stay out for varsity sports, while at the same
time allowing trophy possession to be decided only by actual competition.

LETTER TO EDITOR

“Baby Doll” Editorial Misses The Point

Dear Editor,

Because I have some regard for Mr. Howell's opinion on matters both social and aesthetic, I read his comment on
the widely discussed “Baby Doll” with interest. Now I think that there is much to criticize in this movie, and
yet I believe Mr. Howell's criticism completely misses the point. First, it is ridiculous to say that this is not
a true picture of the South; of course, it is not, and it was not the picture’s purpose to “paint
a picture that speaks of the whole South in terms of illiteracy, intolerance, and sensualness.” Both Williams and Kazan realize
that the situation presented is only a very small segment of the Southeastern region.

Second, how anyone could think that this film was intended to “handle the epic of change and progress” is beyond
my understanding. The fact of the matter is that the movie is not concerned with this subject, but it reveals
life in a situation which, though admittedly atypical and unrepresentative of the South as a whole, is nevertheless existent in
a few remote areas.

Third, I was surprised to find that four times in his article Mr. Howell reveals a rather childish sentiment found
in some Southern people which might be generally expressed: “Why doesn’t the North go away and leave us alone.”

Since dormitory regulations specifically prohibit firecrackers, and Davidson students are, without exception, gentlemen who obey all college regulations in the
manner of gentlemen, we have been at a loss to discover the whys and wherefores of the sharp reports and
strange explosions which have occasionally resounded down dormitory row during the past semester. A more thorough investigation of the matter
has revealed the following sources of these weird noises: (1) Cop Linker dropped his flashlight. (2) The M & M
received a shipment of popsicles with exceptionally strong bags. (3) Excessive static on Radio Free Davidson. (4) One gentleman slapped
his roommate (with the utmost tact) for the latter’s snide remarks concerning the former’s current fiancée. (5) The expansion and
contraction of the steam pipes on the fourth floor of the new (and still nameless) dormitory.

Despite agitation on the part of some student leaders for a campus post office, many of the considerations which prevented
such a move in the first place would seem as applicable now as they were several years ago. In the
first place, the post office already has boxes for students; their installation in the union would be needless and expensive
duplication of facilities. Secondly, such an enterprise would entail the use of student workers during their off-hours. This raises the
possibility that mail service might not be as efficient, nor as frequent as it is now. Unless a full-time postal
clerk were employed for the sale of stamps, money orders, etc., frequent trips to the P.O. downtown would still be
necessary. Finally, the additional handling of mail would not only be time-consuming but would be a needless duplication of effort,
in that the post office downtown would still have to sort and sack the mail for further sorting and distribution
by workers in the proposed union post office.

In view of these considerations, it would seem that the status quo in this case is somewhat more satisfactory than
it is in other areas of campus life, such as the lack of holidays between semesters, or regulation enforcement on
the campus. Perhaps the members of the student council would do well to devote their time and energies to these
more fundamental problems.
