Che Dauvidsonian

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
JIM BATTEN

BUSINESS MANAGER
BOB CARMICHAEL

ASSOCIATE EDITORS
FRANKLIN BLOODWORTH, LEON HOWELL

Assistant Editor
Bob Beall

Managing Editors
Lloyd Chapin, John Trask

Sports Editor
John Johnson

Feature Editor
Bill Bondurant

Copy Editor
John Trotti

Assignments
Bob Lathan

Advertising Manager
Bob Majors

Circulation
Ed Morrisett

Photographer
Hank Daniel

Marshall Chapman, Tom DuPuis

Represented for National Advertising by
NATIONAL ADVERTISING SERVICE, Inc.

SUBSCRIPTION RATE: $2.00 Per Year.
Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

OFFICES IN DAVID OVENS COLLEGE UNION,
DAVIDSON COLLEGE

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 1957

Enrollment Increase Must Wait

Today marks the first anniversary of the Trustees’ fateful decision to increase the enrollment of Davidson to 1000 within the
next few years. This action virtually ignored strong and oft-expressed faculty and student opinion opposing expansion. To implement this program,
the Trustees left behind a few general and happily ambiguous sentences specifying that the college facilities would be adequately prepared
to meet the increase before the gradual inching upward began.

In the year that has elapsed since last February 15, the motives behind the Trustees’ edict have been the topic
for widespread campus discussion. Many think, and not without basis, that the move was not completely based on a feeling
of Davidson’s altruistic duty to do her part in absorbing the impending flood of students scheduled to hit American higher
education in the immediate future, as was implied at the time. Hopes of getting Davidson into big-time athletics, the difficulty
experienced at times by alumni in getting their sons accepted here, and the sentiment that Davidson is already over-selective and
too stiff academically—all are rumored to have been behind the Trustees’ decision.

But all of this is water over the dam. The important thing is that Davidson at present is not ready
to expand her enrollment. It is of crucial importance that the Trustees realize this and understand why. To increase the
size of the student body now could only mean the forfeiting of the caliber of education offered here.

At the present time, the general impression to the contrary, Davidson is unable to secure sufficient students who meet her
standards and specifications, and who are able to do the work required. Superficially, this is in contradiction with the figures
which are inevitably paraded out to prove the institution’s selectivity: over 700 applications and only 240 entering in this year’s
freshman class. But these figures camouflage the truth.

By the time the incomplete applications are subtracted, along with a sizable group who are immediately accepted here but decline
in favor of other schools, the bare facts show that of the applicants from whom Davidson can take her pick,
only around 150 are actually rejected, while 250 or so are admitted. Last year, the Admissions Committee, in order to
fill the quota for the present freshman class, was forced to accept a good number of applicants who were admittedly
borderline cases and definitely poor admissions risks.

And now, out of a group of 36 freshmen not making minimum progress toward graduation (24 hours and 18 quality
points) after the first semester, approximately half are cases which were known from the outset to have doubtful qualifications. This
group must make minimum progress toward graduation before the end of summer school, in order to be eligible for re-admission
in the fall. Accepting boys known to be in for rough sledding and possible eventual academic exclusion is grossly unfair,
and a real disservice both to the boy and to Davidson.

The folly of admitting more students at the present time is plain, on these grounds alone. And there are other
obvious factors, with which we shall deal at a later date. We call these facts to the attention of the
Trustees, and ask that no move be made to up the enrollment until Davidson reaches the place where she can
draw sufficient applicants to fill the present quotas with students who can handle the work required.

Winter Services Missed Mark—Why?

A ringing telephone shattered both the silence and the dedicated work of a planning committee two days before the Winter
Services when Dr. Eugene Carson Blake called to say that he would not be able to come to Davidson. Dr.
John Whale saved the reeling committee from a difficult situation by agreeing, with only two days' notice, to bring two
additional addresses. This, of necessity, over-balanced the week and upset the planning of a twelve-month period.

The point of real concern is not in the mechanics of change. The fact is that the week, in terms
of overall student response, was far from a success. In short, it did not “catch hold” and bring the student
body to grips with the proposed questions. Those who have expended time and talents in preparation for this week and
who had hoped and prayed for a profoundly moving week are now in the process of asking themselves an inescapable
WHY?

Why indeed? There was a blend of one outstanding English theologian, one American seminary professor, and one person experienced in
student contact. Each of them had an opportunity to speak on subjects selected by Davidson students and each was given
time for personal contact. Was it really because the speakers were above our heads? Was it because they did not
prepare their messages in the context of our interests? Perhaps this was part of the problem. Yet we complain when
the men of the cloth give us “spiritual pablum.” There is some sentiment, though small in number, that Dr. Whale
in particular gave new scope and majesty to the Christian gospel and met intellectual argument with intellectual proof.

If we are completely candid in our analysis, won't we have to admit that a good portion of the guilt
lies on us? Isn’t it true that we have become so accustomed to neat religious formulas that we actually resent
being called upon to use our minds in respect to matters of the heart? Was the outward failure of this
week the fault of the speakers, poor planning on the part of the committee, or was it an indictment of
a form of spiritual decay on our own part? It is a question all of us need to answer honestly.—F.L.H.

Another Notch For Progress

Campus reaction to the Faculty’s long-awaited decision to alter the basis for awarding the arts and science degrees was generally
enthusiastic. It is interesting to note that the motion finally adopted was in essence identical to that submitted to the
Faculty by the Curriculum Committee in January. After an earlier defeat and countless other proposals and counter-proposals, the original plan
came back to be adopted Tuesday afternoon.

We are thankful that the matter was not pigeon-holed indefinitely as it once appeared destined to be. The Faculty is
to be roundly applauded for their ability to compromise and pass a proposal acceptable to everyone involved, insofar as was
possible.

(Having presented the male outlook on this sort of thing for dance weekends on end, we decided to hear from
the Davidson man’s date, since she precipitated all this chaos in the first place. The Davidsonian this week presents a
female guest editorialist, who is a long-time veteran observer of the venerable Davidson Dance Weekend.—The Editors)

It rains! That is the first and foremost fact for a girl to remember about a Davidson dance weekend! Of
course, this means that in the long trek from Belk to the Gym you will doubtless ruin those fabulous white
satin shoes and the hem of that brand-new dream of a dress that you bought especially for this occasion. Through
it all, however, you must remember to smile and act as though it really doesn’t matter at all. (And don’t
forget to bring an extra supply of spray-net!)

When your date comes to get you, he will no doubt give way to sundry facial grimaces which will lead
you to think that he has gotten a coat-hanger caught in his throat, but don’t be alarmed. He has just
spotted the garment bag and suitcases waiting to be packed in the car. Maintain a dignified silence—boys don’t understand these
things—and he will eventually get it all crammed in the trunk and emerge glowing with a feeling of achievement.

Plopped Into Room

Upon reaching the college, things begin happening so fast that you will be thrown into a state of utter bewilderment
and confusion. Within three minutes...After your arrival, you will have been ushered through what could very well pass for Gideon's
army, have all but signed your life away at the desk, have been plopped in a room with two complete
strangers, and informed that you will be picked up at 8:00 p.m. With that, your date beats a hasty retreat,
and you are left to your own devices for an hour or two. Of course, your date has told you
the really important things, namely, that there are two dances and Woody Herman is playing, but a few details are
missing that a gal just has to know about if she is going to hold her own.

Dressing is quite another matter. You are doing fine if you manage to come out with anything less than ten
bruises, one of your roommates’ shoes, and a complete nervous breakdown as a result of trying to determine which buzz
is meant for you! Finally, you emerge, having no idea how you look because the one and only mirror is
placed too high for you.

By Cole

Desperate Freshman Gets Tangled In Rooming Rule

Dear Editor:

I'm desperate! You are my last hope. Being a freshman, I'm sort of confused, I think, about keeping dates in
Belk on dance weekends—at any rate I now stand to lose my date and get kicked out of school if
you can’t help me. I met her, my date that is, last summer. I gave her my high school letter
sweater and gold football and she said she loved me but now she goes to Hollins and I don’t know
if she does or doesn’t.

My big problems started when my big brother said she could stay in his room in Belk. When they announced
these different regulations he said that I shouldn’t worry because he had a great idea that would beat the new
system. I still don't know exactly what happened, but from the ten letters from Dean Spencer, the four from Mrs.
Little, the visits from Bunny Perkinson, and the note in gold ink from Dr. Cunningham, I’ve sort of gathered that
they don't like the slick deal my big brother tried to pull to get me a room before everyone else.

I’ve been told also that the Executive Committee is taking the matter under advisement and will report to the faculty
shortly. In addition, Dad has been told to come to Davidson with an empty trunk. Evidently, something has gone wrong.
All the letters say, in different words of course, that if he (that is my big brother) doesn’t stay with
the girl he’s signed up for (that is my date) the whole weekend they will kick me out of school—they
also said something about a three-dollar fine as I leave. Dr. Cunningham said in his note that he would personally
have Cop Linker check the ball field both nights and that if my girl wasn’t parking with my big brother
they'd kick me out of school for violating the Honor Code. And also Perkinson said “they'd damned well better be
pinned,” or he'd stick the Student Council on me.

It’s been a long time since I’ve run into this type of situation and I don’t know what I should
do. Can you help me?

Perplexed.

Dear Perplexed:

No, but drop us a line from your new college.

Editor.

Now for the grand entrance! Gathering your self-confidence about you, you descend the stairs, a vision of loveliness and poise,
only to be thrown into a state of complete panic by the sea of masculinity staring at you from below!
After aggressively elbowing your way through the masses, you eventually happen upon your date over in the corner, and you
are off to the dance! Or so you think! It seems inevitable that he has forgotten to get either his
tux shirt or studs out of his room, and you must run back upstairs for him. It is while rummaging
around in his closets that you come face to face with the greatest temptation of the weekend. No, you must
not read those letters tucked away in his drawer nor question him about the picture in the closet—it is probably
his sister, anyway!

Having met all the little emergencies, you finally get to the dance—just in time for intermission. This means that you
are bundled up again and rushed off to the fraternity house where you will be called upon to perform amazing
feats of coordination involving the balancing of a cup of coffee in one hand and a sticky doughnut and napkin
in the other, all while trying to disentangle yourself from the person next to you. Following this period of relaxation
and fellowship, you are again hustled off to the gym for one last dance before being deposited once more at
Belk with instructions to be ready in five minutes. Half an hour later you again descend the stairs to be
greeted by a silent group of newspapers with legs sticking out from under them. Having discovered under which newspaper your
date is sleeping, you revive him and together you go out into the soggy, wet night to play the game
commonly known as the survival of the fittest!

Several hours and untold experiences later, you bid your date a fond, but drowsy, goodnight—or rather good-morning—and feel your way
upstairs. One thought and one only is uppermost in your weary brain—sleep! You enter the room and glance around in
the dim grayness of dawn. Somewhere under that mountain of nylon and net you know there is a bed, but
where, oh where? Exhaustion overcomes trivialities, and you settle down with a sigh of contentment. But I am sure that
before sinking into oblivion you, like any other red-blooded, man-hunting, susceptible creature worthy of the name “female,” will experience a
warm feeling of excitement and pleasure as you think over the events of the day and the ones awaiting you
on the morrow. And no doubt you, like so many before you who have come to Davidson Midwinters, will say
a little prayer that he won't forget to ask you to Spring Frolics!

Dear Dates of Davidsonians:

You fortunate few of the feminine gender should be honored to be escorted on the Hill this week by the
legendary Davidson Gentlemen. It’s amazing the amount of change that you can make around this place. For instance, the editor
of this page gives me instructions that this week for the column I should write chatter containing a lot of
names and personalities that will interest you.

What should I say? Should I tell you not to get alarmed if you see another girl's name listed as
your beloved’s date on the Belk rooming chart? It’s very easily explained. You see, the IFC made us sign up
with our date’s name a week in advance. Understanding these Presbyterians' inclination to procrastination, you should realize that your date
may have had to make up a fictitious name on Monday before he asked you for the date on Thursday.
Don’t fall into the vicious suspicion that his first date shafted him at the last minute so he drafted you.

Perhaps I should tell you about some of the recent events around campus like Bloodworth's Emancipation Proclamation in the last
issue, or the return of Radio Free Davidson after two months of ominous silence. Maybe you will be interested in
the generous gift of the $6,000 clocks on the Church to remind us that “what time it is” has more
importance than what Time is!

If you wonder why some of the guys speak of “Woodrow Wilson” Herman and his Grove rather than his herd,
ask your date to explain. It all grew out of fourteen acorns. Perhaps you ask why a dance so near
Valentine's Day but yet no Valentine decorations. That arises from Scotch Presbyterian thrift. By not emphasizing the date of the
dance, many a box of candy can be saved.

I can’t resist winding up by saying quite seriously to the elections board that there is real need for a
thorough analysis of the old elections system and plans for some long-needed changes here at Davidson. If you are bored
with your date, spend the weekend telling him about the elections system at your school? Maybe he will get some
ideas and there will be even more agitation for change around here.
