PAGE FOUR

COLLEGE CHURCH STEEPLE GETS FACELIFTING

Clocks Will Mount To Cover Windows

$6000 DONATION

Four Clocks Supplement Church Tower Chimes

In a few weeks, the chimes announcing the time every half an hour from the bell tower of the church
will be supplemented by four clocks which will be placed on each of the four sides of the steeple. The
clocks, which cost $6,000.00, were given by Mrs. Marcia Bell Mitchell in memory of her father, the late Rev. Samuel
Henry Bell, D.D., who graduated from Davidson in 1870.

The new clocks, designed by International Business Machines, have Roman numerals and will be lighted for night service. The faces
are made of white Carrara glass. When the Davidson church was built, the original plan called for the inclusion of
the four clocks. Due to financial reasons, however, the clocks were left out and the four portholes in the steeple,
designed to be filled by the clocks, were temporarily glassed in. The installment of the clocks should be completed by
the end of February.

Pre-Meds Advised To Take Admission Tests

YMCA to Hold Party After Friday’s Dance

The Y.M.C.A. will sponsor a party after next Friday night’s dance at Erwin Lodge. There will be a light meal,
singing, and entertainment from 1:30 until 4:30.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

“SECRET POLICE FIRED...”

Hocsak gives his own eyewitness account of revolt in Hungary. An active participant in the valiant struggle against Red oppression,
Hocsak will trace the history of this uprising which shook the world. The Davidsonian is proud to present his exclusive
story. —The Editors.

By ISTVAN HOCSAK

(Beginning this week, Istvan Hocsak tells his own story of the struggle for freedom. As told to Laurens Walker.)

In early July, people began to come together and talk about the Russian and Communist oppression. For twelve years there
had been no freedom, only fear, suspicion, and suppression. By September, the best writers of the country were speaking and
writing of freedom and liberty. Clubs had been formed among the young men and writers. They were called Petofi in
honor of the great national poet of Hungary. Though no one actually spoke of it, revolution was on the mind
of nearly every Hungarian.

The Petofi called a mass meeting in Budapest for early September. I didn’t hear about it, or I would certainly
have been there. My friends who went told me that the writers who led the meeting spoke more boldly than
ever before. I read in the Communist newspaper the next day that this meeting was “fascist inspired,” but this only
proved to me that the speakers had asked for freedom from the Communist reign of terror.

FIRST STEP

Very soon after this meeting, a new newspaper appeared. It was not controlled by the Communists, but actually criticized the
government and the Russians. I had to stand in line to buy a copy. The paper was so popular that
people filled the streets on Monday afternoons waiting for the truck to come by with the new issue.

In early October, the first step toward revolution was taken. The students at the University in Szeged broke away from
the old Communist youth organization, “Disz,” and formed a new group. This group drew up a proclamation demanding a free
press, a release from the compulsory study of Russian, and a promise that Hungarian uranium be left in Hungary and
not shipped to Russia. I heard about this movement on October 20, and spent the next couple of days trying
to find out more about the proposals. After the twentieth, everybody was talking about revolution. In my office, we were
all exhilarated by the thought that perhaps the oppression was nearly over.

BEFORE PARLIAMENT

On the 22nd, a great mass meeting was held at my university, the Polytechnical University of Budapest. Nearly all of
the 11,000 students in the school were there. The presiding officer was a colonel in the Army. He served the
university in much the same way as an American ROTC instructor. There were cheers and songs and speeches all bolder
than had been heard in the twelve years. This meeting drew up a list of fifteen demands, asking especially for
freedom of religion and that the Russians go home.

CROWD GATHERS

I was at work and could not be at the meeting, but a colleague of mine brought me a mimeographed
copy of the Proclamation. We typed as many as we could and distributed them in the building. Everybody was excited.
Enthusiasm was sweeping through the people like a fever. At lunchtime, someone said that people were beginning to fill the
streets to read the proclamation, which students had posted to the walls of buildings. I went down to the street
and found throngs of people milling around.

On our way, we stopped at the statue of Petofi. In 1848, he had inspired another revolution with his poems
of freedom, and now we thought that his spirit was with us. An actor climbed the base of the statue
and began to recite Petofi's poems. The crowd was quiet. Then someone began to sing the “Hymnos,” the anthem of
free Hungary. Everyone joined in with one voice. This was the first time in twelve years that anyone had sung
the Hymnos. Tears were streaming down everyone's face.

At six o’clock, the crowd reached the plaza in front of the Parliament Building. We waited, hoping that Imre Nagy
would speak to us. At eight o'clock, the lights were turned out, but the crowd, by then numbering over 100,000,
made torches of newspapers and re-lit the plaza, more brilliantly than before. Finally, at 8:30, Nagy came out but spoke
unenthusiastically and gave us little hope. I decided to go home to see if my family was safe.

During the time that I was home, between 9 and 10 o'clock, a group of students decided to broadcast the
proclamation. When the crowd reached the broadcasting station, they were met by the Secret Police. They told the crowd to
go away, but the crowd moved on toward the building. The police fired, and the Revolution had begun.

(Next Week: Insurrection and Tragedy.)

LaFar Wins National Kappa Sigma Award

Dan LaFar, student body president, has won the Nathaniel G. Symonds Award of the Kappa Sigma fraternity.

MONSOON SEASON

Umbrellas and soggy feet seemed here to stay as the continual rain entered its third consecutive week. Though spring appeared
to be a long way off, the prospect of Midwinters only a week away heartened Davidsonians as they slogged through
the mire to class.

Dr. Eugene C. Blake

(Continued From Page One)

United States, Dr. Blake has traveled widely throughout the world. He has participated in ecumenical conferences in Holland, Switzerland, Sweden,
and England. For the past three years, he has been on spiritual missions to American servicemen in the Far East,
Greenland, and Alaska. He made a round-the-world trip to survey international relief requirements in 1952. Also in 1956, he served
as chairman of the Protestant Clergymen who toured Russia under the auspices of the National Council of Churches Deputation to
Moscow.

Transportation to and from the Lodge will be provided for all those who do not have cars. All interested should
leave their names at the Union desk or see Bob MacRae.

Winter Services

(Continued From Page One)

Candidates for admission to medical school in the fall of 1958 are advised to take the Medical College Admission Test
in May, it was announced today by Educational Testing Service, which prepares and administers the test for the Association of
American Medical Colleges. These tests, required of applicants by almost every medical college throughout the country, will be given twice
during the current calendar year. Candidates taking the May test, however, will be able to furnish scores to institutions in
early fall, when many medical colleges begin the selection of their next entering class.

Candidates may take the MCAT on Saturday, May 11, 1957, or on Tuesday, October 29, 1957, at administrations to be
held at more than 300 local centers in all parts of the country. The Association of Medical Colleges recommends that
candidates for admission to classes starting in the fall of 1958 take the May test.The MCAT consists of tests of
general scholastic ability, a test on understanding of modern society, and an achievement test in science. According to ETS, no
special preparation other than a review of science subjects is necessary. All questions are of the objective type.

Mid-Winters Next Week! Now is the time to bring your tux and tux shirts and other clothes in for our
personalized dry cleaning and that extra touch — soft pressing.

Jackson Cleaners
OPPOSITE GULF STATION

As executive secretary for the Committee, these men, along with the twelve committee chairmen and some sixty members of their
various committees, will meet with the four speakers at a retreat, to be held Sunday afternoon at Ervin Lodge. Also,
the full committee will have breakfast together Monday through Wednesday mornings.

To Give Instruction
Mr. Frank West, professor of Music, announced that the music department is offering instruction in stringed instruments this semester. There
will be no charge for instruction in violin, viola, 'cello, and stringed bass. Instruments will be available through the college.
A meeting of those interested in this instruction will be held in Shearer Hall Monday at 4:30 p.m.

The purpose of the week, as stated in a declaration by the committee, is to “examine the wisdom and the
relevance of the Bible with respect to: God’s relationship to man, God’s relationship to history, man’s relationship to man and
to himself, and man’s repentance and redemption.”

CONVERSATION WITH YOURSELF
Full of character and out front! Enjoy that BIG full flavor plus the smoothest taste by smoking Chesterfield!

“Now there's an interesting face— Ugly, but not commonplace... Full of charm, I must admit - Why on earth can’t
women see All the things I see in me?”

MORAL: No matter what face you live behind, it will look happier with a real satisfying Chesterfield today, because it’s
packed more smoothly by Accu-Ray! You'll smoke for real... smoke Chesterfield!

I was accepted for talking, wondering what would happen next. I was carried away by the spirit of the crowd.
It is impossible to describe the exhilaration and freedom that I felt. At five o'clock, everyone began to move toward
the capital. The University students led the group by marching in a body from the University toward the capital. I
was in the crowd that followed. I saw children, students, old men, and women walking together, all filled with this
enthusiasm and hope.

Student Interest (Continued From Page One)
has gained wide acclaim as the leading drummer of England for the past several years. A little sleep and possibly
a few classes will be the main part of Saturday morning activities. The afternoon concert by the Fourth Herd will
begin at 3:00 in Chambers Auditorium and will last approximately an hour and a half. That evening's informal dance will
be from 8 p.m. until 12.

President Perkinson’s enlightening comment concerning the weekend: “I think it’s going to be pretty dang good.”

This national award is given to the four men recognized as the outstanding undergraduate members of Kappa Sigma. The selection
is made on a basis of outstanding achievement in all phases of college life for a four-year period.

In keeping with the theme of the Winter Services, he has chosen for his subject, “The Power and Practicality of
Faith: The Authority of the Bible.” Immediately following this service, a reception will be held for Dr. Blake in the
church student lounge.

Tuxedo Rentals
Wilson-Wright’s Inc.
“Collegiate Fashions”
DAVIDSON, N. C.

National Carbon Company, a division of Union Carbide and Carbon Corporation, offers career opportunities for the men of '57 in
various fields such as Liberal Arts with majors in Mathematics, Industrial Management, etc. Positions are available at National Carbon Company's
15 plants, located in states like Iowa, New York, North Carolina, Ohio, Tennessee, West Virginia, and Vermont, and throughout the
country in our sales division.

Interesting and rewarding careers in research, process and product development, production engineering, product and process control, sales, and production supervision.

FEBRUARY 13th
NATIONAL CARBON COMPANY
A Division of Union Carbide and Carbon Corporation

A representative will be on campus FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 1957.

Dr. Caroline T. MacBrayer, Chairman of the Information Committee of the North Carolina Psychological Association, has issued several statements concerning
the bill presented by the Association to the General Assembly. This bill is designed to protect the public and their
profession from fraudulent practices. The association proposes that a Board of Examiners in Psychology be appointed, and that persons who
call themselves psychologists be required to meet educational and professional standards.

Dr. MacBrayer points out that North Carolina now has no law to prevent unethical or fraudulent practice of “psychology.” “As
the law stands now,” she says, “any person can hang out a shingle as a psychologist. The public has no
way of knowing his qualifications. There are many trained, competent psychologists practicing in the state, but their reputations are endangered
and the public is being defrauded by those who abuse the name of psychology and, in many cases, simply bilk
the public.”

She notes that ten states have already adopted legal standards for practicing psychologists, and that others are planning to follow.
“This is one area where the present laws in some states, including North Carolina, actually protect the confidence man posing
as a psychologist. Noting the difference between psychology and psychiatry, which requires a medical degree, she adds that “the medical
requirement protects the psychiatrist, but many people are not aware of the difference between psychology and psychiatry. They have similarities
and sometimes perform the same tasks. Psychologists are not medical doctors, however. And under the present law, they need have
no degree at all. There have been hundreds of cases in which people seeking psychological help have been defrauded by
incompetent persons hiding behind this inadequacy in the law.”

The bill, proposed to the General Assembly, calls for “an act to create a state board of examiners in psychology,
define the duties and powers of that board, to provide for the examination and certification of psychologists, and to provide
penalties for the violation of this act.”

Requirements for practicing psychologists would include that he or she be 21 years of age, have had a certain amount
of graduate training, have had at least two years of professional experience, and have passed an examination to be prepared
by the Board.

50 Companies (Continued From Page One)
on grades and extra-curricular activities, although they are considered important, but on the personality and attitude of the student interviewed.
While providing a friendly, informal atmosphere, the representative answers any questions the students may have concerning the various aspects of
the company. The student is encouraged to express his opinions and interests. It is therefore important for the prospective graduate
to approach the interview with occupational interests previously thoroughly considered, and with clear, intelligent questions formulated. For this purpose, informative
literature is provided by each company and is available in the Union office.

Generally, the representatives are interested in:
1. The student's attitude and appearance.
2. The student's work and qualifications here.
3. His interest in the interviewing company.

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... PIZZA
the famous OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead

“Coke” is a registered trademark, Bottled Under Authority Of The Coca-Cola Company By THE COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD
© 1956, THE COCA-COLA Company
