LAFAR RECAPS FIRST SEMESTER (Page 2) VOL. XLV

Situation Still Unsettled

Personnel shakeups in the Business and Economics departments remained unsettled this week, according to C. J. Pietenpol, Dean of the
Faculty. Efforts to secure a new professor of economics are continuing as the administration is reportedly in current contact with
three possibilities. Definite word is hoped for by the middle of next week. Gaps in this area of the faculty
have been created by the death of Dr. C. K. Brown, long-time economics professor, and the resignation of Prof. Fred
Morton. Prof. John Williams, originally slated to teach here only during Morton’s first semester leave, has agreed to return for
the spring semester in the face of the emergency situation. The administration had expected Morton to return after a one-semester
leave this fall and was disappointed when he tendered his resignation. Pietenpol stressed that all courses scheduled for the second
semester will be definitely taught and that the administration will “lean over backwards” to ensure that no student suffers from
the personnel changes. The disposition of Dr. Brown's courses between Professors Griffin and Ratliff will be decided on the basis
of the training and experience of the new man who will be secured in the next few days. Prof. and
Mrs. Williams had made plans to leave the College at the end of the current semester, but due to recent
developments gave up their personal desires in an effort to help the College in this situation. In commenting on his
confidence of an early definite solution, Pietenpol stated that he hopes to “settle this matter as quickly as possible,” in
order that the students involved will be able to make their plans for the following semester. He emphasized that all
scheduled courses would be offered, and that no students would be handicapped in finishing up requirements for graduation.

55 Leader Drowns in Holiday Tragedy

The body of Swain Hughes Loy, a 1955 graduate, was recovered January 6, from a lake near his home in
Roanoke Rapids, N. C. He is survived by his wife, the former Miss Betty Lou Robinson, and his parents, Mr.
and Mrs. H. S. Loy of Roanoke Rapids. Loy and his 16-year-old sister were victims of a sailboat accident on
December 28. Rescue crews had (Continued on Back Page)

NOTED ECONOMIST

Funeral Rites Are Held For Dr. C. K. Brown

Dr. Cecil Kenneth Brown, a distinguished member of the Davidson College faculty, died on the night of January 1, 1957,
in a Charlotte hospital following an extended illness. For many years, Dr. Brown, as a noted economist, teacher, and Christian
leader, was one of the most well-known members of the Davidson College faculty. Although he had been ill for some
time, Dr. Brown regularly met his classes until the beginning of the Christmas holiday period. Dr. Brown was a member
of the Davidson class of 1921, a class which has contributed three other members to the present Davidson College faculty.
After graduating as valedictorian, he attended the University of North Carolina, where he earned his M.A. and Ph.D. degrees. During
the 1923-25 period, he was Assistant Professor of Mathematics at Davidson. After teaching at the University of North Carolina for
several years, Dr. Brown returned to Davidson in 1927 as Assistant Professor of Economics. In 1929, he was promoted to
a full professorship in this department. He also served as Dean of the Faculty from 1941 to 1953. Dr. Brown
was the author of three books and a frequent contributor to scholarly journals and papers. He wrote A State Movement
in Railroad Development (1928), The State Highway System of North Carolina (1931), and Introduction to Economics (1941). A man of
many interests and varied talents, Dr. Brown was a member of Phi Beta Kappa, Omicron Delta Kappa, Phi Delta Theta,
the American Economics Association, and the Historical Society of North Carolina. He served as chief economist for the Office of
Price Stabilization in Charlotte during World War II, and he was Chairman of the Civil Service Board of Mecklenburg County.
Dr. Samuel W. Newell, minister of the local church which Dr. Brown had served as an officer for many years,
and Dr. Carl R. Pritchett, a former pastor, conducted the funeral service in the Davidson College Presbyterian Church at 3
p.m. on January 3. For the remainder of the semester, Dr. Griffin and Dr. Ratliff are teaching Dr. Brown’s classes.
Announcement will be made at a later time concerning these courses for the next semester.

MEMORIAL FUND

A scholarship fund in memory of Dr. Cecil Kenneth Brown is being established by friends and former students of Dr.
Brown. The scholarship will be given for study in the field of economics. The exact nature of the scholarship and
the details of the program will be announced later. All contributions to this fund are being handled by the Davidson
College treasurer. Already, several faculty members, students, and friends of Dr. Brown have contributed.

FACULTY, STUDENTS FAVOR CHANGING OF A.B. DEGREE, 7-1

Both the Faculty and Student Body of Davidson College, through a representative poll of each group, want a change in
the requirements governing the A.B. diploma. The recently conducted poll established the fact by a vote of over 7 to
1 that both groups supported a modification of the present requirements. Of the 447 students who participated in the poll,
85 percent favored a revision. The revisionists then went on to support immediate or future change by 92.6 percent, and
by 71 percent they favored enabling the present Seniors and Juniors who would not have gotten an A.B. under the
old requirements, to do so under the new requirements. Of the 25 Faculty members who responded, 72 percent wanted a
change. The Faculty members were evenly divided for and against including the present Seniors and Juniors in the A.B. body
under the new regulations. The poll breakdown is as follows, the first percentage figures being the student body, the second
the faculty:

85% — 72% for a change in the A.B. requirements.
15% — 20% against a change in the present requirements.
0% — 8% uncertain.
92.6% — 77.7% of those favoring a change wanted it made immediately.
5.2% — 16.6% of those favoring a change wanted to make the change later.
2.2% — 5.7% uncertain regarding the time of making the change effective.
71% — 38.9% of those favoring a change would permit the present Seniors and Juniors who would not have gotten
an A.B. under the old requirements to do so under the new, if they qualify.
22.6% — 38.9% favored excluding the above Juniors and Seniors in the new A.B. eligibility.
6.4% — 22.2% were undecided regarding the present upper classes’ eligibility under the proposed A.B. diploma.

The poll did not enumerate specific possibilities for requirement changes and then call for a vote on these; it was
distributed and compiled in the light of an article published in the Davidsonian of October 19, 1956, which made the
following suggestions as (Continued on Back Page)

$50,000 Fund Given To College Library

(Davidson News Bureau)—Five hundred books will be provided annually for the Davidson College Library through a new endowment fund that
will total $50,000 when in full operation. Edward Dwelle, Jr., of Jacksonville, Florida, formerly of Charlotte, has established the Fay
Ross Dwelle Memorial Fund in memory of his mother, the late Mrs. Edward C. Dwelle of Charlotte. It is the
first and only Davidson fund specifically designated for the purchase of library books. Dr. John R. Cunningham said that this
new library fund will have the effect of providing an increase of 23 percent in the amount expended by Davidson
for library books during the 1955-56 school year. He termed the gift a “wonderful addition” to the Davidson library program,
and said that it helps fulfill one of the college's most urgent needs. The Grey Memorial Library was completed in
1941 and currently houses 64,000 volumes. Strengthening of the library was announced recently through the gift of $250,000 by a
North Carolina Foundation for a wing to the library.

EDWARD DWELLE IS ALUMNUS

Edward Dwelle, Jr., was gradu-ate from Davidson in the class of 1932 as a member of Phi Beta Kappa and
Omicron Delta Kappa. During his senior year, he was Editor-in-Chief of the yearbook. He later graduated from the Harvard University
Graduate School of Administration, since which time he has been engaged in the general real estate business in Jacksonville. Dwelle
is a member of the newly-created Board of Visitors at the college.

Immediate faculty vote on the issue. The recommendations will go before the faculty Monday afternoon. Two possible alternatives to the
present classical language requirement will be presented. One plan would give degrees in science only to majors in Biology, Chemistry,
Physics, and Mathematics, with majors in all other subjects receiving the arts degree. Another suggestion proposes arts degrees for all
students, regardless of major field. Indications now seem to point to the passing of the recommendation, in one form or
the other.

Both plans specify that they would go into effect immediately and would apply to the present junior and senior classes.
The first proposal mentioned above includes a provision that for any student who qualifies for two different degrees under the
old and newly-proposed requirements, that student would have his choice of degrees. Another specification, suggested in some quarters, is that
the name of the department of major work also appear on the diploma.

Events began rushing towards what now appears to be a favorable climax for the proponents of the change last Tuesday
night as the Curriculum Committee voted to present its proposal to the faculty. On Wednesday afternoon, the Executive Committee endorsed
the general plan but recommended that the faculty vote between the two alternatives outlined above.

Both recommendations presuppose that the 124 semester hours and 124 quality points will remain and that English 11-12, 21-22, Bible
11-12, 21-22, Mathematics 11-12 or 13, 21, twelve hours of a foreign language, eight hours of a natural science, and
History 11-12 or 13-14 remain as required courses. Every student must satisfy requirements as to a Major and Minor as
such requirements appear in the catalogue. Every student will remain in residence two academic years, one of which must be
the senior year.

SEE EDITORIAL—PAGE 2

ONLY FOUR MORE DAYS

Lights burned late and long this week, and cigarettes went by the carton as impending exams brought Davideonians to earth
with a resounding thud after the two-week Christmas recess. The crucial 10-day examination period opens next Wednesday morning.

Andrews Will Discuss Income Tax Solution

T. Coleman Andrews, recent States Rights candidate for President of the United States, will be a guest of the Davidson
College Business-Economics Association on February 6, it was recently announced by Richard Weeks, president of the group. Mr. Andrews will
discuss with members of the Association and other interested people “The Federal Income Tax.” The lecture will be held in
the Union Ballroom starting at 7:30 p.m. A social period will follow the lecture in which students will have the
opportunity to discuss with him current economic questions.

Of interest to many students would be Mr. Andrews' views on income tax which were brought out in a recent
issue of U. S. News and World Report. He is quoted as saying: “It hurts all kinds of people.” Professor
Ratliff of the Economics Department, who is working in co-operation with the group, pointed out that Mr. Andrews' solution to
fill the void that the abolition of income taxes would cause should prove interesting since three-fourths of our federal income
is collected from this tax source.

Having served as Commissioner of Internal Revenue for the first 33 months of the Eisenhower Administration, Mr. Andrews is considered
an expert on Government spending and accounting methods. He has collected more than 180 billion dollars in taxes for the
government. Mr. Andrews entered the accounting field in his native Richmond, Va., in 1922, and his surveys of auditing practices
in both the Virginia and federal government have resulted in numerous reforms. Since leaving Washington, Mr. Andrews...

Sigma Chi, Pi Kapp Pick Semester Presidents

Two of Davidson's eleven fraternities have recently undergone changes of leadership. Due to their biannual systems of elections, both the
Delta Lambda Chapter of Sigma Chi and the Epsilon Chapter of Pi Kappa Phi will be under new management for
the remainder of the school year. Sigma Chi installed as president, John Trotti; vice president, Bill Pitser; secretary, Grier Davis;
and treasurer, Jim Daniels. Guiding the Pi Kapps will be Tommy Griffin as president, with Bob Keown serving as secretary,
John Frye as treasurer, and Walter Bishop as historian.

New England Scenes

Paintings of New England Journeys went on display today in the foyer of Chambers building. Included in the exhibition are
titles such as “Campus Scene at Dartmouth,” “Bristol Inn,” and “Vermont Back Road.” The collection consists of thirty paintings, all
by New England artists, and is presented by the Ford Motor Company.

METROPOLITAN TENOR Brian Sullivan Appears In Artist Series Tonight

Brian Sullivan, leading tenor with the Metropolitan Opera Company, will appear at 8:15 tonight in Chambers Auditorium as part of
the Davidson College Artist Series. By MICKEY THROWER

The American tenor's present season is his busiest to date. His schedule during the past summer included engagements in Puerto
Rico, and open-air appearances in opera and musical comedy in Pittsburgh, Cincinnati, Dallas, and Los Angeles. He participated in the
Empire State Music Festival in Ellenville, New York, where he sang leading roles in “La Traviata” and “Cosi Fan Tutte.”
In September he began an engagement with the San Francisco Opera, which has re-engaged him following his sensational debut with
the company in 1952.

At the Metropolitan Opera, where he has become one of the company’s tenor mainstays, he sang four new roles in
such favorites as “La Traviata” and “Rigoletto.” Mr. Sullivan has met repeated success in the fields of musical comedy and
grand opera. At the age of 21, he made his first stage appearance, singing the role of Count Almaviva in
an English version of Rossini’s opera, “The Barber of Seville.” He made such a favorable impression that he was asked
to sing the same role two weeks later, this time in Italian, with John Charles Thomas as Figaro.

Finding that few operatic roles were open to newcomers, Sullivan accepted an increasing number of musical comedy engagements, and one
winter even toured with the “Ice Follies,” along with another future operatic star, George London. His career was interrupted by
two years of infantry service during World War II. Immediately after his discharge, however, he was asked to sing at
the Central City Festival in Colorado. He was to sing one of the most difficult tenor parts ever written, that
in Beethoven’s opera, “Fidelio.” Twelve performances in 24 days only proved his vocal and dramatic talents.

Film Committee Plans Two Special Features

The Film Committee will present a double feature attraction on Saturday, January 19, and Tuesday, January 22. Two outstanding movies
— “Little Fugitive” and “Little World of Don Camillo” starring France’s most famous comedian, Fernandel — will be shown. The
Film Committee also announces that a Fine Film Festival will be held between the dates of January 31 and February
8. Four of the world’s most outstanding movies will be shown. Series tickets costing $1.00 will soon be on sale
by the Committee and at the Union desk.

Major Corporations Hold Job Interviews

Over 50 major corporations throughout the country will have representatives on campus during the period of job interviews beginning January
30, and continuing through March 28. The extensive program arranged by the Director of Placement, Mr. C. Shaw Smith, is
open to all seniors who complete the interview requirements. Interested students should fill out a personal questionnaire, sign an agreement
to fulfill interview responsibilities, sign release of their transcripts, and secure confidential evaluations from three professors of their choice. A
fee of $1.50 will be required to cover the cost of 10 application pictures. No student may participate in the
program until these requirements are met.

A discussion of the job interviews has been tentatively scheduled for Monday, Jan. 28 at 7 p.m., in the Union
ballroom. The following companies will be on campus through Feb. 8: Oak Ridge Atomic Energy Commission, Jan. 30; Deering Millikin,
Inc., and Esso Standard Oil Co., Jan. 31 and Feb. 1; Southern Bell Telephone Co., Feb. 4 and 5; Burlington
Industries and Acme Steel Products, Feb. 5; Electrometallurgical Co., and Board of U. S. Civil Service, Feb. 6; General Electric,
Feb. 7 and 8.
