SUMMER DANCE PLANS MADE

The Dance Committee, at a meeting Tuesday afternoon, discussed the possibilities of having a dance on the front terrace of the Student Union during the summer session.

The committee tentatively decided to hold the dance on the third weekend in July. However, there was some debate as to the date, whether the dance should come on Friday, July 19, or Saturday, July 20. A poll will be held in chapel as soon as possible to determine the date that the majority of students would find more convenient.

So think about it. Definitely make up your mind before you vote on this date.

SNACK BAR OPEN SUNDAY NIGHT
After an unprecedented conference, the Board of Directors of the Student Union announced that the Snack Bar will be opened Sunday nights from eight until ten o'clock. Messrs. Lewis Wilson and James Foruzzo are managing this new enterprise.

NOTICE
All persons who are interested in participating in Duplicate Bridge tournaments in the College Union this summer should get in touch with Jim Zeh, Chairman of the Bridge Committee.

GOOD NEWS!!
Thank you very much for your immediate acceptance and many comments on the BOBTAIL DAVIDSONIAN. Since our circulation has risen sharply with the maiden issue, we feel that we can continue to print the paper without the financial assistance given by commercial advertisements. Therefore, you will note there is no page in this issue that even remotely resembles page three of last week's issue.

DANCE TONIGHT?
Bud Shoffner and his hot combo have consented to blow some cool tunes Wednesday night for the weekly "break" at nine o'clock, not at eight o'clock as announced in Chapel. The combo, which became famous last semester for its Wednesday morning shows, will feature Bill Henne at the piano. Professor Monahan is expected to bring along his trumpet, and may also sit in at piano while Mr. Henne sends us with his trombone. A bass player will round out the group.

Mrs. Little is making special preparations to make the evening a gala affair. Charming hostesses will serve fruit punch, free of charge, on the front terrace of the Union.

All students are invited to come and to enjoy the punch and festivities.

FLICK FARE
Saturday night at eight o'clock, the Union Film Committee will present the movie, "Mrs. Miniver," on the terrace of the College Union. Greer Garson stars in this movie concerning the courage and endurance of the British citizens during the Second World War.

Your parents enjoyed this fine film; now you may have the same privilege.

BAD NEWS
Due to the current high prices of wheat on the stock market, the David Bakery Ovens last week announced price changes for their line of rolls, biscuits, and loaf bread. Effective immediately, customers will be charged one cent for each piece, slice, or handful of said bread over the number two.

Students eating in the cafeteria may, however, bring their own canned biscuits with them, which will be prepared for a nominal fee.

QUOTE OF THE WEEK:
"A fool and his money can have a real ball, man!"