FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 1957

By JOHN JOHNSON

INVITATIONS

With practice getting underway for both track and football, Coaches Bill Dole and Heath Whittle are extending an invitation to all members of the student body who are interested in either to report for workouts regardless of previous experience. Spring football practice begins on Monday of next week and will extend through twenty days of action. The track men began working out this past Monday in preparation particularly for upcoming indoor meets, the first of which will be the Southern Conference contest at Lexington, Virginia, February 15. The second will be the Atlantic Coast Conference meet in Raleigh on February 23.

LOOKING FORWARD

The first meet of the outdoor season will not be until March 23, but that is just five days before spring vacation. By getting this early start the team hopes to work into top condition before the 23rd so that they will not be greatly affected by the layoff. Coach Whittle particularly urges freshmen to come down to the track if they have any desire to try out. This local mentor of the cinders has been unusually successful in training boys that come to Davidson without previous competitive experience. Phil Koonce, who graduated in 1956 and held Southern Conference championships in the 100 and 220 dashes, was an outstanding product of such four-year tutelage.

SEMI HIGH

With 17 games played, the statistics for Davidson’s basketball team are beginning to take significant meaning. Leading the Cats and ranking number eight in the Southern Conference is Semi Mintz who has a total of 294 points with an average of 17.2 per game. The thin, confident sophomore from Raleigh is currently hitting a phenomenal 82 percent of his foul shots, making 98 of 118. His closest rival on the squad is Dave Hollingsworth with 204 total points. Dave leads in rebounds with 148, followed by Lew Spears with 95.

Check the facts with the man from ELECTROMET

World’s Largest Producer of Ferro-Alloys

It’s a good place to work . . . and it’s growing. More than 90 percent of the technical people who have joined us in the last 20 years are still with us. Why? Challenging work . . . recognition . . . pleasant locations . . . competitive salaries, determined fairly and based on merit . . . opportunity for personal development, working with outstanding men in metallurgy and related fields. It will be worth your while to get the facts. Make an appointment today with your placement office for WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 6th

ELECTRO METALLURGICAL COMPANY
A Division of Union Carbide and Carbon Corporation
90 West 42nd Street
New York 17, New York

Davidson Catfish Head South To Storm Clemson

Davidson's swimmers left today to meet with Clemson in the Tiger's pool. Although Clemson's potential is unknown, the Cats enter as favorites because of their victory over The Citadel. Most of this week has been devoted to extensive workouts in order to get the boys back in shape after the exam period. However, Coach Thompson said that the team wouldn't be back in top condition until the first of next week. With the loss of “Squeaky” Simpson dealing a blow to the medley relay team, other members of the team will be shouldering a heavier load. Captain Tommy Rivers, who swam the anchor leg of the medley relay against The Citadel and in addition broke his own record in the 100 yd. dash by a tenth of a second, will be counted on heavily. Diver Basil Sharp has been one of the most outstanding performers for the Catfish. The short, graceful senior has won first in his fancy diving event in all but one of the season’s encounters. Should they beat Clemson today, they will have a good chance in upcoming meets. Two record holders from former years, John Edwards and Billy Carrell have been turning in consistent times. Edwards swims both the butterfly and orthodox breaststroke while the versatile Carrell competes in all three strokes: back, breast, and freestyle. On next Monday, February 4, the Cats will invade the V.P.I. pool to swim one of their tougher meets.

Ratterree Resigns Line Coach Position

Accepting a position at The Citadel, coach Pride Ratterree resigned Friday, January 18, from his position as head line coach at Davidson College. Coach Ratterree, since coming to Davidson in September, had served as head line coach, coach of the junior varsity basketball team, and physical education instructor. He was to be coach of the baseball team this spring. Prior to coming to Davidson, Ratterree served as head line coach at Wake Forest for one year, assistant coach at Lenoir Rhyne for four years, and coach at Staunton Military Academy for one and one-half years. During his tenure at Davidson, Ratterree showed an unusual drive and desire to win, and produced one of the best lines that the Wildcats have had in recent years.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Phi Delts, Kappa Sigs Battle For I.F. Lead

By BILL HELLIER

Going into the early rounds of the basketball tournament, the Phi Delts hold a good lead in the overall standings of the interfraternity race. Right behind are the Kappa Sigs and K.A.'s. These first three teams seem to have the race for first place all to themselves at the moment; but on the basis of last year's basketball records, both the A.T.O.'s and Betas should be picking up a few points soon. As proved by the Phi Gams, a good showing in one sport can boost a team’s point total a great deal. In the lower division, there is a very tight race going on. The Pi Kapps lead the Pikas by only three-tenths of a point and the S.A.E.’s hold a two-point margin on the Betas. The unofficial total standings to date are:

Phi Delt 373.6
Kappa Sig 335.3
K.A. 294.3
Sigma Chi 232.1
A.T.O. 229.5
Phi Gam 222.5
S.A.E. 214.0
Beta 212.1
Pi Kapp 140.5
Pika 149.2
Sig Ep 140.3
Campus Club 99.1

Sigma Chi, Kappa Sig Lead Intramural Cagers

With semester exams out of the way, interfraternity basketball returned with a full slate of games this week. Starting off Tuesday night, the Kappa Sigs ran over the Sig Eps 71 to 47 with Tom Brewer leading the way with 27 points. Charlie Benson and Ed Lewis with 14 points each steered the A.T.O.'s overthe Independents, 45 to 19. Dyke Little fired in 16 points, as SAE's whipped the Phi Delt’s by a surprising 18-point margin. The Sigma Chi’s continued their unbeaten ways by tripping up the KA’s, 44 to 37. Continuing the contests Wednesday night, the Kappa Sigs kept their record clear of losses with a 48 to 37 victory over the Phi Gams. Don Comer led the losers with 13 points and Brewer, scoring 21 markers, was again high man for the winners. Sparked by Dee Lide, the Pi Kapps went to their first victory with a 53 to 23 win over the Campus Club. Held to a close game for the first half, the ATO’s finally began to catch fire and went on in the second stanza to down the Sig Ep's 52 to 33. Ed Lewis poured in 16 points for the Taus and Warlick got 9 for the losers.

INDIVIDUAL SCORING THROUGH TUESDAY

Player Fraternity Points
Brewer, Kappa Sig 70
Edwards, Kappa Sig 48
Brooks, Pika 47
Harris, Phi Delt 44
Powell, SAE 39
Killian, Sigma Chi 38
Comer, Phi Gam 37
Rucker, Beta 37
Lovin, CC 37
Lide, Pi Kapp 36
Elder, Phi Gam 35
Massey, Beta 35
Hopper, Phi Delt 30
McClure, Kappa Sig 30
Lewis, ATO 28
McBride, Phi Delt 28
Patterson, Sigma Chi 28
Shepard, Kappa Sig 28
Benson, ATO 27
Wright, SAE 27
Brown, Sig Ep 25
Hart, Sigma Chi 25
Mitchem, ATO 25

STANDINGS THROUGH WEDNESDAY

Fraternity Won Lost
Kappa Sig 3 0
Sigma Chi 3 0
Beta 2 1
ATO 2 1
Phi Delt 2 1
SAE 2 1
Sig Ep 1 2
Phi Gam 1 2
Pi Kapp 1 2
KA 0 3
Indep. 0 3
Pikas 0 3
CC 0 3

"The most important thing to me in a cigarette is flavor. Camels always taste good and rich, never thin or flat. They're my smoke." FOREIGN CORRESPONDENT AND PULITZER PRIZE WINNER

Discover the difference between "just smoking"...and Camels!

A tremendous last half effort netted the Wildcats their long-sought victory over the College of Charleston. These same Maroons of Charleston were the last victims of the local team, with Guilford being the season's only other contribution to the Davidson win column, which now totals three.

TOURNAMENT BERTH

VMI goes into the contest with aspirations of a berth in the Southern Conference tournament, which is all but a dream for the Cats. The eighth leading scorer in the Conference, "Semi" Colon Mintz, increased his average with a total of 25 points in Tuesday's victory and in Saturday's 86-60 defeat at the hands of VPI.

TWO OF THE CATS’ RIFLEMEN, Jim Pinkney and Harvey Rhame, are shown firing on the Belk range in one of their daily practice sessions. The drill is in preparation for a triangular meet tomorrow with VMI, VPI, and Furman at Blacksburg, Va.

Furman In Blacksburg

The Wildcat rifle team will resume its schedule after a three-week layoff when they meet VPI, VMI, and George Washington at Blacksburg, Virginia. Match time is set for 2 p.m.

The quadruple match, all Southern Conference clashes, will mark the Wildcats’ first encounter with top-flight competition. Both VPI and VMI rank high in national rifle circles.

TEN FIRE

Making the trip will be thirteen men, of whom ten will fire and three will serve as alternates. The ten starters are not definite as yet, but will be picked shortly before firing time.

Men cited by coach Capt. A. T. Cavano as outstanding to date are: Hollingsworth, Joe Milner, and Richard Alexander. Charles Stowe, James Pinkney, Harvey Rhame, and Topper Ruggles. The last is a freshman who, in Cavano's opinion, has shown signs of becoming a first-rate competitor.

The next home match will find the men invading the basement of Belk for a dual contest on February 15. The next day the Keydets of the Citadel will fire against the Cats on the same range.

SERVICE!

Come in and try our expert fast dry special soft pressing and steam rolls on lapels and sleeves.

Jackson Cleaners
OPPOSITE GULF STATION

Taste the difference! No fads, frills, or fancy stuff — simply the finest taste in smoking. Camels are rich, full-flavored, and deeply satisfying. Feel the difference! The exclusive Camel blend of quality tobaccos is unequalled for smooth smoking. Camels never let you down. Enjoy the difference! More people smoke Camels, year after year, than any other cigarette of any kind. Try Camels - they've really got it!

PAGE THREE

Cat Hoopsters Invade Keydet Lair Tonight

Cagers Victorious Over Charleston Five, 67-45

By BOBBY PAGE

Having broken a famine of victories which had existed for the last 13 contests, the Davidson basketball five invades VMI in an effort to pick up their first conference triumph tonight on the Keydet’s home court.

A tremendous last half effort, which netted the Wildcats 47 points, as compared to 20 in the first half, gave the Red and Black a 67-45 victory.

Mintz was shifted to the forward post with Sonny Ferguson taking the vacated guard slot. Dave Hollingsworth, Joe Milner, and Richard Brooks rounded out the starting five which was supported by Lew Spears in the torrid second half. After tonight's affair with VMI, the Wildcats will move on to Williamsburg, Va., to play William and Mary. Coach Tom Scott is in high hopes of obtaining his second victory in a row, and possibly his third on Saturday.

Unbeaten N. C. Frosh Here Wednesday

Local basketball fans will get an opportunity to see the highly heralded freshman team of the North Carolina cage squad when they engage the Wildcat frosh in Johnston Gymnasium Wednesday night. The contest will be the only game of the evening; it will not serve as a preliminary to varsity action.

The Tar Babies, whose big brothers are currently ranked as the nation’s number one team, are undefeated. The Wildkittens have suffered only two defeats in eight encounters.

On Monday night the Davidson frosh blasted the Charlotte area's best prep squad, East High, 96-31. Formerly under the tutelage of transferring Pride Ratterree, the Kittens are now under the direction of varsity coach Tom Scott.