PAGE FOUR

PER STUDENT

For a rent of approximately twenty dollars per semester per student, it will be possible for Davidson’s twelve Greek letter fraternities to move into new single-unit houses. Mr. D. Grier Martin, Treasurer of the College, said that this single-unit house would have a large living room, dining room, unfinished basement, patio, kitchen, and house-mother’s quarters.

The floor space in this single-unit house will be over twice as great as the combined floor space of the present fraternity house and the average boarding house.

As an alternative plan, a duplex housing arrangement would cost approximately thirty-three dollars a semester in the form of a fraternity rental fee. The duplex arrangement is a plan whereby two houses are joined together by a common kitchen and house-mother’s quarters. These separate the other rooms of the two houses.

Martin explained that the unfinished basement would be constructed with a concrete floor and walls. It would be suitable for television, ping-pong, and games. He said that it would be up to each fraternity to finish and decorate the basement (as with wood paneling) if they wished.

In explaining the cost of the proposed system, Martin said, “there has been some confusion as to what this rent represents.” In short, the rent represents a net return of less than 5% on the college's investment of approximately $360,000. He emphasized that the college is making an investment of its endowment funds, and not a loan to the fraternities. In addition, the college will use more than $50,000 of funds given to the College on which no charge will be made to the fraternities.

In clearing up this question, Mr. Martin explained that the college has a nine million dollar endowment fund which it invests in various stocks and bonds. Part of this endowment would be invested in the new court instead of in stocks and bonds. The College will have to realize the same net earnings from this investment as it does from its others. To receive a net of almost 5%, the rent must bring in 8% because the college will have to provide for depreciation, insurance, maintenance, and other expenses.

The same arrangement applies to the present fraternity houses. But since the initial investment was very low relative to the new court, the rent on the present houses is therefore much lower. The present houses were built in 1928 at a cost of $5,000 each.

Martin went on to explain that under the new system, it might be possible to have each member of a fraternity pay a semester fraternity housing fee, instead of having the fraternity as a whole pay the rent. This method would put the burden on each individual, and therefore would not penalize the smaller fraternities.

The entire program is of course subject to the approval of the Trustees of the College who will meet at Davidson on May 16th. Martin stated that if any questions still remain, he would be glad to try to answer them at the open forum on Monday morning at 10:20 in the Union Ballroom.

THIS WEEK IN DAVIDSON

SATURDAY 27
8:00 P.M.—Free Magic Show in Union Ballroom.
8:15 P.M.—Davidson College Male Chorus and Mary Baldwin College Glee Club at Covenant Presbyterian Church of Charlotte.
9:30 P.M.—“Father Brown the Detective,” Ballroom.

SUNDAY 28
7:30 P.M.—Mary Baldwin College Glee Club at Vespers.

MONDAY 29
8:15 P.M.—Student Recital in Chambers Auditorium.
10:15 P.M.—Forum on Fraternity Court, Ballroom.
12:00 to 5:00—Blood Drive.

TUESDAY 30
12:00 to 5:00—Blood Drive.

WEDNESDAY 1
10:10 A.M.—Shoffner Jam Session in Union Ballroom.

THURSDAY 2
10:20 A.M.—ODK Spring Tapping in Chapel.

FRIDAY 3
8:15 P.M.—Organ Recital by Dr. Michael Schneider at College Church.

Prof. Gallent To Study At Harvard

Dr. John B. Gallent has been awarded a National Science Foundation fellowship for 1957 and 1958. He will study at Harvard University and University College, London, England in theoretical organic chemistry. He is one of two in North Carolina and 100 in the United States chosen for the science faculty fellowship. Candidates were selected from 416 applicants by panels of leading scientists and science teachers on their potential and demonstrated ability as teachers of science.

Dr. Gallent, a native of Wylam, Ala., graduated from Davidson College in 1935. He received his Ph.D. from the University of North Carolina in 1940. He taught chemistry at Brenau College, Gainesville, Ga., before joining the Davidson faculty in 1942. He is a member of Phi Beta Kappa, Sigma Xi, Phi Lambda Upsilon, Gamma Sigma Epsilon, and the American Chemical Society.

JAMES JACKSON
Goes to Mary Baldwin...

Jackson Will Be Ass’t To Spencer

James W. Jackson, Jr., of the Davidson College staff, will become on September 1, Assistant to the President at Mary Baldwin College of Staunton, Va. The appointment was announced today by Edmund Campbell of Washington, D.C., president of the Mary Baldwin College Board of Trustees. The announcement follows by one month the election of Dr. Samuel R. Spencer, Jr., as president of the Virginia institution. Dr. Spencer is Dean of Students and Professor of History at Davidson.

Dr. Spencer said of Jackson's appointment: “As Assistant to the President, Mr. Jackson will direct the development program of the college and will supervise all phases of public relations. His talents, experience, and interests make him the perfect man for a most essential job at Mary Baldwin. I feel that both the college and I are very fortunate to have Mr. Jackson join the staff at a time when new vistas are opening for Mary Baldwin.”

Jackson has served as Associate Director of Alumni and Public Relations for the past two years, following activity in newspaper, radio, and television, and with two other colleges.

Weldon Speaks Sunday Evening

Dr. Wilson O. Weldon, minister of the First Methodist Church in Gastonia, will speak at Vespers this Sunday night as the College observes National Christian College Day. Weldon holds degrees from the University of South Carolina and the Duke Divinity School. He has been Professor of Bible at Columbia College and Director of the Wesley Foundation for the University.

Musical portions of the service will be furnished by the Mary Baldwin College Choir.

Girls Glee Club To Be At Vespers

The 60-voice Glee Club of Mary Baldwin College, Staunton, Va., will be in Charlotte this weekend (April 27-28). There will be three appearances:

Single Houses Cost Jacks $20 Per Semester

By BOBBY LIVINGSTON
Davidsonian Feature Writer

As one of the four men primarily responsible for the proposed fraternity court said, this effort “is certainly a tangible expression of the faith of the College in the Davidson fraternity system.” These men, Dr. W. G. McGavock, Mr. D. Grier Martin, Dean Samuel Spencer, and Dr. Chalmers Davidson, all graduated from Davidson in the early depression era. Then only 50% of the student body was in a fraternity, and fraternities averaged 35-40 men as opposed to 55-60 today.

Two general problems have promoted the consideration of a new court. They are a generally unsatisfactory eating and social relationship and the greatly increased size of the fraternities, along with a proposed increased enrollment. The new court is also a logical step to follow the new church, the union, the gym, and the dormitory improvement.

Of the two suggested locations for the new court, the two ridges running parallel to the road behind Belk have been selected as the tentative location. In the past, separate houses of the old court have been rented to young professors. This will probably be done again when the fraternities move to the new houses.

Fraternities Elect New Officers

Fraternities have recently held elections. These newly elected men will serve through the 1957-1958 school term.

The Pikas elected Charles Drummond, president; Bob Wooten, vice-president; Walter Hefner, secretary; Dave McCarty, treasurer; Gray Lewis, boarding house manager; and Hayden Hollingsworth, IFC representative.

Alpha Tau Omega chose Lloyd Chapin, president; Roy Gilbert, vice-president; Tom Thrailkill, secretary; Ed Lewis, treasurer; and Don Carmichael, IFC representative.

Dave Fagg was elected president of Phi Gamma Delta. Others were: Ernest Carpenter, recording secretary; John Toumaras, corresponding secretary; Henry Griffin, treasurer; Joe Williford, boarding house manager; and Bob Jones, IFC representative.

The Betas gave their top post to Bill Bondurant. Assisting him will be: vice-president; Dave Robinson, Bill Bondurant, secretary; Ed Irvin, treasurer; Dave Beckham, boarding house manager; and Jock Reeder, IFC representative.

Vernon Anderson admitted that the duplexes would be more economical, but that the deciding factor for single units is the maintenance of individuality. “There is little enough now,” he said.

Jerry Eller is the new Sig Ep president. Others are: Henderson Rourk, vice-president; Alex Gardner, secretary; Jim Boyce, comptroller; Hank Davis, boarding house manager; and GeorgeKemmerer, IFC representative. For Phi Delta Theta: Johnny Johnson, president; Ed Stuart, vice-president; Ralph Bassett, secretary; Bill Campbell, treasurer; Phil Lewis, boarding house manager; and Pat Wood, IFC representative. Dave Bradford preferred the duplexes. He believed the food and the fraternities would not be too close to each other. Lloyd Chapin wanted the single units if financially possible. Duplexes would cause problems about food and meetings at the houses. Laurens Walker desired single units with basements and said that this seems to be what the student body wants. “Such a plan would be an improvement for the fraternity system and for the campus.” He felt that the administration is giving the students a good break, and that student opinion for single units has been very influential. Seven Davidson fraternities have completed their spring selections.

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... (Continued From Page One) accept in any one year. The end result of this would be to increase the number of pledges going to the smaller fraternity. The other plan would call for each fraternity member to pay a “fraternity housing fee” which would be about $20.00 a semester for the single units, or $16.50 for the duplex units. Disadvantages of the single units would be chiefly financial. Requirements for these units would necessitate an expenditure of about $1800 per year more for each fraternity. Under the duplex idea, one kitchen staff and one dietitian could serve two fraternities. The chief advantage of the single over the duplex units is the possibility of major disagreements between two fraternities that might arise from living in the same house. Mr. Martin stated that if the program is approved by the trustees it is entirely possible that the new houses may be ready for occupancy by the fall of 1958.

The KAs have selected Bill Pomeroy, president; Shelbourne Wallace, vice-president; Locke Carter, recording secretary; Howard Persinger, corresponding secretary; Waller Harris, treasurer; Charlie McGowan, boarding house manager; John Trask, IFC representative.

George Hemingway, professor of music and director of choral activities, will direct the Mary Baldwin Glee Club. The Davidson Chorus is directed by Gordon Page, Donald B. Plott. On Sunday morning, they will sing again for the church worship services, and on Sunday afternoon they will sing in the vesper service at the college.

Bill Patton was for immediate action and definitely desired single units with basements. However, he was against the proposed method of financing the new court.

Eumanean Selects At its regularly scheduled meeting Monday, April 22, the Eumanean Literary Society elected its officers for the fall semester. Tom Thrailkill was designated president, Jim Overall, vice-president, Peter Kellogg, secretary, and Jere Starling, treasurer.

Dr. Harold P. Ford of the Davidson College faculty has resigned to re-enter government work as a consultant in Far Eastern and Russian affairs. The announcement was made today by Dr. Clarence P. Pietenpol, Dean of the Faculty, who expressed regret at Ford’s departure and praised his service to the college and community. Dr. Ford came to the faculty as Associate Professor of Political Science and head of that department in 1955. He has been a popular speaker to community groups on international relations.

John Trask was elected chairman of next year’s Publication Board at its first meeting last Wednesday. Bill Wilkinson was named secretary. The Board is made up of the editor and the business manager of each of the three publications on campus. John Trask and Ed Morrissett represent the Davidsonian, while Dave Bradford and Ken Forester are the members from the Quips and Cranks, and Grier Davis and Bill Wilkinson represent the Scripts 'n Pranks. Mr. D. Grier Martin and Professor Kimbrough are also members of the Board.

Union Appoints New Committees Appointments to the various Union committees are now being made. Anyone wishing to serve on one is asked to contact John Trotti, president of the Union, or to stop by the desk. The committees to be filled include Art Gallery, Bookshelf, Publications, Films, Games, House, Music, Publicity, Roundtable, Social, Special Features, Travel, and Displays.

LaFar And Smyth Speak To Trustees Dan LaFar and Ross Smyth appeared before the Trustees’ presidential nominating committee during its meeting at the Commercial on Friday, April 19. As student representatives, they voiced opinion in the election of Dr. Cunningham’s successor. LaFar and Smyth gave no prepared statement, but made themselves open for questioning by members of the committee. LaFar reports that the committee is considering personalities for the position, although it has not definitely decided on the type of man needed. Since no change in the basic religious policy of Davidson is anticipated, the question of clergyman versus non-clergyman for president was not emphasized.

Cadre To Lose Five Key Men Five key men in the Davidson ROTC department have received new assignments and will leave the college during the summer months. Lt. Col. John D. Sapp, Professor of Military Science and Tactics, has been assigned to a post in Germany. His replacement is Lt. Col. William L. Adams who will arrive here in July. Major Lee R. Brown was transferred to Fort Jackson, South Carolina and Capt. Edwin Van Keuren, Jr., was assigned to Fort Sill, Oklahoma. Lt. Thomas V. Brooks will replace Capt. Van Keuren. MSGT. Louis H. Penley and MSGT. John P. Butts are leaving Davidson but their new assignments have not been received.

Valedictorian Wins ‘Big Money’ Larry Dagenhart, Valedictorian of the Class of '53, won $6700 on the quiz program Tic Tac Dough on Monday. He defeated all challengers for five days in answering questions on varied categories. A student at New York University Law School, Dagenhart will also be Comment Editor of the Law Review next year. The Review is a professional publication edited by students and published monthly. At Davidson, Dagenhart was vice-president of Kappa Sigma, vice-president of the student body, and a member of Phi Beta Kappa and Omicron Delta Kappa honorary fraternities.

The recent poll by the Davidsonian was not stressed due to a lack of serious interest on the part of students in the poll. The committee probably will not have its function completed by the May meeting of the trustees. As one member said, “This job is almost bigger than we are; it will require much time.” Composing the committee are Mr. D. R. LaFar, chairman, Dr. Jas. A. Jones, Dr. J. McDowell Richards, Mr. Spencer Love, and Rev. Fred Stair.

Blood Donors Receive Cuts IFC and the ROTC Department will conduct the spring blood drive Monday and Tuesday, April 29-30, from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. in Johnston Gymnasium. Students giving blood will receive a free P.T. cut. ROTC cadets, in addition, will be excused from drill on April 30, May 7, and May 14, provided they have attended drill April 16 and 23. Anyone meeting all the requirements but not physically qualified, as determined by a physician, will be eligible for the cuts. IFC will again sponsor a contest between fraternities, with the fraternity having the highest participation receiving a plaque. ATO won last fall's drive with 100 percent participation. All blood is distributed free by the Red Cross, but hospitals charge a service fee of seven to fifteen dollars. A credit card, given to every donor, entitles him to free blood whenever he or his family may need it.

Stevens Elected By Camera Club At the April 17 meeting of the Davidson College Camera Club, officers were elected for the 1957-58 school term. Ed Stevens will hold the position of president, and Fairman Cuming, secretary-treasurer. Outgoing president Hank Daniel showed color slides for the program. These illustrated his report on the International Photographic Exposition which he attended in Washington, D.C., during the spring recess.

COPYRIGHT 1957 THE COCA-COLA COMPANY Don’t just sit there! You'll enjoy today’s copy of this publication much more if you'll get up right now and get yourself an ice-cold bottle of Coca-Cola. (Naturally, we'd be happier, too!) SIGN OF GOOD TASTE Bottled Under Authority Of The Coca-Cola Company By THE COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD “Coke” is a registered trademark, © 1956, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY