FRIDAY, OCTOBER 11, 1957 PAGE THREE THE DAVIDSONIAN

BY GEORGE RAMSEY

Soon there'll be a “new sound in town.” Last spring football mentor Bill Dole felt the need for a factor that was missing in Wildcatland. It seems that the Davidson spirit just isn’t what it ought to be. In itself this is not, perhaps, a novel idea. Coach Dole’s feeling didn’t stop at this, though. He presented to the “D” Club, local brotherhood of brawn, his idea for a victory bell to be installed on the grounds to signal a Davidson victory in athletic combat. The members of the “D” Club were all in favor of such a bell, a tradition on many college campuses across the country.

Woolwine Paces VMI Attack Against Cats

By BOBBY PAGE
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Over 4,000 spectators departed from Richardson Field last Saturday convinced that it was the physical elements, not mental or intangible ones, that caused the Davidson eleven to suffer its first defeat of the season, falling to power-laden Citadel, 21-7. Packing a tremendous advantage in weight and size.

DAVIDSONIAN SPECIAL

‘Doc’ Is Thrilled By Yanks, Braves

By BILL HELLIER
Davidsonian Sports Writer

“Thrilling!” That was the word Doc White was looking for to describe his trip to the World Series.

Flickerball action on Tuesday saw the KA’s down the ATO’s, 19-18, in a nip-and-tuck battle. Above, the ATO's Ed Lewis carries the ball, evading the KA’s Locke Carter. (Photo by Ed Stevens).

SPONSOR NEEDED

A sponsor for such a plan was needed, and the “Wildcat Club”, a group of alumni with the good of Davidson at heart, seemed a likely choice to back the move. Dole suggested the plot to the group, and they agreed to pay for the cost and installation of such a bell.

When the search for a site began, all sorts of problems arose. The stadium seemed a likely spot, but there was the opinion that, placed here, the bell would be associated solely with football, which the backers didn’t want. The gym was mentioned, but who wanted to cut a hole in the roof of the gym? The Union roof, it seems, isn’t strong enough to support the weight of a bell.

ALTERNATE PLAN

So an alternate plan of action was adopted. Recently, engineers, provided by alumnus Charlie McCrary, president of the Wildcat Club, installed on the Union roof loudspeakers, which, upon news of a Wildcat win, will broadcast the strains of the Davidson alma mater, and possibly other appropriate victory themes. A recording of chimes is being made, which will be used regularly.

The fruition of this scheme was made possible only through the co-operation of many persons, not least of whom were Mr. McCrary, George King, another alumnus, Dr. Scott, and, of course, Coach Dole.

The interfraternity sports program got under way Monday afternoon with the first flickerball games. After three days of competition, four teams emerged victorious.

The KAs, led in scoring by John West, Shelbourne Wallace, and Sonny Ferguson, downed the ATOs 19-18 and the Pi Kappa Phis 25-8. The SPEs, with Dave Wood, Marvin Bentley, and Billy Hopper leading the team, downed the Phi Gams 25-8 and the Betas 19-6.

Doc commented that during the first game Milwaukee appeared to be slightly nervous, but he was delighted to see them steady and win the second contest.

Since both of the games were characterized by great pitching and defensive play, Doc was able to see two of the major leagues’ best pitchers — Ford and Burdette — working. He stated that both seemed extremely composed and relaxed.

Schoendienst and Coleman, opposing second baseman and left fielder, were the opening kickoff, marched up83 yards. The Davidson soccer team, captained by Ross Smyth, gave the Sigma Chis a 19-12 victory. Oklahoma Kansas Covington impressed Doe. Inside the opposition’s 25, they lost. Not until the fourth period did they seek a win. Center forward Mike Laughlin and Gordon Neville, forwards; John Kuykendall and Phil Shive, fullbacks; Sam Smith and Pete Andrews, halfbacks; and George Sutcliffe. 

Standing in second place, with 1-1 records, are the Pi Kapps, the Independents, the ATOs, and the Eta Alphas. Louisiana Kentucky Miami NW. C. State Maryland North Carolina. Their alert fielding. The first yards in three plays, took the punt, and marched to paydirt. Quarterback Charlie Benson on third down sent speedster Paul Barbee around end from one yard out, catching the Cadets in a nine-man line looking for the line plunge. Dave Fagg converted to put the Wildcats in the lead 7-0. 

Every bit as proud as if they had beaten Oklahoma, Coach Bill Dole commented on how important it is to have a good ball-hawk in the outfield. The Wildcats' second home game. Captain Ross Smyth said all of the players were very pleased with the way the team showed up last week. The team looks better now than it did at the end of the season last year. Friday was definitely the best match the squad has played in its short history, Smyth said. 

The Wildcats have seven matches remaining and are already pointing to their match with Carolina on October 25th. They should finish the season with a very impressive record if they continue improving and playing the caliber of ball they played against the Blue Devils. 

Monday afternoon the Generals from Washington and Lee invade the Wildcats' lair for the Cats’ second home game. 

The winner of the first relief pitching by the Yankees' Red Grim and the Braves' Don McMahon and home runs by Johnny Logan and Hank Bauer were some of the other big things Doe remembered. However, the biggest thing in Doe White’s mind was that each World Series game is a novelty in itself and that he could never become tired of watching them. 

In the next half, Thomas scored for the men in gray with a three-yard plunge. In the second quarter, Thomas began to roll and scored on a one-yard plunge. Tuza added a point and Dick Guerreri the other PAT. 

On the ensuing march downfield, Bobby Schwarze completed a 41-yard aerial to Paul Macguire on the Cat seven. Schwarze then threw a running pass to halfback Joe Chefalo and Connie converted. 

Actually, the contest was much closer from the spectators' point of view and also from a coaches' view, which saw as much as one could imagine in desire and effort. 

Citadel's Pride (Rat)erree's tobacco-chewing, blood-stained appearance and technique have definitely left their mark on the Citadel squad. The husky blue and white line got tough every time the Cats began a sustained march and cut it short as was evident in the fact that Davidson punted only twice. 

Others expected to start or see action in this afternoon's game are Freshman goalie Claude Finney, along with Koogie Kwon, Frosh Dave Irvin, and Frank Holt, who scored the goal. 

The schedule for the remaining sports in the interfraternity program was also set. After flickerball is over, the wrestling and swimming meets will be held. Then the basketball program will take over and run into the early spring. Track, handball, and table tennis will follow basketball in that order. 

TENNIS MEETING
Coach Richard McKee has announced that all boys interested in trying out for the varsity tennis team are requested to attend a meeting on Monday, Oct. 14, at 3 p.m., in the balcony of Johnston Gymnasium. Plans will be discussed for fall workouts and a tennis tournament to determine varsity players.

Harriers Inaugurate Season Yesterday
Wake Forest spoiled Davidson's 1957 cross country debut Thursday as they drubbed the Cats, 19-36. The Deacons, led by Medlin and Jordon, who finished 1-2, only two-tenths of a second apart, grabbed four of the first five places. Capt. Angus McBryde paced the Wildcats, and Jim Alexander, Graham George, Monty Van Ness, and Al MacKay all placed in the first ten finishers. 

Next action for the Davidson harriers will be against a strong Duke outfit, in a meet scheduled for next Thursday, Oct. 17, at Durham.