PAGE FOUR

CHANGE RULE...

Wide campus confusion has resulted in the past from the dual authority of faculty and student council in interpreting and
enforcing the college drinking policy on dance weekends. The Student Council has the constitutional authority to see that “no student
shall be guilty of drinking alcoholic liquors or having the same in his possession on the campus” and that “no
student shall be guilty of being under the influence of liquors while on the campus.” The penalty for the former
is suspension while that of the latter may reach that extreme.

CREATE PLEDGE

To enforce the drinking rule, a pledge was designed in which fraternity presidents must witness that they saw

Student Poll

(Continued From Page One)

Davidson College.” “A man who is presently serving on the college faculty or administration” was desired by 22%. “A man
who is on the Board of Trustees” was favored by only 7%. “No opinion,” 19%.

The biggest surprise came from the response to the third section of the questionnaire. “In general, what political, economic, and
religious philosophy do you desire that he (the president) hold?”

Conservative 30%
Liberal 64%

The missing 6% either did not choose to answer or altered the question in such a manner that the result
could not be tabulated.

As to the final question, “Who is your personal choice for President?”, one out of every three people had their
own candidate for the position. Dr. Frontis Johnston of Davidson led the list receiving a heavy margin over the other
names mentioned. Dean Rusk (Davidson Rhodes Scholar and President of the Rockefeller Foundation), and Rev. John R. Redhead (of Greensboro,
N. C.) completed the trio which were suggested by nearly 85% of those having a choice. Among the others mentioned
were: Rev. Warner L. Hall, Rev. Fred R. Stair, Rev. James A. Jones (all members of the Board of Trustees),
Dr. George Buttrick, Dr. Frank Caldwell, Rev. William Benfield (of Louisville, Ky.), Mr. D. Grier Martin, Dr. Robert Hutchins (Former
head of the Ford Foundation and the University of Chicago), Dr. Thomas Spragens (president of Steven's College), and Adlai Stevenson.

Joe Wearn assisted in the polling and he was aided by the following: Mike Stone, Henry Ramsey, Dee Green, Bill
Eckbert, Bob Jones, Bill Stanton, Gaither Sanford, Bill Hellier, and Arch Allen.

JIM BATTEN WEARS SHOES NOW

Comes With Peanuts; Returns With Honors

He did a tough job, editing this newspaper, and he did it well. This is no eulogy for a past
hero but a personal glimpse of Mr. Jim Batten who has probably worked harder this year for Davidson than any
other Davidsonian. Those men who worked with Jim on the Davidsonian staff got to know him pretty well. They learned
to appreciate his sound judgment, and they grew in their tasks through his suggestions and compliments when a job was
well done.

Jim's a big fellow, tall, almost gangly. His hair recedes just a little, but what you really notice is his
smile, which, though shy, is as winning as any ever seen at Davidson or Queens. His success at both speaks
for the fact. The Ex-Editor spends his time at home in Holland, Virginia... claims he left there in ‘53 barefooted
and with a sack of peanuts to pay his tuition. We think his Baker Scholarship took care of that.

A LEADER

Early in ‘53 Jim decided to put on shoes and join the Davidsonian Staff. He’s been a leader there ever
since. As a Freshman he began as a reporter, became Managing Editor as a Junior, and took over the reins
as Editor in the spring of 1956. Jim’s biggest fight as Editor was for a change in Davidson degree requirements...
student opinion won the day. He also lost, at times... the curriculum remains antiquated, but when he lost it was
with a cool head, and not without a hard fight. He initiated many projects to improve Davidson and when they
are carried out much credit will be due their originator.

During his four years at Davidson, Jim has picked up an O.D.K. key, a membership in Seabbard and Blade, a
high-ranking scholastic record, and hundreds of friends. Knowing him pretty well, we think he values the friends more than the
rest combined.

Travel Committee Offers Information

As a function of the College Union, the Travel Committee maintains for the benefit of all students, information and service
relating to tours, costs, and transportation. Through the committee, students interested in United States or foreign travel can obtain literature
and data pertinent to their interests. Tour offices and travel agencies can also be contacted. In addition to these services,
the committee is in contact with a representative of the Experiment in International Living which provides more direct experience with
a foreign country by means of a student's residence with a family of that nation. Whatever his interest, the Travel
Committee will be glad to offer assistance to any student.

Rev. Kuhn To Give Talk On Drinking

Rev. Donald Kuhn, Youth Director for the Methodist Board of Temperance, will speak in Chapel Tuesday on College Drinking: Reasons
for it. Is it wrong? There will be a Y.M.C.A. membership meeting in the College Union 7:30 Tuesday night and
Dr. Kuhn will lead a discussion on why students drink and what ethical questions are involved. Hall prayer meetings will
follow up the theme Wednesday night. The Effective Citizenship Post of the Y.M.C.A. is sponsoring Dr. Kuhn's visit.

Vespers To Feature Dr. Thomas H. McDill

Our guest speaker at Vespers this Sunday will be the Reverend Professor Thomas H. McDill, Jr., of Columbia Theological Seminary,
Decatur, Georgia. McDill is a native of Arkansas and has served pastorates in Georgia and his native state, as well
as four years as a chaplain in the Army. He received his Bachelor of Arts degree from Erskine College and
his Bachelor of Divinity from Columbia Theological Seminary.

CLASSICS - POP - JAZZ

YOUR HEADQUARTERS IN CHARLOTTE FOR THE BEST IN RECORDS

PARKER-GARDNER

CHARLOTTE 2, N. C.

118 West Trade Street

Phone ED. 2-8257

IT'S FOR REAL! by Chester Field

STORM

Hurricanes are moody, temperamental;
Hurricanes perform in fits and starts.
Hurricanes have eyes serene and gentle;
Hurricanes have predatory hearts.
Hurricanes attack when least expected;
Hurricanes delight in cutting whirls.
Hurricanes can leave you broke, dejected...
Funny we should name them after girls.

MORAL: Vive la femme! And vive le BIG, BIG pleasure of majestic length—plus the smoothest natural tobacco filter. King is
the smoothest tasting smoke today because it’s packed more smoothly by ACCU-RAY. Take your pleasure BIG! Chesterfield King gives you
more of what you're smoking for.No drinking or its effects at any campus activity. Faculty, administration, and student council met
to formulate the new policy. The council stated that it did not wish to take on off-campus responsibility and favored
a generalization of the fraternity presidents’ responsibility on campus during dance weekends in order that the student government preserve its
own responsibility. Consequently, two pledges were drafted and are presently in effect, one concerning campus activity, the other having to
do with informal fraternity parties away from the college. Each was to be signed by the three top-ranking officers of
the fraternity.

FIRST PLEDGE
The former statement affirmed the officer’s attendance at “the dances and other campus activities of the dance weekend” and that
“all the above activities were conducted in accordance with the standards of the college.” The latter pledge affirms that the
three officers were witness to the fact that “the party was conducted in a manner acceptable to the standards of
gentlemanly conduct.” A poll of representative fraternity presidents revealed varying reactions with one basic thought, that the college had made
a definite advancement in practicality through easing the problem of divided loyalties.

REACTIONS VARY
“The pledge is a reasonable one from the point of view of the college and should be acceptable to most
students who want to bring their dates to the party,” cited Larry Trotti of Kappa Alpha. Kappa Sigma president Stuart
Vaughn pointed out that “due to the nature of this pledge the signers are very often put on the spot
and their activities are curtailed. Because of this, I would like to see this pledge discarded.”

“A fraternity does not elect its president to enforce the drinking rule but to fulfill functions of a different nature.
Thus it seems unwise to compel fraternity presidents to perform the duties of Council members,” affirmed Carl Cooper of Beta
Beta.

Mrs. Little To Be Union Dietitian
Mrs. R. A. Little, supervisor of dormitories and housemother at Davidson, has resigned and is taking Mr. Murphy's place in
the College Union Cafeteria as manager. Later a permanent replacement will be found for Mr. Murphy, and Mrs. Little will
continue in another capacity. For the last eleven years that Mrs. Little has been at Davidson, the job of supervisor
of dormitories has grown into a very important position. Mrs. Little gave the reason for her resignation in saying, “I
have loved all the work, even the trials and tribulations. The only reason I’m leaving is that I feel I
should get out while I'm still able to do the job.”

Flowers are the only really appropriate way to say HAPPY EASTER. Their newborn beauty expresses perfectly the hope, promise, and
joy that fills us all on this day. Wherever you are, send flowers to wherever you want to be. IT’S
SO EASY TO WIRE FLOWERS Smith's Flowers CORNELIUS, N. C. Orders May Be Placed at M. & M Soda Shop
— Davidson TELE DAVIDSONIAN Happy Easter ACROSS THE MILES

FRIDAY, APRIL 12, 1957

Interfraternity Council Sponsors: For Sigma Phi Epsilon, Miss Betty Bell with Charlie Brown; for Phi Delta Theta, Miss Ellen Forester
with Bunny Perkinson; for Kappa Sigma, Miss Jane Gold with Gerald Cathey; for Kappa Alpha, Miss Flo Denny with John
Trask. Bottom row: For Alpha Delta Phi, Miss Margaret Shelton with Clifton Lovin; for Alpha Tau Omega, Miss Barbara Garner
with Phil Tesh; for Pi Kappa Phi, Miss Mary Ann Medford with Bill Duke; for Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Miss Jean
McLaurin with Jimmy Jones. Other sponsors who are pictured on Page 2 are: for Sigma Chi, Miss Gloria Hester with
Vernon Anderson; for Beta Theta Pi, Miss Emily Sepp with Henry Massey; and for Pi Kappa Alpha, Miss Marsha Caudle
with Gray Lewis.

ROTC Awards Day Held
Davidson held its annual ROTC Awards Day April 9 as the climax to a two-day Federal Inspection and presented twelve
different awards to members of the Regiment. Cadet Colonel Vernie R. Snider received the Davidson College ROTC MS IV Cadet
Medal for outstanding ability in MS IV leadership and in classroom activities. Cadet Lt. Col. John C. Gilmer received Honorable
Mention. Cadet Lt. Col. Donald I. McRee was awarded the Davidson College ROTC Outstanding Battalion Commander Medal. Cadet Captain Ken
Conger, Company P, received the 108th Infantry Division Cup for his outstanding performance of duty as Company Commander. Cadet Don
Campbell was designated for Honorable Mention. Cadet Major James K. Batten was recognized as the outstanding Cadet Staff Officer and
was presented the Army Association Medal. Cadet Major Robert Shaw received Honorable Mention. Cadet 1st Lt. David McFadyen was awarded
the Davidson College ROTC Outstanding Platoon Leadership Medal and Cadet 1st Lt. William Ballentine received Honorable Mention. Cadet MSgt. Edward
M. Payne III received the Scabbard and Blade Medal for outstanding ability demonstrated in MS III leadership and in classroom
activities. Cadet MSgt. Charles Stowe received Honorable Mention. Cadet Lt. Col. Dan LaFar was awarded the Henry E. Fulcher, Jr.,
Medal for his outstanding contributions in the field of citizenship while a cadet in Davidson College ROTC. Cadet Captain Don
Campbell received the Sons of the American Revolution Medal for outstanding exhibition of a high degree of leadership, soldierly bearing,
and excellence in theoretical courses of study. Cadet Captain Lawrence Trotti was awarded Honorable Mention. Cadet Sgt. Charles L. Rutherford
received the Sons of the American Revolution Medal for the Best Honor Platoon Cadet with Cadet Cpl. Bill Huntley receiving
Honorable Mention. Cadet Sgt. Tenney Deane, Jr., was awarded the Daniel B. Woods Medal as the best MS II Cadet,
with Cadet PFC Sam McGuirt designated for the Honorable Mention. Cadet Pvt. R. D. Croom received the American Legion Medal
as best MS I Cadet, with Cadet Pvt. George Gladstone as Honorable Mention. Cadet PFC Henry Samuels received the Davidson
College ROTC Band Cadet Medal as the outstanding Band Cadet, with Cadet PFC David Garvin designated Honorable Mention.

Last season’s hit is back—bigger than ever! This Arrow University oxford shirt was such a smash hit last season, you
asked for an encore. And for good reason! The collar is button-down—both front and center back. Full-length box pleat in
back. Pencil-line stripes on white backgrounds—plus white and five solid colors. Arrow University, $5.00 up. Shantung stripe ties, $2.50.

ARROW — first in fashion

New Ivy-Right Arrows
These you'll like! Arrow University oxford shirts in white, solid colors, and pencil-line stripes. Every one tailored in the true
Ivy tradition. The collar buttons down in front and center back (Arrow’s button placement gives a more natural collar roll)
. . . full-length box pleat in back. Arrow University, $5.00 up. Choice of foulard pattern ties, $2.50.

IVEY'S OF CHARLOTTE
