PAGE FOUR ~~ L p> ay v7

AUTHOR HOCSAK POINTS on a map of Europe to his once-sizable homeland of Hungary, now dwarfed after successive Communist landgrabs.

FLIGHT TO FREEDOM

Tears Of Joy Complete Family’s Long Journey

By ISTVAN HOCSAK AS TOLD TO LAURENS WALKER

(Last of a Series)

With the Russian return to Budapest came an order from the government to return to work. We went back, but only to begin a “sit down” strike which was to last for weeks. Before the Revolution, I had worked from time to time in a small town only seven miles from the border. I decided that a “business trip” to the factory in that town would give me an excellent opportunity to check the possibilities for an escape across the border into Austria.

I left on a Monday for the small city, taking some twelve helpers with me. My boss was overjoyed because he thought that at last we were going to begin to work. I returned Friday, convinced that, though dangerous, escape was possible. In the meantime, I had stolen a rubber stamp from my factory. This was to become the key to my flight to freedom. I began to forge documents and papers which we needed in securing train tickets and permits for the trip to the border town. Each of them was authenticated with the rubber stamp of the factory.

TRAIN JOURNEY

The train trip to the border town was successfully completed despite passing through several Russian checkpoints. After leaving the train, we got out of the town as quickly as possible and began to walk parallel to the border until we arrived at a small farming village. It was dark, and it was impossible to tell friend from enemy. Finally, we were able to find a boy who was going to serve as a guide for a group ready to make a dash for the border. He took us to the house where the group had assembled. As this was a large group, my family and friends decided to wait until after they had tried before we made our break. We later heard that this whole group had blundered into a Russian checkpoint near the border and been wiped out.

By 11:30 the clouds had covered the moon and we decided that it was time to begin the seven-mile walk. The weather was cold, I almost froze despite the fact that I was wearing nearly every piece of clothing that I owned. I carried Stevie most of the way, praying that he wouldn’t wake up and cry or call out. Any noise could have been fatal.

FIVE HOUR WALK

We walked for five hours, every step through mud. Of particular difficulty were the seemingly endless freshly plowed fields that we had to cross. Every step seemed to be more and more hard to take. Just after five o'clock we stepped across the border into Austria and, eventually, life.

We were happy beyond words, and yet not a few tears were shed because each of us realized that probably we had seen our native country for the last time. This is the story of a Revolution and of one family in flight to freedom and a new world. I write this in hopes that in this small way I can do my part to preserve the memory of those heroes who gave their lives for Hungary and for freedom. I know that God was with me and my family during the Revolt and our escape and I only pray that he will also be with the people of Hungary as they continue their struggle against Communist oppression.

The End

Students Praise: (Continued From Page One)

Dr. C. J. Pietenpol, Dean of the Faculty: Dr. Cunningham is one of the finest men with whom it has been my privilege to work. It is with the deepest regret that we see him go but our heartfelt wishes go with him for a long and continued useful career in his new endeavor.

STUDENT STATEMENTS

Gordon Bondurant, President of the YMCA: Davidson is losing a man whose vision has been of immeasurable value to the school. His patience and strong devotion to God and his dedication to Davidson College have been an inspiration to everyone of us.

Bunny Perkinson, President of the Senior Class and President of the Interfraternity Council: I was both surprised and saddened to learn of Dr. Cunningham's resignation. Beyond doubt the service he has rendered the College during his tenure in office has been most outstanding. I know the College will miss him and wish him the best success in any future undertaking.

Dan LaFar, President of the Student Body: Dr. Cunningham has given the student's welfare utmost importance in the administration of Davidson College. He has been a constant inspiration to each student.

Election Board (Continued From Page One)

Final elections for these offices take place March 12, and nominations for class offices will also be held that day. Elections have been planned to speed up the voting process, and Chairman Morgan expressed the hope that elections would not continue past Spring Holidays.

Sigma Pi Sigma

Sigma Pi Sigma, honorary Spanish fraternity, held its monthly meeting Wednesday in the Union Ballroom. Then Eduardo Pantigoso gave a talk on Peru, his native land. The meeting was closed with the usual refreshment and conversation period.

James C. Hughes To Speak in Vespers

The Reverend James C. Hughes, pastor of the Home Moravian Church in Winston-Salem, will speak at the Vespers service Sunday night. Rev. Hughes graduated from Moravian College and Seminary in Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, and came to Winston-Salem as associate pastor in 1947. He became pastor in 1954. The Home Moravian Church was founded in 1771 by settlers from Europe who came to the Piedmont section to found a new community. The annual Easter service has gained world-wide recognition for the church which now has over 2,000 members. Next month Rev. Hughes will be guest speaker on “Church of the Air” presented by the Columbia Broadcasting System.

Trustees Consider Ten-Year Expansion

The Board of Trustees, during their Wednesday meeting, listened to a plan for ten years of progress at Davidson. Though overshadowed by the resignation of President Cunningham, actions were taken by the Board which both affect the future of the College and mark its progress to date. The most important matter discussed was the Ten Year Expansion Program. This recommended program, including such items as the construction of seven major buildings and increased faculty salaries, was referred to a special committee for further study before being presented to the Board for possible final adoption in May. Members of the Board pointed out the plan’s flexibility and far-sightedness. They generally agreed that the planners had done an excellent job in plotting the future of the College.

In connection with the Cunningham resignation, a committee was appointed to find some way of expressing the College's appreciation to Dr. Cunningham for his service. The proposed fraternity court was discussed at length, but no definite action was taken. Dr. Cunningham announced to the Board the successful completion of an 18-month drive to increase the College's financial resources by $1,500,000. Dr. Cunningham also presented his regular report as President of the College.

Players Stress Comic Elements In ‘Henry IV’

By JIM KUIST

On Tuesday evening, Players Inc. presented the first part of Shakespeare’s Henry IV to a quiet audience in Chambers Auditorium. The student body had anticipated the performance with an unusual whisper of enthusiasm, no doubt remembering the play from an English course. It was rather evident that the Players were interested in Henry IV primarily for its comic opportunities. Perhaps this was their motive for inverting the order of the opening scenes. The prodigious Falstaff thus opened the evening, and his prominence in the succeeding scenes underlined the emphasis of the director. Shakespeare began with an interview at court in which King Henry rejoiced over the current victory of his forces over Scottish opposition. His speeches also established his frustration by Prince Hal's frivolity and his anger at Hotspur’s apparent defiance. In this way, Shakespeare constructed the historical setting, and he developed the elements of his drama in the next two scenes, in revelry around Falstaff and in Hotspur’s heated interview with the King. By disobeying this arrangement, the Players also destroyed Shakespeare’s coordination of the plot. They were committed to an exploitation of Falstaff's personality. He became their central character. Hal's development was obscure. The entire cast played to Falstaff. For example, when King Henry left the scene in which he proposed conditions...Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

of war to Worcester, he returned Falstaff's funny salute with a smile of sympathetic amusement. Shakespeare did not plan this recognition. The Players were correct.

EUROPE — OR 19587 in Many STUDENT TOURS PERSONALLY CONDUCTED VIA STEAMER & AIR Call or Write Now for Reservations Ship Agency PHONE ED 2-6207 CHARLOTTE

And said, “Man has just about seen his day. If you'll take my advice for what it’s worth, treat insects nice, they’ll inherit the earth! Ants and spiders, too. Don’t forget... WE'RE WATCHING YOU!”

ARRIVE FEBRUARY 27 FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 1957

44 Scholarship Finalists Invited For Consideration

The Davidson College Scholarship Committee this week announced the finalists in the competition for all major scholarships at the college. The 44 finalists, who were selected on the basis of results in their College Board Examinations, their demonstrated leadership ability, character, personality, and interest in extra-curricular activities, constitute the largest number of high school and preparatory school seniors ever to be invited to the Davidson campus for final scholarship selection.

The finalists are divided into two groups which have been invited to Davidson next week. The first group is composed of 23 contestants from North Carolina and South Carolina and will be on the campus February 27—March 1. These are: Frank Ballance, Winston-Salem; John Baxley, Blacksville, S. C.; Andy Blake, Anderson, S. C.; and Charles Cornwell, Lattimore. Also Bob Denham, Winston-Salem; R. V. Fulk, Wilmington; Gunn, Reidsville; Donald Harper, Rock Hill, S. C.; Elwood F. Hartman, Jr., Greensboro; Tom Hudgins, Greensboro; and Allen Huggins, Wilmington. Also Jerry Jacques, Mooresville; Gerhard Liebscher, Waynesville; Henry McFadyen, Lenoir; Spiro Macris, Wilmington; Charles Morgan, Spartanburg, S. C.; Terry Pridgen, Wilmington; Don Randolph, Greenville, S. C.; Thomas Watts, Taylorsville; Ralph Wesley, Charlotte; Bill Wilson, Jr., Raleigh. Pete Austin from Chattanooga, Tenn., will also be with the group.

SECOND GROUP

The second group, which is composed of 20 boys from an eleven-state area, will visit Davidson February 28—March 2. Those included in this group are: Jim Anderson, Alexandria, Va.; Francis Barron, Americus, Ga.; John Brothers, Jr., New Orleans, La.; Henry Chase, Franklin, Tenn.; Dan Clemmer, Jr., Benton, Tenn.; Hansford Epes, Jr., Lynchburg, Va.; Ed Etheredge, Bartow, Fla.; and Tyree Finch, Georgetown, Texas. Also Jim Foster, Huntington, West Va.; Michael Grant, Blacksburg, Va.; Robert MacCubbin, Baltimore, Md.; Norris MacKinnon, Greenville, Ala.; William C. Martin, III, Longview, Texas; Steve Maxwell, Fort Lauderdale, Fla.; Robert Moore, Harrisonburg, Va.; Ronnie Radford, St. Augustine, Fla.; Jimmy Richardson, Gainesville, Ga.; Jack Rogers, Winter Park, Fla.; Gray Oliver, Jr., Woodberry Forest, Va.; Richard Smith, Trenton, N. J.

While they are visiting Davidson, the finalists will be screened with further tests, will be interviewed by the Scholarship Committee, and will be given opportunities to meet members of the student body and visit classes with them.

Poster Service Begun By College Union

Ralph Bright, chairman of the Publicity Committee of the College Union, has announced the purchase of a Line-O-Scribe machine for making posters. The addition of this equipment will make it possible for the committee to extend its services to making signs and posters of varied type and color for all groups on campus. There must be a minimum charge for the cost of the paper and materials, however the printing service will be offered free by this committee.

Date Set For Final Selective Service Test

Attention of interested students is called to the fact that the final administration of the Selective Service (Draft Deferment) Test will be on April 18. Applications for this test must be in the mails by March 5, 1957. Application forms may be secured from any Draft Board or from Mr. Hengeveld’s office. Anyone desiring information about this test should contact Dr. Puckett at once.

in Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... PIZZA

the famous OPEN KITCHEN 1318 W. Morehead Charlotte, N. C.

What a MATHEMATICIAN can do at IBM

Mathematics is an ancient but ever-advancing science that contains many forms. It shouldn’t surprise you then that it took some time before John Jackson discovered the one brand of mathematics that seemed custom-tailored to his ability and temperament. John is an Applied Science Representative, working out of the IBM office at 122 East 42nd Street, N. Y. C.

What does a fellow like John Jackson do all day? In his own words, “I keep in touch with the executives of many different companies—advising them on the use of their IBM electronic data processing computers. I personally consult with these customers, and analyze their scientific and technical problems for solution by IBM. Occasionally, I’m asked to write papers, and give talks and demonstrations on electronic computing. All in all, it’s pretty fascinating... something new pops up every day.”

In other words, John is a full-fledged computing expert, a consultant... and a very important person in this coming age of automation through electronics. Since the IBM laboratories are always devising easier and faster ways to solve the problems of science, government, and industry, an Applied Science Representative can never say he’s learned his job and that's the end of it. At least once every two months, he attends seminars to be updated on the latest developments in engineering and operations research.

During the two years that John has spent with IBM in Applied Science, he has guided innumerable IBM customers to new and better ways of doing things electronically. For example: about a year ago, a leading aircraft manufacturer wanted to experiment with a radically different design for a nuclear reactor. Although the basic format had been established, the project still required many months of toil with mathematical equations.

The aircraft people decided that they couldn’t afford to wait that long, so they called in IBM. After discussion with top executives, John helped to map out a computer program that saved the organization over 100 days of pencil-chewing, nail-biting arithmetic. Later, for this same company, John organized the establishment of computer systems for aircraft performance predictions... for data reduction of wind tunnel tests... and for wing stress analysis. At the same time, he worked with this company’s own employees, training them in the use of IBM equipment. John still drops around to see that everything is running smoothly.

Another service that John performs is the constant reappraisal of each customer’s IBM operation. Occasionally, a customer may tie himself in knots over a procedural “stickler.” Periodically, in fact, John brings IBM customers together... just to talk over what's happening in each other’s business—how everybody else handled that old bugaboo in any industry... details.

New field for Mathematicians

John is exercising his mathematical know-how in a field that was practically unheard of ten years ago. Even now, this kind of work may be news to you. It was to John Jackson a few years back when he was an undergraduate at the University of Colorado. At that time, he was considering actuarial work or mathematical research. But John liked the excitement and diversification of science and industry and he wanted to use his mathematical background in both of those areas. It was not until he was interviewed by IBM that field computing whetted his scientific appetite. A few months later, John launched his own IBM career as an Applied Science trainee.

Promotionwise, John has come a long way since that time. He’s now an Applied Science Representative in one of the busiest, most responsible offices in the IBM organization... mid-town Manhattan. With his wife, Katherine, and daughter, Lisa, 20 months, and John, Jr., 6 weeks, he enjoys his suburban Port Washington home. He’s happy and he's satisfied. And then, too, John knows a few vital statistics about IBM... such as the fact that the Applied Science Division has quadrupled during the past three years, and that in 1956 alone, over 70 promotions were conferred. If ever a future held promise, here is one.

IBM hopes that this message will help to give you some idea of what a mathematician can do at IBM. There are equal opportunities for E.E.’s, M.E.’s, physicists and Liberal Arts majors in IBM's many divisions: Research, Product Development, Manufacturing Engineering, Sales and Technical Services. Why not drop in and discuss IBM with your Placement Director? He can supply our latest brochure and tell you when IBM will next interview on your campus. Meanwhile, IBM will be happy to answer your questions. Just write to Mr. P. H. Bradley, IBM, Room 8701, 590 Madison Avenue, New York 22, N. Y.

IBM CORPORATION DATA PROCESSING ELECTRIC TYPEWRITERS TIME EQUIPMENT MILITARY PRODUCTS MECHANICAL HANDLING SYSTEMS SUPPLIES

---