PAGE SIX

Pass In Review

Pointing for the all-important Federal Inspection in early April, the Cadet Regiment spends its Tuesday afternoons these days perfecting the details of the parade formation.

ON APRIL 9th

Weekly Parades Point To Federal Inspection

Smartly moving troops, a flashy Honor Platoon, the National and Regimental Colors, and booming music are the outward signs of the weekly parade of the Davidson ROTC Cadet Regiment. These parades prior to April 9th are only practice parades, however. The inspection aspect of training, from manual of arms and close order drill to leadership by the Cadet Officers, is in evidence. Then it is all over. Thirty-minute drama, designed to display the training, coordination, discipline, and leadership of the Cadets, backed by hours, weeks, and months of rehearsal, has been presented to prove that Davidson's Cadet Regiment is worthy of the high rating it has received every year since its inception.

Some six months and 16,000 man-hours are spent by the Cadets to show the Inspecting Officers the degree of proficiency attained on the drill field. As is the case with any group activity, the end result is merely the product of individual preparation and group coordination. Preparation for these parades actually begins the first hour of the first drill of the year. Fundamentals are taught and perfected. The Honor Platoon, Color Guard, and Band practice separately until the time arrives to coordinate with each other and the remainder of the regiment. In the practice parades, teamwork and coordination are the key words, both vital to success.

The actual parade is an impressive sight. The Battalions, Honor Platoon, Color Guard, Band, and Regimental Staff take their proper places. The Band “Sounds Off” and the Honor Platoon executes some of its movements. After the command is presented by the Reviewing Officer, he and the Regimental Commander troop the lines. Cadet Officers and the Colors are presented and the National Anthem sounds. “Pass in Review” is ordered by the Regimental Commander and the entire regiment marches before the Reviewing Stand and pays its respects to the Reviewing Officer.

Dr. Marc C. Weersing To Speak In Vespers

Dr. Marc C. Weersing, pastor since 1955 of the First Presbyterian Church in Spartanburg, S. C., will speak at Vespers this Sunday evening.

A native of Grand Rapids, Mich., Dr. Weersing is a graduate of Calvin College and Theological Seminary. He received his M.A. at Columbia Seminary in Decatur, Ga., and his D.D. at Southwestern at Memphis. Dr. Weersing has served pastorates in Georgia, Mississippi, and South Carolina. He is also a member of the Board of Trustees of Presbyterian College in South Carolina.

Eighteen Baker (Continued From Page One)

Denham of Winston-Salem, have accepted Robert F. Phifer Honor Scholarships. Robert Moore of Harrisonburg, Va., received the W. E. McElroy Honor Scholarship. Other scholarships awarded: William G. Perry Scholarship to Tom Hudgins, Greensboro; C. R. Harding Scholarship to Allen Huggins, Wilmington; Kate Williams Scholarship, Henry McFadyen, Lenoir. Also: Daniel J. Currie Scholarship to Hutton Barron, Americus, Georgia; W. Frank Brown Scholarship to Dan Clemmer, Benton, Tennessee; Curtis B. Johnson Scholarship to Thomas Watts, Taylorsville; and George W. Williams Scholarship to Tyree Finch, from Georgetown, Texas.

Mr. Lloyd To Present Willa Cather Award

Results of the Willa Cather Literary Competition will be announced at chapel next Friday. The winner will be awarded a number of books given by Professor W. C. Doub Kerr. Professor Doub Kerr is the sole judge of all manuscripts submitted for this literary contest. Mr. Charles Lloyd will make the presentation of the award.

Haspel SELF-CARE

For comfort’s sake and a cool outlook on life, you'll enjoy this crisp, fresh feel of dacron cotton. Tailored in the Popular Fleet Model with unpadded shoulders and tapered trousers. Wilson-Wright’s, Inc. “COLLEGIATE FASHIONS” Main Street

Sigma Chi’s Win Title, Place 2 On All-IF Team

Don Killian, Sigma Chi Ed Lewis, A.T.O.

SECOND TEAM

Henry Massey, Beta Jerry Brooks, Pika Alex Shepard, Kappa Sig Fred Streetman, K.A. Ralph Bright, S.A.E.

HONORABLE MENTION

Dave Bradford, S.A.E.; Charlie Benson, SPE’s, and A.T.O.

The league champion, two men on the I-F All Basketball team announced today by Director Heath Whittle. Bob Shaw and Don Killian represented the Sigs on the honor team. Dee Lide of Pi Kappa Phi was elected captain. The season was characterized by spurts. The Delts gave the Phi Star and finally ended up in a second place tie with the Taus and Betas. Although they started the season strong, they faltered only once in their drive to the championship. They relied on steady teamwork to win all but one of their games. The loss was to the Kappa Sigs early in the season when Tom Brewer was on a scoring rampage and it looked as if no one would stop him and his teammates. The ATO’s were the first to break the win streak of the Kappa Sigs who lost two more games and finally ended up in a second place tie with the Taus and Betas.

Ross Smyth (Continued From Page One)

said, “I am not in favor of this enlargement unless there is a corresponding increase in the facilities of the college plant.” Smyth added that he favors an educator for the next President of the College. Responding to the Davidsonian’s question on integration at the College, Smyth answered, “I am not in favor of it in the foreseeable future.” Smyth favors the present policy regarding the interpretation of the “drinking rule.”

Davidson, N. C.

Refugee Family (Continued From Page One)

academic family. The Presbyterian Church at Montreat has expressed the interest to pay the traveling expenses of the Muzsnay family. The college feels that Dr. Muzsnay might be used in helping to operate the proposed language labs in French and German next year. His wife could possibly be employed to teach Latin in the Mecklenburg public schools system if she speaks English well enough. Dr. Muzsnay, trained in the fields of philosophy and religion, took his master’s degree at Princeton Theological Seminary and has served a pastorate in the Hungarian Reformed Church in Montreal, Canada. He is the author of two books.

FRIDAY, MARCH 15, 1957

Greensboro College! Bill Bondurant Features Donahue

Sam Donahue, formerly the leader of the successful Billy May Orchestra and now director of hisown 16-piece orchestra, will appear at Greensboro College next Friday for an afternoon concert in Odell Auditorium and an evening mixer dance in Main Building. Students from Davidson College, Carolina, High Point College, Guilford College, State, and Elon College are being invited to the informal mixer dance from 8:30 to 11:30 p.m. that evening.

(Continued From Page One)

enrollment, brought his comment, “The enlarging of Davidson will be detrimental to many of her greatest strengths.” Bondurant felt that subsidized athletics in their present form at Davidson were good and adequate. “Extremes in either direction will produce bad effects.” The candidate advocated bringing the compulsory religion facet of Davidson life up-to-date through a thorough investigation of its worth to students. He felt the need for volunteer Vesper services, while maintaining the present chapel system.

Team-strength proved to be the deciding factor as the season progressed and the top four teams are good examples of this. At the other extreme, the Pi Kapps, even though led by Dee Lide, captain-elect of the All Star team, could not produce enough teamwork to topple any of the leaders. Similarly, the Pikas could not support their star Jerry Brooks enough to compile a winning season.

ALL STAR TEAM
Dee Lide, captain, Pi Kapp
Tom Brewer, Kappa Sig
Bob Shaw, Sigma Chi

Team
Sigma Chi
A. T. O.
Beta
Kappa Sig
S. A. E.
Sig Ep
Phi Delt
K. A.
Phi Gam
Pi Kapp
Pika

Basketball Standings
Final Official Standings

SAE; Don Comer, Phi Gam; Steve Edwards, Kappa Sig.

BRING YOUR SWEATERS and SPRING SUITS To Us Now For Our PERSONALIZED Dry Cleaning and Pressing. You'll Need Them Now That Spring Is Almost Here.

Jackson Cleaners
F. L. JACKSON, JR.
OPPOSITE GULF STATION

“I was tremendously impressed,” says Nick, “by my first plant tour. When you go through the facilities—meet the men and get an idea of the problems they handle—you can’t help but become interested. Add the friendly, informal work atmosphere, and you know right off the bat these people have a story to tell.”

Nick came to IBM in 1961 with a B.S. in physics. He started as a Technical Engineer—in Test Equipment Engineering—working on an analog bombing system. When that project moved from the Endicott to the Poughkeepsie plant, Nick followed it, becoming first an Associate Engineer, then a Project Engineer. As the latter, he worked on IBM's first transistorized electronic computer—the 608. By November, '65, Nick was heading up Quality Engineering in the Quality Control Division of the Poughkeepsie plant. Recently promoted to Administrative Assistant to the Quality Control manager, Nick now concerns himself with the fundamental operations and policies of this 460-man division. Quality Control is responsible for the performance of IBM’s vast array of business machines—from simple sorters and punches to the “electronic brains.”

What an IBM physicist does
“The problems of Quality Control in this business are endless,” Nick reports, “and fascinating to the physicist. There’s process control—of the manufacture of components such as transistors and cores... of the contents of a gas... of the concentricity of an etch solution... of the diffraction of alloys... or of the properties of metals, such as the resistivity of germanium. Then, there are the important ‘analysis of failure’ and reliability studies, in which you seek to determine, for example, the ‘life expectancy’ of a device, the mean time between failures, or perhaps which step in a process has the greatest effect on the equipment involved. You may be asked to control the deposit of glass on X-ray tubes to avoid spill-over, or microscopic spotting. Or you may be dealing with arc-suppression, or gaseous electronics, the grass roots of instrumentation; or in the estimation of tolerances, or in correlation coefficients—that is, in physically sound numbers.”

Nick has been instrumental in encouraging many college physics majors to come to IBM. “I find they’re interested in questions like these,” he says: “How would you go about determining the ‘life’ of electrons in transition from the valence to the conduction band?” Or, in the manufacture of magnetic inks, “How can the grain size of the iron content be controlled... or its viscosity regulated over wide temperature ranges? How would you control the concentration and concentricity of colloidal solutions?”

“Present a job in terms of actual problems,” believes Nick, “and you'll get the man’s interest for it’s his career and his future that have top priority.”

How about further study?
Nick has taken full advantage of IBM’s extensive educational facilities to get ahead at IBM. He took at least one course each semester on subjects within his immediate work area—courses on digital and analog computers and on their components such as cores and transistors. He found time to take management courses as well. “If you want opportunity for study,” Nick says, “IBM will provide all you want.”

Promotion almost inevitable
Asked about opportunities for advancement at IBM, Nick says, “The situation could hardly be better in that respect. With sales doubling every five years on the average, promotion is almost inevitable.”

IBM hopes that this message will help to give you some idea of what it’s like to be a physicist at IBM. There are equal opportunities for E.E.'s, M.E.’s, mathematicians and Liberal Arts majors in IBM’s many divisions—Research, Manufacturing Engineering, Sales and Technical Services. Why not drop in and discuss IBM with your Placement Director? He can supply our latest brochure and tell you when IBM will next interview on your campus. Meanwhile, our Manager of Engineering Recruitment, Mr. R. A. Whitehorne, will be happy to answer your questions. Just write him at IBM, Room 01, 5890 Madison Ave., New York 22, N. Y.

INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
DATA PROCESSING
ELECTRIC TYPEWRITERS
TIME EQUIPMENT
MILITARY PRODUCTS
SPECIAL ENGINEERING PRODUCTS
SUPPLIES

Chesterfield