Bo bral

Davidsonian

VOLUME XVII, No. 7

IMPORTANT

SURPRISE, SURPRISE!

WE'RE GETTING a Holiday!

Due to the fact that Threaddon's Fishing Almanac and Handy Guide Book states that Monday, July 1, will be an
excellent day for salt water fishing, the Administrative Council of Davidson College has announced that absolutely no classes will be
held on that date. Also, several professors teaching non-laboratory courses have announced that a seminar on the proper use of
lures (fishing lures, of course) will be held on a strictly voluntary basis on Saturday, June 29, at Myrtle Beach,
S.C. These professors asked that their names not be made known to the general public. However, it may be profitable
for each interested student to check with his instructor for further information concerning this seminar.

THE DANCE WILL BE A HIT!

"The Five Men," the distinguished dance band, has contracted to perform at the Davidson College Student Union for the semi-formal
Mid-Summer Dance to be held Saturday, July 20, between the hours of 8:00-11:30 p.m.

The dance will take place on the patio of the Union. Although the motif for the dance is being kept
a secret, those who remember last year's Mid-Summer Dance will recall the most attractive setting (i.e. checkered tablecloths, candles in
bottles, Chinese lanterns, cute bandstand, and that dark, dark corner) for that occasion.

Tickets will be sold in the near future by door-to-door agents.

So write that girl -- tell her to mark July 20 in her date book for this pleasurable night.

P.S. Be there, pre-Freshmen! Get acquainted with D.C.'s socialites.

QUOTE OF THE WEEK:

ISSUE TO BE FACED BY COUNCIL SOON

by JOHNSON'S BOSWELL, Political Ed.

A group of enterprising students have decided that the affairs of this school are in a most deplorable and chaotic
condition, and that drastic action must be taken in order to protect the best interests of the SUMMER SCHOOL Student
Body. This action comes in the form of a resolution drawn up by these students in a closed session at
a nearby dispensary of liquid refreshment. This resolution will be presented to the SUMMER SCHOOL Student Council at its next
meeting, and this reporter is happy to assure the wise and worthy petitioners of the surety of favorable consideration by
the Council, especially in view of the overwhelming opinion in its favor.

The resolution follows:
A RESOLUTION TO REMEDY AN INTOLERABLE SITUATION

Whereas, the schedule of activities now prevailing on this campus is a serious hindrance to the enjoyment of vacationing Davidson
College student body members now on the campus, and

Whereas, this aforementioned schedule is giving a totally false impression of Davidson College as it really is to those persons
who chose to come here from other schools, as well as to those who are here as Freshmen, and

Whereas, the noise and heat of the campus make it totally impossible to do anything more strenuous than to calmly
sip cool "non-carbonated" beverages, THEREFORE,

BE IT RESOLVED:

(1) that those activities called "classes" shall henceforth and forthwith cease and desist, any provision of the College Catalogue notwithstanding,
and
(2) that a program of athletic activities shall be instituted during the hours heretofore occupied by those "classes", on a
strictly voluntary basis.

"Tommy, will you please stop beating those drums, buddy?"
