Che Davidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, APRIL 12, 1957

Fraternities: Rumor Vs. Reality

The college’s plan to invest over a quarter of a million dollars in a completely new fraternity court can be
interpreted as a 100% endorsement of the fraternity system.

Over the years there has persisted a rumor that the ultimate goal of the faculty is to abolish the fraternities,
and if not to abolish them, then to restrict their ability to function in a desirable manner. Of course, such
a rumor has no real foundation. Certainly, a planned investment of $30,000 per fraternity makes such a rumor seem ridiculous.
If the college wanted to undermine the fraternities, it would be much easier (and more subtle) to let them slowly
die out by not making any plans for their future welfare. Fortunately, this is not the case. To the contrary,
Davidson College is investing its financial resources in support of the fraternities as a permanent institution within the college system.

This action is particularly significant when we realize that the fraternity system as a whole has come in for some
devastating attacks in recent years. We have read recently about some northern schools that have meddled directly in the personal
and autonomous affairs of the fraternities on their campuses, particularly with regard to the so-called “restrictive clauses” which are, after
all, the very heart of the fraternity system. The right of voluntary association is a major justification of any fraternal
group. Take away this right to be ‘exclusive’ and you have killed the fraternity. Wisely, such an alien idea has
never been considered at Davidson. Therefore, the college’s backing of the new court amounts to a vote of confidence in
our present system.

Among those who have unselfishly worked and pushed for the new plan are Mr. Grier Martin, Dr. McGavock, and Dean
Spencer. The support of such men as these, as well as programs like last Wednesday’s forum (see the news article
on the front page), will ensure Davidson College of a dynamic fraternity system.

Roses To Mrs. Little

Mrs. Little’s resignation as Supervisor of the Dormitories does not mean that she will be leaving Davidson. Rather, she is
just moving to a new office where she will be the hostess of the Student Union, as well as plan
the meals in the cafeteria. We are glad that she is taking over this new position, and if her home-cooked
meals which so many Davidson boys have enjoyed are any indication of what the new change will mean, we predict
a mass run to the Union. Since Spring Frolics will be the last time that she will be on duty
in Belk Hotel, we want to thank her for these many years of helping on the dance weekends. This goes
also for the other ladies from the Davidson community who stay up all night over a pot of coffee.

To Mrs. J. B. Moore, Jr., the new Supervisor of the Dormitories, we express our welcome and hope that you
will find your new position a pleasant one.

Job Well Done

This issue of the Davidsonian is the first published by the new staff. With sincere gratitude, we want to recognize
publicly the Senior members of the outgoing staff for their work, ideas, and contributions which made the 1956-57 Davidsonian the
informative and provocative paper that it was.

Jim Batten has given the paper his energies and his loyalty. His continuous efforts were many times made at the
expense of his academic work and other personal desires. This spirit of unselfishness has won for him the respect and
admiration of all those who worked with him, as well as the student body and the college administration. From his
first issue until his last, he has seen that the Davidsonian has met its responsibility of being the news and
editorial voice of the campus by ensuring that those matters which concern Davidson College also concern the Davidsonian. He has
been an efficient administrator, an enterprising editor, and a good friend.

One of the hardest working and most dependable members of this year’s staff was Bob Beall. His enthusiasm for the
paper has been one of the main factors that contributed to the success of the Davidsonian. The conscientious and cooperative
handling of the fiscal matters of the paper by Business Manager Bob Carmichael and Advertising Manager Bob Majors qualifies them
for a much-needed position in the budget department of the federal government. Photographer Hank Daniel has continued to furnish the
paper with superior work, and the Wednesday night copy reading by John Trotti has undoubtedly saved the Davidsonian from many
financially devastating libel suits. The hard-plugging editorials of Frank Bloodworth, Leon Howell, Nat Daniel, Tom Morgan, Phil Kukura, Jack Kerr,
and several others have helped to bring about several needed reforms. Their remarks have been timely and persuasive.

While those who are mentioned above will be graduating in June, the hardest worker of all will still remain. He
is the printer, Mr. H. C. Broyles who has survived many past editors of the Davidsonian, and without a doubt
he will withstand many more.

Irony

How ironical it is that some of the liberals and labor leaders who have done so much to restrict the
rights of the individual as guaranteed by the Constitution have been the very people who have run for cover under
its protective wing. While they might not have much respect for the rest of the Constitution, you can bet your
“Palm Springs home” and “interest-free loans” that Mr. Dave Beck and Associates endorse the Fifth Amendment.

John Trask, Jr. Ed Morrissett John Johnson Julian Aldridge Bruce Brooks Bill Patton Bross, Cole Hank Daniel

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF BUSINESS MANAGER ASSOCIATE EDITOR Gerald Wilson Bob Lathan Laurens Walker George Ramsey Jim Morris Assistant Editor Managing Editors Sports
Editor Feature Editor Copy Editor News Editor Assignments Cartoonists Photographer

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

Girls Say “Name Band” Not Necessary

HESTER BISSON BRIGHT FAULCONER ALL LIKE DAVIDSON IN THE SPRING

Rarely do we entertain feminine guidance on our all-male campus. This week, however, as a special feature of the Davidsonian,
eight charming young ladies were asked by letter to lend their invigorating charm to the editorial page by answering two
rather important questions:

1. What do you like most about Spring Frolics at Davidson?
2. Is having a “name band” necessary to make the weekend a success?

Their answers follow:

LYNN RICHARDSON

Lynn Richardson, dating Bob McCrea commented:
1. Spring Frolics, as a whole, is wonderful, but I think that perhaps the main attraction for me is the
formal dance. My reason for this choice is because there are so few dances of this type throughout the year.
2. No. I do not think that a “name band” is necessary to make a weekend a success. I believe
that the success of a dance, or weekend is dependent upon the people themselves, their attitude, and the atmosphere which
has been created. However, I am sure that a “name band” definitely adds to a dance!

GLORIA HESTER

Gloria Hester, dating Vernon Anderson added:
1. I like the friendly atmosphere of the Davidson campus. The dance weekends are always well-planned, and all of the
events are enjoyable.
2. It is definitely not necessary to have a “name band” to make a weekend a success. Often a band
which is not so well known will have music which is superior to the others. I would say choose the
band by its musical ability and not by its name.

KITTY SUE FAULCONER

Kitty Sue Faulconer, dating Tommy Hawpe suggested:
1. “In the Spring a young man’s fancy lightly turns to thoughts of love,” and what could be more conducive
to such thoughts than the delightful atmosphere of a Spring Frolics weekend! Need I say more concerning what I like
most about this memorable occasion?
2. Concerning the necessity of a “name band”, a “name” does nothing to add to one’s dancing enjoyment. So long
as the music is danceable, the weather tolerable, and the company enjoyable, the weekend will be a success!

MARJI BISSON

Marji Bisson, dating Ed Stevens admitted:
1. The best thing about Spring Frolics is that it is Spring, with warmer weather and more things to do.
Spring Frolics is the last big dance weekend of the academic year, and crowded into those three wonderful days are
enough fun and memories to last throughout the summer.
2. Danceable music is important to the success of a weekend; however, it does not necessarily take a name band
to provide such music. Thus, a name band cannot be considered the determining factor in measuring the success ofa dance
weekend.

EMILY SAPP

Emily Sapp, dating Henry Massey, stated:

1. The last “Big Week” of the year brings to mind thoughts of Frolics, Foolies, picnics at the river, lawn
concerts, and an overall carefree atmosphere characteristic of Spring at Davidson. However, with these pleasant thoughts comes a slight touch
of nostalgia because for some—it is the last dance of the year—or for others—the last dance of four years. All
these combine into what I like best about Spring Frolics.

2. I do not think that it is necessary to have a “Big Name Band” to make a weekend a
success. The success of the weekend depends upon the weather, the planned activities, and of course your date. However, I
will have to admit that the dance weekend which I remember most vividly of all was Spring Frolics of 1954
when Ray Anthony was there.

MARSHA CAUDLE

Marsha Caudle, dating Gray Lewis, said:

1. I like the concerts on the lawn, seeing the boys at the dance with their white dinner jackets, and
playing ping pong in the springtime at the fraternity house.

2. I don’t think having a “name band” is necessary to make the weekend a success, but it helps. Everyone
knows that at Spring Frolics they usually have the biggest name band of the year. And I look forward to
hearing it.

JOYCE TAYLOR

Joyce Taylor, dating Dan LaFar, commented:

1. To me, Spring Frolics is the Davidson campus—the dogwood, the green grass, and the sunshine. The “on the lawn”
concert seems to climax this springtime feeling, and I think having the concert at 1:00 with box luncheons would add
a lot to the afternoon.

2. A name band is always an excellent drawing card and creates a lot of pre-weekend enthusiasm. However, good, danceable
music is the most important thing.

JEANNE MARIE BRIGHT

Jeanne Marie Bright, dating Manfreid Emrich, concluded:

1. Although everyone enjoys the dances and the concert, I have a particularly good time at the parties after the
dances. Wearing bermudas, all can relax and have loads of fun in this less formal atmosphere.

2. I definitely do not think that a “name band” is necessary to make Spring Frolics a success. A danceable
band, however, is quite necessary. When I am invited to a dance I want to be able to dance.

Dear Mother and Daddy,

Well, here I am attending fabulous Spring Frolics at beautiful Davidson College, situated on the curbstones of Highway 115 in
the heart of Mecklenburg County. We are all so busy that the management has provided us with this handy letter
form, which is certainly nice of them, don’t you think?

1. I arrived at beautiful Davidson College. () at my own expense.
2. My room in historic Belk Dormitory () breathed forth the gentle odor of aged athletic socks; () was on
the fourth floor; () was not reserved in time, so I () I didn’t know we were supposed to stay
in the dormitory.
3. While attending the formal dance Friday night featuring the fabulous music of Les Brown, () I was trod upon
unmercifully; () I was deafened; () I found my date’s fraternity brothers much more interesting than my date; () I
didn’t know there was a dance Friday night.
4. While attending the concert on the lawn Saturday afternoon, I () got a good sunburn; () was impressed by
the clever conversation of my date’s fraternity brother; () didn’t know there was a concert on the lawn.
5. The party after the dance was () jolly; () can’t remember; must rush now, please save this, () throw
this away; () called off (so my date said).

Your () innocent daughter,

American education faces a serious test in the next few years. More students will be flooding the college campuses than
have in the past. A school like Davidson will probably be receiving more than twice as many applications as it
has in past years. This means that a greater selectivity will be possible than ever before (at the risk of
rejecting the sons of some angered alumni). Such selectivity must be practiced, however, if Davidson is to keep the same
relative reputation that it now holds. The influx of such a more intelligent student, many of whom will have to
come on scholarship aid to attract them from other college offers, is going to provide a more cosmopolitan atmosphere in
the student body. Many of these men will be coming from backgrounds unfamiliar to the present student generation and will
probably bring with them eccentricities to which we are unaccustomed. Such a student body is going to be a real
challenge to faculty and student leaders alike. A more rigorous curriculum will have to be devised to challenge the then
“average” student’s mind. Extra-curricular activities will become more diversified to accommodate their interests. Student leaders will have to be more
alert to meet the arrival of interested students who are more desirous of being good citizens. The problem for Davidson
is to realize the challenge ahead and prepare for it. Certainly much work is already being done with this idea
in mind. Increasing the enrollment, however, is not necessarily part of the answer. Curriculum planning, on the other hand, is
most definitely a step in the right direction.

Finally, it must not be forgotten that Davidson now has a good concept of education: that of preparing in the
liberal arts tradition with a purposeful concept of education leaders who are aware of their Christian heritage. All this takes
place on a small campus where a friendly attitude prevails. These things should be kept, but should be tempered by
a more inquiring atmosphere with a more cosmopolitan student body. All problems that come before the college in the next
few years should be considered in the light of these developments.

Students, Faculty Comment; President Must Be Versatile

By CHARLES CHASTAIN

Since Dr. Cunningham's resignation as president of Davidson, many members of the faculty and student body have expressed their opinions
about the choice of a new president. Here are a few samples of the opinions of students and professors about
the qualifications, background, personality, and views that the new president should have:

Lovis Carrington: “The new president ought not to be connected with the college now, and he should be a liberal
who will advocate radical changes in our social and religious life.”

Professor A. B. Griffin: “A college president should be an efficient administrator and experienced educator, but we can't ignore public
relations for an intelligent and effective interpretation of the school’s policies and needs.”

Doug Stewart: “The most important qualification is that the president should be a dedicated Christian, not necessarily a minister but
preferably a man with conservative policies. I think he should come from somewhere outside the college.”

Charles Cook: “An educator, of course, or a preacher.”

Dr. W. G. McGavock: “The qualifications of prime importance are a sound educational background, an ability to present Davidson’s cause
to foundations, industry, and individuals to raise the necessary funds, a lively interest in Christian education, and the desire and
ability to demand the respect and friendship of the faculty and students.”

Walter O’Briant: “The president ought to be an administrator and educator who will spend his time building up the faculty
and will think that the best trustees are those not heard from and the best alumni those dead.”

Dr. George Watts: “I hope we get a new president as good as the one we just had.”

Ray Antley: “We ought to have a young man who won't stay aloof from the students and student activities.”

Professor Pedro Trakas: “We need the unique type of personality that can meet the public on all levels, since he
will have to know how to make the contacts that will enable us to maintain a good physical plant to
attract new students, but above everything else we need an academician.”

Calvin McGehee: “The new president shouldn’t be connected with Davidson now, but he should be a Presbyterian.”

Bunny Perkinson: “He should be a good educator first, not necessarily a minister, or maybe a combination of the two.”

Dr. Hal Ford: “Above all he should be an educator and someone who can look ahead as well as to
the past, in order to meet the extraordinary pressures on colleges that will come in the next decade.”

Bobby Livingston: “We need to get a person who doesn't share the viewpoint that Davidson is the best of all
possible worlds.”
