Che Davidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, MAY 3, 1957

Four Point Plan For Better Student Government

The Student Council which took office today undertakes the tremendous responsibility of upholding the traditions of student government that have
made Davidson’s system the envy of many educational institutions. The opening of regular Council meetings in 1955 to the public
started a trend toward greater general knowledge of the Council's functioning. Truly this is a healthy sign of democratic governing.
However, watching the Council in meetings has revealed to observers that there are some weaknesses of procedure.

FOUR POINT PLAN

Believing that the Student Council is seriously desirous of improving in any way possible the conducting of its job, the
DAVIDSONIAN proposes a four-point plan of improvement for the new Council.

ROLL CALL VOTE

1. There should be roll call votes on every major issue. These would be available for publication in the DAVIDSONIAN.
The basic principle of representative government is the reflecting of the opinions of the electorate by those in responsibility. Unless
the students know how the boys whom they elected are voting, they cannot know if they are being truly represented.
The voting record of former council members would give the student body a substantial basis for selecting members during elections.
Such a provision would limit any tendency to vote with the majority merely because it is a majority. Surely a
man realizing that his stand will be made public will examine that position with care.

TEST ON CONSTITUTION

2. Senior members should test the rest of the Council on the Constitution. Such a test would be given in
the spring of the year shortly after installation. The Council members’ having a knowledge of the Constitution seems to be
so basic that one might wonder about the necessity of such a proposal. Apparently, though, it is needed since it
was incorporated as part of a recommendation from the outgoing Council to the incoming. The DAVIDSONIAN strongly endorses it.

PARLIAMENTARIAN

3. A parliamentarian who has a thorough and working knowledge of Roberts Rules of Order should be appointed. The serious
confusion resulting from a recent discussion on the elections policy at one meeting, in which a bystander had to inform
the group of correct procedure, made obvious the need for a parliamentarian who not only knows the rules but is
vigorous in seeing that they are carried out.

UP-TO-DATE MINUTES

4. The minutes of regular meetings should be required to be typed and entered in the official record book by
the time of the next meeting. Minutes of trials necessitate a longer period of time but this should be a
limited period not merely at the discretion of the secretary. This proposal also may seem to be obvious to note,
but it is a fact that the minutes of 1955-56 have not yet been officially entered. They are one year
late. There was a similar delay for 1954-55. The fact that the minutes of this school year are up to
date this month is proof that there is no necessity for such delay. Previous minutes must be available in handling
of a business as important as governing 850 students, and certainly there should be no year-long gaps.

The DAVIDSONIAN has confidence in the ability and quality of the newly elected Council. It is composed of boys that
are an honor to the selecting ability of the student body. May they rule in wisdom.—J.R.J.

Don't Let Down Standards

Suggestions have been made which would substitute suspension from College for violation of honor offenses in place of the now
existing mandatory dismissal punishment. Honor offenses, as defined by the Student Body Constitution, refer to those violations involving lying, cheating,
and stealing. The DAVIDSONIAN opposes any movement to modify the existing Honor System with respect to minimizing the penalties for
honor offenses.

Supporters of the proposed move base their arguments on two factors. First, permanent dismissal from Davidson with no chance for
readmission virtually denies the involved student admission into many colleges in the nation. Modification adherents view this as unfair. We
hasten to point out that personal honor is a thing of too great magnitude to be trifled with. If Davidson
supports the admission of a convicted student to another institution by permitting him to reenter Davidson at a later date,
then it is being unfair to both that institution and to its own standards. If an honor system is to
work at all it must be absolute, for honor by its very nature is absolute. Honor cannot be made a
half-way affair.

Secondly, those who advocate a wider use of temporary suspension point out that this penalty was, in fact, invoked by
the Judicial Review Committee of the faculty in one case this year. Fears were voiced that this precedent might result
in a loss of power by the Student Council. The faculty has always had the right to review Council decisions
but has exercised this right only when requested to do so by either the student involved or the Council. There
is no reason to believe that they will abuse this power any more in the future than they have in
the past. The particular case in point was one of admittedly unusual circumstances.

Relaxation of the permanent dismissal penalty faces other dangers. First, there is the possibility that justice might be too often
tempered with mercy thus resulting in too frequent use of the minimum penalty. Again, such relaxation might make some students
willing to take more chances in their responsibilities to the honor system.

The DAVIDSONIAN believes that the strength of the honor system exists in its exactness, its rigidity, and its appeal to
the best within each student. The system as it presently stands in regard to penalties for violations has served the
school well in the past and no evidence has been given to indicate that it will not continue to do
so.—G.L.W.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Gerald Wilson
BUSINESS MANAGER Bob Lathan
ASSOCIATE EDITOR Laurens Walker
Assistant Editor George Ramsey
Managing Editors Jim Morris
Sports Editor Julian Aldridge
Feature Editor Bruce Brooks
Copy Editor John Trask, Jr.
News Editor Ed Morrissett
John Johnson
Assignments Bill Patton
Cartoonists Bross, Cole
Photographer Ed Stevens
Advertising Manager Henry Samuels
Circulation Manager Marshall Chapman

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

LETTERS TO EDITOR

Hidden Evidence

HONEST FELLOWS, IT'S ONLY GAS!

Readers Differ on Editorial

ALENDA LUX PHILOSOPHY

Dear Editor:

In last week's DAVIDSONIAN there appeared an editorial entitled “Subtle but There.” It would seem that the boldness and earnestness
of its writer should be commended, to say nothing of his perception. Of a certainty, this very issue of the
paper will bring forth a raft of “Alenda Lux philosophers" decrying the “conservatism and prejudice of the editorial voice of
Davidson College.”

CAFFEIN LIBERALISM

You see, in these benighted provinces the potent combination of a little philosophy, a little sociology, a little theology, and
a great deal of coffee qualifies one as an unbiased liberal, and it would hardly be fair to allow the
voices of these intellects to smother the sound of sincere doubt which we heard in last week’s paper.

MAGIC PHRASE

Dr. O’Connor was a wise man and he used the magic phrase “the brotherhood of man.” Now the brotherhood of
man is a fine and noble thing, but not when someone uses it as a sweet-sounding blanket under which to
hide veiled admonitions to a backward and ignorant Southern audience. Dr. O’Connor’s presentation was about as frank and straightforward as
a crooked pole, and it is very gratifying to note that at least the editorial voice of the DAVIDSONIAN was
not fooled. This is not to say that the views expressed in the editorial were either right or wrong, good
or bad, but simply to applaud the sharp eye of the college press.

H. T. Antrim

SILENT VOICE HEARD AGAIN

Dear Editor:

In the DAVIDSONIAN last week, an editorial appeared which expresses an opinion which has been lost for a while among
the blatant cries of that inevitable campus element, the pseudo-intellectuals. This is the group who latch on to every new
idea mainly because it is a new idea, and because it is so frightfully collegiate to do so. It is
what is known as being liberal, to accompany our fine liberal arts education, no doubt.

PRESERVE HERITAGE

It was a welcome relief to hear from one who still believes in those rare classical and human essentials. He
obviously has something to preserve and intends to preserve it. Why should we not be proud of our heritage? Why
is it treated in so slight a manner that few will defend it? Our heritage includes the generations of preservation
brought about by a certain dignity which obviously entails a certain amount of race consciousness—a consciousness born out of human
dignity and pride (this same pride which distinguishes man from animalistic tendencies), rather than scorn or prejudice. This does not
mean that we should not try to help one another, nor does it mean that a certain race should not
be given an opportunity to improve its culture and standards.

CHAOTIC NEWNESS

I, too, do not intend to open the race question, but the point which the editorial defended is one which
has been enclosed with this topic of equal educational opportunity, etc. It is this type of extension and modification that
the chaotic and blind use of a new idea simply for the sake of its newness causes. Why is it
that inequality, when admitted, is always confined to virtual intangibles such as mental capacity or physical prowess and coordination? There
is a very‘obvious inequality among men of all races and colors, even among our brothers.

LAYER OF MEDIOCRITY

I must admit that the current trend in the United States and even the world is to pull down and
prop up enough so that all will be in one great layer of mediocrity with a void on either side.
Yet, in spite of this, there are those of us who believe in absolutes enough to emphasize the Editor’s point,
you cannot make equals out of unequals. At least, you can't to those who believe in certain intrinsic essentials and
qualities.

Henderson Rourk

O’CONNER SPEECH MISUNDERSTOOD

Dear Editor:

Last week’s editorial (Subtle, But There) on Dr. O’Connor’s chapel talk grossly missed his entire point, it seems to me.

INNATE RIGHTS

Dr. O'Connor spoke of equality in the sense of the equal innate rights of each individual, regardless of race or
class, to be counted as a human personality and, more specifically, he implied the Christian concept that all men are
children of God and are therefore equally endowed by Him with dignity and worth. The editorial used the term equality
in its narrower meaning, pointing out that there are individual differences of ability or talent. If the writer of the
editorial wishes to give up the basic and broader definition of equality, he must reject his Christian and democratic heritage.

UNDERSTANDING FIRST

The editorial expressly states that Dr. O’Connor advocated mixing groups and cultures. He pointed out that because of modern transportation
and communication, there will necessarily be more and more contact between various groups and races, but he included this so
that he could urge understanding between the different races and cultures, not the mixing of them.

Finally, it must be recognized that the cultural problems of today have been caused primarily because nations with superior power
have imposed their wills upon weaker, less developed peoples. The writer of the editorial failed to understand that it is
not these people who are intruding on our rights, but we who, for years, have been intruding on theirs.

WORST WRITING

Not only I, but many others on campus were shocked by this editorial. In fact, it is one of the
worst pieces of writing that I have seen in the DAVIDSONIAN. My sincere hope is that this was just a
temporary misunderstanding, and that such a mistake will not be made in the future.

Walter Davis

PROUD OF DAVIDSON

Art, Culture, Music

By WILLARD WOLFE

Every once in a while somebody sounds off about the terrible state of culture here at Davidson. Of course, this
is unfair, but it always makes me think of a certain Eastern College I visited last vacation. There, I admit,
the situation was bad. It made me feel proud to be from Davidson (which, as everybody knows, is the best
college in the South and almost as good as Princeton).

I. V. TWEED

At this college, nobody came to concerts or lectures or showed any educated interest in the arts. I talked to
a typical student, a Mr. I. V. Tweed. When I asked him why nobody had any serious interest in the
arts, he shrugged and replied very casually: “Why mess with that rot? I just don’t go for that kinda stuff.”

ANTI-CULTURE

And it seemed that the whole way of life at that college was actually anti-cultural. Since it was a men’s
college, everyone worked very hard not to appear “long-hair.” Only a “freak” student who didn’t fit into the normal college-joe
groove could do that. Mr. Tweed curled his lip knowingly, and very “smoothly” exhaled his menthol-fresh smoke. No, they just
didn’t go for that kind of thing. The few who brought real cultural interests with them either suppressed those interests,
dropped them so they could fit into the groove, or else they kept them completely to themselves, and so did
nothing to raise the level of student taste.

It appeared that many students who would have enjoyed going to a concert or play stayed away for fear of
what the other boys on the hall might say. It wouldn't do to get out of that groove, so they
just turned up the rock 'n roll a little louder.

ECKBERG OR PICASSO?

And art? “Well, nobody normal would go for Picasso or Cezanne or any of that modern junk, but let me
show you some real dolls—a whole wall full of Anita Eckberg in the nude!” But it wasn’t just student values
that were anti-cultural. There was a long tradition of opposition to all the arts on that campus. Over half of
the faculty had graduated from that college back when they didn't even try to have any cultural life at all,
so they failed to see the importance of art.

CAMPUS APATHY

Instead of encouraging students to go to the concerts and plays (as they might have done), most of the faculty,
the fraternities, and the general campus opinion discouraged it. Nobody ever really pushed a concert or worked to drum up
an audience for a play. Even the music department did nothing to stimulate and educate general student body interest in
the arts. You just didn't do that kind of thing.

It was good to get back to the cultural capital of North Mecklenburg County and know that this could never
happen in Davidson’s “way-above-average” student body.

COFFEE BREAK

Blunt, But Here

By BOB JONES

Napoleon in George Orwell’s “Animal Farm” sums up last week's editorial “Subtle, But There” in his dictum “All animals are
equal, but some animals are more equal than others.” The current shibboleth that not even brothers are equal is an
equivocation of the term “equal” which surely no one would deny. But in the sense that each man is an
individual who has a personality of unlimited potential, on what basis is one to say that he is “more equal
than others?”

The assumption seems to be that those who have been born with an advantage have been particularly chosen by God
to enjoy and maintain this advantage over others. Though undoubtedly many rationalizations for this logic are possible, on the Day
of Judgement many people are going to be hard put to be convincing.

However, Dr. O'Connor was not extolling the justice of equality. Hypersensitivity to the race question clouds men's minds so that
any word about the evolving world culture is immediately branded as propaganda for equalizing the races—the idea of course is
“subtle, but there” nonetheless.

UNREALISTIC

In a sense, Dr. O'Connor is playing the role of a prophet to our times. Today’s rapid means of communication
have shrunk the globe to such a degree that appeals to keep all cultures “pure and true” are unrealistic (though
it could be argued they never were realistic). On this score, his appeal can be made to Americans on the
basis of nothing more noble than enlightened self-interest.

As a professor of history and philosophy at the nation’s outstanding school in foreign affairs, Dr. O'Connor was giving his
analysis of the cultural revolution of our time. His call for men to see the future consequences in making present
decisions instead of worshipping the benighted past is a necessary word if America is to have a significant influence in
the world of a hundred years from now. Interpreting this vision as a slick method of raising the race question
grossly misses the point.

OR, FORD

By the resignation of Dr. Harold Ford, Davidson loses one of her finest men. His warm conscientiousness and concern for
each individual student has made him one of the most highly regarded professors on the faculty. In class, his interest
in practical affairs and analysis of recent developments have made his courses valuable to those genuinely interested and willing to
do the necessary work. In a broader area, his contributions to the Interdisciplinary Seminar have strengthened the most promising adventure
in curriculum improvement at Davidson. In their two brief years at Davidson, Dr. and Mrs. Ford have made for themselves
a distinctive place in the community that will remain unfilled in their absence. It is with a sense of real
regret that we extend our best wishes as they leave Davidson.
