FRIDAY, APRIL 12, 1957

Sportsstuff BY GEORGE RAMSEY

THE WESTERVELT SAGA

“Football, basketball prowess is his
At all he does he is a whiz.”

These words, perhaps not struck from the pen of genius, appeared under a somewhat grubby-looking picture of Harold Westervelt in the Senior section of the 1955 Athens, Ga., high school annual. They seem to have been not only descriptive of the high school activities but also prophetic of things to come in the collegiate career of this strapping youngster who has found new worlds to conquer at Davidson College.

“Westy” came to Davidson in 1955 with hopes of making the football team and earning one of those envied “D” sweaters although he had had but a single year of gridiron experience in high school. He went on to make the team and saw spot action during his freshman year. Football season passed on and, although he had been a regular on the Athens High basketball team, he passed up the sport at Davidson. So the Sigma Chi’s pushed their healthy pledge into the interfraternity wrestling meet. Through brute strength Westy, who before coming to college had never tried wrestling as a sport, grappled his way to the championship of the 177-lb. class. Coach Charlie Parker immediately recruited him for the wrestling team, and a new star appeared on the Wildcat horizon. Westy went on to earn that “D” sweater he had dreamed of.

FOOTBALL HONORS

The 1956 football season found the Athenian in the thick of the fight for an end position on coach Bill Dole’s outfit. He not only lettered this time around, but he played well enough to earn a spot, by virtue of a combination of brain and brawn, on the Southern Conference All-Academic football team, an honorary eleven selected by the American People’s Encyclopedia. Crowning the achievements of the modest Georgian thus far was his performance on the mats this winter. After amassing a 10-3 overall record and an unscathed conference slate, Westy about a month ago inscribed his name permanently in the athletic annals of Davidson College when he became the second man in Wildcat history to win a conference wrestling title. But to top it all off, he was named the meet’s outstanding wrestler, a feat never before accomplished by a Davidson matman. Following his conference victory, Westy entered the AAU meet at Appalachian State Teachers College and there, grappling with the best in the Carolinas, he fought to another championship and again annexed the outstanding wrestler award!

HIGH SCHOOL CAREER

Westy broke into the sports scene somewhat late in his high school career. Although active in Y.M.C.A. activities since grammar school days (if you check his scrapbook you'll find a clipping about his winning the Connecticut State Amateur

57 Football Slate Davidsonian

Adds E. Carolina, W. Virginia Tech

Davidson will face two new opponents on the gridiron next season, according to the recently released 1957 schedule. West Virginia Tech, a team which the Wildcats defeated 51-6 in 1954, returns to the slate, replacing Washington and Lee, and East Carolina will fill a date which was left open by the cancellation of Stetson of its entire intercollegiate football program. Commenting on the new schedule, coach Bill Dole said that it was more difficult than last year’s, and that to break better than even the Wildcats will have to play ball. Four of the nine games will be played at Davidson's Richardson Field, and a fifth, the season opener with Catawba, is slated for Charlotte. The complete 1957 schedule is as follows:

DATE OPPONENT
Sept. 20 Catawba
Sept. 28 East Carolina
October 5 The Citadel
October 12 V.M.I.
*October 19 West Va. Tech
October 26 Presbyterian
Nov. 2 Open
*Nov. 9 Wofford
Nov. 16 Richmond
Nov. 22 Furman
*Designates home games.

Golfers Journey To N. Carolina, Duke

The Wildcat golf team travels to Chapel Hill Monday and Durham Tuesday to take on two powers of the ACC, North Carolina and Duke. Coach Scott will take ten of his men against the Tar Heels and six against the Devils. Carolina, which always has one of the outstanding squads in the Southeast, will be led by Tommy Langley, Gene Lookabill and Buck Adams. Duke boasts Jack Benson in their splendid lineup.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Cindermen Take Triangular Meet, Remain Unbeaten

Coach Heath Whittle’s trackmen notched their second consecutive triangular meet sweep last Saturday, giving them a season record of four wins and no losses, as they topped Richmond, one of the two teams to defeat them last season, and Mercer, in a meet held on the Davidson track.

TWO WAY AFFAIR

Davidson captured eight first places and the deciding factor, Coach Tom Scott confers with the top four qualifiers on emerged victorious on his 1957 golf team, who will lead the linksmen into matches with North Carolina and Duke next week. They are (l. to r.): John Mackorell, Bobby Street, Bucky Dennis, Coach Scott, and Sam Sloan. eight thirds. and Mercer 7. for the meet. points with firsts in the mile run and 880-yard run and one third in the broad jump.

10-1 RECORDS

Phi Delts, SAE’s Tie For Volleyball Crown

By BILL HELLIER

During a long and active volleyball season the Phi Delts and SAE's battled to a tie for first place honors. Both ended up with ten wins and a single loss. The KA’s, Sigma Chi's, and ATO’s gave the leaders stiff and spirited competition all season and finished in a three-way tie for third place. Competition was especially keen this year with many games being won by only two points in a third and deciding match.

COME FROM BEHIND

Paced by Dave Bradford and Dave Hollingsworth respectively, the SAE’s and Phi Delts had to come from behind to clinch the first place spot. They both trailed the Sigma Chi’s, who were unbeaten halfway through the tournament.

Phil Tesh led the ATO’s to a first place in the Table Tennis tournament defeating last year's champ, Bobby Crittenden of the Pikas to clinch the championship. The Pikas had to settle for a second place tie with the Kappa Sigs.

The softball and tennis

The meet developed into a two-way affair between the Wildcats and Richmond, as Davidson compiled 9% points by taking first in the broad jump, second in the 440, and running one leg of the relay team. The Chapel Hill action will be on the University’s Finley Golf Course. Duke is currently working on their new links, but these are not expected to be ready by the time Davidson plays so the match will be at the Hope Valley course. The Wildcats are playing the roughest schedule that they have had in years. They meet all of the Big Four teams twice with the exception of Carolina with whom they could not work out a return match date. Coach Scott said that the team would not have as good a record as previously due to the difficulty of the slate but the first place spot. They both trailed the Sigma Chi’s, who were unbeaten halfway through the tournament. Phil Tesh led the ATO’s to a first place in the Table Tennis tournament defeating last year's champ, Bobby Crittenden of the Pikas to clinch the championship. The Pikas had to settle for a second place tie with the Kappa Sigs.

The softball and tennis

The meet developed into a two-way affair between the Wildcats and Richmond, as Davidson captured eight first places and the Spiders seven. The deciding factor, though harmful, were not dis-locals’ depth proved to be disastrous. Two of the losses were incurred by the crack Parris Island Marines. After a dry spell, the ‘Cats came through to take a 2-0 thriller from Mercer in their second meeting. The final score was Davidson 84, Richmond 71. Captain Pete Ashcraft was the top scorer for the ‘Cats. Back in school again, Coach Picking’s gain, the squad has been wielding impotent sticks thus far. Armstrong was first in the 100- and 220-yard dashes, while Welker took a first in the low hurdles, second in the high hurdles. Big gun in the percentage department is right fielder Jim West with a healthy .481, followed by center fielder Shelbourne Wallace at .433 and first sacker George Hart with .379. Hart, a freshman, holds the lead in two other departments—home runs, with two to his credit, and runs batted in, with eight. Wallace is showing signs of becoming a master base thief, with several stolen bases already. His biggest woe, claims Stevens, is pitching. He feels, however, that both batting and pitching will come around well and has high hopes based on West’s average and the two wins and one loss registered by Allen Moore, his hurling ace. Following the West Virginia game next weekend, seven games remain on the ‘57 schedule, the last four being played on the home lot.

Pitching Biggest Problem For Stevens; West And Wallace Swing Menacing Bats
By LARRY MEYER

The Wildcat baseball squad, in an effort to crack the .500 mark, takes on Furman at Greenville, S.C., next Tuesday, April 16. This will be the first of four games over a six-day stretch. The ‘Cats, with a 3-5 overall and 1-1 conference record going into their two games April 11 and 12 against Citadel, stand a good chance of breaking the .500 barrier.

SPRING TRIP
Spring holidays brought no rest for the roaming baseballers. They managed a win and three losses. Finally, after a 3-0 whitewashing in the first game of a doubleheader last Saturday, they bounced back to thrash Mercer 9-2. 

HITTING WEAK
Hitting is giving Stevens fits. Following Armstrong in scoring is West with a healthy .481, followed by center fielder Shelbourne Wallace at .433 and first sacker George Hart with .379. Hart, a freshman, holds the lead in two other departments—home runs, with two to his credit, and runs batted in, with eight. Wallace is showing signs of becoming a master base thief, with several stolen bases already. His biggest woe, claims Stevens, is pitching. He feels, however, that both batting and pitching will come around well and has high hopes based on West’s average and the two wins and one loss registered by Allen Moore, his hurling ace. Following the West Virginia game next weekend, seven games remain on the ‘57 schedule, the last four being played on the home lot.

ACTION IN SIGHT
Monday—Golf—N. Carolina.
Tuesday—Golf—Duke. Baseball—Furman.
Wednesday—Tennis—S. Carolina.*
Friday—Tennis—Illinois* Baseball—McCrary* Golf—V.M.I.
Saturday—Track—W. Virginia* Baseball—Mercer Tennis—Duke*
* At Davidson

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... PIZZA
the famous OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead Charlotte, N.C.

Eight men made the trip when the squad traveled to Furman Thursday—Stuart Vaughn, Gary Heeseman, Bucky Dennis, Ned Payne, Ed Morrissett, Sam Sloan, John Mackorell, and George Scott. Ed Bell and Sutt Alexander are also on the volleyball team. Today the Cats met Citadel at the Myers Park course. In competition to date, the best scores for the locals have been a 71 shot by Sam Sloan against North Carolina State and a 73 fired by Captain George Scott against Duke. Both of the rounds were played on Charlotte courses. The Wildcats were twice victorious over State and by the identical score, 25½-19½. They were downed by Duke 16-11 in a match at Myers Park played during the spring holidays. Their other two encounters were with Wake Forest in Winston-Salem and at the Charlotte Country Club.

Most Improved Swimmer award at Athens High Camp, he didn’t appear in the uniform of Athens High until his junior year, when his determination and scrap earned him a starting position on the basketball team that went on to win the regional championship. By his senior year, Westy had developed into a football-sized athlete, and the grid opener found him at a starting end post. He held that position through the season, on a team that reached the semi-finals of the state playoffs. Ironically enough, he outscored the end who played opposite him, who earned all-state recognition. Again that winter he lettered on a regional championship basketball squad.

When you're old enough to go out with girls, who needs college? Oh well, there's always Coke.
SIGN OF GOOD TASTE
Bottled Under Authority Of The Coca-Cola Company By THE COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD
©1956, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY

Five years ago no one who knew him would have dared predict such things for Westy, but by his determination he has proved that “. . . in all he does he is a whiz.” And he's pinned to the Athens High beauty queen.

“Coke" is a registered trademark. 

Finish the limerick about whichever L&M pack suits you best. Send your last line with the wrapper or box from the L&M pack you prefer (a facsimile will do)... along with your name and address, to L&M, P. O. Box 1635, New York 46, N.Y. Contest restricted to college students. Entries must be postmarked no later than midnight, April 30, 1957. Entries will be judged on literary expression, originality, sincerity and aptness of thought. Decision of our judges is final. Winners will be notified by mail. (Contest void wherever illegal)

©1957, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.