**The Davidsonian**

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 1957

(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

Book Burners Would Erase Old Folk Lore

The social crisis of this generation — the mixing of the races — has reached the point where the integrationists have now begun “to burn the books.” We are speaking, of course, about the censoring of American folk songs for the purpose of erasing any references to certain minority groups. For example, popular recordings of “My Old Kentucky Home,” “Sewanee River,” and “Old Black Joe” have been changed to delete such words as “darkies,” “massa,” and “mammy.” Others, like “Old Man River,” no longer say “white folks.” The idea here, explain radio and TV officials, is to avoid all words or expressions that might be offensive to any religious or racial group. How, we wonder, have “Amos ‘n Andy” survived this long!

The censoring, moreover, is not limited to songs. Only a few weeks ago, the New York City Board of Education removed from the reading lists of the elementary and junior high schools “The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn.” Its reason for banning Mark Twain's classic was that the book made references that were unfavorable to Negroes. Mark Twain, we feel sure, never intended to insult anybody when he wrote about Huck Finn. Furthermore, Stephen Foster meant to honor the colored people with his “Sewanee River.”

One Congressman has charged the NAACP as the guiding force behind this present drive to censor the nation's songs and books. It is indeed a sorry state in which we find ourselves when men grow hysterical to the point that they must “burn the books” for fear that some minority group may feel offended. We all know that in the end this ridiculous drive to change American folk lore will fare no better than did Hitler's book burning of the 1930s. The ironical part about the whole affair, however, is the fact that the very group (i.e., naive liberals) that has yelled the loudest about “rights” is now the same group that is encroaching on others’ rights by trying to erase many concrete facts of American literature.

As someone put it, “if we follow the same logic and reasoning of the networks in banning ‘My Old Kentucky Home’ from the air, then we may have to change the name of the White House because this might conceivably be classified as discrimination.”

Bye, Bye Herb

The brightest piece of news during last week’s flu wave was the resignation of Herbert Brownell, Jr. as Attorney-General. If it is any satisfaction to him, “Dear Herb” will be happy to know that only General Sherman rivals him as the most unpopular man in the South. The only difference between the two is that Sherman led his soldiers personally, while Brownell directed the troops from behind a desk in the “Department of Justice.” (Also, Sherman didn’t have a five-star golfing enthusiast as advisor.)

The good news about Herb, however, was soon neutralized by the White House’s announcement that William P. Rogers would be the new Attorney-General. Mr. Rogers, you will remember, is a “close personal friend” of Tricky Dickie Nixon. Now we don't advocate “guilt by association,” but what self-respecting Southerner would want Tricky Dickie as a character reference? And so we see that even though Hilarious Herb has gone back to New York, the same old gang of “modern Republicans” will be left intact—at least until 1960.

Angels of Mercy

Student flu victims of last week's epidemic owe a great deal of thanks and appreciation to those of the Davidson community who helped make the stay in bed a little more comfortable. Professors’ wives, friends of the college, secretaries, and even some professors themselves did everything from carrying food trays to poking thermometers. These services were purely voluntary. Probably no one worked harder than Dr. Kneedler and the Infirmary staff. The easy cooperation and thoughtful gestures are typical of the pleasant relationship that exists among the whole Davidson College community.

Convocation

This morning's Convocation was entirely appropriate. It served to recognize some of those men who have contributed to the betterment of Davidson College. Davidson is blessed with a group of distinguished friends and alumni who are eager and willing to support the work of the college. This morning’s ceremony was the college’s way of showing its appreciation and gratitude. Students who attended the Convocation could not have failed to be impressed by the many outstanding and notable visitors. We only wish that some way could be arranged for interested students to meet and talk to such distinguished guests when they come to the campus. Perhaps a reception to which students are invited would be an answer. An opportunity to meet some of our business, religious, and political leaders would be a broadening experience for our students.

Paris Headline

The Russian “sputnik” brought all kinds of reactions from people everywhere as the earth satellite circled the globe. A Paris newspaper, for example, carried the following headline: “Grippe, grippe, grippe, crisis, crisis, crisis, beep, beep, beep.”

For A Change

This week's issue of “Conformity” was most “unconforming” by being thoroughly enjoyable for a change.

Julian Aldridge
Bruce Brooks
Bross Cole
Ed Stevens
Henry Samuels
Lee Mayfield

Copy Editor
News Editor
Cartoonists
Photographer
Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

John Trask, Jr.
Pat Henderson
Gerald Wilson

ADOPTED AT BAYONET POINT

There Is No Fourteenth Amendment!

By DAVID LAWRENCE
Editor, U. S. News & World Report

A mistaken belief—that there is a valid article in the Constitution known as the “Fourteenth Amendment”—is responsible for the Supreme Court decision of 1954 and the ensuing controversy over desegregation in the public schools of America. No such amendment was ever legally ratified by three-fourths of the States of the Union as required by the Constitution itself. The so-called “Fourteenth Amendment” was dubiously proclaimed by the Secretary of State on July 20, 1868. The President shared that doubt.

There were 37 States in the Union at the time, so ratification by at least 28 was necessary to make the amendment an integral part of the Constitution. Actually, only 21 States legally ratified it. So it failed of ratification.

Undisputed Record

The undisputed records, attested by official journals and the unanimous writings of historians, establish these events as occurring in 1867 and 1868:

1. Outside the South, six States—New Jersey, Ohio, Kentucky, California, Delaware and Maryland—failed to ratify the proposed amendment.
2. In the South, ten States—Texas, Arkansas, Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Alabama, Florida, Mississippi and Louisiana—by formal action of their legislatures, rejected it under the normal processes of civil law.
3. A total of 16 legislatures out of 37 failed legally to ratify the “Fourteenth Amendment.”
4. Congress—which had deprived the Southern States of their seats in the Senate—did not lawfully pass the resolution of submission in the first instance.
5. The Southern States which had rejected the amendment were coerced by a federal statute passed in 1867 that took away the right to vote or hold office from all citizens who had served in the Confederate Army. Military governors were appointed and instructed to prepare the roll of voters. All this happened in spite of the presidential proclamation of amnesty previously issued by the President.

New legislatures were thereupon chosen and forced to “ratify” under penalty of continued exile from the Union. In Louisiana, a General sent down from the North presided over the State legislature.

6. Abraham Lincoln had declared many times that the

The Lost Weekend ........ By Bross

COFFEE BREAK

Death Of A Utopian

By JOHN BERNHARDT

It was with real sadness that we read last week that “the Utopian philosopher died some years ago.” We had liked to assume that we fell into the class of Utopians, but now it seems we are defunct.

Utopia is a dream-land where all of life fits the ideal of what it should be. The word means “nowhere,” however, suggesting cynically that this ideal world can never be realized. That may hold true, but the idealist is willing to batter himself to death to move the world one inch closer to the ideal.

UTOPIANS NEEDED

As long as this world is not the best possible, we need some Utopians in every crowd. Why is it that the Utopian thinkers and the idea men seem to be dying out at Davidson? Probably one of the main causes is the passing of the bull session; the red-hot argument seems to be what died some years ago.

As freshmen, we seniors were warned not to spend too much time in bull sessions. Unfortunately, we seem to have forgotten the other side of the statement, which was that a certain amount of such debate was a pretty necessary part of a col-PRANUITS is lege education. Certainly, this passing of the idealist and the creative thinker is related to the homogenization of the Davidson student body. Have the bull sessions died because nobody has anything new to say, or has the death of independent thinking killed the opportunity of creating new men? It seems to be some of both. At least, though, a good round of bull sessions ought to bring out some of the remaining talent.

PLEA FOR ORIGINALITY

This is not a demand for anti-conformity; it is a plea for something original, something better than the usual pattern. Radio Free Davidson has been a local smash-hit because it is an original way to break the boredom around here. “Conformity” was a success because it was new.

RUM FLAVORING

We offer a free cup of coffee to anybody wanting to sit and argue about anything, no matter what. Rum for flavoring to the one who uncovers a Utopian or an idea man. We need some originality and ideals mixed into our Davidson homogenate.

Ed. Note: David Lawrence writes about the entire Fourteenth Amendment. However, the portion on which the May, 1954 decision was based is the last five words of Section 3.

SECTION I CIVIL RIGHTS

All persons born or naturalized in the United States, and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United States and of the state wherein they reside. No state shall make or enforce any law which shall abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens of the United States; nor shall any state deprive any person of life, liberty, or property, without due process of law, nor deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws.

A Contemporary View of “Reconstruction”

Union was “inseparable” and “indivisible.” After his death, and when the war was over, the ratification by the Southern States of the Thirteenth Amendment, abolishing slavery, had been accepted as legal. But Congress in the 1867 law imposed the specific conditions under which the Southern States would be “entitled to representation in Congress.”

7. Congress, in passing the 1867 law that declared the Southern States could not have their seats in either the Senate or House in the next session unless they ratified the “Fourteenth Amendment,” took an unprecedented step. No such right—to compel a State by an act of Congress to ratify a constitutional amendment—is to be found anywhere in the Constitution. Nor has this procedure ever been sanctioned by the Supreme Court of the United States.

8. President Andrew Johnson publicly denounced this law as unconstitutional. But it was passed over his veto.

9. Secretary of State Seward was on the spot in July, 1868 when the various “ratifications” of a spurious nature were placed before him. The legislatures of Ohio and New Jersey had notified him that they rescinded their earlier action of ratification. He said in his official proclamation that he was not authorized as Secretary of State “to determine and decide doubtful questions as to the authenticity of the organization of State legislatures or as to the power of any State legislature to recall a previous act or resolution of ratification.” He added that the amendment was valid “if the resolutions of the legislatures of Ohio and New Jersey, ratifying the aforesaid amendment, are to be deemed as remaining of full force and effect, notwithstanding the subsequent resolutions of the legislatures of these States.” This was a very big “if.” It will be noted that the real issue, therefore, is not only whether the forced “ratification” by the ten Southern States was lawful, but whether the withdrawal by the legislatures of Ohio and New Jersey—two Northern States—was legal. The right of a State, by action of its legislature, to change its mind, at any time before the final proclamation of ratification is issued by the Secretary of State has been confirmed in connection with other constitutional amendments.

10. The Oregon Legislature in October 1868—three months after the Secretary’s proclamation was issued—passed a rescinding resolution, which argued that the “Fourteenth Amendment” had not been ratified by three-fourths of the States and that the “ratifications” in the Southern States were “usurpations, unconstitutional, revolutionary and void” and that, “until such ratification is completed, any State has a right to withdraw its assent to any proposed amendment.”

What Others Say

What do the historians say about all this? The Encyclopedia Americana states: “Reconstruction added humiliation to suffering... Eight years of crime, fraud, and corruption followed and it was State legislatures composed of Negroes, carpetbaggers and scalawags who obeyed the orders of the generals and ratified the amendment.”

W. E. Woodward, in his famous work, “A New American History," published in 1936, says: “To get a clear idea of the succession of events let us review (President Andrew) Johnson's actions in respect to the ex-Confederate States. “In May, 1865, he issued a Proclamation of Amnesty to former rebels. Then he established provisional governments in all the Southern States. They were instructed to call Constitutional Conventions. They did. New State governments were elected. White men only had the suffrage (the Fifteenth Amendment establishing equal voting rights had not yet been passed). “Senators and Representatives were chosen, but when they appeared at the opening of Congress they were refused permission. The State governments, however, continued to function during 1866. “Now we are in 1867. In the early days of that year (Thaddeus) Stevens brought in, as chairman of the House Reconstruction Committee, a bill that proposed to sweep all the Southern State governments into the wastebasket. The South was to be put under military rule. “The bill passed. It was vetoed by Johnson and passed again over his veto. In the Senate it was amended in such fashion that any State could escape from military rule and be restored to its full rights by ratifying the Fourteenth Amendment and admitting black as well as white men to the polls.”

In challenging its constitutionality, President Andrew Johnson said in his veto message: “I submit to Congress whether this measure is not in its whole character, scope and object without precedent and without authority, in palpable conflict with the plainest provisions of the Constitution, and utterly destructive of those great principles of liberty and humanity for which our ancestors on both sides of the Atlantic have shed so much blood and expended so much treasure.”

Many historians have applauded Johnson’s words. Samuel Eliot Morison and Henry Steele Commager, known today as “liberals,” wrote in their book, “The Growth of the American Republic”: “Johnson returned the bill with a scorching message arguing the unconstitutionality of the whole thing, and most impartial students have agreed with his reasoning.”

James Truslow Adams, another noted historian, writes in his “History of the United States”: “The Supreme Court had decided three months earlier, in the Milligan case, that military courts were unconstitutional except under such war conditions as might make the operation of civil courts impossible, but the President pointed out in vain that practically the whole of the new legislation was unconstitutional. “There was even talk in Congress of impeaching the Supreme Court for its decisions! The legislature had run amok and was threatening both the Executive and the Judiciary.”

Actually, President Johnson was impeached, but the move failed by one vote in the Senate. The Supreme Court, in case after case, refused to pass on illegal activities involved in “ratification.” It said simply that they were acts of the “political departments of the Government.” This, of course, was a convenient device of avoidance. The Court has adhered to that position ever since Reconstruction Days.

Andrew C. McLaughlin, whose “Constitutional History of the United States” is a standard work, writes: “Can a State which is not a State and not recognized as such by Congress, perform the supreme duty of ratifying an amendment to the fundamental law? Or does a State—by congressional thinking—cease to be a State for some purposes but not for others?”

This is the tragic history of the so-called “Fourteenth Amendment”—a record that is a disgrace to free government and a “government of law.” Isn't the use of military force to override local government what we deplored in Hungary?

Never Too Late

It is never too late to correct injustice. The people of America should have an opportunity to pass on an amendment to the Constitution that sets forth the right of the Federal Government to control education and regulate attendance at public schools either with federal power alone or concurrently with the States. That's the honest way, the just way to deal with the problem of segregation or integration in the schools. Until such an amendment is adopted, the “Fourteenth Amendment” should be considered as null and void. There is only one supreme tribunal—it is the people themselves. Their sovereign will is expressed through the procedures set forth in the Constitution itself.