Artist's conceptions released by the Fraternity Committee this week for student inspection and suggestion picture both duplex and single units
for the proposed fraternity court which would be located on the present golf course directly north of the tennis courts.
Committee officials emphasized that the fate of the project rested in the hands of student reaction and opinion. The cost
for the single unit is estimated at $26,000 while that for the duplex at $38,000, or $19,000 for each fraternity.

VOL. XLV DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, MARCH 8, 1957

BALLOTING IN UNION Spring Elections To Begin Monday

Nominations for student body offices were made in chapel this morning. Officers to be chosen are president of the student
body, two vice-presidents, and a secretary-treasurer. All men nominated for offices were to signify their willingness to run by signing
a statement to that effect in the College Union by this afternoon. Voting will take place Monday, March 11, in
the Union, with the polls open from 10:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. The procedure for voting will be relatively simple.
Students will go to the appropriate table, have their names checked off the student body list, and receive a ballot.
Tables will be provided upon which to mark the ballot. If the weather will permit, the balloting will take place
on the veranda of the Union. Ballots will be tabulated by the Elections Board, with the results announced at the
fraternity boarding houses during the evening meal. The individual fraternities’ board member will be responsible for reading the list of
those elected or remaining on the ballot. Speeches will be made by those candidates remaining in the race for president
in Chapel on March 15. This new system of elections will be tested on the student body offices alone. After
these elections, the board will evaluate the merits of the new system and will make recommendations concerning its future use.
Two changes have been made in the personnel of the Elections Board. Clifford Lovin is the new Campus Club representative
and Hunter Warlick has taken over the position for Sigma Phi Epsilon. Elections Board chairman, Tom Morgan, expressed strong hope
that this new system of voting in the Union will be supported by the students, urging everyone to vote in
order to ensure the election of candidates representing the true choice of the students.

BRINGING REFUGEE FAMILY TO SCHOOL

At the close of the Tuesday chapel service, the Davidson College student body voted overwhelmingly in favor of investigating the
possibility of bringing to Davidson a refugee family which would be related to the college in some official capacity. This
action was precipitated by a desire to use the amount of money still remaining in the 1956-57 College Gift Fund
for continuing to help in alleviating the refugee problem in the United States. Bunny Perkinson presented three alternatives for the
use of the undesignated money. These were: (1) Offering a Davidson scholarship to a foreign student, preferably a Hungarian student,
for the 1957-58 school term; (2) Bringing a refugee academic family to Davidson; (3) Financing the settlement of another non-academic
family in the community. The families indicated in the last two alternatives would also preferably be Hungarians. By confining attention
and efforts solely to Hungarians, the Davidson students would also be providing kindred friends for the Hocsaks. Regarding the second
alternative, Perkinson disclosed that a particular Hungarian professor and family were already in mind. Approximately $3000 has been given to
this year’s Gift Fund, with $500 still to be collected from unpaid pledges. The initial expenses incurred in establishing the
Hocsak family in Davidson have not been as much as was originally anticipated.

Dr. Cleland to Speak At Sunday Vespers

Dr. James T. Cleland, Dean of the Chapel and James B. Duke, Professor of Preaching at Duke University, will speak
at vespers this Sunday evening. A native of Glasgow, Scotland, Dr. Cleland attended Glasgow University, where he received his M.A.
and B.D., and later earned the degrees of S.T.B. and Th.D. at Union Theological Seminary in New York City.

Blake Flies To Hungary, Pleads For Churchmen

Revealing top secret activities approaching the cloak and dagger level, Dr. Eugene Carson Blake has given the explanation for his
cancelling of a whole week’s appointments, including Davidson’s Winter Services, in early February. For security purposes, a vague report of
being grounded in Paris was circulated, while Dr. Blake made a daring trip to Budapest for several days of urgent
conferences with the Communist Minister of Church Affairs in Hungary, Janos Horvath. With Dr. W. A. Visser 't Hooft, Executive
Secretary of the World Council of Churches, Dr. Blake, himself a member of the Executive Committee of the World Council,
flew to the heart of rebellion-torn Hungary. There, conferences of utmost importance were held in an effort to bring all
possible pressure from the Protestant world upon the Communists in behalf of a number of ministers and parishioners of the
Hungarian Reformed Church. Many of these were on the verge of death before firing squads while the rest were facing
life imprisonment. Two situations have created the extreme difficulties the members (Continued on Page Four)

Four Students Attend Ministry Conference

Four Davidson students attended the Conference on the Christian Ministry at Union Theological Seminary in New York City last Friday,
Saturday, and Sunday. The students were Grier Davis, Charlie Helms, Allen Frye, and Jimmy Jones. The conference was designed primarily
for college men undecided about their life work, including those who had not previously considered a church vocation.

Phi Zeta Kappa Chooses Nine From 1957 Class

Nine seniors representing five states were elected to membership in North Carolina Gamma Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa, honorary scholastic
fraternity, Dr. J. Wilson McCutchan, chapter secretary, announced today.

Electric Chair Ends Fields’ Crime Career

Three years and one month after raiding Davidson dormitories, Jennings E. Fields was strapped in the electric chair for his
last sitting. It was the seventh time Fields had a date with the chair, but successive appeals had postponed the
electrocution for two and a half years. In a final appeal to permit testimony by his wife, made only four
hours before the appointed time, the State Board of Pardons and Paroles failed to be moved, declining also to take
action that the sentence be commuted to life imprisonment. In March 1954, Fields entered Davidson dormitories, stealing approximately $350 and
threatening two students at gunpoint. His escapade then took him to Clemson College for a similar round of activities. Hot
on his trail by leads provided by “Cop” Linker, the police captured him in DeKalb County, Georgia. En route to
jail for questioning about the thefts, Fields grabbed a gun and killed patrolman James Mize. Fields violently displayed his desire
not to sit in the chair. After cutting both his wrists in a daring suicide try while talking, his arms
were...Promptly sewed up by the doctor. Then, putting up such a tremendous resistance that guards were needed to control him,
Fields slugged one of them. Finally, sitting in the chair moments before electrocution, Fields shouted, “I love everybody... I want
everyone to forgive me.”

Honored For Scholarship
Named to Phi Beta Kappa, the apex of scholastic achievement at Davidson, are: First row, (l. to r.) Bill Daniel,
John Gilmer, Basil Sharp, Emory Kimbrough; second row, (l. to r.) Phil Kukura, Dan LaFar, Leon Howell, Ed Young; and
(third row) Bob Campbell.

Committee Offers Two Proposals For New Court Set Up
This capital outlay by the college would necessitate a monthly rent of $180, not including heat, light, and water. The
duplex cost is estimated at $38,000 or $19,000 per fraternity. This would result in a rent of $130 a month.
At the present time, fraternities pay $40 a month to the college in rent for the court houses. This, of
course, does not include rent paid for boarding houses by the fraternities. It is estimated that a typical fraternity pays
approximately $60 a month for its boarding house. This makes a present total of $100 rent per month as opposed
to $130 or $180 in the new court. The obvious advantages of a modern, convenient house are balanced against this
increase in rent.

In pointing out the differences in single and duplex plans to the committee, College Treasurer D. G. Martin estimated that
under the single unit plan operating expenses would be $175 higher than under a joint or duplex system. He based
his estimate on the fact that in a joint operation only one dietician and one chief cook would be needed.
Food prices would also be slightly lower because of the greater opportunity for quantity buying. Mr. Martin announced to the
committee that undesignated funds had been secured to pay for the preparation of the site.

Bob Campbell, Bill Daniel, Johnny Gilmer, Leon Howell, Emory Kimbrough, Phil Kukura, Dan LaFar, Basil Sharp, and Ed Young have
fulfilled requirements for the Society. Established at Davidson in 1923, Phi Beta Kappa recognizes students who have maintained superior academic
standing during their stay here. The new candidates have established outstanding records in fields other than those related to scholarship.
Those who have fulfilled the requirements are:

BOB CAMPBELL
Campbell, a pre-med major from Taylorsville, North Carolina, is a member of Kappa Sigma social fraternity. He was an end
on the football team and plays outfield on the baseball squad. Bob is also a member of Alpha Epsilon Delta,
national honorary pre-med fraternity.

BILL DANIEL
President of his fraternity, Sigma Phi Epsilon, Daniel is from Jacksonville, Florida. He is doing history honors work and served
as president of Eumenean Literary Society last semester.

JOHNNY GILMER
A senior from Bristol, Tennessee, Gilmer is a chemistry major of the Honorary Fraternity Council and Gamma Sigma Epsilon, national
honorary chemistry fraternity. A Baker Scholar, Gilmer is an ROTC Battalion Commander, a Distinguished Military Student, and a member of
Who's Who.

LEON HOWELL
Doing English honors work, Howell is from Copperhill, Tennessee. He is a member of Beta (Continued on Page Four)

Drake Named New Sociology Professor
Dr. Joseph T. Drake has been named professor of Sociology at Davidson, Dean C. J. Pietenpol announced this week. Dr.
Drake comes here from the University of Tennessee where he is Associate Professor of Sociology. Dr. Drake is a member
of the 1934 graduating class of Davidson. He holds a Ph.D. from the University of North Carolina. Dr. Drake fills
the vacancy created by the resignation of Dr. Malcolm McAfee, who has accepted a position at Stanford University as minister
to Presbyterian Students there. Drake's original home was Port Gibson, Mississippi. During World War II, Dr. Drake advanced to the
rank of Major in the Army. He is married and has one son.

Nominating Committee
Mr. D. R. LaFar of Gastonia will lead the Trustee Nominating Committee in its search for the next president of
Davidson College. In a telephone conversation Wednesday night, Dr. J. McDowell Richards, Board President and ex-officio member of the committee,
stated that Mr. LaFar had been elected chairman at the first meeting of the committee which was held March 1
in Richmond, Virginia. The Rev. Fred Stair of Hickory will serve as secretary of the group. The meeting was of
an organizational nature, at which time plans were mapped for the preliminary steps in locating a man to recommend to
the Board of Trustees as a successor to Dr. John R. Cunningham, whose unexpected resignation struck the last meeting of
the Trustees. The committee will meet again within the next two weeks, when names will be discussed and sifted for
the first time. Chairman LaFar, also contacted by telephone, declined to name the exact date and location of the next
meeting. He emphasized that the nature of the first meeting was purely organizational and that no names had been officially
considered.

Bus-Eco Club Presents Sears-Roebuck Film
The Business-Economics Association will hold its second meeting of the semester Wednesday, March 13, at 8 p.m., in the Ballroom
of the College Union. A representative of Sears Roebuck from Atlanta will address the group. A film supplementing his talk
will also be presented.
