The Davidsonian
THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE
PAGE FOUR FRIDAY, OCTOBER 4, 1957

Rush Week Confirmation Should Be Out Of Fraternities’ Hands

It is apparent that some changes must be made in the present system of confirming dates for Rush Week parties.
The confusion and alleged irregularities that went on during the Monday afternoon confirmation period make clear the necessity for a
revised system. What is needed is a plan that will take the whole matter out of the hands of the
fraternity men and put the sole decisions in the hands of the freshmen and the I.F.C.

Take Away Pressure

The new system must take away from the fraternity men the opportunity to pressure the prospective rushees into giving a
particular fraternity dates in general, or certain dates in particular. At present the Interfraternity Council is working on such a
plan. A committee was appointed before Rush Week began. This committee, headed by Charles Stowe, is to evaluate Rush Week
and to make recommendations for improvements.

It has been suggested by some that we abolish the present method of having fraternity men rush into the dorms
on Monday afternoon to confirm the dates and then to hurry over to the master charts to make permanent these
dates.

Suggested Plan

Instead, it is suggested that the IFC handle the matter itself. Such a plan might work as thus:
1. The IFC give to every freshman a regular sheet of paper. On this paper, the freshman would write out
the schedule they wanted for the first three nights of Rush Week. Their choices of fraternities, of course, would depend
upon the date cards they had received prior to confirmation. This schedule would be handed to the IFC and would
serve as a master chart for the IFC.
2. In addition, each fraternity would be assigned a box. At a prescribed time, every freshman would drop into the
various boxes date cards telling that particular fraternity when they have dates with the rushee.

Advantages

Such a system seems to have many advantages. First, it would eliminate any pressures to visit a particular fraternity. Secondly,
it could be executed within thirty minutes. Thirdly, it would rule out the conflicts and hard feelings between the different
fraternities. This same procedure may be used for the return dates on Thursday and Friday nights. Some changes must be
made in the present system. This plan seems to eliminate the difficulties of the present one.

Phone Needs Regulation

The direct telephone exchange to Charlotte is one of the best services to come our way in a long time.
The problems of waiting in line to use the phone, however, take away much of the pleasure and convenience of
the new service. Could not some system be worked out whereby students would not have to crowd around the steps
and the TV room waiting for the phone? Perhaps the student on duty at the Union desk could be in
charge of regulating the use of the phone. It would be a lot more convenient for everyone if some system
could be devised so that a student could make constructive use of his time while waiting for the telephone.

One such suggestion would be the numbers method. The man on duty at the Union could give each student a
number, and at the end of every five minutes he would call out the next number which had the right
to use the phone. At least this method would give students some idea of how long they must wait. The
College Union has gotten a lot more business because of the telephone exchange. They would be doing the student body
a needed service if they helped to regulate its use.

Another Milestone

Tuesday night’s drawing for locations on the new fraternity court marked another milestone in the history of Davidson's fraternity system.
It is perhaps too early to predict what ultimate effect the new houses will have on the administration’s and students’
philosophy toward fraternities. Maybe the new court will bring with it different ideas about certain social restrictions now on the
books. Probably any significant modifications, however, will be long in coming. Nevertheless, it is certain that the new court will
make more sure the fraternity system on this campus.

Last spring the DAVIDSONIAN said that the administration’s backing of the court meant ‘100% endorsement of the fraternity system.” Certainly
Tuesday night's drawing, led by Mr. D. Grier Martin and Dr. William G. McGavock, is further evidence that fraternities are
a permanent institution within the college system. Davidson is blessed with many desirable features. One of these is a stable
group of good fraternities. In this present era when the entire fraternity system is under attack by those who would
seek to destroy it, we can be thankful that the faculty and administration of Davidson College have reasserted their support.

Neophytes

Rumblings of discontent have been heard from both sides concerning the Monday morning meetings Freshmen are required to attend with
their faculty advisor. Perhaps it might be well to review the purposes of these faculty-freshmen sessions that were instituted a
few years ago. First, there should be a discussion of the academic requirements of the College. Secondly, any errors in
registration should be corrected. And finally, and most important, here is an opportunity for the newcomers to ask the questions
that they would hesitate to ask before the entire Freshman Class, or the whole student body.

—G.L.W.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF John Johnson
BUSINESS MANAGER Bob Lathan
ASSISTANT EDITOR Laurens Walker
Sports Editor George Ramsey
Feature Editor Jim Morris
Copy Editor Julian Aldridge
News Editor Bruce Brooks
Associate Editor John Trask, Jr.
Managing Editors Pat Henderson, Gerald Wilson
Assignments Bill Patton
Cartoonists Bross, Cole
Photographer Ed Stevens
Advertising Manager Henry Samuels
Circulation Manager Marshall Chapman, Lee Mayfield

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

COMMITTEE MEETS THIS WEEK

Curriculum Revisions Called Key To Future

By LAURENS WALKER

The Faculty Curriculum Committee met last night to begin the long and no doubt painful task of hammering out a
modern curriculum for Davidson. It's difficult to say what will be accomplished this year, or even next, for someone once
said that changing a college curriculum was as hard to do as moving a graveyard. One thing is certain. If
Davidson is to remain a leader in the field of liberal arts education, some revisions must be made.

Modern educational thought proposes that the real need of the college student is an opportunity to gain a broad base
of understanding and general knowledge while in college. Technical training can come later, but the chance to gain understanding and
a view of the “big picture” may never come after college years.

SCATTERED AND DIVIDED

Does Davidson now offer this opportunity? I think not. The largest part of the curriculum seems to be an opportunity
to gain miscellaneous information, scattered and divided data, and specialized skills. The ideal of unified insight finds no haven among
the quadratic equations, verb declensions, physics formulas and the like which continually beset us. What we need are not courses
which teach one to be a physicist, but courses that give one an understanding of its basic theories and its
importance in the modern world; not math courses designed to teach one to factor, but designed to explain the reasoning
behind such mathematical manipulation.

Let me be more specific.

BIBLE COURSE

I would suggest that the Bible course be revised to require one year of Bible, during which both the Old
and New Testament would be taken up. The amount of material to be covered would doubtless remove much of the
time spent discussing whose father was who, a practice of questionable religious value. A second year should be required in
comparative religions or philosophy of religion in which the entire picture of religion could be obtained.

“Davidson College is a small liberal arts institution designed to give individual attention to each student,”

LETTERS TO EDITOR

“Rights” Stand Attacked

Dear Editor:

Once again the cry of ‘States Rights” was sounded in last week's DAVIDSONIAN. And President Eisenhower was viciously attacked for
using Federal troops to restore peace in Little Rock. Certainly, it is the privilege of every American citizen to voice
such criticism, but let us examine just what States’ Rights were violated, and who violated them.

FLOUTED DUTY

As the editor pointed out, it is the States’ right and duty to preserve and enforce peace in the State.
However, an objective study of the Little Rock situation reveals that this important function of the State was intentionally and
inexcusably flouted by the one man who is directly responsible for the maintenance of peace in the State—Governor Faubus.

By calling out the National Guard, Governor Faubus not only profaned the duty entrusted to him by the citizens of
Arkansas, but actually stimulated the mob violence and mass hysteria that last week shocked all followers of American Democracy.

NO ALTERNATIVE

I am the first to recognize the tragedy of using the United States Army to enforce the law of our
country. But in Little Rock there was no alternative. The scathing racial hate which had been incited into the people
by the wanton action of Faubus and other white supremacists, had reached such an extreme that no longer was it
possible to preserve the peace solely by local and state police.

DON STEIN

Dear Editor:

I was very disappointed in your editorial last...Week concerning Eisenhower and the Little Rock situation. Mr. Eisenhower has not “broken
faith with the spirit and meaning of the Constitution of the United States.” He has not “denied the state of
Arkansas the right to handle its own affairs” or “prevented it from performing one of its natural functions.”

UNREPEALED STATUTES

It is true that Congress has recently voted down the civil rights bill and repealed a law permitting the President
to use federal forces in civil rights cases. But according to Dean F. D. G. Ribble of the University of
Virginia Law School, a noted authority on constitutional law, there are statutes in the U. S. Code which have not
been repealed and which provide that “when the President considers that unlawful obstruction or assemblages make it impracticable to enforce
the laws of the United States by ordinary course of judicial proceedings, he may call into the federal service such
of the militia and use such of the armed forces as he thinks necessary.” When the President saw that the
forces of the state of Arkansas were not adequately handling the situation, he legally and justly invoked federal power to
uphold federal law.

CARTER DANIEL

Fraternity Court Problems

By JOHN TOUMARAS

The opening of the Patterson Fraternity Court next fall presents the solutions to the problems of crowded fraternity houses and,
in many instances, overcrowded, dilapidated, and outmoded boarding houses. The move to construct the new houses was undoubtedly the right
one under the circumstances, but the wisdom of taking such a step without first considering the problems engendered by the
new houses is to be questioned. The court is, in a sense, a reality, but the problems are far from
being definitely resolved.

RENT INEQUALITY

One problem produced by the court is that of rent. The inequality in numbers of men in each fraternity makes
the payment of rent by each fraternity completely ridiculous. Fraternities with sixty to seventy or more members would probably encounter
no difficulty in making its payments, but consider the plight of the smaller fraternities. A higher rent would mean higher
dues; higher dues quite possibly would mean fewer pledges; and soon the fraternities would begin to die. A system whereby
each member of the fraternities would pay an equal share of the total rent of the entire system as a
part of his general fees is, perhaps, the best answer to the problem which has been offered to date. Recent
remarks by Dr. McGavock and Mr. Martin lead this writer to believe that such a solution will be adopted.

BOARD BILLS

The problem of board, however, still remains. The inequality of fraternity membership would mean that the larger fraternities would be
able to eat better and cheaper than smaller fraternities. In order for the smaller fraternities to eat as well as
the larger ones, board bills would have to be raised. And so once again fewer pledges are obtained and the
fraternity dies. It seems that both the problems of rent and board could be easily resolved by the use of
a “preferential bidding system.” This would not mean that the fraternity system would have to absorb those individuals that it
considered to be undesirable. Rushing and bidding would be in the accustomed manner. Each fraternity, however, would be limited to
the number of pledges that it could obtain. In several years all fraternities would have equal memberships and therefore rent
and board per individual would be equal.

A general science course would be of value with physics, chemistry, biology, and astronomy considered for equal periods of time.
Emphasis would be placed on theory and understanding rather than on problem solving which is too much the case now.
It might be necessary to rotate professors as the subject matter changed, but this could be worked out with little
confusion if well planned. The math department has made marked progress with its 11 courses. This type of course should
be expanded and carefully studied to make certain that all the possible benefits are being gotten out of it. The
possibility of a semester on campus could be of speech, the fine arts, creative writing, and others deserve consideration. It
is quite possible, now, for a man to graduate from Davidson and not even know who Bach was, much less
have an appreciation for his music and the reasons for his greatness. This situation should be corrected.

SMOKE AND FIRE

This issue of curriculum change will doubtless not bring forth any great oratory or epic literature, but it is certainly
the most important thing happening at Davidson this year. An interested student body can do much to ensure that at
least a little fire will come out of the smoke that is about to be generated.

Dear Boxholder

By PHIL LEWIS

Well, the honeymoon is about over, and a lot of people are learning that attempting to fit the 25-hour Davidson
Standard Day into the normal one causes much confusion. Both on the college level and on the fraternity level, the
Freshman has discovered that far from being king, he is now little better than an amoeba. Big Brother is once
again observing closely.

Standing Room Only

Lessons are causing serious interference in the most important things around campus, but standing room only crowds surround every TV
set. After all, the battle between the Yankees and the Braves is far more important than that between Knowledge and
Ignorance, at least for the time being. Bob Jones’ face really turned red Tuesday when he drew his own fraternity
first. Everyone seemed pretty well satisfied with the locations, especially those in the northwest corner.

Wee Hours

Speaking of fraternities, we heard that the Betas had a large crowd of visitors in the wee hours of last
Saturday morning. We guess all the “Dear Boxholder” letters had been sent, and they had nothing better to do. We
were talking to Tom Cutting, and he feels he is recovering quite well indeed from the knee operation he underwent
last month. He also remarked that he heard a campaign is underway to change the name of Chambers Building. Seems
like that’s the thing to do nowadays. When in doubt

COFFEE BREAK

Rush Week: An Evaluation

By JOHN BERNHARDT

Rush Week of 1957 is now a thing of the past. It was the hardest fought and, in fact, the
dirtiest Rush Week most of the upperclassmen can recall. But should it be so strenuous? Should such emphasis and effort
be put into Rush Week? Fraternity has been by far the most important factor in the lives of the Davidson
students this last week, but it is not like that all the time. Only during Rush Week do boys who
normally are friends stop speaking to each other, and neighboring fraternities slash at each other with genuine hatred. Everyone puts
studies at the very last of the list of “things that really ought to get done sometime-or-other.”

SUSPENSION OF VALUES

Conscientious boys who usually stay well within their moral limits, under the strain of the competitive mania support or carry
out policies they would abhor at other times. Rules are kept only by straining at interpretations, and then only because
of fear of punishment. In short, there is a brief but total suspension of values. Fraternities are the cause of
this, but we do not keep up this emphasis throughout the rest of the year; with a sigh of relief
we return to the customary patterns, the normally accepted morals and friendships, and the comparative de-emphasis of fraternities. We have
given a false impression, and the burden of it is beginning to hit the pledges now. They have been sold
on the line that Fraternity is everything, and that their fraternity would like very much to have them as brothers.

ANTI-CLIMAX

Now, after Saturday's pledging, the climax of the entire year for the fraternity has been passed, and the brothers all
tend to drop the fraternity and forget the pledges. If we seriously thought the fraternity was worth suspending all morals
and duties for, we should try now more than ever to make of the pledges and fraternity something worth having.
Some hold that the fraternities on the Davidson campus are nothing more than “eating clubs,” where friends get together for
meals. This may be selling them short, but certainly nobody could claim that here they are party-giving social clubs or
civic-minded service groups. Perhaps these might be good approaches to try, at least for the novelty. But no matter how
loose the fraternal ties may be, the fraternities do mold the boys in them just as any consistent association may
do. This fact calls for an evaluation of the fraternity. Does it develop the full potentials of its members?

FRESH MATERIAL

There is now fresh material, ready to form and be formed by the group. Every rusher who said his fraternity
was the best should look at it now, free from Rush Week fever, to see if it really is forming
the boys in the way that is best. They should be developing properly in education, ability to lead and to
work, skill in athletics, social poise and manners, and general outlook on life. If the fraternity does not do this
for them, it has been false to its rushees, and will disappoint and fail with its pledges. Last week we
gave up all our old values for the over-mastering love of the fraternity. The I.F.C. is readjusting the rules. It
is up to us to evaluate our thinking about Rush Week and to readjust the fraternities along whatever lines will
truly make them the best.
