HISTORY OF TOMMY PETERS AWARD READERS WRITE LETTERS TO EDITOR (PAGE THREE) (Page Two) The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C. FRIDAY, MAY 3, 1957 No. 25

ODK Ceremony Taps New Members

Smyth, New Council Take Office

Six Juniors, Dr. Ford, One Senior Chosen

Omicron Delta Kappa tapped seven members of the student body and one member of the faculty for membership in spring ceremonies at Chapel yesterday. Those elected to membership were John Trask, John C. Bernhardt, Lloyd Chapin, Bill Bondurant, John Gilmer, David Bradford, Ross Smyth, and Professor Harold P. Ford.

Oath Administered in Chapel Service

Dan LaFar installed Ross Smyth as Student Body president in the Student Council inauguration this morning. In his final speech as Student Body president, LaFar charged the Council to uphold the Honor System and to strive to maintain harmonious relations with other internal College organizations and with the outside as well.

After his installation, Smyth gave his acceptance speech and defined the four qualities necessary to be a leader as capacity, character, courage, and commitment. Said Smyth, “I think we have an excellent Student Council to work with next year. I would like to encourage students to bring their problems to us so that we might be most effective in meeting their needs.”

Professor Ford is known to many of the members of the student body for his wide interest in student affairs. He has recently served as co-chairman of the Winter Services Committee. Ford will return to Washington next year as a special advisor to the State Department on Far Eastern Affairs.

John Trask, a rising senior from Beaufort, S.C., is editor of the DAVIDSONIAN. He is in his second year as Kappa Alpha’s representative to the Inter-Fraternity Council. John is also chairman of the Publications Board and a member of the International Relations Club, D Club, and was a member of the Chapel Choir his Freshman year.

John Bernhardt of Kappa Sigma has been elected President of the Senior Class of ‘58. He has filled two other student body offices serving as secretary of the Sophomore class and as a vice-president of the student body. John is from Lenoir, N.C.

Lloyd Chapin, a rising senior from Charlotte, N.C., has previously been secretary-treasurer and vice-president of the Student Body. He holds membership in the Beaver Club, D Club, and was a member of the Chapel Choir his Freshman year. He is a past recipient of the Howard Chemistry Award and has served as secretary-treasurer of the Student Body this year and was president of the YMCA. Lloyd has held office on the Y Cabinet and the newspaper staff.

Bill Bondurant will be President of the Student Body next year. Bill Bondurant has been active in student government and has served as president of his fraternity, Sigma Alpha Epsilon, as Rush Chairman. The two vice-presidents are Tom Cutting and John Kuykendall. John Johnson observed that a dietitian would become a sort of housemother in that she would be required to maintain quarters in the houses.

New Developments

Four more Davidson fraternities have completed their spring elections. The Pi Kapps elected John Frye, archon; George Sutcliffe, secretary; Bob Keown, treasurer; Gil Grossman, boarding house manager; and Joe Huskins, IFC representative. Gary Maynard was elected president of Kappa Sigma. Others were: Marshall Sasser, first vice president; John Bernhardt, second vice-president; Sam Sloan, secretary; Craig Wall, treasurer; Arthur Lynn, boarding house manager; and Charlie Stowe, IFC representative. Alpha Theta Phi chose Randy Daniel, president; Ben Farley, vice-president; Leland Edmunds, secretary; and Bob MacRae, IFC representative. The Sigma Chis selected Grier Davis, president; Roger Bates, vice-president; Graham McKinnon, secretary; Lachicotte Zemp, treasurer; William Hunt, boarding house manager; and Vernon Anderson, IFC representative.

Dance Weekend Plans Unveiled

President Smyth announced the IFC has plans for Rush Week and the Dance Weekends for the 1957-58 school year. Rush Week will begin Monday, September 23, and will continue through Saturday, September 28. Generally, Rush Week will be held as it was for this past school year with confirmation in the Union by means of a central board. Freshmen will place return date cards in boxes in Chambers and the IFC will handle all confirmation. Formal pledging will be Saturday afternoon, September 28, from 2 p.m. to 3:30 p.m. Mimeographed forms will be sent to all fraternities.

Fraternities In Favor Of New System

By JOE VERREAULT
Davidsonian Staff Reporter

Ten fraternities were in favor of a new arrangement, one preferred the status quo, and one has not yet voted. According to Mr. Martin, the College treasurer, the results of the voting would be influential in the Trustees’ final decision. Mr. Martin said the voting indicated a strong sentiment on the part of the students for the new system, but there was a possibility that the question of limiting fraternity membership would be considered later.

Grier Martin suggested two possibilities: first, that the size and bidding of each fraternity be restricted and/or that a fraternity house fee be paid by each fraternity man on a semester basis. John Johnson observed that a dietitian would become a sort of housemother in that she would be required to maintain quarters in the houses. Dr. McGavock and Mr. Martin parried the question by admitting that the necessity of her residence comes from altered location, size, and circumstances which necessitate the constant presence of a responsible person.

A lively opposition to this was ignored. Results of the poll also indicate that the students prefer a system whereby each man would pay a flat rate each semester, rather than one in which each fraternity would pay its own. Mr. Martin said that if this system were adopted, the size of the new houses would be apportioned.

How They Voted

A breakdown of fraternity voting:
Present Single Duplex
ATP 4 12 4
ATO 1 44 3
Beta 8 51 0
KA 0 66 0
KS 8 31 6
Pika 7 32 0
PiKapps 26 9 0
SAE 0 47 0

Ernest Gordon To Speak At Vespers

The Rev. Ernest Gordon of Princeton will speak at Vespers Sunday. Also, the Sullins College Choir will sing. Dr. John Rood Cunningham, the President of Davidson College, will deliver the Commencement address at 9:45 a.m. The ROTC Department will hold ceremonies for each individual instance by her and the fraternity. No definite arrangements have been made yet.sparked several questions. The housemother’s first responsibility, although she will be approved by the College, will be to the individual fraternity. The extent of her authority will be negotiated directly in confirmation.

College regulations specify that all signs and notices should be restricted to the bulletin boards. There has been an increasing number of signs placed on doors, walls, and windows.

AWARDS DAY
Outstanding Students Honored In Chapel

Outstanding Davidson College students were honored in Chapel Tuesday in the annual Awards Day ceremonies. In chapel services before the student body, members of the faculty and staff announced the winners of prizes and scholarships. President John R. Cunningham presided.

Dean Clarence J. Pietenpol awarded the prize for the highest average in a freshman general physics course to Larry Baggett of Orlando, Fla. C. Shaw Smith, Director of Student Activities, awarded the Tommy Peters Memorial trophy to Donnie McRee of Newton, N.C. The award goes to the senior athlete best exemplifying the spirit of Tommy Peters, an outstanding Davidson athlete from Kingsport, Tenn., who was killed in action in World War II.

Dr. James Y. Causey awarded the James Wilkerson Jervey award to George Kemmerer of Bristol, Penna. The award is to the rising senior excelling in Spanish and is in honor of Jervey, a 1953 graduate from Greenville, S.C., who died in South America while studying under a graduate scholarship.

Prof. John P. Williams awarded the A. K. Phifer scholarships in business and economics to (Continued On Back Page)

Scabbard & Blade Chooses Officers

Ned Payne was elected Captain of Davidson's chapter of Scabbard and Blade, honorary military fraternity, Tuesday, April 23. Charles Stowe was elected to the office of First Lieutenant; Ken Forrester is to serve as Second Lieutenant. First Sergeant is to be Roger Powell. These positions correspond to president, vice-president, treasurer, and secretary respectively. This slate of officers will serve during the 1957-58 school year.

REV. GORDON

Donald B. Aldrich, who retired after an eight-year incumbency. A native of Greenock, Scotland, Mr. Gordon was called to Princeton in 1954 as Presbyterian Chaplain to supervise the activities of the Westminster Foundation which carries on work with the undergraduates in cooperation with the University and the local churches. After studying at St. Andrews University, Edinburgh University, Hartford Theological Seminary, and Glasgow University, he was ordained in the Church of Scotland at Paisley Abbey in 1950 and for the next three years was a deputy minister there. Founded in 1163, the Abbey lists among its early pastors John Witherspoon, sixth President of Princeton, and Thomas Woodrow, maternal grandfather of Woodrow Wilson, the University’s thirteenth President, whose mother, prior to her marriage to an Ulster-Scott, was Miss Jessie Woodrow.

At 4 p.m. is the annual Class Day program. The Davidson College Band will give a concert at 8 p.m. Rev. Warner Hall, pastor of the Covenant Presbyterian Church in Charlotte, will deliver the Baccalaureate Address at 11 a.m., Sunday in the College Church. Sunday evening will feature a buffet supper for the seniors and their parents, friends, and guests. Monday morning at 10:15 the academic procession will begin, with graduation being held at 10:30 in Chambers Auditorium. Dr. Cunningham will deliver the Commencement Address, and several honorary degrees will be conferred.

High interest was shown by the varied questions arising from the considerable crowd of students and faculty. Dr. Schenck inquired as to the possibility of a professional catering system serving the campus. The rent scale, the chances of buying a house, the structure of the houses themselves, all led to student inquiries and comments. In summation, Mr. Martin observed, “In changing from an existing plan to a new one, you acquire a good many advantages, but you also lose some in the transition.”

Union Will Present Crusade Program

The union forum committee and the YMCA committee for better citizenship will sponsor a program on the Crusade for Freedom on May 9, in the union ballroom. The operation of Radio Free Europe and other projects sponsored by the Crusade for Freedom will be featured on the program. Chuck Houser of the Charlotte Observer will speak on his trip behind the iron curtain last summer and a movie, “Lifeline to Freedom,” will be shown. In conjunction with the program, a display showing the work of the Crusade for Freedom will be placed in the lobby of Chambers.

Several agencies have been contacted, and the band for Spring Frolics will be selected before school is out.

Taus Take Blood Drive Second Time

Blood donations this spring for the Davidson College Blood Drive increased 5 pints over last fall with a total of 370 pints. ATO had the highest percentage of membership giving blood with 82%. The Sigma Chis, Phi Delta, and Sig Eps placed second, third, and fourth. Since the ATOs also won in the fall blood drive, they will receive a plaque signifying the highest percentage given for the whole year. The blood drive was under the joint sponsorship of the Interfraternity Council and the R.O.T.C. Department. Final tabulation for the fraternity contest is as follows:

Alpha Tau Omega 82%
Sigma Chi 71%
Phi Delta Theta 61%
Sigma Phi Epsilon 60%
Beta Theta Pi 54%
Kappa Sigma 51%
Pi Kappa Phi 49%
Phi Gamma Delta 43%
Kappa Alpha 42%
Sigma Alpha Epsilon 39%
Pi Kappa Alpha 27%
Alpha Theta Phi 18%

SPACE FOR 200,000 BOOKS
$250,000 Library Addition In Sight
By HOWARD PERSINGER
Davidsonian Staff Reporter

Plans are currently being completed for the construction of a $250,000 addition to the Hugh A. and Jane Parks Grey Memorial Library. D. Grier Martin, chairman of a faculty committee responsible for the planning of the addition, announced that the construction of the new wing will begin sometime during mid-summer, with completion expected by the fall of 1958. It is estimated that the new addition will provide over double the amount of space for books which means it will include storage space for 200,000 volumes. The lobby space will also be considerably increased, and the number of carrels will be tripled. (The library now has 27 carrels.) The plans also include a large smoking room and 5 seminars to be placed in the basement. A new and larger microfilm room will also be added and the complete building, old and new, will be air-conditioned.

The architect, A. G. Odell of Charlotte, has done such work as the Charlotte Coliseum, Ovens Auditorium, and the Charlotte Public Library. Odell is experienced in both modern and traditional styles. Besides Odell, professional advice has been sought from O’Connor and Kilham, well-known library builders from New York. Dr. Stephan McCarthy, director of the Cornell library, is technical advisor for construction. In a recent meeting of the faculty committee and technical advisors, students from the literary societies and Publications Board were invited to go over the proposed plans for construction and to submit suggestions for improvement. The addition, which is to be constructed in the same style as the present library, was made possible by a gift from a North Carolina foundation. Serving on the faculty committee for the construction of the wing are D. Grier Martin, chmn., H. T. Lilly, T. S. Logan, C. G. Davidson, and W. G. Workman.