FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 1957 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Tom Brewer Slants I-F Cage Scoring

Sports By JOHN JOHNSON

The league-leading Kappa Sigs, paced by Tom Brewer, breezed to wins over the Pikas and KAs this week in inter-fraternity
basketball action. Brewer, who bucketed 28 points against the Pikas Monday night and scored 12 in a half’s action against
the KAs Tuesday, increased his total points to 140, highest in the league. He holds a 53-point spread over the
nearest contender, Lovin of the Campus Club.

Beta moved into a second place tie with the Sigma Chis and Phi Delts by scoring wins over the KAs,
Eps, and Phi Gams. The Sigma Chis, who dropped their only game to the Kappa Sigs last week, held on
to the second place spot with a hard-gained win over the ATOs Tuesday night.

In the other game this week, the fifth place SPEs edged the Pi Kapps.

Some people have wondered about the delay in starting spring football practice since a few of the recent days could
possibly have been used for drill. The reason lies in the conference ruling as well as the weather itself. Spring
practice is limited to 20 days, but it is further restricted to a 36-day period in which to complete the
training after it is once begun. The coaching staff wants to work on a dry field as much of that
time as possible and also wishes to avoid any unnecessary breaks in the schedule.

REACHED A PEAK

Nineteen of the victors broke into the scoring column as the Phi Delts retained their position by downing the Campus
Club.

The amount of athletic activity was very apparent, particularly on these days that permitted outside work. Davidson’s sports activity has
hit its peak for the year. Six varsity teams are conducting practice on the local courts, mats, fields, and track;
and Wildcat squads clashed in nine intercollegiate contests since last Friday.

In addition to the varsity sports and the required physical education program for all freshmen and sophomores, four nights of
interfraternity basketball totaling 16 games put 170 boys on the courts. Even fraternity handball added about 26 more.

ABOUT 40 PER CENT

The number of boys participating during the single six-day period in the voluntary and scholarship sports totaled 337 or about
40 per cent of the student body.

As for the breakdown of the various sports, basketball has a 24-man squad. The swimmers number 19 men, the wrestlers
15, and the sharpshooters 19.

Swimmers Travel South

The two sports not in regular competition at the present time boast the largest squads. Coach Whittle is working with
92 boys on the hardwood this weekend.

Local Cagers Break Into Conference Win Column

By GEORGE RAMSEY

The Washington and Lee highly touted basketball squad invades Johnston Gymnasium tonight to encounter the Cats at eight P.M. The
Generals are currently ranked second in the Southern Conference with a 5-1 loop record. The Cats will entertain second place
VMI on the home court Saturday night.

The over-anxious Cats obliged their opponents by committing several costly fouls which turned the tide in favor of the Keydets.
Goode and Lawson, guards for VMI, led their offense with 19 and 21 points, respectively. Davidson’s Semi Mintz again captured
top scoring honors for the evening, with 26 points, 12 of which came from the charity line. Mintz’s outstanding play
in these two encounters boosted his team-leading scoring average to 18.4.

THREE LEAD IN HANDBALL

With inter-fraternity competition more than half over, the Sigma Chi, Phi Delt, and ATO MOGs are in a tight fight
for first place.

Standings through Wednesday:

Sigma Chi 7 0
Phi Delt 6 1
ATO 5 1
Kappa Sig 5 2
SAE 4 3
Beta 4 3
Pi Kapp 3 4
KA 2 4
Sig Ep 2 5
Phi Gam 2 5
Pika 0 5
CC 0 6

Interfraternity basketball's high-scorer Tommy Brewer hooks in a shot for the Kappa Sigs in Monday night's clash with the Pikas.a
total of 350 points scored for over the 19-game period. With Pfeiffer Here pacing the Wildcat grapplers, Davidson matmen face
Pfeiffer College here this afternoon at 2:30 p.m. A previous semester win with a total of twenty 20-17 on January
12. The long layoff provided N.C. State opposition when they defeated the Cats. While the wet weather prevented actual on-the-field
practice, Coach Dole (right) went over movies of the 1956 games with Davidson's new line coach, Tom Stevens. Heavy Rains
Deter Cat Spring Football Drills captured by 30 track boys while Coach Dole’s football roster totals 34. Pete Coleman, wrestling
in the 123 lbs. class, holds the best individual record with five wins and one loss. No other grappler has
better than a .500 average. Others who are expected to see action in their respective brackets are: 130 lbs., Everette
Price; 137 lbs., Milton Gee; 147 lbs., Butch Neal or Charles Lampley; 157 lbs., George Rhyne; 167 lbs., Harold Westervelt;
177 lbs., Richardson Sims; and heavyweight, David Wilson-Wright. Spring football practice begins Monday afternoon for thirty-four Davidson Wildcats, sixteen of
them returning lettermen. The workouts were scheduled to begin last Monday but had to be changed due to unfavorable weather.
Head coach Bill Dole and his staff, which includes newly appointed line coach Tom Stevens, have scheduled twenty practice sessions
through the month of February with the final workout in the first week of March. The 1957 Wildcats will have
a letterman represented in every position except quarterback. Since eight of the ten seniors were backs, the backfield will be
the center of a big rebuilding job. Top candidates to fill the vital post are Tom Cutting, Sam McQuirt, and
Duncan McEachern. The rebuilding job will be critical in the line. Although the club will miss Bill Gramley, end, and
Tom Lee, starting tackle, Coach Dole will work hard in recruiting. Even though Coach Dole has to work hard in
recruiting, he thinks the outlook is not complete for material. The Wildcats play host to The Citadel next Wednesday. The
cadets are coached by Johnny Guiton, a Davidson graduate, who just five years ago wrestled under Coach Parker. Guiton will
also be officiating Saturday's match.

On the road for the second consecutive weekend, Wildcat swimmers journeyed down to Athens, Ga., to face the University of
Georgia today and then on to Atlanta to meet with Emory tomorrow. Georgia, which always has one of the better
teams in the Southeastern Conference, will definitely be the stronger of the two opponents. In a recent meet with Emory,
they posted a lopsided 70-16 score. The Bulldogs might well prove to be the toughest opposition that the Wildcats have
yet encountered. Emory, which usually brings a strong swimming team, has not done too well this year. Tommy Rivers is
in top form, swimming better than he ever has. Last week against V.P.I., Rivers knocked another tenth of a second
off the Davidson record in the 100 yd. dash while beating a man who had defeated him last year in
the Southern Conference meet. Another school record was also bettered at V.P.I. by freshman John Scott. His 2:39 in the
breaststroke eclipsed the old mark by almost two full seconds.

Possessors of an eight-point halftime lead, the Keydets took advantage of excessive fouling by the Wildcats in the second half
to widen their margin of victory. Fouls resulted in three Wildcats fouling out of the game in the last half.
At this point, Davidson began a comeback, narrowing the margin to 6 points with 2 minutes remaining. The Wildcats then
deliberately played possession basketball, but the Keydets held on to win.

Sneak Preview of a new hit on campus. The critics rate this Arrow Glen a smash hit on all counts.
This handsome broadcloth shirt comes in a new hairline stripe. (Three new stripe widths available.) Wide range of colors. Famous
clean-cut Arrow Glen collar. Shirt $4.50. Bias-striped shantung bow tie, $1.50. ARROW — first in fashion SHIRTS + TIES. You
are the show in these new Arrows. This good-looking Arrow Glen shirt is tailored in a new weave. Broadcloth that
looks for all the world like oxford cloth. Our wide assortment of colors includes... Time out for flavor!—and what flavor!
This filter cigarette tastes rich and full. And its pure, snowy-white filter does the job so well the flavor really
comes through. Winston is the filter cigarette you enjoy—that’s why it’s America’s favorite! R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO., WINSTON-SALEM, N.
C. Smoke WINSTON ...enjoy the snow-white filter in the cork-smooth taste. IVEY’S OF CHARLOTTE.
