PAGE TWO

The Davidsonian

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

JOHN TRASK
EDITOR

GERALD WILSON
ASSISTANT EDITOR

BOB LATHAN
MANAGING EDITOR

ED STEVENS
PHOTOGRAPHER

Beginning At First Base

As Dr. Pietenpol says in his letter to the freshmen (page one), “Opportunities will be offered to you which you
must grasp. Many may come to you several times but others only once.” And so we must say that the
opportunity of a Davidson College education knocks only once. What will we do with it? Some have thrown it to
the wind, many have reaped its benefits.

As new members on the rolls of Davidson College, the freshmen of 1957 are beginning their training for positions of
future leadership in the communities to which they will return after graduation. At Davidson, the new freshmen—and the upper-classmen—will be
associated with a group of people that are superior in every way. All of those who make up the greater
college community—the faculty, the students, the administration, and the friends—are the type of people who give Davidson its wholesome atmosphere
and who carry on its rich traditions.

We at Davidson are given more than the average man who enters college. To begin with, most of Davidson's students
come here with more. Because the Davidson man starts with more, more is expected from him. He starts running, so
to speak, from first base. It is on this account that Davidson has been accused in the past of producing
the “homogeneous man”—people with the same backgrounds of ideology, religion, social status, economic standing, and heritage. To the charge we
must plead guilty. But we plead guilty with a sense of appreciation.

We say these things only to emphasize to the freshmen that one of the realities of Davidson is the fact
that most of us will not appreciate the “world of Davidson” until we have graduated—or joined the Army, gone to
ROTC camp, worked away from home, or traveled extensively.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

TYPICAL WILDCAT SCRIMMAGE

The 1957 edition of the Davidson Wildcats are shown above undergoing a spirited practice session in preparation for their clash
with Catawba next Friday night at 8 p.m. in Charlotte's Memorial Stadium.

Renovation Work Noted On Campus

Upperclassmen returning to Davidson have noted the renovation work that has been carried out in some of the older dorms.
The biggest single improvement has been the enclosure of the stairwells in East, Cannon, and Watts dorms. It was pointed
out that this enclosure will serve as a firewall and will considerably lessen the noise on the hallways in the
dorms. Cannon Hall, formerly West Dormitory, received further interior improvements with the addition of new draperies. All dorms have been
furnished with wall fire extinguishers. Each of the dorms now has a nameplate at the front which should eliminate considerable
confusion among the freshmen. One further improvement is expected shortly. A public-address system will be installed in the dorms.

Push Week Is Sept. 23-28

Rush Week will begin Monday, September 23, and will continue through Saturday, September 28, which has been designated as Pledge
Day.

Here on the Davidson campus, the freshmen class will experience four of the most pleasant years of their life. The
only regret they will have is that it all ended too soon. And it will end. So now is the
time to chart one’s course for the next four years. Set your goals. Know your values and never let down
your standards. And whatever your ambitions—academic or otherwise—go after them with all you've got. Take advantage of what Davidson offers.
You've already got a head start.

LITTLE MAN ON CAMPUS by Dick Gibler

“After reviewing your case we're still in a quandary—Mind stepping around here for a moment?”

Welcome Freshmen

We Can Give You the Best Cleaning Service in Town!

8-HOUR SERVICE

Jackson Cleaners
Across from Gulf Station
MAIN STREET DAVIDSON

Vespers... (Continued From Page One)

Club, the Elections Board, the "D" Club, the Interfraternity Council, and Sigma Upsilon, national honorary literary fraternity; he was varsity
football manager and business manager of Quips and Cranks; he served as president of his fraternity, Phi Delta Theta, and
was elected to membership in Omicron Delta Kappa, national honorary leadership fraternity.

Mr. Hobbie received his theological training at Union Seminary, Richmond, after serving in the U. S. Navy as a lieutenant
(J.G.). He was graduated with the B.D. degree in 1949. During his senior year, he was vice-president of the inter-seminary
movement, and was awarded a fellowship which enabled him to continue his studies for another year. He returned to Union
Seminary for this study, after which he accepted a call to the Chatham church. He began his pastoral duties there
after spending the summer of 1950 at the Institute of Pastoral Care, Boston, Mass.

THIS WEEK IN DAVIDSON

FRIDAY, SEPT. 13
7:30 p.m.—Open House for new students
9:00 p.m.—Movie: “The Winslow Boy” (No admission)

SATURDAY, SEPT. 14
4:30—5:30 p.m.—Reception for new students
6:45 p.m.—Bus leaves for Queens Dance

SUNDAY, SEPT. 15
11:00—12:00 a.m.—Church
7:30—8:30 p.m.—Vespers
8:45—10:00 p.m.—Visit in Faculty Homes

MONDAY, SEPT. 16
8:30 p.m.—Round Table Discussion on Fraternities in Union Ballroom

Mr. Hobbie spent a year studying at the University of Basel, Basel, Switzerland, returning to his pastorate at Chatham in
1952. While abroad, he visited both the Arab and Jewish sections ofthe Holy TUESDAY, SEPT 17

7:30—8:00 p.m.—Pep meeting
8:00 p.m.—Open House in College Union

Land. the Moses D. Hoge

Freshmen and Transfer Days

Wilson-Wright's, Inc.
SAT., SEPT. 14 & MON., SEPT. 16

DRAWING FOR:
Sport Coat — 1 Pr. Bass Loafers — 1 Pr. Slacks — Dress Shirt — Sport Shirt — 2 Ties
— Belt

Come Down and Put Your Name in the Pot!
NEXT DOOR TO BANK

9:00 p.m.—Movie: “Asphalt Jungle” (admission 25c)

LITTLE MAN ON CAMPUS

PROFESSOR SNARF NEVER NOT ENDED WITH EXTRA LARGE CLASSES

Sportstuff

STOWE LEADS R.O.T.C. UNIT

Charles Stowe, rising senior from Belmont, North Carolina, will be the Cadet ROTC Regimental Commander for 1957-58. Shelbourne Wallace, from
Kingsport, Tennessee, and Tim Teachy, from Richmond, Virginia, will be the new battalion commanders. Stowe is a member of Kappa
Sigma Fraternity. Wallace is a member of the Kappa Alpha Order, while Teachy belongs to Sigma Chi Fraternity.

Akers... (Continued From Page One)

Speakers Bureau, United Appeal, the Chamber of Commerce Aviation committee, and the Public Relations Committee of the N.C. Association of
Insurance Agents. He has served as a member of the Planning group of the Queens Patron committee and as secretary-treasurer
and vice-chairman of the Carolina Safety League. In 1955 he was chosen as the Junior Chamber of Commerce “Young Man
of the Year.” He is vice-president of the Davidson College Wildcat Club, having served also as its secretary-treasurer. He was
a pilot in the U.S. Air Force during World War II. He is a member of the Charlotte Country Club
and a deacon in the Myers Park Presbyterian Church.

Nominations for the presidency of the general alumni association are made each year at the Spring Alumni Association meeting, two
for the office of president, and four for the two offices of vice-president. Voting is done during the summer by
mail, and ballots were sent in June to more than 7,000 active alumni. The new officers will assume their duties
at the Davidson College Homecoming Alumni Association meeting on October 26. Current officers are Charles F. Myers, Jr., of Greensboro,
president; and Rev. Alfred G. Taylor of Greenville, S.C., and Alexander S. Moffett of Tampa, Fla., vice-presidents.

FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 1957

BOB LATHAN

After following the Yankees and the Braves all summer, we must now turn our attention toward the Davidson Wildcats and
their chances for a successful '57 season. Head coach Bill Dole, beginning his sixth season as the Davidson mentor, admits
that his boys have been “looking good” since the early season drills began the first of the month. And with
all but two members of last year’s fine line returning along with several seasoned backfield “hosses” you might expect Dole
to be floating around on Cloud 7.

Puzzling Paradox

Such is not the case, however, and therein lies the paradox. The Wildcats will be stronger overall, but the absence
of a seasoned quarterback to replace last year’s dynamic duo of Dick Belton and Dyke Little could neutralize much of
the Presbyterian potential. “Last spring we expected Tom Cutting, Charlie Benson, and Sam McQuirt could handle the quarterback post this
year,” Dole explained, “but all is not so rosy on the home front now.” McQuirt hurt his knee last week
and Cutting followed suit and is through for the year. Paul Barbee, a standout halfback last season, was shifted to
the field general slot but is out for a while with an infected toe.

COACH DOLE

Tom Redding, 6-0, 168-pound freshman quarterback from Asheboro, is a “good boy,” says Dole, “but of course needs a little
experience. He’ll play a lot of football, though.”

Lone Ranger at QB

Benson (6-1, 178), a sophomore southpaw slinger from Maitland, Fla., is, it seems, the only boy remaining from the quarterbacks
who have had any experience at all at the position. “Bobo” McEachern, a soph who played some at QB last
fall, was called up Wednesday to help out the situation.

“If our quarterbacks come through, and I have every reason to believe they will,” Dole talked on, “we’ll develop into
a well-balanced football unit this fall.”

Line “Best and Biggest”

Prompting such enthusiasm is a star-studded line of 13 returning lettermen called “the best and largest I've had since coming
to Davidson,” and two hefty soph fullbacks, 215-pound Dave Warden and 208-pound Dave McCullough. Dole is currently running two teams.
In the backfield of one squad he has John Francis and Ralph Setzter at halves, McCullough at full, and Barbee
at quarterback. Backs on the other team are halfbacks, Brownie Thurman and George Hart, fullback Warden, and quarterback Benson. The
line of the former comprises Craig Wall and Westy Westervelt as ends, alternate captain Dave Fagg and Lanny Voight at
tackle, Charlie James and Dave McLain at guard, and a 225-pound freshman, Tom Simpson, at center. The latter eleven has
ends Alex Porter and Charles “Bear” Smith, Frank Anderson and Paul Biggers at tackle, Bob Stancil and Dale Gramley as
guards, and captain Bill Price at center. Dole says there is no distinction between the two teams with which he
has been working and that both are equal as far as he is concerned.

Wide Open Game Expected

Asked if he plans any new developments Dole replied, “This year we plan to throw a little more in order
to open the game up. We were too stereotyped last year.”

From his 18-strong bevy of promising freshmen Dole singled out end Danny House, tackle Scott Lacy, guards John Crute and
Jim Smith, centers Harold Bynum and Simpson, quarterback Redding, halfbacks Joe Cox and Ned Davis, and fullback Russell Cotton. Work
in molding these various segments into an operating team has been going smoothly. “We've accomplished more at this stage of
practice than at any time since I’ve been here,” states Dole.

Catawba “Tough” Opener

“The boys have been working hard and show good spirit.” Referring to the opener with the Catawba Indians a week
from tonight, Dole believes that Catawba “will be tough. You know, they beat Wofford handily last year. We're looking forward
to a good season and will be all right if the quarterback position shapes up. With a veteran at every
position except one, we'll have to agree with Coach Dole. The boys have a scrimmage here with Newberry tomorrow afternoon.
See you there.

Football Schedule for 1957

Date Time Opponent and Site Began Record
Sept. 20 8:00 CATAWBA, Charlotte 1910 6-0-0
Sept. 28 8:00 E. CAROLINA, Greenville 1957 0-0-0
Oct. 5 2:30 THE CITADEL, Home 1909 17-10-4
Oct. 12 2:30 V.M.I., Lexington, Va. 1904 13-20-2
Oct. 19 2:30 W. VA. TECH, Home 1954 1-0-0
Oct. 26 2:30 PRESBYTERIAN, Home 1919 8-6-1
Nov. 9 2:00 WOFFORD, Home 1914 17-2-1
Nov. 16 2:00 RICHMOND, Richmond 1920 6-6-1
Nov. 22 8:00 FURMAN, Greenville, S.C. 1902 9-18-0
