HONOR SYSTEM DISCUSSED (Page Two) VOL. XLV

Fraternities Will Voice Opinions On Court Question

The InterFraternity Council has called for each fraternity to hold a special meeting Monday night to determine by vote their official opinion concerning a new fraternity court. If the fraternity members vote in favor of the new court, they will also have to decide between single or duplex housing units. Final decision on the matter, however, will still rest with the College Trustees.

Mr. D. Grier Martin, Dr. W. G. McGavock, and Dean Samuel Spencer will answer questions on the proposed plans at an open forum Monday morning in the Ballroom of the Union.

MARTIN RELEASES PLANS—Mr. D. Grier Martin explains new plans to Dr. W. G. McGavock, chairman of the Faculty Fraternity Committee, and Bob Jones, IFC President.

Poll Favors Single Units Over Duplex

Twelve out of fifteen students interviewed recently preferred single units with basements for the proposed new fraternity court. Ross Smyth said that single units with a unified boarding house and meeting room would greatly improve the fraternity system as a whole. He felt that the difference in cost is not enough to necessitate duplexes. Roger Powell, Charlie Drummond, and Locke Carter felt that the single units would be better for the fraternity system and would improve fraternity spirit.

George Fraley Elected Freshman Adviser

Bill Fraley, a rising senior from Gaffney, S.C., won the election for Freshman Advisor in voting by the senior class yesterday. Fraley, a member of Kappa Alpha Order, is a pre-law student and is majoring in history. He was a member of the Freshman Council, vice-president of the sophomore class, and this year was president of the junior class. When notified of his election, Fraley commented, “My classmates have entrusted me with a job which entails a great deal of responsibility. I only hope I can justify their confidence in me.”

As Freshman Advisor, Fraley’s job will be to supervise Orientation Weekend, to represent the freshmen on the Student Council, as well as advising them on any problems that they might have.

Hemingway said, “Any fraternity in order to be a fraternity should be by itself.” On the other hand, John Bernhardt was for duplexes. He believed that there would be no loss of fraternity identity, and that the damage done by such a plan would not be worth the increase in expense. Henderson Rourk was in favor of single units. He felt problems would arise about the boarding houses. He did not like the proposed plans for the new houses, and said, “They should get something distinctive if they are going to spend that much money.”

Architectural details of the proposed fraternity court will be quite similar to those seen in other campus buildings. The exterior of each house will be of red brick with white frame trimming. Each house will consist of three basic units: the main floor which is divided into dietitian's quarters and meeting rooms; a basement; and a terrace. Dimensions of the main floor of each house will be 85 feet by 35 feet. Excluding the dietitian’s living quarters and the kitchen, there will be an area of 55 feet by 35 feet for the general use of the fraternity. This will provide well over twice as many square feet of flooring as the present houses. The rooms will be 10 feet in height. The walls of these rooms will be of plaster.

Mr. Grier Martin stated that in all probability each fraternity would be assigned to a particular house by lot, and then the members of the fraternity would decide their own color scheme to be followed in their house. Parts of the flooring will be hard wood and other portions will be covered with asphalt tile. “The inside finishing of the houses will, in general, be similar to that which has been employed in the Phi Gamma Delta boarding house,” said Martin.

Each house will be individually heated.

How the Three Plans Compare

| Present Duplex | Single-Unit House | House |
|----------------|-------------------|-------|
| Living Rooms   | 700 Sq. Ft.       | 900 Sq. Ft. |
| Dining Room    | 675 Sq. Ft.       | 900 Sq. Ft. |
| Basement       | None              | 450 Sq. Ft. |
| Monthly Rental (12 Months) | $110 | $160 | $200 |
| Monthly Cost Per Member (50 Members) | $2.20 | $3.20 | $3.99 |
| Semester Cost Per Member (50 Members) | $11.30 | $16.50 | $20 |
| Total Investment | $5,500 | $24,000 | $30,000 |

Note: These rents cover a return on investment, insurance, maintenance, and depreciation. This is not a loan to the fraternities.Rental $1,320, $1,920, $2,400, heated by gas furnaces. The purchase of the gas will be handled through the college, thus enabling heating expenses to be as economical as possible. The basement of a single house will be 25 feet by 35 feet. This area will be unfinished, having a cement floor, a fireplace, brick or cement walls, and probably a composition ceiling. Martin emphasized that the fraternities will be left to their own choice as to how to “fix up” their basements. The cement terrace will also be 25 feet by 35 feet and will be surrounded by a low brick wall.

The Davidsonian
The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C.
FRIDAY, APRIL 26, 1957

Plans Ready For New Court; IFC Calls Special Meetings

Pictured above: An artist's conception of the proposed single-fraternity house. Right: Inside view. Left: Patio adjoining house and outdoor fireplace. (Drawings by Mrs. John Flintom.)

SS NETTERS TO VISIT UNC AND STATE (PAGE THREE)
No. 24

Martin Releases New Blueprints; Await Go-Ahead

College treasurer D. Grier Martin today announced plans for the proposed new fraternity houses. These plans will be presented to the student body and the individual fraternities for their consideration. After a consensus of student opinion is reached, the matter will be presented to the faculty and administration, and then to the college trustees at their Davidson meeting on May 16.

One of these plans would call for the building of single-unit fraternity houses, one for each fraternity, at a cost of $30,000 per unit. The alternate plan, announced earlier (see Davidsonian March 8, 1957), proposes duplex units, each housing two fraternities. The cost of each of these units would be $48,000, or $24,000 per fraternity.

Two ideas have been advanced which ensure an equitable part for each fraternity in the financing of this project. The first plan would institute a system of preferential bidding which would limit the number of pledges each fraternity could (Continued On Back Page)

Separate Houses Seem Best (An Editorial)

The fraternity system at Davidson College is faced with a fundamental choice: we can stand still and do nothing, or we can move forward by providing future Davidson men with adequate facilities necessary for a dynamic fraternity system. In making this choice, we should remember that in all probability, only the present Freshman class will enjoy the new fraternity court. Therefore, it is up to us to leave behind the best that we can.

By all reason, we should weigh the financial cost of the duplex and the single units. But in considering this cost, let us think of what will be most satisfactory and most pleasant, as well as most adequate, for those who follow after we leave.

INDIVIDUALITY

For this reason, the single-unit plan with basement seems to be the most desirable choice. Its advantages are great. With a single-unit house, there need be no fear of one fraternity being identified with another. The single-unit eliminates any problems that may arise when two fraternities live under the same roof.

Also, the single-unit house will permit new fraternities to come on campus one-by-one. Under the duplex, it would be economically necessary to have an even number of fraternities, thereby necessitating admittance in pairs.

Perhaps the greatest advantage is that every fraternity wants to keep its own individuality. This is understandable in that all chapters prefer to be separate and in their own private house.

NOTHING HALF-WAY

The building of a completely new fraternity court is too large a matter to be done in a second-rate manner. If the new court is worthwhile, then it is worth building right. Let us do nothing now that we might regret later. Let us not go half-way when we can have the best. Davidson men of a past generation provided us with the best that their time could offer, and we of this generation must provide future Davidsonians with the best that our time can offer.

ELECTION FLASH

Bob Huffaker and Charlie Rutherford won the race for the two Student Council seats to represent the rising Junior Class. Runoffs will be necessary in the other Council elections. Those remaining are:

RISING SENIOR CLASS: Bill Bondurant, Ralph Bright, Sonny Ferguson, Mike Martin, Gerald Wilson, and Pat Woodward.

RISING SOPHOMORE CLASS: John Huie, Bobby Livingston, and Joe Verreault.

Dave Bradford To Edit Annual

Dave Bradford, a rising senior from Charlotte, won the election Tuesday for editor of the College annual, Quips and Cranks. Bradford is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon Fraternity and is a pre-medical major. He plays inter-fraternity sports and for the last two years has been on the staff of the annual.

“As I look back over the excellent publications and especially the jobs done by the last two editors, with whom I have had the pleasure of working under,” Bradford commented, “I realize that the challenge is demanding and the responsibility is magnanimous. Yet I pledge myself to present to the best of my ability an annual that is in keeping with the honor and dignity of Davidson College.”

The dietitian-housemother’s apartment is represented by rooms numbered (7), (8), and (9), which would provide her with a living room, bedroom, and bathroom, respectively. Other locations (10) closet, (11) nook for television set, (12) fireplaces, (13) terrace, (14) stairway to basement, (15) folding door, (16) basement recreation room, and (17) a possible basement fireplace. Several arrangements as to furniture have been suggested by Mrs. John Flintom. These drawings are in the possession of Mr. Martin. It should be noted that the living room is large enough (900 sq. ft.) to be divided into two rooms. The plan offers many flexible arrangements.