PAGE FOUR

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Three universities and graduate schools are offering a number of fellowships and scholarships this year. The University of Tennessee is offering a large number of graduate fellowships and assistantships for the academic year of 1956-57.

The College Faculty has apparently said “no” at its January 8 meeting to any change in degree requirements during the academic year of 1956-57. During its first meeting of 1957 on this issue, which has received much student support, the faculty decided to postpone a definite decision until sometime in the late spring or early summer. Early in the meeting, a motion was made to leave degree requirements as they are now. This motion was defeated by a large majority. The faculty then listened to several professors discuss the possible changes in requirements. Twice votes were called on some particular system, but each time the count was tied, 26 for and 26 against. At this point, several faculty members urged President Cunningham to cast the deciding vote, but he declined, stating that he felt a decision on such an important question should be as near unanimous as possible. A motion was then made to postpone the decision until a later date, and it was readily passed. Several members of the faculty stated after the meeting that they felt a change in the degree requirements was not imminent due to the wide range of faculty disagreement.

The Graduate School of Cornell University is offering a large number of graduate fellowships and assistantships for the academic year of 1956-57. The Cornell Aeronautical Laboratory is offering fellowships with stipends of $1,500 plus tuition to candidates for the Master’s and Doctor's degrees in Business and Engineering. Further information may be had by writing to the Graduate School, Cornell University, Ithaca, New York. Applications are due by February 15, 1957.

The Maxwell Graduate School of Syracuse University is offering four fellowships in public administration, each paying $1,000 plus tuition. Similar fellowships are available in political science. In social and political psychology, one fellowship carrying a stipend of $750 plus tuition is offered. Interested seniors in sociology should write to the Admissions Office, Maxwell Graduate School, Syracuse University, Syracuse 10, N.Y.

Money from the Davidson College Gift Fund has been used in helping to equip the Hocsaks for full-scale housekeeping in the local community.

The University of Tennessee is offering graduate assistantships in physical education and recreation. Stipends range from $700 to $1,000 for the academic year.

Patriot Hocsak (Continued from Page One)

Naturally, the German giants of music are his favorites: Mozart, Beethoven, Bach, and Wagner. But he is on “speaking” terms with all of the greats: Debussy, Ravel, Vivaldi, Verdi, Sibelius, and Grieg being numbered among them. English-speaking authors Aldous Huxley, Jack London, Margaret Mitchell, and Mark Twain head his list of preferred writers. Steve and his entire family thank Davidson deeply for their new home here. In Mrs. Hocsak’s new vocabulary is the phrase “I'm very happy.”

THOUGHT

If a centaur married a mermaid fair,
What kind of children would she bear?
Would they have hide or would they have scales?
Would they have hooves or long fishy tails?
Would they eat seaweed or would they eat hay?

Nothing On Young Steve

By GRIER DAVIS

Davidson now has its own version of Dennis the Menace in three-year-old Stevie Hocsak, Jr. His appearance is almost identical with that of Dennis: long, disheveled blond hair, shining blue eyes, and a mischievous grin. His inexhaustible energy and antics are also similar to Hank Ketchum's proverbial prankster. When Daniel took a picture of the youngster, Stevie tried, laughing gleefully, to run Hank down with his tricycle. Pedestrians beware! Monday night, as several boys were visiting the Hocsak family after Stevie had been put to bed, he popped back into the room no less than a half-dozen times, armed with assorted guns and airplanes. Apparently oblivious to the dangers and hardships that he and his family have undergone, Stevie, in his friendly manner, seems to have adopted the community already. Several days ago, his mother took Stevie to the barber shop. Having watched another boy get a crew cut, Stevie decided to follow suit. Pointing to the other boy and to his own head and saying, “Me.” The idea was vetoed by the powers that be (Mother was horrified), but Stevie sat quietly in the chair, chatting amiably in Hungarian to Hood Norton. The community will have no choice but to adopt the lovable “Menace”; but even if you don't see a tricycle coming, watch your step. Stevie has a tractor too.

Cunningham's Future Plans Still Pending

“Took a trip on a sailing ship...” is a tune that is beginning to have some real meaning for Dr. and Mrs. John R. Cunningham. In accordance with the grant given by the Board of Trustees last year for an extended leave of absence, the Cunninghams have decided to use this time for a trip abroad. But, as to their destination and the date of departure, many unexpected difficulties have appeared. “We first thought of a trip to Italy, Switzerland, and Great Britain,” reported Dr. Cunningham. “Then we decided a Caribbean cruise would suit us better. As of now, our plans are still highly indefinite, but we are still considering sometime in early April as a possible sailing date.”

COMPLICATIONS ARISE

Finding the five or six weeks when they can leave has given the Cunninghams their biggest problem. The marriage of their son, Ray, in April; the many duties that plague the life of a College Chief Executive; and the inability of securing passenger accommodations have all contributed to the delay.OF $1.98 MOOD MUSIC FOR ONLY with each one you buy at the regular price of $3.98! Build your dream record library with music by the orchestras of André Kostelanetz, Percy Faith, and Paul Weston on COLUMBIA RECORDS. CHOOSE ALL THE ONES YOU WANT FROM THIS LIST. REMEMBER, HALF OF EVERY OTHER ONE YOU BUY IS ON US!

ANDRÉ KOSTELANETZ
CL 167 Tchaikovsky
CL 198 An American in Paris
CL 969 Madame Butterfly
CL 096 Carmen

First of all, what’s it all about? What does a fellow like John Jackson do all day? In his own words, “I keep in touch with the executives of many different companies—advising them on the use of their IBM electronic data processing computers. I personally consult with these customers, and analyze their scientific and technical problems for solution by IBM. Occasionally, I'm asked to write papers, and give talks and demonstrations on electronic computing. All in all, it’s pretty fascinating... something new pops up every day.” In other words, John is a full-fledged computing expert, a consultant... and a very important person in this coming age of automation through electronics.

Since the IBM laboratories are always devising easier and faster ways to solve the problems of science, government, and industry, an Applied Mathematician can do at IBM. Mathematics is an ancient but ever-advancing science that contains many forms. It shouldn't surprise you then that it took some time before John Jackson discovered the one brand of mathematics that seemed custom-tailored to his ability and temperament. John is an Applied Science Representative, working out of the IBM office at 122 East 42nd Street, N.Y.C.

The aircraft people decided that they couldn’t afford to wait that long, so they called in IBM. After discussion with top executives, John helped to map out a computer program that saved the organization over 100 days of pencil-chewing, nail-biting arithmetic. Later, for this same company, John organized the establishment of computer systems for aircraft performance predictions, for data reduction of wind tunnel tests, and for wing stress analysis. At the same time, he worked with this company’s own employees, training them in the use of IBM equipment. John still drops around to see that everything is running smoothly.

Another service that John performs is the constant reappraisal of each customer’s IBM operation. Occasionally, a customer may tie himself in knots over a procedural “stickler.” Periodically, in fact, John brings IBM customers together just to talk over what's happening in each other’s business—how everybody else handled that old bugaboo in any industry... details.

During the two years that John has spent with IBM in Applied Science, he has guided innumerable IBM customers to new and better ways of doing things electronically. For example: about a year ago, a leading aircraft manufacturer wanted to experiment with a radically different design for a nuclear reactor. Although the basic format had been established, the project still required many months of toil with mathematical equations. The aircraft people decided that they couldn’t afford to wait that long, so they called in IBM. After discussion with top executives, John helped to map out a computer program that saved the organization over 100 days of pencil-chewing, nail-biting arithmetic. Later, for this same company, John organized the establishment of computer systems for aircraft performance predictions, for data reduction of wind tunnel tests, and for wing stress analysis. At the same time, he worked with this company’s own employees, training them in the use of IBM equipment. John still drops around to see that everything is running smoothly.

Another service that John performs is the constant reappraisal of each customer’s IBM operation. Occasionally, a customer may tie himself in knots over a procedural “stickler.” Periodically, in fact, John brings IBM customers together just to talk over what's happening in each other’s business—how everybody else handled that old bugaboo in any industry... details.

John is exercising his mathematical know-how in a field that was practically unheard of ten years ago. Even now, this kind of work may be news to you. John Jackson a few years back when he was an undergraduate at the University of Colorado. At that time, he was considering actuarial work or mathematical research. But John liked the excitement and diversification of science and industry and he wanted to use his mathematical background in both of those areas. It was not until he was interviewed by IBM that field computing whetted his scientific appetite. A few months later, John launched his own IBM career as an Applied Science trainee. Promotion-wise, John has come a long way since that time. He’s now an Applied Science Representative in one of the busiest, most responsible offices in the IBM organization... mid-town Manhattan. With his wife, Katherine, and daughter, Lisa, 20 months, and John Jr., 6 weeks, he enjoys his suburban Port Washington home. He’s happy and he’s satisfied. And then, too, John knows a few vital statistics about IBM... such as the fact that the Applied Science Division has quadrupled during the past three years, and that in 1956 alone, over 70 promotions were conferred. If ever a future held promise, here is one.

IBM hopes that this message will help to give you some idea of what a mathematician can do at IBM. There are equal opportunities for E.E.’s, M.E.’s, physicists, and Liberal Arts majors in Applied Science, Product Development, Manufacturing Engineering, Sales, and Technical Services. Why not drop in and discuss IBM with your Placement Director? He can supply our brochure and tell you when IBM will next interview on your campus. Meanwhile, IBM will be happy to answer your questions. Just write to Mr. P. H. Bradley, IBM, Room 8701, 580 Madison Avenue, New York 22, N.Y.

INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
DATA PROCESSING • ELECTRIC TYPEWRITERS • TIME EQUIPMENT • MILITARY PRODUCTS • SPECIAL ENGINEERING PRODUCTS • SUPPLIES

Parker-Gardner Company
118 WEST TRADE STREET
CHARLOTTE 2, N.C.
PHONE EDison 2-8257