FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 1957

BY GEORGE RAMSEY

Several weeks ago this column directed its attention to one half of Davidson’s most potent offensive grid weapon of the season. Quarterback Charlie Benson, who currently ranks second in the Southern Conference in total offense, was lauded for his sterling play, and the aerial fireworks he had set off. Now it seems only just that the other half of the air weapon be given credit. End Craig Wall, a veteran of two years in the Wildcat grid wars, has shattered records of all sorts in the past few games, and now stands supreme among conference pass receivers.

New Conference Standards—
By virtue of his record-setting performance against Richmond last Saturday, Wall set new conference standards in two departments—most passes received in a season (he now has 24), and most scoring passes received in a season (he now has 6). He has personally set five new individual school marks, and figured in a sixth. New records which Wall has set this season are: most passes caught, single game: 7 (against Richmond); most yards gained with pass receptions: 145 (against Richmond); most passes caught, season: 24; most TD passes caught, season: 6; most yards gained on pass receptions, season: 466. In addition to these, Wall was on the receiving end of the longest pass play in modern school records, a 70-yard toss from freshman quarterback Tom Redding, in the W. Va. Tech game.

Scoring Pass Record Tied—
Both Benson and Redding have tied the school record for most scoring passes thrown in a single game. Benson completed two scoring tosses against Wofford, and Redding, who has completed 4 passes for three touchdowns, threw two paydirt pitches against W. Va. Tech. Unless the Furman defense manages to throw Benson for a total offensive loss of at least twenty yards tomorrow, the sophomore will inscribe a new total offensive mark in the Wildcat log. Previous high mark was 761 yards accumulated by all-Conference quarterback Dick Belton in 1955. A win over Furman tomorrow would not only break a seven-game win streak the Purple Hurricane has against Davidson, but would also enable the ‘Cats to finish the season with a 6-2 mark, their best record since 1926, when they won 7, lost 2, and tied 1. In 1933 Davidson was 6-2-1, and, under coach Dole, compiled a 6-3 mark in 1954.

With Thanksgiving just a quick kick away, it seems appropriate to stop and see just what various ones of us have to be thankful for. Coach Bill Dole: the Wofford win, his greatest in six years at the helm of the good ship Wildcat. Ross Smyth: that he doesn’t have a press interview every week. Coach J. W. McCutchan: Claude Finney, who seems to have quite adequately filled the shoes of the departed goalie Freddie Butler. The Davidson Gentleman: his Homecoming date. The Homecoming date: her gracious host. The Davidson Administration: Cop Linker. The football team: a leader like Bill Price, whom coach Dole terms “the best captain I have ever had.” Campus music fans: the installation of the loudspeaker system atop Chambers. Soccer team: the flu bug, who somewhat indirectly has thrust them into the Homecoming sports limelight.

Gym Shorts—
Due to a lot of interest on the part of students in using the trampoline in the gym, coach Scott has announced that he would like to organize a Trampoline Club, with the better students of the bounce taking charge. Anyone interested is urged to come by the athletic office and leave their name—the athletic department will take it from there. The State Physical Education Association will meet during the first week of December at Wake Forest College. The session will be devoted entirely to swimming, with a panel discussion, and a demonstration by swimmers from Woman's College, Wake Forest, and Myers Park high school. Coach Scott will be attending, as chairman of the Men's Athletic Section. Look for the new Winter Sports Calendars at various places around town in the next few days. Coming next issue: a critical look at the inter-fraternity athletic program—is it a monarchy under “King” Whittle?

Homecoming Soccer
By BOBBY PAGE

Davidson College's soccer eleven rolls into action Saturday afternoon on the local scene in an effort to avenge an earlier loss, pick up its fourth win in the final game of the season and put on a good display for an anticipated large dance weekend crowd. Having rested a full week on the merits of having beaten Pfeiffer last Saturday, 3-0, the Red and Black will be at full strength with the exception of Dave and Ed Irvin who will be out with injuries. It was these same injuries that caused changes in last week's line-up and will prompt some unorthodox action from coach J. W. McCutchen tomorrow. Fort Herman Carlos McCutchen scored all four of his team’s goals in its 4-2 win over the locals. McCutchen stated that secondly to stopping the high-scoring Carlos will be to get more punch into his own offense. He will employ some new tactics concocted in connection with assistant coach P. A. Marrotte. A schedule of only nine games prevents McCutchen from seeing his goal of a .500 season being reached on the basis of having lost five games. But he pointed out that as compared to six games last year, this year’s team has scored 10 more goals and has allowed an equal number, 18, although having played two more games. Seniors who will see action for the last time tomorrow will be Captain and high scorer Ross Smyth, Pete Ramm, and Ed Irvin. Halfbacks Pete Andrews, Sam Smith, and Sam Clark were given much praise for their performance last week in what was classified by the coaches as the best effort by the halfbacks all year. Accolades were also dished out for fullback Phil Shive who got

Cagers Aim For First Tilt, Dec. 2
With four games slated for the first week in December, coach Tom Scott's basketballers are rapidly completing preparations for the 1957-58 cage campaign. Due primarily to added experience, all indications point to a stronger team than that of last year, which compiled a 7-22 mark. From the first five of last season, only captain Richard Weeks was lost, and coach Scott feels he has an adequate replacement in 6’ 2” sophomore John Huie, who will fill Weeks’ vacancy at guard. The hoop mentor looks to Semi Mintz, last year’s leading point producer to be this year’s “general” and “back court traffic director.” The slender junior was 17th in the nation in field goal percentage last season, and nailed down a second team all-Conference berth. Other guards who will be pushing for a first team slot are an improved Sonny Ferguson, and Mike Martin, who has been switched from a forward position. In addition to these two seniors, freshman Hight Redmond, from Morganton, is scheduled for plenty of action. The pivot post should fall to either Joe Milner, 6’ 6” two-year letterman, or Eddie Stewart, a 6’ 3” sophomore whom Scott classifies as equivalent to a 6’ 6” man under the boards. Dave Hollingsworth, runner-up to Mintz in the scoring column last season, will fill one of the forward positions, with senior Lew Spears his probable running mate. Spears has improved “tremendously,” according to Scott, especially in the scoring department, where the Wildcats suffered last season at the forward posts. Both Hollingsworth and Spears have developed deadly shots from the outside. Freshman Bilt Shinn, an excellent shooter from Raleigh, will be used regularly to spell the starters. Davidson opens on Dec. 2 at Wake Forest. The next night they are slated to meet Georgia Tech in Atlanta. On Thursday, December 5, the ‘Cats open their home schedule, entertaining the College of Charleston. Wofford invades Johnston gym Dec. 7. Catawba will be the opponent on Dec. Back into action after a slight lay-off, and his running mate, John Kuykendall. Scoring goals for the winners were Kwon, two. Working behind “closed doors” this week, the Cats will be going all out to dump the Warren-Wilson crew and turn the tide toward a successful season.

FOOTBALL GUESSING CONTEST

Name: ______________________ Room: ______________________

HOME TEAM
Arizona St. (Tempe)
Auburn
Navy
Rice
Holy Cross
Cincinnati
Furman
Pennsylvania
Tampa
Miami (Fla.)
Georgia Tech
Louisiana State
Mississippi State
North Carolina
Notre Dame
Oklahoma
Richmond
Wake Forest
TCU
Tennessee

Total Points By All 40 Teams: ___________

Winner of the sixth weekly DAVIDSONIAN Football Guessing Contest was Bob Hoagland, who correctly picked the winners of sixteen games.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

1-F TITLE CONTENDERS

Phi Delts and KAs met Monday in a contest which the KAs won, 18-6, to virtually clinch the flickerball championship for the second year in succession. Above, Phi Delt Billy Hopper grabs a high pass, pursued by KAs Johnny Rucker and Dave Page. Phi Delt No. 2 is Gene Jernigan. (Photo by Ed Stevens.)

KAs Dump Phi Delts To Cop Flickerball

After a close race to the finish, the KAs have emerged victorious in the inter-fraternity flickerball tournament. The Sigma Chis took second place honors from the threatening Phi Delts in the final games. On Tuesday of this week, the KAs rolled over the Phi Delts and then clinched their victory by defeating the Pikas 36 to 6 on Thursday. Dec Green, John West, and Shelbourne Wallace led the KAs in these games and throughout most of the season. The second-place Sigma Chis took a close one from the Phi Delts on Monday to secure their hold on the second slot in the tournament. Don Killian and Tim Teachey sparked the Sigs as they downed the Phi Delts, 7-6. The Phi Delts spoiled the ATO's chances for a tie for third place by defeating them 19 to 6 on Wednesday. The winners were led by Ben Harris, Gene Jernigan, and Marvin Bentley.

Coach Whittle announced that the inter-fraternity wrestling tournament will begin next Monday night, November 25, and run through Tuesday night, November 26. Contestants will weigh in any time between 8:30 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. on Monday. Drawings for the matches will be made by physical education staff members immediately following the 4:00 p.m. deadline.

After the Thanksgiving holidays are over, the swimming meet will begin and after Christmas, the basketball tournament will begin.

Unofficial Standings through Wednesday:
TEAM WON LOST
KA 10 1
Sigma Chi 10 2
Kappa Sig 9 3
Phi Delt 9 3
SAE 8 3
ATO 7 3
Pi Kapp 7 4
Pika 4 7
Beta 4 8
Phi Gam 4 8
SPE 2 10
Ind 1 11
Sigma Nu 0 12

All ballots for this week's contest must be deposited in the ballot box in the College Union not later than 1 p.m., WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 27. This earlier date, due to the Thanksgiving holiday, is emphasized. Hoagland will receive, as all other weekly winners, a $2.50 certificate toward the purchase of merchandise at Wilson-Wright's clothing store, sponsors of the contest. Circle one team of each pair to indicate your pick.

They kept warning me this would happen if I didn’t think of some super way to describe that absolutely unique good taste of Coca-Cola. So who’s a Shakespeare? So no ad... that’s bad! But, there’s always Coke... and that’s good!

Bottled Under Authority Of THE COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD

for the last home tilt prior to Christmas.

Car Coat
Here's a wonderful coat for outdoor activity. It’s windproof, water repellent, finger-tip length—looks and feels great. Yours in two models; choice of lightweight patterned lining or quilted lining and detachable hood for colder weather. Other jackets from $12.95, Arrow Car Coats from $19. Arrow Crew neck sweater just $10.00.

Cluett, Peabody & Company, Inc.

CASUAL WEAR first in fashion

SIGN OF GOOD TASTE
The Coca-Cola Company
© 1936, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY

PAGE THREE

Furman Tonight
Spiders Fall, 23-19: Benson Battles Baker
By BILL HELLIER
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Gunning for a big win in their first away-from-home Homecoming game, the Davidson Wildcats, fresh from three consecutive victories, meet Furman tonight in Greenville for their last game of the season. A win over Furman, who has not lost to Davidson in the last seven years, would climax one of the best seasons the ‘Cats have ever had. Even though the Purple Hurricane has won only two games this year, the Wildcats will have to be on their toes to come out on top.

Furman’s quarterback Billy Baker, rated one of the best passers in the nation, will oppose southpaw Charlie Benson in what could amount to a tremendous aerial duel.

LINE PLAY VITAL

However, as seen in the past games of both teams, the line play will make a great difference in the effectiveness of either passer. Furman also presents a potent running attack in the forms of fullback Jimmy Grant and halfback Jerry Penland. Remembering the disastrous interceptions that Furman made against the Wildcats last year, Coach Bill Dole will probably keep his passing to a minimum and count heavily on the running of Paul Barbee, Dave Warden, and Ralph Setzler.

With defeat breathing down their necks, the Wildcats put on a terrific fourth-quarter surge to beat the Richmond Spiders last week, 23-19. End Craig Wail played a big role in the comeback as he pulled in three touchdown passes. The ‘Cats, who looked as soggy in the first half as the rain-drenched field they played on, finally snapped out of their trance and tallied twice in the final quarter to salvage the win. Richmond's quarterback Jim Hoffman played havoc with the Davidson pass defense early in the game as he connected with his end Lew St. Clair for two touchdowns in the second and third periods.

BENSON TOSSES TWO

Playing behind a rejuvenated line, Benson matched Hoffman’s three scoring passes with two of his own. Dave Fagg had booted a third-period field goal from the one-yard line which gave the ‘Cats a margin of safety.

Harriers Finish Fifth In Meet

The Davidson harriers placed fifth in the Southern Conference Cross-Country meet held in Morgantown, West Virginia, on Monday. Bob DeTombe of William and Mary won the Conference championship. The order of the teams' finish was: William and Mary, V.M.I., Richmond, West Virginia, Davidson, Washington and Lee, and V.P.I.

Although bringing back three trophies from the conference meet, Coach Whittle said the season was not too good, as flu and injuries took their toll. Whittle looks forward to next year as junior Henry Brown, out this year, and David Gilmour, now a Myers Park High senior and North Carolina High School Cross Country Champ for the past two years, will help the team. There will be no losses through graduation this year. Men such as Angus McBryde, fourth in the Conference meet, Jim Alexander, and Graham George will be back and ready for competition.

This year’s record was one win and three losses, one to each Duke, Wake Forest, and V.M.I. The one win was from Washington and Lee.

Your Arrow Car Coat is here! It’s here, the winter-resistant Arrow Car Coat. And it has everything: warmth, water repellency, comfort and good looks. In solid-colored poplin, polished cotton, twills and fine corduroy. Choice of plain or patterned linings. Come in and get yours... now.

IVEY'S OF CHARLOTTE