CAN YOUR SON GET IN DAVIDSON? BY DEAN SPENCER (Page Two) VOL. XLVI

Dean Bailey Wants Fund Raising Prexy
By HOWARD PERSINGER
Davidsonian Staff Reporter

Dean Bailey answered questions fired at him by the DAVIDSONIAN staff and clarified many problems and rumors which have probably haunted the mind of every Davidson student in the past few months.

When the acting Dean of Students was asked if he would resign or remain as Dean after the naming of the new President, he said that at the naming of the President Dr. Pietenpol’s work would expire and that it would be up to the new President to name his own official staff.

Dean Bailey assured the DAVIDSONIAN staff that he did “not know who would be the new President.” He stated that he would “prefer the type of man who can meet the public, raise money for the school and who has a real understanding of educational problems.”

In commenting on the Trustee decision to increase the enrollment, Dean Bailey stated that he was in favor of the decision. Since there was now a national emergency in education with respect to the overflow of students, Davidson should and must accept her share of this pressure.

NO CHANGE IN QUALITY
“However,” said Professor Bailey, “this increase is to be made only at a rate in which the quality of the student body will not be hampered.”

Dean Bailey also said, when asked about the quality of the faculty this year in comparison with years preceding, that he was “definitely sure that we are not going backward in this respect but that in this area there is always room for improvement.”

Professor Bailey, who is certainly no newcomer in the “Dean of Students” post, said that after his work expired as Dean, he would like to take a little time off to devote to study.

DEAN BAILEY

Scotland Native Speaks At Vespers
Dr. James T. Cleland, Dean of the Chapel at Duke University, will speak at Vespers Sunday. A native of Scotland, he was formerly chaplain at Amherst College.

Library Receives Burns Collection
Dr. Samuel M. Lindsey has presented a collection of Burns’ works to the Davidson College Library. The collection consists of a twelve-volume edition of books entitled The Complete Works of Robert Burns and a single book entitled The Poems and Letters in the Handwriting of Robert Burns.

GEBBIE’S EDITION
The volume of twelve books is better known as Gebbie's edition of Burns’ work. There exist only one thousand copies of Gebbie's edition. The edition which Davidson has been presented is number three hundred and fifty-four. Gebbie’s edition is partly bound in leather and contains some sixty etchings and facsimiles.

POEMS AND LETTERS
The single book containing facsimiles of Burns’ poems and letters in his own handwriting was edited by the Burns Club of St. Louis. This book contains much background material for the original Burns manuscripts. There exist only a few copies of this book.

Davidsonian Staff Guest Of Observer
A group from the DAVIDSONIAN staff will travel to Charlotte Wednesday for a visit to the Charlotte Observer. Journalism students from the University of North and South Carolina also plan to make the trip.

After their arrival in the late afternoon, the group will take a brief tour of the non-mechanical departments of the paper. A session with several of the department heads will follow. Afterwards, the Observer will be host at a dinner at the Charlotte Press Club.

Following the dinner, the group will return to the Observer and visit the News Department, Composing Room, Press Room, Stereotype Department and the Mail Room to conclude the program.

Jones Lashes Present Setup
In chapel yesterday, Bob Jones, President of the IFC, gave his critique of Davidson's fraternity system. He began his speech with the assertion that a fraternity system should further the aims of the college at which it is located. With this basis, he surveyed several aspects of Davidson’s fraternity setup.

The first point he stressed dealt with the disproportionate power of the fraternities due to the large percentage of membership. This could be resolved, he felt, with a larger and stronger independent group.

He next criticized the current “survival of the fittest” competition among the fraternities, stressing that in such an unbalance of strength the healthy competition which strengthens a fraternity is prohibited.

Rush week needed some definite correction he said. His personal preference was for a rush week combined with orientation similar to the practice of Washington and Lee University.

His fourth point concerned the enormous size of some fraternities. He suggested as an alternative to the present emphasis on quantity of members a program that would emphasize quality. This basically was an arrangement for preferential bidding and a quota pledging system.

A final point was that of Hell Week. The present practices, he stated, were as inefficient a method of producing unity in the fraternity and pledge class as possible. In addition, he pointed out that Hell Week has been strongly condemned by the National Interfraternity Conference and by every national fraternity.

In concluding, he stressed that although some of his ideas might seem radical and new, in reality they comprised a basically conservative program designed to make Davidson’s fraternity system more effective.

PROFESSOR’S HOBBIES

Cumming Good On Old Maps
BY GORDON LeGRAND
Davidsonian Feature Staff

Dr. William P. Cumming’s avocations, at least one of them, are an example of how an investigation undertaken to satisfy an inquiring mind can lead to a position of pre-eminence in that field.

Dr. Cumming first became interested in early maps when, on his honeymoon in England, he discovered a map of the eastern United States which showed a large lake covering part of North Carolina, South Carolina, and Georgia. The same map also showed a great desert stretching across North and South Carolina.

Looks For Desert
He began a study to determine the reason for the lake and desert appearing where they did. The results of this research is a book edited by Dr. Cumming entitled “The Discoveries of John Lederer in Virginia and Carolina, 1672,” which the Virginia press will publish this November.

The map in the accompanying picture is of the area around Charles Town (South Carolina). Drawn in 1696 by Sanson, the first great scientific French geographer, it contains a list of the 250 colonists settled there at the time.

Florida Map
Dr. Cumming's rarest map is one of Florida and the southeast. An Ortelius map dated 1584, it is the first engraved map to show any part of the interior of the United States. This map of the southeast was based on the discoveries of De Soto. There are only three of these well-preserved detached maps in existence.

Dr. Cumming's collection of “firsts” contains several valuable photostatic copies of other early maps. One of these, a Waldseemuller dated 1507, is the first map having the word “America” printed on it. Another map, probably by John White, is the first on the North Carolina coast. This map appeared in England in 1585.

Dr. Cumming has altogether about 40 original maps of the southeast which is probably the largest collection of its kind owned by an individual.

Publishes Book
In January, 1958, the Princeton University Press will publish a book by Dr. Cumming, “The Southeast In Early Maps.” One critic has this to say about the book: “Its value to the historian of geographical development and the historian of cartography is great, and is unique in character, because until now nothing of the sort has been done for the Southeast.”

In addition to his array of maps, Dr. Cumming has collected a variety of clocks. The one pictured above was made by Jerome and Darrow in 1824. This particular clock is of the pillar and scroll design and has all wooden works. The Professor’s 20 clocks, most of which are in running condition, include thirty-hour clocks, seven, fourteen, and twenty-one day timepieces, and one four-hundred day Swiss clock of the nineteenth century which is wound on New Year’s Day.

Collects Swords
The third field in which Dr. Cumming is an avid collector is swords. He has swords of the early nineteenth, the seventeenth century, and one fifteenth century Japanese sword made by an expert in that country.

These three collections reveal only a few of the Humanities Professor’s many, many interests.

NOTICE
Bring your date to the College Union Saturday afternoon and dance after the ball game until 6:00. Admission is only 50 cents per couple. Coffee and cookies are included.

College Church Gets New Hymn Books
Students at the college vesper services will be singing from a new pan-Presbyterian hymnal, six hundred and fifty copies of which have been placed this week in the College Church.

Titled simply The Hymnbook, the volume was produced in 1955 by the five major branches of the Reformed faith in this country — the Associate Reformed Presbyterian Church, the Reformed Church in America (Dutch), the United Presbyterian Church, and the Presbyterian Churches, U.S. and U.S.A.

Members of the Department of Music who have examined the new hymnal point out that it has nearly three times as much resource material for services of public worship as the book which has been in use for the past five years, and that the musical setting of many hymns is vastly superior to those in the former hymnal.

Editor of The Hymnbook was Dr. David Hugh Jones of Princeton, and serving on the editorial committee were several distinguished musicians and theologians.The editorial committee was W. Talliaferro Thompson, '05. The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, OCTOBER 18, 1957

Freshman IQ? STUDENT POLL

Herbert Brownell Jr. “The trust buster” Magna Carta Franz Joseph Haydn Charles De Gaulle Emily Post Walter Reuther Roger Bannister Warren Harding, Ghana | second best collection owned by! Plato Everly Brothers J. Robert Oppenheimer “B and K” Thomas Mann Otto von Bismarck Clare Booth Luce Wallis Warfield Simpson Bill Price Billy Sunday Reinhold Niebuhr James Hoffa Karl Marx Conrad Adenauer Harriet Beecher Stowe Henry Wallace Pablo Picasso James V. Forrestal Jesse Owens Azores. John Hancock John the Baptist Victor Herbert C. Shaw Smith “The Pelvis” Peter Townsend

“On the shore, dimly seen through the mists of the deep, Where the foe’s haughty host in dread silence reposes, . . . “A well regulated Militia, being necessary to the security of a free State, the right of the people to keep and bear Arms, shall not be infringed.” “No one can serve two masters; for either he will hate the one and love the other, or he will be devoted to the one and despise the other.”

Dr. Pietenpol explained that this request is being made in order that Dr. Cunningham might preside at the dedication of Cannon and Little dorms. This dedication, to be held during the Chapel hour on the first, is scheduled to include an academic convocation, an address by Dr. Cunningham, and the awarding of an honorary degree to Mr. J. Spencer Love.

Degree To Love

Mr. Love was voted the degree last spring by the faculty and the Board of Trustees, but due to the fact that he was out of the country at the time of graduation, he was unable to receive it at that time. Dr. Pietenpol further announced that the Executive Committee of the Board would meet at Davidson on October 31. The meeting was called by Board President J. McDowell Richards. No agenda for the meeting has been released. Dr. Pietenpol stated that no particular problem would be discussed, but that the entire program and progress of the College since the resignation of Dr. Cunningham would be considered. All members of the Committee are expected to remain on campus for the dedication and meeting of the Board of Visitors to be held the next day. Students will be encouraged to attend the dorm dedication and convocation, but attendance will not be compulsory.

When asked about the recent meeting of the Curriculum Committee, Dr. Pietenpol commented that they had done a lot of talking without any real accomplishment. Each department has been asked to submit a statement outlining the purpose of each course offered in their field. These purposes are to be discussed at the next meeting of the Committee, probably to be held during the coming week.

Sigma Upsilon To Write Novel

Sigma Upsilon honorary creative writing fraternity on campus, held their first meeting of the year last night. Three students, Charles Davis, Grier Davis, and Dabney Stewart, read compositions of their own writing. The organization discussed the schedule of programs for the year and a proposed joint meeting with the Queen's chapter, on November 7, at which a folksong singer will be featured. At the meeting, a novel was considered which the fraternity plans to write, each student composing a chapter. Sigma Upsilon has a total of about fifteen student members and the same number of faculty members. Each student member at some time during the year reads a story or article which he has written. The fraternity discusses and criticizes these readings. New members are soon to be elected on the recommendations of the English department.

Elvis Best Known Among Frosh; By JIM MORRIS Davidsonian Feature Editor

The average Davidson freshman can correctly answer little more than one half of the identifications and quotations given above. In a DAVIDSONIAN Poll this week of slightly less than one half (115) of the Class of 1961, the average accuracy was 55%. This poll was given to 115 freshmen by several members of the DAVIDSONIAN staff. In every case, a staff member sat in the room with the freshman while he took the test. This careful supervision in giving the test insured the most accurate results possible. We print the results of this poll for whatever value they may be to our readers. The Editor

Leading the list of correct replies were Emily Post (etiquette, etiquette, etiquette, etc.) and “The Pelvis”, each with a 92% score. 43% recognized Article II of the Bill of Rights as having some connection with the Constitution. (Orval Faubus, and President Ike tied for second place as having “said it”). Only slightly over three out of four (77%) could connect Karl Marx with Communism in any manner. “A great comedian” wrote more than a few. 14% knew that the first quotation was from the “Star-Spangled Banner” (first line, second stanza). Byron and Keats were odds-on favorites for having fathered the work. The Biblical quotation received 85 correct identifications for a 74% total—“also rans” in the answer department included Billy Graham and Abe Lincoln. 57% knew that C. Shaw Smith had some connection with the College Union. Most of the guesses were in the literary realm i.e. “A great writer.” Thomas Mann was known by only 23%. Better than 75%, but less than 85% knew Roger Bannister, Warren Harding “swimmer”, James Hoffa “gangster”, Harriet Beecher Stowe “.... woman's voting rights”, John Hancock, and John the Baptist. 34% knew that the Azores were islands, but many of these felt that they were in the Pacific. Henry Wallace was identified by only 20 freshmen (17%) as “Chief Justice of the Supreme Court” answered one student whose accuracy was far above the average. Only 37% of the freshmen could place football captain Bill Price as even a Davidson student. Pablo Picasso was correctly described as “a painter” by but 39%. Plato “Mickey Mouse's dog,” and the Magna Carta “compact with a Mayflower” were identified by 88%. In the 60% to 70% range were Walter Reuther “commentator”, The Rock and Rolling, Everly Brothers, Billy Sunday, “The trust buster” (wrong one), Conrad Adenauer “Russian Communist”, and Victor Herbert. Only 16 of those taking the test scored better than 70%. The high was 95% (missed two); the low 18%. The following freshmen were tried Monday night. Ervin Duggan, Edgar Marston, Ronnie Radford, Ned Davis, John Daily, Thomas Redding, Jim Nuckles, Stan Gaines, Larry Smith, Bob Gordon, A. J. Fleming, Bob Sargent, Dave Robinson, Marshall Lalar, and B. J. Nelson. There was a wide range of offenses, from walking on the grass and failing to wear cap or name tag to extreme cockiness and attitude very improper for a freshman.

Frosh Won't Learn; Fifty Found Guilty

The Court of Control held its second meeting Monday night in the Blue Room of the College Union. Fifteen Freshmen were tried, and all were convicted. Sentences ranged from cleaning football shoes to wearing signs and running stud for the soccer match and helping at the soccer match and entire halls of upperclassmen.

WEST VIRGINIA TECH PLAYS HERE TOMORROW (Page Three)

No. 5

Cunningham To Be President For Day

Requested To Preside At Dorm Dedications

Acting President C. J. Pietenpol announced this week that he is requesting the Board of Trustees name Ex-President Cunningham Acting President for the day of November 1. Dr. Pietenpol explained that this request is being made in order that Dr. Cunningham might preside at the dedication of Cannon and Little dorms. This dedication, to be held during the Chapel hour on the first, is scheduled to include an academic convocation, an address by Dr. Cunningham, and the awarding of an honorary degree to Mr. J. Spencer Love. Degree To Love Mr. Love was voted the degree last spring by the faculty and the Board of Trustees, but due to the fact that he was out of the country at the time of graduation, he was unable to receive it at that time. Dr. Pietenpol further announced that the Executive Committee of the Board would meet at Davidson on October 31. The meeting was called by Board President J. McDowell Richards. No agenda for the meeting has been released. Dr. Pietenpol stated that no particular problem would be discussed, but that the entire program and progress of the College since the resignation of Dr. Cunningham would be considered. All members of the Committee are expected to remain on campus for the dedication and meeting of the Board of Visitors to be held the next day. Students will be encouraged to attend the dorm dedication and convocation, but attendance will not be compulsory. When asked about the recent meeting of the Curriculum Committee, Dr. Pietenpol commented that they had done a lot of talking without any real accomplishment. Each department has been asked to submit a statement outlining the purpose of each course offered in their field. These purposes are to be discussed at the next meeting of the Committee, probably to be held during the coming week.

Sigma Upsilon To Write Novel

Sigma Upsilon honorary creative writing fraternity on campus, held their first meeting of the year last night. Three students, Charles Davis, Grier Davis, and Dabney Stewart, read compositions of their own writing. The organization discussed the schedule of programs for the year and a proposed joint meeting with the Queen's chapter, on November 7, at which a folksong singer will be featured. At the meeting, a novel was considered which the fraternity plans to write, each student composing a chapter. Sigma Upsilon has a total of about fifteen student members and the same number of faculty members. Each student member at some time during the year reads a story or article which he has written. The fraternity discusses and criticizes these readings. New members are soon to be elected on the recommendations of the English department.

Union vs Management: To Debate In Y Forum

“Union Security: the Right to Work” will be discussed in a seminar to be held here November 5 sponsored by the YMCA. Mr. Thornton H. Brooks, attorney of Greensboro, will represent management. Mr. Carey E. Haigler, regional director of the AFL-CIO, will speak for labor. Professor Guthrie from Chapel Hill will moderate the evening discussion. Mr. Brooks is a senior partner in the firm of Brooks, McLendon, Brim & Holderness. He is a member of Phi Beta Kappa from the University of North Carolina. A Presbyterian elder, he serves on the Board of Trustees of Queens College and Union Theological Seminary. He is here as a recognized authority on his side of the controversial right-to-work laws. Mr. Haigler has a lifetime of connection with the Trade Union Movement. He has been employed as an organizer by the United Steelworkers of America and The Congress of Industrial Organizations. At the merger of the AFL and the CIO, he was selected as Regional Director for Region 5. He has served as a steward in the Methodist Church. He played a prominent part in the World War II mobilization, serving on the panels of the Regional War Labor Board and War Production Board. Mr. Guthrie is a professor of economics at North Carolina. He is recognized as among the nation's leading negotiators in labor disputes. These men will introduce their case in chapel that morning. A coffee hour will follow in the Union Ball Room. Their views are to be further developed in the evening. Time will be allowed for open discussion of all pertinent labor-management problems.