Che Davidsonian
THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE
PAGE TWO FRIDAY, DECEMBER 13, 1957
(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

IFC Actions Leading Toward Model Fraternity

Long hours of work and discussion about improving our rush week schedule are now yielding results. The Interfraternity Council, with
constant pushing by president Bob Jones, has come up with the answer to a couple of problems that have made
rush week a burden on the fraternity men, the faculty, and the freshmen.

EARLIER RUSH WEEK

First, the new plan to begin rush week on the first day of registration represents a logical compromise between those
who wanted to have rush week before Orientation and those who wanted to keep the status quo, or even have
it second semester. Certainly, the new plan will please the faculty who sometimes become frustrated at the competition from fraternity
rushing. From the students’ standpoint, anything is better than the old set-up that results in keeping everyone just one step
behind all semester long.

CONFIRMATION PLAN

The other IFC action — taking confirmation out of the hands of the fraternity men and making it a simple
matter between the IFC and the freshmen — is a wise move. The new confirmation plan not only takes less
time, but more importantly, it eliminates pressure upon the rushee to accept dates from a fraternity. In short, the rushee
will now be deprived of the dubious advantage of having a swarm of fraternity men “advise” him on what dates
to give.

The IFC this year has shown a vigor and concern for the welfare of Davidson fraternities unlike any council in
many years. This dynamic attitude, to a large degree, is traceable to the initiative and interest of IFC president, Bob
Jones.

TWO MORE CHANGES

While the IFC has tackled and solved two important problems, it must now turn its attention to two more significant
matters. These more significant problems are (1) to work out an agreeable plan to limit the size of fraternities (i.e.,
“preferential bidding”), and (2) to formulate a more mature and constructive policy toward “Hell Week.” Reasonable answers to these last
two matters plus the work that the council has already done on rush week and confirmation will put into good
order the functioning of fraternities at Davidson. The result, in the final analysis, will be to make more strong the
institution of the fraternity system. And just as important, it will make Davidson's system a model for others to follow.

Drinks For Two Thousand

As any group grows, its problems grow too. And as society grows more complex, so grows the complexity of all
groups. To those on the faculty and the Board of Trustees who advocate enlarging the student body, we ask them
to let their imaginations wander until Davidson reaches 1,200 or 1,500 or 2,000 as some have suggested. Now that the
student body has 2,000 souls (in our imaginations only), let us further imagine the problem of alcohol, and “under the
influence” and all the other related by-products. Not such a pretty picture, eh? Well, we don’t think so either. Furthermore,
we can predict with absolute certainty, that if the Davidson College student enrollment increases much beyond the present limit, alcohol
will no longer be an approachable problem — it will be an established fact.

The Bill of Rights

On this 166th anniversary of “the Bill Of Rights,” we urge each of you to take about five minutes to
read these first ten amendments to our United States Constitution. As you read them, remember that the Bill of Rights
was added to the Constitution to guarantee the people freedom from injustices by the central government. They restrict only the
federal government, not the States. The Bill Of Rights specifically expresses such fundamental liberties as freedom of religion, speech, and
press and such rights as trial by jury, bearing arms, and private property. Just for the memory of Thomas Jefferson,
Patrick Henry, John C. Calhoun, Robert E. Lee, and Woodrow Wilson, make a special point to read these ten amendments.
And when you do, try to relate their meaning to some of the “advanced” thinking of today. Are the two
compatible? And by the way, what does the tenth amendment say?

Washing Dishes

Every year the federal government uses 5,400 freight cars of paper for printing, duplicating, and office purposes noted a recent
editorial in The Wall Street Journal. The point of the editorial was to say that the government ought to practice
a little economy by cutting down on the big spending. The taxpayers, said the editorial, could put their money to
use better if allowed to spend it themselves rather than the government spending it for them. Just how does the
government spend some of this money? The overloaded taxpayer’s money is going for such “essential” items as pamphlets on “Tools
for Food Preparation and Dishwashing.” And what advice does all this money buy? “Dishpans should be large enough to hold
the dishes but not too large for the sink.”

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Johns Johnson
BUSINESS MANAGER
Pat Henderson
ASSISTANT EDITOR
Gerald Wilson
Associate Editor
Julian Aldridge
Managing Editors
Bruce Brooks, Bob Lathan
Laurens Walker
Sports Editor
George Ramsey
Assignments Editor
Bill Patton
Feature Editor
Jim Morris
Copy Editor
Henry Samuels
News Editor
Lee Mayfield
Cartoonists
Bross, Cole
Photographer
Ed Stevens
Advertising Manager
John Trask, Jr.
Circulation Manager
Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

LETTERS TO EDITOR

‘Conformity’ No Simple Issue; ‘Time’, Luce Hit

Conformity: To What, And Why

Dear Editor:

It seems that it has become fashionable around Davidson to point with apparently intellectual sophistication to the terrible problem of
conformity. The difficulty with much thinking in this area appears to be its very vague characteristics: that is, we tend
to regard conformity—whatever this means to us—as evil per se. As we wrinkle our brows over cups of coffee, we
often find ourselves agreeing with one who observes that conformity must go.

WHY WE CONFORM

Perhaps a closer look at the complex nature of this thing called conformity will reveal something different. In the first
place, let us ask ourselves why we conform. It may be that in examining our motives for conformity we may
discover that some reasons are better than other reasons. For example, when we put on the uniform of the Ivy-Leaguer
solely in order to impress someone of our discriminating and distinctive taste, we are probably not acting from a high
motive. We should also examine in what areas and activities of life we conform. To conform means to be in
agreement, and there are many instances in which we feel that we should be in agreement with some law or
some person. Everyone who stops his car at the red stop light is conforming to a certain law. Those who
play in an orchestra accept the interpretations of the musical phrasing which their conductor decides to adopt, even though their
personal musical tastes may not agree with his interpretations. We do not want to do away with conformity in either
of these two areas, for the result would be chaos. On the other hand, we would not be willing to
agree with one who says that we should give 50% of our income to the Church. Conformity is a complicated
issue, and we should not be so intent in gazing at one side of it that we miss the truth
of the matter and are led to make extremely simple and facile judgments.

John McVay

Clare, Henry: Blameless Lives

Dear Editor:

I submit the following editorial which appeared recently in the Arkansas Traveler, student daily of the University of Arkansas. Although
it is no literary masterpiece, I found the satire most enjoyable.

Emory U.
J.C.B.

Everyone has by now, I suppose read the Time cover story on the strange case of Orval Faubus vs. the
U.S. If you haven't you ought to because it is a milestone in interpretive reporting. Orval is taken to task
for being from Greasy Creek, among other things, and in a currently running story in Life, some of his relatives
are shown who look amazingly like the Joad family. Let's take a look at Time, The Weekly Newsmagazine: Timeditor is
Henry Robinson Luce (rhymes with Zeus), a man who goes to great lengths to avoid having his picture taken, possibly
because he is ugly. He is perhaps best known by his skinny and snappish wife, Clare Boothe (rhymes with couth)
a clever and opportunistic woman who married well. Henry is just one year short of 60 and although Clare refrains
from divulging her date of birth in Who's Who, it is readily apparent that she is a close contemporary of
hubby’s. Both Henry and Clare have led blameless lives insofar as milk-dribbling, gusty belching, and snuff-dipping are concerned. The recurrent
story, however, that Henry Luce can walk on water like his friend...The corrected OCR text is as follows:

---

The claim is without basis in fact. Luce’s magazines are house organs for the Republican party and bear such pretentious
titles as Time, Life, and Fortune. For getting him elected president, Dwight Eisenhower rewarded Henry by sending Clare to Italy
as ambassador. This was the big time for Clare, a woman whose delusions of greatness are paralleled only by those
of Orval Faubus. Sometimes she thinks she is being poisoned and she is continually going about posturing as a Great
Lady in the Eleanor Roosevelt tradition. Unfortunately, no one has told her she is not in the same league. “She's
about as feminine as a meat-axe,” writer Irvin Shaw has said of her. Also in the Luce stable besides Time,
the magazine for people who can't think, is Life; the magazine for people who can't read. Life is composed of
picture stories (Clare Boothe Luce Goes Skin-Diving, Life Goes To A Lynching, etc.) which are interchangeable from year to year
plus one compensatory page of type devoted to pious, turgid editorials which nobody reads.

COFFEE BREAK
Christmas Spirit: "Money's Worth"
BY JOHN BERNHARDT

“We were batting down the road the other day in that little A-Healey, when we saw a ‘58 Olds up
ahead. Boy, we could see him burn at the way we were pulling up behind him, and I figured he
was about ready to try finding out how much that new car could do. So I down-shifted to second and
really gunned it for all it was worth. He heard us coming and tried not to let us pass, but
it didn't make a bit of difference—we passed him by like he was standing still.”

“You must have gotten your money’s worth out of it that one time.”

“I sure did, it was worth every penny to make him eat my dust.”

“How many miles to a gallon do you get?”

“Oh, about twenty-eight. The trouble is, you've got to use high test, so it’s still costing me about a dollar-twenty-five
to go a hundred miles, not counting repair jobs, insurance, taxes, and all that other stuff that comes up every
now and then.”

“With a car like that, you probably put on a good many miles, don’t you?”

“Yeah, I probably average about two hundred miles a week, just playing around—it comes out to something like two dollars
and fifty cents a week to keep the old car going.”

“Those weekends really burn a hole in my pocketbook all around. I figured it cost me about twenty dollars my
last trip up to Hollins.”

“You know what? The bookstore charged me two-fifty for a book this morning! That's way too much to be spending
on a book.”

“That's terrible... Wait while I get a pack of cigarettes and I'll walk up with you.”

“Okay. Say, what do you think about this gift fund project?”

“I'm all for feeding the Indians. We don't want them to get tired of us and go over to join
the Russians. The trouble is, I spent my last dollar for gas, and all I've got left is a little
coffee money.”

“I gave them a check for two dollars. It’s a good idea and all that, but I’m about broke and
I've got to get something for Christmas.”

“Oh boy. Those Christmas spirits. Am I ever going to have a blast!”

Student Body Praised; Liberal States Credo
Son Of Davidson: Lauds Editor

Dear Editor:

As a son of Davidson from South Carolina and one whose forebearers from before the Revolutionary War have been active
in politics, teaching, and the ministry, we would like to congratulate you on your editorial in the November 1st issue
of the Davidsonian. We think that your writing shows a knowledge of the past and ability to separate fact from
propaganda and that you show that you are a person who has the courage to express your convictions.

NOT BRAINWASHED

We are glad to see that you have not been “brainwashed” by the extreme liberals who believe that immediate integration
of church, school, and social life is a necessity because of the Supreme Court decision of 1954. We hope that
you will continue to urge everyone to study the history of the past, the Biblical as well as the secular.
We hope that you, along with the other intelligent moderates of the South, may lead the people to see that
the proper course is not the course of the political liberal, NAACP, CIO, and Communists on the one hand or
the Ku Klux Klan, Citizens Council, and radical Southerners on the other hand, but rather is the Christian course of
feeling for your fellowman, regardless of race, and the assurance that he receives equal rights.

NEW RELIGION

We wonder sometimes just what is this new religion that burst into bloom so violently after the Supreme Court decision
in 1954. What were the religious beliefs of these new religionists before 1954? Were all of the great and good
ministers, and great and good men and women wrong for several hundred years? How can we expect people to change
so suddenly after one ruling of a court in a country that from 1776 to 1954, in decision after decision,
permitted the customs and practices to which the people are familiar? We hope that you will ever be a forthright
editor and will be a fearless and fair one on all questions, always.

Yours very truly,
Charles R. Hunter, ‘25
Superintendent of Schools
Marlboro County
Bennettsville, S.C.

Liberal: Tired Of ‘Drivel’

Dear Editor:

With a grin we notice that two of THE DAVIDSONIAN'S Editors spent their time in “The Big City” speaking with
hackies about—you guessed it—segregation. They may have well spent less time and money in Charlotte getting their information from just
as reliable authorities.

PURE DRIVEL

I am tired of reading “LONG LIVE THE SOUTH!” every Friday night. We “liberals” are getting a bit sick of
the name calling and back patting that comes up in each issue of “our school newspaper.” Most of it is
pure drivel and not worth the time it takes to answer it. However, some of it appears to be intelligent
on the surface and therefore merits attention. Mr. Sterling's incredibly short-sighted letter comes into focus: Who are “the people” tyrannized
by the “nine czars”? They are people who want to tyrannize other people. These people (who are a minority nationwide)
would “keep control over their government” for the purpose of keeping control over a minority group which exists in their
midst. The above-mentioned letter contains several logical fallacies which I shall not bother to discuss due to lack of space.
I should like to state quite simply one liberal’s viewpoint:

1. An individual must be accepted for what he is worth as an individual—not for the color of his skin,
which is God-given and unchangeable. A colored man’s ability can be matched with a white man’s objectively through scientific tests.

2. The United States cannot continue to call itself a democracy if it continues to give certain groups of citizens
rights it denies other citizens for no logical reasons. If states’ rights are opposed to individuals’ rights the former must
fall.

3. And this is the topper: intermarriage between the races is purely an individual matter and should not be interfered
with by the State—the State does not see fit to meddle in intermarriage between different religions. As for “amalgamation”—amalgamation of
what? So what? Let’s cut out these emotional appeals, arguments by analogy, etc., etc. that clutter up any newspaper.

Sincerely,
R. E. Cumming

By Schultz

Colonel Sapp: Praises Students

Dear Editor:

I attach herewith a quotation from a letter I received some weeks ago from Colonel Sapp. It is so fine
a statement in tribute to the quality of men who compose the student body that I thought you might like
to use it:

“The moral, mental and physical quality of the Davidson student has made a deep and lasting impression upon me. It
is most reassuring to know that our country has this type of youth with which to work towards a lasting
peace. The college has every right to be proud of the contribution it is making each year in furnishing leaders
for our Armed Forces. Certainly with the requirement for a majority of the country’s youth to serve we need the
very finest leadership possible in the military.

“My continuing prayer is that one day it will be possible for the total efforts of such men to be
directed towards more lasting goals than war. Until such a happy situation exists I believe that Davidson, a Church Related
College, is setting an example for all in the large annual contribution she makes to the security of our nation.”

Lt. Col. John D. Sapp,
Former PMS&T, Davidson College

Thank you for sending us the weekly issues of The Davidsonian. I assure you that we peruse them thoroughly and
enjoy them each one.

With best wishes, I am
J. R. Cunningham
Sincerely,

---
