PAGE FOUR

Velma Returns

Louis “Satchmo” Armstrong concentrates on his work while Velma Middleton, his hefty vocalist who polled a substantial number of votes for cheerleader after her last performance here two years ago, gives forth in a concert in Johnston Gym Wednesday night.

Satchmo and Dixieland Reign At Gym Concert

By GRIER DAVIS

When Louis Armstrong played last Wednesday night, Elvis lost significance, progressive jazz seemed cold and wan, Bach was trampled under beating feet—Dixieland reigned supreme. Satchmo himself said that Bach “just didn't have that beat,” and that progressive jazz was “almost too much mustard for a dime,” but he did think that Elvis was a “real showman.”

Before the concert while Louis and the boys were warming up, they broke into an impromptu jam session. He coaxed his cornet around through its upper register and grinned, “I ain’t as old as I is. Oh, man! We'll give ‘em a real ball tonight.” Lovie had been to Davidson before and he commented that he was glad to see all the girls here for the concert. “Eight hunnert boys up here all alone! Why man, that's onnatural!”

Louis Armstrong is undeniably a showman. Standing outside the door before the concert, he said to Trummy Young, “We should have marched right off the bus aplayin’,” and then strutted all the way up to the stage amid the frenzied cheering. He blew a short run, smiled a toothy grin and said, “Ah, that’s right.” Then the sextet broke into “Back Home In Indiana.” Everyone seemed to enjoy it including Louie, who laughed and shook hands several times with Trummy. While Velma Middleton shimmied and shook in her dress of green sequins, Louie looked on at her in mock surprise. “What're you doin’ there gal?” Then ole Satch standing all alone, let his trumpet wander over the blue melodies from “Deep River” to “St. Louis Blues,” the music which is our very heritage.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Phi Literary Society Initiates 14 Members

The Philanthropic Literary Society at its meeting Monday initiated new members. Among those accepting bids are: Manfred Walter Emmrich, Ed M. Armfield, William K. Davis, Duncan McEachern, Jr., Dewitt A. Green, Jr., James A. Hodges, Jr., Walter Lee Hefner, Jr., and John D. Wilsey, Jr. Also John Curtis Stone, James S. Lawrence, William M. Boyce, Robert W. Morrison, Jr., Harold C. Smith, and Donald H. Dublin.

At the same time the Eumenean Literary Society centered its program around foreign students’ views on Davidson College. Participating were Hugo Misle, Ed Pantigoso, Oyvind Norstrom, and Alfred Wang. The panel generally agreed that the Davidson student leads a cloistered life, and he is inclined to neglect the remaining one-half of the world.

Blake Flies (Continued From Page One)

and particularly the clergy of the church are now in. One is the meeting of the Central Committee of the WCC last August in Galyatetoe, Hungary. Highly propagandized reports of this meeting were released through the Hungarian press, and were a considerable factor in sparking the idea of revolution among the Hungarian Protestants. The second situation lies in the fact that the anti-Soviet revolt was greatly instigated by the church, the actual rebellion having started at the Budapest Theological Seminary.

Since the October-November revolt stemmed largely from the ranks of the church, the leaders of the Hungarian Reformed Church are now in jeopardy from both Hungarian and Russian governmental authorities. Dr. Blake said, “I hope you will understand the kind of pressure which would cause me to fail your Winter Services.” When he asked for a return engagement to speak

Spring Frolics is already in the air as these leading characters in the annual D Club Foolies gather in a preliminary session. Bill Price (right) will play the title role of Lil Abner, while Bill Jackson (left) is Pappy and Linda Wilder performs as Daisy Mae.

Phi Beta Kappa (Continued From Page One)

Theta Pi social fraternity and Scabbard and Blade. A Union Carbide Scholar, Howell is now associate editor of The Davidsonian, having served previously as sports editor.

EMORY KIMBROUGH

Kimbrough, a sociology major, lives in Clarksville, Tennessee. He is a member of Alpha Tau Omega social fraternity and Eumenean Literary Society. Kimbrough serves as secretary of Le Cercle Francais, national French honorary fraternity.

PHIL KUKURA

From Deland, Florida, Kukura is doing history honors work. He is a member of Beta Theta Pi social fraternity, the YMCA, and Westminster Fellowship. Sharp is on the swimming team and recently took second place in the diving competition at the Southern

representing his

DAN LAFAR

President of the Student Body at Davidson. Dr. Blake was scheduled for vespers next fall. LaFar, taking history honors, is

live modern! Pick the Pack that Suits You Best! Smoke modern L&M and always get full exciting flavor PLUS THE PURE WHITE MIRACLE TIP With L&M...and only L&M...can you pick the pack that suits you best. And only L&M gives you the New! Crushproof L&M BOX (COSTS NO MORE) flavor...the full, exciting flavor that makes L&M... AMERICA'S FASTEST GROWING CIGARETTE L&M PACK (KING & REGULAR)

from Gastonia, N. C. He recently is doing history honors work. He is a member of Beta Theta Pi, on the Elections Board. Kukura also serves as vice-president of the International Relations Club, treasurer of the YMCA, and president of Delta Phi Alpha, honorary German fraternity.

FRIDAY, MARCH 8, 1957

utilities. However, the new court Dorm Is Re-named Fraternity Committee will be financed in the largest (Continued From Page One) part as an investment of the college’s endowment fund.

For J. Archer Cannon

West Dorm was given the name of “J. Archer Cannon” dormitory Wednesday in honor of the late Mr. Cannon of Concord. The renaming, announced by President John R. Cunningham, was unanimously approved by the Board of Trustees. Mr. Cannon, at the time of his death last July, was vice-president of the Davidson College Board of Trustees, a position he had held for the preceding 20 years. The dormitory was completely renovatedLast summer, receiving new flooring, ceilings, and baths. The exterior will be refinished this spring. Mr. Cannon served as chairman of the Buildings and Grounds committee of the trustees during the entire administration of Dr. John R. Cunningham, which began in 1941. During that time seven major buildings were constructed, the older dormitories were renovated, and the grounds landscaped. Mr. Cannon served as president of the Concord Rotary Club and of the Cabarrus Country Club, and as chairman of the trustees of the Presbyterian Orphan's Home at Barium Springs. He also won a national award given by his fraternity, Kappa Sigma. LaFar is a member of Who’s Who, ODK, and Scabbard and Blade. A Distinguished Military Student, he serves as ROTC Regimental Executive. LaFar also plays on the golf team.

BASIL SHARP
Basil Sharp, from Marlinton, West Virginia, is a pre-ministerial student.

The other day our vice president in charge of good news announced that someone, somewhere, enjoys Coke 68 million times a day. You can look at this two ways: Either we’ve got an incredibly thirsty individual on our hands, or Coca-Cola is the best-loved sparkling drink in the world. We lean to the latter interpretation.

SOPHOMORES
YOUR JUNIOR YEAR IN NEW YORK?
See your dean or write for a brochure to:
Dean F.H. McCloskey
Junior Year Program
Washington Square College
New York University
New York 3, N.Y.

SIGN OF GOOD TASTE
Bottled Under Authority Of The Coca-Cola Company By THE COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD
“Coke” is a registered trade-mark, © 1956, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY

"What's it like to be in BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION AT IBM?"
Two years ago, Robert Everett asked himself this question. Today, as Administrative Assistant to the Divisional Controller, Bob reviews his experience at IBM and gives some pointers that may be helpful to you in taking the first, most important step in your business career.

"What's it like to work for a big, expanding company like IBM? What would I be asked to do? Would I get ahead fast?" These were some of the questions that filled Bob Everett's mind as he faced up to the big problem, "How can I put my M.B.A. training to the best possible use?"

Bob came directly to IBM from Cornell in July, 1955, with an M.B.A. in finance. He was immediately assigned, with twenty-nine other M.B.A.’s, to a Business Administration training program. This six months’ program comprised general orientation in the entire IBM organization, a six weeks’ field trip to the Syracuse branch office and several months at the Poughkeepsie manufacturing facilities. There he gained a functional knowledge of IBM machines, particularly the 700 series of giant electronic computers.

Why Bob picked IBM
Bob made a careful study of existing opportunities before selecting IBM for his career. He had a dozen campus interviews; took nine company tours. IBM's M.B.A. program interested him—because, as he says, “It gave me a chance to review the entire company before starting an actual line assignment.” He was intrigued by the increasing use of data processing equipment in finance and he knew that IBM was a leader in this field. Salary-wise, he found IBM better than many, but it was company growth potential that motivated his choice.

"Opportunity certainly exists at IBM," he says. "Growth factors alone will account for many new executive positions. A second factor is the trend toward decentralization, which also creates new jobs. These factors, plus IBM’s ‘promote-from-within’ policy, add up to real opportunity."

IBM hopes that this message will help to give you some idea of what it’s like to be in Business Administration at IBM. There are equal opportunities for E.E.'s, M.E.’s, physicists, mathematicians, and Liberal Arts majors in IBM’s many divisions—Research, Product Development, Manufacturing Engineering, Sales, and Sales Assistance. Why not drop in and discuss IBM with your Placement Director? He can supply our latest brochure and tell you when IBM will next interview on your campus. Meanwhile, our Manager of College Relations, Mr. P. H. Bradley, will be happy to answer your questions. Write him at IBM, Room 10001, 590 Madison Ave., New York 22, N.Y.

Developing a new system
His training completed by January, 1956, Bob was assigned to the Methods Department as a Methods Analyst at IBM World Headquarters in New York City. Here, with the cooperation of operating department personnel, he worked on the development of systems and procedures for the various Division areas. In addition to normal methods techniques used in developing systems and procedures, he studied these projects in terms of possible machine application for either IBM high-speed giant computers or conventional accounting equipment. One project was the study of the Machine Ordering procedure with the objective of simplifying and mechanizing it and at the same time improving the source information to provide for a more complete analysis of sales and production backlog.

Promoted the same year
By December of the same year, Bob was promoted to his present job—Administrative Assistant to the Controller of the Data Processing Division. “The first function of an Administrative Assistant,” says Bob, “is to filter out the ‘hot’ projects from those that can be handled later. You follow through on projects assigned by the controller and keep him posted on their progress.” Bob's new position affords a pleasant diversification of work: charting divisional responsibilities of the controller’s function ... plans for decentralization ... costs of regionalization ... summarizing key financial and statistical information for presentation to top management.

Bob points out that there are many areas in Business Administration at IBM for men with an M.B.A. or a B.S. in accounting: corporate, general, and factory accounting; internal audit; methods; payroll and taxes. Administrative and management positions constantly open up at World Headquarters, IBM’s 188 branch offices, many plants, and laboratories.

DATA PROCESSING • ELECTRIC TYPEWRITERS • TIME EQUIPMENT • MILITARY PRODUCTS