HIGH EDUCATIONAL COSTS DISCUSSED (Page 2) VOL. XLVI

“I personally believe that we can do a better job with a smaller group and do it well,” replied Acting-President Pietenpol in response to a reporter’s question about increased enrollment. The DAVIDSONIAN staff held its regularly scheduled news conference with the College's temporary head at a luncheon Wednesday in the Union. Dean Pietenpol went on to add that the endowment presently stands at $8,000 per student, as compared with the $30,000 per student that some Northern liberal arts colleges have. He pointed out that an increase in enrollment would mean, of course, a decrease in the endowment per student.

COLLEGE TOO LARGE

“Mr. Martin and I (referring to D. Grier Martin, college treasurer) both think that Davidson College is too large now.” But, he added, the increase will come. There are now 47,000 students in North Carolina; by 1967 there will be 89,000. Therefore, Davidson will probably have to allow for an increase. He emphasized the fact that there is a diversity of opinion on this subject among the faculty as well as among the Trustees. Again using the comparison with the New England liberal arts colleges, he said that “Davidson can do a job parallel to that which is being done by northern schools that have deliberately remained small.”

SMALL CLASSES

Dean Pietenpol reminded the group of the idea which grew up with the College of maintaining small classes where individual instruction could be given. “When a class gets above 20 students it may as well have 200 students.” Turning to other phases of College activity, the Dean commended highly the past meeting of the Trustees and the Board of Visitors. “These people are vitally interested in every phase of the College.” Also, he reported that Mr. D. R. LaFar, chairman of the Trustee’s committee to select a new president, gave a report before the Trustees saying that “we don't have anybody yet.”

FACULTY SALARIES

In his presentation during the dedicatory exercises as the provider of the “dynamic leadership necessary” to sustain Davidson and to further its goals, Mr. Spencer Love was called by Dr. Cunningham. He first became interested in the college during the great endowment drive after World War II. He has implemented and deepened his concern since. Today his son, Julian, is a sophomore here. He made answer to the following questions from the DAVIDSONIAN:

Do you have any new and concrete information on who the new president will be?
“Nothing specific. I can tell you that the list has been considerably narrowed. We are determined to obtain the most outstanding man available.”

Do you have any personal feeling on the Trustee’s increased enrollment policy?
“No, I believe we should give serious consideration to our responsibility as an institution in this period of crisis in American education.”

How do you feel about the Athletic situation?
“Questions will be asked about it.”

As a trustee, how do you rank our problems?
1. Faculty salaries
2. The need for a president
3. Long-term policy and development

Do you have anything personal you would like to say?
“I am convinced that for its influence and in its work, there is no other institution that can match our college. I think we're just lucky, that’s all.”

Keithly Pays Visit To ROTC Dept.

Col. Thomas G. Keithly, chief of the North Carolina Military District, paid a visit today to the Davidson College ROTC Department for the purpose of an informal inspection. During the inspection, which was required by the commander of the Third Army, Col. Keithly looked over the classroom activities, the department's facilities, and discussed with the college officials pertinent problems and administrative procedures. In addition to the above, the Colonel held a conference with the Professor of Military Science and Tactics, Lt. Col. William Adams, and a briefing session with the cadet staff, during which the cadet officers explained to Col. Keithly the functions of the staff. This marked the second visit of Col. Keithly to the Davidson ROTC Department since he assumed the duties of his present position on August 13, 1956. Accompanying him on the inspection were several members of his staff.

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College
DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 1957

Progress on the Patterson Fraternity Court... Next week’s DAVIDSONIAN will feature a full report on the work as it progresses further.

Theft Cases Reported By Student Council

Two cases of theft were reported at the Student Council meeting Monday night. Councilman Tom Cutting said that those missing money were a junior in Little dorm and a freshman in East. One case involved seven dollars. Although no definite actions were taken at the time, an investigating committee was appointed. The entire committee includes Phil Lewis, Charlie Morris, Jimmy Reynolds, Fred Lane, and Dan McAlister. They will present a resolution recommending a study of the possibility of establishing a federal-supported science academy. Phil Lewis informed the Carolina State Student Legislative Assembly November 7, 8, and 9 that two additional delegates will attend.

Pre-meds Welcome Initiates Into AED

A. E. D., honorary pre-medical fraternity, initiated 24 new members at its regular meeting in Phi Hall on October 28. New members are: John St. Clair, Marshall Chapman, Richard Brubaker, Charles Cook, Robert DuPuis, Sam Smith, Doug Ballentine, Walter Edwards, Bill Turner, Gary Maynard, Tom McCutchen, Jim Overall, and others.

Keithly Pays Visit To ROTC Dept.

Col. Thomas G. Keithly, chief of the North Carolina Military District, paid a visit today to the Davidson College ROTC Department for the purpose of an informal inspection. During the inspection, which was required by the commander of the Third Army, Col. Keithly looked over the classroom activities, the department's facilities, and discussed with the college officials pertinent problems and administrative procedures. In addition to the above, the Colonel held a conference with the Professor of Military Science and Tactics, Lt. Col. William Adams, and a briefing session with the cadet staff, during which the cadet officers explained to Col. Keithly the functions of the staff. This marked the second visit of Col. Keithly to the Davidson ROTC Department since he assumed the duties of his present position on August 13, 1956. Accompanying him on the inspection were several members of his staff.

Rita Streich Appears Wednesday Night

Rita Streich, famous German coloratura-soprano, who makes her appearance in Chambers Auditorium at Davidson College on Wednesday evening, November 13, at 8:15 o'clock, is one of the most sought-after artists in Europe. Born of a German father and Russian mother, Rita Streich grew up in Germany. She studied under celebrated teachers such as Maria Ivogün, the fabulous coloratura of a bygone day, and Erna Berger, who starred at the Metropolitan Opera for a number of years in New York. Miss Streich had the opportunity to live in Berger's home and thus had special training. It was not until the end of World War II that Rita Streich began her work on the operatic stage. A favorite of conductors, and even generals, she was first engaged by the Berlin State Opera, and is now with the famous Vienna State Opera.

At Davidson, Miss Streich will be heard in a lieder and aria program of works by Handel, Schubert, Schumann, Richard Strauss, and Wolf. She will sing the Mozart concert aria “Mia speranza, adorata,” (K. 416). Included in the program will be Philine’s aria, “Je suis Titania,” from “Mignon” and a group of “Chansons” by Darius Milhaud. The glamorous brunette beauty will be presented in the Davidson concert by the Artist Series Committee, announced Donald Plott, Chairman. Miss Streich will be assisted at the piano by Paul Ulanowsky, famous accompanist.

AMERICAN FAVORITE

A favorite artist by way of radio, festivals, and long-playing records to American music lovers, Miss Streich’s appearance is always eagerly awaited. Record lovers now have a natural desire to hear her in person! Call the roll of important musical capitals of Europe, and it is likely that you will learn that Miss Streich has already exhibited her unique gifts in virtually every one of them. Tickets are available to the general public for Miss Streich’s Davidson appearance. Season tickets are still available at a reduced price, announced Chairman Plott. For inquiries, write Artist Series, Box 356, Davidson, N. C., or call.

CATS MEET WOFFORD HERE TOMORROW (Page 3)Davidson 2121. Single admission is $2.00, and there are no reserved seats.

Kennedy Cites Freshmen Parents: Pre-Med Traits

Dr. William B. Kennedy, Jr., vice-dean of the Penn-™an Parents’ Day. The parents Program Ready This year, the College has set aside November 9 for Fresh- of all the freshmen have been urged to come to Davidson and to participate in this very help- also be an opportunity to visit local students in a speech to AED, honorary pre-medical ful program. The purpose of the occasion is to acquaint the parents with the activities of the freshman class and to give them an insight into its relation to life here at Davidson. Angus McBryde, Don Stein, Paul; the Freshmen Sophomore Field: were working with the calendar sightseeing tips. A B tips records. He also pointed out that the rate may be as high as 30% Europe and transfers of bag Rickman, John Caldwell, Kim pay. They burned their hats wave. today there are “two men apply Kennedy discussed in detail PAREN A reporter asked Dr. Pieten- Kimball, Bob Lathan, Steve F4 during the riot. does not include personal in for every position in med. the admissions policy at Penn. TS MEET PROFS Harold Westervelt, Wal- president Smyth reported expenses, purchases or ship. school. The situation will get The prime quality they are look Parents will also be able to greatest need right now is. ter Bishop, Jim Herlong, Charles. that members of the Council gourd tips. worse because more men are ing for in applicants is good meet and talk with their sons’ Loftin, and Jim Morris. A twelve-day extension of the taking pre-med courses and the character. Kennedy said, “I teachers and counselors. Acting swer.” He pointed out the fact that good men can get better-paying positions elsewhere. If we are to continue to have a top faculty, then we must raise salaries. No definite plans are now in process for any new building programs on the campus. However, he said, there is a great need for an addition to the science building. Queried on the geographical make-up of the student body, the Dean said that a little more diversification would be better, but our first duty is to the Presbyterians of the South and Southeast.

Meet With Board

At the ROTC Board of Review held October 17-18, the forty-five members of MS IV made their choices for the branch of the services that they want to enter upon graduation from Davidson. They also listed their choices on the length of active service and the date when they will enter the services. This year the most popular first choice of the cadets was Military Intelligence, with 29% choosing this. Far behind in second place was Artillery, with 16%. Armored was third with 13%. The remaining choices were spread out evenly over the other branches. Last year the actual assignments bore a strong resemblance to this pattern, but the choices were spread out more evenly. Military Intelligence led with 19%, Artillery was second with 17%, and Armored was third with 15%. Twenty-four cadets chose to serve only six months of active service, while twenty-one want to enlist for two years. Thirty-two chose to go in almost immediately upon gradu- (Continued On Back Page)

new members were briefly welcomed by Bill Pomeroy, president, faculty advisor. were entertained after the meeting with a coffee hour in the Union ballroom. committee in hopes of establishing a mid-semester break. Those appointed to work with Olin Puckett, the Religious Committee said All following the initiation the and Dr. vespers. The position of Mr. Thornton H. Brooks: We are not here to discuss the admitted merits nor the evident faults of trade unionism, but are here to examine the union shop. The Union Shop is wrong because it is against American tradition, unnecessary to union security, and it is morally reprehensible in its compulsory aspects. The arguments of labor that the Union Shop is necessary to eliminate the free rider, necessary for its development, and popular are assailable.

AGAINST CONSTITUTION

The question is as old as America, and it is nearly as complex. But it is against the spirit of the Constitution with its emphasis upon the freedom of the individual. The Railway Brotherhoods held 97% of the workers in that industry when there were in effect right-to-work laws prohibiting compulsory membership. Unions will continue to survive and thrive so long as they suitably answer the needs of the worker.

YELLOW-DOG CONTRACT

The pendulum has swung from the old days of the Yellow-Dog Contract when the unions fought compulsory membership to the Union Shop with the very same unions for compulsory membership. This sort of compulsion is morally wrong. The free rider has his individual right to resist the obligations imposed upon him by compulsory union membership. No one can be forced to give the United Appeal (or to join the YMCA).

UNIONS STRONGER

Unions are stronger in North Carolina today than they were before the right-to-work law was enacted. The right-to-work laws, according to the Institute of Public Opinion, are favored by a majority of the American people, including 33% of the union rank-and-file. the members of the tour. members of this extension will be $300. tour will be taken by some of This too much will include Denmark, Sweden, med schools are not increasing that it takes $250,000 for in medicine, build the The Southern Colleges Tours (Continued On Back Page)

Labor-Management Debate...

The Position of Mr. Carey E. Haigler: The Union Shop is necessary to the American Trade Union. Its popularity with the worker is indicated by the since repealed provision in the Taft-Hartley law which called for referendums in plants negotiating for union shop contracts. Ninety per cent of the workers polled favored this provision. The Union must by law represent all the workers in a plant where it has collective bargaining powers. The free-rider hurts the union’s position. Moreover, his dues and membership add strength which is necessary. The dues-dodger is comparable to the draft-dodger.

NEED PARTICIPATION

All workers must accept the responsibility to participate in Union affairs, and the union must be able to discipline all workers in a plant. Not all employers oppose the Union shop. Management has agreed to its inclusion in every instance where there is union shop. Only those who believe in the ultimate failure of unions oppose it.

RIGHT-TO-WORK LAW

The right-to-work laws are directly related to low wages. The South is the heartland of the right-to-work legislation (enacted by a total of 18 states), and it is the lowest wage-earning region of the nation. North Carolina is at the bottom of the heap (47th), and it is poorly organized for labor. Alabama receives the highest hourly wage rates in the South, and it is the most heavily unionized. (Mr. Brooks suggested that this is due more to the type of industry than anything else. Alabama has the most heavy industry of the South, and North Carolina’s manufactures are typically light: cigarettes and furniture.). equipment necessary for the education of one medical determination, student, it also takes from $8,000-$10,000 to take a medical and emotional stability are also considered highly by the admissions board. Last year at Penn there were 1628 applicants to fill the present freshmen class of 125. Kennedy added that at Penn they want to create the atmosphere of a small college. They want to run the medical school as a graduate school; and they try to relax the students and give them as much freedom from tension as possible. According to Kennedy, the chief aim of the medical school is “to produce good, sound, medical practitioners.” Motivation, that is, drive and Dean of Students J. C. Bailey will speak and will conduct a This may be explained by the get away with it like you can question and answer period. Bill Fraley, the Freshman Advisor, stated that he believes the attendance will be larger than ever before. He estimated that it would be around 200.

FRESHMAN COUNCIL

The Freshman Council, composed of students elected from the freshman class, have handled the plans for this occasion. They have worked for two months preparing it. The Council’s officers are Lu Harvin, president, Tommy Covington, vice-president, and Gordon LeGrand, secretary.

Furious Gotham Gait Greets Paper Staff

By JOHN TRASK, Jr. Editor, The Davidsonian

New York, Nov. 7—Eight DAVIDSONIAN staff members hit New York City this afternoon about one o'clock. We arrived here via Southern Railway through Pennsylvania Station. After fighting our way through the maze of people, we finally found the right corridor that led us to the Hotel New Yorker. Our first order of business was lunch at a cafeteria that reminded us of a hurried army chow line. Needless to say, the pace of life here is slightly faster than the pastoral atmosphere at Davidson College. We are here for three days to attend the Associated Collegiate Press Convention. In addition to our eight students, there are nearly 1,000 other students representing over 300 colleges and universities. Those from Davidson are Gerald Wilson, assistant editor; Pat Henderson, business manager; Jim Morris, feature editor; George Ramsey, sports editor; Laurens Walker, and Bob Latham, managing editors; Bill Patton, assignments editor; and L Tonight's address by Associated Press columnist Hal Boyle officially opened the convention. The convention will continue tomorrow and Saturday. During the day, staff members will at- (Continued on Back Page)