FRIDAY, MARCH 1, 1957 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Slants Sports By JOHN JOHNSON

Tennis coach Bill Lufler, who guided Davidson to its first undefeated tennis season back in 1946, signed a five-year contract this month with the Swedish Tennis Association for $14,000 annually. Lufler will be in charge of expanding the tennis program in that country on a nation-wide basis. He has been directing the University of Miami team since 1948 with a record of 127 matches won, one lost and one tied. His current 71-match winning streak could be extended this spring to break William & Mary’s all-time collegiate record of 86 straight.

NOT INTERESTED
Lufler wanted to put the Wildcats on the Hurricane schedule this year, but the local sports department was not interested. Three more spring sports—baseball, golf, and tennis—begin workouts this week. With the advent of the golf season, heavily-worked Coach Tom Scott takes on another responsibility. He is currently filling the triple capacity of varsity basketball coach, freshman basketball coach and athletic director. All this work falls in the period of scheduling and basketball recruiting, too.

MONDAY AFTERNOON
Baseball officially begins on Monday afternoon, but new Coach Tom Stevens will not be able to personally direct practice until about March 12 because of spring football practice. Until that time Captain Donny McRee will supervise the workouts. Four pitchers—“Dee” Lide, Dave Page, Allen Moore and Don Hendry—of last year’s squad have been limbering up their arms for the past two weeks. Since the diamond is being worked on and the backstop is down, the team will conduct early drills strictly on fundamentals and exercises. Ace first baseman Dyke Little will probably not get to play this spring due to a knee operation scheduled for that period. His vacancy may be filled by freshman George Hart, formerly of Charlotte's Harding High. Tennis practice also starts on Monday, but Coach Richard McKee is not extending an open invitation to all hopefuls, at least not at this time. Since he anticipates the return of all of last year’s team, he will devote the drill time to intense work.

By BOBBY PAGE
Action in the Southern Conference swimming meet moves into the first round of final events tonight at Charleston where the Davidson forces are trying for blue ribbons in seven events. Officially, the water festival began last night with the complete running off of the 1500 meter event, which Davidson declined to enter. Competition began for the Red and Black this afternoon with time trials and several heats in half of the events, with the finals in those same races slated for tonight. The other half of scheduled events will begin tomorrow afternoon and be completed that night. Team captain Tommy Rivers and his crew enter with a season’s record of four wins and six losses. Hopes are riding high on the abilities of Basil Sharp to continue his winning ways on the diving board. He has won the diving in seven out of ten meets this year. Rivers, holder of two individual Davidson records and a relay mark, will be in the thick of competition for honors in the 200 meter medley. Billy Carroll has aspirations of bringing home the hardware, as have John Edwards in the breaststroke and freshman John Scott in the butterfly contest. Intersquad competition has been a great asset to the team this season, according to captain Rivers, who says that each man has been right on another's back in order to become top fish in his field. Rivers also is hoping for the other entries to “cut one another's throat and then for us to slip in and grab the marbles.” V.M.I. is the best bet to take the title, along with V.P.I., Washington and Lee, The Citadel, William and Mary, and West Virginia are the six other entries.

Wildcat Tracksters Place 3rd At ACC Meet
By OYVIND NORSTROM
Davidson's indoor trackmen returned from the ACC meet at Raleigh with a third place in the non-conference division. Pete Ashcraft and Al Elder won three firsts between them, and Bill Gramley, Scott Woodmansee, Ross Mallory, and the mile relay team also placed among the leaders. Ashcraft, who could have his best season this year, won an easy victory in the 880 yard run, clocking 2:02.5, and came back in the mile race to defeat Conley of Florida State by a narrow margin, turning in a 4:33.2. He had the race under full control, although winning by only one tenth of a second. Al Elder, the versatile Richmond soph, took care of the 600 yard dash in 1:18.1, with Mallory in 4th place. In the shot put Bill Gramley missed first by four inches, putting 44’ 4½” behind Anderson of Georgia. Scott Woodmansee, trying the high hurdles for the first time in competition, placed fourth, while the relay team consisting of Mallory, Al MacKay, Ashcraft, and Elder, turned in a 3:39.6 behind Florida State and Roanoke. Finishing ahead of Davidson in non-conference competition were Florida State and Georgia. The Floridians amassed 60 points with a much larger contingent than the other entries. Georgia edged Davidson for second place, scoring 23 points to the Wildcats’ 22.

The Crush-proof box is a natural. You are free to choose... only when you smoke modern Lam. Smoke modern L&M and always get... PLUS THE PURE WHITE MIRACLE TIP. Other times the pack will suit you better. With L&M... and only L&M... can you pick the pack that suits you best. And only L&M gives you the flavor... the full, exciting flavor that makes L&M the best.

The senior squad sees action tomorrow night against VPI. Dick Weeks
By GEORGE
The Wildcats have come on strong in the closing tilts of the season to provide Wildcat fans with some thrilling fare on several occasions. One of the key men in this late season splurge has been captain Dick Weeks, who has performed admirably in leading the ‘Cats. The 5’ 9” guard from Savannah, Ga., has long been a familiar sight to Davidson partisans, splitting the nets from the outside with his high arching set shot. This year, his third as a starter, he has combined this weapon with a jumping one hand push shot.

AGAINST CITADEL
Perhaps no finer example of his value to the team can be citedthan his recent performance against The Citadel. In the narrow 60-57 Davidson win, Weeks pumped in 24 points to pace the locals’ offense, in addition to playing an alert defensive game. In the closing seconds, his clutch shooting from the free throw line added the finishing touches to a great performance and boosted his mates into the winner’s circle.

Dick, majoring in history with his eye on a coaching career, was the team’s No. 3 scorer last year, behind graduated stars Hobby Cobb and Ray Harding, with a 9.4 average. His deadly eye this season has earned the fastest floorman a higher average, and he should finish with a mark in double figures.

Sigma Chi’s Close In

With only three rounds of interfraternity basketball left, the Sigma Chi’s are apparently well on their way to the championship. Although three teams, the Betas, ATO’s, and Kappa Sigs are close behind, they have all had their shot at the Sigma Chi's and now must rely on others to beat the leaders. Next week the Betas and ATO’s clash, with the losers dropping into third place. Both teams have succeeded in downing the Kappa Sigs, which is the only team the league-leading Sigma Chi's have failed to beat so far. Sharing fifth place, at the moment, are the Phi Delts, SAE’s, and Sig Eps with identical 6-3 records.

Complete Standings:
W
Sigma Chi
Beta
ATO
Kappa Sig
Phi Delt
SAE
Sig Ep
Phi Gam
Pi Kapp
KA
CC
Pika

CAPTAIN DICK WEEKS drives in for a lay-up shot in Tuesday night's action against George Washington. Should G. W. lose against West Virginia tonight, and the Cats win tomorrow, Davidson would have an undisputed spot. In case of a double defeat, however, a tie-breaking playoff with George Washington will probably ensue.

Davidson Bids For Slot in Conference Tourney
By LARRY MEYER

Sniffing a Southern Conference Tournament bid, the Cat basketball squad winds up its regular season tomorrow night against VPI. Game time in Johnston Gym is 8:00 p.m. The lowest Coach Scott’s men could end up after the game would be a tie for the eighth and final berth in the tournament with strong support enabling his men to score an upset.

Contributing greatly to Wildcat morale will be last Saturday's 60-57 surprise win over the Citadel, though dimmed a bit by the loss to Wofford Tuesday night. Said Scott of the Citadel fray: “It was one of our best games; we made a lot of mistakes, but they were covered up by an equal amount of hustle and desire.”

After the game, parents, players, and coaches will gather in the Union ballroom for an informal party honoring graduating players Dave Shaw, Richard Weeks, and Mal McSwain. Also honored will be senior manager Bill Pitser.

FOE’S RECORD

VPI, in second place in the Southern Conference with an 11-4 record, enters tomorrow’s game with its veteran squad at full strength. Such reliable performers as 6’ 7” hook artist Abe Coates at center, 6’ 4” Dave Kuhn at forward, and fast, shifty Terry Penn at guard are expected to put on their usual good show. Penn, VPI’s second-high scorer last year, is exceptionally deceptive and deadly accurate from the outside.

RAMSEY

Davidson's basketballers, though not sporting a great record this season, have come on in the closing games. Coach Tom Scott anticipates the season's largest crowd for tomorrow night’s game and hopes that strong support will enable his men to score an upset.

Grapplers Topple W&L Matmen 15-11

Davidson’s grapplers, playing host to the Washington & Lee Generals last Wednesday night, closed out their regular season with a 15-11 victory. Behind at the first of the meet by virtue of a forfeit in the 130 lb. division, the Cats rebounded to win the final three events. By virtue of the win, the matmen closed out their season with a respectable 5-5 record.

Victors in Wednesday's meet included those who have consistently been in the win column for the Cats. Pete Coleman, Milton Gee, Westy Westervelt, Richie King, and Dave Fagg all scored victories over the Generals. Coleman was particularly outstanding, amassing a total of 7 points to his opponent's 2. Pete holds the best overall record for the team (8-2), closely followed by Westervelt (7-3) and Gee (5-3-2). The Matmen pulled somewhat of a mild upset in beating W&L, who has one of the better teams in the Conference.

I-F Track Meet Set For Next Wednesday

Coach Whittle announced today that the interfraternity track meet will be held on Wednesday and Thursday of next week. The preliminaries of the minor sport will be run on March sixth and the finals on the seventh.

NOTICE OF OPENING: PRACTICE SESSIONS GOLF

All members of the student body interested in trying out for the golf team should attend the squad meeting in Dr. Tom Scott's office on Monday during chapel period.

BASEBALL

Those aspiring to varsity baseball should report to Coach Tom Stevens in the gym at 2:30 Monday.

New Version of a Record Seller

Arrow’s University collar has been on the campus hit parade right from the start. And now this famous button-down collar (with center button in back) is also available in a smart knit shirt! Traditional Ivy League styling throughout in a pullover model, offered in a choice of two placket lengths: 7” (2 buttons) and 12” (3 buttons). Available in solid colors, checks, stripes, and plaids. $5.00.

New knit button-down shirt by Arrow

This smart knit features the famous collar that buttons down in front and also in the center back. New type weave is just the perfect weight for these snappy spring days. Drop by soon while we still have a wide assortment in solid colors and a variety of interesting patterns. $5.00.

IVEY’S OF CHARLOTTE