FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 1957

SPORTSTUFF By BOBBY PAGE and BILL HELLIER

ICEMEN INVASION: Pucks get frozen, fans get chilled by the ice, players by other means, and the 1957-58 ice hockey season opens tonight in Charlotte’s Coliseum. New Haven clashes with the Charlotte Clippers, owners of last year’s league championship and playoff crown and a two and one record going into tonight’s tilt. Look for a Davidson College Night at one of the Friday night games in early January. Do it!

RESCHEDULE P. C.? — DON'T BOTHER: Coach Bill Dole squelched any rumors of possible re-scheduled games, stating that the Presbyterian game has not been reset for a later date, contrary to some earlier reports. Wofford, Richmond, and Furman remain on the schedule.

WILDCAT SOCCER STAR BUG BITES BENSON: Because of the two Saturdays of idleness, Charlie Benson fell in his Conference ranking in both total offense and passing standings. His 339 yards passing (on 28 completions) and 496 total offense yardage ranks him behind Citadel's Bob Schwarze and Furman’s Billy Baker, who completed 27 of 40 attempts last week for 292 yards. Benson will be one game short at the season’s end and will have to be extra sharp the rest of the way to pull in front of his sophomore rival. After having their opponents' home field.

PLAGUE PROVES A POINT: For three weeks Davidson has suffered through its plague of flu without a single athletic contest being staged. Could be that it hasn’t gotten to you yet, but it sure dulls morale and spirit on campus and makes a sports page difficult to write. It should go a long way towards discouraging any ideas of a less subsidized athletic program that always seem to crop up.

DRIBBLE DERBY: Were disappointed to see that Street and Smith ranked the Cat cagers only a prospective seventh in Southern Conference standings in their preview mag. V.M.I. was ranked below the locals and West Virginia, although minus their side-show in Hot Rod Hundley, rates top spot.

KEARNS LEARNS TO WILT STILT: Whose pix was on the cover of the afore-mentioned magazine? Tommy Kearns, of course. But who did Dell Sport publication put on their front? The gangling Stilt that Kearns helped to chop down to size some seven months ago in Kansas City. Take your pick and remember that the cover is a good indication of what is on the inside. Furman on the local range.

TAR HEELS TELEVISED: Four regional telecasts of North Carolina basketball games will be available to viewers in the South. On December 7 at Chapel Hill against Clemson and at Clemson on January 17. Also South Carolina and Duke at Woolen Gym on December 14 and February 8.

By PRENTICE BROWN

The Davidson Rifle team competed in its first match of the season this afternoon when they encountered Presbyterian and Furman on the local range. The Cats have seven remaining matches, and will also fire in eleven postal matches. Thursday Captain Mitchell and Sergeant Wallace had the en-

FEATURE FUMBLES: See Davidson play football on Homecoming weekend!!!! Only 130 miles to Furman University at Greenville, S.C. Have always wondered until this week why all football picking contests bother to put Oklahoma games on the list . . . they’ve been a sure winner for 45 weeks now . . . but Colorado made us think how many people will be wrong when the Sooners do get beat and who else wants to put today’s match. Daily practice has been going on for several weeks. Members of last year's team returning are: G. C. Hemingway, P. Dick Christy in the All-America class as a replacement for Roy Hord page... Ramsey will be back next week!

1. Do you
2. Do you
3. Do you taste in “No” to all questions, you ob-

RIFLERS FIRE on the Davidson indoor range in preparation for their opening match today with Presbyterian and Wildcat Riflers Fire Initial Match Today other creatures of Nature? (Women not expected to answer this question.)
4. Do you buy only the things you can afford?
5. Do you think there's anything as important as
6. Do you feel that security is more desirable than challenge?
7. Do you refer to a half-full glass as “half-empty"?
8. Do you think fads and fancy stuff can ever take the place of mildness and flavor in a cigarette? But if you want a real smoke, make it Camels.

THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

Koogie Kwon, shown above scoring a goal against Pfeiffer in a match earlier this season, will be key in the Davidson attack as they invade his former teammates, Warren Wilson, tomorrow afternoon at Swannanoa. (Photo by Ed Stevens)

MEET UNC TUESDAY

Soccer Team Seeks Win At Warren Wilson

With the game with North Carolina postponed, the Wildcat’s flu-ridden soccer squad prepares to meet Warren-Wilson tomorrow afternoon on the opponent's home field. Although the turnout for practice during the past two weeks has been light due to sickness, Coach McCutchan expects to have most of his team ready to go by game time.

TOUGH OPPONENT

Warren-Wilson promises to be a tough opponent, although they lost several top men last year. The ‘Cats will be out to again boost their record above the .500 mark which they now hold after taking a 3-0 loss at the hands of a good N. C. State team two weeks ago. The State squad showed very good mid-field control and played excellent defense as they shut out Davidson for the first time this year.

COACH PRAISES

John Keiter and Mike Laughlin drew praise from Coach McCutchan for their play against the well-drilled and efficient Wolfpack, and Gordon Neville was a standout on defense in particular. Both the team and Coach McCutchan expect a very close game with Warren-Wilson Saturday. The Swannanoa outfit plays a slightly better game on their home field and they are reported to have several very good new players. One of the big factors, however, is that Kwon with the returning lettermen from as a nucleus and the promising freshmen, both Captain Mitchell and Sergeant Wallace see Davidson as one of the stronger teams. North Carolina’s soccer team arrives on the campus Tuesday, November 5.to play the teams in the Conference and are looking forward to the Inter-Collegiate competition. The Davidson squad will face a former star "Koogie," who is now opposing them as a Wildcat halfback. 

‘Test your personality power Freud in. the hand is worth two in the bush! 

Do you:
- chase butterflies in preference to making money?
- believe that making money is evil?
- think Italian movie actresses are over-rated?
- smoke a cigarette?

Reynolds Tobacco Company, Winston-Salem, N.C.

WIN $25 CASH! Dream up your own questions for future “Personality Power" quizzes. We'll pay $25 for each question used in this college ad campaign. Send questions with name, address, college, and class to: Camel Quiz, Box 1935, Grand Central Station, New York 17, N.Y.

Gridders Fall To Flu; Engage Terriers Next
By BOBBY PAGE
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Davidson football teams of the past have suffered from lack of size, ability, coaching, victories, and other necessities for a successful program, but never, until this year, has a famine of players occurred. Two open Saturdays and three calendar weeks give the Wildcats ample time to glory over their 33-14 win of October 19 over West Virginia Tech, who proceeded to down Wesleyan, 34-7, in a West Virginia Collegiate Conference game last week. In one week, the Cats face the toughest contest of the campaign, Wofford. The Terriers staged a second-half comeback last year and upended the locals, 27-14. 

Freshman Tom Redding provided the thrills two weeks ago along with Craig Wall, who tucked in Redding’s only two aerials of the day and scored on plays covering 70 and 31 yards. Top quarterback Charlie Benson remained high in Southern Conference rankings with a total of 89 yards and four completions of seven passing attempts. Also brightening the picture was the running of freshman backs Russell Cotton and Ned Davis in the final quarter. Coach Dole and his well-rested squad head into the home stretch and the toughest portion of the slate with Wofford being followed by Richmond and Furman. Their three current wins and two losses are in a flexible and unpredictable situation as far as foreseeing the final tab is concerned.

ACTION IN SIGHT
Friday, November 1
Rifle—P.C. — Furman
Saturday, November 2
Soccer—Warren Wilson
Cross Country—Richmond
Tuesday, November 5
Soccer—North Carolina*
Thursday, November 7
Cross Country—Wake Forest
Friday, November 8
Rifle—The Citadel
*—at Davidson

Richmond Hosts Wildcat Harriers
By JIM HAMILTON
Davidsonian Sports Writer

The flu-crippled Wildcat harriers journey north this weekend to meet the University of Richmond tomorrow. Coach Heath Whittle, with half of his squad out or recuperating from the effects of the flu bug, is anything but optimistic about the meet. Two meets this year have already been canceled due to the epidemic. VMI was forced to call off the triangular meet with Davidson and Washington and Lee, and Davidson’s own epidemic put the damper on the N.C. State-William and Mary affair.

BAD LUCK
From coach Whittle’s point of view, bad luck has run with the Cats all season. Cross country is a sport requiring at least a month of conditioning, and due to the schedule and Rush Week, the Wildcats had only two weeks to prepare for the opening meet with Duke. Badly out of shape, they lost, 19 to 41, to the Blue Devils. A later loss to Wake Forest was also accredited in part to lack of condition and the flu. The bright spot of the season has been the running of Angus McBryde. The Cat captain finished second in the Duke meet behind Cary Weisiger, who set a new course record of 22 minutes, 25 seconds. McBryde finished in 23:02. McBryde was the number one man for the locals against Wake Forest, also, even though he managed only a fourth place. He covered the approximately four-mile course at Winston-Salem in 22:51, compared to the winning time of 20:45 by Medlin of the home team.

OTHER PERFORMERS
Other Davidson performers who are showing well are Jim Alexander and Graham George, who finished sixth and seventh, respectively, in both the previous meets. Making the trip to Richmond will be McBryde, Alexander, George, Ray Antley, Bill Deane, and Waller Taylor. Regular Al MacKay will be sidelined with the flu.

DAVIDSON FULLBACKS
Dave Warden (left) and Dave McCullough warm up during a two-week break for the Wildcats’ game with Wofford on Nov. 9. Coach Dole’s eleven will face in Wofford what he terms their toughest opponent of the year.

Name — Room P. O. Box

HOME TEAM VISITING TEAM
Davidson Wofford
Tulane Alabama
Rice Arkansas
Mississippi State Auburn
Texas Baylor
Citadel Presbyterian
Clemson Maryland
Navy Duke
Florida Georgia
Richmond George Washington
Tennessee Georgia Tech
Illinois Michigan
Kentucky Vanderbilt
Michigan State Notre Dame
Mississippi LSU
North Carolina South Carolina
N.C. State William and Mary
Pittsburgh West Virginia
Wake Forest Florida State
Virginia Tech Miami

Total Points By All 40 Teams

The winner of the fourth weekly DAVIDSONIAN Football Guessing Contest was Jim Carruth, who becomes the first student to repeat as a weekly winner. Carruth was the winner of the third week's contest, also. He and all other weekly winners will receive $2.50 toward the purchase of any merchandise at Wilson-Wright's clothing store. All entries for the DAVIDSONIAN Football Guessing Contest must be placed in the ballot box at the College Union desk not later than 6 p.m., next Friday, November 8. To indicate your choice for the winner of each game, circle either team of each pair. To indicate a tie, circle both teams. Be sure to fill in your guess for the total points at the bottom of the ballot. Each reader is limited to one entry per week.

AIR-CONDITIONED
FULL BATHS
INDIVIDUAL HEAT
FAMILY ACCOMMODATIONS
RATES: Single $5.00 — Double $7.00
Extras $1.00 Each
Davidson Students Free with Parents

If you answered “No” to all questions, you obviously smoke Camels—a real cigarette. Only Camel’s exclusive blend of costly tobaccos tastes so rich, smokes so good and mild. No wonder more people today smoke Camels than any other cigarette. How about you? Camel

Only 6 or 7 “No” answers mean you better get onto Camels fast. Fewer than 6 “No’s” and it really doesn’t matter what you smoke. Anything’s good enough!

The Oaks Motor Court
Phone NOrth 3-5693
344 South Main Street
Mooresville, N.C.
Owners and Managers: Bill and Hazel Sprinkle

Have a real cigarette—have a Camel