The Davidsonian
THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE
PAGE TWO FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 1957
(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

Use Of Loud Speakers Has Been Grossly Perverted

When the Wildcat Club decided to install a loudspeaker system to play the college fight song after athletic victories, the
idea met with the warmhearted approval of everyone interested in instilling school spirit. Here was to be a symbol of
victory! But, alas, the money is apparently wasted, at least as far as last week was concerned, for this source
of spirit had become perhaps the most grossly misused item of equipment on the campus.

When the Wildcats crushed Wofford in the greatest upset in the memory of the present student body, the fight song
blared forth but meant almost nothing. For practical purposes, it could have been disregarded. And why?—simply because that sound became
just one small part of the deluge falling from that famous horn upon the now hardened ears of the Davidson
public. For days the air had been filled with notices, announcements, and strains of purposeless music. It would be asinine
to avoid the use of such a device in getting late news around in case of an emergency such as
a flu epidemic, but there is no need to announce such insignificant items as the hour of some meeting during
Parents Day. Even notice of Veterans’ Day, though worthy, should go through other channels.

If the speaker was intended to proclaim victory on the athletic field, then let us use it to proclaim victory
on the athletic field. Any and all other uses only detract from its value.
—R.J.R.

Need And Opportunity

Davidson College, as a liberal arts college, is dedicated to the idea of preparing men to enter into all phases
of professional life, and enter into them more fully. Increasingly, however, Davidson has turned from an institution which terminates the
formal education of a man to one that is a stepping stone to graduate work. To use political terminology, “let’s
look at the record.” Eleven Davidson men have received the most coveted of all academic honors, the Rhodes Scholarship. Ten
men have won Fulbright Fellowships for study abroad. And a half dozen have received Woodrow Wilson Fellowships; and there have
been seven Danforth Fellowship winners. Four members of the class of 1957 received Teaching Career Fellowships of the Southern University
Fellowship Fund.

Estimates now say that about fifty percent of Davidson graduates continue their education in medical schools, seminaries, and other types
of graduate school. Three facts of importance stand out. There is a great need for well-informed, well-educated leadership both in
the nation as a whole, and more particularly in the South. Again, any student with a “B” average or better
will have no difficulty in going to graduate school. There are numerous fellowships offered, many universities have graduate programs, and
financial support for graduate work is on the increase generally, as witnessed by the fact that this year the number
of the Woodrow Wilson Fellowships has been increased to 1000.

The faculty committee on graduate scholarships stands ready to counsel any student interested in furthering his education. Davidson's past record
in this field has been commendable. The future finds opportunities for further education exceeded only by the need for educated
leadership. A capable student has an obligation to both himself and his country to prepare himself to meet the needs
of tomorrow. Again, we urge students to take advantage of graduate school fellowships now being offered in many diverse fields
of study.
—G.L.W.

Youthful Privilege

Several of the resolutions passed by the North Carolina Student Legislature in Raleigh last week strike a blow at what
many consider a reasonable sense of good judgment. The proposals that the student lawmakers passed at the “mock” legislature are
somewhat disturbing at a first glance. The initial shock, however, is tempered when we consider that first of all this
was in truth a “mock” legislative assembly—a fortunate fact! We should not overlook the fact that at least two Davidson
students apparently kept their wits and were not lured off base by the left-of-center thinking of their fellow delegates.

The second consideration that eases the original shock is the thought that what better time could there be than the
college years to be radical? One of the wonderful things about youth is the privilege of being foolish.

Parents Day For Upperclassmen

Parents Day for the freshmen has proven worthwhile over the years. So why not a Parents Day for upperclassmen too?
A Parents Day for upperclassmen would give both parents and students a chance to meet each other after a student
has formed his permanent group of college friends—both students and faculty. During the Citadel football weekend, the Kappa Sigma fraternity
held a Parents’ Day for its members. From all indications, the event was highly successful. We think that it would
be a good idea if the College Union would sponsor such a project in the Spring for parents of all
students—not just the freshmen. Or perhaps the various fraternities would want to have their own. In this case, the IFC
could coordinate the event.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
BUSINESS MANAGER
ASSISTANT EDITOR
Associate Editor
John Johnson
Managing Editors
Bob Lathan
Laurens Walker
Sports Editor
George Ramsey
Assignments Editor
Bill Patton
Feature Editor
Jim Morris
John Trask, Jr.
Pat Henderson
Gerald Wilson
Julian Aldridge
Bruce Brooks
Bross Cole
Ed Stevens
Henry Samuels
Lee Mayfield
Copy Editor
News Editor
Cartoonists
Photographer
Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

PETER AND THE WOLFE
Court Snubs Public Opinion To Usurp Power Of People

Dear Editor:

Willard Wolfe's “Letter to the Editor” is typical of an American philosophy today. Followers of this school say, “okay, we've
got it, it must be right.” Such pragmatic ideas have seeped into our political thinking until we now are quite
willing to accept governmental action as almost sacred.

SUPERHUMAN

Those “men in Washington” have taken on the role of superhuman giants capable of killing any “Dragon” that confronts our
great nation. Their slogan is “don't worry Children, Daddy will protect you.”

Two or three very important questions evolve from Mr. Wolfe's article. In the first place, what is precedent? Is it
not an acceptance by the people as well as the courts? In the final analysis, it is public opinion that
shapes the policy of the government and the sociological decisions of the courts.

W.W., F.O.R.

Public opinion has been the foundation of any movement or reform in our history. Wilson discovered this, to his bitter
disappointment, in his campaign for the League of Nations. Even F.D.R., with his great Congressional influence, sought public approval before
any decisive legislation was attempted. No President has acted decisively without first receiving public sanction. Any politician will tell you
that public opinion can be his best ally or his most bitter opponent. Therefore, it seems that precedent is powerful
indeed, but only as powerful as the people wish to make it.

Secondly, isn't Mr. Wolfe missing the point of David Lawrence's editorial? The question is not only whether the 14th Amendment
is legal and justifiable, but also whether the government can act despite the people. The question is much more complex
than the Civil Rights Issue alone; it involves our whole outlook on democracy.

NINE CZARS

The problem basically is how can the people keep control over their government. Is it now possible for “nine czars”
to usurp the power from the people and also destroy the balance of power in the government? Mr. Lawrence, in
his article, is not necessarily advocating a repeal of the 14th Amendment because he also realizes the power of “stare
decisis,” but he is indicating what has happened and what actually can happen.

The Ratification of the 14th Amendment occurred in 1868 when the National Government was comparatively weak. With a government that
is thousands of times more powerful, moreCentralized and more positive, imagine what its influence could be today! The matter is
not one of Republican or Democratic partisanship because elections today seem to be a matter of “choosing the lesser of
two evils.” The matter really is one of our whole political future in democracy. When are we going to stop
worshipping governmental action as holy and untouchable? When will public opinion rise up and demand the answers?

SPOON FED, BRAINWASHED

Mr. Wolfe, how much do you know about our Satellite Program? For that matter, how much do you really know
about any of our programs? Only what the government offers to tell you and the other millions of spoon-fed, brainwashed
pragmatists who cry “whatever it is is right.” Is it not time for Americans to awaken and see that the
picture is not as rosy as the “Artists” in Washington paint it? The action of the 14th Amendment is a
good indication of what can happen to a “sleeping giant.”

—Peter Sterling

LETTERS TO EDITOR

Dad's Advice to Freshmen; Hocsak Report Called For

Dear Editor:

I am enclosing a sobering poem sent by a wise Father, my Father, to his Freshman son who has been
disappointed at the outcome of his first grades in college. I thought that you might like to pass them along
to your interested Freshman readers.

Sincerely yours,
A freshman

“Did you tackle the trouble that came your way
With a resolute heart and cheerful?
Or hide your face from the light of day
With a craven soul, and fearful?
Oh, trouble’s a ton, and trouble’s an ounce,
Or trouble is what you make it,
And it isn’t the fact that you’re hurt that counts,
But, only, How did you take it?

You are beaten to earth? Well, well, what’s that?
Come up with a smiling face.
It's nothing against you to fall down flat,
But to lie there — That’s disgrace.
The harder you’re thrown, why, the higher you bounce.
Be proud of your blackened eye!!
It isn’t the fact that you're licked that counts;
But, it’s how did you fight and why.”

PEANUTS

Dear Editor:

It was with a great deal of pleasure that the Davidson Community received the Istvan Hocsak family from Budapest, Hungary
last January. Their arrival, made possible by contributions to the YMCA’s Christmas Gift Fund, caught the imagination of the community
and student body at a time when Hungary was front-page news and merited the admiration of the free world. This
“Y” project was to be one which the community and students could continue to follow and be interested in. No
doubt there are many students who would like to have a “progress report” on the Hocsak family.

—Scott Puckett

This is a good suggestion. The Davidsonian will make a report of its own. Perhaps an interview with the Hocsaks
plus a statement from the YMCA would be informative.

COFFEE BREAK

As it seems to be the fashion now to laugh at conformity here at Davidson, let us see what we
must do in order to join the growing clique of non-conformists. In the first place, the main rule is to
assume the attitude of the gripe. The negative one, the griper, is obviously above the rest of the group, or
at least does not let himself be identified with those others who like things as they are.

NON-SPECIFIC DISSATISFACTION

For the politician non-conformist, one of the most important rules is to be non-specific. Dissatisfaction is a clear indication that
he is properly possessed by the attitude of the gripe. He is seen to be clear-headed, progressive, and ready for
action. However, there is no specific obligation to do anything, and no one group has its feelings hurt by being
singled out for criticism. A seemingly contradictory rule, but one which can be applied well to subjects of no close
personal connection, is to be a campaigner. Leading crusades can be dramatic and draw much notice on the quiet Davidson
campus. However, a danger hidden in this rule is that of becoming a monomaniac — such a single-minded crusader that
no one enlists because the campaign is too hackneyed.

ON CAMPUS

Handbook For Non-Conformists
By JOHN BERNHARDT

These three rules sum up briefly the principles and methods of the non-conformist group. The factor common to all of
them is the spirit of just showing others that the non-conformist is not satisfied.

WHAT SEEMS RIGHT

There is, of course, a fourth rule: to ignore the opinion of others in trying to do what seems right
to the individual. This is much more difficult, because it is easier to oppose than to stand for an idea.
The latter takes a carefully worked out set of values and a rational appraisal of how the situation fits into
this standard. To do this, one must think through — independently — what really seems important and what seems good;
then follows the necessity of thinking out each action and opinion in terms of the set of values, independent of
the observations of anyone else.

ELECT OF ELECT

But to be an individual is harder than to be an individualist. For those who want to leave the passé
ranks of the conformists to join with the new elect, the first three rules may be a guide. The independent,
rational self-consistency of the fourth rule should be left by them for the elect of elect, the ones who will
not conform to the cult of non-conformity.

FROSH over SOPHS
By PHIL LEWIS

Now that we’re back from Raleigh, where we shocked the sensibilities of the whole world, and especially of Representative Cooley
by censuring Faubus and such in the State Student Legislature, maybe we can settle back to the routine. Cooley did
contribute one good label to the White House in calling it the “Tomb of the Well-known Soldier.”

Stinky Stuart and his Fragrant Crew have been adding that little something to the atmosphere in the Union. Needless to
say, any change there is an addition.

LESS THAN PERFECT

Speaking of the Snack Bar, Lewis of that nether region couldn't understand how the service there could be considered anything
less than perfect. (But we know, don’t we?)

We can't understand why Walker, Lathan, Patton, and Wilson have been reluctant to comment on their New York trip. We
know there are many exciting things to do and see in the big city, but their only comment is “No
Comment.” Why?

CLOSE VICTORY

The Freshmen really showed their mettle against a heavy Sophomore Class Monday, and squeezed out a close victory in the
darkness of the lower drill field. Lu Harvin and Clay Robertson did some commendable organizing in preparation for this feat.
Dave Robinson's Sophs kept their opponents on their toes throughout, and threatened to take the grudge match several times, but
the Frosh were not to be denied. Much credit for the direction of the events goes to Fritz Russell and
the Upperclassmen who did such a good job of umpiring the contest.

When in doubt...

President's Desk
By ROSS SMYTH

There have been, unfortunately, an increasing number of thefts around the campus in the past week, both in the dormitories
and in other places. It is possible that the guilty party might be a student or an outsider, and it
would be advisable, therefore, not only to be on the lookout for persons wandering in or around the dorms who
do not belong there, but also to avoid leaving valuables or money lying around in your rooms. We have always
been proud of the fact that at Davidson we could leave our rooms unlocked, but if the thefts continue, it
would definitely be advisable to lock your rooms when you leave them and to lock your locker in the gym.
Please report all thefts and the observance of any outsider immediately to myself or to any member of the Student
Council.

By Schulz

I THINK YOUR EARS ARE GETTING FAT, CHARLIE BROWN!

AT THE BLOODMOBILE
FRIDAY, DEC. 13
