PAGE FOUR

WATTS RE-ELECTED

Faculty Members Attend Meetings During Holidays

Over the Christmas holidays, several members of the Davidson College faculty attended meetings of learned societies, and two of them had prominent parts in their organizations. Dr. J. A. McGeachy, Jr., was present at the meetings of the American Historical Association in St. Louis, Missouri, on December 27-29. Dr. George Abernethy was in Philadelphia on the same dates at the meeting of the American Philosophical Society.

Dr. William P. Cumming and Dr. George B. Watts attended the sessions of the Modern Language Association of America in Washington, D. C., on December 26-29. Dr. Cumming is a member of the Executive Council of this Association and Dr. Watts is a member of the Program Committee. Dr. Watts also took part on December 26-30 in the annual meeting of the American Association of Teachers of French, of which he is the National Secretary-Treasurer. Reading his annual report at the business session of the meeting on December 30, he reported that the Association had on that date nearly 5,300 members. At the same meeting, Dr. Watts was re-elected for his sixth consecutive three-year term as Secretary-Treasurer of the Association and Subscription Manager of the official publication, The French Review. The meetings closed with a reception at the French Embassy, given by the new French ambassador, M. Herve Alphand.

Many Davidson graduates attended the Washington meetings. Among those seen were: in English, Gordon Wood, U. of Chattanooga; Richard Vowles, Univ. of Florida; in French, Charles Brockman, King College; Francis Ghigo, Hampden-Sydney College; J. W. Hassell, Univ. of South Carolina; Kenneth Wilson-Jones, U.N.C.; Hugh Johnston, Atlantic Christian College; in Spanish, John Moore, College of William and Mary; William McKnight, U.N.C.; and Walter Heilman, Wake Forest College.

Thompson Returns to Speak in Vespers

W. Taliaferro Thompson, moderator of the General Assembly of the Presbyterian Church in the United States, will speak in Vespers this Sunday evening. As holder of the highest elective office in the denomination, Dr. Thompson has had a long career of service in the Presbyterian Church. A native of Charleston, S. C., he graduated from Davidson in the Class of 1905 and then did graduate work at Union Theological Seminary in Richmond. For 36 years, Thompson was Professor of Religious Education at Union Seminary, and according to Dr. George Staples, he has probably taught more Presbyterian ministers than any other professor in the history of the denomination. He was also editor of the “Union Seminary Review” from 1922 to 1932.

A member of the Board of Trustees of Davidson College, Dr. Thompson has sent four sons to Davidson. He is one of the few men to be twice honored by Davidson College with honorary degrees — D.D. in 1919, Litt. D., in 1937. He also holds the honorary degree of Doctor of Divinity from Washington and Lee University.

NATIVE OF LATVIA

European Educator Talks In Chapel on ‘Atomic Age’

Dr. Karlis Leyasmeyer, European educator, author, and editor, will be the chapel speaker on Tuesday morning, January 20. His topic will be: “The Fateful Problems of the Atomic Age.” Dr. Leyasmeyer speaks from a broad background of personal experience. Born in Latvia in 1906, he lived in Russia, seeing the Communist revolution of 1917 and subsequent events. He returned to Latvia and completed his education there and in England. Since 1930, Dr. Leyasmeyer has been editor of educational and scientific magazines, taught philosophy in higher institutions, and lectured to university students and the general public in both Europe and America.

In 1941, he was arrested by the Communists, tortured, sentenced to die, and put before their firing squad, but miraculously escaped death. Later he survived similar Nazi ordeals. In 1949, Dr. Leyasmeyer became a citizen of the United States. Since that time, he has lectured on present world problems throughout the United States and Canada.

Ralph Mitchell, spiritual counselor for the Billy Graham Evangelistic Association, will speak and show the film “Eastward to Asia” Monday evening at 8 p.m. in the College Union. Dr. Mitchell is a native of Scotland and served Baptist pastorates in the British Isles before coming to the United States to join Dr. Graham in 1947. Mitchell will meet with the Quadranglers for a coffee hour Monday at 4 p.m., when he will also show the film.

Dr. Bern Dibner will be the chapel speaker next Tuesday morning. Dr. Dibner, an engineer by profession, has spent much of his life urging scientifically inclined young men to develop all phases of their personalities and to be “whole baked.” Following chapel, there will be a coffee hour in the Dall Room of the College Union, when students will have an opportunity to meet Dr. Dibner.

Old Home Yields to Progress

In order to serve as a much-needed campus improvement, work has begun on the razing of the old house behind Duke dorm. The house, previously occupied by Mr. and Mrs. Mayhew, employees of the college, had reached such a deplorable state that a considerable amount of money would have been spent to renovate it. For some time, the administration had planned to remove the house. The Mayhews are moving into a new home. Before them, the old house was occupied by other employees of the college. These included Capt. Seifert of the ROTC Department and Mrs. N. T. Smith, former Supervisor of Dormitories. The vacant space will be used primarily to widen the road behind the church, thus ensuring safe traffic. Possibly it may be used for parking space.

Winter Services Program Features Dr. John Whale

Dr. John S. Whale, prominent British theologian, will be one of the four speakers on campus February 10-13 to lead the Winter Services. Dr. Whale’s career has been long and varied, having devoted time to the parish ministry, teaching, writing, and serving as guest lecturer at theological seminaries in his native land and the United States. While at Davidson, Dr. Whale will deliver two of the seven major addresses which are scheduled attempts to give an exposition of the Biblical basis for Christian beliefs. In addition, it deals with some of the traditional criticisms which the rational theist encounters, both on the campus and off. Copies of Christian Doctrine and other books by Dr. Whale will be on display in the Union during the Winter Services for the benefit of students who wish to purchase a copy.

New Frat Court Plans Progressing Rapidly

Preliminary plans for the new fraternity court are being pushed forward as rapidly as possible, D. Grier Martin, College treasurer, told the Davidsonian this week. The proposed court is to provide combination lodge and boarding houses for the college's eleven social fraternities. Mr. Martin said that architects are presently drawing up a plan of the proposed court for presentation to the Fraternity Committee within the next few weeks. He pointed out the many problems involved in obtaining a design adequately meeting the needs of the fraternities and yet being financially practical.

Phone Committee Named by LaFar

President Dan LaFar initiated business at the first meeting of the Student Council after Christmas holidays Monday night by appointing a committee to investigate certain questions raised over the proposed telephone to be installed in the College Union. The committee, consisting of Council members Bill Bondurant, Ross Smyth, and John Kuykendall, will make an effort to determine how many times the phone will be used daily in order to set a fixed cost for calls. The phone, which is slated to be installed on April 1, will be on a direct line to Charlotte. Vernon Hunter was appointed to the Council.

Fellowships Available for Study in France

Opportunities to study or teach in France during 1957-58 are available to American graduate students, it was announced by Kenneth Holland, President of the Institute of International Education, 1 East 67th Street, New York City. The French Government is offering approximately thirty university fellowships through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and forty teaching assistantships through the Ministry of Education. These awards provide tuition and a modest maintenance. Since the number of travel grants is limited, applicants should be prepared to pay their own travel. Nominations of candidates for fellowships and assistantships will be made by a joint committee of French and American educators working in cooperation with the French Cultural Services and the Institute of International Education. The closing date for application is February 1, 1957.

The French Government awards are open to men and women preferably under 30 years of age. Applicants must be U. S. citizens. Other eligibility requirements are: a bachelor's degree from an American college or university by the time of departure; good academic record; and a good knowledge of the French language. For the fellowships, applicants must have the M.D. degree. Fellows study in French universities and other state institutions.

Hall Donates $600 to ROTC Regiment

During Mr. R. D. Hall's visit to the house, he will lecture on “The Nature of God: Can God be both Cosmic and Personal?” On Tuesday morning, February 12, in chapel he will discuss the subject, “The Nature of History: Does God Intervene in Human Events?” Dr. Whale is the author of six books, all dealing with Christianity. The most recent is The Protestant Tradition (1955). Perhaps his best-known book, however, is Christian Doctrine, eight lectures which were attempts to give an exposition of the Biblical basis for Christian beliefs. In addition, it deals with some of the traditional criticisms which the rational theist encounters, both on the campus and off. Copies of Christian Doctrine and other books by Dr. Whale will be on display in the Union during the Winter Services for the benefit of students who wish to purchase a copy.

AB Degree (Continued From Front Page)

possible revisions:

1) Eliminate the classical language requirement for the A.B. diploma and give this diploma to the students who have completed work in the humanities and the social sciences.Record; good knowledge of French; Ministry of Education. The fellow. Applicants for French Govern- (Continued From Front Page) worked diligently for over a week in search for the two. Funeral services were held Monday in Roanoke Rapids. Loy, after graduating from Davidson in 1955, entered Union Theological Seminary in New York where he was currently in his the Cadet Corps. Tuesday, January 8, the R.O.T.C. Department announced that this Belmont, N. C., textile executive had granted $600 to the Regiment for purchasing specially designed shoulder loop insignias to be worn by all members of the unit. Hall, the first student commander of Davidson’s R.O.T.C., was in charge of the Battalion in 1918-1919. Last year he donated $400 to provide the Davidson shoulder patch for the cadets’ uniforms. During drill on Tuesday, Hall toured the regimental headquarters and then inspected the honor platoon. Accompanied by Lt. Col. Sapp and Cadet Col. Snider, Hall watched the honor platoon execute special marching procedures and the regiment conduct its regular drill.

FRIDAY, JANUARY 11, 1957

Death Ends Stough’s Service to Post Office

Funeral services for Samuel Tertius (Tush) Stough, Davidson postmaster for the past 24 years, were held Wednesday at the Mt. Zion Church in Cornelius. Mr. Stough died in his home Monday night. He was born July 4, 1891, son of the late Richard Johnston Stough and Mrs. Emily Frances Elizabeth Thompson Stough. He was a veteran of World War I, having served with the 113th Field Artillery. He was a member of the Davidson Lions Club, the North Mecklenburg Post No. 86 of the American Legion, the Voiture Locale No. 793 of Forty and Eight, the National Association of Postmasters of the United States, and the Mt. Zion Methodist Church in Cornelius. Survivors are his wife, Mrs. Augusta Sapp Stough; a son, Samuel T. Stough, Jr., of Fayetteville; a daughter, Miss Mary Fetter Stough of Davidson; three brothers, M. A. Stough of Charlotte, Frank C. Stough, and Peter Stough of Cornelius; three sisters, Mrs. R. S. DuRant of Southern Pines, Mrs. B. J. Willeford of Kannapolis, and Miss Feriba Stough of Cornelius. Military graveside honors at the funeral were conducted by the Davidson College ROTC.

Students Requested To Take Polio Shots

All students who began taking voluntary polio shots this fall are requested by the Infirmary to report immediately for a second installment.

Andrews Discusses (Continued From Front Page)

Andrews has become president of the American Fidelity and Casualty Insurance Co., of Richmond. Although a candidate for the presidency on the Constitution Party ticket, (known throughout the South as the State’s Rights Party) Mr. Andrews was previously a Democratic supporter of Eisenhower. Larry Trotti, program chairman of the Business-Economics Association, invited the student body to take advantage of this worthwhile program. In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a second year. He was an outstanding student leader on the Davidson campus and his many activities earned him membership in Omicron Delta Kappa and a place in “Who's Who Among American Students in Colleges and Universities.”

PIZZA the famous OPEN KITCHEN delivered to students at the University of Cambridge in 1940. Because the chapter titles of Christian Doctrine so closely parallel the theme of the Winter Services, three faculty discussion groups have been organized under the leadership of a committee headed by Dr. W. G. McGavock to study Dr. Whale’s book. Each faculty group devotes one meeting to each of the eight chapters, which deal with such pertinent subjects as the Christian doctrine of Creation, History, the Atonement, the Church, and the Last Things. Christian Doctrine is a book of theology for the layman. The book

P.M.—Second Hour Classes

Davidson to Receive Hungarian Refugees

The Davidsonian received assurance Wednesday morning from the Church World Service that a Hungarian family for Davidson would be located by the end of the week. A telephone call to Miss Grodga, representative of Church World Service at New Brunswick, N. J., brought this promise of immediate action. Miss Grodga stated in her phone interview that families are now flooding into Camp Kilmer and that it should now be possible to find a family which would be suitable for the Davidson community. She also denied any knowledge of a statement received by the Davidsonian from Dr. Rowland Eliott, president of Church World Services, that a refugee family would probably be sent to Davidson before Christmas. Davidson students have to date contributed over $3,000 to the Davidson College Gift Fund, whose stated project for 1957 is to bring a Hungarian family to the local community. Early student body enthusiasm for the project has suffered considerably due to the continuing delay in securing a family.

It was reported that several items such as hi-fi records and sport coats had been stolen from the owners’ dormitory rooms over the holidays.

Here It Is—Exam Schedule

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 16
A.M.—Mathematics 10, 11, 13 Monday, Wednesday, Friday
P.M.—Third Hour Classes Monday, Wednesday, Friday

THURSDAY, JANUARY 17
A.M.—Sixth Hour Classes
P.M.—ROTC 11, 21, 31, 41

FRIDAY, JANUARY 18
A.M.—Third Hour Classes Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday
P.M.—Fourth Hour Classes Monday, Wednesday, Friday

SATURDAY, JANUARY 19
A.M.—First Hour Classes Monday, Wednesday, Friday
P.M.—First Hour Classes Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday

MONDAY, JANUARY 21
A.M.—Second Hour Classes Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday
P.M.—Fifth Hour Classes Monday, Wednesday, Friday

TUESDAY, JANUARY 22
A.M.—Fourth Hour Classes Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 23
A.M.—Second Hour Classes Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday
P.M.—Sixth Hour Classes Monday, Wednesday, Friday

THURSDAY, JANUARY 24
A.M.—First Hour Classes Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday

Classes for First Semester close January 15 — 12:50 P.M.
Morning examinations begin at 9:00 A.M.
Afternoon examinations begin at 2:00 P.M.

ALL CAPITOL AND DECCA LP’S 20% OFF

John Bernhardt. for the fellowships. Recipients of French teaching assistantships will teach conversational English in secondary schools and teacher training institutions in France. These posts are intended for future teachers of French. A few applicants with special training in American literature and some experience in college teaching may be selected for postes de lecteurs, teaching assignments in French universities. Stipends cover maintenance. Graduate fellowships are open to students in all fields of study. In the field of medicine, candidates for the fellowships. Recipients of French teaching assistantships will teach conversational English in secondary schools and teacher training institutions in France. These posts are intended for future teachers of French. A few applicants with special training in American literature and some experience in college teaching may be selected for postes de lecteurs, teaching assignments in French universities. Stipends cover maintenance. Graduate fellowships are open to students in all fields of study. In the field of medicine, candidates managing editor and finally editor-in-chief of the “Quips and Cranks.” He was a member of Kappa Alpha social fraternity, where he served successively as his pledge class president, then secretary and later president of the fraternity. Loy contributed in other areas such as dramatics where he was elected secretary of the Red and Black Masquers. He was a member of the Student Council, the Y Cabinet, vice-president of the Philanthropic Literary Society, and President of the College Bible Class.

WANTED

PRE-MEDICAL SENIOR to serve as campus representative for the world’s largest exclusive manufacturer of microscopes. For further information write to: REICHERT OPTICAL WORKS 82 Beaver Street New York 5, N. Y.

Scholarship awards are for students with moderate academic projects or study plans. The assistantships afford erate academic projects or study plans. The assistantships afford

LC INCORPORATED 1415 ELIZABETH AVENUE

Charlotte’s most complete music center offers the finest in HIGH FIDELITY COMPONENTS.........

PENNY WISE* POUND FOOLISH

“I’m sad to say,” said Tootsie Brown, “The weight I gain just gets me down. Each bite, each drop of this or that, Immediately turns to fat. Some girls, I note, can eat and eat And yet they still look trim and neat. To aggravate the situation I much dislike my fat’s location. I wouldn’t so much want to change me, If only I could rearrange me.”

Chesterfield

moral: Rearrange your smoking ideas and find what contentment means. Get real pleasure, real satisfaction, with Chesterfield—the cigarette that’s packed more smoothly by Accu-Ray for the smoothest-tasting smoke today! Smoke for real... smoke Chesterfield

*850 to ANN BLACKMAR, Bowling Green State University for her Chesterfield poem.

© Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.