Che Davidsonian
THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE
PAGE TWO FRIDAY, APRIL 26, 1957

Each Chapter Could Raise Own Endowment Fund

Some students have suggested that the individual fraternities help to raise some of the money needed to build the new fraternity court. This is a good suggestion, but one which is easier said than done. The administrative problems of a student-sponsored fund-raising campaign would be tremendous, in addition to the fact that some fraternities would not be able to raise as much as others due to the varying numbers of alumni in different chapters.

However, it would be highly practical as well as economically helpful if each fraternity set up an endowment fund of its own. The earnings from these endowment funds could be used to pay the rent of each member, to re-decorate the houses, to reduce the regular fraternity dues, or for any other purpose that the fraternity sees fit. Already one or two Davidson chapters have such an endowment. The college treasurer manages these funds and invests them in the same manner that it does the college’s endowment. Therefore, if the fraternities are anxious to meet some of the costs of a new fraternity court, it would be a good idea for them to set up an endowment fund of their own. Each fraternity should solicit donations from alumni and friends. In this way, each chapter would receive a proportional benefit from the amount of money it raises.

Five Greatest

A special Senate Committee, headed by Senator John Kennedy (Dem.) of Massachusetts, has a May 1 deadline by which time they must choose the five “greatest” U.S. Senators whose portraits are to fill empty niches in a Senate lounge. Since everyone else has his list of five, the Davidsonian has compiled their list too.

Certainly, the late Senator Robert A. Taft of Ohio is one of the “greats.” Absolute honesty, his basic moral strength, proved to be his greatest political liability. He chose to be right rather than to be President and bore the fruits of his decision. The great “triumvirate” which dominated the Senate for the first part of the nineteenth century earns for its members Clay, Calhoun, and Webster a place among the “greats.” For a final choice, we must turn to the second and third decades of our own century and point out George W. Norris of Nebraska. This independent thinker often disagreed with his constituents but he never sought to beguile them. His greatest statement to his people was also his most characteristic: “I have come home to tell you the truth.”

Like the Kennedy Committee, the Davidsonian feels that any list containing only five Senators is inadequate and perhaps unfair. The selection might well have included such men as Lucius Q. C. Lamar, Robert LaFollette, Sr., Edmund G. Ross, Arthur H. Vandenberg, among others.

Undergraduate

“Okay, I'll give you a job. Take this broom and sweep out.”
“But I just graduated from college.”
“Okay, I'll show you how.”
(From The Scandal Sheet, Graham, Texas)

Good Man Goes

Davidson College is losing another valuable man in the resignation of Mr. James W. Jackson, Jr., who for the past two years has been the Associate Director of Alumni and Public Relations. While much of his work here at Davidson has been somewhat removed from actual contact with many of the students, Mr. Jackson has performed an outstanding job in continuing to establish good alumni relations and in managing the publicity of the college. He is the man who is responsible for the newspaper releases that appear in the hometown papers of many students. Mr. Jackson has been particularly helpful to the Davidsonian. Not only has he provided us with a few “scoops,” but he has taken a genuine interest in the welfare of the paper. We shall miss his counsel.

Subtle, But There

Dr. John J. O’Connor began his speech in Chapel yesterday morning as if he were going to expound the virtues of individualism in a fast-changing world. “Change is a law of life,” he said. With this truism, we cannot disagree, and indeed we would have it no other way. He then went on to talk about the African Gold Coast, the new nation of Ghana, the Orientals, the Latin Americans, and the Occidentals. We found this discussion quite interesting, and it served to emphasize even more that in this world of ours there are many people of different colors, of different tongues, of different cultures, and of different values of life.

But then, in a most subtle way, and without mentioning any of those pin-pointing words, he began to talk about majorities that “may be treated like minorities one of these days.” Gradually, we caught on that he was not talking about individualism and the fact that one group is inherently different from another, but to the contrary, he was suggesting that we equalize these differences and become as one by using the appeal “the brotherhood of man.”

While we do not wish to open up the race question—to which Mr. O'Connor was obviously making reference—we do feel compelled to say that “the brotherhood of man” does not imply equality. Indeed, even brothers are not equal. Each group and each race has its own culture, and instead of advocating the mixing of these groups, would it not be better for everyone to keep his race and his culture as pure and true as possible? Whether white or black, red or yellow, all should be proud of their heritage. It is when one group becomes dissatisfied with its background and attempts to intrude on others that the intruder loses the respect of the other groups. We cannot make equals out of unequals.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Gerald Wilson
BUSINESS MANAGER
Bob Lathan
ASSOCIATE EDITOR
Laurens Walker
Assistant Editor
John Trask, Jr.
Managing Editors
Ed Morrissett
John Johnson
Sports Editor
George Ramsey
Feature Editor
Jim Morris
Copy Editor
Julian Aldridge
News Editor
Bruce Brooks
Assignments
Bill Patton
Cartoonists
Bross, Cole
Photographer
Ed Stevens
Advertising Manager
Roy Gilbert
Circulation Manager
Marshall Chapman

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

Smyth’s Speech And Election Spotlight Honor System; Hunter Evaluates Penalty Change

(Ed’s Note: Ross Smyth's campaign speech for Student Body President had one basic point—the honor system must be changed. Smyth's speech and his subsequent election gave Davidsonians reason to evaluate the honor system and the possibilities for change. The following is just such an evaluation by Vernon Hunter, a senior member of this year’s Council who has done much study on the problems involved in alteration of the present system.)

BY VERNON HUNTER

One of the most valuable possessions of a Davidson student is the Honor System. Primarily it serves as an active force in building strong character. Any discussion regarding a change should be of great interest to the Student Body. This article presents observations that come from experience on the Student Council during trials regarding Honor violations and from serving on a Student Council committee which had as its function to study possible changes in the punishment for Honor violations.

PUNISHMENT VS. DISHONOR

Discussion of the punishment connected with the Honor System is hardly the most valid approach in evaluating the System. Recent emphasis on the punishment would almost lead one to believe that we refrain from Honor violations because of the punishment rather than the dishonest implications. The purpose of the System is thought by many to be the protection of the honorable rather than the care of the errant. If that protection is impaired by a weakening of the punishment, the System is in grave danger.

MINOR HONOR VIOLATIONS

By lowering the penalty to anything short of dismissal, offenses against the Honor System are placed on a par with the Student Body Regulations. This is far from what the spirit of the Constitution seems to be. It would mean that “mild” forms of lying, stealing, and cheating would be considered in the same light as a drinking violation. The question arises, is there such a thing as a minor offense within the Honor System? As was suggested in a recent Chapel address, the letter will not be broken if the spirit is kept. But once the spirit is broken, can there be degrees of punishment?

One criticism directed towards the present punishment is that few men will turn in another student who commits an Honor violation because of the severity of the punishment. However, there seems to be little indication thathesitancy to turn a student in would diminish by changing the punishment from dismissal to suspension.

READMISSION OR NOT?

It indeed seems hard to severely limit a dismissed student's choice of schools by putting on his record that he cannot be readmitted to Davidson. The Student Council committee worked arduously seeking a means of allowing a student to enroll in another college and yet be excluded from re-enrollment at Davidson. It found no alternative plan that would not weaken the Honor System. Eventually, it came to the recognition that we must properly face the basic question: “Do we or do we not want the student in question back in Davidson?" If we do not, it is not ethical to by subterfuge convey that impression to other colleges.

THOROUGH TRIALS

No one can justify the criticism that the Student Council doesn't deal fairly with all cases involving Honor violations. It is keenly aware of the sensitive problem entailed in questioning a man's honor. Part of the reason that the trials invariably require hours of valuable time is that the Council has but one punishment to give once a verdict of guilty is rendered. Consequently, with no recourse to a lesser punishment, the Council conducts a case with more thoroughness and more drive to ferret out any and all facts bearing on the case. With recourse to a lesser punishment, the trend in future years would be for the Council to return most frequently the lesser verdict, whereas now the insertion of the suspension punishment seems to be aimed only at “special” cases. This will occur in the same way that cheap money drives out dear money.

POSITIVE APPROACH

All this is not a plea for holding to the status quo. To the contrary, it would point to the need for a more positive approach than is now taken. Briefly, I submit that more stress be laid on the Honor System in summer correspondence and in Orientation, the strong encouragement of professors to present uniform policies regarding papers, etc., and possibly a Chapel program devoted to comparison of our system to those of other schools.

COMMITTEE SKETCHES

(Ed’s Note: This week the Davidsonian begins a series of brief sketches of the members of the Trustees’ presidential nominating committee. The first to be presented is Mr. D. R. LaFar of Gastonia.)

BY JOE BELL

The chairman of the nominating committee is D. R. (Doc) LaFar Jr. He was graduated from Davidson in 1929 with a B. S. degree. The following year he was a coach at Winston-Salem High School. Mr. LaFar has had a successful career in textile manufacturing and is now president of the Arden group of mills. He is an Elder of the First Presbyterian Church at Gastonia and is on the Executive Committee of the Board of Trustees. Held in high regard by members of the Faculty, Mr. LaFar is considered to be a level-headed and capable man.

COFFEE BREAK

New Plan: Limiting Bids

BY JOHN BERNHARDT

Now that we are criticizing the fraternity houses, let’s look at the problem of the sizes of the fraternities. Don't we need some self-imposed controls to keep the fraternities at the best possible size?

CHANCE BIDDING

There is a large element of chance involved in the final day of rush week. A fraternity picks its boys, sends its bids, and then waits to see if it gets five or thirty-five pledges. There is no guarantee that it will get the number it really wants or needs. So some may fade out for lack of members while others may grow too big for their accommodations or for really close fraternal spirit. One fraternity alone cannot successfully limit its size without hurting itself, both in the hurried impressions of rush week and in the interfraternity competitions against fraternities with more men to draw from. A fraternity cannot afford to be smaller than the rest; so it works to keep up its size, and in getting size it loses some of its unity and outgrows its house.

VOLUNTARY REGULATION

The following is a suggested plan for regulating the number of pledges taken in by a fraternity. It has worked on other campuses and might be voluntarily set up by the fraternities here to eliminate chance in the size of a pledge class and unavoidable growth in fraternity size. The fraternities would agree on the number of pledges each might take, say twenty. At the end of rush week, each fraternity would list its twenty first-choices for pledges, its twenty second-choice pledges, and its third-choices. Each freshman would list in order his first three choices of fraternities. The I.F.C. would compare the lists and distribute the boys according to some set rules. Thus, if a boy listed X as his first choice and X listed him also as first choice, he could then be pledged to X. The distribution when the first choice did not coincide would have to be decided, but probably if a boy picked X first and X picked him second, he would be pledged by X if it did not already have its quota of twenty from its first choices.

REORGANIZE SYSTEM

Although this proposal at first seems radically different, it is really no more than better organization for the present system. Fraternities at present bid boys who are not their first choices in order to be sure they get enough; under the proposed arrangement, fraternities would not have to bid boys they did not want. The fraternities would establish this system and might change it as they saw the need. The size of the fraternities should be controlled to protect the little ones, make the bigger ones more united, and justify the expense of building new houses designed to last twenty-five years with sixty men each.

Silver Platter ............ By Bross

By BUNNY PERKINSON

In all the discussion of the proposed new fraternity court, much has been said about the immediate effects on fraternities in general and on the individual fraternity man in terms of the cost of fraternity membership, the improved facilities, and the possibility of combined dining arrangements.

LONG-RANGE ASPECTS

It seems that little opinion has been expressed concerning the possible long-run aspects of the plan. (Though the role of prophet is foreign to me and I don't have access to any unusually effective crystal ball, I would like for us to project our thoughts into the future and consider a few things that are of importance.

IMPROVED HOUSING

Generally speaking, fraternity housing is at present inadequate. Fraternities of sixty men and more are crowded into houses that were originally intended to accommodate half that number, so the immediate need for more room is obvious in many cases. However, the mere providing of adequate space will not prove to be the panacea for all fraternity problems at Davidson. If the added space is given simply to allow the chapter now present on campus to absorb the increased number of students as our enrollment moves upward, then I think we would be departing from rather than progressing toward the ideal fraternity situation. So, in the long-range plans for the fraternity system, I think we should include the establishing of additional chapters on campus to meet the ever-increasing demands on fraternities in future years and build a court with this anticipated expansion in mind.

To many men, the fraternity is the center of social life during the college career. In houses of the size proposed, assuming the inclusion of basements for use as game or chapter rooms, the brothers would have a suitable place to bring dates for informal entertaining, ample room during rush week, and plenty of room for just plain “goofing off.”

BETTER SOCIAL LIFE

In short, I feel that with the new, enlarged houses, the relationship of each man to his fraternity would be greatly enhanced as the fraternity assumed its proper place as the circle of one’s closest friends and the chief means for meeting one’s need for a social outlet. The adequate lounging room, the advantage of a housemother whose sole concern is caring for “her boys,” and the better facilities afforded for social life will add to the fraternity at Davidson something that has been to a great degree lacking — a closer-knit brotherhood and an atmosphere conducive to some of the intangibles that are of great value in fraternity life.