FRIDAY, APRIL 19, 1957

THE DAVIDSONIAN offers Duel With West Virginia At Myers Park

Sportstuff & GEORGE RAMSEY

Take a spring day—any normal, sunny spring day.

Mountaineer Match Makes Fourth Conference Tilt

By JIM HAMILTON

West Virginia will be the Wildcat golfers’ opponent Monday afternoon as the linksters tee off on the Myers Park Country
Club Course in Charlotte. The match is Davidson's fourth Southern Conference battle to date. They met V.M.I. on the Carolina
Course in Charlotte this afternoon. Other family feuds include a win over Citadel and a loss to Furman.

Wander down behind Johnston gymnasium and you’ll find, more than likely, a good percentage of Davidson students paying homage to
a sport that dates its history from some seven hundred years ago. The overall Cat record is three wins and
six losses. The won-lost column, however, doesn't tell the true story. The team has played consistently good golf all year,
but have not met powerful opposition. The quality of their golf is shown by the average match performance for the
top eight men so far this season.

On Davidson’s ten all-weather courts, you may not find a future Gonzales or Trabert, but you'll find every type of
would-be athlete from the determined spastic to the better-than-average player indulging in tennis just for the fun of it. It’s
justly so that tennis should rate such popularity here in Wildcatland, for, although other schools may boast such an avid
interest in the sport, not all other schools can boast of the rich tennis heritage to which Davidsonians point.

REBUILDING

The past two years have been years of rebuilding for the Wildcat netters, and 1958 may well be the year
the ’Cats come back. In his fold this year Coach Dick McKee has five sophomores and two freshmen who show
potential of great things. Let’s run down the list.

Bob Huffaker . . . a Charlotte product . . . possesses as pretty strokes as anyone on the team
. . . could be potentially the number one player on the squad . . . fundamentally sound game.

Dave Pearsall . . . Charlotte . . . steady, determined baseline player . . . always can be counted
on for top play . . . leaving for Georgia Tech after junior year.

Semi Mintz . . . Raleigh, N. C. . . . plays tennis just like he does basketball—casual and relaxed
. . . now rounding into shape after a layoff following the cage season . . . played number one
some last year . . . steadily climbing this year.

NON-LETTERMEN

Tom McCutchan . . . a determined worker from Florence, S. C. . . . rates the “most improved” tag
on this year’s outfit . . . volley and serve ever-improving . . . a methodical, poker-faced player, needs about
a year to reach his potential.

Dick Hodel . . . Elkin, N. C. . . . “a real scrapper who is fighting his heart out”
is the way McKee describes Hodel . . . coming along well . . . very enthusiastic about being on
the team . . . should prove a top competitor.

The two freshmen who have shown promise of stardom are Harry Broome, from Raleigh, N. C., and Sam Zimmerman, from
Greenville, S. C.

Broome . . . termed by the coach as “the best-looking freshman I’ve seen since I’ve been here” — quite
a mouthful . . . sidelined at present with a troublesome elbow injured in a recent challenge round.

Zimmerman . . . has played a lot of tennis around Greenville . . . has seen action in several
varsity matches . . . loves the game . . . with a little more varsity experience and poise, should
be a key prospect. The man may have a handful of dynamite.

WINSTON TASTES GOOD!

WINSTON is in a class by itself for flavor! Snowy-white and pure, lets that rich flavor come through. Smoke America’s
best-selling, best-tasting filter cigarette! Find out for yourself: Winston tastes good — like a cigarette should! It’s fun to share
a good thing! That’s why you see so many Winstons being passed around these days. Try ‘em. You'll like their
rich, full flavor, too. And you'll like the way the Winston filter, LIKE A CIGARETTE SHOULD!

Cat Netters Whip Gamecocks 8 to 1

By BOBBY PAGE

Davidson College’s unpredictable tennis team secured revenge for an earlier loss by defeating South Carolina 8-1 on the local courts
Wednesday and gained confidence for coming matches with Duke, West Virginia, and Washington and Lee. They met Illinois here this
afternoon.

Going into today’s scrap with the Northern visitors, the Cats had compiled a total of six wins against four defeats.
Two of the defeats were to George Washington with South Carolina and The Citadel accounting for the other two.

BLUE DEVILS NEXT

Tomorrow brings the potent Blue Devils from Durham for their first meeting of the year. The Wildcats will probably have
John Robinson, Bob Huffaker, Dave Pearsall, Tom McCutchen, Dick Hodel, and Semi Mintz swinging away in that order.

The feature match in Wednesday’s tilt saw Robinson dispose of Carolina’s Sonny Gantt in the number one singles, 6-1, 7-5.
Gantt won a three-set match two weeks ago in Columbia. Huffaker was forced to three sets against Bill Burns in
the number two match, but came through with the necessary stamina to cinch the team victory. Mintz was most impressive
in his 6-0, 6-0 rout.

BROOME INJURED

Currently, the team is playing without the aid of its promising freshman flash, Harry Broome, who suffered a severe injury
to his elbow late last week. The doctor’s report says that Broome will be out of action for two weeks,
putting him back just in time for the Southern Conference tournament to be held here on May 2, 3, 4.

Gary Heeseman is low man on the average match with 76. Sam Sloan and Bucky Dennis are tight behind him
with averages of 77 while George Scott and Stuart Vaughn have 78. Sutt Alexander with 79 and Johnny Mackorell with
80 round out the team.

In recent matches, the Cats swamped the Citadel 23-34½ with Alexander, Dennis, Payne, Sloan, and Vaughn all taking three points
from their opponents. North Carolina, a team with fourteen good golfers, presented a different situation. In a ten-man match, Carolina
ran away to a 42½-2½ victory on the university course. Heeseman fired a 73 to grab low man honors for
Davidson but his play was overshadowed by a two-under-par 70 by Henderson of Carolina. Duke also proved too much for
the Cats at Durham. Despite Heeseman and Payne who both shot a 75, the Blue Devils won 27-9. Beason was
low for Duke with par 70.

Coach Scott currently has George Scott playing in the number one slot. Scott, although not having the best overall average,
is the most experienced and dependable in match play. The rest of the team is arranged according to their individual
scores. Coach Scott feels that his team is playing a better brand of golf than at this time last year.
He accredits this to theStiffer competition of this year’s schedule and the better courses the matches have been played on.
Captain Scott was in agreement. “Considering the schedule,” he commented, “we'll have a fair season. The team is as good
as it has been in several seasons and should be very good next year. The rough schedule is helping the
boys’ golf.” The West Virginia match will be the next to the last match before the Southern Conference Tournament. The
Cats will meet Furman the preceding day on the tournament course. Coach Scott is confident that his team will improve
last year's last place standing.

Smoke WINSTON...enjoy the snow-white filter in the cork-smooth tip! R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO.

INTERFRATERNITY SOFTBALL got underway Monday, and five teams remained undefeated following three rounds of play. Here, Kappa Sig Alex Shephard
bats in a Tuesday game.

I-F Softball Underway With Five Undefeated
By BILL HELLIER

After three rounds of interfraternity softball, the Phi Gams, Phi Delts, Sigma Chi’s, SAE’s, and KA’s were still undefeated. The
Phi Delts and Sigma Chi’s had won three apiece, while each of the others had won two games.

Davidsonian SPORTS

McCRARY EAGLES TODAY
Baseball Squad Battles Mercer Here Saturday

Davidson's baseballers took the field this afternoon against the McCrary Eagles in an effort to snap a losing streak that
has now been extended to four games. Tomorrow afternoon at 2 p.m., the Wildcats meet Mercer in a return engagement
of a match in Macon, Ga., during the holidays which saw the teams split a double-header. Both tilts are slated
for the local diamond. The ‘Cats, still reeling after the recent blitzkrieg, have been drilling strenuously all week. The losing
streak started last Thursday when they bowed, 9-5 to The Citadel despite an eighth-inning rally which netted the locals four
runs on four Citadel errors. Don Killian led the Davidson batting in the contest with two singles in four trips
to the plate. Bill Leonard, Bulldog catcher, paced the home team’s attack, with two doubles in four appearances.

After a weekend's rest, coach Tom Stevens’ charges met a scrapping Belmont Abbey team Monday. Davidson was out-hustled, losing a
6-5 heartbreaker. An interesting and hopeful development took place in the Belmont contest, however. Freshman backstop Dee Green traded his
mitt and mask for a toe plate and took on the mound duties, turning in a very creditable performance. Coach
Stevens voiced the opinion that Green could develop into a key hurler and would probably see more starting action.

Close on the heels of the Belmont Abbey setback, Furman's Hornets dealt the ‘Cats a 4-2 defeat, in Greenville, on
Tuesday. Furman’s freshman lefty, Jim Boroff, scattered six singles in limiting Davidson to one run.

JIM WEST

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... PIZZA
the famous OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead
Charlotte, N. C.

Since this is one of the first meets of the year for the West Virginia team, Coach Whittle knows very
little about their potential. However, judging from their record of last year, they should have a better than average team.
In addition to the pole vault, the Mountaineers will also be strong in the weights.

CATS FAVORED

The Cats are definitely favored, especially in light of their victory over a highly touted Clemson team on last Friday.
In that contest, although Clemson took 8 firsts to the Cats’ 7, Davidson showed its depth in taking more seconds
(9-4). For the eighth consecutive year, the meet with Clemson hinged on the results of the mile relay. Mallory, Thurman,
MacKay, and Ashcraft turned in an excellent performance to win easily. Particularly impressing in these last five meets has been
the running of Mel Armstrong. The lanky speedster turned in a 10.0 100 yd. dash and a 22.3 220 yd.
dash to take first places at Clemson. His running this year has been one of the most pleasant surprises for
Coach Whittle who, at the first of the year, was bemoaning the absence of Phil Koonce.

DISTANCE MAN

Pete Ashcraft, in both the 880 and the mile. Also, he anchored the winning relay team which was hampered somewhat
by the absence of Al Elder. Elder should be able to run again in about two weeks and will give
the team an added boost. The trackmen showed surprising strength in beating Clemson who will probably place third in the
A.C.C. It might well be that the Cats could go undefeated this year.

ACTION IN SIGHT
Saturday
Track—West Virginia*
Baseball—Mercer*
Tennis—Duke*

Monday
Golf—West Virginia
Baseball—West Virginia*
Tennis—West Virginia*

Wednesday
Baseball—William and Mary

WINSTON-SALEM, N.C.

At Davidson, the team’s crack distance man ran his usual good races, placing first.

Lucky girl! Next time one of her dates brings up the Schleswig-Holstein question, she'll really be ready for him. Ready
for that test tomorrow, too... if that bottle of Coke keeps her as alert tonight as it does other people.

SIGN OF GOOD TASTE
Bottled Under Authority Of The Coca-Cola Company By THE COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD
“Coke” is a registered trade-mark.
© 1956, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY
