MOTHER'S DAY VOL. XLV

SOLUTION OFFERED

PARKING POLICIES: Rules Need New Look

By JIM MORRIS
Davidsonian Feature Editor

Davidson “motorists” are about to observe the second semester anniversary of “Big Time Campus Parking.” Many points of this year's system have been good, and credit should go to Mr. Grier Martin and the Parking Committee, despite the fact that their names have been withheld by the College for fear of “students’ pressuring them.” Yet, there is much that is weak and unjust about the system. Parking area has not been increased and much confusion has arisen concerning the fine and enforcement system.

274 TICKETS

Statistics released by the Bursar’s office are as follows: 274 violations for a 484 dollar total. 11 refunds for 21 dollars. 564 dollars for permits. While the system is good (“The best of any I know,” said Mr. Martin), the high violation rate points up the fact that there is still something lacking. Much of this year's trouble has been due to the confusion caused by the College’s not setting down the details of parking policy. This was especially true in the case of the “10 day grace period” of purchasing parking permits. The progressive fine, whereby every additive offense costs more, even though the rule violated might be different, and the “pay the fine first, and then see if the ticket was a mistake” idea did little to encourage student cooperation.

POSSIBLE REVISIONS

Here are some concrete suggestions and observations that might help the situation next year.

1. Eliminate progressive fines. The high number of two or three-time losers as seen by the 1.75 dollar average fine paid (First offenders pay only one dollar) would indicate that this type of punishment does not fulfill its only justification, discouraging recurrence of violations.
2. Revise the policy toward appealing so that a violator is not “considered guilty until proven innocent.”
3. Allow more time for the payment of fines (One week instead of the present 24 hours). But a sizable deduction (25%) could be used to encourage rapid payments (36 hours).
4. Simplify the method of appealing and paying fines. (The parking ticket could be printed on a small envelope in which the fine or appeal could be returned by mail.)
5. Make parking regulations and policies clearer both to the student body and those people responsible for selling the permits and collecting the fines.
6. Deal more harshly with tardy fine payment. (Perhaps if the fine is not paid within 3 weeks, parking privileges could be withheld for one semester.)

With the fraternity court and its traffic problems just over the horizon, the college should continue to strive for a practical and more equitable parking plan. The present is good, but the future must be better.

Wright Wins Vereen Bell

Charles Wright won the Vereen Bell Award for creative literature at yesterday's chapel. Dr. DeWolfe Miller presented Wright with the award for his prize-winning story, “Death And These Three.” Wolfe and James Kuist won second and third place, respectively. Wolfe's work, “Song From The Darkness,” and Kuist’s “Puppy Love” were judged by Dr. Miller as was Wright's work. Dr. Miller is associate professor of English at the University of Tennessee.

FIRST MEETING OF NEW REGIME

Council Views Drink, Theft

The initial meeting of the 1957-58 Student Council Monday night provoked discussion on questions pertaining to drinking and stealing. A Court of Control was elected for the 1957-58 year. Phil Lewis was elected Judge of the Court. Other senior members selected were Charlie Stowe, Dave Fagg, and Fritz Russell. Juniors chosen were Vernon Broyles and Craig Wall with Sam Clarke and Pete Coleman as alternates. Sophomore members will be Larry McNeil and George Hart. Milton Gee and Jim Owens are the alternates.

John Kuykendall moved that the Council accept the policy of the past two years regarding the drinking question. The “under the influence” clause will be interpreted to mean “visibly affected in his actions.” Retiring senior representative Bunny Perkinson suggested that the council take a definite stand on the problem of stealing. He stated that he feels students might have lost faith in the council’s ability to stop theft. The council has tried every means of discovering the person or persons involved, but has not yet succeeded. President Smyth hopes that it will not be necessary to call in a patrol. He added that the best solution is for each student to lock his door.

Secrecy in the trials was the subject of much discussion. One member provoked this discussion by commenting that many members of the student body knew more about the trials than he did. Bill Bondurant, Dabney Stuart, and John Kuykendall were appointed to investigate trial “leaks.” A decision was also made which will initiate the naming of the student convicted in a case along with the nature of the offense. Bob Livingston was chosen as coordinator to the National Student Association. John Bernhardt and Ralph Bright were appointed to the Finance Committee; Bill Bondurant and Tom Cutting to the Religious Exercises Committee. Bob Huffaker, junior representative, was sworn into the council because of his absence at chapel when the new council accepted its duties. Senior representative Bill Fraley was absent from the council meeting.

“BIG TIME PARKING”

Baxter Cochran can be seen awarding tickets to erstwhile parking violations every day, as pictured above.

Sigma Nu Invited; Trustees Get Plans

A recommendation to proceed with the building of single unit fraternity houses for a new fraternity court and to invite Sigma Nu Fraternity to establish a chapter on the Davidson campus was passed Tuesday by the faculty. The fraternity court question is now ready to be considered by the Trustees, who will make the decision. The Faculty Fraternity Committee, Dean of Students, and the Treasurer of the College presented the following proposal to the faculty:

1. (a) That a new fraternity court consisting of houses containing social room, dining room, unfinished basement room, kitchen, and dietitian’s apartment, costing approximately $30,000 each, be constructed in the area north of the laundry, to house 13 fraternities with room to construct additional houses if needed in later years;
(b) That this court be financed by a gift designated for this purpose and the remainder out of endowment funds as an investment that will net the College about five percent return on the investment;
(c) That a fraternity housing fee be charged all fraternity men and be collected with other college fees, thus spreading the cost of rental fees equally among all fraternity members so that small fraternity groups will not be too hard-pressed;
(d) That a qualified lady, approved by the College, be employed by each fraternity to serve as house mother and dietitian for that fraternity and that living quarters be provided in each house for such a person.

2. That, as a further measure to relieve pressures on fraternities to become too large, an invitation be extended to the Sigma Nu fraternity to establish a chapter at Davidson.

Fagg, Price Serve On Athletic Council

In elections last week, Dave Fagg and Bill Price were elected to serve on the Athletic Council. The voting on Cheerleader was begun, but the run-off was not completed because of a decision to have the cheerleaders elect their own Head Cheerleader. These elections ended almost two months of voting in which thirty different offices were filled.were filled. Asked to comment on the elections this year, Tom Morgan, Chairman of the Elections Board, suggested: “Elections this year show that some method must be devised whereby more elections may be held simultaneously. Student interest in voting just cannot be sustained over a long period of run-offs and individual elections for each office. In many of the class elections voting fell to 40% and under, despite the fact that elections were held in Chapel which is supposed to be the most convenient place.”

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C. FRIDAY, MAY 10, 1957
FINAL ISSUE THIS YEAR No. 26

Six New Faculty Additions Named For Next Year

Pomeroy Presides Over Honoraries

Bill Pomeroy will be the new president of the Honorary Fraternity Council for next year. At its organizational meeting Wednesday night, Hugo Misle was elected vice-president; Henry Griffin, secretary; and Bill Price, treasurer. The Honorary Fraternity Council composes twenty-four Davidson College Clubs and organizations. The work of the council is to coordinate the schedule of the Clubs, as well as to act as the governing body for all honoraries. John Gilmer served as president this year.

ATO's Place First In IFC Songfest

Alpha Tau Omega won the annual Interfraternity Sing, Wednesday night, sponsored by the Gamma Kappa Chapter of Phi Mu Alpha Sinfonia Fraternity. The Taus, directed by freshman Perrin Wright, sang “There Is a Balm in Gilead,” “The Drinking Song” from “The Student Prince,” and a fraternity song, “Old Alpha.” The director’s cup went to Jim Kuist, who led the Sigma Chis to second place singing “So Silently the Rose” and “Fellowship Song of Sigma Chi.” Directed by Don Lamm, the Phi Delts won third place with “Kentucky Babe,” “Phi Delt Girl,” and “The Happy Sunday School.” Mrs. Tom Daggy and Mrs. Malcolm McAfee were judges, announced the contest.

Bright Will Lead Union Committees

Ralph Bright has been elected president of the Union Committees for the 1957-58 school year. Last year’s committee chairmen also elected Ed Stevens secretary of the group. The following committee heads were chosen: Art Gallery, Ted Dingler; Bookshelf, Carter Daniel; Displays, Leland Edwards; and Films, Ed Moore. Also chosen were: Music, Dan McAllister; Publications, John Caldwell; Publicity, Addison Bross; Round Table, Bill Bondurant; Social, Tenney Deane; Special Feature, Ray Atkinson; and Travel, Lash Zemp. Students interested in working with these committees are urged to see Bright, Stevens, or one of the Committee chairmen.

Professor Benjamin Bray WILL HELP FRESHMEN

Fraley Appoints ’57 Orientation Advisors

Freshman Advisor Bill Fraley has announced the student advisors for orientation period, September 13-17. In making the announcement Fraley said, “I have tried to select a group of men who, in my estimation, are well qualified to instruct the freshmen in the peculiarities of college life, what they can expect from Davidson and what Davidson expects from them.” The men chosen were: Bill Bondurant, John Trask, Lloyd Chapin, Roger Bates, David Bradford, Ross Smyth, Sonny Ferguson, Ralph Bright, Barry Benton, Bob Jones, Ken Forrester, and Bob MacRae.

REQUESTS SUPPORT

Phil Lewis Is Judge Of Court Of Control

Phil Lewis has been elected by the Student Council to serve as Judge of the Court of Control. Charles Stowe was chosen by the new court as recorder. Other members of the court chosen by the council were Fritz Russell, Dave Fagg, Vernon Broyles, Craig Wall, George Hart, and Larry McNeill. On Tuesday, the court held its first meeting in which discussion was held on several items including coordination between the court and the fraternities, getting suggestions about improvement of the court from this year’s freshmen, and the court's part in the Orientation program. Judge Lewis made the following statement on behalf of the new court: “We of the Court are happy to have been selected for this job. We hope to further the good work done by Reitzel Snider and this year's Court. We realize fully that this can be accomplished only with the whole-hearted support of every member of the student body. In view of this, the Court requests that the upperclassmen aid in all ways possible in making the freshman class of ‘61 an integral part of the Davidson student body.” Membership of the new court will include four seniors, two juniors, and two sophomores.

10 National Merit Scholars Enroll

Ten winners of National Merit Scholarships will enroll as freshmen at Davidson in September. Eight will attend as National Merit Scholars, and two as George F. Baker scholars. The latter won National Merit Scholarships at other institutions, but accepted Baker scholarships to Davidson. Four of the winners are from North Carolina, two each from South Carolina and Virginia, and one each from Texas and Alabama. Last year only 15 colleges and universities in the United States had eight or more National Merit Scholars. This year 160,000 outstanding students in 13,000 high schools competed for the scholarships, and 832 winners were chosen. Recipients were selected on the basis of their ability to benefit from a college education, an important index of which was their relative scores on scholastic aptitude tests. Stipends payable to the scholar are based entirely upon need, and vary from $100 up to full tuition and expenses. The program is made possible by grants from American business and industry, and the administrative expenses financed by the Ford Foundation and the Carnegie Corporation of New York. National Merit winners who will attend Davidson from North Carolina are Elwood Franklin Hartman, Greensboro; Howard Roger Pancoast, High Point; Jerry Jacques, Mooresville; and Spiro Macris, Wilmington. Macris and Jacques won National Merit Scholarships to other institutions but elected to accept Baker scholarships to Davidson. Davidson's 25 competitive scholars are chosen in a manner similar to that of the National Merit program, and (Continued On Page 4)

Dean Pietenpol Releases List

Dean Clarence J. Pietenpol today announced the addition of six new members of the Davidson College faculty. All will take office in September. Four will come as associate professors, one as assistant professor and one as full professor. Five hold the Doctor of Philosophy degree in their particular field. Dr. Ernest F. Patterson of the University of Alabama will come as Associate Professor of Economics. He graduated from Southwest Texas Teachers College, and holds M.A. and Ph.D. degrees from the University of Texas. Prof. Walter F. Thompson of the University of Delaware will become Associate Professor of Economics and Business Administration. He graduated from Ohio University, and earned the M.B.A. degree from Harvard. Dr. James M. Frederickson, head of the chemistry department of Hampden-Sydney College, will come as Associate Professor of Chemistry. He graduated from the University of Richmond, and earned the Ph.D. degree from the University of Virginia. Dr. Winfred P. Minter of (Continued On Page 4)

ACP Rates Paper All-American

In nationwide competition the DAVIDSONIAN recently received the All-American Honor Rating for its journalism during the first semester of this year. The Associated Collegiate Press at the University of Minnesota conferred their highest classification upon the campus newspaper after judging in the areas of coverage, content, and physical properties. Using a scale ranging from poor to superior, the Board consistently placed the DAVIDSONIAN in the very good, excellent, and superior categories. They considered the coverage “very professional” and the total makeup to be the “best seen” in comparison with other newspapers of its class. Superior characterized the feature writing throughout the paper as well as the editorial section. Photography received the highest plaudits as did the creativeness and vitality of the DAVIDSONIAN as a whole. Criticisms ran from the overabundance of details and the “stereotyped” quality sometimes evidenced in the news content to the need for more color in sports writing. The rating is a tribute to the editorship and leadership of Jim Batten and this year’s staff.

Trustees, Faculty Honor President

Dr. and Mrs. John Rood Cunningham will be the guests of honor at a dinner given Thursday, May 16, by the trustees and faculty of the college. Invited to the banquet in honor of Dr. Cunningham, prior to his retirement as President of Davidson College, are members of the faculty, board of trustees and their wives, college presidents of North Carolina, and a representative group of students. The dinner will be held in the Chambers Building Banquet Hall.