WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 1957

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PAGE TWO

WILL YOU LIVE THROUGH THIS WINTER?

Hundreds may not! They may die in traffic accidents caused by rain, snow, or sleet.

Take special care!

Driving and walking are especially dangerous in bad winter weather. Roads are slick and visibility is poor.

Over 40,000 men, women, and children were killed in traffic accidents last year... Many in accidents caused by winter conditions.

Check your brakes — Use them carefully on slick roads.
Check your windshield wipers — Get new ones if they streak.
Check your headlights — Have them properly adjusted.
Check your tires — Have good tires and use tire chains when needed on snow or ice.
Check your speed — Observe speed limits and be extra careful of winter road conditions.
Check your distance — Stay well behind the car ahead.

Support your local Safety Organization

Insist on strict enforcement of all traffic laws. Traffic regulations work for you, not against you. Where traffic laws are strictly enforced and obeyed, deaths go down.

"Quit Your Skidding" tells what you can do to prevent winter traffic accidents. Write to: Dept. Q, National Safety Council, 425 North Michigan Avenue, Chicago 11, Ill. for this free booklet.

DAVIDSON SAFETY COUNCIL in cooperation with The Advertising Council and The National Safety Council

Ivey League Cotton Slacks

The most handsome... the longest-wearing casual slacks ever! Smooth polished cotton with slightly narrower leg, belted back, and low-on-the-hips. All points of strain are bar-tack reinforced... all inside seams are over-sewn. Wonderfully washable, in classic black or natural tan.

No alterations necessary in most cases, because these slacks are pre-cuffed.

Waist sizes: 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 36, 38.
Inseams: 29 to 34.

men’s furnishings, street floor

Crosby Square “Dirty Buck”

The newest and most popular idea in buck-skin shoes for men. An off-white color that needs little or no care. Soft, pliable, comfortable. Black cushion crepe sole.
$12.93

also in white buck... $13.98

Genuine Bostonian Moccasins

These handsome moccasins are the “real thing.” Handsewn front and kick seam. Unlined for snug, sure fit in supple leather. In black or brown.
$13.95 to $14.98

men’s shoes, street floor

IVEY’S OF CHARLOTTE

They’re never too young for Red doctrine—or the truth!

Who’ll tell them the truth—if you won’t?

Behind the Iron Curtain, Europe's captive people are groomed for Communism from the cradle. But even this relentless indoctrination cannot kill their will for freedom.

Today in satellite Europe, youth is turning against Communism... and this is the group on whom the Reds counted heavily for blind support. With the aid of truth from Radio Free Europe and Free Europe Press, these young people are determined to win back their freedom. Their refusal to knuckle under has never been stronger!

Recent events have battered Red prestige, upset their timetable of enslavement, and exposed the Communist puppet regimes for what they really are—brutal occupation powers.

But this is no time to ease up. The need for truth from the free world has never been greater... and truth is the one thing the Iron Curtain can't shut out. Keep it coming!

Support Radio Free Europe and Free Europe Press with Truth Dollars to CRUSADE for FREEDOM

THE DAVIDSONIAN

c/o your local postmaster