Now is the time for all good Davidsonians to come to the aid of the fairer sex—and vice versa. Spring came a few days ago; the girls arrived a few hours ago; it is the season when all should take up their blankets and walk. The weekend will have much in store for those with dates. It is the time to journey to the river, the mountains, or any other reasonably nearby spot which whim or expediency may dictate.

Before we grind our ivy league buckles into the eager and as yet tender young grass as we relax on the campus in the afternoon to the priceless strains of Les Brown’s music, let us pause a moment and reflect in awe at the colossal amount of preparation that made all this possible. There was spring cleaning that had to come to Belk. There were shoes to be polished—in person since the pledges have been initiated. There were dinner jackets that had to be cleaned from last spring. There were scores of parents that had to be persuaded to part with the necessary funds and/or transportation. Neither an excess of fun nor a lack of funds; neither a hot gym nor a cold date; neither wet weather nor a dry party; neither the other fellow’s more beautiful date, nor any other creature shall dampen our joy that Spring Frolics has come, and with it, all that is pleasant in life—For Gala Weekend namely, girls.

We hasten to take this opportunity to welcome you to our fair campus. Lest we should have appeared boastful of our own efforts to make your stay here enjoyable, we shall give recognition to those unseen martyrs who work behind the scenes. The maintenance department has imported for your benefit such rare items as leaves, sunshine, grass, and new shrubbery. The janitors have performed yeoman service in tasks above and beyond the call of duty; they have swept under the beds in Belk. We are assured that Les Brown and his band have practiced many extra hours to make smooth music for the couples who will attend the dances. Perhaps you will already have noticed the most outstanding additions to the campus. No less than two (2) new gravel paths have been inserted in front of Belk (where they should have been in the first place) to replace the unsightly old homemade paths that disgraced us during Mid-Winters. Perhaps, though, the most profound addition is the timely arrival of the four (4) huge clocks gracing the tower of the local cathedral, and rendering Davidson one of the most up-to-the-minute schools in the South. This striking addition has been brought in at great time and expense so that you may know how late it is getting from any point in Mecklenburg, Cabarrus, or Iredell Counties.

FRIDAY NIGHT: Partly cloudy and turning cooler.
SATURDAY NIGHT: Partly cloudy and cool with a high of 65 degrees in the afternoon, and a low of 38 Saturday night.

VOL. XLV
The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C.
FRIDAY, APRIL 12, 1957
FIRST ISSUE BY NEW STAFF
No. 22

DAVIDSONIAN POLL
Students Vote For Educator

“The most important prerequisite for the new President of Davidson College is that he be an educator.” This was the outstanding consensus that the Davidsonian Feature Staff polled this week from a cross-section of nearly half of the Davidson student body. This opinion was reflected in the first question asked: “What type of man do you favor for the President of Davidson? Educator; Minister; Business Man; Athletic Booster; Public Relations Man; or Combination of any two.” Of those participating, 40% chose single preferences, with the selections divided into:
Educator — 88%
Minister — 6%
Business Man — 4%
Athletic Booster — 5%
Public Relations Man — 2%

The remaining 60% fixed two qualifications; with Educator again far in front, appearing in 88% of the combinations. The breakdown being:
Educator—Bus. Man — 28%
Educator—Ath. Booster — 27%
Educator—Minister — 20%
Educator—Pub. Relat. — 13%

The other 12% of the pairings divided rather evenly and were as follows:
Bus. Man—Ath. Booster — 2.7%
Bus. Man—Pub. Relat. — 2.4%
Minister—Bus. Man — 3.6%
Minister—Ath. Booster — 1.0%
Minister—Pub. Relat. — 0.5%
Ath. Booster—Pub. Relations — 1.8%

The second question asked was of the “which do you favor?” type. Over 52% indicated that their choice was “A man who is not presently connected in any official capacity with (Continued On Back Page)

Grier Davis Will Edit “Scripts 'n Pranks”

Grier Davis won the race for editor of the ‘Scripts ‘n Pranks”, campus humor-literary magazine, in voting on March 26. In accepting his new post, Davis particularly stressed the fact that he was open to constructive criticism: “Although I have a good many of my own plans, I am interested in discussing with anyone any ideas that they might have concerning changes in the magazine and its real purpose on campus.”

Concerning the magazine, Davis commented, “It’s obviously not serving much of a purpose on campus now, either as a literary outlet or as a genuine humor magazine.” Although definite policy for next year has not yet been decided, Davis stressed that there are at least two things that a magazine can do. Satire can be presented in a constructive way, (“There are numerous incongruities here on campus that need to be satirized") and the magazine should be a breeding ground for new writers and should stimulate potential.

There is a possibility of having four issues next year, but the three definite issues will tentatively provide a study of humor, a parody, and an issue similar to the Davidson Gentleman issue, with a purpose of constructive criticism, a social satire rather than a pompous farce.

This year Davis, a rising senior from Asheville, has been editorial assistant on “Scripts ‘n Pranks” and has written for it for the past two years. He was also a feature writer for the Davidsonian, secretary of Sigma Chi, and vice-president of the Male Chorus.

DAVIS

“We Need A Big Man”

“This is such a big job that we want a big man to fill it.” Thus spoke the chairman of the Trustees Presidential nominating committee, Mr. D. R. LaFar of Gastonia in a recent telephone interview with the Davidsonian.

LaFar stated that at the most recent meeting of the nominating group no names had been officially discussed. Previous to that meeting, the committee had given the College faculty and the Board of Trustees an opportunity to express their opinion on the matter of selecting a new president and to offer any names which they felt should be considered.

DIFFICULT JOB

Chairman LaFar pointed out that he felt that the job of selecting a new president for the College would be a long and difficult one. He saw little possibility of a nomination by May.

Plans are being made to allow the student body to express its opinion as to the type of man it would prefer as president. “The committee is interested in student opinion and will seek to obtain it at the appropriate time.”

When asked whether Mr. Spencer Love was still a member of the committee, Mr. LaFar said that he was, and that any report to the contrary was entirely wrong.

No potential presidents have been contacted in any way, and probably will not be for quite some time. When the committee makes its choice, the nominee will be contacted before his name is presented to the Board.

NEWS FLASH!

John Bernhardt was elected president of the rising senior class in this morning’s balloting. In all remaining class officer races runoffs will be necessary. Those still in the race are:

RISING SENIOR CLASS—vice president: Ralph Bright vs. Sonny Ferguson; secretary-treasurer: Roger Bates vs. Jerry Greene;
RISING JUNIOR CLASS — president: Roy Gilbert vs. Laurens Walker; vice-president: Tom Johnson vs. Ed Lewis; secretary-treasurer: Richard Brubaker vs. Bill Ferguson.
Also, RISING SOPHOMORE CLASS—president: John Hute vs. Dave Robinson; vice-president: Lamar Riggs vs. Joe Verreault; secretary-treasurer: Ted Henry vs. Dick Smith.

Chuck Wright Wins Willa Cather Award

Chuck Wright's “Trio: Death, the Winged Walker” won first prize in the Willa Cather Literary awards presented in last Friday’s Chapel program byProfessor Lloyd. The senior’s work was experimental prose. The sponsor of the contest is Davidson Alumnus, retired scholar and author William C. Doub Kerr. Mr. Doub Kerr judged the short story of James Kuist, “Puppy Love,” for first Honorable Mention.

Les Brown’s Band Plays As Spring Frolics Open

Annual ‘D’ Club Foolies To Present L’il Abner

Spring Frolics Dance Weekend opened officially tonight with the annual “D” Club Foolies followed by the formal dance at Johnston gymnasium.

Trustees Want Students’ Views

Student Body President Dan LaFar has received a letter from the Trustee Presidential Nominating Committee in which the Committee invited representatives from the Student Council to attend a meeting Friday, April 19, at the Commercial National Bank Building in Charlotte. They will be invited to give their views concerning the selection of a President. Monday night the Student Council will hold an open meeting at 7 p.m., in the Blue Room of the College Union so that interested students may make suggestions to the Council.

PANEL DISCUSSION

Fraternity Open Forum Answers Questions

Approximately two hundred people attended the open forum concerning the proposed fraternity court which met in the ballroom of the College Union on Wednesday morning, April 10. The panel was composed of Vernon Hunter, Dr. W. G. McGavock, and Mr. Grier Martin. Dr. McGavock explained that the proposed court had grown out of the faculty and administration’s concern about the relationship of the present fraternity court to increased enrollment in the next few years. In connection with this, he stated that it appeared likely that a new fraternity would be invited to be established on the campus next year, subject to the approval of the Board of Trustees at its May meeting.

OPEN FLOOR

Following a general explanation of the work done by the committee appointed to study the fraternity court possibility, the floor was opened for questions. Below is an account of the questions and answers which were forthcoming:

Maurice Ritchie: “What will be the rent on single houses?”
Answer: It will be $168 per month for a single house without a basement. The rent for a single unit with a basement will be $200. This will inevitably raise monthly dues. The cost of belonging to a fraternity at Davidson is probably lower than at any other reputable college in America.

Hank Davis: “Will the fraternities be able to utilize their present equipment?”
Answer: Every fraternity will be responsible for furnishing its own equipment and furnishings.

Creighton Peden: “Can a fraternity remain outside of this court?”
Answer: The college recognizes that some groups have previous commitments which bind them. Such commitments were made with no knowledge of the possibility of this proposal arising. Such a group would be required to come into the court as soon as these obligations shall have been met.

Creighton Peden: “At $200 a month rent per fraternity, the initial cost of the court will eventually be met. What will be the arrangement about rent then?”

ENDOWMENT PROVIDES

Answer: The money for constructing the court will have to come from endowment funds. We have a nine million dollar endowment which provides $400 per student each year. Any money which is used from this fund would have to be replaced. Expenses will not end when the construction has been completed. There will be a large maintenance expense. The rent will continue as long as the college owns the houses.

Tom Morgan: “If the fraternities raised $100,000, would this reduce the monthly rent?”
Answer: Yes indeed, but it requires a great deal of work to raise this amount of money.

QUOTA QUESTION

Bill Duke: “Shouldn't there be a membership quota? Isn't it possible that the rent would be too high for a small fraternity?”
Answer: For the faculty and administration to set this would be very objectionable, but if the students wish to originate such a plan, there may be merit in it.

Jim Kuist: “Could this question perhaps be answered by requiring that a fraternity member pay a set fee to the college for the privilege of fraternity membership?”
Answer: This has been under consideration.

Bill Patton: “Would there be a united buying agency for food so that each fraternity could purchase its food more cheaply?”
Answer: This would have to be studied further. Bowdoin College has such a system. It allows for the fraternities, although the planning and preparing of meals remains an individual concern, to purchase their supplies from a common stock, thus lowering the board expenses.

William S. Murphy Resigns Union Post

William S. Murphy, Director of Food Services at Davidson since June of 1953, has announced his resignation to become effective on April 15. Murphy has joined with A. O. Lail of Hickory and Russell Murphy of Newton in forming a corporation which will operate Green Valley Golf, Inc., on Highway 70 between Newton and Hickory. The business will consist of a restaurant, a driving range, and a regulation 9-hole golf course. Plans call for Murphy to continue residence here and to commute between Davidson and Newton.

Students and their dates watched a riotous performance of “Lil Abner” at 7:30 in Chambers Auditorium before changing dress for the music of Les Brown at 9:00 p.m. This year’s “Foolies” featured talent from the local athletic organization and the Davidson community. Mrs. Tom Daggy played “Mammy,” Bill Jackson, “Pappy,” and Bill Price was “Lil Abner.” Other members of the cast were Dave McLain, Reitzel Snider, Julia Faye Broyles, and Linda Wilder. The entire performance was adapted and staged by Henry Parrish and Perrin Wright directed the music. The weekend schedule calls for a concert by Les Brown Saturday afternoon at 3:00 p.m., and an informal dance from eight to twelve Saturday evening. A number of the social fraternities have arranged for parties afterwards. Approximately 400 members of the student body and their dates are expected to participate in the festivities. This top social event of the year will be entertained by the nation’s number one band. Capitol recording star Les Brown will be aided by the vocals of Miss Jo Ann Greer. The band gained world renown through its association for over eight years with the Bob Hope radio and television shows.

Faculty Reproaches Vespers Conduct

Conduct of the student body at Vespers last Sunday evening evoked much discussion at Monday’s Faculty meeting. The group adopted a resolution expressing its “disappointment that such an incident should occur at Vespers and especially at a communion service,” and its “hope that it would not happen again in the future.”

Chapin Heads Y; Cabinet

Lloyd Chapin, a rising senior from Atlanta, Georgia, was elected president of the YMCA in voting on March 25. Other Y officers elected are Laurens Walker, vice-president, Dave Robinson, secretary, and Jock Reeder, treasurer. On hearing of his election, Chapin expressed his appreciation for the opportunity to be of service to the Y and to the College. This year Chapin was chairman of the Effective Citizenship post on the Y Cabinet. His job entailed planning a number of the chapel programs, and in particular the “Christian Ethics and Politics” program which preceded the Presidential elections in November. He also worked in connection with bringing the Hocsak family here to Davidson. Chapin has served as managing editor of the Davidsonian and also as vice-president of ATO. When asked how he felt concerning the controversial subject of the “Inter-Collegian,” he replied, “I feel that the ‘Inter-Collegian’ has failed to hold the student interest, since it doesn't deal specifically with Davidson problems. We hope to stimulate student thinking with a YMCA newsletter published at regular intervals, which will also serve to keep the college community posted on what the Y is doing.” The big problem now facing Chapin is the appointment of the members of the Y Cabinet. He has also expressed a desire to appoint more rising juniors and sophomores than have been appointed in the past. Installation of officers will be held Wednesday, April 24, in Lingle Chapel during the chapel period.