Pray, October 13, 1957

FOOTBALL GUESSING CONTEST

At Lexington

By JIM HAMILTON
Davidsonian Sports Writer

SOCCER ACTION against Pfeiffer finds the visiting goalie scooping up the ball as Wildcats Ed Irvin (center) and Ross Smyth (right) move in. Davidson defeated Pfeiffer, 5-0, in last Friday’s action.—(Photo by Ed Stevens)

Tomorrow afternoon the Davidson gridders will take on West Virginia Tech in what would be termed a “breather.” The game, however, promises to be more of a contest than in previous years.

Assistant coach Tom Stevens, who scouted Tech, reports that they have a fast, hard-hitting team, which has compiled a 3-1 record this season.

The Golden Bears from Montgomery, W. Va., will pose a three-man offensive threat to the Cats, composed of fullback Blair Gillespie and halfbacks Paul Weese and Yours Truly.

NEW FACES

Due to injuries among several regulars, new faces will appear in the Davidson lineup. Dave McCullough will fill in for ailing Dave Warden at fullback, and George Hart and freshman Bob Price will substitute for injured regulars Ralph Setzler and Charlie Benson. The only regular in the backfield will be Charlie Benson, who is scheduled to start.

SEVERAL PRAISED

In last Saturday's 26-14 loss to VMI, Davidson’s latent offense, stymied for the first three quarters, erupted for two fourth-period touchdowns by virtue of 24 completions in 45 attempts for 306 yards and two touchdowns. His favorite receivers, Harold Westervelt and Craig Wall, rank third and fourth, respectively, in the Southern Conference in aerial accomplishments, by virtue of 24 completions in 45 attempts for 306 yards and two touchdowns. His favorite receivers, Harold Westervelt and Craig Wall, rank third and fourth, respectively, in the Southern Conference in aerial accomplishments, by virtue of 24 completions in 45 attempts for 306 yards and two touchdowns. His favorite receivers, Harold Westervelt and Craig Wall, rank third and fourth, respectively, in the Southern Conference in aerial accomplishments, by virtue of 24 completions in 45 attempts for 306 yards and two touchdowns. His favorite receivers, Harold Westervelt and Craig Wall, rank third and fourth, respectively, in the Southern Conference in aerial accomplishments, by virtue of 24 completions in 45 attempts for 306 yards and two touchdowns. His favorite receivers, Harold Westervelt and Craig Wall, rank third and fourth, respectively, in the Southern Conference in aerial accomplishments, by virtue of 24 completions in 45 attempts for 306 yards and two touchdowns. His favorite receivers, Harold Westervelt and Craig Wall, rank third and fourth, respectively, in the Southern Conference in aerial accomplishments, by virtue of 24 completions in 45 attempts for 306 yards and two touchdowns. His favorite receivers, Harold Westervelt and Craig Wall, rank third and fourth, respectively, in the Southern Conference in aerial accomplishments, by virtue of 24 completions in 45 attempts for 306 yards and two touchdowns. His favorite receivers, Harold Westervelt and Craig Wall, rank third and fourth, respectively, in the Southern Conference in aerial accomplishments, by virtue of 24 completions in 45 attempts for 306 yards and two touchdowns. His favorite receivers, Harold Westervelt and Craig Wall, rank third and fourth, respectively, in the Southern Conference in aerial accomplishments, by virtue of 24 completions in 45 attempts for 306 yards and two touchdowns. His favorite receivers, Harold Westervelt and Craig Wall, rank third and fourth, respectively, in the Southern Conference in aerial accomplishments, by virtue of 24 completions in 45 attempts for 306 yards and two touchdowns. His favorite receivers, Harold Westervelt and Craig Wall, rank third and fourth, respectively, in the Southern Conference in aerial accomplishments, by virtue of 24 completions in 45 attempts for 306 yards and two touchdowns. His favorite receivers, Harold Westervelt and Craig Wall, rank third and fourth, respectively, in the Southern Conference in aerial accomplishments, by virtue of 24 completions in 45 attempts for 306 yards and two touchdowns. His favorite receivers, Harold Westervelt and Craig Wall, rank third and fourth, respectively, in the Southern Conference in aerial accomplishments, by virtue of 24 completions in 45 attempts for 306 yards and two touchdowns. His favorite receivers, Harold Westervelt and Craig Wall, rank third and fourth, respectively, in the Southern Conference in aerial accomplishments, by virtue of 24 completions in 45 attempts for 306 yards and two touchdowns. His favorite receivers, Harold Westervelt and Craig Wall, rank third and fourth, respectively, in the Southern Conference in aerial accomplishments, by virtue of 24 completions in 45 attempts for 306 yards and two touchdowns. His favorite receivers, Harold Westervelt and Craig Wall, rank third and fourth, respectively, in the Southern Conference in aerial accomplishments, by virtue of 24 completions in 45 attempts for 306 yards and two touchdowns. His favorite receivers, Harold Westervelt and Craig Wall, rank third and fourth, respectively, in the Southern Conference in aerial accomplishments, by virtue of 24 completions in 45 attempts for 306 yards and two touchdowns. His favorite receivers, Harold Westervelt and Craig Wall, rank third and fourth, respectively, in the Southern Conference in aerial accomplishments, by virtue of 24 completions in 45 attempts for 306 yards and two touchdowns. His favorite receivers, Harold Westervelt and Craig Wall, rank third and fourth, respectively, in the Southern Conference in aerial accomplishments, by virtue of 24 completions in 45 attempts for 306 yards and two touchdowns. His favorite receivers, Harold Westervelt and Craig Wall, rank third and fourth, respectively, in the Southern Conference in aerial accomplishments, by virtue of 24 completions in 45 attempts for 306 yards and two touchdowns. His favorite receivers, Harold Westervelt and Craig Wall, rank third and fourth, respectively, in the Southern Conference in aerial accomplishments, by virtue of 24 completions in 45 attempts for 306 yards and two touchdowns. His favorite receivers, Harold Westervelt and Craig Wall, rank third and fourth, respectively, in the Southern Conference in aerial accomplishments, by virtue of 24 completions in 45 attempts for 306 yards and two touchdowns. His favorite receivers, Harold Westervelt and Craig Wall, rank third and fourth, respectively, in the Southern Conference in aerial accomplishments, by virtue of 24 completions in 45 attempts for 306 yards and two touchdowns. His favorite receivers, Harold Westervelt and Craig Wall, rank third and fourth, respectively, in the Southern Conference in aerial accomplishments, by virtue of 24 completions in 45 attempts for 306 yards and two touchdowns. His favorite receivers, Harold Westervelt and Craig Wall, rank third and fourth, respectively, in the Southern Conference in aerial accomplishments, by virtue of 24 completions in 45 attempts for 306 yards and two touchdowns. His favorite receivers, Harold Westervelt and Craig Wall, rank third and fourth, respectively, in the Southern Conference in aerial accomplishments, by virtue of 24 completions in 45 attempts for 306 yards and two touchdowns. His favorite receivers, Harold Westervelt and Craig Wall, rank third and fourth, respectively, in the Southern Conference in aerial accomplishments, by virtue of 24 completions in 45 attempts for 306 yards and two touchdowns. His favorite receivers, Harold Westervelt and Craig Wall, rank third and fourth, respectively, in the Southern Conference in aerial accomplishments, by virtue of 24 completions in 45 attempts for 306 yards and two touchdowns. His favorite receivers, Harold Westervelt and Craig Wall, rank third and fourth, respectively, in the Southern Conference in aerial accomplishments, by virtue of 24 completions in 45 attempts for 306 yards and two touchdowns. His favorite receivers, Harold Westervelt and Craig Wall, rank third and fourth, respectively, in the Southern Conference in aerial accomplishments, by virtue of 24 completions in 45 attempts for 306 yards and two touchdowns. His favorite receivers, Harold Westervelt and Craig Wall, rank third and fourth, respectively, in the Southern Conference in aerial accomplishments, by virtue of 24 completions in 45 attempts for 306 yards and two touchdowns. His favorite receivers, Harold Westervelt and Craig Wall, rank third and fourth, respectively, in the Southern Conference in aerial accomplishments, by virtue of 24 completions in 45 attempts for 306 yards and two touchdowns. His favorite receivers, Harold Westervelt and Craig Wall, rank third and fourth, respectively, in the Southern Conference in aerial accomplishments, by virtue of 24 completions in 45 attempts for 306 yards and two touchdowns. His favorite receivers, Harold Westervelt and Craig Wall, rank third and fourth, respectively, in the Southern Conference in aerial accomplishments, by virtue of 24 completions in 45 attempts for 306 yards and two touchdowns. His favorite receivers, Harold Westervelt and Craig Wall, rank third and fourth, respectively, in the Southern Conference in aerial accomplishments, by virtue of 24 completions in 45 attempts for 306 yards and two touchdowns. His favorite receivers, Harold Westervelt and Craig Wall, rank third and fourth, respectively, in the Southern Conference in aerial accomplishments, by virtue of 24 completions in 45 attempts for 306 yards and two touchdowns. His favorite receivers, Harold Westervelt and Craig Wall, rank third and fourth, respectively, in the Southern Conference in aerial accomplishments, by virtue of 24 completions in 45 attempts for 306 yards and two touchdowns. His favorite receivers, Harold Westervelt and Craig Wall, rank third and fourth, respectively, in the Southern Conference in aerial accomplishments, by virtue of 24 completions in 45 attempts for 306 yards and two touchdowns. His favorite receivers, Harold Westervelt and Craig Wall, rank third and fourth, respectively, in the Southern Conference in aerial accomplishments, by virtue of 24 completions in 45 attempts for 306 yards and two touchdowns. His favorite receivers, Harold Westervelt and Craig Wall, rank third and fourth, respectively, in the Southern Conference in aerial accomplishments, by virtue of 24 completions in 45 attempts for 306 yards and two touchdowns. His favorite receivers, Harold Westervelt and Craig Wall, rank third and fourth, respectively, in the Southern Conference in aerial accomplishments, by virtue of 24 completions in 45 attempts for 306 yards and two touchdowns. His favorite receivers, Harold Westervelt and Craig Wall, rank third and fourth, respectively, in the Southern Conference in aerial accomplishments, by virtue of 24 completions in 45 attempts for 306 yards and two touchdowns. His favorite receivers, Harold Westervelt and Craig Wall, rank third and fourth, respectively, in the Southern Conference in aerial accomplishments, by virtue of 24 completions in 45 attempts for 306 yards and two touchdowns. His favorite receivers, Harold Westervelt and Craig Wall, rank third and fourth, respectively, in the Southern Conference in aerial accomplishments, by virtue of 24 completions in 45 attempts for 306 yards and two touchdowns. His favorite receivers, Harold Westervelt and Craig Wall, rank third and fourth, respectively, in the Southern Conference in aerial accomplishments, by virtue of 24 completions in 45 attempts for 306 yards and two touchdowns. His favorite receivers, Harold Westervelt and Craig Wall, rank third and fourth, respectively, in the Southern Conference in aerial accomplishments, by virtue of 24 completions in 45 attempts for 306 yards and two touchdowns. His favorite receivers, Harold Westervelt and Craig Wall, rank third and fourth, respectively, in the Southern Conference in aerial accomplishments, by virtue of 24 completions in 45 attempts for 306 yards and two touchdowns. His favorite receivers, Harold Westervelt and Craig Wall, rank third and fourth, respectively, in the Southern Conference in aerial accomplishments, by virtue of 24 completions in 45 attempts for 306 yards and two touchdowns. His favorite receivers, Harold Westervelt and Craig Wall, rank third and fourth, respectively, in the Southern Conference in aerial accomplishments, by virtue of 24 completions in 45 attempts for 306 yards and two touchdowns. His favorite receivers, Harold Westervelt and Craig Wall, rank third and fourth, respectively, in the Southern Conference in aerial accomplishments, by virtue of 24 completions in 45 attempts for 306 yards and two touchdowns. His favorite receivers, Harold Westervelt and Craig Wall, rank third and fourth, respectively, in the Southern Conference in aerial accomplishments, by virtue of 24 completions in 45 attempts for 306 yards and two touchdowns. His favorite receivers, Harold Westervelt and Craig Wall, rank third and fourth, respectively, in the Southern Conference in aerial accomplishments, by virtue of 24 completions in 45 attempts for 306 yards and two touchdowns. His favorite receivers, Harold Westervelt and Craig Wall, rank third and fourth, respectively, in the Southern Conference in aerial accomplishments, by virtue of 24 completions in 45 attempts for 306 yards and two touchdowns. His favorite receivers, Harold Westervelt and Craig Wall, rank third and fourth, respectively, in the Southern Conference in aerial accomplishments, by virtue of 24 completions in 45 attempts for 306 yards and two touchdowns. His favorite receivers, Harold Westervelt and Craig Wall, rank third and fourth, respectively, in the Southern Conference in aerial accomplishments, by virtue of 24 completions in 45 attempts for 306 yards and two touchdowns. His favorite receivers, Harold Westervelt and Craig Wall, rank third and fourth, respectively, in the Southern Conference in aerial accomplishments, by virtue of 24 completions in 45 attempts for 306 yards and two touchdowns. His favorite receivers, Harold Westervelt and Craig Wall, rank third and fourth, respectively, in the Southern Conference in aerial accomplishments, by virtue of 24 completions in 45 attempts for 306 yards and two touchdowns. His favorite receivers, Harold Westervelt and Craig Wall, rank third and fourth, respectively, in the Southern Conference in aerial accomplishments, by virtue of 24 completions in 45 attempts for 306 yards and two touchdowns. His favorite receivers, Harold Westervelt and Craig Wall, rank third and fourth, respectively, in the Southern Conference in aerial accomplishments, by virtue of 24 completions in 45 attempts for 306 yards and two touchdowns. His favorite receivers, Harold Westervelt and Craig Wall, rank third and fourth, respectively, in the Southern Conference in aerial accomplishments, by virtue of 24 completions in 45 attempts for 306 yards and two touchdowns. His favorite receivers, Harold Westervelt and Craig Wall, rank third and fourth, respectively, in the Southern Conference in aerial accomplishments, by virtue of 24 completions in 45 attempts for 306 yards and two touchdowns. His favorite receivers, Harold Westervelt and Craig Wall, rank third and fourth, respectively, in the Southern Conference in aerial accomplishments, by virtue of 24 completions in 45 attempts for 306 yards and two touchdowns. His favorite receivers, Harold Westervelt and Craig Wall, rank third and fourth, respectively, in the Southern Conference in aerial accomplishments, by virtue of 24 completions in 45 attempts for 306 yards and two touchdowns. His favorite receivers, Harold Westervelt and Craig Wall, rank third and fourth, respectively, in the Southern Conference in aerial accomplishments, by virtue of 24 completions in 45 attempts for 306 yards and two touchdowns. His favorite receivers, Harold Westervelt and Craig Wall, rank third and fourth, respectively, in the Southern Conference in aerial accomplishments, by virtue of 24 completions in 45 attempts for 306 yards and two touchdowns. His favorite receivers, Harold Westervelt and Craig Wall, rank third and fourth, respectively, in the Southern Conference in aerial accomplishments, by virtue of 24 completions in 45 attempts for 306 yards and two touchdowns. His favorite receivers, Harold Westervelt and Craig Wall, rank third and fourth, respectively, in the Southern Conference in aerial accomplishments, by virtue of 24 completions in 45 attempts for 306 yards and two touchdowns. His favorite receivers, Harold Westervelt and Craig Wall, rank third and fourth, respectively, in the Southern Conference in aerial accomplishments, by virtue of 24 completions in 45 attempts for 306 yards and two touchdowns. His favorite receivers, Harold Westervelt and Craig Wall, rank third and fourth, respectively, in the Southern Conference in aerial accomplishments, by virtue of 24 completions in 45 attempts for 306 yards and two touchdowns. His favorite receivers, Harold Westervelt and Craig Wall, rank third and fourth, respectively, in the Southern Conference in aerial accomplishments, by virtue of 24 completions in 45 attempts for 306 yards and two touchdowns. His favorite receivers, Harold Westervelt and Craig Wall, rank third and fourth, respectively, in the Southern Conference in aerial accomplishments, by virtue of 24 completions in 45 attempts for 306 yards and two touchdowns. His favorite receivers, Harold Westervelt and Craig Wall, rank third and fourth, respectively, in the Southern Conference in aerial accomplishments, by virtue of 24 completions in 45 attempts for 306 yards and two touchdowns. His favorite receivers, Harold Westervelt and Craig Wall, rank third and fourth, respectively, in the Southern Conference in aerial accomplishments, by virtue of 24 completions in 45 attempts for 306 yards and two touchdowns. His favorite receivers, Harold Westervelt and Craig Wall, rank third and fourth, respectively, in the Southern Conference in aerial accomplishments, by virtue of 24 completions in 45 attempts for 306 yards and two touchdowns. His favorite receivers, Harold Westervelt and Craig Wall, rank third and fourth, respectively, in the Southern Conference in aerial accomplishments, by virtue of 24 completions in 45 attempts for 306 yards and two touchdowns. His favorite receivers, Harold Westervelt and Craig Wall, rank third and fourth, respectively, in the Southern Conference in aerial accomplishments, by virtue of 24 completions in 45 attempts for 306 yards and two touchdowns. His favorite receivers, Harold Westervelt and Craig Wall, rank third and fourth, respectively, in the Southern Conference in aerial accomplishments, by virtue of 24 completions in 45 attempts for 306 yards and two touchdowns. His favorite receivers, Harold Westervelt and Craig Wall, rank third and fourth, respectively, in the Southern Conference in aerial accomplishments, by virtue of 24 completions in 45 attempts for 306 yards and two touchdowns. His favorite receivers, Harold Westervelt and Craig Wall, rank third and fourth, respectively, in the Southern Conference in aerial accomplishments, by virtue of 24 completions in 45 attempts for 306 yards and two touchdowns. His favorite receivers, Harold Westervelt and Craig Wall, rank third and fourth, respectively, in the Southern Conference in aerial accomplishments, by virtue of 24 completions in 45 attempts for 306 yards and two touchdowns. His favorite receivers, Harold Westervelt and Craig Wall, rank third and fourth, respectively, in the Southern Conference in aerial accomplishments, by virtue of 24 completions in 45 attempts for 306 yards and two touchdowns. His favorite receivers, Harold Westervelt and Craig Wall, rank third and fourth, respectively, in the Southern Conference in aerial accomplishments, by virtue of . - W ‘ain- ; : win is a supreme athletic. Daily practice firing has been’ By HENRY RAMSEY with fifteen minutes remaining graduation, and now having the : ing to play, VMI rested on a : and : three returning lettermen offensive figure places ; D t Rs, b res Wei him 82 yards behind con-! achievement, going on for several weeks, but: ; F Sports Writer an: _ [13 to 0 margin. At this point | ; %& y \this has been limited to mem- According to coach Heath Whittle, the inter-fraternity | ine ‘cat offense began to doze. steed. a lot of stress will be ference - leading Bobby _ The victors were behind after . ‘e: ; ; ; i i BENSON Schwarze of The Citadel, ,er the first quarter, 10, but ners last year af team. we flickerball tournament is “going nicely”. All of the fra-: Benson completed three passes, Placed untried men in the | urning m 8 > W. J. iternities, plus the Independents, are taking an active and then scored on a fifteen’ oy, mistakes. since there is Defensively, the wrong-armed wonder has proved Smyth took Ed Irvin's pass and Lohman, R. H. Martin, J. naar . - ‘ tied the score early in the sec- Pinkney, A. .C. Ruggles. W. and enthusiastic part in the program. yard run on, the option play.’ jothing like experience.” (oe wm wee ee Ss ™ «scored in the second and third’ offense, along with linemen spectively, among S&S. C. ry ry ‘ . * himself quite capable he 2 safety " last K. eet +, ond frame. Scott, J. H. Wearn, P. W Payne. With twenty-eight games having Pave Page's conversion made it contest with V.M.I. e intercepted our ey er For approximately th 'R. P* Wilson, C. O. Pickard. been played through Wed- apiece put the Phi Delts and 713. passes, two of which he snagged when the soldiers minute re ti ely the next 50 Gc. Hemingway. nesday afternoon, the KA’s Sigma Chis in a tie for fourth | VMI refused to give up the were within the Wildcat 10-yard line. hit the goal’s ton, crucial shots hell. of held first place, with the Kap | place. Marvin Bentley and Dave Fold, mey marched down ne A ( T | 0 N | N j ; in: . Captain J. W. Mitchell, of- pa Sigs in second. Wood led the Phi Delts field on the shoulders of their His calibre of play in the V.M.I. game prompted pub- ends of the field. twenty-two ficer in charge. and M-Sgt. W. downed the Sigma Nu’s on the Sigs in downing the Phi erback Bobby Ross to Jim Gil: Southern Conference Player of the Week. ; seemed enh five in such a: been operating the indoor range and. Sonny. Ferguson, the KA's the Sigs in downing the Phi erback Bobby Ross to Jim Gil: SATURDAY, OCTOBER 19 It seems that the key has turned in the right direction aren. ‘Monday through Friday be- downed the Sigma Nu’s on Gams, 34 to 6. Football W Va. Tech between the hours of 1 and 5 p.m. Wednesday, 57-6, for their fifth In fifth place in the league Interfraternity Council will give FRIDAY, OCTOBER 25 for the Wildcats. : ar ; GOALIE BUSY Both expressed a desire and win against no losses. The Kap- are the ATOs, with three wins a trophy to the fraternity with Soccer --U North Carolina’ ODDS AND ENDS Near the end of regulation ‘°"! he Davidson produce’ pa Sigs strengthened their hold and two losses. There is a two- the largest percentage of its Cross Country N. C. State— One of the best teams in the on second place by defeating way split for honors in number. members active on varsity teams. The William and Mary Bach Tuesday of Wednesday evening the pre- Finney. was swatting away pos- conference. the ATOs, 25 to 12. for a 4-0 six place between the Pikas and members need not letter in a SATURDAY, OCTOBER 26 fans can see the films of the road games played the sible goals as though he had They recently announced a record. the SAEs, each team having sport to be counted in this per- Football—Presbyterian The Pi Kapps. led by Pec won two games while losing centage. At Davidson Lide and Paul Rudisell, moved two. The Betas, Sigma Nus. into third place by taking the SPEs, and Phi Gams bring up previous Saturday by Davidson. accompanied by a com- been attacked by a swarm of ten meet schedule. plus week- mentary by a member of the coaching staff, in the Col- bees. He proved his worth, and. ly postal matches with teams lege Union... then. Davidson cashed in on its such as Georgia, Maine, U. S. Betas for a 20-0 ride with 0-4 in turn in the overtime. Military Academy. and the Uni- record. Although Davidson can point with pride to Benson, N. C. State invaded the versity of Denver. Three wins and one loss Whittle announced that the Westervelt, and Wall as among the conference leaders in various departments, and to the team effort that rates better than average in most fields, the ‘Cats shudder to think of the last place ranking they hold in the punting department. This is one factor that has kept the locals in the hole so often this season . . my! From the confines of Johnston pool comes a splash— the Davidson swimming team is getting its feet wet for the forthcoming season. And from the thud of ball against hardwood you can hear the basketballers shaping up. Seems like only yesterday we started to school and already the winter athletes are working out! 1415 ELIZABETH AVENUE already the winter athletes are working out! Charlotte, N. C. At Davidson Wear After-Six Tuxedos up to $3.00 Clothes From SAVE ON ALBUMS Shawl Collars of Silk Satin Living Presence Mercury... 98¢ $45.00 RENTALS ALSO Columbia Buy of the Month Gotoh me On the other hand, T. Gourmet Smythe _ $198 Jack Wood Ltd, sansessccee : 30? ... . Wilson-Wright 5, Inc. Epic Hi-Fi Hit of the Month ‘Mt Cost No More to Dress Correctly’ "oo gud ata ouch Enda. SIGN OF GOOD TASTE St vous? ” : ee 300 S. Tryon St. Charlotte, N. C. Collegiate Fashions $2 98 ° Bottled Under Authority Of The Coca-Cola Company By e@esensen 6 “Coke” is a registered trademark. © 1956, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY Davidson, N. C. THE COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD