PAGE THREE

A WORD FROM THE STUDENT HOUSE COMMITTEE:

The Association of College Unions Manual states that the leisure time education program of College Unions is designed to assist
in the building of character for community service and leadership. This means, simply, that basically we should be aware of
the needs, desires, and feelings of other persons in whatever we do.

Students on the House Committee had this thought in mind when they included the following items in the Union House
Rules:

1. Persons using the facilities of the Union are expected to act as ladies and gentlemen at all times.

2. Thoughtlessness on the part of some few persons in the past prompts these special reminders:

a. Feet are to be on the floor rather than on tables or furniture or dangling about to the point
of being disconcerting to others.

b. Chairs are to be used for sitting rather than tables (especially in the cafeteria) or counters of any kind.

c. Snack bar purchases are to be consumed in places other than the lounge areas. Snack bar cup holders and
other such equipment are to be used only in the dining area.

d. Cups and other refuse should be put in the waste baskets and not left on tables (except in the
cafeteria) or scattered about. (There is no janitorial service on the two upper floors after 4:00 p.m. each day and
noon Saturday through the weekend.)

e. Furniture is to be moved from one area to another only by securing permission in advance from the Union
Office. This includes furniture on the three floors and porches.

f. Magazines and books are to be replaced immediately after using. (This system is desirable rather than a checking out
at the Information Desk—unless by use it is found necessary to check in and out by name.)

g. Records, the tape recorder, special lights, and other such equipment can be used by groups or individuals by making
requests to the office, but such equipment is to be used in the Union only.

Your being mindful of these standards will allow more people to use the Union with more pleasure!

Incidentally, someone said that your treating the Union with respect is being kind to your children. It seems that if
any of your children come to Davidson, there is a good chance that they will use this same place—and perhaps
this same furniture... so be kind to your children!

Cordially,

The House Committee
