FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 1957

Slants On Sports
By JOHN JOHNSON

ERRONEOUS IMPRESSION

The resignation of Dr. John Cunningham had repercussions in all phases of Davidson life, and the sports world was very
definitely affected. Dr. Cunningham’s desire to put the athletics of the college on a non-subsidization basis and the consequential uproar
two years ago left many with the erroneous impression that the president was a threat to a strong athletic policy.
On the contrary, a survey of the policy reveals that during his administration, which dates from 1941, the subsidization system
has changed from a haphazard acceptance of donations earmarked for athletics to a set number of scholarships guaranteed to the
athletic department by the school.

MONEY FOR SPORTS

In the late 1940’s Crowell Little, then head football coach, organized the Wildcat Club, the purpose of which was to
raise funds for athletic scholarships. The Club financed to the extent of $25,000 a year in football and $5,000 in
basketball. Last year the administration took over this responsibility and now guarantees 27 full scholarships to football and eight to
basketball. Since the current value of such scholarships is $1,215, the increase in available funds is a whopping $12,525. The
effect of the change will not be felt until next year and afterwards because of the lateness of the inauguration
of the policy.

FOR THE PRESENT SYSTEM

It is true that, on the direction of the trustees, Dr. Cunningham did investigate the possibility of forming an Ivy
League of the South, a league he personally wants. Yet the fact that he made an official statement recognizing its
current impossibility and supporting the present system has been generally overlooked. The whole nature of the athletic department's fiscal policy
has changed in the past 15 years from one of unorganized spending to rigid budgeting and from vague information to
accurate, published statement of incomes and expenditures. Benefiting under the physical expansion of the school during the period, the department
received the new Johnston Gymnasium and baseball diamond.

WORKED TOGETHER

The required physical training program has been instigated since the war, and also the sports of rifle, soccer, and swimming
were added to varsity ranks. Commenting after the resignation, Coach Heath Whittle who has served as Assistant Director of Athletics
throughout the entire period, said “Dr. Cunningham’s relations with the coaching staff have always been wonderful. We worked together well.”
Truly the athletic program has prospered under Dr. Cunningham and it owes a debt of gratitude to him.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Members of Coach Whittle’s indoor track squad review films of last year’s Southern Conference meet; inclement weather forced them off
the track Tuesday. The team enters the ACC meet in Raleigh tomorrow night. From left to right appear Woodmansee, MacKay,
Gramley, Coach Whittle, and Armstrong.

ENTER AT RALEIGH

Indoor Tracksters Run In ACC Meet Tomorrow

After a successful season's debut in last weekend’s Southern Conference indoor track meet, Coach Pete Whittle will take a group
of eight athletes to the ACC meet, traditionally the highlight of the Southern indoor season. In the non-conference events, schools
like Florida, Georgia Tech, Navy, and others are represented, and the meet will be a critical test for the Wildcat
squad which is rapidly improving.

The five-man squad that participated at Lexington came back with two second place medals, two fourth places, and a ranking
of fifth in team scoring. William and Mary was victorious, followed by VPI and VMI. Al Elder made a surprise
showing getting a second in the broad jump with a leap of 21’ 8” and placing fourth in the 440.
Ashcraft was fourth in the 880 although finishing only four-tenths of a second behind winner Wingfield, who turned in a
record-breaking 2:00.0. Bill Gramley was second in the shot put with a strong 45’ 4” performance.

Swimmers Suffer 46-38 Loss To South Carolina

The Wildcats brought the regular swimming season to a close Wednesday by dropping their last meet to the Gamecocks of
South Carolina, 46-38. Davidson took first place in three of the ten events and enough second and third places in
the other events to cause the result to be undecided until the final event. The medley relay, handled by Fritz
Russell, Art Miller, John Winfrey, and Joe Bell, was taken by the Cats giving them an early lead. The next
two events, the 220 and the 50 yd. dash were taken by South Carolina. The 220 yd. butterfly was won
by Davidson with John Edwards placing first and John Scott second. Sharp then placed best in the diving, giving the
Cats a strong lead. Even though South Carolina won the four events that followed, the outcome was determined by the
last event, the freestyle relay in which Davidson bowed to the Gamecocks, handing them a victory. The season's record for
the Catfish is four wins and six losses.

Those going to the meet include sprinter Mel Armstrong in the 60 yd. dash and low hurdles, Roswell Mallory, Al
Elder, and Al MacKay in the 600 yd. run, Pete Ashcraft in the 880, low hurdlers Scott Woodmansee and Bill
Cobb, and Bill Gramley in the shot put. A mile relay team consisting of Mallory, Ashcraft, MacKay, and anchor man
Elder will also be fielded. Although the competition will be high class, a respectable performance can be expected from the
team.

Make diamonds with Winston!

WINSTON is the word

WINSTON TASTES GOOD!

No lecture here — just a promise of the full, rich tobacco flavor college smokers want! Try America’s favorite filter
smoke. You'll like the taste. And you'll like the tastes good filter — a filter that does the job so
well the flavor really comes through to you. Try Winston for finer filter smoking.

Winston LIKE A CIGARETTE SHOULD!

Switch to WINSTON America’s best-selling, best-tasting filter cigarette!

Wildcat Grapplers Meet V.P.I. At Blacksburg

By BRANTLEY BURNS

Nearing the end of their regular season, the Wildcat wrestlers will engage a powerful V.P.I. team tomorrow night. Next Wednesday
night they meet W&L here for the season’s finale. The unusually strong Gobblers of VPI boast the best squad in
the conference; the most any team has scored against them is a mere 11 points. However, Coach Parker feels confident
that his matmen will make a good showing with such consistent winners as Pete Coleman and Westy Westervelt. All of
the regular starters will make the trip to VPI; in the 147 lb. class either Charley Lampley or Waller Taylor
will go; George Rhyne is a probable starter in the 157 lb. class.

Wednesday night's match is expected to be a hotly contested battle. Although W&L will be favored slightly, good support from
the stands and determination on the part of the team could spell the difference. After Wednesday's meet, the team will
begin preparing for the Southern Conference Tournament which will be held on March 8 and 9 in Lexington, Virginia. In
addition to this schedule of wrestling events, there will be a high school tournament in Johnston Gym next Monday night
at 7:30 and Tuesday afternoon at 2:00.

Yankee Tank Speedster Kicks Southern Water

By GEORGE RAMSEY

Take a sleepy-eyed freshman from Yankeeland, add a gritty determination and a relentless coach, mix together well, and you've got
a new entry in the Davidson swimming records. John Scott, lanky first year man on Coach George Thompson's tanksters, has
burst onto the career to inscribe his name in the record books opposite the entry reading ‘200-yd. butterfly.” Since his
arrival at Davidson, John, a Lancaster, Pa. product, has consistently lowered his time in his specialty, a feat which he
attributes to the constant urging of Coach Thompson. Since his first intercollegiate meet hehas shaved ten seconds off his mark,
his best time being the record-breaking 2:35.85 which he set against Georgia. Wildcat sports scene early in his career. The
likeable Scott, who participated in basketball and soccer as well as swimming in high school, claims soccer as his first
love. He also expresses quite a liking for lacrosse, a sport which he would like to see instituted in this
area. Looking forward to the upcoming conference meet and beyond to three more years of competition, Davidson expects Yankee John
Scott to kick up quite a lot of Southern water.

Sigma Chi Victorious In Handball Loop

The Sigma Chi handball team of Walt Davis and Harold Regen overpowered the SAE’s on Wednesday to complete an undefeated
season and capture the loop crown. The Phi Delts placed second, one game back. The SAE's, last year’s victors, took
the ‘57 champs to a three-game final match. The tournament remained tight among the top four. A Phi Delt team
of John Robinson and Joe Sandifer dropped only one match, and this to the victors, to finish with a 10-1
record. Third place went to the Kappa Sigs; Tom Brewer and Alex Shepherd led them to an 8-3 slate.

JOHN SCOTT

Sigma Chi
Phi Delt
Kappa Sig
S.A.E
Beta
A.T.O.
Pika
Pi Kapp
Phi Gam
S.P.E.

Fraternity Basketball through Wednesday

Sigma Chi
Beta
ATO
Kappa Sig
Phi Delt
SAE
Sig Ep
KA
Phi Gam
Pi Kapp
C.C.
Pika

Topacco Co., WINSTON-SALEM, N.C.

PAGE THREE

Cagers Battle Citadel For Conference Tourney Berth

Encounter At Eight P.M. Saturday In Local Gym

By JIM HAMILTON

The Davidson College Wildcats, with their eyes on a berth in the Southern Conference Tournament, clash with the Citadel Bulldogs
tomorrow night in the college gym at 8 o'clock. Davidson and the Citadel met once before this season and the
Citadel barely saved face on their own court with a squeaky 63-62 victory. The Wildcats, behind one point, had the
ball with 17 seconds left, but lost their chance to score when Mintz slipped on a drive toward the basket.
The Wildcats end their regular season with three games next week. They play host to Wofford Tuesday night, journey to
Washington and Lee Thursday night, and return home Saturday to tangle with VPI.

Riflemen Drop Two Triangular Matches

Midwinters offered little inspiration to the Davidson rifle team as they dropped two triangular matches last weekend on the local
range. On Feb. 15 Davidson lost to W&L and Furman, W&L was first with 1366 points, Furman second with 1356,
and Davidson third with 1343. Resting in the cellar of the conference, they are just one game off the pace
set by eighth place George Washington. Davidson has won two league games while George Washington has taken three. On the
other hand, Davidson has three conference games left; George Washington has only two. The Colonials, who have remaining contests with
West Virginia and VPI, are expected to lose both, so a victory tomorrow would probably send the Cats into the
tournament on the basis of a better overall season record. Davidson's record stands at 5 won, 17 lost, compared to
3 won, 17 lost for George Washington.

ALL RUGGED

The Wildcats’ other remaining conference games are with W&L and VPI. Coach Scott believes, however, that the Citadel is the
best stepping stone to the tournament. “They are all rugged,” he said, “but the Citadel squad is composed largely of
freshmen while Washington and Lee and VPI are veterans.” “However,” he added, “Citadel has improved greatly since the first of
the season.” Citadel beat Furman last week and defeated powerful Clemson earlier in the season. Citadel will probably start Weeks
and Wherry at guards, Musselman and Growes at forward, and Blackledge at center. The team is tall, averaging approximately 6
feet 3 inches, and fast. Ted Weeks, a sophomore who has spent time in the service, and Wherry, a freshman
from Columbus, Ohio, are the leading scorers.

LINEUP

Davidson will use its usual lineup of Weeks and Mintz at guards, Spears and Hollingsworth at forwards, and Milner at
center.

HANCOCK HIGH

J. B. Hancock of Furman led all scorers with 284 points, and Charlie Stowe and Carey Pickard shared first place
for Davidson with 270 points. Sat. Feb. 16, again on the home range, Davidson lost to the Citadel and VPI.
The Citadel won with 1407 points, VPI was second with 1404 points, and Davidson third with 1364. Charlie Stowe led
the Davidson sharpshooters with 281 points. Belmont Abbey comes to Davidson on Feb. 28 for a duel match, and on
March 1, Davidson journeys to Furman for a triangular meet with the Paladins and Wofford. The last postal match of
the year was fired this afternoon against the University of Maine and Middlebury College, Vermont. On the 15th and 16th
of March the six high men for Davidson will go to VMI for the Southern Conference meet.

eighth place and remain in contention for the tournament. Only the top eight teams of the nine-school conference are eligible
for the tournament.

STANDINGS

Coach Scott's squad, currently in the mad scramble for places, the Sigma Chi’s came out on top of the interfraternity
basketball pile-up, winning three games this week. Highlighting play for the week, the A.T.O.'s pulled a 45-43 upset on the
previously unbeaten Kappa Sigs. Lead by Dee Lide’s 26 points, the Pi Kapps gave the Sigma Chi's a surprisingly good
game, but ended up on the short end of a 65-57 score.

LEWIS GETS 23

In the first half the Taus took a commanding lead, but as the game progressed the Kappa Sigs ate up
the margin until the last few minutes, when the A.T.O.'s poured in six straight points to ice the game. Ed
Lewis had 23 points for the winners and Shepherd had 16 for the losers. In two other close games the
Sig Eps upset the S.A.E.’s 28 to 27, and the Sigma Chi’s edged out the Betas 48 to 46. Holt
paced the Sigma Chi's with 18 markers.

BETAS ROLL

After an initial loss to the Sigma Chi’s this week, the Betas picked up steam and trounced the K.A.’s 45-33
and then handed the Kappa Sigs their second straight loss 37 to 31. Bondurant was high-scorer in both games, making
14 points in each contest. Unbeaten until this week, the Kappa Sigs had held first place, but their two straight
losses sent them into a four-way tie for second with the Phi Delts, A.T.O.’s, and the Betas.

Field Goals Free Throws Points Games Scored Att. Scored Pet. No. Ave.
Brewer, Kappa Sig 7 67 30 22 .734 164 23.4
Lide, PiKapp 5 40 24 .619 .792 99 19.8
Lewis, ATO 7 32 27 .845 115 16.4
Brooks, Pika 7 48 14 .938 103 14.7
Lovin, CC 6 42 37 .680 87 14.1
Killian, Sigma Chi 7 28 18 .643 98 14.0
Massey, Beta 8 43 39 .666 112 14.0
Shepherd, Kappa Sig 6 37 21 .500 75 12.5
Wilder, KA 3 19 7 .718 69 11.5
Little, SAE 2 10 6 .500 23 11.5
Streetman, KA 7 28 22 .734 80 11.4
Edwards, Kappa Sig 7 33 13 .867 79 11.3
Hart, Sigma Chi 4 17 11 .733 45 11.2
Benson, ATO 8 35 23 .783 88 11.0
Harris, Phi Delt 6 25 16 .726 72 11.0
