Che Davidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, OCTOBER 11, 1957

(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

Thanks To Mr. Martin For Untiring Efforts

With every worthy project of importance, there are always many to whom praise should be given. To single out one
or some is to do an injustice to others. Particularly do we find this true of the new Patterson Fraternity
Court. Yet the untiring work of one man has drawn the particular attention of all who have been connected with
the project, and not to single him out would also be an injustice. Therefore, let us doff our hats to
Treasurer D. Grier Martin, who has been a continual planner, pusher, and director of the fraternity court. His guiding influence
played a dominant role from the start when his research revealed the economic feasibility of abandoning the old court, and
it has continued to do so through the development stage with extensive inquiry into the types of feeding facilities, with
the recommendation of the ultimate site, and with meetings in conjunction with the students, faculty, and trustees. And even now,
when the planning is complete, his responsibility is far from finished for the court is being constructed by the college
and hence the burden of purchasing for the nearly half-million-dollar project falls on the office of the treasurer. From the
standpoint of the user, however, the greatest vote of thanks should go for his untiring efforts to meet in almost
every incident their own desires for the court. The abandoning of the duplexes and the multitude of plan revisions are
only two cases in point. So to one who has labored long and hard in the interest of an expanded,
modern fraternity system, we speak our appreciation.

—JRJ

Daily Tar Heel Reprints Editorial

The Daily Tar Heel, student newspaper of the University of North Carolina, reprinted in its regular editorial column the DAVIDSONIAN’S
editorial on President Eisenhower's use of federal troops in Arkansas. We would like to thank the Chapel Hill editors for
their respect for our editorial opinion, particularly since the DAVIDSONIAN and The Daily Tar Heel are not always of the
same opinion on certain subjects. The Daily Tar Heel is widely recognized as an outstanding college newspaper. While it is
usually very liberal in its philosophy, (they too elect a new editor every year!) it is, nevertheless, a highly respected
publication. We of the DAVIDSONIAN hold The Daily Tar Heel in high esteem and respect its judgments even though we
do not always agree. For the benefit of our readers, we quote the following from the October 5th issue in
which our editorial on Arkansas was reprinted in full: “... it is always admirable to see the tenacity of states’
righters such as the Davidsonian of Davidson College. As an eulogy to states’ righters, we sadly reprint this excellent editorial.”
The editorial then continued with a reprint of the DAVIDSONIAN’S (September 27) editorial entitled “Ike Drives Another Nail in Coffin
of States’ Rights.” We might add that this is not the first time that The Daily Tar Heel has reprinted
our editorials. Last Spring, it ran our editorial on the need for reforms in organized labor unions, and also the
one on the high standards of Davidson’s honor system. The DAVIDSONIAN is honored to be quoted in an outstanding newspaper
such as Chapel Hill's student daily.

R-A-D-I-O

Radio Free Davidson is back on the air. The Davidson community is now complete with this final addition of a
‘radio station’. Tuesday night’s “radio” audience brought listeners stumbling from the College Union, took students away from their studies in
the library, and even caused the DAVIDSONIAN offices to close down so that we could listen too. Needless to say,
Radio Free Davidson does hold the interest of its listeners—something the DAVIDSONIAN tries to do to its readers. Holding interest
or not, we feel compelled to repeat some advice that was given last year. That is, the operators of R.F.D.
must always be aware of the responsibility they exercise in broadcasting. A level sense of discretion and a respect for
the reputation of the college will guarantee R.F.D. a permanent place among the “extras” of campus life. And by the
way, if the program manager of R.F.D. cares to reveal his identity, the DAVIDSONIAN will gladly give him an inch
or two in the paper to print his radio log.

Straight Talker Leaves Capital

A man who is willing to call a spade a spade is often hard to come by these days. Even
more difficult to discover is a public official who doesn't mind saying just exactly what he thinks. For the past
four years and nine months, just such a man has been refreshing the muddled spirits of the American public—a public
that has become accustomed to hearing the traditional double-talk and buck-passing from its national leaders. Charles Erwin Wilson has been
the one figure, more than any other person, who has made the mess in Washington look not quite so messy.
His candid opinions and his genius for efficiency might not have made him the ‘smoothest’ (i.e. slipperiest) man in the
administration, but they have certainly won for him the admiration of John Q. Public. Wednesday, Secretary of Defense Wilson stepped
out of the spotlight. The man who said “what is good for General Motors is good for the country” will
now return to private life. What this country needs is more officials like Wilson—men who aren't afraid to offend powerful
political groups such as he did when he compared workers to ambitious dogs and “kennel-fed” dogs, or when he said
that the National Guard was a refuge for draft dodgers during the Korean War. The American people have been extremely
fortunate to have one of this country’s leading capitalists head of our defense department. We wonder whom the cartoonists will
turn to now.

Lost Records?

Have you taken your third P.T. test yet?

John Trask, Jr.
Pat Henderson
Gerald Wilson
John Johnson
Bob Lathan
Laurens Walker
George Ramsey
Bill Patton
Jim Morris

Associate Editor
Managing Editors
Sports Editor
Assignments Editor
Feature Editor
Julian Aldridge
Bruce Brooks
Bross Cole
Ed Stevens
Henry Samuels
Lee Mayfield

Copy Editor
News Editor
Cartoonists
Photographer
Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

Mumbo Jumbo, Inefficiency Haunt PT Program

By NED AUSTELL and LAURENS WALKER

During the past weeks, the Davidsonian halls of ivy have rung with the infuriated cries of students forced to take
their P.T. Tests for the second or third times. Words such as “bureaucracy,” “red tape,” “inefficiency,” and others less printable
have been called forth by the misplacement of records and seeming mumbo jumbo of the Athletic Department. To find out
the why and the wherefore of this situation which has caused so many men to flavor their coffee with profanity
in the past weeks, we went to the heart of the problem, the Gym and Dr. Tom Scott, Athletic Director.
Dr. Scott frankly admitted that he knew many students were disturbed by the fact that mistakes have been made in
the recording of absences and test results.

ONLY HUMAN

Mistakes and inaccuracies may occur in any department, and the PT Department is no exception. “We are only human, and
errors are entirely possible. We are not trying to be difficult, and would like to straighten out any and all
mistakes.” The present PT program was begun three years ago, when the present senior class was rising to its sophomore
year. Prior to this time, all Davidson students were required to take four full years of physical instruction. When the
course was changed to a required two years, a standard physical training test was inaugurated that had to be passed
before any student might consider himself as having completed his requirement.

SECOND TEST

Evidently, much of the confusion concerning the test has been caused by this change in program. Seniors found themselves in
the situation of having to take a second test be-

Curriculum Group Silent

By LARRY MEYER

Members of the faculty committee on the curriculumchose, for the most part, to remain silent when approached earlier this week
about their views on curricular modifications. Five of the six members of the committee were interviewed. Dr. Pietenpol, the chairman,
was not available for comment since he was attending a convention in New York City.

FLAT REFUSALS

Of the five interviewed, three flatly refused to offer any comment one way or the other. They cited Dr. Pietenpol’s
absence as their reason for not wanting to commit themselves.

READER’S OPINION

The results of the interviews are as follows: Professor Abernethy, philosophy, no comment. Professor Bevan, psychology, no comment. Professor Watts,
French, no comment. Professor Logan, chemistry:

Q. “What is your opinion of a general science course on the order of a survey of several branches of
science?”
A. “I am not, frankly, in favor of a general science course. Each field of science is in itself too
large to incorporate into a survey. I see no more reason for surveying several branches of science than for lumping
all modern languages together in a one-year course or incorporating history and science into some similar type of polyglot.”

BIBLE REQUIREMENTS

Professor Lilly, English:

Q. “How do you stand on the proposed changes in the Bible requirements?”
A. “Since that is not my department, I do not feel that I am in a position to answer that.
The committee is anxious, however, to improve the curriculum.”
Q. “Then you do believe the curriculum could bear improvement?”
A. “Yes. Professions and business change, and we should certainly keep abreast of the times. The committee members do not
wish to take a reactionary stand, but neither do we want to be radical.”

Court, Integration Praised

Dear Editor:

I would like to congratulate the Court of Control for the fine work that it is carrying on in disciplining
the freshmen. The Court is a useful and time-tested organization on the Davidson campus. A disciplinary body is necessary to
make the freshman class respect and obey the regulations set down for their behavior.

PUNISH VIOLATORS

Freshmen who willingly violate these regulations should be subjected to the punishment of the court and the general condemnation of
the student body. Without the co-operation and support of the upperclassmen, the good of the court is defeated. Using the
court as a means to provide entertainment and amusement for upperclassmen is to destroy the constructive purpose of it.

JEERING STUDENTS

If students would stop to think of the effect that the scorn of 850 jeering fellow students could have on
a boy, they would be more careful in condemning boys to punishment. By placing themselves in a similar position, I
believe they would realize a terrible lack of consideration for an individual’s personal feelings.

VERNON ANDERSON

Dear Editor:

The 14th Amendment says, “All persons born or naturalized in the United States” must be granted the same rights. Since
no specific condition such as race, sex, or religion is mentioned, we must accept it at its face value and
apply it to all persons.

MINOR DIFFERENCES

Naturally, girls being persons, they are of course to be included in all the recent decisions designed to promote equality.

LOVE AND FAIRNESS

Let us all take our stand in the ranks of justice and greet this situation with love in our hearts
and the principle of fairness uppermost in our minds. Not sometime in the distant future! No! Arise to this cause,
you lovers of human rights, and let us do it now!

ED SPIVEY

Because of the new program, however, it is hard to believe that all of the confusion concerning the test could
have come from the changed program. Some fault doubtless lies with the Athletic Department for the careless handling of records
and mistakes in recording test scores. These errors can cause a man to take an undeserved semester of physical training.
After talking to Dr. Scott, we have every reason to believe that the department is doing its best to correct
the situations that have led to the errors. He commented that most students have been very understanding and co-operative in
completing their PT record.

REVAMPED PROGRAM

The entire program is to be revamped to provide a varied program of activities. These will include soccer, wrestling, basketball,
gymnastics, tumbling, swimming, golf, handball, trampoline, and softball. The development of the body deserves a place in the liberal arts
program, but this place does not absolve the Athletic Department from running its affairs in an orderly and efficient manner.
At least, the liniment should be free after the third PT test.

SCHROEDER

Beginning with this issue, the DAVIDSONIAN will carry Schulz’s “Peanuts.” Davidsonians will be able to enjoy this comic strip weekly
through special permission granted by the Charlotte Observer, holder of exclusive rights to “Peanuts” in this area. Readers of the
DAVIDSONIAN can follow “Peanuts” daily on the comic page of the Observer.

ON CAMPUS

Hamer Heads Army

By PHIL LEWIS

Several of us were really disappointed at being omitted from the interesting list on the “Official Woodrow Wilson Bulletin Board,”
but we swallow our pride and extend heartiest congratulations to Bob Jones, Peter Powell, and their jolly crew. Marshall Sasser
was one of the outstanding participants in last Thursday's activities. The container he used was relatively small, but, speaking from
experience, we know that that ice-cold water more than made up for the lack of volume. To the boys from
Belk who used warm water, let us say “Thanks, fellows!!”

We hear Brown Hamer is heading up the underground Peon Army this year. Their motto is similar to the U.
S. Infantry’s “Follow Me.” Peon watchword: “I'm Right Behind You.”

Mr. Martin commented in the Snack Bar this week that Dr. Woods is recuperating quite satisfactorily, as far as can
be determined at this time. Our continued best wishes, Doc.

We'd like to know why good old Alfred E. Neuman was passed over for this Charlie Brown come-lately? Seriously, we’re
glad to have you, Brown.

When in doubt... COFFEE BREAK

Homogenized Or Pasteurized?

BY BOB JONES

Now, more than ever, the “Big Five” (Va., N.C., S.C., Ga., and Fla.) are providing most of Davidson's students. An
awesome ninety percent of the Freshmen are from these states. It could probably be pointed out also that ninety percent
are rather conservative, Protestant, white, anti-labor, and are from families whose income types them as middle class.

STERILITY

This concentration certainly contributes to a homogeneous student body of fine Davidson gentlemen. This also contributes to the sterility (mental
not physical) of these gentlemen. The examination of conflicting ideas is essential to a liberal education. Until one is exposed
to rival positions and has a reasonable basis for his own, his liberal education is not complete.

COMPETITIVE EXCHANGE

Education of this type, however, does not arise from classroom knowledge. It comes from an active, competitive exchange of ideas
with fellow classmates. Many Davidson students are competent to discuss rival philosophies of life; however, no one really seriously considers
these to be sensible. If a student comes to Davidson with a significantly different slant on life, he is ostracized
to such a degree that if he sticks it out for a full year, one can be sure he won't
be back for a second. Of course, he always has the alternative of conforming to the hallowed Davidson pattern and
becoming “well adjusted.”

NO IMMUNITY

It is difficult to determine where the basis for this situation rests. The student body perpetuates it, but then the
faculty and administration don't seem immune either. Last year a member of the administration somewhat triumphantly announced in chapel that
he could tell the alumni with pride that Davidson had a completely homogeneous student body and was turning out the
very same type of gentleman that has been its tradition through the years. This alarming statement was accepted by the
audience with astonishing calmness.

DEFEATED BANNER

Whatever else may be said for this avowed product of Davidson, it is certain that it defeats a liberal education—the
banner which Davidson ostensibly carries.
