PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN ___ FRIDAY, DECEMBER 13, 1957

Sixteen Selected For “Who’s Who”

Each fall “Who’s Who Among Students in American Universities and Colleges” recognizes members of the senior class who have exhibited outstanding characteristics of leadership. This year sixteen Davidsonians have been honored. Those selected were: John Bernhardt, Bill Bondurant, Phil Bradford, Lloyd Chapin, Grier Davis, Bill Fagg, Bill Fraley, Bob Jones, Gary Lewis, Bill Maynard, Bill Pomeroy, Bill Price, Dave Ross, Dave Smyth, Charles Stowe, John Trask, and Gerald Wilson.

[ The Chef's Specialty ]

STUDENTS POLLED...

Davidson Included In Scholarship Fund

Chemstrand Corporation has established a fund to provide undergraduate scholarships and grants-in-aid at thirty colleges and universities, including Davidson, President Edward A. O’Neal, ‘26, announced today. These scholarships, awarded and administered by the individual colleges, are preferably for seniors, in various fields.

A CHRISTMAS STORY...

On Christmas morning a brief column appeared in an obscure corner of a back page of the daily newspaper delivered to homes across the city; homes gay with the laughter of excited children, comfortable with the warmth of hearth fires, homes gaudy with the tinsel of decoration. The column reads as follows:

“Last night, a watchman discovered a man’s body partially hidden under a display counter in a local department store. He was shabbily dressed and his shoes were worn thin. A search revealed no money nor means of identification upon him. Police believe he was crushed by the mass of holiday shoppers, but they are unable to explain the small wounds on his hands and feet, and the blood-stain on the side of his coat.”

Blood Drive officials announced this afternoon that by the close of the day they will have collected 392 pints of blood from Davidson students.

Scabbard & Blade

Four senior ROTC cadets and five junior cadets were tapped into Scabbard and Blade, honorary military society, at the annual fall ceremony on December 3. Students honored were Cadet Captain Gary Maynard, Cadet Captain John Johnson, Cadet Lt. George Ralph, and Cadet Lt. Bascom.

Annual Service

Christmas Vespers will be presented this Sunday night, December 15, at 7:30 o’clock in the College Church. Musical portions of the service will be given by the Male Chorus and the Chapel Choir. Guest soloist will be Norma Heyde, soprano. Reader for the service will be Harry Paschall, a senior from Plant City, Florida. Christmas carols, under the direction of Professor John Satterfield, will be played by the Brass Ensemble on the campus lawn in front of the church.

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a...

The faculty also received copies of the poll. Thirty-one responded. Of these, sixteen (51%) stated that they were satisfied with the present drinking rule. Twenty-eight felt it should absolutely be forbidden, to possess or to drink alcohol on the campus. Twenty-one (67%) held that students should not be permitted to return to the campus until all the effects of alcohol had worn off. Four indicated that students should be allowed to return to their room and stay there; two chose not to answer, and two suggested a different approach.Policy based on individual! Davidsonian Feature Writer Professor E. E. Brown may undoubtedly be considered the chef de cuisine of the faculty. His chef-d'oeuvre is the National student responsibility for actions, “drunk or sober.”

YOUNG MEN--WOMEN STUDENTS--TEENAGERS

All suggestions, student and faculty, were turned over to the Student Council president. Dr. Brown and his wife have been making fruitcakes for a number of years. In their quest for the ideal cake recipe, they have collected cookbooks from New England to Alabama. They have tried over twenty different recipes. A few observations that Professor Brown has made in his culinary experiments are as follows: A fruitcake should be aged at least four to six weeks after baking before it is eaten to attain the peak of its flavor. The older the better.

The Biology Professor has also found that the older recipes are the best. The more modern recipes are in the Betty Crocker vein—quick and economical; whereas the older formulae require more work and tastier ingredients. Professor Brown's “second course” is marmalade. He and Mrs. Brown have for some time been dipping into the tasteful goo, with results that they are famous throughout the Davidson community.

Fabulous 45 RPM record offer: All the latest currently popular HI-FI quality hit recordings can be yours now at a fraction of their retail price during the HOLLYWOOD RECORD CLUB new membership drive. During this membership drive, in order to acquaint you with our records, we will send you Four (4) currently popular hit records of your choice, eight sides (8) in all for the low-low price of only $1.00 plus 35¢ to cover the cost of postage and handling. You must be completely satisfied with your records. If not, simply return them to us and your $1.00 will be refunded. Below is a list of ten (10) different categories from which to choose your first four (4) records. Each category consists of four records.

Order by Mail—Add 3% sales tax, we'll pay postage.

ROCK-N-ROLL
POPULAR
COUNTRY & WESTERN
RHYTHM & BLUES
SQUARE DANCE (WITH CALL)
HONKY TONK
LATIN AMERICAN
FAMILY HYMNS
A TRIBUTE TO TOMMY DORSEY
THE TALKING BIBLE (ST. MATTHEWS)

Please add $1.00 plus postage for each additional four records requested.

Mail to:
6625 DELMAR BLVD
UNIVERSITY CITY 5, MO.

126 West Fifth St.
CHARLOTTE 2, N. C.

Specify brand and number of cartridge.

WRITTEN GUARANTEE

For Single Needles, Diamond-Sapphire Double Needles, $10.95 (Regular List Price Are $16.95 to $31.00)

TATE-BROWN’S

Natural shoulder, pleatless trouser is the trademark of our traditional Tuxedos. Go right—go formal for the holiday festivities. You owe it to her—“Dress Right—you can’t afford not to.” Tuxedos $49.95

HERE COMES INSPECTEUR LES DEUX-TETES

Now! AMERICA'S BEST-SELLING BEST-TASTING

What Makes Popcorn Pop

Popping corn contains water. When the water gets hot enough, the kernel explodes. Result: popcorn.

USE YOUR CHARGE ACCOUNT

We're not passing this information along as a public service. Actually, we're up to the same old game. You see, popcorn makes most people thirsty. Fortunately, when most people get thirsty they hanker for the good taste of Coca-Cola. Wouldn’t you like some popcorn right now? C’mon now, wouldn’t you?

TATE-BROWN’S

SIGN OF GOOD TASTE

Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company by THE COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD

REMEMBER—WINSTON COMES IN BOTH PACK AND CRUSH-PROOF BOX

“Coke” is a registered trademark, ©1954, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY

R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO., WINSTON-SALEM (Naturally!)