FRIDAY, MARCH 22, 1957

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Slants-On
By JOHN JOHNSON

Davidson sports fans want very much to back a team that consistently wins and they should definitely have one in
the Wildcat track team. The 1957 edition of the cindermen is missing two record holders from last year, sprinter Phil
Koonce and javelin man Harley Smith, but still has enough able returnees and newcomers to rank strong. Coach Whittle feels
his boys are probably even stronger than last season.

UNOFFICIAL

The team is in the unusual position of having men that could hold school records in four of the events.
In the weights, Bill Gramley is putting the shot and throwing the discus better than ever before at this time
in the season. In the indoor track competition, he putted the shot 45 feet, just two feet short of his
record and well above the 43 mark of this time in 1956.

GRAMLEY

In practice, Gramley has already unofficially broken the school record in the discus with a heave of 147 feet. Pete
Ashcraft, of course, is the big point getter for the thinclads. The senior from Amherst, Mass., already holds the record
in the 880 and the mile run and has been improving every year. Coach Whittle referred to Ashcraft as “...
one of the finest runners I have ever coached. He could have his best season this year.”

TO WATCH

Whittle also picked soph Angus McBryde as a man to watch, saying, “He wouldn't surprise me if he cracked the
two-mile record.” McBryde, who placed third in the Southern Conference cross country meet, also hurls the javelin. Sprinter Mel Armstrong,
who ran second to Koonce last year, has accepted the burden of responsibility that Phil's graduation has laid on his
shoulders and responded amazingly well. Already Armstrong has run the 100 once in 10.1 and once in 10 flat. The
lean speedster has also been experimenting with the low hurdles.

LOST AND FOUND

The Wildcats were hindered last year by the lack of a high jumper but have found a bright ray of
hope in John Huie, a freshman from Albany, Georgia, who has cleared over six feet in high school. Last year’s
record-holding mile relay team of Roswell Mallory, Al Elder, Pete Ashcraft, and Phil Diuguid lost the fourth man but has
picked up a freshman, Brownie Thurman, who is reportedly faster than Diuguid. Commenting on the coming season, Whittle said, “We
ought to do as well as last year (7 wins, 2 losses). Richmond, Clemson, and N. C. State will be
our toughest opponents.”

LOSE TO BASEBALL
By BOBBY PAGE

Davidson's baseball nine will travel to Hickory, N. C., Tuesday to play the Lenoir-Rhyne Bears in the season’s third encounter.
Lacking vital power at the plate, the Wildcats dropped their opening tilt of the season, 12-1, to the hard-hitting Catawba
squad at Salisbury Wednesday. A double by Jim West and two infield outs accounted for the lone Davidson tally in
the seventh inning, as the hosts scored a singleton in the second frame, two in the third, six in the
fifth, and three in the eighth. Catawba knocked wood for 13 hits while committing two errors. The Cats committed the
same number of errors and gathered in only five hits. Freshman George Hart and Don Millian supplied the bulk of
the power with two doubles and a single respectively. Don McRee’s single accounted for the fifth hit. Dave Page gave
way in the fifth to Allen Moore who finished the game. It will probably be the same two sharing the
hurling chores against the Bears Tuesday with the same line-up for support. Wednesday saw heavy winds complicate duties in the
outfield where both of the Cat miscues were committed. Dee Lide and Don Hendry are expected to give support to
southpaw’s Page and Moore, only one lefty at the plate during the Catawba parade.

Fraternities Clash In Volleyball And Ping Pong

At the end of six rounds of interfraternity volleyball, the Sigma Chi's are alone in the first place spot with
a 6-0 record. Joe Milner’s height and ability have contributed greatly to the team effort. Close behind in second place
are the SAE’s who are paced by Dave Bradford, the Phi Delts, and the KA’s with only one loss apiece.
With half of the Ping-Pong Tournament over, Bobby Crittenden, last year's champ, is still undefeated. His team, the Pikas, are
in first place with six wins and no losses.

Volleyball Standings through Wed. 20th.
WON LOST
Sigma Chi 6 0
Phi Delts 5 1
SAE 5 1
KA 4 1
Sig Ep 4 2
ATO 3 2
Beta 3 3
Kappa Sig 3 3
Pika 2 4
ICC 0 6
Phi Gam 0 6
Pi Kapp 0 6

Ping-Pong Standings through Wed. 20th.
WON LOST
Pika 6 0
Phi Delt 5 1
ATO 4 2
Beta 4 2
SAE 3 3
Kappa Sig 2 4
KA 2 4
Sig Ep 2 4
Sigma Chi 1 5
ICC 0 6
Phi Gam 0 6
Pi Kapp 0 6

Champion In Final Individual Of Fraternity Basketball

JOHN ROBINSON, Wildcat net star from Charleston, S. C., played the number one position this afternoon when the Red and
Black tangled with the Colonials of George Washington. Robinson is the captain of Coach McKee’s squad which earlier downed both
Wofford and Furman by 9-0 scores.

Tennis Team Battles With High-Ranked G.W.
By JIM HAMILTON

Davidson's netters, with two shutout wins over WoffordThrows Points and Furman under their belts, take on George Washington tomorrow in
the second of two of the most important matches of the season. The squads met this afternoon for the first
round of the two-day affair.

The Wildcats, showing mid-season form, breezed to easy wins in their first two matches of the year, losing only one
set in both encounters. George Washington was last year’s Southern Conference team champions and also won the doubles crown. Both
teams in the doubles finals were from G.W.

The big gun for the Colonials is Jack Tarr. Tarr, whose stepfather is a well-known tennis professional in Louisville, Ky.,
is one of the outstanding players in the Southern Conference. Coach Dick McKee feels that George Washington may win the
number one, two, and possibly number three matches and the number one doubles, but he hopes to take the meet
on the basis of strength farther down the line.

Monday afternoon the Wildcats take on Cornell. The last match between the two schools was held two years ago, with
Davidson winning, 5-4. Cornell is coached by Dick Lewis, a veteran of the game and one of the outstanding coaches
in the east.

Tracksters Race Furman, Citadel In Season

Coach Whittle Will Try For 100th Win Saturday

By GEORGE RAMSEY

Hot on the trail of his 100th track victory, coach Heath Whittle sends his charges into a triangular meet at
Greenville, S.C., tomorrow, against Furman and The Citadel. The Davidson thinclads have ten lettermen returning in their quest to better
last year’s 7-2 record. The list of returnees is headed by captain Pete Ashcraft, ace distance runner, who holds the
school record in both the 880 and mile runs.

STRONGEST EVENTS

Along with Ashcraft in these two events will be freshman Jim Alexander, winner of the freshman cake race and cross
country letterman. Coach Whittle looks for these runs, along with the shot put and discus throw, to be the Cats’
strongest events.

Mel Armstrong, who has looked good in practice, will handle the 100-and-220-yd. dashes, the low hurdles, and the broad jump.
Freshman Marvin Bentley joins Armstrong in the short distances.

FORMIDABLE

Roswell Mallory, senior letterman, will combine with soph Al Elder and freshman Brownie Thurman to give Davidson a formidable entry
in the 440-yard dash. Returnee Scott Woodmansee and Bill Cobb, interfraternity hurdles champ, along with Armstrong, comprise the low hurdles
entry, with Woodmansee the lone representative in the highs.

Thurman will join with Ashcraft, Elder, and Mallory, three members of last year's relay team, to form this year’s squad.
Rounding out the running events, Angus McBryde and Oyvind Norstrom from last year’s team combine with Ray Antley and freshman
Graham George in the two-mile event.

TOP DEPARTMENT

The javelin throw will feature McBryde, Kent Currie, Stuart Nickles, and Walter Edwards. The discus throw and shot put events
find lettermen Bill Gramley and Bill Lazenby joined by freshman Dave Warden and returning GI Frank Cenegy in what could
be Davidson's top point-getting department.

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... PIZZA

the famous OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead
Charlotte, N.C.

Coach McKee was enthusiastic in his praise of the squad. “They're really shaping up as a team,” he said. McKee
added that the team’s main forte was its evenness. “No one is clearly number one,” he commented. “The boys all
are about equal, a solid team. The addition of Mintz, who alternated at one and two last year, later on
in the season will strengthen us even more,” he continued.

The Coach was particularly free with his praise for his number two doubles team of Harry Broome and Tom McCutchen,
commenting that they are his best at this time. The team seeing action this weekend will probably consist of Robinson,
Huffaker, Pearsall, McCutchen, Broome, and Martin or Hodel.

The netmen begin their spring tour March 29 when they journey to Columbia to meet the South Carolina Gamecocks. The
following day they meet The Citadel and then travel to Jacksonville for two matches. The tennis team’s remaining encounters on
the home court are:

March 23—George Washington.
March 25—Cornell.
April 17—South Carolina.
April 19—Univ. of Illinois.
April 20—Duke.
April 22—West Virginia.
April 26—Washington & Lee.

Important Sports Events SUCH AS Stoneybrook MAR. 23 SOUTHERN PINES and THE Camden Cup Races You'll see handsome Spectator Sportswear
from
