Che Davidsonian

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Jim Batten

BUSINESS MANAGER
Bob Carmichael

ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Franklin Bloodworth, Leon Howell

Assistant Editor
Bob Beall

Managing Editors
Lloyd Chapin, John Trask

John Johnson
Bill Bondurant
John Trotti

Sports Editor
Marshall Chapman

Feature Editor
Tom DuPuis

Copy Editor
Hank Daniel

Assignments
Bob Lathan

Advertising Manager
Bob Majors

Circulation
Ed Morrisett

Photographer
Represented for National Advertising by ADVERTISING SERVICE, Inc.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO, FRIDAY, MARCH 22, 1957

Magazine Ready For Overhaul

Davidson College, in order to fulfill more ably its role as a liberal arts school, has various outlets for the
artistic in its midst. For this reason, it has long supported and underwritten the expense of a college magazine, which
is ostensibly designed to be a medium of expression for creative writers. Along with its function as a creative outlet
goes its dual role as a humor magazine. To these twin goals has been tied the fortune of “Scripts 'n
Pranks” for the last eleven years.

In 1923 a more serious literary work was disbanded after an unusually controversial article. “The Yowl,” primarily dedicated to humor,
followed until it too, disintegrated. The “Scripts ’n Pranks” began in November of 1936 as a combination of the best
qualities of the above-mentioned efforts. Among its first contributors was C. A. (Pete) McKnight, now editor of the Charlotte Observer.

Within the memory of this student generation, there have been few, if any, memorable editions of “Scripts 'n Pranks.” On
a whole, the writing has been rather ordinary, often obviously designed to fill up the assigned three or four pages.
The humor angles have degenerated to a sort of “locker room” level, not too dirty, but shady enough. Through it
all in the years past has been a kind of pseudo-sophisticated, polished, urbanity that neither calls for an emotional response
nor could be termed provocative. In short, it has left most of the students “cold.”

Because it is our money that prints the magazine, except for the ad money garnered through the Davidson name, it
is certainly within the rights of the student to question the contribution of the magazine. This is in no way
a direct criticism of the editors of this year’s or any other year’s “Scripts ’n Pranks.” It is rather an
investigation of the system which we allow to be used. Serious thought ought to be given to revamping the whole
endeavor. Would it not produce a much more enjoyable and certainly a higher quality magazine if, for one alternative, two
issues were published yearly instead of the four now called for?

The prize-winning short stories and poems often are excellent. Both Chuck Wright and Jim Kuist have demonstrated their ability to
write with imagination and creativity. Calling from the best of their work in the two issues, along with the contributions
of those in the contests, could certainly give a much more valuable literary work.

At any rate, a good number of the students feel that the money invested in “Scripts ’n Pranks” has been
wasted. It is time that its position be re-evaluated and perhaps a constructive transition increase its value to the reading
public.

—F.L.H.

Pressure And Big-Time Athletics

There still persists in some rather prominent quarters the feeling that Davidson athletics have become too de-emphasized, and that increased
subsidization would be a good thing both for the College and the athletic program. With this point of view, we
violently disagree.

While definitely a minority, this big-time athletic group is a highly vociferous element, and by virtue of this has seemed
at times to have the potential to sway dangerously enough middle-of-the-roaders to push their schemes through. Not too many months
ago, a member of the Board of Trustees made it known that he was keeping a “little black book” on
any member of the faculty who openly refused to string along with increased subsidization. While such a despicable attitude is
certainly an extreme, it is unnerving to know that even one man in such a responsible position would go so
far as to virtually threaten the jobs of those who oppose him.

Over the years have come occasional attempts to make sure that athlete-applicants were admitted whether they met the admissions standards
of the College or not. Such people invariably point to the splendid academic and extra-curricular records of Davidson’s subsidized athletes.
This is an unusually well-justified generalization, but nonetheless it is still a generalization. For some specifics, let’s look at the
present freshman class. Six freshmen withdrew from school voluntarily during the first semester, once classes got underway. Of these six,
five were here on athletic grants. One of these dropped his scholarship after arriving on campus, and did not participate
in varsity athletics. The remaining four had averages of .00, .00, .00, and .08.

Admittedly, this record is far from being typical of the men who have received athletic scholarships in the past, and
some will shrug it off as simply a bad year. But it should serve to point up the fact that
Davidson cannot and should not make any differentiation in its admission policy towards athletes and non-athletes. Davidson’s athletic program is
strong, and is extremely beneficial as it now stands. It would be a tragedy to allow those who would impose
big-time operations and pressure to wreck it.

Spencer's Shoes Hard To Fill

Dr. Samuel R. Spencer’s long-rumored appointment Thursday as the President of Mary Baldwin College in Staunton, Virginia leaves another gaping
hole in the Administration of the College. Since his elevation to the deanship in the spring of 1954, Dr. Spencer
has done more than any other one man toward improving the relationship and attitudes between the Student Body, and the
Faculty and Administration, so often at belligerently opposite poles in the past.

Armed with a decidedly progressive approach to student problems, Dr. Spencer has taken the lead in giving student maturity the
acid test of added responsibility. Overall, the confidence he has placed in the Student Body has been gratifyingly justified. The
success enjoyed by his sweeping reforms of the cut system provides a superb example.

We are extremely reluctant to see Dr. Spencer go. He has brought honor to himself and to the College, first
as a student, and later as a teacher, author, historian, and administrator. We will especially miss his insight and leadership
at a time in the history of the College when momentous changes are in the making. Mary Baldwin is exceedingly
fortunate to obtain the vision and ability of such a man to spearhead her plans for expansion and improvement. We
join with Davidsonians everywhere in wishing him and his family the greatest measure of success and satisfaction in their new
work. His slot in our scheme of things will be a hard one to fill.

Humor Magazine Candidates State Policy Views

Grier Davis

It was just a few days ago. I had been clipping my toenails and banking them neatly off the wall
into the trash can. Then Jim had come in and asked me if I wanted to run for editor of
the Scripts and Pranks. After I had told him that I would very much, I lay down on my bed
to think about it.

It wasn’t until the janitor came in that I became perplexed. As he swept up the stray toenails, I told
him about my nomination. He had told me earlier that he was satisfied by the explanation of the College Girl
(although it seems that no one else was), but now he posed a new question. “Just what is the purpose
of the magazine anyway?”

College Humor

It seems to me that this year’s magazine has progressed well beyond those of latter years in its primary purpose.
The editors have offered a magazine designed for college humor. I would propose to publish two parodies, a humor issue
satirizing either one of the current “sophisticated” magazines or else one of the periodicals, such as Reader’s Digest and Post,
and a literary issue based on the style of the New Yorker. The Homecoming and Davidson Gentleman issues would serve
another purpose.

Humor might be described as the realization of the incongruities of human nature, and there is a need for an
expression of the obvious incongruities on our own campus. This year’s Davidson Gentleman issue was designed as a “student thermometer...
to register the attitude, the mood, the aspirations of student life.” It did do this to a large extent, but,
perhaps, the very “attitude” expressed might be subject to some penetrating questions.

Satire

It would be the underlying idea of these two issues to satirize and criticize our own college society, its values
and its manifestations. Although there is traditionally only one literary issue of the Scripts and Pranks, the magazine must retain
good literary quality in every issue, and it should have the function of serving as a training ground for younger
writers.

Counseling Group

With the help of the English professors, I propose to investigate such literary talent at the beginning of the year
and to set up a counseling group which would criticize and aid the work of those who wish to improve
their style and mode of expression. In this way, not only will the magazine be assured of a large number
of mature writers each year but also it will be serving a function which is not otherwise employed on the
campus, acting as a medium of literary expression and interpretation.

Tom Kernan

I take pen in cloven hoof to address a few thoughts, secreted from my gnome-like brain in the howling dead
of night, to you, the noble vote-wielders in the forthcoming election. A magazine is only as good as its writers;
this is an obvious fact. The task of an editor is to care for each individual creative plant which falls
under his eagle eye, to draw forth thebudding author into full bloom and reap the harvest of his fertile mind.
A good editor must also be able to distinguish between the fertile mind and the sterile one; he must not
serve the public crab apples when it expects grapefruit. (Crab apple lovers may reverse this last analogy.)

Editorial Eye

The real issue is the editorial eye which I just mentioned; it needs a pair of glasses. College magazines seem
to breed a closely-knit, dedicated little band of writers who are the sole contributors to the magazine's contents. This is
not odd since the best writers tend to gravitate towards the campus literary water hole, the literary society or fraternity,
to share their talents with one another. I believe that if I don these eye-opening spectacles, I may discover several
literary-minded hermits, chipping out epic poems on the walls of their lonely caves, and draw them out to serve the
common weal and welfare.

Kernan Ah.....,Spring?........ by Bross

IN LIGHT OF PROPOSED COURT

Now Is The Time To Analyze All Aspects Of Fraternity System

By BOB JONES

“It is a law of nature that anything that does not serve its purpose disappears. College fraternities will disappear unless
they fulfill their high responsibilities.” (From Dr. Ralph W. Sockman’s November address to the National Interfraternity Conference.)

In this brief review of problems in our fraternity system, let it be pointed out that no attempt to present
solutions or biases is intended; these should be offered only after investigation by the committee proposed last week. The purpose
here is to raise practical questions about our system and see if student opinion warrants an evaluation.

RUSH WEEK

Rush Week. There arises legitimate doubt as to whether the first week of an individual’s college life is the best
time to confront him with the decision made during rush week. Considering all the factors, is the current plan aiding
or abetting the adjustment a freshman must make? Can a fraternity really know the fellows they want, and can the
freshman know the fraternity well enough to be sure it is the one he wants to join? Or do the
advantages of the present arrangement outweigh such considerations?

FRATERNITY SIZE

Fraternity size. Davidson fraternities range from 30 to 80 in membership. Is such a wide range justified under the ideal
of the fraternity system or is a quota system better? In a large fraternity the natural tendency is to break
down into smaller groups which often lead to rivalry instead of fraternity. Can the aim of fraternity life be realized
under such conditions?

DRINKING

Drinking. The position on drinking taken by the administration and student constitution raises fundamental questions concerning a “realistic” social pattern.
Is the present policy consistent with what is expected from the fraternities, or is forcing fraternities off the campus for
functions, parties, etc., assuming the attitude (and position) of an ostrich?

It is realized that such brief handling of this subject cannot hope to be comprehensive. The only thesis maintained here
is that with the coming construction of a new fraternity court, it is an opportune time for more extensive analysis
of all aspects of the system. This is an area in which initiative by the new student government could make
it a real instrument for improving Davidson College.

If you're still there, let’s examine my ideas for the magazine proper. Its policy should be to lay bare the
Davidson soul and to offer enjoyment and wisdom in the inspection of its pink tissues. But lest we become submerged
in our own tears, we must have more humor, a hearty if somewhat wheezing chuckle over the inevitable shafts which
professors and girl friends leave in our quivering abdomens.

Axe Grinding

I will not forget those among you who wish to do a bit of axe grinding and scalping. I favor
this sort of mental disembowelment in the form of satire and not the clumsy, clod-hoppered essay. Yet there must be
freedom of expression; the campus artist must not be made to grind out a story or poem to fit a
neat editorial policy. He must be left free to mate with the Muse and spawn his own brood. I, as
editor, would merely act as the marriage broker.

So, Arise! fellow thumbsucking Southerners; support this rather shaky platform; we'll fall together,

Billy Long

In recent years, each issue of Scripts and Pranks seems to have traveled basically the same path. This route has
in many ways been excellent. In others, it has fallen short. The magazine is published with a dual purpose, to
represent Davidson’s literary talent and to provide entertainment for the entire student body. How well has it accomplished this?

More Contributions

At times, Scripts and Pranks has tended to be somewhat exclusive. The list of contributors has been small—very small when
compared to the large amount of untapped talent available. This, I feel, is a mistake. The magazine could serve its
greatest benefit by acting as a stimulus to the dormant literary lights of the student body. Therefore, it would be
my purpose to seek out and encourage creative writing through the pages of this publication, thus affording a broader and
more interesting view of Davidson's literary potential. I do not advocate a lowering of the high standards already set for
us. Rather, I would like to add to these standards by offering a greater variety of high caliber writing. No
sacrifice in quality is necessary—the talent is here.

Emphasis on Humor

Humor in past issues has usually been excellent, but far too scarce. Greater emphasis should be placed upon the various
mediums of mirth. Entailed in this trend would be a more frequent usage of pictorial essays, cartoon plates, and jokes
on subjects closer to home—devices designed to lampoon the things at Davidson which best deserve lampooning. One issue should be
dedicated to parody — “Slime”, “Strife”, “Poorboy”, or “Esquirt”. An undertaking of this type would be both enjoyable and profitable,
but it would require the work and cooperation of a large group if success were to be assured.

Untapped Potential

Scripts and Pranks can be improved. It has a potential which has not been reached. To meet this potential, there
should be more frequent and more relevant humor. There should be a greater representation of quality style and thought. Scripts
and Pranks is a magazine designed to benefit and entertain the student body. It would be my purpose, through the
proposals outlined above, to present a magazine of the quality and type which Davidson College demands.

FROM THE TOP

Few college journalists have the opportunity to write farewell columns to their readers, (if any) twice during one college career.
Occasionally, however, a has-been is resurrected and warmed over. Our byline first appeared in the October 22, 1948 issue of
the Davidsonian; we now discover that old soldiers aren't the only people who just fade away.

In looking back over the past nine years, we see a picture of Davidson that is a confused conglomeration of
the college as it was, as it is, and as it is related to the outside world. (There is one
out there, you know!) With reference to the first two of these, it suffices to say that many things have
changed: the campus, the cut system, compulsory chapel, and the faces—especially the faces. Other things remain, and will continue to
remain, as long as college students are college students, and Davidson is Davidson.

Ideally, a “Church-related liberal arts college” should perform at least two major functions: provide windows to the outside world for
its students, and create an atmosphere of intangible values to serve as criteria for behavior in later life. No college
is perfect in this respect, and Davidson is no exception. Worse, it doesn’t perform these functions nearly as well as
most of us would like to believe.

The first of these unfortunate deficiencies is Davidson’s lack of contact with patterns of life which do not conform to
the way we believe life should be; only in a limited sense do the cloister and culture interact. This failure
in respect to the “windows” is not so much that they do not exist; they’re just dusty from disuse. Students,
for the most part, are too lazy, intellectually, to open them, and some of the scenery, such as the slum
areas and Negro housing less than 500 yards from the campus, is exceedingly unpleasant.

The other deficiency we have mentioned—the atmosphere of intangible values—is stifling, mostly because of the hypocrisy which permeates it. The
middle-class businessman sheds his office coat and puts on charcoal gray for Sunday morning; his son who attends Davidson, finds
this impossible. Junior has no choice but to bring his everyday values into direct interaction with Davidson’s Sunday morning values.
The result is conflict, and eventually, mutual disregard. To make matters worse, certain Pharisees survey the situation and say: “Thank
God, I’m not like Junior.” He, in turn, is condemned by that epitome of self-righteousness who says, “Thank God, I'm
not like that Pharisee.” (Who, me?)

Such a situation cannot be remedied in a day, and its solution can only begin with the individual. Each of
us must undertake a healthy introspection; a reevaluation of the whys and wherefores of our existence, as human beings, as
Christians (if we are), and as Davidson Students. Only after this has been completed can we take the next step:
a critical examination, as members of the college community, of the differences between what Davidson really is and what it
claims to be. Then we must choose, from alternative courses of action, those which seem to be the most effective
ways of bringing the real into a closer harmony with the ideal. Finally—and this is where we usually falter—we must
unite in an enthusiastic effort to undertake the actions we have chosen.
