PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, OCTOBER 18, 1957

THIS WEEK

SATURDAY, OCTOBER 19
2:30—Football—Davidson vs. West Virginia Tech
7:00—Movie—“Ruby Gentry”—Union Ballroom

SUNDAY, OCTOBER 20
HOMECOMING
7:30—Vespers—Reverend James T. Cleland

MONDAY, OCTOBER 21
12:30-6:00—Check annual proofs—Union

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 22
12:30-6:00—Check annual proofs—Union
7:30—Business-Economics Club—Ballroom

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 23
12:30-6:00—Please! Check your annual proofs—Union

THURSDAY, OCTOBER 24
3:00—Soccer—North Carolina vs. Davidson—Here

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 25
12:00—Importation of Homecoming—Entertainment begins to arrive

SATURDAY, OCTOBER 26
2:00—Football—Davidson vs. Furman—Here
7:00—Movie—“The Caine Mutiny”—Union Ballroom

Wall Street Banker Views Financing

Wednesday night, Mr. Robert A. Kerr, Vice-President of Irving Trust Company of New York, gave the Business-Economics Club a discussion
of the financing of big corporations by Wall Street bankers.

Mr. Kerr considered the organization of Irving Trust Company and gave some detailed examples of the firm's operations. He outlined
case histories showing how Irving Trust, as a commercial bank working with investment bankers, helped in the financing of large
corporations.

His main example was the intricate financing of Siegler Corporation, a leading manufacturer of heating systems and electronic equipment for
national defense.

The club's next speaker, tentatively scheduled for some time in December, will be a representative of Dunn and Bradstreet. On
the recommendation of the group's advisor, Professor Ratliff, the club is canceling its November meeting in favor of the “Y's”
labor-management program.

Baptist Official To Deliver Talk

The top official of the Baptist World Alliance, Dr. Theodore F. Adams, of Richmond, Virginia, will address the student body
during chapel on Thursday, October 24.

A native of New York, Dr. Adams received his undergraduate education at Denison University in Ohio, where he was a
member of Phi Beta Kappa, Omicron Delta Kappa, and Beta Theta Pi. His theological training was received at Colgate Rochester
Theological Seminary.

Following pastorates in Cleveland and Toledo, Ohio, he came in 1936 to the First Baptist Church of Richmond, one of
the largest congregations of that denomination in the Middle Atlantic region. He has been widely honored by the Baptist Church,
but the top post came to him last year when he was elected president of the Baptist World Alliance. Following
his election, a cover and lead story in Time magazine was devoted to the work of this colorful churchman.

Dr. Adams is a frequent speaker on college campuses, and in addition to his writing, he conducted a daily radio
program and a weekly television feature, “The Pastor’s Study”. Following the chapel period, there will be a coffee hour for
Dr. Adams in the Ballroom of the College Union under the auspices of the YMCA. All students and faculty members
are invited to meet Dr. Adams at this time.

Seniors Reminded

The Law School Admission Test required of applicants for admission to a number of leading American law schools, will be
given at more than 100 centers throughout the United States on the mornings of November 9, February 15, April 19,
and August 2, 1958.

During 1956-57 over 12,000 applicants took this test, and their scores were sent to over 100 law schools. The Bulletin
(in which an application for the test is inserted) should be obtained four to six weeks in advance of the
desired testing dates from Law School Admission Test, Educational Testing Service, Princeton, New Jersey.

A candidate must make a separate application for admission to each law school of his choice and should inquire of
each whether it wishes him to take the test.

Canterbury Club To Hear Dialogue

The Canterbury Club will meet Sunday night after Vespers in the Union Blue Room. A rather unusual program is planned.
The Rev. John Denham of Mayodan and the Rev. Ronald Lee Woodruff of Durham will present a dialogue talk on
the theme of “To Each His Own”.the big dance weekend? This year go in top “After Six” campus attire! Our
handsome Ivy League tuxedo is impeccably tailored with natural shoulders, flaps, pockets, and center vent; has pleatless trousers. In black
worsted with black:

His Own

FAMILY ACCOMMODATIONS

Take the Law School Admission Test and when. Since many law schools select their freshman classes in the spring preceding
their entrance, candidates for admission to next year’s classes are advised ordinarily to take either the November or the February
test, if possible. The Law School Admission Test, prepared and administered by Educational Testing Service, features objective questions measuring verbal
aptitudes and reasoning ability rather than acquired information. It cannot be “crammed” for. Sample questions and information regarding registration for
and administration of the test:

Davidson Students Free with Parents
The Oaks Motor Court
344 South Main Street
Phone NOrth 3-5693
Mooresville, N. C.

“Susie, Mary, will you stop wiggling? How can Daddy solve your algebra problem if you bother him all the time?”

Owners and Managers: Bill and Hazel Sprinkle

As the Asian Flu spreads across North Carolina, the Davidson Infirmary reports an unofficial count of 31 students sick with
the flu as of noon today.

Live Modern! Here's News...

U.S. Patent Award

Dr. Staples released a list of homes that will be open in the student body after Sunday night vespers on
October 20. The following professors will conduct open house from 8:45 to 10:00: Beaty, Bevan, E. E. Brown, Daggy, Evans,
French, Griffin, Labban, Lilly, Lloyd, McCutchan, McLane, Payne, Polly, Ratliff, Scott, Capt. Thompson, Watts, and Whittle.

CUMMERBUND AND CUMMERVEST SETS

Complete your formal wear with a smart, colorful cummerbund or trim cummervest with matching tie. Matching cummerbund set 8.75. Other
sets from 7.50 to 15.00.

New Compensation for Blood Drive

The Fall Blood Drive will be held November 5-6. Charles Woods, chairman of the drive, announced today that a 10%
discount in Mid-Winters dance tickets will be given by the LFC to the fraternity having the largest percent donation. In
addition to the cash award, a free ROTC grill and PT cut will be given to the individual donor, and
a plaque awarded to the winning fraternity.

In order to donate blood, students under twenty-one must have a signed release from their parents. These releases have already
been sent to the parents by the ROTC department; however, a reminder by students to their parents to return the
releases now will give them ample time to do so.

... dress shirts that compliment your tuxedo while demanding admiration for themselves ... made of soft Sanforized fabrics trimly tucked.
Arrow's “New Nassau” Dress Shirt 6.50. Excello Lace-Type Front Dress Shirt 12.95.

... pure white inside, pure white outside as a filter should be for your assurance of the Southland’s finest tobaccos.
Every package of L&M’s ever manufactured has carried this promise: “A blend of premium quality tobaccos including special aromatic types.”
Cleaner, better smoking. The patent on the Miracle Tip protects L&M’s exclusive filtering process. L&M smokes cleaner, draws easier, tastes
richer. Live Modern...Smoke L&M!

Other Items to Complete Your Ensemble

Swank stud and cuff link sets 3.50 to 32.50 (plus tax)
Paris white and black suspenders
Separate bow tie 1.50

Men’s furnishings, Ivey’s street floor

©1957 Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
