Che Dauvidsonian

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
JIM BATTEN

BUSINESS MANAGER
BOB CARMICHAEL

ASSOCIATE EDITORS
FRANKLIN BLOODWORTH, LEON HOWELL

Assistant Editor
Bob Beall

Managing Editors
Lloyd Chapin, John Trask

Sports Editor
John Johnson

Feature Editor
Bill Bondurant

Copy Editor
John Trotti

Assignments
Bob Lathan

Advertising Manager
Bob Majors

Circulation
Bob Austin, Marshall Chapman, Tom DuPuis, Hank Daniel

Photographer
Presented for National Advertising by NATIONAL ADVERTISING SERVICE, Inc.

SUBSCRIPTION RATE: $2.00 Per Year. Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

OFFICES IN DAVID OVENS COLLEGE UNION, DAVIDSON COLLEGE

FRIDAY, JANUARY 11, 1957

A Break in the Case

After three years of deadlock, the Curriculum Committee has brought forth a concrete proposal for changing the outmoded requirements for the AB and BS degrees. The faculty will decide its fate on Monday afternoon.

The Committee’s proposal goes, it seems to us, straight to the heart of the matter. Majors in mathematics and natural sciences will receive the bachelor of science degree; all others would receive the arts degree. What could be more logical and natural? This proposition cuts through the wrangling over the classical language requirement, around which much of the previous argument has revolved. Although the basic proposal is in fact unchanged, the Committee’s approach adds clarification and common sense to an often confusing and garbled situation.

The other alternative which the faculty will consider seems to us to be much less desirable. While not as outlandish as the present situation, a blanket AB degree to every Davidson graduate, regardless of field of study, is a mite foolish itself. Most liberal arts colleges generally recognize two degrees, one in the sciences, and one in the arts or humanities. These distinctions are accurate and meaningful, and it would be unfortunate for the Davidson degree to continue to carry an inaccurate connotation, whether it be with practically everyone getting a BS, or with everyone receiving an AB. In addition, it seems safe to say that in many cases, an AB degree would have as little appeal for a chemistry major as a BS degree has for a philosophy major under the present system. Both degrees will be made more meaningful with the elimination of those who do not logically fall into the respective categories.

At any rate, it is heartening to see action in the making. It is this very type of response to student opinion that has pulled student-faculty relations out of the low-tide doldrums of a few years ago. A decisive affirmative vote by the faculty Monday on this proposal would be, among other things, a vote of confidence for the continual strengthening of the warm and cordial rapport which now exists.

Box Office Thwarts Try for Culture

Just when we were cultivating a happy glow about the ever-increasing doses of culture and entertainment available at Charlotte’s out-of-this-world Coliseum-Auditorium, we sustained a real kick in the teeth. The Boston Pops’ appearances tomorrow sounded like an ideal way to clear the decks for impending exams, so we investigated the ticket situation. Three long-distance phone calls over a two-day period to the Coliseum box office netted the following assorted bits of information:

1. The Charlotte Clippers would be at the Coliseum Wednesday and Thursday, and “The Pajama Game” would be next door the same nights. They had never heard of the Boston Pops. Undeterred, we tried again.

2. There would be no night performance, only a 4 o’clock matinee, and tickets would be available at the door. Having seen an 8:15 performance advertised for weeks, we decided on one last gasping try.

3. The night performance was only for Community Concert ticket-holders. We don’t belong, so we inquired about matinee possibilities. “Well, yes, we have tickets, but that’s a children’s performance.” A children’s performance? “Yes, only people with children will be admitted.” We tried to think of how we could become “people with children” for the afternoon, but soon gave it up. We should have been content with a commonplace old movie anyhow. Maybe “Giant” will still be on at the Carolina.

Season of Sadness for the College

In many respects, the Christmas season just past was a sad one for the Davidson family. Within one week came the death of Dr. C. K. Brown, long-time Dean of the Faculty and Professor of Economics, and the news of the drowning of Swain Loy, a member of the class of 1955 and one of the most outstanding men Davidson has produced in recent years.

Dr. Brown’s passing had a very visible effect on the College. Last Thursday’s memorial service in chapel was a fitting tribute to this man who had won the respect and admiration of hundreds of students who jammed his perennially packed classrooms since 1923. Never in our memory had chapel grown more quickly silent, and this silence was a tribute in itself. Professors quietly spoke to their classes of this gentleman with the surpassingly brilliant mind, and warm, extremely human personality to match.

Dr. Brown was a man of strong convictions. A staunch and unapologizing conservative, he refused to compromise the truth as he saw it. Davidson can ill afford to lose a man of the stature of Dr. C. K. Brown. He will be sorely missed.

The tragedy of the loss of Swain Loy with his younger sister in a boating mishap in the eastern part of the state came as a terrible shock to all who knew him. At Davidson, Swain had a brilliant record, comparable to many campus leaders who come and go with the years. He was president of his fraternity, a member of Omicron Delta Kappa, and editor-in-chief of the 1956 Quips and Cranks, to mention only the high spots of an unusually versatile career. He was generally regarded as one of the most truly promising young men to emerge from Davidson in some time.

But a mere recounting of the record of four short years here falls woefully short, and is completely inadequate in telling the story of Swain Loy. His dedication to the Christian ministry, his chosen life-work, was a robust, manly sort of thing; invigorating and refreshing to those with whom he came in contact. Alert, keen, enthusiastic, intellectually able, and full of potential, his untimely death seems a tragedy in the fullest sense of the word. And yet, the fullness and meaning of his life, though cut suddenly short, is not dimmed by death.

Brats

Our youth now love luxury. They have bad manners, contempt for authority, they show disrespect for elders and love to chatter in places of exercise. Children are now tyrants, not the servants of their households. They no longer rise when elders enter the room. They contradict their parents, chatter before company, gobble up their food and tyrannize their teachers—Socrates, 400 B.C.

The Fiery Furnace by Cole LAFAR

ON THE STATE OF STUDENT GOVERNMENT

President Recalls First Semester Of Council Accomplishments

By DAN LAFAR

I would like to think that Student Government here at Davidson during the first semester has attempted to put in effect the wishes of the group they represent—you, the Student Body. Whether or not your representatives have been able to accomplish their purpose is clearly an individual determination to be made by each student. The best way to determine this is to analyze the actions and stands your government has taken.

FRATERNITY CURFEW

Certainly faculty and student relations bear witness to a determined effort on the part of both students and administrative officials to reach mutual understandings on all issues whether they be complex or minute. Exemplary of this have been the lift of the fraternity house curfew, the weekend campus parking freedom, and the discussions of the Student-FacultyConference committee. Though not in direct relationship to student-faculty activities, the voice of student members on the religious exercises committee resulted in a well-rounded Chapel and Vesper schedule this past semester. This effect will continue to evidence itself as the year goes on.

UPHOLD REGULATIONS
In its function to uphold the Constitution of the Student Government, the Student Council has dismissed two students for Honor System violations. It has made a vigorous stand to uphold Student Body Regulations, especially in the realms of gentlemanly conduct at religious exercises and dormitory conduct.

COURT OF CONTROL
In the minds of the student council members, the Court of Control of 1956 was a success in its purpose to be both constructive and beneficial to Davidson students and the college as a whole. We are assured of a Charlotte telephone in the College Union no later than April 1. Though not the goal of past student leaders, it is a solution and an answer to the need.

COLLEGE MAIL SERVICE
One of the things that has not been fulfilled has been the plan for a college mail service. It still remains a pet personal desire to see Davidson with its own convenient and efficient mail service. We shall continue to work toward this. Here are some of the things Student Government is doing—only a small part of what could be done. We invite your thought and your criticism. It is our hope that the tradition of strong student government will continue to grow in the tradition of being an authoritative, accurate, and unified expression of student opinion.

OVER CHRISTMAS VACATION
Letter Thanks College For Use of Campus For Church Meeting

Dr. John R. Cunningham
Davidson College
Davidson, North Carolina

Dear Dr. Cunningham:

We are deeply grateful to you, Dean Sam Spencer, Grier Martin, and the other members of your staff for the many kindnesses which you extended to us during our recent conference at Davidson. We know that this put an extra burden on you during your normal holiday season, but we feel that all of the inconvenience and extra work was more than paid for through a great conference experience for over 300 students, representing 15 denominations and 126 colleges. I sincerely hope that we have not embarrassed Davidson College in any way by following through with our conference plans. On behalf of the Planning Committee, Dr. Cunningham, I want to thank you for being present for our opening session and for the cordial words of greeting you extended to the conference. We felt completely at home on the Davidson campus, and we were treated royally in every way. All the members of the staff of the Department of Campus Christian Life join me in sending sincere new year greetings to you and all the members of your staff.

Malcolm C. Melver, Jr.
Board of Christian Education
Presbyterian Church in the United States

DR. C. K. BROWN
Scholar and Gentleman

Dr. Cecil Kenneth Brown of Davidson, who died in Charlotte Tuesday night after a long period of declining health, was a professor who never gave up his belief in the necessity for basic liberal education. His insistence upon the fundamentals did not make him impractical, for his life as a professor of economics was anything but cloistered. He enjoyed the confidence of businessmen, and often they came to him for advice. It was because of his devotion to the fundamentals that he was never led astray by the theorists, of whom economics has more than its share. It is, in fact, a happy hunting ground for theorists for the very reason that it is not one of the exact sciences. Dr. Brown was familiar with them and their theories. But with his unfailing logic and an almost biblical talent for homely illustration, he could find the loopholes in the theories and tear them to shreds.

Dr. Brown was, as a result, much in demand as a speaker. As such he was almost as well known in Charlotte as in Davidson. Until his health began to fail, he appeared on most of the public and private forums of this city. He was devoted to Davidson College, for almost the whole of his professional life had been given to it. There the man and the college, both demanding thoroughness, found their affinities. As a churchman he was equally dedicated and worked as hard for the Presbyterian Church as he did for Davidson College. The term “scholar and gentleman” is rarely heard in these brash and hurried days, but insofar as it survives it can be used to describe Cecil Kenneth Brown.

—(from the Charlotte Observer)

Distinguished Son

Quite apart from the pride it may or may not take in its stay-at-home natives, Salisbury is reminded from time to time of the great distinctions attained by many to whom this community has given birth but has not been able to maintain as Salisburians. The reminder of the moment is an untimely one, and one of bereavement in the death of Dr. C. K. Brown, distinguished scholar and church leader of the Davidson College faculty. Teacher, lecturer, and author of a wide and enviable reputation, this Salisburian had won his Ph.D. degree at the age of 25 years, and had steadily added lustre to his name through the years until his death on New Year’s night at the age of 56. The enrichment of mind, soul, and citizenship he contributed to his students at Davidson is beyond estimate. He was among the keenest and most lucid socio-economic analysts of modern North Carolina. Personable and engaging of manner and attitude, he has left a notable and deep-etched record of achievement safe from erasure.

—(from the Salisbury Post)

FROM THE TOP of the DOME with NAT DANIEL

Alumni and die-hards can rant and rave a great deal about “Wild” Cats, team spirit, college sports, and Alma Mammy, but General MacArthur’s message to the West Point football team during World War II is as applicable to Davidson Basketball as it is to war or football. “There is no substitute for victory.”

Students and faculty alike have been curious as to the whereabouts of the Hungarian family the YMCA gift fund has been donated to support, and it would seem that even though the number of suitable families might not be great, something should be done in the very near future. All over America, Hungarian families are being settled in communities, and more are coming in as time goes by. We realize that the type and nature of the family requested necessitates careful screening, but surely something could be done to speed up the process. If a family cannot be found soon, there is a very grave and very real danger that the interest which reached a high pitch prior to the holidays will be dissipated by the passage of time.

PUSH! PULL! USE CENTER DOOR! DO NOT USE SIDE DOOR! SLIDE UNDER!

The major problem confronting Davidson students today is not the world situation, getting a date for Midwinters, finishing that term paper, nor passing exams—it’s how to get in and out of the front door of the Union without: (a) Physically damaging the head, arms, or legs. (b) Being ten minutes late for a third period class. (c) Jumping out of the window. (d) Becoming psychologically maladjusted. Please, Mr. Smith, do something! The traffic jams, dangers, and frustrations of the Union entrance are as intolerable as the service at the grill during rush hours. “Help! Lemme outta here!”