PAGE FOUR

COP LINKER

Philosophy over the coffee cups

“THEY NEVER LEARN”

Bushes, Cars Give Cop Double Weekend Duty

Cop Linker’s troubles never end. “The college has got me doing double duty now. It looks like they have planted all these bushes around the campus just for the guys who don’t have cars,” Cop said in one of his bull sessions. “There’s nothing new here on the campus though,” Cop added in his gruff, yet kindly voice. “Boys always think they are doing something different, but I’ve seen all their tricks before.”

Cop always likes to philosophize a little. “It’s the same. The names are different, but the boys are the same.”

Hometown Violinist Featured In Recital

Alice Keith Pfohl, violinist, and Louise Nelson Pfohl, pianist, will be presented in a joint recital in Chambers Auditorium at 8:15 p.m. Monday. The program is sponsored by the Gamma Kappa Chapter of Phi Mu Alpha Sinfonia Fraternity of America. The talented young artist is a violin student of the Senior Class at the Conservatory of Music, Oberlin College, in Ohio, where she is assistant concertmaster of the Oberlin Symphony Orchestra. Miss Pfohl is a student of Andor Toth. Miss Pfohl will be heard in the Corelli “La Folia” Variations, the Franck “Sonata for Piano and Violin” and Bruch’s “Concerto in G Minor, Op. 26.” She will be accompanied at the piano by her mother, Louise Nelson Pfohl. Formerly of Davidson, Miss Pfohl attended the Davidson schools and was graduated from Myers Park High School before entering the Oberlin Conservatory of Music, where she has become recognized as an outstanding young musician. Her father, James Christian Pfohl, is the conductor of the Charlotte Symphony Orchestra and was formerly head of the Davidson College Department of Music.

TWO BOYS CAUGHT

Cop told this story about two boys whom he caught during Midwinters last year on the lower drill field. When the night had gotten colder, one of them took his date back up to the car where they went to sleep. Cop gave them a rather rude awakening with the glare of his headlights and came over to the car: “Well, I guess you better move along, son.” The boy was a freshman and it was his first run-in with Cop. Not wanting to leave his friend, he drove off with no explanation down onto the drill field. Cop was hot behind. In the excitement, both of them barely missed running over the other couple camouflaged under an army blanket.

BACK AGAIN

After much confusion, finding of lost shoes, wallets and such, and general misunderstanding, Cop assured them that everything would be all right if they would just go somewhere else. “Boys just don’t learn a lesson though,” he said, “I caught the same two back on the drill field the next night.”

Cop knows what goes on around the campus; he was young once. The reason that there is no resentment against Cop doing his job is because he is still young at heart and understands the boys. It’s most typical to hear him say something like, “Since there’s so much traffic out here on the baseball field, I think maybe you’d better move on.”

“I kind of get a kick out of catching the boys I know real well,” Cop admitted. “I like to roll up behind them, bump the car, and wave my lights. They usually take it in good fun.”

Cop was reminiscing about one such incident with Lyman Kiser, the president of the student body in 1953. Lyman told of the incident during a cart-in caper involving Fields, the notorious dorm bandit of 1954, who later killed a policeman. Fields was the one who led the chant, “Lyman is our delight; where’re you going to sleep tonight?”

Everyone at Davidson knows Cop Linker: his heavy, purposeful walk, bow tie, and hat, his friendly eyes, his deeply lined face, and his jovial manner.

SEMESTER AVERAGES

Dr. Spencer Records 26 Frosh Surpassing 2.5

Twenty-six freshmen had B-plus or better averages at the end of the first semester, according to Dean S. R. Spencer, Jr. The twenty-six and their averages are as follows:

FRESHMEN WITH B-PLUS AVERAGES

First Semester — 1956-57

Avinger, R. L., Jr. 2.56
Baggett, L. W. 2.75
Bell, J. N. 2.91
Boyce, W. M. 2.04
Bracy, A. H. 2.50
Davis, C. F. 2.65
Edmunds, L. N. Jr., 2.53
Kellog, P. J. 2.58
Kim, S. K. 2.53
Lane, F. C. 2.58
Livingston, R. E. 2.94
McCarty, D. S., Jr. 2.75
MacKay, A. F. 2.59
Meyer, L. K. 2.59
Morrison, R. W. Jr. 2.96
Owens, J. T. 2.50
Price, T. B. 2.86
Rhyne, G. N. 2.53
Richards, W. J. 2.50
Riggs, L. W. 2.58
Robinson, D. W., Jr. 3.06
Smith, R. C. 2.56
Stuart, W. D., IN 3.09
Warden, D. R. 2.69
Wearn, J. H. 2.86
Wright, T. P. 2.86

Scabbard & Blade Fires In Rifle Meet

Scabbard and Blade met at 7 o’clock Tuesday night in the R.O.T.C. Department. Firing of the national Scabbard and Blade rifle meet was discussed. The Davidson company fired in this meet yesterday. The group also discussed selection of new members for the second semester, and tapping ceremonies were tentatively set for late March.

Hoke Tells

(Continued From Page One)

for my family was to move them to the cellar. We spent most of the day carrying food and clothing down into the large room under the building.

In the meantime, the Rebels had found a leader in Pal Maleter. Maleter had joined revolting Hungarian soldiers in their barracks and was guiding the revolution from there. The Revolt was beginning to “snowball.” Hungarian soldiers were coming from all areas to join the rebels in Budapest, and even the Russians were giving tanks and artillery pieces to the revolutionists.

Early the next morning, the word came that we would move toward the Parliament again. This time the crowd was led by a Russian tank, handed over to the Rebels by some sympathetic Russian soldiers. I was a part of the crowd. Very quickly the square in front of the Parliament became full of people. There must have been at least 10,000. Everyone was singing and shouting, hoping that the government leaders would speak.

PEAK OF FRENZY

As the frenzy of the crowd reached its peak, machine guns, manned by the Secret Police and concealed in the Parliament Building and Agriculture Ministry, opened fire on the crowd. Six hundred people were killed almost instantly. The Police had shown little discretion in their murdering because I saw the blood not only of men but also of women and children mixed on the pavement of the plaza. I guess I was lucky, that’s the only way I can explain it, because I was standing behind a steel power pole when the firing started. Otherwise, I might have been wounded or killed.

Part of the crowd I was in moved up the street, dazed by the atrocity. We noticed a man dressed as a civilian, coming down the side street toward the group I was walking with. As he came closer, we recognized...

College Displays Exhibitions In Union

Two art exhibitions being circulated by the North Carolina State Art Circuit are now being shown at Davidson. Under the direction of Mrs. Cheves Ligon, the Pack Memorial Library of Asheville has brought together a collection of forty travel posters gathered from countries all over the world. These posters were selected for the particularly fine quality of the artwork and are now on exhibit in the Ballroom of the College Union.

North Carolina in Pictures, sponsored by the North Carolina News Bureau, can be seen in the foyer of Chambers. The display consists of thirty mounted photographs, some of which are in color.

Whale Explains

(Continued From Page One)

As the frenzy of the crowd reached its peak, machine guns, manned by the Secret Police and concealed in the Parliament Building and Agriculture Ministry, opened fire on the crowd. Six hundred people were killed almost instantly. The Police had shown little discretion in their murdering because I saw the blood not only of men but also of women and children mixed on the pavement of the plaza. I guess I was lucky, that’s the only way I can explain it, because I was standing behind a steel power pole when the firing started. Otherwise, I might have been wounded or killed.

Part of the crowd I was in moved up the street, dazed by the atrocity. We noticed a man dressed as a civilian, coming down the side street toward the group I was walking with. As he came closer, we recognized...

Almont Lindsey Joins Davidson ROTC Staff

Sgt. Almont E. Lindsey is the latest addition to the Davidson ROTC department non-commissioned officers. Having just returned from Korea where he was a Regimental Training, Intelligence, and Education NCO, Sgt. Lindsey’s new job is assistant light-infantry weapons instructor.

Sgt. Lindsey, whose father is a professor of history at the University of Virginia, is from Fredericksburg, Virginia. Before entering the Army he attended Mercer University Law School in Macon, Georgia. Sgt. Lindsey’s wife Gwendolyn, to whom he has been married for four years, is from Macon. They have a girl 2½ years old and a boy 15 months old. Their home is in Cornelius, where they attend the Mt. Zion Methodist Church.

When asked how he liked the Davidson community, Sgt. Lindsey said that he and his wife were happy here and that he liked a small college community.

Sid Abernethy Speaks At Bus-Eco Meeting

Mr. Sid Abernethy will speak to the Business-Economics Association Wednesday at 8:00 p.m. in the Ballroom of the College Union. His subject will be “over the counter” marketing. This program is a follow-up of the program presented this past semester.him as a hated not make a man chaste by putting a "Secret Police officer who had straight jacket on him.” taken part in the murder of a AMERICAN CHURCHES rebel family. As is the inherent aptitude of He was immediately seized by a brilliant man, Dr. Whale shifted the crowd. They began to curse his ideas to a related subject with- him, to beat, and to kick him. He out apparent change. “There is a was dead within minutes. A large high nominal church membership sum of money found in his pocket in America. One wonders when he was stuffed in his bleeding mouth. sees that a church which has a I helped tie a rope around his neck membership of two thousand will and pull him up on a light post. seat only seven hundred persons. We left him hanging there as an But I imagine they have a large example to the Communists. This budget don't they?” was the only time I helped to kill He did not leave the issue there a man, but it was enough. (although he does believe that “ambiguity is an art”) but offered Watched the rebels storm the po- a suggestion. “When a church lice barracks, saw Secret Police reaches a thousand members and officers torn apart or burned to can accommodate no more, those death, and saw Revolutionists cut who would add to its membership down by the hundreds by accurate should form a new body. It’s sense- machine gun fire. I don't like re- less for thirteen hundred people membering all this. to have no room in their church.” As victory seemed almost within PAUL TILLICH our grasp, the rumble of Russian Mention of Paul Tillich brings tanks re-entering the city dashed more than intellectual reverence our hopes to pieces. to Dr. Whale’s countenance. “He (Next week: Flight to Freedom) is one of the truly great minds of Discussion Groups the day. He has such beautiful creativeness, such a wide range of Discussion Groups mental activity.” Next Wednesday evening at Vibrant and inexhaustible, Dr. 10:30 p.m., there will be several Whale evokes respect and awe not dormitory discussion groups con- only for his powerful Christian tinuing the themes presented dur- witness, but for his deep and sin- ing Winter Services. cere reverence for life as well. These discussions will consist “Sincerity is all that matters, real- of a brief devotional and a ques- ly. We must see the light, but tion period with a faculty resource we must not fool ourselves by pre- Copies of the seven tending we see it if we don’t. The major addresses of Winter Ser- good intentions, but with hypoc- vices are available. risy, are not enough.” The discussion groups will be To conclude his brief interlude, held with Dr. Abernethy in Duke, Dr. Whale pinpointed his theo- Dr. Staples in East, Dr. McGavock logy by using the Latin word in New, Mr. Maloney fiducia, meaning trust. “Faith in West, Dr. Bevan in Watts, Dr. comes first, and the God in whom Ford in the lobby of Belk. we have faith comes before the faith itself.” BELLES OF TONIGHT’S Midwinters Ball are (left to right): Janet Robinson with Joe Huskins of Pi Kappa Phi; Ellen Forester with Bunny Perkinson of Phi Delta Theta; Millie Morris with Dave Shaw of Sigma Chi; Kitty Sue Faulkner with Tommy Hawpe, Phi Gamma Delta; Jean Gold with Gerald Cathey of Kappa Sigma; Betty Bell with Charlie Brown of Sigma Phi Epsilon; Lou Cowan with Don Massey of Alpha Tau Omega; Dottie McAuley with Jimmy Martin of Beta Theta Pi; Ellen Kalbach with John Trask of Kappa Alpha, and Fritchie Crockett with Jimmy Jones of Sigma Alpha Epsilon. Not shown are Miriam Link with Randy Daniel of the Campus Club, and Chris Eisenhour with Ken Conger of Pi Kappa Alpha.

Matmen Even Record Woody Herman With Win Over Citadel Davidson’s wrestlers, winning their second match in five days, took a close match here Wednesday night from the Citadel Bulldogs 14-12. Building up an early lead, the grapplers were able to maintain it as Citadel inched to within 2 points in the final event. Individual scoring: 123 lb., Coleman (D) over Greco (C)—Dec. 130 lb. Price (D) over Pirone —Forfeit. 137 lb. Gee (D) over Rudick (C) —Dec. 147 lb. Taylor (C) over Lampley (D)—Dec. 157 lb. Pinarchick (C) over Rhyne (D)—Dec. 167 lb. Westervelt (D) over Willard (C)—Dec. 177 lb. Dzanis (C) over King (D) —Dec. Heavy—Eisenberg (C) over Fagg (D)—Dec. Both Pete Coleman and Milton Gee added to their now impressive list of victories. This was just Gee’s second match in the 137 lb. class, but he seemed to be able to take the added weight without too much trouble. Dave Fagg, who is trying to make the 177 lb. class in time for the Southern Conference meet on March 8 and 9, was extremely light (184) for a heavyweight. Nonetheless, he put up a good scrap before succumbing to his heavier opponent. The matmen now boast a 4 and 4 record, with two matches remaining before the Southern Conference meet. The next home match will be with W. & L. on Feb. 27.

Stockton, Nestigen Will Talk In Chapel Two ministers, the Rev. Thomas B. Stockton and the Rev. Edward L. Nestigen, will speak in chapel next week. Rev. Stockton, pastor of Thrift Methodist Church, will address the student body on Tuesday, February 19. Following his graduation from Davidson in 1952, he was (Continued From Page One) trained for the ministry at the Duke Divinity School and later spent a year at the University of Cambridge. Rev. Stockton’s first pastorate was in the Central Avenue Methodist Church of Charlotte and last fall he was transferred to Thrift. While at Davidson he was active in student government, on the track team, and in his fraternity. Rev. Nestigen, from New York City, will speak at chapel on Thursday, February 21. He is associate secretary of the National Student Council of the YMCA and editor of the Intercollegian. A graduate of Union Theological Seminary in New York, he was formerly director of religious activities at Washington University in St. Louis.

New IFC Ruling (Continued From Page One) the fraternities is assumed by making the actions of any individual member subject to authorization by the whole fraternity, and holding the whole fraternity responsible for the actions of the individual members. Each fraternity must present to the IFC a week in advance a full outline of its Hell Week program which must conform to the “Regulations For Students.” CONSTRUCTIVE PROJECTS Constructive projects during Hell Week are being strongly urged by the IFC. These projects may be carried out in connection with the Y.M.C.A., the Davidson Lions Club, or the Social Planning Committee of Charlotte. Violations of these regulations must be reported by IFC members and will be punished by fines ranging up to $100. In addition, a full report of the violation will be sent to national headquarters of the fraternity guilty of violations. Short road trips are forbidden as well as any activities on Gray Road (Erwin Lodge Road).

Faculty Breaks (Continued From Page One) Not all members of the Faculty seemed entirely happy over the change, but most reportedly felt that it was the best compromise possible. Several who had consistently opposed a change in requirements expressed the opinion that it was “water over the dam” and that they were willing to “go along with the majority decision.” Registrar F. W. Hengeveld stated that a revised diploma order would be mailed next week to the Philadelphia company supplying the college. This revised order will specify A.B. degrees for all 1957 graduates, excepting science majors. Mr. Hengeveld added that “any man not majoring in science, but desiring a B.S. degree may receive that degree by special request before the order is placed.”

Rich man of the campus was Danny Drew Because of his wonderful chest tattoo— A beautiful lady exquisitely etched— When he flexed his muscles she got up and stretched His buddies all gave him their hard-earned dough For the pleasure of watching his pectoral show. MORAL: Accept no substitute for real enjoyment. Take your pleasure BIG. Smoke Chesterfield and smoke for real. Made better by ACCU-RAY, it’s the smoothest tasting smoke today. Smoke for real... smoke Chesterfield

Lucky girl! Next time one of her dates brings up the Schleswig-Holstein question, she'll really be ready for him. Ready for that test tomorrow, too... if that bottle of Coke keeps her as alert tonight as it does other people.