A.B. FIGHT IS SHELVED (Page 2) VOL. XLV CONCERT IN GYM The Davidsonian The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 1957 R. E. Brown Accepts Faculty Position In Economics Dept. Russell Elway Brown of Lenoir has joined the Davidson College faculty for the spring semester as Visiting Assistant Professor of Economics. Brown is on leave of absence from the Lenoir-Rhyne College faculty and has been completing work during the past year toward his Doctor of Philosophy degree from the University of Chicago. Dr. C. J. Pietenpol, Dean of the Faculty, announced the appointment of Brown, who is a graduate of Bucknell University. He earned the A.B. degree from Bucknell in 1947, and the M.A. degree in 1950. Since 1947 he has been a member of the Lenoir-Rhyne faculty, and is now Assistant Professor in the Department of Economics. He has completed the residence requirement for the Ph.D. degree from Chicago University. Brown is a native of Hartford, Conn., married, and the father of one daughter, who is twelve years old.

I.F.C. Features Return Of ‘Satchmo’ In March Louis “Satchmo” Armstrong and his band will return to Davidson College for a single performance Wednesday, March 6, at 8:00 P.M. This concert, sponsored by the Interfraternity Council, will be held at Johnson Gymnasium and all tickets will be on sale for $2.00 each. The balcony of the gymnasium will be open to Negro spectators. In view of this several halls in the college dormitories have suggested taking contributions to buy tickets for their janitors. Satchmo is best remembered by the Davidson student body for his concert here in the spring of 1955. Chambers Auditorium rocked to such Armstrong favorites as “I Wish I Could Shimmy Like My Sister Kate,” “The Gypsy,” “Wiffenpoof Song,” and “Muckrat Ramble.” The story of the “King of Jazz” and his ascension to that throne is the typical success story of the poor lad born in New Orleans around the turn of the century. He began by playing for local music groups gradually working his way up to the Savoy in Chicago. The market crash forced Armstrong out. Collecting his band, he set out for New York where he made a smash hit. From then on his story is one of concerts and crowds. He in 1929 has made several trips to Europe and has received acclaim as “Ambassador Satch.” The nickname which is such a part of the musician came about through a process of evolution. They used to call Louis “Dippermouth” as a boy, later it was changed to “Satchelmouth” and since has been shortened to “Satchmo.” Armstrong will also appear at the Charlotte Coliseum on February 14.

Morton Accepts Position At Virginia Frederick S. Morton, chairman of the Davidson College Department of Business Administration, assumed the position of a Research Associate Professor, Graduate School of Business Administration, University of Virginia, effective today. For the next three years, Professor Morton will be the director of a special research project in the effect of taxation on business procedures and development. Joining the faculty of Davidson in 1952 after three years on the Harvard faculty, he led in the establishment of a new Department of Business Administration and became its Chairman in January, 1953. After revising the curriculum in business, he introduced the “core” of courses required in all recognized business schools in the country. Avoiding specialization at the undergraduate level, he pioneered the development and uses of the “case method” of learning. This consists of substituting actual business problems in the place of the textbook as the basis of all class work. Professor Morton commented that he sincerely regretted the vacancy created in his leaving, but indicated that he had discussed with the Administration at various times in the past eighteen months the probability that he might be leaving in the near future.

SPONSORED BY THE YMCA Rabbi Speaks Tuesday In Chapel On Judaism Rabbi Frederick I. Rypins, of Temple Emanuel in Greensboro, will speak to the student body in Chapel on Tuesday, Feb. 5, on the subject, “What Every Christian Should Know About Judaism.” At 4:30 that afternoon, Rabbi Rypins will be in the Union Ballroom for an informal coffee hour, at which time there will be a discussion of questions raised during the morning talk. Rabbi Rypins speaks again at 8:15 in the Ballroom at the regular YMCA membership meeting and will discuss “Jewish Contributions to American Society.” Everyone is invited to attend both the informal discussion and the membership meeting. Rypins graduated from Hebrew Union College in Cincinnati, and has previously served congregations in Wilmington, N.C., and Roanoke, Va. He is a regular lecturer for the Jewish Chautauqua Society, which has as its aim the dissemination of authentic information concerning Judaism to American colleges and universities. It is under the auspices of this society that he comes to Davidson.

Sunday Night Vespers Presents Dr. Brokhoff The Vesper speaker Sunday night will be the Reverend John R. Brokhoff, pastor of St. Mark’s Lutheran Church in Charlotte. Dr. Brokhoff is a native of Pennsylvania and is a graduate of Muhlenberg College and the Lutheran Theological Seminary in Philadelphia. He received the degree of Doctor of Divinity from Muhlenberg, from which he was the youngest man ever to receive an honorary degree. His last pastorate was the Lutheran Church of the Redeemer, in Atlanta, Georgia, where he served for ten years. For four years he was a visiting professor at Emory University in Atlanta. Dr. Brokhoff conducts a weekly radio panel on WBT in Charlotte “Youth’s Living Ideas.” The panel is made up of Charlotte high school students. Recently Dr. Brokhoff has spoken in religious emphasis week services at Auburn, the Citadel, the University of South Carolina, and the University of Florida. In addition, he is the author of several books, among them “The Meaning of Marriage” and “Christian Strategy.”

Student Council Picks New Elections Board Sixteen seniors were named to the Elections Board by the Student Council in its regular meeting Monday night. Each fraternity has one representative on the Board, and in addition there are four non-fraternity seniors. Newly elected members are as follows: Beta—Phil Kukura; Pika—Jerry Brooks; KA—Harry Antrim; SAE—Boyce Martin; Kappa Sig—Stuart Vaughn; Pi Kapp—Bill Duke; Phi Gam—John Garden; Phi Delt—Baxter Cochran; SPE—Donnie McRee; Sigma Chi—Bob Shaw; ATO—Tom Morgan; Campus Club—Ben Johnston; Non-fraternity—John Jackson, Tommy Ratchford, Bill Jackson, and Mercer Blakenship. The Board, which will be responsible for distributing ballots, counting them, announcing results, and the like during the spring elections, will elect its chairman in the near future. The Council was in favor with a plan of sharing a telephone in the Union with the administration and faculty. The administration and faculty would use the phone in the daytime for business calls, and students would have it for night use. The phone will probably be on a nominal or even free basis.

Eumenean Elects Morgan President Tom Morgan was elected president of the Eumenean Literary Society last Monday evening at the first meeting of the society for the semester. Tom Thrailkill was elected vice president, and Jim Overall was named to the position of secretary. Following the treasurer’s report by Jock Reeder and the Criteria Committee report by Creighton Peden, a discussion on proposed members was conducted. Definition of qualities for membership were decided upon as being a willingness to contribute actively to the society and being a scholar. New members were then proposed and voted upon.

Cercle Hears French High School Student Le Cercle Francais met last Tuesday evening in the home of Professor Goldiere. The program for the evening featured a talk by Alain Boiton, age 18, from Toulon, France. Alain is a student at North Mecklenburg High School, and is living with the Goldieres. Alain, who is interested in the study of languages and political science, spoke on France. Following his talk, there was a question-and-answer period. Then the members sang songs and enjoyed refreshments served by Mrs. Goldiere and Mrs. Watts. All conversation was, as is customary, in French. Special guest at the meeting was Istvan Hocsak.

FROM BUDAPEST TO DAVIDSON ISTVAN HOCSAK AND HIS FAMILY of three show few outward signs of the hardships of Russian oppression as they sit for a formal portrait in the College Guest House. Flanking Istvan and 4-year-old Stevie are his wife Rosa (left) and his mother Rosalie (right).

Patriot Hocsak Discusses Communism In Hungary By DABNEY STUART “I don’t want to be a politician; I just want to work.” With these fervent words Istvan Hocsak eloquently expressed his feelings. “A man knows good and evil. A man does not need to know other situations to know Communism is bad. Communism is pressure: secret police, politicians, directors. EDUCATION IN HUNGARY “Communism says capitalism is bad. Education of a Communist starts in elementary school. They teach one thing to a young man;Say it is a good way. “But then practice is different. Teaching is not the same as practice. They teach Marx and Engels, then Lenin, then Stalin. Doctrines change as the men. “I make forty American dollars a month as an electrical engineer. I spend twenty-five for food, two or three for other needs, and ten percent ‘bond’ for the Party. This leaves me only six or seven dollars for myself. “I work. My mother and wife work. We have no time for life.” Equality is assured by the ten-percent bond. But Steve emphasized the hollowness of “equality.” “I am an exception. Most men make only fifteen dollars a month.”

ESCAPE

The journey which brought Steve and his family across the Hungarian border into a small Austrian village is one of courage and hope. “There were two other families. There were five children. We had to carry them. The distance was about twenty miles. “It was raining and we had to be very silent. There was much danger.” The muddy trek began at midnight and consumed five wearisome, haggard hours. No trace of bitterness or remorse mars Steve's relation of his freedom trip. He even chuckles as he tries to describe the loss of a shoe in the mud during the long walk. Some regret and nostalgia are evident when the remembrance of friends left behind gives him pause. His mother’s two brothers remained in Hungary. Steve’s command of the English language is amazing, and his wife has also picked up a few words. The reading and writing does not cause him much trouble, but he has difficulty with the pronunciation. Steve's education is not restricted to the adequate training he has had for engineering. The universal tongue of art, music, and literature is his to speak with fluency and enthusiasm.

(Continued on Back Page)

ONE OF HUNGARY'S Top NATIONALLY-RANKED swimmers of a few years ago at the University of Budapest, Istvan Hocsak works out in the College pool. A versatile athlete, he excels in water polo and fencing as well, and usually manages to get in a few laps around the Richardson Field quarter-mile track before breakfast each morning.

IMPEDED BY CONFLICTS

Key Problems Discussed In Duplex System Plans

The construction of duplex units appeared inevitable this week as planners for the proposed $250,000 fraternity court attempted to match needs with available funds. Tentative plans for the duplex system will be submitted to the Fraternity Committee within the next week. These plans provide large dining and recreation areas for each fraternity, separated by kitchen facilities and quarters for resident housemothers. Two key problems face fraternity and administration leaders as they plan for the new court. The most evident of these is financial. At the present time, the college is unable to finance the construction of individual units on a new court. Unless a source of financial aid is discovered, there can be no new fraternity housing if the duplex system is not used. The second problem which must be solved is the disparity in the size of the eleven fraternities now on the campus. The impracticality of building equal facilities for fraternities whose memberships vary from some sixty brothers to as few as twenty is evident. Some system would be necessary for keeping the membership of all eleven fraternities both equal and constant before final plans can be made.

Speed Reading Class Holds First Meeting

The initial meeting of Speed Reading Classes for the second semester was held Wednesday afternoon in Chambers Building. The nature of the course was explained to prospective students. Anyone not at the opening session may join the course by seeing Mrs. Lilly before February 9.

BASKETBALLERS IN LEXINGTON TONIGHT (Page 3)

No. 14 Gift Fund Attains Goal As Hungarian Family Arrives

Istvan Hocsaks Find End To Flight From Soviets

By WILLIE THOMPSON

The special project of the Davidson College Gift Fund became a reality on January 16 when the Istvan Hocsak family from Budapest, Hungary arrived on the Davidson campus. The family includes Istvan, age 28, his wife Rosa, their son Steve, who will be three years old on February 26, and Istvan’s mother, Rosalie. The Hocsaks were met at 9:00 a.m., on Wednesday, January 16 at the railway terminal in Charlotte after an all-night trip from Camp Kilmer, New Jersey. On Monday, January 28, they moved into the house on Main Street which was formerly occupied by Dr. Olin Puckett and family. Istvan is a graduate of the University of Budapest with a degree in electrical engineering, and since graduation has had four years of employment experience in his profession. He plans to continue work in this field as soon as he has acquired a more complete use of the English language. Istvan was well-known at the University for his exploits in inter-collegiate swimming, excelling in both free-style and the backstroke. He has expressed an interest in helping Coach Thompson with the Wildcat swimming team. Mrs. Hocsak was an elementary school teacher in Hungary and handled instruction in physical education as well. The Hocsaks are members of the Reformed Church of Hungary which is Calvinist Presbyterian. They were brought to the United States through the efforts of the Church World Service in New Windsor, Maryland.

SECRET POLICE

When the Hungarian revolt began in late October, Istvan helped in the seizure of members of the secret police, many of whom were trying to escape in plain clothes from Budapest. Later, when the tide of revolt had turned and the secret police were again in reasonable control of internal affairs, Istvan knew that his family would be in danger and made immediate plans for escape. On December 4 the entire family left Budapest in a company truck which Istvan used in connection with his local job. They encountered no trouble at the border, and from there they made their way to Austria.

(Continued on Page Four)

Masquers to Present ‘Gramercy Ghost’

The Red and Black Masquers will present a two-act comedy, “Gramercy Ghost”, by John Cecil Holm, Thursday and Friday of the Mid-winters dance weekend. The play made a successful run on Broadway in 1951. Gramercy Park is the setting for the play. A young girl, Nancy Willard (played by Carol Sherrill), inherits a ghost (Harry Pascal) who cannot go to heaven. Parker Burnett, Nancy’s fiancé (George Kemmerer), and Charley Stewart (Harold Hall) also play major roles. Nancy’s housekeeper, Margaret (Mrs. Paul Marrotte) is another character that becomes involved in the “ghostly” affair. The other characters and actors are: Officer Morrison, Ray Craig; Luther Ames, (Hugh Craig); two other ghosts, Ray Atkinson and Frank Norris; and ambulance drivers, Stewart Fountain and Bob Hoagland. Professor Tyson will direct the play, assisted by Harold Hall and George Kemmerer, student directors. John Crawford is in charge of the settings and the lighting is being done by Bob Hoagland. “Gramercy Ghost” will be given at 7:30 in Chambers Auditorium, February 13th and 14th. Individual tickets will be 75 cents and date tickets 50 cents.

IFC Committee Alters Belk Rooming System

To eliminate numerous confusing problems that have been imposed upon Mrs. Little and her assistant chaperones on previous dance weekends, the IFC composed a committee to formulate a new policy for Mid-Winters. The committee, led by Don Massey and working together with Treasurer Martin, Dean Spencer, Dan LaFar, and Mrs. Little, took into consideration the feelings of all students in devising the practical solution which follows. Residents of Belk may reserve their own particular bed for their own date. Non-residents of Belk will not be allowed to reserve any particular bed; however, they may register for a place in Belk. To reserve his bed, a resident of Belk must sign the prescribed list on the College Union desk between noon Monday, Feb. 11, and noon Tuesday, Feb. 12. Failure to comply with this rule will place the Belk resident in the status of a non-resident. Non-residents must sign both their name and their date's name for places in Belk between 6:00 p.m., Tuesday, Feb. 12, and noon Wednesday, Feb. 13, at the Union desk on a “first come, first served” basis. Non-residents must understand that registering guarantees their dates a place in Belk; however, the date’s specific room and bed will be assigned upon her arrival. The space for non-residents will be limited to the number of beds remaining unreserved by Belk residents, along with any extra third beds that may be placed in the rooms. The amount of available space for non-residents will be known by Feb. 12 at 6:00 p.m. All students who have signed either of the prescribed lists must notify Mrs. Little or one of the Belk chaperones if their date is unable to come, or be subject to a fine of $3.00. Copies of the rule changes will be posted.

Cunningham To Serve On Fellowship Board

Dr. John R. Cunningham goes to Atlanta, Ga. Tuesday where he will serve on a committee for the Rockefeller Brothers Theological Fellowship Program. Dr. Cunningham will be joined in this group by Dr. Benjamin May, President of Morehouse College, Dr. J. A. Jones, President of Union Theological Seminary and Dr. Branscomb, Chancellor of Vanderbilt University.