ONLY FOURTEEN DAYS TILL HOMECOMING — The Davidsonian

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

WILDCATS TAKE ON VMI TOMORROW

VOL. XLVI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, OCTOBER 11, 1957 No. 4

FRESHMEN RIOT

This is a familiar scene of the Class of ‘61 as it engages in one of this year’s water battles.
The riots usually start in front of Belk Dorm. Above the crowd gathers behind Cannon. Note the boy with a
can of water in the upper left. The absence of freshmen hats is obvious.

PREDICTS WORLD WAR

Dr. Koo Afraid That U.S. “Faces Big Problem”

By HOWARD PERSINGER

After a year’s lapse between visits to the Davidson campus, Dr. T. Z. Koo, Chinese artist, sage, prophet, and statesman,
returned again prophesying World War III in 1960. Many of the Davidson students remember Dr. Koo's Chapel talk last year
in which he stated that by 1960 the industries of the Communist world would be far enough advanced to wage
a war on the free world.

Once again in an interview after his recent visit, Dr. Koo is quoted as saying that the technological advances in
Russia’s space satellite and intercontinental missiles now have given Russia a big advantage and that “to save America now is
a pretty big order.” Dr. Koo stated that the only hope for peace is disarmament, and he implied that since
Russia now has the “upper hand,” this hope is all but bright.

In discussing other topics of public interest, Dr. Koo remarked that the “Little Rock situation” has been politically bad for
the United States. Many of the Middle East countries, whose people approach the same color as the American Negro, are
thrown in opposition to the treatment that the Negroes are receiving in Little Rock and other places where integration is
being attempted.

“But,” said Dr. Koo, “we who are on the outside of the United States, do not blame you for your
racial problems, for even India and China have had similar problems. The important thing is the making of headway toward
a solution and the dealing with such problems in a rational way. The bad part about racial problems is the
emotion which is always involved and emotion is a disturbing element which must be curbed.”

FORMOSA

When asked about the future of Formosa, Dr. Koo stated that “internally Formosa was stable with a fair degree of
prosperity. In relation to the Mainland it still remains to be seen whether the Chinese Nationalists will return to the
Mainland as the conquerors or the conquered.” Dr. Koo said further that Formosa stands as a tremendous psychological impact to
the free world and to the Communists in that “it is one of two centers of anticommunist feelings.”

Dr. Koo, a visiting professor at Bucknell University and former Secretary of the World's Student Christian Federation, has long been
a leading figure in the spiritual life of the world. From his Federation headquarters in Geneva, Switzerland, he has traveled
extensively on every continent and visited the great majority of the countries of the world.

Born, raised, and educated in China in the city of Foochow, Dr. Koo entered the service of the Chinese Young
Christian Association in 1917. During this time of expansion and consolidation of Christian student work in China, his forth-right Christian
principles in international relations brought him world-wide recognition.

WORLD FRIENDSHIP

Dr. Koo has done much to bring the diverse peoples of the world to a greater understanding and appreciation of
each other's culture and manner of life. He first came to the United States in 1921 and returned again in
1945 as a delegate to the United Nations World Conference. Dr. Koo plans to leave in December for a tour
of Formosa, Japan and other countries of the East.

Students’ Hero Has Peanuts

“Your campus is full of peanuts!” Now, a declaration like that coming from a man from Minneapolis, could be good
or bad—depending upon whether or not you were in the peanut business. But this Minnesotan wasn’t referring to the kind
of peanuts you eat. He meant little folk, youngsters. He calls them all “peanuts.”

“Why, peanuts are the grandest people in the world,” says Charles M. Schulz. “All children are peanuts, even mine; they
are delightful, lovable, funny, and entirely unpredictable.”

Mr. Schulz should know. He is the creator of the “Peanuts” comic strip being distributed throughout the world by United
Feature Syndicate, a strip which has won phenomenal popularity and, for Mr. Schulz, the 1956 Cartoonist of the Year Award
of the National Cartoonist Society. Mr. and Mrs. Schulz have four “peanuts” of their own, “And there’s no better way
to learn about children than to live with them,” Mr. Schulz said.

Since 1950, when the strip was started, “Peanuts” has generated a constant flow of fan mail. There was the young
woman in San Francisco, for example, who wrote: “I know you are going to think this is silly, but whenever
I have occasion to refer to my hoped-for first born, I call him Charlie Brown. I will undoubtedly name him
Charlie Brown.” (Charlie Brown is one of the principal characters in “Peanuts.”)

The lovable little characters in “Peanuts” have captured the hearts of American college students, too. The editor of the Whittier
College (Calif.) campus newspaper wrote: “‘Peanuts’ is the comic strip of the century.” And from Duke University’s student editor came
the comment: “‘Peanuts’ has won the hearts of Duke students.”

A top New York publishing house thought so much of the “Peanutian” idea that it put out a 150-page book
which includes about 300 episodes in the lives of the “Peanuts.” It sold in the thousands and proved so popular
that two more “Peanuts” comic books have since been published. Peanuts has now come to Davidson.

Dr. Davis To Lead The Vesper Service

Sunday night, October 13, will be one of the biannual communion services. Dr. George Staples stated that the communion meditation
will be led by Dr. C. Grier Davis, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church in Asheville, North Carolina. Dr. Davis
has made many trips to the Davidson campus. He has spoken here on numerous occasions, and is a member of
the Board of Trustees.

Cabinet Retreats To Montreat

The YMCA Cabinet will hold its annual retreat this weekend at Montreat. Seventeen persons will participate including President Lloyd Chapin
and Dr. Staples. Its purpose is to bind the Cabinet closer together, thereby instilling a spirit of unity.of cooperation in
the members. The Cabinet will discuss the goals and objectives of the “Y” for this year and how the YMCA
can become more effective. The members plan to examine the “Y's” role as a religious organization on the campus. The
group will discuss whether to continue their affiliation with the national YMCA organization or whether to become affiliated with some
other similar organization. Another possibility the Cabinet will consider is that of becoming an independent body.

The YMCA has replaced last year's 1953 Ford, which was badly damaged in an accident last June. The new four-door,
green, 1956 Chevrolet will be used primarily for the activities of the YMCA. These will include deputations and meeting speakers
and visitors who are brought to the campus. Students serving in leadership capacities in Scout troops and in the Community
Service Program at the Negro Community Center will also have access to the car.

Vesper Communion
Cooley, and Clay Robertson. Also elected were Hugh Barger, Tommy Parker, Mike Grant, Tommy Covington, Tom Mainor, Ed Garrett, Gray
Webber, Lu Harvin, and Tom Barnett.

PETER STERLING
Peter Sterling has been chosen by the Publications Board as business manager of “Quips and Cranks.” Sterling, a junior, succeeds
Ken Forrester who resigned recently because of conflicting activities. As the financial head of “Quips and Cranks,” Sterling is responsible
for the advertising in the annual. He has already begun the task of contacting last year's advertisers and looking for
new ones. Sterling's planning includes executing the staff's budget.

Mayfield To Head Circulation Dept.
Lee Mayfield has been appointed head of the DAVIDSONIAN circulation staff. Mayfield is a junior from Cairo, Georgia, and a
member of Alpha Tau Omega social fraternity. He replaces Marshall Chapman who has held this post for the last two
years. Mayfield is responsible for distributing papers to the student body and to parents, alumni, and friends of the college
who have subscribed. THE DAVIDSONIAN has a circulation of approximately 1800.

Committee Narrows Field For Presidency
Trustees May Decide
“Ten or twelve or maybe as many as fifteen men” are now under consideration for the Presidency of Davidson College
replied Reverend Fred Stair in answer to the question posed by a DAVIDSONIAN staff member in a special telephone interview.
The noted minister and member of the Trustee Committee to select a new President revealed that the list of eighty
men suggested to fill the post vacated by Dr. Cunningham has now been narrowed to about a dozen names.

As to the time of the selection of a new leader, Mr. Stair seemed satisfied to say that it would
be some time between Christmas and Commencement.

William J. Martin IV
William Martin IV, Davidson Class of '67, was fatally injured in an automobile accident yesterday while en route from Raleigh
to Ft. Benning, Ga. The accident happened near Augusta, Ga. Bill Martin was from Louisville, Kentucky, and attended prep school
at Taft Boys School in Waterbury, Conn. He graduated from Davidson last May, where he had majored in French. While
active here at Davidson, he was a member of Sigma Upsilon literary fraternity and Beta Theta Pi social fraternity. He
was also editor of the Wildcat Handbook in 1956-57 and held a high position in the ROTC cadet regiment.

Funeral services for Bill Martin will be in the family plot at the old cemetery on Main Street here in
Davidson. The service will probably be graveside rites. A definite time is uncertain pending release of the body from the
Army.

Several members of the present Davidson faculty have been questioned by the Committee, but the Hickory minister declined to indicate
just who they were. He did state that Acting President Pietenpol has definitely refused to let his name be considered
as a possible candidate for the permanent position.

Tentative Plans
No definite time has been decided upon for the next meeting of the selection committee. There is a tentative plan
to convene at an unnamed spot on October 15. However, Dr. James A. Jones, a member, may be in Portugal
at that time and thus the meeting would be scheduled for a month later. Reverend Stair closed the interview by
complimenting the committee on its hard and efficient work, and by praising the spirit of cooperation of Davidson alumni in
this matter.

Good Attendance
Stair cited the near-perfect attendance of the members of the committee at their dozen or more meetings. He said that
he is pleased by the interest and reaction of people concerned with this choice and that this shows the typical
Davidson spirit in action. “Our alumni love the College and are glad to be helpful in its affairs.”

Many suggestions have been made, but no one has attempted to force his ideas upon the committee.

Fourteen Guilty
The Court of Control met in its initial session on Monday evening at 7:30 in the Blue Room of the
College Union. In a series of hearings, fourteen upperclassmen were found guilty of violating the freshmen regulations, while one man
was acquitted on the grounds of mistaken identity. Judge Phil Lewis repeatedly emphasized to those on trial the constructive effect
of the freshmen regulations in orienting freshmen to the discipline of life in the college community. He particularly related the
necessity for the suppression of immature acts associated with pre-college days. The freshmen appeared to understand the purpose of the
court, and only a few had objections. Several boys thought the method of reporting violations should be changed. Sentences varied
from cleaning football shoes to wearing signs which noted a particular violation. A number of men were asked to make
trips to the snack bar for entire halls of upperclassmen.

Pregnant Pause
The group of freshmen summoned to appear before the Court of Control await the appointed time, outside the Blue Room
of the College Union.

Two Donations Received For Books
Davidson has received two funds, amounting to approximately $9,000 per year, to be used for buying books for the library.
One $25,000 fund, named after its donor, Margaret Clayton Thompson, is to be spent over a period of three years.
In effect, this fund doubles the allotments given each department for new books. The Faye Ross Dwelle Fund, given by
Mr. Ned Dwelle, a member of the Class of 1932, provides between $600 and $800 per year. These two funds
will be used solely for the purchase of books and magazines.

P.O. Box Numbers
Students should not stock up on stationery with their Post Office box numbers printed on it, the Davidson Post Office
advised today. Because the present Post Office will be moved to a new location around the first of next year,
many boxholders will be assigned new numbers. Officials said, however, every effort will be made to keep the same numbers.
They also reminded students to advise their correspondents of the proper box number. This facilitates the handling of mail.
