Clean the following OCR text, preserving original meaning and punctuation:

PAGE SIX Cats Meet Citadel Here Davidson ay Third Victory Following With two victories under their belts, the Davidson football
squad prepares}. .to‘meet The Citadel’s Bulldogs tomorrow afternoon in the season’s first game on|”. 1 =» Y Sportstuft GEORGE RAMSEY
— Soa THE DAVIDSONIAN s in 1 By BILL HELLIER = Over ECC the Wildcats’ home field. After an unimpressive
... With the World Series fever gripping the coun- try, it’s only appropriate that one of the foremost mem- bers
of the Davidson family give us a first hand report tie) Charleston promise to be one, that the Wildcats met
last year, with Newberry and an upset! of the best teams Davidson will|The Citadel boasts a fast back- victory over
powerful George! face all year. Washington, the Bulidogs from| Essentially the same team|most part of seasoned sopho- field and line
composed for the mores and ‘juniors. The speedy of the scrap for baseball supremacy. So look for a DAVIDSONIAN SPECIAL
next week—"“Doc” White cov- | £. ers the Series! PRIDE RETURNS . . . Lost in the commotion of the
Series, Rush Week, soccer season, etc., it has been little noticed that one of the Wildcats’ “prides” returns to the
campus tomorrow. Pride Ratterree, last year’s line coach, returns in the capacity of assistant coach to Eddie Teague at The
Citadel. _. The Carolinas’ top pre-season All-American pro- spect has been Charlotte's own Roy ‘Hord. now the rock of fourth-ranked
Duke's forward wall. In case you wandered down to the cross country area this afternoon. expecting a thrilling duel between
the Wildcats, V.M.L. and W. & L.. and found nothing. a bit of explanation is in order. The Virginians were
cam- x ~ - - wa i) WILOCAT SCATBACKS Ralph Setzler (left) and Paul ‘has shown surprising ability backfield will
be led by quart- erback Bob Schwarze, who is doing his third year of signal calling. TOP LINE However, Coach
Bill Dole wall be pitting one of the best lines the has had against the Bull- |dogs and is counting
heavily fon his young backfield which ham. (Photo by Ed Stevens.) and co-ordination. East Carolina College fell be- fore the
onslaught of David- son’s rushing forward wall, 19-6, on a muddy, rain-drenched field ot Greenville last Saturday FRIDAY, OCTOBER 4,
1957 - a PUTTING THE FOOT to the soccer ball and the 1957 soccer season are four stand- outs on
this year's Wildcat crew. Left to right, John Kuykendall, Ed Irvin, Gordon Neville and Pete Andrews aim their shots at
Ouke’s Blue Devils in this afternoon's opener at Dur- Soccer Squad, Meets hight. ‘The slow wet turf dras- tically cut
the evasiveness of halfbacks Paul Barbee = and ul e i ener 0 a Ralph Setzler and also the ef-!
ia fective passing of Charlie Ben- pused by the doctor because of a sickness resembling on Richardson Field. Barbee head
a potent Davidson infantry unit as the ‘Cats play host to The Citade! tomorrow afternoon at 2 o'clock son. Against
a well positioned defense, the ‘Cats were un- able to gain much yardage during the first half, Their ~ —
<— FOOTBALL GUESSING CONTEST tone tally during the first two periods came shortly following an alert intercep- tion by Davidson’s
center, The opening of another school year brings with it the oa, ; _.. Name Bill Price. Halfback Paul inevitable
desire of students the Davidson athletic program as the Wildcat squad HORD WHITTLE RATTERREE THOMAS Barbee plunged 6 yards for
oe oi rtnan chat of the varsity; travels to Durham where they meet the potent Duke the T.0. N eer
i" ; i : Asian flu. The meet has been tentatively re-scheduled for Reom P. 0. Box With little more
than a min-|{¢2ms- This desire. is fulfilled team this afternoon at 3:00 p.m. November 6. HOME TEAM VISITING TEAM ute
remaining in the half, ECC’s through the interfraternity Optimistic Coach J. W. Me- : seg : P : : ’
: sports program, under the di-|Cutchen looks for possibly an defensive ability as their ... All things considered, this year’s
race for V.M.I Davidson James Speight galloped 49 yards! tion of coach Heath Whit- even split in the won and
lost| stronghold fast season. Re- the interfraternity sports trophy should be much Tc U. Alabama inrough the wats defense for!
ie. columns, but is dubious about’ turning fetterman John more interesting than those of the past few years, Ba lor
Arkansas ° es only score. Coach Whittle believes that,chances with the Dukes who Kuykendall leads the futl- during which period
the Phi Delts and Kappa Sigs N a Dame Arm BENSON.TO-WALL this year's program will be ful-!Jolted the locals 9-0
last year. backs, backed up by Phil have held a two-way monopoly on the gold. cup. ° y Taking the
second half kick: ty as successful, if not more so, TWO games with Prieffer, War- Shive, Jim Taylor, and Coach
Whittle forecasts a very successful year Auburn Kentucky off, the Wildcats marched 70/than that of last year. _ren Wilson, and
Washington Peter Powell. ° y , Boston U. West Virginia yards to paydirt with an 11) -A meeting of the
sports;and Lee, plus single tilts with pom Warren Wilson California Nav yard pass from Benson to end|managers of each fraternity:
Duke. North Carolina, and North ioe Kwan : HOOP PRACTICE ; cacy Craig Wall climaxing the drive.| wash ight to
Carolina State compose this Koogie” Kwan comes to bol You basketball fiends can start loosening up, Wofford Citadel 8 g
was held on Thursday night to “" Ut. ster the halfback line along 7 ; f h Tom Scott that
- , Virginia Clemson The sharp, tackling of Dave decide on several matters of; Year'sNine-game slate. With Sam Smith, Pete
Andrews, and Charlie Reed, and Bob Hoag- tice will open on the fifteenth. Aiming to give opposing teams a rough
time are Ross Smyth, Gordon Neville, Frank Irvin, George Sutcliffe, John Scott, Dave Irvin, Mike Laughlin, and John Keiter. Look
for the football crowd tomorrow to include some 250 cadets from Mark Clark’s school for boys in Charleston. Also on
hand will be the Summerall Guard, a crack drill team who will perform, without commands, at halftime.

Experience is the key to improvement over last year's team despite the loss of Freddie Butler, goalie, who obtained honorable
mention in the Southern Conference in 1957. Coach Whittle hoped that the managers would also vote to give a separate
trophy to the fraternity having the most men on varsity teams during the year. This would eliminate a fraternity gaining
points toward the sports cup by having men on varsity teams. He also thought that a trophy should be given
to the fraternity showing the best sportsmanship in flickerball, basketball, and softball, the three major sports in the program.

The biggest single aid this season has been the assistance of Professor Marrotte, giving more time to the attention of
fundamentals. Coach McCutchan stated that with two coaches each boy is getting more individual attention.

"WILDCAT DAY"

True Wildcats from hither and yon will assemble on campus tomorrow for the first annual “Wildcat Day,” an event sponsored
and planned by Wildcat Club President Charlie McCrary (24) and his board of directors.

All entries for THE DAVIDSONIAN Football Guessing Contest must be placed in the ballot box at the Union desk not
later than 6 p.m., next Friday, October 11. To indicate your choice for the winner of each game, circle either
team of each pair. Be sure to fill in your guess for the total points scored by all teams, as
this will be used to determine the winner, in case of a tie. Each reader is limited to only one
entry per week. The winner of the first weekly contest will be announced in next week’s DAVIDSONIAN.

Three closing out-on-a-limb predictions: Davidson 13, Citadel 7; 1957 Back of the Year: Oklahoma's Clendon Thomas; Lineman of the Year:
Iowa’s Alex Karras.

Sure are lots of fads and fancy stuff to smoke these days. Look ‘em over — then settle down with
Camel, a real cigarette. The exclusive Camel blend of costly tobaccos has never been equaled for rich flavor and easygoing
mildness. Today, more people smoke Camels than any other cigarette.

So good and mild... the finest taste in smoking! B. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, Winston-Salem, N.C.

Your favorite button-down, the Arrow Glen, is now styled in traditional collegiate fashion. It’s offered in feather-soft Arrow Cambridge Cloth—a
new partner in popularity to the classic Oxford. Collar buttons down, front and center back. Full-length box-pleat in back. In
solids, checks, and pencil-stripes. “Sanforized” labeled. From $5.00. Tie $2.50, ARROW—Shirts and Ties.
