EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
FRANKLIN BLOODWORTH

BUSINESS MANAGER
LEON HOWELL

ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Bob Beall

Assistant Editor
Lloyd Chapin, John Trask

Managing Editors
John Johnson

Sports Editor
Bill Bondurant

Feature Editor
John Trotti

Copy Editor

PAGE TWO
Che Aavidsonian

Represented for National Advertising by
NATIONAL ADVERTISING SERVICE, Inc.

SUBSCRIPTION RATE: $2.00 Per Year.
Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

OFFICES IN DAVID OVENS COLLEGE UNION, DAVIDSON COLLEGE

JIM BATTEN
Assignments

BOB CARMICHAEL
Bob Lathan

Advertising Manager
Bob Majors

Circulation
Bob Austin, Marshall Chapman, Tom DuPuis

Photographer
Hank Daniel

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 1957

A. B. Goes Back To Bed

Getting faculty approval for a change in the archaic degree requirements is sadly reminiscent of the futile attempts to ram the League of Nations through the Senate in 1919. Almost everybody agrees that a change is definitely in order, but nobody can agree on what form it should take. And so the status quo gets saved by the bell.

One of the main catch-points is the argument that if the classical language requirement for an arts degree is removed, it would sound the ultimate death knell for the Latin and Greek departments. It seems to us that no department should have to depend on an artificial support to fill its classrooms. Students are quick to recognize and avail themselves of a good department offering well-taught courses, whether they be required or unrequired.

Now that the faculty has deadlocked, the issue will probably be quietly put back to bed, to remain there until somebody musters the energy to scream sufficiently to arouse the argument again. In the meantime, a ridiculously small handful will continue to receive their AB’s and the devotee of Bobbie Burns will step up alongside the man who specialized in organic synthesis as they are tendered their bachelor of science degrees. In this respect Davidson remains the laughingstock of the academic world.

Baby Doll—Much Bull

For those who have not been fortunate enough to view the latest Hollywood eyebrow raiser, “Baby Doll,” it is debatable whether you should be advised to invest your time and money in this two-hour harangue. Elia Kazan, artful director and creator of stars, unveils a new “sensation” in Carroll Baker and, if he does nothing else, proceeds to have her drawl and crawl her way through a picture which has drawn a multitude of varying comments.

To you and me, however, the enjoyment (if any) is seriously impaired by the not too subtle slaps that it takes at the “pore ole South.” Degenerate, dirty, and dumb people flit through a movie that is so unrealistic that few, if any, of us have ever seen conditions that approximate the film.

“Baby Doll” is the story of a broken-down cotton gin and the man who operates it. We are allowed to see the frenzy of a man who is caught in the midst of losing his wife and his cotton business to a syndicated foreign concern and its shrewd manager.

In the old abandoned fields of the deep South you may see them—the lonely chimneys... of old brick or stone... of sticks and mud, decaying at the onslaught of the rains. They stand like tombstones marking something that has died... a hope, a dream, an effort of sweat and toil. Sentinels they become, each with a story to tell. Here a heart broke, there bitterness and despair overcame energy and determination, yonder the boll weevil came and it was no use anymore. They become witnesses to the fact one night that it was too much, and he packed to join the trek to Dee-troit or Ack-run.

This is the story and it has all the elements of human conflict and pathos that are necessary to construct a great drama. Signs of progress, products of evolution; they have been accepted and understood by the South. Then Hollywood and its Yankee sentiment writers paint a picture that speaks of the whole South in terms of illiteracy, intolerance, and sensualness. There is the inevitable and exaggerated drawl, garbage in the yard, and a decaying Southern mansion. And this is the way they handle the epic of progress and change. Tennessee Williams’ realism is distorted beyond recognition in the celluloid version.

It is met not by sympathetic understanding of a difficult situation, not with an unprejudiced portrayal of anything other than a small segment of this society, but with the same high-handed, superior attitude with which all the problems of the South are generally received. There is little question that the South has a long way to go to be to the educational, cultural, and economic levels it has the potential to reach. There should also be little question that it has come a tremendously long way, more often than not with only negligible help.

In “Baby Doll,” Carroll Baker spent about half her time in a dirty slip, only to appear at the end in a fine velvet dress, drawn on over the slip. If this is symbolic, then it is perhaps accurate, although it rankles. But we are now in the process of washing our dirty slips. The South is mustering the best it has to eliminate the worst it has. Toward this end we are making progress. And a supercilious North could well begin to wash its own slips and leave ours to us. We'll get there, thanks.

—F.L.H.

Hungarians A Hit On Campus

It was apparently a case of love at first sight as far as Davidson and the Steve Hocsak family are concerned. Their arrival during exams climaxed a movement which gathered momentum last November as refugees poured out of Hungary seeking asylum from Russian oppression.

We are uncommonly fortunate to secure a family of the Hocsak’s caliber. Keenly intelligent and cultured, friendly, and anxious to adjust to their new life, the family has already made remarkable progress in overcoming the language barrier and establishing a home here. The sincere and personal warmth of the welcome they have received from both individuals and groups in the community has been gratifying to see, and is a real tribute to Davidson and the Hocsaks as well.

These people are especially anxious to get to know the students and become their friends. Now that they are situated in the old Puckett home on Main Street, they are looking forward to having student visitors. A phone call beforehand to ensure that a visit is convenient would probably be advisable. It is important for the student body to continue to extend its friendship and interest in the Hocsaks. Getting to know them should prove a reciprocally beneficial proposition.

EX-COMMISSIONER OF INTERNAL REVENUE SAYS

Present Income Tax Law Should Be Replaced With New System

By JACK KERR

Among those individuals who are advocating repeal of the federal income tax on the ground that it has become too complicated and too erratic in its application is Mr. T. Coleman Andrews, ex-commissioner of Internal Revenue and ex-candidate for the Presidency of the United States. Mr. Andrews bases his program on the contention that taxes are too high and that the present income tax law is neither fair nor necessary. He assumed that the only ways in which business activities can be financed are through savings and through Government handouts. It is the latter to which he is violently opposed. His conclusion is that the evils of the income tax law lie with its similarity to the “Communist Manifesto” in that it contains the idea of “from each, according to his ability to each according to his needs.” There are people with a lot of knowledge, and instead of a tax climate that encourages achievement on one's full potentialities, the U.S. has laws in which the reward for outstanding performance is forced down as performance goes up.

Mr. Andrews proposes a tax program that will shift the tax burden from the people to other sources for revenue. He states that this could be accomplished by repealing tax privileges on personal deductions for charity, capital gains and other exceptions to the regular tax laws. If this were repealed the government would have access to 13 billion dollars not now available. In 1956, the government expected to...

In the old Student Body Constitution there was included a “point system,” under which boys were limited in the number of campus offices they could hold concurrently. This provision was dropped from the revised constitution on the grounds that the limitation was not enforced and that the evaluation of some offices was out of date and unbalanced.

There has been talk, recently, of reviving this point system, revised and enforced, for...Raise 52.2 billion dollars and of that, the major part, 31.2 billion, was to come from individual taxes. With this 13 billion dollar increase in revenue, the Government could decrease personal income tax by 40 percent and thereby relieve the people in the $6,000 to $20,000 income group. Such a program looks good at first sight, but Mr. Andrews fails to answer the question as to how our Government is going to finance its increased expenditures. The Federal Government now spends approximately 75 percent of its revenue on national defense due to the present world situation. There is no doubt that the American Government has expanded its activities. Yet there is no demand for abandoning social security and MR ANDREWS PLAN TAX RELIEF 30% OF REVENUE SOURCES. It is certain that no Congressman will vote for the repeal of the Social Security Act. This change in the theory of government from one of conservatism to one of liberalism has further implanted the Government's position as a more active element in the economy. It has taken on bigger tasks that cost more, and when services cost more, the individual must share the burden of its cost; therefore, I can see no logical method of how such a proposal of eliminating 40 percent of individual income tax could be possible when in fact the government continues to expand its services which must be paid for in some way.

CARL COOPER

Persistent Questions Concern Religion

Some of the most persistent campus questions which the individual student confronts, whether in the solitude of his dorm room, at the weekly vespers service, or in a car talking with fraternity brothers en route to Charlotte, have to do with the significance and worth of religion.

NEED FOR FAITH

Many students find it difficult to accept the idea that it is important and necessary for them to have a personal religious faith. Others, recognizing their need for religion, have difficulty making contact with God and incorporating religious faith into their daily living. Others fail to see why Christianity rather than some other religion should be the avenue to God. Still others, professing a genuine faith, feel an inadequate knowledge of the doctrines of Christianity and their implications. The Winter Services, combining the traditional Spring and Fall Services into a single, longer religious emphasis week, aim to respond to what we believe is a current student need. Four visiting speakers will discuss undiluted religion for three-and-a-half days, the very thought of which may appall some students. Many of us, however, feel that too few of our religious programs deal with the nature of religion itself and the nature of the Christian doctrines in which we profess belief. Ambitiously, and surely presumptuously, we intend to delve into problems ranging from the Biblical interpretation of history all the way to the Biblical view of God, man, ethics, and redemption. Believing that the Bible has value not only as a historical record but also as a guide for Christians of every era, the Services propose to consider the ways in which Biblical faith is practical. One of the afternoon seminar discussions, for example, is entitled, “Can a Nation Turn the Other Cheek?” Does the Christian ethic have merely a personal connotation or can it be applied to foreign policy as well? A student who finds nothing of interest among these topics would probably consider a visit to outer space dull.

FROM THE TOP of the DOME with TOM MORGAN

The rigors of exam week over, and the usual mid-semester break taken, despite calendar listings to the contrary, the average Davidsonian was found heading back for the “Phi Bete Hall” only to find in many cases his cherished abode of endeavor overtaken by hordes of indignant wasps. The library staff was alarmed, Crawford grabbed the Flit and rushed to the rescue of second and third floor dwellers. However, the miracle of DOT proved no match for our animal friends’ “waspish” endurance. The “Curator” of the Woodrow Wilson Collection was summoned. He guaranteed to rid the structure of its infestors in the usual kindly Davidson fashion. Here’s hoping he succeeds. Carrel holders are tired of killing their daily dozen of the flying menaces.

While we are on the subject of the library staff, they are due for commendation and recognition which they seldom receive. How else would all the freshmen get their handbooks completed or upperclassmen find the necessary sources to fill out the bibliography of a research paper? Sure, they get pretty upset when someone turns the Periodical Room into a chicken coop or builds a snowman in the elevator, but what would you expect? On the whole, they give us unselfish, conscientious, and efficient service.

For years now we have been complaining about Vespers Speakers. When the list for this semester was published in the bulletin last week, I felt that there had come a time for rejoicing. The entire list is commendable with no really weak links. Some of the standouts in my mind are Eugene Carson Blake, John Oliver Nelson, Ernest Gordon, James T. Cleland, and Marc Weersing. With interesting and capable speakers provided, many of the problems of compulsory vespers should diminish in intensity.

ALWAYS A TIME

There is a time for peace, and a time for war. There is a time to be silent, and a time to speak. There is a time for laughter, and a time for tears. There is a time for joy, and a time for sorrow. For every age or era, there is a time. What is our time?

NO SWEAT!?

Perhaps. But to sweat not is to act less, And to act less is to acquiesce, And to acquiesce is to think less, And to think less is to become uncreative: And the uncreative are mediocre, And the mediocre are DAMNED. The time has come to speak, not to be silent. The time has come for war, not for peace. The time has come for tears, not laughter. The time has come to mourn and not to make merry. You say: I shall not sweat, I shall be mediocre. GOD says: You must be PERFECT, THE MEDIOCRE ARE DAMNED. You say: But I have believed. GOD says: Yes, but you must also REPENT.

—By Ben Farley

WOULD LIMIT INDIVIDUAL'S ACTIVITIES

Many Extra-Curriculars Show Need For “Point System”

The good of campus government. The old system specified that no student was to hold more than forty points per semester. Thirty points were given to the President of the Student Body, President of the YMCA, Editor of the Davidsonian, and Editor of Quips and Cranks. Twenty-five points were given to the President of the Senior Class, President of the I.F.C., Editor of Scripts 'n Pranks, Business Manager of Quips and Cranks, Business Manager of the Davidsonian, Manager of the Student Store, and Freshman Adviser. Fewer points were awarded for other offices, such as Judge of the Court of Control, Manager of Sports, President of the “D" Club, President of Social or Honorary Fraternity, Member of the YMCA Cabinet, etc. No provision was made for appointive jobs or high rank in the ROTC, even though these might entail more work than some activities listed. The old constitution stated that “the purpose of this Point System is to make for greater efficiency in the administration of student affairs.” The greater efficiency was to come from the concentration of boys on doing fewer jobs better, and from the delegation of authority to more boys so they would take an active interest in student affairs. There is a definite attitude on campus that since someone has done a certain job before, he can do another one later. This is perfectly natural, for he has already proved himself capable. Unfortunately, this attitude can breed a sort of ‘nobility of office-holding” after about the freshman year. Democratic student government can become an unintended oligarchy with harassed and jaded leaders. Without limitations, some boys become overworked while much good material is never used. To improve the administration of student affairs, I suggest that we restore the Point System, limiting the duties one student may hold concurrently. A committee might be appointed to study the various campus offices and jobs for the purpose of evaluating them. Points would be allotted on the basis of the difficulty of the work and the time consumed. Appointive offices within the YMCA, ROTC, and elsewhere, should be included along with the elective offices to which the former system was limited. A provision should be made for a Point System Committee, which would keep records and enforce the limitation. If such a program is put into effect and enforced, work will be done better, interest will be greater, and the talents of more people will be used. For the benefit of all activities, this revival should be seriously considered.