THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE FOUR Duke Trustees (Continued From Page One) W. S. O’B. Robinson, Dr. W. S. Rankin, Marshall I. Pickens and Thomas F. Hill, all of Charlotte. The trustees had lunch at the college union, heard reports from the college and were conducted on a tour of the campus.

Five per cent of the Duke Endowment was designated for Davidson, and has amounted to an estimated $3 and one half million dollars since its establishment. Dr. Cunningham's citation to the trustees was “in grateful appreciation . . . for their wise and dedicated stewardship in carrying forward the great and generous philanthropy of James Buchanan Duke.” It also honored them “for their continued interest in the educational progress of Davidson College, a Christian institution for the training of students of character, evincing a wholesome and real ambition for life.”

The last quote was taken from a statement by Mr. Duke.

Davidson Mayor F. L. Jackson and Colonel John D. Sapp, chairman of the town’s Safety Council, beam their approval over the installation of the traffic light on North Main Street. Traffic light installation is only a part of an intensive safety campaign climaxed by a three-day educational program this weekend.

Davidson Community Joins In Safety Drive

The entire community of Davidson joins this week in a two-day drive for safety. Sponsored by the Davidson Safety Council, the drive includes visits by officials of the county and state highway departments, demonstrations of traffic dangers and problems, and a survey of the town of Davidson's streets. It began Thursday and will end Saturday. The purpose is to promote safety consciousness, both vehicle driver and pedestrian, through a positive program of safety education. Lt. Col. John D. Sapp, chairman of the council, is overseeing the “cooling off period" before becoming subject to approval. The survey will note blind corners, lights, parking, speed conditions (including the use of whammies), use of signals, the need for one-way streets (if any), the need for student crosswalks and control of speeding drivers within a community.

POSTER CONTEST

The council has solicited the support of civic organizations, and response indicates wholehearted cooperation says Colonel Sapp. The contest is sponsored by the Business and Professional Women’s Club. Mrs. Harold P. Ford will direct operation of the booth, which will offer safe driving pledge cards for both automobile and bicycle operators. Safety literature is being distributed by Davidson students under the direction of Dr. S. R. Spencer, Jr., a member of the Safety Council. Davidson firemen are overseeing a practical safety demonstration.

Two Amendments (Continued From Page One)

Student Body, since there is no specific provision for doing otherwise. At this point Hunter prepared the amendment which, if adopted, would give to the Student Council the power to revise the By-Laws through a 2-3 vote of total membership. Although read to the Student Body Friday, this amendment will likely be given final action in May of this year.

The council was unable to act on the question of a consolidated ballot, pending clarification of its power to amend the by-laws.

Faculty Receives (Continued From Page One)

Appreciation was formally expressed to Professor J. P. Williams who consented to complete the year at Davidson due to the resignation of Professor Fred Morrison. Finally, committees were appointed to find appropriate means of taking note of the deaths of Dr. Walter L. Lingle and Dr. C. K. Brown.

CUNNINGHAM DIRECTS Foundation Gives Aid to World, Home Missions

The Presbyterian Foundation, soon to have Dr. John R. Cunningham as executive director, traces its history from the year 1866. In that year the “Trustees of the General Assembly” was ratified as an incorporated body. This same organization was certified in 1925 by the Secretary of State of North Carolina as the Presbyterian Foundation. The function of the Foundation is to administer funds provided through gift or bequest for any agency of the Church. The chief duty of the organization is the administration of wills. At the present time, more than forty wills are being handled by the foundation. Many more have been disposed of in the past where the funds were not to be held in perpetuity. Bequests will come into the hands of the Foundation in the near future, thereby boosting the amount invested considerably.

One of the most attractive methods of donating money offered by the Foundation is the annuity Bond. By this method, an individual may donate a sum of money to the Foundation, which in turn guarantees him an income from the interest of the capital sum. At the death of the donor, the capital becomes a part of the Foundation’s funds.

The “foundation idea" is not unique to the southern Presbyterian denomination. The Protestant Episcopal, the Presbyterian Church, U.S.A. and the Lutheran Church each have such foundations and have them now on an effective basis.

The Boards of the Presbyterian Church, U.S., have received the greatest benefit from the funds of the Foundation. This is in line with the original intent of the organization to support Christian Education, World Missions, and Home Missions. However, every agency of the Church has at one time or another received direct benefit from the Foundation.

Scholarship Aid Program Shows Increase Since ’48 By GRIER DAVIS

Growing from the establishment of the first Baker Scholarships in 1948, the Davidson College scholarship program now includes twenty-one major scholarships. The three original yearly Baker awards were made possible by a gift of $80,000 from the George Baker Trust of New York City. This amount has been invested and expanded; and, at the present time, ten Baker scholarships are awarded each year.

Five other tuition scholarships were originated in 1954, one William A. Merchant and two Harding Johnson Scholarships and two Dr. and Mrs. Thomas F. Staley Memorial Scholarships, the latter being restricted to candidates for Tennessee. Mr. Eugene T. McEver is co-ordinator of the ROTC unit at Davidson College and will oversee the

Greeks Stage Help Week

Alpha Tau Omega informal initiation proceedings this week featured two afternoons of work at the Barium Springs Orphanage. Here ATO pledges grunt and groan as the local cemetery gets a face-lifting.

LARGEST GROUP

This year the forty-two finalists constitute the largest group ever selected to undergo the weekend of further testing and interviews.Yale Ph.D., on Concord Road and which will in the philosophy of religion. Contestants Last May the General Assembly approved a budget of $25,000 for the foundation. It is understood that this money will be used to establish an office staff in Charlotte which will in turn make the activities of the Foundation known to the public. Dr. Cunningham is expected to play a leading role in this presentation of the aims of the institution.

OPEN HOUSE AT FRATS
Kappa Alpha, Alpha Tau Omega, Campus Club, and Sigma Chi entertained the participants at open house after dinner. The finalists’ second morning on campus consisted of interviews, visits to classes, and a coffee in the Union. Their two-day stay officially closed with lunch.

Chester Field
IT'S FOR REAL!

Calling on a customer coming age of automation through electronics. Since the IBM laboratories are always devising easier and faster ways to solve the problems of science, government, and industry, an Applied Science Representative can never say he’s learned his job and that’s the end of it. At least once every two months, he attends seminars to be updated on the latest developments in engineering and operations research.

Introduces new methods
During the two years that John has spent with IBM in Applied Science, he has guided innumerable IBM customers to new and better ways of doing things electronically. For example: about a year ago, a leading aircraft manufacturer wanted to experiment with a radically different design for a nuclear reactor. Although the basic format had been established, the project still required many months of toil with mathematical equations.

COPYRIGHT 1967 THE COCA-COLA COMPANY

Don’t just sit there! You'll enjoy today’s copy of this publication much more if you'll get up right now and get yourself an ice-cold bottle of Coca-Cola. (Naturally, we’d be happier, too!)

SIGN OF GOOD TASTE
Bottled Under Authority Of The Coca-Cola Company By THE COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD © 1936, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY “Coke” is a registered trade-mark.

Baker Scholars are chosen solely on their merits. The value of each scholarship, however, is determined by the individual's need of assistance and may range from an honorary award without stipend to an award of up to $1,250 per year.

DAVIDSON HONORED
Davidson, in being singled out from among the colleges in this region to administer these Baker scholarships, was given a distinctive honor. The George F. Baker Trust made only five other original grants, going to representative institutions in five other sections: Carleton College in Minnesota; Kenyon College in Ohio; the University of Rochester in New York; Stanford University in California; and Vanderbilt University in Tennessee.

Before the advent of the Baker Scholarships, Davidson had offered grants-in-aid of amounts up to $350 a year. In order to balance the new program, the College set up three yearly Honor Scholarships of intermediate value, which would cover up to full tuition, or $500 per year.

UNION CARBIDE
In 1953 two Union Carbide and Carbon Corporation Scholarships were established for candidates in the Christian ministry. In 1955, a final tuition scholarship was added by the Proctor and Gamble Company. Contrary to popular opinion, the final scholarship awards are not made primarily on the basis of scholastic aptitude, but rather, on the basis of well-rounded interests and abilities.

CLASSICS - POP - JAZZ
YOUR HEADQUARTERS IN CHARLOTTE FOR THE BEST IN RECORDS
PARKER-GARDNER
CHARLOTTE 2, N. C.

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... PIZZA
the famous OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead

What a MATHEMATICIAN can do at IBM
Mathematics is an ancient but ever-advancing science that contains many forms. It shouldn’t surprise you then that it took some time before John Jackson discovered the one brand of mathematics that seemed custom-tailored to his ability and temperament. John is an Applied Science Representative, working out of the IBM office at 122 East 42nd Street, N.Y.C.

The aircraft people decided that they couldn’t afford to wait that long, so they called in IBM. After discussion with top executives, John helped to map out a computer program that saved the organization over 100 days of pencil-chewing, nail-biting arithmetic. Later, for this same company, John organized the establishment of computer systems for aircraft performance predictions, for data reduction of wind tunnel tests, and for wing stress analysis. At the same time, he worked with this company’s own employees, training them in the use of IBM equipment. John still drops around to see that everything is running smoothly.

Another service that John performs is the constant reappraisal of each customer’s IBM operation. Occasionally, a customer may tie himself in knots over a procedural “stickler.” Periodically, in fact, John brings IBM customers together just to talk over what’s happening in each other’s business—how everybody else handled that old bugaboo in any industry... details.

New field for Mathematicians
John is exercising his mathematical know-how in a field that was practically unheard of ten years ago. Even now, this kind of work may be news to you. It was to John Jackson a few years back when he was an undergraduate at the University of Colorado. At that time, he was considering actuarial work or mathematical research. But John liked the excitement and diversification of science and industry and he wanted to use his mathematical background in both of those areas. It was not until he was interviewed by IBM that field computing whetted his scientific appetite. A few months later, John launched his own IBM career as an Applied Science trainee.

Promotion-wise, John has come a long way since that time. He’s now an Applied Science Representative in one of the busiest, most responsible offices in the IBM organization... mid-town Manhattan. With his wife, Katherine, and daughter, Lisa, 20 months, and John, Jr., 6 weeks, he enjoys his suburban Port Washington home. He's happy and he’s satisfied. And then, too, John knows a few vital statistics about IBM... such as the fact that the Applied Science Division has quadrupled during the past three years, and that in 1956 alone, over 70 promotions were conferred. If ever a future held promise, here is one.

IBM hopes that this message will help to give you some idea of what a mathematician can do at IBM. There are equal opportunities for E.E.’s, M.E.’s, physicists and Liberal Arts majors in IBM's many divisions—Research, Product Development, Manufacturing Engineering, Sales and Technical Services. Why not drop in and discuss IBM with your Placement Director? He can supply our latest brochure and tell you when IBM will next interview on your campus. Meanwhile, IBM will be happy to answer your questions. Just write to Mr. P. H. Bradley, IBM, Room 8701, 590 Madison Avenue, New York 22, N.Y.

INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
IBM DATA PROCESSING © ELECTRIC TYPEWRITERS © TIME EQUIPMENT © MILITARY PRODUCTS © SPECIAL ENGINEERING PRODUCTS © SUPPLIES
Phone ED. 2-8257
Charlotte, N.C.