SPECIAL ORIENTATION ISSUE

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 1957

LINE SOLID; QB NEEDED PAGE 2

CLASS OF 1961

Class Of ’61 Arrives For Orientation Period 250-Strong Class Includes 19 Transfers

Approximately two hundred and fifty freshmen who will make up the Class of 1961 arrived at Davidson on Wednesday and Thursday, September 11-12.

New Profs Join College Faculty

Eleven new professors have joined the Davidson College faculty, Acting President Clarence Pietenpol announced. The new professors are Dr. Joseph T. Drake, who is to be Professor of Sociology. Two new Bible professors, the Reverend John B. Evans and the Reverend Woodrow Mc-

OFF TO A HEAD START

Ed Guerrant, of Winchester, Kentucky, got the jump on his fellow members of the Class of ‘61 by being the first to register in the College Union yesterday morning at 8:00 sharp.

Are You Interested in working on the Davidsonian? Sign the List at the Desk in the College Union.

$400,000 PROJECT — Work Begun On Frat Court

Work has already begun on the new Davidson College fraternity court. Ground-breaking for the new project took place around the middle of August.

Davidson Alumnus Is Vespers Speaker

The Rev. F. Wellford Hobbie of the Chatham Presbyterian Church, Chatham, Virginia, will be the Vesper speaker at Davidson College on Sunday evening, September 15. The service, which will be held at 7:30 o’clock in the Davidson College Presbyterian Church, is a feature of the Freshman Orientation period which began on the campus Thursday, September 12.

The Rev. Mr. Hobbie, a native of Roanoke, Virginia, is a Davidson College alumnus, having received the A.B. degree in English and History in 1943. While at Davidson he was student assistant in History; a member of the Y.M.C.A. Cabinet, the International Relations (Continued On Page Two)

Bailey Act As President, Dean

Dr. C. J. Pietenpol, Dean of the Faculty, was named acting President of Davidson College by the Board of Trustees last May. Dr. J. C. Bailey was at the same time named acting Dean of Students. Both men will serve in these capacities until a successor to Dr. John R. Cunningham is named.

Pietenpol brings years of experience to his job. He has been Dean of Faculty here since 1953. Prior to that time he served as special assistant to the President of Washington and Jefferson College from 1943-45. From 1945 to 1946 he served as acting President of Washington and Jefferson College. He joined the Davidson faculty in 1946.

Dean Bailey is likewise well experienced in his post. Dr. Bailey served the College as Dean of Students from 1941 to 1954. His office is currently working jointly with the Y.M.C.A. in the Orientation program.

Mr. D. Grier Martin, Treasurer of the College, said that when the project is completed it will cost in excess of $400,000. The plan is to build twelve houses for the present group of fraternities on campus. Each house will cost about $30,000 when finished. However, the decorating and furnishings will be paid by the fraternities. Mr. Martin said that the new houses will be ready for use by next September.

The new court is located behind Belk Dormitory on the hill that runs from Main Street to the gymnasium. A road has already been cut that makes a half circle from the north side of Belk to the road that runs between the gym and Duke Dormitory. Locations for the particular houses will be decided at a drawing which will be held later this year. Mr. Martin said that names will be placed in a hat and each fraternity will draw for their particular places. This arrangement was used when the present court was first opened.

There are three designs of the new houses. All are similar, with variations in the design of the porch. Each house will have a large living room, dining room, basement, and patio. In addition, there will be a kitchen and quarters for the house mother. Construction has already begun on two of the houses.

DR. PIETENPOL AND DEAN BAILEY

Acting President of the college Pietenpol and Acting Dean Bailey confer on plans for opening the new college year. They are both Davidson graduates.

Dr. James M. Fredericksen will be Associate Professor of Chemistry. In addition to Dr. Fredericksen, Mr. John Huffaker will join the Chemistry staff for the academic year 1957-58.

In the Economics department, Dr. Ernest R. Patterson will be Associate Professor of the department. Professor Walter F. Thompson will become a member of the Department of Business Administration.

The Political Science Department is to be headed by Dr. Winfred P. Minter. Professor William F. Goodykoontz will join the English department as Assistant Professor. He is an alumnus of Davidson. While Professor J. W. Reid is away from the campus for this year, Mr. Richard H. McInvaill will be Visiting Instructor in Geography. Dr. Walter L. Robinson will join the staff of the German department for the coming year as Assistant Professor.

Another alumnus of the college, Mr. Grover C. Meetze, Jr., has joined the staff as Assistant Superintendent of Buildings and Grounds and Instructor of Physics.

To The Freshmen

As you assemble to form the Davidson Class of 1961, we would call your attention to the fact that Davidson College has 120 years of higher Christian education behind it. You are here to add and contribute to the traditions of this college. We welcome you to the campus and extend you our very best wishes for a most successful experience. What you get out of college will depend very largely on what you are willing to put into it. Opportunities will be offered to you which you must grasp. Many may come to you several times but others only once. How you respond to them is in a great sense a test of your maturity.

Obviously, one of the great opportunities which you will have in the months ahead is that of study and learning. Quizzes, exams, and grades are an integral part of education. Certain minimum standards are to be met in order to remain in college. The wise freshmen will never forget that every college expects learning as a prime requisite for ultimate graduation.

College is, however, much more than a library, laboratories, and lectures. Here is an opportunity to make friends, some of whom you may keep for a lifetime. Here, too, you can enthusiastically support your athletic teams and other extracurricular activities. Davidson College seeks to train young men who are Christian gentlemen. I hope that all of you will help in every way to make this college one of which you can always be proud. The Faculty and Administration of Davidson extend

Also present for Orientation are nineteen transfers from other schools. This is twice the number of transfers accepted last year, and one of the largest groups since the influx after the Second World War. All of these men were given the College Board Tests before being accepted at Davidson College.

Slight Increase

College officials noted a slight increase in enrollment over last year’s Freshman Class of 241. Also cited was the increase of North Carolina boys to 136 in the Class of 1961. South Carolina sent 28 of its native sons to Davidson; Virginia, 23; Florida, 19; and Georgia, 17. Ten Freshmen come from the Volunteer State, and five from the Lone Star State. Four Freshmen comefrom Alabama, and an equal number from New Jersey. West Virginia sent three Mountaineers to Davidson. Two new members of the student body come from each of the following states: Arkansas, Mississippi, and New York. The following states are the homes to one Freshman each: Indiana, Kentucky, Louisiana, Missouri, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, and Washington, D.C. We extend to each of you a very warm welcome. We stand ready to do whatever we can to assure you of happiness and success.

Bill Fraley Heads Orientation Program

Two hundred and forty-five new freshmen began their orientation at Davidson College yesterday morning. During the day, from 8 a.m. until 5 p.m., the Class of 1961 arrived on campus and registered in the College Union. Bill Fraley, freshman adviser, and a corps of twenty other advisers helped the new students register, find their dormitory rooms, and pay their college fees.

The 245 freshmen are divided into twenty groups according to interest. Each group is headed by a student counselor and a faculty member serves as an advisor. The orientation period is slated to run for six days. It began yesterday, September 12, and will run until Tuesday, September 17. During this period, the freshmen will be shown every phase of college life. Each morning there will be a chapel program followed by the day’s activities.

Tests Galore

Each freshman will be given various tests such as psychological, math, physical, English, reading, and other special tests. The orientation program is headed by student Bill Fraley of Gaffney, S.C. Fraley is a pre-law student majoring in history. He was a member of the Freshman Council his freshman year and has served on the Student Council during his junior year, and will serve again this year. Fraley was vice-president of the Sophomore Class, and president of the Junior Class. He was elected last spring to be Freshman Adviser.

Dean John Bailey and Assistant Dean of Students, H. E. White, have done a tremendous amount of work planning the orientation period. Dean Bailey is a former Dean of Students who is temporarily back in his old position after the resignation of Dr. Samuel Spencer. Mr. White is a Davidson graduate and has been at the college for the past two years. Both of these men are the guiding forces behind the orientation program.

20 Advisers

The twenty student advisers are Roger Bates, David Bradford, Bill Pomeroy, and John Bernhardt who are in charge of the pre-meds and science majors. Benton, Bob MacRae, and John Kuykendall are advising the engineering students, while Ken Forrester heads the business majors. Lloyd Chapin has the group that plans to be ministers while Roy Gilbert is in charge of the law and teaching students. The greatest number of students are undecided as to their profession. The student advisers for these undecided groups are Ross Smyth, Bob Jones, Barry Ralph, Bright, Sonny Ferguson, Jimmy Jones, Shelbourne Wallace, Lee Hand, Gerald Wilson, and Bill Bondurant. Bruce Wilder is in charge of the transfer students.

42 Pre-Meds

Efforts were made to divide the orientation groups by indicated vocation. Accordingly, there are 42 freshmen who are listed as pre-meds. A dozen are interested in either Medicine or Scientific work, and 28 are prospective engineers. Fourteen freshmen will enter business, and fourteen have indicated their interest in the ministry as their life’s work. Twelve men are interested in either Law or Teaching as a profession. Most of the freshmen, however, are undecided as to their vocational choice.

College officials also noted an increase in the number of boys from the states of Texas and New Jersey, and from the cities of Greensboro, North Carolina, and Jacksonville, Florida. Charlotte and Winston-Salem usually win individual honors as the two cities that sent the most men to Davidson, and have repeated this again this year.

Ten Bakers

Ten freshmen hold Baker Scholarships, and ten were winners of National Merit Scholarships. The latter is a comparatively new scholarship, having been instituted only two years ago. Over 800 of these scholarships are given nationally each year, and Davidson is a leader in the number of men who have won this honor. Other scholarships held by incoming freshmen include two Union Carbide winners, eight Honor Scholarships, one Proctor-Gamble winner, one Curtis B. Johnson holder, and one C. R. Harding scholarship winner.

Members of the Class of ‘61 were introduced to the College in a well-planned orientation program which also included more informal activities such as the Union open houses. Incoming freshmen also took the usual battery of tests: a math test, an English test, a psychological test, and a physical test. The expected enrollment for the entire College this year is anticipated to be about 860 students.

John M. Akers Leads Alumni

John M. Akers of Gastonia, president of Akers Motor Lines, Inc., has been elected national president of the Davidson College Alumni Association, it was announced by John L. Payne, Director of Alumni and Public Relations. Two vice presidents serve the alumni association, and those newly elected are McAlister Carson, Jr., vice president of Carson Insurance Agency of Charlotte; and J. Archie Cannon, Jr., lawyer and immediate ex-mayor of Greensboro.

Mr. Akers received the A.B. degree from Davidson in 1928. He is also president of A. and W. Realty Co., Gastonia; Akers Center Hardware and Supply, Inc., Gastonia; Carolina Transportation Association, Charlotte; and Akers Realty and Sales Co., Atlanta. He is vice-president of A. and W. Rentals, Inc., Gastonia, and treasurer of Trucking Associations, Inc., Washington, D.C., also serving on executive, administrative, and finance committees. He is a director of the N.C. Motor Carriers Association, the National Bank of Commerce, Gastonia, and a member of the Board of Trustees of Queens College, Charlotte, the Gastonia Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce of the United States, and the Gaston Country Club. He is a deacon in the First Presbyterian Church of Gastonia and a member of the Masonic Orders and Oasis Shrine. He served two terms as chairman of the Davidson College Alumni Fund.

Mr. Cannon received a B.S. degree from Davidson in 1931. Soon after earning his law degree from the University of North Carolina, he was assistant solicitor of the Twelfth Judicial District and was then connected with the F.B.I. Department of Justice. He entered private law practice in 1945 and from 1951-1953 he was Special Assistant to the Attorney General. He served as mayor of Greensboro for the term 1955-1957. He is a past president of the American Business Club and the Greensboro-Davidson Alumni Chapter. He is a member of the North Carolina Bar Association, the American Bar Association, and the Greensboro Country Club. He served three years with the Navy Intelligence in the Pacific during World War II. He is an Episcopalian.

Mr. Carson received a B.S. degree from Davidson in 1946. He is a director of the Charlotte Chamber of Commerce, the Y.M.C.A., and United Community Services. He is past president of the Charlotte Kiwanis Club and the Charlotte Association of Insurance Agents. He has served as chairman of the (Continued On Page Two)