ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Assistant Editor Bob Beall
Managing Editors Lloyd Chapin, John Trask
Sports Editor John Johnson
Feature Editor Bill Bondurant
Copy Editor John Trotti

PAGE TWO
The Davidsonian
FRANKLIN BLOODWORTH, LEON HOWELL

Represented for National Advertising by
NATIONAL ADVERTISING SERVICE, Inc.

SUBSCRIPTION RATE: $2.00 Per Year.
Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

OFFICES IN DAVID OVENS COLLEGE UNION, DAVIDSON COLLEGE

JIM BATTEN
BOB CARMICHAEL
Assignments Bob Lathan
Advertising Manager Bob Majors
Circulation Ed Morrisett
Marshall Chapman, Tom DuPuis
Hank Daniel Photographer

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 1957

Council Stand On Elections

A wide-open split between the newly-formed Elections Board and the Student Council appeared in the offing as the Council prepares
to vote Monday night on the hotly-debated proposed changes in the elections system. Tom Morgan, who is chairman of the
Board, is the most outspoken proponent of the two revisions, which provide for balloting for all student body offices and
the three publications to take place in the Union instead of Chapel, and that the elections for the offices listed
will be run off simultaneously on one single ballot.

While the argument rages primarily around the first provision, Morgan finds himself without any support whatsoever on the Board which
he chairs, while Dan LaFar, who has stated from the outset his unalterable opposition, is beset with a Council apparently
determined to push the changes through. So dead set against the change is the Elections Board that individuals composing it
have said privately that they would resign rather than implement the modified system.

The fallibility and unsoundness of both proposals are obvious. Should the polling for principal offices be moved from Chapel, the
probable result would be a decisive and unhealthy decrease in the number of votes cast. The plan’s supporters are quick
to admit this, but say that this method would ensure that votes cast would represent only those who have a
genuine interest and sense of responsibility in selecting the next generation of student leadership, while eliminating the ballot of the
man who votes uncaringly and unthinkingly.

While this in part may be true, we feel that it is the duty of those in control to make
voting as easy and convenient to the voter as possible. The idea of attempting to up the quality of the
electorate by making balloting more difficult is both undemocratic and unsound. It is important that an officer of the student
body or a student editor have a sufficient mandate from the body which he represents in order to effectively and
confidently perform his duties. And certainly the man who is to preside over the enforcement of the Honor System and
Student Body Regulations should go into office with the endorsement of at least a sizable segment of the student body.

In addition, day-long balloting in the Union would encourage the mass voting by fraternities or cliques or the like. Whether
rightly or wrongly, this approach to elections has always been successfully minimized at Davidson, but the proposed system would inevitably
encourage combining.

As for the second proposal, forcing a candidate to choose at the outset between running for a student government post
or an editorship will sooner or later cost student leadership the services in responsible places of highly capable men who
lose the election which they choose to enter, and are then unable to enter the other race. While this type
of conflict is not foreseeable this year, it could easily arise in the future, and the elections system should not
have to be amended when the situation arises.

We ask that the Student Council carefully reconsider its position before the vote is cast Monday night, and that possible
reversal be strongly considered.

An Educator For President

The resignation of Dr. Cunningham has many ramifications and implications. Few people, even on the faculty, can remember when Davidson
was not being guided by his competent and far-reaching hand. Even though students felt that the end of his tenure
was imminent, it is hard to think in terms of Davidson apart from Dr. Cunningham. Truly, he is a part
of the heritage and tradition which he did so much to formulate.

Now the College is faced with the difficult task of selecting a new leader. Dr. Cunningham himself has expressed the
opinion that the main objectives that he projected for himself have been obtained. Would it not be for the best
if the new president had something of a different outlook on the whole program?

To be specific, it appears that Davidson is on an exceptionally sound basis, financially and physically. The faculty, as a
group, is as fine as is found in the South. The greatest area for advancement here lies in the whole
concept of teaching. For this reason, many students have expressed themselves as being in favor of an educator as our
president. And, with sound reasoning, they suggest any one of two or three within the Davidson campus as candidates both
qualified and worthy of the position.

There are logical sequences for arriving at this conclusion. In the first place, a member of the present College Community
not only would have a solid educational background, but would be familiar with the Davidson approach to liberal arts and
ready to work carefully and critically on the program. It is a well-known fact that, with most of the outstanding
members of the faculty having standing offers of more lucrative positions, a particularly unsavory selection could result in a mass
exodus of men Davidson could ill afford to lose. This is only a small element in the total argument.

Following in the wake of a man of Dr. Cunningham’s achievement will be difficult at best. We ask for careful
consideration to a person already dedicated to Davidson, to one who knows Davidson’s strong and weak points and the general
trends of education in general, and who portrays best the trite old phrase, “gentleman and scholar.”—F.L.H

Hell Week And The Regulations

Bunny Perkinson and the Interfraternity Council have assumed the weighty responsibility for the conduct of Hell Week, which got officially
underway today. It is a healthy thing that the program should be student-regulated, and that the Faculty has seen fit
to remain in the background. Student leadership has proved itself capable of dealing out the reforms in initiation procedures which
the temper of the times has demanded.

While the program as set up this year voids practices recently commonplace but now forsaken, no fraternity should have trouble
in planning an effective informal initiation. The essence of what each group feels to be important should be able to
be retained without running afoul the letter or even the spirit of the regulations.

Since this is true, it is of utmost importance that each fraternity take extra pains to ensure that this system
works. While the Faculty seems generally satisfied with the present program, if conscientiously adhered to, it is not inconceivable that
a rigid crackdown would follow any glaring abuse or violation of the system.

Just Us Brothers, Pledge... By Bross

CHAIRMAN OF ELECTIONS BOARD

Student Body Election System Needs Revitalizing Change

By TOM MORGAN
Chairman, Elections Board

At the meetings of the Elections Board and the Student Council on last Monday night I presented proposals for certain
changes in the elections system at Davidson. The Student Council has constitutionally the right to decide what procedure shall be
followed in elections and they adopted both of these proposals. Since some reaction has developed against these proposals and there
is still doubt in the minds of some of the council members I feel that the situation merits an explanation
to the entire student body.

Morgan

Special Polling Places

The first proposal would move the place of balloting from Chambers Auditorium to the College Union. (In lieu of the
Union any strategically located place could be used: e.g. the lobby of Chambers.) At the polls would be set up
desks with members of the Elections Board presiding at them. To vote a member of the student body would go
to the appropriately designated desk, give his name, and receive a ballot. When he received the ballot his name would
be checked off a roster of the entire student body. He would then mark his ballot and deposit it, as
customarily, in the ballot box. The polls would remain open from 10:10 a.m. to 9:00 p.m., so as to allow
sufficient time for every person to vote. The roster of the student body would be divided up alphabetically at different
tables during rush hours to prevent waiting in long lines.

Many Benefits

I feel that this proposal is beneficial for many reasons:
(1) It will allow voting to take place five days a week rather than three as would be the case
if voting took place after chapel.
(2) All possibilities of voting more than once or voting in class elections when one is not a member of
the class would be eliminated. This has occurred in almost all past elections to a small extent and should be
completely eliminated.
(3) To those who say that the percentage ofstudents voting would be cut down by such a proposal, I would
suggest that the vote could rather be increased. A longer period in the day during which voting would take place
would give students who have reviews or some other reason to miss chapel a chance to vote later in the
day. In addition, some disinterested group like ODK could put on a “Get out and Vote” campaign to make students
conscious of their responsibility.

(4.) The plan would promote good citizenship. A student would have to take time to think before he voted. He
would realize that voting was a more serious matter than merely marking the first name he saw on a slip
of paper he was handed as he left chapel. Citizenship, oddly enough, is one of the traits that we are
never taught at Davidson. Certainly, to have obtained an adequate college education of the calibre Davidson gives in other areas,
one should have also learned to realize some of his responsibilities as a citizen. This is training which cannot be
given by the faculty in lectures. It must be promoted by student organizations through participation.

Would Combine Ballots

The second proposal, as amended by the election board before I presented it to the Student Council, provides that the
elections for Student Body officers and editors of all three publications should be held simultaneously at the first of the
election period. This prevents a man from running for more than one of these offices. That is, losing one and
then trying for another. Also, it would help to speed the elections process, which as all upperclassmen know is a
long and arduous process.

I feel that if a man is nominated for two of these positions, he should be able to choose in
which of them he could contribute most to the student body. In the past, candidates have been concerned with winning
an office, any office, for the prestige value and not for what they could contribute through the position. This is
not a mature attitude toward extra-curricular participation.

Encourages Specializing

The adoption of this proposal would encourage a student to put all his effort in one of these four channels
as he went through school. Then, as a senior, he would have no difficult decision to make. These proposals are
only one part of an overall idea to encourage more reasoned participation in extra-curriculars. Along with them will have to
go such changes as a revitalized and effective point system to limit extra-curricular participation. Also, during orientation, more emphasis must
be placed on extra-curricular guidance.

LETTER TO EDITOR

Required Vespers, Chapel Questioned

Dear Editor,

“I take no delight in your solemn assemblies.” Amos 5:21.

There is a certain difference between the attitude toward vespers and chapel of Davidson students, and that which the College
would like the students’ attitude to be. The administration has labored very hard and very sincerely toward bringing us into
a vital awareness and understanding of religion by improving the quality and content of chapel and vespers services. I have
sensed an improvement in the past two years. At the same time, it must be realized that the best program
by a famous and distinguished religious leader will have little effect upon the hearers, unless the audience is eager to
hear the message. It seems to me that we do not possess a yearning desire to rush to chapel or
vespers.

There appear to be two possible answers which are interdependent. One depends on our own responsibility to change our own
attitude. We indeed have a long way to go in order to snap out of our languor. Another solution depends
upon the patterns and codes which are enforced upon us. I do not believe that Christianity should oblige one to
believe, for this seems antithetical to the Christian message. Faith cannot be forced. If Christianity involves and necessitates the free
acceptance of God, then religious rules and codes should be so constructed as to best enable one to worship God
of his own free will. At present, however, there are two worship services on campus which are forced upon students.
This situation does not seem spiritually healthful.

Perhaps the College administration might look at this problem and reply that although this is true, it is also necessary
because Davidson is a Presbyterian college. I recognize the extreme difficulty in attempting to solve a problem like this, and
I appreciate the position of the College. I realize that I have the prejudice of a student in my views
also. I would nevertheless propose these two considerations: (1) that attendance at chapel and vespers be made voluntary, or (2)
that attendance at vespers be made voluntary and that chapel be turned into a student assembly (which, in fact, it
is now).

In reply to these suggestions, one might say that if attendance at vespers drops off, the quality of speakers will
correspondingly diminish. I do not believe that this necessarily follows. If it should, I hold that the vitality and interest
of the audience or congregation is more important than the number of degrees following the speaker’s name.

John McVay.

DAVIDSON DOGGEREL

Our choice of the year’s most Perfect Squelch: During the recent exam period, a Kappa Sig pledge made note of
the name of his fraternity under his own name as he handed in his paper to his professor who is
an old Kappa Sig himself. The returned paper under the student’s name and Greek affiliation had the professor's signature followed
by: Phi Beta Kappa Your Grade: D

Dr. Caroline MacBrayer, first lady of the faculty and the Psychology Department, is said to have experimental evidence to support
the premise that 80% of the Davidson student body “resent” women in general. Well, that may be, but we never
realized it. We could have sworn we loved them all!

At a recent ROTC drill practice for the all-important Federal Inspection, an observant freshman cadet noticed Col. John D. Sapp
change his step in order to get in step with Cadet Col. Reitze Snider, as the two top members of
the ROTC Department began their trooping of the line.

FROM THE TOP of the DOME with TOM MORGAN

Two kinds of fraternity men participate in Hell Week. There are those who ridicule, harass, and order pledges to do
ridiculous things simply to glorify their own egos, satisfy repressed desires for power, and titillate their somewhat distorted senses of
humor. On the other hand, there are those who require pledges to act constructively and immediately, in order that they
may be reminded of the responsibility, dependability, and self-discipline which fraternity life requires, and which may be of value to
the world of more significant affairs beyond the confines of the campus. It is only in this latter respect that
any form of “informal initiation” is justified, so it behooves each member of every fraternity to examine the motives, methods,
and consequences involved in any act required of pledges, to ensure that what is being done is for the mutual
benefit of the pledge and the fraternity.

Peter, the Practical Politician (a boy with real leadership abilities), came to Davidson, and decided to become a BMOC. To
achieve his goal, he utilized certain political techniques used in national and state elections, but to his dismay, he was
eliminated on the first ballot, and later disqualified as a voter for violating Article V, Section 9, of the Student
Government Constitution. Having learned the hard way that Campus Politics has little resemblance to national politics, Peter drew up a
list of rules for political success at Davidson, which he applied successfully during the following year, and defeated a shoo-in
candidate for an office. Here are his rules, in order of their importance:

(1) Completely hide any political pretensions and ambitions behind a facade of seeming innocence.
(2) Learn the name of each student, and use it on every conceivable occasion.
(3) Never disagree with anyone about anything (publicly).
(4) When significant issues are involved, be conservative.
(5) When insignificant issues are involved, be liberal.
(6) Concern yourself only with the acquisition of friends; not the solutions of problems.
(7) When choosing campaign issues, always (a) advocate inevitable changes, and (b) find new justifications for the status quo.
(8) Never forget that you are not competing in a political campaign, but in a gentlemanly sort of contest based
on popularity, with competence as one of the lesser criteria, not a central issue.

The student body has a tendency to be severely critical of chapel talks which present a reactionary religious point of
view, perhaps with some justification. But before we condemn a person completely for such a position, we should perhaps remind
ourselves that it takes considerable intestinal fortitude to say what we really believe under such circumstances. We might also recall
the Christian maxim which is applicable to most circumstances even if we reject the authority of its source: “Let him
who is without sin cast the first stone.”
