FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 1957

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Slants

By JOHN JOHNSON

Mr. Laurens Walker’s article in the Davidsonian last week pointed out a basic incongruity—the fact that varsity competition has been the deciding factor in the IF sports trophy for the past four years. Although the system is debatable, most people willing to express an opinion on the subject agree on two points: (1) that the current setup is not entirely “right,” and (2) that varsity athletes should receive credit for their contributions to the sports scene. Interfraternity competition is interfraternity competition, and to decide the trophy on any other basis seems basically in error.

WITH REASON

The varsity clause was not included without reason. Counting varsity competition as a major sport event is intended to encourage athletes of ability to compete on Wildcat teams rather than at the interfraternity level. However, as Mr. Walker pointed out, in actual practice fraternities do not as a rule encourage a boy to go out for varsity sports to gain intramural points. Yet any fraternity that contributes heavily to the varsity should receive recognition for that fact, and there should be no system that would deter boys from going out for such sports.

POSSIBILITY

For a solution Mr. Walker suggests decreasing the amount of points given for such competition and discounting any such points in determining the number one position. This is one possibility, but it seems to be a halfway step. Either count the varsity contribution or do not count it. If it doesn’t decide, what good is it? If the varsity clause was eliminated entirely, two trophies could be established—one for varsity participation and one for interfraternity sports, each being more indicative of how it was actually won.

HOOKS

Last Friday night 6’5” forward Lee Marshall of W&L turned in the smoothest performance on the local gym floor in several years as he dumped in 40 points for the General’s 89-70 victory. The hook-shot specialist pushed his scoring average to 24.9 per game, among the top twenty in the nation, in sinking 17 of 22 shots from all over the floor. His accuracy became so high in the final half the crowd groaned the instant he started his long, hooking motion. The cocky Kentuckian was hampered by injuries last year and took a back seat to his teammate Dom Flora but this season his average leads the conference. Coach McCann commented afterwards, for the benefit of those who thought Marshall was infallible, that Lee did have one bad night this year; he got one of 13 against Lafayette.

In Spring Drills

Coach Dole’s grid men returned to action Monday afternoon after over three months of rest. Spring practice was scheduled to begin on February 4th, but due to unfavorable weather the drills were delayed one week.

Riflers Gun With W&L, Citadel On Belk Range

The Wildcat ROTC rifle team sees Midwinters action as they play host to two Southern Conference foes this weekend. Washington and Lee fire today, and will be followed by the Keydets from the Citadel on Saturday afternoon. The staff conducted only light workouts on the opening day with no body contact. The session consisted primarily of conditioning exercises. Before the afternoon was over, however, the squad had run through a few basic offensive plays which will be used this fall. Inter-squad scrimmages were held on Tuesday and Wednesday along with the routine conditioning workouts. Each man was given an opportunity to play his respective position so that the coaching staff could study each man’s potential. The quarterback post is still a point of much concern to Dole. He has begun his job of grooming a quarterback around McEachern, Braswell, McGirt, Cutting, and Benson. All of these men have been alternating during the scrimmages. The mid-winter drills will last two more weeks.

Small Package Dynamo

Football, basketball, baseball all are sports in which lack of size often proves a factor disqualifying the “little man.” However, wrestling, the sport of the groaners, provides this little man with an opportunity to compete against opponents of his own size. Davidson's Pete Coleman has used the mats to prove the old adage “big things come in little packages,” and to earn his share of Wildcat athletic accolades.

LAST YEAR TOO

First gaining recognition by copping the 123-pound division of last year’s interfraternity wrestling meet, Pete went on to a sparkling season for coach Charlie Parker's grapplers, compiling a 42-1 record and earning the respect of his teammates and opponents. The Huntersville, N. C., sophomore, although hampered by an asthma handicap, has stolen the spotlight this season from his heavier counterparts by amassing the best record among the Wildcat matmen.

SEVEN—ONE

At present, with two meets remaining, he has a 7-1 record, five of his victories by falls. In last year’s Southern Conference tournament he placed fourth in the conference; and, looking forward to this year’s tourney, to be held March 8-9 in Lexington, Va., coach Parker expects his pint-sized dynamo to do even better. Coleman, a member of the Kappa Sigma social fraternity, has continued the tradition of the past two years in which Reitzel Snider and Henry Griffin recorded outstanding performances as sophomores.Conference Tournament. | points, Dave Hollingsworth (left background), the sure-shot Alaskan, hits for two points to lead the Cats to a 66-54 win over V.M.I. last Saturday. The 6’ 4” soph forward was high man with 15 points.

Hollingsworth Hits As Cats Aim For Tourney

The future fortunes of the Wildcat hardwooders have been brightened by the improved performance of their big 6’ 4” forward, Dave Hollingsworth. The 205-pounder, formerly All-Territory star who got his high school experience in Juneau, Alaska, is only a sophomore but in recent games has established himself as the deadliest thing the 'Cats can put near the basket, both offensively and defensively. While leading in rebounds, Hollingsworth has also poured in 74 markers in the last four outings. It was his 15 points that paced the win over VMI, 66-54, while Semi Mintz hit 12 and Joe Milner had a good night with 14. The conference triumph kept hopes alive for a berth in the tournament.

Against Wofford last Tuesday he led the Davidson five with 23 but it was not enough to subdue the Terriers, who won 75-65. The rest of the black clouds around the silver lining of the VMI win are results of an 89-70 defeat by Washington and Lee and an 86-77 loss to William and Mary, leaving the season mark at 5-16. Mintz continues to pace the Red and Black in scoring with productions of 30, 17, 12, and 19 points in the last four scraps. “The flying pencil” maintains his eighth position in Conference scoring. At the next home game, on February 28 against The Citadel, a win is a must for the Cats in order to stay in contention for the tourney.

North To C. Indoor Track Meet Championship Material In Gramley, By OYVIND

Davidson’s veteran track mentor, “Pete” Whittle, will take a squad of five athletes to the Southern Conference Indoor Championship at Lexington, Va., this Saturday and hopes to return with either one or two championships. Pete Ashcraft and Bill Gramley are both in good shape and stand as top contenders in their events.

MEET IN 880

Ashcraft will meet last year’s winner, Bob Wingfield of VPI, in the 880 yards run, and may also run the mile. The experienced senior from Amherst, Mass., finished strong in workouts this week and will certainly give the defending champion trouble. Wingfield has already posted a 2:03 in indoor competition, but will have to better that time to beat Davidson’s star of the middle distances. Bill Gramley has been putting the shot over the 45 feet in practice, and is probably Davidson’s most solid hope for a top honor. Other men going on the trip are freshman shot-putter Dave Warden, one of the most promising newcomers on this year’s track squad, and 440 specialists Al Elder and Ross Mallory. The latter is out to better his fourth places of the last two years.

“100” CLUB

The rest of the trackmen are gradually building up for the first outdoor meet against Furman and The Citadel, in Greenville, S. C., on March 23rd. In spite of important losses by graduation, Coach Whittle is optimistic. He has at this time 98 victories in outdoor track meets, and is a safe bet to join the exclusive “100” club of track mentors before the season is old.

Cat Tankmen Split Pair By GEORGE RAMSEY

Davidson's swimming team split a pair of meets last weekend on a short jaunt through Georgia, copping a 54-32 victory over Emory University on Saturday after dropping an almost identical 53-32 tally to the University of Georgia the day before.

Tommy Rivers, Wildcat captain, captured a total of four first places in the two meets, winning both the 50 and the 100-yard freestyle events against each opponent. John Scott, freshman standout, stole part of the spotlight by winning his specialty, the 200-yard butterfly event, in both meets, setting a new school record of 2:35.5 against Georgia. Georgia, a perennial power among Southeastern Conference tank teams, won all events except the three won by Rivers and Scott in a meet held in the nation’s largest college pool. The Bulldogs’ strength is evidenced by the fact that two of their swimmers, backstroker Tommy Blakely and freestyler Jimmy Bankston, set new SEC records in their respective races.

Against Emory, the Wildcats managed to win all but two of the ten events in coasting to victory. Jerry Clark, sophomore freestyler who won both the 220-and-440-yard races, joined Rivers as a double winner in pacing the Davidson victory. Four seniors—Rivers, breaststroker John Edwards, diver Basil Sharp, and backstroker Bill Carrell—all mainstays of coach George Thompson's squad, saw their last competitive action in the local pool in this afternoon's crucial engagement with Washington and Lee. Remaining on the 1957 schedule are a meet with South Carolina in Columbia on Feb. 27 and the Southern Conference meet on March 1-2 in Charleston, S. C.

The ‘57 Casual Look - Arrow Style

This Arrow Squire sports a pattern with decided freshness. Black on white available in three different sized plaids. New medium-spread collar has button-down front plus button at back. Exact sleeve length. (This same shirt is also available in White Tartan—six new miniature plaids.) Arrow Squire, “Sanforized” gingham, $5.95.

The word is gingham - in black and white

It’s been a long time since we've seen a shirt become so popular so fast. Men come in... see this handsome Arrow Squire... and buy. That simple. The new Squire collar buttons down front and center back. And because it’s an Arrow—you get your exact sleeve length. Arrow Squire in “Sanforized” gingham, $5.95.

IVEY’S OF CHARLOTTE