SCRIPTS ‘N PRANKS EDITORIAL PLATFORMS (Page Two) VOL. XLV The Davidsonian | The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, MARCH 22, 1957

Four Fraternities Elect Officers For Next Year

During the past week, four fraternities elected officers for the coming year. Those which selected their next year’s leaders are
Phi Delta Theta, Kappa Alpha, Phi Gamma Delta, and Sigma Phi Epsilon.

John Johnson was elected president of Phi Delta Theta. Ed Stewart was named vice president; Ralph Bassett, secretary; Bill Campbell,
treasurer; Charley Morris, warden; Pat Woodward, Interfraternity Council representative; and Phil Lewis elected boarding house manager.

Kappa Alpha Order elected Bill Pomeroy, president; Shelbourne Wallace, vice-president; Locke Carter, secretary; John Trask, Interfraternity representative; and Charlie McGowan,
boarding house manager.

Phi Gamma Delta elected Dave Fagg, president; Henry Griffin, vice-president; John Toumaras, secretary; Bob Jones, IFC representative; and Joe Williford,
boarding house manager.

The new officers of Sigma Phi Epsilon for next year are Jerry Eller, president; Henderson Rourk, vice-president; Alex Gardner, secretary;
Bill Etchison, historian; George Kemmerer, IFC representative; Hank Davis, boarding house manager; and Jim Boyce, treasurer.

Other fraternities will elect officers later in the spring.

Hoist. Away! Workmen complete installation of $6,000 worth of clocks on the steeple of the College Church. The clocks are
a gift to the College by Mrs. Marcia Sell Mitchell of Lancaster, Pennsylvania.

FRIDAY, APRIL 5

Emily Muir Present Artist Program

William and Emily Muir will appear in the Artist Series of presentations Friday, April 5. The following day they will
be presented in the Union Ballroom in connection with the Arts Program of the Association of American Colleges.

William Muir, sculptor, and his wife Emily Muir, painter, husband and wife art team, offer a unique demonstration which combines
wood carving and painting. The Muirs have worked in the field of fine arts, exhibiting in one-man shows and all
national exhibitions.

Muir is a native of North Dakota and studied at Minneapolis School of Art and the Art Students League of
New York. He is a water-colorist as well as a sculptor. Emily Muir spent the early part of her life
in Cleveland, but received her art training at the Arts Students League under Richard Leahy and Leo Lentelli. Mrs. Muir
begins with the basic and creative approach to oil painting from a sketch. Mr. Muir explains his approach to wood-carving,
exhibits preliminary drawings and carvings in several states of completion.

TWO-DAY VISIT

Scabbard And Blade Inducts Twelve Men

Scabbard and Blade, the national honorary military fraternity, held its Spring tapping at drill Tuesday. Seven seniors and ten juniors
were selected. Those tapped include seniors Bill Ballentine, Bill McCaskill, John Robinson, David McFadyen, George Scott, Waddy Hagins, and Harry
Antrim, and juniors Charlie Stowe, Shelbourne Wallace, Ned Payne, Dave Palmer, Roger Powell, Garry Watts, Ken Forrester, Tim Teachey, Ross
Smyth, and Bill Turner. Scabbard and Blade recognizes excellence in military leadership and performance.

Col. Sturges To Head Federal Inspection

The annual Federal Inspection of the Davidson Cadet Regiment will be conducted April 8-9. President of the inspection team this
year is Col. Conrad M. Sturges, Infantry, assisted by Lt. Col. Paul T. Norris, Infantry. The two-day visit of the
inspection team highlights the year’s training of the Cadet Corps.

The inspection officially begins Monday morning with a briefing by the Cadet Regimental Staff on Operations, Training, and Administration of
the Cadet Corps. A member of the inspection team will visit each ROTC class and ask students questions concerning their
military knowledge. A general inspection of the records and facilities of the Department will climax Monday’s agenda.

After visiting Tuesday's classes, the team will be guests at a luncheon with college officials and the Regimental Commander. The
highlight of the whole inspection will be a Regimental Parade Tuesday afternoon. At this time the annual awards for outstanding
ROTC Cadets will be presented. The public is invited to attend this parade, but they are requested to be seated
in the West stands no later than 2:45. Following the parade and presentation of awards, Scabbard and Blade will have
a reception in the Union Ballroom for the inspection team and all MS IV Cadets. In case of inclement weather,
the presentation of awards will be held in Johnston Gymnasium at 3:00.

Sigma Pi Sigma Holds Math Program Series

Sigma Pi Sigma, physics honor society, met Tuesday evening and received George Gilmer into membership. Bob Boland and Larry Baggett
were received as associates of the chapter. The program consisted of a presentation by Professor Bruce Jackson of the basic
ideas of modern algebra. This was the second of two related mathematical programs which have come before the society this
month. The program on March 5 was presented by Dr. Bernard on the subject of topology, which will become a
part of Davidson's mathematics curriculum next year.

Professors Discuss Merits Of Quarters

Davidson's chapter of the American Association of University and College Professors met last Friday evening, in the Ballroom of the
College Union. The program was devoted to a discussion concerning the merits of the quarter system as opposed to the
semester system. Dr. Samuel Halton of the University of North Carolina presented the reasons for that institution having changed from
the quarter to the semester system. He was accompanied by Professor Jay Ostwalt, formerly of the Davidson College faculty and
now a visiting professor at the University of North Carolina.

STUDENT BODY OFFICERS

Balloting For 3 Major Offices Stays Steady

During the completion of the balloting for the three major campus officers, chairman of the elections board, Tom Morgan released
the second set of figures on this year’s elections trends. These major offices are Student Body President, Davidsonian Editor, and
YMCA President.

Monday, with all major offices still in contention, 509 votes were cast at the College Union polls for an electorate
total of 62%. Tuesday, with the balloting in Chambers, but with only one office in question, 547 ballots were turned
in, raising the total to 67%. Morgan again pointed out that the insignificant difference in the percentage taking part in
the first two days of election demonstrated that the actual location of the polling place has little effect on the
election response.

Willa Cather Award Postponed To April 5

The presentation of the Willa Cather Literary Competition winner was postponed from today’s chapel to that of Friday, April 5.
This move was necessary because of the conflict raised by the week's election activity. Mr. Charles Lloyd will appear as
the featured speaker, and will make the annual award as was previously scheduled.

WHITTLE THINCLADS AFTER HUNDREDTH WIN (Page Three) No. 21

Dr. Spencer Leaves To Accept Presidency Of Mary Baldwin

Will Finish Out Semester; Successor Not Named

Dr. Samuel R. Spencer, Dean of Students here since 1954, was named President of Mary Baldwin College by the college
Trustees in session in Staunton, Virginia yesterday afternoon. Dr. Spencer will continue at Davidson through the current semester and take
office at Mary Baldwin in August. His successor has not been named. The Spencer announcement follows closely on the heels
of Dr. Cunningham's resignation of a monthago, thus leaving two major vacancies in the College Administration. Dr. Richard R. Potter,
pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Staunton, has served as acting president of Mary Baldwin since the resignation of
the former President, Dr. McKenzie, in September 1956. Dr. McKenzie had served for two years. Governed by a 26-man Board
of Trustees headed by Mr. Edmund C. Campbell of Washington, D.C., Mary Baldwin is a Presbyterian College for women, similar
in many respects to Davidson.

DR. SAMUEL R. SPENCER

Spencer's Statement

Though I believe the work to which I am going at Mary Baldwin represents a great need and a real
opportunity, the decision to leave Davidson has been the most difficult I ever faced. To say that I leave with
regret is not only trite but an absurd understatement. Davidson is a great many things to us all, but mainly
it is people. Mrs. Spencer and I will deeply miss friends on the faculty and staff, in the community, and
in the Student Body. One of the consolations in leaving is my conviction that the quality of the Davidson Student
Body and of student leadership has never been higher than now. This, together with my confidence in such people as
Mr. Smith, Dr. Staples, Mr. White, Mrs. Little, Dr. Ostwalt, and Mr. Bray, makes me feel that student work is
stable and progressive. We will not move to Staunton until August. After that, the latchstring is out to any Davidson
man—both at our home and at Mary Baldwin.

Ross Smyth Elected President; John Trask To Edit Davidsonian

Student Body elections completed last Monday named rising senior Ross Smyth as the new president of the Davidson Student Body.
A member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Smyth is a native of Charlotte. Tuesday’s vote affirmed the choice of John Trask
as Editor of the Davidsonian. From Beaufort, S.C., the rising senior is a member of Kappa Alpha. The election of
Dabney Stuart as Secretary-Treasurer in Monday’s primary rounded out the slate of student body officers.

ROSS SMYTH
Student Body President

Stuart joins first Vice-President Tom Cutting and second Vice-President John Kuykendall in assisting Smyth with next year’s Student Council leadership.
The new president has advocated a thorough study of the Honor System with the view of establishing a suspension penalty
as a minimum punishment to accompany a maximum dismissal for code violations. On the question of compulsory religion at Davidson,
Smyth proposes a change to voluntary attendance at chapel and Vesper services if a comprehensive examination shows such a program
to be feasible. His stand on the new fraternity court is one of general acceptance, with efforts toward the building
of single houses if possible. Smyth wishes to enforce the present Hell Week and drinking-rule-interpretation policies.

New Editor Trask made the following statement after his recent election: “First, let me say that I appreciate the support
given me in the election. We shall seek to make next year’s Davidsonian worthy of this confidence. While we will
not always be 100% right on every matter, we will nevertheless speak out on all issues to make the newspaper
the vital organ of student expression. When this time next year arrives, I hope that we can look back and
say that the Davidsonian has served as a potent force in bringing about needed changes in our system.”

JOHN TRASK
Heads Davidsonian

Plans for the immediate future call for strengthening of capital funds and endowment, faculty, student body, and physical facilities. Fully
accredited, next fall’s enrollment promises to be slightly over 300. It offers the advantages of a liberal arts education, including
small classes and a student-faculty ratio of ten to one. Mary Baldwin was founded in 1842 as a “seminary” for
girls, became a junior college in 1916, and a four-year institution in 1928. Mary Baldwin is a member of the
College Entrance Examination Board and is on the approved list of the American Association of (Continued on Page Four)

Wilson Named Editor Of Wildcat Handbook

Gerald Wilson, a rising senior from Winston-Salem, has been named Editor of the 1957 Wildcat Handbook by the YMCA cabinet.
Wilson has had varied experience in publications work, having served on the staff of the Davidsonian, and as editor of
his fraternity magazine. A cross-country letterman, the new editor is a member of Beta Theta Pi fraternity. In past YMCA
work, he has assisted in the planning of Winter Services and participated in numerous deputations. Upon hearing of his appointment,
Wilson emphasized the need for maintaining the present quality of the handbook and increasing its usefulness to students to such
an extent that it will serve as a valuable campus guide to all classes throughout the year.

GERALD WILSON
Edits Handbook

ADULT EDUCATION PROGRAM

Seminar Discusses US-USSR Relations

Davidson College is serving as host for a Residential Seminar on World Affairs which will continue through Sunday. The seminar,
which began yesterday, is discussing the topic, “Evaluation of U.S. and U.S.S.R. Relations.” This subject will cover three general topics:
the political, economic, and military competition between the two world powers. The three and one-half day meeting is limited to
no more than twenty-five persons. Davidson faculty members who will participate are Professors Harold Ford, Paul Marrotte, and Russell Brown.
With the exception of one session, all meetings will be closed to the public. Davidson faculty and students are invited
to attend the Sunday afternoon meeting in the ballroom of the Union at 2:00 p.m. These closed sessions are deemed
necessary because it is felt that a more free and personal discussion can be held in a smaller group, and
also to prevent the possibility of any of the participants being misquoted by outside observers. Among the members of the
(Continued on Page Four)

Ellison Hospitalized With Serious Burns

Charles Ellison, a member of the Junior Class, received serious burns last Tuesday afternoon while working in a Chemistry laboratory.
Upon admittance to the College Infirmary, Ellison’s burns were treated and he was hospitalized until Thursday. The back of the
right hand, including the little finger, ring finger, and third finger, was the most seriously affected. The accident occurred while
Ellison was working with a solution of benzene which caught fire while being heated.
