FRIDAY, MAY 3, 1957 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

BY GEORGE RAMSEY

Every year about this time, a Davidson athlete is chosen to be honored as the one who best exemplifies the Davidson spirit, and to this individual is presented the Tommy Peters Memorial Trophy, in honor of the Davidson athletic star of 1942-43, who was killed in World War II. Let’s dig into the files and get some idea of the accomplishments of some of the outstanding Peters trophy winners.

The initial presentation of the trophy was fittingly made to the brother of the man whose name the trophy bears. George Peters, a three-sport star, was, in 1947, the first recipient. George excelled in football, basketball, and track, and was named Honor Man of 1947 for the three sports.

Two years later the award was won by Buddy Cheek, who won a permanent spot in Davidson basketball history by earning mention on the Helms Foundation All-American team, along with such players as Bob Cousy of Holy Cross, Bill Sharman of Southern Cal, and Ralph Beard of Kentucky. Needless to say, Buddy nailed down a Southern Conference position at forward.

ATHLETE OF YEAR

Whit Cobb, who won honor as the Southern Conference Athlete of the Year, was the 1950 winner. Whit excelled in anything he tried. As a freshman, he personally won the interfraternity track meet for the Phi Delts. Then he turned to basketball and tennis, in which he distinguished himself as an all-time Wildcat great. He is now tennis coach at Duke.

The 1951 award winner was Davidson’s all-time passing great, and one of the nation’s top aerial artists, Auburn Lambeth, who ranked in the first ten in passing completions in American intercollegiate history. Lambeth co-captained the Wildcat baseball team in the spring.

“Little Johnny” Gray, football quarterback and captain of the baseball team, was chosen as the Wildcat best showing the Peters spirit in 1954. “Little Johnny was hot as a firecracker” was a familiar expression that year. Though he was injured midway through the gridiron season, he was in no way hampered from shining at an infield position in the spring.

ROWLAND WINS

Bill Rowland, the happy one from Gastonia, was recognized in 1955 for his spirit as shown on the baseball diamond. As a halfback and outfielder, respectively, he won the admiration of his teammates in both sports.

Last year’s winner was Phil Koonce, ’Cat track star who captured conference titles in the 100-and-220-yard dashes and the broad jump. Donny McRee, this year’s winner, seems a fitting choice to continue the line of those who honor a man who gave his all for his country.

SHELBOURNE WALLACE, Davidson outfielder, is shown sliding in action at first base in Tuesday's 7-3 loss to V.P.I. —(Photo by Ed Stevens)

Peters Trophy

Don McRee, captain of the Wildcat baseball team, and co-captain of the 1956 football team, was named Tuesday the recipient of the Tommy Peters Memorial Trophy. The annual presentation is made to the Davidson athlete who best exemplifies the spirit of Tommy Peters, Davidson athletic star of the early '40s.

McRee last year received the Stowe Memorial Scholarship in a presentation made at the annual athletic banquet. He was also honored by being chosen on the Southern Conference all-academic football team by the American People’s Encyclopedia.

In the fall tapping ceremony of ODK, McRee was tapped into the honorary leadership fraternity. Throughout a four-year athletic career at Davidson, McRee has shown an outstanding team spirit and a personality that has won the respect and admiration of coaches and players alike.

'Cats Scrap Bears In Season Finals

By PRENTICE BROWN

Davidson's baseball team winds up its 1957 season on the local diamond Tuesday afternoon with a game with Lenoir-Rhyne. The Wildcats defeated the Bears early in the season, 10-0, behind the pitching of Allen Moore. The Cats’ overall record through Wednesday’s game with V.P.I. stood at 5-17. Through the past several games the hitting has been up to par but the Cats have not had the pitching or the fielding to back up the hits. Jim West is the leading hitter on the squad, followed by Shelbourne Wallace and George Hart.

Last week the local nine finished their final road trip, during which they dropped a close tilt to William and Mary, 7-8, and split with Washington and Lee, 2-1, 9-14. Tuesday the 'Cats took an early lead from VPI, but by the time the ninth inning rolled around, their spirit was broken and they found themselves on the short end of a 7-3 score. Wednesday, against the same team, Davidson took the lead in the eighth inning and appeared to have a victory, but muffed it in the ninth to lose, 4-3.

This afternoon the Wildcats met Furman on the local diamond with the hopes of improving their 3-8 conference record. Although the season has not been too successful, there have been several good individual performances. The hitting of West, Wallace, and Hart has been well above average. Most of the 'Cats’ games have been plagued with errors, but the fielding of Don Comer, Don Killian, and John Patterson has looked good.

Looking to next season, Davidson will field a team minus the services of captain Don McRee, West, Comer, and Bob Campbell. With added experience, this year’s young players may add the punch needed to produce a better record.

S. C. TENNIS ACTION

Pre-tourney prognosticators see defending singles champion, Chuck Staley of Richmond, and defending team champions, George Washington, as favorites. Other players figured to give a good fight for top money are Ed Philips and Toby Perry of William and Mary and tournament dark horse, freshman Jim Tarr of George Washington. Tarr has dropped only one Southern Conference match this season, a close one to Philips. William and Mary, sparked by Philips and Perry, rates right behind George Washington in team play. Davidson is given a slim chance to grab number three honors. Coach McKee is counting mainly on John Robinson seeded number one.Seven, Bob Huffaker, Dave Pearsall, and Semi Mintz to improve last year’s fifth-place standing. Other Wildcat hopes rest on Tom McCutchan and Mike Martin, who has replaced Dick Hodel in the lineup. Hodel and McCutchan, however, will remain on one of the doubles entries along with Pearsall, Mintz, Robinson, and Huffaker.

By BILL

In the interfraternity tennis tournaments, Ned Austell of the Betas downed Billy Hopper, a Phi Delt, for the singles crown, 4-6, 6-2, 6-3. However, Hopper and Don Whitley coasted to a decisive first place in the doubles. The Phi Delt pair beat the Betas’ Austell and Gwathney in the semi-finals and then defeated the Sigma Chi's Milner and Carrell in the finals, 6-1, 6-3.

With the softball tournament nearing completion, the K.A.’s, sparked by the hitting of Bill Turner and Dick Weeks, and Phi Delts led by Little Howard, the league’s only unbeaten pitcher, are battling for the top spot. At the end of Wednesday’s games, both teams held a record of seven wins and one loss. In third place are the Sigma Chi's with a 6-3 record. They have slipped considerably since a week ago, winning only one of their three games. Having won three straight contests, the Sig Eps were in fourth place with five wins and three losses. The Phi Gams lost their touch much as did the Sigma Chi’s and have tumbled into a three-way tie for fifth place with the A.T.O.’s and Betas.

Softball Standings:
KA 7-1
Phi Delt 7-1
Sigma Chi 6-3
Sig Ep 5-3
Phi Gam 5-4
Beta 5-4
A.T.O 5-4
S.A.E 4-4
Pi Kapp 4-5
Kappa Sig 2-6
Pika 2-6
Independents 0-8

Make friends with Winston! Winston wins the cheers for flavor! What's all the shouting about? Winston flavor! It’s rich, full—the way you want it! What's more, the exclusive Winston filter does its job so well the flavor really comes through, so you can enjoy it. For finer filter smoking, switch to Winston! R.J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO., WINSTON-SALEM, N.C.

Cats Hope For 3rd As Tournament Opens
By JIM HAMILTON

A multitude of sinewy young men in white invaded the Davidson College tennis courts Thursday and the twang of ball meeting racket was heard continuously as the championships got under way. The Wildcats' only complete recent match was with Washington and Lee last Friday, which they won, 6-3. Mintz, Pearsall, Hodel, and McCutchan whacked out singles wins while the teams of Robinson-Huffaker and Mintz-Pearsall took doubles matches.

Undefeated Thinclads Close Season Saturday
7-0 Record Risked In Triangular Meet
By BOBBY PAGE

The undefeated cindermen of Davidson College clash with two Atlantic Coast Conference members, Wake Forest and North Carolina State, tomorrow afternoon at 2:30 on the local track. Washington and Lee is the last victim on the Cat list which now totals seven, already equaling last year’s victory total. The Generals tasted an 83-47 pasting with the Cats being charitable in forfeiting the mile relay. Bill Gramley set a new school record last week in the discus, breaking a record of twenty years’ standing. His heave of 147' busted Bailey Williams’ record of 146'.

BREMER HIGH SCORER

Freshman Chris Bremer, stepping in for the injured Scott Woodmansee in the hurdles, captured both the highs and the lows, and added a first in the broad jump to take individual scoring honors with fifteen points. Next Friday and Saturday, May 10 and 11, are the dates for the Southern Conference Meet, which is to be held at Williamsburg, Virginia. Davidson rates with William and Mary, VMI, and VPI as pre-meet favorites. Pete Ashcraft, Mel Armstrong, and Angus McBryde rate top billing in the running events. The Gramley brothers, Dale and Bill, along with Bill Lazenby, will be after the blue ribbons in the throwing events, except for the javelin, where McBryde and Stuart Nickles will be vying for honors.

OTHER CONTENDERS

Other contenders for the Red and Black are Brownie Thurman and Al McKay in the middle distance runs, Graham George in the long distances, and Marvin Bentley in the dashes. Scott Woodmansee and Bill Cobb will be carrying the burden in the hurdles. John Huie will be the top entrant in the pole vault and high jump for the Cats.

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... PIZZA
The famous OPEN KITCHEN
Charlotte, N.C.

Keep your eye on White Tartan
Here’s a fresh new idea for spring in casual wear. It’s White Tartan, a rich-looking miniature plaid-on-white pattern; expertly tailored like all Arrow shirts. Famous Arrow University design features a collar that buttons down in front and center back... plus action box pleat. Cool-looking White Tartan, Sanforized-labeled for casual wear. And lean-priced so you can afford several at one time! $5.95.

ARROW — CASUAL WEAR

White accents are coming into their own this fresh new White Tartan miniature plaid by Arrow. Available now in the famous Arrow University Squire collar that buttons down in front (and center back). Action box pleat in back, too. Come in and see our handsome selection by Arrow.

Leading the way is IVEY'S OF CHARLOTTE.