YEARBOOK PLATFORM (Page Two) VOL. XLV

YOUNGEST YET

Chapin Picks Cabinet

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, APRIL 19, 1957

Bob Jones Elected YMCA Cabinet

YMCA President Lloyd Chapin has announced the appointment of the youngest Cabinet in the history of the Y. Three juniors
and four sophomores will serve on the Cabinet, as opposed to only four seniors.

Chapin has appointed Smitty Smith to head the Deputations post. Smith is a sophomore and a member of Phi Delta
Theta Fraternity. Community Service will be headed by Tommy Ridenhour, also a sophomore and a member of Phi Gamma Delta
Fraternity. Boys’ Work will be led by Dave Hollingsworth, a junior and a Phi Delt. Ken Forester, a senior and
a Kappa Sig, will be chairman of the Membership and Gift Fund post. This committee conducts the Y membership drive
and plans the annual gift fund drive. Commission on Mission of the Church will be led by Vernon Broyles, a
junior and a member of Phi Delta Theta Fraternity. Dick Smith, a sophomore ATO, is in charge of Programs and
Membership Meetings.

SOCIAL LEADER

Again next year Bob MacRae, a senior, will lead Social Life and Hospitality. This committee plans entertainment for campus visitors
and various social activities for students. Barry Benton, a junior and a Phi Delt, will be chairman of the Spiritual
Life post. Effective Citizenship will be led by Bobby Livingston, a sophomore and a member of Alpha Tau Omega Fraternity.
Willie Thompson, who was chairman of Deputations this year, will head the Worship post next year. Thompson is a senior
and a member of Sigma Chi Fraternity. Gerald Wilson, also a senior and a member of Beta Theta Pi Fraternity,
will head Publicity and the Wildcat Handbook.

COL. SAPP ... goes to Germany

Col. Sapp To Leave For New Post

Dr. John R. Cunningham announced today that Lt. Col. John D. Sapp has been transferred from his assignment as Professor
of Military Science and Tactics at Davidson to duty in Germany. Col. Sapp has been the PMS&T here for the
last three years. During his stay of duty, the ROTC Department has moved to new quarters in the basement of
Belk. The most important change that Sapp brought about while he has been here was in the handling of administrative
affairs. Formerly the cadre exclusively handled all of this, but under Sapp’s charge the Department has seen an extensive delegation
of authority to the individual cadets.

In announcing Sapp’s transfer, Cunningham said, “We have found Colonel Sapp a very congenial and efficient PMS&T. He has made
a fine contribution to the college and the community.” To replace Sapp will be Lt. Col. William L. Adams, who
will visit Davidson the first week in June.

Time Limit’ New Masquers’ Play

The Red and Black Masquers will present “Time Limit!” by Henry Denker and Ralph Berkey as part of the Tenth
Annual Fine Arts Festival of Davidson College. The play will be given on Monday and Tuesday evenings, April 22 and
23, at 8:15 in Chambers Auditorium.

“Time Limit!” is directed by Prof. R. W. Tyson, and will see such well-known local actors in the principal roles
as Harold Hall, Harry Paschall, Warner Hall, George Kemmerer, Ray Atkinson, and Hugh Craig. The two feminine parts are being
performed by Miss Carol Sherrill of Davidson, and Miss Barbara Davis of Cornelius. Others in a large cast are Frank
Norris, Ray Craig, Bruce VanSant, Russell Ferrell, Bob Hoagland, Warren Womble, Larry Baggett, Henderson Rourk, and Jim Owens.

The story of the play is that of an American army major who is about to be charged with treason.
“Time Limit!” deals with one of the many new problems that has come out of the struggle of the Free
World in its efforts to combat Communism.

The Student Representative (Continued On Back Page)

Inspectors Laud ROTC Department

Federal inspectors praised the Davidson R.O.T.C. Regiment following their annual inspection April 9. No official overall rating will be issued
for several weeks, but unofficial comments by the inspectors indicate that the rating will be extremely high.

The inspection lasted for two days, April 8 and 9. During this time the inspectors visited the classrooms, inspected the
troops on the drill field, and viewed them in a regimental parade. Cadets were tested on military textbook knowledge, knowledge
of the weapons they carry, and skill in drilling.

Col. J. D. Sapp, PMS&T of the Davidson Regiment, said, “I express my thanks to all Cadets for their co-operation
during the inspection and I want to thank especially the MS IV Cadets for showing fine leadership ability.”

Rumors Cleared On Post Office Change

Rumors about the possibility of the Post Office’s changing quarters have been cleared. The ten-year lease on the present building
extends through January 31, 1958. Bids are being received through May 3 from interested owners of other locations. It is
reported that a new lease could be contracted on the present building.

Officers Chosen Council Voted

EASTER: Eternal Spring

By HARRY ANTRIM Davidsonian Feature Writer

Easter is a time we all know by a mark on the calendar. It has been a day so marked
for almost two thousand years and we accept it as something which comes and goes with the regularity of Christmas,
and maybe we even pause and wonder a bit at its significance and maybe we do not.

The pleasant prospect of enjoying a prosperous existence does not allow much time for pausing and reflecting upon anything which
does not promise to bring some immediate return. It is difficult to maintain a devoted outlook towards the manifestations of
religion amidst so much ease and comfort as we enjoy. Other people in other parts of the world would not
have so hard a time in explaining their relation to an Easter or a Christmas as we do.

LACK OF CONCERN

For all too many, the significance of an Easter must seem as the only hope in a very black night.
But the recognition of this fact serves only to point up our own lack of concern; we can write countless
pages about the black nights of the thousands oppressed and speculate for hours upon their hopes, but for us it
can be little more than speculation. We have never been oppressed and our only hope is that the world will
not touch us until we have had time to live out our secure lives.

So we will go to church this Sunday and do our duty and fulfill our obligation; for church and Sunday
and Easter are inextricably linked together in our inherited minds.

WON’T TRY TO NAME SUCCESSOR

President May Appoint Dean

By WILLIE THOMPSON Davidson Staff Reporter

At a regularly scheduled news conference Tuesday afternoon, Dr. John R. Cunningham, President of Davidson College, discussed a variety of
topics. Most of these questions centered about Dr. Cunningham's resignation, his successor, and the successor to Dr. Samuel R. Spencer,
Dean of Students.

THOUGHT OF RESIGNING

Dr. Cunningham was careful to make it clear that his resignation had been prompted by no sudden thought or action.
He explained that he had first thought of resigning several years ago, but changes in the administration and new developments
in the physical structure of the campus had necessitated that he remain. When the new job was offered last October,
the president thought that college affairs were on an even keel and that he could resign without causing undue strain
on the college.

NOMINATING COMMITTEE

The President expressed his complete faith in the nominating committee. Dr. Cunningham related what he knew of the work which
this committee had already accomplished. He explained that he had asked the committee not to contact him regarding his personal
choice in the matter, as he did not want to name his own successor. Dr. Cunningham said that he had
supplied the committee with an extensive description of the job. The nominating committee has requested by letter the opinions of
faculty, trustees, members of the Board of Visitors, in addition to asking for student opinion. He concluded, “precedent has usually
chosen one from outside the college.” Dr. Cunningham explained this committee is still deciding the type of man desired for
the job rather than specific personalities. For this reason, the President concluded, “I do not expect the announcement by the
May 16th meeting of the trustees.”Board of Trustees.” BIG MAN Cunningham explained that he hoped the eventual choice would be
“a big enough man that he would have to be persuaded.” “Do you think the new president might come from
the present faculty?” he was asked. Dr. Cunningham acknowledged that “it is not beyond the realm of possibility in the
light of what other colleges have done, but,”

PRES. CUNNINGHAM ... holds news conference

WEST VA. GOLFERS HERE MONDAY (PAGE THREE)

No. 23

Head IFC: Class Last Night’s Meeting

Bob Jones, a rising senior from Norfolk, Va., was elected president of the Inter-Fraternity Council for next year at last
night's meeting of the new council. He is a member of Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity. Other officers chosen were
Don Carmichael as treasurer, and Pat Woodward as secretary. This year's president, Bunny Perkinson, called this special meeting of the
newly elected members for the purpose of electing officers. Voting was by secret ballot. All members of the new council
were present except Joe Huskins of Pi Kappa Phi, and Jock Reeder of Beta Theta Pi. However, Jim Herlong and
Tom Johnson sat in as representatives for their fraternities and participated in the voting. After Jones was elected, Perkinson turned
the meeting over to the new president. The new members of the new council are: George Kemmerer for Sigma Phi
Epsilon; Pat Woodward for Phi Delta Theta; Charlie Stowe for Kappa Sigma; John Trask for Kappa Alpha; Joe Huskins for
Phi Kappa Phi; Hayden Hollingsworth for Pi Kappa Alpha; Vernon Anderson for Sigma Chi; Jimmy Jones for Sigma Alpha Epsilon;
Bob Jones for Phi Gamma Delta; Jock Reeder for Beta Theta Pi; and Don Carmichael for Alpha Tau Omega. Out-going
president Bunny Perkinson expressed confidence in the new council, and thanked this year’s I.F.C. for their fine work. Jones then
thanked the council for their confidence and (Continued On Back Page)

Public Jam Session Features Monahan

An informal “jam session” will be held each Wednesday morning during chapel period in the Union Ballroom. These sessions are
open to all, and members of the student body and the faculty are invited to attend, either to listen or
to play. Bob Shoffner, who plays drums, is in charge of the performances. Featured soloist next Wednesday will be Professor
Monahan.

Dr. Cunningham explained that he would continue to have a measure of responsibility through September 1, but since he will
be out of the country for a great deal of the summer, it is possible that an acting President may
be appointed effective either June 1 or September 1. This is, of course, if a permanent choice for President has
not been completed at that time.

NEW DEAN

Dr. Cunningham explained that it would be the responsibility of the new President to appoint the new Dean of Students.
“However,” he continued, “I will likely recommend to the Board of Trustees an acting dean who will serve until the
dean is appointed. My recommendation would obviously not be the one who will be the permanent dean, and he will
come from the present faculty.”

In answer to a variety of other questions, Dr. Cunningham stated that he believed there are too many members on
the present Board of Trustees, which includes 56 men. These are elected by 15 sponsoring presbyteries and the Alumni Association.
He would favor abolishing the presbyterial sponsorship and institute synodical sponsorship. The synods of N. C., and Florida are primarily
responsible for selecting the trustees. “I do not favor increasing the number of alumni trustees which is currently twelve," he
concluded.

FAVORS FORUM

The President was questioned carefully concerning his views on the present college curriculum. He noted that “it is so easy
to keep it that way.” It was his opinion that there should be a re-evaluation of the present curriculum in
an effort to achieve a program which is “both realistic and more up-to-date.” He favored a faculty-student forum to discuss
this matter, noting that such would likely be very helpful.

“Is there any truth to the rumor that Dr. Eberhardt may return?” the President was asked. He replied that Dr.
Eberhardt was going to return to teaching, but that he wished to do so in the U.S.A. Dr. Cunningham indicated
that the Otts lecturer for 1958 has not been chosen, but he expected that work to be completed soon.

Bernhardt, Gilbert, Robinson Named Class Presidents

John Bernhardt was elected President of the Senior Class in the run-off election held last Friday. The presidencies of the
rising Junior and Sophomore classes went to Roy Gilbert and Dave Robinson, respectively. Other officers were chosen in the run-offs.
The senior class vice-president will be Sonny Ferguson with Roger Bates serving as secretary-treasurer. Tom Johnson was chosen vice-president of
the rising junior class and Bill Ferguson, secretary-treasurer. The rising sophomores elected Lamar Riggs vice-president and Ted Henry secretary-treasurer.

Bernhardt, who will head the seniors, was secretary-treasurer of his sophomore class and from there went on to become second
vice-president of the student body. John is a member of Kappa Sigma social fraternity and Sigma Upsilon honorary fraternity. Roy
Gilbert, junior class president, is a member of Alpha Tau Omega where he will serve as next year’s chaplain and
pledge trainer. Gilbert was also this week elected to a two-year term on the Y.M.C.A. Board of Trustees. Rising sophomore
class president, Dave Robinson will also serve as secretary of the YMCA next year. Dave was president of his pledge
class in Beta Theta Pi and will be recording secretary of the fraternity next year.

The other two seniors elected, Sonny Ferguson and Roger Bates, are members of Kappa Alpha and Sigma Chi respectively. Junior
and sophomore veeps Johnson and Riggs are members of Beta Theta Pi. Junior secretary Bill Ferguson is a brother in
Kappa Alpha while his sophomore counterpart Ted Henry is a member of Phi Delta Theta.

Charlotte Phone Promised Soon

“I have been told that Davidson students may expect toll-free telephone service to Charlotte by July 1," Dan LaFar, Student
Body President said Wednesday. This service was to have been available by April 1. The delay, according to a letter
received from Southern Bell officials, is due to a three months' strike at the plant which manufactures equipment essential for
the Davidson installation. There are to be two lines to the college. One is for use by staff members only;
the other will be used by the college offices until they close, and then will become available for students. The
extension for student use will be located in the Union and the college will pay all expenses involved. LaFar and
Mr. D. Grier Martin, Davidson treasurer, are responsible for the work which has been done on this subject. It appears
that such service for the entire Davidson telephone exchange will not be available for several years.
