PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 1957

Sunday Visiting School Tradition
By TIM RAY

For many years, it has been a Sunday night tradition at Davidson for some of the faculty members to have
open house in their homes after the Vespers service. This idea was designed with the hope that students would take
the opportunity to get to know the faculty outside of the official relationships. This has always been a special advantage,
particularly to freshmen. The upperclassmen are thrown more with the faculty in such activities as trips and small honor groups,
but the college is usually unavoidably impersonal to the freshmen.

Dr. Staples has commented, “I don’t know the student’s opinion of the idea, but the faculty members are on the
list because they choose to be; it is entirely voluntary. They feel that it’s of value, and they enjoy having
the students in their homes.”

On the first Sunday in each month, the list is as follows: Abernethy, Col. Adams, Bernard, Culp, Fredericksen, Gehring, Goldiere,
Jackson, Logan, McGavock, Martin, Pietenpol, Puckett, Sailstad, Staples, Woods, and Workman.

The faculty members having open house on the second Sunday in the month are Bailey, Bevan, L. Brooks, Crawford, Cumming,
Drake, Johnston, McGeachy, McKee, Meetze, Minter, Plott, Purcell, Robinson, Schenck, Smith, and B. D. Thompson.

For the third Sunday, the list is as follows: Beaty, E. Brown, Daggy, Evans, French, Griffin, Laban, Lilly, Lloyd, McCutchan,
McLane, Payne, Pollay, Ratliff, Scott, Capt. Thompson, Watts, and Whittle.

Those who will entertain guests on the fourth Sunday night in each month are Bryan, Causey, Ficklen, Grayer, McGill, Maloney,
Mar, Potts, McGonagle, Ostwalt, Patterson, Reid, Thies, W. F. Thompson, Trakas, Tyson, West, and White.

Any changes that occur in this schedule from time to time will be announced in the Vespers bulletin.

THIS WEEK IN DAVIDSON

Saturday, November 9
2:00 p.m.—Football—Davidson versus Wofford—Here
7:00 p.m.—Movie—Double Feature—“Decision Before Dawn” and “The Naked Spur”—Union Ballroom

Sunday, November 10
7:30 p.m.—Vespers—the Reverend Kelsey Regen

Monday, November 11
10:00 a.m.-3:00 p.m.—Dean Lucas, University of Chicago Law School—Interviews—Private Dining Room College Union

Tuesday, November 12
8:15 p.m.—International Relations Club—Union Blue Room

Wednesday, November 13
8:15 p.m.—Artist Series: Rita Streich—Soprano—Chambers Auditorium

Thursday, November 14
6:00 p.m.—International Relations Club sponsors I-Kua Chou—Associate Professor of Gov’t at William and Mary—Union Ballroom

Friday, November 15
3:00 p.m.—Soccer—Davidson versus Pfeiffer—Here
8:00 p.m.—Movie—“Decision Before Dawn”—Union Ballroom

Martins To Direct Fine Arts In Charlotte
(Continued From Page One)

Samuel R. Spencer and Mr. and Mrs. Martin, on alternate years. The tour has as its European conductor Miss Erica
Bezzi, well known Italian newspaper woman, who speaks five languages fluently.

The Fine Arts Council of Charlotte is the official title of a group of citizens interested in broadening cultural activities
in Charlotte. The Council is composed of representatives from seventeen organizations in the Charlotte area, Davidson College and Winthrop College
being the only two members outside the Queen City. Davidson is represented by Professor Donald B. Plott, director of the
department of Music. When Professor Plott first joined the council, he represented only the Artist Series; today, the entire college
is included. Several other organizations belonging to the council are the Oratorial Singers, the American...

Observations From Debate On Labor

The following are observations made by Brooks, Guthrie, and Haigler on the McClellan Committee in their debate this past Tuesday.

Haigler: There are barons in unions just as there are in business and politics. There is no excuse for them
anywhere. There is no place in the trade union movement for Dave Becks. Probably because of this committee’s activities (which
are admittedly biased) legislation will be introduced into Congress compelling union trust supervision, opening of their books, and the elimination
of such things as paper locals. These unions are moving to clean their own house. I see no need for
federal intervention.

Brooks: The McClellan probe has shown that labor is infiltrated by elements of crime; that it is capable of abusing
its power; that it wields great power over people; and that tremendous money is involved. Legislation is necessary. I would
expect a minimum including regulation of pension funds and the establishment of safeguards in union elections.

Guthrie: Very likely, there will be strong agitation before the coming session of Congress for a federal right-to-work law.

Chou To Speak On Communist China

Professor I-Kuo Chou, Associate Professor of Government at The College of William and Mary, will give two talks at Davidson
on November 14. His subject is “Communist China and The Far East.” The talks will be in Chapel and at
8:00 p.m. Thursday evening in the Union Ballroom. A question period will follow. Professor Chou’s appearance on campus is part
of a faculty-administration effort to encourage a stronger student interest in world affairs today.

R.O.T.C. Cadets
(Continued From Page One)

Over a hundred connections seeutive generations. Two years ago the college issued a mimeographed booklet made the following statement which
Dr. Davidson particularly wants emphasized: “These records are being sent only to the families concerned. It would be unfortunate if
they were interpreted to mean that the college is interested only in the sons of her alumni. True, they have
certain rights of their own, but Davidson always has been interested in men of merit, regardless of previous connections.”

Professor Chalmers G. Davidson combines his work as Director of the Library with an interesting hobby—“Davidsonian Genealogy.” Dr. Davidson is
a faculty member whose avid interest in the college includes the Davidson of the past as well as the Davidson
of the future.

“Your Origin? ?” See “Chalmers”
By GORDON LeGRAND
Davidsonian Feature Staff

One of the more unusual hobbies represented among the faculty is Dr. Chalmers G. Davidson’s “Davidsoniana Genealogy.” In a summary
of the result of his research Dr. Davidson stated the following facts. “Four lines have been found who have attended
Davidson for four consecutive generations—the Carsons, the Greys, the Hunters, and the Harpers. There are at least that many more
with one or two generations.”Guild of Organists, and the Charlotte Little Theater. The council plans to sponsor a two-week Bach
Festival in the spring, with music and art from the Baroque Period being the theme. Three performances weekly, culminating in
the presentation of the “Passion of St. Matthew,” will comprise the music portion. The Art Council formed under the sponsorship
of the Charlotte Music Club. It is now receiving its finances through membership dues. The group was originally begun to
coordinate cultural activities in the city proper. It served as a clearing house for concert dates, plays, and other cultural
events. It has now taken on the actual sponsorship of many of these events. Dr. Plott stated that the council
is young and hopes to have a full-time Arts director in the future. At the present, no office is maintained,
and all work is voluntary. He stressed the importance of getting civic help to back the organization, looking to the
day when Charlotte can build and operate its own Fine Arts Center.

In the course of his genealogical research, Dr. Davidson has tried to go through the files of thousands of Alumni
to check their relationship. He also has in his office a file on each of the persons listed in “Generations
of Davidson College.” Oh yes, there is also a little information on one W. Wilson, but that is another story.

IN SALISBURY
Di Mizio's PIZZA
626 S. Main St. — Making Salisbury Famous

ATTENTION PRE-MED SENIORS
The world’s largest exclusive manufacturer of microscopes sees qualified students a splendid opportunity to function as Campus Representatives. Apply REICHERT
INSTRUMENTS, 62 Beaver Street, New York 5, N. Y.

Record Library Opens Collection
In a spooky, all but forgotten corner of the campus, there is a brightly lighted, comfortably furnished room that is
full of endless hours of listening. The record library, moved from its old quarters in the lower floor of Phi
Hall, is now set up in room No. 4. Starting this week, the room is open to students. Student assistants
will be on hand to play the records. To play the records, an array of high fidelity equipment stands ready,
with WebCor turntable and magnetic pickup, a 40-watt amplifier, woofers and tweeters galore. It’s quite impressive.

The collection contains a very large number of contemporary works. The music faculty who selects the records feels that the
allotted money should be spent in this area and the period of J. S. Bach and before, since the old
78 collections contain most classic and romantic standards and favorites—Beethoven's nine symphonies and the Brahms four, the operas Carmen, Aida,
and Don Giovanni, and most other important sonatas, songs, concertos, chamber music, and symphonies. Most interesting are recordings made by
composers themselves of their own and others' work. Most dazzling is a recording of Rhapsody on a Theme of Paganini
with its composer at the piano, showing, perhaps, Rachmaninoff to be as good a pianist as a composer. Chamber music
enthusiasts will be happy to know that the Mozart string quintets and all the Beethoven Quartets have been added to
the experimental Bartok Quartets which have been popular for several years now. The records and the equipment are top quality
and make use of them.

Tyson Announces Debate Meeting
Prof. Raymond W. Tyson has announced that there will be a short meeting in his office, 142 Chambers, Monday afternoon,
November 11, at 4 o’clock for all those interested in debating.

Davidson Students Supply Rural Pulpits
With the opening of another school year, Davidson’s “part-time preachers” are moving into action, filling pulpits in churches over a
forty-mile radius around Davidson. The “part-time preachers” are Davidson students, working under the Y.M.C.A.'s unique preacher-supply service, which is under
the direction of Dr. George Staples. The service began when small churches, many of them rural and not able to
support full-time ministers, invited pre-ministerial students at Davidson to preach. When the demand grew, the Y.M.C.A. took over the service
as a part of its work. Since its conception, the preacher-supply service has grown until more than a dozen churches
are served on Sundays by Davidson College students. At present, according to Dr. Staples, there are about twelve Davidson students
who serve regular charges, plus a group of “fill-ins” who alternate or answer requests to preach on individual Sundays. The
students, almost all of them pre-ministerial, plan and conduct services, prepare and deliver their own sermons, through the Y.M.C.A. supply
work. Work as a “part-time preacher” may carry a Davidson student as much as forty miles one-way to reach a
church. Many of the churches are located on far-removed dirt roads in rural areas, while others are small churches in
urban areas. One student, Harry Paschall, regularly serves a church organized near a dude ranch. It's an inter-denominational charge known
as “Love Valley Church.” Another rural church—one with a congregation of eighteen members—never knows who its preacher will be until
he stands to begin the service; students alternate in serving this one. Dr. Staples, who coordinates and supervises the supply
service, is high in his praise of the student preachers and their work. “This work is of inestimable value to
the churches we serve,” he says. “Our office organized over one hundred-fifty church services last year—this alone shows the worth
of the student preachers who supply pulpits in this area.” Dr. Staples requested that students interested in gaining experience as
“part-time preachers” contact him at the Y.M.C.A. office in the College Union.

Furious Gotham (Continued From Page One)
We were pleased to find our papers on display here as were the papers from the colleges that received “All-American”
ratings. Speaking of other colleges, we have enjoyed meeting delegates from the various schools, including N. C. State, Michigan State,
and Alabama College for Girls. Tonight, half of us saw the smash Julie Andrews—Rex Harrison hit, “My Fair Lady.” The
others saw “The Bells Are Ringing,” with Judy Holliday, and “Lil Abner,” with Edie Adams. (We'll never tell how we
got tickets.) Aside from the convention and the entertainment, all of us seem pop-eyed at the fast pace of the
Big City. As one staff member put it, “These people up here just don’t speak the same language that we
do.” The general opinion of our group appears to be a spontaneous chorus of “LONG LIVE THE SOUTH!"

There will be a short recognition period of Veteran’s Day on Monday, November 11, at 11 A.M. Please be attentive
to class and campus public address system announcements at this time.

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... PIZZA
the famous OPEN KITCHEN
Charlotte, N. C.

“IN THE SOUP"
AMERICA'S BEST-SELLING, BEST-TASTING FILTER CIGARETTE!
