DAVIDSON SOCIAL SYSTEM (Page Two) VOL. XLV

Opposition From The Floor

Proposed changes in the By-Laws to the Student Body Constitution met opposition even before the voting took place Tuesday, as Fairman Cumming took the stand to register dissent.

VETO BOTH PROPOSALS

Campaign Plan Soundly Beaten

A proposed amendment to the Student Body Constitution allowing open campaigning and the three proposed amendments concerning By-Laws were all defeated by vote of the Student Body after Tuesday's voting.

The first amendment which allowed for a specified “amount of money that can be spent by or for a candidate . . . subject to the approval of the Student Council” failed to receive the two-thirds majority vote necessary for adoption, and was defeated by a 2 to 1 margin.

The three proposed amendments concerning By-Laws were as follows:
(1) “That the By-Laws of the Student Government be amended by striking out the words in Section 5 of the By-Laws, ‘and the revised by-laws section by section’; and adding 6 and 7 as follows:”
(2) “Section 6—'The By-Laws of the Student Government is clearly subordinate to the Constitution of the Student Government.’”
(3) “Section 7—'The By-Laws may be revised by the Student Council through a 2-3 vote of total membership. The amendment must lie on the table for a period of one week.’”

The second of these By-Laws amendments failed to receive the necessary 2-3 majority by 6 votes, while the other two were soundly defeated.

Chorus, Concert Band Outline Annual Tours

Davidson College’s two musical touring units, the Male Chorus and the Concert Band, will leave next Thursday on their annual tours.

The Male Chorus will perform in Chester, S. C., Raleigh, Staunton, Va., Washington, D. C., Baltimore, Md., Princeton, N. J., Bethlehem, Pa., Hagerstown, Md., and Richmond, Va. Two programs will be used by this group, one a secular and one a religious program. The programs will include selections by Clement, Cherubini, Schubert, Bach, Brahms, Thompson, and Loesser.

The band will appear in Charleston, S. C., Bishopville, S. C., Waycross, Ga., Camden, S. C., and Columbia, S. C. Its program will include numbers by Fillmore, Holst, Breydert, Moussorgsky, Ravel, and Shields.

Another Refugee Family Selected By Committee

A second Hungarian family, one which will have an official connection with the college, has been selected by the Gift Fund Committee to join the Istvan Hocsak family as residents of Davidson.

The committee, in concurrence with the result of the Student Body vote on the three proposals submitted by Bunny Perkinson, recently has contacted the family of Dr. Laszlo Muzsnay, who has been both a pastor and a university professor in Budapest. Due to the Hungarian puppet government's unwillingness to allow minor children to leave the country, however, it is not known when Dr. Muzsnay, his wife, and four children will arrive in the United States. The committee has looked into this matter by contacting the Immigration and Naturalization Service of the Department of Justice.

The Gift Fund Committee has also considered the possibility of the Muzsnay family’s not being able to leave Hungary at all and has got in touch with the Council for Emigres in the Professions in order to secure another family.

(Continued On Page Six)

$25,000 To Be Spent For New Library Books

The Board of Trustees has designated twenty-five thousand dollars to be spent on new library books over the next three years. In their regular meeting three weeks ago, the Board designated that the sum, twenty-four thousand of which is from the Mrs. Margaret Clayton Thompson estate, be used for volumes which individual faculty members might request during the school year.

Bondurant, Smyth Go To Last Ballot; Cutting, Kuykendall In

Huie, Stuart To Run-Off

The Davidsonian

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, MARCH 15, 1957

UNION BALLOTING YIELDS NO CHANGE IN NUMBER VOTING

Voting figures released Wednesday by Elections Board Chairman Tom Morgan show that the new system of balloting in the College Union has produced about the same results as last year’s “in Chapel” voting method.

Favored by good weather on both polling days, Elections Board poll workers utilized the College Union veranda as an open-air election booth. They reported a minimum of difficulty in operating the new system, although a heavy voting flurry was reported between the lunchtime hours of 12:50 p.m.—1:45 p.m. on both days.

Tuesday’s results showed a five per cent drop in the total number of voters. This was attributed to the fact that no presidential candidates were involved in Tuesday's balloting, all but three having been eliminated in Monday’s primary.

Actual voting figures, shown below, indicate that the Freshmen led the other classes on both voting days. The other classes followed in descending order.

Monday’s Election Results — Total number of votes cast by classes:
No. Voting Percentage
Freshmen 180 71%
Sophomore 150 68%
Junior 118 66%
Senior 113 60%
Monday’s Total 563 68%

Tuesday's Election Results — Total number of votes cast by classes:
No. Voting Percentage
Freshmen 158 68%
Sophomore 139 63%
Junior 112 65%
Senior 109 59%
Tuesday's Total 522 63%

Tom Lee Hospitalized After Auto Accident

Tom Lee, Davidson Senior, was injured Wednesday afternoon on Highway 29 north of Spartanburg. Lee suffered a broken collar bone, and numerous scratches and bruises. He was taken to the Spartanburg General Hospital where he received emergency treatment and had his collar bone set. He is expected to remain at the hospital for several days. Lee was riding alone at the time of the accident.

Student Council Hears Plan For Point System

A proposed point system regulating student body offices was the main order of business at the Student Council meeting Monday night. Presented by a Council investigating committee headed by Carl Cooper, the point system would restrict the number of offices a student could hold in any one year. On the recommendation of the committee, the plan was deemed impractical at the present time, and was referred back to the committee for further study.

It was announced that the direct telephone line to Charlotte will be ready for use by the first of April. Following a discussion on the time limits of each call, the Council voted to impose no regulations unless the necessity for such action became evident after the phone was put into operation.

A petition from 79 students to change the site of balloting back to Chapel was read. Requesting elections “to be held in student body meeting” the petition was cited as containing a fallacy. To be valid, the petition of necessity would have to state in “compulsory student body meetings.”

Balloting for Student Body officers went outdoors this week as the revamped elections procedure got underway. Total returns compared favorably with years past when all elections were run in Chapel.

COULD BE READY BY ‘58

D. Grier Martin Clarifies Fraternity Court Plans

“A new fraternity court could be ready for use by the fall of 1958,” stated Vice-President D. Grier Martin in an interview yesterday. Martin emphasized that the new court is “still in the planning stage” and that “no definite date can be set for its completion.”

Martin explained that the new court will be located on the site of the present baseball field, and that the baseball field will be moved to the area behind the gymnasium. He added that the new court will be financed by the fraternities themselves, with the college acting as a “clearing house” for the funds.

The Vice-President also pointed out that the new court will be designed to accommodate the needs of the fraternities, and that it will include “adequate space for social functions, as well as living quarters for the members.”

Martin concluded by saying that the new court will be “a significant improvement over the present system as it is” and that he is confident that it will be “a great asset to the college and to the fraternities.”remained in contention. Today’s voting saw 67% of the Student Body casting their ballots in the newly initiated polling system located in the College Union. Monday’s vote will conclude balloting for Student Body Officers, and the polling for Editor of the Davidsonian will begin. Editorial candidates are Lloyd Chapin, John Johnson, and John Trask.

*Meet The Candidates*

Earlier in the week, the Davidsonian queried the leading candidates for President of the Student Body as to their stands on the primary issues now facing student leadership and the College at large. Their reactions to the questions fired at them by Davidsonian staff members are compiled below.

Ross Smyth
“The spirit of the Honor System does not include the right to deny a boy a good education.” Presidential candidate Ross Smyth used these words to cite the need for definite changes in the Honor System. He continued, “The events of this school year have shown that the system needs flexibility. We need changes in the letter of the law without changing the spirit of the law.” Smyth advocates more frequent use of the suspension punishment when possible because, as he pointed out, “once a boy is dismissed from Davidson it is almost impossible for him to get into any good school.”

When queried about the much-discussed plans for a new fraternity court, this candidate said, “I am in favor of a new court, preferably with single houses. If, however, single houses prove to be too impractical financially, I would then favor the duplex plan.”

Bill Bondurant
“Davidson's honor system has proven itself through time and shows no need for alteration,” commented Candidate Bill Bondurant. “The student council should uphold and enforce the system in its entirety.”

The question of the new plans for the fraternity court brought forth his opinion that “a change is necessary, not necessarily, however, along the lines of the present design.” Bondurant, in reply to the possibility of establishing a quota limit for fraternities, said, “The change in fraternity housing will eliminate any immediate need for rushing regulations.”

“The Hell Week program,” continued the nominee, “is reasonable, at present, without being too strictly limited. However, if any changes are made, they should be student-initiated.”

In opposition to the recent amendment concerning campaigning for student body offices, Bondurant remarked, “The Davidson atmosphere demands a system such as we now possess.” The Student Council issue of lump balloting was contrary to the feeling of the candidate—although he stressed its good qualities in that “it expedites voting.”

“I would be opposed to any attempt to integrate the Davidson campus in the foreseeable future,” he continued; “it would create unnatural and unbeneficial relations upon the campus.” Refusing to comment on any personal desires as to the general classification of the new president, Bondurant urged that “the faculty and student element be voiced in the trustees’ thinking.”

Another college question, that of increasing the student body enrollment, was also addressed by the candidates.

Fraternity Court... A Definite Proposal
See Editorial on Page Two

Treasurer Martin concluded that he “believed in the fraternity system.” He continued that he thought little could be gained by delay, hoping for a gift or several gifts to reduce the cost. He pointed to the present need for employment which, in some cases, is “at the critical stage.” The possibility of a fundraising campaign directed by the fraternities was viewed with some favor by Mr. Martin. “If $100,000 could be raised through such a campaign, either the monthly rents could be greatly reduced or the house could be measurably improved.” He continued, “A quota system could be set up by which each fraternity would be assigned a goal based on its members.”

Relative Estimates Given On Two Court Proposals
For an additional $4.50 per month, per member, Davidson fraternities can have single unit fraternity housing. This estimate represents only the difference in the two proposed plans, duplex and single unit, and does not take into account present board and rent costs which vary among the fraternities. To aid in the study of the two court proposals, the Davidsonian and D. Grier Martin have prepared the following estimates of relative costs and operating expenses:

Initial cost, single unit: $26,000
Initial cost, single unit with unfinished basement: $30,000
Initial cost of duplex unit per fraternity: $19,000
Initial cost of duplex unit with basement per fraternity: $24,000
Amount saved per fraternity per year, duplex over single operation (savings on food, rent, dietician, kitchen labor, etc.): $2,160
Extra cost per brother (60-man fraternity), per month, single units instead of duplex: $4.50
Extra cost per brother (30-man fraternity), single units instead of duplex: $9.00
Rent saving per month per fraternity, duplex with basement over single unit without: $20.00
Rent saving per month per fraternity, duplex without basement over single unit without: $75.00
Present average rent paid for chapter house and boarding house per month: $95—$120

Eighteen Baker Finalists To Accept Scholarships
Eighteen finalists in the Baker Scholarship competition have accepted scholarships offered to them. Of this number, seven were selected to receive Baker Scholarships. Winners of the Baker Scholarships were Andy Blake, Henry Chase, Norris MacKinnon, Spiro Macris, William Martin, Henry Shue, and Dick Smith.

Blake, from Anderson, S.C., is a National Merit Finalist and plans to enter the ministry. Chase, from Huntsville, Alabama, lettered in tennis at Battle Ground Academy and plans to be a nurseryman. A Merit Finalist from Longview, Texas, is Martin. Also a Merit Finalist is Shue, from Staunton, Va., whose future vocation is the ministry. Smith, from Trenton, N.J., is also studying for the ministry. Charles Morgan of Spartanburg, S.C., has accepted a Proctor and Gamble Scholarship. Charles Cornwell of Lattimore and Bob MacKinnon of Wilmington, who lettered in football and plans to enter teaching, are also among the finalists. Interested in international relations is Macris, a Merit Finalist from Greenville, Alabama, who is interested in commercial art.

(Continued On Page Six)