DAVID LAWRENCE ANALYZES FOURTEENTH AMENDMENT (Page 2) VOL. XLVI | Ch Cunningham Dedicates Dorms, The News and Editorial Voice of
Davidson College DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 1957 SOCCER TEAM PLAYS HERE TOMORROW (Page 3) NO. 7
Gives Degree to Spencer

Davidson's Sunday Blue Laws
Gas Sale Forbidden
By LAURENS WALKER
Davidsonian Staff Writer

“If you want to know why we cannot sell gas on Sunday, ask that feller up the road. He did
it. No, I don’t care too much about the money, but I hate to see one man run the town.”
Thus service station operator Jim Pender expressed his opinion as to why there is no gas sold on the Sabbath
in the town limits of Davidson. The “feller up the road,” W. H. Reid, owner and operator of Reid's Esso
Service answered this charge with “Don't ask me. Ask the Town Council. They did it, not me.”

COMMERCIAL RIVALRY
Thus we found out that even the Town of Davidson has its political skeletons in its admittedly small closet, and
that bitter commercial rivalry flourishes between, at least, the filling stations. Recruited a retired minister, a Reverend Patterson, to circulate
a petition demanding that the service stations be closed on Sunday. This was done about four years ago, and it
passed the Council “before I knew anything about it” continues Pender. Mr. Reid denies the whole story, but admits that
he “would just as soon close on Sunday.”

‘BEARS LOOKING INTO’
Members of the Town Council when asked about the matter, said they “didn't know much about the thing, but thought
it might bear looking into.” Countless Davidsonians have found out, to their chagrin, that it is impossible to buy gasoline
in the town limits of Davidson on Sunday. We set out to find out why. Many years ago, the Town
Council passed a Blue Law ordinance which forbade the selling

Trustees, Visitors View Ceremonies
By WILLIE THOMPSON
Davidsonian Staff Reporter

Dr. John R. Cunningham, acting in his former capacity as president of Davidson College, presided at the annual fall convocation
this morning at 10:10 a.m. He also conferred an honorary Doctor of Laws degree upon Dr. J. Spencer Love of
Burlington Industries and participated in the dedication of J. A. Cannon and E. H. Little Halls. These ceremonies highlighted the
annual meeting of the Board of Visitors. The degree was to have been awarded at the Commencement exercises last spring,
but Love was abroad at the time. The dedication ceremony was conducted by Dr. J. McDowell Richards, president of Columbia
Theological Seminary and president of the Board of Trustees of Davidson College. The two halls are named for friends of
the college who have given it devoted service. Dr. W. T. Thompson, former moderator of the General Assembly of the
Presbyterian Church, and trustee of Davidson College, delivered the invocation. Dr. Warner Hall, pastor of the Covenant Presbyterian Church in
Charlotte, also participated. Dr. Cunningham, as “President for the Day,” recognized honored guests of the college and made a short
address to the assembly.

Cannon Hall shown above and Little Hall (right) were officially dedicated at ceremonies held this morning.

TO THE TRUSTEES
(An Editorial)

As the Trustees gathered here today, they found the college operating in its usual excellent way. This they saw. What
they could not see, however, was how the college felt. The ostensible soundness of Davidson College belied a deep felt
concern for what we shall call the “Specter of Increased Enrollment.” The Trustees have ordered the enrollment increased to one
thousand. While there is no magic number that divides a small college from a larger one, there is, however, an
intangible limit past which point the complexion and atmosphere of a small college begin to change. Davidson has now reached
that point. But the Trustees have ordered the enrollment increased.

‘SLOW’ INCREASE
“Trustees’ Decision Wise”---Hengeveld

The present policy of the Trustees—to raise the enrollment to one thousand—is of deep and sincere concern to many who
love Davidson College as they now know her. While there is no magic number that divides a small college from
a larger one, there is, however, an intangible limit past which point the complexion and atmosphere of a small college
begin to change. Davidson has now reached that point. As Dr. Samuel Spencer's analysis of the admissions program proved, the
fact is that Davidson is now getting the absolute maximum number of top-quality students that wish to come here. Davidson
could not get any more high-level students even if she wanted to. And even now, as Dr. Spencer pointed out,
the college is forced to admit a few students who are below the average to fill the present level of
850 students.

Dr. Cunningham, whose administration was responsible for this progress, presided.

Davidsonian Receives All-American Rating
By BRUCE BROOKS
Davidsonian Staff Reporter

For the second semester in a row, THE DAVIDSONIAN received the top rating of “All-American” given by the Associated Collegiate
Press in its semi-annual rating service. Issues of the paper judged for this rating were those published last semester when
Jim Batten was editor, and also the first five issues put out by the present staff. THE DAVIDSONIAN was judged
in the class of colleges with an enrollment of from 751 to 1250 students. Forty-three such schools entered weekly newspapers.
THE DAVIDSONIAN was one of eight to receive the top honor rating. Last year was the first time in a
number of years that THE DAVIDSONIAN had received this honor.

Duane Andrews, the judge of the class in which THE DAVIDSONIAN was entered, called the treatment of copy “a very
professional job.” Andrews was especially enthusiastic about DAVIDSONIAN features and particularly the editorial page. He called the features “imaginative, well
written, and extremely interesting” and “among the best I’ve seen.” Of the editorials, Andrews thought that they maintained “a beautiful
balance” and that the editorial page was the “best laid-out page of the paper.” Other areas which Andrews thought particularly
good were balance, creativeness, the front page, and the photography. THE DAVIDSONIAN was judged at least between very good and
excellent in all categories.

Registrar F. W. Hengeveld has given assurances that every effort will be made to see that grades come up to
the average.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

of anything on Sunday except drugs, and allowed that only during the hours when church was not being held.

ORDINANCE MODIFIED

Years later, about 1930, The Standard Oil Company persuaded the Council that selling gas was an “ox in the ditch,”
and the ordinance was modified to allow the service stations to remain open during the non-church hours. This situation continued
until after the war. Most people agree up to this point, but no further. Mr. Pender charges that Mr. Reid
did not want to do business on Sunday. However, Standard Oil threatened to take away his franchise if he did
not remain open. Faced with this problem, Pender asserts that Reid re- telling the truth. Actually, we don’t care, but
it's still a long way to walk to Mooresville for gas. The Town Council ought to find out what “the
thing’s about,” and settle the feuds so that Davidsonians can get their ox or Chevrolet or what not out of
the ditch on Sunday mornings.

— Epidemic Postpones Fall Blood Drive

The Fall Blood Drive, sponsored jointly by the IFC and the ROTC Department, has been postponed to a later date
because of the flu epidemic. When re-scheduled, the drive will operate under the same conditions and with the same rewards
as before.

Staples To Speak

Dr. George Staples, Minister to Students at Davidson, will speak at Vespers Sunday night at 7:30.

Davidson's registrar said that his office staff had been hard hit by the flu. Also, several members of the faculty
have not turned in their grades, presumably because of the flu.

INCREASED ENROLLMENT

The luncheon meeting with the school official centered largely around the question of increased enrollment. “We must meet the demands
of a growing student population if Davidson College is to continue to serve the church.” Hengeveld went on to add
that the “decision by the trustees was a wise one.” If we have the facilities and the staff, the College
can do just as good a job with a larger group as it can with 850 students. The Trustees have
said that any increase must come only with an increase in facilities.

RATE OF GROWTH

Queries about the probable rate of growth of the college brought the comment that “It's going to be awfully slow.
I doubt that we will be able to make any increase next year.” As to long-range growth, the official said
that the College will not (Continued On Back Page)

Could the real motive be to put Davidson College on a competitive basis in big-time athletics? We are proud of
Davidson College as she now is. Her name and reputation are synonymous with superior academic standards and true Christian character.
In reality, the heritage of Davidson as a small college is a real luxury. Where else can a student from
the southeast find a small, private, highly endowed, first-rate college? The fact is that Davidson is one of the few
top-notch small colleges in the South. Instead of enlargement, therefore, let us go forward by consolidating what we already have.
Let us raise even higher the standards on which Davidson has gained her reputation. Increased enrollment will not only change
the complexion of the college, but will also result in lower standards—based on the quality of students that are currently
applying for admission.

F. W. HENGEVELD .. College Registrar meets the press

Trustees, we ask you to reconsider this plan for enlarging Davidson. Let us not lay waste in a day what
has taken generations to build.

A soccer game with Warren Wilson and a concert by Claude Thornhill and his Orchestra, along with the two dances,
will highlight Homecoming Weekend. It has been re-scheduled for November 22-23, announced Bob Jones, IFC president, today. There will be
no classes on Saturday, Nov. 23, and the soccer game will be held in the early afternoon, followed by the
concert in Chambers’ Auditorium.

Some money has definitely been lost because Homecoming was postponed, but the amount has not been determined yet. The money
for the flowers has been completely forfeited. According to Jones, “We can't determine the loss until the Musicians’ Union rules
on the orchestra contract. We did lose money, and because of that we'll have to raise the price of dance
tickets over what it would have been. This will probably not be an increase of over one dollar.”

Racial Issue To Be Discussed

Five students from Johnson C. Smith University will appear on a panel to discuss their views on the NAACP and
the way that the integration program is being carried out. This will be at a regular meeting of the Westminster
Fellowship, Sunday night after Vespers, in the student lounge of the college church.

Five Seniors Get Bids To Phi Beta Kappa In Annual Fall Election

It was learned yesterday that five members of the senior class have been issued bids to Phi Beta Kappa. The
five are Lloyd W. Chapin, John C. Bernhardt, Edward T. Stewart, William L. Pomeroy, and Henderson M. Rourk.

Lloyd Chapin, a Baker Scholar from Atlanta, Georgia, is president of the YMCA, president of Alpha Tau Omega Fraternity, and
member of Omicron Delta Kappa. He is pre-ministerial.

John Bernhardt, another Baker Scholar, from Lenoir, North Carolina, is president of the senior class and was formerly second vice-president
of the student body. Bernhardt is a member of Omicron Delta Kappa, and is a Kappa Sig.

Ed Stewart of Kirkwood, Missouri, is the first man at Davidson to be awarded a Burlington Industrial Scholarship. He is
a member of Phi Delta Theta Fraternity and is pre-med.

Bill Pomeroy, president of Kappa Alpha Order, is from Waycross, Georgia. He is president of the Honorary Fraternity Council, and
AED medical fraternity. Pomeroy, too, is pre-med.

Henderson Rourk from Shallotte, North Carolina, is vice-president of Sigma Phi Epsilon Fraternity. Rourk is studying medicine.
