EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
JIM BATTEN

BUSINESS MANAGER
BOB CARMICHAEL

ASSOCIATE EDITORS
FRANKLIN BLOODWORTH, LEON HOWELL

Assistant Editor
Bob Beall

Managing Editors
Lloyd Chapin, John Trask

John Johnson
Bill Bondurant
John Trotti

Sports Editor
Che Davidsonian

Feature Editor
Jim Batten

Copy Editor
Bob Carmichael

Assignments
Bob Lathan

Advertising Manager
Bob Majors

Circulation
Ed Morrisett

Represented for National Advertising by
NATIONAL ADVERTISING SERVICE, Inc.

SUBSCRIPTION RATE: $2.00 Per Year, Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act
of March 3, 1879.

OFFICES IN DAVID OVENS COLLEGE UNION, DAVIDSON COLLEGE

Marshall Chapman, Tom DuPuis
Photographer
Hank Daniel

FRIDAY, MARCH 15, 1957

Plans for the newly proposed Fraternity Court as presented in last week’s Davidsonian have been generally received with interest, but
with definite reservations. The objections raised are the expected ones. First of all, fraternity men naturally prefer the single units
over the duplexes, for numerous and obvious reasons. Secondly, the failure of the plans to provide for a chapter room
or a similar area has been pointed out. While the main living room in the proposed unit is considerably larger
than the total floor space in the present houses, it seems desirable to have at least two distinct rooms available
for day-by-day use in the houses.

This week we propose an alternate plan which we believe would satisfactorily meet the objections raised concerning the original proposals
of last week, and would still be financially feasible.

Single Units Cost $25,000

The cost of building the universally preferred single unit houses as shown last week would run in the vicinity of
$25,000. This cost includes individual kitchen facilities and dietician quarters in addition to the dining room and living room, either
one of which alone would be larger by some 200 square feet than the total floor space in the present
house, including both living and chapter rooms.

One of the big objections to the presented plans could be met with the addition of an unfinished basement for
each unit, which could be used as a chapter room, and as a television and ping-pong area if so desired.
Such a basement, of approximately 900 square feet, would cost an additional $5,000.

$30,000 With Basements

So for roughly $30,000 apiece, each fraternity could be furnished an attractive single unit, which would provide, exclusive of kitchen
and dietician living area, a house with floor space almost four times that of the present cottages on Fraternity Court,
and a living area of a little over 1800 square feet as compared with only approximately 730 square feet now
available. With these provisions, it seems likely that most fraternity men would jump at the chance to see such an
arrangement put into operation.

But as it now stands, the cost of financing of such a program of sweeping improvements is prohibitive. If the
fraternities, however, could somehow raise the difference between the cost of a single-unit-with-basement program and the cheaper and financially feasible
duplex-without-basement plan, the finances would again be within reasonable reach. A coordinated fund-raising campaign by the Davidson fraternities seems to
be a logical and practical answer.

$100,000 Would Do It

$100,000 could make the difference between the two proposals. With enthusiastic support and a lot of hard work, there is
no good reason why such a sum could not be secured. Quotas could be assigned to each fraternity on the
basis of its living alumni, and since the money would technically go to the College, though earmarked for this project,
donations would be tax-deductible, thus making contributing considerably more attractive.

With this money secured, the plan could be put within the financial reach of members of smaller fraternities by dividing
equally among all fraternity men the total monthly rental costs on the new court, instead of charging each fraternity a
flat sum, whether composed of 30 or 80 men. Since every man would be furnished with identical facilities, such a
scheme seems completely fair.

$3.50 Per Man Per Month

Assuming that $100,000 could be raised, and the remaining cost is divided equally among a hypothetical 850 fraternity men which
we should easily have in the near future, the cost for such a spacious single unit with basement per man
per month would be roughly in the neighborhood of $3.50. In interpreting this figure, we should remember that this would
not be a flat increase of $3.50 to the present dues, since fraternity men are already paying rent on fraternity
houses and boarding houses, which would be done away with if the switch were made.

The key to such a Fraternity Court, which we feel would amply meet the needs of an expanding fraternity system
for years to come, lies in the raising of $100,000. If such a Court finds favor with the Student Body,
a concerted and united fraternity effort could secure the money.

Honors--Apex Of The Curriculum

There are many opportunities and advantages in attending a Liberal Arts school. One of the outstanding phases of Davidson’s program
is the Honors Program, discussed in detail on page three. There is some feeling among members of the faculty and
relatively fewer students that there is room for more intensive work to be done on the junior and senior levels.
In the first two years, they feel, most of the men are made to exert themselves to meet the rather
stiff requirements established.

When the last two years arrive, however, there is more room for sloughing off all but the major courses and
sort of “coasting in.” The arguments for both sides can be presented logically. In an effort to provide an avenue
for those students who rank high in their class and who demonstrate more than usual interest to work at a
faster rate and do more independent study, the honors program was established.

In the first place, the added emphasis on individual research and a taste of graduate level work is invaluable for
students planning further training. The fact that the class load is lightened considerably calls for greater discipline and application on
the student's part. Secondly, the greater part of the reading and all the papers can be approached from the participant’s
particular interest field. This prevents becoming “bogged down” in the mass of material it is necessary to cover. There is
much to be said for the broad picture as opposed to the more narrow approach dictated by reviews and constant
writs. The informal atmosphere, extending into the professor’s home, also produces a milieu more conducive to good work.

It is a program which has many interesting angles. Davidson, as a sort of pioneer in this area, should take
pride in the success it has had with Honors. Certainly the record of graduates speaks for itself.—F.L.H.

By BOB JONES.

As we stand at this juncture of Davidson history, can we but be impressed that it is one of unusual
significance. Perhaps at no time in the last few decades have so many determining factors culminated to make a single
juncture such as ours of such importance in casting the character of the Davidson of the future. Even the most
casual observer can discern this significance in light of the pending choice of a new president, the approval of the
Ten Year Plan calling for construction of seven new buildings and raising ten million dollars, the coming increased enrollment, and
the proposed change in the fraternity plant.

If this moment carries such potential in forming the actual future of Davidson, what does this require of those in
the present student generation? What else but action in accord with the highest

Popular Appeal
By Cole

NAME

“NEW DORM ARE OF

PROPER

MORE HEAT THAN LIGHT?

Time Has Come To Examine Election System With Open Mind

By BILL DANIEL

The furor that has been raised during the past few weeks with regard to election procedures at Davidson College has
unfortunately created more heat than light. We have seen amendments and suggestions come and go without thought and understanding on
our part as students.

The time has come—not to wait until next year—but to discuss and analyze the strengths and weaknesses of the system
under which we operate while it operates, and to try to work out improvements and changes which will result in
the realization of established goals.

Suggested Changes

The present arrangement has the following weaknesses:

(1) Lack of opportunity to become acquainted with a candidate's views and intentions. In spite of our “family atmosphere,” there
are many candidates that I frankly do not know. What purpose they have in running for an office, what their
conception of that office is, what they hope to achieve if elected—all this is left to conjecture in many cases.
One is reduced to election-by-acquaintance or by fortuitous fraternity affiliation. Only the student body president finalists have this opportunity, and
the ineptness of this is obvious. What is needed is an exchange of questions and answers.

(2) Lack of interest on the part of the student body as a whole. This element can be seen in
the vote turnout either at the Union or in the lobby of Chambers, and in the general student attitude. This
is naturally a problem that pervades any electoral system, but this makes it no less of a problem on the
local scene.

(3) The lack of a realistic approach to elections and campaigning. For someReason to campaign is construed as undesirable within
our tight little framework and conducive to “moral sin.” Elections are interpreted as the vox populi in one spontaneous intuitive
grasp of insight as to who is the “right” man. By his works ye shall know him. Unfortunately again, either
I do not get around that much or the chosen has passed me by. This conception seems utterly unrealistic. Let
us take these points as goals or ends: opportunity to know the candidates, a real interest from the student body,
a realistic approach to procedure, and see what means have been suggested for their realization.

Compromise Asked

Various methods have been suggested. Open campaigning with limitations (unspecified) was rejected—and I feel rightly. This appears as an extreme
which would in itself create problems of control that would be all but impossible to regulate. While one may point
to other schools that permit this, for the most part their electorate is composed of Independents upon which political parties
wield their propaganda weapons. Belonging to no fraternal order, they are not subject to any rigid control by any combine.
Davidson is far from such a situation. This again would not ensure an opportunity to know anyone but campaign managers.
Also, the freedom of anyone to run for an office would be seriously threatened if parties or combines were allowed.
Another method (if it can be called that) is complete apathy or conservatism. Why change? Can anyone really complain about
the caliber of men elected in the past? This is the type of argument promulgated by those who ignore the
fact that perfection has yet to be achieved and who refuse to realize that standing still may be stagnation as
well as determination. The above-mentioned problems still remain whether we close our eyes or not. This is not a solution
but a disease.

Present Weaknesses

Some suggestions I think are particularly good. For example, in his article of March 1, Tom Morgan suggested the possibility
of “forums (at which) the candidates would be allowed to express their views and answer questions from the floor.” This
is a realistic solution and not an impossible one. This would be a type of campaigning that would achieve the
ends in view and also prevent the dangers inherent in open campaigning. The plan would answer the first problem mentioned;
and if conducted in the right manner, would affect the second. The first step in the right direction has been
made with the successful movement of voting to the Union. Voting is no longer a thoughtless response to a ballot
shoved into the hand. Let us not stop here, however, but continue to search for the system best suited to
our needs. But now is the time to examine, analyze, and discuss. Let us approach the problem with an open
mind so that we might grow with, not against, the times.

Gift Fund

As chairman of the Gift Fund Committee, I wish to express our sincere appreciation to the faculty and student body
for the wonderful way in which you responded to the Gift Fund this year. The new and happy life given
to the Hocsak family is evidence enough of the worthiness of what the student body has done. I feel that
we can be deeply gratified by the results of our action.

Enlightenment possible so that the future may judge our actions as ones that made a better Davidson. In the current
proposal for a new fraternity court, the student body is presented with the opportunity to make a choice that will
greatly influence the nature of the fraternity system of the future, if not the entire social pattern at Davidson. In
view of this, it then seems that we are challenged to make as rational and as enlightened a decision as
possible. It appears, however, that we are on the verge of making this choice on a conception based primarily on
the evident need of change, but little more. It is questionable that this choice is in the best interest of
the future, for the alternatives are actually no more than a bigger superstructure built on the current foundation. It is
this very foundation that is of questionable strength. It can be conceded that the social system at Davidson is “unrealistic.”
With the official head-in-the-sand attitude, a “realistic” system is impossible, for only a recognized problem can be resolved. The problems
and questionable aspects of the Davidson social system are prodigious, but there is no evident effort to meet, or even
recognize them. This situation makes one demand: to make a constructive effort to analyze, evaluate, and formulate solutions to our
virtually incoherent social pattern. It is difficult to see why this inadequate pattern should be maintained. This demand can best
be realized by a competent committee combining students and faculty in an effort to evaluate the present system to its
roots. What is its purpose? How is it functioning? What role should the Union play? What are the problems of
other colleges and how are they being solved? It would require time; but not only does its ratio to future
time justify it, it requires it. The administration has presented the students with the responsibility of gauging the character of
the Davidson social pattern. It is highly questionable if a responsible choice can be made without total evaluation. Those who
are currently professing an interest in Davidson have here an opportunity to manifest this interest by joining in a tangible
movement for a better Davidson.

LETTER TO EDITOR

Candidate Should Be Able To Air Views

Dear Editor,

The recent fervor concerning the defeated Peden Amendment has brought to the attention of the students the fact that a
candidate for a student body office at Davidson has no chance to attract votes in his behalf. I am in
sympathy with the democratic goal as was sought by the Peden Amendment; however, I could not support it because of
the unsatisfactory restrictions that it provided. The inevitable innovation of strong fraternity cliques would have been its natural by-product, and
I feel that such cliques would have destroyed the unique elections system of Davidson. However, I feel compelled to offer
criticism of the elections system as it now stands. It is absolutely impossible for an upperclassman, or any student, to
present his name to the electorate for serious consideration without “soliciting votes.” To solicit votes would be to automatically defeat
himself. Yet how is a student able to let the electorate know that he is willing and anxious to serve
them? As it stands now it seems that only those students whose names have become associated with student government, dating
from their freshman year, have a chance to be elected. This serious handicap can destroy competition for those already possessing
power and in effect, provide a possible basis for lax supervision of student interests. The freedom of speech guaranteed to
us by our citizenship, ironically, is under the present system, completely forbidden at Davidson. Can we call this democracy? I
commend previous efforts directed toward the solution of this problem and I call for a determined effort by the present
student representatives to study ways and means of bypassing the undemocratic aspects of our Constitution without destroying the underlying principles
that are presently inadequately protected by the elections system. In the meantime, I would earnestly urge the electorate to seriously
consider the names set before them as candidates for office. Vote not for popularity but for determination, merit, foreseen merit,
accomplishment, leadership ability, and the like. This, I believe, is our duty just as it is our duty to vote.

Alex Gardner

FROM THE TOP of the DOME with TOM MORGAN

Needless to say, there is considerable agitation among the members of the student body for some changes in the elections
system. Dozens of students have spoken to the members of the elections board about changes which they feel are sorely
needed. The most voiced complaint seems to be that students often do not even know the men who are running
for office. This has prompted many voters not to mark their ballots under certain offices. Others mark the ballot, but
do so completely ignorant of the qualifications of the candidates. Some of these choose to cast their ballot for the
man with the most letters in his name or at a certain place on the list. Clearly such a situation
as this needs to be remedied.

The prevalence of this lack of acquaintance with members of the student body, who are considered by many to be
outstanding enough to serve as officers, seems to disprove the argument that at Davidson everyone knows most everyone else. This,
so the argument goes, is why “campaigning” is unnecessary.

I will agree with them that campaigning such as was proposed by the amendment voted on this week is not
the solution. Again, though, I urge that the students, and particularly the student council, consider the possibility of a forum
and distribution of limited literature such as this column proposed two weeks ago and Mr. Walker reiterated last week.

I feel that this is far more needed in elections for offices other than the student body president. The president
of the student body primarily sets the tone and mood for the council, but it is the members of the
council who really decide issues and who try offenses of the Honor Code and regulations.
