FRIDAY, DECEMBER 13, 1957 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

Action above shows Joe Milner (52) and Dave Hollingsworth (40) in position to tip in two points for the Wildcats in their 94-50 thrashing of the College of Charleston. Semi Mintz (10) is the other Wildcat moving in on the play.

Wood Captains Intramurals: Catawba Falls Twice; Wildcats Own 4-2 Mark
By BOBBY PAGE
Davidsonian Sports Writer

With four early season wins tucked away, Davidson's basketball Wildcats approach the 1957 Carrousel Tournament with its best record in recent years. Wins over the College of Charleston, Wofford, and two over Catawba have offset the two losses at the campaign's beginning to Wake Forest and Georgia Tech.

Playing at two-day intervals following, Davidson jumped College of Charleston 94-50, setting a new victory margin, upended Wofford, 67-58, edged Catawba in overtime, and already become pleased with the assistance of the ex-Demon Deacons’ star, Ernie Wiggins, who has taken over junior varsity responsibilities and partial duties on the varsity level. Introduced to the attending portion of the student body preceding the clash with Catawba last Monday, Wiggins received a warming ovation from not only the students, but our loyal supporters of the Red and Black.

ERNIE WIGGINS

As expected, Dave Hollingsworth and Semi Mintz are setting the pace in the scoring column for the Cats, but are receiving surprising aid from Sophomore John Huie and Freshman Bill Shinn in rebounding and floor play. Huie has established himself as a top rebounder as well as the fastest man on the squad. Shinn has proven to be as deadly a shot as ex-great Bobby Cobb by hitting on better than 65 percent of his field goal attempts thus far. He is rapidly gaining experience under the boards to aid in one of Davidson's all-time weaknesses of rebounding.

Center Joe Milner rounded into his own against Catawba. All were played on the local planks. The Indians also fell 47-45 Wednesday night at Salisbury.

By HENRY RAMSEY
I-F Sports Writer

An All-Campus Flickerball Team, elected by the top nine men from each fraternity team, is made up of the men showing the greatest amount of ability and sportsmanship throughout the entire flickerball tournament.

By TOM SMITH

The Wildcat swimming team, under the guidance of Coach George Thompson and Captain Fritz Russell, travel to Lexington, Virginia, tonight where they meet VMI Saturday afternoon and the Washington and Lee swimmers on Monday. Both teams will provide strong opposition for the Cats due to the return of many of last year's outstanding swimmers.

Last Friday the Cat splashmen traveled to Williamsburg, Va., dropping a disappointing one to William and Mary by a score of 59-42. Bad form and condition, combined with the opposition’s strength in the diving and medley, both individual and relay, were the main factors in the loss.

Trouble-free weekender—this wash ’n’ wear Arrow

Off for the weekend? Here’s a shirt that combines rare good looks with amazing handiness—the Arrow Glen in wash ’n’ wear Dacron* and cotton. Collar stays are stitched in, permanently and invisibly. They just won't get lost. See, too, our Drake button-down model. Your choice, in white or solid colors, just $7.95. All silk tie $2.50. Cluett, Peabody & Co., Inc.

ARROW—first in fashion
SHIRTS + TIES

*Dupont's polyester fiber

They’re here in favorite Arrow designs! Come and see our selection of trouble-free, wash ’n’ wear shirts, the Arrow Glen and the Arrow Drake—offered with regular and Link Cuff. Don’t delay. Look in before the campus pace setters buy our entire supply.

The following night against Georgia Tech, Hudgens finished well in the seventh and eighth weekly DAVIDSONIAN Football Guessing Contests, the final contests of the year. He picked the greatest number of play.

Wiggins was one of the main cogs in the gold and black machine that dumped Colgate, Auburn, and Florida in last year’s event.

One of the perennial topics of controversy around the campus is the interfraternity sports program. If it’s not the question of eligibility of a varsity athlete for a certain intramural sport, it’s the inconvenience of having a tournament at its scheduled time, or the question of I-F Athletic Council.

This writer by no means can suggest a cure-all for the sports program, but I will try to make a few constructive comments in the hope that they will promote thought directed toward accomplishing some benefit to the program.

First of all, I went to the “brains” of the whole program, Coach Heath Whittle, the director of intramurals, who has been accused in some corners of exercising monarchial powers in the program.

Whittle was quick to assert that “I let the boys decide what we're going to do.” He explained that each year the sports managers meet to choose the various sports which will be included in the program for the year, and to go over the by-laws, which govern the program, for possible changes. Later meetings are held by the sports managers to

Trials Of I-F Swim Meet Staged
By HENRY RAMSEY

The swimming tournament, varsity competition in the intramural sports program, got off to a splashing start on Tuesday night with ten teams managing to qualify in one or more of the eight events.

The 50-yard backstroke event saw Alexander, SAE; Martin, Beta; and Bremmer, Phi Gam, as the top three qualifiers with Alexander's time of 33.6 seconds in top place. Driver, Phi Delt; Cobb, Phi Delt; and Hill, SPE, were the top three in the 50-yard breaststroke with a time of 39.0 seconds by Bremmer, Phi Gam, with Ray, Phi Delt, and Kirkpatrick, Sigma Chi, in the second and third qualifying positions. The 50-yard freeStyle was led by determining the dates and pairings for the various tournaments. Although Coach Whittle allows the sports managers much freedom in running the I-F program, it seems to not a few of us who have thought about the matter that he has largely made the decisions for the program, with the sports managers serving in an advisory capacity. The shoe, however, seems to be on the wrong foot. The fraternity representatives should be the administrative and legislative power of the program, with Whittle as adviser. The guidance of a member of the Athletic Department, such as Whittle, who is willing to devote his time to the program, is needed to coordinate the activities under the supervision of the Athletic Department. We must recognize here that, without the interest shown by Coach Whittle, the I-F program would not have been possible.

The Phi Delt team took first in the 200-yard relay with a time of 1 minute 56 seconds, while the KA and SAE teams placed second and third, in that order. A top time of 58.9 seconds was set by Andrews, Phi Gam, in the 75-yard individual medley with Weeks, Beta, and Morgan, KA, in the second and third slots. The Phi Gams took another first in the 150-yard medley relay with a time of 1 minute, 12 seconds. Second and third positions were taken by the Sigma Chi team and the SAE team, in that order. In the 25-yard freestyle, the KA's took first while the Sigma Chi’s Kirkpatrick took second. Morgan, KA, was third with a time of only 4 seconds slower than Jones’ winning 12 seconds. The finals will be held on Tuesday night, December 17, at 7:30 P.M.

Comparable to IFC, I therefore propose, leaving the way open for suggestions and modifications, an Interfraternity Athletic Council, similar in organization and function to the Interfraternity Council. Whereas the IFC governs the social activities of the fraternities, the IFAC would supervise the athletic activities of the Greeks. This delegation to the students of running the program may be paralleled with the turning over to advanced cadets the administrative and operational functions of the Davidson ROTC regiment several years ago, which system has proved very successful. The athletic council would be comprised of members regularly elected by each of the fraternities. The members of the council would elect such officers as deemed necessary to ensure efficient operation. In addition to a president, a secretary may be chosen for such matters as keeping the members informed of meetings (a headache which Coach Whittle says he would gladly concede), and a treasurer may be chosen should the council decide to engage in financial endeavors.

Regular meeting dates, preferably once a month, would be established in line with the policy of similar organizations on the campus. The IFAC would draw up a body of rules for the intramural program, based on the present by-laws. Students with suggestions would be able to carry them to the various council members with the knowledge that the policy of the I-F program is decided by their own student representatives, thereby eliminating much unwarranted blame thrust on Coach Whittle.

The determined relay team was not to be denied, however, and freshman George Gable jumped off to an opening lead which was lengthened by the remaining threesome of Hellier, Jones, and Wynne, giving the Cats the meet. Looking very impressive in both meets was freshman Tom of Greensboro, who excelled in both the 220 and 440.

Final Contest Winners Named
Louie Carrington and Bob Lathan were named winners in Salisbury. Both winners will receive $2.50 toward the purchase of merchandise at Wilson-Wright's Clothing Store, donor of the weekly prize throughout the season. The grand prize winner, who has yet to be determined, will receive additional recognition.

As I said before, I don't pretend to propose a one-step method to a completely successful program, but I believe that an organization of the type which I have suggested would be able to assume a more active student leadership in the I-F sports program. Coach Whittle has heartily agreed to back such a council if student support warrants it.

Pigskin Plaudits
As we tuck the football away for a while, we'd like to give recognition to some deserving folks of the gridiron family. Bill Price, Wildcat captain, topped off an admirable four-year career at Davidson by nailing down the all-Southern Conference first team pivot post in the annual United Press honorary squad. Wildcat pass-grabber Craig Wall, somehow overlooked when the “men in the know” chose the all-star elevens, managed to establish three new conference marks as he led the loop in pass-receiving. Six graduating seniors—Dave Fagg, Dale Gramley, Bob Stancil, Dave McLain, Ralph Setzler, and Price—were lauded by Coach Bill Dole for having the distinction of not having played on a losing team at Davidson, the first departing group in quite a while with such a record. And here’s a closing note to all enterprising golfers: Prof. Frontis Johnston scored a hole-in-one the day before Thanksgiving on the fifth hole of the Mooresville course, duplicating the feat of Prof. McGavock, who collected his ace on the same hole last year.