PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN

Honor System (Continued from Page One)

Q. “Are you in favor of drinking on campus?”
A. “I am not in favor of drinking on campus.”

Questions then turned to fraternities on the campus and the problem of increased enrollment.

Q. “Wouldn’t it be better to have a concrete amendment to discuss?”
A. “Yes.”

Q. “Before Christmas?”
A. “An amendment must be tabled for two weeks. We must have time to discuss it.”

Q. “Where did this idea originate?”
A. “In my own mind, in my work on the council.”

COUNCIL MINUTES

Smyth was questioned about reports that the minutes of the Council for the year he was secretary have not been
completed yet and entered into the books. He said that demands on his own time had been the cause for
delay, and he plans to finish them up by Thanksgiving.

He also reported that there would be no action on a semester break this year because the calendar was made
up last spring. He hopes for some change by next year.

Q. “Do you feel that the President of the Student Body should be a coordinator of student opinion or an
initiator of new ideas?”
A. “He is more a coordinator. It is more my job to do what the student body feels should be
done than to push my own ideas through.”

Q. “Do you have a list of objectives that you would like to accomplish as President?”
A. “No, so many things come up during the year. Just the revision of the Honor system.”

The discussion turned to the regulations of the school concerning drinking. He explained that there could be no drinking or
possession of alcohol on the campus, nor should a student be under the visible influence of alcohol. The maximum penalty
for violation of this is suspension.

Q. “What do you think of after dance parties?”
A. “I am not in favor of them right now. We can’t push it through too fast.”

PREFERENTIAL BIDDING

Q. “What do you think of preferential bidding?”
A. “I feel that a small fraternity is better... I do not feel that preferential bidding is acceptable to the
student body now. I'm in favor of it.”

Q. “What do you think of the plan to increase the enrollment of the college?”
A. “I think that we should increase it up to 1000 students, but no more. This should take place when
the facilities are adequate.”

Smyth explained that Davidson should take up some of the increased load of students and yet it should keep its
small college atmosphere. He feels that 150 additional students will not change the atmosphere. The small-college atmosphere he feels is
one of the main assets of Davidson.

CHIEF OBJECTIVE

Q. “As President of the Student Body what one thing would you like to accomplish?”
A. “I would like to be considered as a representative of the student body and a coordinator.”

Q. “Do you think there will be any outstanding basic issue in the campaign for the student body officers next
spring?”
A. “No, unless it involves the honor system or drinking rule. I don't see any right now.”

Q. “What are your personal plans for next year?”
A. “I have two years or six months with Uncle Sam, preferably six months. I've applied for a Rhodes, but
I can't say anything about that.” Smyth plans to go on to school and study law with the idea of
going into politics or business.

Carrousel Features Ginger Rogers

By CLAY ROBERTSON Davidsonian Reporter

Ginger Rogers, star of over a hundred top movies, will be Honor Queen of the Carolinas’ Carrousel in Charlotte on
Thanksgiving Day.

Miss Rogers will head the new Carrousel “Show” which will be held after the 3 p.m. parade in Charlotte's show-place
Coliseum at 8 p.m. She will sing, dance and put on short parts.

In addition, Miss America 1957, Miss Marion McKnight will appear along with the 1957 Carolinas’ Carrousel Queen, Miss Carolyn Willis
and the Carrousel Princesses. The 1958 Carolinas’ Carrousel Queen will also be named at this show.

Tickets to the show are 90 cents general admission and reserved section $1.80. They are on sale at the Carrousel
office at 120 E. Third Street, Charlotte, N.C.

Freshman-Sophomore Day

“No coats and ties; No coats and ties.” This was the chant of the horde of victorious freshmen that paraded
off the flickerball field late Monday afternoon.

Winning the “sudden death” play-off after the score had been tied climaxed what appeared to be one of the most
exciting Freshman-Sophomore days in years. This year marked only the second time in which the sophomores were forced to go
down in an embarrassing but unavoidable defeat.

The sophomores jumped off to a quick lead in the field-day events as Brownie Thurman scampered across the finish line
of the 440 yard dash some 20 yards ahead of his closest rival. The freshmen, however, bounced back to what
appeared to be a comfortable lead. Ed Kizer and Ed Garrett rang up scoring honors by placing first and second,
respectively, in the 100 yard dash.

The second year men, however, were not to be outdone. They came roaring back by winning both the 80 yard
shuttle relay and the three-legged race. Only a tremendous finish in the wheel-barrow race by George Kirkpatrick kept frosh hopes
alive.

This set the stage for the final and deciding event — the flickerball game. The freshmen, headed by 220-pound Scott
Lacy, surprised everyone by uprooting the sophs in the tug of war.

On the same show will be the Hegerman string band in concert and drill with Frankie Richardson, former movie star.
The band is an annual Mummers Parade Winner in Philadelphia on New Year's Day.

Big City (Continued from Page One)

I look at it, they’re all crooks in this town. They either carry guns like the ones who shot Anastasia
(Albert Anastasia, president of Murder, Inc. who was killed in N.Y.C., by machine gun while sitting in a barber’s chair)
or they don't carry guns, like Wagner. Why, the other day, they passed a law making Negroes move into the
same apartment house I'm in. It’s terrible.”

Another one stated that one and a half million Puerto Ricans and 500,000 Negroes had immigrated to New York since
1947 and yet the population of the city had not increased.

A very unusual sight was observed in one of the cafeterias. A Negro woman was seen hurling a number of
trays. Quite a contrast from the usual good-natured, obsequious type we are generally accustomed to down South. In some instances,
they were very reluctant to refill the water glasses when requested and also urged one to order in a hurry.
They became extremely peeved if you could not decide what you wanted or if you changed your mind. One time,
when iced tea was ordered the waitress snappily replied, “We don’t have tea, don’t you know this is winter?” None
seemed to have ever heard of or seen grits.

Episcopal Bishop Inspects St. Albans

The Rt. Rev. Richard H. Baker, Bishop-Coadjutor of the Diocese of North Carolina, will visit St. Alban’s Episcopal Chapel at
the 8:30 a.m. service this Sunday. He will preach and administer Confirmation. Visitors are welcome.

The Canterbury Club will meet on Sunday evening at 8:30 in the Union Blue Room.

Eumenean Society Holds First Debate

The Eumenean Literary Society met Monday night, November 4, with President Tom Thrailkill presiding. The program was a debate entitled,
“Be it resolved that the YMCA is an unnecessary organization on the Davidson campus.”

Joe Bell and Ray Atkinson spoke for the affirmative; while Lloyd Chapin and Dave Robinson represented the negative. Judging the
debate were Professors Max Polley and Raymond Tyson. The negative team of Chapin and Robinson was judged the winner.

Euphony, the society’s literary publication, will make its first appearance of the year prior to the Thanksgiving holidays.Deluge of profanity
and vulgarity at the white proprietor who contentedly sat back and listened to the words which could be heard clearly
all over the place. He estimated that within the next ten years the population could be 70% Puerto Rican and
Negroes. All this points toward the old saying that you can get a Southerner out of the South, but you
can’t get the South out of a Southerner.

“Everybody seems to be moving out of town. I'd get on the bandwagon, too, if I had the chance.”

When asked what he thought about the Dodgers and Giants leaving to the West Coast, one man answered, “I’m glad
to see them go. It's the best thing for the teams. You know, they didn’t get much support here. Besides,
there’s only one good team worth staying with.”

One cabbie who said he had been stationed in North Carolina stated that Negroes were treated “much better in the
South than they were up North. I don’t see why they ever leave, they have a far better deal down
there. Me, I’m for segregation. Hell, the ones who make the most noise about integration are the ones, like Wagner,
who live in their comfortable estates outside the city and never have to worry about living in the same apartment
with them or having their children sent to mixed public schools.”

The service in restaurants and cafeterias was noticeably poor. The waitresses typified the busy hustle of the city and the
North, in general. They seemed always to be in a rush and regarded the customer in a sneering, abrupt manner
as if he were a nuisance.

DANCE WEEKEND! "FRESHEN THE IMPRESSION” BRING IN YOUR TUX -- TUX SHIRTS AND SUITS — FOR — FIRST RATE CLEANING

Lewis Leads (Continued From Page One)
Up before the legislature were a measure calling for the repeal of the right to work laws, which was defeated,
and a bill providing for the establishment of a program for mentally gifted children and a resolution condemning Governor Faubus
for his action in Arkansas, both of which were passed. Jim Reynolds and Dan McAlister will represent Davidson on the
Interim Council, the body which carries on business between the annual sessions of the legislature. Reynolds was elected vice-president of
this group.

ATTENTION PRE-MED SENIOR
The world’s largest exclusive manufacturer of microscopes offers qualified students a splendid opportunity to function as Campus Representative. Apply REICHERT
INSTRUMENTS 32 Beaver Street, New York 5, N.Y.

Frosh Victory Dissolves Court
The history of the school. This: tempts. with the freshmen win: FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 1957

THIS WEEK IN DAVIDSON
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 16
7:00—Movie, “Pandora and the Flying Dutchman,” Union Ballroom.
SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 17
7:30—Vespers—The Reverend Benjamin Lacy, Jr., Hampden-Sydney College.
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 19
7:30—Football Film—Davidson versus Richmond, Union Ballroom.
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 22
8:00—Movie—“Merry Widow”—Union Ballroom.

RITA LIKES DC ‘ATMOSPHERE’
By FRANK TAYLOR
The Club's next meeting, which is scheduled for December, will take up a similar subject of importance and interest to
the whole student body. All students are invited and encouraged to attend.

IRC Considers Two Views Of Algeria
The Algerian problem was discussed from the French and nationalistic points of view at the first meeting of the International
Relations Club held Tuesday night, November 12. The two sides were presented by Maurice Ritchie and Jim Sell, respectively. A
question and answer period followed in which the members and visitors participated. The International Relations Club began its year successfully
with this program dealing with one of the most crucial problems that the world has faced since 1954.

The freshmen scored late in the second quarter and again midway through the third period to take an impressive 13-0
lead. But the sophs rebounded to make the score 13-6. Then, with 40 seconds remaining in the game, Newt Quantz
scampered 54 yards to paydirt, the extra point was good, and the regulation game ended 13-13. In the “sudden death”
playoff, each team carried the ball four downs. The frosh worked with short passes to gain thirty yards, while the
sophs could do nothing against the sturdy freshmen defense. Henry Goodwin himself intercepted four soph aerials. By defeating the sophomores,
the freshmen dissolved the Court of Control and nullified the Freshmen Regulations.

By Dick Sibler

“LITTLE MAN ON CAMPUS”

Culture In Charlotte
Nov. 15 (Fri.)—HOCKEY, Charlotte vs. Johnstown, Coliseum.
16 (Sat.)—Harlem Globetrotters, Coliseum.
16 (Sat.)—Kiwanis Sing, David Ovens Aud.
17 (Sun.)—Jimmy Dean Show, Coliseum.
19 (Tue.)—HOCKEY, Charlotte vs. Washington, Coliseum.
20 (Wed.)—Boxing, Coliseum.
20 (Wed.)—Charlotte Symphony Orchestra, David Ovens Aud.
22 (Sat.)—Rock 'n Roll Show, Coliseum.
24 (Sun.)—HOCKEY, Charlotte vs. Philadelphia, Coliseum.
25 (Mon.)—Scottish Black Watch, Coliseum.
26 (Tue.)—HOCKEY, Charlotte vs. Clinton, Coliseum.
27 (Wed.)—Carrousel Ball, Coliseum.
29 (Fri.)—HOCKEY, Charlotte vs. Johnstown, Coliseum.

“YOUR SUBSTITUTE HERE TELLS ME YOUR STUDENTS ARE QUITE BRIGHT, BUT THEY’LL PROBABLY TIRE OF HER”

Live Modern! Here's News... U.S. Patent Awarded To The GM Miracle Tip
Only LM has it “This is it! Pure white inside pure white outside for cleaner, better smoking. Get full exciting
flavor plus the patented Miracle Tip. You get with each L&M cigarette the full exciting flavor of the Southland’s finest
tobaccos. You get the patented Miracle Tip ... pure white inside, pure white outside as a filter should be for
cleaner, better smoking. The patent on the Miracle Tip protects L&M’s exclusive filtering process. L&M smokes cleaner, draws easier, tastes
richer. Live Modern... Smoke L&M! BUY ’EM BY THE BOX OR PACK Crush-Proof Box (Costs no more) Handy Packs (King
and Reg.) Your assurance of the Southland’s finest tobaccos. Every package of L&M’s ever manufactured has carried this promise: “A
blend of premium quality cigarette tobaccos including special aromatic types.”
