OVER 300 CASES AT 10:00 TONIGHT

Asian Flu Wave Strikes

In order to determine whether or not this "flu-type disease" is actually the highly-publicized Asian variety, four boys have had throat cultures made by the Charlotte Health Department, but it will be at least two weeks before anything definite is known.

Davidson has thus far received 100 doses of the Asian Flu Vaccine, and approximately 50 of these were given to the football players. Most of the faculty members have also received the vaccine. Of the 115 reported cases, only two are known to have taken the vaccine. With 300 students reported sick from a "flu-type disease," Davidson is well on its way to a full-fledged epidemic. All available facilities are being utilized to take care of these students, but many who live close enough are being asked to go home to recuperate.

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 23, 1957

Possibility Of Dance Postponed Till Dec.

The administration announced this morning that the scheduled Homecoming dances for this weekend have been cancelled. Administration officials took the postponement of the dances Both the Infirmary and the Guest House are being used to house the patients, but their combined capacity is only thirty-five. Though some have gone home, most of the sick are having to stay in their dormitory rooms.

FLU CASES MOUNT BY THE HOUR

EDITION NO. 6 VOL. XLVI

Presbyterian Team Down With Flu

Undefeated Elon College has agreed to play Davidson this Saturday following cancellation of the Wildcats’ football game with Presbyterian College, Coach Bill Dole announced today. Following the cancellation by Presbyterian of the scheduled Homecoming game because of the flu epidemic at P.C., the Davidson coaching staff set about immediately to find a suitable opponent. Coach Dole secured the permission of Acting President Pietenpol to seek a foe for the game. Requests were sent out early yesterday evening via radio, television, and newspaper services for any teams which might be able to fill the gap in the schedule to contact Davidson at once. Elon officials contacted the local office today that they would be able to play the Wildcats, as their scheduled game with Catawba had been cancelled.

FOUR WINS

The Christians of Coach Sid Varney have defeated Appalachian, East Carolina, Guilford, and Presbyterian in their four games thus far. P. C. was the latest victim, falling to Elon 37-14 last Saturday. Elon runs from a T-formation, boasting a solid ground attack led by fullback Bob Stauffenberg, who they claim is the best in the state. Coach Bill Dole, commenting on the prospects of the game, noted that it would be much better than the match with Presbyterian would have been, as the Wildcats will be facing one of the top teams in the North State Conference.

Hall To Preach On Reformation Day

A special Reformation service will be conducted during Vespers this Sunday. The Reverend B. Frank Hall, rector of Pearsall Memorial Church in Wilmington, N.C., will be the speaker. Mr. Hall graduated from Davidson College in 1929 and attended the Union Theological Seminary for his graduate work. Upon graduation from the Seminary, he became minister for the Central Presbyterian Church of St. Louis, Mo., where he served until coming to Wilmington in 1949. Reformation Sunday will be observed by Protestant churches throughout the world. The service is marked by the hymns and prayers used, which are chosen from those that were used during the Reformation Period (1500 to 1600 A.D.).

Gehring To Present Concert Monday

Professor Philip Gehring, organist, assisted by the Davidson College Brass Ensemble directed by John Satterfield, will appear in recital Monday, October 28, at 8:15, in the college church. This recital marks the beginning of the 1957-58 Organ Recital Series, sponsored by the Department of Music.

Many N. C. Colleges Hit By Flu Epidemic

The flu scare is not confined only to Davidson but has broken out on many college campuses throughout the two Carolinas. Two South Carolina colleges, Presbyterian College in Clinton, and Columbia College in Columbia temporarily suspended classes yesterday. University of North Carolina reported between 1000 and 1500 cases of flu were treated in the last 10 to 15 days. Presbyterian, with over fifty of its 520 students down with the flu, closed to prevent an epidemic. Of this number, 35 were members of the football squad. Columbia, a Methodist college for women, did the same with about 50 of its 500 students ill. Winthrop College had an unusual number of flu cases last week, but these were slacking off at the 1000-student school to just a few over 100. Dean Hunter of Converse told the Davidson administration that she felt it unwise for Converse students to attend Homecoming festivities here. At the present time there are no flu cases reported at Converse. Wake Forest College reported several hundred cases at one time last week. During the past week the infirmary at North Carolina State treated more students than at any other time in the school’s history. It is reported that North Carolina has approximately 1500 doses of flu vaccine on hand with several thousand more on the way. Queens College in Charlotte reports that the flu scare has struck there. In one class lecture for 90 students, 40 were absent with flu.

Scripts ‘n Pranks To Be Issued Friday

The first issue of the 1957 Scripts and Pranks will be released Friday night. The Scripts and Pranks is a literary and humor magazine, having a twofold purpose. Providing a stimulus for creative expression in the Davidson student, it also reflects Davidson's problems, humor and incongruities. Short stories, essays, poems, editorials, and cartoons all go into its compilation.

The Student Council met with the administration yesterday afternoon to discuss the possible cancellation of Homecoming, due to the flu epidemic. Dean Bailey, D. Grier Martin, Coach Dole, Mr. Scott and Coach McKee also represented the administration. Dr. Pietenpol opened the meeting by announcing that the football game with Presbyterian had been called off due to the illness of thirty-five members of the Presbyterian squad. Obviously, he pointed out, there could be no Homecoming football game. There is no reason for having Homecoming for the alumni without the ball game. Dr. Pietenpol then asked the possibility of having the dances later. Pietenpol answered, “Yes, it could be postponed for several weeks until the thing calms down.” In reply to another question, Dr. Pietenpol stated that theCouncil for its advice, but "Classes would continue to be held until professors cannot conduct classes due to the repetition that would be necessary for the sick ones." Coach Dole asked if he might have permission to try to get a game to replace the cancelled P.C. game. Dr. Pietenpol approved the proposal, but both Dole and Dr. Scott admitted that the chances of getting another team would be slim. 

Councilman Livingston asked if there would be a game for some future weekend of dances. The Wofford game (November 9) offered the best possibility. Finally, the problems involved in moving men out of Belk Dorm are almost prohibitive because all mattresses in the dorm would have to be removed because of their probable contamination with flu virus. 

Mr. Martin then stated that there is a definite increase in the number of flu cases, and that there is no sign of a decline in the near future. The infirmary is filled to overflowing, and there are plans of opening the President's home for the overflow. 

Dr. Pietenpol concluded the meeting by stating that a final decision would be made on Wednesday. Representing the Council were: President Smyth, Bill Fraley, Bill Bondurant, Roy Gilbert, Tom Cutting, Bobby Livingston, Dave Robinson, Dabney Rutherford, Pat Woodward, John Bernhardt, and John Kurkendall.

Will Still Have Saturday Holiday

Administration officials and student representatives met this morning at 10:20 in the faculty room to decide definitely that it would be best to call off the dance weekend. Immediately after the meeting, the loudspeaker system carried the announcement to the students. Dean Bailey suggested that the final action be taken after consulting with various student groups, including the Student Council and the Interfraternity Council. 

Bob Jones, President of the IFC, said that very tentative proposals have been made concerning having the dance weekend at a later date, possibly either December 7 or November 22. No definite information is possible at this time, however. This cancellation will cost the IFC and ultimately the students about a thousand dollars in deposits, flowers, invitations, ticket printing, and decorations. There is a hope that the administration will aid in defraying this expense.

IFC Cancels Date

The Davidsonian will not be published this Friday due to the flu epidemic. Plans for the dance this weekend had been completed prior to the flu epidemic and decorations in the gymnasium were ready to be put up. Jones expressed personal regrets over the circumstances causing the dances to be cancelled.

NEWS SUMMARY

1. There will be a holiday Saturday as scheduled.

Bob Jones, IFC President, mentioned the possibility of having the band play at a later date. Don Carmichael, treasurer of the IFC, said the Council stood to lose nearly two thousand dollars. Dr. Pietenpol said that he felt that the college "could help out—take a little of this off your hands" as he put it. It was then suggested that a big dance be held later in the Fall on a Friday night. Then on Saturday night, the individual fraternities could have their functions. The Saturday holiday would be postponed until this weekend. 

After discussing several possibilities, the Council adjourned with the general impression that the administration would call off the dances. Only a relatively small amount of work had been completed in decorating the gym. Those IFC members who were present at the meeting were: Bob Jones, Jimmy Jones, Charlie Stowe, John Trask, Don Carmichael, Hayden Hollingsworth, and Pat Woodward.

The college will give another free holiday whenever the IFC arranges another dance. Elon College will play here Saturday. Both dances have been cancelled. Double cuts will be given Friday and at Vespers.

College Union Leaders To Attend Regional Conference At Duke

Ralph Bright, who is the president of the College Union, Addison Bross, chairman of the publicity committee, John Caldwell, chairman of publications, and Mr. Shaw Smith, who is the regional representative for the Association of College Unions, will attend the regional conference at Duke University this week. The conference will begin Thursday noon and run till Saturday. There will be students representing colleges and universities from all regions of the southland. The representatives, both men and women, will discuss in groups and workshops the philosophy of the College Union movement. Various means of adapting this philosophy to the local campuses will also be studied. 

John Caldwell is to moderate a session of relative values and the subject "Quality Programs" versus "Quantity Programs."