The Davidsonian

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
JIM BATTEN

BUSINESS MANAGER
BOB CARMICHAEL

ASSOCIATE EDITORS
FRANKLIN BLOODWORTH, LEON HOWELL

Assistant Editor
Bob Beall

Managing Editors
Lloyd Chapin, John Trask

John Johnson
Bill Bondurant
John Trotti

Sports Editor
Bob Lathan

Feature Editor
Bob Majors

Copy Editor
Ed Morrisett

Photographer
Hank Daniel

Represented for National Advertising by
NATIONAL ADVERTISING SERVICE, Inc.

SUBSCRIPTION RATE: $2.00 Per Year.
Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

OFFICES IN DAVID OVENS COLLEGE UNION, DAVIDSON COLLEGE

FRIDAY, MARCH 8, 1957

Fraternity Court Up To Students

After several months of fact-finding sessions, the Student-Faculty Committee on Fraternities has released this week for airing before the Student Body the various possibilities for construction of a new fraternity court. The questions which immediately arise are numerous and complicated, and are ones which the Student Body will need to consider intelligently and carefully in the next few weeks.

While Davidson boasts at present a campus and physical plant which would compare favorably with any similar institution in this part of the country, the most glaring deficiency still remaining is in the area of fraternity housing. The fraternity court now in use was built in 1928, and has in the years since its construction served an extremely useful and valuable purpose. But in 1928, fraternity memberships averaged around 32 men, with the largest around 40 members, while today as many as 80 men crowd into a single house. The old court is obviously outmoded.

Even more sub-standard and unsatisfactory, in all but a few instances, are the fraternity boarding houses. Confined almost entirely to private homes whose vintage is of another generation, their facilities are no longer adequate for the demands made upon them. Many are bulging at the seams, and in some cases could not seat another man. In the face of rising enrollments in the immediate future, this situation in both houses and boarding houses will be further intensified. While part of the answer lies in bringing one or two additional fraternities to the campus, new facilities for all the groups are a must to deal realistically with the problem.

Both students and Administration have recognized this fact for some time, and have sought to find an acceptable and workable solution. The possibilities released this week represent this attempt. It cannot be emphasized too strongly that as far as the Administration is concerned, this is a matter for the students to decide. The College officials have merely done the investigating necessary to determine what is possible and what is not. Their attitude seems to be that if student opinion is favorable, the move can probably be arranged. The College would not consider taking any action on this matter which the fraternities did not wholeheartedly endorse.

An outline of the discussion revolving around single houses versus duplex units and the considerations arising therefrom is carried in the accompanying news columns, and we will not attempt to analyze them here until further study is possible. While everyone agrees that single, separate units are preferable, it appears now that they may be financially unfeasible, especially for the smaller fraternities. On the other hand, duplex units seem well within the realm of possibility, and at a substantial reduction in cost from the single houses. While the advantages of the single unit are undeniable, our first impression is that should they prove out of reach, the natural objections to the duplex plan are far from being prohibitive, and could be satisfactorily reconciled. At any rate, as opinion gradually solidifies it is important that we realize that either plan would be an immense and badly needed improvement over the present set-up. If the single unit plan is found to be impossible, it would be unfortunate to bypass the duplexes, simply because they are not completely ideal in every respect. The improvement over the present situation represented in either of the alternatives is something which should not be allowed to hang on controversy involving which choice to make.

Coercion-A Dangerous Precedent

For the third time in the memory of the senior class, the fabulous Louis “Satchmo” Armstrong put on a show at Davidson. And, whether one enjoys his music or not, there is no denying that an Armstrong concert is a production. The fact is that, with the program scheduled for Wednesday night, many people either could not attend because of other activities or because they felt having seen one or two Armstrong presentations was enough.

This is why so much comment was stirred up when the student body was frankly told in chapel on Tuesday that they would either pay and go to the concert or pay later and not get to see him. In other words, students were coerced into something outside the usual pale of school loyalty. This year’s IFC has made a fine contribution to student life in its area and, by accepting responsibility as it did during “Hell Week”, is due our gratitude. Before it launched into this Armstrong project, it took a straw vote among the fraternities and 10 of the 11 said they would support the concert. It was evident then, however, that opinion was far from unanimous. Armstrong was something of a risk. When it became evident that the advance ticket sale indicated poor attendance, the IFC felt something had to be done. The feeling is that forcing the student body to attend and pay for an event superfluous to the usual school year’s activities is a dangerous precedent. In the future, if such programs are going to be offered, a more certain method of determining student desires and ascertaining that those who ask for it support it must be found.—F.L.H.

By LAURENS WALKER

The amendment now before the Student Body, to remove Constitutional restrictions on student elections has generated much campus discussion and thought. This amendment, as it now stands, is not feasible because the dangers inherent in it are much greater than any good which could be derived from it. The amendment, authored by Creighton Peden, leaves too much power of discretion in the hands of the Elections Board which would, under Peden’s plan, have almost no Constitutional guide for its actions. There is also the possibility or even the probability that the proposed change would bring bitter political rivalry between student factions, particularly fraternities. This is a facet of politics which the Davidson campus can well do without.

Despite these faults, the amendment and its author have done the Student Body a service by making us more conscious of real weaknesses in our election system. Most Davidsonians seem to feel that there is too little genuine interest in elections here on campus, which results in little interest in student government. They also realize that under the present system candidates have little or no way to express their views to the Student Body, which in turn has no satisfactory method for finding out which candidates are best qualified to serve as officers.

Toot, Toot, or Boom, Boom? . . . . . By Bross

LETTER TO EDITOR

Reader Wants Reply to Question On Required Chapel and Vespers

Dear Editor:

I still wonder if our present system of compulsory attendance at chapel and vespers is the best possible system. If someone knows, I would appreciate hearing why compulsory religious services are better than voluntary religious services. Surely someone must have an answer. Last week I suggested with apparently naive boldness that attendance at chapel and vespers be madeVoluntary. I do not know whether this is the best step to take. I would therefore appreciate hearing some reasons why my proposal is unsound. During the past week, here are three criticisms which I have received:

Should Have Known
Some persons hold that a student is naturally expected to submit to this compulsory attendance because it is a part of the Davidson program. A student is responsible for knowing about such things before he comes to Davidson College. By enrolling here, he admits that he realizes the situation and is willing to accept it. Is this argument valid? Do students who enter Davidson know everything about compulsory religious services? Even if they know that attendance is required, it is only after that initial freshman innocence has been exposed to the situation that they really realize all that is involved. If an entering student learns that a chapel service is required, he expects to attend a chapel service, not an assembly of students studying, sleeping, and talking. He expects a vesper service, not a session of letter-writing and sleeping.

Tradition
Others hold that attendance at chapel and vespers is compulsory, has been compulsory, and will always be compulsory because it is a part of the Davidson tradition. I do think that many of the Davidson traditions are fine and have real meaning. Care must be taken, however, not to sanctify false ideas or mistaken conceptions with the white cloak of tradition. We must not let something become traditional merely for the sake of being traditional. It is also quite possible for some traditions to lose touch with the times. Tradition is a powerful force, but we must constantly keep an eye out for where it is going.

Need Break
In connection with chapel attendance, a third group feels that a compulsory chapel is a good thing because it provides a needed break at 10:20. We have been working hard for two hours, and we therefore need to go to a compulsory chapel program. What is the connection between compulsory attendance and the need for a break in the routine? If this break is desirable, there is no need for required chapel to fit in this space. Possibly the people who argue in this manner really want a free period. Some others believe that this period is merely wasted time. They would like to see a class period be introduced here. I am still looking for reasons why chapel and vespers should not be voluntary. I would appreciate any answers.

John McVay

By Dick Bibler
“Now that we've boiled your paper down to this relevant material—I think you're ready to rewrite.”

Keeping these problems in mind, I propose that the Student Council act to enable the Elections Board to take these three steps toward improving the present situation:

(1) An open-forum type discussion should be held in the Student Union the night after the five candidates for Student Body President have spoken in Chapel. The five should be given a chance to discuss informally their platforms with the members of the Student Body, who in turn could ask the candidates to state clearly their views on any particular problem or issue. The Election Board should make every effort to see that this meeting is well publicized, and that it is fairly conducted.

(2) Candidates should be allowed to spend up to $25, if they desire, on the printing of pamphlets, handbills, and other campaign material so that they might have an opportunity to state clearly, in print, their platforms.

(3) The fraternities should be asked by the Elections Board to invite the five Presidential candidates, in a group, to their respective boarding houses for a meal, either lunch or dinner. This would give the candidates a chance to become acquainted with members of the Student Body who do not know them, as well as a chance to discuss informally, current Student Body problems or campaign issues.

All three of these proposals would initially pertain only to candidates for Student Body President. The program could be expanded in later years as the opportunity shall arise. The purpose of these proposals is to meet what I feel to be a definite need: more democratic and more representative Student Government on the Davidson campus.

STREET JOURNAL—
The Helicopter Dollar
President Eisenhower will soon start using a helicopter to get from the White House to Washington National Airport. The Air Force figures it can haul the President between the two points in three or four minutes. The trip takes ten to twenty minutes by limousine. Well, we are strong for anything that will save the President—or anyone else for that matter—the perils of driving through modern traffic. The Air Force says whirly-bird travel is safer than driving, and we are inclined to agree that almost anything is safer than driving.

Peter, the Practical Politician had been nominated for president of the student body, but he couldn’t seem to get started on his campaign speech.

If he said that the present student government was bogged down by inertia, he'd be criticized for talking that way about such nice guys. If he asked any serious questions concerning the purposes of student government, the goals of student government, and the improvement of student government, he would be hooted down as a rabble-rouser and a demagogue. If he pointed out weaknesses in the Honor System and the student body regulations, he’d be castigated for disloyalty to Davidson. If he ran on a platform based on Christian ethics, he'd be labeled a “Holy Joe” and soundly defeated. If he said that he knew he was capable of doing a better job than his opponents, and would appreciate the opportunity to prove it, he'd be hanged in effigy for his conceit, and ridden out of town on a rail for his honesty.

Finally, he arrived at a solution, and after a quick phone call to a rich uncle who had an extra $100,000 to spare, he began to write: “As president of the student body during the coming year, I propose to solve two crucial problems: First, I shall guarantee that by next September, the new dormitory will be appropriately named, and secondly, I shall personally see to it that the Woodrow Wilson acorns are watered at least once a week when it isn’t raining.”

It is nice, too, that the President can save time even if he is having trouble saving the taxpayers’ money. Which reminds us. If the President were to step into his helicopter, and take off straight up for a flight over a stack of silver dollars equal to the $72 billion budget he has proposed, he would have a flight of something over 129,000 miles just to reach the top. Of course, the helicopter has not yet been built that could fly so high. But, perhaps, neither has the taxpayer.

FROM THE TOP of the DOME with NAT DANIEL
We need quote no further. Peter won—hands down.

Something new has been added. Workers in the student store are now required to wear black bow ties when on duty. May we suggest tuxedos for the men behind the desk, and a uniformed doorman in the front, to indicate which door is to be used by visitors, and where students should slide under.

We noted with interest the comments by Mr. James Dabbs concerning our remarks about Hell Week which appeared in the Davidsonian of two weeks ago. Mr. Dabbs’ criticism of our position on the grounds that it was unrealistic is absolutely correct, but we were not proposing a realistic solution to the problem; we were being intentionally idealistic. One conclusion of an excessively idealistic conception of any human activity is that the ideal cannot easily be achieved in actual practice, and Hell Week is no exception. For the benefit of Mr. Dabbs and the many others who agreed with him, we shall attempt to be more realistic and more explicit.

Hell Week, as it is practiced at most colleges, cannot develop moral strength very effectively, and croker sacks, raw eggs, scavenger hunts, etc., are somewhat inefficient methods of developing “esprit de corps, unity, and belonging” in a group of pledges. May we suggest that Davidson's fraternities seriously consider the possibility of doing away with Hell Week, and substitute in its place more constructive methods of unifying their pledge classes; methods which might help them to move toward emotional maturity and moral strength.