PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, MARCH 15, 1967

Who Heads Davidsonian? Candidates For Editor Offer Platforms

Lloyd Chapin

Free from political and commercial pressures, a college journal enjoys an independence of expression denied to the regular city newspaper. Thus, the Davidsonian, unmuzzled by any form of faculty or trustee censorship, is particularly well-fitted for its role as both the bearer of truth through factual news stories and the interpreter of that truth through intelligent editorials.

Chapin

If elected editor, I would labor to create a newspaper whose high standards of accuracy, integrity, and courage would make its voice both heard and respected. The measure of service which a newspaper renders to its readers depends absolutely upon the accuracy of the information it supplies. Realizing this, the Davidsonian, during the past year, has attempted to make its news coverage more complete and accurate than ever before. I would encourage this trend.

LITERARY QUALITY

It is also true that the task of a newspaper is to tell the news as interestingly as the circumstances warrant, the truth. To meet this need for higher literary quality, I propose to hold a series of meetings during the year with reporters, both individually and collectively, for the purpose of teaching them, not only how to get the facts, but how to present them with brightness and zest, consistent with the truth.

Appearance can make or break a newspaper. Overcrowded, unbalanced, gray pages can frighten away the most curious reader. My make-up policy would involve, therefore, a greater variation in headline type, and a more spacious arrangement of newsprint. More extensive use of action photos on both the news and sports pages would contribute to a more animated and powerful presentation.

Sports are an important part of the Big Picture at Davidson. Because of the limitations of weekly publication, the actual results of athletic contests are often well known before the campus paper appears. There is a need, however, for statistical and personal information not furnished by outside sources.

NOT WORTHWHILE?

Many Students Criticize Winter Services Values

In making an evaluation of Winter Services, the Continuation Committee has found that student reaction is sharply divided. The most outstanding fact discovered in the poll was the diversity of opinion in regard to religious emphasis week. Less than 50% of those polled felt that the services were worthwhile. In answer to the first question (In your opinion was the time spent on the Winter Services worthwhile?) the results were as follows:

Yes 42.5%
No 37.9%
No opinion 20%

Furthermore, the majority of those polled did not feel that their concept of the Christian faith had been improved. Question: “Have the Winter Services increased your understanding of the Christian faith?”

Yes 33.2%
No 57.5%
No opinion 9.3%

ADEQUATE PUBLICITY

However, the student body seemed to be satisfied for the most part that there was adequate publicity. The question: “Do you think there was adequate publicity?”

Yes 80.5%
No 15.9%
No opinion 3.6%

Although many students said the topics chosen were appropriate, there was a large number of reservations and reluctant yes’s. Others did not consider them at all relevant. Question: “Did you feel that the topics discussed were relevant and appropriate?”

Yes 49.2%
No 33.0%
No opinion 17.8%

Some of the topics were changed because of the failure of Dr. Blake to arrive; this was noted by many of the students questioned.

ACADEMIC WORK

Almost all of the students who were in any way interested in the Winter Services felt that the academic work hindered them. Question: “Did your academic work interfere with your participation in the Winter Services?”

Yes 70.1%
No 25.3%
No opinion 4.6%

Many expressed very strong opinions. It was generally felt that if there was any benefit derived from these services, it was primarily intellectual. Question: “Has the benefit (if any) of these services been spiritual or intellectual?”

Spiritual 7.6%
Intellectual 53.9%
Neither 38.5%

WHALE RANKED FIRST

When asked to rank the speakers, those polled gave Whale first place, Richey second, and Gilbert third. One encouraging fact was that 30% said that they were interested in some sort of follow-up such as a study group. Only 4.5% said they were opposed to any opinions expressed by the speakers during the week.

Davidson Is Host To Residential Seminars

Davidson College will be host to “The Residential Seminars on World Affairs” March 21-24. The Seminar, an agency of the Fund for Adult Education, will meet to devote three days to an intensive survey of the continuing issue of relations between the United States and the Soviet Union. Although these sessions will be held in the Union, unfortunately, due to the nature and informality of the discussions, they will not be open to the public.

“The Residential Seminars on World Affairs” are part of a specialized program of intensive study of world affairs questions designed in subject, method, and participation for those people who hold positions of influence in shaping public policy and public thought in international relations, especially those engaged professionally in some aspect of citizen education in world affairs. Each Seminar is limited in the number of participants, and many outstanding educators, newspaper editors, radio and television news analysts and commentators, authors, lecturers, business leaders, and other persons in positions to influence the shaping of public thought in international affairs will take part in the program.

Dr. J. H. Ostwalt Plans Mid-April Marriage

The engagement of Miss Adeline Hill to Dr. Jay Harold Ostwalt was announced recently by her mother, Mrs. William Henderson Hill of Jackson, Mississippi. Dr. Ostwalt, a member of the college faculty for the past several years, is currently serving as a visiting professor at the University of North Carolina in Chapel Hill. Miss Hill is the Director of Christian Education at Myers Park Presbyterian Church in Charlotte. The wedding will take place April 19, in the First Presbyterian Church of Vicksburg, Mississippi.

Interestingly, as the circumstances warrant, the truth. To meet this need for higher literary quality, I propose to increase the number of features and the amount of statistical information on this page, and continue the emphasis on interfraternity sports coverage.

EDITORIAL POLICY

A newspaper without opinion is at the best but a purveyor of current information. It may, like a phonograph or radio, collect and disseminate thought as well as information, but having no thought of its own it is without vitality or personality.

There must be a close relation between the student body and the paper to permit the free flow of information and opinions. The students have got to have a simple and direct channel of communication and access to the printed page. Therefore, I propose that there be in the paper office a bulletin board from which anyone could find complete instructions. I promise that the editorial page will continue to serve as a sounding board for all spheres of opinion.student opinion on both campus and national affairs, and that in its own columns the Davidsonian will attempt to judge each issue calmly and intelligently — then take a stand.

We shall be progressive, liberal, and forward-looking. To borrow from one of America’s most famous editors, we will be in earnest, we will not retreat one single inch, and we will be heard.

The Davidsonian in the past three years, and particularly under the board at the contributor’s convenience.

OPINIONS AND STANDS
To reveal trends of thought on the issues of concern, such as the proposed fraternity houses, special emphasis should be laid on polls, not only the type where a person's opinion is condensed to a statistic, but particularly the type in which those polled can briefly state their cases.

West Dorm Renamed
West Dormitory officially got a new name last week when the Administration announced that the structure would henceforth be known as J. Archie Cannon Hall, in memory of Mr. Cannon of Concord, one-time vice president of the Board of Trustees.

We'd like to admit right here and now that the main reason we run advertisements like this is to get you, dear reader, to drink Coca-Cola to the virtual exclusion of all other beverages. The sooner you start going along with us, the sooner we'll both begin to get more out of life.

SIGN OF GOOD TASTE
Bottled Under Authority Of The Coca-Cola Company By THE COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD
“Coke” is a registered trade-mark. ©1956, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY

The editorial page, of course, is the heart of the paper; it should pump the blood of every significant issue, and then the paper should take a definite stand. I propose an editorial examination of compulsory religion and the Student Government Constitution. That page can also experiment with the critical cartoon on a local level.

SPORTS
Those who have followed the sports page this year are aware of the type of coverage I favor—stress on coming events, condensed coverage of past ones, and emphasis particularly on inter-fraternity competition. I-F basketball statistics should be continued and should, if possible, be extended to scores in flickerball. I propose an All-Southern Conference football team to be selected by polling the sports writers of the papers representing the involved colleges.

General news reporting should be accurate and factual and should come from as many sources as possible. It should bear no editorial evaluations whatsoever. In every way the Davidsonian should continue to grow as the voice of the students, not only to bring the views of the campus but also to stimulate critical thinking on the issues that constantly confront us.

Joe D. Whitley Closes '57 Safety Campaign
Patrolman B. C. Abercrombie and Chief Joe D. Whitley of the Mecklenburg County Police Department officially closed Davidson's 1957 Safety Campaign with their inspection report of local traffic conditions. The drive, conducted from February 28 to March 2, enumerates approximately 500 signers of the safety pledge and 24 recipients of traffic tickets.

The inspection pointed out the need for stop signs at numerous intersections, a blinker at the junction of Potts and Catawba Streets, and a stop light of the trip variety at the corner of Main and Catawba Streets. “Right turns on red lights at ‘T’ intersections could be authorized,” stated the report, but the “U-turn practices on Main Street and parking violations will have to be discontinued.” Corrections would include several curve warnings and the improvement of safety zones in school areas.

The weakness of public opinion is that so many people express it only in private. Therefore, to serve as both the news voice and the editorial voice of the students is the primary purpose of the Davidsonian. For this reason, it is only fair that one who offers his services for Editor should state his intentions in candid frankness. Let us, therefore, analyze briefly the newspaper from three sides: (1) news; (2) editorials; and (3) sports.

COMPLETE, UNBIASED NEWS REPORTING
The front and back of the Davidsonian will continue to cover news happenings in complete and unbiased fashion. Subjects such as the next President of Davidson College and the new fraternity court offer the enterprising reporter an unlimited opportunity to gather and convey the facts as they happen. Close cooperation with the student council, full coverage of its meetings, as well as quotes, interviews, opinion polls, and roving reporter articles will add spark and color to the news pages. The printing of a weekly schedule of campus events will add usefulness to the newspaper.

EDITORIAL POLICY
Because the editorial page must reflect in bold and vivid terms the opinions of both the Editor and of independent writers, it is separated into two divisions: (a) the regular editorial columns, and (b) the remaining five columns on the editorial page. In the regular editorial columns, our policy shall be to take definite stands on all major campus issues. The successful campaign to change the A.B. requirements is proof of the potency of the press and of student opinion. Moreover, we shall speak out on all vital national, political, and economic issues—taking a moderate conservative position, realizing, of course, that no Editor’s views are infallible. The remaining five columns will continue to emphasize letters to the editor, home-grown cartoons, inquiring reporter type articles, and opinion features from all segments of the student body. In short, these columns will be a ready forum for all student opinion.

FULL SPORTS COVERAGE
A good sports page should give complete and fair coverage to both our intercollegiate and intramural program. The continued use of photographs and personal features, along with vital statistics and box score standings will give the reader a wide summary of Davidsonian sports. More emphasis, however, should be placed on gathering and printing ‘scoops’ about our opponents, on inquiring reporter type articles, on write-ups of future games, and on interviews with the players. Names make the news, both in sports and in news articles.

Finally, allow me to say that if selected as next year’s Editor, I shall carry forward many of the improvements made by the present administration, and shall also institute new ones. Regardless of the outcome, I pledge my continued work and support for the Davidsonian.

CLASSICS - POP - JAZZ
YOUR HEADQUARTERS IN CHARLOTTE FOR THE BEST IN RECORDS
PARKER-GARDNER
CHARLOTTE 2, N. C.
118 West Trade Street
Phone ED. 2-8257

Pick the Pack that Suits You Best!
Newest, modern box. Crush-proof. Closes tight! Flavor stays in . . . everything else stays out. Smoke modern L&M and always get full exciting flavor — PLUS THE PURE WHITE MIRACLE TIP. Yes, you are free to choose... only when you smoke modern L&M. And only L&M gives you the flavor... the full, exciting flavor that makes L&M... AMERICA'S FASTEST GROWING CIGARETTE.
©1957, Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
Ever-popular handy L&M packs! America’s fastest-growing King . . . largest-selling Regular filter.