MORGAN CITES ELECTIONS POSITION (Page Two) VOL. XLV HINGES ON COUNCIL

Elections Board Vetoes Proposed Polling Move

Tom Morgan, ATO representative, was elected Chairman of the Elections Board at its initial meeting Monday night. John Garden, of Phi Gamma Delta, was chosen secretary.

Two precedent-shattering measures were presented by Chairman Morgan at the Monday meeting. The simultaneous election of student body officers and all editorial offices was approved by the Board, as well as by the Student Council, which must approve all actions of the Elections Board.

The second proposal, to change the polling place from Chambers Building to the lobby of the College Union, met with some opposition. The Elections Board unanimously rejected this proposal at both its Monday and Wednesday meetings. This second rejection will require a second vote by the Student Council on their previously proposed change of polling places, which was passed in the Monday Student Council meeting. This vote, which will take place in the next few days, will decide the fate of the proposal.

The debate for the change in the Elections Board meeting Wednesday, was led by Chairman Morgan. He upheld his proposal as follows: only seriously thinking and interested students would vote, and double balloting would be prevented.

Leading the argument against the proposed move of polling places, members Duke, Martin, and Shaw pointed out that students would not take time to vote in the Union, and subsequently elections would not be accessible to the entire student body, but would be controlled by a small faction. Also, evidence that double balloting has taken place in the past was not substantiated.

The Board unanimously voted to have elections begin Friday, March 1, with Student Body officers being nominated. Voting on these offices is to take place Tuesday and Thursday of the following week, at the regular chapel periods. Speeches by candidates for Student Body offices will be held during these periods.

(Continued On Page Four)

15 Duke Trustees To Visit D.C. Campus

Davidson College will be host to 15 trustees of the Duke Endowment Board this Tuesday afternoon. The trustees, headed by Mr. Norman Cocke, president of the board of trustees for Duke University, are in this area for their annual meeting. In response to an invitation extended by the College, the group has agreed to come to Davidson for lunch and a brief tour of the campus, after which they will return to Charlotte to continue their business meeting.

The Duke endowment, which affords aid to colleges and universities throughout the nation, has for many years been a major contributor to the financial program of Davidson, having given over four million dollars since 1924.

CUNNINGHAM’S STATEMENT

Expresses Regret

Dr. John R. Cunningham issued the following statement to the Davidsonian late Wednesday afternoon.

“There is no sense of pleasure in the conclusion I have reached. Several months of careful consideration preceded the step.

“In the period of time I have been at Davidson, which now extends over a 16-year period, I have grown increasingly devoted to all that is Davidson. This includes the students, faculty, trustees, staff, parents, alumni, and friends.

“I am exceedingly grateful to the Trustees for their desire to present other alternatives which would allow me to retain my position. Honored as I am it is my opinion that the increasingly complex position of a College President can not require less than the full abilities and time of a man.

“Asking for this is a very difficult undertaking, but I feel that it is to the best interests of the school and to myself to leave at this time. Not only do I feel this new endeavor to be a challenge and a great opportunity, but it seems to me that Davidson is in a position to install a younger person with a different outlook.

“Having my home in Charlotte will guarantee my continued, active interest in Davidson and my work with the Foundation will benefit Davidson, along with the seminaries and boards.”

Statement gripped tightly under arm, Dr. Cunningham greets Joseph Hunter, a new face on the Board, as Trustees find their seats.

The Davidsonian

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 1957

CATS PLAY FOR TOURNEY BERTH (Page Three) No. 17

Trustees’ Committee Selected

Juniors May Choose Old or New Class Ring

A committee of students, headed by Mr. C. Shaw Smith, has seen the need for a new design for class rings. The present ring has been in the same form for approximately twenty years. The idea has come down through various faculty members, students, and faculty officers. The artist's conception is on display at the College Union desk for the students to compare with the present one.

Both the old ring and the new ring will be on sale this year. Since the new rings go on sale today, they will have to be ordered from the drawing because of the delay of the sample which will not be here until April 1. Students who are in doubt about their decision can wait for the sample ring before making their choice although there is only a slight possibility that the rings will arrive before graduation. If the orders are delayed, they would have to be sent by mail the first part of the summer. The committee would like to make it clear that the change is not a dogmatic one, but one which the students can accept or reject.

17 Years of Unparalleled Progress

Dr. Cunningham is shown here surrounded by buildings erected or thoroughly renovated during his administration. As Cunningham bows out, Davidson boasts one of the finest college physical plants in the nation.

Students, Alumni Services Of Cunningham

Upon the resignation of Dr. J. R. Cunningham leaders of Alumni, Trustees, and Student organizations expressed feelings of surprise, regret, and loss. All have given evidence of gratitude and pride of Dr. Cunningham’s service.Having been associated with him during his presidency of Davidson College, I have many reasons to be grateful to Dr. Grier Martin, Treasurer of Davidson College. A sampling of the statements by these leaders and executives are given here:

The Reverend Alfred G. Taylor, Vice-President of Alumni Association:
As one present when Dr. Cunningham assumed his duties in 1941, I felt confident that he was the man for the hour. Every year has proved this more and more. I’m sure all the alumni feel that Dr. Cunningham's farsighted program will continue to guide us for years.

Dr. J. McDowell Richards, President of the Board of Trustees:
I receive his resignation with regret.

To Find Presidential Successor
Six To Hold First Session in Richmond On March 1

Six men face the responsibility of finding a new President for Davidson College. Acting in the wake of Dr. John R. Cunningham's shockingly unexpected Wednesday morning resignation, the Board of Trustees Wednesday afternoon elected a nominating committee composed of Mr. D. R. LaFar of Gastonia, Dr. James A. Jones of Richmond, Virginia, Mr. Spencer Love of Greensboro, Dr. James P. Hendricks of Durham, and Reverend Fred Stair of Hickory. Dr. J. McDowell Richards, chairman of the Board, will serve as an ex-officio member.

Dr. Cunningham, since 1940 the President of the College, had kept his resignation a closely guarded secret. Only close friends and the members of the Executive Committee of the Board of Trustees knew, prior to Wednesday, of his plans to step down as chief executive of the College and accept a position as Director of the Presbyterian Foundation of Charlotte. In resigning, Dr. Cunningham stated, “Now as I enter my seventeenth year as president, I consider that for the good of Davidson College, and the work into which I go, that I should take this step... Davidson is on even keel,” and finally, “I feel a sense of providential guidance in this whole consideration.”

The Nominating Committee elected by the Board will hold its initial meeting in Richmond on March 1. At that time a chairman will be selected. Committee member and Board Chairman J. McDowell Richards stated, after announcing the membership of the committee, that he “hoped a successor to Dr. Cunningham could be chosen at the May meeting of the Trustees.” He added, however, “I doubt seriously whether it will be possible to locate in the short time before then a man able to carry on the Presidency in the tradition of Dr. Cunningham.”

Davidson College has many reasons to be grateful to the man who resigned this week from the presidency after more than sixteen years of service marked by many great achievements. Among them is the growth under his leadership of the Endowment and Plant funds of the College from five and one-half million dollars in 1941 to fourteen million in 1957.

Dr. S. R. Spencer, Dean of Students:
Especially from the standpoint of a Dean of Students, Dr. Cunningham has been the ideal college president. His interest in students, both as individuals and as a student body, his strong stand for principle combined with flexibility towards student problems, and his active promotion of harmony in student-faculty relations have kept my job from being a difficult one. I can reconcile myself to his going only because his new position seems almost perfect for him at this time.

LeGette Blythe Leads Discussion On Wolfe

LeGette Blythe, noted author and personal friend of Thomas Wolfe, will lead an informal discussion group Wednesday night at 8:00 p.m., in the Ballroom of the College Union concerning Wolfe. Mr. Blythe will bring letters from Wolfe which he has in his possession to show to interested students. This is another in the series of informal literary discussions sponsored by the Bookshelf Committee of the College Union. Coffee will be served.

Richards and Trustees on Hand For Cunningham Bombshell

Dr. Cunningham has a last-minute word with J. McDowell Richards, President of the Board of Trustees. Richards calls the meeting to order. Dr. Cunningham made his announcement to the Trustees following his regular report as President. Most of the group were taken entirely by surprise. Many rose to urge him to stay, but he remained resolute in his conviction that his duty now lay elsewhere. Finally, and with reluctance, the Board accepted his resignation.

Fraternities List Hell Week Projects

Davidson fraternities, in planning activities for Greek Week, have scheduled many constructive projects for their pledges to undertake. Several of these take the form of community service. Alpha Tau Omega is centering its Help Week activities around two afternoons’ work assisting the Director of the Barium Springs Orphanage. Improvement of the playground of the Davidson Methodist Church will occupy the attention of Pi Kappa Phi, whereas Kappa Sigma is undertaking a civic project for the YMCA. Phi Delta Theta and Beta Theta Pi plan to spend a portion of their Hell Week cleaning the premises of Erwin Lodge. Other fraternities have scheduled projects at their respective fraternity and boarding houses. Kappa Alpha and Sigma Chi are concentrating their work in maintenance and repair. Pi Kappa Alpha will assist their faculty advisor in the beautification of his grounds in addition to activities improving the fraternity house. Phi Gamma Delta plans to refurnish and clean their houses. Campus Club pledges will redecorate their house, while Sigma Phi Epsilon and Sigma Alpha Epsilon will do yard and floor work as well as painting.