Che Davidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, OCTOBER 18, 1957

(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

Rock ‘n Roll Triumphs Over The Old Fogies

More Davidson freshmen can identify the Everly Brothers - of “Wake Up Little Susie” fame—than can identify Bismarck, Thomas Mann, Jesse Owens, Haydn, and a portion of the American Bill of Rights. As incredible as it may seem, a DAVIDSONIAN poll (see page one) this week showed that the average freshman (based on 115 students) does not have a working knowledge of famous names of the past and the present. We were shocked to find that one out of every four had no idea who Karl Marx was. Marx was identified as everything from a radio commentator to a TV comedian. Now the free world has only spent about a trillion dollars to defend against Marx's communistic ideology, and every daily newspaper for the past twelve years has beamed headlines about the galloping hooves of communism. And not to be forgotten are the over 100,000 Americans who died in Korea fighting Marx's doctrine—international communism. Whoever thinks that Karl Marx is a comedian might feel differently when they wake up some morning and find Pravda instead of The Observer by their dormitory door.

But this is not all. The poll revealed that Elvis “The Pelvis” Presley and Emily Post were better known than John the Baptist, Plato, Magna Carta, and John Hancock. What does this mean? Don't students read newspapers or magazines anymore? Aren't they interested in what goes on in the world—or even on the Davidson campus for that matter? It is significant that only one in three knew the captain of the football team, and a little over half could identify Mr. C. Shaw Smith. Some of the answers given on the poll were ridiculously funny. For example, identifying Plato as “Mickey Mouse's dog,” and Clare Booth Luce as “the wife of the man who shot Lincoln” cannot but bring a smile. All, however, is not smiles. When less than half can identify a portion of the Bill of Rights and 26% do not recognize a famous Bible verse, then it is time that somebody—the freshmen and the educators—do a little reappraising. It is hard to imagine a boy being accepted in Princeton or Yale who doesn't know Karl Marx or John the Baptist.

Who's fault is it that so few can identify key political, scientific, athletic, and literary figures of our history? Certainly we cannot put all the blame on the freshmen. We have a feeling that their high school training might have had something to do with it. We wonder, nevertheless, just how many do read a newspaper, or a national magazine, or even a historical novel every now and then. In summing up, we must say that we still don’t understand the lack of knowledge. Maybe it is just too much to expect college students to be able to identify old fogies like Bismarck and Plato. We wonder, however, how these freshmen stacked up on the College Board Entrance examinations?

Vespers Is Part Of Heritage

Vespers at Davidson has long been regarded by many as a unique feature of the College. Others regard vespers as a peculiar feature. THE DAVIDSONIAN wishes to reaffirm its support of this tradition of the College. Nothing is more useless than tradition without a purpose. But this required exercise was implemented with a purpose in mind. Here the College has taken a definite stand on Christianity. Opponents have argued with fervor that such “required religion” (a misnomer) has soured them on religion and in some cases driven them from the church altogether. The real question here is simple, is vespers the reason or the excuse? Other objections concerned with the service itself seem more valid. Oftentimes the speakers have nothing to say, and even more often they instruct in the wrong manner. A preacher should remember that just because a sermon suits well his home church on Sunday morning, that does not guarantee its value when delivered to students on Sunday evening.

We must remember that there is an element of choice in compulsory religious exercises after all. A student when he chooses Davidson for his higher education decides many things automatically, and vespers is one of them. Though these services are not always a religious experience, they are an educational one. Few speakers lack an audience. Superficially, it will seem to be a dichotomy of the first order to urge strongly the continuance of required vespers and then propose what we are about to propose. But the incongruity is only surface. We strongly urge that the entire Communion Service be placed on a voluntary attendance basis. The meditation sermon has little meaning to those who choose to depart, and the departure of some students is an interrupting influence to those who choose to remain and participate in this the greatest and most Holy moment in the Church —G.L.W.

Why Fraternity?

Any justification for the fraternity system ultimately boils down to the realistic fact that people—by their very nature—desire to be together. The psychologist may call this gregariousness, the layman the “herd instinct,” and the individualist the positive application of the “right of voluntary association.” The Utopian philosopher died out some years ago, but there always are those who like to draw up plans for regulating human behavior, and attempting to regiment everything and everybody to a set standard. As we understand it, the sole purpose of a social fraternity is to promote friendship among its members. A social fraternity does not exist primarily as a means for carrying out the college’s policies, nor as a service club, nor even as a place where one can pick up three meals a day. Now these might be the main purposes of some clubs, but not of a truly social fraternity. Take away the right to be “exclusive,” and the right to join together simply for the purposes of being together, and you have cut the heart out of the fraternity system. If we cannot justify the fraternity system on the basis of the “right of voluntary association,” then we can hardly justify any of the other basic human rights.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
BUSINESS MANAGER
ASSISTANT EDITOR
Associate Editor John Johnson
Managing Editors Bob Lathan, Laurens Walker
Sports Editor George Ramsey
Assignments Editor Bill Patton
Feature Editor Jim Morris
News Editor John Trask, Jr.
Copy Editor Pat Henderson
Cartoonists Gerald Wilson, Julian Aldridge
Photographer Bruce Brooks
Advertising Manager Bross Cole
Circulation Manager Ed Stevens, Henry Samuels, Lee Mayfield

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

By CHARLES CHASTAIN

Because of the widely expressed fears of Davidson alumni and parents of prospective students that their sons will not be able to meet the standards for admission to Davidson, the July issue of the Davidson College Bulletin contains an article, “Can Your Son Get in Davidson?,” by Dr. Samuel R. Spencer, Jr., president of Mary Baldwin College and former Professor of History and Dean of Students at Davidson. Dr. Spencer's article explains the procedures used at Davidson to determine which applicants shall be admitted to the Freshman Class each year.

THREE FACTORS

Dr. Spencer states that in considering the qualifications of each applicant, the faculty Admissions Committee attempts to ascertain his academic potential, his citizenship potential, and the degree of obligation which the college owes him as a member of “the greater Davidson community.” Academic potential is determined mainly by the candidate's secondary

ADMITTED HOURS except

By JOE BELL

Five Years Ago
OCT. 17, 1952
Average D. C. man is found to be a business major, a Presbyterian, and a North Carolinian.

Ten Years Ago
OCT. 17, 1947
Non-fraternity men draft a constitution in the light of long recognized need for an organization for them.

Fifteen Years Ago
OCT. 15, 1942
Clemson Jungleers to play for Homecoming — an interesting parallel to the present. “Ten Dangers of Alcohol” is Vespers topic.

Twenty Years Ago
OCT. 13, 1937
Faculty approves four dance sets this year, two weekends each semester.

Twenty-five Years Ago
OCT. 19, 1932
Davidson Wildcats defeat V.M.I., 12-0. And Prof. John T. Kimbrough is given a stag party in honor of his wedding on Oct. 18.

Thirty-five Years Ago
OCT. 19, 1922
New Chambers a reality. The exterior will resemble the old building, and an attempt will be made to use the four old columns.

PEANUTS

Forty Years Ago
OCT. 17, 1917
Cartoon — The Kaiser in response to bulletin that D. C. has begun Military Training: “Mein Gott! I'm ruined.”

MONDAYS 9:36 - 1:14 except when cloudy, then 9:26 - 1:18 two days before and after 2-day holidays

TUESDAYS
Books sold only if student can sign pledge that he is cutting classmake purchase, there will be open just four periods and 35-10% on days following full moon 96 — 12:9, 2:24 - 3:03, 5:59 - 6:02: and FROM 9/0 - 9/15° and ARE CLOSED for OPY SUNDAY, FORRY, school record, and “for obvious reasons, a student who ranks in the lower half of his high school class is ordinarily eliminated... High school grades, especially on basic subjects such as English and Math, are also significant in predicting college success. The boy who has better than a “B” record offers substantial evidence of his ability; where the record is sprinkled with “C’s” (or worse), the Admissions Committee begins to look with a somewhat jaundiced eye.” To provide a standard of comparison, applicants must take the Scholastic Aptitude Section of the College Board exams, but “recognizing that test scores of any kind are fallible, the Admissions Committee has used the tests as only one factor in the picture of any candidate.

Ed Note: THE DAVIDSONIAN, as always, welcomes letters from its readers. However, we request that letters be limited to two hundred words so they may be printed in their entirety, thus avoiding any possibility of distorting the reader's opinion through editing.

On campus (ati(‘Cé;C~*™ Great Gray Golfer... By PHIL LEWIS Gary Fisher has announced that he is collecting names on a petition entitled: “A Petition for the Elimination of Smilin’ Jack from the Charlotte Observer”. Anyone interested in this worthwhile endeavor should see Gary at the first opportunity. One activity of the College community which has been operating without fanfare this year is the college laundry. We want to congratulate Mr. Staeks and his staff for their wonderful job in adding tasteful smudges to our shirts, adjusting the size of our socks, and fragmentizing our buttons. All of this adds immeasurably to our enjoyment of college life. This column is sponsoring a brand new organization on campus—The Society for the Protection of Southern White Protestant Conservatism at Davidson College, Inc. Since we are told that 90% of our little community falls generally into the category of Southern white protestant conservatives, we expect to put all those ultra-liberal organizations like Greek letter fraternities, denominational fellowships, and literary societies out of business in no time at all. Mr. Hobart denies that the Trustees have directed that the front campus be converted into a miniature golf course, thereby squelching the rumors that the Great Gray Golfer has been asked to occupy the empty white house on North Main Street. Guess we'll have to keep looking.

When in doubt... LUCY LOCKED IT IN THE CLOSET... TRYING TO PROVE I CAN DO WITHOUT IT FOR TWO WEEKS. WELL, YOU KNOW YOU DON'T LOOK TOO WELL...

There is no “cut off” score. FIFTY-FIFTY “In general, however, experience has shown that a candidate whose scores are over 450 and has an acceptable secondary school record can probably make the grade, whereas a candidate whose scores are below 400, regardless of the excellence of his high school record, has less than a fifty-fifty chance.” “Academic potential alone, however, is not enough to guarantee admission. The committee is vitally interested in the answer to its second question: What kind of citizen has the applicant been in his high school or prep school community? To ask this question is not to demand by implication that he be a major office-holder or captain of his football team; it does imply that he should have contributed in some way — through athletics, clubs, student government, publications, music, or other areas of secondary school life outside the classroom.” Applicants must also be recommended by secondary school authorities as to such personal qualities as character, conduct, and attitude.

ALUMNI PREFERENCE “While academic and citizenship potential are the two most important factors in a student's admissions picture, the admissions committee also takes stock of possible obligations to the boy on the part of the college. Quite naturally, the son of an alumnus has something of an edge on the boy who has no such connection. Similarly, while there is no attempt to set artificial limitations or quotas based on geography or religious denomination, the fact that a boy is a North Carolina or Florida Presbyterian may give him preference if all other things are equal.”

THREE TO ONE Of the 700-plus applicants each year, approximately 150 do not complete the admissions process, 150 are rejected, and 400 are accepted. Of those accepted, 150 withdraw to attend another school, and 250 enter Davidson in September — a three-to-one ratio of acceptances to rejections. "That Davidson admissions standards are not really so tough is obvious by comparison with other colleges. This year’s freshman class includes 12 students whose applications for admission were rejected by one or more of the following: University of North Carolina, Duke University, Washington and Lee University, Rice Institute, M.I.T., Carnegie Tech, Yale, Dartmouth, and Princeton.” Furthermore, “at some colleges of our own type, the student body average on College Board scores is more than 100 points higher than the average at Davidson. Whereas Davidson is graduating fewer than 75 percent of the students who enroll as freshmen, some institutions are graduating 85 to 90 percent. Of those who enroll as freshmen, we are still losing about 20 percent before the junior year.”

RISE IN QUALITY Nonetheless, Dr. Spencer concludes, the present Davidson admissions program has resulted in a reduction from past years of the exclusions for academic failure during the freshman year and of the total withdrawals during the first two years of college, and there has been a marked rise in the quality of scholastic attainments of the student body.

E Pluribus and ‘The Gentleman’ By JOHN BERNHARDT In following up the analysis of the Davidson student as “homogenized or pasteurized”, let us look at the homogenate. Davidson probably does turn out an abnormally large number of its typed product, the “gentleman”: this would indicate a strong influence of the group on the individual. Surprisingly, though, there is no feeling of obligation to society involved in the conformity with it.

MERELY NEGATIVE We feel we must not antagonize the group by being different, but we see ourselves as separate from the other individuals in it, with society and its requirements as merely a negative obligation. We feel we have no positive obligation to help. This problem of unity versus individualism is really one involving our national society and its attitude. There is the problem of States’ Rights versus National Strength. There is controlled prices, subsidized farming, and socialized pensions versus laissez-faire capitalism and bureaucratic bigness in organization. In spite of the idea of “E Pluribus Unum", we generally take the side of individualism against the larger group in these controversies.

OUR GROUP FIRST! Here at Davidson we certainly prefer our own smaller group over any larger one. In fraternities, we are interested only in our own, and the system as a whole rarely affects us. We hate regulations put on us, even when they are for our own group-good. A Preferential-bidding system seems bad partly because of this feeling. Any suggestion that the authorities are cutting down our individual “rights” for the good of the rest of the school is met as though an injustice were being done. We like to have all the rights to our individual selves rather than for the whole group. Sometimes, it seems, not only does our right hand not know what our left hand is doing, but it doesn't even care. We borrow books from the library, scribble on them, and return them with no thought of what the next person would like. The paper cups and cigarette packs thrown around the campus show we aren't very worried about what others want.

HONOR SYSTEM But the major example of this attitude lies in the honor system, where there is more and more disregard for the group-system for the sake of an individual. Clothes from the gym, books from the library, pencils from the Union, newspapers from the piles for sale — all these are being taken by boys who do not stop to think of the group but only of themselves. Maybe these illustrations overstate the case, but we do prefer the individual to the group, in practice. Is there anything wrong with this attitude, since it seems so widespread?

PARADOX It is at least strange that, with the Christian doctrine of the Golden Rule and the Second Mile, and with our emphasis here on fraternity and brotherhood, we do not see a paradox in our position that each man is an island, entire unto himself. With our pressure here for conformity to the group, it is odd that we do not feel a parallel emphasis on duty to the group.