PAGE FOUR

DAVIDSON TRUSTEE

Redhead is Smyth Gets to Talk In Vesper Service Pinned. The ceremony is military, not romantic, however, as Cadet Ross Smyth receives his pledge ribbon from Lawrence Trotti during Scabbard and Blade's spring tapping at Tuesday's drill. From 1940 to 1945 he served with the United States Army and was assigned in 1941 and 1942 as an R.O.T.C. instructor at Davidson. Later he was assigned to the Army Air Forces with air intelligence and administration. He was for one and one-half years in the European theater and was discharged with the rank of major.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Seminar Discusses (Continued From Page One)

The seminar includes two foreign experts who will work in the discussions. These two are Dr. John Hartmann, Chief of Adult Education in West Berlin, and Fusau Yamaguchi, who is the International Secretary of the Socialist Party of Japan. Bertram D. Wolfe, a noted author, will serve as visiting consultant for the group. Other members of the Seminar will include at least two newspaper publishers and their wives, Mr. and Mrs. Harry M. Ayers of the “Anniston Star,” Anniston, Alabama; and Mr. and Mrs. Phil Bucheit of the “Spartanburg Journal.” The Reverend C. Grier Davis of Asheville will also participate.

The Residential Seminar began in 1954 as a result of a grant from the Fund for Adult Education of the Ford Foundation. Under the direction of Shepherd L. Witman, this seminar has grown to its present point.

IT'S FOR REAL!

VICE VERSA*

Out after a deer? Of course, you know
You must get a license Before you go!
By Chester Field

Oh! After a dear. Then it’s reversed.
Never mind the license— Catch the dear first!

MORAL: Big game hunters, attention
An inside story you ought to know
These famous Arrow Tee Shirts have comfort woven right into them. They can’t sag, can’t bind, can’t stretch out of fit. Here’s a fine-spun Tee Shirt that “gives” with every motion you make. And the Dacron reinforced neck band keeps its perfect shape—permanently. Arrow Tee, $1.25; Arrow Guards (knitted briefs), $1.25.

ARROW—first in fashion
SHIRTS • TIES • HANDKERCHIEFS • UNDERWEAR

FRIDAY, MARCH 22, 1957

Tee means “Tops!” when it's an Arrow

In the spring of 1946, he was with the Davidson College department of Public Relations and attended a summer session at the University of California at Los Angeles before entering Harvard University that fall. He held the Austin Fellowship.

Take your pleasure BIG! Smoke a regal Chesterfield King and get more of what you’re smoking for. Majestic length—plus the smoothest natural tobacco filter. Chesterfield—the smoothest tasting smoke today because it’s packed more smoothly by ACCU-RAY! Like your pleasure BIG? Chesterfield King has Everything!

*$50 for every philosophical verse accepted for publication, Chesterfield, P.O. Box 21, New York 46, N.Y. © Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

In television, he is one of the four ministers who participate in the nationwide telecast, Man to Man. The other preachers are Dr. Ralph W. Sockman of New York, Dr. Louis H. Evans of Hollywood, and Dr. Donald Gray Barnhouse of Philadelphia. He has published two books, Getting to Know God and Learning to Have Faith, and is a contributor to two additional books, The Pulpit in The South, and Here is My Method.

Dr. Redhead is a trustee of Davidson College. During this period he completed his doctoral dissertation and began work on Decision for War, 1917, a book dealing with U.S. entry into World War I. His dissertation was entitled “Cornerstone of Defense: A History of the Selective Training and Service Act of 1940.”

Dr. John A. Redhead, Jr., is the Vesper speaker for next Sunday. Dr. Redhead is a native of Centerville, Mississippi. He graduated from Southwestern in Memphis and earned B.D. and Th.M. degrees from Union Theological Seminary. Davidson College awarded him the honorary D.D. degree in 1937. Rev. Redhead served pastorates in Farmville, Virginia, and Tampa, Florida, before coming to Charlotte as minister of the Second Presbyterian Church (now Covenant) in 1937. In 1945 he became...

Arrow Tee Shirts and knitted brief Guards are made of the softest fine-spun fabric. The Dacron reinforced neck band can’t sag out...of place. Come in anytime and see our fine assortment of Arrow Tees and Guards. Tees, $1.25 up; Guards, $1.25.

Spencer Leaves
DACRON AND RAYON SUITS BY VARSITY-TOWN — $50.00

Dr. Spencer was awarded the Master of Arts and Doctor of Philosophy degrees in history by Harvard, receiving the latter in 1951. In that year he joined the Davidson College staff as Assistant to Dr. Cunningham. He has served for the past three years as Dean of Students, professor of history and Chairman of the Scholarship Committee. Prior to this, he was Assistant to the President, Dr. John R. Cunningham, for two years.

Decision for War, 1917, was published in 1953 by Richard R. Smith, Inc., of Rindge, New Hampshire. A second book by Dr. Spencer, Booker T. Washington and the Negro’s Place in American Life, was published by Little, Brown and Co., of Boston in 1955.

In 1940 Dr. Spencer graduated from Davidson Summa Cum Laude and was president of the student body. He won membership in Phi Beta Kappa and Omicron Delta Kappa, and was outstanding in virtually every phase of campus life. Dr. Spencer was born in Rock Hill, South Carolina.

JOHN R. REDHEAD
Vesper Speaker

He became pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Greensboro, with more than 3,000 members. He is one of his denomination’s most active radio and TV personalities. He has been a summer speaker on the National Radio Pulpit for five summers. He also appears regularly on the Columbia Church-of-the-Air and the Protestant Hour.

Trotti Gives Program On Thomas Wolfe Study

John Trotti delivered a program on Thomas Wolfe to the Philanthropic Literary Society last Monday night. Divided into two parts, Trotti first presented a short story entitled “A Lamb in Wolf's Clothing” taken from his personal visit to the home of Thomas Wolfe’s sister. The second part was taken from a research paper Trotti had written which dealt with the subject of Wolfe’s religious beliefs.

ROTC to Sponsor Day of Counseling

Representatives of the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, and Air Force will be located in the Ballroom of the College Union Tuesday, from 1:00—5:00 p.m., for the purpose of discussing reserve programs and obligations of the military services with all interested students. Enlisted reserve programs as well as officer procurement programs of the various services will be presented. From 1:00—4:00 p.m., individual discussions and counseling will be offered. At 4 o'clock an informal panel discussion will be held with a question and answer period following.

This Armed Forces Orientation Day should be of particular interest to graduating seniors with a Selective Service obligation and also to students not having a military obligation. The event is being sponsored by the Davidson ROTC Department by the request of the Student Body.

Spin a platter... have some chatter... and sip that real great taste of Coke. Sure, you can have a party without Coca-Cola—but who wants to!

SIGN OF GOOD TASTE
Bottled Under Authority Of The Coca-Cola Company by THE COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD
“Coke” is a registered trade-mark. ©1956, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY

DACRON AND COTTON CORD SUITS “WASH ‘N’ WEAR” BY HASPEL, $39.75