PAGE FOUR

MAKES CAMPUS GREEN

MR. HOBART FROM MULES TO TRACTORS

Campus Beauty Result Of Hobart’s Work

By BOBBY LIVINGSTON
Davidson Staff Reporter

Mr. Hobart, who? Didn't your date ask you, her hero, over the weekend, “Who has made Davidson so beautiful?” And could you say to her, “Mr. Hobart did this.” Probably you couldn't. If special functions emphasize the beauty of our grounds, it is not right for us to neglect the fact that they are kept constantly attractive by a quiet, good man whom few know, yet whose work all see every day. His 32 years here has been a long time in some ways. This coming president will be the fourth under whom he has served. When he came the mowing was done by mule team. The college had no trucks, and it hired in the summer farmers to mow the grounds. Planting was confined around the library—the guest house today. Dirt ruts scarred the campus. Now he works 52 men. “Difficulties,” he reflected, “yes, we have a few. The main one, I guess, is that there just isn’t enough time to do all we see needs to be done.” Each frequent effort of a new

CHAPIN PICKS
(Continued From Page One)

to the Chapel Committee will be picked later, as will be the student to hold the Freshman Adviser and Religious Emphasis programs post.

YMCA FIRST

When asked why such a young Cabinet had been picked, Chapin answered, “Many times upperclassmen become so involved in other things that they don't have enough time to spend on a Cabinet post. These men have been appointed with the idea that they will put the Y first. I'd rather see the Cabinet getting a lot done and make a few mistakes in the process than to be doing a little perfectly. The first big job is for each man to make definite plans for his part in next year’s program. We hope to set a fast spiritual pace for the campus next year.”

Union To Sponsor Magic Program

Students and other members of the college family and their children are invited to a magic show at 8 p.m., Saturday, April 27, in the Union Ballroom. Performers will be members of the North Carolina unit of the Southwestern Magic Association. Special guests will be children from the Barium Springs Orphanage. This program is sponsored by the Special Features Committee of the College Union. There is no admission charge.

prompt counterattack from Hobart’s established forces. Through the years many efforts of his have been overcome. Strategic penetration and tactical diversion are the two plans he employs today as he either blocks a budding path with shrubbery or enhances it with asphalt. Mr. Hobart is proud of the Davidson campus he has developed. To him it has developed a distinctive beauty from its age. His work is much more to him than just a job. You ought not to look for him in his office in the “jungle” for he’s not there — he’s out supervising the spring planting. Mr. Hobart takes pride in a campus which a quiet confidence tells him, and reveals to you, that so far as he is concerned Davidson is “as pretty as any school, and, I like to think, prettier than most.”

C. C. Changes Name

Campus Club has officially changed its name to Alpha Theta Phi Fraternity but will remain strictly local, President Kay Bartell announced.

IT'S FOR REAL!

TOE DANCER

Cy* At campus hops, Cy guards the wall. Why, he doesn’t know at all. Cy thinks he's really quite a prancer— In point of fact, a real toe dancer. But, as every wise girl knows, He doesn’t dance on his own toes!

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Eumanean Chooses Two Marshals

Tom Thrailkill and Bill Bondurant were elected Commencement Marshals at the meeting of the Eumanean Literary Society, April 8. Thrailkill will be the Chief Marshal for the graduation ceremonies in May. At the same meeting Professor Lloyd gave an interesting and informative program on hymnology. He read the verses to many hymns in his inimitable style and spoke briefly on the history of hymn writing in the English language. The next meeting of the society will be held Monday night, April 22, at which time officers for next year will be elected. Seniors who wish to receive a diploma from the society are reminded to be present at this meeting. Philanthropic will pick their marshals at a later meeting.

Committee Fellowship Informs Winners

The Graduate Scholarship Committee, composed of various members of the faculty, has disclosed the names of those students who have received fellowships or scholarships as to the present date. Danforth Fellowships have been awarded to Jimmy Martin and Jerry Pietenpol. The Danforth Foundation offers financial assistance to its Fellows according to individual need. Rockefeller Brothers Theological Fellowships have been awarded to Leon Howell, Carl Cooper, and Leighton Green of the class of 1955. The foundation is designed to enable a worthy person the possibility of theological study for one year. Woodrow Wilson Fellowships have been awarded to Emory Kimbrough and Larry Trotti. The Fellowship is designed to recruit worthy students for the teaching profession. The Southern Fellowships Fund has been awarded Bill Daniel, Phi Kukura, Tom Morgan, and Emory Hendrickson. Frank Robert has received an Atomic Energy Fellowship to study at Vanderbilt. Tom Ratchford has been awarded a Dupont Fellowship for study at the University of Virginia. Jerry Pietenpol has received an assistantship in physics at Columbia. 

COUNCIL AIRS
(Continued From Page One)

elect of the Student Body, Ross Smyth, were chosen to represent the Council at this afternoon’s meeting of the Trustees Presidential nominating committee in Charlotte. John Bernhardt, President-elect of Senior Class, was to be Smyth's alternate should he not be able to attend. The committee desires to hear student opinion to aid them in their decision. Still another bystander at the meeting, senior Henry Griffin, pointed out that the committee would probably draw their conception of the “ideal president” and then select a man possessing those qualities. Griffin was in favor of a man outside the college because a man presently connected with the college might be “limited in one department and not know how to improve another department” and because he believed that a man of no official capacity with the college would have “more experience and broader views.”

ANSWER NEEDS

Phil Kukura believed that “primarily we need an educator,” when opinions concerning the type of man for President were asked for. Kukura went on: “We are indeed fortunate for our improved physical plant and new buildings today, but what we need in addition is a stronger faculty and improved educational facilities.” When asked for his definition of an “educator,” Kukura replied, “A pioneer in curriculum, a man who is willing to step in and answer the needs for higher education, a man who will make changes in the curriculum if it is necessary to make such changes.”

Blood Drive To Be Held April 29-30

The Spring Blood Drive will be held on Monday and Tuesday, April 29-30. The drive is being sponsored by the Interfraternity Council and the ROTC Department. Students under twenty-one must secure a signed release from their parents before donating blood. These releases may be secured from their IFC representatives. For those giving blood the incentives are a free PT cut and three ROTC Drill cuts. A Plaque will be awarded to the fraternity having the highest percentage of donors in its membership.

MORAL

Stay on your toes! Take your pleasure BIG with Chesterfield Big length—big flavor...and the smoothest natural tobacco filter.

© Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

EASTER:
(Continued From Page One)

Adviser and Religious Emphasis programs post. 

Kuhn Discusses Drinking Issue

Reverend Donald Kuhn presented a talk on the pros and cons of drinking in chapel on April 16.

MILTON
Sec. Army

Sec. Milton To Visit Davidson

Mr. Hugh Meglone Milton II, Assistant Secretary of the Army

The reasons many Christians drink as Rev. Kuhn presented them are: in order to be sociable to friends, free in relationships as student, relaxed, in order to be closer to one’s true self, free from being a moral legalist, and because the Bible does not condemn drinking as such. The non-drinking Christian on the other hand might argue that: in order to be sociable a Christian would respect therights of his friends too much to drink and a Christian’s faith for Manpower and Reserve Forces, will be on the Davidson Campus Tuesday, April 23, as a special guest of the college. Milton will speak to the student body in chapel and will present the awards to the Distinguished Military Students during the R.O.T.C. drill.

A native of Lexington, Kentucky, Mr. Milton was an officer in both World Wars and Henry Brockman, a member of the class of 1955, has been awarded a Fulbright Scholarship for study in France. Jason McManus, a member of the class of 1956, has been awarded a Woodlands Foundation for study at Princeton. John Hill, John Hunter, and Don McRee have been awarded assistantships in Physics at Purdue University, Colorado, and Duke, respectively. Dick Cannon and John Gilmer have received teaching assistantships in chemistry at the University of Tennessee. Hunter Warlick has received the Regional Fellowship at Duke Law School. Bill Jackson has received an assistantship.

When the question was raised, “How does the Council feel about having a minister as President?", Ross Smyth answered: “Not necessarily a minister is needed, but rather a person of high Christian ideals who has performed active Church work.” Smyth also didn't “think we needed a man limited in one category, such as an educator or minister.” The Council then moved into their final business of the night, that of rewording a petition concerning an amendment to the Student Body Constitution circulated three weeks ago. The original petition to add a new section to the By-Laws read: “All elections shall be held in student body meeting following the regular chapel period.” In order to make the proposed amendment clearer, the Council decided the amendment should read: “All elections shall be held during the regular chapel period in Chambers auditorium.” Councilman Hunter suggested that the new members of the Student Council be asked questions regarding the Student Body Constitution and rules of order by senior Council members.

Kimbrough, with the birds and understood even their place in the scheme of things. If this be so, certainly we can pause for a brief space and try to discern our place in that scheme.

COUNCIL VOTED (Continued From Page One) said he looked forward to a good year.

BLOOD DRIVE At the meeting, the Blood Drive was discussed, and members were given blood pledge cards. Blood releases have been sent to the parents of students not yet twenty-one. Additional releases may be gotten from I.F.C. members.

FRATERNITY COURT John Trask outlined plans for completing discussion of the proposed fraternity court. His plan called for: (1) a complete presentation of the whole subject in next week’s Davidsonian which would include a report from Mr. D. Grier Martin on the various alternatives and their cost to the students; (2) Another forum by members of the faculty committee to be held Monday, April 28, during the chapel period to clear up any questions that may still exist; and (3) Special intention meetings that Monday night to vote on what plan the students want. Trask explained that this method would wind up the matter as far as student opinion was concerned. He said, “after the fraternities have given the administration their choice on the new plan, the matter will then be up to the college and the trustees. It is important that we finish this subject soon so that the trustees can decide about the new court at their May 16 meeting.” The next meeting of the I.F.C. was planned for Wednesday night at 10:00 p.m. in the Union.

Chapel Cornerstone Saint Alban’s Episcopal Mission, which has almost completed the building of a new chapel on Lorimer Street, is holding ceremonies for the laying of the cornerstone for the Chapel on Sunday, April 21, at 3 p.m. Bishop Edwin A. Penick of the Diocese of North Carolina will conduct the ceremonies. The public is invited to attend.

drink might relax one all right—back to his animal self. and the Bible does not see anything right in drinking, as a matter of fact, condemning the result of drunkenness might imply eliminating its cause. Kuhn later explained in a discussion group that no one type of person will become an alcoholic. Each person that does reach that stage will probably have or develop emotional problems. Religious as well as social and financial background also has much to do on whether a person drinks or not. Moral restrictions in a religion will produce fewer drinkers, but the chances that they will have problems as a result of their decision is much greater. The Jews, which are an example of a sect with no moral code forbidding drinking, have many drinkers, but fewer problems than the conservative sect.

Vespers To Have Easter Music The annual Easter Musical Service will be presented at Vespers on Sunday, April 21. Musical portions of the program will be given by the Male Chorus, Chapel Choir, and the Brass Ensemble. This program, sponsored jointly by the Department of Music and the YMCA, will also feature scripture readings by Harold Hall. Special offerings will go to “One Great Hour of Sharing,” a united Easter effort of Protestants, Roman Catholics, and Jews. This special service is a required religious exercise for all students excepting those who wish to take cuts under the regular system.

THIS WEEK IN DAVIDSON SUNDAY 8:00 a.m. Sunrise service on steps of Johnston Gymnasium. 7:30 p.m. Vespers: Easter Musical Service. MONDAY 8:15 p.m. Red and Black Masquers: “Time Limit” in Chambers Auditorium. 8:30 p.m. Rock and Roll Concert in the Coliseum. TUESDAY 10:10 a.m. Chapel: Maj. Gen Hugh Milton, Asst. Secretary of the Army. 8:15 p.m. “Time Limit.” WEDNESDAY 10:10 a.m. Shoffner Jam Session in the Union Ballroom. 8:15 p.m. Band Concert in Chambers Auditorium. FRIDAY 8:15 p.m. Columbus Boy Choir in Chambers.

NAVIGATOR OR PILOT The flying U.S. Air Force is a team of men who command the aircraft and men who plan the attack. These are the pilots and navigators, both equally important to the defense of America. You, as a young man of intelligence and sound physical health, may join this select group in the world’s most exciting and rewarding adventure. Your training will stand you in good stead, whatever your future plans may be—and you'll be earning over $6,000 a year 18 months after training.* If you are between 19 and 26½ years of age, investigate your opportunities as an Aviation Cadet in the U.S. Air Force. Priority consideration is now being given to college graduates. For details, write: Aviation Cadet Information, P.O. Box 7608, Washington 4, D.C. *Based on pay of married 1st Lt. with flight status with 2 years’ service. Graduate - Then Fly...U.S. AIR FORCE AVIATION CADET PROGRAM