FRIDAY, MARCH 8, 1957 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Slants

The Wildcats’ 71 to 55 victory over VPI last Saturday night was a brilliant finish to the locals’ regular basketball
season. It was a high tribute to the fighting spirit of the team which, despite depressing periods in the season,
would not hold a pessimistic view. They maintained a faith in their own ability that earned an undisputed tourney berth,
a berth that everyone else had already seeded to George Washington.

POINT-PICKERS

On two occasions in the final weeks when the game was crucial, they produced scores that amazed the point-pickers. First,
they upset favored Citadel 60-57, but the crowning event came when they walloped the number three team in the conference,
VPI, by 16 points, a team that had beaten them previously by a twenty-point spread. Commenting on the Tech game,
a thoroughly thrilled Coach Tom Scott said that there were several minor things that contributed to the win, but “...
the really important one, was that our boys just wanted to win more than theirs did. We were excited and
eager; every boy contributed.”

FOUR OVER TEN

A look at the statistics verifies Scott’s statement. Season averages show that Semi Mintz with a 17.7 points-per-game average, Dave
Hollingsworth with 13.0, and Dick Weeks with 11.8 have been carrying the heavy load in the scoring department; but on
that night, of the five regulars, only Weeks, who was held out much of the time because of four fouls,
failed to score in the double figures. Surveying the final records reveals, to no one’s surprise, that Mintz was high
man for the season with 469 points. Hollingsworth and Weeks were close together for the next two positions with 336
and 307 respectively. In the closing games, Mintz, who ranked 17th in the nation for free-throw percentages on the last
NCAA release, fell below the .800 mark to .799. The confident sophomore has a talent for being fouled; he collected
204, almost twice as many as any other member of the squad. His 32 points against Pennsylvania was also an
individual high mark.

TWO-POST

In the Citadel game, Coach Scott unveiled a new offense, a two-post system with two men playing wide to the
sides of the basket and the three remaining men playing deep in a general line paralleling the ends of the
court. Since there is no offensive player in the center near the foul line, the defense is forced to spread
out and leave that area open and vulnerable to driving lay-ups. Scott would not heavily credit the late season surge
to the new system but did feel that the increased number of optional plays made the squad more effective. It
makes possible the exploitation of opponents whose center and forwards are weak defensively. Conference tournament officials two weeks ago did
not think that Davidson could make the event and consequently selected a queen to sponsor George Washington. They then blundered
into sending that information to the local sports

TEAM GETS THREE SECONDS

Senior streak Tommy Rivers cinched home first in the 100-yard freestyle to give the Wildcat swimmers an individual crown in
the Southern Conference Meet held in Charleston last Friday and Saturday. Rivers’ winning time was 53.8 seconds, four-tenths of a
second better than his old school record. Tommy also pulled down a fourth in the 50-yard freestyle to grab top
scoring honors for the 'Cats. Though finishing fifth behind VPI, VMI, W&L, and the Citadel, Davidson showed signs of strength
in copping three seconds. John Scott, a surprising freshman, stroked in behind Fox of Washington and Lee in the 200-yard
butterfly. Coach George Thompson will be relying heavily on John next year. Basil Sharp, outstanding all year, was nosed out
by Blank of W&L. Basil, hampered by a punctured eardrum, missed five days of workouts just prior to the meet.
The departure of Sharp, a senior, will leave Coach Thompson with the task of filling his shoes. Thompson has announced
four first-time letter winners. They are: Bob Wrens, John Scott, Joe Bell, and Bob Jones. Other lettermen were Tom Rivers,
John Edwards, Billy Carrell, Basil Sharp, Fritz Russell, and John Winfrey.

TOM RIVERS

The steady, ever-reliable John Edwards, a senior from Rocky Mt., N.C., snared second place in his specialty, the 200-yard breaststroke.
Edwards' time of 2:38.2 clipped 2.7 seconds off the school record which he set last year. The 'Cats' other second-place
finish was in the diving department.

SIX MEMBERS of the Wildcat basketball delegation paused just long enough on Wednesday morning to get their picture taken as
they began their journey to the Southern Conference tournament in Richmond, Va. From left to right are manager Bill Pitzer,
guard Bill Ferguson, guard Sonny Ferguson, center Bud Oater, and guard Dave Fritz.

Benson Runs In Top Quarterback Slot

By BILL GRAMLEY

“That freshman, Benson, is a different player from what he was a month ago,” says Coach Dole in commenting about
his southpaw quarterback’s improvement during the Spring Drills. It was another indication that Charley “Take Charge” Benson is capitalizing on
his bid for the chief signal-calling job. His current arch-rival is sophomore Tom Cutting whose bad knee keeps him from
peak performance. Benson will have to face another sophomore, Sam McGuirt, who is now injured, when the fall sessions start.

By BOBBY PAGE

Despite six injured players and other absentees, and a mess of bad weather, the practices have been highly spirited. Occasionally
the boys even get into a scrap, but Coach Dole only asks that they save it for the Citadel next

FIVE AND FIVE RECORD

One of the most consistent ballplayers on the team, Bill Price, is sharp as ever at the snap-back spot. On
his heels is up-and-coming Joel Spraggins, a transplanted guard. Craig Wall is his usual destructive self at end along with
Jim Bloomfield, George Hart, and Roy Smith. Alex Porter, a newcomer, also shows plenty of promise as a flankman.

BIGGERS

Wrestling coach Charlie Parker enters Davidson in the Southern Conference tournament today at VMI with three veterans and three inexperienced
grapplers to vie for honors in the six-team affair. Defending champion and tourney favorite is VPI, while the host team,
VMI, claims the best odds to maintain their runner-up position. West Virginia, Washington and Lee, The Citadel, and Davidson are
the other four entrants.

COLEMAN OUT

Brownie Thurmond, a 167-pounder, completes the slate of six entries in the weight division. Dave Fagg will sweat off ten
pounds and compete in the 177 lb. class, and Harold Westervelt will also drop one division to 157 lbs. West,
a quiet determined freshman from Alabama, has been giving Ralph Setzler and “Chug” Francis a run for their money.Ov Cat
Cagers In Tourney Were Favored Mountaineers Win 71-51 In Richmond

By GEORGE RAMSEY

The Mountaineers of West Virginia were too much for eighth-ranked Davidson as they overpowered the Cats 71 to 51 in
the first round of the Southern Conference Tournament. West Virginia, led by junior guard Don Vincent with 22 points, ran
up a safe margin in the early minutes of the game and then satisfied to maintain that lead of about
twenty points. Both teams scored thirty points in the second half. Hollingsworth was top man for the ‘Cats with 17
markers. Coach Scott played all twelve of his men making the trip.

INTO TOURNAMENT

Davidson reached the conference tournament by virtue of a late season drive, culminating in a 71-55 upset victory over VPI
last Saturday night. The win, which clinched a berth for the 'Cats, saw the Gobbler’s back and combined with the
offensive accuracy of guard Semi Mintz and forward Dave Hollingsworth to push Davidson to the finish line ahead of the
Techmen. After winning but two of their first fourteen games, a period which saw them bow in defeat thirteen consecutive
times, the Wildcats came alive to capture five of their last ten encounters. Contributing greatly to the Davidson cause in
the homestretch were Mintz, Hollingsworth, and Captain Dick Weeks.

ALL SOUTHERN

Mintz, who was recently named to the All-Southern Conference second team, continued the play which earned him the all-star plaudits.
Hollingsworth's rebounding provided the Wildcats with the necessary strength under the boards. He pulled down an average of 12 rebounds
per game. Weeks, the pint-sized guard, played the best ball of his career during this period, his outstanding performance being
a 24-point showing in the 60-57 victory over The Citadel two weeks ago.

Sigma Chis Victorious In Basketball Battle

The Sigma Chis rolled by the Sig Eps 47 to 41 Tuesday night to close their season with a 10-1
record and capture the interfraternity basketball title. Led by Hunter Warlick’s 12 points, the Sig Eps put up a good
fight before losing to the Sigma Chis, 47 to 41. Baker had 15 points for the winners.

After squeezing by the Betas, 46 to 44, the ATO's took possession of second place. The Taus led during most
of the game with Charlie Benson and Kim Kimball pacing the winners with 12 points each. Both Henry Massey and
Dale Gramley fired in 12 markers for the Betas. The SAE’s ran rough-shod over a crumbling Kappa Sig team to
take a 51 to 30 decision. A loss to the KA’s the day before kept the SAE’s out of third
place, however.

In two other games, the ATO's defeated the Pi Kapps 52 to 26, and the Phi Gams dropped a 50
to 44 contest to the Sig Eps. West was top man for the SPE’s with 18 markers.

Waller Taylor will be wrestling for his second time this year in the 137 lb. class as will Charley Lampley
in the 147 lb. class. It will be the first match for Jim Hodges, who will be in the heavyweight
class. Westervelt has not lost a match in conference engagements.

Bill Price Gridders Elect Price For 1957, Fagg Is Alternate

Davidson football squad selected center Bill Price to captain them during the 1957 season and chose tackle Dave Fagg as
alternate captain. Price, a rugged linebacker, lettered his freshman year and has been seeing sixty minutes of action in many
games since then. The six foot, two inch Junior is from Fayetteville, N. C. Coach Dole once experimented with using
him as an end but found him much too valuable to the middle of the line. Fagg, also a rising
Senior, is another member of last year's fierce forward wall. The 200-pound tackle is a mainstay of the Cat's line.

Basketball Standings

Standing through Tuesday:

WON LOST
Sigma Chi 10 1
ATO 8 2
Beta 7 3
Kappa Sig 6 3
Phi Delt 6 3
SAE 6 4
Sig Ep 5 5
Phi Gam 4 6
KA 3 6
Pika 1 9
Pi Kapp 0 9

Results of recent games:

Field Goals Free Throws Points
Games Scored At. Scored Pct. No. Avg.
Lede, Pi Kapp 8 56 44 34 .773 146 18.3
Brewer, Kappa Sig 11 89 35 21 .600 199 18.1
Lewis, ATO 9 51 65 48 .739 150 15.5
Killian, Sigma Chi 10 60 32 20 .625 140 14.0
Brooks, Pika 10 60 15 518 135 13.5
Massey, Beta 10 50 53 34 .641 134 13.4
Powell, SAE 7 36 17 .478 89 12.7
Mitchem, ATO 12 69 41 416 148 12.3
Bradford, SAE 9 47 24 13 .542 107 11.9
Shepard, Kap Sig 10 57 7 3 .439 117 11.7
Comer, Phi Gam 10 46 28 19 .678 111 11.1
West, Sig Ep 6 28 15 10 .536 71 11.8

Two weeks and Spring will have arrived. Even now, we have a wide selection of good looking Suits, Sport Coats,
Slacks, Walking Shorts, etc., for the warm season. Wander down when you have some leisure time and enjoy yourself looking
through these. We shall be glad to advise you on your Spring-Summer wardrobe.

Wilson-Wright’s Inc.
“Collegiate Fashions”

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a...

PIZZA

the famous OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead
Charlotte, N. C.
