VARSITY ATHLETES DECIDE FRAT TROPHY (Page 2) VOL. XLV

LOOKING TO THE FUTURE

Placement season arrived in full force this week as representatives of business and industry swarmed onto the campus to interview
prospective employees in the senior class. Here Dave Hood (left) gets acquainted with Mr. Phillips of Burlington Mills.

50 Companies Handle Placement Interviews

January 30 marked the beginning of the annual Davidson Placement interviews which are presently scheduled to last through March. Altogether,
over 50 companies will send their representatives for interviews with more than 72 Seniors. For the past four years, the
placements have been handled by the staff of the Student Union and have become an interesting and important part of
the Davidson curriculum. Many members of the Student Body who have no clear idea of what the business world is
like or what opportunities are open to them in various fields can find counsel and advice in a most pleasant
atmosphere. Outstanding companies such as Scott Paper Company, Carnation Company, I.B.M., Republic Steel, Westinghouse, ESSO, DuPont, General Electric Company, and
others provide capable interviewers for instructing the students in the needs and the general structure of the respective firms. Opportunities
that are at present open to graduates may vary from truck driving jobs to occupations preparatory to executive positions. The
salaries normally vary from $350 to $450 a month. Although the companies are interested primarily in their own needs, their
interviewers show a great deal of sympathy toward the individual student’s own problems and desires. Primary emphasis is not placed
(Continued on Page Four)

Applications Exceed Last Year's Total

Applications for entrance in the freshman class next fall received so far are considerably more than at this time last
year, according to F. W. Hengeveld, Registrar. Over 500 applications for admittance have been received to date. If the trend
continues, the total number of applications will be approximately 750, surpassing last year’s sum of 700. Because the scores of
most of the applicants on the College Board Entrance Examinations have not yet been received, only fifty students have been
definitely admitted. Since the grading process is slow, the final results will not be in the Registrar’s Office until February
5, or shortly thereafter. The committee on admission plans to meet regularly during the last three weeks of this month
and the early part of March. The majority of the class of 1961 will be chosen by the first week
in March. The committee plans to admit approximately 260 freshmen and transfers next year, an increase of twenty over this
year’s 240. Total enrollment for next year will be between 860 and 870 students.

38 GET FIRST CHOICE

Senior ROTC Cadets Receive Assignments

Out of a total of 50 Senior ROTC cadets who will receive commissions in the U. S. Army Reserve upon
graduation, 38 cadets, or 76%, received their first choice of a branch assignment. Five cadets received their second choice, and
four cadets received their third choice. Only three cadets did not receive any of their first three choices, totaling 94%
who were assigned to one of their first three choices. Desires of the cadets are taken into consideration, but the
final factor in branch assignments is the need of the various branches. Lt. Col. John Sapp, PMS&T, said that the
cadets did as well as could be expected considering the varied service requirements. Those assigned to Military Intelligence are: A.
W. Dick, F. L. Howell, P. F. Kykura, T. H. Lee, C. P. Wright, R. G. Alexander, A. W. F.
Bloodworth, G. A. Scott, L. J. Trotti. Seven cadets received Army Security: J. D. Daniels, S. J. Fretwell, W. M.
Hagins, D. E. McCaw, R. J. Shaw, V. R. Snider, and S. B. Sutton. D. S. Brown and D. I.
McRee are the only cadets selected for the Signal Corps and Ordnance Corps respectively. Ten cadets were assigned to Artillery:
R. S. Belton, C. M. Gribble, D. S. LaFar, D. F. McFadyen, G. R. Middleton, P. G. Tesh, M. C.
Dagenhardt, B. W. Little, T. P. Rivers, E. S. Young, W. H. Balentine, A. H. Watson, J. S. Robinson, and
R. G. Weeks received Infantry. J. C. Gilmer, D. H. Simpson, and J. K. Batten received the Chemical Corps, W.
P. Carrell and J. C. Winfrey the Quartermaster Corps. F. W. Morrow, W. C. Rawls, and T. G. Hawpe were
assigned to the Adjutant General's Corps, and J. Brown II received the Medical Service Corps.

AED Initiates Four At Planning Meeting

Alpha Epsilon Delta, national honorary medical fraternity, held its second semester initiations on Wednesday night in the science building. The
four new members initiated were Charles Feezor, Dave Bradford, Arthur Lynn, and Dick Jordon. Programs for the remaining year were
discussed during the business meeting. The fraternity is planning five public meetings.

The Davidsonian

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 1957

YMCA Winter Services Open: FOURTH HERD FEATURED

By WILLIE THOMPSON

With the repercussions from the semester examinations momentarily forgotten, the attention of the Davidson College student body has rapidly focused
on the music of Woody Herman and the approaching Mid-winters dance weekend of February 15-16. The highlight of the Davidson
winter social activities will feature both a formal and an informal dance interspersed with a presentation by the Red and
Black Masquers, a band concert, several fraternity parties, and in all probability, the usual rain. The first official part of
the weekend’s activities will be the presentation of “Gramercy Ghost”, a two-act comedy, in Chambers Auditorium at 7:30 p.m., on
Thursday and Friday nights. Individual tickets and date tickets may be purchased for 75 cents and 50 cents respectively. These
will be on sale at the door. Bunny Perkinson, president of the Interfraternity Council, has announced that Friday night's formal
dance will start a half an hour later than usual, due to the play. The Friday dance will last from
9:30 p.m. until 1:00 a.m. The theme of the weekend’s dances will be seasonal, but non-traditional, decorations will include icicles
and snow. Midwinters appear- ance. He is currently recording. The Fourth Herd will provide the music for the interfraternity dances.
Widely known for his magic touch with the clarinet, Woody Herman will provide the music for the interfraternity dances. A
special feature of Herman's Herd is the addition of Victor Feldman as drummer. Feldman (Continued On Page Four)

MASQUERS SET FOR MIDWINTERS

‘Gramercy Ghost’ rehearsals enter the stretch drive under the watchful tutelage of Professor Reymond Tyson, as George Kemmerer and Carol
Sherrill iron out a rough spot in the final act. The Masquers’ presentation in Chambers Auditorium next Friday night will
officially get the 1957 Midwinters under way.

Eumenean Literary Society Initiates Members

Eumenean Literary Society initiated 38 new members into the society Monday night. After an inaugural address by President Tom Morgan,
in which he pledged that the “new” Eumenean would be the strong cultural and literary force on the campus, the
initiation ceremony was held. The new members are: Scott Breckenridge, Newton Coontz, Jere Starling, Russell Pease, Smitty

Committee Searching for Degree Solution

A search by the Curriculum Committee for a system of degree requirements acceptable to the Faculty continues this week. In
attempting to break the snag which resulted in a tie vote over the AB and BS Degree question, the Curriculum
Committee has been meeting weekly to discuss various plans. The degree question is scheduled to be reopened at either the
March or February faculty meeting. It was the opinion of Dean C. J. Pietenpol that whether action would be taken
in February or March depended largely on the success of the Curriculum Committee in finding a suitable proposal. It is
the opinion of several members of the faculty that the general thinking of the faculty is slowly moving toward willingness
to vote for a change in degree requirements.

Pfefferkorn To Study In Washington, D. C.

Bill Pfefferkorn, sophomore from Winston-Salem,will spend the next four months in Washington observing the operation of the federal government. He
will be enrolled in the School of Social Sciences and Public Affairs of the American University, and will receive credit
at that institution and toward his Davidson degree. At Davidson, he is enrolled in a pre-law course and is majoring
in political science. During his “Washington Semester," he will meet with officials of the White House, Congress, and the Supreme
Court.

Smith, Frank Nye, Thomas Price, Dabney Stuart, Duncan Carter, Tom McCutchen, Alfred MacKay, Charles Benson, Joe Bell, Gwathmey, Henry Samuels,
Perrin Wright, Pete Kellogg, Charles Rich, William Richards, Tom Ridenhour. Also: Bobby Avinger, Ward McKeithen, Richmond Rucker, Bruce Brooks, David
Gillis, John Garden, Bin Horne, Dave Lyon, Larry McNeill, Bobby Livingston, Lamar Riggs, Jim Reynolds, Henry Griffin, Jim Herlong, Tommy
Kersey, David Robinson, Larry Baggett, Fred Morris, and Dick Smith.

Safety Council Backs Educational Program

A positive program of safety education will be sponsored by the Davidson Safety Council on February 28 and March 1.
To the mayor, civic clubs, and college and town leaders has been issued a communique from Chairman John D. Sapp
outlining in detail the methods, means, and objectives of the current effort. Efforts shall include: comprehensive distribution of leaflets and
handbills under the direction of Dean S. R. Spencer, a safety booth maintained by the Women's Civic Club and the
Business and Professional Women’s Club, demonstration of vehicle stopping distance, and a sound truck broadcasting pertinent messages.

“A complete survey is intended by state and county officers of the following: blind corners, traffic signs, crosswalks, parking, speed
conditions (including observation with the whammy), and control of pedestrians.

“Winter Wonderland” will be making his second modernistic jazz and novelty vocal arrangements on the Capitol Label.

CATS HIT VMI, W&L ON HOME COURT (Page 3)

No. 15 Blake Gives Keynote Address

Trustee Committees Meet To Lay Plans

The executive committee of the Davidson College Board of Trustees convened today at 2:00 p.m. in preparation for the winter
trustees’ meeting on Feb. 20. After hearing a preliminary report by Dr. Cunningham, the committee considered proposals to be made
to the trustees.

Dr. J. McDowell Richards, president of Columbia Theological Seminary of Decatur, Ga., is president of the Board of Trustees and
of the executive committee. Frank P. Hall, Jr., of Belmont is secretary. Other members of the executive committee are Scott
Chandler of Decatur, Ga., George S. Crouch of Charlotte, Dr. C. Grier Davis of Asheville, Dr. James A. Jones, president
of Union Theological Seminary of Richmond, Va. Also, David R. LaFar, Jr., of Gastonia, J. Spencer Love of Greensboro, Dr.
Hamilton W. McKay of Charlotte, John I. Smith of Travelers Rest, S. C., Dr. Thomas D. Sparrow of Charlotte, the
Rev. Fred R. Stair, Jr., of Hickory, Ivey W. Stewart of Charlotte, Dr. W. T. Thompson of Richmond, Va., and
Dr. John A. Redhead of Greensboro.

The Buildings and Grounds committee of the Trustees also held its meeting today, beginning at 12:30 p.m. It includes Mr.
Chandler and Dr. McKay, and auxiliary member W. Olin Nisbet of Charlotte. At 10:00 a.m. this morning, the committee of
Religious and Social Life, Church and Alumni Relationships began a series of sessions with college groups. It is composed of
Dr. Davis, Dr. Jones, and Rev. Stair. In addition, Dr. Redhead, Dr. Warner Hall of Charlotte, and Dr. Thompson met
together to formulate the plans of the Education Committee.

Tom Stevens Added To Cats Coaching Staff

The Wildcat coaching staff gained a new face this week in the person of Tom Stevens, previously head football coach
at East Mecklenburg High. The new mentor assumed his duties the first part of the week. Stevens, at 26, is
the youngest member of the Davidson sports brain trust. He succeeds Pride Ratterree, who left last week for the Citadel
to serve as head line coach.

UNC GRADUATE

In addition to filling Ratterree’s shoes as line coach, Stevens will take charge of the varsity baseball squad. The Smithfield,
North Carolina native is a graduate of the University of North Carolina, where he starred in football and baseball. After
a highly successful three-year career in baseball, Stevens entered the Air Force, in which he served for two years. At
the end of that time, he returned to the University to get his Master’s degree in physical education. While working
on his Master’s, Stevens found time to be line coach at Chapel Hill High School, from where he proceeded to
Lumberton for one year and then to East High last year.

BASEBALL EXPERIENCE

Despite his youth, Stevens has had considerable baseball experience, having played semi-pro ball with Rockingham, N. C., and Victoria, Texas
during his undergraduate days. After graduation, he received an offer to play pro ball in a Class D league, but
the service interrupted his career. When interviewed for the Davidsonian, Stevens said, “I am very happy to be at Davidson.
Everybody here has been mighty fine to me.”

DR. McMURRY S. RICHEY

Wednesday chapel will feature Dr. McMurry S. Richey, who will speak on the subject “Should We Make Absolute Moral Decisions
In A World Of Relative Values?” Winter Services will be brought to a climax with an observance of Holy Communion
Wednesday evening in the Davidson Presbyterian Church. Dr. Richey will deliver the closing sermon entitled “How May Man Seek Salvation?”

These services are only a skeleton of the great web of meetings scheduled for the week. Bull Sessions will be
held Monday and Tuesday nights in designated fraternity houses from 8:00 to 9:00 P.M. Each of the speakers will lead
these discussions. Throughout the week, these ministers will meet with various classes in the Bible and Social Science departments. Students
will have the additional advantage of having the opportunity to meet in personal conferences with these men. These conferences can
be arranged in the Y.M.C.A. office. Another feature of Winter Services will be the book display in the lobby of
the Union. For those students interested in further discussion of the questions posed by the speakers, there will be on
sale books by Whale and Blake. Whale’s books “The Protestant Tradition” and “Christian Doctrine” will be on sale and a
new book by Blake will be offered. The book display will be open for approximately one hour after chapel and
after the evening services. The entire event is the culmination of almost a year of hard work by a committee
headed by Carl Cooper and Dr. Harold P. Ford.

(Continued on Page Four)

Dr. Eugene C. Blake Speaks In Vespers

Dr. Eugene Carson Blake, President of the National Council of Churches of Christ in America and Stated Clerk of the
General Assembly of the Presbyterian Church (USA) will inaugurate this year’s Winter Services at Sunday’s Vespers. A native of St.
Louis, Dr. Blake received his education at Lawrenceville School and Princeton University, where he was graduated with honors in Philosophy.
Under the appointment of the Presbyterian Foreign Mission Board, he taught at the Christian College of Lahore, India. He later
returned as a student to complete his scholastic education at the University of Edinburgh and Princeton Theological Seminary. His pastorates
have included the First Presbyterian Church of Albany, New York, and the Pasadena Presbyterian Church, Pasadena, California. Under his ministry,
the latter church grew to have a congregation of 4,000. Aside from his work in the (Continued On Page Four)

Twenty-One Students Leave First Semester

Twenty-one students have left school after the first semester. From the list released by Dean Spencer this week, it is
evident that the number of withdrawals this year is a marked decrease over the twenty-seven withdrawals of last year’s first
semester. Of the twenty-one withdrawals, thirteen were sophomores and six were freshmen. This is approximately the same ratio as that
of 1956 when fourteen of the withdrawals were sophomores and five were freshmen. The big difference lies in the fact
that no juniors have left. In 1956, at the end of the first semester, six had withdrawn. Another difference with
respect to last year's first semester is the fact that there were only five involuntary withdrawals this year and eleven
last year. Dean Spencer was very pleased with the overall picture plus the fact that we have nine new students
who have transferred to Davidson. It is his opinion that in the future the number of withdrawals will be even
less.

VOLUNTARY WITHDRAWALS AT CLOSE OF FIRST SEMESTER
Jan. 1957 Jan. 1956
Freshmen 8 5
Sophomores 8 8
Juniors 0 2
Seniors 1 1

INVOLUNTARY WITHDRAWALS AT CLOSE OF FIRST SEMESTER
Jan. 1957 Jan. 1956
Freshmen 0 0
Sophomores 5 6
Juniors 0 4
Seniors 0 1

TOTAL WITHDRAWALS FOR ALL REASONS
Jan. 1957 Jan. 1956
21 27
