Che Davidsonian
THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE
PAGE TWO FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 1957.

Ike Drives Another Nail In Coffin Of States’ Rights

It is unfortunate that the integration problem has overshadowed the real question in the current Little Rock public school problem. The argument in Arkansas has not been whether or not there shall be mixed schools. Integration is already a fact in some parts of the State. The real issue, however, is State versus Federal authority. We are engaged in a Constitutional crisis.

Fundamental Question Faced

The United States are faced with the fundamental question of what powers belong to the national government, and what powers are reserved to the State governments. Simply, who has jurisdiction over the public schools of Arkansas, and more specifically, who is responsible for the safety, welfare, and protection of the people who attend those schools?

Historically, the several states have jurisdiction over the public schools. Even the present Supreme Court admitted this when it declared, “Today, education is perhaps the most important function of State and local governments.” Moreover, the States have always been the legal guardians over the safety of its people. The right to maintain a State police force is fundamental. But now we see these rights being crushed by the most powerful military force in the world—the United States Army.

Ike Broke Faith

By sending federal troops into Arkansas, President Eisenhower has broken faith with the spirit and meaning of the Constitution of the United States. Perhaps Mr. Eisenhower doesn’t really understand the American system of dual powers. Perhaps he doesn’t know that the Constitution was conceived so that both the States and the national government would have sovereignty over particular governmental functions. One of these State functions is the right to run the public schools and to preserve good order in the States.

But now Mr. Eisenhower has denied the State of Arkansas the right to handle its own affairs. He has prevented a State from performing one of its natural functions.

Arkansas Now Helpless

Therefore Arkansas stands helpless with its State militia nationalized and its right to manage its own affairs seriously limited. Eisenhower's action in Arkansas may be explained by the fact that the President is a former Army general. He is now doing at the point of a bayonet what he was unable to do through ordinary political channels. Perhaps the man from Abilene is impatient with constitutional processes. Instead, he prefers the much quicker method of guns and bullets—the art he knows best.

And so we have now reached the point where we must determine just what kind of political system we are going to have in this country. Does a State any longer have the right to handle its own affairs? Must a State first get Federal approval before it can use its own methods in meeting violence and disorder?

Who Runs A State

In short, who is going to run the State of Arkansas? Will it be the government of Arkansas, or the government of the United States? Unless statesmanship soon overtakes political expediency, this generation of Americans may be witnesses to the destruction of the American Republic as we have understood it. Unless the power-hungry and vote-conscious men in Washington come to their senses, Arkansas, as well as New York, North Dakota, and Kansas, will soon be mere geographical districts within an all-powerful and centralized dictatorship.

Fraternity System Means Freedom Of Association

Tomorrow afternoon's pledging of fraternities will mark the formal end of this year’s rushing. For some, Rush Week has been a disappointment. For others, it has been a week of limited triumph. For all, it has been a week of vital importance.

The tragedy of Rush Week lies in the fact that not everyone is 100% satisfied when it is over. Some boys will not get any bids. Others will be invited to join a fraternity but not the one they are most interested in. Yet, still others will have their pick of several. And even more ironical, many fraternities will not get some of the boys that they want most.

Despite its many flaws, Rush Week is necessary, and the fraternity system is a good system. Every fraternity at Davidson has something good to offer. All, to some extent, meet the needs and desires of those who belong in them. We have now arrived at the hour of decision. Now is the time for both the fraternities and the freshmen, individually and as a group, to think clearly and correctly. But even with meditative thought, mistakes will be made.

We pass on to you, the freshmen, this now familiar word. One week is too short to judge a boy, and for a boy to judge a fraternity. There is no perfect answer to this fault, but perhaps deferred, or second semester Rushing would be a partial remedy.

Through it all, one important fact remains. The fraternity system is a particular type of system. It is a system of “voluntary association.” Ultimately, the fraternity system is the system of freedom of choice. And the choice works from two sides—you and the fraternities.

Who's The Poet?

School spirit is an intangible that we like to talk about. The present freshman class has been demonstrating the best spirit of any class of the past few years. Even the upperclassmen seem to be amazed at the “esprit de corps” of the Class of ’61. It is refreshing to see a new group on campus prove to sophisticated college students that it isn’t immature to yell for the team. And by the way, who's the poet in the freshman class?

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF John Johnson
BUSINESS MANAGER Bob Lathan
ASSISTANT EDITOR Laurens Walker
Sports Editor George Ramsey
Feature Editor Jim Morris
Copy Editor Julian Aldridge
News Editor Bruce Brooks
Associate Editor John Trask, Jr.
Managing Editors Pat Henderson, Gerald Wilson
Assignments Bill Patton
Cartoonists Bross, Cole
Photographer Ed Stevens
Advertising Manager Henry Samuels
Circulation Manager Marshall Chapman

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

PARENTS OF FRESHMEN

Your Son Needs Help In Adjusting To College

(Ed. Note: The following is an excerpt from the Oct. 4, 1956 issue of the Princeton Alumni Weekly. Mr. Chase is an expert in the field of personal counseling.)

By HAROLD M. CHASE

In American folklore, college days—all of them—are delightfully carefree and happy. In actual fact this is nonsense—or so I have been led to believe on the basis of my experience advising college freshmen. Whatever the reason, most parents just do not appreciate what their youngsters are going through their freshman year and afford them little aid and comfort. A good portion of the parents aggravate the difficulties.

Self-Reappraisal

Freshman year for most young men is a time of agonizing self-reappraisal. Big frogs in small ponds usually become smaller frogs in bigger ponds. No matter how outstanding a

You With The Stars... By Bross

LITTLE MAN ON CAMPUS by Dick Bibler

COFFEE BREAK

Noting: Voting By BOB JONES

The Peden Amendment, the only exciting piece of legislation at Davidson in the last three years, is dead. Gone also are the slashing editorials and chapel rebuttals which it inspired. For the neophytes, the Peden Amendment was a somewhat hastily conceived resolution to radically reform election procedures. It called for open campaigning and limited politicking in general.

Tedious Elections

At present, student elections are a rather tedious process of elimination which takes the better part of the spring to complete. They are unimaginative and overall pretty boring. After the first month or so of it, candidates are elected by a majority of considerably less than fifty percent of those eligible to vote.

Speculation has it that the present system came in on the wave of reaction to Bismarck and Realpolitik. This of course was about three quarters of a century ago which only has significance in calling to mind how old Davidson is.

Stimulate Interest

It seems obvious to point out that an election system is needed which would provideFor a little excitement to stimulate interest in who is being elected (outside the candidates’ fraternity), the student council can make their little mark in Davidson history by effectively reshaping election procedures. Balloting in the Union, limiting campaigning—such as debates by candidates on crucial issues (should any arise), and trimming the length of elections—these are possibilities to be considered.

Action Needed
Now, however, is the time to work on it. The ill-fated Peden amendment was a makeshift resolution in the right direction—even though it may have been too far in the right direction. With plenty of time in the school year before spring elections, perhaps a comprehensive system can be conceived where it should be originated: our student council.

ON CAMPUS
When a boy is in secondary school, he is generally going to be less distinguished in college. Of course, the exceptionally gifted or those who mature late may go on to greater heights and become bigger frogs than they were in school. Obviously, most college freshmen cannot hope to achieve the honors and positions they won in school. Here is the rub. The young man, flushed with success in secondary school and spurred on by proud, ambitious, and well-meaning parents, sets aspiration levels beyond his abilities. And, when achievement is substantially below aspiration, frustration results.

Take John L. for example. John had been the number one man in his class in a large high school in a big city. The term started. He worked hard. At the first marking period, he had a third group average, a good average and sufficiently high to maintain his scholarship at Princeton. John was shocked. He felt that he had done his best and, as a matter of fact, he had. Yet here he was far below the top of his class. His disappointment in himself was sharpened by concern that he had let his parents down. He literally became so ashamed that he did not go home during the first vacation period. Gradually, he became more and more despondent and ineffectual in his work. If this was the best he could do when he was giving it all he had, what was the use of trying? His average dropped; he lost his scholarship and had to leave college.

Old Saws From Dad
Although I tried to do what I could to help John, what he needed most was help from understanding parents. I am sure a parent’s reaction at this point is that he would never be guilty of pushing his son beyond his capacity, that he expects a lot of his son only because the boy is exceptionally able. But remember, most of us have a tendency to overestimate the abilities of our offspring, a very human failing. So if Junior is not doing as well as his father had expected, perhaps he is expecting too much. It is equally impossible for the 103 secondary school editors-in-chief to head the college newspaper. To an adult, it may seem a little absurd that the failure to make the football team can be a really shattering experience. But remember, a seventeen-year-old is not an adult. His values are not the values of a mature adult.

Why Not Try Pre-Med?
Preserve me from the parents (usually papa but sometimes a domineering mother) who are determined that their son shall be an engineer or doctor irrespective of whether or not their son has the interest or aptitude for it. I’ve seen it happen so often that I now feel that it is axiomatic that if a student is not really interested in his work, the going will be rough.

What can parents do to help their young man in his freshman year? I must confess that I have no pat answer for all problems and for all individuals, but here are a few suggestions I would like to pass on:
1. At the earliest convenient time, see your freshman's faculty adviser. Parents can tell an adviser a great deal about his advisee which helps in understanding and advising him. By the same token, the adviser can tell the parents much that will help them to help their son.
2. Before their son leaves home and after, parents should make an effort to discuss the problems that may come up in college. It can be a great help and comfort to be forewarned, and intelligent discussions with his parents give a youngster a chance to reflect on some of the obstacles he will face so that he is not taken by them unaware.
3. Parents, particularly fathers, should refrain from heaping pious platitudes on the heads of their sons when they are home for vacations. In my experience, mothers tend to be much more sympathetic and understanding with sons. Dad always seems to find it hard to believe that Junior is working as hard as he should. Too often, fathers are inordinately ambitious for their sons and project all their own dreams of success and fears of failure onto the next generation. The son wants real understanding and discussion of his problems, not a litany of “genius is 90% perspiration,” “a good man will always come out on top,” etc. If this is all Dad gives him, the son will turn to other people for help. Yet no one can really take the place of an understanding and devoted father.

Week's Chatter
By PHIL LEWIS
As this is Rush Week, and it is difficult to talk to anyone about anything but Rushing, this week’s column is in the form of remarks overheard in passing from place to place on campus. It is our intent to make this an outlet for informal trivia including names and events which go to make up the interesting, but undramatic, side of campus life.

“Young man, this is Philosophy 31.” “Oh! Excuse me! I was sure this was English 11.”
“But that court had no right to make that decision in the first place. Before long all individual rights will be gone.”
“He told me tonight that he had definitely decided to go Alpha Beta or Zeta Eta Theta.”
“I sure hope he makes a good Zeta Eta. Ball!!”
“How long has he been on that phone? I’ve got to call my girl again tonight, and if he doesn’t hurry, I'm going to take it away from him.”
“It sure is good to meet you Jim. Oh, I'm sorry: Bill. Have you seen the scrapbook? We really have a nice one I’d like you to see.”
“Hey!! What's Doc White doing out on the field?”
“Now men, I know that you’re going to be a little busy this week, so the review on Saturday will cover only the first hundred pages of parallel and the Book of Genesis.”
“I know they have all that, but did you notice the way they cut each other down, even while we were there? I'm still going Alpha Beta.”
“When in doubt...”

Praises Speech
Dear Editor:
In chapel Tuesday two statements were made, which, it seems to me, express our state more ably than could have been done through much effort on the part of many of our more seasoned Ivy-league coffee-break philosophers. I commend Mr. Chapin for his frankness and insight in pointing out that we as Davidsonians must ask ourselves whether or not our own growth as men has kept up with that of our physical surroundings. Ironically enough, a Davidsonian, overheard in the audience, made a mumbled reply: “Maybe we don’t want to make that kind of progress.”

It is essential that we preach of living up to high ideals and measuring up to noble precedents, even of building a more noble future. But how can we speak in the language of “ideals” when the very word has lost its meaning? How can a man care what is “right” or “wrong” or “better” or “worse” when the scale of values is the degree of personal pleasure?

Yours,
S. C. PATTERSON

LITTLE MAN ON CAMPUS
by Dick Bibler
“On the other hand it’s good to have a student like Worthal in class—it completes the other end of the curve.”