FRIDAY, MARCH 15, 1957 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE FIVE

Slants “On Sports” By JOHN JOHNSON

CLOSE AND OPEN

The firing of the last shot by the rifle team late this afternoon at the SC meet in Lexington, Virginia,
marks the official close of the winter sports season. A whole new athletic world starts to unfold tomorrow as the
tennis team ushers in the spring events in a match with Wofford. Golf, track, and baseball all begin sometime this
coming week.

New Coach Tom Stevens offered a few comments about the baseball picture Tuesday afternoon as he surveyed the team at
batting practice.

SPOTTED

“We have an experienced outfield with Jim West, Bob Campbell, and Donny McRee; they are all seniors. The infield will
be spotted with new men, probably Killian and Hart.”

N.C. By LARRY MEYER

The 20-game Davidson baseball schedule gets underway Tuesday, March 19, when the Wildcats take on Catawba in Salisbury. Supervising his
team’s debut in this ‘57 opener will be head coach Tom Stevens, who also serves as head line coach for
the football team.

The home opener will also be against Catawba, being played here on March 22. After encountering Lenoir Rhyne March 26
at Hickory, N. C., the ‘Cats swing southward to take on the Parris Island Marines March 29 and 30.

Sorely missed this year will be the crack double play combo of shortstop Billy Morris and second sacker Buzzy Hope.
Also missing will be Dyke Little at first, who will probably be replaced by freshman George Hart. Little, a righty,
may be able to see some mound action.

“WESTY” WESTERVELT displays his weight from the Southern Conference wrestling tournament. The 157-pound strong man became Davidson’s first grappler to
win the Best Wrestler in Tournament Award and second to win a conference championship.

FIRST IN SCHOOL'S HISTORY

Westervelt Named S. C. Wrestler

Harold Westervelt was voted the most outstanding wrestler in the Southern Conference meet and became the first Davidson grappler to
win the coveted award in the college’s history. The sturdy sophomore pinned two opponents and decisioned a third on his
way to the 157-pound championship last Friday and Saturday.

During the regular season, he wrestled in the next highest bracket, 167 pounds, and had a 10-3 record. His losses
were only to non-conference foes. He and Dave Fagg will compete in the Carolina AAU meet at Appalachian on March
22 and 23. Fagg, who plays football at 210 pounds, will wrestle in the heavyweight division.

FOUR SOPHS

Lettermen Bob Huffaker, Dave Pearsall, John Poindexter, and the number one JV player of last season, Tom McCutchan, comprise the
sophomore contingent; Mike Martin is the lone senior on the squad. The Columbia, S. C., stroker will again hold down
the top position.

Behind Robinson are four sophomores: John Patterson, returning number one player, and lettermen Shelbourne Wallace and John Patterson are battling
it out at second. The Wildcats open the season with a sophomore-studded line-up.

He interrupted the conversation to hit a grounder to third baseman Don Comer, another senior, who fielded the ball in
a manner that gave the impression that he was unhampered by the leg injury that knocked him out of the
latter part of the football season.

When asked if it was McRee who was catching at the moment, Stevens answered affirmatively and said he might have
to use the senior outfielder in that new position some this season since neither of last year’s catchers had reported
for duty.

WILL APPRECIATE

Stevens grinned when the batter adjusted his new protective cap after being struck on the head by a ball that
glanced off the backstop. “That blow wasn’t much, but it could have hurt him had it not been for that
cap. Some of the boys don’t like to wear them but they will appreciate them when they get used to
them.” He stepped back and knocked another grounder to keep the infield on their toes. “Watch this freshman shortstop,” he
said as Don Killian scooped up the ball and whipped it to first. “Undoubtedly Morris was good last year, but
I think we have a replacement.”

The team opens their season Tuesday at Catawba.

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... PIZZA

the famous OPEN KITCHEN 1318 W. Morehead Charlotte, N. C.

As always, the mound staff is the big question mark. Three port siders and one right hander make up the
pitching staff. Counted upon for top performance are David Pack.

Wednesday

The Wildcat golfers tee off in their opening match of the season next Wednesday when they meet...Saturday. He became the
second Wildcat to win a conference weight division; the first was Howard McFadyen who wrestled heavyweight for Coach Charlie Parker's
squad back in 1938. Southern Conference tournament Parker commented afterwards, “Westy promises to be one of the greatest wrestlers Davidson
has ever had. He is the strongest boy for his size that I have ever seen.” As for his determination,
the coach added, “He is a terrific competitor, always wanting to win.”

Charlie Lampley at 147 pounds won a number four position for Davidson. Riflers Firing In S.C. Championships

Westervelt’s accomplishment is all the more amazing in light of the fact that he had never wrestled before coming here
one year ago. Parker discovered his prize at last year's interfraternity meet. The chemistry major maintains a B plus average
even though he placed third in his division.

The Davidson sharpshooters left Thursday to participate in the Southern Conference rifle match held today in Lexington. The five top
scores of the starting six men were counted in today’s competition. Bob Alexander, Charlie Stowe, Cary Pickard, Don Rhame, Jack
Lohman, Topper Ruggles, and Joe Wearne all went with Capt. Cavano and Sgt. Lindsey to Lexington.

At third base Don Comer seems to be pretty comfortably situated. Freshman Don Moore, the only other non-soph on the
squad. Harry Broome, from Raleigh, N.C., is the only freshman working out with the varsity; he should see action during
the campaign.

The outfield is fairly stable with veteran Bob Campbell in left, Don McRee in center, and Jim West holding down
right field. These three also have thus far indicated that they will probably be the main hitting strength.

Notably missing from the Wildcat lineup is Semi Mintz, who last year as a freshman played in the number one
position several times. Mintz, taking a layoff following basketball season, may see action later in the season.

Davidson, a perennial high-ranking power in Southern Conference tennis, will receive an early indication of prospects for this year when
they meet George Washington.

The Phi Delts Run Wild In Winning I-F By BOBBY PAGE

Romping for a 23 point margin over the second place team, two new records, seven first places, and at least
one point in each event, Phi Delta Theta captured the 1957 I-F track meet Wednesday afternoon.

KAPPA SIGS

With Dave Warden taking honors in the shot put and Paul Barbee breaking the tape in the 100 yd. dash,
the Kappa Sigs took a 15-8 lead after four events. Paul Biggers and Warden took thirds in the shot and
discus, respectively. Chris Bremmer edged Jim Hambright by one-eighth of an inch for first place in the broad jump to
account for one-third of Phi Gamma Delta’s total. Five of Beta Theta Pi’s nine points came on Charlie Rutherford’s first
in the discus.

John Huie’s first in the high jump, Dave Hollingsworth’s two fourths in the throwing events, and Marvin Bentley's fourth in
the 100 accounted for the winners' points at that point.

It was in the distance running that the Phi Delts carried the day. George, individual high scorer for the day,
proceeded to capture the 660 yd. run and the three-quarter mile event. Bill Cobb came home first in the low
hurdles and fourth in the 220 yd. dash which was won by Tommy Rivers.

NEW RECORD

Brownie Thurman proceeded to break Bingham's 440 record of 1942 by making the round in 54.4 seconds, and then added
the most time-saving link in the half-mile relay to set a new mark at 1:39.3, four-tenths of a second better
than the Kappa Sigma effort in 1953. Bentley, Jimmy Weller, and Rivers completed the relay squad.

Pi Kappa Alpha and Alpha Tau Omega tied for sixth with nine markers apiece, preceded by Kappa Alpha with 10
and followed by Sigma Alpha Epsilon with two.

NEWTON QUANTZ, Kappa Sig, leaps through the air before the eyes of intent spectators in an effort to qualify for
the broad jump in the I-F track meet held Tuesday and Wednesday. His team with 20 points placed second to
the champion Phi Delts with 43.

Ivey’s of Charlotte

Style and comfort win in a breeze! This smart Arrow Windshield jacket belongs in every man’s spring wardrobe. Windproof—cotton, $12.95.
Come in and see ‘em now!

What’s all the shouting about? Flavor! Full, rich flavor — in a filter smoke! Yes, and Winston’s exclusive filter —
a filter that does its job so well the flavor really comes through to you. Here’s a filter cigarette college
smokers can enjoy! Get Winston! R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO., WINSTON-SALEM, N.C.
