+ F Ch ND The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College ye Davutidsontan DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 1957

DISTINGUISHED CAREER
President Guided College In Phenomenal Development

Under the leadership of Dr. Cunningham, Davidson College has developed at a near-phenomenal rate. In the 16 years of his administration, endowment has increased from less than $3 million to more than $9 million, and the following buildings have been added: The Charles Worth Johnston Gymnasium, 1949; The Davidson College Presbyterian Church, 1952; The David Ovens College Union, 1952; W. H. Belk Hall, providing housing for 300 students, 1955; A new dormitory for 96 students, 1956. Other buildings have been renovated, and the grounds landscaped and beautified.

A strong and enlarged faculty has received significant salary increases, amounting to two five percent increases in the past year and one-half. The College was awarded an “accomplishment grant” by the Ford Foundation for pioneering in the raising of faculty income, and additional increases in faculty pay were the number one goal in Dr. Cunningham's recommendations, accepted in 1956 by the Board of Trustees.

He has been awarded the honorary degree of Doctor of Divinity by the University of North Carolina, Duke University, his alma mater Westminster College, King College, and Wake Forest College. He has received the highest honor that his church, his profession, and his constituents can bestow: Moderator of the General Assembly of the Presbyterian Church, U.S., President of the Association of American Colleges, and ever-praised president of his college.

John Rood Cunningham was born July 3rd, 1901. Reared on a farm, John attended the nearby one-room country school and went to Caruthersville, Missouri, for his high school work. After graduation, he entered Westminster College, Fulton, Missouri, and graduated in three years. The reputation of John Cunningham was growing, and in 1928 he accepted the pastorate and challenge of the First Presbyterian Church of Bristol, Tenn., like Gainesville a city of college students and young people as well as of vigorous Presbyterians.

In 1930 he was offered the presidency of his theological alma mater, just 13 years after his graduation, and began the first of many successful years as the chief executive of an educational institution. In a seminary publication, the retiring president, Dr. John N. Vander Meulen, described the new president to the students of the seminary and in five categories told of his capabilities:
1. His spirituality, a “burning passion for Christ . . .” expressed through a gracious and modest personality.
2. His “wonderful hold on college students.”
3. His “strong preaching.”
4. His capability as an executive, as evidenced by his success in raising funds for remodeling the church at Bristol.

He accepted a call to the First Church of Winston-Salem on February 6, 1936. A Louisville newspaper apologized for being hackneyed when stating editorially that the term “scholar and gentleman” never was more suited to an individual than to John Cunningham.

On November 19, 1940, the Davidson College Board of Trustees announced that they had chosen, after a search of eighteen months, a fitting successor to Dr. Walter L. Lingle, who was retiring as president of the college. They selected John Rood Cunningham, but it was not for several months that he accepted the call, for his congregation and his city urged him to stay.

Dr. Cunningham has been an active president and a leader in the development of the college, in higher education, and in the church. He was elected president of the Association of American Colleges in 1953 after serving as treasurer and vice president. He has also served as president of the Association of Church Related Colleges in North Carolina, and at present is a member of the Problems and Policies Committee of the American Council on Education.

He reached the pinnacle of leadership within the Presbyterian Church in the United States when he was elected moderator in 1947. During that year he represented the church in the organization of the General Assembly of the Presbyterian Church in Mexico.

The respect which Dr. Cunningham enjoys is not limited to the Davidson area alone. In 1947 he was moderator of the Presbyterian Church of the United States, the highest position of leadership within that body. Among his other activities of national significance was the presidency of the American Association of Colleges in 1953.

Coming to Davidson in 1941 after a most successful ministry and a six-year tenure as president of Louisville Presbyterian Seminary, he brought with him not only wide experiences and contacts, but a devotion both to the Church and to education that blended itself particularly well to the Davidson picture. Placed in the difficult position of being in the line of fire of both the College supporters and the students, Dr. Cunningham is the recipient of an unusual amount of respect and admiration.

REPORT GOES TO TRUSTEES

While the Cunningham resignation stole most of the attention at today’s Trustees meeting, the President’s semi-annual report to the Trustees noted the rising cost of college operation, the need for salary increases, new trustees, and the rising number of applications for admission to the college. He noted that the college Alumni Fund last year totaled $125,000, that campus Christian life is developing under Minister to Students Dr. George Staples, and that gifts will make possible improvements to the library, including a new wing, from a sum of $325,000. He paid tribute to the late Dr. C. K. Brown, former Dean of the Faculty, and Professor of Economics, who died Jan. 1.

Dr. Cunningham’s recommendations were approved by trustees. They included:
1. A five percent increase in the pay of the faculty and a general increase in administrative salaries.
2. That Mr. A. G. Odell of Charlotte be retained as architect for the library addition.
3. That Trustees take proper notice of the deaths of Dr. Walter L. Lingle, President Emeritus who died in September, and of Dr. Brown.
4. That a Ten Year Plan, authorized by the Trustees’ Executive Committee, be studied by the Trustees and adopted in May.

AN EDITORIAL
His Influence Will Remain

With startling suddenness this morning, Davidson College heard the knell of the career of a great president and witnessed the origin of a legend. Dr. John Rood Cunningham, who so nobly served this College and more widely the whole cause of Christian Education, has come to be such an integral part of this institution and its highest aspirations, that he in no sense can be replaced.

Perhaps to no other single individual in the history of Davidson can so much be credited. In part, the outstanding facilities, the sound faculty, and the financial solidarity we now enjoy reflect the forward look and scope of vision with which Dr. Cunningham faced his job.Esteem from people within and outside the college family. One of the big regrets of Dr. Cunningham in regard to his service here is the limited amount of time allowed an executive to deal directly with students, when he personally would have made this primary. Nevertheless, the memory of Dr. Cunningham presiding in poised dignity, the widespread knowledge of his firm belief in the validity of the Christian faith, and his dedication to the ultimate welfare of the Davidson student has so etched itself in all that is Davidson, that we as students are, consciously and unconsciously, greatly indebted to him. Bearing modestly the mantle of greatness, Dr. Cunningham leaves now to dedicate his talents to another area that should continue, at least indirectly, to benefit Davidson. To this man who so embodies that which is best in education and religion, we give thanks for his selfless devotion, his inspiring example, and for his contributions, both evident and implicit.

EXTRA! SPECIAL EDITION

Becomes Director Of Church Foundation

Dr. John R. Cunningham today presented his resignation as president of Davidson College to the Trustees. The Trustees “regretfully accepted,” and praised his leadership in establishing Davidson as “one of the nation’s finest church colleges, strong in faculty and student body.” Dr. Cunningham's resignation becomes effective September 1. He will then become Executive Director of the Presbyterian Foundation, which will have its headquarters in Charlotte and will centralize fund-raising activities of the entire Presbyterian Church in the United States. The Davidson Trustees also heard and approved Dr. Cunningham's semi-annual report, delivered before action was taken this afternoon on his resignation.

Dr. Cunningham, who will be 66 in July, has been chief executive of the Presbyterian-affiliated college since 1941. During the period he also served as President of the Association of American Colleges, Moderator of the General Assembly of the Presbyterian Church, U.S., and as a delegate to international Protestant conferences. Under his administration, not only have faculty and student body been strengthened, but Davidson endowment funds increased from slightly more than $2 million to $8 million. Five major buildings were constructed.

The Trustees were reluctant to accept the resignation and proposed several plans under which Dr. Cunningham might remain as president with increased administrative assistance. He said, however, that “I consider for the good of Davidson College and the work into which I go that I should take this step.” “I should like to call attention to the fact that I believe Davidson is on even keel. There are no major issues to be settled... I feel a sense of providential guidance in the whole consideration.” Dr. Cunningham pointed out that Davidson, as well as other colleges, seminaries, and agencies of the Southern Presbyterian Church, would benefit by the increased activity of the Presbyterian Foundation. It was incorporated in 1925 by the State of North Carolina, but has functioned in haphazard fashion. During the past several years substantial gifts, totaling more than $3 million, have been left to the church, and a major foundation is needed to invest and administer the funds.

“Often,” pointed out Dr. Cunningham, “a person wishes to leave or give money to the church, and has difficulty finding the proper mechanical means of so doing. Gifts to the church and its agencies will be coordinated through the Foundation.” Dr. Cunningham's resignation will become effective Sept. 1. The name of a successor has not been mentioned.

Trustees Accept 10-Year Program

Davidson College will seek at least $10 million dollars in the next ten years, but is losing as president one of education’s most successful fundraisers and leaders. Dr. John R. Cunningham announced his resignation as president to the Board of Trustees yesterday, while expressing full confidence in the proposed Ten Year Plan and the future of the college. The Trustees accepted his resignation with expressed reluctance, and with sweeping praise for him and his accomplishments. They also voted for all of his recommendations, including the Ten Year Plan.

As president of Davidson since 1941, Dr. Cunningham established a national reputation as a college administrator and churchman. He served as President of the Association of American Colleges in 1953, and in 1947 was Moderator of the General Assembly, the highest office of the Presbyterian Church in the United States. He resigns at this time to become Executive Director of the Presbyterian Foundation, which will be located in Charlotte and which will coordinate administration of funds designated and allocated by the church to its agencies. Colleges, seminaries, and similar agencies will benefit from the Foundation program.

Even before becoming Davidson’s president, Dr. Cunningham had acquired a strong reputation as an administrator and financial leader. He was president of the Louisville Presbyterian Seminary, his alma mater, for six years, and held pastorates in Grenada, Miss., Gainesville, Fla., Bristol, Tenn.-Va., and Winston-Salem. Under his administration, Davidson made giant strides in physical plant, faculty salaries, and success of graduates. The Presbyterian-related college has had 11 Rhodes scholars (more per capita than any other Southern institution) and now sends three-fourths of its graduates to professional or graduate school. In addition, endowment has increased from just over $2 million to $9 million, and five major buildings have been completed: the Charles Worth Johnston Gymnasium, Davidson College Presbyterian Church, David Ovens College Union, W. H. Belk Hall, and a new, unnamed dormitory. Two literary halls were restored last summer, and the campus has been landscaped.

Under the Ten Year Plan, the College would continue to raise faculty pay, now above the national small college average and as high as that of any Southern small college. While maintaining flexibility as its keynote, the Plan calls for:

1. Continued emphasis on campus religious life.
2. Renewed effort to strengthen the teaching of the liberal arts and to provide “refresher courses” for businessmen, ministers, etc.
3. A strong physical education program, geared to the individual.
4. A continuing study of the academic program.
5. Increasing endowment.
6. At least seven new major buildings.
7. Enrollment limited to 1,000.
8. Substantial financial improvement in faculty salaries, and a program of visiting distinguished professors.

An estimate of expenditures and needs under the plan would amount to about $11 million dollars. Details would be restudied on a continual basis, and acquired funds allocated as needed.

J. McDOWELL RICHARDS Looks for successor by May.

Richards Hopes For Successor By May

Dr. J. McDowell Richards, President of the Board of Trustees, took the center of the stage this afternoon as efforts to secure a new president of the College began. The Nominating Committee elected by the Trustees this afternoon is composed of the following men: S. R. LaFar, Gastonia; Dr. Jas. A. Jones, Richmond, Va.; J. S. Spencer Love, Greensboro; Dr. James P. Hendricks, Durham; Rev. Fred Stair, Hickory, N.C.; Dr. J. M. Richards. Interviewed minutes before the afternoon session of the Board of Trustees convened, Dr. Richards told the DAVIDSONIAN that it was his hope that a new President would be elected at the May meeting of the Board of Trustees. He indicated that if a successor had not been found by that time, in all probability an Acting President would be named. Richards declined to comment on the names of any possible candidates.