JULY 12, 1957

DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM

The Summer Development Program of Davidson College is bringing many changes and improvements to the campus. Dr. Grier Martin, in
a recent interview, listed the plans that are now in the process of being carried out for this Summer Program.

1. East, West, and Watts dormitories are being steam-cleaned, which is one of the facets of the program with which
the students are familiar.
2. The exteriors of Watts and West dormitories have been painted, while the entirety of East has been refurbished.
3. Fire extinguishers have been placed in all the dormitories, following student requests.
4. Fire wells are being constructed in the three aforementioned dorms, closing the front and rear stairwells off from the
halls, similar to those found in New dormitory.
5. The basement shower baths in East and West dormitories have been tiled.
6. A process known as "pointing"—replacing old and cracked mortar along the steps, columns, and cornices—is being used on Chambers
building. This is the first time this has been done in thirty years. The building is also being steam-cleaned.
7. The Jarvey Memorial language laboratory is being installed in the old Gardener's Room on the third floor of Chambers.
The lab will be equipped with soundproof booths and an elaborate system of monitored tape recorders. This will be a
most valuable asset to the language departments.
8. The field commonly known as the "lower drill field" is being expanded to meet the requirements of a full-length
soccer field, and the sand heap at the end of the field is being removed—finally.
9. A new approach green is being constructed for the convenience of all golf enthusiasts.

The developments and improvements are expected to be completed by Aug. 30.

Upon arriving at Davidson, you paid a bill. You paid several bills, in fact. One particular bill that you remember
is called the laundry bill, which you were assured would cover your laundry and cleaning for the time you planned
to be in Summer School.

For quite a few days, "Stacks" has been closed. They have been taking a vacation from laundering.
