Dates Descend On Flu-Free Campus; Kick-Off Homecoming
By BOB LATHAN
Davidsonian Managing Editor

Now that the flu bugs have stopped reproducing, we are finally going to have the so-called celebration of the Feast
of the Return. It is difficult to express the joys and sorrows of 50 continuous hours in a world of
the opposite gender. But certainly the descent of feminine pulchritude on our fair campus is the chief factor in satisfying
the physiological and psychological “needs”—with the exception of sleep—of everyone concerned.

ELABORATE ARRANGEMENTS
The weekend is not without its elaborate arrangements. These include the unselfish volunteering of the pledges to polish cars to
perfection (Remember, Big Brother is watching you!); the attending of Union movie “Pandora and the Flying Dutchman” in order to
stimulate the anticipation of a romantic weekend; endless search for a date, sack, transportation, refreshments, etc.; the cleaning up and
preparation of the dorm room for the featured attraction; “Operation Sack” masterminded by the Freshman Council and Mrs. Moore; and
finally the evacuation followed almost immediately by the mass invasion of skirts from the foreign world.

First the dance (if you happen to make it) with music provided by Claude Thornhill (Who's he?) and orchestra, interrupted
briefly by intermission wherein the belles get a chance to become acquainted with the other fraternity brothers, fraternity songs, other
fraternity brothers, dance weekend policies, other fraternity brothers, etc. After the dance, who knows? The Davidson Gentleman and his Lady
emerge, grim and determined, from

Weather Report
TONIGHT: Cloudy, cool, with occasional rain. Low, 40 degrees.
SATURDAY: Continued cool with light rain. High of 50, low, 40.

VOL. XLVI

McGavock, Jones Favor Restriction Of Hell Week
By GERALD WILSON
Davidsonian Assistant Editor

“To see Hell Week completely eliminated is the faculty’s ultimate desire,” stated Professor W. G. McGavock in response to a
DAVIDSONIAN reporter’s question. This week the DAVIDSONIAN invited Bob Jones, Interfraternity Council President, and Dr. McGavock, Chairman of the Faculty
Committee on Fraternities to meet and discuss the fraternity situation.

Continuing the question of what the ultimate desire of the faculty is on the matter of fraternities’ Hell Week, Dr.
McGavock added that he was not including the “innocuous sort of activity” such as learning the pledge manual or shining
shoes. The main thing the faculty is concerned with “is the fact so many freshmen and upperclassmen lose a week
out of school.” The math professor emphasized the “ill effects” of Hell Week.

Q. “Has Hell Week gotten worse in the last four or five years?”
A. “This was always a part of Davidson College,” said Dr. McGavock. “About ten or twelve years ago things got
worse.” The faculty don’t know of anybody on the council in favor of strengthening it. Personally, I think it is
childish.”

HELL WEEK WORSE
Q. “Will there be any more restrictions on Hell Week this year?”
A. “The faculty met the other night and decided to continue the (present) policy another year.” Action will be taken
if this week gets to the point where it is invalidating class work.”

Q. “What are the feelings of the IFC towards Hell Week?”
A. Bob Jones answering. (Continued On Page Four)

QUALITY OVER QUANTITY
‘Keep Davidson Small’- Spencer Jones

TYPICAL HOMECOMING SCENE—With plenty of time on their hands, a Homecoming couple stand in front of one of the “scenic
wonders” on campus. The gent is briefing his date on the history and traditions associated with the edifice. Complete with
blanket, perhaps headed for the distant hills and the rising sun. But most probably they will join in the caravans
leaving for the numerous parties at Lake Lynn, Mooresville, “the old school house,” Salisbury, or elsewhere. What will it be,
7-up or ginger ale? This is no question to be regarded lightly as the success of the whole relationship may
hinge on this decision. The blast of the combo continues to penetrate the dark and smoke-filled room until some of
the brothers, whose cerebellum (controls coordination and balance) is not quite functioning properly start looking for a pledge to play
chauffeur.

The morning after, Belk, Duke, East, Cannon, Watts, or Little residents will be found engaging in blissful sleep. Finally, Little
Suzy wakes up and the locals get a quick snack at the boarding house before heading toward the soccer field
to witness the lads of dapper John McCutchan impede the Warren-Wilson cosmopolitans. (Oh I say!)

IF CARDS RUN OUT
By this time the “conversation cards” of those who have blind dates may be running out, and our hero may
want to squire his lovely around the campus in an effort to enlighten her as to our local customs, traditions,
history, and scenic wonders (for example, the Woodrow Wilson Memorial Forest, the Radio Free Davidson broadcasting center, the ROTC department,
the pool room in the “stud,” and the ever-present golf course). In case the individual is really hard up for
conversation, he may entertain his date by telling her all about all the other girls he has dated. This takes
up time nicely and also makes her realize how fortunate she is to be with him.

Afternoon leads into evening and activities begin anew. (Reread paragraphs 4, 5, 6, and 7.) Come Sunday, and perhaps a
trip to the mountains to enjoy (Nope, you guessed wrong) the beauties of autumn.

THE MORNING AFTER
And then the inevitable end and the morning after: with the rather extended eyeballs; the trip to the P.O. to
find out about being bankrupt; the re-orientation into education; and the memories. One last piece of advice: Cop Linker carries
a flashlight.

Students’ Outlook
Freshman and Senior take views of dance weekend. For their opinions see page two.

NO. 10

Honor Policy Ideas

Paintings By Ness Featured at Exhibit
Paintings by Kenneth Ness are now being displayed in the Foyer of Chambers. Mr. Ness is Professor of Painting and
Graphics.At the University of North Carolina. At present, he is acting head of the Art Department at Carolina. This exhibit
was made possible through the cooperation of Mr. Ness and Mr. Edwin Show, head of the Art Department at Salem
College, Winston-Salem, NC.

Claude Thornhill Plays For Dance

Claude Thornhill and His Orchestra open the 1957 Homecoming Weekend with a formal dance tonight from nine until one o'clock
in Johnston Gymnasium. From four to five-thirty tomorrow afternoon, Thornhill will give a concert in Chambers Auditorium. Tomorrow night he
will play for an informal dance in the gym from eight until twelve.

Thornhill seems to be enjoying increasing popularity among the college crowd. He played for the Shoe and Slipper Dances at
Duke University. Here this weekend, his orchestra will consist of thirteen pieces plus a vocalist. The usual group is made
up of five reeds, six brass, three rhythm, and Thornhill himself at the piano. Having recorded for Trend, Columbia, and
RCA Victor Records, Thornhill has also appeared at various hotels and theaters across the country, including the Paramount Theater in
New York and the Shamrock Hotel in Houston. He was honored by "Look Magazine" in 1948 when they chose his
organization as The Band of the Year.

One of the distinguishing features of the Thornhill Orchestra is the use of the French horn in the brass section.
Through this and other devices, Thornhill combines a classical background with the current trend of popular music. The maestro also
composed and arranged "Snowfall," the familiar theme of the band.

Council Tackles Drink Rule Interpretation

By Laurens Walker, Davidsonian Managing Editor

Student Body President Ross Smyth took the first step Monday night in his long-awaited program to revamp the honor system
at Davidson. Smyth's action included a discussion on the drinking rule, and a series of petty larceny on campus affected
the agenda with potential dynamite.

In connection with the honor system, President Smyth asked the Council members to prepare in writing a statement as to
whether they (1) favored any change in the honor code, (2) had any suggestions for improvement, and (3) had any
suggestions to make for discussing the problem.

Earlier in the meeting, Councilman Bill Bondurant presented a tentative report from a committee appointed to clarify the drinking rule.
The report contained criteria for judging intoxication. Included were "stammering, incoherent speech, and loud speech." At this point, Secretary Stuart,
seemingly amused and upset by the criteria, proposed that the Council think until the next meeting about a return to
the "odor of the breath rule," whereby a council member who smells alcohol on the breath of a student is
honor-bound to report him to the Council.

INCREASING THEFT

President Smyth revealed to the Council that thievery had risen to an "alarming rate on campus" during the past weeks,
and "something must be done about it." He suggested that students be (Continued On Page Four)

STUDENT OPINION

Smyth stated after the meeting that he "wanted to get the opinion of the student body," that he might even
"poll the student body" on the question. He added that if there seemed to be little interest in such a
change, he would "make no proposal."

Cops Mobilize For Weekend Invasion

Davidson students are reminded that, during this dance weekend, whammies will be situated along the various roads and highways in
the Davidson area and that state and local police will be patrolling these same roads and highways.

The college administration has stated that it in no way has anything to do with the sudden appearance of whammies
and patrolmen during dance weekends. The administration does feel, however, that these precautionary measures are very worthwhile and expresses the
hope that the student body will also look upon them as such.

The local police force, too, has said that the students of Davidson should look upon these measures in the proper
light. The law enforcement officers are not here to "get" as many Davidson students as possible; rather, they are here
to preserve the law and thereby safeguard human life. It is their duty and responsibility to stop anyone who goes
beyond the limits of the law.

Dr. Samuel R. Spencer, president of Mary Baldwin College in Staunton, Virginia, and formerly the Dean of Students at Davidson,
was interviewed this week concerning his new position at Mary Baldwin and his opinions of certain Davidson problems. The Mary
Baldwin President, while expressing a desire not to appear dogmatic, was quite adamant in his feelings about the controversial enrollment
issue at Davidson. He emphasized that the present college plant is built for handling approximately 850 students and that sacrifices
must be made if this enrollment increases. Dr. Spencer saw that the most immediate of these problems which would be
encountered if such a program were followed would be the lack of both sufficient space in Chambers Building and a
means of adequately expanding present facilities. "Personally, I would hate to see us start expanding again," was (Continued On Page
Four)

Replacement Wanted For Baker Program

Davidson College is actively seeking a new sponsor for a scholarship program which will replace the void left by the
Baker Scholarship Program. The Baker Scholarships were removed on account of their policy which states they must rotate to another
school at the end of 10 years. However, D. Grier Martin announced that the College does plan to continue the
present Baker plan during the school year of 1958-59 and that all men (Continued On Page Four)

Lumsden Joins ROTC Department

Capt. Lonnie H. Lumsden, Armor, has been assigned to the Davidson College ROTC Department and has assumed the position of
MS III instructor. A native of Tarboro, N.C., Capt. Lumsden resided for many years in Chattanooga, Tennessee, where he attended
the McCallie School. He was a student at The Citadel for two years prior to entering the Army in 1943.
During World War II, he served in the European and the Asiatic-Pacific theaters. From 1946 to 1950, following World War
II, Capt. Lumsden attended the United States Military Academy at West Point. Before coming to Davidson, he has served in
Europe, the United States, and the Far East.

Weekend Schedule

SATURDAY
9:00-1:00—Formal Dance.
11:00—Figure.
11:30—Intermission.

SATURDAY
3:00—Soccer, Warren-Wilson versus Davidson
4:00—Concert, Chambers Auditorium
8:00-12:00—Informal Dance.
10:30—Intermission.

DR. SPENCER
THORNHILL
