PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, OCTOBER 11, 1957

THIS WEEK IN DAVIDSON

SATURDAY, OCTOBER 12
7:00 Movie: “Ivanhoe”—Union Ballroom

SUNDAY, OCTOBER 13
7:30 Vespers—Sacrament of the Lord's Supper

MONDAY, OCTOBER 14
3:00 Soccer: Davidson vs. Washington and Lee—Here

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 15
7:30 Business-Economics Club—Union Ballroom—Dr. Ratliff

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 16
All day—Clothing display in Student Store

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 18
3:00 Soccer—Davidson vs. N. C. State—Here
8:00 Movie—“Ruby Gentry”—Union Ballroom

HOBBYIST AT WORK

HISTORIC CENTRE CHURCH

Church Founded Before Nation

Three miles south of Mooresville, a few hundred yards west of the Charlotte Highway, stands historic Centre Presbyterian Church. This
is one of the oldest churches in this section of the United States, having been organized a number of years
before Gen. George Washington and his troops stood the terrible winter at Valley Forge and accepted the surrender of the
British at Yorktown.

The original site selected for the first church building was about two miles north of the present town of Davidson
and here a church building was erected. Nine years later, in 1774, the church was destroyed by fire. The congregation
then moved to the present site, near Mount Mourne. This second structure, primarily of log, was torn down in 1854,
and the present brick building constructed.

The Centre building has seen but four ministers since its use. The Rev. William Walter Pharr served for fifty years
(1858-1908). He was followed by the Rev. R. W. Culbertson, the Rev. W. E. West, and the present pastor—the Rev.
J. K. Parker (Coach Parker's father), who has served since 1927.

In 1938 the Synod of the Carolinas held its 150th anniversary at Centre. The first regular meeting of the Concord
Presbytery, of which all Presbyterian churches of this section of North Carolina are members, was also held at Centre on
March 29, 1796.

In recent years two wings have been added to the main body of the church. The north wing provides Sunday
School classroom facilities. On the south side is the Williams Building, the recreation hall donated by a member of the
congregation, William Davidson. The interior of the church features the traditional slave gallery and “ministerial sofa.”

1957-1958 Honorary Fraternity Council Schedule

FIRST AND THIRD WEEKS

TIME MONDAY* TUESDAY WEDNESDAY THURSDAY
7:15 Sigma Delta Psi Sigma Camera Fraternities Student Council (3rd Only) Club Eumanean “D” Club
8:15 Philanthropic Y.M.C.A. Sigma Delta Psi Cabinet Math Seminar O. D. K. Upsilon
9:15 I.F.C. every Monday at 10 p.m.

SECOND AND FOURTH WEEKS

TIME MONDAY* TUESDAY WEDNESDAY THURSDAY
7:15 Beaver Business and Economics Assn Sigma Delta Pi Social Fraternities (2nd Only) Scabbard and Blade (2nd Only) Union Committee
Phi Mu Alpha (4th Only)
8:15 Le Cercle Francais Gamma Sigma Epsilon Delta Phi Alpha Alpha Psi Omega

Testing Service Sets GRE Dates

The Graduate Record Examinations, required of applicants for admission to a number of graduate schools, will be administered at examination
centers throughout the country four times in the coming year, Educational Testing Service has announced. During 1956-57 more than 12,000
students took the GRE in partial fulfillment of admission requirements of graduate schools which prescribed it. This fall, candidates may
take the GRE on Saturday, November 9.

Of all the myriad hobbies and avocations, perhaps the most popular (and at the same time profitable) ones are philately
and numismatics, which are the favorite hobbies of Dr. John T. Kimbrough.

Dr. Kimbrough became interested in stamp and coin collecting when he was about ten years old. Like most young collectors,
he didn’t specialize or organize his collections seriously, but collected for the pleasure and satisfaction of a good swap. His
interest lagged throughout his late high school and college years, and not until 1934 did he begin seriously keeping track
of current issues from the United States, Canada, Newfoundland, the Canal Zone, and the Philippines. These stamps are not mounted,
but kept on stock cards in files. Dr. Kimbrough does, however, have in his office a frame of mounted commemorative
stamps worth approximately $75.00. His coin collection is limited to the U. S. mints.

Dupont Shows Product

The Business-Economics Association held its regular meeting Thursday night, October 3, in the College Union Ballroom. Guest speaker was Mr.
John H. Noyes, of the public relations department. Mr. Noyes talked on the place of big business in the modern
business system, pointing out the relationships between corporations of all sizes. He used as an illustration of this point “Dacron”
polyester fabric. Dupont makes the fiber and passes it along to smaller enterprises. These companies spin the fiber into yarn,
weave it into fabric, and eventually make it into suits. The suits are sold to the U. S. mints.

MONEY BUILDS PLAYGROUND

The Y Commission on Boy’s Work sponsored a program in cooperation with the local Negro Community to secure equipment for
the community playground. Shown here are the new swings.Each year Dr. Kimbrough purchases a Treasury Department in Washington, D.C. Drive
will be held in Johnston Gymnasium from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. with the American forces. Dr. Kimbrough stated that
in 1936, he bought ten sets of proof coins (those engraved by hand) at $1.65 a set. Four years later
he sold these ten sets at $40.00 a set. Today any one of these sets is worth $400.00.

If anyone should be interested in numismatics, there will be a meeting of the Middle Atlantic Numismatic Association in Charlotte
at the Hotel Charlotte on October 25 and 26. On display at this convention will be many excellent collections, including
a 1913 Liberty nickel, of which there are only six known to exist.

In order to donate blood, students under twenty-one must secure signed releases from their parents. These releases may be obtained
from an IFC representative. 370 pints were donated in the spring drive. Last year, as an incentive to donate blood,
a free PT cut and a free ROTC drill cut were given to each donor. Also, a plaque was given
to the fraternity with the highest percentage of donors. Plans concerning incentives are incomplete at present. Alpha Tau Omega won
the plaque last year for the overall highest percentage.

With the beginning of the fall term, St. Alban's Episcopal Mission began having an eleven o'clock service on Sunday mornings.
This is primarily a student service and led by student lay readers, except on the fourth Sunday of the month
when the Holy Communion is celebrated. Other services at the Episcopal Church remain much the same as they were at
the end of last year: Sunday, 8:30 a.m., Holy Communion (except 4th Sunday); Wednesday, 10:20 a.m., Holy Communion; Tuesday and
Thursday, 5:30 p.m., a brief service of Evening Prayer.

Flanking the single front door is a series of marble tablets bearing the names of 34 men who went from
Centre to serve during the Revolution. Among the names are James Houston, Captain William Davidson, Lieutenant Charles Woods. Almost as
historic as the church itself is the graveyard located directly across the sandy road from the church. Here are buried
many of the leaders of this section of the state. The first graves were opened about the time of the
American War of Independence. The burying ground, which is still in use, is fenced in with a rock wall, and
large trees surround it.

Applicants for graduate school fellowships should ordinarily take the designated examinations in the fall administration. A Bulletin of Information (in
which an application is inserted) provides details of registration and administration as well as sample questions, and may be obtained
from college advisers or directly from Educational Testing Service, 20 Nassau Street, Princeton, New Jersey, or P.O. Box 27896, Los
Angeles 27, California.

Shown here is one example of the overcrowded class at Davidson; an English 81 class taught by Dr. Purcell. This
class had to move from Room 208 to 335 in order to seat the 45 students in the course. Even
now, the class is overcrowded. This is the first year that the Trustee’s decision has been implemented. If enrollment continues
to increase at this rate, then soon many more classes will be added to the already alarming list of those
containing over 50 students.

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... PIZZA.

The new Arrow Trimway combines comfort and good looks. The madras fabric comes in newsmaking miniature plaids and stripes. The
collar buttons down, in front and at center back, and there is a box pleat in the back of the
shirt. Shirt shown $5.95. Square crew neck sweater in 100% wool. $10.00. Cluett, Peabody & Co., Inc.

Come and see our wide, colorful selection of Arrow Trimway shirts. All are smartly styled, all are in the newest
plaids and stripes. The sooner you come, the more you'll have to choose from, so don’t delay. IVEY'S of CHARLOTTE.
