STUDENT LEADERS GIVE ELECTION VIEWS (Page Two)

Duke Endowment Trustees & Benefactors Look Around

Get a guided tour from Dr. Cunningham after their luncheon meeting here Tuesday. Left to right are: Mr. Norman A. Cocke of Charlotte, Mr. George G. Allen, Chairman of the Trustees from New York City, and Mr. Alexander H. Sands of New York City.

TOUR CAMPUS

Duke Trustees Given Outline of 10-Year Plan

Trustees of the Duke Endowment met at Davidson College Tuesday afternoon and heard a progress report on the college since it was named a benefactor of the trust established by James Buchanan Duke. D. Grier Martin, college treasurer, noted that since 1924, when the Duke Endowment was created, “not a single Davidson building, driveway, walkway or piece of shrubbery has been established” without the direct help of the endowment. The Endowment made possible, he noted, the construction of the college’s main building, the Maxwell Chambers, in 1929, and has since helped make possible the Martin Science Building, Grey Library, Ovens College Union, Johnston Gymnasium, Davidson College Church, W. H. Belk Hall and a new dormitory, as yet unnamed.

The Duke trustees also heard reports from the students, faculty and trustees, and an outline by President John R. Cunningham of the “Ten Year Plan” of the college, now under consideration of the Davidson trustees. Dr. Cunningham presided at the meeting, and presented to Duke Endowment chairman George G. Allen a citation honoring the trustees for their administration of the endowment. Other Duke Endowment trustees attending were Alex H. Sands, Jr., Thomas L. Perkins, and Kenneth Towe all of New York City; Dr. Bennette E. Geer of Greenville, S. C.; R. Grady Rankin of Gastonia; and Norman A. Cocke.

(Continued On Page Four)

Six New Members Join Delta Phi Alpha

Delta Phi Alpha inducted six members this week. Phil Kukura, president of the German club, welcomed the select advanced German students. The new members are: Bill Bondurant, Lloyd Chapin, Bill Colston, Jerry Eller, George Gilmer, and Tom Thrailkill. These candidates were picked from students with an average of “B” or better in two or more years of study of the German Language. Promotion of the German language, literature, and civilization with the expressed hope that a more sympathetic appreciation of the German-speaking peoples and their culture will develop, is the purpose of the organization.

EFFECTIVE APRIL 1

Faculty Receives Salary Increase

Outside Atlanta where Fields was a notorious bandit.

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, MARCH 1, 1957

The Davidsonian

CAT TANKMEN IN CONFERENCE SWIM (Page Three)

No. 18

Les Brown and Band of Renown Sign for Spring Frolics Dances

Nation’s No. 1 Band to Entertain at Top Social

Les Brown and his “Band of Renown” will be featured at the Davidson Spring Frolics Dance weekend set for

COLLEGE BANDIT TO DIE TUESDAY FOR COP KILLING

Jennings E. Fields, who has been detained from the electric chair on numerous occasions, again has been sentenced to die next Tuesday for the pistol slaying of DeKalb County (Georgia) Patrolman James L. Mize. Members of the present senior class at Davidson remember Fields as the man who, early in the morning of February 4, 1954, entered over 20 rooms in three dormitories here, escaped with approximately $350 plus a wristwatch and threatened two students who challenged him with a gun. Fields’ activities after leaving Davidson included four days of notorious plunder and murder, climaxed by the fatal shooting of officer Mize on February 6, 1954. Entire credit for the detection and capture of Fields was given to Davidson’s night watchman, Ed. N. “Cop” Linker. It was Linker who spotted the bandit’s car parked beside the College Union in the early morning hours of February 4. Had it not been for Mr. Linker’s alertness in copying the license number of the car, Mecklenburg County police frankly admit that the bandit would probably never have been caught. Several days after Fields’ appearance here, Davidson students Martin Foil and Joe Jenkins were taken to the DeKalb County jail where they positively identified the man as the dormitory bandit.

By LLOYD CHAPIN And LAURENS WALKER

In a double-barreled gift, the Student Council on Wednesday dropped into the laps of the Student Body the far-reaching questions of whether it wants slam-bang campus electioneering and of state prison at Reidsville, Ga. Gov. Marvin Griffin granted a 15-day stay of execution for Fields on January 30, only minutes before the 32-year-old convicted killer was to have gone to the electric chair. DeKalb Superior Court Judge Frank Guess has set the new execution date for March 5.

The two amendments submitted to the Student Body grew out of the Council's work at recent called meetings, held February 25 and 27. At the Monday night meeting, Peden, senior and non-council member, presented to the group a petition signed by 50 students asking for the deletion of those portions of the Constitution and By-Laws which forbid campaigning for political office. Specifically, these portions (Article V, sections 8, 9, 10 and Article 14, section 4) forbid combines, solicitation of votes, and campaign expenses, providing for the disqualification of any candidate guilty of violating these regulations.

PEDEN AMENDMENT

Citizen Peden readily admitted to the Council that his petition was in a general form and hazy on specific points. He requested that the Council aid him in wording it in the form of a Constitutional Amendment. In compliance with the Constitution (Article XVIII, section 1) the Council agreed to reword the petition in the form of an amendment and “present it to the student body for approval.” Wednesday night the Council formally heard a rewording of the petition and made plans to have it read to the Student Body during Chapel Friday. As a proposed amendment, it must lay on the table for ten days before Student Body action can be taken. Wednesday night, President LaFar asked Councilman Vernon Hunter to state to the Council his views on the Peden Amendment. In part, Hunter said, “This is the legal forestep to political parties. The ultimate aim of the petition is this—to open the way to political parties.”

The second amendment read to the Student Body was prepared by Councilman Hunter in an effort to extract the Council from a week-long constitutional and procedural mire. The question raised in debate over electoral procedure was whether the Council has the right to amend the By-Laws, and this question had managed to stymie the actions of the group for nearly a week. The Monday night meeting, a tense, complicated 3½ hours of debate, brought the questions to a head. Ten members of the Council led by Vernon Hunter and spectator Phil Lewis claimed that the By-Laws are not a part of the Constitution, and that the Student Council may amend them. They based their argument on Robert's Rules of Order.

Filming Will Resume

Filming of the Davidson story will probably resume this spring on church-related colleges. Approximately 15 colleges have agreed to take part in the series. The Protestant Radio and Television Center will meet in Atlanta, on March 8 or 11. It will make definite plans then concerning the projected series, for which the Davidson Story would serve as a pilot model. The Protestant Center has met several times since the resignation of producer-director George P. Gunn last fall. A replacement for him has not yet been found. The estimated cost to each college being held.and a precedent set last year. They pointed out the fact that April 12-14, the Interfraternity Council has announced plans for the “nation’s number one band" to entertain the student body at what many students feel is the top social event of the year. This band has gained world fame through its eight years' association with the Bob Hope radio and television shows, its numerous recordings for well-known record companies, and more recently its personal appearance tours before our armed forces in Europe, Japan, Alaska, and Korea.

Brown's star-studded group includes his aide-de-camp vocalist and comedian Harry “Butch” Stone, trombonist and vocal stylist Stumpy Brown, and the feminine voice and charm of Miss Jo Ann Greer. The band's contribution of recent recordings for Capitol Records numbers hit albums such as the “College Classics” album. Single records include such tunes as “Take Back Your Mink” from “Guys and Dolls”, and “That Certain Feeling.” The latter was waxed with the aid of Miss Greer’s voice.

Les Brown's first big break came while he was a student at Duke University where he became leader of the University band, the “Blue Devils” in his junior year. In 1937, Brown headed for New York and began work with big names such as Red Nichols and Jimmy Dorsey. In 1940, the “Band of Renown" was organized. This musical group has moved steadily forward to the front place among American bands.

Brown's formula for success was best expressed in an article contained in Time Magazine which quoted him as saying, “We prefer sound to noise, we prefer the beat over the effects, we prefer consonance to dissonance, and we like the melody if it's good.”

Les Brown Brings “Band of Renown” Here for Spring Frolics. The Council of 1955-56 treated the By-Laws as separate from the Constitution and amended them without the consent of the Student Body.

LAFAR RULES
This brought the statement from President LaFar that he was “ashamed that I was sitting in this group.” He then ruled that the By-Laws are to be amended in the same way as the Constitution, that is, by a 2/3 vote of the Student Body.

Contestants On Campus For Scholarship Finals
A record total of outstanding scholarship finalists are visiting the Davidson campus this weekend in competition for the annually-awarded Baker, Union Carbide, Proctor and Gamble, Harding-Johnson, Staley, Honor, and Special Scholarships. The 45 representatives of 13 states will attend two-day sessions of tests, interviews, and socials with faculty and students. The contestants from the two Carolinas, constituting Group A and one-half of the total, arrived Wednesday and completed their program with lunch today. Group B, consisting of the representatives of the other eleven states, came on Thursday and will continue their program until mid-day tomorrow.

Ed Stevens, in charge of transportation for the finalists, arranged for each participant's arrival at the Guest House. Student hosts met the boys there, conducted them to dinner and a short coffee, and afterwards turned them over to the members of the scholarship committee.

All faculty salaries will be increased 5% beginning March 1, 1957. The faculty will receive the first check reflecting this increase on April 1. Actual approval of this increase was made by the Board of Trustees during their recent mid-year meeting. Though somewhat overshadowed by the resignation of Dr. Cunningham, this and several other important recommendations were approved by the Trustees. An increase in charges for room rent, laundry, and meals totaling $50 per year was approved. This increase is to become effective September 1, 1957. Dr. Cunningham explained in his report that “increases in the cost of operating our auxiliary enterprises during recent years have outdistanced the slight increases made in charges... several are operating at a loss...” The increase will include $15 per year for laundry, $2 per month for food served in the Student Union Cafeteria, and $20 per year for room rent.

The Board formally retained Mr. A. G. Odell of Charlotte, an architect, to design the addition to the library structure. The firm of O’Conner and Kitham, New York City, will be asked to serve as consultants in drawing the plans. The sum of $24,000 representing a bequest of Mrs. Margaret Clay Thompson plus an additional $1,000 from the funds of the College was designated for use in the purchasing of books for the library during the next three years.

The administrative staff of the College also came in for a 5% pay increase. The Board directed that their increase become effective simultaneously with that of the faculty. A committee of Trustees was instructed to study the “Ten Year Plan,” a proposed program for the future development of Davidson.

French Club Program
Davidson will produce a similar film on its own initiative, if the plans of the Protestant Center are not fulfilled. Featured as the major part of the program, Miss Dardel described in her native tongue the life and customs of the typical student in France and of her encounter with Ernest Hemingway during the trip. After the singing of several French songs by the members of the honorary French society, Miss Dardel led the way to the Watts’ dining room, at whose home the meeting was held, where she served punch to those present.

Mireille Dardel, graduate of the Sorbonne of Paris, France, spoke to Le Cercle Francais Tuesday evening. She told of her voyage to America aboard the “Ile de Paris.” She is planning to spend the next six months with the Goldiere’s, where she is now living. Her brother, Guy, attended Davidson for one year as an exchange student several years ago.

Ex-Davidson PMS&T
Colonel William P. Grace, Jr., ex-professor of Military Science and Tactics at Davidson College, from 1946 to 1949, was awarded the Legion of Merit with First Oak Leaf Cluster in Washington, D.C., on Feb. 19, 1957. He was cited for “exceptionally meritorious conduct in the performance of duty during the period January 1946 to January 1957.” Colonel Grace has distinguished himself as a line officer, staff officer, military educator, and combat commander.

The Editor would not disclose any of the details about the general outline for the annual, nor would he give any hint as to this year’s dedication (“top secret stuff”). The only comment Young would make was that the choosing of the Quips and Cranks Beauties was now in progress. Young had two requests to make. He stated that his staff is in need of people to re-type copy, and that anyone willing to do this kind of work please contact him; and secondly, he expressed a desire to hear some student reactions, pro and con, on the value of the “Student Body Directory” that appears at the end of each year's book. According to Young, if everything continues to follow the production schedule as well as it has thus far, the 1957 version of Quips and Cranks will be ready for distribution on or near the first week in May.

I.F.C. To Evaluate Hell Week Events
Hell Week was the main topic of discussion at the I.F.C. meeting last Monday night. The enforcement of the regulations was emphasized, and members were reminded of their responsibility in keeping their fraternity within these regulations. A committee was appointed to evaluate the incidents during Hell Week. It will study the shortcomings and try to improve regulations for the advantage of future years.

Plans for the promotion of the Louis Armstrong concert were discussed. Posters will be posted, and local disc jockeys will advertise the concert on their programs.

I.R.C. Panel Discusses Near Eastern Problem
The International Relations Club held a regular meeting Tuesday night, February 26. The program for the evening was a panel discussion on contemporary problems in the Near East. Specific problems discussed were the Kashmir situation, and in the Mid-East examination was made of the Pan-Arab nationalistic emotion, the pro-Soviet aspirations, and the pro-American motives.