PAGE TWO

Ben Johnston, Editor

Jim Brice, Editor on Bridge
Miss Peggy Whittle, Art Editor
John Brice, Printer

Alfred E. Neuman

---

HELP!

The journalism handbook didn't help one bit - in fact, it was downright disheartening. No topic entitled, "How to Be an Editor." Roget's Thesaurus didn't even list the word "editor," thus inferring that an editor is beyond description. Neither was the title found in Bartlett's Quotations nor in the "Oedipus Rex" of Sophocles.

So in desperation, we prostrated ourselves at the feet of last year's editor of Davidson's SUMMER SCHOOL newspaper, then humbly sought guidance.

Know what he said? "Write whatever you want to, print it, and to heck with the rest of the world."

With this thought in mind, we bring to you the maiden issue of the BOBTAIL DAVIDSONIAN. Throughout the summer, this "rag" will intermittently be placed in your sweaty palms for your perusal.

It will contain news of past and coming events, some features (such as the Raving Reporter and Brice on Bridge), and will be sprinkled with a generous amount of (we hope sincerely) humor.

We still need help. Your help. If you have any helpful suggestions to make, any news that's fit to print, or, most important, any time to spare and an interest in putting out a wildcat newspaper, contact one of the members of our very minute staff.

And will we be glad to see you!

E.B.D.

The final page, forced upon us by the Union House Committee, does not in any way reflect the opinion or policy of this newspaper and its staff, and is merely a paid political announcement.

---

RAVING REPORTER

QUESTION OF THE WEEK:
What is your honest opinion of SUMMER SCHOOL?

Bob Shoffner: I wish everybody could come up here to see the difference between SUMMER SCHOOL and the regular semester. We have concentrated courses and more leisure time. Hey, see that cute chick crossing the campus?

Henry Tripp: After nine months, three more can't make much difference.

Tom Anderson: I like it because we don't have but one course at a time, and we can study better for it.

Malcolm Doty: SUMMER SCHOOL?

Don Buckley: These science courses are too intensified.

Joe Chandler: What tees me off, you know, is these guys that got three-hour classes in the morning, you know, while I gotta stay in lab all afternoon. You know?

Bruce Wilder: Don't bother me, son. I'm busy counting my money!

---

BRICE ON BRIDGE

First, shuffle the cards well (stick them, too, if you get a chance). Next, cut them to the dealer, trying to see the card on the bottom. If you're dealing, always look at the bottom card, so you can give it to someone else if you so desire.

When all the cards are dealt, and you note that you do not have a biddable hand (and your partner has a sad expression on his face), quickly say, "It's a misdeal; I have only twelve cards." You and your partner should throw your hands down with dispatch. Speed is necessary if this procedure is to be successful; a redeal usually results when it is properly executed.

Next, we shall assume that you do have a biddable hand. The fine points of bidding will be discussed in next week's edition of BOBTAIL DAVIDSONIAN.