Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

The BOSTAIL Dit

Ben Johnson, Editor

Jim Brisco, Director of the Bill on Briw

Letter Writer, (7 acy tw i zllod; 4 wed: 1)

Special s ove Col? mist, He Re
Political Columnist, Johnson's “o> vem
Printer, John or

GUEST EDITORIALIST:
vee TY >” LL
List your other. rr concerns: ted
effort by the chapel committee to improve the quality of their programs.
This highly successful campaign was witnessed by the considerable student reach and improved student conduct. However, we of the Summer
School session are forced into a seemingly untypical situation which is not in line with the work done by that
committee.
We are required to attend certain events, and with this, there is no just complaint. However, as you are required
to attend, we have the right to expect the highest quality. Our right is not to be set by precedent
alone but also on the Division's traditionally high tone of intellectual life and activities. Individuals should not be subjected to
programs that offer nothing more than mouthing nice phrases to consume time.
The style of the program we had this summer has been disappointing.

The speakers have recognized the students' vote.

Various topics should not be used up for the sake of a chance but should be used for the clear
purpose which is to foster spirit and intellectual growth among students.

---

To avoid danger, extinguishers and how to remove a continued student hazard. What could have been a serious fire was
discovered early and disaster avoided as equipment was immediately available.

Because of staff insistence, fire extinguishers were placed in the dorm halls.

These extinguishers ensure our safety in case of fire. After only a month, we are here for "jokentor" has another
such fire.

---

The matter of Creu, they may be taking a vacation from laundering for a while. Two or three years ago,
there was a mystery concerning the laundry. It was not because of clothes to the laundry but because of the
mystery of the socks. The mystery continues.

---

Of course, later people like to locate the socks. With the trust that is, if you think the size and
the best life provide an arm on the rack, it is okay to carry on.

There's nothing wrong with the socks. Examine your fit in a short while. The determined fit is a goal. The
exact fit is a goal.

---

For the sake of everyone, don't let your worry put someone else in danger.
