FRIDAY, MAY 10, 1957 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

Awards Presented To Davidson Athletes

Davidson College climaxed its 1956-57 athletic year last Monday night by honoring two hundred and thirty-five athletes who represented the school this year.

TRACK AWARDS

A. Heath Whittle, track and cross country mentor, spoke proudly of his track team’s undefeated season. He presented the William Merchant trophy, for high scorer on the track team, to Mel Armstrong. He presented pictures of Pete Ashcraft and Bill Gramley to Dr. Scott for display in the trophy room of the gymnasium, and announced the election of Angus McBryde, all-conference runner, as captain of the cross country team for next season.

Coach William Dole presented to Dr. Scott for the trophy room a picture of Dick Belton, outstanding back on the 1956 team. He also announced the presentation of scholarships to Dave Fagg and Harold Westervelt. Westervelt, along with Donnie McRee, was named to the All-Conference academic team, and McRee received the George King Football and Academic Award. Dale Gramley was recipient of the Armfield Blocking Trophy.

Soccer tutor John W. McCutchan presented Freddie Butler with a cup designating him as most valuable player, and announced the selection of Ross Smyth as 1957 captain.

RIVERS WINS TWO

Tommy Rivers, captain of the swimming team, was awarded the Bill Ray high point trophy and the Dick Redding Most Valuable Player trophy. Coach George Thompson presented a picture of Rivers to be hung in the trophy room.

The Elgin White trophy, presented to the outstanding golfer, went to captain George Scott. Charlie Parker, wrestling coach, presented a picture of outstanding wrestler Westervelt to be hung in the trophy room following his graduation. Fagg’s selection as 1957-58 captain was announced.

Jim West and Donnie McRee were presented duplicate awards of the Fielding Clark most valuable baseball player trophy.

“D” Club awards were made to George Hart, outstanding freshman athlete; Dick Belton, all-state quarterback; Tommy Rivers, conference swimming champion; Pete Ashcraft and Bill Gramley, all-conference trackmen.

AWARD WINNERS at the athletic banquet Monday included (l. to r.) Pete Ashcraft, all-conference track; Tommy Rivers, Bill Gramley, all-conference track; and Dick Belton, all-state quarterback. (Photo by Ed Stevens.)

CONCLUDE I-F SPORTS

By BILL HELLIER

KA’s Take First In Tight Softball Race

Combining teamwork with a lot of hustle, Kappa Alpha took sole possession of first place in interfraternity softball. Until the last week of play, they had to share first place honors, but they won with the pressure on, while the Phi Delts and Sigma Chi's fell to second and third places respectively.

SECOND CHAMPIONSHIP

Due to their winning of the flickerball championship, the K.A.’s victory in softball constituted their second first place in a major sport.

However, the Phi Delts were the leaders in the number of first place wins during the sports year. They copped the top spot in swimming, track, and tennis doubles, while tying for first in volleyball. In addition, they finished second in softball, flickerball, and wrestling.

The basketball crown went to the Sigma Chi’s, who had trouble only with the A.T.O.’s, who finished second. The Taus were sole owners of first place in table tennis, while the Kappa Sigs took first in wrestling and the Betas won the tennis singles.

Baseballers Drop Lenoir Rhyne, 8-6

By JIM HAMILTON

Davidson's nine ended a not too successful season on a happier note Tuesday afternoon as they took a hard-earned victory over Lenoir-Rhyne, 8-6. The Cats scored three runs in the eighth inning to break a 5-5 deadlock and then held the Bears to one run in the top of the ninth to gain the victory.

Allen Moore started on the mound for the Cats, but was relieved by Dave Page in the third inning. Page got the win. Big men with the stick for Davidson were Jim West and Donnie McRee. West slammed four hits in five at-bats to finish the season with a .459 batting average, tops for the squad. McRee, recent recipient of the Tommy Peters Award, gathered three safeties in five trips to the plate. Two of McRee's hits were triples.

The Wildcats finished out the season with a 6-15 record. Only conference wins were over V.M.I. and Washington and Lee. Following West in batting averages were Shelbourne Wallace, George Hart, and Don Killian. Hart hit three homers to lead in that department.

In the pitching department, Allen Moore was the only moundsman to finish on the right side of the won-lost column. His record was 4-3. Dave Page won 2 and lost 7. Dee Green, pitching much better ball than his record shows, won 0 and lost 5, and Dee Lide won 0 and lost 2.

Head For S. C. Meet

By PRENTICE BROWN

The track charges of Heath Whittle fulfilled a coach’s dream last Saturday as they completed their second undefeated season in three years. The Wildcats compiled an 8-0 record by polishing off North Carolina State 81-47 in a local dual meet.

The highlight of the meet came when Bill Gramley broke his own school record in the discus throw. Gramley climaxed his final track season with a heave of 147' 4½".

The Cats’ Mel Armstrong grabbed 13 points for top individual honors in the meet. Armstrong captured first places in the 100-yard dash and broad jump and a second in the 220-yard dash. Freshman Chris Bremer scored 11 points for the locals by taking| Title for the second straight year | with a total of 22 points. TABBED FOR THIRD The best that pre-tourney speculators had figured for the Wildcats was a third place finish in the high and low hurdles and a third in the broad jump. The Wildcats' mile relay team, composed of Graham George, Jim Alexander, Brownie Thurman, and Mel Armstrong, took a first in the time of 3:31. Dick McKee's boys, however, left the opposing coaches in awe. Roswell Mallory in the 440 and 880 and John Huie in the pole vault swept into second round action in both singles and doubles. Six advanced beyond that point.

With a perfect season under their belt, all eyes will be on the Cats this weekend as they participate in the Southern Conference meet. Thirteen boys left with coach Whittle Thursday for Williamsburg, Virginia, where they will compete against eight other schools. The Wildcats will sorely miss the services of regulars Al Elder and Scott Woodmansee. Pete Ashcraft, ace distance runner, will see only limited action due to a leg injury. Ashcraft will run only in the mile and will be under a definite handicap. Ed Phillips, of William and Mary, proved to be the locals’ number one nemesis, as he knocked off Mike Martin, Dave Pearsall, and John Robinson in successive rounds.

TWO QUARTER-FINALISTS Robinson and Semi Mintz advanced to the quarterfinals before bowing out. Mintz fell to Jim Tarr, eventual finalist, in a 6-0, 8-6 match, while Robinson dropped a 7-9, 9-7, 6-3 match to Phillips. Davidson picked up twelve points in singles play and five points in doubles competition, for 17 points, second only to George Washington. Each advancing entry scored one point in the team tally. William and Mary is a heavy favorite to cop the meet with Davidson, V.M.I., and V.P.I. expected to battle for second. Coach Whittle had this to say about the meet: “We are definitely not in as good shape as last year. With Ashcraft hurt and Elder and Woodmansee out, our chances are really hurt. We will probably finish fourth but with the right breaks, we could finish second.”

Softball Standings:
Delt 7-1
Sigma Chi 6-4
Phi Gam 5-4
Beta 5-4
Sig Ep 7-4
A.T.O. 5-6
Pika 4-7
S.A.E. 4-7
Kappa Sig 3-8
Pi Kapp 3-8
Independents 0-9

Page one item: You smoke refreshed... all new Salem. Created by R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company.

If you've ever lost a collar stay (and who hasn’t?) this smart Arrow shirt with permanent-stay collar is for you. These stays are built right in, permanently and invisibly. They can’t get lost—ever! New Arrow Permanent stays are introduced this season in a trim short-pointed collar model with French cuffs. “Sanforized-labelled.”

IVEY'S OF CHARLOTTE

New—Arrow shirt with built-in collar stays. At last a stay that doesn’t stray! This handsome Arrow is the perfect style shirt for every college man. The flexible stays are a permanent part of its soft, comfortable collar. No more lost stays. No more fumbling to insert them. Shirt with French cuffs, $5.00. Choice of pure silk ties, $2.50. Drop by today!