By LAURENS WALKER

Tuesday afternoon the College Faculty shattered a 120-year-old precedent as they voted to revamp the traditional requirements for the arts
and science degrees. Thus ended a long, uphill fight begun in 1954 and pushed since by both faculty and students
to secure revision in the ruling which required four years of language, including two years of Latin or Greek, for
an A.B. degree.

Acting in historic session, and after several hours of deliberation, motion making, and voting, the Faculty decided to award the
A.B. degree to “those students majoring in departments other than Biology, Chemistry, Mathematics, and Physics.” Science majors will continue to
receive the B.S. degree.

IMMEDIATE EFFECT

The Faculty further decided that these changes would go into effect immediately. Those members of the present Senior Class who
are not science majors will receive the A.B. degree, unless they specifically elect to receive the B.S.

Meeting Tuesday afternoon after classes, the Faculty was convened by President Cunningham. Dean C. J. Pietenpol then presented to the
Faculty the unanimous recommendation of the Curriculum Committee concerning the degree change. This recommendation contained all the adopted points plus
two clauses which failed to pass the Faculty. The defeated clauses proposed “that the language requirements for the A.B. degree
be either some language through course 32, or 24 semester hours in a combination of two languages” and “that the
major subject or subjects be specified on the diploma.”

120 YEAR PRECEDENT

Working carefully, mindful of the 120-year precedent of a classical language requirement for the A.B. degree, the Faculty voted on
each point of the proposal separately. One or more substitute motions were offered for every clause of the recommendation. Each
of these substitute motions was discussed and voted on.

The key vote of the afternoon came over the question of when the change in requirements should become effective. By
this time, the mechanics of the change had been agreed upon, and the only stumbling block which remained was the
question of to which classes the change would apply. Three tie votes were taken on the question. The Faculty seemed
unable to decide whether the class of 1957, or of 1959, or of 1961 should be the first affected by
the change. Dean Pietenpol then took the floor, after one faculty member had pointed out that if no date of
retroactivity could be found, the change was, in fact, dead. The Dean discussed the Curriculum Committee’s recommendation on the problem
pointing out that the Committee felt their solution to be fair to all concerned. A final vote was taken, and
the Committee’s proposal passed by a margin of approximately ten votes.

(Continued On Page Four)

Progress In The Making

Within a matter of minutes after this picture was taken, the college faculty voted to abolish the classical language requirement
for an arts degree, which has stood since the college opened its doors in 1837. The new provision will apply
to all present members of the student body, though any man who qualifies for different degrees under the two systems
will be allowed his choice.

CATS IN CONFERENCE TRACK TOMORROW (Page 3)

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 1957

BEGINS FEBRUARY 22

New IFC Rulings Run Hell Week

Fraternity Hell Week activities will be held during the period between February 22 and March 2. These are the dates
set up by the Interfraternity Council which will govern the activities of all fraternities in the formal initiation period commonly
called “Hell Week.” IFC regulations concerning Hell Week practices fall into seven categories. They are: dates for the period, hours
for informal initiation, collective responsibility of the fraternity, and an approved schedule of events. Also, there is a clause urging
fraternities to plan constructive Hell Week projects, as well as provisions for the violation of these regulations.

TESTS NEW RULES

IFC President Bunny Perkinson emphasized the fact that this year’s Hell Week would provide a testing period for the new
regulations. If these rules work out well, then they shall be adopted permanently. The crux of the first regulation is
that Hell Week shall fall between February 22 and March 3, 1957. Fraternities cannot initiate on more than one Friday
and one Saturday of this period. Formal initiation ceremonies are left to the discretion of the individual fraternities. Fraternities may
carry out their pledge programs from the hours of 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m., with two exceptions. First is the
Friday and Saturday provision, and secondly, pledge activities may be extended until 10:00 p.m., on two other nights during the
period.

The collective responsibility of (Continued On Page Four)

SIXTH IN SERIES

Players Inc. To Give “Henry IV”

Players Incorporated, a celebrated repertory company of Washington, D. C., will present Shakespeare’s “Henry IV (Part I),” Tuesday, February 19,
at 8:15 p.m., in Chambers Auditorium. This will be the sixth event of the Davidson College Artist Series. The Players
are one of the finest touring organizations in their field. In the past seven years they have traveled from one
end of the country to the other. Twice they have appeared on the battlefields of Korea, and twice they have
performed for the Department of Defense, in Europe. Last season they performed Shakespeare in the Arctic.

All of the group are graduates of the Speech and Drama department of Catholic University, in Washington, D. C. Each
member of the group has had considerable professional experience. One of the most outstanding of the group is William Callahan,
who recently appeared for 36 weeks in the Broadway production, “Anastasia.” Mr. Callahan will take the role of Falstaff in
the production here. Their presentation, “Henry IV (Part I),” combines drama and excitement with humor and fun to create a
highly entertaining evening.

The Alpha Nu Chapter of Eta Sigma Phi, national honorary classical fraternity, was reactivated at Davidson College in special initiation
ceremonies in the Green Room of the College Union on Monday evening. The occasion marked the culmination of a semester’s
effort to re-institute the dormant chapter of one of Davidson's oldest honorary fraternities. The effort began this fall with the
establishment of the Classical Club, an organization which petitioned Eta Sigma Phi for a re-granting of a former charter. Eta
Sigma Phi recognizes excellence in the study of the classical languages, as well as an appreciation for the total culture
of Greece and Rome. Three Davidson College faculty members, Dr. E. A. Beaty, Dr. George Labban, and Professor John Bailey,
were in charge of the initiation ceremony, assisted by Dr. Labban. Fifteen members of the faculty. Dr. Beaty was in
charge of the initiation ceremony, assisted by Dr. Labban. Fifteen members of the faculty.The student body were initiated at the
Monday evening ceremonies. These were Carl Cooper, Ben Farley, Bob Haywood, Steve Huntley, Neil McMillan, Harry Paschall, John Trotti, Randy
Daniel, Grier David, Jr., DeWitt Roper, Willie Thompson, Carter Daniel, Bob Groome, Tom Kernan, and Edward Wilson, Jr. This is
the first honorary fraternity to be added at Davidson since 1951.

Dr. Carl R. Pritchett Is Vespers Speaker

Dr. Carl R. Pritchett, former secretary of the Davidson Y.M.C.A. and pastor of the college church, will speak at Vespers
this Sunday evening. A native of Salisbury, Dr. Pritchett has, throughout his career, probably spoken to more Davidson men than
any other minister, as local pastor, as platform speaker at student conferences, and as a vespers and chapel preacher. After
graduating from Davidson in 1930 and serving as Y.M.C.A. secretary until 1932, Dr. Pritchett entered Union Theological Seminary where he
received both his Bachelor of Divinity and his Master of Theology. During the thirteen years that he was pastor of
the college church, he was awarded a Doctor of Divinity degree by the college.

‘Winter Wonderland’ Is Dance Weekend Theme

Midwinters dance weekend, with Woody Herman and his Fourth Herd doing the honors, officially arrived tonight as a fitting climax
to Valentine's Day and the February full moon. Approximately 450 dates descended this afternoon and evening, with a Winter Wonderland
motif in the decorations for the weekend. Liberal sprinklings of icicles and snow featured in the usually bleak corridors of
Belk dormitory. Even under the slightly modified system of the usual housing arrangements, there were a few difficulties in getting
all the visitors comfortably settled in their assigned rooms. However, once this matter was completed, events began to take shape
with their usual rapidity.

The first official item on the busy weekend agenda was the presentation of the lively two-act comedy, “Gramercy Ghost,” by
John Cecil Holm, a play which had a successful run on Broadway in 1951. The performance, presented by the Red
and Black Masquers, was given before a full house this evening, despite the fact that all the stags of the
campus were absent, having already seen the play on Thursday night. These stags were preparing their attack for the evening
in their own roles of “snakes.”

“WINTER WONDERLAND”

Following the play, couples proceeded to Johnson Gymnasium, where Woody Herman, the bandleader with the magic clarinet, led his popular
Fourth Herd in the traditional dance favorites. There were exclamations over the “Winter Wonderland” decorations.

Next Wednesday morning the Davidson College Board of Trustees will hold its semi-annual meeting here. Following the morning session from
10 a.m. to 1 p.m., the trustees will attend a luncheon. After hearing the report of President John R. Cunningham,
the Trustees will act upon his recommendations. New members of the 55-member Board are: Mr. George M. King of Bristol,
Tenn., one of the twelve representatives of the Alumni Association; Mr. R. K. Gregory of Deland, Fla., St. John’s Presbytery;
Mr. C. L. Stanford of Oakland, Fla., St. John’s Presbytery. Also, Mr. Harold B. Wahl of Jacksonville, Fla., Suwanee Presbytery;
Mr. Roderick K. Shaw of Tallahassee, Fla., Florida Presbytery; and Mr. Jerome B. Clark of Fayetteville, N. C., Fayetteville Presbytery.

KNOW LANGUAGES

Whale Explains Theory Of Ministerial Training

Amidst the demand and intensity of Davidson College's Winter Services, Dr. John S. Whale found a few moments to relax
in comparative solitude. The famed Congregational minister, author, and lecturer turned his attention aside from a prepared address to engage
in conversation. “There ought to be some variation in evangelism,” he observed. “Of course, all evangelists must say basically the
same thing, but they can vary their methods. Here in America they all seem to do it the same way.”

CLASSICAL LANGUAGE

Approaching the subject of Christian ministry in a more general manner, he brogued, “Get your grounding in Greek and Latin.
It's good discipline and it’s the way to understanding. So many preach the ‘blood’, deliver the (Continued On Page Four)

Tea Dance Offered During Midwinters

Plans have been laid by the Student Union Social Committee for a tea dance immediately following the concert by Herman’s
“Fourth Herd” on Saturday afternoon. The reception-type affair promises quiet relaxing combo music for listening or dancing, refreshments and a
pleasant decorative atmosphere. It is the purpose of the College Union to offer free of charge its facilities to the
entire student body.

Hocsak Tells Of Violence, Bloodshed In Revolution

By ISTVAN HOCSAK As Told to Laurens Walker (Second of a Series)

(Continuing this week, Istvan Hocsak gives his own eyewitness account of revolt in Hungary. Last week, Hocsak traced the events
leading up to the October insurrection. In this installment, the story continues as the Rebels take up arms against the
Russians. —the Editors)

During the night after the attack on the radio station, I heard sporadic gunfire in distant parts of the city.
I didn’t yet know that the Revolution had begun in earnest. In the morning when I got up, I heard
a lot of noise in the streets, so I opened the window and looked out. I saw a truck, full
of young people waving rifles in the air, moving slowly down the street, toward the Parliament building. The people already
crowding the streets were shouting, “Don’t shoot Hungarians, only ‘Ruskies’!” I didn't go to work that day, believing that I
should stay home with my family. Anyway, I probably couldn't have gotten through the crowded streets to my job. The
radio broadcast continued governmental threats that “all the rebels would be killed if they didn’t stop fighting.” I decided that
the safest thing I could do for my family was to move them to (Continued On Page Four)

DOWNTOWN BUDAPEST, shown diagrammatically above, was the scene of much of the fighting described by Istvan Hocsak in his accompanying
article. Centers of the struggle were the Parliament Building (A), the Secret Police Headquarters (B), the Hocsak home (C), the
Ministry of Agriculture (D), and the local Bakery (E).
