FRIDAY, MARCH 15, 1957

Helpful Suggestion

Receiving assignments from his supervising professor begins a typical week for a Davidson Honors student. These assignments serve as a guide for the week.

FIRST GRADUATES IN 1940
C. K. Brown Credited With Initiating Program

The first Davidson honors graduate received his degree in 1940. That year there were three graduates who had participated in honors programs. These men were E. C. Huleu, Economics; Frank Simmons, Jr., Economics; and John L. Withers, Jr., History. These graduates represent a long period of growth for honors at Davidson.

The late Dr. C. K. Brown first urged the faculty to approve honors education during the early thirties. While this approval was eventually forthcoming, candidates for the new program were not. Dr. Brown, believing that an honors program was necessary at Davidson if it was to fulfill its obligation as a liberal arts college offering an education to meet student needs, continued to push his program. His hope was realized in 1940.

The earliest honors work was restricted to the fields of history and economics. More recently, the English department has established its program as have the Sociology and Political Science departments. Since 1940, forty-three men have received degrees in honors. Twenty-four have received the B.S. and nineteen the A.B. Numbered among this group of forty-three are several Rhodes Scholars, Danforth Scholars, and other winners of outstanding graduate fellowships.

Sociology Grad

In recent years, the History and English departments have somewhat monopolized the honors program. All 1957 honors graduates will have taken their work in History or English except one man who is working in Sociology. The possibilities of the program seem unlimited. A present trend to specialization points to a future of education fitted to the needs of the individual student. This year, for the first time, an honors program has been split between two major subjects. Two juniors, Lloyd Chapin and Willard Wolfe, are successfully combining English and History in a specially requested program. Dan LaFar, Student Body president, and a history major, is pioneering this year in an honors course of Southern History. The prospects are that next year at least two men will combine history and political science in another specially requested program which has thus far received faculty approval and needs only the working out of technical details.

By LAURENS WALKER

A cold February night found us on the way to a history seminar. The particular seminar in question was held for history honors students and the location was the home of one of Davidson’s most distinguished professors. At the door, we are warmly greeted by the professor who holds his atmosphere-lending pipe in hand as he introduces us to his wife and teenage daughter. The group of six honors students has already assembled, at least in front of the television. We listen intently to the comments about Jackie Gleason’s wit, and note, somewhat surprised, that the Professor and his wife seem to know a good deal more about the subject than the students.

After some time, we begin to wonder about the history, but the casual suggestion by the Professor, “Well, gentlemen, shall we go into the study?” signals that the Civil War has taken precedence over the more modern subject.

The study is just as you and I had imagined it. The furniture is completely of the “red leather” variety, and our attention is immediately attracted by the tremendous oversized desk of the host and by the seeming sea of books which surround us from floor to ceiling.

The honors men seat themselves across one end of the room and face the Professor who has already chosen the largest chair of the study as his “platform” for the evening.

Down To Work

The work begins as the teacher briefly outlines the period of history to be covered and points out certain questions that he hopes to answer before the evening is over. With the preliminaries thus completed, the first question of the evening goes to the students seated near the fireplace. It is a leading question as were all those asked that evening. Our rather limited knowledge of the subject tells us that several books could probably be written on the question which the honors man is trying to answer in five minutes. This process is repeated many times during the evening. On certain debatable subjects, there is lively discussion, but there is very little talk for the “sake of being heard.” All the men choose their words carefully, each trying to make his position clearly understood. Though there is, of course, attention to fact, the largest part of the material discussed seems to be of a theoretical nature. On any important point, the opinions of several prominent historians are carefully examined in order to gain a broader picture of the subject.

We become so absorbed in the stream of events and men that seem to be flowing across the room we forget that two hours have slipped away. We are jolted back to the world of 1957 and Jackie Gleason by a persistent knock on the door. The Professor rises, opens the door, and welcomes his charming wife into the sanctum of history.

What To Drink?

Pleasantries are exchanged around the room, and then she asks us what we'd like to drink. Being still a little confused by the crises of 1861, we hesitate for a minute and then manage to choke out “coffee, please.” The other six answer “milk” or “coffee” in a tone that leads us to believe this is a usual occurrence. We return for a few minutes to 1861, but just as we are beginning to dispel our confusion, there is another rap at the door, and the Professor's wife enters again. This time she brings a large tray with eight delicious-looking pieces of pie smothered in whipped cream. Her daughter brings coffee and milk. We find that the pie is homemade pecan and that it is some of the most delicious we have ever enjoyed.

More Coffee

The conversation turns to campus activities of the past weekend and the week to come. Dance bands, the degree change, and faculty opinions come in for careful consideration. Almost everybody has a second cup of coffee. We are feeling very comfortable and relaxed when the professor suggests that the group ought to make one final stab at 1861.

Despite our curiosity to find out who really did win the Civil War, we decide to excuse ourselves, knowing that the pie and coffee have stolen our one hope for understanding Lincoln and his Yankees. We thank the honors men and the Professor for inviting us down, and they cordially extend an invitation to return another evening. We are shown to the door by the Professor. As we walk up the gravel path to the car, we wonder if education has ever been so enjoyable?

Seminar Students Battle Clocks, Bells

English honors students meeting in the home of professor W. P. Cumming find they have difficulty in not “clock watching.” Dr. Cumming is the owner of one of the largest collections of clocks in this area. He has several in every room of his house, with a particular concentration in his study. They are regulated so that they strike in a seemingly endless procession. With the heavy concentration required for Milton, Shakespeare, and the like, students sometimes wonder whether the bells are of the psychological variety, or whether they are Dr. Cumming's.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

mated his junior and senior years. Sentiment were the reflections of those students now engaged in English and History “honors” work. “The opportunity for broad and independent study is invaluable, and I wish more courses could be taught under the same conditions,” commented Bunny Perkin. “Critical approach” and “real scholarship” were terms used by the graduates to define the gains they had received. “The program served as a needed transition from the academic spoon-feeding peculiar to freshman-sophomore study to the cafeteria-type education of graduate school,” spoke Joel Coyrpoe of the Class of 1956. Leon Howell emphasized the “critical application” to their own experience. Moody Smith, 1954, declared that “the ‘honors’ work effectively meets the challenge of those who claim that the smaller college cannot offer the necessary stimulus to the good student.” Jason McManus, 1956, suggested “differentiating between the graduate school-bound man and the ‘generalist’ pursuing his own inclinations.” Rhodes Scholar Charles Davis presented the possibility of “integrating the intensive study of one related foreign language with the chosen ‘honors’ work.” 

Willard Wolfe stated another advantage lies in “the intimate association with the professor,” as presented by Carl Cooper. Lloyd Chapin provided an interesting sidelight on the program from his position as both an English and a History “honors” student. Tom Morgan expressed the conviction of students in the benefits rendered by the program: “When I consider the hosts of interesting and important books which I miss reading, I wonder how one can call that education.” 

Phil Kukura summed up the expression of the group when he said: “The biggest advantage of ‘honors’ is that it gives the students more time and thus eliminates constant cramming and allows him to branch out and examine related and more particular ideas that pique his interest.” 

Coffee Break Discussion

Honors students from different departments gather to exchange ideas. Above, English and History men talk informally in the College Union.

INITIATED IN 1955

Honors Looks To Future With New Seminar Group

The Interdepartmental Seminar is an experimental phase of the Davidson Honor’s program. Its purpose is to help the student: (a) understand the total impact of modern industrial society and world affairs upon our life, (b) tie together his Liberal Arts education and discover the relevance of its insights for meeting the problems posed by today’s world, and (c) work out for himself his guiding world view and sense of ethical responsibility. Guided by similar programs undertaken at Princeton, Wesleyan University, and many other schools, the Davidson seminar has sprung from a concern to make the Liberal Arts education full and meaningful to the student, precluding insofar as is possible any feeling on his part that his education has been a compartmented or irrelevant one.

Professors Lead

Initiated in September, 1955, the program was an experimental interest group for seniors with no course credit. Under the leadership of Professors Malcolm McAfee and H. P. Ford, the program has now been incorporated into the curriculum as a year course carrying 1/3-hour course credit each semester. Dr. Ford contributes, “Certain underlying themes guide the discussions, but no pressure is brought on the student to adopt anything but his own intellectual and ethical positions.” The participating faculty underscores the interdepartmental nature of the seminar, since the sessions have been led to date by representatives from the departments of Bible, Psychology, Sociology, Political Science, History, Economics, Business Administration, Mathematics, Spanish, Biology, Chemistry, Music, and Art. Two or more faculty members participate in a given session, and on a few occasions, invited resource guests from outside have led or participated in the discussions. Helpful guidance for the program has come from the Davidson faculty at large, from faculty members of other schools, and from panel discussions of the program held at the annual 1956 meetings of the National Council on Religion in Higher Education and of the North Carolina Faculty Christian Fellowship.

Davidson Gives Personal Approach To Curriculum

Honors at Davidson reflects the College’s eye toward the future. This forward-looking approach to undergraduate education will, this June, mark its seventeenth year of activity in giving men an education tailor-made to their needs. Davidson students become eligible for honors work during their Junior and Senior years. Any student who has a scholastic average of 2.25 for all work prior to his Junior year may apply to the Dean of the Faculty for permission to become a candidate for honors. Each application must be accompanied by the recommendation of the department in which the man wishes to do his work. In actual practice, the planning of an honors program involves more than an application to the office of the Dean. Each honors applicant is questioned carefully by the professors under whom he will do his work as to what type of program he desires, and just what he hopes to eventually derive from his studies. His formal acceptance must come, of course, through the Dean's office.

Weekly Schedule

The weekly schedule for honors men is generally the same, regardless of the subject. After the seminar of the previous week, the individual students discuss with their professor the material to be covered during the following week, and select, with his guidance, a program of readings to be done in preparation for the next weekly or bi-weekly seminar. He then begins a period of reading and research on the subject matter to be discussed. The exact nature of this individual work depends on the field. For example, English honors students will perhaps concern themselves with the reading of three or four novels, whereas a history student will try to read extracts from many sources in order to build a general knowledge of the period to be discussed. Honors men do much of their study in library carrels. There, study desks are reserved for honors men who fit them out to suit their personal needs or tastes.

Students Gather

Discussion over a cup of coffee in the Student Union or on the campus plays a very important part in the week of research. Often times honors men from various departments will gather to throw new light on each other's particular fields. The culmination of the study period is the seminar. These groups usually meet in the home of the supervisory professor. He leads the discussion, pointing out important concepts and adding material overlooked by the students. These sessions last from two to four hours, and rarely fail to produce lively discussion as well as good fellowship.

ALL FULFILL MAJOR PURPOSE

Honors Systems Vary Over Collegiate Nation

By DABNEY STUART

In the curriculum of colleges and universities throughout the nation, honors programs fulfill a major purpose in both undergraduate and graduate study. In some institutions, the term “honors” has a different connotation than it possesses at Davidson. The designation “with honors” affixed to a diploma from the University of Florida means generally two things: that the student completed his work with a minimum average of B plus, and that he successfully undertook comprehensive oral and written examinations at the close of his senior year. Offering an honors program similar to that of Davidson, the University of California covers a much wider area of undergraduate study. The system is divided into two sections, designated as upper and lower programs. As its name indicates, the lower program is set up for superior students in the freshman and sophomore classes. Admittance to this arrangement rests on the achievements of a student during the first semester of his freshman year. He must maintain a B-plus average in passing fifteen hours of work, and he must secure approval of a special faculty committee. He then is allowed independent study on certain selected courses and may secure advanced work if he so desires. Designated for juniors and seniors, the upper program requires similar achievements during the student's first two years. Seminar-type classes and independent research characterize the organization. The student may also take one course independently per semester outside of his major field, on which he is marked “passed” or “not passed.” The standard for “passed” is “C” or above but the grade is not included in the final average of the student. The College of Arts and Sciences at Harvard University offers its honors program only to graduate students. However, seniors who are candidates for graduate work in fields requiring General (overall) Exams, are exempt from exams in their field of concentration during their last semester. In the graduate program, aspirants to a Master's Degree attend “Conference” groups as classes. Those seeking Doctorates attend seminars which are limited to eight members.

Informal Climax

Seminars end the week of work with questions, discussions, and fellowship. These gatherings are held in the supervising professor’s home.