PAGE TWO The Davidsonian The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

JOHN TRASK
EDITOR

GERALD WILSON
ASSISTANT EDITOR

BOB LATHAN
MANAGING EDITOR

ED STEVENS
PHOTOGRAPHER

“One Way”---What Next?

The first sign of progress in any small town is the abundance of traffic lights. The next step, we see,
is the “one-way” street. Will the final step be to include Davidson on the list of the “ten most likely
cities to be hit with H-Bombs”?

Small College?

The latest Davidson College Bulletin states that “Davidson is a particular kind of college . . . liberal-arts . .
. independent of state control . . . church-related . . . and a SMALL COLLEGE, PRIDING ITSELF ON THE
PERSONAL RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN STUDENTS AND FACULTY, STUDENTS AND THEIR FELLOWS.” Two years ago, the Trustees voted to make Davidson a
bigger college. This year, we see the first evidence of a bigger Davidson. The facts are not all so rosy
as we would like them to be. But the Trustees have given the word. Many classes are filled to the
limit. Many have 40, 50, or close to 60 men in one class. In fact, some rooms are so crowded
that the desks must be packed edge to edge. “You have to come early to get a seat” is no
longer a laughing matter. A great majority of boys came to Davidson because it is a small school. We would
like to keep it that way. At least we're glad to see that the auditorium stage will still seat all
of the faculty. We haven't yet passed the point of no return.

Don't Be Just Another Body

Beginning Monday night, each freshman will begin the round of parties that will introduce him to Davidson’s fraternities. He will
be beset by eager rushers. He will be made to feel quite important by all the ostensible fanfare. But at
the end of the week—when all the niceties are over—each freshman will be left to decide for himself with which
fraternity he will be most happy. The best advice, so it is said, is no advice. So we are not
going to tell the freshmen how to pick a fraternity, or a fraternity how to pick a pledge. But what
we do say is this. Fraternities don’t end with the closing of Rush Week. The real work should be just
beginning. The fraternities should make every effort to avoid the frustrations of so-called “Flush Week.” It is indeed unfortunate that
so many fraternity men think that their job is over when they’ve helped to bag a good group of pledges.
On the other hand, the freshmen ought to realize that the same characteristics and personality factors that won them a
bid are the same traits that will continue to

DAVIDSONIAN

FRESHMEN PUSHED BACK

The new freshmen class held their first riot of the season this past Sunday night. Battling with yells and pans
of water, the new members of the Davidson community were successfully thrown back by a small group of upperclassmen. The
raging freshmen, many in bathing suits, stormed the front of Belk Dormitory. A few entered the building, but most kept
a safe distance on the lawn in front. This was the first real demonstration of independence that the new class
has shown since they arrived Thursday, Sept. 12. Some explained the riot by saying that Sunday night was the last
“free” night they would have.

WILDCAT CO-CAPTAINS

Dave Fagg (left) and Bill Price discuss strategy for tonight's opening game with the Catawba Indians. The two teams will
clash at 8 p.m., in Charlotte's Memorial Stadium. (Photo by Ed Stevens)

ROTC Faculty Has New Faces

Lt. Col. William L. Adams, Jr., has been named professor of military science and tactics at Davidson College, replacing Lt.
Col. John D. Sapp, here since 1954. The majority of upperclassmen arrived the next day.

LITTLE MAN ON CAMPUS by Dick Bibler

FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 1957

Sports Talk by GEORGE RAMSEY

Dear folks,

The rat race is herewith begun. We of the Davidson elite have now settled somewhat uncomfortably into new dorms, new
classes, and gaze hopefully down behind Mr. Stacks’ stomping grounds to the new fraternity court. The Class of 1961 is
now very oriented, very polite, and very allergic to grass. They are also bigger and rowdier than any of their
immediate predecessors. At least they think so. There are rumors that Bill Dole, our football coach, is running over with
talent, but the cliché “a ship without a captain” is being resurrected, as the team has lost its two experienced
quarterbacks. Sophomore Charlie Benson, who throws from the wrong side, is pretty much the key to the Davidson fortunes. At
least, that’s the impression you get around here. Stated concisely, the Wildcats remind us of Jayne Mansfield—big up front and
a backfield that should attract a lot of rave notices. Other topics around the dome include the expanded soccer schedule,
the promising freshman basketball prospects, the adventures of the pea pickers, and Orval Faubus.

Your loving son,
GEORGE

Flock Comes To Roost

Three other new ROTC instructors, Capt. John W. Mitchell, 1st Lt. Thomas V. Brooks, and M-Sgt. Walter C. Wallace, have
joined the military staff here over the summer. Another officer is expected to arrive late in the fall. Capt. John
W. Thompson is the lone officer hold-over from last year's ROTC detachment. Col. Adams, charged with the overall supervision of
military instruction at Davidson, is a graduate of Centenary College (La.) and Louisiana State University. He comes to Davidson from
a Far East assignment in Thailand, where he was senior artillery advisor to the Royal Thailand Army. Prior to entering
the Army, Col. Adams was publicity director at radio station WWL in New Orleans and secretary of the Vivian (La.)
Chamber of Commerce. He is 43 years old. Capt. Mitchell, a native of Lexington, S. C., is a 1950 Citadel
graduate. A veteran of 13 months in Korea, he comes here after completion of the Advanced infantry officer's course at
Fort Benning, Ga. He will serve as sophomore military instructor and coach the cadet rifle team. Lt. Brooks, commissioned via
Georgia Tech ROTC in 1952, is aNative of Sanford, N.C., he has just completed an advanced anti-aircraft and guided missile
course at Ft. Bliss, Texas. Brooks will be the MS I instructor and serve as detachment supply officer. Gastonia-born Sgt.
will act as heavy weapons instructor at Davidson. The 15-year veteran comes here after serving as battalion operations sergeant of
a helicopter battalion at Ft. Benning, Ga.

Dr. James M. Frederickson, a former research chemist, and more recently Professor of Chemistry at Hampden-Sydney, will become Associate Professor
of Chemistry. Dr. Ernest F. Patterson comes from the University of Alabama to Davidson to be Associate Professor of Economics.
From the opposite direction comes Associate Professor Walter F. Thompson who has taught at the University of Delaware. Political Science
students will study under Dr. Winfred P. Minter (Ph.D. Chicago) who comes to us from Colorado State University. Assistant Professor
William F. Goodykoontz (A.B., L.L.B., George Washington) will teach English. While Professor J. W. Reid is away from the campus
for the 1957-58 academic year, Geography courses will be taught by Mr. Richard H. McInvaill. Dr. Walter L. Robinson (Ph.D.,
University of Texas) will join Dr. Beaty and Dr. French in the German Department. Mr. Grover C. Meetze, Jr., joined
the staff as Assistant Superintendent of Building and Grounds and Instructor of Physics. He received the B.S. degree from Davidson
with special attainments in Chemistry. Lt. Col. William L. Adams, Jr., has been named professor of military science and tactics.
Assisting him will be 1st Lt. Thomas V. Brooks who will be the MS I instructor and also serve as
detachment supply officer.

By J. V. LEEGG

With a look made of something other than “sweet accord,” Davidson's finest have again returned to the fold. Now that
registration is complete, the old friendships (“So you have a new car?”) are being renewed, and the saddened faces are
beginning to smile (“Where to this weekend, Mac?”). The many red beanies signal that a host of gay young blades
have also blessed the campus with their presence. This year’s crop is no more staid than in past years—one riot
even during Orientation. Statistically, the newest class on campus presents some interesting points. The geographical background of the freshman class
is more concentrated than in years past. Five states, North Carolina, South Carolina, Virginia, Florida, and Georgia, sent 90% of
the Class of ‘61. In the “future plans” department, the class is more diversified than their predecessors, with the largest
definite group again being the Pre-Meds with 42. The two most noticeable shifts have been in the Engineering field, which
rose to 28, and in the Pre-Ministerial contingent, which fell from last year’s 35 to 14. As always, the majority
of the freshmen are undecided. The overall upperclass picture will not be available until the Registrar's office digs out from
under the “Now do I have to have a sixth period?” avalanche.

NAMES CHANGED

Same building, different name:
East is East
But West is Cannon
And New is Little, too.

Nice Vacation? GOOD! This Fall We Have The Best Selection Ever DROP IN AND BROWSE AWHILE

Wilson-Wright's, Inc.
“Collegiate Fashions”
Davidson, N.C.

To Upperclassmen

Upon your return to the campus this week, you found the Class of 1961 engaged in the final period of
orientation. You found these men being schooled in the traditions and ideals of Davidson, the administration of College policy, and
the physical makeup of the school, just as you were when your classes arrived on the Hill for the first
time. I have been closely associated with the Class of 1961 for more than a week now and, if I
may, I would like to express a personal opinion. The men of the Freshman Class have amply exhibited the quality
and potential which is expected of Davidson men. I feel sure that upon graduation the Class of 1961 will give
to the nation another outstanding group of leaders, fully aware of their responsibilities and obligations to society—Bill Fraley.

“Splendid interview—he’s eccentric, bigoted, an’ liberal. He'll make a fine addition to the faculty.”

WELCOME DAVIDSONIANS!

SILVER DOLLAR LP SALE!
For Davidson Students and Faculty Only!
BUY ONE 3.98 LP and We'll GIVE You ONE SILVER DOLLAR

Your date will appreciate your thoughtfulness in dining her where perfection is a tradition.

—AND—

A Special Membership Card in the JOE LITTLE RECORD CLUB which will Save You up to 35% on ALL your
LP purchases this year! (15% average. ONE WEEK ONLY - HURRY! Limit One Dollar per customer, in person only!

When the best is none too good, dine here. The superb cuisine, deft service and congenial atmosphere leave nothing to
be desired. Yet, your check will be on the modest side. Come in... soon!

BEST T-BONE STEAK SERVED IN TOWN

College Restaurant
Main St.
Davidson, N.C.

“Opposite Ivey's Fifth St. Entrance”
126 WEST FIFTH STREET
CHARLOTTE
