THEY'RE OFF! The class of 1961 bolts across the starting line in last Monday’s annual cake race. Verner Stanley of
Charlotte captured first in the traditional run, covering the course in the time of 10:26.5. (Photo by Ed Stevens.)

Sportsstuff BY GEORGE RAMSEY

All over the country, moans have been heard to arise over the sad physical state in which we find ourselves.
From the halls of the White House to the shores of California it’s been complained that we greatly neglect our
bodies in these days of luxury. Perhaps it can be encouraging to Davidsonians to note that this year’s freshman class
has far outstripped the last two crops in coach Tom Scott's prescribed P.T. tests.

62% PASSED

Dr. Scott recently released the figures on the results of the test as administered to the class of 1961. Over
sixty-two per cent of the men who took the test successfully reached or surpassed the 290 point total. This compares
very favorably with the results of the last two years, when hardly fifty per cent qualified for the regular P.T.
course. Of the two hundred and forty-five students who took the test, one hundred and fifty-three passed. Scores ranged often
into the 400’s, at least enough to hoist the average score to 313.9 points.

THREE NEW RECORDS

Three new records were set, with Ed Garrett responsible for two of them. The speedy frosh was clocked at 10.5
seconds in the 100-yard dash for a new mark, and went on to rack up 532.2 points, a new high.
Another freshman, Bill Cannon, with 513.9 points, also broke the old mark, formerly held by Max Bryan. In addition to
the two records Garrett set, four men shared the honor of establishing a new mark in the dodge run. A.
J. Dickens, V. E. Stanley, R. M. Henderson, and J. E. Vaughn raced around the hurdles in 21.5 seconds.

Dr. Scott mentioned that he was planning to send this information to each freshman, along with his individual score, and
the average score for each event. This is being done in the hope that it will encourage each of the
students to better his own marks.

SWIMMING TEST

He also revealed plans for a new swimming test, to be given to all P.T. students during their weekly swimming
period. The test, which is to be pitched between the junior and senior life-saving tests, will consist of most of
the tests which are included in a regular life-saving program. Upon passing the swimming test, a student will be thereafter
excused from the weekly swimming period, and will be allowed to choose his activity for that period. Those who fail
to pass will remain in the swimming class.

Although Davidson does not claim to be a mecca of athletes, it might well appear that athletic ability on the
campus is on the upswing and perhaps we'll show ‘em that there is, after all, such a thing as a
brawny “brain.”

Your “natural” choice will be declared the winner. The College Union will be at 6 p.m. on Friday following the
THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

Davidson's Wildcats en N. C., with many pre-season doubts produced the biggest surprise over Catawba. Most vital of the quarterbacking
of Charlie Benson. The easy-going sophomore displayed poise and ability becoming that of a seasoned veteran. Despite very little experience
last year, Benson called his shots well and kept the Cat offense constantly on the move.

Verner Stanley Wins Cake Race By PRENTICE BROWN

Verner Stanley, who hails from Charlotte, became the second freshman from the Queen City in as many years to win
the annual Cake Race when he coasted home first last Monday afternoon.

POTENT LINE

The suspicions that Coach Bill Dole might have the best line in his career here went a long way toward
being confirmed. With the aid of valuable relief by the second platoon, Stanley covered the 1.6-mile cross-country course in the
time of 10:26.5, finishing well ahead of the pack, and two hundred yards ahead of runner-up Roger Beebe of Atlanta.
Following the leaders were Bill Cannon, Ralph McKeithen, Jim Nuckolls, George Kirkpatrick, Tim Ray, Lewis Wyche, Monty Van Ness, and
Mike Grant in the top ten.

Coach Heath Whittle, cross-country mentor, was somewhat disappointed in this year's winning time, which was two minutes off the record
set last year by Charlottean Jim Alexander in the first race over the new course. The cake race has been
a yearly affair since 1933, when it was initiated in an effort to promote the spirit of the Freshman Class.

Name Room P. O. Box HOME TEAM VISITING TEAM Davidson Citadel Vanderbilt Alabama T.C.U. Arkansas Penn State Army Miami Baylor
California Mich. State Clemson N. C. State Duke Maryland Kentucky Florida Furman Geo. Washington Michigan Georgia Notre Dame Indiana Minnesota
Purdue Tennessee Miss. State North Carolina Navy U.C.L.A. Oregon Southern Calif. Pittsburgh Texas South Carolina Richmond V.M.I. Wake Forest Virginia
Total Points By all 40 Teams

The Davidsonian introduces a weekly football guessing contest, in which you, the readers of the paper, are invited to select
the winners of next weekend’s top contests.

SUPER-WINSTON PRODUCTIONS presents You'll be Sioux Nice toCome Home to ... gage Eastern Carolina College in a gridiron battle tomorrow
night in Greenville. Questions and doubts favorably cleared up on the basis of last week's 26-7 win session the one-yard
line from where Lou Biacchi sneaked over. Ignoring the blocked kick, the punting average was 33.7 yards per try as
compared to last year’s average of better than 39 yards.

WEAK PASS DEFENSE

Late in the second period, Catawba began to take advantage of a lapse in the Red and White's pass defense
and threatened before running out of steam. The second half showed an improved situation except for passes into the flat.
Quarterback Biacchi, lauded as one of the state’s best passers, suffered as did everyone else from a wet ball. Dave
Warden's barrage of Catawba’s middle defense aided the end skirts of Paul Barbee and Ralph Setzier, all of which gave
the victors a well-balanced ground attack to mix with the short passes of Benson, who had evident trouble with his
long tosses.

Davidson's scoring opened with a jump-pass from Benson to Harold Westervelt for 37 yards. Warden accounted for one with a
dash around the left end, bulling his way through the last seven yards. Barbee dodged ten yards for his first
score and outran the defensive left end for eight yards. Saturday's clash is the first meeting between the schools in
any sport and is somewhat of a reversed homecoming. Coach Dole, who came to Davidson from Eastern Carolina, as for
Wildcats Harriers Cats Invade E. Carolina Gridders Bounce Catawba In Opener.

By BOBBY PAGE

By JIM HAMILTON

Soccer season opened last week, with forty addicts of the hard-toed shoe reporting to coach J. W. McCutchan for the
initial practice. Assisting coach McCutchan this season will be Professor Marrotte, of the history department. With nine lettermen returning, plus
five other members from last year's outfit, prospects appear hopeful for the Wildcats in their third year of intercollegiate soccer.

1957 SOCCER SCHEDULE

The 1957 schedule, featuring three Atlantic Coast Conference schools, is as follows:
Oct. 4——-Duke (Away)
Oct. 11-—-Pfeiffer
Oct. 14——Washington and Lee
Oct. 18-—-N. C. State
Oct. 25—North Carolina (Homecoming)
Nov. 2-—-Warren Wilson
Nov. 9—Washington and Lee
Nov. 15--Pfeiffer
Nov. 23—-Warren Wilson

At Davidson Open Next Friday

Next Friday coach Whittle will send his cross-country charges into their first meet of the 1957 season, a three-way affair
with Washington and Lee and V.M.I. The men of the limber limbs will christen the new season on the local
course, with the Wildcats in hopes of bettering their mediocre record of last year. Chances of an opening meet victory,
however, are slim as the 'Cats are not in good condition, according to Whittle, due to the rush week.

Number one on the 1956 squad, McBryde, captain-elect of the 1957 edition. McBryde placed third in the conference last season
and was named to the all-S.C. team. Also returning for another year of competition are Graham George, Jim Alexander, and
Jim Patterson. Two freshmen, Andy Agett and Roger Beebe, have shown promise of bolstering the team.

The complete schedule is as follows:
Oct. 5--Washington and Lee VMI
Oct. 10--Wake Forest
Oct. 18--Conference Meet Morganton

QUARTERBACK CHARLIE BENSON zeroes his sights on favorite targets Harold Westervelt (left) and Craig Wall as the Davidson Wildcats polish
up their surprising air attack for tomorrow's game with East Carolina. (Photo by Ed Stevens.)

Soccer Prospects Good

The intercollegiate soccer team was all-Southern Conference goalie Freddie Butler. Returning lettermen include Ross Smyth, Frank Holt, Ed Ervin, Gordon
Neville, and George Sutcliffe on the line, Pete Andrews, Pete Ramm, and Sam Smith at halfbacks, and John Kuykendall at
fullback. Biggest loss from last year's team was all-Southern Conference goalie Freddie Butler. Others missing from that team include lettermen
Bill Martin, Jock Reeder, and George Egerton. During the first few practice sessions, devoted to fundamentals, several new faces have
appeared to fill the shoes of the departed.

Welcome

TATE-BROWN’S UNIVERSITY SHOP

We welcome you and wish for you a most wonderful year. When in Charlotte—come visit us... it will be a
pleasure to cash your checks and if you need to charge any purchases we will be happy to arrange for
it. Come in for your free copy of the “Little Blue Book,” a complete encyclopedia of sports.

DRESS RIGHT... YOU CAN’T AFFORD NOT TO

Old West

Each week, for the remaining eight weekends of the football season, twenty top games will be selected and printed on
a ballot similar to the one above. To indicate your choice for the winner, circle either team of each pair.
To indicate a tie, circle both teams.

WEEKLY PRIZE

A weekly prize of $2.50 toward the purchase of any merchandise at Wilson-Wright's clothing store will be awarded to that
reader who correctly selects the greatest number of winners. In case of a tie, the contestant who guesses closest to
the total number of points scored by all forty teams will win.

DEADLINE

Deadline for depositing entries in the ballot box, which will be found at the main desk issue in which the
ballot appears. Each reader may submit only one entry per week. At the end of the eight weeks, that person
who has chosen the greatest percent of the winners over the period will be awarded a grand prize, which will
be announced at a later date. To be eligible for the grand prize, a reader must participate in at least
seven of the eight weekly contests.

TELL HIM HOW, “WHAT” AND WHY, GET OUT OF HERE!

TRY OUT SQUATTING BULL

NEXT WEEK: CUSTER SLEPT HERE—A SCALP TINGLING MELODRAMA!

WINSTON SHOULD! LIKE A CIGARETTE

AMERICA'S BEST-SELLING, BEST-TASTING FILTER CIGARETTE!
