PAGE FOUR

Professor’s Hobby

McGAVOCK PLAYS CHESS VIA MAIL

Camping And Chess Intrigue Dr. McGavock

By GORDON LeGRAND
Davidsonian Feature Staff

Contrary to the popular conception of the college professor as a man devoted almost exclusively to intellectual and aesthetic pursuits,
Dr. William McGavock and his family are enthusiastic campers. Dr. McGavock became interested in the out-of-doors as the scout master
of the local Boy Scout troop. As their leader, he participated in several camping trips to Grandfather Mountain and other
scenic sites.

CLIMBED GRAND TETON

When in Madison, Wisconsin, three years ago, Dr. McGavock talked his family into taking a camping trip. This five-week expedition
through the West took the McGavocks through the Black Hills of Dakota, and the Tetons. At the latter spot, they
spent five days as the Doctor and his son climbed to the base of the peak of the Grand Teton.
They continued to Glacier National Park and spent a week on “Going to the Sun” Highway, where it snowed eleven
inches on the Fourth of July.

CHASED BEARS

The family chased bears out of camp and had other such experiences that one usually thinks happen only in the
Sunday supplement. Their trip then carried them to Banff, Alberta, where they spent a week in Johnson Canyon. Returning by
another route, they arrived home confirmed campers.

Ample evidence that he also has intellectual avocations is Dr. McGavock's ability as a chess player. He is especially interested
in postal chess in which the games are played through the mail. Dr. McGavock has played over a hundred players
in the past eight or ten years, including such eminent individuals as the originator of Blackwood’s “No-Trump Convention,” the wife
of Igor Piatigorsky, world-famous cellist, Nelson Bond, television fantasy writer, and Samuel Reshevsky, at one time the third-ranked player in
the world.

Martin Gives Flag In Memory Of Son

Dr. William J. Martin has presented to the Davidson ROTC Department the flag that was used to cover the casket
of his son Bill. The flag was formally accepted October 15 by Cadet Lt. Col. Charles Stowe, commander of the
regiment, on behalf of the unit and was named the William J. Martin IV Memorial Flag.

AVID CHESS PLAYER

By PETE KELLOGG
Davidsonian Staff Reporter

The 175 to 200 cases which swamped the infirmary Wednesday a week ago marked the peak of the flu epidemic.
Although no accurate statistics have been compiled, there were probably well over 300 students sick. Of Wednesday's mob, 36 were
sent home, 55 back to convalesce in their rooms, and many admitted to infirmary beds. What happened to the rest
is conjectural. The Guest House and the president's house were opened to accommodate the overflow and to give beds to
some of the students sent back to their rooms with a fever. At no time were men with a fever
of over 101 degrees sent to the dorms, and many of the lesser cases were later admitted.

INCREASED STAFF

The infirmary added to its staff six regular nurses and three practical nurses. Those employed regularly put in twelve, fourteen,
and sixteen hours a day, so that there was a registered nurse on duty around the clock at each of
the three hospitals. Public Health nurses making routine inspections were amazed that facilities could be so quickly and efficiently expanded.

They and all the patients have highly praised the treatment and handling of the great number of unexpectedly ill.

FACULTY WIVES HELP

Several faculty wives, under the supervision of Mrs. Moore, put in regular three-hour shifts on the temperature brigade, patrolling the
dorms, taking temperatures and looking for recalcitrant victims. Mrs. Moore, as were all concerned with fighting the epidemic, was very
warm in her praise of the volunteer help and the cooperation of the student body. Mrs. Nelson, Mebane, vice-president of
the Quadranglers’ Wives, organized the volunteers helping Mrs. Moore and the many women who helped with the innumerable tasks of
caring for over a hundred patients. Faculty and administration wives put in many hours nursing, carrying trays, preparing and donating
supplies and food.

Cumming, Stuart Present Poems

Richard Cumming and Dabney Stuart presented several of their original poems at a meeting of Sigma Upsilon on Thursday. These
readings were opened for criticism and attack. Later, Dr. McCutchan gave an introduction to the study of criticism and a
cursory glimpse at the current labor scene.

NEW NURSES

Bruce Jackson, long known as a cake baker, now qualifies as a volunteer nurse. Many professors contributed their august services,
mainly as waiters. To the great entertainment of the watching patients, Professor Ficklen undertook his first attempt at bed making.
Dr. Staples is reputedly an excellent study boy.

Reports from the president's house indicate a day of bridge, TV, cookies, and temperature takings. Somebody claimed to be a
walking acromycin pill. The rumor that cough medicine (48 proof, 12% codeine) mixes well with lemonade is entirely unsubstantiated.

ASIAN FLU??

It is not yet known whether or not we have been suffering from Asian flu. The variety popular here lasts
from three to five days and leaves its victim feeling dizzy, washed out, and tired for about a week. During
the peak of fever, there is a temperature of about 102, 103 degrees, lasting about twelve hours. Several hospitalized men
had had the vaccine, many as long ago as August and September. Monday, the twenty-eighth, 53 men reported back to
school but the weekend put many others to bed. By Wednesday the crisis was clearly over with only one new
patient admitted to the infirmary. The nurses were enthusiastic in their praise of the way students had cooperated and understood
difficulties. Students in turn were very pleased with the courteous and efficient care they received from college officials and the
people of Davidson.

Records Sell At 20% Discount

The Record Committee of the College Union has on display a number of records. These records are being sold at
approximately 20% discount, as a service to music-minded students. Any profits that are made will be used to purchase new
records for the Union.

Dr. Chou To Speak On Communism

I-Kua Chou, Associate Professor of Government at William and Mary College, will visit the Davidson campus on November 14th where
he will speak at various times on “Communist China and the Far East.” Dr. Chou, who has been on the
William and Mary faculty since 1949, holds degrees from such well-known schools as Fuh-Tan University of Shanghai, Harvard University, Columbia
University, and Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy. Dr. Chou will speak in the morning chapel of November 14 and
will speak again in the Union ballroom at 8:00 p.m. the same evening. The latter meeting will be of a
“student participation” nature.

Union Security Is Debate Topic

Union Security: the Right to Work Laws is to be debated Tuesday, November 5 on the Davidson campus. The subject
will be introduced in chapel, a coffee hour will follow, and in the evening at 7 o'clock in the Union
Ballroom a full-dress discussion will begin. Following this, questions on the current labor scene will be answered.

Moderating the conference is Dr. Paul Guthrie. He obtained his A.B. from Tennessee, his B.D. from Union Seminary in New
York, and his A.M. and Ph.D. from Columbia. He has taught at Randolph-Macon and is now Chairman of the Department
of Economics at the University of North Carolina. During World War II he was vice-chairman of the National War Labor
Board and a director with the National Wage Stabilization Board. He comes to us between negotiations in Chicago where he
is presently arbitrating a wage dispute.

Speaking for Management is Mr. Thornton H. Brooks, attorney from Greensboro. He was educated at the University of North Carolina,
Phi Beta Kappa. He served as an officer in the Naval Reserve in World War II, and is now a
practicing lawyer.Today a senior partner in the distinguished firm of Brooks, McLendon, Brim, and Holderness with which he has been
associated for 23 years. He is an elder in the Presbyterian Church and is a recent member of the Board
of Trustees of Union Theological Seminary and Queens College. Representing Labor is Mr. Carey E. Haigler, director of Region No.
5 in the united labor movement, AFL-CIO. He has in chapel Thursday morning by Bob Jones, IFC president. This year
the IFC will be spearheading the campaign. The drive will continue through November 5. The United Appeal is the cooperative
effort of some thirty charitable organizations to raise money for their various efforts. These include the Red Cross, Boy Scouts,
aid for invalids, and so forth. The county is raising altogether well over a million dollars in the United Appeal
so that the various organizations may continue their charitable endeavors. Last year Davidson College gave $1,779.00. It is hoped that
the figure will be even bigger this year. All of his activity has been within the Southern phase of the
labor movement. He served on several World War II governmental agencies including the Regional War Labor Board and the War
Production Board. He is an active Methodist layman serving as steward and a Sunday School teacher in his local church.
The YMCA, in cooperation with the Business-Economics Association, selected this topic for its value and controversial nature. These men were
chosen for their breadth of experience and their known moderate approach. An experience was made with his son and two
other companions in the Canadian wilderness. At Ely, Minnesota, they hired a guide, two canoes, and other equipment. On the
first day out they covered fifty miles (with the aid of a small outboard) to Lake Murdock, making eighteen portages
on the way.

300 POUNDS OF FISH

At this spot, rarely visited by campers, they spent four days fishing. Dr. McGavock's nephew landed a twenty-nine-pound Northern Pike,
the largest caught that year. The entire trip lasted seven days, netted a total of three hundred pounds of pike,
and required thirty-eight portages, each of which involved carrying two 18 ft., forty-five-pound canoes and nine Flag. By decision of
the staff, it will be flown on two special occasions each year—at the formal flag-raising ceremony of the annual Federal
Inspection Parade and during commencement which will include Class Day, the Sunday of the Baccalaureate Address, and Graduation Day. The
flag will serve as a lasting tribute to the memory of Lieutenant Martin, who was fatally injured in an automobile
accident on October 10. He obtained his rank through the training he received in the local regiment where he served
as Intelligence Officer during his Senior year. He was commissioned in the Infantry immediately after his graduation this past spring.

South Speaks To Canterbury Club

“Happy Pills and Christian Joy” will be the subject of a talk given by Mr. Robert W. South at the
meeting of the Canterbury Club on Sunday evening at 8:30 p.m. in the Union Blue Room.

Penn Med School Dean Speaks To AED

Dr. William Kennedy, vice-dean of the Pennsylvania Medical School, will speak to A.E.D. Monday night at 8:15 in the large
lecture room of the Science Building. There will be a coffee following the meeting in the Union Ballroom. All students
are invited. Dr. Kennedy will interview applicants to Pennsylvania Medical School Tuesday.

(Continued From Page One)

probably not go beyond 1000 in the next decade. One of the chief battles that the school will have to
face will be that of finding qualified instructors. Qualified men are entering more financially lucrative professions.

‘ALL-AROUND STUDENT’

Hengeveld, the senior member of the administration from length of service, said that what the college is looking for is
the “all-around” student. “Where we're missing the boat is in our scholarship program.” We are not yet in a position
to compete financially with the scholarships that are offered by the large universities. This year’s Freshman Class of 254 came
from 404 boys accepted last spring out of a total of 715 who applied. Next Thursday, November 7, Sigma Upsilon's
program committee presents Phil Kennedy of Charlotte, a graduate of Exeter Academy and UNC, who will speak on the subject
of ballads.

This is not to be a permanent commercial enterprise, but if interest is shown it may become a permanent part
of the student store.

WSLC INCORPORATED
1415 ELIZABETH AVENUE
Charlotte, N. C.

SAVE ON ALBUMS
up to $3.00
Living Presence Mercury... 98c
RCA... Save on Records... $2.98
Columbia Buy of the Month... $2.98
Epic Hi-Fi Hit of the Month... $2.98

Dr. Love is chairman of the Board of Burlington Industries, Inc., a member of the Executive Committee of the Trustees
of Davidson College, and also a member of the Board of Visitors. In an interview earlier this week, Dr. Cunningham
emphasized the tireless service of Dr. Love, especially as Chairman of the Development Committee which raised 2.5 million dollars for
the college several years ago. Mr. E. H. Little, for whom the new dormitory is named, is chairman of the
Board and president of the Colgate-Palmolive Company. He is also a member of the Board of Visitors. The decision to
name the dormitory for him was made last May, according to Dr. Cunningham. The decision to rename West dormitory in
honor of Mr. Cannon was also made last spring. Mr. Cannon served as vice-president of the Trustees of Davidson College
from 1936 until his death in 1952. For fifteen years he was chairman of the Building and Grounds Committee of
the Board of Trustees. This committee supervised a major portion of Dr. Cunningham's physical development program of the college. When
interviewed by telephone, Dr. Cunningham related that the improvement of housing has been a long-range plan which began several years
before the construction of Belk dormitory. The erection of Little Hall was envisioned many years ago, while the innovations in
other dormitories have been of more recent thought and development. According to Mr. Grier Martin, the improvements in Cannon Hall
have been a major part in a dormitory renovation plan which has cost in excess of $100,000. The cost of
E. H. Little Hall was $235,000 which was, as he termed it, “a real bargain at a cost of approximately
$2500 per student housed there.” Dr. Cunningham said that the possibility of his returning for this occasion had been discussed
before he left Davidson, but the official invitation had only been extended in the past several weeks. He expressed visible
delight at the opportunity to visit the campus for this significant occasion, noting that it felt especially good to be
present as a “consultant with no weight of responsibility bearing upon me.” This last statement was made in reference to
his invitation to meet with the Board of Visitors in session this weekend. This board, also a project of the
president emeritus, is composed of prominent leaders in business, public affairs, education, and church life. It was formed in 1956
to promote the overall effectiveness and welfare of Davidson College.
