Davidson College

Davidson College is a way of life based on the things of the mind tempered by manners and morality.
—Chalmers G. Davidson

VOL. XLVI

The Davidsonian
The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, DECEMBER 13, 1957

Christmas Vacation: Wednesday, December 18 to Friday, January 3, at 8:20 a.m.

NO. 11

Council Clarifies Alcohol Rules

IFC, Bob Jones announced EARLIER RUSH WEEK

The 1958 Rush Week will begin in the middle of Freshman Orientation. This period normally begins on a Thursday. Beginning
on the first Monday night of Orientation, Rush Week will continue throughout the remainder of that week. Since the semester
does not begin until Wednesday, the rushing activities will only coincide with the first part of Orientation. Rush Week will
consist of only nine rush dates instead of eleven.

On Tuesday the faculty passed the following recommendation of the committee on fraternities: "That the Interfraternity Council be permitted to
set the dates of Rush Week for noon of the Monday immediately preceding the first day of classes in September
through Saturday of that same week. Furthermore, that the IFC be commended for their efforts to solve some of the
problems that have persisted in matters pertaining to fraternity life on the Davidson campus."

Fraternities Booted in Confirmation Of Dates

Rush Week will begin one week later next year, and confirmation will be directly between freshmen and the IFC. Fraternities
will in no way contact freshmen during the confirmation period. Each freshman will confirm his own dates by giving his
schedule directly to the IFC. The members of this group will then post the rush dates with individual rush chairmen.

SEVERAL CHANGES DUE

Jones commented that this may just be the first of several changes. The question of summer rush letters and fraternity
visitations in the freshmen dormitories is also under consideration for a change. He said that later in the term all
the rush chairmen might be called together for a consultation about rushing activity. The IFC is endeavoring this year to
evaluate many of the facets of fraternity life at Davidson. The members will be discussing Hell Week in their January
meeting.

Post Office Advances

Davidson's new post office is rapidly nearing completion. The new building, located on Main Street facing the campus, is scheduled
for use early next year, probably in February. The brick structure, of a style similar to campus buildings, will have
approximately 3744 square feet of floor space. It is being built at a cost of $50,000 by the college and
will be leased to the government for a ten-year period. Facilities will include complete air-conditioning and the most modern equipment
for postal workers. Parking space and a through-driveway will be provided. The building is designed so that, if the lease
is not renewed or there is a special need, it may be put to other use by the college. The
Barger Construction Company of Mooresville is the contractor for the post office.

Concert Band Appears Tonight

The Davidson College Concert Band under the baton of J. West will present its initial program of the year at
8:15 p.m. tonight in the ballroom of the College Union. There is no admission charge and the public is invited.

Pietenpol Views Drinking Problem

Acting-President of the College, C. J. Pietenpol, stated that he is interested in hearing all sides viewed in the controversy
over the so-called “drinking rule.” Dr. Pietenpol asked the members of the Davidsonian staff to express their opinions on the
matter. One staff member cited the idea presented in the monthly publication of the Student Christian Association (SCA) that would
remove the clause “under the influence” and permit a student to return to the campus legally after drinking, but keep
him under respect, and above all, enforcement. In view of the current trend toward liberalization of the rule, the Dean
commented that “I think there are arguments in favor of a more strict rule.” He added, it would be only
a matter of time before this policy would lead to drinking in the dormitories.

STUDENT SUGGESTION

The Dean called attention to the fact that at least one student has made the definite suggestion to him that
drinking be allowed in the fraternity houses only. But, as he commented, it would be only a matter of time
before this policy would lead to drinking in the dormitories. He also emphasized his belief that the Student Council should
not take any definite stand unless the student body is in sympathy with it and willing to enforce it.

Turning to other school problems, Dr. Pietenpol announced a meeting of the Board of Trustees in February. About this time,
if the lease is not renewed or there is a special need, it may be put to other use by
the college. The Barger Construction Company of Mooresville is the contractor for the post office.meeting he added, “I hope they
have a new president. I wouldn’t be surprised if they have a new president. On the matter of the void
created by the lapse of the Baker: Section 3 of Article IX. Gift Fund, reports that the student response to
this year's gift fund project has been good. The committee reported that $1,286 has been collected through pledges or money.
The project has $4,000, of which $3,500 would come from the student body. The remainder is being solicited from members
of the faculty and administration.

The Student Council collected 200 pounds of food for the overseas relief Hungarian family, emphasizing that many times in history
when hungry people have had a choice between food and freedom, they have chosen food. For last year's project, the
committee raised $3,600.

The Student Council, of which Smyth is President, discussed the “drinking rule.” A clarification, drawn up by Councilman Bill Bondurant,
was accepted. The clarification reads: The Student Council shall accept as “being under the influence of alcoholic liquors” any student
evidencing any degree of visible loss of senses beyond this point: showing symptoms of nausea, artificially induced fatigue, incoherent speech,
action which is out of character with reason, and which would logically bear the reproach of the Trustees of this
college—one or more of which are after consumption of alcoholic liquors.

The DAVIDSONIAN favors an alcohol-free campus. Smyth said it is the hope of the Council that this new interpretation of
“under the influence of alcohol” will be more clearly defined in the minds of the Student Council and student body.

But there is another side to the question. What about the student who obeys the alcohol-free campus rule but returns
to the campus “under the influence?” Herein lies the present problem. The real core of the current discussion stems from
the council’s traditional failure to define satisfactorily the term “under the influence.” This phrase in the student body constitution has
been interpreted in many ways—from “on the breath” to “unconsciousness.”

What has been happening (including this year) is that each year the new student council announces its own particular interpretation
of the drinking rule. Until the council can stand united on this subject, the effectiveness of the present rule suffers.
In reality, regardless of what interpretation the council or faculty places on any rule, if the enforcing agent is not
wholeheartedly in favor of it, then the rule, in effect, is already abolished. Because of this varying feeling among council
members, plus the desire of the students to make the rule more realistic, we suggest that the council take some
action.

The DAVIDSONIAN, therefore, favors changing the present rule to permit students to return legally to the campus after they have
been drinking regardless of their condition. We assume strict and unflinching enforcement by the council and the college of the
student body regulations regarding good behavior on the campus. To achieve this end, the DAVIDSONIAN proposes that the student council
itself submit to the student body an amendment to the constitution that would delete Section 3.

If ever each individual student had cause to express his opinion, certainly now is the time. Only in this way
can we address the issue effectively.

$1,286 COLLECTED
Students Respond To Annual Gift Project

Ken Forester, Chairman of the Davidson College Gift Fund, reports that the student response to this year's gift fund project
has been good. This year's project was obtained from the Board of World Missions of the Presbyterian Church and was
then chosen by the students as their annual gift fund project. Of the several S.O.S. plans, the one with which
Davidson is associated is the best as it gives more pounds of food per dollar. Only one American dollar is
needed to provide more than any other plan. The committee hopes to raise more pounds of food per dollar.

The committee would like to emphasize that many times in history when hungry people have had a choice between food
and freedom, they have chosen food. For last year's project, the committee raised $3,600.

Monday night, clarification, drawn up by Councilman Bill Bondurant, was accepted despite Bondurant’s tacit admittance that the clarification was “inadequate,”
and wouldn't solve the problem. The answers to the “no” centered around the vagueness of the present rule, and the
unrealistic approach to the subject.

President Smyth felt that this was a matter which called for discussion and careful thought. He pointed out the probable
reaction of the Faculty and Trustees to any rule change. He further insisted that the Council should take no action
until it felt that the Student Body was dissatisfied with the rule as it now stands. Bill Bondurant expressed his
opinion that the fault of the present rule lay in the Council’s laxity of enforcement. He suggested that the Council
“renew its oath to support the Constitution.”

Many members of the Council expressed interest in a DAVIDSONIAN poll on the issue as a means of determining the
opinion of the Student Body. Though no official action was taken on the possibility of changing the rule, the discussion
of the subject indicated that the Council members were interested in the possibility of a change, but felt any action
on their part at the present time would be premature. Absent from the meeting were Councilmen Bright, Huffaker, Kuykendall, and
Ferguson.

Polled On Drinking Rule

1. Are you satisfied with the present drinking rule?
24% yes (but 52% of these thought alcohol should be allowed in automobiles)
76% no (Why?—see below)

2. What is your attitude toward allowing students to have alcohol on the Davidson campus?
29% absolutely forbidden to possess or to drink
26% may keep alcohol in automobile or other place, but not allowed to drink it on the campus
7% may have it and drink it in the fraternity house only
7% no restrictions
31% other (specify) see below

3. What is your attitude toward permitting students to return to campus after they have been drinking?
13% absolutely forbidden to return until all the effects of alcohol have completely worn off
61% may return if the student goes directly to his room and stays there until all the effects of alcohol
have worn off
12% may return to campus in any condition without any restrictions
14% other (specify) see below

4. Do you have any suggestions for a workable and clearly defined rule? If so, what is it? see below

5. Have you ever kept alcoholic beverages on the Davidson campus?
65% yes
35% no

6. Do you drink?
61% yes
39% no

By JIM MORRIS
Davidsonian Feature Writer

This week 351 upperclassmen, representing 58% of the upper class student body, were polled on the alcohol section of the
student body constitution. In question 2 for the “other (specify)”, many answered that alcohol should not be allowed in the
dormitories, but provisions should be made for keeping it in automobiles or other containers. A typical answer was “Hypocritical; what
we don’t see doesn’t exist.”
