FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 1957 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Cats’ Greatest Effort Dumps Wofford

Terriers Tamed, 16-7: D. C.-Spiders Tomorrow

By BOBBY PAGE
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Students, alumni, faculty, players, and friends of Davidson College joined in a chorus echoing the victory refrain, a 16-7 win
over Wofford last Saturday, but few probably know that “Davidson's greatest effort in over six years” materialized on a golf
course two days before. A custom of the coaching staff takes them to the links weekly on Thursday afternoons. Thursday,
a week ago, had a different type atmosphere and trend in conversation.

STEVENS’ THEORY

plays, and they were able to complete only eight of 22 aerial attempts. Since things turned out so well, there
is little speculation as to whether or not the Cats should have tried for a touchdown from the two-yard line
rather than go for a field goal early in the second quarter. But that would be the number one question
on the hit parade of the bod-boos should defeat have come by three or four points. Coach Bill Dole was
stringing along with his line of positive thinking that had set in since Thursday. He was counting on a win;
and as close as the first quarter had been, it was apparent that a field goal was as good as
a touchdown. In posting his greatest win in six years, Dole was surrounded by 33 confident, positive-thinking athletes that displayed
a sustained effort for the duration of the contest, a feat that had become unfamiliar to Red and Black supporters.

Barbee’s four-yard run around right end, and Benson's 25-yard spot pass to Westy Westervelt were only three of many spectacular
plays, offensively and defensively, that accounted for 16 points. It was somewhere around the thirteenth hole that it was decided
to employ coach Tom Stevens’ theory to thwart the potent Wofford offense. Basically, it was to stop its main receiver
and check end runs which had proved fatal too often in previous scraps.

Seeing not only their pride but their ranking being hurt, the Terriers struck fear into the hearts of many when
they marched to their only score in the third period when behind 16-0. Repetition of last year's second-half comeback would
have—well, never mind.

DAVIDSON DEFENSE

such as shown above in the tackle of Wofford’s Twitty Carpenter by Wildcat Dave Warden (33) held the favored visitors
to 51 yards rushing, as the Cats sprung their greatest win of the year.—(Charlotte Observer Photo).

WILDCAT DEFENDER

Charlie Benson (17) breaks up a pass intended for Wofford receiver Twitty Carpenter at the goal line, in Saturday's 16-7
upset of the Terriers. Closing in to assist is Davidson’s Ralph Setzler (22).—(Charlotte Observer Photo).

Logic pointed out that regular safety man Charlie Benson was the one to remove some of the glue from the
fingers of end Jerry Richardson—he did it, too.

And what is next on the agenda since the Red and Black is not eligible for the honor of being
dubbed the number one small college team in the nation? Two conference wins in the next two weeks is the
best thing he can imagine. Richmond and Furman, respectively, provide stout competition for a team that now knows their full
potential.

SPIDERS SERIES TIED

Against the Spiders of Richmond, Davidson tries to break a series tie of six wins and losses and a draw
in their favor this close.

LIMITED OFFENSE

Everything went so smoothly that the offensive terrors gained only 51 yards on the ground, 34 of which came on
three plays. They were able to complete only eight of 22 aerial attempts. The figures, however, do not tell the
whole story because it was not the difference in the two teams that day. Benson carried ten times for 44
yards rushing; Bradshaw carried the ball an equal number of times but ended up with a total of minus 42
yards. Benson completed 8 of 11 passes for 121 yards, while the famed Wofford hurler succeeded on only 6 of
17 for 78 yards.

Several days later, after having seen the movies, Dole summed the game up by terming it “a complete win.” The
Wildcat mentor, while sitting behind his desk in the Johnston Gym office, smiled as he said, “It was a team
effort. Our SCORING PLAYS David Fagg's field goal, Paul.”

KAs, Phi Delts Tops

By JOHN JOHNSON

Upsets, upsets, upsets. The spectacular showing of the Wildcat football squad against Wofford on Saturday seems to have set the
scene for several eye-opening incidents in the inter-fraternity flickerball tournament which is fast drawing to a close.

With only a few games left to play, the KAs are again in top position, with the Phi Delts pushing
them from second place. The KAs took the Betas, 33 to 13, on Thursday of last week and then eased
out the

A ferocious line had given up a total of only 51 yards rushing to the Terriers in turning in Davidson's
best statistical defense in that department for at least six years. One of the sportscasters put forth the idea that
any major college team was capable on some occasions of beating any other squad. Taking strictly a random case he
maintained that “even a small team like Davidson could beat a big team like Notre Dame.” With no intention of
carrying that particular idea any farther it can be said that at the moment when the final horn blew last
Saturday the Wildcat team could not have been happier if it had been the Fighting Irish they had just crushed
nor could a coach have been more elated if his squad had just knocked off Oklahoma. Those are strong words,
true, but seldom has Richardson Field contained as many brilliantly smiling faces as there were immediately following the long and
loud count-down of seconds as the Wofford battle ended with the score 16 to 7. They were well-earned smiles, too,
for the Wildcats had stopped cold the vaunted offense of the number one small college team in the entire nation.

Next was to change the pattern of the linebackers to float two yards behind the line of scrimmage in the
direction of the play—it worked, too.

Phil Agresta and Bill Ward, Larry Harding, sports writer for the Charlotte Observer, had predicted beforehand a personal contest when
he said, “Charlie Bradshaw, called by those who've seen him operate, the finest quarterback around... will be dueling with Davidson’s
Charlie Benson, a nerveless lefthander who, although only a sophomore, does just about everything on a football field.” The outcome
of that duel illustrates vividly the difference in the two teams that day.Hemisphere cities with the largest per capita enjoyment
of Coca-Cola are, interestingly enough, sunny New Orleans and chilly Montreal. When we say, “Thirst Knows No Season,” we've said
a cheerful mouthful. So don’t take any lame excuses about its not being hot enough for Coca-Cola. Forget the temperature
and drink up! Bottled Under Authority Of The Coca-Cola Company By THE COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD "Coke" is a
registered trademark.

The boys were just not going to lose hold on their position with chances for the championship. Leading the Phi
Delts to their success were Dave Wood, Billy Hopper, and Melton Tankersley.

McBryde 11th IN STATE MEET

A surprising Sigma Chi team, Kappa Sig, was in third place with 8 wins and 3 losses. They easily downed
the Independents 38-13 on Tuesday. North Carolina University took top honors in the state cross-country meet in Raleigh last Monday.
Davidson's McBryde placed eleventh in a very fast field. Coach A. H. Whittle took only three men, and Davidson did
not participate as a team. Jim Alexander and Graham George made the trip along with McBryde.

Saturday in Virginia: Richmond Sigs 25-19 on Wednesday. John Dole noted that ten days of the period were virtual holidays
and that the “vacation” had just made the boys more anxious than ever for contact in the game. It was
obvious. Not in the memory of the senior class can anyone recall an occasion when a Davidson athletic team defeated
as soundly such a formidable foe. Dole has termed it the greatest victory in his six years. As far as
spectator reaction was concerned, it could only be compared to the basketball victory over South Carolina in 1953 that brought
an end to a famine of 33 winless games in major sports and, according to reports, almost brought an end
to Johnston Gymnasium.

Davidsonian Sports Writer

The Davidson soccer eleven fell to a powerful Washington and Lee squad 4-1 in Lexington, Virginia last Saturday. The first
half decided the outcome of the match, as Washington and Lee rolled up three big points. Davidson failed to score
during the first two periods. During the second half, the Cats played the hosts on even terms, as each team
pushed one tally into the nets. The lone Davidson score came in the final quarter when Mike Laughlin passed to
Ross Smyth who netted the ball for the Cats. The injury of both Dave and Ed Irvin in the first
eight minutes of play was unfortunate for the visiting Wildcats.

PLAYERS CITED

Coach McCutchan cited Ross Smyth, Gordon Neville, Koogie Kwon, John Kuykendall, Claude Finney, whose punts brought applause from spectators, and
John Keiter, substituting for Irvin, was also lauded. Coach McCutchan stated that the entire team played a hustling game. Next
Saturday, Warren-Wilson will invade Davidson for the Homecoming game.

FIRST HALF SPLURGE NETS W&L SOCCER WIN

By BOB GREEN

The hosts were strengthened by the return to the lineup of two of their regular fullbacks who were out with
the flu during the first contest between these two clubs.

FOOTBALL GUESSING CONTEST

Winner of the fifth weekly Football Guessing Contest was Bobby Page, who, in a week of numerous upsets, picked twelve
games correctly, with two ties, as most contestants missed at least half of the contests. Page, as all other weekly
winners, will receive a $2.50 certificate toward the purchase of merchandise at Wilson-Wright's clothing store. All entries for the contest
must be placed in the ballot box at the College Union desk not later than 6 p.m. next Friday, Nov.
22. To indicate your choice for the winner of each game, circle either team of each pair.

Davidson meets Pfeiffer in a return match there this afternoon. The ’Cats defeated Pfeiffer, 5-0, in their first engagement.

SQUARING OFF in tomorrow’s Richmond - Davidson game are centers Bill Prace (above) and the Spiders’ Dick Eaton, top candidates
for the all-conference pivot spot.

McBryde placed third last year. VMI's Pitkethly, last year’s conference champion, graduated, but runner-up Bob DeTombe, of W&M, will return
for a crack at the title.

YOU SAVE TIME AND MONEY WHEN YOU GO BY GREYHOUND

College man’s best friend

Augusta, Ga. $7.35
Greensboro, N. C. $2.60
Jacksonville, Fla. $9.45
Richmond, Va. $7.45
Miami, Fla. $15.90
Wytheville, Va. $3.60
Tampa, Fla. $13.55
Washington, D.C. $7.90
Winston-Salem $1.80

All prices plus tax

GREYHOUND

WHITE DRUG COMPANY
C. S. Goodrum, Agt.—Davidson, N. C.
