**President Martin (Editorial, Page 2)**

VOL. XLVII

The Davidsonian

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C.

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 31, 1958

Prediction: Cats Over Wofford

NO. 8

Kuykendall Presents Proposed Constitution Changes In Chapel

Vital Proposals Face Student Vote Nov. 11

By DAVID JORDAN
Davidsonian Staff Writer

John Kuykendall, President of the Student Council, presented two proposed constitutional amendments to the student body at chapel this morning, making possession of firearms in college dormitories a student body regulation offense. President Kuykendall also outlined tentative plans for the creation of an Honor Council, in the program devoted in full to student government affairs. The firearms amendments will come before the student body for a vote on Tuesday, November 11. They were accepted by the council at its meeting Monday night after being submitted by a special committee, headed by Charles Rutherford, which has been studying the matter.

The date of November 11 has been set for the voting because the constitution requires that there be a period of ten days between presentation and balloting.

Martin Announces New Dormitory Site

By CHARLES CHASTAIN
Davidsonian Associate Editor

“The new dormitory will be ready by the fall of 1960; it will be located across the road from Belk,” President D. Grier Martin told members of the DAVIDSONIAN staff during an interview in his office Wednesday morning. President Martin also answered the questions of staff members on the subjects of Vesper overcrowding, enrollment increases, faculty religious requirements, the proposed Honor Council, firearm regulations, and student parking space.

FRONT SEATS

When asked about the overflow crowd at the church Sunday night, he stated that “this service, as I understand it, would have worked out fine if somebody had told those boys who were waiting that there were three rows of seats in front.” When Vespers begins to get crowded, he said, students should go to the two doors at the front of the sanctuary, since seats are often available at the front of the church.

When asked which of the proposed solutions to the problem of Vesper overcrowding he favored, President Martin replied, “I can’t answer that. I will say that I don’t really know.”

Concerning the matter of Trustee reaction to the overcrowding problem in the dormitories, the church, and classrooms, Mr. Martin stated, “I think they are disturbed that there is any difficulty in handling the matter. I don’t think they are alarmed. Our situation today is very pleasant compared to 1952, 1953, and 1954,” when students were rooming in the Carolina Inn and in town, as well as living three to a room in some dormitories.

As to the matter of continued enrollment increases, the college president said, “We had set up a goal of 920.”

President Martin said, “It is my feeling that the Trustees of Davidson have the right and the obligation to establish the requirements, both religious and otherwise, for members of the faculty and administration of the College. Since Davidson is a college which was founded by the Presbyterian Church and has been supported by the church throughout its 121-year history, it does not seem to me inappropriate that there should be certain requirements relating to the beliefs and background of the members of the faculty and administration.”

“These requirements have been changed a number of times, and were revised only last year to eliminate a restriction against the teaching of anything contrary to the Holy Scriptures as interpreted by the Standards of the Presbyterian Church. Beyond these statements, I do not have anything further to say about this question.”

HONOR COUNCIL

Asked if he favored the proposed Honor Council, Mr. Martin stated, “I do favor it.” However, he expressed concern over the fact that the Student Council might not have left a great many things to do. Still, he said, “It seems to me that there are enough necessary and important things that a student government could handle if it wants to.”

President Martin came out in support of Student Council firearm legislation. “I’m in favor of it,” he said. “We on the faculty can’t have firearms in the dormitories.”

ODK Has Russell As Guest Speaker

By DONALD S. RUSSELL

The two proposals, if passed, would be added to Article IX of the constitution which comprises the Student Body Regulations. The regulation itself would read—“No student shall be guilty of keeping firearms in the dormitories.” The section stating the punishment for the offense is worded—“Students found guilty of violating this regulation will ordinarily be suspended from the college.”

Donald S. Russell, former president of the University of South Carolina, will be guest speaker at Omicron Delta Kappa's fall tapping ceremony in chapel, November 4. ODK program committee chairman Laurens Walker has commented that “ODK is indeed fortunate in having Dr. Russell as a guest. He is without a doubt one of the most outstanding persons to visit the Davidson Campus.”

A native of Mississippi, Dr. Russell has been an adopted South Carolinian since he was eight years old. He entered the University of South Carolina at 15 and graduated in 1925 after a distinguished academic career.

Campus Courtesy Is Traditional

Editor’s Note: The following feature by Charles Rose is the first in a series dealing with Davidson Traditions. These stories will be designed to spotlight the origin and present status of these time-honored customs.

Whether we realize it or not, Davidson College is the unique and outstanding institution that it is because of the traditions that have remained with it throughout its existence. To single out any one and say that it has been most responsible for the uniqueness of Davidson would be an impossible task because the reputation of this college has grown to become what it has as the result of many upheld traditions. And they have been upheld but for one purpose—to offer to all that come here the chance to make of their lives as much as they are capable of becoming. This can be true at any institution of higher learning, but many time-proven traditions have helped to make that goal more easily attained at Davidson.

One of the first things that a visitor to our campus is most likely to note is the friendly atmosphere. We are not always aware of the courteous nature of our little community because of implications. A visiting athlete, a dance weekend date, and a wealthy businessman may all note our cordial attitude; they may all have ideas as to why Davidson is so friendly. Yet basically we should be friendly because we like each other and don't want to appear aloof or hostile.

A visitor to the campus in 1860 noted the attitude of the Davidson students and wrote the editor of the “North Carolina Presbyterian” of his impression. “I can cheerfully add my testimony to that of other visitors, in favor of the manly appearance and gentlemanly bearing of the students. I have seen no rowdyism, no boisterous conduct, no profanity, no intoxication, no gambling, no smoking, no chewing, no spitting on the floor, no impudence to professors, no inattention to studies, no violation of the Sabbath, no desecration of the sanctuary, no neglect of religious duties, no want of respect for the rights and feelings of others, no lack of reverence for God and sacred things. I have seen nothing to offend the eye, the ear, or the heart.”

It’s not hard to learn something about a man by observing the way he greets you on campus. You can see sincerity if it’s there. A professor can tell the difference between a “please give me a B smile” and the true friendliness of expression that should be the goal of each of us. Campus courtesy is, whatever the reasons be for its existing, a tradition of long standing at Davidson. We heard about it before we came, so most of us were ready to be friendly when we got here. The freshmen are given a slight push into this matter of courtesy by another tradition of long standing at Davidson—the Freshman Regulations.col. lege career during which he became a member of ODK. ‘Death Thro ing. A two-thirds majority of those voting will be necessary for the amendment to be adopted.

MECHANICS Kuykendall today also gave a general explanation of the proposed Honor Council, which also comes before the student body for passage or defeat during November. The plan was not formally announced in chapel, but rather the general theory of the council and some mechanics of its operation were presented. “The Student Council decided Monday to have the formal (Continued On Page Four)

EDITORIAL FEATURE Freshmen Seek Court ugh Victory Recent freshmen demonstrations have temporarily, if not permanently, made defunct this year’s Court of Control. A seemingly spontaneous hat-burning riot several weeks ago initiated an anti-Court feeling among members of the freshman class. After gaining his law degree from the university in 1928, he began the practice of law with the late J. Gordon Hughes in Union, S.C. A year later he did graduate work in law at the University of Michigan. The Court of Control attempted to correct this situation by postponing the date of the traditional Freshman-Sophomore Day. According to Judge John Nix, only some 75 to 100 freshmen appeared for the contest. He contended that this poor showing alone was exemplary of the fact that there was a lack of true spirit among the freshmen and postponed the contest until such time as the freshmen could create this spirit. After the riot, attended by only a small minority of the class of ‘62, the freshmen discontinued the wearing of their hats.

Dr. Russell joined the Spartanburg law firm of Nicholls, Wyche, and Byrnes in 1930. From 1937 to 1942, he was in law practice alone. He gave up his practice in January 1942, to serve with the War Department. He served as Assistant Director of Economic Stabilization under his former law partner James F. Byrnes, and later served under Byrnes as Assistant Director of War Mobilization. When Mr. Byrnes retired, Dr. Russell joined the Army as a major assigned to the SHAEF in Europe. He became Deputy Director of the Office of War Mobilization in January 1945, and served in this capacity until July of the same year when he became Assistant Secretary of State for administration. He held this position until 1947. (Continued On Page Four)

It would not be extravagant praise to say that no institution in the country is surrounded with a purer moral atmosphere or possesses higher attractions than Davidson College for the education of the mind and spirit. Whether one looks at Davidson in 1860 or 1958, the same general atmosphere is present. It never hurts to stop and look at this thing of campus courtesy and ask why it is so much a part of our way of living. Then the even more helpful step is to look at ourselves to see whether or not we are upholding a tradition that has remained a tradition to show us how we should treat those around us.

The prevalent tone of morals is very high, and indulgence in vice as rare as are the temptations to dissipation. 

The program originally called for an increase to 920 to 925 for next year. But we're going to try not to go beyond 920. We could have a very serious problem in the other direction, as certain other colleges have had. 

When asked whether more student parking areas were being planned, Mr. Martin said, “We have the most perfect setup for parking of any college I know. We have kept in mind, every time we've moved, the question of parking.” However, no immediate additions to student parking space are planned.

The fourteen selected for Davidson’s top scholastic honor will be initiated sometime next spring at the chapter's annual banquet. The Davidson chapter of Phi Beta Kappa, national honorary scholastic fraternity, this week invited to membership thirteen members of the Senior Class and President D. Grier Martin. The selections were made by the members of the chapter at a Wednesday meeting. All invited have accepted the invitation and indicated to chapter Secretary J. Wilson McCutchan, their willingness to join. The new members follow:

Henry Brown, math major from Davidson. Brown is a member of the track team, a Major in the ROTC Corps, and a member of the Corps Staff.

James Herlong, a pre-medical student from Rock Hill, South Carolina. Herlong has been active in Eumenean Literary Society and in YMCA work.

John W. Kuykendall, a history major from Charlotte. Kuykendall, a Union Carbide Scholar, is President of the Student Body, a member of the Soccer Team, and Executive Officer of the ROTC Corps.

Robert Lathan, pre-medical student from Chester, South Carolina. He has been Assignments Editor and Managing Editor of this paper, as well as Secretary of Philanthropic Literary Society.

Walter O’Briant, a religion major from Concord. For the past two years O’Briant has been president of his social fraternity, Sigma Nu, and was largely responsible for the establishment of that group at Davidson.

Edward I. Stevens, a pre-ministerial student from Syracuse, New York. A member of Eumenean Literary Society, Stevens has been active on publications staffs and has served as officer of the College Union.

Douglas Stewart, pre-missionary student from Charlotte. Participating widely in campus religious activities, Stewart has also played on the college soccer team.

John L. Toumaras, pre-law student from Burlington. Toumaras has been rush chairman and corresponding secretary of his fraternity, in addition to his literary endeavors. He holds a Baker Scholarship.

Harold Westervelt, pre-medical student from Athens, Georgia. Westervelt has been an outstanding athlete for Davidson, lettering in football and holding the Southern Conference AAU wrestling championship.

William E. Wilkinson, a math major from Mebane. Devoting much time to publications work, Wilkinson has been business manager of Scripts ‘n Pranks and secretary of the Publications Board.

Edward E. Wilson, a French major from Charlotte. Wilson is a member of three honorary fraternities, Eta Alpha, Le Cercle Francais, and Eta Sigma Phi and has played in the football and concert bands.

Peter V. Sterling, political science major of Hingham, Massachusetts. Recent renewed campus interest in the political world is due largely to Sterling’s work as chairman of the Great Issues Committee.

President Martin, a Davidson graduate of 1932, was the only alumnus invited to membership. While at Davidson Mr. Martin was a member of the basketball team and Editor of the DAVIDSONIAN.