FRIDAY, OCTOBER 3, 1958

SPECIAL SHOWING OF CAMPUS WEAR | Student Union Oct. 8 & 9
Come in, Take a Look at the New Models. Get Tickets on Car and Other Prizes. While you Browse. No purchase required. Showing by Mooresville’s Most Modern Men's Shop.

PAGE SIX

Chorus Readies For THE DAVIDSONIAN | House Mothers (Continued From Page 1)

Johnston (Continued From Page 1)

Delt housemother, left the University of Georgia during her junior year to marry her history professor, Dr. Payne, who was the director of athletics for the Southeastern Conference for twenty-five years. Although this is her first year at Davidson, Mrs. Payne was the Sigma Chi housemother at Georgia Tech for three years. Beginning her first year with the SPE's is Mrs. Stanley Gresley, from Beaufort, South Carolina. For several years she and her husband, once an actor with the Abbey Theater, had the Campus Inn at the University of the South.

The Beta housemother, Mrs. W. H. Camp from Hartsville, South Carolina, is also beginning her first year here. She has been a companion for the aged in New York City for the past several years. Before that she was with the Southern Christian Home for Children in Atlanta.

Mrs. J. Carey Stewart, who is beginning her first year as ATO housemother, has a son, Bill, who graduated from Davidson in 1956 and is now with the Prudential Insurance Company in Jacksonville, Florida. Another son is an Episcopal Minister in Texas and one of her daughters is a missionary in Japan. Before coming to Davidson, Mrs. Stewart was a selective service clerk in Milton, Florida.

Mrs. Gertrude M. (Sidney) Zemp, from Camden, South Carolina, is in her first year with the Sigma Chi's. She was with the Army Air Corps Training Program as a food consultant during World War II. She also served as Director of dormitories at the University of Kentucky and Hanover College in Indiana. She then “retired but it didn’t take,” and went back to UK as Alpha Delta Pi sorority housemother for three years.

Mrs. Dosia Crowley, from Charlotte, is with the Kappa Sigs for the first time this year. She and her husband, a chemical engineer, spent several years in the Middle East with a petroleum company and some years in Washington state with an atomic project. For the past two years, Mrs. Crowley has been with the Carmel Country Club in Charlotte.

Even with their diversified backgrounds, the housemothers have two basic attitudes in common. Every one

“I would like to express to all of you my very sincere appreciation for all the kindnesses that you have shown me.” His successor, Dr. Frontis Johnston, graduated from Davidson in 1930. He returned in 1935 as an Associate Professor of History, received his doctorate from Yale in 1938 and was made full Professor in 1941. He is chairman of the history department. As to his teaching load, Dr. Johnston stated, “I plan to keep my History 61 and 73 courses, but will have to drop my two freshman courses. These students will be transferred to other sections. I also plan to keep up my Honors program.” He added that “There was no previous indication of Dr. Pieters’ resignation. The first I knew about it was when Mr. Martin came in last Saturday to talk to me about the deanship. I told him that I would let him know Monday. I did, and here I am. I'm keeping busy now just getting oriented in the office. I would like to say, however, that this office's policy will be one of ‘open door’ and anytime students have any problems that I could help with, I hope that they will feel free to come in.”

Thirty-one members of the Davidson College Male Chorus, under the direction of Mr. Donald Plott, rehearse three days a week in preparation for their Fall itinerary. Eight new members will join the chorus under President Byung “Koogie” Kwon, Vice-President Bobby Jones, Chaplain Tom Mainor, and Accompanist Arthur Lawrence in a full schedule of tours and appearances. November 10 the chorus will combine with Queens College in a production of “Carmen” to be presented in Charlotte. This will be the first production this season of the Charlotte Opera Association and will be the first time the Davidson Chorus has appeared in a performance of this type. Other than Christmas vespers, the chorus will perform in tours in Toledo and Detroit, and throughout the Northwest. They will participate in concerts in March for the Charlotte Music Club and in April for performances with Queens College both here and in Charlotte. The April concert will mark the beginning of an annual presentation by these two groups. This year’s program for this concert will observe the 300th anniversary of the birth of Henry Purcell by presenting a concert version of his “Dido and Aeneas.” Other tours are being planned with Hollins and Mary Baldwin.

Until an organist can be found to replace Mr. Philip Gehring, who left this past year, the Music Department will have two assistants. Dr. Jan Schinhan, a retired professor from the University of North Carolina and living in Kannapolis, N. C., will teach organ classes two days a week. Mr. Paul Langston, the organist for St. John’s Baptist Church in Charlotte, is teaching Music 21-22. According to Mr. Plott, the Chapel Choir, although consistently a good group, is this year well balanced with deeper talent than in previous years. Its new members, as well as its returning singers, are greatly experienced in vocal work, says Plott. With approximately thirty-five members, this group will lead the vesper hymns beginning October 12.

The other members, not mentioned above, who complete the chorus membership are first tenors Charlie Cook, Tom Covington, John Crawford, John Glenn, Don Lamm, Larry McNeill, and George Reeves; second tenors Walter Bost, Bob Hill, Charlie Loftin, Al MacKay, Dave McCarty, Bill Thompson, and Pete Wyrick; first basses Jim Davis, C. L. Hardy, Taylor Staples, Chuck Daugherty and Larry Hill; and basses Walter Clark, Jim Hull, Mac Johnstone, Joe Henry Otten, and Ed Spivey.

NOTICE: On November 1 at 8:15 p.m. in Ovens Auditorium, Henry Janiec will direct the Charlotte Symphony in a concert featuring Brahms’ “Tragic” Overture, Mozart’s “Haffner” Symphony, and Rimsky-Korsakov’s “Scheherazade” Suite. A special reduced price is set for this first concert. For a group of twenty-five or more the admission will be lowered from $1.00 to 75¢ per person. You are requested to sign the lists distributed over the campus or at the Union desk, or see Mr. Frank West about reservations. Remaining concerts have been set for February 7, April 25, and May 27.

Hi-Fidelity Room To Open Monday

The record-listening room in Shearer Hall will open to the college on Monday, October 6. This room is monitored from 8:00 to 10:30 every night except Saturday. The card catalogue lists over five thousand records and the Carnegie collection is available on request. Students are invited to take advantage of this opportunity to relax and listen to their favorite classical records in Hi-Fi.

Staples Hits Trustees On Crowded Vespers

Sigma Upsilon and The Red and Black Masquers have an-of them has a deep affection for college men. 1st Prize 1951 Chevrolet 2-Door 2nd Prize A Complete Man’s Outfit AND MANY MORE WONDERFUL PRIZES! Just by visiting THE YOUNG MEN’S SHOP and asking for free tickets you may be the lucky person to win some of these wonderful prizes. No purchase required. Get free tickets each time you visit our store, or Student Union, Oct. 8-9, plus tickets with each dollar purchase. Let Paul and Ben say “thanks” for your patronage by giving you the opportunity to win a free prize . . . plus the finest menswear available at the most reasonable prices to be found anywhere!!!! When in class . . . lolling on the campus ...or cracking the books, you will look, feel and have a better fit when you SHOP THE YOUNG MEN’S SHOP! Check these buys today! DRAWING SAT., OCTOBER 18--5 P. M. FIRST PRIZE * 1951 Chevrolet 2-Door One of the cleanest used cars in Mooresville. An O. K. Used Car Purchased from your dependable Safety Chevrolet Co. Clean inside and out. Low mileage, good tires. An excellent second car, or for your own to take to school. 2ND PRIZE Michael-Stern Suit Our Own Label Top Coat Resistol Hat Plymouth Raincoat Edgerton Shoes by Nunn-Bush Enro Dress Shirt Wash & Wear Silk Reptic by Resisto 3 Prs. Enter-Woven Socks 3 Prs. Knit Briefs by Duofold 5TH PRIZE @ Our Own Label Sport Coat @ Pair Hubbard Slacks @ Form Fit Sport Shirt 6TH PRIZE @ Puritan Sweater @ Pair Fortune Loafers “The trustees, by enlarging the student body of Davidson College, are pushing out one of the main things which they have always stressed. That is, corporate worship of student body and faculty," Dr. George Staples. @ Holbrook Sport Shirt @ 3 Pr. Duofold Knit Briefs @ 3 T-Shirts by Duofold @ 3 Pr. Interwoven Socks and every one of them knows that theirs is the finest fraternity on campus. Announced plans for a playwriting contest. This is the first time in several years that a contest of this type has been held at Davidson and, according to Don Stowell, a spokesman for the two groups, many excellent entries are expected. Entries must be the original works of Davidson students and must be in one act of from thirty to forty-five minutes duration. The manuscripts, typewritten and double spaced, must be submitted on or before noon, November 26, 1958, to Professor Tyson, 134 Chambers. The author's name must college chaplain stated this week. Attacking the basic cause of overcrowded Vespers, Dr. Staples added, Staples blamed the trustees’ decision to increase enrollment for the present jammed condition at the Sunday evening service. “The situation will be even worse when the planned student-body increase to 1000 men becomes effective in the next few years,” Dr. Staples reported. Final approval of any action lies in the hands of the faculty, however, with the Religious Life Committee acting only to recommend a solution. Several alternatives will be brought before the joint Religious Life Committee trustees. Last Friday, on the advice of not appear on the manuscript itself, but should be enclosed in an envelope turned in with the play. Manuscripts will be returned at the convenience of the judges. Judges will be Professors Trakas, Lilly, and Tyson, and one representative each from the executive committees of the Red and Black Masquers and Sigma Upsilon. Students of these two organizations will be ineligible to compete. The author of the winning play will receive a cash prize of twenty dollars. He must give the Red and Black Masquers permission to use his play or any part thereof for possible production. A consolation prize of five dollars will also be offered. If in the opinion of the judges no entry is deemed worthy, no prizes will be awarded. “The Talk of the Town” Suhee’s TOWN HOUSE DRIVE IN RESTAURANT Providence at Queens Rd. FR 6-1224 From overflow crowds at the first Vespers service when more than 100 students were forced to take seats in Lingle Chapel and in the narthex, The local Religious Life Committee has requested the corresponding three-man Religious and Social Life Committee of trustees to assemble at Davidson as soon as possible “to air out the problem.” Dr. Staples reported. “From this meeting an effective, permanent solution will probably be made. Among the ones already suggested as possible solutions are: to allow students a choice between attendance at Sunday morning church and evening Vespers; to exempt certain classes from attendance at peak periods, such as on dance weekends; or to have two services on those Sundays when heavy attendance is anticipated. Honor Council (Continued From Page 1) with enthusiasm, pointing out that the duties of the student council, legislative and judicial, would be more effectively dispatched if divided between two bodies. The Council plan, only tentative in form, suggests election of honor court members on a permanent basis. Students serving would try all honor violations and issue sentences according to the student body constitution. Several constitutional changes, described as “only technical in nature” would serve to transfer judicial authority from the student council to the honor court. FOR QUICK SERVICE AND GOOD FOOD TRY Scottie’s Drive-In Restaurant Salisbury Drive — Mooresville FRIENDLY SALES AND SERVICE PONTIAC-BUICK-ENGLISH VAUXHALL - JEEP Ed Stallings, Inc. Davidson Hwy. — Concord, N. C. 14th YEAR OF DEPENDABILITY You are cordially invited to see the NEW ‘59 BUICKS on display in our showroom Dress Shirts 3RD PRIZE @ Happ Inc. Suburban Coat @ Pair Berle Flannel Slacks @ Enro Sport Shirt 4TH PRIZE @ Sport Coat with contrasting slacks by Seven Seas @ Holbrook Sport Shirt from $39.95 Michaels Stern and Our Own Label Sport Coats from $19.95 Sport Coats with Contrasting Slacks from $39.95 Seven Seas by Moyer - Ivy and Regular Slacks from $7.95 By Hubbard, Berle and Buckaneer — Ivy & Regular Wash & Wear from $9.95 Nunn-Bush & Fortune Slip-On — The New Hickory In Square Toe Sport Shirts from $3.95 By Holbrook, Enro & Form Fit—All Cotton Wash & Wear Knit Briefs & T-Shirts: $1.25 from $4.00 By Enro — See The New Collar Styles — Solids & Whites Wash & Wear and Oxford 7TH PRIZE @ Regal Robe @ Enro Pajamas 8TH PRIZE @ Pair Buckaneer Slacks @ Form Fit Shirt @ 6 Duofold Knit Briefs @ 6 Duofold T-Shirts @ 5 Pr. Interwoven Socks Jackets & Suburban Coats from $8.95 By Happ, Inc. — Many Styles and Patterns Plymouth Rainwear from $15.00 All Cotton and All Dacron — See The New Trench Coat Resistol Hats from $8.95 See The New Campus Styles Hickok Belts and Jewelry and Billfolds from $1.50 Interwoven Sox from $1.00 See The New University Series and Ivy Crew Enro Pajamas and Boxer Shorts from $1.50 Robes by Regal from $5.95 Lightweight— Wash & Wear Puritan Sweaters from $8.95 Resisto Ties from $1.50 Tuxedo and all Accessories $47.50 The Young Men’s Shop Paul Corriher 222 N. MAIN ST. “Exclusive But Not Expensive” MOORESVILLE, N. C. Ben Holland DIAL NOrth 2-2371