PAGE FOUR

College Receives Burns Collection

Probably the best collection of Robert Burns’ first editions in the Southern States is now the possession of the Davidson College Library. The books were given by the Reverend Samuel M. Lindsay, D.D., of the Royal Poinciana Chapel in Palm Beach, Florida. Dr. Lindsay is himself a native Scot and for many years has had as a hobby the collection of books by and about the great Scottish poet.

OTHER EDITIONS

He is a close friend of Dr. John R. Cunningham (whose name incidentally is also Scotch) and was invited last year by President Cunningham to preach for a College Vesper Service.

Dr. Lindsay's gift also included several first editions of Sir Walter Scott's works. Sir Walter was probably the most widely read British author of his day in America, particularly in the Southern States.

Since Davidson College was founded by the Scotch-Irish (who were not Irish but Scotch) it is particularly appropriate that a collection of works by and about Robert Burns should belong to the College Library. He undoubtedly was known to the founding fathers of this institution and his philosophy of democracy, kindliness, and individualism was professed and practiced by the men responsible for establishing Davidson.

Among the more notable first editions included in the gift are the following:
- The first Edinburgh edition (1787)
- The first London edition (1787)
- The first Liverpool edition (1800)
- The first Newcastle-on-Tyne edition (1802)
- The first Cork edition (1804)
- The first Philadelphia edition (1812)
- The first Glasgow edition (1816)

ABOUT THE POET

The collection also contains many works about the poet: a bound copy of the Edinburgh Magazine of October 1786 with the first mention of Burns’ published works, and the same magazine for September 1796, with an account of his death. The Views in North Britain Illustrative of the Works of Robert Burns (London, 1805) is a beautifully printed little book. The handsomest item in the collection is the Poems and Letters in the Handwriting of Robert Burns Reproduced in Facsimile printed for the Burns Club of Saint Louis in 1908. Three hundred copies were printed on Dutch Hand-Made Paper of which the copy now belonging to Davidson is number 6. The key to all Burns’ editions is the Bibliography of Robert Burns, a six-hundred-copy publication printed at Kilmarnock in 1881. Davidson has copy number 12. The Collection includes several lives of Burns, including the lengthy one by Andrew Cunningham.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Regional Secretary Visits 'Y' Board

Al Payne, Secretary for Campus Work for the Southern Regional YMCA visited Davidson on January 6 and 7. His visit is part of an effort by the YMCA to understand more fully the advantages and disadvantages of membership in the national organization. While here, Mr. Payne met with the Board of Directors and the Cabinet and discussed problems with the cabinet members individually.

New Post Office Nears Completion

PROFESSOR’S HOBBY IS PLANTS

Dr. Purcell Brings Florida To Davidson

By GORDON LeGRAND
Davidsonian Feature Writer

All Florida students are indebted to Dr. James S. Purcell for his efforts to create at Davidson some of the atmosphere of the sunny state. This feat has been accomplished by his collecting a variety of tropical plants found in the land of the Everglades.

A TRUE FLORIDIAN

Dr. Purcell’s interest in tropical plants is the result of his nostalgia for his native state. He has been assisted in his search for plants by many people. Several varieties are from his mother's garden in Florida. A student from Homestead, Fla. once brought Dr. Purcell some avocado pears. From their seed, Dr. Purcell raised plants, whose fruit he is still enjoying. Also as a result of his hobby, Dr. Purcell’s mother-in-law gave him a handsome Dutch sink (see picture) to accommodate the increase in his collection. As all his plants have been gifts, Dr. Purcell's hobby is altogether a profitable one.

VARIED SPECIMENS

Among the specimens of his collection, Dr. Purcell has varieties of rubber plant (ficus), a monstera deliciosa (see picture) whose leaves curl up and devour whatever alights on them, and a six-foot palm tree brought from Florida as an “infant” by Mrs. A. V. Goldiere. The most triumphant moment for Dr. Purcell's hobby was the occasion when his crotons formed the background for Mrs. Eleanor Roosevelt as she stood in a receiving line following a talk here last year.

HOURS OF TRIBULATION

Tropical plant collecting also has its hours of tribulation explained the Davidson English professor. For example, when the Purcells left for the holidays, the curtains were drawn in the room housing the crotons and nearly caused their demise for lack of light. Another time only five of Dr. Purcell’s pride poinsettias survived the clutches of his two-year-old (not as yet a connoisseur). Dr. Purcell’s plans for the future include the acquisition of a “bird of paradise” plant, which he considers most appropriate for a Davidson dweller.

Spencer Appointed To National Board

Dr. Samuel R. Spencer, Jr., president of Mary Baldwin College, has been appointed to the national committee of the College Scholarship Service in New York. The College Scholarship Service, an activity of the College Entrance Examination Board, is an agency for the collection and evaluation of financial information relating to scholarship applicants.

“Don’t tell me ANOTHER DRINK CAN MAKE ME A KILLER!”

Just one more drink can make you take foolish chances. In 1966, 40,000 died in traffic accidents; in 26 out of every 100, drinking was a factor. Excessive drinking and safe driving don't mix!

Here's how you can help stop traffic tragedies:
1) Drive safely and courteously yourself. Observe speed limits and warning signs. Where traffic laws are obeyed, deaths go DOWN!
2) Insist on strict enforcement of all traffic laws. Traffic regulations work for you, not against you. Where traffic laws are strictly enforced, deaths go DOWN! Support your local Safety Council.

ROTC To Change Basic Structure

After the Federal inspection there will be a basic change in the organization of the ROTC department. The regiment will be reorganized into a Battle Group to more closely correspond with the regular army and to give the advanced cadets experience in the type of organization which the army now has. The complete structure has not been worked out but it will probably contain a Cadet Corps and under it the Battle Group. The companies will be Another advantage of the change will be the increased number of officers that will be used. This will give every advanced student the opportunity to develop leadership abilities.

The speaker for the Vesper Service will appear here in the Spring to discuss the legal aspects of segregation. Chapin and Staples also delved into the problem of Stewardship on the Davidson campus. They commented on the drop in the Gift Fund and in the Vespers offering. On December 18, in the Vespers offering only $4.85 was collected in Y pledges, as compared to a former average of about forty to fifty dollars. The paradox was summed up by Chapin in the terse comment that we have “more cars and less giving.”

VESPER OFFERING

The two also varied in opinions about eliminating the Vespers offering. Chapin felt that elimination would mean surrender while Staples said that “we ought not to have to pass the hat around every time we get together.” Both Chapin and Staples lauded the Y paper, “The Student Christian.” But Chapin emphasized that the editorials were not to be taken as the official policy of the YMCA on campus.

The College Library hopes to add to these valuable collections as funds are available.

“Progress on the new post office is way ahead of schedule, as you can see,” reported Mr. D. Grier Martin earlier in the week. He continued, “In fact, the contractor, Barger Construction Company from Mooresville, has been pushing the workers and expects to finish his part before the end of the month. However, the federal government has some work to do, such as installing the boxes and the windows, before it can be opened. So far as I know, the library wing is coming alongRight on schedule, but if this type of weather keeps up (referring to the snow), things may have to be slowed down. “The schedule calls for the completion of the outside work by the end of the second semester and the extensive inside work by the time you return in September. Some work may be done on the basement smoking-newspaper room later in the spring, but that wouldn’t inconvenience the student body.”

Directly under the Battle Group. Dr. L. I. Stell Is Vespers Speaker. Service Sunday night will be Dr. Lawrence I. Stell, D.D., Pastor of Trinity Presbyterian Church, Charlotte.

INTERIOR OF ST. ALBANS Episcopal Mission in Davidson showing the altar and pulpit. Services include: Sunday, 8:30 a.m., Holy Communion; 11:00 a.m., Morning Prayer; (Holy Communion Fourth Sunday); 10:30 a.m., Wednesday, Holy Communion. On Tuesdays and Thursdays at 5:30 p.m., Evening Prayer is led by student Lay-Reader. The Reverend Sort Newton is Priest-In-Charge.

College Debaters Planning Schedule. Prof. R. W. Tyson, Davidson debate coach, reports that more interest has been manifested in intercollegiate forensic activity this year than for the past four years. With a squad made up primarily of freshmen, a sound debate program should soon be a reality on this campus. Meeting once a week in practice sessions, preparations have steadily gone forward for the Davidson debaters to participate in the University of Florida tournament in February, and the national Tau Kappa Alpha tournament at the University of Kentucky in April. Dual meets with Wake Forest, Duke, the University of North Carolina, and Lenoir Rhyne have also been scheduled for the second semester.

Both, however, agreed with the editorial in the last issue proposing a change in the control. New President (Continued From Page 1) that they “are hard to please.” The committee realizes the sense of urgency involved in this selection, since it was almost a year ago that Dr. Cunningham made his announcement. Stair added that from the viewpoint of the committee there is also a sense of urgency to make a selection: “This job takes a lot of our time.”

The following students make up the nucleus of the debating squad: Tommy Colvin, Ervin Duggan, David Edwards, Livingston, W. S. Mitchem, John Prince, Charles Ringe, Steele, and Jimmie Steele. The national college debate proposition for this year is, Resolved: That the requirement of membership in a labor organization as a condition of employment should be illegal. Bob Lewis Acting debate manager for the current season is Jimmie Steele.

Correspondent (Continued From Page 1) joking about Sputnik. This is serious business.” The forty-one-year-old newsman is currently touring the country after his long absence. His impressions? “America seemed confused about the current world situation. We tend, as a people, to go to extremes. We don’t need fear or panic now, but a mature attitude and an appreciation of the task which lies ahead for us in the years to come.” Schorr evidently feels that America still has the power and potential to compete with Russia, but the situation calls for maturity and a willingness to work not only on the part of Government officials but of students, workers, and in short the people of America.

Letitia Tuttle is wearing a big diamond ring. Probably was not exactly what her uncle had in mind when he left her the money for a stone commemorating his memory.

Gary Watts (Right) Leads Honor Platoon. FRIDAY, JANUARY 10, 1958. Honor Platoon Headed “Slap that rifle!” “Eyes straight ahead!” “Make those movements distinct!” barked commands to charges. Sophomore ROTC cadets went on drill unit.

CHRISTMAS PARADE THIS WEEK IN DAVIDSON. SATURDAY, JANUARY 11. Wrestling—Davidson vs. N. C. State—Raleigh. 7:00 p.m.—Movie—“Death of a Salesman”—Union Ballroom. SUNDAY, JANUARY 12. 7:30 p.m.—Vespers—Dr. Lawrence I. Stell. MONDAY, JANUARY 13. Basketball—Davidson vs. Wm. and Mary—Williamsburg. TUESDAY, JANUARY 14. 8:15-9:30 p.m.—International Relations Club—Union Ballroom. WEDNESDAY, 3:30 p.m.—Swimming Meet—Davidson vs. Wake Forest—Here. THURSDAY, JANUARY 16. Basketball—Davidson vs. Furman—Here. 8:00 p.m.—Movie—“Moby Dick”—Union Ballroom. FRIDAY, JANUARY 17. 8:00 p.m.—Movie—“Moby Dick”—Union Ballroom.

Tyson Leaves; Courses Added. Mr. F. W. Hengeveld, Registrar, reports several changes in the faculty and curriculum for the second semester. Mr. R. W. Tyson will be on leave this next semester and no speech courses will be offered the second semester. Dr. H. T. Lilly will also be on leave the second semester. His freshman and sophomore English courses will be taught by J. O. Conarroe.

PHYSICS DEPT. There will be a slight change in the faculty of the Physics Department. Dr. C. J. Pietenpol, who is now acting President and Dean of the Faculty, will not teach his physics course next semester. Mr. Metz, who is at present a lab instructor, will teach Dr. Pietenpol’s freshman physics class.

COMMERCIAL LAW. Business Administration 82, Commercial Law, will be taught next semester by Judge Pope. Pope is at present a judge in Mooresville, and is also a Davidson graduate.

1318 W. Morehead In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... PIZZA. The famous OPEN KITCHEN Charlotte, N. C.

Cadet Lt. Gary Watts, commander of the Honor Platoon, drew praise as it led that annual holiday festivity. Drill for the prize as usual while a photographer snapped pictures of the special drill unit. The platoon was preparing for its participation in the Kannapolis Christmas parade and little time was to be spared from the drill schedule. One week later the extra time and effort paid off when the platoon, along with the band and color guard, led the parade.

The perfect symmetry of the white helmets and spats was the lead picture in the Kannapolis Daily Independent's photographic coverage of the event.

REPRESENTING DAVIDSON. It was just one of many times throughout the school year that the Honor Platoon would be representing Davidson at an outside function. Last year it fired salutes in three funerals and marched before the Governor in Raleigh as well as participating in nearby parades. The 36-man unit was handpicked from 60 volunteers, all of the sophomore class. The cadet officers selected them on the basis of marching ability and bearing, but primarily on their sharpness in the manual of arms. Scabbard and Blade founded the unit in 1956 and financed the colorful uniforms which include white gloves, spats, slings, cartridge belts, fourrageres, and helmets.

The original three squads wear three different color scarves, one for each of the combat arms—infantry, artillery, and armor. A fourth squad, added this semester, wears the white scarf traditional to special drill units.

HONOR ESCORT. In all local parades and reviews this spring, the platoon will take on a new function, serving as an honor escort for the colors with a special split formation. 1st Lt. Watts is assisted in the drilling of the unit by 2nd Lt. Fritz Russell.

Art Exhibit Features Paintings By Sauer. Paintings by David Sauer will be on view in the foyer of Chambers Building from January 10-24. This young Richmond artist first exhibited in the Virginia Museum's Fourth Biennial Exhibition of American Art at the age of 15. Since then his vivid paintings have been shown in many state and regional exhibitions. Sauer received his B.F.A. degree from the Richmond Professional Institute in 1950. The next several years were devoted to graduate work in painting and art history at Columbia University. The course is a three-semester hour course which will meet the first period on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday.

VICTORIAN POETRY. A new English course 152 will be offered the second semester as a substitution for English 102. Professor Goodykoontz will teach the course which is a study of Victorian poetry with special emphasis on the poetry of Tennyson, Browning, and Arnold. The changes in courses for the second semester should be made at the Registrar's office, beginning the week of January 13.

JANUARY 15. Director of Admissions and Diamond Needles only $9.95 For Single Needles. Diamond-Sapphire Double Needles, 10.95 (Regular List Prices Are 16.95 to 31.00) WRITTEN GUARANTEE. Order by Mail—Add 3% sales tax, we'll pay the postage. Specify brand and number of cartridge. “Opposite Ivey's Fifth St. Entrance” 126 West Fifth St. Phone ED 40936 CHARLOTTE 2, N. C.