Sportstuff | Wildcats Close Home Slate, Host W&L, VMI Quintets

By GEORGE RAMSEY

With the one ve rvEE K ibsidea, Davidson athletes stepped today across the threshold of one of the most active
weeks, sportswise, of the year. Coach Tom Scott’s “exam-shocked” cage troops embark tonight on a stint that will find them
taking the court on five of the next seven nights.

Davidson's hardwood quintet prepares to meet Washington and Lee tonight and Virginia Military Institute tomorrow in Johnston Gymnasium after dropping
two conference tilts earlier this week. VPI outscored the Cats 64 to 51 Monday while William and Mary swept to
a 84-63 victory Wednesday.

In the VPI contest the Cats, played to a 27-23 half-time margin over the visitors, but couldn't keep up the
pace as the winners controlled the backboards during the final periods. VPI's attack was sparked by Gilbert who sank 15
points in the second half and totaled 23 for the game. Dave Hollingsworth led the Wildcats with 15 points, followed
by Semi Mintz, who looped 12, and Mike Martin with 8. Hollingsworth and Shinn both grabbed seven rebounds apiece to
lead the Cats in that department.

Four minutes of second half play, ending in two set shots by the Indians’ Don Engelken, showed a tie ball
game at 35-35. The point spread which hurt the Cats most came three minutes later. From a 43-40 margin, the
visitors bucketed 31 points while Davidson scored none. Mintz was high point man for Davidson, hitting for 18 of their
50-point second half total. Roy Lange and Engelken both potted 20 points each to bolster the winners' total.

Saturday night’s hoop engagement with VMI, closing out the home action for 1957-58, will be marked by the traditional Parents’
Night, at which time parents of all players are invited to be guests of the team, and those of the
seniors will be recognized.

By BOB GREEN

The swimming team, meanwhile, is encountering four foes in a current ten-day stretch. Throw in a trip to the VMI
Winter Relays by coach Whittle and the boys, a Monday evening wrestling match, spring football practice, plus a few interfraternity
handball and basketball games, and you've got a jumping agenda.

While the Wildcat basketballers slump, two of their numbers continue to shine in national rankings. Semi Mintz’s 86.2% free throw
average rates him a slot among the nation’s top five charity tossers. Freshman Bill Shinn’s shooting eye is keeping him
very close to the top 20 in national field goal percentages.

INTERFRATERNITY SPORTS

When most schools inaugurate a new varsity sport they usually have trouble fielding a team of competent players, but not
so with the two-year-old Davidson soccer team. The Wildcats not only produced an excellent team but fostered two All-Southern choices
in Pete Andrews and Claude Finney.

Claude and Pete were recently chosen on the All-Southern team, quite an honor considering the brand of ball played around
Maryland and the District of Columbia. Coach J. W. McCutchan heartily seconded their selection and added that he hoped their
selection will be a challenge to next year’s squad. He commented further that both showed a competitive spirit both in
games and practice that was important to the success of the team.

The rugged Andrews was one of the five left halfbacks picked, and was rated third in the selections. The solid
5’ 11”, 170-pounder was one of the most durable men on the team and is an especially consistent player, turning
in a typically aggressive performance in every game. He is an accurate kicker and good with his head.

Finney, who stands 5’10” and weighs 170, accomplished the near impossible in gaining All-Southern Conference recognition. The fact that Pete
had never played any organized soccer before coming to Davidson shows his natural knack for the game. Coach McCutchan added,
“Andrews has been one of the most durable men on the team and is an especially consistent player, turning in
a typically aggressive performance in every game. He is an accurate kicker and good with his head.”

By JIM HAMILTON

With a 16-14 win over The Citadel fresh under their belts, the Davidson wrestling team hosts a very strong VPI
outfit here Monday night at 7:30. Conference runners-up in 1957, the Gobblers will be favored to win the league crown
this year. Their individual titleholders are Brandon Glover, 130-pounds; Joe Heller, 137; Sherman VanDevender, 147; and Don Vaughn, 167. The
first three are undefeated in their collegiate grappling careers.

In addition to these four champions, 177-pounder Tom Burruss has been attracting attention. Davidson will finish the season away, meeting
Pfeiffer and other teams. Most recent team to fall before the VPI onslaught was powerful Auburn, 21-11.

The interfraternity basketball tournament got underway Tuesday night with four games being played. Both Tuesday and Wednesday nights saw good
crowds turn out to spur the fraternity basketballers on as they sweated from one end of the court to the
other, some trying to star and some merely trying to keep up with the game.

On Wednesday night the Pikas downed the Independents 34 to 17. Parks led the Pikas while Radford starred for the
Independents. Owens led the Kappa Sigs while McBride and Harris sparked the Phi Delts.

The rewards of indoor track will be reaped this weekend and two weeks hence. Tomorrow the proteges of coach Whittle
will compete in the VMI Winter Relays.better for the defeated Independents. R.A.'s, led in scoring by Ferguson, downed the Betas,
led by Patterson, to a close 49 to 43 victory over the Phi Gams. Although Thompson played a good game
for the defeated team, the Sigma Nus, with a tally of 62 to 10, walked over the Sigm Nus in
a hard-fought game that could have gone either way at any time. Davis was high scorer for the Sigma Nus,
but his talent seemed to go unheeded in the light of the S.A.E.'s outstanding victory. Patterson led the Sigma Chis
to a close 49 to 43 victory over the Phi Gams, although Thompson played a good game for the defeated
team.

Then the S.A.E.'s, sparked by Diggs Gramley Bright, walked over the Sigma Nus with a tally of 62 to 10.
The game could have gone either way at any time. Davis was high scorer for the Sigma Nus, but his
talent seemed to go unheeded in the light of the S.A.E.'s outstanding victory. Patterson led the Sigma Chis to a
close 49 to 43 victory over the Phi Gams, although Thompson played a good game for the defeated team.

Then the SPEs fell to the Pi Kapps by a score of 65 to 34. Ferrell fought for the S.P.E.s,
but his efforts were foiled by Lide, the Pi Kapps' big gun.

After falling to the Kappa Sigs on Tuesday, the Phi Delts came back on Wednesday to defeat the Phi Gams
by a score of 35 to 28. The spark of the Phi Delt team came from Harris, while Ridenhour stood
out as the Phi Gam leader.

The big game on Tuesday, however, was the tilt between the Phi Delts and the Kappa Sigs. After a hard-fought
game, the Kappa Sigs held a slim lead until the final gun sounded. They defeated the Phi Delts by a
shaky score of 35 to 33. Mitchum, A.T.O., played a brilliant game, as did Benson, leaders in the overall running
as the A.T.O.s downed the Pikas 35 to 13. Taylor led the Pika scoring.

Overall I-F Scores Find Phi Delts First

After winning rounds in the sports program, the Phi Delts are in first place with the K.A.s only a few
points behind. The handball and basketball tournaments, which began this week, will provide ample opportunity for three or four fraternities
to unseat the top place Phi Delts.

The swimming tournament gave the Phi Delts enough points to put them in overall top place with a total of
359.5 points. Relying on the points from the flicker-ball championship to help them, the K.A.s hold the second place slot
with a total of 341.5 points. In third place overall are the S.A.E.s, runners-up in the swimming tournament, with 312.5
points toward the inter-fraternity sports cup. Gaining points from their second place in the flicker-ball competition, the Sigma Chis hold
fourth place with a total of 315.5 points. The Kappa Sigs are in fifth place with 304.8 points, while the
Phi Gams hold sixth place with 274.8 points. A total of 256.8 points gives the Betas the seventh position on
the ladder with the A.T.O.s right under them with 216.5 points. In ninth place, with 133.8 points, are the Pikas,
with the S.P.E.s only ten points behind, having 123.8 points. The Pi Kapps hold eleventh place with 122.8 points while
the Sigma Nus have 90 points.

Georgia, Emory Visits Highlight Tank Scene

By BILL HELLIER

Holding a 3-4 record, the Davidson swimming team plays host to Emory University tomorrow afternoon after having met Georgia in
the home pool today. With the termination of semester exams, the Wildcat swimmers lit into a tough schedule and swamped
Clemson 54-32 last Friday. However, on Monday the Cats faced last year’s conference champs, V.P.I., and came out on the
short end of a 64-29 score.

Led by fast-improving backstroker “Smitty” Smith, the medley relay team of Smith, Art Miller, Joe Bell, and Bob Wynne won
the first event against Clemson with their best time of the year. This lead was never relinquished as the Cat
mermen piled up a quantity of first and second places in the remaining events.

Freshman Tom Hudgins churned to first place in both the 440 and 220, while Wynne and Smith took firsts in
the 100-yard freestyle and 200-yard backstroke respectively. Against V.P.I., the Davidson tanksters gained only one first place as Johnny Scott
pulled to an easy win in the 200-yard breaststroke.

Led by Ron Hedley and Bill Grossman, the Virginia Tech team captured eight firsts and Hedley set a new pool
record of 5:08 minutes in the 440-yard freestyle. Although outclassed, the Wildcat swimmers showed plenty of depth in taking six
seconds and as many thirds. Coach George Thompson, still not satisfied that the team is in top shape, has been
working overtime to get them ready for Georgia and Emory this weekend and the Citadel meet at Charleston on Monday.

Georgia’s tank team, led by Jim Bankston who holds the Southeastern Conference record in the 440, invaded the Davidson pool
this afternoon to try to repeat last year's victory. Possessing essentially the same team that the Cats beat last year,
Emory University visits Wildcat territory tomorrow hoping to get back in the win column after a loss to Georgia Tech
last week.

In order to finish the season with better than a .500 won-lost record, the young Cat swimming team, composed almost
entirely of sophomores and freshmen, will have to win three of their last four meets.
