**The Davidsonian**

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, OCTOBER 10, 1958

(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

Lanin's Reputation At Stake

The return of a "Lester Lanin Orchestra" to the campus for Homecoming will doubtless be met with mixed opinion by
the Student Body. Mr. Lanin’s men met with something less than overwhelming success when they last appeared at Davidson for
Spring Frolics of 1958. Immediately after Spring Frolics, Bob Jones, President of the Inter-Fraternity Council at that time, wrote a
four-page letter to Mr. Lanin criticizing the work of his orchestra. Jones carefully pointed out that the music was not
“continuous” as promised, and cited drinking and generally poor conduct on the part of the members of the orchestra during
the dance. One band member even asked a student if he could put him in contact with a “little chick”
after the dance.

President Jones was quite within his rights and duties to complain to Lanin about such conduct, and especially about the
general poor quality of the music. Through his agent, Mr. Nev Wagner of Charlotte, Lanin made the Inter-Fraternity Council an
apology for the failure of the Spring Frolics engagement and asked to be allowed to return to the campus for
Homecoming to attempt to rectify any ill feeling engendered by the appearance. Lanin further offered to bring his band back
at a considerably reduced price.

The decision as to whether a Lanin Orchestra would return was left to the new Interfraternity Council, under the leadership
of Vernon Anderson. After careful consideration, they decided to sign Lanin for Homecoming, and take what they admit to be
“a gamble.” We believe that the decision was made correctly. Mr. Lanin has staked at least a portion of his
well-known national reputation on his ability to put on a good series of dances at Davidson. If he has any
eye at all for good public relations, he will leave no stone unturned to convince every member of the Student
Body that the spring performance was the exception rather than the rule. If Homecoming is successful, and we believe it
will be, the Interfraternity Council should be credited for its capable handling of the problem in the best interests of
the Student Body.

Dean of Faculty Faces Problems

Dr. Frontis W. Johnston steps into his new job as Dean of the Faculty facing a number of challenges and
problems, some of which have long plagued the campus. Overcrowded classes, understaffed departments, a static curriculum, and improving the status
of the faculty are only a few of the items that will now come under his bailiwick. The problem of
overcrowded classes, which this year for the first time reached extreme proportions, can be seen clearly in the well-known professor’s
own “back yard,” as his History 73 class is bulging at the seams with its number of over one-tenth the
student body approaching the “university level.”

Dr. Johnston has gone on record against increasing the enrollment over 1000 and it is not his personal desire to
add the 30 or more extra students to the freshman class next year. Recognizing the basic fact that certain inherent
values of a small liberal arts college would be destroyed if the enrollment gets too high, he believes that facilities
now are adequate but “not best.” We agree with his opinion that quality, and not quantity, should be as big
as possible.

Much has been said in the past about the need to improve our courses of study. In the last few
years, the Math and Language Departments, and lately, the Bible Department have shown the way to a revised and revitalized
curriculum. But at most, the labors of these three departments represent only a feeble effort toward revision and essentially the
outmoded curriculum has remained unimpaired. Other departments should make their move toward livening up their courses. The new Dean has
indicated he will work for a more significant curriculum by conducting a thorough study of what is good and what
is weak. He has also promised to add new professors wherever they are needed. President Martin has made a wise
choice in his appointment of Dr. Johnston, who, we are confident, will demonstrate his executive ability in maintaining the college’s
high standards and overcoming some of its present difficulties.

—S.R.L.

Of Davidson

Several days ago, there was a sign on a bulletin board in the College Union which said: Is anybody president
of the Young Democrats? It seems that a letter had been sent to the local Young Democrats but that no
one connected with the organization could be found to receive it. Even a public posting of the letter brought no
response. The Young Republicans are also now extinct, apparently, and it has been a long time since either of the
two organizations carried on any sort of activities. This is not necessarily a bad thing, and the passing away of
two student organizations should not be an occasion for mourning unless there is some good reason for it.

A reason exists, however, and it is a good one. For the cessation of interest in party politics among Davidson
students is indicative of a much more general and deeply rooted unconcern with national and international affairs in many different
fields — politics, economics, social problems, intellectual life, religion. Thus we are confronted with what is perhaps the basic defect
of a Davidson education: the lack of a climate of thought and opinion that is receptive not just to new
ideas, but to any ideas at all. This prevailing attitude of intellectual indifference does not extend to all students, of
course, nor is it peculiar to Davidson, but it is hard to keep from concluding that Davidson is a particularly
bad example of an institution in which students assimilate great quantities of intellectual material in their academic courses but pay
no attention whatever to the current issues which give meaning to the abstract material they have ingested.

That this is a basic failure in the educational process is undeniable, and it is a failure for which the
faculty, the administration, and the trustees cannot be blamed. It is the fault of the students themselves, and whether such
attempts as are now being made to awaken interest in politics and current affairs (see back page) will succeed, depends
on them alone. You can lead a horse to water, but you can't make him drink.

—C.H.C.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Charles Chastain
ASSISTANT EDITOR Bob Lathan, George Ramsey
BUSINESS MANAGER Ed Armfield
Associate Editors Dick Smith, Jim Hamilton, Pete Kellogg, Bruce Brooks, Laurens Walker, Bill Patton, Henry Samuels, Tom Colvin, Spiro Macris,
Bross Cole, George Rhyne
Advertising Manager Dave Gillis
Circulation Manager Greg Grana
Ass’t. Business Manager Bob Wynne
Assignments Editor Bross Cole
Copy Editor George Rhyne
Cartoonists Bross Cole, George Rhyne
Photographer Greg Grana

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879

DANA, DAVIDSON AND EDUCATION

Student Examines Educational Emphasis; Asks Renewed Liberal Arts Appreciation

By JOHN COOLEY

Reactions to overemphasized points of view often become as hackneyed as the positions they attack. Such, I believe, is the
case in the anti-science talk which encounters the Sputnik-seared educators of our land. Perhaps the two schools of thought—one emphasizing
the liberal side of education, the other the technical side—have balanced each other. This does not, however, seem to be
the case on this campus. $400,000 says that “science is at the top of it” in the world. So appropriate
steps are being taken to prepare the Davidson student for the scientific life. There is no question that the proposed
science building is needed and welcomed on campus. It is hoped that the perspective with which the sciences are viewed
will be improved coordinately.

It is unfortunate that we students so often think of our education as pre-this or pre-that. Too few are the
opportunities to pursue education for the sake of knowledge and to consider our present vocation that of being students. But
even when practical and economic factors force us to consider our education as job-training, we should be concerned—perhaps more so—with
the fullness of our education. As a liberal arts college, Davidson claims to be “primarily concerned with preparing its graduates
not simply for making a living, but for living more abundantly.” I wonder if this is compatible with the idea
that we primarily “go to college to get our tools to work with,” the principle apparently underlying the Dana Science
Building. Is it not of at least equal if not greater importance to be educated in the use of science
as a tool?

But we could seek to produce “whole men” even if Davidson were a “pre-med prep school.” One does not have
to major in a non-science course to become acquainted with the non-scientific fields of study. Presumably, though, Davidson is not
to be centered on pre-med or pre-business courses. It is disappointing then to see students necessarily discouraged from majoring in
the one-man departments: philosophy, sociology, and political science. We have President Martin’s assurance that “we don’t want to be a
‘pre-’ school.”Draw Harsh Comment From Students

Dear Editor:

Realizing myself the varied sentiments, opinions, and panaceas offered on the problem which you so convincingly solved for the minds
of us readers, I wish to offer what I think is the opinion of many. No one really believes that
abandoning the public schools is the only choice to compliance with the Supreme Court’s orders. Education must be preserved; yet
integration is not “our only alternative.”

COURT CRUSADE

Nine and possibly eleven Southern states are concerned in this desperate clash with the Supreme Court. The rest of the
U.S. watches in varying degrees of apprehension as the old concepts of states' rights and sovereignty are being whittled down
in the Court’s crusade to substitute its will for impartial judgment and usurp the powers of both the legislative and
executive branches of our government.

PRIVATE SCHOOLS

Admittedly, the actual closing of a white school could cause many, who oppose integration as a matter of principle, to
shift their sentiments toward integration under the circumstances. And yet what difference does it make whether the schools open September
15 or October 15? The delay doesn’t amount to much. Accreditation of the “private schools,” if such are set up,
might present a problem, but practically all of the Southern colleges and universities would accept qualified students. How have we
got into such a mess, anyway? The truth is that the weakest branch of government — the judicial — has
steadily reframed the Constitution to suit the will of the Supreme Court. And the Court had repeatedly upheld the right
of a State to operate its public schools on a “separate but equal” basis until it pandered to sociological findings
in its 1954 reversal.

CHOICE NOT CLEAR

Indeed the South is involved in a great crisis but no such thing as “a tragic climax” has been reached.
The choice is not so clear-cut as integration or school closing. Neither will work as there will be trouble either
way. To err is human, and even the Editor is not divine.

Doug Balentine

Dear Editor:

There appeared in the DAVIDSONIAN last week a statement by a member of the Board of Trustees to the effect
that the classes and other facilities at Davidson were not overtaxed. This attitude seems characteristic of the entire Board.

SNAIL’S PACE

If the Board thinks that overcrowding is being exaggerated, may I suggest that the entire bloated Board be herded into
any chemistry lab and be required to complete an experiment in the allotted time. Labs are so crowded now that
work is slowed to a snail's pace. Or better, let a few members of the Board sleep in the showers
in the gym! If they still are not convinced, then let them sit in a window sill to take notes
on a lecture—or sit in the narthex of the church for Vespers. The trustee who could experience this, and still
conclude that conditions were being exaggerated would indeed be a foolish man!

LARGE CLASSES

Sixty persons are entirely too many to have in one class at Davidson. Davidson supposedly prides herself on the closeness
and warmth of her student-faculty relations. Such could not exist in large classes; personal attention from one professor in so
large a mob would be humanly impossible. This relationship is one of Davidson's unique features, which influenced many students in
their decision to come here. If a man wants such huge classes, then let him go to a large university.
Or better still, since we have trustees with large university ideals, we could initiate a trustee-exchange program with some of
the large universities in this area.

Charles L. Cook

PEANUTS

By Schulz

I'M GROWING OLD, AND I'VE NEVER DONE ANYTHING. I'VE NEVER CHASED A RABBIT...I'VE NEVER BARKED AT A BURGLAR... CATS SCARE
ME TO DEATH... I HATE RETRIEVING DUCKS.... ALL I'VE EVER DONE IS SLEEP... WELL, I GUESS EACH OF US HAS
HIS OWN SPECIAL CALLING.

Overflow Vespers Critical Problem

By DAVID ROBINSON

The Vesper's overflow remains the most critical unsolved problem of immediate proportions at Davidson, and merits the consideration and cooperation
of all. The problem needs to be viewed as separate from the whole area of compulsory religious exercises. The institution
of Vespers should rise or fall on its own merits or its lack of them, which are principally spiritual in
nature. The more pragmatic situation of overflow used as a fulcrum by which to pry out the established system both
evades the moral issue and brings the foundations of the Vesper institution to levels far below those felt by its
supporters and recognized by its opponents.

SENIOR EXEMPTION

It has been suggested that a group, preferably seniors, be exempted from Vesper attendance in order to alleviate conditions. The
objections here are strong. Vesper exemption would become a thing to be gained and the system as one promoting maturity
undermined. Seniors would unlearn habits which had taken three years to form; thereby one of the central supports of the
institution would be removed, that of the tendency of the memory of Vesper attendance to bring outwardly alumni back to
the Church and thus potentially to vital Christian experience. A well-defined exemption of a particular group on special overflow Sundays
has better potential but does not offer a satisfactory permanent solution for a student body of one thousand or more.

The substitution of morning church attendance for the Vesper requirement has special limitations if such attendance is confined to Davidson
Churches. Local congregations and ministers would almost certainly resent the presence of captive worshippers in their morning services. If attendance
were permitted at a morning service anywhere, the honor system would be overstretched due to the complete unenforceableness of the
system and the idea of a united, worshipping collegiate community most completely destroyed. The technicalities of attendance registration and the
effect of this upon worship would at least complicate this attempt at solution.

TWO-SERVICE SYSTEM

The most workable solution — both spiritually and practically — may lie in some sort of two-service system. Admittedly, this
would put a heavy and perhaps impossible strain upon the visiting minister or, if he were to preach at only
one service, make the other less desirable to those bound to attend. There would be no suitable method of insuring
attendance distribution sufficiently equitable to prevent an overflow of one of the services. The unity of a worshipping collegiate community
would be to greater or lesser extent destroyed, depending upon the particular system. There may, nonetheless, be some value in
a two-service solution in which one is conducted as present-day Vespers and the other along the line of denominational fellowship
programs with partial student leadership, the two appealing to different temperaments of worship.

Much more positively workable than this, however, is the concept of a Freshman Vespers Program — reasonably suitable and eluding
most of the objections raised in the paragraph above. This fails to solve the immediate 1958-59 problem but would provide
some unity of worship, assured distribution of attendance, and a potentially valuable class consciousness, besides insuring a mature respect for
the larger Vesper program.
