THE DAVIDSONIAN
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 1958

Hot-and-Cold Hoopsters Invade Va. Tech Tuesday

Running hot and cold as spasmodically as the showers in the gymnasium, the Wildcat courtmen will shake out the dance
weekend kinks Tuesday and travel north to battle the Virginia Tech Gobblers.

The ‘Cats, who are up one night and down the next, lost to Washington and Lee Friday night, and then
bounced back to take V.M.I. Saturday. On Tuesday night the slump hit again as they lost to Furman after leading
by five points at halftime.

The W&L game last Friday was one of the Wildcats’ worst of the season. Led by Dom Flore’s 28 points,
the Generals dumped a listless Davidson five that had easily beaten them earlier in the season. Davidson’s chances were dimmed
when Joe Milner and Sonny Ferguson were retired on fouls early in the second half, followed shortly by Bill Shinn.
Semi Mintz, with 16, and Shinn, with 12, led the local scoring efforts in the 61-55 defeat.

The VMI tilt was a different story. Led by Milner, who grabbed 17 rebounds and tossed in 11 points, the
Wildcats trampled the Keydets, 76-65 in what coach Scott called “one of the season’s best games.”

Next Tuesday night’s scramble with VPI promises to be a tough one for Davidson. The Wildcats lost an earlier contest
on the home court, 64-51, after holding a 27-23 halftime advantage. The Gobblers of coach Chuck Noe are paced by
Ayersman, Gilbert, and Smith, all freshmen. It was Gilbert, hitting an outside set shot, with 23 points, that beat the
‘Cats in the previous meeting. Ayersman and Gilbert also made vital contributions, pulling down 33 rebounds between them.

SPECIAL WEEKEND

This is that special weekend. This is the Davidson dance weekend. The local inhabitants, popularly known as “Gentlemen,” put on
their best for the invading hordes of pulchritude. We have sort of a tag team affair working this weekend, with
Buddy Morrow running the Friday night lap and Ralph Marterie subbing for the Saturday night fling.

If the date knows no better than to ask about Davidson athletics, the Gentleman will have to confess that the
boys aren't having their best seasons. But he'll hasten to point to Semi Mintz, one of the top foul shooters
in the country, Westy Westervelt, who decked the conference wrestling champ last week, and Tom Hudgins, who just signed the
swimming record book.

Lose Two: Meet S.C.

Davidson's swimming team, having dropped two meets quite decisively and winning one during the past week, host the South Carolina
tankers next.

Down On The Range

If the Gentleman seems a little hard of hearing, his guest will hear the story of his day with L-square
and the boys down on the 1000-inch range. Since no athletic events are slated for the campus this weekend, the
Gentleman and his date will have to go elsewhere for sport. The Homecoming belles were fortunate enough, you'll recall, to
see our soccer team in action. Of course, they can always perch themselves before the magic screen and watch the
ACC basketball scrap. You'll have to admit, you can’t hardly find that brand of ball nowhere else.

The typical dance weekend itinerary will carry blissful pairs past the football practice field, where the Gentleman may recreate for
his date visions of padded warriors knocking heads to gain a spot on the Wildcat eleven. This will give him
an opportunity to recall his high school days, impressing the date with his all-county efforts (honorable mention) for the old
alma mater.

In the past week's action, the Catfish fell to Georgia and The Citadel, between which defeats they sandwiched a win
over Emory. The Georgia squad, perennially one of the SEC’s top teams, splashed to a 68-22 win last Friday, sparked
by ace freestyler Jimmy Bankston, SEC champion. On Saturday the 'Cats bounced back to down Emory in the local pool,
48-38. Journeying to Charleston on Monday, the local mermen bowed to The Citadel, 62-29.

The victory was highlighted by some of the best floorwork and ball handling seen to date. High men in the
point column for Davidson were Ferguson and Dave Hollingsworth, with 17 apiece, followed by Mintz with 16, and Milner's 11.
Southard collected 21 for the losers.

The second half slump again stared Davidson in the face Tuesday night as the ‘Cats, ahead 40-35 at intermission, ran
out of steam and ended up on the short end of an 85-70 score at Furman's Textile Hall. Byron Pinson,
who scored 16 points in the Hurricanes’ second half spree, was high for Furman with a 20-point total. Hollingsworth was
the high man for the evening, pumping in 21, while Mintz followed with 16.

A highly enthusiastic Wildcat grid squad began spring drills January 31. At present, the Bulldogs just had “too many horses.”
Highlight of the Davidson effort was supplied by freestyler Tom Hudgins. The Greensboro freshman knocked three seconds off the Davidson
varsity record in the 220-yard event, finishing the line. Interfraternity Hero Alternate captain Dave Fagg, guards Dave McLain, Dale Gramley,
and Bob Stancil, half.

Our Gentleman may even bring out his old DAVIDSONIAN and reveal to her how he won a handball game, or
scored the winning touchdown, or took third in the 100-yard freestyle, for old Iota Lambda. He'll point out, too, that
the Iotes are running third in overall I-F competition. “And we always pick up a slew of points in ping
pong.”

The athletically-inclined student won’t stop at the football field, but will also show the lady the scenic wonders of the
tennis courts, the soccer field, the golf course, and, if he really likes her, the 1000-inch range. Come Sunday, and
the cluttered fraternity houses, lipstick-stained shirts, and the silent footprints of Cop Linker will be tucked away in the memory
book, but not easily forgotten. For this is that special weekend.of 2:23.3. Back Ralph Setzler and tackle Brown Hamer will
also graduate. Joel Spragins transferred to Arkansas, leaving a vacant guard spot. Freshman Harold Bynum, who lettered last year as
a center, has moved to guard to fill this position. Charles James is at the other guard slot. 33 men
are vying for the coming season’s starting positions. The absence of seven seniors from the spring roster has created several
vacancies in the Cat's lineup and necessitated the switching of players from one position to another. Senior Bill Price, All-Conference
center and captain of the 1957 Wildcat eleven, will be replaced by rising junior Dave Warden. Warden, Davidson's leading ground
gainer last season, moved to Craig, the conference’s leading pass receiver, that the shift from end to halfback might jeopardize
his chances for All-Conference next season, but he was willing to try the position to benefit the team. George Hart,
a rising junior and former halfback, is working at fullback with Dave McCullough. The quarterback slot is being manned by
rising junior VPI Grapplers Take Cats By 33-3 Margin By PRENTICE BROWN Harold Westervelt captured the only Wildcat victory as
the Davidson wrestling team fell victim to the rugged V.P.I. matmen Monday night, 33-3. V.P.I., by far the toughest opponent
the Wildcats have met this year, pinned six of the local grapplers. Carroll Pitts, Bobby McIntyre, and Waller Taylor were
pinned in the 123, 130, and 137 pound classes, respectively. Charlie Lampley was then pinned by Vandievender. In the 157
pound class, Milton Gee gave Crowgey a close match in dropping a 3-2 decision. Westervelt then picked up his 17th
straight win as he decisioned Conference champion Don Vaughn, 3-0 in the 167 pound class. A major change in the
Cat’s attack is Craig Wall's shift from end to halfback, adding power and speed to the backfield. Coach Dole explained,
“It was pointed out to Craig, the conference’s leading pass receiver, that the shift from end to halfback might jeopardize
his chances for All-Conference next season, but he was willing to try the position to benefit the team.” George Hart,
a rising junior and former halfback, is working at fullback with Dave McCullough. The quarterback slot is being manned by
rising junior letterman Charlie Benson, letterman Tom Redding, and Butch Rogers, rising sophomores. Ritchie King became the sixth Wildcat to
fall, getting pinned by the 177 pound Gobbler. Heavyweight Dave Fagg, at a sixty pound disadvantage, was pinned in the
final event of the match. V.P.I., with four individual champions, will be strong favorites to cop this year’s Southern Conference
tournament. On February 20, the ‘Cats travel to Pfeiffer for the second meeting between the two teams. Davidson won the
first match here earlier in the season. The Wildcats will end the current season February 26 in a match with
Washington and Lee, following which the ‘Cats will spend a week in preparation for the Southern Conference Tournament to be
held in Lexington, Virginia, March 7-8. Westervelt, who currently is participating in the Georgia A.A.U. meet in Atlanta, will be
favored to keep his Conference title and will carry the Wildcat hopes in the tournament. SEE OUR DISTINCTIVE SELECTION OF
LIGHT WEIGHT SHETLAND SPORT COATS AND SPRING WEIGHT SUITS in fine finished worsted and herringbone. Choice selection of medium blends
of grey, olive and grey, olive and brown, and muted and glen plaids. FULL RANGE OF EXTRA LONG SIZES Jack
Wood Ltd. “It Costs No More To Dress Correctly” CHARLOTTE, N. C. *menthol fresh *rich tobacco taste *modern filter, too
Wednesday in the final meet letterman Charlie Benson, letterman Tom Redding, and Butch Rogers, rising sophomores. PAGE THREE In basketball
action Wednesday night, Sigma Chi Graham McKinnon is shown shooting in the Sigs’ 73-30 win over the SPE’s.—(Photo by Ed
Stevens.) Three-Way Ties Develop In I-F Handball, Basketball By HENRY RAMSEY I-F Sports Writer So the Kappa Sigs have Joyner.
So the K.A.s have Ferguson. So the Sigma Chis have Killian. Don’t believe that the basketball tournament is being closed
out, however, by any of these teams. After twenty games, the K.A.s, Kappa Sigs, and the Sigma Chis are in
a tie for first place with three wins and no losses apiece. On Tuesday night the K.A.s downed the Independents,
68-22 with Fred Streetman and Dave Page leading the scoring, while the Kappa Sigs eased out the Betas by a
slim 8 point margin with Donny McQueen standing out as the winners’ leading scorer. Then on Wednesday night the Sigma
Chis, sparked by Don Killian, rendered a determined S.P.E. offense powerless as they fell before the tricky Chi squad by
a score of 73 to 30. SECOND PLACE In second place are the ATO’s, with two wins and no losses
to their credit. The SAE’s hold third place with three wins and one loss, with the Pi Kapps pushing them
from fourth place, having two wins and one loss. There is a four-way tie for fifth place between the Phi
Gams, Betas, Phi Delts, and Pikas, each team having one win and two losses in the records. The Independents and
Sigma Nus are tied for sixth place with no wins and three losses apiece while the S.P.E.s are in seventh
place with no wins and four losses. HANDBALL After four rounds in the handball tournament the Phi Delts, Sigma Chis,
and Betas are tied for first place with four wins and no losses apiece. There is a three-way tie for
second place also between the K.A.s, Kappa Sigs, and A.T.O.s, each team having three wins and one loss to their
credit. The third place slot is held by the Phi Gams who have won two and lost two. The SAE’s
are in fourth place with one win and three losses while the Pi Kapps, Sigma Nus, Pikas, and S.P.E.s are
tied for fifth place with no wins and four losses apiece. Both the basketball and the handball tournaments promise a
pretty close and exciting race before they are finished. Coach Whittle said that this pleased him very much and that
he thought that all the fraternities were doing a wonderful job in making this a very successful inter-fraternity sports program.
IN SALISBURY PIZZA Italian & American Restaurant 536 S. Main St. — Making Salisbury Famous A new idea in smoking!
refreshes your taste Created by R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. Winston-Salem, N. C. Perfect Spring days are all too few...
but you can always enjoy a Salem Cigarette ... and a Salem refreshes your taste just as Spring refreshes you.
Yes, the freshest taste in cigarettes flows through Salem’s pure white filter. Rich tobacco taste with a new surprise softness.
That’s Salem... You'll love ’em! Smoke Salem... Smoke Refreshed
