FRIDAY, JANUARY 10, 1958

Sportstalk
GEORGE RAMSEY

Dear folks,

Davidsonians are re-convened once again, returned to the hallowed haven with stories of everything from “lost” fraternity pins to rocket
launching. During the vacation, the Davidson basketball team once again played the role of polite host at the Carousel tournament,
which, were it not for the benevolence of Mr. John Belk, would surely be doomed. Return to schoolwork, however, revitalized
the proteges of coach Tom Scott. Newcomer Bill Shinn, a smooth-as-satin basketeer from the state capitol, and old-timer Sonny Ferguson
added zip to the Cat offense, and Dave Hollingsworth continued his reliable brand of ball as Davidson swept a road
tour in Virginia. Monday night they return to the Old Dominion to do battle with William and Mary. At present
the ’Cats are tied with the number one team in the country for first place in the conference!

Jayvees Split — Ernie Wiggins’ jayvees have split even thus far, and some of his boys have shown flashes of
promise here and there. Most impressive of the lot has been Joe Markee, a bespectacled blond gunner from Durham. As
soon as exams are written off the books, the charges of coach Bill Dole will begin sharpening their fangs with
eyes cast toward the ‘58 football season. Dole is on the lookout for replacements for six departing seniors. And Sandy
Grey is looking for a new assistant manager. Although the interfraternity sports race has not progressed far enough for any
definite trend to be established, it appears that an earlier prediction of a much tighter race than in years past
is in the making.

New Tennis Set-Up — Tennis tutor Dick McKee has informed us that the Southern Conference tennis tournament will be run
this year in the same way that the SEC and Big Ten operate. There will be six separate brackets—one for
all the conference’s No. 1 players, one for the No. 2 men, and so on. The tourney is slated for
the William and Mary courts on May 8, 9, and 10. McKee foresees good prospects for Davidson’s moving back into
the Southern Conference throne room come May. More news from the spring sports calendar is that Davidson will play host
this season to the conference track meet, also slated for early May.

Around the headline and deadline world of the DAVIDSONIAN all is going well, although my boss is still wiping away
the blood from wounds inflicted by certain campus literati in a publication we refer to as “the poor man’s PLAYBOY.”

Love,
George

THE DAVIDSONIAN

I-F VARSITY MATMEN IN ACTION PAGE THREE

Grapplers Rule Sports Scene
Parker’s Men Meet State Team Tomorrow
By BILL WELLIVER

Holding a 1-1 record, the Wildcat wrestling squad travels to Raleigh to meet N. C. State tomorrow afternoon. Led by
“Westy” Westervelt and Captain Dave Fagg, Davidson set Pfeiffer back quite handily for their first win of the year. Westervelt,
who has now won 13 straight matches, took his match by pinning Conger in 2:34 and Fagg outpointed Barden 5-3.
In the 147-pound division, Davidson's Charlie Lampley pinned Pfeiffer’s Hartsell and Ritchie King beat Griffith in the 177-pound class to
round out the Wildcats’ individual victories. Although North Carolina State downed the Wildcat matmen last year, they have lost several
of their best men and were beaten by Virginia badly in their only meet this year.

Coach Charlie Parker, who is still looking for strength in the lighter weight classes, will be counting on his heavyweights
to carry the bulk of the load against State. The impressive array of Lampley, Westervelt, Fagg, and King, the first
three of whom are undefeated this year, should give the Wolfpack team a lot to think about tomorrow. There has
been a great deal of competition between Milton Gee, Charlie Lampley, and Butch Neale for the number one spot in
the 147 and 157 weight classes. In the lighter weights, competition has been for the most part between Freshmen with
Schacter, Hall, and McIntyre showing up well.

I-F WRESTLING got underway Tuesday evening, with the finals held on Wednesday. In Tuesday's action, above, the Phi Delts’ Frank
Anderson is shown lifting Sigma Chi George Hart off the mat in a heavyweight clash. (Photo by Stevens.)

Raleigh Sharpshooter Smooth Shinn Shines
By BOBBY PAGE

He is one of the last to be noticed at practice, is not obviously noticed under fire in a uniform,
is very...

Kappa Sigs Capture First: Betas Take 2nd
By HENRY RAMSEY
I-F Sports Writer

After a bone-crushing Tuesday evening, the inter-fraternity grapplers brought the wrestling tournament to a close on Wednesday night. Each night
brought out a large crowd to see the contestants fiercely upholding the honor of their respective fraternities and then drag
themselves off the mat with much less relish than when they entered the scene of combat. The unofficial standings show
that the Kappa Sigs, aided by a lot of sweat, muscle, and meat, took the first honors in the tournament,
earning 64 points toward the Inter-fraternity Sports Trophy. In second place were the Betas with 51 points. The K. A.s
and Phi Gams tied for third and fourth places with 46 points apiece while the Phi Delts took fifth place
honors with 41 points.

UPSET

In the finals on Wednesday night, the Betas’ Dave Irvin upset last year’s champion in the 123-pound weight class, Carrol
Pitts, K. A., by pinning him in 2 minutes and 35 seconds. Then May of the Phi Gam squad pinned
Shipley, Sigma Chi, in 4 minutes and 36 seconds to take the crown in the 130-pound weight class. Another Phi
Gam championship came when 137-pound Taylor beat Brown, K.A., by a point decision. The Phi Delts’ only championship came when
John Poindexter, wrestling in the 147-pound weight class, won a decision over Bob Hoagland, an independent. Tenney Deane proved his
prowess and brought more honor to the Betas...by pinning Rumberger, a Phi Gam, in 4 minutes and seconds for the
157-pound championship.

FIRST OF THREE

The first of three Kappa Sig came when Bobby Street pinned Snyder, Phi Delt, in 1 minute and 59 seconds,
taking the crown in the 167-pound weight class. Marshal Sasser caught up with slippery Max Bryan, Phi Delt, and pinned
him in 1 minute and 45 seconds. This gave the Kappa Sigs their second victory, but then Harold Bynum, a
Kappa Sig, lost a hard-fought battle to the Beta’s Gramely by a decision in the 191-pound weight class. The third
Kappa Sig victory, giving them their decisive lead in the tournament, was in the heavyweight division. Paul Biggers, fulfilling the
requirements for this division splendidly, pinned Padgett, a K.A., in 2 minutes and 11 seconds.

On next Wednesday night, January 15, the finals in the inter-fraternity swimming tournament will be held in the swimming pool,
of all places.

Then, WRESTLING COACH Charlie Parker demonstrates a hold to mat captain Dave Fagg, as the Wildcat wrestlers prepare for their
match with N.C. State at Raleigh tomorrow.

Hoopsters Win Two On Tour In Virginia

By BOB GREEN

Davidson’s hardwooders stand 2-0 in Southern Conference play, having defeated VMI and Washington and Lee in their last two outings.
The Wildcats meet William and Mary next Monday, January 13.

Freshman Bill Shinn has moved upward since December 2 and assumes designation as a “regular” on the Davidson basketball forces.
A better than .500 shooting average is the main reason for such unanticipated advancement. The Raleigh representative has canned 41
of 78 shots in 11 games, not to mention 24 of 28 charity tosses. Added up, the shows a total
of 106 mark do not go unnoticed. He and Sonny played as the leading instruments as the Cat cagemen presented
Coach Tom Scott with what he called one of the nicest birthday presents he had ever received last Monday. Both
men hit the parade with 19 points apiece in the Red and Black’s best showing this year in an 84-63
win over Washington and Lee. Assistant Ernie Wiggins calls Shinn one of the best shots he has ever seen and
endowed with promise, but as any freshman would be, lacks experience and has the trouble of “thinking” on the floor.
Stocky, well-built, graceful, at 6’4” and 185 pounds, Shinn moves with the agility resembling the big men of the pro
ranks: getting into position for a rebound and into a choice spot for his favorite shot—a right-handed jump toss. As
for accuracy and ability to score, Shinn is comparable to Davidson's all-time great. Who does Shinn regard as his favorite
basketball player? Lennie Rosenbluth. If ever a freshman filled the job of showing potential and promise, Shinn's cup runneth over
and is already well on his way to becoming one of Davidson’s greats.

Soon after exams have taken their toll, the basketball program will begin.

Lathan Takes Grand Prize In Contest

Davidson's most proficient pigskin prognosticator for the 1957 season proved to be Bob Lathan, who won the DAVIDSONIAN Football Guessing
Contest grand prize for picking the most winners during the season. Lathan had an average of .727 for the year.
As winner of the grand prize, Lathan will receive a $10.00 gift certificate from Wilson-Wright's, sponsors of the weekly contest
throughout the season. Runner-up in the eight-week contest was Bobby Page, with a .702 average. Following these two in order
were Louie Carrington (.696), Jim Carruth (.688), and Bob Hoagland (.660) in the top five.

Davidson’s hardwooders stand 2-0 in Southern Conference play, having defeated VMI and Washington and Lee in their last two outings.
The Wildcats meet William and Mary next Monday, January 13.

The 'Cats traveled to Lexington January 4 to decision the Keydets in a 56-52 thriller. Semi Mintz, lanky Davidson guard,
dropped six free throws in the final 90 seconds of play. The lead changed hands eight times and the score,
tied five times, stood at 50-50 with three minutes of play remaining in the last quarter. Davidson looped 20 of
25 foul shoot attempts and hit 31% of her floor shots during the game. Dave Hollingsworth led the winners with
17 points followed by freshman Bill Shinn who hit for 16. Mintz pointed 10 of 11 free throws for the
'Cats. The Generals of Washington and Lee fell to a sharpshooting Cat quintet Monday night 84-63, the fourth conference loss
for the Generals this season. It was Davidson’s second conference win in a row. Sonny Ferguson and Bill Shinn sank
19 points apiece to lead the Wildcat scoring. The Generals never led in the game after the first minute, as
Davidson controlled the contest with a 35-29 score at the half. Hollingsworth and Spears netted 14 and 13 tallies respectively
to bolster the Cat scoring column. The defeat was what coach Scott termed the team’s best showing to date.

BILL SHINN

SEE OUR DISTINCTIVE SELECTION OF LIGHT WEIGHT SHETLAND SPORT COATS AND SPRING WEIGHT SUITS in fine finished worsted and herringbone.
Choice selection of medium blends of grey, olive and grey, olive and brown, and muted and glen plaids. FULL RANGE
OF EXTRA LONG SIZES

Jack Wood Ltd.
“It Costs No More To Dress Correctly”
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

SUPER-WINSTON PRODUCTIONS PRESENTS

YOU CAN'T TELL THE GLADIATORS WITHOUT A PROGRAM!

A NEW CRUSH-PROOF BOX

THE HEART-WARMING STORY OF A SIMPLE GLADIATOR

YOU DIG THAT FULL RICH FLAVOR, MAN, I MEAN LIKE IT'S THE R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO., WINSTON-SALEM, N.C.
