Second performance of Saturday End night at 8 p.m. “Journey's End”

VOL. XLVI

Dana Donates Science Building To College

IFC members state positions on Hell Week abolition vote.

The Davidsonian
The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C.
FRIDAY, APRIL 25, 1958

An architect's blueprint shows the relation of the Dana Science Laboratory to the other buildings on the Southwest end of
the campus.

$400,000 GIFT
‘Dana Laboratory’ Completion Date Set For Fall, 1959
By DICK SMITH
Davidsonian Managing Editor

Mr. Charles A. Dana, president of the Charles A. Dana Foundation has donated $400,000 to the college for use in
building a new science building and a dormitory. The gift came with the stipulation that the college provide the balance
necessary for the completion of these buildings.

“We hope,” stated Treasurer D. Grier Martin, “to begin construction on the science building by next August.” He added, “There
are no plans yet for the new dormitory, much less a completion date.”

The new building, to be called the Dana Science Laboratories, is being designed by A. G. Odell and Associates of
Charlotte and will provide laboratory, classroom, and office facilities for the Biology and Physics Departments. It will be located on
the campus between the Church and the library, and will face north. It will be two stories high, with a
basement under half of the area. Completion is scheduled for the fall of 1959.

After construction of the new building, the Martin Science Building will be used exclusively for Chemistry. The space in Chambers
Building now occupied by the Physics Department will be used for additional classroom and office space to take care of
the increase in enrollment.

It is estimated that some $150,000, to come from College funds, will be required to complete the science building and
an additional $400,000 to build the dormitory. The college has already begun its efforts to raise the needed money.

Following is the text of Mr. Dana's letter of confirmation:

April 15, 1958

“This will confirm the offer of a grant of $400,000 made to Davidson College by the Charles A. Dana Foundation,
upon the condition that Davidson College provide the additional funds required to construct a science building and dormitory which with
existing facilities will be adequate for a student body of 1,000 members. You have informed me that the Executive Committee
of your Board of Trustees has accepted officially this conditional grant and the responsibilities with respect thereto.

“You have afforded me the opportunity to become informed as to the record of Davidson College over its 121-year history,
and to consider its needs, essential to its continued development and progress. The rec- (Continued On Page Four)

Walthall Is New Football Coach

Davidson is to get a new football coach. Jim Walthall, thirty-one-year-old graduate of the University of West Virginia, will arrive
in September to fill the vacancy created by George Thompson’s resignation as backfield coach. Thompson resigned to become athletic director
at Kinston, North Carolina.

While he was in high school, Walthall was chosen the best athlete in the state of West Virginia. In college,
he played baseball, basketball, and football and, after graduating in 1946, professional baseball in the Washington Senators’ farm league. Walthall
has coached the last two years at Princeton, West Virginia. Accompanying him to Davidson will be his wife and two-year-old
son.

COACH WALTHALL

YMCA Discusses Plans For Reorganization

The YMCA met last Tuesday to consider recommendations concerning affiliation and a reorganization plan. In April 1957, the YMCA Board
of Directors instructed the Cabinet to conduct a study of the status of the Davidson YMCA. The study was to
cover three specific areas.

First, the Cabinet was to make a statement of the general purpose of a campus Christian association. The study was
to endeavor to answer the question, “What do we desire from a religious organization at Davidson College, regardless of its
affiliations?” As an answer to this question, the resolution stated that “the fundamental purpose of a campus Christian association, regardless
of affiliation, is to bring members of the college community to an initial and/or fuller personal commitment to Jesus Christ.”
The resolution then gave a list of specific duties which the “Y” should endeavor to fulfill.

The second area of study embodied an examination of YMCA methods, materials, programs, and personnel. The question to be faced
here was this: “Is the Davidson College YMCA making maximum use of the program and materials of the national YMCA?”
The resolution answered this question by stating that the campus “Y” has definitely not made maximum use of the program
and materials of the national organization. Seven specific recommendations were made which would correct this fault.

The third area of study asked: “Is there some other organization which could serve the spiritual needs of our campus
more satisfactorily than the national YMCA?” In light of the study, the cabinet could find no satisfactory alternatives to affiliation
with the national YMCA. In its report, it strongly recommended that the Davidson “Y” not only retain its present affiliation
but make every effort to strengthen it.

The reorganization report recommended a number of changes in the present YMCA setup. Under the new setup, the “Y” will
consist of a listed and functioning membership, six permanent committees with standing memberships, five commission chairmen, and the four executive
officers. The committees will be: Evaluation and Policy, Membership, (Continued on Page Four)

A group representing the ROTC Regiment left early this morning for a two-day visit to The Citadel in Charleston, South
Carolina. Fifteen Davidson cadets are to view the dress parade of the Citadel Regiment this afternoon, and on Saturday they
will accompany a Citadel officer during room inspection and participate in an “in ranks” inspection of the host Regiment. Each
member of the visiting group will be accompanied by a cadet host during the weekend. The Davidson cadets will be
quartered in the barracks, and thus will have an opportunity to observe the Citadel cadet organization during their entire visit.
Capt. Mitchell, an alumnus of the Citadel, accompanied the group. Students making the trip are Charles Stowe, Ken Forester, Bob
Baker, Ralph Bassett, Graham McKinnon, John Johnson, Roger Powell, Gary Maynard, George Hemmingway, Van Wood, Dave McLain, Sam Clark, John
Kuykendall, Vernon Brubaker, and John Nix.

Eta Alpha Chapter of Sigma Nu. Initiation ceremonies will be conducted by a team from the Sigma Nu chapter at
the University of South Carolina, led by James W. Bradley of Atlanta, national president of Sigma Nu, and Richard R.
Fletcher of Lexington, Virginia, national secretary. A luncheon-banquet will be held at 1:00 p.m. in the Union ballroom, featuring an
address by Raymond J. Jeffreys, secretary of the Capitol College Press in Raleigh and author of several books. Dr. Clarence
Pietenpol and Dean John C. Bailey will also participate in the program. Present officers of the new chapter are Walter
O'Briant, Commander; Tom Kernan, Lieutenant Commander; Edward Wilson, Recorder; Fred Landis, Treasurer; Greg Grana, Chaplain; Stuart and Carter Daniel, poems
by Alfred Wang, and a short play by Don Carmichael. A coffee hour will conclude the informal readings.

Arts Committee To Present Readings

The Fine Arts Festival Committee has announced a program of ‘public readings’ for Tuesday, April 29, at 8:15 p.m., in
the Union Ballroom. The readings will include a lecture on literary criticism by Dr. J. W. McCutchan of the English
Department and work by student members of Sigma Upsilon. The original pieces to be heard are short stories by Dabney
Stuart and Carter Daniel, poems by Alfred Wang, and a short play by Don Carmichael. A coffee hour will conclude
the informal readings.

Brubaker, Lide Also Win Posts
By ERVIN DUGGAN

Davidson's Interfraternity Council for 1958-59 will be headed by Vernon Anderson, rising senior and member of Sigma Chi fraternity. Anderson
was elected in an organizational meeting of the new IFC held last Wednesday night. The new president, who takes office
immediately, will lead the council through what one member has termed “a landmark year.” His administration will oversee the implementation
of sweeping changes in Davidson's fraternity system, dictated by the 1957-58 council under president Bob Jones. “We have a lot
of things to discuss before we hit the new court,” said Anderson in taking office. “I'm open for suggestions.”He spoke
of Davidson's new half-million-dollar fraternity court which will be completed for the new year, doubling space for social groups and
combining dining and recreational facilities. Anderson takes office as a veteran member of the IFC, having represented Sigma Chi for
the last year. He has served on various IFC committees and this year headed the steering committee of the IFC
for Davidson’s Blood Drive program. Also elected at the Wednesday night meeting were Richard Brubaker, ATO, secretary, and Dee Lide,
Pi Kappa Phi, treasurer. Both are rising seniors. Brubaker is a first-year man on the IFC, while Lide enters his
second year as a representative from his fraternity. Other members and their respective fraternities are as follows: Ward McKeithan, Beta
Theta Pi; Don Coffey, Sigma Alpha Epsilon; Burwell Shore, Sigma Nu; Jim Williams, Sigma Phi Epsilon; Angus McBryde, Phi Delta
Theta. Also, Sam Sloan, Kappa Sigma; Dee Green, Kappa Alpha Order; Ralph Tripplette, Pi Kappa Alpha; and Pete Andrews, Phi
Gamma Delta.

Sigma Nu Will Conduct Initiation

Sigma Nu Fraternity will install its one hundred and twenty-fifth chapter tomorrow with the initiation of thirty members of Eta
Alpha Fraternity as the Eta Alpha chapter of Sigma Nu. The officers of the new chapter will be: Jim Williams,
Commander; Jim Taylor, Lieutenant Commander; Jim McMurry, Recorder; Jim Sell, Treasurer; Jim Williams, Chaplain; Pete Morrisett, Marshall; Norris MacKinnon, Sentinel;
and Charles Davis, Reporter. Also to be initiated is Dr. George Labban, who will serve as advisor to the new
chapter. Other members are Bob Baldwin, Pete Bethea, Bob Boland, Bob Blake, Addison Bross, Claude DeShazo, Hansford Epes, Tony Huggins,
Bill Kestler, Richard Lilly, Bob MacRae. Also Albert McClure, James Moore, Lawrence Moore, Graham Reid, DeWitt Roper, Jim Sell, Burwell
Shore, Lewis Steele, Oscar Utsman, and Arthur Werts. Its final acceptance as a chapter of Sigma Nu followed the circulation
of a printed petition describing Eta Alpha, after which the one hundred and twenty-five chapters of the national voted it
in.

VERNON ANDERSON

Rourk Receives Fulbright Award

Henderson Rourk has been accepted to the Free University of Berlin for one year's study in the field of modern
German literature. Henderson is vice-president of Sigma Phi Epsilon social fraternity, president of the Eumenean Society, and president of Phi
Beta Kappa. He is a pre-medical student taking honors in English. He had been accepted for entrance into the University
of Pennsylvania Medical School when he was notified of the award. He says that he definitely plans to study medicine
and is merely postponing entrance into medical school for a year. He hopes to enter in September of 1959. Henderson
applied for the Fulbright Fellowship last November through Dr. G. B. Watts, the local Fulbright Fellowship counselor.

Larsen Will Speak At Phi Bete Banquet

Dr. Jakob A. O. Larsen, Professor Emeritus of Ancient History at the University of Chicago, will deliver the main address
at the Phi Beta Kappa Banquet Friday night in the Union Ballroom, at which time ten new members will be
initiated. Formal initiation will be held at 6:30, with the banquet at 7:30, followed by Dr. Larsen’s address at 9:00.
The topic of Dr. Larsen's speech will be “Anything New from Ancient Greece?” New initiates will be D. S. Bradford,
W. C. Colston, F. P. Cumming, G. H. Gilmer, J. M. Martin, S. C. Patterson, R. J. Smyth, W. E.
Thompson, T. F. Thrailkill, W. W. Wolfe, R. F. Brubaker, and W. L. Walker. Dr. Larsen, a Rhodes Scholar, received
his Ph.D. at Harvard. In 1953-54 he was Sather Classical Lecturer at the University of California. He is also Past
President of the American Philological Association and well known in his field of history and classical studies. Officers of the
Gamma Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa are Dr. George Labban, president; Dr. C. E. Ratliff, vice-president; and Dr. J. W.
McCutchan, secretary-treasurer. New officers will be elected at the meeting Friday. Approximately eighty people, including faculty members, parents, and guests
of the initiates, are expected to be present.

IFC, Senior Class for ’58-'59

Green And Bootle Take Class Prexy Election

Roy Gilbert, a member of Alpha Tau Omega Fraternity from Birmingham, Alabama, beat out Tom Cutting and Vernon Anderson in
the election for President of the Senior Class. Dee Green defeated John Huie for President of the Junior Class, while
Jim Bootle won over Spiro Macris for the Sophomore Class presidency. Huie is a member of the Kappa Alpha Order;
Bootle a member of Phi Delta Theta Fraternity. Gilbert has been active in the YMCA and his fraternity, and he
was also runner-up for President of the Student Body. This year he was president of the College Bible Class and
a member of the Board of Directors of the YMCA. Gilbert will take over as president of ATO after serving
during his junior year as pledge trainer. Green, a history major, is from Winter Park, Florida. He is a member
of the Kappa Alpha Order, and will serve his fraternity next year as its representative to the Interfraternity Council. Green
was last year chosen Best Pledge of the fraternity. Active in many phases of campus life, he also pitches for
the baseball team. A pre-medical student from Macon, Georgia, Jim Bootle was named Outstanding Pledge of Phi Delta Theta, pledge
scholarship winner, and was elected president of the pledge class. He is a member of the Male Chorus, and he
has the second highest average in the freshman class.

Sergeant McCurry Joins ROTC Staff

Sergeant First Class James H. McCurry has joined the staff of the Davidson ROTC Regiment. His duties will include light
weapons instruction. McCurry is a native of Forest City, North Carolina and has lived for several years in Mooresboro. Prior
to coming to Davidson he was stationed at Fort Benning, Georgia. During the Korean War he served with the 25th
Division. McCurry will replace Master Sergeant Butts, who will leave Davidson in May.

Masquers In “Journey's End”

“Journey’s End,” a three-act play written by R. C. Sherriff, will be presented Friday and Saturday nights at 8:00 p.m.
in Chambers Auditorium as a part of the Fine Arts Festival. This is the second play to be presented by
the Red and Black Masquers this year. Critics have acclaimed this play, which is a drama dealing with the strain
of war on the mind of the soldier, as the best play to come out of World War I. Several
character studies are an integral part of the drama. The scene is laid in a dug-out in the British trenches
before St. Quentin in March, 1918. The plot revolves around Captain Stanhope, a twenty-eight-year-old man who has a command in
the war. The war is very hard on the captain, and he takes up drinking to bolster himself. The cast
is: Captain Hardy, Sam Peters; Lieutenant Osborne, Professor Lloyd; Private Mason, Warren Womble; Lance-Corporal Broughton, Morrison Brown; 2nd Lieutenant Raleigh,
George Johnson; Captain Stanhope, Jim Taylor; 2nd Lieutenant Trotter, Hugh Craig; 2nd Lieutenant Hibbert, Richard Cumming; the Company Sergeant-Major, Bob
Sargent; the Colonel, Charles Cornwell; and a German soldier, Bob Schacter. Other people who are helping with the production are:
makeup, Don Byrd; production, Sam Peters; lighting, Clarke Hoagland; set construction, Jim McMurry; sound, Don Stowell; and prompter, C. L.
Hardy.
