Che Davidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 1958

(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

Wildcat Miracle

It is not general policy for the editorial page to take note of the athletic fortunes, that is except in
case of fights or miracles. This week we do have a full-fledged miracle on our hands—a miracle of spirit and
effort which spelled a last-second, one-point, storybook, hysterical win for the Wildcats over an excellent Wofford football team. When Bruce
Usher's kick dropped through the uprights, pandemonium broke out in the Davidson stands. “Gentlemen” kissed dates. Dean Frontis Johnston dropped
his pipe; never had there been such a moment. It was a thrilling victory.

However, the real thrill did not come from the one-point margin, but from the privilege of watching a coach and
team that refused to quit. And herein lies our point. Years from now the score will be forgotten by most,
but the spectacle of sheer “intestinal fortitude” will be remembered by all who were there. The DAVIDSONIAN congratulates coach Dole,
Captain Craig Wall, hero Bruce Usher, and the entire Wildcat team for an amazing display of determination.

Needed Change: Unlimited Cuts

It is part of the pedagogical theory of certain Davidson professors that a student who is not physically present in
the classroom (whether awake or not) virtually every day of the semester should receive no credit for a course, no
matter how much he knows or how well he does on reviews and exams. This view (certainly held by a
sizeable minority on the faculty), along with the resistance to change possessed by a long-standing tradition, is probably the main
obstacle in the path of a much-needed academic improvement: the unlimited cut system.

A number of the better colleges and universities in the United States now have this form of attendance regulation, and
a similar method has been used by European universities for centuries. To institute unlimited cuts would be an important step
in Davidson's progress away from paternalism and toward a strengthened educational policy.

Unlimited cuts would free students from attending courses in which the lectures are at best duplications of textbook material and
at worst completely irrelevant to the subject matter. Such a system would also stimulate professors whose classroom performance is slack
to improve the quality and increase the importance of the material they present, or be deserted en masse by the
students enrolled in their courses.

Furthermore, a change of this sort would increase the intellectual maturity of the student body (at least among those who
want to avoid flunking out of school). To know that they are on their own in a course—that the spoon-feeding
has ended—would be an invaluable means of inducing the self-discipline essential to a complete liberal education.

A sweeping change of this sort would be begun slowly, of course, and on an experimental basis. It might prove
advisable to require class attendance of freshmen, similar to the present cut system, and some form of compulsory attendance might
be necessary for students with dangerously low grades. Such modifications could be worked out on a trial-and-error basis within an
overall unlimited cut framework.

The DAVIDSONIAN feels, however, that this change is a desirable one, which should be introduced at the earliest feasible time:
such as next semester.—C.H.C.

Note: Dr. Donald Russell’s visit to the campus Tuesday must be marked as one of Davidson's privileges that come all
too far apart. During his stay, Dr. Russell displayed, in a modest manner, his wide knowledge of the intricacies involved
in the operation of a college or university. He is a man of progressive ideas and genuine enthusiasm. Coupling these
traits with his wide background, experience and contacts, we can scarcely think of a man better qualified to serve as
a university president.

In recent weeks, “The Carolina Gamecock,” a fine student publication of the University of South Carolina, has supported a movement
to ask Dr. Russell to become again the President of that institution. The DAVIDSONIAN would like to support the “Gamecock”
on this issue, and to add that South Carolina could not hope to find a more qualified President than Donald
Russell.

Fraternity Court Lights Necessary

Often we read on these pages how we might improve Davidson by changes of an intangible nature. Then we read
how much improvement the college is making as a physical plant. But let us look briefly at some areas of
needed improvement of a physical nature.

With the coming of the winter months, the jaunt down to fraternity court for supper and the return to the
dorms is being made in increasingly descending darkness. It therefore seems a reasonable request to make of the powers that
be to furnish lights for the court. The jungle of darkness around the court at night is penetrated periodically by
only the light from a fraternity house porch or living room—all too little to suffice. Along the same line, more
light along dormitory row is needed. For quite a while the stretch between the gym and the Guest House has
been very much in need of more light.

Back at the fraternity court, we find ourselves still plodding across boardwalks to the house entrances. With the houses now
fully completed almost a month (even the grass is beckoning a lawnmower), we need walkways to add the last touch
to the physical appearance of the court.

... and then, no one seems to have heeded the suggestion made by Editor Emeritus of this paper to remedy
the situation of puddles on the campus walks following a rainfall. The little lakes continue to spring forth in the
most inconvenient places. —G.W.R.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Laurens Walker

ASSISTANT EDITOR
Bill Patton

BUSINESS MANAGER
Henry Samuels

Associate Editors
Charles Chastain
Bob Lathan, George Ramsey

Managing Editors
Ed Armfield
Dick Smith
Jim Hamilton
Pete Kellogg
Bruce Brooks

Sports Editor
Tom Colvin

Feature Editor
Spiro Macris

News Editor
Bross, Cole

Advertising Manager
Dave Gillis

Circulation Manager
Greg Grana

Ass't. Business Manager
Bob Wynne

Assignments Editor
George Rhyne

Copy Editor
Greg Grana

Cartoonists
George Rhyne

Photographer
Bob Wynne

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879

AN OLD ARGUMENT

Judge Nix, Freshman Air Views Concerning Court Of Control Value

John Nix

What merit is there in the Court of Control at Davidson College? This question has been asked often during the
past two months by students who seem concerned about a tradition that has been a part of this campus for
thirty-five years. It is my feeling that the Court of Control, with aims as stated in Davidson’s Constitution, is important
to a Freshman class. The article which gives the Court its authority reads as follows—“It shall be the duty of
the Court to hear, investigate and deal with the charges of upperclassmen against Freshmen of improper conduct, violating Freshman regulations,
or breaking college traditions.” The section is explicit concerning the duties of the Court. How the duties are to be
carried out is left almost entirely up to the Judge.

Why is this section included? I believe it is because of a fact that shows itself every year when certain
members of the Freshman class come to Davidson: some are not able to realize that they are Freshmen. In order
to make this segment of the class aware that its conduct and attitude is unacceptable, the Court is needed.

CLASS SPIRIT

A second function of the Court is to develop class spirit by presenting something concrete: the Freshman regulations which the
entire class must observe. The purpose of wearing name tags is seldom questioned: the value of the regulation concerning speaking
to persons on the campus seems evident to all. The question of caps may be best explained in that it
is a sign of identification. A regulation such as not walking on the grass should make the Freshman realize he
is not quite the big college man he may think he is after being at Davidson a few days.

HUMILITY

The purpose of those who drew up the Freshman regulations was to require of freshmen a reasonable amount of humility.
It may be that the prevailing attitude has changed since our regulations were drawn up. Perhaps the thought is no
longer one of Freshman humility, but rather one of integrating the Freshman class into the student body as quickly as
possible. If this is the present viewpoint, then much of what the Court is instructed to do must be changed.

I feel there is a definite need for the Court of Control on Davidson’s campus. The aims of the Court,
as I interpret them, have value to individuals in the Freshman class and to the Freshman class as a whole.
In order for the Court to survive it must have support and respect from the upperclassmen; when this is gained,
such respect will be instilled in the minds of the Freshmen.

Bill Workman

Actually, one could hardly criticize the Court of Control itself, because its function is merely to “hear, investigate, and deal
with the charges of the upperclassmen against freshmen of improper conduct, violation of freshman regulations, or breaking college traditions.” Obviously,
the only way the Court could fall down on its constitutional job would be for it to do a slip-shod
job of investigation and punishment—which, I assure you, they don’t.

NOT ALL CONSTRUCTIVE

However, one may very well criticize the concept of improper conduct of freshmen, as it exists at Davidson today. Our
Constitution forbids anyForm of hazing; therefore, in order to be “legal” all freshmen regulations must be constructive in nature. The
regulations such as wearing name tags and speaking to those met on campus are clearly constructive. There are others, however,
such as wearing hats, not walking on the grass, and being “respectful” (more nearly obsequious) to upperclassmen, about which I
have my doubts. It seems to me that anything wrong for one man is wrong for another, insofar as it
affects large groups of people. If it is wrong for a freshman to walk on the grass, it is equally
wrong for an upperclassman to do so. We are told, however, that these are not cases of right or wrong,
but merely rules set up to help us gain a sense of class unity and spirit.

FRESHMAN ACTION

It is pretty clear, however, that the way these rules are to aid us in this end is to push
to the point where we break them as a body. Hardly constructive. As a matter of fact, the most constructive
action I've seen taken towards developing class unity came through the Freshman Council some weeks ago when Bob Stone asked
the class to refrain from following the example of the upperclassmen in hissing chapel speakers. We could have a set
of constructive freshman regulations; rules which the class could obey as a body and still feel like college men. I
have an idea, however, that we will never have such a set of regulations. It would involve too great a
change in the basic attitudes of too many people. I think it’s fairly easy for a man to hiss a
chapel speaker and then tell a freshman to get off the grass. But I have an idea that very few
Davidson men could do this and then reprimand the frosh for disrespect for Davidson ideals of character.

by Bross

Writer Slams “Spirit” Article

Dear Editor:

In his sports column last week, Mr. Hamilton criticized the Student Body for showing too little spirit at football games.
His comments have raised several questions in my mind, and I should appreciate it if he or someone else can
answer them.

CHEERING ONLY OUTLET

First, why is it that cheering at football games is the primary acceptable outlet for showing school spirit? Why should
such activities as work in any of the various campus organizations, or Union committee work, or scholastic work beyond the
requirements be less laudable ways of showing spirit?

Secondly, why should cheering be insisted upon whether or not any other ways of showing spirit are utilized? Does a
lethargic student who goes to the games and cheers loudly show more spirit than an active student who does not?

HYPOCRITICAL

Thirdly, isn’t cheering often hypocritical? How great is the school spirit of a student who cheers the team on Saturday
but makes sarcastic remarks about the rest of the College all week long? And fourthly, should those people who do
not especially like to watch football attend the games anyway in order to show school spirit? And if so, to
whom should they be showing this spirit?

I am not opposed to cheering the football team, but I do object strongly to the accusation that those people
necessarily lack school spirit who sometimes do not go to the games and who do not cheer loudly when they
do go.

Carter Daniel

SALMAGUNDI

Former Student

By JOHN TOUMARAS

It is inconceivable that any student would vote against the proposed constitutional amendment establishing the Honor Council. No doubt there
are questions concerning the Honor Council which will have to be settled. This can be done after the initial amendment
has been passed and after the Council has been put into operation. An important question is that of trial procedure.
Is the Honor Council to use the procedure as defined by the Student Body Constitution at the moment or is
it to be allowed to evolve its own procedure? Perhaps it can begin its operations by relying upon the present
procedure, but an amendment should be passed allowing it to establish its own procedure as it sees fit. There would
probably be some opposition to this as some may say that it places too much power in the hands of
the Honor Council. Not at all. The student body maintains the right to repeal any and all constitutional amendments as
it sees fit. This should never be forgotten. The Honor Council is definitely a step forward and should be taken
without hesitation.

This column has been informed that O.D.K. proposes to make a study of the whole question of the Court of
Control. Perhaps they can come up with some feasible plan of effective control. As the Court of Control exists at
the moment, it should be abolished. It commands little if no respect and has no real sanction of its own.
Either make it strong or leave the task of indoctrinating the freshmen to the rigors and traditions of Davidson to
the various fraternities.

The following poems were written by an alumnus who finally gave up and transferred to Wake Forest his sophomore year.
They were first published in Wake Forest’s THE STUDENT under the title “Bedlam Bull”. In Sam Maury, Davidson may have
lost a man of letters.

A Summer Letter

You are there at home
Being nice and innocent
And I am here in a motel room
And wishing that I could love you
Because you are beautiful
And sweet and decent
But I know that
Even if I had you
I would still get drunk.
Soon school and friends
And foolish activities
And cold nights in warm beds
And cold books in warm hands
Soon these and autumn
Will enfold us all
And we will not have time
For such things as this
I wish I could cry
But I have forgotten
How to cry.

Johnny’s Song

Candy is dandy
And liquor is quicker
But beer is better than both.

THE PHILOSOPHES

Court Might

Amidst the recent discussion of the Honor Court proposal there has arisen the critical observation that the new system would
leave the Student Council virtually devoid of function, if not of responsibility. The comment is valid if directed toward the
deliberations of the present Council and its ignoring of this potential effect of the program it proposes; as directed against
the system itself, however, the evaluation does not possess a comparable intensity of strength. A portion of the cause for
the preoccupation of previous Councils with the judiciary has been the desire of the administration and others to give the
Council the greatest opportunity for concentration and effectiveness in the area of her most important obligation. Thus, responsibilities in legislative
and deliberative areas were, in large measure, transferred to other shoulders. The fact that these other shoulders are already burdened,
that the Council is and will continue to be a representative and competent body, and that the judicial function of
student body work will no longer be hers would imply that the new proposal holds abundant promise for school improvement
in the above-mentioned areas. Two important parts of judicially-related function, to be sure, remain with the Council, but the responsibilities
would be opportunities rather than burdens. Specifically, there is the field of judicial procedure and the very important concern of
upholding the Honor System, with special accentuation of the area of theft prevention. The past precedent of Council activity in
these obligations shows an overbalance of the functional and practicing to the detriment of the contemplative. The main benefit to
the future Council, however, would lie in her freedom to move into partially new and neglected realms of activity. The
entire orientation program, with particular emphasis on the aims and methods of the Court of Control, needs re-thinking and perhaps
action. Closely connected is the realm of school spirit and its many manifestations or lack thereof, with stress upon the
responsibility of upperclassmen therein. Chapel and Vesper conduct deserve continual consideration; the Council should be in a position to respond
actively and cooperatively to and with such as the Freshman-initiated movement for reform of this fall. The curriculum deserves focused
student thought, as does the whole concept of religious exercises. A somewhat administrative function in the realm of forums, debates,
and current thought might be self-warranting. The potential for creative endeavor under the new system would be virtually limitless. The
Council would run the risk of causing increased confusion in certain fields, but with the theoretically good leadership which she
would maintain, the representativeness and competence of her members, and her newfound freedom for responsiveness she could minimize the danger
and add some much-needed direction to a Davidson immersed in new situations.
