Che Davidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, JANUARY 10, 1958

(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

Davidson Last Year And A Platform For 1958

If we were to label the year 1957 at Davidson with a title, surely we would have to use the word “transition.” It was a transition that involved great men and material structures as well as new ideas.

Certainly one of the most significant changes in the life of the college was the death of Dr. C. K. Brown. But like that of all other magnetic figures, his influence will remain as long as there remain those who studied under him as students or knew him as colleague or friend. Indeed, his dedication to the college and his contributions to his students over the years are woven into the fabric known as Davidson.

1957 will also be remembered as the year that Dr. Cunningham stepped down as head of the college he served so well. His whole administration was marked by a series of successful efforts to improve the physical face of the campus. Our more than adequate facilities are a tribute to his work and vision. His loyal interest and moral character have been an inspiration and a standard for the entire college community.

Another familiar face, Dr. Samuel Spencer, left Davidson to become president of Mary Baldwin. We expect that as the years go on, his accomplishments in the field of education will bring more honor and pride to this institution.

1957 was also the year of the great flu wave, of the Pi Kapp fire, and of additional students due to the Trustee’s decision to increase the enrollment.

Brighter Spots

Fortunately, the year also saw some bright spots. On the positive side, we saw the successful fight to grant the A.B. degree to all non-science majors. The year also saw the groundbreaking for a new wing to the library, a new post office, Dr. Cunningham’s “Ten Year Plan,” the four new clocks, and a reaffirmation of the fraternity system with the approval of the new half-million-dollar fraternity court.

In the field of human endeavor, we saw Dr. Pietenpol, Dean Bailey, and Mr. Martin, as well as the rest of the college staff, keeping the wheels of the college turning in their usual excellent manner. The fact that the college is doing wonderfully well without an official president is a pat on the back for their fine leadership.

These were some of the more significant events of 1957. What will 1958 bring forth?

Platform For 1958

1958 seems destined to bring both bad and good. It will bring more students as the increased enrollment plan continues. It will also bring the 12th president of Davidson College. These two events will happen as a matter of course. But the New Year should also see the realization of other goals. The DAVIDSONIAN’S platform for a better Davidson includes:

1. Adoption of the “preferential bidding” system to limit the size of fraternities.
2. Acceptance of a more mature attitude toward “Hell Week.”
3. Elimination of Section 3 of Article IX of the Student Body Constitution to permit students to return to the campus after they have been drinking.
4. Revision of the college curriculum to revitalize the required courses and to consolidate and improve the present curriculum.
5. Elimination of compulsory Communion Vespers.
6. Reversal of the Trustee's decision to increase the size of the student body.

Wanted: Action

Before the Christmas holidays, a DAVIDSONIAN poll revealed that a great majority of the students are dissatisfied with the present drinking rule. Action to change the rule, moreover, can come from two sources: the Student Council or from the students in the form of a petition. The initiative, however, logically lies with the Student Council since they are elected to handle the legislative affairs of student government. As yet the council has been unwilling to initiate any definite proposal to change the rule. What are they waiting on—for the students to do what the council ought to do?

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
John Johnson

BUSINESS MANAGER
Bob Lathan

ASSISTANT EDITOR
Laurens Walker

George Ramsey
Bill Patton
Jim Morris

Associate Editor
Managing Editors
Sports Editor
Assignments Editor
Feature Editor

John Trask, Jr.
Pat Henderson
Gerald Wilson
Julian Aldridge
Bruce Brooks
Bross, Cole
Ed Stevens
Henry Samuels
Lee Mayfield

Copy Editor
News Editor
Cartoonists
Photographer
Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

PS FOR RUSH WEEK ‘58

Preferential Bidding Is Proposed

In keeping with the new fraternity court and the new system for rushing, it is appropriate now to consider with a fresh and unbiased outlook the makeup of the fraternities. Are our fraternities now the best possible size for real spirit? Is the program the best for the school as a whole, or is it just dog-eat-dog with each group trying to hurt the other more than it itself is getting hurt? Assuming that a smaller size would lead to better chapter spirit, and that the professors and students are up for sale to the highest bidder. An example is found in the competition for capable students. The leading schools have sufficient funds to

COFFEE BREAK

College Crisis: Highest Bid

By BOB JONES

Only extremely partisan observers of the Davidson scene seriously contend that the college exercises the highest academic standards. This type of comment, of course, is not commonly made by “caffeine liberals” in their critiques of Davidson.

SUNDRY WEAKNESSES

The curriculum, the faculty, and the student body can all be picked over for sundry weaknesses. In making criticisms, however, it is well to bear in mind the overall trend in American undergraduate education. Numerous sources inform us that there is an incipient crisis in college education. While the crisis is currently pressuring Davidson, the effect will become considerably more acute in the immediate future.

BASICALLY ECONOMIC

Whatever more extraneous factors one might decide to include, requisite for a good college are good professors and good students. The problem of obtaining these two groups to maintain a truly reputable college is basically economic. In the educational market

LETTER TO EDITOR

“No Pressure

Dear Editor,

I suppose that we've about worried this Conformity thing to death, but before we do let's look at it in one more way. The following consists of the impressions of an out-of-state Freshman gathered in three months at Davidson.

Here there is little or no pressure to conform to popular ways of thought. A Davidson man is credited with intelligence and moral responsibility and his right to his own opinion and beliefs is acknowledged. It is probably difficult for a person who has been here for some time to appreciate the intellectual freedom predominant at Davidson. Granted, in the Southwest clothing, manners, and customs are definitely not static. However, they change rapidly according to fads, an evidence of the lack of originality on the part of the majority.

PUBLIC OPINION

Furthermore, intellectual and

By JOHN BERNHARDT

program the best for the school as a whole, or is it just dog-eat-dog with each group trying to hurt the other more than it itself is getting hurt? Assuming that a smaller size would lead to better chapter spirit, and that the professors and students are up for sale to the highest bidder. An example is found in the competition for capable students. The leading schools have sufficient funds toprovide generous scholarships in addition to the allure of a great “name.”

BEST BID
A school that desires to attract talented students must be able to make the best bid, which includes, in addition to various intangibles, money to pay the students to attend. While at Davidson the faculty and administration are generally aware of these problems and needs, the Board of Trustees and the student body apparently are removed from the practical, economic requirements of a first-rate school. It must be realized by all who are interested in the future of Davidson, however, in long-range plans it is necessary to recognize that the foremost consideration in building a better Davidson is sufficient economic resources and wise management.

To Conform
Moral freedom is simply non-existent. Individuality and sensitivity are crushed by public opinion or, in extreme cases, by political or economic pressure. Here at Davidson a man is free to disagree with the majority even in such an important issue as segregation. As I have said, these are first impressions, perhaps naive or erroneous; but they are strong impressions. If they are correct, they form the basis for a more optimistic outlook on conformity at Davidson.

WILLIAM MARTIN

PEANUTS

I'VE JUST FINISHED READING ‘PETER

Rigorous competition does hurt all concerned at present, many students are proposing a preferential bidding or quota system. This plan would have both bidding and pledging handled through the IFC. Rather than bidding all boys with an equally definite bid—those they really want lumped together with those they bid as second-string fillers to get the necessary quantity—the fraternities would list, say, the five boys they are the most interested in, then the second five, the third, and so on. Thus, the fraternities would have a list of their preferences, which would be turned over to the IFC. Each rushee would also make out a list of his fraternity choices, in order of preference. With these two sets of lists, the IFC could then combine the preferences listed in both as well as possible according to fixed regulations.

QUOTA SYSTEM
The idea of the quota system would come in at this point: the fraternities would be given boys up to a set quota, say twenty. If its first twenty choices chose it as first, they would be assigned accordingly. If its first fifteen worked out thus, the remaining five would be assigned according to the highest possible correlation, as detailed in the IFC regulations on this selection. The rushee's preference would perhaps be given more weight than the fraternity’s, provided he was not more than a certain distance below the last correlated case, in which event the fraternity’s higher choice would be correlated with a slightly lower rushee. The details on this program would have to be worked out to the satisfaction of everyone, but the basic plan would be that given here. The preferential bidding plan should eliminate some of our present problems such as bidding for quantity and what to do with the rushee who makes neither good nor bad impression.

MORE EVEN DISTRIBUTION
The quota system plan, which would be a necessary aspect of the preferential bidding one, would help keep the fraternities small enough for real fellowship, would keep them fitted to the space in the new houses, and would offer the smaller fraternities some hope of building up to the larger. Together, they would settle the worries about the number coming down on pledge day, and should help to some extent the unequal distribution of quality among the fraternities.

LAST WEEK I READ ‘ALICE IN WONDERLAND... KNOWING HOW TO READ IS THE GREATEST THING IN THE WORLD!

1900 - 1957, Cecil Kenneth Brown
(The following quotations are taken from speeches and class lectures of Dr. C. K. Brown, former Dean of the Faculty and Professor of Economics)

It ought to be a distinction to graduate from Davidson College. But no one can distinguish you. Men must distinguish themselves.

Dark night will surely come down upon us if we in America are unable to pick out the vital issues of our time and to decide where we stand on them.

In the game of life you are losing the initiative when you begin to settle for less than your highest goals; when you begin to be persuaded that the line between right and wrong was set up to keep you from having a good time; when you begin to believe that a man must experiment with evil to learn about life.

Honor is more important than gain. Freedom is more important than security.

Manners involve a recognition that whatever differences exist among people there is something in everyone that must be respected. If there are no manners, how shall young and old, rich and poor, learned and ignorant, black and white live happily together? Or how can the nations hope to have peace among themselves?

I believe in helping people even to the point of letting them alone!

As long as men differ in initiative, industry, and skill, it is inevitable that they will differ in economic position. Now, it is the genius of democracy not to obliterate these differences, but to assure that the boundaries which separate men on the basis of learning or economic affluence shall not become rigid and formidable.

When driving always think what you’re going to do with those extra minutes—keep a light foot and have a happy time.

DR. C. K. BROWN

The purpose of education is to enable men to reject the bad and arrange the good in order of priority. In a word, to set up a scale of values and to know why it is set up that way.

Life is more than just raiment and after the last economic problem shall have been solved, the human spirit can still be tragically empty.

The ethics of the government is pretty low anyway. You can justify any kind of crookedness if it’s done in the name of the public welfare. Christian education must be so true to its own name, so honest in its purposes as to win the respect even of those who think that education has no need of Christianity.

The beauty of friendship, even its very essence, depends upon its exclusiveness.

I believe in freedom for the individual, in private property, and in the competitive principle as the best means of achieving a good life from the viewpoint of economic organization.

One of the charming and perplexing things about human beings is their inability to be thoroughly consistent.

It is a legitimate ambition for us to desire that our lives have authority; that what we do and say should command the respect of our fellows; that our words should carry weight; that our lives should count.

The common basis upon which men may live together and join in the advancement of a common way of life can be none other than a mutual respect for character and accomplishments.

Let us learn to unite our energies for our common good and that of the world, that freedom and democracy and prosperity, may not be simply beautiful slogans, but living realities.

By Schultz