PAGE FOUR

Challenge Results In Grant For Davidson
By DON Davidson STOWELL
Davidsonian Feature Writer

One afternoon several months ago, Mr. DeWitt Wallace and Mr. Edward H. Little were having a quiet lunch together when
the topic of conversation turned to colleges in which both men were interested. They agreed that each one would give
$1,000 to the college of the other's choice. Mr. Little chose Davidson College to receive Mr. Wallace’s gift, and Mr.
Wallace chose Macalester College in St. Paul, Minnesota, to receive Mr. Little’s gift.

A short time after the gifts had been made, Mr. Little learned that Mr. Wallace was going to add the
necessary amount to establish a $5,000 scholarship at Macalester in the name of Edward H. Little. Mr. Little then proceeded
to raise the amount given to Davidson to $5,000 and thereby established the DeWitt Wallace Scholarship Fund, the income from
which will be awarded each year as one of our special scholarships.

Mr. Wallace is the man who in 1922 chanced his all on a magazine designed to present a variety of
articles condensed from leading magazines—THE READER'S DIGEST. It is understandable that this sixty-one-year-old founder, editor, and publisher of the world’s
largest magazine should choose Macalester College to receive Mr. Little's gift. Mr. Wallace's father taught Greek and Old English there
and was later honored with the presidency of the co-educational institution founded in 1853. Wallace himself attended Macalester for two
years before going to the University of California.

Davidson College is indeed honored to have the name of DeWitt Wallace among the already notable list of friends of
the college. Mr. Little's name has long been familiar here at Davidson. This seventy-seven-year-old native of Mecklenburg County was given
an honorary doctorate in 1953 and is Honorary Vice-Chairman, Board of Sponsors, Davidson College Development Program, as well as a
member of the Board of Visitors of Davidson College. At the Fall Convocation, a dormitory on campus was named in
his honor. He is a devoted and true friend of the college.

Separate Services Mark Final Vespers

This Sunday communion will be held as an alternate vesper service in Lingle Chapel at 8:45. The regular vesper service
will be held as usual at 7:30 in the sanctuary of the college church. Students may attend either service and
receive credit for attending vespers. This is an experimental arrangement made by the Religious Life Committee of the college. It
was suggested by several students who objected to a required communion. Formerly, the communion vesper service was compulsory. Students who
did not wish to participate in the distribution of the sacraments were allowed to leave at that point in the
service. If the new arrangement meets the approval of the students who wish to take communion, the college may hold
several such services next year.

John Payne Resigns As Alumni Director

Mr. John L. Payne, Director of Alumni and Public Relations, will retire at Commencement this year. He has served in
this position for sixteen years. During this time his main work has been primarily concerned with the publications and correspondence
necessary to keep in constant touch with some 9000 Davidson alumni, the developing Student Placement Service, all institutional and sports
publicity, and the Alumni Fund, which largely through his efforts has become an important part of the college budget. Mr.
Payne is himself a Davidson alumnus of the Class of 1916. Both his father and his son, Rev. John L.
Payne, Jr., graduated from Davidson.

ROTC Gives Awards To Thirteen Cadets

Thirteen cadets received awards at the ROTC’s annual Awards Day Tuesday following the last parade of the year. Cadet Major
E. M. Payne received the Department of Army MS IV Superior Cadet Ribbon for his outstanding performance of duty as
Regimental S-1. Cadet Master Sergeant V. S. Broyles received the MS III Superior Cadet Ribbon. Cadet Sergeant R. D. Croom
received the MS II Superior Cadet Ribbon. Cadet Private Thomas Parker received the MS I Superior Cadet Ribbon. Cadet Colonel
C. T. Stowe received the Third Army ROTC Certificate of Meritorious Leadership Achievement. Cadet Lieutenant Colonel Ross J. Smyth received
the Henry E. Fulcher, Jr. Medal for his devotion and outstanding contributions in the field of citizenship. Cadet Captain W.
F. Price received the ROTC Best Platoon Leader Medal. Cadet Master Sergeant W. L. Walker received the Association of the
United States Army Medal for contributing materially to the advancement of the Davidson College ROTC. Cadet Sergeant S. C. Puckett
received the Daniel B. Woods Medal for leadership as an MS II cadet, and Cadet Private L. H. Harvin received
the American Legion Medal for leadership as an MS I cadet. Cadet Private W. I. Hedrick received the Sons of
the American Revolution Medal as Outstanding Band Cadet.

Faculty, Trustees (Continued From Page One)

When queried, student body president John Kuykendall stated that he was “very pleased. I am convinced that he is the
logical choice for the job, and I think I can speak for the student body in being pleased.” Supervisor Moore
Vernon Anderson: “Oh, excellent! I certainly think that this is a wise choice.” John Trask: “I think Davidson College has
honored itself by choosing Mr. Martin. He is a man who will give dynamic, positive leadership and will preserve the
traditional high values of Davidson.” Roy Gilbert: “There could be no better choice from the standpoint of the students because
of the high esteem and respect we have for him.”

Cites Summer Plans

Mrs. Rethal Moore, supervisor of dormitories, reports that ninety students have registered for the 1958 summer school but that the
final number of students enrolled will be close to 125. This year those students who stay on campus for the
summer session will be housed in Cannon and Little Dormitories. Belk Dormitory will be thoroughly cleaned and some sections painted
this summer, Mrs. Moore reports. New drapes will be hung in Watts Dormitory. The highlight of summer activity on campus
will be the meeting of the Synod of the North Carolina Presbyterian Church, U. S., in July. Delegates attending this
conference will be housed in Belk. Participants in the Junior Tennis Tournament to be held at Davidson in June will
stay in Duke Dormitory. Parents and guests of members of this year’s graduating class will be housed in Cannon and
East Dormitories. Their arrival on campus shortly after the last exam period will require students in these two dorms to
be out of their rooms by May 30.

In Charlotte, Davidsenians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... PIZZA

the famous OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead

Council Clarifies (Continued From Page One)

It was emphasized that the statement is not to be considered an interpretation but a statement of intent on the
council’s part. Its purpose, standards of your and our common sense. We therefore intend to uphold in the interest of
Davidson College and in the power of our own consciences the freedom of Davidson's campus from alcohol or its effects.According
to council members, the goal is to guide members in their interpretation of the existing rule and to inform members
of the student body of the council's intentions to enforce the drinking regulation. The present rule, outlined in the Student
Body Constitution, forbids possession of alcohol on the campus and prohibits the return to the campus of any student under
the influence of alcohol. Student members are honor-bound to report violators for trial.

Coca-Cola! Enjoy the good taste of Charlotte, N. C. "Coke" is a registered trademark.

Is it ever Ivy! Why, Coke is the most correct beverage you can possibly order on campus. Just look around
you. What are the college social leaders, out of their Ivy Leagues book, doing? Sorted under authority of The Coca-Cola
Company by THE COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Rushing, Bidding, and Dances Discussed

The Interfraternity Council met Wednesday night to discuss Rush Week plans for next year, plans for dance weekends, and the
proposed revised bidding system. Next year’s Rush Week will be held during orientation week. The problem of the exact time
of the Rush parties was discussed. However, nothing specific was decided. No rushing will interfere with the orientation program.

Tentative dates for the dance weekends were set. Homecoming will be October 24-25, Mid-Winters will be February 14-15, and Spring
Frolics will be held on April 17-18. The proposed preferential bidding system was discussed. It was decided that nine of
the twelve fraternities must approve the system in order to put it into effect. The Council will meet again Thursday
night to vote on the system.

Richard Brubaker stated that under the proposed system a boy who failed to participate in the formal pledging ceremony of
the fraternity he is to join will not be allowed to pledge again until the following year. However, a boy
who depledges after going through the ceremony will be allowed to re-pledge a fraternity whose quota is not filled. A
fraternity which loses a boy through depledging will not be allowed to pledge another one until the following year.

Calendar Of Events 1958-59

FIRST SEMESTER
September 12-16—Friday through Tuesday. Orientation period.
September 15-16—Monday and Tuesday. Re-examinations.
September 17—Wednesday. Classes begin.
October 25—Saturday. Homecoming, a holiday. Football game with Virginia Military Institute.
November 10-22—Monday through Saturday. Review Period.
November 26—Wednesday. 4:30 P.M., Thanksgiving Recess begins.
December 1—Monday. Thanksgiving Recess ends.
December 20—Saturday. 12:10 P.M. Christmas Recess begins.
January 5—Monday. 3:20 A.M. Christmas Recess ends.
January 21-29—Wednesday through Thursday. Mid-year examinations.
February 1—Friday through Sunday. Mid-term Recess.

SECOND SEMESTER
February 2—Monday. 8:20 A.M. Second Semester begins.
March 27—Friday. 4:50 P.M. Spring Recess begins.
April 2—Thursday. 8:20 A.M. Spring Recess ends.
May 22-29—Friday through Friday. Second Semester examinations.
May 30-June 1—Saturday through Monday. Commencement.
June 5-6—Friday and Saturday. Re-examinations.

MAY 19

Coke! SIGN OF GOOD TASTE © 1956, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY

THURSDAY, MAY 15, 1958

Council Appoints Nix Frosh Judge

John Nix, a rising senior from Tucker, Georgia, was appointed judge of the Court of Control for next year by
the student council at their most recent meeting. John succeeds Phil Lewis as judge. Also selected to serve as Court
members were Pat Henderson, Harold Westervelt, and Craig Wall, rising seniors; George Hart and Larry McNeil, rising juniors; and Scott
Lacy and Jerry Cole, rising sophomores. Wall, Hart, and McNeil have had previous experience serving on the Court of Control.

Nix, commenting after his selection as judge, said that “it is our (the Court's) desire to further the excellent work
done by this year’s Court of Control. In order for next year’s Court to be successful we will need the
whole-hearted support of every member of the student body. We will welcome any suggestions as to how we can make
the 1958-59 Court of Control a stronger and more integral part of the Davidson student body.”

'Couldn't Believe'

“I am deeply grateful to the Trustees of Davidson College for the confidence they have expressed in me by selecting
me as president of the college. I shall do everything in my power to justify their faith in me. Davidson
ranks high as a liberal arts college for men. There is every reason to believe that it will continue to
improve its service in this area by providing quality education in a Christian environment to its students. This objective can
be accomplished only through a dedicated and competent faculty and staff which is adequately compensated and provided with the necessary
equipment and facilities. It will be my purpose to see that these essential needs of the college are provided and
that Davidson's reputation in the educational world is maintained and strengthened.”

FILTERS

Tastes best

Mecklenburg Planning Commission, a director of Piedmont Bank and Trust Company, a trustee of Mary Baldwin College, and a member
of the executive committee of the Southern Association of College and University Business Officers.

Crawford To Lead Phi Mu Alpha

John Crawford, a junior from Maryville, Tennessee, was elected president of Davidson’s Gamma Kappa Chapter of Phi Mu Alpha Sinfonia
of America, national honorary music fraternity. Other newly elected officers are Arthur Lawrence, vice-president; Henry Otten, treasurer; Walter Clark, corresponding
secretary; David Atchison, secretary; Lawrence McNeill, historian; and Charles Cook, warden. Professor Donald Plott is faculty advisor.

In impressive musical settings the following students were recently initiated into membership of the fraternity: J. W. D. Atchison, W.
D. Clark, C. L. Cook, Alfred Wang, J. P. Starling, W. H. Otten, F. C. Yarboro, R. W. Morrison, W.
W. Womble, W. M. Thrower, J. L. McNeill, B. K. Kwon, O. S. Warr, and J. W. Denham. Also, Professors
Philip Gehring, of the music faculty, and H. Alden Bryan, of the Chemistry Department, were initiated as honorary chapter members.

The 1958 Phi Mu Alpha Sinfonia Fraternity Convention will be held July 10-12 at Cincinnati’s Hotel Netherland.

AIR-CONDITIONED
FULL BATHS
INDIVIDUAL HEAT
FAMILY ACCOMMODATIONS
RATES: Single $5.00 — Double $7.00
Extras $1.00 Each
15 Minutes From Davidson

The Oaks Motor Court
344 South Main Street
Phone NOrth 3-5693
Mooresville, N. C.
Owners and Managers: Bill and Hazel Sprinkle

But L&M did it! Light into that Live Modern flavor

TODAY'S L&M GIVES YOU...

They said it couldn't be done... a cigarette with such an improved filter... with such exciting taste. L&M’s patented filtering
process electrostatically places extra filtering fibers crosswise to the stream of smoke... enabling today’s L&M to give you—puff by puff—less
tars in the smoke than ever before. Yet L&M draws easy... delivering you the clean rich taste of the Southland’s
finest cigarette tobaccos. The best tasting smoke you'll ever find.

©1958 Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.
