a Do You Think for Yourself? w: FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 1958

Davidsonian = =—=SPORTS

Sports All That By JIM HAMILTON

It must have come out of a storybook. There were fifteen seconds on the clock. There was the score, Wofford
20, Davidson 18, on the scoreboard. There was a tear on the cheek of Jim Bloomfield whose fingertips had just
been evaded by an elusive pass. There was anxiety on the faces of the small but loyal Davidson contingent. There
were growing smiles on the faces of the Wofford fans across the way. And there was a boy on the
Davidson team named Usher who wears a snub-toed shoe. Fifteen seconds later there was bedlam on the Davidson side, numbness
and shock on the Wofford side. Usher had booted a 27-yard field goal that had barely sneaked over the crossbar
in the corner to give the Cats a 21-20 victory. All the ingredients from a storybook ... tears... laughter ...
the exuberant leap of Dean Johnston and the sigh from the old Wofford alumnus next to me named Hamilton, as
the ball crept over the bar ... the random, nonsensical comments that only have meaning in this context... such as
Coach Tucker’s “The greatest thing I've ever seen” ... as Coach McKee’s many times repeated “Tremendous, tremendous” ... as Coach
Dole's smiling, the biggest one in years, who said little, but showed his feelings by placing a kiss on the
ruddy cheek of his boy, Bruce ... as Coach Stevens, who confessed, “I’m still shaking.” The masses had cleared, the
players had finally gained the sanctuary of the dressing room to continue their celebration in private, but Coach McKee still
walked around shaking everyone’s hand as happily as if he had kicked the goal, muttering all the time, “Tremendous, tremendous.”
And it was. By the way, fellow Davidsonians, as I intimated last week, never leave a Davidson football game before
it’s over. In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... rights to nudge the ‘Cats ahead relaxation
of all inhibitions that produced Usher’s Last Second Boot Beats Wofford

Davidson's gridiron Cats travel to Williamsburg tomorrow to meet tough William & Mary in their third conference tilt. Last week
the Wildcats made a brilliant second-half comeback to edge Wofford 21-20. Freshman Bruce Usher coolly smacked a sharply angled 27-yard
field goal between the uprights to nudge the ‘Cats ahead in the final 15 seconds of the game. Throwing up
a rock-hard defense in the last half which did not allow a single first down, Davidson also managed to score
two touchdowns preceding Usher's kick. The Terriers had their first TD set up for them in the initial quarter when
a high punt sailed over receiver Grant McRorie’s head to the 19-yard line. Officials ruled he touched the ball and
Wofford recovered. The second came when a high pass from center over Barbee’s hands gave them the pigskin on the
21. The third, however, was scored on a beautiful pass play from quarterback Charlie Bradshaw to end Jerry Richardson. Meanwhile,
Davidson had clicked for only one tally, a one-yard plunge by Dave Warden, to make the halftime score 20-6. Davidson
faces one of the toughest defensive squads in the Southern Conference in W & M. The Indians held powerful Navy
to two touchdowns, VMI to one, and beat N. C. State 13-6. Their statistical records in no way indicate their
team ability, as they play probably the roughest schedule in the conference. Although W & M tied VMI earlier this
year, Coach Dole doesn’t regard the Indians as potent offensively or defensively as the squad that belted Davidson 42-7. “They’re
big, but slow and are not as deep as VMI.” Their passing offense is notably poor due to the absence
of injured quarterback Frank Secules. W & M is ranked eighth in total offense while Davidson is fifth. Coach Dole
has made some changes in the starting lineup.

Cat Runners Aim On State Meet By BOB GREENE

Davidson's cross-country harriers journey to Raleigh this weekend for the State Meet following McBryde's record-breaking jaunt at Lexington. The Wildcat
runners had a full schedule this week, defeating the University of Richmond Saturday and taking third place in a triangle
meet with W & L and VMI Wednesday. A wet Saturday morning saw the Cats place five men in the
first six against the Virginians with team captain McBryde leading the pack with 22:51 for the 4.0-mile course. Richmond captured
second place then Davidson's McNeil, Eckbert, McKeithen, and Thompson came across the finish in that order. The Cats didn't fare
as well in the triangle affair on Wednesday, partially due to the sickness of Eckbert who failed to place.

Sigs Hold Lead By JERRY RICH

The Kappa Sig powerhouse preserved its precious one-game lead in the Intra-fraternity flickerball race at the end of Round Twelve
as the green-shirted musclemen rolled to victory over Sigma Chi. The Betas and the Phi Delts were tied for second
with identical 9-2 records opposed to Kappa Sig’s 10-1 achievement. Rounding out the top five were Sigma Chi and ATO
with 8 wins and 4 losses each. A heavy first-half attack spurred the SPE's to a 27-9 win over an
undermanned Independent team on Wednesday. In other Wednesday action, ATO blanked Sigma Nu’s winless crew 14-0; Beta did everything but
tar and feather the Phi Gams as the second placers coasted to an easy 45-6 win and Phi Delt shellacked
Pi Kappa Alpha 39-9. The ATO-Sigma Nu game initiated Round Thirteen action. Games remaining to be played after Wednesday were
the Kappa Sig-Phi Kappa Phi, KA-SPE, Independents-Phi Delt, SAE-Phi Gam, and Beta-PiKA affairs. A Kappa Sig loss coupled with a
win by either Phi Delt or Beta, or wins by both, would result in a tie for first place.

Fall Practice By TOM RAIFORD

With the basketball and wrestling season less than a month away, the floors are rapidly improving and looking forward to
good seasons.

BASKETBALL

The basketball team has five returning lettermen; Tri Captains Semi Mintz, Dave Hollingsworth, and Joe Milner, along with Bill Shinn
and John Huie. One position has been left vacant from last year, and guards Huie and Stafford are good prospects
for this vacancy. Coach Scott has stated, “We should be improved over last year.”

PENALTIES ALSO

Removal of table tennis from the intramural sports calendar, a new policy concerning referee reimbursement...Freshman Jerry Sheffield will start at
Paul Barbee's left halfback position. Barbee was injured in the Wofford game and is not expected to play much. Also,
Frank Anderson and Alex Porter will probably start at the tackles.

David Gilmour turned in a sterling performance at 16:18. His closest pursuer finished eleven seconds back. Brownlee, Coffey, Schafner, and
Kinny placed 4th, 5th, 7th, and 9th, respectively. The varsity's overall conference record stands at 4-3. The frosh are undefeated
in ten outings.

The announcement of the winter sports calendar highlighted last Wednesday's meeting of the Intramural Athletic Council. Table tennis was removed
because of the lack of interest shown in the tournament. The possibilities of scheduling an open table tennis tournament and
also an open pool tournament were discussed briefly, to be taken up later after members of the fraternities had been
consulted.

Penalties will be inflicted on fraternities whose referees fail to show up at games which they are slated to officiate.
Likewise, fraternities which postpone a contest without three days' written notice given to the IMAC Calendar Committee will be penalized.
These penalties will be subtracted from the team's overall score in the particular sport.

Whittle also praised freshman Ran Schafner for his outstanding effort. The Keydet freshmen were undefeated prior to Wednesday's contest. The
highlight of the afternoon was Angus McBryde’s record-breaking run of 22:46. He held the previous record of 23:12 for the
rugged 4.15-mile circuit and will probably be McBryde’s toughest competition in the conference event.

Commenting on Davidson's chances in the state meet, Coach Whittle stated, “The freshmen have an excellent chance of winning first
place although Duke and Carolina have very strong teams. The varsity’s main hope is in McBryde who should be fighting
for the number one position.” The freshmen also triumphed last week. Gilmour again set the pace with Coffey taking second.

The Kappa Sigs emerged victorious in their last game, the flickerball title will be their first since 1954. According to
Intramural Athletic Council representatives, no events are scheduled for next week unless there remain any flickerball games to be played.

The grapplers, captained by their big gun “Westy” Westervell, return six lettermen to the mat this year. There is a
good nucleus for a team, but more heavy and light men are needed. The opening meet on December 8 with
Pfeiffer should set the ball rolling towards a good season.

The Calendar Committee announced the following dates for the winter sports: Wrestling, November 17 and 18; Swimming, December 10 and
11; Basketball, beginning January 6, 7, or 8.

This afternoon the Wildcat soccer squad played visiting King College, this being the first encounter of the two teams. King
College boasts a large number of foreign students, many of whom have seen previous soccer experience in their native countries.

Today's action was the next to last home game of this season, the team journeying next to Chapel Hill to
meet U.N.C. on Nov. 14 and closing out the season here on Nov. 21 against Warren Wilson. The Wildcat record
for the year stands at 4-4. Wins include double victories over Pfeiffer and Belmont Abbey.

The Wildcats were able to work the ball downfield several times but failed to find the net on scoring attempts.
Leading the Davidson offense was high scorer Wiecher Bergsma. Last Friday afternoon the Davidson team left for Lexington, Va., to
face Washington and Lee on Saturday. W & L had edged out the Wildcats in their first encounter here by
a narrow margin of 1-0. On their home field, the Generals once again managed to down the Davidson squad as
they won Saturday's contest by a 5:2 margin.

The two Davidson goals both came in the third period and were accounted for by Bergsma. One was a field
goal and the other resulted from a penalty kick. The ‘Cats threatened again in the final period as they attempted
to even the score but were unable to score again.

In amassing their five goals, W & L managed to control the ball a great deal of the time and
kept the Davidson defense working overtime. In addition to the Washington and Lee losses, Davidson has dropped individual contests to
Duke and N. C. State.

Here's a Real Buy
50% Alpaca - Cardigan Sweaters
COLORS: LT. OXFORD, MED. GREY, NATURAL, SAND, FIRE RED, WHITE, BLACK
$12.95
WILSON-WRIGHT'S, INC.
COLLEGIATE FASHIONS
DAVIDSON
