Do You Think for Yourself?

HERE'S YOUR CHANCE

By JIM HAMILTON

After last week’s interview with Coach Tucker, fearing a summons from the executive committee or the like, I figured that I'd better elevate the contents of this column, so I went down to the gym to visit assistant wrestling coach Evans who I reasoned would be a fairly safe subject, since he is also a professor in the Bible department.

Evans was on the mat so I kicked off my shoes and walked over to where he was working out with redhead Milton Gee. At present, Gee was the victim of a cradle hold that had him flat on his shoulders, his feet up in the air. So I sat down to watch what I figured would be a good match, since Milt is one of the most capable men on the team and the coach is one of the better grapplers in Davidson history.

They squared off again with Milt on the top. After a few moments of sparring Gee yelled, “Watch this.” A few deft movements and Milton was back on his shoulders, feet again flopping high above his head. Undaunted, Milt tried again. “Where're you going,” said Evans, resting his head on his hand for comfort as Gee strained futilely for a leg hold. “Thinks he’s smart,” Milt gasped. I had to agree with the good professor's opinion because thirty seconds later Milton was back in his now familiar upside-down position. Gee, abashed, retorted in self-defense, “How much do you weigh, anyhow?” (The professor did have about a thirty-pound edge on his nimble opponent.) I’m sure Evans had an appropriate answer, but about that time they rolled on top of me, so I had to quit writing.

Basketball is in the spotlight after Christmas as the Cats play host in the annual Carrousel tournament, starting December 29. The tournament card includes such northern powers as Pittsburgh, with All-American guard Don Hennon, St. Francis, Bucknell, and Fordham. The southern representatives in the tourney include Clemson, George Washington, South Carolina, and Davidson. Through Wednesday night the northern foursome had a combined 12-3 record while the Southerners had only an 8-10 composite record. First day afternoon games feature Clemson vs. George Washington and St. Francis vs. Bucknell. Davidson will play South Carolina in the first evening game and Pitt and Fordham battle in the nightcap.

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... PIZZA

the famous OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead
Charlotte, N. C.

Can you honestly say you never imitate the manner of an executive or leader you admire? Are you entirely confident that you would not get “lost” if you worked for a large firm? When driving or walking for some distance, do you like taking shortcuts rather than a longer route you know will get you where you're going? In going to the movies, do you consult the reviews first rather than just take “pot luck”?

Cats Finish

Davidson Entertains As Host In Carrousel Tournament

By PETE WYRICK

After a couple of impressive victories over Pfeiffer and Washington and Lee and a close defeat at Catawba, the Wildcat basketball squad went back on the road this week for two important contests. On Wednesday night the ‘Cats met William and Mary in a conference game. Coach Tom Scott calls the W & M team “a fine ball club with some real big boys.” Scott probably sent his usual starting five against the Indians, but started John Stafford in place of “Red” Ferguson, height being a decisive factor.

Talking over results of previous games this season, Coach Scott seemed pleased with the improvement his team has been showing, especially in the scoring department. Scott indicated that team scoring has gone up in latter games and a primary reason for this has been due to getting the ball in play and up the floor faster. However, the scoring load is still resting on three men. These three, Hollingsworth, Shinn, and Mintz have been in the double figures consistently. Scott was also high in his praise for sophomore Jim Nuckolls who “is really showing improvement this year.”

“This team could easily run up a hundred points against us if we don’t play good ball, but we will be playing a control type of game, waiting for only the best shots. If we play well, we could win.”

Phi Delts Lead In Overall I-F Score

By virtue of their runaway victory in the swimming meet, the Phi Delts have edged ahead of the previously front-running Kappa Sigs in the overall race for the Interfraternity Sports trophy. Several lengths behind the two pacesetters are closely clustered the Betas, KA’s, and Sigma Chi's. The SAE’s and ATO’s stand in need of a strong showing throughout the remainder of the intramural calendar to leap into the trophy picture.

The first session of the intramural basketball referees’ clinic was held Tuesday night at the gym, under the supervision of Coach Tom Scott. Scott expressed satisfaction at the turnout and at the interest shown by the group. A second session will be held after a week of action to iron out any questions the referees have.

I-F OVERALL STANDING
Phi Delts 371
Kappa Sigs 360
Beta 299
KA 279
Sigma Chi 273
SAE 232
ATO 201
Sig Ep 195
Phi Gam 183
PIKA 167
Pi Kapp 162
Sigma Nu 97
Independents 70

Swimmers may 1 Road Trip

MILTON GEE, 147 lb. grappler, is shown driving his opponent into the mat while winning his match in the Pfeiffer meet. Davidson dropped only one match in their winning effort.

Wildcats Visit U.N.C.; Meet N.C. State Next

Davidson’s wrestling team left for Chapel Hill yesterday after working all week for its encounter with rugged North Carolina. Coach Charlie Parker, thoughComplaining about his marked need for grapplers in the lighter weights, was hopeful of a win. He said that several of Carolina's best wrestlers had already begun their Christmas holidays. Milton Gee was in the 147-class, wrestling Wellborn, North Carolina State champ in high school wrestling. Gee has looked better this year as a junior than ever before. Coach Parker predicts he will be hard to beat if he keeps on going. Sophomore Dave Irvin, 130-lb., was out for practice only three days before the Pfeiffer match. A letterman potential for an outstanding wrestling career.

Top Tigers In Saturday’s Contest: Davidson continued its mastery in swimming last Saturday with a 51-34 win over Clemson’s Tigers. The Wildcats copped all the events except two. John Scott, postponing his Christmas vacation for the meet, was a great help, capturing the 200-yd. butterfly and breaststroke events. He was also a member of the four-man relay team, including captain Bob Wynne, Tom Smith, and George Gabel, which swept the Tigers by a wide margin in the medley-relay contest.

The boards in Monday night’s game with Washington and Lee. Hollingsworth added 28 points to the winning Wildcat cause.

The Man Who Thinks for Himself Knows... ONLY VICEROY HAS A THINKING MAN’S FILTER... A SMOKING MAN’S TASTE! Before you light your next cigarette, ask yourself this: Have you really thought which filter cigarette is best for you? If you have... chances are you're a VICEROY smoker. The fact is, men and women who think for themselves usually smoke VICEROY. Their reasons? Best in the world. They know for a fact that only VICEROY—no other cigarette—has a thinking man’s filter and a smoking man’s taste.

IF YOU HAVE ANSWERED YES TO 6 OF THESE QUESTIONS, YOU ARE A PERSON WHO THINKS FOR HIMSELF! © 1968. Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp.

HUDGINS HOT: Tom Hudgins took the 220-yd. freestyle swim and claimed victory as anchorman for the ‘Cats in the freestyle event. He provided the Wildcats successful counter movement for Clemson's extra-good distance freestyle swimmers. Hudgins has now won six events and lost none. Captain Bob Wynne, disproving the theory that Davidson is weak in freestyle, won all three of his attempts, including the 100-yd. freestyle and the 400-yd. medley relay, which he anchored. Coach Tucker was astounded at the lead, already sufficient, which developed when Wynne took over. Davidson also had a winner in the 220 backstroke as Tom Smith out-distanced all opponents. Though favored to win easily, the Wildcats were forced to outdo Clemson's smooth divers. Coach Tucker compared the victory with the battle earlier with William and Mary, in which the ‘Cats were definitely underdogs.

2-0 RECORD: The win gave Davidson a clean record for the young season—two wins and no losses. Davidson's freshman team met the swimmers from Myers Park Wednesday in a practice match. Scores were not tabulated. After Christmas, the Wildcats play host to VMI on the 12th, travel to VPI on January 14th, and return to Johnston Gymnasium on the 17th for a meet with Citadel. Coach Tucker expects to work the boys heavily for these meets—three of the toughest of the season.

By BILL GODWIN: The other debutant, 157-lb. senior John Poindexter, has been the intramural champion in wrestling for the past three years. “If he had started three years ago,” Parker says, “he would have been tremendous now. He has the natural talent and scrapping drive to make a real wrestler. He's the argumental type—has to be shown.” Poindexter, on Davidson's tennis team for the last two years, swatted last season as No. 2 man. Coach Parker said, “You never write an article about my team without mentioning Westervelt. With that 28-consecutive-win streak, he’s the only player I’ve ever had to make history every match. With the possible exception of 1941 conference heavyweight champ Howard McFayden, Westy's the best I've coached.” Sophomore Jimmy Allen and heavyweight Alex Porter deserve praise also. Allen was to wrestle former Davidson grappler Sonny Kinley in the 177-lb. class. For the freshmen, Butch LeDoyen and Mike van Doren were expected to outstrip the Tarheel babies. Coach Parker considers LeDoyen, 157-lb., the best. Van Doren wrestles in the 130-lb. class. Buddy Brauch, 123-lb., and Graham Allison, 177-lb., both from Myers Park in Charlotte, round out the cream of the freshman crop. Davidson's next home meet is slated for January 12, when North Carolina State invades. The Wildcats defeated them last year, 21-13.

Frosh Ball Club Looks Promising: By BOB GREENE: The outlook for Davidson’s freshmen cagers is bright as play adjourns for the Christmas holidays. The Wildkittens have a 2-2 non-conference record and resume play January 10. Thirteen hard-working boys comprise the ‘58-59 edition of the Kitten cagers which is potentially the best freshmen team Davidson has had in many years. Jerry Bussell, a speedy playmaker from Lafayette, Ind., handles the right guard position, hitting from outside and inside with two-hand sets and jump shots. He is an exceptional ball handler and passer, having his best game against Pfeiffer when he bucketed 27 points.

LEFTHANDER: Tom Harris, a left-hander, teams with Bussell at left guard and hits the double figures from the outside with a one-hand jump and a two-hand set shot. Harris, a graduate of Oakridge, hails from Elkin. The forwards are Allen Millar and D. G. Martin. Allen stands 6’ 4", uses a jump shot and hooks from the post. This Raleigh youth is usually in the double figures and should develop into a fine ball player. Martin is the team’s leading rebounder and guns from the inside with a jump shot. The North Mecklenburg star is rapidly developing an outside shot.

CENTERS: Ronnie Anderson, 6’ 6", and Bob Moore, 6’ 5”, share the duties at center. Anderson is an aggressive scrapper and hooks with either hand. He is also accurate from the outside and is learning constantly. Moore is the same size and type player as Anderson and Coach Hunt is playing both boys equally. The Kittens’ versatility lies mainly in 6’ 3” Frank Weaver. This Chapel Hill playmaker works at guard and forward and will be one of the better players when he develops more speed. Other frosh hardwooders are Shi Shuvp and Andy Sherrill (guards), Graham Showalter, Randy Austin, Worth Williamson, and Wyche Fowler (forwards). Coach Hunt stated that his team has a lot of team spirit and is working hard to develop a winning squad.