_ Bob Bral

BREAK

The mid-week break this week will feature the newest and most recently formed music group on campus — a combo. Producing sounds from two guitars, a piano, and drums will be Hub Knox, Tom Anderson, John Brantley, and Tom Greene, respectively. Knox, a new professional in his own right, comes from Millington, New Jersey; and Anderson hails from Petersburg, Virginia. Florida produces one-half of this group, with Brantley being from Miami and Greene from Neptune Beach.

Rounding out the evening's enjoyment will be two repeaters — food and girls. In the food category will be hot dogs and colas; and while enjoying these, those in attendance can also benefit from the association of our fraulein guests.

Remember - Wednesday night, 9:00 p.m. - College Union - Food - Girls - Music

MOVIE - "View From Pompey's Head"
Starring Richard Egan
Dana Wynter
Cameron Mitchell
Today, July 8 -
Union - 8:00 p.m.

ANSWER to last week's riddle -
(Those we caught, we threw away.
Those we could not catch, we kept.)
What is it???
Lice!!!

REMEMBER WEDNESDAY AND SATURDAY NIGHTS

DAVIDSONIAN
July 8, 1958

DANCE

Saturday, July 12 will be a highlight in the activities of our summer school session. The mid-summer dance will be held on this date from 8:00 p.m. until 12 midnight on the patio of the College Union.

Music will be furnished by a well-known Charlotte combo. Dress for the evening will be strictly informal. It is requested that monetary pledges be submitted at the desk in the Union or at the Student Store between the hours of 12:30 and 1:30 today and Wednesday. Room arrangements for dates may be made at the same time.

CHAPEL LEADERS
Thursday, July 10 - Professor McLane
Tuesday, July 15 - Bill Warlick

Two Texan Tales -
(Enjoy them while you can. They will soon be replaced by Alaskan tales!)

A Texan was telling about teaching his son to drive one of the family Cadillacs. "But, Tex," interrupted a friend, "your boy is only ten." "Shucks, Ah know that," was the reply. "That's why Ah only let him drive in the house!"

And did you hear about the six-year-old Texan who pledged $100 a week to his church school? Sure that the lad did not understand what he was doing, a member of the canvassing committee called on the parents. "Oh, yes," the father assured him, "it's perfectly in order. We insist that the boy tithe."