FRIDAY, OCTOBER 17, 1958

Davidsonian — By JIM HAMILTON

Hark ye to the reading of the lesson from the book of Pigskin Proverbs. “Blessed are the meek, for they shall win football games.”

This is a story in contrast. Between halves of the P.C. game I was groping along in the subterranean regions of the Presbyterian gym. My wanderings led to a door slightly ajar, on the other side of which rested the P.C. ball-team, at that time enjoying a six-point lead. Through the crack I heard a belligerent, demanding voice declaring in a harsh tone, “You guys can win this game tonight. Some of you are hitting, some are not. You gotta get in there and knock their b.... s off.”

Out of curiosity, I asked one of our players what Coach Dole said during the halftime. He told me and the scene was easy to picture. Dole stood up and in his mild way and in his soft voice that seems to transmit his own personal feeling to those to whom he is talking, said, “To win this ball game you fellows have to take the kickoff and drive for a touchdown the first time.” The kickoff and three plays later Davidson had a touchdown—and a ball game.

Again from the book of Proverbs, “A soft answer turneth out football teams that scoreth touchdowns—Selah.”

Short Shots

The grapevine has it that there will be an innovation in the Dole machine come tomorrow afternoon. And what is it—no huddle. The coach figures it will save time and energy and probably add spirit to the offense. We wonder what will come next.

Scoop of the week—Davidson and Furman will meet November 1 in the first Carrousel Bowl. The event will be one of the highlights in the week-long Carrousel pageant, that includes a hockey game, a pro basketball game, and Kim Novak. The plan is to have 10,000 people at the game and turn a rather stale series into a prominent affair.

Coach Parker wishes to see all boys interested in going out for the wrestling team in the wrestling room in the gym Monday at four o'clock.

FOR QUICK SERVICE AND GOOD FOOD TRY
Scottie’s Drive-In Restaurant
Salisbury Drive — Mooresville

THE DAVIDSONIAN

CLAUDE FINNEY, sophomore goalie is shown defending the net in last Friday’s contest with Duke. In three games Finney has only allowed one goal in regular play. Three have gotten past him on penalty kicks. (Photo by Rhyne)

One Point Defeats Duke, W&L Win Close Tilts From Davidson

By PETE WYRICK

After an excellent opening two weeks ago, downing Pfeiffer 4-0, a couple of close defeats at the hands of Duke and Washington and Lee marred the Wildcat soccer record. Neville, John Keiter, Hormann Laimer and “Koogie” Kwon. Davidson goals were scored by Dave Irvin and Kwon.

WASHINGTON AND LEE

In their first home game of the season last Friday, a strong Duke team handed Davidson its first defeat by a score of 3-2 in a hotly contested match which was eventually decided in an overtime.

On Monday afternoon Davidson was host to the Washington and Lee Generals. In last year’s encounters, the two teams split, each winning once. Monday's match was almost a duplicate of the first half of the Duke game with each team fighting for control, but not often getting into good scoring position.

OVERTIME

During the first period, however, the Generals took advantage of a Davidson mistake by scoring on a penalty kick. The game finally was tied in the third period as the ‘Cats scored and at the end of regulation playing time the score was tied 1-1. The remainder of the game was a see-saw battle up and down the field. In the overtime period with the score tied 2-2 a Duke penalty shot from the side went high into the net.

Barbee’s New Sports Fields Expedite I-F Play

Our intramural program has grown to be a vital part of the overall athletic program here at Davidson. In keeping with this growth, Davidson College has provided three vastly improved intramural fields located on the other side of the golf course. These are the fields used last year for flickerball despite their poor condition. During the summer the college graded, seeded, and lined them for this year's flickerball and softball.

PROGRAM GROWS

Coach Scott feels that this is one indication of the growth of our intramural program. The school has provided top-notch facilities for athletic teams and physical education. The present need is for better opportunities for the participation of the student body as a whole. It is the goal of the Athletic Department that two more intramural fields be provided by next fall, bringing the number of flickerball fields to six. It would then be possible for every flickerball team to play each day so that another fall sport could be introduced.

COUNTRY COACH

The amazing individual performances of his squad. With practically no rain these first few weeks, Coach Heath Whittle has managed to work with the varsity on an ideal regular basis—something he has not been able to do in the past. This systematic practice has made it possible for the Coach to take a better and closer look at his ‘Cats. Larry McNeill, a junior and one of the squad's newer members, came out last year and ran in preparation for the cross-country season.

Davidson, in meeting Carson-Newman for the first time, will be opposed by the now seldom-used single wing attack. Carson-Newman boasts a fast team and uses a variable offense, which gives the ball carrier an option of running or passing. Newberry, the only common opponent for both teams, defeated Carson-Newman 14-8 earlier this season.

P. C. GAME

Traveling to Clinton last weekend as a one-point underdog, Davidson was able to pull out a victory through President Martin's administration.

Tau’s Gain Tie With Kappa Sigs

The I-F sports program is off to an unusual start with just two weeks of the flickerball season gone. The Kappa Sigs, who were leading at the completion of the first week, dropped to a first-place tie with the ATO's, who defeated them 27-6 on Wednesday afternoon. Each have a 4-1 record.

Weather And Runners Please Coach Whittle

Two things continue to please Davidson's Cross-Country Coach—the weather and the amazing individual performances of his squad.the corner of the net, just getting past Finney’s outstretched hands, and put the Blue Devils in the winning column. Finney, who was All-Southern goalie in his first season, played an outstanding game as did captain Gordon. They will be seeking their second victory over Pfeiffer. The field, which resulted in failure of either team to score, enabled the W&L team to leave the field with a scant 1-0 victory.

THEY SAID IT COULDN'T BE DONE - BUT TODAY'S TEAM GIVES YOU-

Four field goals in one game by a man who'd never kicked one before! Bobby Conrad himself said, “I never kicked a field goal in high school or college. In fact, I never even tried.” But the amazing Texas A&I back broke two All-Star records by booting four three-pointers, including one for 44 yards, as the 1958 college stars upset the Detroit Lions, 35 to 19. Conrad is now a Chicago Cardinal.

DON’T SETTLE FOR ONE WITHOUT THE OTHER! Change to L&M and get ‘em both. Such an improved filter and more taste! Better taste than in any other cigarette. Yes, today’s L&M combines these two essentials of modern smoking enjoyment — less tars and more taste — in one great cigarette.

3. A scheduled contest may be postponed only with the consent of both team managers. The IMAC Calendar Committee must be notified in not less than three days before the scheduled day of the game by means of a written notice signed by both team managers. If not notified three days before the contest, neither team will be able to make up the contest.

The flickerball schedule for the week of October 20-25th is as follows:

MONDAY
Phi Delt vs Beta
SPE vs SAE
Phi Gam vs KS
Phi Kapp vs ATO

TUESDAY
SN vs SX
Ind. vs KA
Phi Delt vs SAE
Pika vs KS

THURSDAY
SPE vs ATO
Phi Gam vs SX
Pi Kapp vs SN
Beta vs SAE

“Playboy” TUXEDO by AfterSix

Cats Drop P.C. Long Jaunt
By BILL HELLIER

Breathing a little easier after a 7-6 defeat of strong Presbyterian College, the Davidson Wildcats meet Carson-Newman College tomorrow afternoon on Richardson Field for their first game of the season in the home stadium. The Wildcats were determined to make the forecasters eat their words, and they did just that in a game that was closer than the 7-6 score indicated. A P.C. team that was big, fast, powerful, and spirited literally raced down the field time and again, only to be halted short of the goal. Fumbles and holding penalties proved costly to the eager Blue Hose, especially when they were deep in Davidson territory. The alert ‘Cats took advantage of every miscue. Presbyterian’s touchdown was set up in the first quarter on a 55-yard pass play from quarterback Bob Waters to halfback Bobby Pate. Pate was hauled down on the six-yard line, but P.C. fullback Bill Hill plunged over from the one, two plays later. The pass for the extra points was blocked by Harold Bynum.

ATTEMPTS FAIL

Twice during the first half, the ‘Cats managed to drive within scoring distance of the P.C. goal, but the Blue Hose held both times and two 4th down field goal attempts by freshman Bruce Usher failed. Though unable to produce a scoring drive in the first part of the game, the ‘Cats struck with lightning speed in the third period and before two minutes had elapsed, a stunned P.C. squad was on the short end of a 7-6 score.

On the first play after receiving the second half kickoff, Charlie Benson hit Danny House with a pass good for 15 yards. Two plays later, co-captain Charlie James opened a hole at guard and halfback Paul Barbee raced 35 yards unmolested for the score. Usher thoroughly redeemed himself by splitting the uprights for the winning point. In commenting on the game, Head Coach Bill Dole remarked, “Presbyterian has a fine team and we were very happy to come back with the victory.” The Wildcats now have a 2-1 won-lost record.

Another unexpected source of help has come from Bill Eckbert, a junior with absolutely no previous work in track shoes. Coach Whittle has placed Eckbert in the No. 3 position. And, of course, there is Angus McBryde. Angus is Davidson’s chief hope for the Cross-Country title. Last year he won the Southern Conference mile event and was third in Cross-Country.

DANNY HOUSE, sophomore end, is one of the new bright spots in the Cat line. House has become a regular fixture in the line on offense. (Photo by Rhyne)

Citadel Tops Kittens In Lancaster Contest
By JERRY RICH

A strong aerial attack boosted Citadel’s freshman football team to a 28-8 win over Davidson's Wildkittens at Lancaster on October 10. Sam Jackson scored Davidson's only touchdown with a 2-yard run around end. Two points were tacked onto the score when Jackson passed to Duncan Morton. Coach Tom Stevens said of the team, “They played a pretty good game. Citadel just had more boys. We did well until we started tiring in the fourth quarter. The team did fairly well, considering there were not many substitutes.”

GOOD WORK

Bob McAllister was cited as having shown good work at fullback, and another good job was accredited to end John Packer. Lynwood Mallard ran well, commented Coach Stevens. The Wildkittens encounter Gardner-Webb's team on November 1. Without a win to its credit, the team will naturally be out to make it a 1-3 season. A three-week lay-off should give Davidson time to prepare for this final game of the freshman season.