FRIDAY, APRIL 25, 1958

Davidsonian—Sports

All That By JIM HAMILTON

Aspiring athletes can learn a lot from Ray Antley, Davidson's two miler. Antley is not a great athlete. His stocky
build is not the kind traditionally associated with distance runners. His choppy stride is no picture of grace. Nevertheless, Antley
is a man to be copied.

For Antley has two essential qualities, desire and determination. Ray wants to be a track man and is willing to
work for his goal. In all kinds of weather, you can see Ray out on the track, always working harder
than anyone else on the team. It’s paid off. Ray has broken the tape twice this year for first place.

SHOWN ABOVE are the members of the Davidson College golf team. From left to right are: Gary Heeseman, Verner Stanley,
Sam Sloan, Bucky Dennis, Jim Feezor, John Mack- rem orall and Ned Payne.

Cats Meet State Today, THE DAVIDSONIAN

Trackmen To Meet W&L; Injuries Dim Hopes

Davidson's track squad met Washington and Lee today in the last dual meet of the season. The track squad closes
out its season in two weeks on May 9-10 in the Southern Conference meet, to be held at Davidson.

Coach Whittle was not too optimistic about the Wildcat chances but singled out several boys who should turn in fine
performances.

WEIGHT MEN

Dale Gramley, leading scorer thus far, is capable of winning the discus and placing in the shot. Dave Warden also
should do well in these events.

The two mile could possibly see a Wildcat win with Angus McBride and Ray Antley doing well.

Ray wants to be a trackman. In my opinion he is one.

OUR BOY, CY

One of the most amusing conversations I’ve had in a long time was with actor Cy Tripplett, curly-headed star of
the Davidson story. In this thrilling drama, Cy, a typical Davidson gentleman, is supposed to be the star of the
tennis team. However, a little probing forced Cy to admit that he had never played a game of tennis in
his life. Despite this little triviality, likable Cy, who was to be filmed in a close-up action shot, was not
primarily concerned with learning to hit the ball. Instead, he asked whether the team played in long sleeves or not.

When I informed him that they didn’t, he moaned, “Oh, the tattoo on my arm will show.” They let Cy
have his picture taken in a warm-up jacket.

ODE TO A U. N. C. FOOTBALL PLAYER

It’s not if you won,
Or if you slipped.
Just if you played well enough
To keep your scholarship.

QUESTIONS OF THE WEEK

Why aren't the tennis courts in better shape this late in the season?
Why doesn’t the Charlotte Observer give Davidson spring sports better coverage? (Not a picture of a Davidson athlete this spring.)

Many thanks to Ward McKeithen for suggesting that the Southern Conference standings in the various sports be included on the
sports page. Starting next week this will be a regular feature of this page. Any other such suggestions will be
appreciated.

Test your personality power

Taboo or not taboo - that is the question

1. Do you feel unqualified to judge a campus beauty contest? (For men only!)
2. Do you think going to a big party the night before is the best way to overcome pre-exam jitters?
3. Do you find the company of the opposite sex annoying?
4. Do you think fads and fancy stuff can give you the full tobacco flavor of a real cigarette?
5. Whenever one of your professors makes a grammatical error, do you call it to his attention?
6. Do you and your date sit in the back row of the balcony only because you're both farsighted?
7. Do you think cowboy shows will ever be banned from television?
8. Do you consider Ibid. the most quoted Latin author?

YES NO
[ ] [ ] 1. Do you feel unqualified to judge a campus beauty contest? (For men only!)
[ ] [ ] 2. Do you think going to a big party the night before is the best way
to overcome pre-exam jitters?
[ ] [ ] 3. Do you find the company of the opposite sex annoying?
[ ] [ ] 4. Do you think fads and fancy stuff can give you the full tobacco flavor of
a real cigarette?
[ ] [ ] 5. Whenever one of your professors makes a grammatical error, do you call it to his
attention?
[ ] [ ] 6. Do you and your date sit in the back row of the balcony only because
you're both farsighted?
[ ] [ ] 7. Do you think cowboy shows will ever be banned from television?
[ ] [ ] 8. Do you consider Ibid. the most quoted Latin author?

If you answered “No” to all questions, you obviously smoke Camels — a real cigarette. Only 6 or 7 “No”
answers mean you better get on to Camels fast. Fewer than 6 “No’s” and it really doesn’t matter what you
smoke. Anything’s good enough!

Have a real cigarette - have a Camel

By BOB GREEN

Davidson's linksters met North Carolina State today at Raleigh, holding a 3-5 season record. The Cats lost to Duke and
Wake Forest during the past week.

The Wildcats met Duke's golfers last Thursday at Durham and were out-pointed 22-5. The match was played on Duke's new
course which at present is very rough and un- prepared.

Monday Wake Forest's Deacons clubbed their way to a 21½-5½ victory at the Charlotte Country Club. Verner Stanley split three
points with his opponent as did

Davidson's fine tennis team pack their bags Wednesday after a four-day rest and head north for matches with Washington and
Lee on the 1st and William and Mary on the 2nd of May. Both Duke and Miami downed the Cats
last week, but they bounced back with wins over the University of South Carolina on Monday and CitadelOn Saturday, Alexander,
Gary Heeseman, and the Cats finished, picking up one point for the week with North Carolina State today. The entire
team averaged several strokes higher than usual following the dance weekend. Coach McKee reports the team is in fine shape,
and he predicts a successful finish to the season. McKee also mentioned the fact that Verner Stanley, a Freshman golfer
from Charlotte, has averaged under 73 for the season. Sam Sloan, Ned Payne, and Gary Heeseman have averaged 75 per
match, followed by Buchy Dennis at 76. Sut Alexander rounds out the Cat lineup with an average card of 79.

BIG FOUR
Davidson now has played the Big Four—Duke, U.N.C., State, and Wake Forest, and although losing to the schools, has gained
much valuable experience. The Cats meet Furman Monday in their second engagement this year. The Wildcats ran up a 21½-5½
win previously. The team is currently working hard in preparation for the Southern Conference Meet in Danville, S.C., May 6-7.

Netters Travel
The Virginia trip promises to be a very good test of the Cats' strength for the upcoming conference tournament. Both
teams have strong number one and two players but fade considerably in the lower positions.

MINTZ DOUBTFUL
The only immediate concern of Coach McKee is that the team’s number three singles player, Semi Mintz, will probably not
be able to make the trip because of cuts already used during the basketball season and for previous tennis matches.

Shelbourne Wallace, captain of the Davidson nine, is pictured pulling in a fly ball deep in centerfield.

Wallace Leads Nine From Centerfield
By “B” MILLNER
Leading Davidson’s horsehiders into conference title contention is Captain Shelbourne Wallace, a four-year veteran in centerfield. Wallace, from Kingsport, Tennessee,
earned his first varsity letter as a freshman, in spite of being sidelined with an injury for much of the
season. Since then he has played consistently fine baseball, having accumulated a “lifetime” batting average well above 300. The stocky
centerfielder is currently hitting in the number three slot and slugging the ball at a .317 pace. The team’s second
leading hitter, he has accounted for fifteen runs, batting in nine and scoring six on thirteen hits. Four of his
hits have been for extra bases.

Coach Tom Stevens praises Wallace’s base running ability. “He is exceptionally fast on the bases and only his position in
the batting order (just before the clean-up hitter) has kept him from stealing more bases for us.”

HIGH SCHOOL STAR
In high school in Kingsport, Tennessee, Wallace played baseball, track, and football, making all-conference in the latter. Shelbourne is a
brother of Kappa Alpha social fraternity, which he has served as vice-president this year. An ROTC Lt. Colonel, he is
a member of Scabbard and Blade, also being a Distinguished Military Student and commander of the first battalion. Wallace, a
business major, has served as secretary of the Business-Economics Association.

Coach Stevens stated that Wallace has been outstanding as captain of the Wildcats. In baseball, where most decisions are left
to the coach, the team captain has the responsibility of keeping up the team’s hustle and morale. The Wildcats are
now holding down the number two spot in Southern Conference standings.

The round robin tournament has now gotten into full swing after the delay caused by the weather, although there are
still several games to be played that were missed.

PHI GAMS, PIKAS LEAD
With records of 4 wins and no losses, the Phi Gams and Pikas are setting the pace in the competition
while the Sigma Chis are close behind them with a record of 3 wins and no losses. In third place,
the K.A.s have won 3 and lost 1 while the Betas with 2 wins and 2 losses and the Phi
Delts and S.A.E.s with 1 win and 1 loss apiece are tied for fourth place. In fifth place, the S.P.E.s
have won 2 and lost 3 while the Independents and A.T.O.s are tied for sixth place with 1 win and
3 losses apiece.

Coach Tom Stevens commented at the first of the year that he was expecting to have a good hitting team,
but was doubtful as to the strength of his pitching staff. However, both Dave Page with a 3-0 record and
Allen Moore who has an excellent 1.11 earned run average have held opponents well in check so far this season.
Coach Stevens has also been pleased with the work of his infield and especially that of Don Killian at shortstop.
Killian, batting .333, and Shelbourne Wallace at .317, have been the only big boys at the plate as yet.

Tennis and softball are the only sports remaining for the inter-fraternity program this year. Current overall standings find the Phi
Delts leading with the Kappa Sigs second and the K.A.s third.

TENNIS STIFF
In the tennis tournament, no certain fraternity is in first place yet, but the stiff competition is making it harder
and harder to stay in the running.

IN SALISBURY
PIZZA Italian Restaurant
836 S. Main St. — Making Salisbury Famous
Di Mizio’s

Dear Diary...
As I take my pen in hand, I take my bottle of Coke in the other hand! Yes, dear diary,
where would I be without Coca-Cola? Just a social outcast. Why, everybody drinks Coke! John and Bill and Barry and
Charley. Horace too. Confidentially, I think I’ll have another bottle of Coke.

SIGN OF GOOD TASTE
Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company by THE COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD
