Student-Faculty Reaction To Jammed Vespers (Page Three)

VOL. XLVI

Johnston Named Faculty As Pietenpol Suddenly Resigns

Standing Ovation By Students And Faculty

By DICK SMITH
Davidsonian Managing Editor

Dr. Clarence J. Pietenpol has resigned his position as Dean of the Faculty. The announcement came from the chapel platform last Tuesday. President D. Grier Martin stated that Dr. Pietenpol has been Davidson’s Dean of the Faculty since February of 1954. He also held the office of Acting President of the college between Dr. Cunningham's resignation and Mr. Martin's appointment. Dr. Pietenpol stated that the cause of his resignation was "for the sake of my health." At the end of the announcement, the students and the faculty gave him a standing ovation. The text of Dr. Pietenpol’s statement follows:

“Members of the Faculty and Student Body of Davidson College:

“Twelve years ago I came to Davidson as a professor in the department of Physics. Then five years ago, Dr. Cunningham, who was president at that time, asked me to serve Davidson in another capacity, that of Dean of the Faculty. Last year, after Dr. Cunningham’s retirement, I was asked to carry the double tasks of Dean of the Faculty and Acting President. This double duty proved to be rather strenuous and, unfortunately, had an adverse effect on my general state of health.

“However, when my good friend, Mr. Grier Martin, became our new president and asked me to continue as dean of the faculty for another year, I consented. Remembering our close association of last year and the pleasure of working with one who combines such fine qualities of leadership with the warmth of true friendship, it was easy to persuade myself that the summer would restore my health.

“Consequently, it is somewhat embarrassing and with the deepest regret, that I have in the last few days followed the strong urging of my Charlotte doctors, Doctors Gilmour, Hodges, and Rogers, to resign my position as Dean of the Faculty. Since my doctors have suggested that it would be best for the sake of my health for me to lighten the load at once, I asked for my resignation as dean to be made effective immediately.”

Dr. Martin afterwards stated that Dr. Frontis W. Johnston would become the new Dean. Dr. Pietenpol will resume part-time teaching in the Physics Department.

Plans for Honor Council Now Up for Final Study

The probability of an Honor Council at Davidson College came closer Monday night as the Student Council went into final study of the Honor Council plan. Junior representative Bob Livingston, chairman of a committee which has been working on the Council plan since last year, submitted a report which outlined proposed constitutional amendments and ground plans for the institution of an Honor Council.

The Honor Council proposal, first advanced by The DAVIDSONIAN and a number of interested students last year, was a subject of much discussion during spring elections. Student Body President John Kuykendall and a large number of Davidson students supported the proposal, which would divide judicial and legislative functions in student government, now held entirely by the Student Council. An honor council composed of representatives from upper classes would enforce the campus honor system and try all violations of honor charges. Legislative duties would be retained by the Student Council.

Kuykendall ordered the tentative plan into final stages of study Monday, calling for close examination of election methods and other details before such a plan would be presented to the student body for examination and approval.

Housemothers Reign Over Fraternity Circle

By DON STOWELL
Davidsonian Feature Writer

“Speak softly and carry a big spoon” might well be the motto of the Davidson housemothers. These modern-day Dr. Jekylls and Mr. Hydes perform the necessary functions of cook, purchaser, manager, poisoner, dietitian, advisor, and arbiter for their respective fraternities. Actually, we can be very proud of the housemothers at every fraternity this year. A more gracious and friendly group of ladies couldn't be desired.

The undisputed queen of the housemothers is a native of Davidson. Miss Johnsie Shelton, who is beginning her tenth year with the Pi Kapps. In 1951 Miss Johnsie was pinned Mother of Pi Kappa Phi. During her first year as housemother, she was awarded the Algernon Sydney Sullivan Award, presented to “persons who have given unselfish service without due recognition” by the college.

Another recipient of the Algernon Sydney Sullivan Award, Mrs. R. A. Little, is beginning her first year as housemother for the Kappa Alpha Order. She is very well known in the Davidson community because she was the supervisor of dormitories for twelve years.

Mrs. Ruth Mims, a TV addict from Lexington, North Carolina, has been the PiKa housemother for four years. This type of work is familiar to her since she spent seventeen years in her own tea room in Lexington and is a dietitian in Little Switzerland during the summer.

The SAE housemother, Mrs. O. L. Short, from Warrenton, North Carolina, has been with them for four years. Her son, Clyde, spent two years at Davidson, three in the Navy, and is now with the CAA. Her daughter attended Lenoir-Rhyne in Hickory.

Mrs. Elizabeth Spangler, from Albany, Oregon, is beginning her second year with the Phi Gams. She and her husband, a farm extension agent, spent nearly twenty-five years in the Midwest working among and teaching the American Indians. With six children, Mrs. Spangler has the largest family of any of the housemothers. (NB. Her daughter is a freshman at W.-C.)

Miss Mary Burleson has been with the Sigma Nu chapter here since its beginning last year.

Trustee Member Wants Increase Over 1000

By CHARLES CHASTAIN
Davidsonian Associate Editor

In order to sample Trustee opinion concerning the present problems of inadequate dormitories and overcrowded Vesper services, members of the DAVIDSONIAN staff interviewed three members of the Board of Trustees by telephone Monday afternoon. Their comments and answers to questions follow below.

SPARROW

Dr. Thomas D. Sparrow, a Charlotte physician and current Vice-President of the Board of Trustees, when asked about the cause of the present problem, replied that it was “not entirely” due to the plan to raise the student body to one thousand. Furthermore, he stated, “I'm very much in favor of increasing to one thousand as soon as it’s feasible! They just got a little overloaded this year.” As to future increases, Dr. Sparrow said that “I’m in favor of taking one thousand as soon as they can take care of them, and I’m in favor of taking more than that as soon as they can take care of them.” One solution to the Vesper situation, he said, would be to have two services.

With regard to the problem of too large classes, he said, “I feel that you boys are exaggerating some of that. Classes of sixty aren't too big. It all boils down to how much you boys want an education. You boys have got to think about the boys who aren't getting an education. I think you've got a little overload, but it’ll take care of itself in the first semester or so.”

McKEITHEN

Mr. J. Harold McKeithen, a member of the Board of Trustees, stated that “I had no inkling till yesterday” of the current housing problem. He is a member of the Board of Trustees of the church. “I am disturbed,” he said, “if there’s not sufficient housing for the students. I would like to see the time come when they're all housed on the campus. I know that it works a handicap to them.” When asked whether he would expect any action on the part of the Board of Trustees to delay the enrollment increase, Mr. McKeithen said, “I should certainly say this: I would not be in favor of an additional student until additional housing has been provided.”

As to the general purpose behind the policy of the Trustees with regard to increasing enrollment, he said, “I think the school owes a duty to the Church that is not being fulfilled, and that there is a duty to fulfill it.” Mr. McKeithen declined to comment about the settlement.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

to the Vesper problem. Declined to RICHARDS was the Rev. J. McDowell Richards, President of Columbia Theological Seminary, President of the Board of Trustees. This speech teacher has had Winston Salem attorney, stated Decatur, Georgia, and current much experience with such groups, having been the housemother for the Sigma Nu and ATO chapters and the Delta Zeta, Alpha Phi, and Sigma Delta Tau sororities at the University of Texas. Mrs. W. O. Payne, the Phi Ball of the Davidson College (Continued On Page 6) Clarke Announces Date Of First Ball The First Annual Military ROTC Corps will be held Saturday night, November 22, Cadet Colonel Sam Clarke announced this week. The Ball itself is scheduled to start at 8 p.m. in the Ballroom of the Hotel Barringer in Charlotte. Tickets will be sold to all MS III and IV cadets wishing to attend the Ball. The highlight of the evening will be the selection of an honorary Cadet Colonel, and MS IV cadets are urged to submit pictures of their dates for competition in the selection. Preceding the Ball will be a Tea from four to five o'clock in the afternoon. It will be held in the Ballroom of the Student Union, and all ROTC Cadre and MS IV cadets are invited to attend. Mrs. Gertrude M. Zemp, one of Davidson's twelve fraternity house mothers who have recently moved into Patterson Fraternity Court, supervises kitchen activities at the Tea. The Tea and the Ball are being sponsored by Scabbard and Blade, and Lt. Colonel Tenney Deane is in charge of arrangements. Concerning a possible delay in the plan for a higher enrollment, Rev. Richards said, “I would say that the Trustees would want to adhere to the schedule of gradual increases with facilities increasing also. But as far as the Trustees are concerned, there is nothing inflexible about the schedule adopted. We shall have to look to the administration and the faculty for guidance.” The Vesper overcrowding, he said, was “a matter I have not studied. It’s obvious that we shall have to work out some plan, since we can't get all the men in the Church.” When asked about possible enrollment increases beyond one thousand, Rev. Richards stated, “I wouldn't want to see it. I don’t think there’s any immediate prospect of that.” The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, OCTOBER 3, 1958 DIRECTORY ISSUE (Page Two) No. 4 Mr. Charles A. Dana, donor of Davidson’s new science building, breaks ground at the construction site. In the background at left are Trustees President J. McDowell Richards, President D. Grier Martin, and Robert J. Sailstad, Assistant to the President. Mr. Dana Breaks Ground For New Science Building “It’s science, boys! Science is at the top of it,” said Mr. Charles A. Dana, donor of Davidson’s new Dana Science Laboratories, during groundbreaking ceremonies yesterday morning during the chapel hour. The groundbreaking for the new building, which will house the departments of physics and biology when it is completed sometime next year, took place at the construction site between the library and the college church. GILDED SHOVELS After musical selections by the ROTC band, a solo on the chimes in the church, an invocation, and prayer, a hymn, a responsive reading, an anthem by the Male Chorus, and a brief statement by President D. Grier Martin, ground was broken by Mr. Dana, President Martin, Board of Trustees President J. McDowell Richards, and Student Body President John Kuykendall. Each one turned over a clod of earth with a gilded shovel, saying, “I break this ground in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit. Amen.” This was followed by a brief address by Mr. Dana. He spoke of the importance of science in human progress and of its place in institutions of higher education. “The world is progressing,” he said, “America is progressing, the youth of America are progressing. We are building more colleges everywhere; we are increasing our school system with our increased population. And if we don’t keep up with it we are lost.” “It has been the greatest pleasure for me to have this permanent Hall of Science,” he stated. “I’m so glad that Davidson is going to build this magnificent science laboratory here, than which there is no better in the South, or East, or West.” Freshman Council Has Organizational Meet The last Trustee interviewed the past week. Last Friday, each freshman orientation group has elected a representative to serve them on the council. Although the council has no legislative power, it does serve as the official expression of Freshman opinions. Until the group elects its officers in a few weeks, Freshmen Advisor Tom Cutting will lead the group. When elected, these officers will sit in, as nonvoting observers, on the Student Council. The Council is responsible for Freshmen Parents’ Day, freshman participation in Freshmen-Sophomore Day, and other projects concerning freshmen. It plans to carry on and expand last year’s program of voluntary freshmen group meetings, which are centered around the various phases of Davidson life. Friday’s meeting of the Council was primarily for organizational purposes. However, a number of the representatives showed immediate concern about poor chapel conduct. This subject was discussed and sent to the orientation groups to find the general freshman feeling. The Freshmen Council, which serves as the “official voice” of the Freshman Class, met twice during the past week. On September 19, the Council held its organizational meeting. It began its regular meeting schedule on the following Tuesday. Using the opinions of freshmen in the orientation groups as a basis, the Council discussed, on Tuesday, the chapel problem further. Most representatives reported that their groups were in favor of improving chapel conduct. At Tuesday’s meeting, the council also began preliminary planning for Freshmen Parents’ Day. The freshmen will entertain their parents on Saturday, November 15. Advisor Tom Cutting appointed the following Council members to be committee chairmen in preparation for Parent’s Day: Joe Robinson, Publicity; Worth Williamson, Invitations; Sandy Newland, Entertainment; Ed Grimsley, Program; Wyndell Merritt, Housing; and Pat Currie, Tour. Other members of the Council are Harrison Wellford, Jim Jamison, John Chiles, Bill Forbis, Jimmy Alexander, Bob Rea, Bob McFarland, Buddy Kemp, Bob Stone, Bob Hord, Arthur Booth, Ed Sims, and Phil Brown. TOOLS Concerning the importance of education, Mr. Dana said, “We go to college to get our tools to work with. Have a good time, boys, and study while you’re here, but remember it’s your tools that you’re putting in your head.” After the end of the groundbreaking ceremony, members of the DAVIDSONIAN staff briefly interviewed Mr. Dana. When asked what was his motive in donating money to education, he replied, “I want to create opportunities for boys who want to work.” He stated that he would visit Davidson when the building is about half finished, and again for the dedication when the building is ready to be occupied. Following the groundbreaking, a group of alumni and friends of the college met to organize a fundraising campaign to put into effect the “Challenge Program,” by which the college hopes to raise $400,000 to match Mr. Dana’s original gift for the science building and a new dormitory. The fundraising drive will be headed by Mr. Charles F. Meyers of Greensboro, vice-president of Burlington Industries, and Dr. Monroe T. Gilmour, a Charlotte physician. English Evangelist Speaks In Chapel The Reverend Joseph Blinco, English evangelist and Methodist minister, delivered an address to the student body at chapel Tuesday. Mr. Blinco, who came from Charlotte to speak to the Davidson student body, is now working as an associate evangelist with the Billy Graham Greater Charlotte Crusade. Formerly pastor of a Methodist church in London, he is now on loan by the Methodist Conference of Great Britain to the Graham Crusade Group. He played a vital part in the preparation for the Greater London Crusade which Dr. Graham held several years ago. When he returns to England in several weeks, he plans to hold a three-week crusade of his own in Cardiff, Wales.