Che Davidsonian

THE NEVIS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, DECEMBER 5, 1958

(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

Will Faculty Leave The Ivy Tower?

Last Saturday two hundred and fifty members of the faculty of Emory University released a signed statement condemning the closing of public schools for any reason. The statement read, in part: “To close the public schools in any city, county, state, or region of America at this critical stage of world history is to play directly into the hands of Communists.” Such a statement, coming from the conservative wastelands of Georgia, is worth noting — and praising. It is refreshing to see a faculty climb down from the ivy towers to take a stand on a current and important issue. It's high time that the tradition of the retiring intellectual be kicked out of the American social pattern. This problem is especially critical here in our South. For too long the demagogues and political hucksters have formed and voiced our public opinion. Courageous action by thinking men might go a long way toward averting social tragedy in our land. The DAVIDSONIAN congratulates the faculty of Emory and commends them for setting a worthy example for their colleagues throughout the nation, and particularly the South. Would the Davidson faculty be willing to take a stand on this issue or any issue? The Emory statement did not consider the question of integration. A similar statement by the Davidson Faculty need not raise this question, but we fail to see how any conscientious man of education could feel unwilling to speak out against the seemingly imminent cessation of public education in the South. The objection may be made that Emory is a ‘different type school.” Actually the similarity with Davidson is striking. Both are comparatively small, church-affiliated, and “Southern” by location and inclination. Again we ask: Is the faculty, any part of the faculty, or any single faculty member willing to speak on the school closing issue? The pages of this paper will be open next week or any week to a statement on this question. We wait with anticipation.

Action Asked On Unlimited Cuts

Faculty response to this week’s opinion poll (see front page) was, as usual, rather sparse, since fewer than one-half of the professors took the trouble to answer the questions submitted to them. In spite of this, a clear trend of opinion is evident among those who returned the poll: nearly one-half favor some form of unlimited cuts, and several more would prefer some changes; only one-fourth of those questioned were satisfied with the present system. Because of the poor response to the questions, it is impossible to make any sweeping conclusions on the matter. However, the existence of such widespread dissatisfaction with the present system, along with the rather large number who would establish unlimited cuts, makes a re-examination of our cut system advisable. This might have some surprising results; certainly it is a hopeful sign that only one academic reactionary came out for no cuts at all. We realize that any change in the cut system could come only gradually, after searching self-criticism on the part of the faculty. Furthermore, any change at all should be at first on an experimental basis. Therefore, the DAVIDSONIAN wishes to make the following proposal: that the faculty study the matter of liberalizing the cut system, and that—if a majority of faculty members vote for it—an experimental change in the cut system be instituted for next semester: all juniors and seniors with academic averages of 1.5 or better should be given unlimited cuts. In our opinion, the benefits from such a change would far outweigh any difficulties involved. It would certainly be better than the present system.—C.H.C.

Faculty Needs Own Secretary

At the beginning of last summer, President Martin appropriated a sizable amount of money for furniture in faculty offices, to be spent by each professor in whatever way he saw fit. This was the first such action by a Davidson administration since several carloads of army surplus chairs, desks, bookcases, and filing cabinets were distributed among professor’s offices after the end of the war. President Martin’s action shows that, unlike some college presidents, he comprehends the problems — however seemingly minor or trivial — of his faculty, and is willing to move quickly to alleviate them. We would like to point out another possible area in which a small change could be made that would eliminate a number of inconveniences for faculty members. At the present time, there is one half-time secretary to do typing and stenographic work for the entire faculty, with the exception of the Physical Education and the Music Departments, who have full-time secretarial help. As it now stands, this is inadequate to meet the needs of the faculty. We realize that fiscal considerations often limit expansion in areas where it is not an immediate necessity. However, if at least the full-time services of one secretary could be made available, faculty members would have their workload considerably lightened in routine matters — such as mimeographing tests and writing letters of recommendation — freeing them for tasks more directly connected with their teaching and research.—C.H.C.

Wanted: One Nickname

Recent campus ‘bull sessions have been impaired by a rather serious semantic problem — as of now, we have a President without a nickname. In recent years a quick reference to “Slick” saved reams of explanation, managing not only to create the man, but a certain special atmosphere. Realizing that nicknames are a part of the social phenomena that cannot be hurried, the DAVIDSONIAN does not propose to urge the immediate adoption of such an informal title for our new President. However, when the Student Body is ready, we surely would find it a help.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Charles Chastain

ASSISTANT EDITOR
Bob Lathan, George Ramsey

BUSINESS MANAGER
Ed Armfield

Associate Editors
Dick Smith
Jim Hamilton
Pete Kellogg
Bruce Brooks
Laurens Walker
Bill Patton
Henry Samuels
Tom Colvin
Spiro Macris

Cartoonists
Bross, Cole

Photography Editor
George Rhyne

Advertising Manager
Dave Gillis

Circulation Manager
Greg Grana

Ass't. Business Manager
Bob Wynne

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879

(Editor’s Note: Letters to the Editor should be typed, double-spaced, and addressed to the DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218. Space limitations make it imperative that writers limit their letters to two hundred words.)

Dee Lide

Dear Editor:

I have finished re-reading the editorial page of THE DAVIDSONIAN of November 21, 1958. I must admit that I am thoroughly disgusted with the whole thing. I feel that it is time for one of the lower intelligentsia, or shall we say one of the unenlightened ones of this student body to speak out. I should like to discuss the quality of the material written in such columns as “Salmagundi” and “The Philosophes” to begin with. I heard a fellow say the other day that the mark of true genius and greatness of a writer or teacher is the art of being able to express his thoughts simply, in a way which everyone can understand.

UTOPIAN SOCIETY

Now I realize that this could never pertain to Davidson College, Davidson, N. C., because this is a utopian society, a sort of ‘never, never land" in the intellectual world; but it's worth thinking about anyway. Now I ask you, who in the world wants to take time to read the woes of an intellect who tries to order a grilled cheese in the Stud? I hate to seem unsympathetic but I just don't care to read the plight of this poor wronged fellow in his quest of getting no mayonnaise on his grilled cheese.

OUT TO LUNCH

Could it be that the author of this column centers his story around food because he is continually out to lunch? I really thought everything tasted the same when procured from the inner sanctum of the Stud, mayonnaise or no mayonnaise! You have another type of writer on your staff I should like to mention. He should like to be called the “friendly” philosopher, I imagine. He really doesn't bother us because we are of the opinion that nobody can understand him anyway.

TYPICAL COLUMN

The title of a typical column caught my eye. In bold black type, it said, “Fraternities Are Now Meaningless.” Well, says I, “I'll read this and see why fraternities are now meaningless.” No use. The author still has the secret locked in his head. He does a good job of filling up space with dictionary type words though, I must admit. Even we simple fellows can do that. For example: see if “bellwether bedlamities” doesn’t describe you and your staff adequately.

NO BUCK PRIVATES

Now to get down to more serious and important matters. You stated that President Broyles answered questions concerning the YMCA vaguely. Have you ever stopped to consider that the support given the YMCA on this campus is very, very vague? If the YMCA is a student body organization, how can you blame one man for its alleged shortcomings? No effective army can be runWithout back privates! I think President Broyles should be commended on having the intestinal fortitude to attempt to reorganize the structure of the YMCA. It’s a hard thing to do around here because we are opposed to changes. We are conformists, or haven't you heard? Mr. Walker, I ask you to use your power to help this reorganization be a success. I'm sure you can find enough to write about constructively without slandering a fine campus leader. Just remember that miracles don’t take place overnight. I ask you not to throw stones until you get someone to help you move out of your own glass house.

Dee Lide

. . by Cole

BOOK REVIEW

Critical Commentary Is Termed “Surprisingly Bad” By Reviewer

By CHARLES CHASTAIN
Davidson Associate Editor

Some of My Best Friends Are Professors: A Critical Commentary On Higher Education, by George Williams.

This book is surprisingly bad, in view of the qualifications of its author which are listed in the preface: “I made absurdly good grades in college, was the second-highest man in my graduating class... I am known and respected in my city and my state ... I have published four books ... I am in excellent health ... my salary is well above the national median for my academic rank.”

ANTI-CLIMAX

After this generous self-advertisement, Mr. Williams’ book comes as an anti-climax. Rather than a “critical commentary on higher education” one finds an irrational diatribe filled with sweeping platitudes.

Mr. Williams’ scattered attempts at reasoned argument are based on two rather shaky assumptions: first, that the colleges should attempt to educate nearly everybody (“at least four fifths of all the nation’s children”); and second, that the deficiencies of individual professors are responsible for practically all of the shortcomings of American higher education.

The first of these assumptions is supported by some rather curious beliefs; for example, he states that “if it is true that virtually all the children of wealthy parents go to college, we may assume that, in a nation in which all parents were prosperous, virtually all children would be college material.” Mr. Williams’ reasoning rarely rises above this level.

WHIPPING BOY

The second assumption provides him with a whipping boy for practically anything he dislikes about today’s colleges. For example, we learn that “the professor’s personality results from some quite fearful pressures and tensions that have warped, suppressed, or misdirected many an element of character, and made the typical professor at last a quite abnormal personality,” who is “underlain with a deep sense of inferiority, fear, and maladjustment, yet overlain by an almost frantic sense of superiority.”

NOT BAD MEN

He does concede a certain residue of humanity to the teaching profession (“the majority of professors are not actually bad men; they do not want to do evil”), but ultimately they do not have “as much morality as elephants, cattle, and baboons,” and “the only way they could be more immoral would be to commit murder.”

All in all, Mr. Williams’ manifesto has a certain amusement value, but it cannot be taken seriously.

Charles Cornwell

Dear Editor:

It behooves me to write on that which when upon opening the front page of your newspaper the hollowness of which, which hollowness could due to the fact that it is be called tabula rasa (Locke, you know) is filled with those bits of information by which, to which, and of which the student body, that which is ecumenical despite its obvious dualism, gains insight into the foibles of humanity appears at the bottom right corner of that which I described above and which I consider to be the obfuscation of intellection through the utilization of polysyllabic diction and periphrastic construction.

In other words, Mr. Robinson, I don't think your reputation as a scholar would be completely ruined if you would write as clearly as you think.

Charles Cornwell

THE SPECTATOR

A Sad Story Of The Shaft And Sorrow

By TOM KERNAN

I was coming back from the Post Office, struggling to make a little headway against the gale sweeping across the Davidson Tundra, when I encountered my young friend, Harry Ferlips. His adolescent countenance bore the look of a man who has just finished reading Crime and Punishment.

“Bombed,” he said. “Blitzed, smashed, ruined—”

“Trouble?” I asked intelligently.

“Shafted! Two days till our fraternity function; Kipling was right, all women are—” (a blast of wind drowned out his last few words.)

“That’s too bad, Harry,” I said. “It’s a pity you never knew Good Old Charlie Hartug; there was a man who really knew women! He was almost a legend before he graduated. Charlie used to say that being successful with women hinged on the employment of two basic techniques. The first he named ‘Hartug’s Little Boy Lost.’ Half of the women you meet, said Charlie, want to mother you; they feel the urge to take your tousled head in their hands and wipe away the tears. I know for a fact that Charlie was going steady with three girls at the same time, each of whom thought that she was the only thing keeping him from jumping off Chambers some dark night. Of course, he always did tend to overdo things. He used to pull that stunt about being just a forgetful kid; you know, couldn’t keep his clothes straight, things like that. Well, he even went to a dance one time without his shoes and socks—just his bare feet, being very careful not to cut his toenails either. Made a tremendous impression; touch of genius in that boy.”

“The other technique he called ‘Hartug’s Be a Heel,’ or ‘The Blonde Brute.’ The rest of the women you meet, said Charlie, have a desire to be punished; the meaner you are to them, the more they like it. There was a rumor around here that Charlie saved as many as seven different girls from the psycho-ward. He dished out so much punishment that each of them was cured of a case of extreme guilt complex. He had a lot of minor troubles, too: told me most of them, and they’ve really helped me. Come by my room this weekend; I'll tell you more about it.”

“I thought you were going to the function.”

“Shaft,” I muttered softly, pulling a crumpled letter out of my pocket.

THE PHILOSOPHES

Seen From A Bus...

By DABNEY STUART

On either side of the narrow macadam road the flat, low, grassy farmland of the Netherlands stretched out into the morning sun. Interspersed canals intruded their fingers into the coastline, bearing sunlight in their currents like diamonds scattered from a peasant’s wheelbarrow.

Occasionally one could see protruding from the long reeded canal banks a fishing pole of plain wood, and, as the bus sped by, a round dark-blue cap would betray the presence of the fisherman. But there were appearances in this bright Dutch morning to mar the pastoral placidity. At regular intervals concrete pillboxes rose out of the banks like smooth rocks raising their humped, rounded backs out of the sea. The sand-colored domes, connected by a labyrinth of underground passages, dotted the sides of the canals with silent reminders of days that are not too long past to be forgotten.

The bus slows as it approaches a small village whose clustered buildings form a U around the end of a fingernail of one of the probing canals. Two men dressed in dirty white coveralls pause in their painting of a small store and look as the ponderous vehicle passes them by. Their looks are not of welcome.

At the center of the village, by a little monument, the bus draws to a halt, its motor idling. (One learns that it isn't general practice to stop in these small villages for very long.) Around the base of the stone figure, not much taller than a grown man, three children are gathered, playing together in the morning sun. As the bus stops, so does their activity, and they look up at the faces looking down at them. They smile young smiles.

In the doorway of the yellow stone house next to the monument appears a woman, calling something to the children. Her call is urgent and a look of suspicion and fear masks her blond face. The children turn reluctantly and the woman comes to them to hurry them along inside. She glances at the bus over her shoulder as she carries the littlest one in her arms. Nearby an old man lays his shovel against the side of a building and watches. His face and clothes are covered with dust from the coal he has been shoveling from the street to a truck. His frown is coal-hard beneath the dust.

These people are plain people. They live a simple life. They work hard. They work every day and their wheelbarrows carry coal. There is much to learn from these people. We Americans are not loved nearly so much as we love ourselves.