Goffers Take Laurels In Conference

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C. FRIDAY, MAY 9, 1958 No. 26

“Revised Bidding a Must” (Page Two)

Anderson, IFC, Propose Revised Bidding Plan

New System Planned For Rush Week 1958

By ED ARMFIELD, Davidsonian Managing Editor

“I am very much in favor of a Revised Bidding System and hope that one can be instituted by Rush
Week next September.” IFC President Vernon Anderson

Above, President John Kuykendall presides over the first meeting of the newly elected Student Council for 1958-59. The most important
business facing the Council is the proposal that an honor court be established to lighten the heavy workload of the
Council under the present system.—(Photo by Rose.)

Broyles Names Students To Complete Cabinet

Vernon Broyles, newly-elected President of the YMCA, announced early this week the appointment of five rising seniors, four rising juniors,
and two rising sophomores to serve with the recently chosen executive officers on the Cabinet for 1958-59.

Tom (Smitty) Smith, Vice-President-elect, will serve as the Y’s Organization Representative, handling exchange work with other Y’s, publicizing national and
regional work on the local scene, and handling the incorporation of general Y work into the local organization. Earlier this
year Tom was chosen vice-chairman of the Southern Regional YMCA.

Tommy will serve as secretary and treasurer, Scott Puckett will head the Membership Committee, in charge of solicitation, keeping a
running account of members and their interests, and supervision of the Gift Fund project.

Jim Richards will head the Effective Citizenship Committee for the second year. This committee handles seminars, forums, discussion groups, Y
membership meetings, and summer Y employment.

John Cooley was named to head the Special Services Committee, whose chief function is to supervise the Easter and Christmas
services, and to sponsor a proposed Student Vesper Service each semester.

Poll Of Top Scholars Shows Dissatisfaction

By CHARLES CHASTAIN, Davidsonian Associate Editor

(Editor's note: recently a poll was taken at Wofford College among the nineteen students with the highest academic averages, asking
them what they thought of the quality of the education they were receiving. Almost to a man, they were very
dissatisfied. The DAVIDSONIAN has conducted a similar poll among Davidson students. The results are printed below.)

This week the five students in each class with the highest grade averages were questioned in a DAVIDSONIAN poll concerning
their opinions of education at Davidson. The questions and their answers are as follows:

1. What is your opinion of the work required; is it intellectually stimulating, too easy, etc.? How much, if any,
would you call useless “busy work?”

Of the twenty students questioned, seven replied that the work at Davidson was generally stimulating, intellectually, with some exceptions. Four
of these students were freshmen. Five students thought that the quality of the work varied with individual professors, and that
stimulating and unstimulating work both were present, neither predominating. Eight students expressed the opinion that, with few exceptions, academic work
at Davidson was definitely not intellectually stimulating and that a large portion of it was “busy work.” One senior in
this group commented that “the emphasis is on memorizing the notes and regurgitating on tests... For those who do not
use discretion, a fantastic amount of time is utterly useless busy work!" Another senior said that most work was dull
and that “the teaching process of too many professors consists solely of spooning factual pabulum to students, demanding only that
it be spewed back on reviews.”

2. What do you consider the chief advantage of Davidson, as opposed to any other schools?

The most frequently mentioned advantages were Davidson’s status as a small college and the close, personal relations between faculty and
students, with individual attention to student problems, with nine students naming the first and eight the second. Four students thought
that a chief advantage of Davidson was its good student body, and its high academic standards. “Good faculty” was the
comment of three, and the school’s physical plant and facilities were named by two.

3. What do you consider the chief disadvantage of Davidson?

Seven students found the chief disadvantage to be in the type of students here. They singled out student immaturity, (Continued
On Page Four)

Annual Awards Day ceremonies honored outstanding Davidson students during chapel services Tuesday, May 6. Acting President C. J. Pietenpol presided,
and members of the faculty and staff announced the winners of prizes and scholarships.

Dr. George Crawford awarded prizes to Tommy Parker of Greenville, South Carolina, and John Prince of Dallas, Texas, for the
highest average in Physics 11-12.

The Tommy Peters Memorial trophy was presented to Dave Fagg, a senior from Guilford, by Robert Currie, Assistant Business Manager
of the college. The award is given annually to the senior athlete best exemplifying the spirit of Tommy Peters, an
outstanding Davidson athlete from Kingsport, Tennessee, who was killed in action in World War II.

Dr. James Y. Causey awarded the James Wilkinson Jervey award to A. H. Bracey of South Hill, Virginia. The award
is presented to the rising senior excelling in Spanish, in honor of James W. Jervey, a 1953 Davidson graduate from
Greenville, South Carolina, who died in South America while studying Spanish.

John Renfro of Spartanburg, South Carolina, was given the A. K. Phifer scholarship in business and economics by Professor William
A. Culp. Professor Culp also presented the Wall Street Journal Award, a plaque and a year's subscription, to Ralph Bassett
of Fort Valley, Georgia.

Dr. Tom Logan awarded to Larry Walter, a junior from Calhoun, Georgia, the David H. Howard memorial award, which goes
to the outstanding rising senior chemistry student who plans to make chemistry his vocation. Dr. Logan also announced that James
T. Anderson of Alexandria, Virginia, had attained the highest average in chemistry among freshman students. The Chemstrand Award this year
was presented to Pete Morrisett, a junior from Boiling Springs, North Carolina.

Acting President Pietenpol awarded John Kuykendall of Charlotte the Agnes Sentelle Brown scholarship. Winners are chosen on the basis of
character, personality, intellectual ability, and scholarship.

Dr. George Abernethy recognized seniors who have won graduate scholarships in national and regional competition. Dr. Samuel Maloney of the
Bible Department presented the William Banks Bible Medal to the member of the graduating class with the greatest distinction in
the study of Bible, Ben W. Farley of Hollins, Virginia. He also gave the Mrs. F. J. Hay, Sr., award
to W. Dabney Stuart of Richmond, Virginia, who had the highest grades in Bible 11-12.

Head Football Coach William E. Dole announced that the winners (Continued On Page Four)

Student Council Begins Action

Davidson's 1958-59 Student Council moved into action Monday night, holding its first meeting under the administration of Student Body president
John Kuykendall. The council, meeting in a brief organizational session, heard John Kuykendall pledge his efforts toward making the 1958-59
year “the best ever.” No legislative action was taken in the short meeting and discussion was limited to general objectives
for the coming year and a report from council members on increased incidences of theft on the campus in recent
weeks.

President Kuykendall set the weekly meeting time for the council for Monday nights at 7 p.m. and issued an invitation
to all students to attend council meetings. Other officers for the next year are: David Robinson, first vice-president; Dabney Stuart,
second vice-president; and Verner Stanley, secretary-treasurer.

Colvin and Bobby Livingston will form the Evaluation and Policy Committee, to which all committee and commission chairmen will report
every two weeks. Commission chairmen, working with various portions of the total membership, were also named as follows: Ervin Duggan
will head the deputations work, which consists of sending deputations from the local Y to churches and schools in this
area. Handling boys’ work, Boy Scout activities, Negro work, and other community projects will be the Community Work Commission, under
Dave Hollingsworth. The Fellowship Commission, under Bill Stanton, handles retreats, devotionals at monthly cabinet business meetings, and exam chapels. Ed
Stevens is to be the chairman of the National and International Relations Commission, which will be concerned with campus awareness
of pertinent issues, and will probably work jointly in the Gift Fund project. The possibility of having a Foreign Student
weekend would be handled by this commission. Melton Tankersley will be in charge of the Student Christian periodical, and handle
publicity for the organization, as well as the Y periodical.of the Social Life Committee told a DAVIDSONIAN press conference Wednesday
morning. “We have worked on a plan for several months now,” he continued, “and at last I feel that we
have one to offer to the student body that will work.” Vernon then explained the Revised Bidding System that he
planned to present to the IFC Wednesday night. (see below for plan as presented)

Q... What are your immediate plans for the new System?
A... After its presentation, the IFC members will take the plan to their fraternities for discussions on Thursday night. Each
fraternity will be provided, through its representative, with a written copy of the plan exactly as it was presented to
the IFC. It is our hope that these discussions will be carried on with the purpose of improving the plan.
I will then call an IFC meeting Friday night in which we will discuss the criticisms offered by the various
fraternities and revise the System if needed. Then at the next regular Wednesday night meeting, the System will be proposed
and a vote on it will be held at another called meeting that Friday night.

Q... What is the chief purpose of the Revised Bidding System?
A... Well, first of all, the new fraternity houses were built with an optimum number of approximately sixty boys. It
would be very impractical to move into the new court with a very large fraternity. This new System will provide,
over the next few years, an equity in the sizes of the fraternities. Also, I personally feel that a very
large fraternity defeats the purposes of a fraternity. It is our hope that with an increase in the size of
the student body we can bring a larger number of national fraternities to this campus.

Q... Will this new System strengthen the Independents?
A... According to some rough calculations, if the same percentage of freshmen pledge fraternities (85%) there will be no appreciable
increase in the size of the Independent group. I think that once the majority of students see through certain misconceptions
they will support the new System.

Q... Do you expect any strong opposition?
A... No. I think that our main problem will be to familiarize the student body with the Revised Bidding System
in an accurate manner.

Q... Then the IFC plans an “educational campaign” on the new System?
A... Yes. I hope that we can hold open forums between the time the System is introduced to the fraternities
and the actual vote on the measure. Of course, the IFC members will be available to explain or discuss it
at any time.

Q... Have you any indications of Faculty-Administration feelings about the System?
A... Yes. Dr. McGavock, chairman of the Faculty Committee on Fraternities, has told us that in their opinion there is
merit in our plan. However, the Faculty is not pushing for a Revised Bidding System at all. They are leaving
the decision entirely up to the students.

ANDERSON

Revised Bidding System

Purpose: It is the purpose of this revised bidding system to aid in stabilizing fraternity size in order to help
fraternities maintain a number of brothers which will be most easily manageable in the new fraternity court, especially with regard
to finances. The system would therefore allow fraternities to concentrate more on quality bidding rather than quantity bidding. This system
is so constructed that it may achieve this purpose while at the same time retaining as many of the principal
characteristics of the present system as possible.

Outline of the system:
1. Rush week will be conducted as usual, with the usual procedures of return dates after the first series of
rush parties.
2. At the completion of rush week, all fraternities will issue a list of their bidding preferences in the following
manner:
a. Each fraternity will list its twenty first choices.
b. Each fraternity will list thereafter its choices in groups of five in descending order of groups number 2, 3,
4, etc.
c. A fraternity will be able to submit as many or as few groups of this nature as it wishes.
d. These lists will be given to the IFC the morning after the last rush party.
3. At the completion of rush week, the rushees will list their fraternity preferences in descending order, 1, 2, and
3. A rushee may list only one fraternity, two, or three, according to his wishes. However, a listing will constitute
a pledge that if the rushee receives a bid from one of these fraternities, he will join that fraternity. Penalty
for breaking this pledge will be restriction from joining any fraternity for one year.
4. The order of selection after the IFC receives the fraternity lists and the rushee lists will be as follows:
Rushee 1 2 etc.
Fraternity 1 2 etc.
After a fraternity has received 20 names by this matching process, the operation will be terminated for that fraternity unless
one of its groups has not been completed. In that event, (Continued On Page Four)
