PAGE FOUR

LOOK OVER THE SEA

New World Becomes New Dream For Swiss Student

Council (Continued From Page One)

presentation on Thursday, November 6,” Kuykendall stated. “Again, abiding by the constitution, voting will follow ten days later.”

Next Wednesday at 7:30 p.m., a forum will be conducted in THE DAVIDSONIAN (Congressman Jonas Lauds Campus Interest); “Davidson has made a good beginning toward informing the student body on political affairs,” were the words of Mr. Charles R. Jonas in a DAVIDSONIAN interview earlier this week. Jonas, North Carolina’s sole Republican Representative to Congress, is seeking re-election at the polls next week.

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 31, 1958

By PIERRE WYSS-CHODAT

The coast of Ireland is sinking into the sea. Our eyes remain fixed on it, but irresistibly the Old World sinks over the horizon. Above our heads, the fog horn resounds with two long blasts, as if in a sign of a last farewell. For some seconds my glance remains fixed on it, then descends again toward the horizon. It is empty: a single instant has sufficed to engulf a continent. Only the wake of the ship troubles the perfect calm of the ocean.

SWITZERLAND

The last winter in the mountains, in a ski camp for the Federation of Christian Students, where there were some thirty of us, boys and girls. There was even an American girl from Illinois, a bit lost because she did not understand French. We did our best to do the cooking, wash the dishes, and hold religious services every morning. There was also this storm which had caused us to lose our way, but which, once dissipated, spread at our feet an admirable sea of clouds from which emerged shining peaks, and the sun, at its setting, which had laid over the whole landscape a veil of pink tulle.

The last dance at the University, in its corridors; even in the classroom. The whole building was decorated on the theme of a city filled with joy, even madness, where the orchestra poured out its entrancing rhythms, from the physics lab to the philosophy classroom. For this last night, we danced, and danced, and danced.

The rhythm of the waves replaces now that of the blues and rock ‘n’ roll. The dream is finished, but another is about to begin. Long and entrancing: before the prow of the ship will appear New York, the USA, and Davidson. Little by little a new world presents itself to my mind, my fears disappear because of the kindness of the American people. I perceive that you Americans are not solely “businessmen” as one often imagines in Europe; that you take time also to enjoy life.

Council urges everyone to attend the meeting, in order that any uncertain points might be clarified.

THEFT

Kuykendall, at the will of the council, also made an announcement in chapel about procedures and precautions concerning theft on campus. Monday night, the council suggested to the Court of Control that it use its own discretion in setting up punishment for the freshmen should they lose today’s Freshman-Sophomore Field Day.

Trustee Executive Committee Meets

The Executive Committee of the Davidson College Board of Trustees met Friday afternoon, October 24, at 2:00. Dr. J. McDowell Richards presided. Twelve of the seventeen committee members were present. President D. Grier Martin made a general report on the situation and activities of the College since the last Executive Committee meeting.

NO DECISION

Two committees of the Trustees met on Friday morning and reported to the Executive Committee in the afternoon. The Trustee's Committee of Religious and Social Life met with the College Religious Life Committee.

will appear on the Davidson, politics. Davidson has made a conflicts: He addressed the body in chapel on Tuesday morning to conclude the “Great Issues Series” in Political Thought.” His Democratic opponent, Mr. David Clark, had spoken here the previous Thursday.

Mr. Jonas centered his extemporaneous address around foreign affairs. He said it is our obligation as citizens to take a keen interest in political affairs. Democracy is like a forest in that constant replanting is mandatory. He said our country should have a bi-partisan foreign policy, and we should show our disapproval in constructive criticism only, as any criticism is immediately taken by the Russians to be used for propagandistic motives.

MANY CONFLICTS

Mr. Jonas said the Soviet Union and the United States are separated by innumerable economic conflicts, academic conflicts, irreconcilable ideological conflicts, religious conflicts, and conflicts of will. We as a country have made an egregious error in not realizing the Communists couldn’t be trusted. We have failed to recognize three trends in recent world development. Eastern society has started a trend to progress; we didn’t realize the Soviet Union had any strength until suddenly she burst forth in a blaze of glory. We also have been under the false assumption that society progresses slowly in stages, but instead it bursts forth at various unpredetermined intervals. We have failed to realize that there is a longing in every man’s heart to be free. This is exemplified by the recent revolt in Hungary.

The Communists have based their policy on four points: (1) they know we won’t attack first; (2) they are afraid of a revolt from within; (3) they know people won’t accept slavery; (4) their clue to victory is to convince people to accept the status quo in order to break their hopes for freedom.

STUDENT INTEREST

Jonas in the interview:

Q. Do you think enough interest is shown by college students in politics? Are they well enough informed?

A. I don’t think college students can show too much interest. At the college level it is time for them to start thinking about politics.

Nell Rankin Will Appear In Series

Nell Rankin, the Metropolitan Opera's leading mezzo-soprano, will appear in the student series.

A Vanguard rocket, made from the wing tank of a jet fighter, won first place in the judging of the Homecoming fraternity displays. The rocket, mounted on its firing platform, and preparing to launch a VMI Keydet into orbit, captured the silver trophy for the KA's Saturday. Vernon Anderson, President of the Interfraternity Council, presented the award to Tom Anderson during half-time in Saturday's game. Other awards were also announced.

Court Of Control (Continued From Page One)

private Court trials per month. Although Judge Nix has been somewhat disappointed in this year’s Court sessions in chapel, he believes that the sentencing of guilty freshman regulations violators has achieved its purpose, i.e., making the freshmen realize the necessity of their altering their attitudes so as to integrate themselves as Davidson students. Nix stated that the other purpose of this year’s Court was to help in developing class spirit. Hat-burning riots are frowned upon by the Court, but no immediate action was taken to reprimand the freshmen who participated in this demonstration. Judge Nix has admitted that he should have taken some type of reproving action immediately after the incident in order to carry out the Court’s function.

Nix also feels that for the Court of Control to be an effective body it needs a more serious attitude of support from the entire student body, especially during the chapel program sessions. In addition, he advocates that the period of enforcement of the freshman regulations should be shortened to achieve maximum effectiveness.

Dr. Huie Delivers Sermon Nov. 11

Dr. Wade P. Huie, Jr. will deliver the vesper sermon Sunday, November 2. The speaker is presently the Peter Marshall Professor of Preaching at Columbia Theological Seminary in Atlanta, Georgia. He is a Phi Beta Kappa and a member of The Kappa Alpha Order social fraternity. Having studied at Emory University and Columbia Theological Seminary, Dr. Huie received his doctorate at the University of Edinburgh. He was minister to the Cannongate Kirk (Church) in Edinburgh from 1947-49. Previous to joining the Columbia faculty in 1957, he served for nine years at the Vineville Presbyterian Church of Macon, Georgia. Following the vesper service Dr. Huie will be in the student lounge to talk with students interested in Columbia Seminary.

ODK (Continued From Page One)

when he resumed law practice. Elected president of the Uni-All American women are not the Hollywood vamp type; that you still know how to walk, in spite of all the drive-ins; that you appreciate the finer things of life; and that the American food is not so terrible after all (except for your peach salad with mayonnaise!). One sees also that the life of the spirit has a large place and has not been destroyed by modern life; and that you have a good sense of humor, as proved by the following story of Texas: Bob calls John: “Sorry, old fellow, I have learned that you just buried your wife.” John’s answer: “It was quite necessary; she was dead.” Good-bye until next week.

The Trustees’ Buildings and Grounds Committee recommended to the Executive Committee that the new dormitory be located across the drive from Belk Dormitory and west of the laundry in the area where the Reid house is now located. This recommendation was approved and the new dorm will be ready for occupancy in the fall of 1960. It will house approximately 130 students.

The Executive Committee also approved the appointment of Dr. Frontis W. Johnston as Acting Dean of the Faculty and the appointment of Mr. John B. Horton as Acting Director of Alumni and Public Relations.

The Committee authorized the Trustees’ Buildings and Grounds Business Manager to remodel and renovate the President's house. The Charlotte firm of Thompson was selected as the builders of the new science building.

The College Artist Series at 8:15 p.m., Friday evening, November 7, in Chambers Auditorium, announced Donald Plott, chairman of the series. Plott announced that tickets are now available to the public but cautioned that there are no reserved seats. Other coming musical activities were also announced by Plott.

The College Concert Band will present its first concert on November 4 at 8:15 p.m. in Chambers Auditorium. Featured numbers by the group, under the baton of Mr. J. Frank West, range from “Toccata Marziale” to the “1812 Overture” by Tchaikovsky to the Overture from “The Pajama Game,” a recent Broadway musical.

On November 10, the Davidson College Male Chorus will appear in the Charlotte Opera “Carmen” at Ovens Auditorium. The group, with the Queens College Choir, will comprise the chorus of the opera. Baritone Bill Workman, a member of Davidson’s Class of 1962, will take the role of Morales.

Court Of Control Object Of Ardent Controversy

Has the Court of Control succeeded or failed? Student body opinion on this question has been very controversial. Last Friday, the Freshman Class climaxed a rebellious attitude toward the Court in their refusal to abide by the orders of the Court Judge, John Nix. Because of a previous hat-burning riot and a lack of spirit shown at the field day, the effectiveness of the Court has been in question.

To find out how the Freshmen had thought of the Court, the DAVIDSONIAN interviewed several members of the class. When asked what he thought was the purpose of the court, Paul Franson replied, “To help unify the freshman class, and instruct them in the traditions of Davidson College.” Do you think this purpose has been achieved? “Partially. The class has shown itself to be fairly unified by the hat-burning and the resistance in chapel, but the court has been too concerned with details and has overlooked the traditions which it should have taught. The class can’t respect an organization that doesn’t have the respect and support of the upperclassmen.”

Bill Coffey suggested the fact that “when the Freshmen came to this campus, they weren’t Freshmen. Orientation period didn’t treat them as Freshmen. Regulations were not imposed until after the first week, punishments weren’t very strict, and the Court was never taken very seriously. Next year the Court ought to put the regulations on the Freshmen as soon as they get here. Put the hat, card, and rules on them from the very first day and make them realize they are Freshmen.”

One Freshman regarded the success of the Court as “limited by the narrow-mindedness of several members of the Freshman class in that they didn’t understand the purpose of the Court and by several upperclassmen who, if they ever did know the purpose, forgot it and used the Court as an instrument to build up their own ego.”

The consensus seems to be that the Court is a necessary part of campus life but needs to be revised and brought up to date with the present situation. One big thorn in the Court's side this year was having to start after the Freshmen had been “made to feel like guests of the college” during orientation and rush week. Other problems were lack of support from the upperclasses and the attitude displayed in chapel toward the Court. Judge Nix feels the Court hasn’t had the support it needed, and that the court’s biggest mistake was not using a get-tough policy on the class the day after the hat burning. By this time the postponed field day will have been held, and the issue will have been decided one way or the other. But next year?

They said it couldn’t be done. But in 1953, 6'9" Clarence (Bevo) Francis, of Ohio's tiny Rio Grande College, wrote the record books with his phenomenal scoring feats, including a 116-point spree in a single game. Bevo's season total was 1,954 points.

Mrs. Walter L. Lingle, widow of Dr. Walter L. Lingle, Davidson’s President from 1929 to 1941, presents an American flag to the college on behalf of the Alumni Association during half-time ceremonies at last week's Homecoming game. Escorting Mrs. Lingle is Mr. John M. Akers of Gastonia, a member of the Class of ‘28 and retiring President of the Davidson Alumni Association. In the background are members of the ROTC honor guard. The flag, which is of the garrison type, measures eight by twelve feet. It will be flown on the flagpole at the front of the campus on special occasions when alumni of the college are present. It is the largest flag now owned by the college.

John always did take things too seriously ... like that habit of locking his Coke up in a safe! Sure everybody likes Coca-Cola ... sure there’s nothing more welcome than the good taste of Coca-Cola. But really—a safe just for Coke! Incidentally, know the combination, anyone?

THEY SAID IT COULDN'T BE DONE - BUT TODAY'S L*M GIVES YOU- DON’T SETTLE FOR ONE WITHOUT THE OTHER! Change to L*M and get ‘em both. Such an improved filter and more taste! Better taste than in any other cigarette. Yes, today’s L*M combines these two essentials of modern smoking enjoyment —less tars and more taste—in one great cigarette.