PAGE FOUR

Prof. Lloyd Has Speaking Hobby

By GORDON LEGRAND
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Speaking is a very logical interest for an English Professor. One of Mr. C. E. Lloyd’s reasons for enjoying speaking is that he must have something unique to say, and consequently, he himself learns a lot of interesting facts. Probably his most intense period of speaking occurred in Germany shortly after World War I. At that time he was employed in that country by the Department of State. In addition to public speeches and formal talks each Sunday, the Student Bible group at the Presbyterian church is enlightened by his comments.

Lloyd derives much pleasure from telling stories to children and from participating in just plain “gab fests.”

The Department of State fostered the formation of organizations such as citizens’ councils, labor-management councils, taxpayers’ leagues, professional men’s groups, etc., whose purpose it was to show the German individual that he could make his own decisions at the local level of government and to national and international affairs. The department felt that the spirit of the New England town meeting would be a salutary thing for Germany. To further this program Mr. Lloyd made close to four hundred public speeches a year (in German), most of which were followed by question periods. These speeches were his first concentrated taste of public speaking. Mr. Lloyd enjoyed the excitement and satisfaction of usually walking away a winner from an audience generally having a hostile element.

His audiences were fascinating. Frequently he encountered crackpots of varying categories—religious maniacs, visionaries, those obsessed with a spirit of nationalism—some hot-headed and others calm and persuasive. As a testimony to the success of Mr. Lloyd's mission, today many of the organizations then inaugurated are still functioning actively; whereas others (more removed from his area) have been swallowed up by older German groups, and a few have been “eaten away by the teeth of time.”

Today, Mr. Lloyd continues his interest in speaking by addressing literary societies and social clubs.

Integration Topic Set For 'Y' Panel

Dr. J. M. Dabbs, writer and educator from Mayesville, S. C., and Mr. W. E. Debnam, radio newscaster and author from Raleigh, will hold a panel discussion on integration, at the monthly meeting of the YMCA Thursday, February 27, at 7:30 in the Union Ballroom. Dr. Dabbs will speak in favor of integration, while Mr. Debnam will take the side of segregation.

Dabbs has contributed regularly to the Christian Century and the Presbyterian Outlook, and some of his writing has appeared in Christendom and the Yale Review. Active since World War I in the study of racial relations, Dabbs has served as a member of the South Carolina Council of Human Relations and is now president of the Southern Regional Council of the YMCA.

Debnam is a regular broadcaster of the news of the State Legislature in Raleigh. He has also written a book, “Weep No More My Lady,” in response to Mrs. Roosevelt's comment that the South was a “sad place.” His book presents the unhappy side of the picture.

Professor-Student Topics

(Continued From Page 1)

topics in their respective fields on pre-announced dates. Topics and faculty leaders for the March 2 sessions are:

Prof. Charles Lloyd: “Christ and Literature.”
Prof. Paul Marrotte: “The 1960 Candidates—Who Are the Prospects?”
Prof. W. G. McGavock: “Preferential Bidding—Help or Hindrance?”

The Davidsonian Goes To Press Despite Rain, Snow, Sleet And Sweat

The dedicatory service of the James Wilkinson Jervey, II, Language Laboratory took place during chapel period last Wednesday morning. Dr. James Logan Godfrey, Dean of the Faculty at the University of North Carolina, delivered the main address entitled “International in Our Day.”

JERVEYS PRESENT

Present for the ceremony, as well as for other activities during the day, were the Trustees of Davidson College, a large number of professors and administrative officials from area colleges and universities, and several honored guests, including Dr. and Mrs. J. W. Jervey, Jr. The Reverend Rascoe Prince of Pinehurst, N.C., opened the service with the invocation. Dr. Pietenpol then spoke of the late James W. Jervey, II, and expressed gratitude for the language laboratory which was presented to the college as a gift. The Reverend J. McDowell Richards, President of Columbia Theological Seminary, then read the litany of dedication and gave the prayer of dedication. Professor Frontis Johnston introduced the speaker for the service, Dr. James L. Godfrey. In his address, Dr. Godfrey complimented Davidson College on its concept of language as an end in itself and not as a means for practical purposes. He stated that the “educated man of the future must have a knowledge of languages.”

Student Council

(Continued From Page 1)

reporting on a four-man committee investigating elections, on the question of whether or not to allow campaigning and was of the opinion that elections could be speeded up by holding them in the Union where voting could take place five days a week instead of three if held in Chambers after chapel. Secretary Stuart and Bernhardt were in favor of campaigning: Stuart felt it was “good theoretically” but pointed out that there was not too much student interest in council affairs after elections. He believed it was “necessary for any candidate to make his views known to the electors.”

Councilman Bondurant, although in favor of campaigning “in general,” went on record as being “opposed to any electioneering that would lead to setting up posters and running around seeking votes on the campus.” Bernhardt questioned the value of the five-minute speeches by candidates for student body offices. Stuart and several other council members doubted that the duties of class officers justified retaining the offices and, as they “don't do anything,” suggested the elimination of junior and sophomore vice-presidents and secretary-treasurers in the spring elections.

OPEN FORUM CAMPAIGNING

President Smyth closed discussion on elections with his opinion that if any campaigning is permitted it should be of the open forum type with a limited number of questions asked. Smyth then requested Bernhardt's committee to make these suggestions to the Election Board.

Councilman Livingston and Sitting were appointed to serve with Councilman Kuykendall on a delegation which is to deliver talks on education to high schools.Fra- ert, Communication |. L. second tongue,” if harmony is: stated that the committee split | le and | ‘to exist in the world. After the singing of S. Wilson of Miami, “All Hail, O Davidson,” by the con-|son student devouring weekly VIDSONIAN BO) Aa FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 1958 ¥ ¥ BUSINESS MANAGER PAT HENDERSON | CIRCULATION MANAGER LEE MAYFIELD ... WITH HENRY SAMUELS AND BOB WYNN MEN ON HEADS As these designations are made, the articles go to George By Davidsonian Feature Staff | pleted paper. Friday night finds the David-| Bill Patton, Assignments Edi- tor, is in charge of coordinating gregation, the Reverend Ronald|news and meditating upon edi- Florida, | torial thought through the concluded the service with the| medium of his school paper, the benediction. TRAKAS SUGGESTS THE DAVIDSONIAN. Supplying the student with his news and This dedicatory service cli-| editorial medium is not a simple maxed much hard work which began over three years ago when Professor Trakas suggested that the college have a language laboratory. About a year later the col- lege formed a committee con- sisting of Professors French, Trakas, and Watts (chairman), and authorized it to begin work on a laboratory. The biggest problem, that of financing the construction of the laboratory, was solved when Dr. J. W. Jervey, Jr., indicated his desire to present the labora- tory as a gift to the college in memory of his son. Tuition Increase (Continued From Page 1) In other action, the Board ap- proved an appropriation of $14,000 to continue, on a tem- porary basis, the Baker Scholar- ship program, though under a different status. Efforts are being made to secure a donor for the funds needed to continue the program on a permanent basis. Dr. W. Harding Kneedler was elected Associate College Phy- sician. The Board gave their “advice and consent” to the conferring of the degree of Doctor of Laws on Mr. Norman A. Cocke. Mr. Cocke will be the commence- ment speaker for 1958. The remainder of the business was of a routine nature. Dr. C. J. Pietennol was ob- viously elated over the action which the Board took concern- ing his recommendation for a tuition increase. He commented that “The trustees seem to indicate a very wide knowledge of the problems in education today. “You can never stand still, and this tuition increase will help us to keep the type of men on the faculty that we need to move forward.” ANOTHER INCREASE Asked if a further increase might be made in the foresee- able future, he answered by saying that the new President might, and possibly would see a similar increase. D. Grier Martin, Treasurer of the College was also very happy with the results of the meet- ing. “The tuition increase is good for Davidson College.” He emphasized that this in- crease would enable Davidson to feel more secure in its present faculty situation. For QUICK And GOOD Food —TRY— SCOTTIE'S DRIVE-IN RESTAURANT Salisbury Drive — Mooresville, N. C. job, but the creation of many the staff writers and assigning the articles they are to write. By five o’clock on Wednesday, each of these writers must have submitted their articles to Pat- ton, who then turns them over to Joe Bell and Julian Aldridge, students who weekly devote an approximate aggregate of 175 man-hours of their time and thought towards its completion. This entails a process that beg- ins on Sunday evening and con- tinues through Friday when the press ceases to roll and the pa- per is ready for distribution. STARTING EARLY Each of the articles are read thoroughly in order that gram- mar and clarity may be exact. Any mistakes, or items of news that must be written after the original Wednesday deadline, go to Bruce Brooks, News Edi- tor, who sees that all news is sent correctly to these copy edi- tors. After all news articles are ap- proved, they are sent to Bob Lathan, who makes up the lay- out of the front and back pages, assisted by Dick Smith. During this procedure, they designate Blalock, Clay Robertson, Frank Taylor, Tommy Colvin, and Malcolm Murchison who draw up headlines. When these are completed, the finished articles return to Bob Lathan, who sub- mits the completed pages to the printer, Mr. H. C. Broyles. While these news articles are being processed, Laurens Walk- er is organizing the editorial page, assisted by Charlie Chas- tain and Eddie Armfield. The editorials, cartoons, columns, letters to the editor, and other materials must be arranged so as to give an effective presenta- tion to the reader. The final responsibility of this page lies with Walker, who also submits the finished copy to the printer. SPORTS AND PICS At the same time these pages are being compiled, George Ramsey, Sports Editor, is pre- paring page three. Pictures must be secured, articles placed, heads written, and the sports column finished. Ed Stevens, Davidsonian staff photographer, works closely with all editors in bringing a photographic cover- age of Davidson’s sport events and participants. Stevens is also responsible for photographing and developing all other pictures found in the paper. His cohorts in the visual realm are Addison Bross and Bob Cole, cartoonists for the edi- torial page. While these people are di- rectly responsible for the com- pleted paper’s layout and con- tent, they would be unable to function without the help of the Business Staff. Under the man- agement of Pat Henderson, Henry Samuels is responsible for securing all advertisements and seeing that ads are properly placed in each issue. John Glenn and Ray Antley work with Henry in the ads di- vision, while Lee Mayfield is re- sponsible for circulation. Assist- ing in circulation are Larry Bag- gett, Joe Braswell, Jack Carter, and Gippy Reid. Their job re- quires mailing the paper to the out-of-town subscribers as well as overseeing distribution to the Student Body. THE TOP MEN Though the editors are men- tioned last, their job entails the final responsibility. John Trask and assistant editor, Gerald Wil- son, have the responsibility of seeing that the paper contains legitimate news and worthy editorials. This job prevents their ever escaping from the task of plan- ning, organizing, and coordinat- ing. Their position requires that they must at times perform all the jobs that go to make up THE DAVIDSONIAN. Student Poll Shows (Continued From Page 1) dicated that they spent more than $10.00 for the weekend, on top of the cost of the dance ticket. Fifty-five of those questioned reported that they have only had one girl come to the campus for all of their weekends. Of these, thirty-one were Fresh- men while only eight were Seniors. The numbers of different dates ranged from 0 to 10. Dates were brought in any time from 1:00 a.m. to 8:00 a.m., with 4:30 a.m. as the average. Rev. Anderson Leads Services The Reverend John Franklin Anderson, acknowl- edged to be one of the outstanding young Presbyterian ministers in the denomination, will begin the three-day Winter Services in Vespers, Sunday night. The pastor of one of the country’s largest Presbyterian Churches, Dr. Anderson is mar- ried and has three children. He holds degrees from Aus- tin College, Union Presbyterian Theological Seminary, where he was president of the student body, and Austin Presbyterian Theological Seminary. Among many varied activi- ties, he is a trustee of Austin College, Director of Hockaday School in Dallas, and a column- ist for the Dallas Morning News; he received the Jaycee's Distinguished Service Award as Outstanding Young Man of Dallas in 1955. Dr. Anderson is widely known for the tremendous inspiration he can put into a message and is a very popular speaker in colleges and summer camps. The general theme of Rev- erend Anderson's four ad- dresses will be “Life’s $64,000 Questions.” The set of services will be directed toward inspiration and instruction. The program will be an at- tempt to answer some of the problems of the Christian Faith as posed in questions from the different characters of the book of Job. The title of the Vesper ser- mon will be “Where Can I Find God?” Monday afternoon at 3:30 in the Union Ballroom, Dr. An- derson will conduct a seminar on the topic “What Happens To Me When I Die?” Monday at 8:00 p.m. in Chambers Auditorium, he will speak on the question “How Can I Make a Go of It?” In Chapel, Tuesday he will discuss the question “When Do I Know Enough To Get Along?” We’re ARROW Wash ‘n’ Wear headquarters Easy-livin’ starts with an Arrow Wash ’n’ Wear shirt, the way to start any day smartly. Just wash and let drip dry (or launder as any other shirt). Save time, save work, choose from our collection today. Only $6.95. IVEY'S of Charlotte Mighty handy! that’s the ARROW Service wash ‘n’ wear Glen Save time—anytime—with this Dacron* and cotton Wash ’n’ Wear. Just wash, hang up to dry and wear. You'll look smart all the time in the Glen’s Mitoga®- tailored lines. They give you that trim, tapered look, collar to waist to cuff. Just $6.95. Cluett, Peabody & Co., Inc. ©Dupont’s polyester fiber ARROW — —first in fashion