Che Davidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, MAY 2, 1958

(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

A President, A Four-Leaf Clover

A good man must be hard to find. That was about all we could gather from Mr. LaFar's answers to questions concerning the prospects that Davidson will have a President by May 15. (see page one)

It is understandable that the nomination committee of the Trustees take time in making such an important decision as the selection of a new President for the College, but it is equally understandable that a college needs a president. It would be a mistake for the Trustees to allow the College to enter a second presidentless year. This year’s administration leadership has been good, under the circumstances, all that could be desired. However, they have wisely refrained from making any policy decisions, feeling that a new President should set his own policy. As the year has gone by these questions have multiplied until it has recently become clear that if the College is to continue on an even keel, some new policies must be formulated. In short, the best time for selecting a new President is right now. Understanding the difficulties, we urge the nominating committee to exert every possible effort in finding a qualified nominee by May 15.

The DAVIDSONIAN would further suggest that a suitable man for the job is already available here at Davidson, a man whose personal ability has been demonstrated by his continuous service as a member of the administration for over six years, who has further shown his sense of responsibility and initiative by playing a large part in the continued progress at Davidson during the interim period since Dr. Cunningham's resignation, and whose personality and interest in the student body are well known to all of us. Perhaps the committee could find the proverbial four-leaf clover right here in the campus grass.

Productive Scholars Needed

Creative scholarship has long been missing on the Davidson scene. Professors complain, with some justification, that heavy teaching schedules, committee meetings, and other commitments leave no time for research, book writing, and the like. Professor W. P. Cumming has proved, at least, that it can be done. This year he has published two books and has been awarded a coveted Guggenheim Fellowship to continue his research next year in Europe. The DAVIDSONIAN congratulates Dr. Cumming on his achievements and suggests that they serve as both an example and encouragement to other members of the faculty. It is the considered opinion of the majority of educators that good teaching and productive scholarship go hand in hand. The real benefactors of work such as that of Dr. Cumming and of other research being carried on by members of the faculty are the members of the Student Body.

The Menu: International Pie

Due to the generosity of a family long related and long devoted to Davidson College, this institution will next year jump into a large-scale scholarship program for foreign students. The Richardson Fund will enable Davidson to bring to this campus outstanding foreign students for one year of study, and in addition will provide these foreigners a certain amount for summer travel. The potential of this program is virtually unlimited. Those who have had the opportunity to associate with those exchange students currently on campus will testify to the fact that in almost every case the values received from this association are unparalleled in any other phase of campus life. Not only are those from abroad given a chance to taste the American college life, but they bring to the college a bit of international flavor that in this era of the shrinking globe can lead to highly valuable ends. Arguments that we should look homeward before reaching abroad are challenged by the twofold benefits reaped under this program. Foreigners fortunate enough to study here have time and again taken home bright, encouraging pictures of America, gleaned in the main from Davidson College. And, secondly, the experiences and views brought in by these exchange students certainly add to broaden the outlook of the “cosmopolitan” Davidson gentleman. Several fraternities are at present providing meals and fellowship for foreign students. With the increased influx next year, the fraternities will have the opportunity to take more under their wing. The administration hopes to place all of these newcomers with fraternities, but will in no means force the issue. This is a project which can provide an invaluable asset to the college, to the fraternities, and to the individual. The DAVIDSONIAN heartily urges all fraternities to consider helping themselves to a piece of the international pie.—G.W.R.

A Case For Compromise

Thursday’s chapel talk on the essentials of leadership by Professor Joel Conarroe was a refreshing reminder that it is possible to listen to something truly worthwhile between the hours of ten and eleven on Tuesday, Thursday, and Friday mornings. We, however, take issue with Mr. Conarroe on one point. He held strongly that there is no room for compromise in the policy of an ideal leader. The American system of government is built upon the hypothesis that all interest groups must give a little so that it will be possible for them to live side by side in a democratic community. Without compromise, the noble experiment which is democracy would surely fail. The genius of great leadership lies in knowing when, where, and what not to compromise.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Laurens Walker

ASSISTANT EDITOR
Bill Patton

BUSINESS MANAGER
Henry Samuels

Associate Editors
Charles Chastain
Bob Lathan, George Ramsey

Managing Editors
Ed Armfield
Dick Smith
Jim Hamilton
Pete Kellogg
Bruce Brooks

Sports Editor
Spiro Macris

Feature Editor
Tom Colvin

News Editor
Charles Rose

Advertising Manager
Dave Gillis

Circulation Manager
Greg Grana

Ass’t. Business Manager
Bob Wynne

Assignments Editor
Bross, Cole

Copy Editor
Charles Rose

Cartoonists
Bross, Cole

Photographer
Charles Rose

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879

By BOB JONES

The first problem which faced the ‘57-58 IFC was finances in general and dance costs in particular. The Council decided to try to finance the three dances at a cost of between $18 and $20 per member. By signing less expensive orchestras and a more efficient management, $3,250 was saved on orchestra prices over last year's cost. This helped to reduce the price from $22.40 to $18 despite the fact the IFC was in debt when the council took over. The new council has a comfortable sum with which to begin their work.

Rush Week, operated on the inadequate rules used in the past, saw dubiously close approaches to “dirty rushing.” The new regulations call for rush week to begin one week earlier and for all confirmation to be handled by the IFC alone.

In the way of service projects, the IFC again sponsored the annual Christmas Party for the Barium Springs Orphanage. Also, as in the past, the IFC co-sponsored the blood drives with the ROTC Department. New ventures in the nature of service included leading the United Appeal campaign on the campus and encouraging a large number of students to begin polio shots with the Salk vaccine. In addition, the IFC cooperated with the administration in holding the college's first Pre-Freshman Weekend.

Hell Week, which had been modified from an eleven to a four-day period, got off to a sensational start with Skit Nite. The vigorous faculty reaction disrupted planned programs which became generally disorganized. In recent action, the

Foiled Again! ............ by Cole

LETTERS TO EDITOR

Writer Likes Shearer Hall Keep Old Building

Dear Sir:

I resent Mr. Blake’s article in last week's D. denouncing and defaming Shearer Hall. That old building has been my home for the past three years and (although it has no hot water or shower) I have come to appreciate it and love it. It will be a very sad day when I hear that it is going to be pulled down, especially if it will be replaced by another one of those pseudo-anything eclectic structures which have been going up around here since the Guest House. My room in old Shearer looks out on some of the best and worst examples of architecture in Mecklenburg county. The Literary Society buildings designed by John Mills over a century ago represent a fine tradition... they are architecturally honest. Dishonest, however,is the church, whose huge, ugly, brown columns hold up nothing, surmounted by an awkward, badly proportioned spire... With all the serious, intellectually fair architects in the country, I hope Davidson will be fortunate enough to get a Fine Arts building in a decent twentieth-century tradition. 
P. Faggart

From India
Dear Editor:
While living in India this year, I have been struck by the interest of Indians and other Asians in America’s race problem. Indeed the whole world murmurs at each bit of interracial news from the States. But the U.S.A. is not the only country with strained interpersonal relations. Every country has them: India in the form of caste, South Africa in the form of interracial relations far more sub-Christian than those in America (vide “Naught For Your Comfort,” T. Huddleston) ... Christians with the message of Reconciliation (II Corinthians 5:16-21) and Unity (John 17:20-23) have a duty—a duty first to act in every daily relationship through love; secondly, to study all areas of tension; thirdly, to pray that we might be used in increasingly larger ways to fulfill our ministry of Reconciliation and Unity. Not only the judgment of the world but the judgment of God must necessarily be upon our attempt at fulfilling our mission.
Walter T. Davis, ’57

THE ICONOCLAST
IFC, following rulings of the national offices of all chapters represented, removed Hell Week in favor of a more constructive and instructive Greek Week program. For this week $180 from Hell Week fines was appropriated to be used as seen fit by the new IFC. In following up action initiated by the previous IFC, the council worked with the administration in laying plans for the new fraternity court. As a result of fraternity votes, the court has single units with rent to be paid on an equal basis by each fraternity member. Also, the fraternity system has seen the development and addition of its new member, Sigma Nu, on an equal competitive basis. Particular attention was paid this year to faculty-student relations. In following this up, the IFC met on three occasions with the Faculty Fraternity Committee to discuss common problems. In addition to particulars, a spirit of goodwill and cooperation was maintained and a foundation for further mutual cooperation was laid. The IFC endeavored to accomplish much this year. However, in addition to continuing policies now initiated, the challenge for new IFC action is great: (1) Preferential bidding. While this year’s council did not push this matter, the idea was presented and attention was drawn to the possibility of a new pledging and limiting system. This coming year the subject should be more thoroughly investigated and presented. Preferential bidding could be the most beneficial addition to Davidson’s fraternity system. (2) Greek Week. The IFC will be called upon to plan and carry through a constructive Greek Week program. This will need imaginative planning and should be an important contribution to valuable fraternity activity. (3) Rush Week. Much work and time will be required to ensure the new Rush Week regulations. The success of the revised week will depend greatly on the IFC's leadership. (4) NIC. Next year, with the National Interfraternity Conference meeting in Atlanta, Davidson’s IFC has the opportunity of enlarging its scope and more actively entering national fraternity affairs. This area has long been neglected by IFCs at Davidson. (5) Constitution. The present IFC constitution is over a decade old and does not adequately cover the expanded activity of the fraternity system. A complete revision is in order. The need for evaluation of the purpose and nature of the fraternity system is continual. Also, the door is wide open for energetic leadership in the area of campus and community service projects. It was the operating principle of the Interfraternity Council this year that under student initiative Davidson’s fraternity system could be one of its most valuable assets. Constructive action has been undertaken and the importance of responsible fraternity activity has been emphasized. A continued and sustained effort will be necessary if the fraternity system is to be the credit to the college it is capable of being.

I'm Such a Pig
By TENNY DEANE
With the coming of the month of May also comes the anticipation of attending the annual May Day festivities at one of the surrounding girls' schools. However, every year the same old story is told by some and this year is no exception. The girl that you thought you had snowed on the last dance weekend just forgot to mention that her school was even having a May Day. In fact, when you asked her for a date for this weekend she casually replied that she had made other plans. Is this a subtle hint? Smitty Smith has just arrived back on campus after a vacation of several days in Presbyterian Hospital. A very reliable source has informed me that as soon as he walked into the hospital a cute student nurse saw him and called, “Hi, Smitty!” Who was it, a girl from home? Last Saturday I was invited to a called meeting of the Fine Films Club and was told that I had misinformed the public of the club’s recent activities. I regret making this mistake and submit my humble apology. The ROTC motto—“Rain, rain go away, come again on Tuesday” has been run into the ground lately. It has not only rained on Tuesday but on every other day as well. It can’t rain forever, can it? Situations invariably arise on dance weekends that aren't always revealed immediately after they happen. This story comes out of the last dance weekend: A certain Davidson gentleman had the extreme misfortune of having a blind date. As the weekend progressed it became very obvious that they weren’t having a good time. Finally, at the dance on Saturday night as they were seated in silence at one of the tables in his fraternity section, his date turned her head toward him and unexpectedly apologized, “I’m sorry that I’m such a pig!”

"Gone Is The Hunter, Gone From The Hill”
By BRUCE VAN SANT
It has been interesting, if not amusing, to note the reaction of the inadequate system in regulation of student conduct in recent weeks. The hunter had miscalled a few of his shots, and now the sportive bird dogs are of a more serious turn, eager to make a show of their efficiency lest they be dispensed with altogether. What is most amusing is to watch them cast about for prey in church itself, hopefully waiting for an outbreak of chortles to arise like a flushed covey from the balcony. Unfortunately for the hunter, their hound-hearts are not in their bush-shaking; the Van Sant covey remains unshook and secure under the natural camouflage plumage. It is beyond question that Davidson could far better fulfill its purpose of education if the administration were more concerned in marking up their blackboards than their students. There exists a state of war between the good masters of Davidson and certain Victorian taboos; to wage such a war and maintain a wide theatre of campaign one must draw extensively upon the resources at hand. Davidson is constructed to dispense knowledge and culture, which resources are certainly dispensed with in furthering the cause of Victorianism. Despite the absence of opposition, our Victorian knights in shining Presbyterian armor charge full-gallop at windmills and ginmills in their quest for fame. These antics serve only to drive the impartial student into the underground ranks of John Barleycorn, and cement him more firmly than before into some twelve secret societies which, by the latest communique from the hill, are working in close coordination with the Devil to overthrow two millenniums of Christian principles and one hundred and twenty years of the faculty's enlightened autocracy. A radical change of system and policy is in order. Wherever the turnover occurs, it faces the dangers inherent in the present system: any system may outgrow its constitutional proportions if it is given constant, undue emphasis. Here at Davidson are collected over nine hundred active young men in the prime of life, worked in relative isolation for nine months each year. It seems inconsistent with the standards of intelligence here when the administration pretends to be aghast at the occurrence of a few prankish misdemeanors under the situation stated. Perhaps under a new system, skillfully guided by the students, the eyes and ears of the College will come home from the hunt and once again turn to the business of education.