FAGE FOUR

PROFESSORS’ HOBBY

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Philosophy Group Go To Conference

Last Saturday and Sunday sixteen Davidson philosophy students, accompanied by Dr. Abernethy, participated in the annual philosophy conference held at Emory University in Atlanta, along with students from the University of the South (Sewanee), the University of Chattanooga, Agnes Scott, and Emory.

The general topics of the weekend were “the nature of man: the primacy of the will vs. the primacy of the intellect,” and papers were read by Colton Smith of Sewanee, Austin Flanders of Emory, and Willard Wolfe of Davidson, who approached the subject from the standpoint of modern scientific psychology.

The reading of the papers Saturday afternoon was followed by a dinner, a panel discussion at which students representing each of the five schools criticized the papers, and a period of general discussion lasting well into the night.

At the business meeting it was decided tentatively that next year’s conference will be held at Davidson, with the topic for discussion being “the philosophy of history: purpose in history.”

IFC To Regulate Next Hell Week

As in the past, the Interfraternity Council is continuing the tradition of student regulation of informal “Hell Week” ceremonies, within the period of March 12 to March 16. Below are the rules which will govern initiation activities.

1. All fraternity informal initiation ceremonies must fall within the period of March 12 to March 16.

2. Fraternities may conduct initiation activities from 7:00 A.M. to 10 P.M., Thursday, March 13; and from 7:00 A.M. Friday through Sunday 12:00 P.M., March 16 so long as such initiation does not interfere with official college duties.

3. Wednesday night a Skit Nite will be held in Chambers Auditorium at which each pledge class will present a short (about 5 minutes) skit. A competent panel of judges chosen from the faculty will choose the first, second, and third best skits, based on originality, effectiveness in presentation, and humor. Following the conclusion of the Skit Nite, fraternities may have short indoctrination programs for their pledges where instructions for initiation activities will be given. These meetings must be over by 11:00 P.M.

4. No fraternity member or pledge will be permitted to carry out Hell Week individual activities unless he is specifically authorized to do so by his fraternity. Therefore, the fraternity is held responsible for the actions of an individual of the fraternity, a group of members of the fraternity, or the fraternity as a whole.

5. A neatly typed schedule of all informal initiation activities of each fraternity must be submitted to the IFC by March 6. This schedule will be subject to approval by the IFC in accordance with the faculty regulations set forth in the Regulations for Students, which states that there shall not be any personal indignities or abuses, physical harm, interruption of school work, jeopardizing the good name of the college or fraternity, or personal humiliation. “Any activity not specified on the schedule is prohibited. This schedule is to be signed by the president and “Hell Week” Chairman of the fraternity.

6. Each fraternity is strongly encouraged to carry out some constructive project during Hell Week. The IFC will have available projects that can be carried out by fraternity pledges.

7. On the basis of past experience, Gray's Road (the road leading past Erwin Lodge) has been declared off limits for any sort of initiation.

8. Field trips will be prohibited. Road trips will be permitted as long as the destination and activity are specified in the schedule discussed in Rule No. 5. The distinction between these two terms is that field trips are characterized by local group activities supervised by fraternity members. Road trips are usually trips taken by two or three pledges with specific acts to be performed at the destination. The IFC will make the final decision as to whether a proposed activity is considered a “road trip” or not.

9. Each IFC member is to report to the IFC any violation of the above rules, whether by his own fraternity or another fraternity. Fines ranging up to $100.00, depending on the seriousness of the offense, and/or social probation if deemed necessary, will be imposed on fraternities that violate this set of regulations.

Masquers Open With ‘Mousetrap’

BY DON STOWELL
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Three blind mice, three blind mice, see how they run right into the carefully laid “Mousetrap.” Whom does the mousetrap finally spring upon? Is it Mollie Ralston (Mrs. Bob Groome), her husband, Giles (freshman George Johnson), the most eccentric Christopher Wrenn (Sam Peters), staid Mrs. Boyle (Irene Stacy from Huntersville), Miss Casewell (Mrs. Stacy Robinson), or possibly the mysterious Mr. Paravicini (Warren Womble)? Baiting this mousetrap with some penetrating cheese is police detective Sgt. Trotter (Ray Atkinson). Their caustic capers keep the congregation conjecturing until the electric switch ending.

Agatha Christie’s galvanic game of cat and mouse in two acts is being presented by the Red and Black Masquers, in what may be the American premiere, tonight at 8:15 p.m. The admission is seventy-five cents.

Directing this melodramatic morsel is George Kemmerer. Assisting him is Hugh Craig, stage manager and set; Clark and Bob Hoagland, lights; make-up, Don Byrd; and John Crawford, the sound effects.

THIS WEEK IN DAVIDSON

SATURDAY, MARCH 1
Scholarship Finalist—All day, so be nice, etc.
8:00—Movie—“Blood Alley,” Union Ballroom.

SUNDAY, MARCH 2
7:30—Vespers—The Reverend R. Stowers Clements.

THURSDAY, MARCH 6
NO CHAPEL

FRIDAY, MARCH 7
Wrestling—Conference meet in Lexington.
8:00—Movie—“Paisan,” Union Ballroom.

$75.00 PRIZE Entry Deadline

And J. Calvin Too!

By GORDON LEGRAND
Davidsonian Feature Writer

It is an interesting fact that professors in one branch of learning often do considerable study in an entirely different field. Mr. John R. Satterfield, for instance, although a professor of music, for the past eighteen months, has been doing research on Herman Melville's great classic ‘Moby Dick.” For his minor in graduate school, Mr. Satterfield made a study of comparative literature. The result of having retained an interest in that field has led to his present work on “Moby Dick.”

Although he makes no pretenses of being an authority on this subject, Mr. Satterfield has a different approach to it. Most of the material that he has studied—critical essays, biographies with criticism, etc.—emphasizes the analysis of Melville’s style and an interpretation of the meaning and significance of the book. Mr. Satterfield explained that various interpretations maintain the Great White Whale represents God, an incarnation of John Calvin's spirit, the Devil or Melville’s parents (who apparently were almost synonymous with the Tempter).

FORM IMPORTANT

The feature of Melville’s work least considered by critics is its form—that which holds it together. As it is the means by which the message of the work is communicated, Mr. Satterfield feels this neglected element is highly important. In his study of this aspect of Moby Dick, Mr. Satterfield is trying to show that Melville used the classic epic form of Homer. In the course of his research he has accumulated sufficient material to write a monograph to be published (“perhaps”) in the near future.

Clements To Lead Sunday Vespers

Vespers on Sunday will be conducted by Dr. Rex Stowers Clements, minister of Bryn Mawr Presbyterian Church in Bryn Mawr, Pennsylvania. Dr. Clements is a graduate of Davidson College and Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, Virginia. He has served as pastor of the Bryn Mawr church since 1950. Dr. Clements is a member of the Board of Trustees of Davidson College and has been active in the affairs of the Presbyterian Church, U.S.A.

New Bidding (Continued From Page 1)

Joe gets in. But if its quota is already filled, Joe, in effect, is balled, and the lists of Lambda, his second choice, are considered next. If the Lambdas have to use their 27th choice in order to complete their 22 quota, Joe becomes one of their pledges. However, if the quota is filled before considering the 27th choice, then Joe would become an Iota pledge. Thus the rushee’s choice is the primary one. He goes to the place he wants if included in its quota.

Details would have to be worked out considerably and there are a number of hitches in the program. For example, there would have to be some limit imposed on depledging, which could get out of hand. Also there is the possibility of a second Rush Week, like W&L's, in February. Transfers would have to be considered, under this system, as a part of either one of the quotas.

Set For Award

All entries for the Vereen Bell Memorial Award for Creative Writing must be submitted to some member of the English Department on or before 12 o'clock noon, March 22nd. The award is a memorial to Lt. Vereen Bell, a Davidson graduate, who was killed in World War II. Before his death, the young writer had received considerable acclaim for “Swamp Water,” a novel of the South Georgian area. This year’s Vereen Bell Award carries a cash prize of $75.00 to the winner. The winner, together with honorary recognition to other ranking contestants, will be announced at student assembly in conjunction with the annual Literary Societies.Address provided by the Memorial Fund. The rules of the competition are as follows: (1) Any regularly enrolled student at Davidson is eligible to compete. (2) All entries must be the original work of their respective entrants and may fall in any recognized category of creative writing. (3) A student may submit entries in as many different categories as he wishes, but he may submit one entry only in each category with the exception of poetry. In poetry, the student may enter one poem or a sequence or group of poems; if he submits more than one poem, he must designate them as one unit and so enter them. (4) All entries must be typed, double spaced, and appear on one side of the paper only. (5) Name of the writer must be enclosed in an envelope bearing attached to it. No name should appear on the manuscript itself.

Army Drafts New Active Duty Policy

The Department of the Army announced recently a new policy concerning the ordering to active duty of Reserve Officer Training Corps graduates with majors in certain scientific subjects. ROTC students concerned who are not needed to fill branch quotas will now be ordered to only six months of active duty for training unless they prefer a two-year tour. However, it was emphasized that a limited number of science major graduates would not receive preferential treatment in exclusion from selection for two years of active duty. The policy change applies to those students commissioned between 1 May of this year and 30 April 1959. Those affected are students majoring in chemistry, geology, geophysics, mathematics, microbiology, parasitology, pharmacology, physics, physiology, and engineering. The change in policy was made because the specialists are critically needed in the civilian economy.

Headlee Will Give Organ Recital

Will O. Headlee, organist, will be heard in a recital on Friday, March 7, at the Davidson College Presbyterian Church. This program will mark the third in the current organ recital series on the campus. Mr. Headlee is an instructor in organ at Syracuse University. A native of Asheville, N.C., he holds an undergraduate degree from the University of North Carolina and a Master of Music from Syracuse. His organ study has been with Dr. Jan Schinhan and Arthur Poister. The program will include Bruhns’ “Prelude and Fugue No. 3;” Keltner’s chorale prelude “What God ordains is always right;” the J. S. Bach Passacaglia and Fugue in C minor, “Fantasy in A major” Franck; the partita on “Praise to the Lord” by Ahrens; “Cantelene,” from the Langlais “Suite Breve;” and the Vierne “Finale” will also be included. The recital will begin at 8:15 P.M., and there is no charge for admission. A reception in the Student Lounge of the church will follow the recital.

COURT OF CRITICS

By BOBBY AUSTIN
Davidsonian TV Critic

During the past week, Davidson saw the debut of a new program, DECOY. Many of those who saw this spoke quite highly of it as it approaches the mystery story from the standpoint of a policewoman and differs considerably from its predecessors. It seems as if “Mr. and Mrs. 48” have quite different opinions from that of “Mr. Davidson.” On the campus, I am quite sure that Lawrence Welk would never hold first place. It is hard for me to understand just how Mr. Winchell ever found people to vote the way they did. However, some of his selections were quite appropriate. Each week Patti Page’s The Big Record has been gaining much popularity. She seems to rival those masters Sullivan and Allen as far as her selection of guests and appeal of the MC. Her guests are always those celebrities who are in the current limelight.

YMCA Members Go To Mary Baldwin For Discussion

Today eight members of the Davidson YMCA Cabinet traveled to Mary Baldwin College at Staunton, Virginia, to meet with the YWCA Cabinet of Mary Baldwin. The group will discuss needs and problems of the college campus and whether or not to remain affiliated with the National “Y.” This discussion was suggested by Dr. Spencer, President of Mary Baldwin and former Dean of Students at Davidson. Dave Robinson heads the group, and Vernon Broyles, Dick Smith, Bobby Livingston, Gerald Wilson, John McVay, Bob McCrae, and Jim Richards are attending with him. Last weekend twelve members of the “Y” went to Atlanta for a meeting of the Student Council of College YMCA's in the South. During this meeting, Smitty Smith was elected Vice-President of the Council. Laurens Walker, Lloyd Chapin, Smitty Smith, and Charlie Roberts led workshops. Four freshmen, Tommy Colvin, Ervin Duggan, Bill Martin, and John Cooley, went with the delegation. Upperclassmen, Barry Benton, John Kuykendall, Vernon Broyles, and Ken Forrester also attended, along with Dr. Staples. The main speaker at the meeting was Rev. Al Kershaw.

Dr. Pietenpol also announced the possibility of a high school day in the near future for prospective Davidson students. He felt that this would be a “good thing. If this will give us the best students, I would be all for it. There have been instances in the past where a high school student, after one look at the campus and Davidson life, decided that ‘This is the place for me’.”

Special Group Year Around Weight All-Wool Worsted, Flannel Suits --- Were $45 All Fall and Winter Suits Reduced 1-3 All Fall and Winter Sportcoats Reduced 1-3 Many Men's Furnishings 1-2 PRICE

Jack Wood Ltd. “It Costs No More To Dress Correctly” CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Jones’ motivation for preferential bidding is to “cut down the percentage of fraternity members from the current figure of about 85% to 60 or 70% and thus help the independents build a larger and stronger group.” He admitted that in his discussions of the subject with various students, he has found “very few pushing the thing for the same reasons” as his and sees little possibility of the IFC taking final action on the matter this semester.

Di Mizios PIZZA Italian & American Restaurant 836 S. Main St. — Making Salisbury Famous

Ivy League. Is it ever Ivy! Why, Coke is the most correct beverage you can possibly order on campus. Just look around you. What are the college social leaders going for? Coca-Cola! So take a leaf out of their Ivy League book and do the same! Enjoy the good taste of Coke!

SIGN OF GOOD TASTE Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company by THE COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD “Coke” is a registered trademark. © 1956, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY