The Davidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, MAY 9, 1958

(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

Revised Bidding a Must for ‘58

The passage of the Revised Bidding System (see page one) will ensure the Davidson fraternity system a long and stable future. No more important issue has faced the College fraternities within the past fifty years.

As stated by the authors, the purpose of the system is twofold. First, and we think obvious, the new houses on Patterson Fraternity Court have been built to comfortably accommodate 60 to 65 men. It seems ridiculous to crowd 85 to 90 in one or two, and have only 25 men using several others. More important, the eventual evening out in the size of the fraternities offers numerous intangible benefits. Competition between all twelve of the fraternities will become much keener in interfraternity activities, the development of meaningful friendships will become easier as the behemoths of the system are gradually whittled down to size, and the possibility that a fraternity loses its charter because of small membership will be virtually eliminated.

We have studied the plan carefully, discussed it, criticized it, tested it in almost every hypothetical situation imaginable, and find it to be sound and workable.

Some have complained that fraternities will lose their basic rights if the Revised Plan is approved. We think not. In no situation will a fraternity be forced to take a pledge that has not been properly bid. Any number of bids may be issued. No person or group of persons, except the fraternities and the freshmen, will decide “who goes where.” The mechanics of Revised Bidding are purely mathematical. The only real limitation is that of number, and this is a negative limitation to the benefit of the individual fraternities and the system.

During the coming week, there will be much discussion of the matter. This is well. No change so important should be undertaken without careful consideration by all involved. But next week will also be the time to act. Fall of 1958, bringing with it the new fraternity court, is the logical time to make such a change. If this opportunity passes, another year’s apathy and indifference may bury it forever.

The DAVIDSONIAN urges that all concerned carefully study the Revised Plan. A large part of the opposition voiced to date has come from those who lack a full understanding of the new system. If the Revised System is approved, and the DAVIDSONIAN hopes strongly that it is, there will be ample proof that Davidson students can think clearly and with open minds about the most important of student matters.

Poll Shows Flaws in System

One valuable criterion for evaluating the worth of an educational system is the opinion of those students who are performing best under it. In the poll of the top five students in each class taken this week by the DAVIDSONIAN (see page one), opinions of the Davidson system were highly varied, but the large number—on some questions a majority—of highly critical answers indicates that an “agonizing reappraisal” is in order.

For example, only about a third of the students questioned thought that most of the academic work here was intellectually stimulating, and more than a third regarded most of it as dull “busy work” and memorization. This opinion has, of course, been held widely by students not included in this poll, but to see many of the top men in each class express doubts concerning the quality of the education they are receiving is rather unsettling. If they, who have demonstrated both their ability and their willingness to do what is demanded of them, have not profited from their study here, who can?

It should now be fully apparent that Davidson—despite all the propaganda (strictly for outside consumption) in the College Catalogue about “the training of the mind” in order to provide “a knowledge of the forces which have determined the pattern of our civilization” and thereby “fostering the understanding which gives meaning and purpose to the present”—is failing to live up to its promises. Davidson is a good place for a student who wants nothing more than a first-class ticket to financial security and social position and is willing to endure a little intellectual discomfort on the way, but it has acute limitations for those who want more than this.

There are a few bright spots, however. Some science departments (e.g., mathematics, chemistry, and pre-med) provide an adequate technical background for further study, and some of the humanities are generally quite well taught (e.g., history). Honor courses are well regarded by those majoring in English or history. Seminar courses in such departments as philosophy, psychology, and economics provide, in a very limited way, relief from the tedium of ordinary course work.

Most important and most promising of all, some individual professors are attempting to raise the level of their courses in such a way that a challenge will be presented to students who are willing to work for goals worth achieving but are fed up with organized dullness. In the long run, this is the only way that Davidson can begin to realize its avowed ideals.

—C.H.C.

First Lady Of Davidson

In accordance with Mother’s Day this Sunday, it is fitting that The DAVIDSONIAN salute Mrs. J. B. Moore, our Mom Away from Home in our Home Away from Home. As Housemother and Supervisor of Dormitories, Mrs. Moore has been willing and happy to help students with any problem in her office on the first floor of Belk. The cheerful, efficient manner in which she has performed her myriad of duties is only a reflection of her natural love and concern for boys.

From sitting up at all hours on dance weekends to the task of assigning rooms, Mrs. Moore has constantly been on the go. Her work has not been of the impersonal sort, for many of the students recognize her quality and often can be seen enjoying a friendly chat with the popular lady. Without a doubt, she is the “first lady of Davidson” at this time.

—S.R.L.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Laurens Walker

ASSISTANT EDITOR
Bill Patton

BUSINESS MANAGER
Henry Samuels

Associate Editors
Charles Chastain
Bob Lathan
George Ramsey

Managing Editors
Ed. Armfield
Dick Smith
Jim Hamilton
Pete Kellogg
Bruce Brooks

Sports Editor
Tom Colvin

Feature Editor
Spiro Macris

News Editor
Charles Rose

Cartoonists
Bross, Cole

Photographer
Dave Gillis

Advertising Manager
Greg Grana

Circulation Manager
Bob Wynne

Ass't. Business Manager
Kuykendall

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879

Look Forward to Productive Year Through Efforts of Entire Student Body

By JOHN KUYKENDALL

I am glad to have this opportunity of making a statement of the goals or objectives which I hope to see accomplished next year through the endeavors of your Student Council as it works with and for the Davidson Student.

First of all, I wish to thank you, the Davidson Student Body, for the excellent Student Council you have elected to work with me in representing you next year. Each one of these men is dedicated sincerely to the work which lies ahead. I am deeply grateful for the privilege of working with fourteen men of such caliber on the Student Council next year.

The one idea which will, to a large extent, pervade the actions of your Student Council next year will be the attempt to bring Davidson Student and Davidson Student Council closer together. You will notice an attempt to bring more students into the sphere of interest and labor provided by student government here at Davidson.

I should like to state very briefly some of the projects and problems we hope to approach in the coming year.

HONOR COUNCIL

Preliminary plans for the proposed Honor Council have already been made by the retiring Student Council. It is our present intention to complete the mechanics of this project and introduce the recommended organization to the Student Body in the early fall. This whole proposal would represent a very significant and, I believe, beneficial change in the organization of Student Government here at Davidson. Naturally, we wish to approach the Student Body to understand the proposal thoroughly and ask any questions which might occur. Therefore, it is my intention to request that the Student Council sponsor one or more forums of an informal nature for the explanation and discussion of this system after its initial presentation.

With regard to the drinking situation, the position which I took during the election campaign remains unchanged. I do not believe it practical or feasible to attempt any return to a more conservative interpretation of our present student body regulations. On the other hand, I feel that any further liberalization of the law inthe direction of allowing drinking on campus or allowing men to return under the influence of Great Awakening, II....... . by Bross SALMAGUNDI Thoughts of a Senior | | | J D.C. Society By JOHN TOUMARAS This week “Salmagundi” is devoted to the thoughts of one who is soon to bid farewell to the ivied icons of Davidson. The following is goodbye from a happy senior. Byron is dead. Keats and Shelley lasted longer, but they, too, are dead. The death of these men is complete. Long live industry, super highways, and Davidson's god, the Intellectual. Shame upon anyone who would aspire to capture again the Romantic spirit. Romanticism is the waste of time: the leech of the industrious spirit; the death of science and her hell-hound, Reason. You, Oh mighty Intellect, have remade the world. You, Oh squint-eyed Reason, have progressed and progressed; and far off in the future you will still be progressing. You will roll your little rock up that long hill a million years after we, your living sons, are dust brushed lovingly from the tombs of some prophet of those ages yet to be. Progress, Reason, Intellect fear not, for unto you will be born new generations of worshipers when we are mute. In truth, your Spirit is not love, for love lacks the power to progress. Down with it! It is false! Love is not complete in its form as you are. Chew up Love's philosophy and cast it aside . . . there is need of something more. You, Oh Reason, are now king. Long progress the king! Romanticism died, but it did not fail the world. The world looked blindly at Romanticism’s premises, and still does with eyes too human to really see its greatness. In its spirit was the love, most closely expressed by the greatest of the world’s teachers. In Romanticism was true hope, real faith, and a desire for a great love. As time passed and as Romanticism died, it became the target for a great deal of criticism. Today it is only smiled upon and brushed off as a passing fancy of a few slightly radical men. Man's desire to know, to experiment, to push on into the future, to aspire the Godhead could not long tolerate this whimpering Child. And so Romanticism was crushed and left to die in the cold streets of a world built around Reason. Romanticism was forever a Child. To grow old could never be its lot. It was, and will remain the young man who must die, for the world has no need of him. Man will always have an argument to show why his feeble mind and its pursuits are the real weapons for giving the world a more perfect social structure. Man will continue to see Progress moving on a straight line into the dark future, unrelentingly. For anyone to call his attention to the fact that progress is nothing more than a continuing procession around a center point will forever be blasphemy. He cannot believe that his new discoveries are only new points on the circumference of a little circle, and that since time began man has never moved one inch from the locus of this circle. As graduation approaches we smile and muse wistfully to ourselves, “Now we are men, we have put away childish things. The Romantic was of our youth and is now passed away!” Run the good race, Davidson Gentleman of 1958 and if you must sacrifice love for reason, hope for practicality, or peace for war, do so knowing that you are living up to the truth you learned here.”

spirit alcohol would not be commensurate, either with the atmosphere of education or with the standards of Davidson College. I believe that proper administration and interpretation of the present rule is possible, and it is my hope that the Student Council will move in this direction in the next year. I have high hopes for the success and value of the recently established Student-Faculty-Trustee committee on the drinking situation which has met twice in the past three weeks. We have been fortunate in finding a representative delegation from the students, giving the liberal as well as the conservative student point of view. This will furthermore give some indication as to what the future holds for us in regard to this problem. Another facet of Davidson campus life which warrants the study of the Student Council in the coming year is our system of elections. It is my idea to appoint the elections committee comparatively early in the year to work with a Student Council committee on elections and facilitate a complete and deliberate study of our entire elections set-up, leaving time to take action on suggestions before the spring elections period.

PARTICIPATION In closing, may I reemphasize the statement which points up the program for the coming year. It is my purpose to attempt to draw the Davidson Student into interest and participation in Student Council work. This is not only beneficial to the student himself, but to the school as a whole. I am available and anxious to receive any suggestions from any student concerning the operation of our student government in the coming year, and I look forward to a year of progress, not through the efforts of any one individual or small group or individuals, but through the efforts of the Student Body of Davidson College as a whole.

CHAPERONS By TENNEY DEANE Now that the school is in the capable hands of the new Student Council, Y.M.C.A., and I.F.C., the student body can relax until the BIG question is answered—Who will be the next president of Davidson College? This is the weekend that Queens has been waiting for all year! The fact that nine Davidson fraternities are having functions tomorrow is making it possible for almost the whole student body to date. Another peculiar situation exists in the difficulty in securing chaperons for these parties. Did anyone mention the Davidson value pattern? A closer observation of the Davidson gentleman during the next couple of weeks will show a very altered set of ideas. For example, a nine o'clock break in the Union will take the place of the usual nine o'clock flick. I know 18 boys who think that Mrs. Moore is the best “Mom” in Davidson. We certainly thank her for the work she did in getting Martin’s Manor back for us. Last Wednesday afternoon, the arousing strains of the Davidson Fight Song brought dozens of sleepy-eyed boys to their windows and prepared them for the news of the Cats’ Southern Conference golf victory. The fact that this public address system has not been used for quite a while is a fairly good indication that perhaps it wasn’t needed anyhow. The only time that I can remember it being used was to make the announcement concerning the cancellation of Homecoming and the results of a couple of football games which were played here. One possibility for its use would be to let Radio Free Davidson broadcast over its facilities. Overheard at the discussion with Mr. John Page, Wetzel‘s lawyer, last Wednesday night, “We want Frank!”

LETTER TO EDITOR Let's Take Stock Dear Editor: As we approach the end of another school year it might be a good idea if we all take stock of what we have done. It may be that some will find that they have accomplished much and given freely of their talents, but others may not be so pleased with their views of retrospect. This has been a year of much action around Davidson College. Many can look back and point with pride to activities with which they have been associated. Our athletic teams have done well; the IFC, under the fine leadership of Bob Jones, has moved ahead by leaps and bounds; Ross Smyth's Student Council has performed adequately under some difficult pressures; and even the Executive Committee of the Faculty can look back with pride on a year of many decisions (though not all popular). But where do we, the average student, lacking of athletic prowess and great leadership ability fit into the picture? Where have we left our mark on Davidson's school year, 1957-1958? The fact is that many of us, too many, have let another unproductive year slip by, content to sit back and criticize, but not sufficiently moved to try to accomplish anything. We should actually place the blame on our own shoulders for not attempting to right the wrongs which we so dearly love to extol upon. Let us all take it upon ourselves next year, whether at Davidson or elsewhere, to take a working interest in things that deserve our attention and our time. Penn Rainier