THE LAST ONE
Last issue by this year’s staff.
VOL. XLVI

The Davidsonian
The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C.
FRIDAY, MARCH 28, 1958

News Conference
Pietenpol Says Faculty at Work
By EDDIE ARMFIELD
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Faculty committees investigating fraternities, drinking, and student conduct in both chapel and Vespers are all hard at work and some
may be ready with preliminary reports by next Tuesday’s faculty meeting, Acting President C. J. Pietenpol announced this week.

At a press interview with reporters and members of the DAVIDSONIAN staff, Dr. Pietenpol said, “After the recent discussions between
the faculty, fraternity presidents and IFC representatives, the faculty suggested that there seemed to be certain areas that needed to
be looked into.”

The permanent Committee headed up by Dr. McGavock will look again into problems already under consideration.

At the suggestion of the Board of Trustees, there has been set up a committee to look into student drinking.
Dr. Pietenpol is a member of that committee and said of it, “We have met and talked to various students
and student groups, such as ODK, but because we have not yet met with the Trustees on the matter, we
will not submit a preliminary report to the Tuesday faculty meeting.”

CHAPEL CONDUCT?
Q. What has been done or is being done about chapel conduct and programs?
A. A committee to investigate chapel programs, as well as chapel conduct, has been appointed. As to whether or not
this committee will be prepared to report to the faculty on Wednesday is uncertain. It is probably not too reasonable
to expect a report since they began their work not long ago.

Q. What faculty or curriculum changes do you expect for next year?
A. Besides Mr. Culp’s law, which has already been an-

DR. C. J. PIETENPOL at conference

CURRENT EVENTS POLL
1. Identify in a few words:
George Meany
Sukarno
Lewis Strauss
Adolph Rupp
Ricky Nelson
SEATO
James Cozzens
William Lee Davidson
Hussein
Joseph McCarthy

ON PAGE TWO
Editorials discuss college, drinking, bidding.

NO. 21

Lathan, Ramsey, Walker Seek Paper’s Editorship; Five Run For Y President
Livingston Is Chairman Committee To Study Honor Council Plan

The Student Council, Monday night, established a Committee to study a proposal by Councilman Bob Livingston calling for the creation
of an Honor Council. Livingston will serve as chairman of the group which will be composed of John Kuykendall, Bill
Bondurant, and Dave Robinson. The committee was instructed to report back to the Council as soon as possible so that
some recommendation might be made on the matter before the old council’s tenure of office expires.

President Smyth announced that the regional meeting of the National Student Council Association would be held at Randolph Macon Woman's
College the weekend after spring holidays. Several of the Council members showed interest in attending the convention.

Other Editorial Posts To Be Elected Tuesday
Tuesday morning the second round in the elections cycle will begin with voting on Publications and Y.M.C.A. officers. Those who
will vie for the top post on this paper are Bob Lathan, George Ramsey, and Laurens Walker. The new editor
of the DAVIDSONIAN will take over his job immediately, since this is the last regular issue being put out by
the present staff. All three of the candidates for this post have wide experience on the staff. Lathan served this
year as managing editor in charge of the front and back pages, Ramsey as sports editor, and Walker as managing
editor in charge of the editorial page.

The largest single organization outside of the student body itself, the Y.M.C.A., will also begin election of its officers next
Tuesday. Seeking the top post soon to be vacated by Lloyd Chapin are five men: Barry Benton, Vernon Broyles, Steve
Stevens, Melton Tankersley, and Scott Woodmansee. A triangle of men vie for the vice-presidency of the Y: Jim Richards, Dick
Smith, and Tom Smith. Three rising Sophomores face the electorate for the office of secretary of the Y: Tommy Colvin,
Irvin Duggan, and Bill Martin.

BOB LATHAN

Parents and friends of the Cadet Regiment have been invited to view the

(Continued on Page Four)

Four men, from various classes in the student body, are

treasurer. The Wernher von Braun
Rev. James Cole
Igor Stravinsky
Fulton J. Sheen
David Oistrakh
Frank Wetzel
Fulgencio Batista
Nathan Leopold Jr.
John J. Parker
D. I. Hill
Arthur H. Dean
Paul Tillich

2. Name the two Vice-Presidents of the '57-58 Davidson Student Body.

3. Who is (are):
Premier of France
Prime Minister of England
Prime Minister of Canada
Prime Minister of India
U. S. Attorney General
President of Mexico
U. S. Sec. of Treasury
U. S. Sec. of Defense
U. S. Sec. of Labor
Communist Party Boss in U.S.S.R.

4. What State are you from?—
Name of your Governor—
Names of your two U. S. Senators—

5. Identify as to source or author:
1. “The right of the people to be secure in their persons, houses, papers, and effects, against unreasonable searches and
seizures, shall not be violated . . .”
2. “The race is not always to the swift, or the battle to the strong...”
3. “Still pressing on to glories yet to be; Thy stalwart sons in serried ranks behind thee,”

6. Your Class? (circle one): Fresh. Soph. Jr. Sr.

Current Events! What Ya Mean?
By JIM MORRIS
Davidsonian Feature Editor

The average Davidson student knows but one-half of the identifications and questions listed in the poll above. This week a
supervised “World we live in” questionnaire was administered to 230 members of the student body. (Broken down by classes 20%
of this number were freshmen, 32% sophomores, 27% juniors, and 21% seniors)—The average score was 52%, the low was 18%
and there was but one verified 100% score. Frank Wetzel, Ricky Nelson, Rev. James Cole (of KKK fame) and Joseph
McCarthy were known by over 90% of those interviewed, while less than 35% could name the U. S. Attorney General.
The President of Mexico was identified by only 6 men, and less than 20% could name the U. S. Sec.
of Labor; 16% the Premier of France; 15% the Sec. of the Treasury; and 12% the Prime Minister of Canada.
Not half (48%) could name the Prime Minister of England (Churchill and Chamberlain placed second). Only 8% recognized Arthur H.
Dean as havinganything to do with international conferences (“head of U.S. Communist party”). Slightly over 80% could place George Meany
(“Republican”), Fulton J. Sheen, and SEATO (but (Continued on Page Four)).

Gilbert was instructed to poll the Student Body again to see if they would rather have a two-day break or
none at all. The two-day holiday would necessitate the shortening of Spring Holidays by one day, and the shortening of
the final exam period by one day.

As the final item of business, W. Va., was elected comptroller. Julian Love, from Palm Beach, Fla., was elected historian.
Also elected were Dan Clemmer, rush chairman; Ed Hall, athletic chairman; Elwood Hartman, chaplain; Jim Hill, boarding house manager; and
Jerry Gattis, pledge trainer.

Sailstad Assures Stable Financial Situation Here
By DON STOWELL
Davidsonian Staff Reporter

“The financial situation of the college is very good,” assured Mr. R.J. Sailstad, Assistant to the President in College Development,
in an interview earlier this week.

When asked if the absence of a President has hurt the college financially, Mr. Sailstad replied, “I don’t think the
college has lost any money and everything has proceeded on schedule.” He emphasized the fact that the Ten-Year Plan, adopted
during Dr. Cunningham's administration, is an important factor in the college's “steady program of growth,” and that this growth “has
come about because it is planned and will continue because it is planned and not based on chance.” He believes
that because the Plan is based on “educational objectives, not just needs,” it is effective.

FLEXIBLE BLUEPRINT

The Plan is defined as “a flexible blueprint for future action that does not emphasize one phase of education above
another.” This can “be seen by the fact that the new science laboratory building, restoration or replacement of Shearer Hall
as the John R. Cunningham Fine Arts Building, physical education, and endorsement of arts and lectures series are listed among
other things on the Plan. “The Plan could adjust to any special needs of the college even if they decided
to offer a course in space pilots. “Most of the program is for “human needs rather than brick, stone, and
steel.” Less than half is designed for plant and equipment. The total for the Plan is a “substantial calculated amount
based on one thousand students. “You might be interested to know along this line,” Sailstad added, “that an anonymous donor
will soon make one item on the list a reality—a permanent developmental reading laboratory. “It will be equipped not only
for the slow reader but for the student who wants to increase his reading capacity and comprehension.”

GOOD MANAGEMENT

Mr. Sailstad mentioned some of the factors involved in running a college from the business standpoint. First, he praised Mr.
Martin and his staff for carrying on “extremely good business management.” He then proudly noted the “Living Endowment,” money given
by alumni, friends, parents, and corporations, such as Esso, DuPont, Sears, and the Woolworth Company.

The “Living Endowment” (Continued From Page One)

Completing the Inspecting team will be Colonel Thomas G. Keithley, Chief of the North Carolina Military District. A graduate of
the University of Missouri, he is the holder of the Bronze Star with Oak Leaf Cluster. He began his career
as a 2nd Lieutenant of Artillery in 1927 and was promoted to Colonel in 1950. A full schedule is in
store for the visiting officers. Planned for Monday morning is a conference with the PMS&T at eight o'clock, a tour
of the College and ROTC facilities at 8:30, a call on Acting President C.J. Pietenpol and the Dean of Students
at 10. Visitation of classes in the ROTC Department will take place during the regularly scheduled periods. The afternoon will
be taken up with an inspection of records and facilities in the Department. A dinner will be held for General
Garvin, Monday evening in the College Union. Tuesday morning the Cadet Regimental Staff will hold a briefing for the inspectors.
At this time, the Staff will explain the functioning of the Regiment and their various duties as staff members.

Art Exhibit Features Woodblock Prints

Sixty color woodblock prints by Utamaro and Hokusai will be displayed in the foyer of Chambers from April 17-26. Twenty-four
originals and thirty-six reproductions by these two great Japanese printmakers comprise the show. The works cover the period of history
from about 1790-1830. Utamaro’s absorbing theme was women—professional beauties and the like. Hokusai specialized in landscapes which capture the various
moods of nature. The Japanese color woodblock print originated in the 18th century as a plebeian art form within the
purchasing ability of the masses. A separate block of cherry wood was cut for each color. There was no press.
All blocks were registered and each color transferred from block to paper by rubbing.

Endowment Study includes Davidson

In a recent survey conducted by the “U.S. News and World Report,” Davidson was one of 63 colleges and universities
chosen for a study of how various college endowment funds are being invested. Indicated in the poll was a large
shift away from fixed-income investments into common stocks. However, of the 63 colleges checked, Davidson had less percentage of its
endowment invested in common stock than did any other college except Grinnell. According to the article, 55 percent of the
total, or 1.7 billion dollars, is now invested in common stock. Investments in preferred stocks, real estate, bonds, and other
assets total only 1.3 billion.

The present incumbent, Bobby Livingston, will face opposition from three challengers, John Cooley, Pat Henderson, and Tom Ridenhour.

Rev. I.G. Wilson To Speak At Vespers

The Reverend Iain G. Wilson, D.D., will speak at vespers Sunday night at 7:30 in the College Church. Dr. Wilson
is pastor of the Franklin Street Presbyterian Church in Baltimore, Maryland.

Masquers Select ‘Journey's End’

“Journey's End” by Robert C. Sherriff will be produced by the Red and Black Masquers on April 25 and 26
as part of the Fine Arts Festival. This play, which is considered the best drama to come out of World
War I, is about the moral and physical degeneration of men in combat and the struggle between idealism and necessity
which can destroy or elevate character.

Selective Service Prepares Bulletin

Selective Service officials said Saturday that physically fit and “unencumbered” young single men still face “a 100 percent certainty” of
being drafted by the time they are twenty-three. “Unencumbered” young men are those who do not enter critical reserves, or
other fields in which they may gain deferment or exemption. Neither marriage nor fatherhood is ground for deferment, but fatherhood
is a deferment qualification.

The entire action takes place in the front line trenches of a British sector of a battlefield. The main character
is Stanhope, a young officer who has been on the front line for three years when the play opens, and
has been forced to take up alcohol to protect himself from the horror of his long term of duty. As
an impending German attack nears, tension builds up to the tragic climax. Nevertheless, the very powerful and accurate picture of
both the light and serious problems of men in war.
