Bobtail Davidsonian

Summer '58 Edition - Number 6

POTEAT CHANGES MANAGERSHIPS

Mr. and Mrs. Ralph Poteat, who have managed the college cafeteria since February 22, 1957, are leaving Davidson to become manager of the main cafeteria on the campus of the University of Florida.

At his new position, Mr. Poteat will manage a cafeteria serving three thousand people per meal. Additionally, he will be in charge of the bakery shop, butcher shop, and the store room which will provide for nine other cafeterias on the campus. Altogether, the ten cafeterias will serve ten thousand people.

When Mr. Poteat leaves Davidson, he will also be leaving the Slater System, for whom he has worked for eight years, as the cafeterias at the University of Florida are operated by the University. During this period of time, he has managed hospital and industrial cafeterias, public restaurants, and a banquet club, in addition to the college cafeteria here at Davidson.

In discussing his Davidson departure, Mr. Poteat said, "It almost grieves me to leave the many friends and nice people I have worked with here. I could search the country over and could not find a better staff, faculty, and student body to work with. My relationships with all these people are something to be proud of."

To Mr. and Mrs. Poteat, we would say "thank you" for those kind and sincere words; and it is our equally sincere desire and hope that you will find similar conditions at your new position. As you leave Davidson, our best wishes go with you.

WELCOME STEPHANOS

Succeeding Mr. Poteat as manager of the college cafeteria is Mr. George Stephanos. The new manager's last position with the Slater System was at a restaurant in Danville, Virginia, the latter being the more immediate. Mr. Stephanos has been with the Slater System for almost two years.

At present, Mr. Stephanos is rooming at the home of Mrs. Hearle, until arrangements for the arrival of his family can be completed. The Stephanos' have two children. The family home is in Danville, Virginia.

The menu at the break on Wednesday night will feature food. Because of exam eve activities, there will be no entertainment.

Take a break from studies and come to the break for enjoyable food. Wednesday night - 9:00 PM.

In any other part of the country, a sign on the door of the Copley Plaza Hotel in Boston reads: "Not An Entrance." Hand-lettered on the illustration of a station wagon jammed with luggage, stereo equipment, and a mounting "There's No Vacancy" sign.