Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Dr. Joserli T. Drake, professor of sociology, recently moved into his new home in the faculty housing development, next door to Dr. Daggy. It is a very modernistic and attractive house on what Mr. Herb Russell fondly calls "Mortgage Ridge." Congratulations, Dr. Drake.

Dr. Reid, professor of geography, is leaving Davidson during the last of this week, with his family, for a drive to California. We guess that either he's going to look for oil or else he's a real gold-digger. Good luck, Dr. Reid.

An aged, half-blind Negro citizen of this area, Mr. J. William McClellen, has asked your editor to make it known that he wishes to buy a used travel suitcase that unfolds and hangs up, if anyone has such an article that he wishes to sell.

Mr. McClellen is willing to pay six dollars and requests that anyone desiring to make this sale take the suitcase to Dr. Anderson's store, which is beyond the old Post Office. He will leave the money for the purchase at this store.

We have recently had a change in cafeteria management, and many students have expressed a hope that service will remain as satisfactory as it was under the former management—or even that it may improve, if possible. Any student wishing to express an opinion on this subject may contact Mr. C. S. Smith, Mr. Stepranos, Pat Coleman, or Ken Owens.

The Union Movie Committee promises us more good movies to come. Prospective ones include: The Last Time I Saw Paris, Rebel Without a Cause, Hills of Home, Beau Brummel, and The Tender Trap.

ROBERT W. WHERES "DOES YOUR WULOLL LIVE?"

Dear Bob Taille,

The other night I went with some fellow students to a moving picture theatre in Mooresville. They had this sinful French actress who kept misbehaving. You would think she had no breeding. I'm so embarrassed. What shall I do? Lamont Cranston.

Dear Lamont, Tell me where I can get tickets!

Dear Bob Taille,

I'm trying so hard to pass my course in Hygienic Health 17, but I simply cannot. What shall I do? Stupid.

Dear Stupid, Flunk.

What is a faculty committee? It is a group of people who can see three meanings in a college joke that only has two.

WE ARE CRYING FOR HELP

The notorious illegal pros, Jim and Fred, were reunited this week. All fathers are cautioned: lock up your daughters, bar your doors, and break out your guns. For these renegades, battle-scarred veterans of foreign and domestic wars that they are, have learned the wiles and ways of wayward wanderers. Jungle Jim has just taken leave of his base near Chicago to visit Ferocious Fred before he flies to Bonnie Scotland. Ferocious Fred, old salt, is giving Jungle Jim advice on wooing the lasses and hiding from wild Scottish sparks in helicopters (toothpaste optional). Citizens, in your shelters, lie clear!

By NOT

A man should learn to detect and watch that gleam of light which flashes across his mind from within, more than the luster of the firmament of bards and sages.
—Emerson on Self-Reliance

No great achievement is possible without persistent work, so absorbing and so difficult that little energy is left over for the more strenuous kinds of amusement.
—Bertrand Russell

ODE TO DAVIDSON

I thought I should never see
A college without a tree,
A campus without sense or sin,
And lacking in womanly whim,
A college without demon rum
To change each freshman to a bum,
A place of higher education
Where there is little recreation,
Where partying, vice, and drink,
And wild, lewd antics are extinct.

Buns are made by women and beer,
But the trustees try to save us here!

Lamont: "Queens Girl: What is that on your head? Is it dirty?"

Dear Bob Taille,

What ever can we do to clean up these nasty college publications? They are a disgrace to this higher institution of education. We are astonished and exceedingly amazed! Furthermore, they are uncanonical.
—Messrs. Parrot, Barnum, and Crank.

Dear Messrs. Parrot, Barnum, and Crank,
These publications must not have the right kind of influence. Immediately, get in touch with your local PTA, Girl Scout troop, department men, or chapter of the Woodrow Wilson Memorial Society.

MORE CONTRIBUTIONS

With faculty supervision

---