Merry Christmas

VOL. XLVII

A Christmas Story

The old man closed the door behind him, shutting the howl and bite of the wind outside, and shook the
snow from his coat. A small fire crackled in the snug fireplace across the coffered room, and the bare, wooden
floor creaked as he shuffled over to its warmth. He dropped his coat on one of the two wicker chairs
he passed. Rubbing his hands, which had been gloveless in the cold, numbly before the struggling glow, he called wearily,
“Jess, you home?”

“Yes’r,” came the reply in a young voice from the other room of the one-story, wooden home. “I’m ‘bout to
put the meal on now, Pa. Set down by the table and we'll eat in a minute.”

Jess entered through the door to the room where the bed they shared was and went over to the fire.
He put another log on. They were quiet for a while as Jess mixed the meal with water from the
spring. The porridge began to bubble a little and he asked, “Did you see the man settin’ by the old
well up’t the corner when you come in? Looked like he had much warm on him to me.”

“Nope. Had my head down t’keep the wind an’ snow outta my face. Didn’t see him. Couldn’t’ve done nothin’ if
I had. Man's gotta keep the snow outta his face. Go blind ‘f he don’t.”

An extra helping of porridge because of the season of the year put the fire inside the old man and
his boy. “Good, Jess. Good Christmas meal. Glad I don’t have t’go to th’ mill tomorrow. Guess I can chop
wood in the morning. Ain’t much t’chop, though, from th’ looks of things.”

“Yes’r. Today same’s always?”

“Yep. ‘Bout. ‘Cept for some feller botherin’ the boss this afternoon. Come lookin’ for work this time a year when
there ain’t much doin’ at our place. Said he was hungry, but so’re we. Ain’t no place for no more
hungry people. ‘Bout the same’s always, though.”

The evening passed as always. The snow stopped about midnight, after the two had poked the fire and set a
log on it for coals in the morning and gone to bed. The wind died down a little after, and
from the outside, the small shack looked like a brown mole on an albino earth. The white night was still
and the two slept soundly. Once the old man sat quick up in bed and listened. He asked with his
eyes in the dark, “Did I hear something?” After he sat motionless for some minutes in the silence, he answered
himself aloud, “Must’ve been th’ wind.” He had been asleep when the wind died, and it was too cold to
go to the door.

In the morning when the old man went after the wood, he paused a minute and looked down puzzled at
the prints of bare feet in the still snow in front of the door. He muttered under his breath and
shambled toward the woodpile near the pump.

N.C. Teachers Pick Maloney President

On December 6 at Pfeiffer College in Misenheimer, North Carolina, Professor Samuel D. Maloney was elected president of the North
Carolina Teachers of Religion for 1959. This is an association of about 164 teachers of Bible and religion from colleges,
universities, and seminaries throughout the state. Doctor Maloney was the vice president of this organization for 1958.

The following statement was released by the administration this week: Chairman Colvin remarked, “President Martin explained that the administration was
unable to provide any funds for this project. He also stated that for various reasons he felt it unwise for
the Y to solicit money or use its own.” The committee, however, is continuing its study of author programs on
other campuses in hopes that funds will be available soon.

Monaghan Statement: The Matter Is Closed

The chain of events which led up to the issuing of this statement began on August 26. Monday night, December
15.

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, DECEMBER 19, 1958

SCHOOL... CHRISTMAS... LET’ER ROLL

Special Yule Activities Dominate Final Week

Dave Warden, disguised as Santa Claus, delighted children from the Barium Springs Orphanage. The annual Christmas Party, sponsored by the
Interfraternity Council was held (Photo by Rhyne)

Christmas Spirit Always Arrives With Orphans

By DON STOWELL
Davidsonian Feature Writer

“We want to share with you some of the good things of this Christmas season,” said Richard Brubaker, as he
welcomed the bright-eyed bundled-up children from the Barium Springs Children’s Home to their annual Christmas party. Shyly and quietly they
shuffled into the Union Ballroom, where they were entertained by a jazz combo composed of Tommy Colvin, Dave Hall, Larry
Baggett, and Tenny Deane. The group played “Mickey Mouse,” “Tenderly,” and “Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer,” which was joined in by
the still timid youngsters and led by comic Colvin. John Starling, Hub Knox, Pete Wyrick, and Doug Orr provided some
guitar music and singing. By this time the children had begun to be their glistening selves again.

The lively youngsters were hustled through the snow to the festively decorated fraternity houses by nearby brothers. At the houses
the tasty holiday fare disappeared so quickly that one wondered how so small a child could hold so much food.
Instead of lethargizing them, the food seemed to energize them to even greater heights of boisterousness. Hula hoop contests, bingo,
and many other games were designed to keep them happy and quiet. However, they seldom were as enthusiastic about playing
these games as some of the brothers were. The occasional “Why are we playing these stupid games? I want my
present!” was easily ignored.

Main event of the evening was, of course, the arrival of Santa Claus. His bounding into the room was often
accompanied by a whistled version of “Jingle Bells,” to which Santa remarked, “No whistling. Ha! Ho!” One fraternity encouraged Santa
to get into a hula hoop; however, his padding prevented him from doing more than one wiggle before it fell
down around his shiny black boots. His arrival was met by flushed faces and wide eyes.

The leash breaks tomorrow, and eight-hundred and fifty or more students head for home and Christmas vacation. The remainder of
the previous week's snow gave Christmas decorators an easy job of it as fraternity houses sported wreaths, brightly lighted Christmas
trees, and all of the usual holly, mistletoe, and other traditional decorations.

Actually, many students left campus earlier this week, beginning Christmas jobs. Special faculty cut dispensations allow single cuts for job
seekers.

PARTY FOR ORPHANS

The annual Barium Springs Party was given Monday night by the IFC with the cooperation of the twelve social fraternities.
Santa Claus, in the person of football captain Dave Warden, was the central attraction of the evening.

Wednesday night the Slater System treated freshmen and faculty to a specially prepared dinner complete with turkey and all the
trimmings.

SPECIAL VESPERS

The Male Chorus, Chapel Choir, and...= other Davidson

The group of college students will sail from Montreal on June 16 on the “Empress of Britain” and will return
to Montreal on August 7. Eight countries in addition to Canada will be visited by the tour which is under
the management of Brownell Tours, the oldest and largest private tour company in the United States. Five Davidson students were
among the representatives of sixteen colleges and universities comprising the 1958 group. They were Jim Hamilton, Craig Ray, Billy Stanton,
David Robinson, and Dabney Stuart.

Musical organizations began a week of Yuletide observance through music with the annual Christmas Vesper Sunday night. Residents of the
town of Davidson were welcomed guests for this special service in observance of the “beauty of Christmas through music.”

Today's Chapel was cancelled by the Religious Life Committee at the request of College Chaplain George Staples and Student Body
President John Kuykendall. Students' requests or pressure played no part in the cancellation, as was inadvertently implied in last week's
announcement in this paper.

Further information about the tour can be secured from the College Union or by writing to Dr. Wade H. Boggs,
3400 Brook Road, Richmond 27, Va.

DAVIDSONIAN INTERVIEW

“It’s going to be tougher and tougher to compete in the Southern Conference.” Thus Head Football Coach Bill Dole summed
up Davidson's athletic future in a DAVIDSONIAN interview this week. By way of explaining his statement, Dole pointed out that
he will have only eight full scholarships to offer incoming freshmen. Other Conference schools will give as many as thirty
grants to new men.

Coach Dole Bemoans Recruiting Problems

Dole hastened to add that the ideal condition necessary for the success of such a program did not exist at
Davidson, chiefly because of the lack of natural rivals who would agree to compete on a no-scholarship basis. Davidson enjoys
already many of the benefits of an amateur program. There is almost no alumni pressure to win purely for the
sake of winning, and our football players receive no special academic favors.

Davidson's football problem is further complicated, he said, by the high standards demanded by the admissions committee. By way of
illustration, he cited three high school football players who could “get into Davidson.” He continued, “when I find a boy
who can make it, I have to really fight for him if we are going to have any kind of
team at all.”

This week’s interview was triggered by campus discussion of Davidson’s athletic policy rising from the publication in last week’s DAVIDSONIAN
of a letter highly critical of the entire athletic scholarship program. The man who has the Wildcats out of the
athletic doldrums points with pride and substantial statistics to the record made by his athletes on campus. “Almost to a
man,” he says, “they prove themselves to be above average students who make a genuine contribution to the life of
Davidson. I am sure that when they graduate they will make just as important contributions to their communities.”

Members of the DAVIDSONIAN staff asked Dole if, under ideal conditions, he would favor an “amateur athletic program.” After a
moment’s hesitation, he answered that he would, but he admitted the seeming inequity of such a system. He concluded that
if Davidson was to continue as a member of the Southern Conference and meet present competition without embarrassment, such an
inequity would have to exist.

Coach Dole feels strongly that the Davidson program should and will continue about as it is. “I know that there
are enough men on the Board of Trustees who want a reasonable athletic program at Davidson to continue the present
policy.”

By way of defending the present subsidization program, he stated, speaking seriously and carefully, that “the ultimate success of our
athletic system is not measured in the elation of victory or the defection of defeat, but in the number of
boys who come to Davidson through athletic grants, who might not have been able to have come otherwise, and return
to their communities prepared for a life of fruitful citizenship. When it’s all added up, this is what will really
count.”

In summing up his position, Dole again stated that he “believed in athletic scholarships,” and felt that “a sane, well-run
program had an important contribution to make to the morale of Davidson College.”

French Club Holds Christmas Function

Le Cercle Francais held its annual Christmas meeting at the home of Dr. and Mrs. G. B. Watts, co-sponsors of
the program, along with Dr. and Mrs. W. V. Goldiere. Conducted in French, the program opened with a reading by
Frank Holt of the Christmas story as found in Luke. George Reeves sang the canticle “O Holy Night,” and Warren
Wamble read a short story, “La Chapelle Blanche.” Pierre Wyss-Chodat then spoke on Christmas customs in Switzerland.

For the last part of the program, a brass ensemble and chorus, composed of members of the club, presented several
Christmas pieces, and all the members joined in the singing of carols. Refreshments consisting of punch, popcorn, cakes, and sandwiches
were served by Mrs. Watts and Mrs. Goldiere.

New members recently taken into the French honorary fraternity are J. C. Bootle, W. A. Brenner, D. R. Byrd, E.
J. Jacques, R. M. Lilly, R. L. Moore, J. C. Ratchford, G. L. Reeves, J. A. Ricks, D. B. Saunders,
R. R. Turner, C. G. Smith, F. L. Nye, W. S. Chichester, Hermann Laimer, and Pierre Wyss-Chodat.
