Che Davidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 1958.

(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

Dr. Davidson's Speech Warns Against Loosing

Dr. Chalmers Davidson's speech in chapel Tuesday morning got straight to the point on this matter of increasing the size
of the Davidson student body. A summary is on page one of this paper. But aside from what he said,
it is significant that he said it. Too often, faculty members and students are afraid to “stick their neck out”
on any important, controversial subject. Dr. Davidson's speech was not only a boost in awakening the student body to the
advantages of a small student body, but it was also a healthy step toward getting the college leaders to assert
their personal opinion in public for all to hear.

We have been particularly gratified, moreover, at the bold way in which Dr. Pietenpol and Mr. Martin have made it
clear that they favor keeping Davidson at its present size—and without any “ifs.” These two college leaders, and now Dr.
Davidson, have gone on record in favor of keeping Davidson a small college in the range of 850 students. They
are against increasing the enrollment as a matter of principle. Of course, if increased enrollment must come, then let it
be accompanied by a relative increase in the student-faculty ratio, books in the library, endowment, and all other factors on
which colleges are judged. But the important thing to note is that there are important men, high in administrative and
faculty circles, who favor no further increase in the number of students regardless of any increased resources. These people, and
the DAVIDSONIAN too, favor keeping our present enrollment level. At the same time we want to increase the faculty-student ratio,
the endowment, and other facilities. We favor consolidating the intangible benefits of a small liberal arts college by seeking higher
standards and increased financial support rather than seeking more students.

Dr. Davidson's speech was a welcomed change from the usual platitudes of chapel speeches that are designed to hurt no
one’s feelings. The benefits of Davidson College and her way of life are too valuable to be considered lightly. The
Trustees who are responsible for the decision to increase the enrollment should reconsider their action of two years ago. Davidson
has a good thing. We hope it won't be thrown to the wind.

Crisis In The North

Knifings, assaults, hoodlumism, rape, and suicide are just some of the words that describe recent violence in the schools of
the city of New York. Even though the facts that slip through the “Paper Curtain” from the north in the
daily newspapers are carefully worded, there seems no way to cover up the ugly scars that New York incorrigibles are
making on the city’s public school system. Despite the fact that our local paper often buries such items on the
inside pages, most southern papers, as well as The Wall Street Journal, U. S. News and World Report, and The
Christian Science Monitor have given these stories the full airing that they deserve.

People in the south will not soon forget that only five months ago crack Army troops were flown into the
capital of Arkansas to enforce at the point of bayonets the enrollment of nine Negro students. Today, and three million
taxpayers’ dollars later, guards still patrol Central High School. The core of the trouble in Little Rock and in New
York City is the same: forced mixing of the races in the public schools. But here all similarity ends. While
the problems in the two cities are the same, the methods used to bring peace and quiet are vastly different.
Indeed, while the occupation troops keep peace at Little Rock, violence continues in New York. Because of this, many southerners
are confused as to why Gotham does not receive the same treatment as did Arkansas. To this question, Senator Herman
E. Talmadge of Georgia said last week: “The people of Georgia are deeply sympathetic with the citizens of Brooklyn... It
has been suggested that the President of the United States send federal troops to Brooklyn... in the same manner that
he did to force a new social order upon the public schools of Little Rock, Ark. The people of Georgia
reject such unconstitutional interference in purely local affairs as a solution to any problem...”

No doubt Senator Talmadge was hardly surprised at seeing the tables turned. It is still important, however, that we note
that troubles arising from mixing is not exclusively southern. In fact, the figures will prove that more racial violence and
tension exist in the North than in any other section. Nevertheless, the northern press continues to throw moralistic stones at
the south. Perhaps they would better spend their time cleaning their own back yard. From here, it seems as though
there is enough violence and trouble in the nine hundred and forty-two New York schools to keep the entire police
force busy. And if they ever calm down matters within the school buildings, then there is plenty of work for
them to do on the outside where the six hundred and forty suspended incorrigibles stalk the streets.

An Editorial By Samuel Johnson

In the bottle discontent seeks for comfort, cowardice for courage and shyness for confidence. To this, Walter Winchell has added:
‘Likker, however, always gives false promises. It gives neither comfort, nor courage and confidence. It gives hangovers, mental deterioration and
physical disability. Therefore, if you want a drink, take one. If you need a drink, you're sick!”

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
John Trask, Jr.

BUSINESS MANAGER
Pat Henderson

ASSISTANT EDITOR
Gerald Wilson

Associate Editor
Julian Aldridge

Managing Editors
Bruce Brooks, Bob Lathan

Sports Editor
George Ramsey

Assignments Editor
Bill Patton

Feature Editor
Jim Morris

Cartoonists
Bross, Cole

Photographer
Ed Stevens

Advertising Manager
Henry Samuels

Circulation Manager
Lee Mayfield

Copy Editor
Laurens Walker

News Editor
Grier Davis

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1878.

Intangibles

By GRIER DAVIS

As a war-scarred veteran of ten consecutive dance weekends, I have been asked to make a few pertinent observations about
this great tradition. Having reluctantly agreed to do this hack work for the newspaper, I nevertheless felt the necessity of
making certain sacrifices for the arts, however low this particular art might be. Therefore, I have foregone the opportunity of
dating in order that I might treat this subject with a greater degree of detachment.

Davidson College is located conveniently distant from all points of interest, that is to say, safely distant from all the
good things little girls are made for—ah, I mean, made of. This has always been a bone of contention with
the Davidson student body. Consequently, three times a year, the Davidson Gentleman condescends to reveal his true inner radiance, thus
producing a mass migration to the center of this gracious warmth, Davidson College.

I think that it may be of educational value, both for the freshmen and for the newer migrants, to point
out some of the varieties of those fine feathered friends who visit our campus tri-annually. The White-crested Kingfisher is normally
found closest to Davidson, for the Queen must catch a King. It is interesting to note that this bird is
considered particularly sacred to Southern Presbyterian Sunday School teachers. The Cool Catbird is famous for its fantastic mating dance, and
it makes its summer habitat near the beaches. The Peacock, though somewhat aloof from human contact, is justifiably famous for
its tail feathers. The Ruby-breasted Goldfinch is similarly proud of its rich plumage, whereby it is able to travel long
distances on many such migrations. It can be distinguished by its cry, “me, me, me, me.” Though this bird appears
to be very distant when in flight, it can be induced to come down to earth. The Large-breasted Loon is
easily identified by its protruding frontal feathers, but it is not noted for its mentality. The Bleary-eyed Swallow is a
night bird, existing almost entirely on liquids, and unable physically to face the light of day. The Black Bat, regardless
of its characteristic blindness, is often seen on the campus. It is not actually a bird but a mammal; and,
although it can be metamorphosed into a dark horse, it usually turns out to be just a plain horse. The
Lap-winged Bluebird is so colored because it is unable to fly and cannot migrate here with the others. The Fork-tailed
Flicker is notorious for its unpredictable course of flight. It may actually be seen mating with several different species during
the night; and, in the day, it is usually accompanied by a Cuckoo. The Morning Dove can usually be found
around the golf course in the early morning. It prefers to build a nest of blanket-like down, and its cry
is an indistinguishable cooing sound. The Horned Swift is seldom seen except coming to and going from the campus. Its
chief habitat is the woods, and it is easily recognizable by its tufted horns which seem to vacillate in size.

It is my hope that this cate...

Sign here for those blind dates you wanted pal.

LETTER TO THE EDITOREDITOR. NEW EXAM SCHEDULE PROPOSED

Dear Editor:

While exams are still fresh in our minds, I feel a criticism of the exam schedule is in order. There
seem to be two main weaknesses in the system: one—a student may have three exams in a row which due
to conflicts can’t be changed and too many students have two exams on the first day of the testing period.

FATIGUE

The first situation hinders preparation, and also causes fatigue which inhibits the mind from functioning clearly. Also, there is a
definite pressure element. A student with the above situation is allowed to put his middle one off until spring holidays,
but this seems unsatisfactory since the first semester material is then no longer familiar, and since it also entails the
professor’s making out a new exam.

FREE PERIOD

I suggest, therefore, that a student be allowed to take his middle exam during a free period during exam week
at a time approved by the professor. The second situation is understandable since, with last minute reviews, term papers, and
so forth, students, particularly freshmen, cannot adequately prepare for two exams on the first day. Since there are free periods
during the exam week, it seems as if only one exam should be scheduled on the first day.

FEWER DAYS?

There has been talk of condensing the present exam period into a fewer number of days. I feel, however, that
the eight-day period is necessary for the students to do their best work, providing the above changes are made.

Jim Hamilton

YALE RECORD AWARD

Peanuts Tops Again

The Yale Record, dean of the country’s college humor magazines, has announced that its 1958 annual award for “Humorist of
the Year” will be bestowed on cartoonist Charles M. Schulz, creator of the inimitable newspaper comic feature “Peanuts,” which appears
every week in the DAVIDSONIAN.

UNANIMOUS VOTE

Courtlandt D. B. Bryan, chairman of the Yale Record, said that Mr. Schulz was selected for the honor by a
unanimous vote of the 36 members of the combined Editorial, Art, and Business Boards of the magazine. Formal presentation of
the Humor Award will be made to Mr. Schulz at the annual Record banquet, to be held in New Haven,
Conn., on Wednesday, February 19.

This isn't the first honor that his laughable “Peanuts” have won for Charles M. Schulz. In 1956, the National Cartoonist
Society named him “Cartoonist of the Year.” Last September, original drawings of the newspaper cartoons were the subject of a
“one-man” art exhibit at the Rhode Island School of Design, in Providence, R.I., and similar exhibitions have since been held
in Pittsburgh, Pa., Des Moines, Iowa, and other cities.

CONGRATULATIONS

We extend congratulations, not only to Mr. Schulz for this latest recognition of his work, but also to the editors
of the Yale Record, for the excellence of their judgment. And we can't help wondering what good ol’ Charlie Brown
and little Linus would say if they knew they'd been rated tops by such discriminating judges as real college men!

ON CAMPUS

By CHARLES HELMS

Piggy In Poke

Re. Tuesday’s chapel talk: Dr. Chalmers Davidson was very kind to us in his remarks about enrollment, spiritual awareness, good
manners, etc. of D.C. students. When questioned later, he admitted that as a matter of fact it was a case
of having good manners individually and terrible manners collectively (this is probably still charitable, but certainly somewhat more realistic). Perhaps
some of our chapel speakers would agree with this latter. Who can ever forget the freshman holding a newspaper in
front of his face and rattling it noisily?

The witty professor quoted some Scripture concerning his talk in chapel: “If there be any virtue, if there be any
praise in them, think on these things.”—and further suggested that we not stop at thinking but that furthermore we let
the trustees know how the student body feels. Dr. Davidson simply expressed “what oft was thought, but ne'er so well
expressed.”

The progressive nature of our sister educational institution (?) is amazing; the administration has forbidden the students to see the
performance of “Damn Yankees” in Charlotte. Charley Lampley ran right smack into this mid-Victorian wet blanket recently. On the night
that he pinned his girl (Piggy) at Queens, she came in 2 minutes late. This resulted in her being campused
over the February 14-16 weekend (which everyone knows is Mid-Winters at Davidson). But scrappy little Charley didn’t take this lying
down; he organized a petition with over 250 names on it including such notables as Ross Smyth, John Trask, Coach
Parker, and Mrs. Moore. Good luck, Charley.

In the Homecoming issue of the DAVIDSONIAN, Bob Lathan wrote satirically of dance weekends; an extremely blasé anonymous senior expressed
a highly cynical view of the troublesome affairs; and the gist of Bob Jones’ column was that “women are no
damn good.” Obviously, our lack of sophistication is showing, but we look forward to dance weekend, we like girls, and
we have a good date for Mid-Winters.

COFFEE BREAK

Student, Faculty Creativity Urged

By JOHN BERNHARDT

To paraphrase Mark Twain's comment on his old man, “When I was a sophomore, I thought the school didn’t know
what it was doing, but now that I'm a senior, I'm amazed at how much it’s learned in two years.”
In fact, I'm amazed at what it’s learned in one month, for since my last article ("Mired in the Past"),
every one of my specific illustrations has been corrected or shown to be mistaken. That is excellent, for the willingness
of a school to change to meet the needs of the students is something of a measure of its alertness
and quality.

“SO LITTLE”

This still leaves the general problem, however, unsettled. Why does so little thought frequently go into the four years of
education a student meets here? How can he be “educated” in a subject if he isn't acquainted with what people
are thinking about that subject today? Furthering knowledge is not usually the aim of the student, but it should certainly
be the aim of the educator. The only way to further it as well as merely passing it on is
investigation and research, and in the process of active investigation both the professor and, eventually, his students become more interested
in their subject. Creativity and original investigation make for sharper thinking.

FACULTY RESEARCH

Also, schools are judged, in academic circles at least, by the work they turn out as well as the graduates,
and books and papers published by the faculty show this original work. Research by the faculty is necessary for a
full education. Not being an irredeemable utopian, I will add that conditions here are not the best for research. Professors
are working hard as it is, and we students aren't doing much to encourage their interest. The student-faculty ratio is
10:1, which the trustees should consider before demanding further increases in enrollment. Although the figure is not at the danger
point, it is certainly high enough to seriously damage both the caliber and the quality of teaching and research.

GRANTS

The load might be eased by having large lecture classes for subjects which are mainly lecture, with breakdown into small
discussion groups to provide needed explanations and discussions. Perhaps student help might be enlisted in checking papers, with the professor
giving the grades. Research grants for the school or the individual professor should be sought out and encouraged, with shifts
in the teaching load to assist. If the school has any surplus after building, it might sponsor some investigation itself.

For students, the emphasis might be shifted from memorizing facts and theories from notes for the sake of a grade,
to being curious and looking up the answers. As long as investigation is a goal of education, and as long
as students will work only for a grade, more emphasis might be placed on extra work in the library for
extra credit. Extra credit for extra work should be both fair and stimulating.

ORIGINAL THINKING

Another technique is the use of “thought questions” on all tests. The questions requiring original thinking should not be graded
too heavily, for the sake of those who depend on memorizing, but they should gradually make the students think as
well as memorize, if they are to be educated.

With an increased emphasis on creativity, originality, and investigation, clear thinking and active interest should improve the standard of the
school. The work need not be harder, but through this change in emphasis the understanding and the interest should actually
decrease the amount of drudgery for the students.
