7 Che Davidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 1958

(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

Candidates Should State Views Publicly Before Election

Each election awakens the perennial problems of “campaigning.” This question was brought to focus last year by the so-called “Peden
Amendment.” This amendment, which would have allowed for limited campaigning, was decisively defeated by the student body. We voted against
this amendment then, and we would vote against it now. But this is not to overlook some of the vital
problems that the amendment sought to solve. Primarily, it was aimed at the fact that too often elections for important
offices turn out to be nothing more than popularity contests. Every student certainly has the right to know what the
candidates for the top student body offices stand for. And conversely, every candidate has the right, indeed the obligation, to
let the voters know how he feels about important issues.

The Davidsonian proposes a three-point program which would include the desirable features of “campaigning” and at the same time eliminate
the undesirable elements. First, we would urge the continuance of the five-minute chapel talks by the finalists in the elections
for Student Body President and YMCA President. Secondly, we feel that a series of open forums should be held in
the Union Ballroom in which each of the three finalists in the Presidential race, candidates for YMCA President, and candidates
for editor of the Davidsonian would state their views with a question and answer session following. Thirdly, each of the
candidates for the above offices would be interviewed by the Davidsonian. In each case, the candidates would be asked the
same questions and their answers would be published in their entirety. This three-fold plan would give the Student Body a
working knowledge of each of the candidates’ viewpoints, and yet eliminate the poster-making, hand-shaking techniques which are alien to the
fundamental traditions of the College.—G.L.W.

No Vesper Collection

The Sunday night Vesper offering has always been a source of play for some students. Historically, as long as most
Davidsonians can recall, the offering has come in for some pretty rough treatment. Abuses range from the depositing of IOU
notes, to the game of seeing how many rows the plate will pass upside down. In addition to the abuses,
there are two other reasons why the Vesper offering is taken lightly. First, many students give a lump sum at
the beginning of each school year when they join the YMCA. This money is in lieu of weekly giving at
Vespers. Secondly, and more importantly, a large number of students have already given to the church during the day, either
at Sunday School or at the morning Church service. Is it necessary, therefore, that the plate be passed at every
gathering? We think not, and hope that the YMCA will consider doing away with a formal offering as part of
the Vesper service. We do feel, however, that students who want to should be given an opportunity to give on
Sunday night. This could be arranged by having a particular designated place in the Church vestibule where voluntary offerings could
be left.

Wise Decision

The College Trustees made a wise decision this week when they voted to raise the salaries of the professors. In
a practical sense, it was the only logical action to take. While Davidson College offers intangible benefits that most other
colleges do not, professors, like all other people, can't live on purely psychic income. And we imagine that their wives
and children want all the things that other salaried people’s families want. So for the sake of its own protection,
the college had to raise the salaries. It is worth noting, however, that fortunately these new increases will be given
on a merit basis. Now it must be pointed out that increasing faculty salaries is just one side of the
picture. To the faculty member, “the trustees raised my salary.” But to the student, “the Trustees raised my tuition.” The
absence of any widespread reaction to the tuition raise shows that the students not only support the move, but also
realize that in the long run they too are benefiting. Tuesday's Chapel program, moreover, in which Dr. McGavock and Phil
Lewis explained the need for the increase did much to gain student support. A high calibre faculty is just as
important as new buildings, and a high calibre faculty is usually found where the salary is above the subsistence level.
The DAVIDSONIAN supports the Trustees’ action and looks forward to the day when Davidson’s faculty members are among the highest
paid in the South.

Language Lab

Wednesday's dedication of the Jervey Language Lab was entirely fitting and proper. The dedication not only emphasized the memory of
an outstanding alumnus, but it also showed that Davidson College is leading the way in a new field—required labs for
language students. This pioneering spirit, as exemplified by the language department, is a standard by which other departments may follow.
It is so easy to accept the traditional way and the established curriculum. Professor Pedro Trakas and the other members
of the language department are to be congratulated on the new conception of language teaching that they have brought to
Davidson. Davidson College needs a more dynamic curriculum, and this is just one example of how the college is moving
toward the goal of being undisputedly the best liberal arts college in the country. And by the way, let’s add
the word small (i.e. little)—less than a thousand.

Puddles

Although it's been hard to find the walks with the snow covering everything, we do want to mention the fact
that after heavy rains the campus walks have in many places been rendered useless because of the large puddles that
collect on them. Particularly in front of the College Church and on the walk from Watts Dorm to the Union,
the lack of proper drainage and low spots on the walks make it necessary for students to blaze new trails
through the mud—areas normally reserved for grass. After the next big rain, it would be a good idea for the
grounds personnel to mark the places where drainage is bad and to improve the walks in these areas.

John Trask, Jr. Pat Henderson Gerald Wilson Julian Aldridge

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF BUSINESS MANAGER ASSISTANT EDITOR Associate Editor

John Johnson Managing Editors Bob Lathan Laurens Walker Sports Editor George Ramsey Assignments Editor Bill Patton Feature Editor Jim Morris
News Editor Bruce Brooks Cartoonists Bross, Cole Photographer Ed Stevens Advertising Manager Henry Samuels Circulation Manager Lee Mayfield Copy Editor

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

REDUCTION RECOMMENDED

Board Of Trustees Too Big To Be Efficient

By CHAS. CHASTAIN

The Davidson catalogue states that “the governing body of Davidson College is a Board of Trustees elected by the Presbyteries
of the Synods of North Carolina and Florida, by Asheville Presbytery of Appalachian Synod, and by the Alumni Association. The
Presbytery of Concord is entitled to elect eight, Mecklenburg five, Orange and Fayetteville four each, the other six Presbyteries in
North Carolina and the five Presbyteries in Florida two each, and the Alumni Association twelve, making a total of fifty-five.”
This is a brief but complete statement of what is perhaps the principal administrative problem with which Davidson is now
confronted.

Trustees Arrive.

The existence of this problem has been recognized for some time now—not only by students, members of the faculty and
the administration, and perhaps even a few members of the Board itself, but also by the North Carolina Synod’s Committee
on Higher Education, which two years ago, in a general survey of Presbyterian colleges, investigated the system by which Davidson
is governed and in its report recommended that the Davidson Board of Trustees be reduced considerably from its present size.
This proposal was rejected by the Board, which, after seriously entertaining a motion that its membership be increased by the
addition of new alumni representatives, decided to preserve the status quo.

The oddity of Davidson's situation is immediately apparent when it is compared with that of other private liberal arts colleges.
The typical Board of Trustees of institutions of this sort is often as low as fifteen members and rarely more
than thirty; this is from about one half to a little more than one-fourth the size of the Davidson Board.
The present Davidson Board of Trustees is thus obviously oversized in comparison to other colleges of its type. That this
constitutes an obstacle to efficient administration and farsighted, constructive policymaking is apparent when one considers the consequences of maintaining such
a mammoth organization.

By Bross

Britain Seeks New Markets

Ed Note: The following is the last in a series of three articles by Spencer Mitchem on the state of
the British Economy. This paper was originally prepared for the International Relations Club.

By SPENCER MITCHEM

After many years the governments of the free countries of Western Europe are making an effort to unite economically. Several
of these countries have proposed a Common Market whose objectis to remove steadily the protective duties.

Trustees Approve Higher Salaries

Davidson faculty members will receive a substantial pay increase under a new salary scale approved Wednesday by the Board of
Trustees of Davidson and announced by Acting President C. J. Pietenpol. The increase, in annual compensation and benefits, which will
affect members of the faculty, administration, and staff will total $87,000. Not only will the salaries be boosted by $39,000,
but various additional benefits will also be supplemented. A revised insurance program for employees of the college will require an
additional $4,500, and $9,500 will go into an additional supplementary retirement fund for non-academic employees of the college.

The $87,000 addition to the college budget to finance the program will be made possible by an increase in tuition
fees from $600 to $700 which was also approved by the Trustees at their semi-annual meeting Wednesday. This increase will
not affect students with limited finances now in residence at the college since $24,000 annually will be added to the
student grant-in-aid program, to provide more than $150,000 for this purpose each year.

Changes in salary ranges for the various faculty ranks will be as follows:

Previous Range | New Range
--- | ---
Professors | $5500-$8000 | $6250-$8250
Associate Professors | $4500-$6500 | $6000-$7200
Assistant Professors | $3500-$5500 | $4750-$6000
Instructors | $3000-$4500 | $4500-$5200

PEANUTS

PENN

and restrictions which hamper the free flow of commerce between these countries.

FREE TRADE

Britain, however, is more in favor of an Industrial Free Trade Area than a Common Market because she obtains most
of her foodstuffs from her Commonwealth nations. Prime Minister MacMillan proposes that the restrictions, tariffs, and duties of each country
which hamper free trade, be removed from industrial goods so they may be freely traded.

NOT EASY

The achievement of these aims is no easy matter, because in Britain herself there is considerable opposition to the Industrial
Free Trade Area. In many Britons, there is an inherent distrust of a close relationship with the continental peoples. The
British trade unions are afraid of goods produced by the cheaper Italian and French labor. And the manufacturers are worried
about the steadily rising competition from West German industry.

WORRIED

The British Conservative party is considerably worried because recent socialist victories in by-elections have shown a definite trend in British
politics. If the British economic condition does not improve in the next two years it seems very likely that the
socialists will be returned to power by the national elections.

CONTRADICTION

It is certainly a contradiction to loan (give) Britain millions of dollars to strengthen her economy, then place such high
tariffs on her goods that she cannot trade with us and thereby weaken her economy.

The organization (which, indeed, is almost as large as the faculty itself). The members of the Board nicely fill up
the platform of the auditorium in Chambers, but can such a crowd of them efficiently govern Davidson?

SHEER BULK

The sheer bulk of the Board of Trustees makes it impossible for it to meet regularly more than twice a
year, and in the intervals between these semi-annual gatherings the current affairs of the college are managed by the Executive
Committee, a fifteen-man body elected annually by the Board. As the college catalogue candidly puts it, the Executive Committee “exercises
practically all the power of the Trustees during the intervals between the meetings of that body.” This means that for
six-month-long stretches there is, practically speaking, a Board-within-the-Board which wields effective power over current affairs of the college. Such a
situation is necessitated by the awkward size of the Board of Trustees, for it is difficult and costly to assemble
so many men more than once or twice a year. Furthermore, the infrequency of meetings and the great number of
the Trustees tends to restrict the exchange of ideas and opinions among members of the Board to the brief yearly
sessions, to make it more possible for certain members to become inactive timeservers and lose contact with the college, and
to force the making of important decisions into a few brief hours (or, what is even worse, to postpone them
for another six months). The Executive Committee, although it functions most of the time in place of the Board, is
impeded in performing its task by the necessity of getting final decisions on current business (often long after it is
correct) from the full Board. It is obvious, then, that the membership of the Board of Trustees should be drastically
cut, at least by one-half and preferably even more, down to the size of the body which at present has
proved to be the most practical type of agency for running the college: the Executive Committee. This would, of course,
necessitate a great reduction in Presbytery representatives—it might even be better to elect Trustees only at the Synod level—and many
village churches in North Carolina and Florida would have to forego having their ministers as Honored and Exalted Members of
the Davidson College Board of Trustees, but I think that the quicker and yet more well-considered decisions and the more
efficient management that would result would make such a change worthwhile.

ON CAMPUS

A Gentleman Stops

BY CHARLES HELMS

We have pretty much recovered from the post-dance weekend gloom, but one quip lingers in our mind; snapped one date
upon leaving the campus after the weekend: “A Davidson man is a gentleman from the word ‘stop’.” But another girl
said something about the weekend snow being very symbolic.

In his editorial “Crisis in the North” (juvenile delinquency in New York high schools) John Trask has prejudiced the issue
with a distortion of facts. The editor asked why the U. S. government has not used federal troops to enforce
order in New York as in Little Rock, inasmuch as racial tensions are at the heart of both situations. First,
contrary to his assumption, there is no substantial evidence that “forced mixing of the races" is “the core of the
trouble.” In point of fact, no one who is thoroughly acquainted with the problem and has no axe to grind
thinks this. Joseph C. Noethen, assistant superintendent of schools said:

COFFEE BREAK

Boys Become Older Boys

“Our trouble is not race against race: It’s ‘have-nots’ against ‘haves.’ Race is only incidental.” The explanation that most school
officials give to the fact that much of the trouble comes from areas where mixing is high is an economic
one (crowded living conditions, little education, low income). Trask’s editorial ignores the fact that much of the violence is among
whites with no Negroes or Puerto Ricans involved.

Second, New York has always been known as a mixing-pot: mixing of the races is not exactly brand new as
it is in the South. Third, the intervention by the U. S. government in Little Rock to protect social order
involved the execution of a federal court order—which was not the case in New York.

A good suggestion has been made recently for next year’s YMCA gift fund: buy Dewitt Roper a new jacket; the
old one has seen better days. One senior announced that he was giving up chapel for Lent.

By BOB JONES

The Davidson scene this week has been marked by recuperation from various kinds of snow furnished by the dance weekend.
In addition, the language laboratory (with much fervor and inspiration) was movingly dedicated to the greater service of God and
numerous other things. Finally, of course, the worthy Board of Trustees saw fit to gather for profound deliberations concerning the
future of this noble (“a safe place to send your son”) institution. Such, at any rate, were the high marks
at this small, Presbyterian men's liberal arts college. On this particular score, a reminiscence of the past efforts of this
column will serve to show there are doubts if the curriculum merits for the college the name “liberal arts.” Of
course, no one will dispute the term “men,” but the term “small” is taking a heavy beating from the intentions
of the Board of Trustees. Perhaps it is time to complete the triad and maintain that Davidson is not Presbyterian.
A numerical survey would indicate otherwise, but a survey of the character of the school finds almost a total lack
of sound Presbyterianism. Very seldom indeed do we find vigorous protests at procrastination, or staunch self-discipline so as to use
talents wisely, or religious virtues and values dominating our individual decisions. One would be hard-pressed to find any significant differences
between the social class from which the student body is drawn and the students themselves. Presbyterian virtues are no more
operative in the lives of Davidson students than in the society which they mirror. In fact, we have well exemplified
on the campus the recent sociological conclusions of Riesman and Whyte, and even the effect of the “hooks” Vance Packard
describes. With this view, we can smilingly acknowledge that dance weekends, and sacrosanct laboratory dedications, and blissful boards of trustees,
and all that seems so ironic to names are all but parts of insurgent sociological phenomena. Despite what we may
wish to believe, Davidson, in all her glory, isn't making any difference.
