PAGE FOUR

A large percentage of such classes are lecture courses in which there is little or no active student participation. But there are also a good many that do not fall in this category. Of the 210 classes this year, 5% of them have an enrollment of forty or more, with one of these in excess of ninety students. Eighty-nine percent have an enrollment of thirty or less; 58% are under twenty; and 26% of them are under ten. In this type of breakdown, last year’s classes are almost identical with the present situation. The difference lies in the fact that many of the 1958-'59 classes have a few more students per individual class. Another difference is that this year, four classes have an enrollment of from

Mr. Michael Stephanos, right, manager of the college cafeteria and representative of Slater Food Service, is shown talking to Paul Barbee, left.

Stephanos Explains Slater Food System
By DICK SMITH
Davidsonian Managing Editor

“Slater Food Service is the largest catering organization in the world,” said Mr. Michael Stephanos in a DAVIDSONIAN interview early this week. Mr. Stephanos is the company’s representative and manager of the cafeteria. He added, “We have things like hospitals, restaurants, and the like all over the United States.” Mr. Stephanos stated that he started his catering career at Danville Memorial Hospital in Virginia. He spent some time in Farmville, Virginia, training as a school manager, was first assigned to Hampden-Sydney College, then to Davidson. He has been with the Slater Company for two years.

When asked about the history of the company, he replied, “Slater Food Service was established in 1926. John Slater was a college student before then and had been disappointed by the food quality at his college cafeteria. He formed his own service and established the company a few years later in 1926. The home office is in Philadelphia.”

Further Questions:
Mr. Stephanos, do you plan your own menus?
A. We do. A copy of the menu is sent to the chief dietitian in Philadelphia, and it is checked for the proper amounts of certain required foods.

Q. What arrangements does Slater have with the college?
A. We contract to provide food of our standard. The students working here in the cafeteria are employed by the Slater Food Service, and we try to employ as many as possible.

FACILITIES INADEQUATE
Q. Do you think that the Union cafeteria is adequate?
A. I'm afraid that it is very inadequate. With facilities to seat only half of those eating here, we are bound to run into some difficulties. I really don't know why the cafeteria was ever taken out of Chambers Building. There is much more room there, and the kitchen over there could easily be put into good shape.

Q. Does Slater Food Service own the equipment here in the Union?
A. No. We use the facilities already here; we just operate it. Slater does replace broken china and glasses, however. Mr. Stephanos added that “anytime anyone has any gripes or suggestions, I would be very happy to talk with him about them.”

"Man Must Have A Purpose" - Graham
Man must have a purpose in life, one to which he is dedicated completely. Otherwise, his life will never find meaning or fulfillment. “Why not let that purpose be Jesus Christ?” In Chapel, Wednesday morning, Dr. Billy Graham put this question to the Davidson student body. Dr. Graham told the student body that by conversion he means a spiritual and moral change attending a change of belief with conviction. He warned the students that Russian youth are passing through a conversion, which is bringing about a dedication among them, a dedication to the purpose of establishing a new world without the Kingdom of God as its foundation. He asked the student body how it thought America could hope to compete.

Faculty High School Visitation Extended
The visitation of high schools and of individual students interested in Davidson by Davidson College faculty members will be extended this year to even greater areas. This program of recruiting will be headed by Assistant Dean of Students H. Edmunds White. Assisting Dean White this year will be Dr. George Staples, Mr. C. Shaw Smith, and about twenty members of the faculty.

Trips to the College Day meetings in the high schools of North and South Carolina will be continued as in past years; however, the number and scope of the outer state visits have been greatly increased. Outer state recruiting trips this year will include: a three-day trip in the Washington area; a two-day recruiting trip in the New York City area; a five-day tour through Georgia and Tennessee; and a recruiting trip of a week in Florida. In addition, Dean White hopes that it will be possible to develop a tour from Birmingham to New Orleans, and also a tour of the Cincinnati-Louisville area. A trip to the Virginia schools in the Norfolk-Richmond area has been discontinued because of the closing of the schools in that area.

In the local areas, the trips include visits to the schools, visitation with the individual students who are interested in Davidson, and visits in particular with the Guidance Counselors of the various high schools. The purpose of these trips is to acquaint the public as a whole with Davidson College and to meet with high school students who are interested in attending Davidson.

Homecoming (Continued From Page 1)
...ed in attending the special Homecoming Luncheon on the South Court of the Union at 12:15. The price is one dollar per person.

A morning tour, beginning at 11:00, will conduct weekend guests over the entire campus with particular attention being given to the new Patterson Fraternity Court, the library wing, and the Jervey Language Laboratory. Saturday afternoon at 4:30 p.m., the fraternity houses, faculty homes, Literary Society Halls, and the Union will observe a campus-wide open house.

CATS, VMI CLASH
The highlight of the entire program will be the annual Homecoming football game between Davidson and Virginia Military Institute at 2:30 p.m. on Richardson Field. Halftime activities will feature the Davidson Marching Band and the Lenoir High School Band. The Lenoir band has been a regular part of the halftime entertainment for many years. Following the football game, Lester Lanin’s Orchestra will play for a special concert in Chambers beginning at 4:45. There will be no charge for admission and the concert is open to everyone.with the Soviets when Ameri- more out-of-state students every cans are not even devoted to year is proof of the success, at their national system of demo- least in part, of this program. It is, however, difficult to evalu- cracy much less to the Christian religion upon which America is established. He gave the answer: “You must be converted!” “To stand up to the threat against our nation we must reach this state of dedication without knowing how to reach it. The way is through a supernatural power given to us by God. I don’t know much about God but what I do know has changed my life. I cannot prove that the Bible is completely true — no man can do that because there are things in it which only God's infinite power can understand and explain. You must have faith to accept it. And I promise that if you accept it you will find a fulfillment and a purpose in life that you have never known before.” He closed by telling the students that in order to be converted they must come before God “as a little child” — humbled by the realization that they have been wrong and desirous of a chance to worship God with new faith and dedication. In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... PIZZA the famous OPEN KITCHEN 1318 W. Morehead Charlotte, N. C. ate a program of this type at the present time because of its long-ranging effects. Vesper Speaker Dr. Hugh Anderson, Profes- THE DAVIDSONIAN New Dean Discusses Overcrowded Situation Dr. Frontis Johnston, newly appointed dean of the faculty, stated last Tuesday that some of Davidson’s 1958-‘59 classes were definitely overcrowded, but went on to bring out that such crowded conditions were about the same last year. He also stressed that although many of the present classes were not of ideal size, they could not rightly be considered to be overcrowded. one hundred. None were in this division last year. There are two predominant reasons for this slight but apparent increase: the increased enrollment, and the unexpected loss of a few faculty members. These include Dr. Johnston from freshman history and Mrs. Caroline McBrayer of the psychology department. When asked what will be done in the future concerning this situation, particularly with the anticipated student body of a thousand, Dr. Johnston replied that it was certainly his hope and expectation that the faculty will be increased in number in the future. He also stated that the chemistry and possibly the psychology departments will be strengthened next semester. Jonas Will Finish Political Series Charles R. Jonas, member of Congress for the Tenth District, will address the student body in chapel on Tuesday, October 28. His opponent, Mr. David Clark of Lincolnton, a Democrat, spoke in chapel yesterday morning. Jonas and Clark's appearances were the final events in the “Great Issues Series in Political Thought.” Earlier programs in the series included an address by Mr. Charles K. McWhorter, Legislative Assistant to Vice-President Nixon, and a panel discussion on the party system. ORGANIZATION OFFICERS 1958-1959 ORGANIZATION Alpha Epsilon Delta (Pre-Med) Alpha Psi Omega (Dramatics) Camera Club Concert Band D Club DAVIDSONIAN Delta Phi Alpha (German) Eumanean Lit. Soc. Gamma Sigma Epsilon (Chemistry) Interfrat. Council Le Cercle Francais Male Chorus Omicron Delta Kappa Phi Beta Kappa Phi Mu Alpha Philanthropic Lit. Society Quips & Cranks Red & Black Masquers Scabbard & Blade Sigma Delta Pi (Spanish) Sigma Delta Psi Sigma Pi Sigma (Physics) Sigma Upsilon Scripts & Pranks Student Council Student Body Wildcat Handbook YMCA YMCA Board YMCA Board Members Freshman Adviser Sophomore Class Junior Class Senior Class PRESIDENT Richard Brubaker VICE PRESIDENT Jimmy Herlong NO ACTIVE CHAPTER THIS YEAR Ed Stevens Perrin Wright Harold Westervelt Arthur Lawrence Gordon Neville Laurens Walker, editor Ed Stevens Bruce Brooks Pete Morrisett Vernon Anderson Warren Womble Koogie Kwon Craig Wall Dr. Ratliff John Crawford Ralph Wilson Jere Starling Jim Overall Perrin Wright R. B. Jones Tom Cutting Prof. Maloney Arthur Lawrence Carter Daniel John Caldwell, editor Warren Womble Sam Clarke Monty Bracey Dave Warden Dick Smith Tom Kernan Bob Cole, editor John Kuykendall John Kuykendall John Crawford Henry Brown Larry Meyer Chris Bremer Larry Baggett Carter Daniel Charlie Rutherford David Robinson 1st Dabney Stuart 2nd George Ramsey, editor Vernon Broyles Dr. Ratliff Tom Smith Dr. Newell FRIDAY, OCTOBER 24, 1958 TREASURER Bill Hull David Edwards Sandy Grey Don Stowell Tom DuPuis Frank Holt James Bootle Dr. Bernard Dr. McCutchan Walter Clark J. W. D. Atchison Ervin Duggan Charles Cornwell John Nix John Lund John Huie Sung Kyu Kim Ed Spivey Richard Brubaker Verner Stanley Bobby Livingston Dr. Staples SECRETARY Bob Lathan David Edwards Sandy Grey Frank Nye James Moore Prof. Goldiere Tom Mainor John Caldwell Dr. McCutchan Henry Dugn Bobby Morrison Sam Peters Sam Sloan Dr. Causey John Huie Sung Kyu Kim Ed Spivey Bob Huffaker Verner Stanley Tommy Colvin Dr. Staples Mr. Martin, Mr. Bailey, Dr. Bevan, Prof. Polley, Mr. Tom Sadler, Vernon Broyles, Tom Smith, Tommy Colvin, Robert Livingston, Roy Gilbert, George Hart. Tom Cutting Jim Bootle Dee Green Roy Gilbert Cannon Dormitory East Dormitory Watts Dormitory Elementary... my dear Watson! From the happy look on your physiog, from the cheerful lift you seem to be enjoying, I deduce you are imbibing Coca-Cola. No mystery about why Coke is the world’s favorite Charlie Rutherford HALL ADVISERS Basement 1st Floor 2nd Floor 3rd Floor 4th Floor Basement 1st Floor 2nd Floor 3rd Floor 4th Floor 4th Floor Richard Brubaker John Nix Laurens Walker Barry Benton Joe Verreault John Huie George Hart Tom Smith Bob Huffaker ROOMMATE W. L. Patton Robert Avinger Richard Brubaker John Kimbirl Jim Owens Billy Whitesell A bell is to ring but without the clapper, you'd miss the whole idea of a bell. A cigarette is to smoke but without flavor—you miss the whole idea of smoking When it comes to flavor It's what's up front Professor of Biblical Theology at Duke Divinity School, will speak at Vespers on Reformation Sunday, October 26. Dr. Anderson, a native of Scotland, is a graduate of the University of Glasgow. From 1951 to 1957 he was pastor of Trinity Church in Glasgow. Cake” to registered trademark. SNACK BAR College Student Union HOMECOMING SPECIAL Foot-Long Hot Dogs And Large Pepsi 30c Open Sat. Until 3 A.M. Sat. Until 2 A.M. such taste, such sparkle! Yes, my favorite case is always a case of Coke! SIGN OF GOOD TASTE Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company by THE COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD ©1956, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO., WINSTON-SALEM, N.C. Up front in Winston is FILTER-BLEND That’s why WINSTON TASTES GOOD, like a cigarette should!