Che Davidsonian
THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE
PAGE TWO - FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 1958
(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

Query: Is Davidson Man “Beat,” “Organized” --- Or Indifferent?

To every college generation falls the duty of deciding how it shall be remembered. For a while it seemed that
there was little doubt that we were to be rather easily catalogued as the “security maniacs” or the silent generation.
William Whyte, in his Organization Man, found the American college graduate fitting into the industrial and corporate maze with alacrity
and ease because he had been educated by his college society to be a conformist — educated to be the
“organization man.”

This hypothesis received substantial support from teachers and college administrators who wondered, a bit sadly, why students no more ate
goldfish, joined picket lines, or steeled themselves with the proverbial “slim-volume” of free-thinking verse. All agreed that apathy and conformity
seemed to be in the saddle.

This neat classification of American youth was broadened, if not upset, by the advent of Jack Kerouac, “The San Francisco
School,” and the accompanying herd of ‘beat’ intellectuals. This cultural movement arrived, typically enough, on motorcycles, sporting “blessed oblivion” stamped
on the bumper. The eccentricities of this group can be dismissed as part of the ever-present crop of social misfits.
The restlessness of the movement, the aspect of fitful search for something unknown, cannot be, and has not been, so
easily dismissed from the social consciousness.

In recent months some long second thoughts concerning American college students have brought to light the fact that, though not
exactly “beat,” the restlessness, nervousness, and escapism of college people is not too far from the actions of some of
Kerouac’s characters, considered from the viewpoint of motivation. Our epithet is not so clearly fixed as it once was.

Somewhere in this maze of conflicting forces and ideas stands the Davidson student. None of the generalizations exactly apply in
his case, just as they fail to match any special situation. For several years, student writers and caffeine philosophers have
dropped the Davidson student into the conformity-organization-security mold with studied ease. Perhaps they have been right. Certainly, they have been
partly right, but we wonder if the whole story has been told. We are inclined to suspect that beneath the
“ivy league” exterior of the Davidsonian lies more than just a bit of “beatness.” Perhaps the whole truth will never
be exactly known, but it’s worth some careful thought.

In the past, most of the clichés hurled our way have, originally, come from people not of our generation. It
seems that the time has come for us to pick our own, or, better still, seriously examine the significance and
truth of those proposed for the Classes of 1955-65. This problem is especially pertinent at Davidson, where we are too
prone to follow blithe ways, rarely considering the question, “Just what are we?” Perhaps someday the question will be seriously
asked and sincerely answered. The results might be quite surprising to all concerned.

Chicago Bound

LETTERS TO EDITOR

Student Writers Expound On The Big Issues, Conditions In Library

John Cooley

Dear Editor:

It was refreshing to hear a chapel speaker recently with more than platitudes. Dr. Russell’s optimism in looking at today’s
problems seems based on reasoned opinion—not apathy or ignorance—whether he is right or not. It is, therefore, perhaps worthwhile, to
criticize a point in his address. Dr. Russell said that U.S. foreign policy should be open to public debate. Forthwith,
then, I attack his own position on the ban of nuclear weapon testing. I do not believe the answer comes
as easily as he would have it. There are at least three angles to the question of whether to continue
the testing of nuclear weapons: moral, hygienic, and political. No agreement seems possible at present in the first two of
these areas. However, one of the distinguished speakers on the Great Issues series on politics stirs up any debate at
all. One of the topics should be the question of nuclear weapon testing. Optimism or not, it cannot be as
easily shelved as Dr. Russell has done.

John H. Cooley

Dear Editor:

Davidson College is well-known—well-known for turning out “Davidson Gentlemen,” for its sizeable endowment, and for its fine campus and facilities.
And Davidson is also known for turning out educated men, using the incomplete but generally accepted connotation of the word
“educated.” However, one of the distinguished speakers on the Great Issues series on politics stirs up any debate at all.
One of the topics should be the question of nuclear weapon testing. Optimism or not, it cannot be as easily
shelved as Dr. Russell has done.

David Leng

Dear Editor:

After reading the editorial page of the DAVIDSONIAN of two weeks ago, I am certainly disappointed and disgusted with your
editorial policy. I am speaking in particular of the publicity you gave to the Great Issues program. “If, at the
bottom of their hearts, we do not make of God’s death a great renunciation over a fairly liberal stand on
social and economic issues, divorcing themselves from the policies of the national Republican Party. An even greater liability than the
unpopularity of its policies was the GOP’s lack of a reserve of capable leaders who could win voters to the
Republican position. With the exception of a few, the contemporary individual who is capable of holding up the torch of
his individual right seems to be neither willing nor able to act then upon his own way of faith.”

Fredrick Nietzsche

THE SPECTATOR

By TOM KERNAN

Literary Figures Race For Coffee

A murmur of voices woke me, signifying that chapel was over: I followed the rest of the herd to the
house that Ovens built. Evidently, I hadn’t run the good race, for my request for coffee was answered by an
imperious stare and the announcement that I would have to restrain myself until more coffee was brewed. I have attempted
to interpret this incident through the eyes of some of literature’s better-known writers.

Ernest Hemingway, for example—Death in the Morning. Chapel was over; the speaker had shot the bull. It was a clean
kill. I thought he did it very well. Sometimes they take too long; then they get nervous and make a
bad job of it. I was glad he had done a good job, though; it’s better that way. I walked
to the Union; the rain was very cold. “I will die if I don’t drink some coffee,” I thought. “I
would like some coffee,” I said to the Barmaid. “I am sorry,” she said, “but we have no coffee. There
will be some later, maybe. Is there anything I can do?” “It is all right,” I said. “It doesn’t matter.”
I left the Union and walked all the way back to my dormitory in the rain.

Or perhaps Sophocles — Kernanipus the Thirsty.

Kernanipus: Alas, alas, woe, woe, Great Bacchus hath deserted me! Would that Poseidon, with all his mighty waters, could soothe
my parching throat. O Exalted Apollo, heed my plea (learnt at the shrine of Labban) and quench my thirst with
nectar.

The Furies: (Disguised as a fleet of Slater Barmaids) Alas, alas, woe, woe, thou hast come too late; nevermore shall
flow this ebony stream. Our cups have overflowed, and there is no more coffee.

Or Thomas Wolfe—Of Time and the Coffee

A stone, a leaf, and an unfilled cup—O Lost! He leaned forward on the counter, his gigantic bulk towering over
the other men at the bar, but not caring for their stares and whispers, he savagely pounded his fist on
the enameled surface and roared for coffee. “We’re out,” said the Barmaid. “Ya got to come back later.” He struggled
blindly for the door, a wild goat-cry torn from his lips, as he staggered out into the millioned-voice night. O
Lost!

THE PHILOSOPHES

Tommy Colvin

Dear Editor:

Dr. Russell said that U.S. foreign policy should be open to public debate. Forthwith, then, I attack his own position
on the ban of nuclear weapon testing. I do not believe the answer comes as easily as he would have
it. There are at least three angles to the question of whether to continue the testing of nuclear weapons: moral,
hygienic, and political. No agreement seems possible at present in the first two of these areas.

David Leng

Dear Editor:

Davidson College is well-known—well-known for turning out “Davidson Gentlemen,” for its sizeable endowment, and for its fine campus and facilities.
And Davidson is also known for turning out educated men, using the incomplete but generally accepted connotation of the word
“educated.” However, one of the distinguished speakers on the Great Issues series on politics stirs up any debate at all.
One of the topics should be the question of nuclear weapon testing. Optimism or not, it cannot be as easily
shelved as Dr. Russell has done.

David Leng

Dear Editor:

After reading the editorial page of the DAVIDSONIAN of two weeks ago, I am certainly disappointed and disgusted with your
editorial policy. I am speaking in particular of the publicity you gave to the Great Issues program. “If, at the
bottom of their hearts, we do not make of God’s death a great renunciation over a fairly liberal stand on
social and economic issues, divorcing themselves from the policies of the national Republican Party. An even greater liability than the
unpopularity of its policies was the GOP’s lack of a reserve of capable leaders who could win voters to the
Republican position. With the exception of a few, the contemporary individual who is capable of holding up the torch of
his individual right seems to be neither willing nor able to act then upon his own way of faith.”

Fredrick Nietzsche

GOP--Obsolete And Stagnant

Last week’s election landslide has led to some long, sober thoughts among Republicans about the future of their party. Although
local issues and local personalities played an important part in the Democratic victory, it seems hard to deny that the
people of the United States clearly expressed their dissatisfaction with the Republican party, at both a statewide and a national
level, and with reference to personalities as well as matters of policy. Although irrelevant issues were used by both sides,
(someone has remarked that Sherman Adams seemed to be running against Walter Reuther in nearly every district), the election as
a whole was decided on the question of whether the Republican Party could put forth a social and economic program
acceptable to a majority of the voters, and whether it could supply the kind of leadership required to put it
into effect. And on both of these points, the Republicans decisively lost at the polls. Not even the veneration automatically
accorded to President Eisenhower could persuade the public to accept his denunciation of the “radical spenders” among liberal Democrats. The
so-called “right-to-work” laws defeated Republican candidates in five of the six states where they were proposed, retiring such prominent Republicans
as Senator Bricker of Ohio and Senator Knowland of California. That this was a general victory of liberals and moderates...Over
conservatives is shown by the fact that a few Republican candidates — such as Nelson Rockefeller in New York and
Hugh Scott in Pennsylvania — won against strong Democrats by taking tion of a very few men, the Republicans had
no one to compare with such rising Democrats as Engle in California, McCarthy in Minnesota, and Proxmire in Wisconsin —
all newcomers to the national scene. The election naturally casts a shadow over Republican prospects in 1960, but a more
important question arises: what is the future of a party whose policies are obsolete and whose leadership is stagnant? —
C.H.C.

Score One For Student Body

We were gratified by the response of the Student Body in Tuesday’s vote on the ‘Firearms Amendment’. Such action by
the Student Body to create, with the help of its elected representatives, a regulation for the benefit of the entire
campus goes a long way to bear out our belief that good student government is far and away the best
discipline or mode of regulation that a college campus can have. President Kuykendall and his Council should be congratulated for
their part in the undertaking. The brand of leadership which they have displayed in recent weeks has been a pleasant
change from past experience. We beg to make one suggestion. For next Tuesday's Honor Court vote, let’s make the ballots
more understandable. This week’s effort required quite a bit of explanation.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Charles Chastain

ASSISTANT EDITOR
Bob Lathan, George Ramsey

BUSINESS MANAGER
Ed Armfield

Associate Editors
Dick Smith
Jim Hamilton
Pete Kellogg
Bruce Brooks

Managing Editors
Laurens Walker
Bill Patton
Henry Samuels

Sports Editor
Tom Colvin

Feature Editor
Spiro Macris

News Editor
George Rhyne

Assignments Editor
Dave Gillis

Copy Editor
Greg Grana

Cartoonists
Bross, Cole

Photographer
Bob Wynne

Advertising Manager
Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879

MORAL IMPLICATIONS

Unanswered example: for the possibility of the utter destruction of human life as we know it? Regarding the support either
side conclusive. names. ly.

INDICTMENT

This disappearance of interest is an indictment of the student body, but as time at Davidson is so limited, the
student wants an assurance that his time will be well-spent. This assurance varies according to the importance, will, of the
speaker. Moreover, Davidson needs to present important men not only for the sake of interest but also because of the
greater influence of their opinions and thoughts on society.

POWER STRUGGLE

True, it may prevent extensive overt gains by Russia, but this is not the only avenue of world-domination open to
Russia. Communism is already far ahead of us in the economic, political, and ideological aspects of the power-struggle in many
areas of the world.

DISARMAMENT

Opposition of should at least not discard as foolish the possibility of negotiating.

PEANUTS

There are definitely moral implications of an all-out nuclear war, which threatens the world. But there are serious questions: for
the world’s prominent figures. Christian (who claims to be beyond ultimate harm, and who also can be devout under dictator
as well as democracy), would it be better to risk the possibility of Russian domination, or instead such destruction of
human life as we know it?

The question of hygienic danger is as difficult. One school of thought says, “Convince me that nuclear weapon testing is
dangerous.” The other, “Convince me that it is not dangerous.” And the facts are not agreed upon. There are not
enough convincing statistics regarding the support either side conclusive.

My point is this: If we assume that our strength in the communism’s world-domination drive should be principally military, we
will eventually be defeated. We should at least not discard as foolish the possibility of negotiating.

Davidson is financially capable of carrying on such a program. When a school can spend tens of thousands of dollars
on mortar and bricks, it can surely afford to spend several thousand dollars on the procurement of noted speakers.

NEGLECT

How can an institution cry naive? Only the most naive would really expect all of the men who appeared before
the student body to discuss adequately any big issues. How could a school such as this get all first-rate men?
Several years ago Dr. H. P. Ford, representing the Davidson Political Science department at a convention, was asked by several
of his former state department colleagues (also then teaching) where and what was Davidson. So much for the reputation of
Davidson in the field of government. But now a concrete effort has been made. Some good speakers have been brought
in; and there is much to be learned from the speech of even a poor speaker about the nature of
politics.

KERNAN'S COLUMN

There is an attitude at Davidson that in order to be truly sophisticated, one must scoff at such “Mickey Mouse”
activities as extra-curricular lectures, honest intellectualism, or enthusiasm about anything. Mr. Kernan’s column reflects this attitude. It is a fact,
granted, and is recognized by any soul who ever takes time to think. But it is certainly not sophisticated. True
sophistication includes an awareness of what is going on beyond the bounds of Davidson College and back home at Nowhere,
North Carolina. It is knowing that when most people refer to “the hill” they mean Capitol Hill and not Davidson.
The Great Issues program was an effort to instill a little of this real sophistication in the pseudo-sophisticated, naive and
narrow Davidson gentleman.

For your editorial policy to poke fun, is to my mind a reflection of your own lack of sophistication rather
than the quality of the Great Issues program.

David Long

Bookworm

Dear Editor:

I suspect that by now the heretofore patient library staff is as impatient and disgusted as are students and faculty
over the strangely unsettled (and unsettling) condition of Davidson's center of learning. Innocent seekers for truth are mercilessly trampled when
trying to use the still-homeless card catalogue. The crowding at that futuristic monstrosity, the circulation desk, is nigh impossible. Muffled
noises (hammering and sawing? architect being bludgeoned?) hamper study. Strange colors (olive-drab and sickness-blue in lobby) assail the eye. I
suggest that we call out the student body for an emergency clean-up, paint-up, fix-up day over there before chaos in
the library becomes another Davidson tradition...

Bookworm
