Che Davidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, MARCH 21, 1958

(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

Let's Prevent Future Tension Building Events

One thing is evidently clear as we reflect on last week's climax to the continued social crisis on the Davidson
campus: the gross lack of intercommunication and mutual understanding between the rank and file of students on the one hand,
and the faculty and administration leaders on the other. Last week we saw clearly that a wide gulf does exist
between the faculty and students. This is the fault of no particular person—it’s just a fact that has long been
in the making.

Granted that we should encourage more communication between the mass of students and the faculty, the DAVIDSONIAN believes that a
few simple actions could help bring the students and faculty into a greater understanding of each other. To do this,
we suggest:

1. That fraternities step up the practice of having faculty members down to the boarding houses for meals. It only
makes good sense that to gain the sympathy of the faculty, the fraternities must show them some interest and courtesy.
If every chapter on campus will make it a standard practice to entertain at meals and occasionally at a general
‘feed’ night, then the professors could not but help to grow more enthusiastically in favor of the fraternities. The dividends
should be greatly worthwhile.

2. That students take fuller advantage of the Sunday night visiting tradition in faculty homes. It is often surprising and
satisfying to learn how different a professor is in the atmosphere of his home. Here is a good place to
know a professor as a friend and not as an intellectual machine that spouts from the lecture platform.

3. That professors and students take the initiative to establish clubs on the order of the Business-Economics Association and Alpha
Epsilon Delta (medical fraternity) where students and faculty can interchange ideas related to their fields of interest. Along this same
line, some professors should make a greater attempt to relate their courses to the world in which we live. They
should show just what meaning it has for today’s student. Stale lectures not only demoralize the student but are contributory
to the gulf that exists between the student and faculty. It is evident that the most respected and well-liked professors
are those who give their students vital and imaginative lectures—ones that make him think, not just memorize.

4. That every student go out of his way to let the professors and administration leaders know what he is
thinking. Don't shun away from them over a cup of coffee in the Union. They are interested in knowing what
the students are thinking. Give them an opportunity to communicate with the students.

These then are some suggestions that may be helpful in establishing better communications between the students and the faculty. Maybe
a better understanding of each other will cancel any chance of future tensions and crises.

Student-Faculty Crisis Passes

What could have grown into a serious student-faculty crisis passed into history last Friday afternoon as the full faculty met
to hear the fraternity presidents and IFC representatives present their case concerning the excesses of the previous Wednesday’s Skit Night.

The whole matter began on Thursday night when the Executive Committee (the college's disciplinary body) called student leaders together, told
them of their decision to suspend Hell Week, and then gave the students a chance to state their side of
the case. After a long discussion, the Executive Committee rescinded its action and said that they would permit Hell Week
to continue until the next afternoon when the entire faculty would decide the issue—whether to suspend Hell Week because of
the indiscretions at Skit Night.

Then came the Friday afternoon meeting with the full faculty. The whole meeting was conducted for the greater part in
a sense of sincere cooperation and friendliness. The initial sympathetic attitude shown by most of the faculty members who spoke
out not only gave the students a relieved feeling but stimulated them to consider the Skit Night affair in a
more objective manner. What began as a doubtful and even resentful attitude by many ended up with almost everyone all
smiles. This feeling of cordiality was due mainly to the unexpected, open-minded position that the faculty took. They did not
prejudice themselves before they heard the facts. This the students appreciated.

When it was all over, the result was the approval of a substitute motion by the faculty to turn the
whole affair over to the IFC. As for the punitive disciplinary action, they voted to end Hell Week one day
early—which in itself was not a bad idea.

The DAVIDSONIAN is glad to see that students and faculty can sit down together and work out their misunderstandings in
a mature way. This is further proof that the “Davidson Gentleman” still has the right stuff in him.

Inter-Com For Duke Dorm

All the dormitories have adequate telephone service except the center section of Duke Dorm. There are, however, two phones in
Duke—one in each of the end sections. What is needed is some means of communication between the center section and
the two end sections. If the college would install an inter-com system, similar to the one in Cannon and East,
calls would be completed a lot more easily and conveniently.

By One Vote

Already this year in the elections, some candidates have been dropped in the eliminations by one vote. Last year, some
candidates won the office by one vote. It is obvious, therefore, that your individual vote will very likely be the
one that determines the winner.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
John Johnson

BUSINESS MANAGER
Bob Lathan

ASSISTANT EDITOR
Laurens Walker

Sports Editor
George Ramsey

Assignments Editor
Bill Patton

Feature Editor
Jim Morris

Associate Editor
John Trask, Jr.

Managing Editors
Pat Henderson, Gerald Wilson, Julian Aldridge, Bruce Brooks, Bross Cole, Ed Stevens, Henry Samuels, Lee Mayfield

Copy Editor
John Caldwell

News Editor
John Caldwell

Cartoonists
John Caldwell

Photographer
John Caldwell

Advertising Manager
John Caldwell

Circulation Manager
John Caldwell

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

The job of the editor of Quips and Cranks is to represent and coordinate the diversified areas of Davidson life
and activity in the annual publication, while specializing in material that will be of lasting value to the graduating class
to whom it is especially dedicated.

IDEAL

As a source of information and reference, it is as good as it is accurate. For facility of use, it
must be well organized. As an ideal, the yearbook is a pictorial catalogue, depicting artistically and as acceptably as possible
the Davidson scene. Since the content is, by the nature of the book, largely the same each year, it is
in the aspects mentioned—organization and presentation—that the editor can show originality and ability.

While the work of the editor is paramount, he cannot effectively produce without the support and cooperation of the staff
and of the entire college family. Through my experience with past staffs, I have developed some ideas that I hope
to incorporate into the 1959 Quips and Cranks. Through my own efforts, I am prepared to facilitate in whatever capacity
the making of next year's book. While the editorship is a distinct honor, it is also a responsibility requiring the
devoted efforts of the individual elected. I shall endeavor to fulfill the responsibility, should I be so honored.

Sam Smith

The purpose of an annual is to present a pictorial history of a particular school year. It is therefore the
responsibility of the editor to include all important aspects of the year in the annual. I believe that the yearbook
should be highly sectionalized to avoid sporadic confusion in attempts to present the year chronologically.

UNIQUE QUALITY

But the presentation of a year’s events and organizations should be only part of the purpose of an annual and
subsequently, only part of the editor’s job. The Great Awakening ...... by Brossii iiigdiidiiiihiiiiiidfiiiidtt lilt YY) LETTER TO EDITOR Yj
: Uy yy y Y l YUU iy) Preferential Bidding Aired

Dear Editor:

Preferential bidding, as it was outlined in the DAVIDSONIAN and in the discussion led by Dr. McGavock, if connected with
a limit on the size of a fraternity, will undoubtedly correct some of the so-called “evils” of the fraternity system
in general and will strengthen the system as it is found here at Davidson.

CLOSER-KNIT

First, by limiting the overall size of a fraternity, especially if this size were to be between 50-60, as Dr.
McGavock suggested, a closer-knit group with a real fraternity spirit could be more readily effected. It is generally recognized that
the average fraternity on the Davidson campus is too large to accomplish its real purpose. If the enrollment goes up
to 1000 students without the introduction of new fraternities, the size of the fraternities will continue to increase until something
is done to check their growth.

Secondly, the individual fraternities would be benefitted by a preferential system because of the actual increase in the amount of
choice they would have in selecting pledges. Under the present system, all the choice, except for a straight “we want
you” or “we don’t want you” by the fraternities, resides in the rushee. If a preferential system were passed, a
fraternity could then safely bid those boys whom they were not as eager to get. By placing them far enough
down their list of preferences, the fraternity would get them only if they needed them to fulfill their quota.

SECOND CHOICE

Now, with the rushee having all the choice, a fraternity is forced to bid rushees they do not particularly want
in order to compensate in case enough of the first choice rushees do not pledge. Now, also, the odds are
strong that these second-choice rushees will pledge and enter a fraternity where they are not particularly wanted. Under a preferential
system, these rushees would have the opportunity to pledge only under extreme circumstances. In this way also would the fraternity
spirit be strengthened by making it possible to pledge only those boys that a fraternity really wanted.

The third advantage of having a preferential bidding system with a limit on size is that it would strengthen immeasurably
the independent group on campus. This would be done principally by enlarging this group, which now constitutes only about ten
percent of the enrollment. A strong independent group would reduce considerably the pressure to join a fraternity regardless of whether
or not you could afford to or even particularly wanted to. I imagine we would all agree that a strong
independent group would help to strengthen the fraternity system itself, for it would tend to keep out of fraternities those
individuals who do not really want to join and who, once in, do not contribute their part to the fraternity
but only act as drags on its progress.

I.F.C.

Such a preferential bidding system, reinforced by limitations on the size of fraternities, should logically come from the IFC. The
sooner the IFC takes such a step, the sooner the Davidson fraternity system can reassert itself as a positive fraternal
force.

BRUCE BROOKS

IS REQUIRED TO CARRY A TEN-POOR LOAD THIRTY MILES AS TO FUSS FOR T 6 au” ONE MINUTE

The editor should present, not only a condensation of the activities of a school year, but also the unique quality
of that particular year. Too often, however, only the main events and personages appear on the annual pages. Too often
the distinctiveness of a year is not presented as such, but is only mirrored in organizations and main events. This
distinctiveness is found, not in organizations, but in the ideals and activities of the student body as a whole.

STUDENT SECTION

If elected, I therefore propose to present Davidson, 1958-59, with its classes, organizations, fraternities, sports, and honoraries; but I also
propose to present the student body in a section specifically set aside for that purpose. Such is my platform; thank
you for reading it.

COFFEE BREAK

D.C. ‘Gentleman’ Anachronistic

By BOB JONES

Recently the faculty arraigned the fraternities for “displaying action unbecoming Davidson Gentlemen” during the course of Skit Nite. While few
would deny that certain extremes of Skit Nite went even beyond the limits of propriety accepted by the students, the
concept of the Davidson Gentleman is a lost one and not legitimately applicable as the criterion of any disciplinary action.
As a normative standard the older generation envisions in “The Davidson Gentleman” criterion which brings no response in the frame
of reference of the contemporary student. Operating on the basis of a dead concept is anachronistic.

What this exemplifies is actually what is here termed to be the concept of “level living.” Members of society operate
on certain social, religious, economic, and intellectual levels. The fundamental difficulty with the Davidson student body lies in the fact
that in this time of “other direction,” when our actions and attitudes are ruled by the judgment of our peers,
the prevailing level dictated by group opinion is relatively low in comparison with the shibboleth “Davidson Gentleman,” and (in more
relevant terms) with regard to the level at which a first-class college should operate. Intellectual and social activity has stagnated
on Davidson’s particular level, and motivation to evolve to a higher and more challenging level is continually crushed.

In the trend of the election of student body officers this is particularly exemplified. Those who win are generally those
who are the idealization of activity on the accepted level; those who are motivated to higher levels are generally ostracized
and condemned for not conforming to the group. Unfortunately, stagnation prevails over the entire academic community, faculty as well as
students. Hence in drawing a judgment one does not know where the blame really lies. The accepted level has become
so ingrained in the Davidson community of faculty and students that the dynamics of the concept is continually circular. It
is necessary that some new quality be injected into this prevailing level. This can come from but two sources and
will take a combination of both to accomplish anything worthwhile. Either inner-directed students who display sufficient leadership and interest must
create a meliorated atmosphere; or a sufficiently resolved faculty, which is willing to take a stand for what it considers
the best interest of the college, will hold to a position with enough gumption so that those students who are
capable of higher levels will be encouraged. In this matter the concept of a Davidson Gentleman may be revitalized, and
alumni, perhaps, will be able to look back at the college of which they were so cynical and say, “Davidson
does make a difference.”

Letter Clarifies Demagogue Bit

Dear Editor:

I would like here to clarify some points about my article last week on the “Dying Demagogue.” It was not
intended in any way to be malicious; it was, however, very poorly judged.

POPULAR ON CAMPUS

This student is probably one of the most popular boys on campus, and for this reason he was a natural
choice for the first in the series. Although he does have some semblance of those characteristics which were mentioned, he
has a great many other characteristics and these were chosen only because they were more subject to exaggeration. My intention
was to blow these properties up out of all realistic proportions. No one should have had the feeling that this
was a true picture, for it was intended as an extreme caricature. The article was by turns poetic, and pun-ish;
after taking certain properties, it worked them over with the intent of being clever, and rarely returned to its original
subject after the start. It was hoped that all who read it would realize that this was a farcical distortion,
meant to laugh with, rather than at.

KIDDING NOT APPARENT

It was poorly done. My manner of facetious kidding did not become apparent on the printed page. What was intended
as friendly and exaggerated beyond any reality did not appear so when read. However, this was the spirit intended, and
I hope any who misunderstood now understand.

John Bernhardt
