PAGE FOUR

Armfield Represents Christmas Spirit

At present time we at x ganta §

Sled Reaches Austria On December 6

By HERMANN LAIMER

Davidson At Conclave

Ed Armfield recently represented Davidson at the Fourth Student Conference on National Affairs. SCONA, a privately sponsored conclave, was held
December 10-13 at Texas A and M, College Station, Texas. Davidson College, McGill University (Montreal, Canada), University of Toronto, and
the three service Academies were the only schools outside a 1000 mile radius to be invited. Armfield stated: “Being invited
is an indication of the esteem in which Davidson is held in educational circles.” Attending the Conference were 130 students,
representing sixty colleges and universities. “Sources of Tension—National and International” set forth the Conference theme.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

excitement and expectation. Some of the younger children climbed upon his ample lap and hugged him, while the older ones
watched with a smugness that comes from knowing. Playful tugs at his beard did not affect him as much as
the quizzical looks in answer to his typical question, “Have you been doing your push-ups lately?”

LOOK OVER THE SEA

Davidsonian Feature Writer

Majestic, dusky mountains loaded with snow seem to squeeze the small villages in the valleys. At about four o'clock in
the afternoon the fog rolls down the slopes and half an hour later it is dark. The roads are deserted
and only the lighted windows show that there is life inside the houses. Nature seems to sleep under the snow
cover, but in reality man has lost control over nature. The farmers, though very religious people, believe in many superstitions
during this season. They express their fears and hopes in various customs. These customs are a synthesis of pre-Christian cult
and Christian thoughts. In pre-Christian times, especially at the time of winter solstice, many cult processions which are still alive
in numerous forms today.

FRIDAY, DECEMBER 19, 1958

Although some of the brothers were worried that the gifts selected wouldn't be appropriate, the appreciative expressions on the rosy-faced
tots soon dispelled any fears. As the last Christmas carol drifted over Fraternity Court, the last ice cream tree licked
away, the last present opened, the last Christmas tree ornament thrown, and the last child put on the bus, we
all knew that we had shared some of the truly good things of the Christmas season.

Stealing Declines As Council Acts

discussion groups considered topics of interest.

“The prospect of intelligent discussions with students who do have an interest in international affairs was enough to make me
want to participate, and these expectations were more than fulfilled,” commented Armfield. Armfield also announced a series of articles to
appear in the DAVIDSONIAN after Christmas. Inspired by SCONA, the series will be pointed at student interest in international affairs.

Davidson College Placement Program

Placement Director C. Shaw Smith and members of the Business and Economics Department conducted the discussion which dealt with the
use of the Placement Bureau. The interview season will begin with the first of February and continue through March. Students
interested in interviews must complete their applications with the Placement Office before the interview; those interested in Texaco interviews should
apply immediately.

Seniors Sign For Interview Season

The first Placement Briefing held in the College Union on December 10 initiated the 1959 interview season. Major General Westover,
Chief of Plane Strategy AC, led the conference session on “National Security.” His discussion included the nuclear stalemate, foreign bases,
regional alliances, military reorganization, and educational policies.

Congressman W. J. B. Dorn (Greenwood, S. C.) and Mr. Charles Adair of the State Department formed a panel on
“Economic Policies”—international trade, foreign aid, tariff policies, and domestic recession and recovery. Congressman Dorn is on record as having voted
against every foreign aid bill to come before the House during his tenure of office. During the panel he inquired,
“Why should UNCLE SAP (sic) import cotton when we have more in the South than we can use?”

Mr. Arthur Hadley of the New York Herald Tribune conducted a program on “Developing the News.” The Commerce Secretary of
India’s Embassy, Mr. Ramachandran, spoke on trade and foreign aid. Strengthening the international flavor of the Conference, “Cultural, Religious, and
Racial Backgrounds” were handled by a Mexican.

Kuykendall explained that the Student Council has a special committee on thefts. This committee investigates all reports of missing articles.
Using expert advice from various sources, the committee attempts to follow leads and patterns of the theft which they can
use to reduce the problem.

Attendance and participation were excellent, due to student interest.The whole conference was well organized and really stimulating. Local color was
spurred by a Texas-style barbecue given by the College. Also, the hosts planned a ROTC review of their 4,000-member cadet
corps, but rain intervened.

In order to solve the problem, Kuykendall says all students must “exercise normal precaution, and report all missing articles promptly.”

The letter from American Viewpoint offered the speaking services of Dr. Frank Monaghan, a traveling lecturer in the American Viewpoint
College Visitor Program for colleges and universities. The letter was forwarded to the office of the Director of the College
Union, and after due consideration, it was decided that the Union Round Table Committee, headed by Lamar Riggs, would sponsor
(with partial financial help by the YMCA) a chapel appearance and an evening lecture by Dr. Monaghan on Thursday, December
4.

Dr. Monaghan arrived at Davidson Wednesday evening and left for his next speaking engagement late Friday afternoon. After his chapel
speech Thursday morning, his evening lecture was canceled. Last week members of the college administration conducted a thorough inquiry into
the circumstances surrounding Dr. Monaghan’s appearance at Davidson and the nature of American Viewpoint, Inc. The statement above is the
final result of this investigation.

In conclusion, the administration official who conducted the inquiry had this to say: “We accept the apology of American Viewpoint
as expressed by its president. We regret the incident sincerely and we appreciate the attitude of understanding taken by the
members of the student body and the faculty relative to the entire situation. We consider the matter closed.”

Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company by THE COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD. Coca-Cola is a registered trademark. ©1956,
THE COCA-COLA COMPANY.

Rara Avis
It’s a rare bird indeed who doesn’t care for the good taste of Coke! In fact, you might even call
him an oddball. After all, 68 million times a day somebody, somewhere, enjoys Coca-Cola. All these people just can’t be
wrong!

SIGN OF GOOD TASTE

Christian times existed, especially the Christmas season. The Christmas season derived from the pre-Christian gods who received various Christian influences.
He symbolizes the good, the bad, the beautiful, and the ugly, and numerous customs are connected with him. He appears
only on a few special nights when it is said that demons roar through the winds in their “wild hunt.”

Snowballs fly as a warm winter day melted the first snows of the season. The three-inch precipitation delighted the student
body, especially those who had never before seen it. (Photo by Rhyne)

The farmers usually stay at home with their families. The head of the family heats herbs in the pan on
the stove and leads the family with domestics through all rooms and stables saying prayers against the demons.

The city, too, prepares for Christmas, though in quite a different way. A decorated Christmas market opens the doors full
of toys and other Christmas gifts. The children write letters to the Christ child and tell their wishes. The Christ
child comes at night and takes the letter from the window. On Christmas Eve, December twenty-fourth, they will find their
gifts under the “Tannenbaum” which is wonderfully lit with candles. Many families also have a crib with the first scene
of Christ in their Christmas room, and some farmers have it instead of the “Tannenbaum.”

The Davidson College Union will spend $33,000 this year! Most of this goes for maintenance, such as heating, water, electricity,
wages and salaries, and insurance. These items are more or less fixed from year to year.

The Union provides far more service to students than most realize. To the average man about campus, the Union is
merely a place to buy razor blades or a snack, or “where the freshmen eat.” As a matter of fact,
the diverse functions of the Union range from providing newspapers and magazines to presenting guest speakers, and from providing games
to giving travel information.

The blood drive held at Davidson College on Monday, December 15, failed in its efforts to collect 300 pints of
blood. Final results showed that only 250 pints of blood had been collected. The fraternity that had the most of
its members to contribute blood was Sigma Nu, with 70.5% donating. They were followed by Phi Delta Theta with 47.5%;
Sigma Chi with 45.5%; Sigma Phi Epsilon with 43.4%; Pi Kappa Alpha with 43.5%; Sigma Alpha Epsilon with 42.6%; Beta
Theta Pi with 41.4%; Alpha Tau Omega with 30.0%; Phi Gamma Delta with 26.9%; Kappa Sigma with 25.3%; Pi Kappa
Phi with 43.4%, and Kappa Alpha with 41.9%.

Handling seasonal decorations is the House Committee which is given $125. The Publications and Publicity Committee receives $250. Its job
is to make signs, posters, and the projected activities calendar. During Orientation Week the Social Committee furnishes refreshments for Freshmen
and also plans exchange dates, jointly with the YMCA, and plans for social gatherings in general. Its budget is $275.

The remainder of this $33,000 amounts to $1,880. This is devoted to the Union program, which is broken down as
follows: The Bookshelf Committee, which buys books and newspapers, gets $225. This committee also provides literary discussion groups. The Film
Committee gets $50 which is to serve as a cushion to be used in the event that the movies are
not self-supporting. This dole is always needed.

Contrary to popular belief, both the students and the cafeteria and Snack Bar are self-supporting and the finances of these
are in no way connected with those of the Union. According to Mr. Smith, the Union is a “melting pot”
where students can meet and converse in a friendly, congenial atmosphere. “The program is as varied as possible, but due
to a lack of funds, we cannot hope for quite as complete a program as we would like.”

An unusual one-year college program in New York in no way attempts to interfere with the teaching of the professor
involved. Both men felt that a clear explanation by the DAVIDSONIAN would serve to clear up unfounded rumors, and perhaps
aid in the solution of problems which, according to Goody and Koontz, are presently blocking certain academic innovations which he
desires to make in his courses.

DAVIDSONIAN

THEY SAID IT COULDN’T BE DONE SO HERE IT IS! PUFF BY PUFF TODAY’S L&M

Such an improved filter and more taste! Yes, today’s L&M combines these two essentials of modern smoking enjoyment — less
tars and more taste in one great cigarette. L&M’s patented filtering process enables today’s L&M to give you, puff by
puff, less tars in the smoke than ever before. And L&M gives you more taste, better taste than any other
cigarette.

Light into that Live Modern flavor!
