FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 1958

You’re always encountering talk around here about the need for increased subsidization of football and basketball, and the benefit which good teams in these sports could accrue to Davidson College. But why should it be the major sports that receive all the financial attention? Why should tennis, swimming, wrestling, golf, and track not be allotted some of this present financial aid, plus a portion of whatever future subsidization may be tendered the Wildcat athletic department?

A few short years ago Davidson reigned over Southern Conference tennis, and it appears that “Little Richard” may be singing the number one tune again very soon. Every now and then the Davidson tankmen come up with a “great” swimmer, as Davidson swimmers go. Ditto for the track team. Coming to mind in recent years are such standouts as Lacy Keesler, Corky Clark, Al Ormond, Tommy Rivers, Phil Koonce, and Pete Ashcraft. But with a bit of cash behind the qualified coaches that Davidson has in these fields, the local athletic scene should benefit greatly from channeling the money in such direction.

Granted additional subsidization, we must admit that there is little chance of Davidson ever becoming a big football or basketball power, unless a tremendous revolution should be accomplished in these departments, with regard to scholarships available, scholastic requirements, coaching salaries, etc. But with reasonable financial aid, the minor sports should be able to field teams of championship caliber. There need be no shame in Davidson’s gaining its athletic significance as a tennis or track or wrestling power, as Carolina would ride its basketball prowess to fame, or Duke its football strength. The interest shown by the student turnout at some of the “minor” athletic events here has proven that Davidsonians will come to see a good wrestler, a good swimmer, a good soccer match. So when we argue that the Davidson athletic program needs better financial backing, let's not overlook the good that could be reaped from a successful minor sports power. The swimmer prizes his “D” sweater as highly as the football player.

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... PIZZA

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Davidson Mauls CC In Earlier Game, 103-51

The Davidson courtmen ended their Southern Conference schedule on an unhappy note Tuesday night, as they fell to a deadly accurate VPI club, 90-58. Three days previous the ’Cats had unloosed their most potent offensive blast of the season in downing the College of Charleston, 103-51.

ALL VPI

But Tuesday night it was all VPI. Led by freshmen Bob Ayersman, Earl Gilbert, and Chris Smith, the Gobblers connected on 34 of 68 shots from the floor, for an even 50 percent. Davidson’s aim at the basket was not as true, as they hit 25 out of 61 attempts. Bill Shinn was high for Davidson with 16. VPI also held an edge in shots and rebounds. They connected on 22 out of 33 from the charity line, while Davidson could manage only 8 for 15. The taller Gobblers grabbed a total of 46 rebounds off the board, whereas the ‘Cats had to be content with only 26.

The Charleston game was a completely different story, as Davidson, confronted by little opposition, ran up its highest point total of the season. Coach Tom Scott emptied his bench against the hapless Maroons in a game that saw six Wildcats in double figures.

MINTZ TOP SCORER

Semi Mintz was top dog in the scoring parade, with 20, followed closely by Hollingsworth with 19. Shinn added 11 and Huie, Ferguson, and Wilder contributed 10 apiece. With Southern Conference action over, Davidson is assured of a tourney berth. Currently resting in seventh place, the Cats cannot fall below eighth.

The brightest sight on the Davidson basketball scene right now is the slim Semi Mintz. Mintz is currently sixth in the nation in free throw percentages. The junior sharpshooter has connected on 81 of 95 throws for an .853 average. Latest statistics compiled show Dave Hollingsworth boasting the best scoring average, at 14.2 points per game. Mintz is second, with 13.8, and Shinn rounds out the trio in double figures with an even 10 points per contest.

Catfish Claim 42-35 Win Over S.C.

The Davidson College swimming team completed the regular season here Wednesday afternoon with a resounding 48-35 win over the University of South Carolina Gamecocks. The opening medley relay team composed of Smitty Smith, John Scott, Art Miller, and Bob Wynne produced their best time of the year with a 4 minute 36 second time for the 400-yard event, giving the locals a 7-point advantage at the outset. John Scott and Fritz Russell contributed firsts in the 200 butterfly and 200 backstroke, respectively, while Tom Hudgins finished first in two events, the 440- and 220-yard freestyle events to add to the point total. Captain Russell closed out his local pool career by swimming his best race of the year, finishing in 2:41. Hudgins was two seconds off the Davidson Varsity 440 record, set last year by Jerry Clark, while also being only 2.3 seconds off the record he set last week in the 220 of 2:23.3. John Scott finished going away in the butterfly for a first place time of 2:39.7.

Distance Freestyler Frosh Hudgins Heats Up Wildcat Waters

By TOMMY SMITH
Davidsonian Cub Reporter

Outside there was snow on the ground and the temperature hovered in the low twenties. Inside the...

Sportstuft

WPI Gobbles Cats Courtmen

Dee Lide (left) and Bill Whitesell reach for the tap in a Tuesday night clash between their respective teams, the Pi Kapps and the ATOs. The ATOs managed to squeeze out a two-point win.—(Photo by Ed Stevens).

Davidson Athletes In Club, Not Cage

By JIM HAMILTON
Davidson Sports Writer

PAGE THREE

A’s, Betas Lead I-F Handball Play

Ferguson Paces KA Hardwooders; Reynolds, Gwathmey Top Glovers

With the Inter-fraternity basketball tournament nearing the turning point, the KAs are in first place with the Kappa Sigs right behind. Although neither team has lost a game, the KAs are ahead because they have played two more games than the Kappa Sigs. On Wednesday night, the KAs came back after a slow first quarter to down the tricky SAEs, 67 to 44. They were led in scoring by Bill Ferguson, who was able to sink a few more than Dave Bradford, the SAE's top man. The Phi Delts, paced by Ben Harris, won a close one from the Betas, led by Freddy Lane, when they sunk one in the last thirty seconds of play to win by a score of 29 to 28.

HART PACES SIGS

George Hart led the Sigma Chis to a 73 to 31 victory over the Sigma Nus, Charlie Duncan, sparked by...

On the same night, the Pi Kapps, following Dee Lide...put the Pikas down to a 46 to 18 defeat, despite the efforts of Ralph Triplette, who was the Pikas’ high scorer. Having won six games and lost none, the KAs are in first place with the Kappa Sigs, who have won four and lost none, in a close second. The Sigma Chis are in third place, having won four games and lost only one. In fourth place are the Pi Kapps.

Another activity of the club is their annual project chosen by the members of the club. Last year the project selected was the renovation of the soccer field and the acquisition of new soccer goal posts. A hundred dollars was donated to the school for this purpose. The club also sponsored last year the sending of “Doc” White to see the New York portion of the World Series. Membership in the D Club is voluntary, the only prerequisite being, of course, a varsity letter. Officers of this year’s club are: Bill Price, president; Craig Wall, vice-president; and Dave McLain, secretary.

One organization that exemplifies this kind of athlete on the Davidson campus is the D Club. The primary purpose of the D Club is the promotion of athletic interest at Davidson, but it also engages in other campus activities. One such activity is the D Club “Foolies,” presented annually at Spring Frolics. Last year’s performance saw a stellar performance of “Li'l Abner,” with football Captain Bill Price in the lead role.

Davidson College is proud of its athletes. They can hold their own intellectually with the other students on campus. The Davidson College swimming pool, or “the tank,” was a warmer place. Water temperature was 76 degrees and being sent up by the constant smooth stroke and ferocious kick of a long, barrel-chested swimmer. He was finishing the last lap of the 1500 meter freestyle race, a man-killer taking some 66 laps and 20 plus minutes to finish. As soon as the boy touched the wall for the last time, the coach handed him a red kick-board saying, “now kick 500 yards.” The swimmer turns, pushing hard off the side of the pool and kicking water up over the edge as he goes. The coach walks away shaking his head and mutters, “he’ll work!”

101 POINTS is the spirit of Tom “Hudge” Hudgins, an outstanding swimming prospect and already a star in his freshman year at Davidson, who in 22 races in eleven meets has collected 16 first places and assorted seconds for a total of 101 points. This is the Tom Hudgins that has broken one record and is a threat to break another or re-set his new one every time he swims. Interviewing Tom is not the easiest task. He sits in a chair, powerful legs curled under him, and while he answers your questions in a boisterous, almost playful way, his classmates are continually in and out of his room, asking questions and advice on almost any subject. “Hudge,” an SAE pledge with a 2.8 average last semester, says he enjoys swimming because he likes its competitive nature and because it is relaxing. He says, “Swimming is different; it’s supposed to be the best sport for you—it uses all your muscles.”

Tom's past swimming record shows he has great prospects for the future. His team at Greensboro Senior High won the state championship four times straight while he was there and won the South-Eastern title three of those four. During the summer between Tom's junior and senior years, he and three of his mates went to compete in the National Men's AAU in the 800 meter relay event, and in 1956-'57 Tom was selected for the All-American High School Relay Team. Next week will be a busy one for Tom. Monday and Tuesday he travels to Chapel Hill for the North Carolina Freshman Invitational, and on Thursday, Friday, and Saturday he will compete in the Southern Conference Tournament.

The Wildcats will send Bob Schacter, Bob McIntyre, Charlie Lampley, Milton Gee, Westy Westervelt, Richie King, Dave Fagg, and Jim Allen into action. On February 26, the Davidson Grapplers will tangle with the Washington & Lee Generals. Coach Parker expects Westervelt to win either the 157 or 167 class. As far as picking a winner, Parker says either VPI or VMI ought to take the championship.

Scoring leaders thus far are:
- Ferguson (KA) 27 ppg
- Lane (Beta) 15.4 ppg
- Killian (SX) 13.4 ppg
- Joyner (KS) 13 ppg
- Lide (Pi Kapp) 11.7 ppg
- Streeman (KA) 11.5 ppg
- Harris (Phi Delt) 11 ppg

The interfraternity handball tournament is progressing as well as the basketball league. The Beta duo of Jim Reynolds and Ned Gwathmey hold first place with an 8-0 record. In second place with seven wins and a loss apiece are the Phi Delts’ John Kimbirl and Don Whitley, the ATOs’ Roy Gilbert and Richard Brubaker, and the Pikas’ Johnny Mackorell and Bob Crittenden. Another three-way tie has developed in third place. With 6 wins and 2 losses are the KAs, with Wood and Green, the Sigma Chis’ Reagan and Teachey, and the Sigma Nus' Reid and Shore. Behind these are the Kappa Sigs’ Warden and Kelly. SAE is in fifth place with a 4-4 mark compiled by Zimmerman and Farmer. Bringing up the lower end of the league are the Phi Gams (1-7) and the SPE’s (0-8).

Students have been asking about the system of Phi Beta Kappa bids. Here are the answers "Pronian" has been able to secure. Phi Beta Kappa recognizes no obvious discrepancy in the scholastic ranking of the senior class as interpreted by the Registrar and published in the Dean’s list and the ranking used to determine the recipients of Phi Beta Kappa bids. The Registrar computes a weighted average; that is, a student making a B on a two-hour course and on a four-hour course will receive twice as much credit for the four-hour course. The credit given is then directly proportional to the grade and the number of hours. Although official information is not available, it is believed that there is a difference between three and four-hour courses. If this is true, a student taking four four-hour courses receives 25% less credit than one taking five three-hour courses, although he is carrying the heavier load. Phi Beta Kappa is an honorary fraternity whose membership is by invitation, and scholastic achievement is not the only membership requirement. Nevertheless, would not a clarification of the discrepancies between the public scholastic ranking and the Phi Beta Kappa rating promote greater understanding?