PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN

Graduate File Keeps Office Staff Busy

By ANDY BLAKE
Davidsonian Feature Writer

A visit to the College Office of Alumni and Public Relations is an amazing revelation of the vast amounts of information about Davidson and her gentlemen which are kept in files. The intricacy of the filing system would surely confuse anyone but the office staff. This staff manages to use the files to keep in touch with Davidson alumni concerning items ranging from those of a serious nature to birthday cards.

The office’s card files are divided into three groups. The working file, consisting of name, address, birth date, and occupation of students, is filed in triplicate: alphabetically, geographically, and by class. The permanent file is a similar file, listing every person, living or dead, who has matriculated at Davidson College. This file is in duplicate, alphabetically and by class. The birthday file used to send congratulatory cards completes the card files.

In the office's huge array of jacket files, each student and each alumnus has a folder containing his entrance questionnaire, any newspaper clippings, and correspondence with the college. In Chambers basement, files of inactive and deceased alumni are still kept. There are many other files: general files, mat files (faculty publicity), engraving files, and photograph files. This system is quite enough work for several people.

The office staff of five has the responsibility of keeping all addresses up to date (a tremendous job), mailing a monthly bulletin to 7,500 alumni, issuing congratulations and condolences, and collecting newspaper clippings. The office is also responsible for 38 alumni chapters. Davidson College owes many thanks to the people who keep her alumni and her friends informed of her progress. Mr. John L. Payne is the staff director, and Dan LaFar is his assistant. Mrs. Halyburton, Mrs. Blackwell, and Mrs. Thompson complete the staff. These are the people who work to keep Davidson in the minds of the people whose minds were trained here.

Gehring Resigns; Goes To Valparaiso

Mr. Philip Gehring, assistant professor of music, has announced his resignation from the Davidson College faculty. This resignation will become effective as of the end of the present semester. Mr. Gehring has served in his present capacity for the past six years. He received his Bachelor of Arts and his Bachelor of Music degrees from Oberlin and his Master’s from Syracuse. Mr. Gehring is going to Valparaiso University in Valparaiso, Indiana. He will there serve as assistant professor of music and organist at chapel.

Students Organize Local SDA Chapter

A chapter of Students for Democratic Action, national student affiliate of Americans for Democratic Action, has been formed at Davidson. At an organizational meeting Tuesday night, twelve Davidson students became the charter members of the Davidson College Chapter of SDA, after a brief explanation of SDA’s principles and practical goals by Mr. Gordon Graham, National Executive Secretary of SDA. College approval has been given to the formation of the Davidson SDA, and a charter from the national organization was given to the group by Mr. Graham. At present, the members of SDA are Don Carmichael, Charles Chastain, Ben Farley, Charles Helms, Bob Jones, John McVay, Maurice Ritchie, Allan Smyth, Don Stein, Bill Whitesell, Gerald Wilson, and Willard Wolfe.

New President (Continued From Page One)

A. “No, we don’t.”

Q. “Has the possibility of the president being a person now at Davidson been eliminated?”

A. “No.”

Q. “Have you made an offer to anybody yet?”

A. “Not yet.”

Q. “What if there is no nominee by May 15? Then how will it be announced when there is one?”

A. “A special meeting of the Board of Trustees would be called.”

Q. “Is the chief problem in deciding on a man within the committee, or is it in getting the consent of the man you choose?”

A. “This committee is very hard working, but it has been slow in getting down to two or three people. I don’t think I can say we've been held back by lack of harmony in the committee's work. But it’s a big group, so it takes time.”

Q. “Will the final choice be among the men you have now, or will you have to get somebody outside this group?”

A. “I would hope we wouldn’t have any new parties brought in.”

Q. “Would you say there is a strong possibility of there being a minister, an educator, or a layman?”

A. “Yes. He’s almost got to be one of these.”

IFC President Vernon Anderson in a kickoff meeting of the council last Wednesday night urged the group to move toward conclusions on what he called “these major problems” confronting the IFC before September.

Anderson outlined a program for IFC control of rush date confirmation and expressed the hope that preferential bidding could be considered for next year’s rush program. Chairman of a committee to study the preferential bidding system.

Scripts 'n Pranks Staff Announced

Officers for next year's Scripts 'n Pranks have been chosen by recently elected editor, Bob Cole. Tom Kernan, three-year veteran of the publication, is the new co-editor. Carter Daniel, also a rising senior, will become executive editor. Daniel, noted for his “sadistic humor” and active participation in this year's D Club Foolies, will contribute much of the light material. The new assistant editors, Tony Huggins and Ed Spivey, are both newcomers to work on the magazine. The rest of the staff will consist of Dave Gillis, business manager; Charlie Rose, photographer; Jim Holmes, circulation manager; and Joe Miller, assistant to the editor.

Party Problems (Continued From Page One)

ends. The new pledge would specify the hours that the after-dance party included and would require each officer signing the pledge to be present for the entire party. Pomeroy pointed out that some objectionable conduct was in some instances occurring after some of the officers had left, and that this could be corrected by having them stay until after the party was over.

The second part of the proposal presented by Pomeroy deals with discouraging joint after-dance parties and all parties held for profit-making purposes.

This year’s fraternity

Eta Alpha (Continued From Page One)

a member of Sigma Nu at Mount Union College, author of several books, and a former newspaper columnist, editor, and foreign correspondent. James W. Bradley, Regent of Sigma Nu, presented the new chapter's Charter and announced the decision of the High Council to grant Eta Alpha Chapter ten thousand dollars to furnish its new lodge.

tion of a new science building to house the Departments of Physics and Biology. Mr. Dana’s grant was announced last week, with the stipulation that the College provide the additional funds for the new dormitory and we're after much of the new wing will be used for offices and study areas, which will bring the number of carrels available for students up to seventy-five.

The library at present is using $20,000 from the Margaret

AN IMPORTANT VISITOR

The new wing of the Grey Memorial Library, now under construction, is scheduled for completion by the middle of September. This section designed by A. G. Odell, Jr., and associates of Charlotte, will then be ready for use during the 1958-59 academic year. At present, the library contains almost 73,000 volumes. By next September the number of volumes will have been increased to around 75,000.

Both the old and new portions have capacities of 100,000 volumes each. The library together with the new addition will not, however, house more than about 150,000 books, since much of the new wing will be used for offices and study areas, which will bring the number of carrels available for students up to seventy-five.

Saturday, May 10, will be a big day for nine fraternities, as they hold their annual spring functions. The Betas are having an informal party at Tuck’s Tavern in Concord. They plan to spend the afternoon swimming before going to the party in the evening. The Sigma Nu's are holding their White Rose Ball at the Old Coach House Restaurant. The formal dance will be preceded by a banquet and the crowning of their Queen. The Phi Gams are holding their Fiji Island Ball on the Catawba River. The University of North Carolina chapter will be invited. They are wearing Fiji Island costumes and leis from Hawaii. The Phi Delts will have a Blue and White formal banquet and dance at the Selwyn Ball Room in Charlotte. The Dream Girl of the fraternity will be crowned. C. A. McKnight, editor of the Charlotte Observer, will speak. Alumni in the area are invited to attend. The SPE’s are holding their annual Charlie’s Day, at which all theSPE chapters in North and South Carolina gather at Chapel Hill to have a softball tournament. After the ball game, there will be a party followed by a supper. The Davidson chapter has won the tournament for the past five years, and if it wins this time, it will retire the championship cup at Davidson for the second time.

Major changes within the basement of the present library will be made along with the construction of the new wing to accommodate the projected increase in enrollment by 1960. The seminar rooms, which are presently located on the south end of the second floor, will be moved to the basement. A large reading room similar to that of the modern Fiction room will replace the seminar rooms upstairs. Most of the space in the basement will be converted into one large smoking room. Previously, because of fire hazard, smoking has not been permitted in the seminar rooms. In the new basement, two seminar rooms will open onto this area. Each individual teacher using the rooms will establish the smoking rules for his class.

The Sigma Chi’s are holding their Sweetheart Ball, a formal dance, at the Radio Center in Charlotte. After the banquet, a Sweetheart will be crowned. The Pikas’ Dream Girl Banquet, also formal, is to be held in Belmont. After the crowning of the queen, the scholarship and the pledge awards will be presented. The Kappa Sig function is at the City Club in Charlotte. The banquet and dance are informal. Alumni in this area are invited. At the Elk’s Club in Charlotte, the ATO's will hold their White Tea Rose Ball. After the banquet, the Sweetheart will be crowned. The dance which follows is formal.

Play ‘College’ During The Weekend
By SAM RILEY
Davidsonian Feature Writer

“If I were only young again...” How often have you heard these familiar words? This wish is being realized by approximately sixty men today — Davidson gentlemen of days gone by. They are breaking the age barrier for two days to become college students again in Davidson's first Alumni College. 

The “capsule curriculum” offered to the alumni is broken down into four sessions. During each session, the participant selects one class from a choice of four. These classes are arranged so as to offer the alumnus a diverse program in natural science, social science, language, fine arts, and religion—a two-day liberal arts education. A total of seventeen choices in classes is available. Three or four regular college seniors will sit in on each class. This brief academic program will be held this afternoon and conducted by some nineteen Davidson professors. 

One of the new fraternity houses will be the site of a buffet supper tonight. The supper will be followed by a band concert in the Student Union.

Band Prepares For Spring Concert

The Davidson College Concert Band will present its annual Spring Concert in Chambers Auditorium at 8:15 p.m., Friday evening, May 2. The program is being presented without charge as a part of the 11th Annual Davidson College Fine Arts Festival, now drawing to a close. The guest conductor will be Captain James C. Harper, director of the nationally acclaimed Lenoir High School Band of Lenoir, N. C., and one of the most outstanding Davidson music alumni. Music to be heard on the program includes Torelli’s “Sinfonia No. 6," the Farandole from “L'Arlesienne Suite No. 2" by Saint-Saens, Bach's “Little Prelude and Fugue in G minor,” and selections from Mussorgsky and Faure. The Brass Ensemble directed by Mr. John Satterfield will be featured on the program. The Davidson College Music Department will present the final Student Recital of the year at 8:15 p.m., Tuesday evening, May 6th, in Chambers Auditorium. A varied program of organ music, vocal selections, piano numbers, woodwind, and brass solos will be heard. The program is open to the public without charge.

New Wing Doubles Library Capacity

Major changes within the basement of the present library will be made along with the construction of the new wing to accommodate the projected increase in enrollment by 1960. The seminar rooms, which are presently located on the south end of the second floor, will be moved to the basement. A large reading room similar to that of the modern Fiction room will replace the seminar rooms upstairs. Most of the space in the basement will be converted into one large smoking room. Previously, because of fire hazard, smoking has not been permitted in the seminar rooms. In the new basement, two seminar rooms will open onto this area. Each individual teacher using the rooms will establish the smoking rules for his class.

Nine Fraternities Plan Spring Functions

The Sigma Chi’s are holding their Sweetheart Ball, a formal dance, at the Radio Center in Charlotte. After the banquet, a Sweetheart will be crowned. The Pikas’ Dream Girl Banquet, also formal, is to be held in Belmont. After the crowning of the queen, the scholarship and the pledge awards will be presented. The Kappa Sig function is at the City Club in Charlotte. The banquet and dance are informal. Alumni in this area are invited. At the Elk’s Club in Charlotte, the ATO's will hold their White Tea Rose Ball. After the banquet, the Sweetheart will be crowned. The dance which follows is formal.

Richardson

(Continued From Page One)

Geneva, Switzerland, who will specialize in American Government and Constitution. MANUEL ANTONIO DIAZ, of Patilla, Panama, the youngest of the students at seventeen, who will major in Biology.

‘Killer's’ Defense To Discuss Law

Mr. Tom Page, who served as the court-appointed defense lawyer in both of the murder trials of Frank Wetzel, will lead a round-table discussion next Wednesday night, May 7. The primary topic of discussion will be the profession of law. Mr. Page will also answer any questions concerning the recent trials of Frank Wetzel. Students who are interested in criminal law will find the discussion especially valuable. The round-table discussion will be held in the Ballroom of the Student Union at 8:00 p.m. The meeting will be informal and will be followed by a coffee hour.

Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... PIZZA

the famous OPEN KITCHEN
Charlotte, N. C.

FRIDAY, MAY 2, 1958