Che Dauvidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, MARCH 14, 1958

(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

Elimination Of Honorary Jobs Will Bring Simplified Government

For years there have been voices crying out at election time about the faults of the voting system. The most common complaint, and probably the most justified, has been that the system takes too much time. Interest lessens in individual elections as they extend week after week, and the voting percentages fall disgracefully low. The elections board is speeding the process by keeping the polls open five days a week instead of on just the three chapel days. The student body itself, however, has the best chance of making the process more rapid simply by passing the two proposed amendments to the constitution.

It seems natural to resist change, particularly when it might be difficult to discover the meaning behind stilted, legal terms. We feel, though, that both of the proposed changes are beneficial and deserve to be passed. One amendment would change the election procedure for the editorship of the three publications: instead of running them one after another, they would be run off simultaneously. The change is simple and quite logical since a candidate for any one of the offices does not run for the other two. By the time a student becomes a senior he has little trouble in deciding which of the three races he wants to enter.

The other amendment would do away with four of the non-functional jobs of the student body. It is a known fact that the vice president and the secretary-treasurer of both the sophomore and junior classes are merely honorary positions requiring no work and performing no duties. They carry no vote and have no responsibility; they serve merely as a subject for photographs in the annual. All legal authority is vested in the class presidents and student council representatives, positions which will not be affected. The proposed amendment would cut away this dead wood which we have inherited through tradition, without changing any administrative details.

The same amendment would eliminate a separate ballot for vice president and secretary-treasurer of the senior class by giving these jobs to two senior councilmen. Again there would be no change in class representation in any capacity nor would it affect the voting power on the council. The only possible arguments for retaining the present system would be “for the sake of tradition” or to provide the extra honors. Neither of these two seem to be valid reasons for preventing a streamlining of our student government. Passing the proposed amendments will mean both a speeded election system and a simplified government, and these benefits can be had with no sacrifice.

—J.R.J.

Another Hurdle

The curriculum committee has jumped another hurdle in its drive to revise the courses of study. Its approval to liven up the Bible curriculum as requested by the Bible Department shows a willingness on the part of the committee to permit progressive changes. In recent years, the Math Department, lately the Language Department, and now the Bible Department have shown the way to a revised and revitalized curriculum. Professor Schenck as chairman and the other members of the Bible Department have taken a popular and much-needed step in their course revisions. We support their new action and congratulate them on this healthy move. Other departments should join with Math, Language, and Bible in the move toward a better and more significant curriculum.

Seeking Office

Oftentimes in the midst of election campaign fever, we tend to overlook the real meaning of being elected to office, particularly to the student council. From past cases, we know that a student is sometimes more interested in winning the election than he is in offering his services, talents, and time to the job to which he is elected. With reference to student council offices, let us urge students not to run for the positions unless they fully realize beforehand what responsibilities the job carries. Election to the student council means that the student is willing to live the role of leader of student affairs and not just a follower. It means that he will not go out of his way to miss seeing violations of student body regulations and of the Honor System. It also means that he has the time, the interest, and the ability to exercise a position of leadership on the campus. Before any ambitious student signs up to run for office, it would be a good idea for him to read over the student body constitution and the student body regulations.

Skit Night

The DAVIDSONIAN does not condone gross violations of normal standards of decency. Nevertheless, we do feel that perhaps too much is being made over the tone of Wednesday's Skit Night. It is so easy to let our sense of righteousness muddle our thinking. Perhaps the thing to remember is that the entire program was conceived in good faith, that no offense was meant to anyone, and that its original purpose was to bring the entire group of fraternities together in a common activity. No doubt many professors who seem so upset would give the fraternities a big “F” on failing to achieve their purpose during Skit Night. It is most unfortunate, however, that some professors have taken it upon themselves to make so much over the incident. The expressed desire to “punish” the fraternities and “to put out the flames” of student energies serves no good cause and only acts to tear down much goodwill that exists between the students and the faculty. We cannot help but feel that Davidson's 850 students are more than just little boys. From what we gather, the Davidson student today is not nearly so bad as his predecessors of a generation ago. Indeed, those little boys used to hiss and boo faculty members off the stage! All of this causes us to wonder just what will happen to the Davidson student. Will he ever amount to anything? Will he turn out okay? Yep, we kinda feel that he will. And who knows, he might even grow up to be a Trustee.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF John Johnson
BUSINESS MANAGER Bob Lathan
ASSISTANT EDITOR Laurens Walker
Associate Editor George Ramsey
Managing Editors Bill Patton, Jim Morris
Sports Editor John Trask, Jr.
Assignments Editor Pat Henderson
Feature Editor Gerald Wilson
News Editor Julian Aldridge
Copy Editor Bruce Brooks
Cartoonists Bross, Cole
Photographer Ed Stevens
Advertising Manager Henry Samuels
Circulation Manager Lee Mayfield

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

LETTER TO EDITOR

Protest Vesper Uproars, Carving In Church Indignation

Dear Editor:

I write this letter, not as a Christian, but as one who lacks the courage to live up to Christian standards in this secular atmosphere. Each of us, in the face of trial, has experienced the compromise of moral ideals, an experience, which, painful at first, soon becomes a virtue we label realism. For moral obligation, we substitute an ethic of wants and desires.

SKY GOD

Never stopping to view the consequences, we conveniently adopt a middle-of-the-road relativism and compartmentalize our religion until it becomes a meaningless ornament to be dusted off in times of need. Our spiritual complacency breeds mediocrity and we find ourselves no more than pagans worshipping a Sky God in times of drought. Even when we declare our superiority over the outside world, we naively involve ourselves in petty jockeying for positions of worth and childish ego-assertions. Those who have the eyes to see what most are too blind to notice too often fall into cheap scolding.

PEDAGOGY

At times, however, their pedagogy is better than the sloppy sentimentalities of people too ignorant and selfish to bear the burdens of their own hypocrisy. While we must realize that we ourselves are guilty of many of the faults we criticize, there are times, if we are to maintain any integrity, that we can't compromise any longer, but must speak out in righteous indignation. The “Big” man who took it upon himself to carve up the House of God has brought unprecedented disgrace to this student body. Compulsory Vespers or not, that Church was built to serve this community to His Glory, not as the object of brutal impulses and thwarted humor. No doubt mental poverty prevents our “Big man's” realization of what those initials mean to Western civilization. Many of us are too callous to appreciate the tragic aspect in Christianity, but the story of His Life indicates to me that Christianity is not another form of tranquillizers or thrill pills, and that Jesus Christ is not synonymous with Kilroy. No doubt our young artist thinks himself quite clever. We see his handiwork frequently on restroom walls and sidewalks. As a social parasite, he may have his fun at the expense of others, but when he takes our God and His Church to be his province, we cannot be restrained by the futility of speaking against such banefulness.

Allen Fry

No Reverence

Dear Editor:

Why is there a Vesper Service held on Sunday night if all that it leads to is the desecration of the House of God? What are the purposes of compulsory vespers? If it is to instill in the student a religious train of thought, then it has failed.

Justice... By Cole

LETTER TO EDITOR

On Freedom, New HeritageMen or Boys?

Dear Editor:

For the first time in my college career, I know why I have disliked Davidson College. I have always resented her maternal attitude. However, I have suffered in silence, hoping that the powers that be, in their infinite wisdom, had the best interest of the student at heart. Today, March 10, 1958, any semblance of faith in the executive committee’s judgment that I might have had was shattered. The benevolent fathers became nothing more than bullies, poor sports, bent on destroying the student’s one mild form of protest. I do not refer to the ban on snowballing, but to the sly manifesto issued in subtle warning to all who would hide their faces.

TRADITION OF PROTEST

This school, so hell-bent on her tradition, her Woodrow Wilson Memorial Trees, and her “religious” services, now refuses the student body her unique tradition—not just the tradition of the “Peon’s Army” but her tradition of protest, the one tradition that has allowed the student to express his individuality. Granted that many of our actions have been childish, but what more can be expected when men are forced to assume the status of boys in a “safe place to send your boy?” This may come as a shock to many, but Davidson no longer holds the place of reverence that she did when I was forced to enter. The so-called Davidson Gentleman has passed from the scene, and in his place cowers a glorified version of “Peter Prep-school.” And I must assert that the responsibility for this change lies with the administration. The student has no responsibility. He has no responsibility of any kind. He is told where to eat, and when to have his fraternity functions, and how to conduct himself while doing so. Even the student council, our one chance for fair representation, is told when they are right and when they are wrong.

INSTITUTIONAL PRIDE

If we are to assume the responsible positions traditionally held by Davidson men after they leave these hallowed halls, we must have practice. I will always contend that there are enough intelligent men who, if given the opportunity, could guide the actions of the student body in such a manner as to keep well within the bounds set by our trustees, and in doing so, could generate some of the institutional pride we most certainly lack. If we act like children, it is because it is our only recourse. If we are allowed to stand on our feet as men, we can commit ourselves as men. In freedom, we can and will find responsibility.

T. Paine

Unique Rite

Dear Editor:

Only recently have I become acutely aware of another apparent heritage of Davidson. This obscure custom is so uniquely and infamously ours that we have jealously restricted its expression... Carefully reserved for selected occasions, this rite is now presented only before campus guests. Performances are given just Tuesday, Thursday, and Friday mornings; but for the last two Sundays, additional evening presentations have been offered for the real connoisseur.

QUAINT CUSTOM

Our quaint custom has finally advanced from the stage to the sanctuary, without suffering any appreciable loss of effect. From there it passes into posterity... But our new heritage remains for the present a proud demagogue to teach the innocent—that I too may parrot it in worshiping at the shrine and consecrate there my small token to the altar of tradition.

Larry H. Smith

The comparison of the Morning and Evening hours of worship is like comparing night and day. Vespers is no longer an hour of worship and prayer but has become, more or less, an imposition rather than a privilege.

COMPULSION

Those who attend with the desire to worship God with all reverence due to Him are hindered by the lack of reverence and participation that goes on in the service. Better not to have it than to give impetus to attitudes like these. Compulsion does not induce religion, by a long shot. Do we go to Vespers because we want to worship God in His house, or do we go just because the college requires it?

Sincerely,
Tom Barnett

George Reeves

ON CAMPUS

A NEW ROAD TO HELL

By CHARLES HELMS

“It doesn’t matter whether you order a coke, a limeade, or a heep-beep at the Stud it’s still going to come out 99 and 44-100 per cent pure ice.”—Ed Lupberger.

Many of the college's Bible professors are recommending very highly the latest Biblical movie, “And God Made Woman.” Perhaps this could be brought to the Union and the Billy Graham movie reshown with it.

M. A. (QUEENS)

Dr. E. Walker, president of Queens, states that one of the main aims of their fundraising drive is to obtain a library of 100,000 volumes. The day that this happens will be the humiliating day that we will have to quit turning up our collective nose at the sister school, inasmuch as they will have 30,000 volumes more than our own library.

ROAD TO HELL

Hell Week seems to be a peculiar institution for a church school which is supposed to be turning people in the other direction. But as the fraternities are declaring to their pledges: the road to Hell Week is paved with good intentions.

Saddest story of the week: one senior, not too successful during interviews, says that his grades are so bad that he can’t even get a job with the Army.

SNYGG

Famous last words: “Aw, we might have one question on Snygg and Combs.”

In regard to certain mimeographed sheets in the dorms: it would seem that what we need here is the ability to distinguish between disciplinary problems and legitimate satire. Selah...

COFFEE BREAK

Col. Ivanovitch At Davidson

By JOHN BERNHARDT

Last week we had a strange visitor on campus. Colonel Ivan Ivanovitch, head of the Russian Intelligence Service in the West, secretly inspected the college to give Moscow information on American education and preparedness. In his disguises, no one suspected his real identity. We have here a summary of his report.

Sunday afternoon, when he arrived, there was no one on campus. Assuming there was a big rally, he searched for the crowds, but only found small groups meeting in the darkness of the fraternity houses. “These must be capitalist cell meetings,” his report states, “seriously planning the overthrow of the Communist regime.” The woman on the television screen seemed to be proclaiming the new policy in a sing-song chant, but he could not understand. Finally, that night he found all the students going to church. Apparently, all the students were there, and the Colonel was afraid this indicated that these typical American students were united behind their church in opposing Communism. It was with great relief that he saw they took the whole thing as a farce. “They are not much different from us after all, on Christianity; but they lack any one belief that might hold them together, like our Communism, and so they will have no chance against our determination.”

As he saw the students crowding the Union, he was amazed at the way the money was spent. “America is surely the land of wealth we have heard it was.” However, the next day, in his disguise of yard man, he was amazed as well at the poverty and humbleness he had to pretend to. “I was expected to refrain from using the Union, both because I had too little money and because it belonged to the higher-caste college personnel.” The students apparently looked through him as they passed as if he were not there, and he learned that no student ever went to the town across the tracks except occasionally driving through. “Apparently all advantages and benefits, withheld from the people, are reserved for the future military and scientific leaders.”

The next afternoon the Colonel watched the local officer-candidates drill. His deepest impression was of the mock army which also formed, and of the reception it had. “They showed that they have freedom of action, and that they have the full zest for life which is necessary for a nation’s youth. But there was also a feeling that the army was only a farce to be laughed at; it seemed to be an unfortunate necessity to them, with no real value or purpose. If they continue this attitude, they will have no genuine army to oppose us when war comes.”

Wednesday there was a speech on Russian education. Sitting in the balcony, he concluded the students must be well informed on the subject, for most did not listen, and only six came by afterwards with questions. Talk with others, however, surprised him as to their lack of information and concern. No one knew any details on summit conference proposals or the Tunisian crisis. “They are worried only about their petty personal affairs. Their government is left to run itself, and will be without support or organization when we clash. We need only remove the few government leaders, and the masses will fall completely.”

He concluded his report on typical American youth leaders with the following statement: “They are filled with the fever of spring at present, and enjoy causing trouble as young people should do; however, underneath there is no solid foundation, for they are unabashedly complacent. They will make easy prey.”