FRIDAY, MARCH 21, 1958 ™ Sportstutl q hh GEORGE RAMSEY

During the interim between winter and spring sports, the interfraternity athletes are doing an admirable job of keeping the campus
sports marquee lit. The Kappa Sigs, Phi Delts, KAs, and Sigma Chis are keeping the I-F trophy race tighter than
a 30-inch belt on Brown Hamer... Semi Mintz, among the nation’s leaders in foul shooting during the year, finished with
a mark of .882, connecting on 105 of 119 charity tosses. This mark tops the .877 average which Ernie Wiggins
corralled last year in winning the national free throw championship. Final statistics have not yet been released, but Mintz’s mark
should win the national crown or place him a close second to Myers of Texas Tech... Coach Tom Scott, a
member of the NCAA Basketball Youth Fitness Committee, addressed the 32nd annual gathering of the Basketball Coaches of America at
Louisville, Kentucky, yesterday. The meeting is being held in conjunction with the NCAA basketball finals... On the subject of NCAA
finals, from this corner, Kansas State looks like the best bet to win the title... Tennis Set-Up Hurts Davidson —
Coach Dick McKee figures the new Southern Conference tennis tourney set-up practically makes George Washington a shoo-in for the title.
The new arrangement sets up six separate singles brackets, with all the number one players in a bracket, all the
number twos in another, and so on. Davidson’s hopes of winning the crown, which were pretty high under the old
system, received a jolt. The net tourney set-up will provide six individual “champions,” and will possibly lend to selection of
an all-conference team. Similar type tournaments are used in the Big Ten and Southeastern Conferences... Westervelt’s Third AAU Title —
Westy Westervelt’s victory in the Carolinas AAU Wrestling Meet last week was his third AAU title in two years. Last
season he won the same title, in the process of winning the “Top Wrestler” award, and earlier this year, he
captured the title at the Georgia AAU meet in Atlanta... The basketball game between the I-F all-stars and the Kappa
Sig loop champs, originally set for last Wednesday, has been postponed due to conflicting events. Arrangements are being made to
hold the contest next week... It seems that the Athletic department should be able to provide better ping pong tables
for the I-F tourney than those in the gym balcony... in Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for
a... PIZZA the famous OPEN KITCHEN 1318 W. Morehead Charlotte, N. C.

CLOTHES OF DISTINCTION FOR THE MAN OF DISTINCTION

Choose from our new Spring selection of fine clothing and matching accessories. Jack Wood Ltd. “It Costs No More To
Dress Correctly” CHARLOTTE, N. C.

PHI DELT DAVE HOLLINGSWORTH slams a shot across the net in his team’s Wednesday encounter with the Betas. The Phi
Delts, co-leaders in the I-F volleyball loop, defeated the Betas in three games.—(Photo by Ed Stevens.)

Volleyball, Table Tennis Play Underway This Week

Grapplers Grab Two Carolina AAU Titles

The 1958 Davidson wrestling season was brought to a successful close as two Wildcat grapplers returned home with titles from
the Carolina AAU meet last week. Captain Dave Fagg and Southern Conference champion Harald Westervelt captured the crowns in the
177-and-157-pound classes, respectively. Fagg outpointed Godfrey, 8-1, in the first round of the meet. In the semi-final match, he pinned
Bass, representing the 82nd Airborne Unit, in the third period. In the finals, he disposed of Daughtry, of Fort Bragg,
pinning him also in the third period.

By HENRY RAMSEY

Phi Delts Take Lead In Both I-F Sports

The Phi Delts and Kappa Sigs have begun to dominate the scene. In the volleyball tournament, the Phi Delts led
by Barney and Donny McQueen are tied for first place with five wins and no losses apiece. Sonny Ferguson has
sparked the K.A.s in a three-way tie for second place with four wins and no losses. A five-one record gives
the Joe Milner-led Sigma Chis third place in the race with the Sigma Nus and S.P.E.s tied for fourth place
with two wins and two losses apiece.

After six rounds in the ping pong, Dave Hollingsworth, Phi Delts is in first place with six wins and no
losses. The K.A.s and Sigma Chis, with five-one records, are tied for second place while the Kappa Sigs, Betas, A.T.O.s,
and Pikas are tied for third with four wins and two losses apiece. A 3-3 mark gives the S.P.E.s the
fourth place slot, and 2-4 records place the Betas and Pi Kapps in fifth place.

Standings

Kappa Sigs 652.1
Phi Delts 612.9
Sigma Chis 610.5
Betas 571.5
KAs 463.5
ATOs 416.2
Pi Kapps 320.1
PiKAs 273.1
SPEs 251.4

Power-Laden Netters Vie For Team Posts

With the season's opener with Furman only a week away, visitors to the tennis courts find an optimistic Dick McKee
working with a team that has, as he put it, “the most depth I’ve had since I've been at Davidson.”
The powerful squad, despite several losses, includes six lettermen, several experienced sophomores, and a host of talented freshmen. A rugged
battle for the six top spots is expected.Base lines. “We are second only to George Washington in the conference,” he
said, while prognosticating that his squad would win 14 or 15 out of the 19 matches this year with a
schedule that includes such powers as Miami, Cornell, and Duke. The top three contenders for the team at the present
are Dave Pearsall, a scrapper with a good stroke and volley; John Poindexter, whose backhand and net game are looking
good; and Tom McCutchan, the most improved player on the team, whose aggressive net game is sparkling at practice. The
number one man will probably come from this trio, but even McKee won't venture a guess as to who it
will be yet. Another letterman who will see action is Dick Hodel, also a scrapper whose varsity competition last year
greatly improved his game. The other two lettermen are basketballers Semi Mintz and Marvin Bentley. Ed Kiser will certainly play
plenty of ball. An outstanding sophomore prospect is Harry Broome, an excellent doubles player who just missed lettering last year
because of an injury. Other sophomores who may see action are Sam Zimmerman, a rangy player with plenty of power,
and Jim Hamilton.

FROSH HOPEFULS
The list of freshmen hopefuls is headed by Doug Orr, a wiry young gentleman who could break into the top
six. Other frosh who have looked good are Rick Aderhold, a big man. The team travels to Charleston today.

After the hustle of the basketball and track seasons, the inter-fraternity sports program is over and all but forgotten. The
calmer sports of volleyball and ping-pong take precedence. Brownie Thurman, Jim Alexander, and Roger Bee will sprint for the Wildcats.
Chester Alexander, Bill Patton, and Kap Regen will represent Davidson in the 880. Jim Alexander and Ray Antley will run
the mile event while Graham George and Ray Antley will represent Davidson in the two-mile jaunt. The hurdles will be
handled by Chris Bremer and Jim Hamilton.

I-F Overall
After the spring holidays, the S.A.E.s, with five wins and five losses, hold the fifth place slot. The Pi Kapps,
Sigma Nus, and Phi Gams are tied for sixth place with four wins and no losses. The probable lineup for
the Wildcats is as follows: In the 100 and 220-yard dashes, Bill Davis and Ed Garrett; in the 440-yard dash,
Henry Brown, Ward McKeithen, and Jim Alexander. Dale Gramley and Dave Warden will toss the shot and discus; Stuart Nickels
and Walter Edwards the javelin. Manning the pole vault lane will be John Hite, Henry Pharr, and Paul Erekman. Jim
Bowness, Bremer, Murray, Thurman, and Jamie will provide talent in the broad jump. Trials will be held to determine Cat
entrants in this event. High jumping will be Bowness, Bremer, and Hite.

Coach Whittle asserted that the Citadel’s tracksters are much improved and that he expected quite a bit of trouble in
outpointing them.

BMOC
“Big Man On Campus—yea man! He treats the gals to Coke. Who can compete with charm like that? So if
you're 5'0" and a little underweight, remember—you don't have to be a football hero to be popular. Just rely on
the good taste of Coke. Put in a big supply today!”

Drink
SIGN OF GOOD TASTE
Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company by THE COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD. “Coke” is a registered trademark. ©
1959, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY.

Smoking was never like this before! Salem refreshes your taste just as a glorious Spring morning refreshes you. To rich
tobacco taste, Salem adds a surprise softness that gives smoking new ease and comfort. Yes, through Salem’s pure-white, modern filter
flows the freshest taste in cigarettes. Smoke refreshed... smoke Salem! Take a Puff... It’s Springtime.
