Professor's Quote
In essentials Unity. In non-essentials Liberty. In all things Charity.
—Henry T. Lilly

VOL. XLVI

College

IFC Breaks Tradition For Mid-Winter Dance

Ralph Marterie and Buddy Morrow and their respective orchestras will play here Friday and Saturday, February 14-15, for the annual Mid-Winters Dances, IFC President Bob Jones announced today. Buddy Morrow and his orchestra will play for the formal Friday night dance from nine until one o'clock. Marterie will play for the concert Saturday afternoon and for the informal dance Saturday night from eight until midnight. Both the Morrow and the Marterie orchestras have played at Davidson before; and both have played for the Mid-Winter Dances. Marterie was last here in 1954 and Morrow in 1955.

Dr. John Bright Is Vesper Speaker

In order to bring about this unusual combination of having two different bands for Mid-Winters, the IFC arranged with the Germans Club of VPI to exchange bands for the two nights. In spite of this, according to Pon Carmichael, treasurer of the IFC, dance tickets will be about the same price as for Homecoming.

Dr. John Bright, Cyrus McCormick Professor of Hebrew and the Interpretation of the Old Testament at Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, Va., will conduct Vespers Sunday night at 7:30 p.m. in the College Church. A native of Chattanooga, Tenn., Bright is a graduate of Presbyterian College and Union Theological Seminary in Richmond. He received his Ph.D. Degree from Johns Hopkins University in 1940. Bright has served pastorates in Durham and Baltimore, and for the last eighteen years has been a member of the faculty at Union. A contributor to the “Interpreters’ Bible,” Bright is also the author of “The Kingdom of God” and “Early Israel in Recent History Writing.” The Abingdon Cokesbury Press selected “The Kingdom of God” as the Best Religious Book of 1955.

On February 2, the first Sunday following exams, Vespers will be conducted by Dr. Edward H. Jones, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Norfolk, Va.

RECORDING FOR MERCURY

Buddy Morrow and his orchestra, featuring Betty Ann Blake, Don Trube, and Dick Johnson, are currently recording for Mercury Records. Before Mercury, they recorded for Wing and RCA Victor Records and made such hit recordings as “Night Train,” “One Mint Julep,” “I Don’t Know,” and “Man With the Golden Arm.” They have also played at such local colleges as William and Mary, Citadel, Presbyterian, and Davidson.

MOST POPULAR BAND

Also recording for Mercury are Ralph Marterie and his orchestra. Recently voted Most Popular Band of American Colleges in a poll conducted by “Downbeat Magazine,” Marterie won fame with such records as “Shish-Kebab,” “Tricky,” “Skokiaan,” and “Caravan.”

EXAM WEEK FEATURE

What, Me Worry? Yo-Yo 21 No Crip

By TOM KERNAN
Davidsonian Feature Staff

—the transverse, under-arm, around the hip, reverse swivel twirl, is, according to Dr. George Murdstone, applicable only—

“Say, Flibbs, this Yo-Yo 21 is gonna be rough.”

“I told you not to take advanced.”

“At least I'm not trying to graduate on crip courses.”

“What's so crip about Cigarette Rolling 31? If you only knew how I've suffered in those labs you wouldn't say that. Fifty pushups with the tongue, finger exercises, tobacco crumbs all over my tweeds, and the taste of that damn glue. If only I'd taken Piano Waxing—no sweat, nice clean pianos—in with the aesthetic crowd—honor, prestige!”

TAKE IT EASY

“Take it easy, Flibbs—here, have another cup of coffee. Do you remember good old Charlie Hartug? Never saw Charlie sweat exams. Boy, did he have a system! I remember how he passed Window Peeking 12. I was in the same class then, just a freshman an’ really sweatin’ the exam. Anyway, the day of the exam came and Charlie showed up wearing what he called his nausea yellow shirt—made you sick to look at it. He waited until he saw a fella put his books on a chair, then slipped in behind him an’ sat down. Fella says ‘Hey, you got my seat there.’ Charlie got up, smiled at him and said, ‘Well if you know the material, it doesn't matter where you sit, but if you're superstitious, you sit here?’ Fella made a 61. Well, Old Bloodshot passed out the exam papers and Charlie asked if he could lead in a word of prayer—prayed five minutes, he did—little fella by the window, kind of nervous, started crying—had to be led out. Exam got started and Charlie went around borrowing paper; five minutes later, he upset somebody’s ink while he was filling his pen. Things were quiet for a little bit, then he got up and went out to the fountain—stood right (Continued on Page 4)

The back or patio side of the new fraternity houses on Patterson Court reveals a blend of modern all glass walls with the more traditional Davidson architecture. At present four houses are nearing completion. Four more have been started, and the remaining four will be started in the Spring.

IFC Votes Unanimously For Hell Week Revision

At its weekly meeting Wednesday night, the Interfraternity Council unanimously adopted a revised Hell Week. The new regulations are marked by a concentration of Hell Week activities and an initiating of a Skit Nite. The new regulations call for a Hell Week which will last five days, beginning on Wednesday, March 12, and continuing through Sunday. Wednesday evening Hell Week will begin with skits presented by each of the pledge classes. Each pledge class will be responsible for providing a five-minute skit. The show will be free. While faculty will be welcomed, in the interest of Davidson's reputation it was decided that no women will be admitted.

Then the activities will continue from 7 a.m. to 10 p.m. on Thursday. From Friday at 7 a.m. until Sunday at 12 p.m., Hell Week activities will continue uninterrupted except for a Vesper break. The Skit Nite idea is a revision of an attempt four years ago of having similar activities under the now defunct Greek Week program.

Also brought before the council was the proposal to have a campaign for inoculating the whole student body with Salk vaccine. Vernon Anderson was appointed chairman of the drive which will probably take place the last two weeks in February.

IFC President Bob Jones commented that the new Hell Week rules “will make for a revitalized Hell Week. The members of the council indicated that a prolonged Hell Week had difficulty sustaining the support of all the brothers.” In addition, he felt the new policy would meet with faculty approval, “something which is certainly precedent over past reactions.”

Forensic Council Elects Officers

Spencer Mitchum was elected president of the reactivated Forensic Council this week. Charles Ringe was chosen vice-president. Jim Steele, debate manager, announced plans for inter-school tourneys to be held in early February. The competition will be held with Wake Forest and Lenoir-Rhyne.

Sergeant Shivar Joins ROTC Cadre

Master Sergeant Mack E. Shivar is the new Sergeant Major of the cadre of the Davidson College ROTC department. A native of Seven Springs, North Carolina, Sergeant Shivar has served in the Army for nine and a half years. Until his assignment at Davidson he was with the headquarters of the North Carolina military district in Raleigh.

Jones also announced that the next matter the IFC will take up will be preferential bidding. He expressed confidence in the system, but said no action would be taken until extensive discussions were held after exams.

WRONG EMPHASIS?

Spencer Discusses Scholarships

Dr. Samuel R. Spencer, former Dean of Students at Davidson, said in a speech given in Arlington, Va., Wednesday night, that the proposed federal scholarship program will not solve the greatest educational needs of the nation. Dr. Spencer, now president of Mary Baldwin College, warned that the program might place the wrong emphasis on quantity rather than quality.

QUALITY OVER QUANTITY

Dr. Spencer addressed the Men of Trinity Presbyterian Church at a supper meeting. He was educated at Davidson College, the University of California at Los Angeles and Harvard University, and became president of Mary Baldwin College for women in August.ed out that the “emphasis on scholarships may give the erroneous impression that our problem is primarily one of quantity rather than of quality.”

NEED DYNAMIC PROGRAM

“As important as scholarships are,” he said, “the greatest needs of the colleges and universities are for increased faculty salaries, better libraries and laboratories and improved facilities, and a more dynamic educational program.” Administration's program is encouraging to all persons in the educational field, but there is a danger that the people will sit back and assume that the Federal government can and will solve the problem.”

“It is clear that the government can do only a small part of the job at best. Personally, I prefer that the problem be solved at the local and individual level.”

DR. SPENCER

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, JANUARY 17, 1958

Basketball Hot Cats play host to Citadel five tomorrow night. (See page three.)

NO. 13

Martin At Press Interview Also Says Tuition May Rise Next Year

“No commitment yet,” is D. Grier Martin's observation on the purposed donation from a New York foundation of a new science building. As matters stand now the College has submitted an application to the Dana Foundation for a grant to make additions to the present science building. Six members of the DAVIDSONIAN staff met with the Treasurer of the College at a regular press luncheon on Wednesday of this week. Questions centered around the new science building proposals and a reported increase in tuition.

Q. What does the College want?

A. (Martin) We don't know how it will finally work out. Our first idea was to have an addition on the present building, roughly comparable to that being built onto the library. This has proved to be impractical because of different floor levels, and wrong proportions in the present building. We are now thinking in terms of a new building, located behind the present one, in which the biology and physics departments will be placed. The Chemistry department would take over the present structure. The new building would consist of three floors, and would face north, thus forming, with the Union, a new quad.

Q. When will you know definitely?

A. We have some more figuring to do. We should have an answer from the foundation by the end of this school year. Mr. Martin added that he is “optimistic” about the success of the project.

ENROLLMENT

Q. What is your stand on the Trustee's decision to increase the enrollment of the College?

A. Mr. Martin said that personally he feels strongly that we should keep our enrollment at the present level. However, he added, as College Treasurer, he will aid in whatever is necessary to see that the decision is implemented smoothly. Again, if the faculty salaries are to be increased, the increase will come from added revenue from tuitions paid by students to any comparable college, he indicated.

TUITION INCREASE

Mr. Martin was then questioned about rumored increases in tuition for next year. His definite decision has been made yet, although the question has been raised. He indicated that the tuition now, he pointed out, runs about $500 a year, with an additional $100 in fees. The tuition fees, room and board cost of $1,145 is less than many comparable colleges, he indicated.

Spanish Clubs Hold Meeting In Union

Sigma Delta Pi and the Spanish Club held their joint monthly meeting in the Green Room of the College Union Wednesday night. For the program, four members of Spanish 51 presented a play. Also, slides on bullfighting in Spain just bought by the school for the Spanish Department were shown.

Registration Fees Due January 29-31

All students planning to remain at Davidson next semester must pay their spring term fees on Thursday, Friday, or Saturday, January 29-31. A penalty for late registration will go into effect after Jan. 31. Students should fill out the cards mailed to them last Wednesday and determine the amount owed in order to have a check prepared before coming to the Bursar’s Office. One dollar will be charged to renew parking permits for the spring semester and seniors will be charged a five dollar diploma fee in addition to the regular fees. Meals in the cafeteria for the spring semester will cost $187.50, which may be paid in three installments of $62.50 each.

Voluntary Chapel

John McVay, Chairman of the Worship Post of the Y.M.C.A., reports that voluntary worship services will be held during the examination period. These voluntary worship services will be held in Lingle Chapel. The services will begin at 8:30 in the morning and will last approximately 15 minutes. The worship services will begin on the first day of the examination period, January 22nd, and extend through January 30th. The services provide students with an opportunity for worship during exams when there will be no regular scheduled chapel. The worship each morning will consist of a short devotional and prayer. There will be no vesper services on the 26th of January.

OVER THE TOP

Alumni Fund Reaches $138 Thousand So Far

Record-breaking results totaling $138,547 have put the Davidson College Alumni Fund over the top for 1957, according to an announcement yesterday from Acting President Clarence J. Pietenpol. Since the Fund had grown from $81,739 in 1954 to $125,031 in 1956, alumni leaders set a $135,000 goal for the 1957 Fund and are making a systematic effort to push the gift total to the $200,000 mark each year by 1960.

ANONYMOUS “ANGELS”

$6,000 of the $138,547 total comes to the fund as a bonus from a committee of anonymous “angels” who challenged the fund organization to increase the percentage of alumni donors. The “angels” offered to contribute $1,000 for each percentage point the 1957 Fund gained in alumni participation over the 1956 record of 24%. Since final tabulations showed that over 29% of the Davidson alumni made contributions in 1957, the fund leaders were able to claim the $5,000 bonus and use it to push the total well beyond their $135,000 goal.

A GOOD GUARANTEE

“This new high in gifts for operating purposes from alumni, parents, friends, and corporations is a tremendously encouraging guarantee that Davidson can steadily move forward in its effort to increase faculty salaries and generally strengthen our educational program,” stated Dr. Pietenpol in announcing the results. The acting president paid special tribute to the organization of over 150 Davidson alumni who have worked as class agents and regional representatives under the leadership of Don Davidson of Charlotte, N. C., and George M. King of Bristol, Tennessee, co-chairman for the 1957 Fund.

UNLIMITED POWER

“Man has in his grasp new and almost unlimited power. Our future will depend upon how wisely he is taught to use it.” Dr. Spencer termed man’s breaking out of the earth’s atmosphere the signal of a new educational improvement in the future.

“Especially important in the future will be the church-supported college which will stand not only for academic quality but for moral fiber and strength grounded in the Christian faith.”

“Americans must be willing to give vast sums of money in addition to tax funds, even if the American educational system is only to hold its own during the coming years.”

(Continued on Page 4)