THE DAVIDSONIAN
FRIDAY, JANUARY 17, 1958

Pete Coleman is the new manager of the Student Store. Sam Peters aids him as assistant manager. Both Coleman and Peters have had previous experience in the store. Coleman, a junior and an economics major, was assistant manager earlier. They took over their positions the week before Thanksgiving after a joint committee of Mr. Shaw Smith, Mr. Robert Currie, and Mr. Grier Martin chose them. As manager, Coleman will be completely in charge. He will order stock and supervise personnel. Peters will assist him in these duties.

The Student Store is a non-profit enterprise, but its income covers salaries of its employees and the maintenance of the Union. The Store is operated entirely by students and serves to supply the needs and demands of the student body.

Candidates for admission to medical school in the fall of 1959 are advised to take the Medical College Admission Test in May, it was announced today by Educational Testing Service, which prepares and administers the test for the Association of American Medical Colleges. These tests, required of applicants by almost every medical college throughout the country, will be given twice during the current calendar year. Candidates taking the May test, however, will be able to furnish scores to institutions in early fall, when many medical colleges begin the selection of their next entering class. Candidates may take the MCAT on Saturday, May 3, 1958, or on Tuesday, October 28, 1958, at administrations to be held at more than 300 local centers in all parts of the country. The MCAT consists of tests of general scholastic ability, a test on understanding of modern society, and an achievement test in science. According to ETS, no special preparation other than a review of science subjects is necessary. All questions are of the objective type.

Copies of the Bulletin of Information (with application form bound in), which gives details of registration and administration, as well as sample questions, are available from pre-medical advisers or directly from Educational Testing Service, 20 Nassau Street, Princeton, New Jersey. Completed applications must reach the ETS office by April 19 and October 14, respectively, for the May 3 and October 28 administrations.

By BOB LIVINGSTON
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Professor Henry T. Lilly collects Bibles. He is highly reticent to confirm this. First, he doubts their interest to students. Then, expressed as he alone would say it, “It’s a hobby just for fun. There’s no scholarship involved in my collection. I wouldn’t want it that way.” He insists that he does not understand them all, but he intends to learn sometime. Nevertheless, he has an interesting collection of Bibles and New Testaments in ancient and obscure languages and modern tongues. They aren't catalogued neatly; he had them on his sofa and over the floor. Nor has he collected them purposely, but casually through the years, mostly on his travels.

MANY TRANSLATIONS

An imposing volume was found to contain parallel translations of the Bible in Gothic and Anglo-Saxon, and in the famous Wycliffe (1389) and Tyndale (1526) translations. Gothic is a primitive east Germanic tongue. The Bible was translated into it in 376 (A.D.). The Anglo-Saxon translation reflects Professor Lilly’s interest in the Roman Catholic faith, saying, “It is Christian. It is one branch of the Christian faith.” This interest has led Professor Lilly into a complementary collection of liturgical mass books. This is further reflected in a long poem to the Virgin Mary, “Il Rosario della Madonna,” by Chelfucci. It was published in 1600 by the print-shop of Nicolo Polo. The book is bound in pages of Latin script which antedate that time somewhat. He picked it up from a Spanish pilgrimage monastery in Rome. It was in 1936, and the institution was in reduced circumstances as a result of pressure from Mussolini.

Socrates Is Subject

The Classical Club met for a discussion of the life and times of Socrates on Monday evening, January 13, in the Green Room of the Union.

National YMCA Lists Projects

College students seem to rejoice as spring comes and vacation time approaches. Over and over again the question is asked: “How are you going to spend your vacation?” The National Student Councils of the YMCA and YWCA invite students to think seriously about investing their summers in a project or work-study seminar. These projects are varied in their scope to fit the interests of many different students. For example, students may direct recreation, teach, counsel at day camps, or work in neighborhoods to improve home and community environments.

Another type of program is the Washington Student Citizenship Seminar. Here students will hold full-time jobs with government agencies, usually as aides.

The YMCA Gift Fund Drive is now officially and successfully over. Through January 15, the drive collected $2,000. Although the drive is officially over, there are still some details to be cleaned up and some pledges to be paid. Pledges were due January 10, and the Y asks that anyone who hasn't yet fulfilled his pledge leave the money at the Y office. The total collected so far this year is about $300 over last year’s. Ken Forrester expressed the Y’s appreciation for the way every student contributed to the drive and increased the percentage contributing. Ken himself spearheaded the drive and was largely responsible for its success.

SAE, Sigma Chi Elect Officers

Sigma Alpha Epsilon and Sigma Chi fraternities recently held elections to determine officers for the second semester. Sigma Chi elected Tim Teachey, President; Roger Bates, Vice-President; Graham McKinnon, Secretary; Lash Zemp, Treasurer; Joe Verreault, Corresponding Secretary; and James Reid, Sergeant-at-Arms. Sigma Alpha Epsilon elected President, Ned Hedgpeth; Vice-President, Bucky Dennis; Recorder, Bill Welborn; Correspondent, Don Coffey; Treasurer, Prentice Brown; Warden, Lanny Voight; Chaplain, Bill Thompson; and Steward, Jack Millstead.—the transverse, under-arm, around the hip, reverse swivel twirl, is, according to Dr. George Murdstone, applicable only— Spencer (Continued From Page 1) age just as Columbus’ discovery of the New World heralded a new age in 1492. “The launching of the Sputnik,” he said, “forces us to look critically at the educational system that has brought us to our present time.”

Thursday, Jan. 30
A.M.—Second Hour Classes Monday, Wednesday, Friday.
P.M.—ROTC 11, 21, 31, 41
Classes for first semester close January 21 — 12:50 P.M.
Morning Examinations begin at 9:00 A.M.
Afternoon Examinations begin at 2:00 P.M.

VESPERS AND CHAPEL CUTS
Vespers Chapel
Freshmen and Sophomores 4 5
Juniors and Seniors 6 8

Don’t forget these rules:
1. If a student is not seated at the beginning of the service, he is considered tardy.
2. If he enters after the beginning of the sermon (Vespers), or the second exercise (Chapel), he is marked absent.
3. A student is considered absent if he moves from his seat before the end of the service.

CATHOLIC WORKS
An interest in the Roman Catholic Church has led Pro- fessor Lilly to collect editions of the Bible in eleven separate languages. Included are such difficult and remote tongues as Icelandic, Erse, and Sanskrit. He has the scriptures in the Martin Luther version (printed at Wittenberg), the Dutch Staten-Bijbel (printed at Utrecht), and the Italian translation by Giovanni Diodati of Lucca. Classical interest is reflected in his Greek and Latin editions.

Q. “Do you have several candidates in mind?”
A. “I have a good many men I would not object to working with.”

Q. Will you resign as a matter of course?
A. I do not think that I will offer my resignation unless I feel that it is desired. The President and the Treasurer have to work closely together. The very nature of Mr. Martin's position with the College prompted questions on the future scholarship program of the school.

NEW SCHOLARSHIPS
Q. Do you have anything definite on scholarships to replace the void left by the loss of the Baker grants?
A. There is not much as far as new sources are concerned, but we will have some sort of program worked out. We will take care of those who already have Bakers. We have planned a comparable program for the 1959-1960 school year. Mr. Martin added that there was a great deal of sentiment among the Trustees of the Baker Foundation to continue the program at Davidson even though its time had expired. He quoted one of these men as saying, “There is not another institution in the South comparable to Davidson.”

PREFERENTIAL BIDDING
When asked his opinion on proposed Preferential Bidding, he said: “I've been advocating it for a good while. I'm strongly in favor of it.” He added that he would suggest one idea on the subject. He thinks that some impartial body, other than the IFC, should take care of the “matching up” process.

EDUCATION IN NEW AGE
He stated that education in the new age must be based on four principles:
1. A new and improved status for the teacher.
2. Efficient use of raw material, with outstanding students sought out and urged toward higher education as well as supplied with scholarships.
3. Education according to ability, giving every child, regardless of money, social standing, or pedigree, the opportunity to travel as far and as fast down the educational road as his talents will carry him.
4. Emphasis on quality rather than quantity.

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... PIZZA
the famous OPEN KITCHEN Charlotte, N.C.
IN SALISBURY 836 S. Main St. — Making Salisbury Famous

The mechanics of pollination in flowers is so complex that some flowers can't live except in the presence of specific insects, and vice versa. Names of constellations and fanciful figures seen in them date back to the Greeks, Romans, and even Babylonians—more than 3,000 years.

FOR FINE FOODS
JOIN YOUR FRIENDS
MOORESVILLE, N.C.

SATURDAY, JANUARY 18
Basketball—Davidson vs Citadel—Here
4:00—Wrestling—Davidson vs VMI—Here
8:00—Movie—“Moby Dick”—Union Ballroom

SUNDAY, JANUARY 19
7:30—Vespers—The Reverend John Bright

FRIDAY, JANUARY 24
8:00—Movie—“Love Me or Leave Me” — Union Ballroom

*NOTE: To Whom It May Concern: The Spring Flick Team will not hold its scheduled meetings due to exams. Don't Sweat It! Relax and Enjoy a Game of Pool during