Sixty Alumni Return For “College” Today and Tomorrow!

The Davidsonian
The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

Jones Assesses IFC Progress (Page Two)

VOL. XLVI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, MAY 2, 1958 No. 25

Possibility Of New President By May 15, Says Committee Head

Selection Narrows

Cutting Defeats Nix for Freshman Adviser Post

Tom Cutting, a member of Phi Delta Theta Fraternity from Fort Smith, Arkansas, edged out John Nix for the position
of Freshman Adviser and a seat on the Student Council, in voting after Chapel Tuesday.

In elections Wednesday, Charlie Rutherford, Richard Brubaker, Bob Huffaker, and Sam Sloan won seats on the Student Council representing the
Senior Class, while Bob Livingston and John Huie will represent the Junior Class and Spiro Macris the Sophomores.

Cutting served as secretary-treasurer of the student body his sophomore year and this year was vice-president. He was on the
Student Council both years. He is a pre-ministerial student and a history major. This year he was leader of the
Freshman Discussion Groups.

Rutherford, a member of Beta Theta Pi Fraternity, received the largest number of votes for Student Council Representative and will
consequently undertake the duties of vice-president of the Senior Class in addition to those of the Council. Brubaker and Huffaker
tied for second place and the position of secretary-treasurer of (Continued On Page Four)

Committee Studies Drinking, Parties

A new trustee-faculty-student committee held its first meeting in order to discuss the drinking rule and fraternity after-dance parties. Trustees
on the committee are Mr. Frank Hall of Belmont, Mr. George King of Briston, Tennessee, and Mr. Harold McKeithen of
Winston-Salem. Faculty members are Dr. C. J. Pietenpol, chairman of the committee, Dean J. C. Bailey, and Dr. W. G.
McGavock. The student body was represented by Ross Smyth, John Kuykendall, and Don Carmichael.

James W. Bradley of Atlanta, National President of Sigma Nu Fraternity, presents the charter of the Eta Alpha Chapter of
Sigma Nu to Walter O’Briant, a junior who has served as Commander of Eta Alpha this year. The members of
Eta Alpha were initiated into Sigma Nu at a banquet last Saturday night in the Union Ballroom, after being pledged
to the national group since last summer.

$10,000 GIFT

Eta Alpha Initiated Into Sigma Nu

George Ramsey, a rising senior, was named editor of the Wildcat Handbook by the YMCA Cabinet and Board of Directors.
Ramsey selected the following men to be on his staff and assist with the editing of this publication: Henry Brown,
business manager; Julian Alderidge and Prentice Brown, associate editors; Dave Robinson, Bill Hellier, Jim Bootle, Vernon Broyles, and Henry Ramsey,
members of the editorial board; and Bob Cole, art supervisor. According to the editor, the Handbook will be somewhat revised
before going to press this June. Entirely excluded from the new manual will be the Student Constitution and By-laws. (Continued
On Page Four)

Committee, which was appointed last May by the Board of Trustees shortly after the announcement of the retirement of President
Emeritus John Cunningham, reached a decision.

Richardson Foundation Helps Foreign Students

By CHARLES CHASTAIN
Davidsonian Associate Editor

“You never know when lightning is going to strike,” commented Mr. D. R. LaFar of Gastonia, chairman of the special
Board of Trustees committee for choosing a nominee for President of Davidson, during a telephone interview with two members of
the DAVIDSONIAN staff Tuesday morning.

Mr. LaFar stated that the committee had been working hard at its task, but that “We're not going to rush
this matter. It is too serious to set a deadline. It’s too serious a matter to rush into a compromise
decision.”

Mr. LaFar revealed that there is a “possibility” that the committee will have a nominee to be announced May 15,
at the regular meeting of the Board of Trustees. The committee is composed of Mr. LaFar; Rev. Fred Stair, of
Hickory; Rev. J. McDowell Richards, of Atlanta; Mr. J. Spencer Love, of Greensboro; and Dr. James P. Hendrix, of Durham.

Questions asked during the interview, and Mr. LaFar’s answers, are as follows:

Q. “Would you be willing to say that your committee will have a presidential nominee by the Board of Trustees
meeting on May 15?”
A. “No, I can't say that we will.”
Q. “Would you rule out the possibility of a nominee by then?”
A. “No.”
Q. “Then, at this moment the committee does not have a nominee?”
A. “No.”

Eleven foreign exchange students will enter Davidson in September for one year of study under sponsorship of the Richardson Foundation
of Greensboro. The exchangees, representing ten countries, will receive grants covering all expenses from a $76,500 fund awarded the college
this year. Announcement of the grants came early this week from Mr. D. Grier Martin, College Treasurer.

Mr. Martin expressed Davidson’s appreciation to the Foundation and stated that the arrival of the Richardson scholars “will provide an
opportunity for Davidson students to learn from these men and to teach them something of American culture.”

The recipients of the grants are:

ULRICH SCHOENING, a pre-ministerial candidate from Germany, who will major in Bible, History or Political Science.

EBBE MOGENS JUSTESEN, of Odense, Denmark, who will study languages and mathematics, in preparation for a career as a chemical
engineer.

Dr. W. P. Cumming, Professor of English, has been awarded a Guggenheim Fellowship for historical studies of the discovery and
exploration of the North American continent during the 16th and 17th centuries. Dr. Cumming and his wife will leave for
Europe in August. Dr. Cumming will spend ‘58-59 doing research in the libraries and archives of various countries.

The John S. Guggenheim Foundation awards fellowships in research and in the creative arts to persons of proved ability, who
have distinguished themselves in their particular field. This award is the first Guggenheim Fellowship awarded to a Davidson College faculty
member. Dr. Cumming has published two books this Spring on the subject.Action was taken and no recommendations will be made
to the trustees as yet. Ross Smyth said that the committee will not meet again before the next meeting of
the trustees on May 15. In addition to this new committee, the Faculty Fraternity Committee, headed by Dr. McGavock, is
also investigating after-dance parties. The fraternity presidents have also formed a committee, hoping to work with the faculty and trustees
in order to retain the right of the fraternities to control their own parties. According to Dr. McGavock, both the
faculty and trustees hope to be able to work directly with the fraternities in reaching a solution to this problem.

Fraternity Presidents Argue ‘Party Problems’
By BRUCE BROOKS
Davidsonian News Editor

Newly-elected presidents of Davidson's twelve social fraternities met Wednesday morning during Chapel period, under the sponsorship of Bill Pomeroy, Bill
Bondurant, and Gil Grossman, to discuss a solution to the after-dance party situation now facing the fraternities. Pomeroy presided at
the meeting and presented to the new presidents two proposals which had been discussed Tuesday night at a meeting of
this year's presidents and Dr. W. G. McGavock, chairman of the Faculty Fraternity Committee. The first proposal involves a change
in the wording of the pledge that fraternity officers must sign after all dance weekends.

Scheduled for arrival at the college in September are:
KAI VAINO OLAVI PERNANEN, of Helsinki, Finland, who plans to major in political science.
WIECHER BERGSMA, of Limberg, Holland, whose career will be economics.
HORACIO BELTRAN DAMM, of Monterey, Mexico, who plans to be a physics major.
HERMANN LAIMER, of Salzburg, Austria, who plans a business career after studying economics.
WILLIE KARL WILHELM BARENTHIN, of Stockholm, Sweden, who contemplates a career in the Swedish diplomatic corps, after study of languages,
history, and political science.
UBIRATAN MOURA de FREITAS, of E. do Rio, Brazil, a social science major who plans for a diplomatic career.

Presently studying at Davidson are two Richardson exchange scholars, Sung Kyu Kim, and Byung Kook Kwon, whose scholarships will be
renewed for 1958-1959. The incoming Richardson scholars range in age from seventeen to twenty-one. They were selected by the college
with the aid of the Institute of International Study in New York City. Selections were based on academic excellence, proficiency
in English, and citizenship potential.

During the ceremony, next year’s officers were installed; these include the following: W. H. O'Briant, Commander; G. N. Grana, Lt.
Commander; E. E. Wilson, Recorder; F. C. Landis, Treasurer; H. M. Epes, Asst. Recorder-Treasurer; D. N. MacKinnon, Chaplain; R. Y.
Baldwin, Alumni Contact Officer; T. E. Kernan, Reporter; P. E. Morrisett, Marshall; W. R. Boland, Sentinel; B. J. Shore, IFC.
Following the formal initiation, a banquet was held in the Union Ballroom; members of the Faculty Fraternity Committee and representatives
of the other campus fraternities were present.

This year's issue of Quips and Cranks, the annual publication of Davidson’s student body, will be distributed to students in
the College Union, Monday, May 5. Dave Bradford, editor of the 1957-58 edition, announced that the new issue of the
yearbook will have a “new look.” Each of the four sections of the annual will be preceded by narration telling
the story of Davidson's year of change — the 1957-58 season of transition and expansion at Davidson College. Bradford, speaking
of the annual, stated, “This year's book is to be read as well as casually scanned. I hope all students
will take time to read Quips and Cranks.”

ODK Selects Thirteen for Membership

Delta Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa tapped thirteen members of the College community into membership Thursday morning. The sorebacks included
six juniors, five seniors, and two members of the faculty. These men were recognized because of their superior contributions in
one or more of the five phases of college activity regarded by the fraternity in their selection of members.

Three men were chosen for their work in student government activities. John Kuykendall is president of the Student Body, having
served last year as its second vice-president. He is a member of Phi Delta Theta Fraternity. Tom Cutting, a fraternity
brother of John’s in Phi Delta Theta, recently was elected Freshman Advisor in a hard-fought contest. He is retiring vice-president
of the student council, and was its secretary-treasurer his sophomore year. Roy Gilbert steps into the job of senior class
president from the corresponding office in the junior class. Gilbert climbed another step on the ladder of success a few
weeks ago when he moved from the vice-presidency of Alpha Tau Omega Fraternity to the presidency.

Three men were honored for their work in publications. Grier Davis, a senior, responded to the tap by a three-foot
leap into the air. Grier has edited the college humor magazine Scripts ‘n Pranks. Laurens Walker, the editor of this
paper, was also chosen. He has served as managing editor of the DAVIDSONIAN and has recently been installed as President
of Beta Theta Pi. John Caldwell will edit next year’s annual, Quips and Cranks. John is the retiring secretary of
the Publications Board and has worked on this year’s annual staff.

Three other men chosen have been active on the athletic field. Bill Price was captain of this year’s Wildcat football
team. Bill was President of the “D” Club, and treasurer of the Honorary Fraternity Council. His successor as team captain,
junior Craig Wall, was also selected. Wall has been secretary-treasurer of Kappa Sigma social fraternity, and is currently its President.
From the diamond came senior Shelbourne Wallace. Wallace is captain of the 1958 baseball team. He holds offices in the
Business Economics Association, and in Kappa Alpha Order. He is Cadet Lt. Col. in the R.O.T.C. department.

Bob Jones, retiring president of the Interfraternity Council, was also tapped. This Council, under Jones’ leadership, has been one of
the most active groups on campus. Jones is also noted for his co-authorship of the sometimes-controversial column in this paper,
‘Coffee Break.’ Ken Forrester, a senior, was the businessman chosen. He is vice-president of the Business-Economics Association, and has been
on the business staff of the annual, the DAVIDSONIAN, and was Membership and Gift Fund Chairman of the Y.M.C.A. In
the local military, Ken was Regimental Staff Major.

From the faculty, Dr. Charles Ratliff and Dr. George Abernethy were selected. Dr. Ratliff is head of the Economics Department
and Dr. Abernethy of the Philosophy Department.
