PAGE FOUR

COP OUT TONIGHT
‘Pistol Packing... Eveready Eye’
By I. V. LEEG
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Edgar N. Linker is his name. For nearly two decades his wisdom and insight have consoled, counseled, and protected the Davidson gentleman; but—

Three times a year he becomes an ominous voice behind a flashlight—tonight is one of these times. No bush, shrub (thorny or plain), tree (tall or short), football field, baseball diamond, deer path, or tennis court (clay or grass), will escape his vigilance: take notice all ye “lovers of the great out-of-doors.”

Preceded only by the warm glow of his pipe, he will be serving notice on all who tend to hesitate in one place too long (“Now we don't want you folks to catch pneumonia, do we?”). Later, sitting high in the watchman's truck, he will meet the resourcefulness of the Anglo-Saxon male with the good humor and sharp wit that dominate his character. More than one “stalled” car, in former weekends, has been activated by a puckish push from his pick-up.

Why all this violent suppression? “Well—for one thing, there's hardly space for the empty cars to park, much less the other kind—if you see what I mean?”

Good luck hunter and hunted, may the better man win; but our money is on the pistol-packing philosopher with the Eveready eye.

COP LINKER

Dr. Johnston Favors "Educator -- President"

“If I had all-power to name a new President of the college, I don’t know who I would name,” confessed Professor Frontis W. Johnston. “But,” he added, “I do have a type of man in mind. I could pick a man from the people I now know.”

DAVIDSONIAN reporters in an interview with the history professor pressed him to name a man: “I could, but I'm not sure it would be wise.”

Dr. Johnston was asked to elaborate on what his “ideal choice” would embody. He put two qualifications on the man. First, he must be a person who is acquainted with Davidson College, and secondly, he must be acquainted with education. In short, Dr. Johnston favors “an educator.” But, he added, “I don’t want an educator who doesn’t know Davidson College.”

Turning to questions about the history department, Dr. Johnston stated that the major concern now is adding a new man to replace Dr. Spencer. The other questions concerned the large size of some history classes. The Professor emphasized the fact that he did not mind the size of the classes “except when it comes to grading papers.” Some subjects lend themselves naturally to lecture methods, and hence the size of the classes is not too important.

One thing the history department is considering, though not in the near future, is the possibility of requiring either a thesis or a comprehensive oral exam of each history major at the end of his senior year.

Dr. Johnston said that he favors the proposed tuition increase to make possible raises in faculty salaries, if Dr. Pieters’ proposal that a comparable raise in grant-in-aids to needy boys is enacted. On the raise in salary, he added, rather whimsically, “I'm paid all that I’m worth, but not all I need. What I want is mercy, not justice.”

JOHNSTON

COURT OF CRITICS
By BOB AUSTIN
Davidsonian TV Critic

The weight of the western has been felt at Davidson as Have Gun, Will Travel (9:30 Sat.) and The Restless Gun (8:00 Mon.) are rated in first place on the campus. However, on the lighter side, The Bob Cummings Show (9:30 Tues.) has gained a very large following. Playhouse 90 (9:30 Thur.) is perhaps the most popular dramatic show in its dealings with items or plots that would appeal to the more educated mind. In the field of the mystery or adventure series, The Adventures of McGraw (9:00 Tues.) has attained first place in this category. This program may be rivaled by Mike Hammer (10:30 Sat.) whose debut was liked by many. Each of the stations in this area has been able to secure some of the old favorites for the late shows, thus making them more enjoyable. All in all, Television can provide some excellent entertainment for the students’ free time.

THANE LOBSTERS

Brown (Continued From Page 1)

Q. “Would you accept the Presidency of the College if it were offered?”
A. “That’s in the realm of the purely hypothetical, that’s out of the realm of probability. How do you know what you would do?”

What The Reverend Charles Lynnwood Brown would do seemed evident. He talked very much like a man with his hat in the ring. The questioning took on a more general nature as two members of the student body joined the group.

Q. “What type of man would you like to see become President of the College?”
A. “A man who would be sensitive to the intellectual currents. Someone sympathetic to educational standards of excellence... appreciative of Davidson College's long connection with the Church and a Christian interpretation of world affairs.”

Q. “What do you think of the Trustee’s decision to increase the enrollment of the College?”
A. “The size of the College must be determined partly by the needs of the area Davidson College is serving. Smallness in itself is not a virtue per se. But Davidson has a position associated with smallness. We must maintain a close faculty-student relationship.”

Q. “What do you think of the College's present athletic policy?”
A. “This is a peripheral question. But I have seen what a man gains from fraternity life.”

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Arab Minister Lectures Tuesday

Dr. Fayez Sayegh, Acting Director of the Arab States’ United Nations Delegation Office, will lecture on Middle Eastern affairs Tuesday, February 18, at 8 p.m. in the Union Ballroom.

Dr. Sayegh is also Chief of Research and Public Liaison for the Arab Delegation and Counselor of the Yemen Delegation to the United Nations. He is sponsored in his lecture here by the Union Roundtable, the Business-Economics Association, and the International Relations Club.

A native of Syria, Sayegh is the son of a Presbyterian minister. He received BA and MA Degrees from the American University in Beirut, Lebanon. In 1945 he began lecturing in the Middle East on methods of exposing Communism and combating it. He received his Ph.D. from Georgetown University in 1948 where he taught Arab area affairs while working on his doctorate.

Dr. Sayegh has lectured previously at Yale, Harvard, Northwestern, University of Chicago, New York University, and the University of Southern California. He has appeared twice on the CBS radio and television program “Face the Nation,” and on “Nightbeat” with Mike Wallace.

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 1958

INTERFRATERNITY COUNCIL SPONSOR

Margaret Wood with Lang Sydner
Pet Herman with Van Wood
Don Carmichael with Charles Woods
SPE Pi Kapp HA
Vivian Feemster with George Kemmerer
Karen Campbell with DeVane Lide
Merry Jayne McMichael with Burwell Shore

“FUN-FILLED DAYS”

This Is Today's DC Gentleman?opinion makes it} As this reporter left the in- Phi Gam Phi Delt Jean McLaurin Carolyn Hazard Pat MacDonald with with with Bob Jones Pat Woodward Jim Jones Pika te. wo di Joanie Coleman Sara Streater Gloria Hester with with with Jim Wool Charles Stowe Vernon Anderson

THIS WEEK IN DAVIDSON

SATURDAY, FEB. 15
“Mid-winters”—All day long—24 hrs.
12:30 a.m.—Movie—“We're Not Married”—Union.

SUNDAY, FEB. 16
.most vital question of the fu- j|ances in New York, notably Ed advisable to have athletics. This; terview he asked himself “What is not at the center of thinking: did this man say?” Then came about education. We won't have} the question, “What could a the kind of College we want if man in his position say?” we don’t consider athletics. But a football player must have the mind to go along with it.” On the question of trends in education in the next ten years, Reverend Brown answered: “The

Preston's “Substance of Mental Health” is out of print. About sixty copies are needed for Psychology 22. If you would like to sell your copy or are willing to lend it for a semester, please bring it to Dr. Bevan or Dr. Workman. Your help will be appreciated.—The Psychology Department.

ture is can the Church and its educational institutions maintain a sympathetic relationship both financially and spiritually.”

When queried about fraternities at Davidson: “Davidson College has been very happy with its fraternity system, a happy middle course. I have seen more value in fraternities since I left.”

Dublin Players Here Thursday

The Dublin Players, celebrated company of actors from abroad, making their third appearance here under the auspices of the Davidson College Artist Series, has been called “one of the foremost acting companies of our time,” by Eddie Dowling, famous producer-actor on Broadway. The performance is set for 8:15 p.m., Thursday evening, February 20, in Chambers Auditorium.

Audiences from San Francisco to Houston to Boston have applauded their repertoire of plays by Shaw, O'Casey, Shakespeare, Ibsen, Synge, Lady Gregory, Oscar Wilde, Noel Coward, Lennox Robinson, and others.

IRELAND'S FINEST

From Ireland's famous Abbey and Gate Theatres, the company is now completing another leg of its coast-to-coast tour of American cities presenting great Irish and English classics together with modern plays. Seen in connection with the Dublin Players will be a special art exhibit assembled in Chambers lobby of the work of Utamaro and Hokusai, the last great man in figure and the first great man in landscape.

DUBLIN PLAYERS BRING THEM Substance.” Rated as “top entertainment” by Variety, the trade paper of the Theatre, the Dublin troupe has gathered praise for itself from top critics and columnists. Variously described as “magnificent,” “unparalleled,” “outstanding” and “great,” the players have gained wide attention from the public wherever they have appeared.

In their television appearance on Sullivan’s “Toast of the Town” on CBS-TV, the company gained such unusual response that they were asked by Mr. Sullivan to repeat several times on his program.

The show includes 24 originals and 36 reproductions of these great Japanese artists for the period of history 1790-1830.

SATURDAY SERVICE

FORGET TO HAVE YOUR CLOTHES CLEANED OR PRESSED ON TIME! IN BY 9:00 --- OUT BY 1:00 MORNING FOR QUICK SERVICE!

First Class Cleaning and Pressing —At— DAVIDSON, N. C.

7:30—Vespers—Day of Prayer for Schools and Colleges—Student Lay Service.

TUESDAY, FEB. 18
Basketball—Davidson vs. V.P.I.—There.

WEDNESDAY, FEB. 19
10:20—Chapel.
Swimming—Davidson vs. South Carolina—Here.

By HENRY RAMSEY
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Are you average? Do you conform to the pattern of habits set by the average Davidson Gentleman? Check yourself against an impartial cross-section student-poll conducted this week and see how you compare.

He is a well-dressed man; in most cases, highly particular about his appearance in public. He is usually dressed for class and other everyday events in an Ivy League car coat or jacket, old slacks or wash pants, sweater, and a pair of wayworn “bucks” or loafers.

His everyday habits are quite respectable by most standards. He takes on an average of seven baths and brushes his teeth about fourteen times a week. After studying an average of nineteen hours a week, he usually takes off for a day or two of fun (and-or excitement) in some distant locality, such as Charlotte or Winston-Salem.

During the week he goes to bed somewhere around twelve o'clock and rises about seven-thirty, ready for another “fun-filled day” of exciting classes and never-ending studies. He cuts one class a week and goes to the “P.O.” at least once, sometimes twice, a day.

THURSDAY, FEB. 20
No Chapel.
10:20—Jam Session—Union.
8:15—Dublin Players—“Shadow and Substance”—Chambers Auditorium.
Movie—Double Feature—“Saturday’s Hero” and “Genevieve”—Union.

FRIDAY, FEB. 21
Basketball—Davidson vs. Wofford—There
Movie—Double Feature—“Saturday’s Hero” and “Genevieve”—Union.

JOIN YOUR FRIENDS —AT— THE TOWN HOUSE MOORESVILLE, N. C. FOR FINE FOODS

Richardson (Continued From Page 1)

For refreshment and fellowship he makes about one trip every two weeks to some local cafe. He wouldn't touch a drop of anything but “Bud” and smokes Marlboros, even though he doesn’t have a tattoo.

He is truly a respectable, upstanding, conscientious gentleman who conforms to no accepted principles and follows no one.

Each week he leaves the campus two times, on the average, for various and sundry reasons.

Richardson Scholarships will be awarded to students from all over the world, with a larger proportion coming from Europe, Latin America, the Near East and the Far East.

Applications will come from graduates of gymnasiums, the higher secondary schools, and in some instances from universities. Davidson alumni, affiliated churches, and members of the Davidson faculty and staff will help in the nomination of suitable candidates.

The expanded Richardson Student Scholarship Program is the result of a successful four-year experimental program at Davidson. Foreign students at Davidson during these years have come from France, England, Germany, Italy, Finland, Denmark, Sweden, Norway, The Netherlands, Korea, China and Jordan.

TONY BENNETT—EXCLUSIVE COLUMBIA RECORDING ARTIST

Tune Up With Tony

Get your exclusive TONY BENNETT autographed edition of hits. This remarkable record features songs like “Rags to Riches,” “Cold, Cold Heart,” “Come Next Spring,” “Because of You”... six big hits in total! And it’s all yours for only 25¢ ($1.29 value). Just pick up the coupon at the store where you buy Coca-Cola.

COPYRIGHT 1956 THE COCA-COLA COMPANY, Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company by THE COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD

“Coke” is a registered trademark, © 1956, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY

Cleaners GULF STATION SIGN OF GOOD TASTE