Che Anautdsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO

FRIDAY, DECEMBER 12, 1958

(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

Curriculum Enrichment Needed

Approximately one-half of the 124 semester hours required for a Davidson bachelor’s degree is taken up by required courses, with eight hours for ROTC and the remaining forty-five per cent for academic subjects. The purpose of these heavy requirements is to provide the basic rudiments of a liberal education: as the Catalogue puts it, the educational aim of the school is “to impart to its students a knowledge of the forces which have determined the pattern of our civilization."

It is obvious that any plan for general education which seeks to fulfill such a sweeping purpose can never be perfect or final, and that changes will be necessary from time to time in order to keep pace with new developments in the disciplines taught and to embody new methods of teaching them. Several such changes — definitely for the better — have been made at Davidson in the last three years — in the departments of Bible, mathematics, and English. All the departments and individuals responsible for these changes deserve a good deal of praise. The new offerings have helped to make the first two years at Davidson more meaningful for those who have been able to benefit by them. On the negative side, they have eliminated features of the old required courses in these departments which, for some individuals at least, have proved to be quite dull and deadening. These changes were motivated by a realistic appraisal of the bad features of the old system, along with a willingness to experiment with improvements. Such an attitude must be shared by the entire faculty if very much can be done about improving the quality of education here.

Much, however, remains to be done. We would like to sketch briefly what we consider to be a feasible program of tightening up the required curriculum. The present basic requirements in mathematics, history, and sophomore English would be retained. In other departments the following changes would be made:

The Bible requirement would be reduced to six hours, which could be satisfied by the present courses or by new courses in comparative religion. The present humanities course would be expanded to include a much larger percentage of the freshman class, perhaps as high as one-fourth or one-third, instead of the single small section now taught. The language requirement would be changed from the present one of twelve hours (beginning at the 11-12 level or higher). Instead, each student would have to have a reading knowledge of a foreign language, to be satisfied in one of the following ways: three years of a language, beginning at the 11-12 level; two years, beginning at the 21-22 level; one year at the 31-32 level; or a satisfactory score on a reading test given by the department. A social science requirement would be added, consisting of six hours in political science, economics, psychology, or sociology. The natural science requirement would be changed from the present eight-hour survey course at the 11-12 level in physics, biology, or chemistry. In its place would be put a “liberal arts” science course designed for non-science students. Such a course would include work in the laboratory, but its scope would not be limited to any one of the sciences, and its purpose would be to lead to an understanding of the basic methods of science, rather than to prepare for further technical training.

The DAVIDSONIAN feels that changes along these lines are feasible for the immediate future. —CH.C.

We Must Re-study Bidding Change

IFC President Vernon Anderson, in last week's DAVIDSONIAN staff interview, expressed his intention of bringing the matter of preferential bidding before the student body again this winter. The main purpose of a preferential bidding system is limiting the size of individual fraternities. This limitation has both tangible benefits and intangible ones. It would be foolish to let houses on our new fraternity court go to the waste of a few fraternities at the expense and handicap of others. Arguments for the intangible benefits are numerous, but the best are closer-knit individual fraternities, keener competition among fraternities, and the elimination of the danger of a small fraternity losing its charter. The subject was widely discussed and debated last year. A majority of upperclassmen today probably understand the basic changes such a plan would necessitate and realize the advantages it holds over the present system and yet rejected preferential bidding mainly because it was an innovation. Certainly, this is the most important issue confronting our fraternity system today, one with which all should be seriously concerned. Therefore, we hope that under the leadership of the IFC, all misunderstandings of how a preferential bidding system works will be clarified and that the proposal will reach enactment in the near future. —S.B.L.

I.M.A.C. Reforms

An organization that has taken great strides but has received little recognition this year is now due for a word of commendation. The Intramural Athletic Council, under the leadership of President Ralph Wilson, has perhaps benefited from relative lack of publicity. As an infant organization, it has encountered its share of difficulties and is just now beginning to settle into a concrete framework. Briefly, the Council as a group representing all sides of fraternity and independent life on the campus has taken over the man-sized task of supervising the interfraternity sports program, a responsibility formerly shouldered singly by Coach Whittle. By virtue of its varied representation, the Council at once can view a problem as it affects all the fraternities. In the line of accomplishment, to name a few, the Council has introduced much-needed reforms in the refereeing situation; it has streamlined the sports calendar by dropping table tennis, a sport which attracted little interest in interfraternity competition, and by elevating volleyball, definitely a team sport, to major status; the council is, in general, studying and updating all intramural rules. Although there are still a number of knotty problems to be ironed out, the 1958-1959 IMAC is to be commended for the sure foundation it is laying for future Councils, and for action leading to a better interfraternity athletic program. —G.W.R.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Charles Chastain

ASSISTANT EDITOR
Bob Lathan, George Ramsey

BUSINESS MANAGER
Ed Armfield

Associate Editors
Dick Smith
Jim Hamilton
Pete Kellogg
Bruce Brooks

Managing Editors
Laurens Walker
Bill Patton
Henry Samuels

Sports Editor
Tom Colvin

Feature Editor
Spiro Macris

News Editor
George Rhyne

Assignments Editor
Dave Gillis

Copy Editor
Greg Grana

Cartoonists
Bross, Cole

Photography Editor
Bob Wynne

Advertising Manager
Dave Gillis

Circulation Manager
Greg Grana

Ass’t. Business Manager
Bob Wynne

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1870

COMMITTEEMAN WRITES

Responsibility Of Student Elections Committee Lies Beyond Mere Study; Leadership And Action Needed

By ERVIN DUGGAN

The Student Council in commissioning an elections committee to “study elections procedures as they presently exist at Davidson College” dropped into the committee’s lap a bundle of problems both challenging and bewildering. Committee deliberations have centered consistently on three major problems: (1) slow, inefficient, and bulky election procedure; (2) lack of a free atmosphere for exchange of opinions between candidates and students-at-large, and (3) student indifference, probably born of the first two problems.

GROUPING

Apparently the most attractive alternative discussed by the group concerning the first issue is that of “blocking” elections into groups. YMCA offices, cheerleader, athletic council, and publications, for instance, might be grouped. Class officers might be chosen in the election of student council representatives, with highest vote-getters receiving highest class offices — a not-too-radical change from present procedure.

OPEN POLITICS?

The second difficulty — lack of opportunity for presentation of ideas — has brought forth a variety of opinions. The “radical reformers" of the committee advocate a wide-open elections system with frequent debate and discussion from candidates. Campaigning would be sanctioned within certain bounds and a system more closely resembling a university political apparatus would be instituted. Others support the present practice of prohibiting open campaigning, advocating freer use of campus newspaper space, union forums, and chapel addresses to open the “idea-atmosphere.” The open atmosphere can be created, they feel, without risking the abuses of machine politics, bloc voting, and “ballyhoo” campaigning now prohibited at Davidson. A solution to these first two problems, members feel, would best solve the third — that of student indifference. A streamlining of procedure and more student-candidate interplay of ideas should revive student concern.

OBSERVATIONS

Two observations at this point are perhaps appropriate: First of all, it seems clear that, while change is certainly needed, complete reorganization is neither needed nor desired. The defeat year before last of the Peden amendment, which called for wide-open elections with unrestrained campaigning and bloc voting (if such would occur), offers a pertinent reminder that students value intelligent concern over excitement, quiet consideration of fact over loud and unrestrained electioneering. The committee can play its most effective role in improving procedure based on the present recognition that individual campaigning, bloc voting, and political expenditure invite abuse. The problem as seen by this writer is to minimize the difficulties of the present system and to encourage a more intelligent approach to elections; it is not to usher in a new order where difficulties are more likely and the chance for anHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

intelligent approach all but negated by sound and fury. Secondly, there is danger of ruling the polis are also concerned and increase the percent assuming that changes in pro- considered The Academic Spoon . . as LETTERS TO EDITOR riers Str Library Staff Dear Editor: We quite agree with the distaste of C.I.C. for censorship of books and periodicals on controversial questions, whether they be concerned with economics, religion, sex, or sociology. That was never the purpose of the Permanent Reserve. The truth is that the Permanent Reserve was established for the opposite purpose: in order that controversial material could be available. The sad truth is that many of the items in this section were put there after three or four copies of the same had disappeared from the regular shelves. According to our records, five copies of Helena Wright’s “Sex in Marriage” walked out of the library before we put the title on Permanent Reserve. Roberts’ “Rules of Order” is in this section for the same reason. It could hardly be considered subversive. As C.H.C. observed, some of the very old volumes are there as a matter of preservation. We hope eventually to have a Treasure Room where these can be kept. They will, of course, be available for student use as the Permanent Reserve has always been. The decision has already been made to try putting many of the volumes now on Permanent Reserve back in the stacks since the completion of the new building. Let’s hope student maturity will permit us to leave them in the stacks. Library Staff Tim Ray Dear Editor: Because of athletic scholarships, many fine young men are able to get an education who otherwise couldn't afford it. This is the sentimental palaver we hear in defense of the sacred squandrance often falsely called “athletic scholarships.” Did anyone else notice in a previous DAVIDSONIAN that we give away (or spend) more money for athletic grants than we allocate for either grant-in-aids or for regular genuine scholarships? Did anyone notice further that this type of grant is one of the two which are not based on financial need? The other, to Presbyterian ministers’ sons, is obviously a social obligation (not given for ethical or religious reasons). We excuse ourselves by saying we compete with schools that place even more emphasis on athletics than we do. Now why do we do that? In order to establish our reputation as a college? Because we need recognition in the field of athletics because we cannot earn it in other areas? I should hope these are not reasons that apply to Davidson. Has anyone considered following the intelligent example set by a school similar in many ways, Washington and Lee, and withdrawing from the Southern Conference? The sentimentalists drone on: Shouldn't a person be recognized for excellence in any ability other than book-learning? I agree; it's an excellent idea, but why pick athletics exclusively, even to the point of buying players with fixed sums? Shouldn't a musician, dramatist, debater, creative writer, or so on also receive financial aid when needed? Ambitious students are active in these areas already but some of the blessings the Trustees have seen fit to shower on sports wouldn't hurt such organizations or the reputation Davidson likes to revel in. Tim Ray WELL, I DON'T KNOW... PERHAPS WE COULD PUT IT A LITTLE STRONGER... of student indifference. Of course, it is important to make the polls accessible and to stress vital issues so that interest will be quickened. But with changes in procedures must come a change in student attitude. Perhaps the committee will find it desirable to go beyond recommending that election procedures be made merely convenient. The group, after its report is submitted and its deliberative work completed, could be an instrument for encouraging and actively promoting interest. The Elections Board serves no such function, busy as it is with mechanics: the elections committee might exert positive leadership beyond the bounds of planning; it could and should actively work to ensure that improvements in election procedures would result in increased participation by students. CHANGE AND ACTION Change is not enough; energy and activity to make change effective are of great importance. If the student council and the student body accept the recommendations of the committee, the committee’s work is not complete. The task remains to see that not only mechanical changes but changes in attitude and action are made. SALMAGUNDI What's So Funny? Nothing At All... By JOHN TOUMARAS “What's so damn funny?” Nothing. Nothing at all, really. Nothing at all. Monday night we’ll feed the children, entertain them, and then present them with gifts. There'll be carol singing, story-telling, and the usual oooh’s and ah’s at the lighting of the Christmas tree and at Santa’s arrival. Of course, we'll have to help them unwrap their presents and make preliminary inspections and tests. And when it’s all over, we'll feel a warm glow in our tweed-covered hearts, and we'll remember that surely it’s much better to give than to receive. Wednesday’s Observer carried a news story relating the “mixed reaction” to a report made by a field representative of the National Student Association that Woman’s College, a part of the University of North Carolina, was “intellectually dead.” Franklin McNutt, Dean Emeritus of the Graduate School, replied that the charge was “nonsense.” The report also went on to state that “there is a lack of interest in major topics” and that the students “don’t dare discuss race relations.” Could we, too, make an answer of “nonsense” to such a charge? All of you who have opinions concerning the elections system, please come to the meetings of the Elections Committee and air your views. And if you find that you can’t attend, talk with one of the committee members. Here is your opportunity to make a practical, personal, intellectual, non-monetary contribution to Davidson. Next Wednesday night there will be a public reading by students of Archibald MacLeish’s “J. B.” at the Union. A serious religious drama about Job, the play contains relevant thoughts about our contemporary culture. Let’s fill up the ballroom. Don’t forget. Make an effort. Give to the Gift Fund. THE PHILOSOPHES The Gift Of Self By DAI. The YMCA Gift Fund and whatever thoughts and actions it may inspire will shortly figure in the lives of each of us. We shall be called to some sort of stewardship: it is well to think of what we have to give and our ability to give it. On the outskirts of a thriving Italian metropolis, a high wall arranges an otherwise haphazard collection of tombstones. Wealth and poverty alike are at times interred within: only the former remains. The less fortunate Italian families annually pour a great portion of their earnings into the treasuries of the Church in order to retain the plots in which they may later have themselves buried. This is the price of admission into immortality, their recompense for the sufferings of the present world. Little do they realize the disinterment, cremation, and resale of plots which go on a few short days after their death. They possess neither the ability nor the substance to give beyond themselves; external authority permeates every part of their existence. Since World War II, America has steadily increased her material aid to a rebuilding world; her philanthropy continues to reach new heights. And yet, gratitude has not grown accordingly; in fact, it hardly exists. Money and machines are seen with their ulterior strings attached. One cannot refuse the gift for needs are too great, but one wishes for a giver until he becomes accustomed to the bareness of the gift. America possesses both substance and ability but her freedom to become a giver is limited by the necessity of self-interest. Davidson prepares now for another Gift Fund Drive. We, her students, are neither oppressed by a higher authority nor constrained by the fear of extinction; we possess abundant substance and rich freedom. In our thinking, we may dwell upon the Fund's success in the past, upon the relative need of the recipient in comparison to ourselves, on the possibility of sacrificing a week’s study, on the beneficial effects of tithing. There may be a further thought. Two thousand years ago, a Jewish widow softly stole to the Church treasury with two lowly mites, and herself, to give. Her substance was not great, unless one includes her person in her substance; and her lack of substance limited her freedom, unless she were free to contribute herself. The grandeur of her action was the result of her inclusion of herself within it. She did not consider herself the possessor of anything, and felt constrained to do what she did; she would have said that none was good but God alone, and that she could thus do no other. Hers was the greatest, the only real, stewardship. The gift without the giver is bare. The blessedness of giving refers more to the giver than the gift unless the gift be the giver.