Che Dauvidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 1958

(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

Our Cup Runneth Over

Sunday night's overflow conditions at Vespers call for immediate action on the part of the faculty. It is impossible for
meaningful worship to take place when students are forced to sit in windows, on the floors, on radiators, and the
like. In fact, this week some sixty-five students were not able to squeeze into the sanctuary of the Church at
all; they heard the service in Lingle Chapel. The current proposal to exempt seniors from required vespers seems to be
a good one, or at least the best at hand. This proposal, in light of present conditions, deserves the immediate
approval of the faculty.

However, it comes to mind that this week, as last week, we are faced with symptoms of what is fast
becoming an impossible situation. Seven days ago this paper was filled with stories and pictures which dealt with pallets in
the gym and packed classrooms. This week a church which cannot hold the bulging student body demands attention. Who can
tell about next week?

One fact at least remains clear and evident. The problems at Davidson resulting from overcrowding cannot be attributed to any
major mistakes on the part of the administration, Mrs. Moore, Cop Linker, or the waitress at the ‘greasy spoon.” The
Board of Trustees must accept the blame for the deplorable conditions. Their 1957 decision to increase enrollment is beginning to
bring its fruits to the campus scene. A mistake has been made, but it can at least in part be
rectified. Now is the time for the Board to act to call a halt to any further increases until facilities
are available here at Davidson to give additional students an adequate education. The DAVIDSONIAN urges that this action be taken
by the Board at the earliest possible date.

Last Resort Has Been Reached

The Davidson College Bulletin for February, 1916, contains this sentence: “The public mess hall, or commons, where scores or hundreds
of young men take their meals together, with no lady at the table, and with a salaried manager in charge
who has no pecuniary interest in making the fare or service attractive, has never found favor with Davidson authorities, and
will never be adopted except as a last resort.”

The last resort has been reached. At the present time, two hundred and fifty-seven freshmen, plus a considerable number of
independent upperclassmen, are jammed daily into the undersized cafeteria of the College Union. Despite the use of two serving lines
at lunch and supper, the queues of waiting students often extend back as far as the cigarette machines next to
the student store, and during rush hours and on Sundays they end by curling around the billiard tables.

And if the waiting student’s gustatory expectations are still high by the time he reaches the food, he is likely
to be sorely disappointed. For despite the firm resolutions of 1916, the cafeteria is now under the direction of “a
salaried manager who has no pecuniary interest in making the fare or service attractive.” The effects of this are immediately
evident to anyone who eats there.

The convenience to the college of handing the College Union cafeteria over to the Slater Corporation is indubitable, but no
one can seriously expect attractive food or service from a commercial organization which is interested solely in increasing its profit
margin—C.H.C.

Riots Must Go

Sunday night's so-called “riot” proved beyond any doubt that the Class of ’62 is composed of freshmen. It further proved,
somewhat disturbingly, that many upperclassmen have never fully outgrown their own freshmen days. At the risk of sounding like greying
seniors, we say that there is no room on the Davidson campus for such occurrences of mob action. Certainly, the
water throwing began in fun, but during the heat of “battle,” many of those involved had little idea as to
what they were doing. The College was indeed lucky that no significant personal injury or property damage occurred.

The DAVIDSONIAN believes that the Student Council, as the duly elected representatives of the Student Body, should use more force
in bringing any similar future occurrences to a sharp halt. Too often in the past Council members have adopted the
“hands in the pocket, forced smile” attitude toward such campus shenanigans. No student would resent such action on the part
of council members, elected to govern the Student Body for the best interests of all.

Appreciation To Dr. Graham

The DAVIDSONIAN wishes to express to Dr. Billy Graham its appreciation for the interview (see Page 1) which he so
graciously granted to Managing Editor Armfield. We find his answers to Armfield’s questions probing and significant, perhaps reaching to the
heart of our college generation’s problems. Doubtless there are many on the Davidson campus who disagree with Dr. Graham's theology
and perhaps his methods. No one can, however, fail to respect his sincerity and consecration in doing what he firmly
believes to be “the Lord’s work.” We extend to him our best wishes in his current series of services and
commend his messages to the Student Body.

On Wildcats!

Last Friday night’s loss by the Wildcats came as a shock to all true Davidsonians. The reason for the loss
is about as difficult to guess as which way a football will bounce, and frankly, like most of the Student
Body, we were too numbed by Rush Week to know just what happened. One game, however, does not make a
season. Now is the time for students and friends of the team to let Coach Dole and his boys know
that we are still supporting them and believe that they have the ability to yet make this a memorable year
for gridiron triumphs.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Laurens Walker

ASSISTANT EDITOR
Bill Patton

BUSINESS MANAGER
Henry Samuels

Associate Editors
Tom Colvin, Spiro Macris

Managing Editors
Charles Chastain, Bob Lathan, George Ramsey

Sports Editor
Ed Armfield

Feature Editor
Dick Smith

News Editor
Jim Hamilton

Advertising Manager
Pete Kellogg

Circulation Manager
Bruce Brooks

Ass't. Business Manager
Dave Gillis

Assignments Editor
Greg Grana

Copy Editor
Charles Rose

Cartoonists
Bob Wynne

Photographer
Bross, Cole

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879

EXPRESSES APPRECIATION

Changed Rush Week, Confirmation Termed ‘Most Successful’ By IFC President Anderson

By VERNON ANDERSON

In the eyes of this year’s IFC, the recently completed rush program is felt to be one of the most
successful to date. The two major revisions, (pre-school rushing and revised confirmation) of the past year's procedures are pointed up
as the factors contributing to the unusually smooth rush week.

Preschool rush played a prominent part in rush week this year, for it benefited freshmen and upperclassmen alike. With the
slower schedule of Orientation and Rush Week without classes, the rushee had a great deal more time for consideration in
his choice of fraternity and the fraternities themselves were afforded more time than was previously accustomed. This led to a
generally more concentrated rush. One point of consideration is the development of a more successful academic beginning, also, rather than
the faulty start which was often the product outcome of previous rush weeks.

The revised confirmation system is the other factor which made for a successful rush week. The revised plan called for
a master sheet confirmation for the IFC rather than the usual confirmation by fraternity. The most desirable feature of the
revision is the absence of pressure which was often put on the rushee to give extra or more desirable dates
to fraternities. The idea of the personal master chart made the process a great deal easier for the inexperienced freshman
and the confusion of confirming dates to two fraternities on the same hour was absent. This plan also made the
tedious job of the council much easier.

Two suggestions for future rush weeks are offered by the IFC as possible aids to an even better rush week
in the years to come.

Editor Calls Charlottean’s

Editors Note: From time to time, as significant books are published, the DAVIDSONIAN will feature reviews by students of these
books.

By CHARLES CHASTAIN
Davidsonian Associate Editor

Only in America, by Harry Golden; World Publishing Company; $4.00.

As a Jew, a native New Yorker, a second-generation American, and a liberal,Harry Golden is about as alien in background
and convictions to the bulk of the Davidson Gentlemen as another American can be. But his Carolina Israelite, published monthly
in Charlotte, presents a view of the South “as others see us," and his voice is one that we would
do well to heed.

GREAT BINGE

Only in America is a collection of several dozen short pieces from back issues of the Israelite, compiled by Golden's
son, with a foreword by Carl Sandburg. They cover a multitude of subjects: Jewish immigrant life on New York's Lower
East Side, where Harry Golden was born and raised; famous personalities, ranging from Cleopatra (‘Now that’s what I call ‘a
girl’") to Billy Graham; sharp comments on our national foibles and shortcomings (‘America is on a huge breast binge’); and
the fascinating trivialities of daily life. But Harry Golden’s most pertinent comments—and the ones which we will disregard only to
our own detriment—are on the matter of racial relations. To this problem, he brings a store of practical wisdom drawn
from his experience with all types of humanity on all levels of society, as well as a penetrating intellect, an
entertaining literary style, and a brilliant wit that coats the bitter pill he gives us.

DISCRIMINATION

In such long, sober articles as “Negro and Jew in Dixie,” Harry Golden describes a sad but little-known facet of
the racial conflict in this region: its effect on the precarious social position of the Jews living in the South,
and the efforts of many of them to dissociate themselves from any movements toward reform. And in several short, satirical
pieces, he quietly but effectively reveals the humor latent in our customs of racial discrimination. For example, there is the
Vertical Negro Plan, by which white and colored children would study side by side in the same classroom—standing up, since
racial segregation has all but been eliminated at grocery counters, banks, dime stores, etc.

CARRY-THE-BOOKS PLAN

Then there is the Carry-the-Books Plan: “There is no vertical segregation. But neither is there ‘45-degree-angle’ segregation if the sitting
or leaning Negro is a servant, a domestic, or a chore-boy of some kind. Therefore, the Negro parents of the
South should make this proposition to their local school boards: that they will allow their children to carry the books
for their white classmates. The girls should wear a sort of miniature apron over their street dresses, and this would
settle everything once and for all. Everybody would be satisfied.”

Harry Golden, whose newspaper barely eluded the creditors for a long time, is now a success in the best American
tradition, with a book at the top of the best-seller list. We can hope, however, that this Horatio-Alger-type rise to
fame will not diminish his intellectual non-conformity or his willingness to take to task, when they need it, his fellow
citizens in the region he has adopted.

LETTERS TO EDITOR

The idea of using the services of the IFC itself, other than the postal service, may lead to a quicker
and smoother bid distribution. This system has disadvantages itself, but they may be outweighed by its advantages. The second possible
suggestion would be the keeping of the before-school time of rush week unless a superior idea could be formulated. In
closing, on behalf of the IFC, I express appreciation for upperclass cooperation throughout the orientation period.

OUT OF BOUNDS... Comparative Scores Prove Wildcats No. 1

By TENNEY DEANE

Since this is the first time that I have been in print this year, I would like to extend a
special welcome to all new readers of THE DAVIDSONIAN whose eyes happen to wander over this column. I hope that
printing “all that’s fit to print” won’t keep my few words from brightening each Friday evening when you settle down
to read D.C.’s contribution to journalism.

Many fans of the Davidson Wildcats were disappointed last Friday night when we lost our season’s opener to Catawba College.
Although many feel that they know why we lost that game, I would like to justify the team’s feeling of
confidence in expecting to win. Last year the ‘Cats had the best football team in the country. By means of
comparative scores, I can prove this. Davidson played and defeated the University of Richmond last season. Richmond, however, beat William
and Mary who in turn edged out North Carolina State. If you remember, State defeated the University of North Carolina
who had beaten the United States Naval Academy. Navy had the good fortune of upsetting the boys from Notre Dame,
who in turn defeated the number one team in the country, Oklahoma. My solution is simple: Why should we worry
about a team like Catawba when we could beat the best team in the country?

Here is an announcement of interest: The Fine Arts Club held its first meeting of the school year last Saturday
evening in Statesville, N. C. Attendance was good but down a little from last year due to “Rush Week” activities.
Watch this column for future meeting dates.

Watch Mickey Mouse, Channel 9...

THE ICONOCLAST Upperclassmen Angry As Freshmen

By MARSHALL LAFAR

This column will be written for students to express their opinions on their particular dislikes around the campus. If you
know of anything that does not meet with your approval, let this column know about it.

What's happening to us? Last year the freshman class never got to leave chapel until upperclassmen had left the auditorium.
This year there have been some changes made. When the chorus of “Sit Down, Freshmen” is shouted, things are somewhat
different. The freshmen, who have been at Davidson less than a month, merely hiss the upperclassmen and resume their march
out of chapel. Upperclassmen, are we losing our touch? Or do we just not care anymore?

While collecting ideas on various “gripes” to write about, I walked into the room of a good friend. I interrupted
his work by asking if there was anything that aggravated him. He quickly came back with, “Yeah! People walking in
my room when I'm trying to study!”

As everyone knows, there used to be a quite noticeable rise in the road between the college laundry and Belk.
This rise caused a slight bounce on a car that was going over five or ten miles an hour. However,
there was a sign that announced “BUMP” to traffic coming from both directions. This rise in the road was put
there in order to protect laundry pedestrians from the danger of speeding vehicles. This so-called bump must not have served
its purpose. This year there are two bumps, six signs, and two hurricane fences. Next year these will be accompanied
by a small drawbridge.

Catalogue Error Pointed Out, Squirrel Contributes

Dear Editor:

Realizing your reluctance to have even the militant Davidsonian at variance with an official publication of the College, I still
ask a few lines to correct the error in the current Catalogue (and the one before it): that fails to
list the Ph.D. degree of one of our English staff, Professor Goodykoontz. I think it should be known that Dr.
Goodykoontz had his degree from the University of North Carolina when he came to us last year. Pro veritate!

James S. Purcell
English Department

Dear Editor:

You will probably find this hardly believable, but yesterday afternoon I returned to my room only to find a squirrel
at my typewriter. I was quiet so as not to scare him away. When he was done, he scampered out
the window and disappeared. This note is what he had typed. If you like it and print it, I’m sure
that he will leave more.

i hope you don t mind my sneaking into your room but yours is the only window i can open
thanks for the cheeze crackers on the floor but i wish that you would leave something stronger than cokes for
me to drink the wildcats didn t start off the season very impressively did they maybe they need more support.
student support that is i would like to see a mascot for the team and a wild wildcat would be
appropriate the head cheerleader who doesn t do much anyway could be his keeper if you leave paper in your
typewriter again i ll try to leave you more notes oh you can call me rosco

By Schulz
