Quo Vadis, YMCA? (Page Two)

VOL. XLVI. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 1958

Students cast their votes in the Honor Court amendment referendum at the ballot box in the Old Dining Hall in
Chambers Auditorium after chapel Tuesday morning. The amendment passed by a margin of six to one.—(Photo by Rhyne)

Soft Sell Makes ‘‘Y’’ A Financial Success

Vernon Broyles, President of the YMCA, was interviewed by members of the DAVIDSONIAN staff this week. Questions and answers are
as follows:

What is your evaluation of the Y’s program this year?

“Last year primarily was one of study and interpretation of the Y's job in the light of our contemporary situation.
We set up the present reorganization, and this year is the experimental year, to see if this is a valid
reorganization.”

“Already we've found some things that need to be changed, but I think basically it’s a good reorganization... I think
in the past we’ve put too much emphasis on the financial aspect.”

How many members do you have?

“Somewhere around five to six hundred.”

How many did you have last year?

“I think about six hundred and fifty. We still have some loose ends to tie up in the membership drive...
But even at this unfinished point we're several hundred dollars ahead of last year. Our Vesper offerings have been considerably
higher than last year.”

You say you’re not emphasizing the financial aspect, but you just spoke of the Y’s progress in terms of money.

“I think a greater financial sacrifice indicates a greater interest... Our primary purpose this year is to provide as many
outlets for student interest as we can.”

Do you think that by using the “soft-sell” approach, leading to a smaller membership, the Y runs the risk of
becoming a small group without important campus-wide influence?

“No, though we may have a slightly smaller number of students. I don't feel a man’s spiritual growth is strengthened
by having YMCA under his picture in the annual... If we can get a number of interested students, then we
can show the rest what we can do.”

“We're more interested this year in doing something with everybody that expresses an interest. I personally feel that in this
using of maybe a smaller group, we can show once again that the Y does have application to the student
body.”

Are you satisfied with the present advisor situation? Do you favor having the College Chaplain handle the Y, or would
you prefer a professional Y worker in addition to the Chaplain?

“I feel that a vital part of a campus Y is an adult whose insights are respected and to whom
the students can come when they have a problem.”

But do you feel there is too much work for one man to do both jobs?

“I think the jobs are compatible—I think that one man can do both.”

Are you satisfied with the present relationship of the Y and the national Y?

“I think I'll know more after I go to the National Quadrennial in December. I'll for the first time be
able to see the national Y at first hand.”

Does the Davidson Y have an obligation to support national programs with a social emphasis, such as their racial policy?

“Of course, a campus Y is autonomous to a very large extent. I think it’s the duty of the campus
Y's to govern policies in accordance with their own situation. I don’t think any national policy is necessarily applicable to
every situation... I think the point at which we follow the national Y most is the ecumenical aspect.”

Have you had any membership meetings this year?

“Jack Lewis was here for the first one, but there was a very poor turnout.”

Why?

“I don’t know.”

“Have you had any more?”

“No.”

But they are monthly meetings?

“Yes.”

Edwards Speaks At Sunday Service

The Vespers speaker on Sunday, November 27, will be Dr. Albert G. Edwards of Raleigh. Dr. Edwards was born in
Scotland and came to the United States to study engineering at Georgia Tech. In Atlanta, while attending Dr. Peter Marshall's
church, he decided to study for the Presbyterian ministry.

After studying at Presbyterian College and Union Seminary in Richmond, he served as Minister to the Presbyterian Church of Orange,
Virginia. During World War II he served with the Army Medical Corps. Having served as Chaplain to Woodberry Forest School,
he filled pastorates in Harrisonburg, Va., and Durham, his present position. He received a Doctorate in Divinity from Davis and
Elkins College, for which he has served as a trustee.

Critic Praises Actors In Masquers’ “Ghosts”

The Red and Black Masquers presented “Ghosts,” by Henrik Ibsen, Thursday through Saturday nights, November 13, 14, and 15, in
Chambers Auditorium.

In “Ghosts,” Ibsen eliminated all antecedent action of the “plot,” dramatizing only the critical situation. The story centers around Mrs.
Alving, an advanced thinker for her time, widow of a dissipated husband who had given a respectable appearance to the
world; Oswald, their son, who has just returned from Paris and is suffering from a mental illness brought on by
a congenital venereal disease. Other characters are Manders, the pastor, who doggedly holds on to respectability and morality at all
costs; Regina, Mrs. Alving's maid, who is Alving’s illegitimate daughter in reality; and Jacob Engstrand, a drunk who had married
Regina’s mother.

GHOSTS?

At first, the title seems to refer to the wanton traits of Oswald's father that show up in his son’s
behavior, and to the disease he has inherited from his father. But on deeper examination the real “ghosts” the play
deals with are nineteenth century, middle-class ideas of respectability and convention, which Ibsen breaks down, blow by blow. Mrs. Alving
had been forced to live with her dissolute husband because of a wife's duty to her husband. The orphanage that
Mrs. Alving is erecting with her husband's money has not been insured because Pastor Manders believes it would be showing
a mistrust in God. It burns to the ground.

In his review in the “Charlotte Observer,” Dick Banks complained that his wooden seat got harder and harder as the
play progressed. Perhaps Mr. Banks refuses to accept Ibsen on Ibsen’s terms. There is almost no action in the play—everything
depends on the dialogue, and an undivided attention must be directed toward it to grasp the ideas. Few playwrights reward
us so richly for our attention as Ibsen.

CONVENTIONAL SET

The Masquers followed the conventional Alla Nazimova production set in almost every detail, and the lighting was especially good in
the “fire” and “sunrise” scenes. George Kemmerer and Miriam Seawell were outstanding as Oswald and Mrs. Alving. Miss Seawell's performance
was consistently excellent throughout, and Kemmerer could be convincingly placid or fiery, as the scene demanded. George Johnson showed understanding
and acting ability in the character role of Engstrand. Warren Womble played well the hypocrite, Manders, but occasionally overdid his
stiffness. Sandra Goodwin, as Regina, was the only disappointment. She never seemed to grasp the significance of her lines, putting
a strain on the other actors in her scenes.

Spring Frolics Dates Altered By IFC Vote

The IFC voted unanimously to change the Spring Frolics weekend to April 24 and 25. Conflicting campus activities necessitated the
shift of date, originally set for April 17 and 18. The decision was reached at the November 17, Monday night
meeting of the IFC.

A Male Chorus tour, scheduled over the weekend of April 17, stimulated the IFC to investigate the activities calendar for
a more suitable date. IFC President Vernon Anderson assigned Don Coffey, SAE representative, to study the situation. He found the
baseball team also out of town over the weekend in question. The following Friday and Saturday (24 and 25) would
have the Male Chorus back from tour and the baseball schedule would open on Friday night. Also a tennis match
is to be played on the local courts that weekend, which would be an added attraction to the Frolics activities.
In this light the IFC made the change of date.

Ralph Triplette vacated the PiKA position on the council due to medical reasons. He has left school for this semester
for treatment. George Gladstone was delegated to occupy the PiKA seat and was recognized by the Council as the new
representative.

The Red Cross Blood Drive has begun under the auspices of the IFC and ROTC Department. Donor cards have been
distributed to all ROTC students and further canvassing will be conducted in the fraternities.

Mrs. Moore Lauds Davidson’s Dorms

Mrs. J. B. Moore, supervisor of dormitories, recently made two trips through the Carolinas to observe the dormitories.at other colleges.
Upon her return she stated, “I was quite pleased with the dormitories here at Davidson in comparison with the ones
that I visited. The physical plants here equaled or surpassed those of the six colleges that I visited.” Mrs. Moore
stated that Davidson’s new dorms compared favorably with the new dorms of the other schools. But she also mentioned that
the older ones here usually surpassed those of the other colleges that she visited. Of the six visited, only two
had janitors to clean the individual rooms. At the other four schools, the boys had to make their own beds
and keep their rooms in a clean and tidy manner. She also brought out that the other colleges had stricter
rules concerning the dormitories. The maximum penalty was a week's campus for an unusually messy room. Wash basins were very
unusual in the rooms at the other schools, but she brought out that many of the situations were similar to
those here. One was the manner in which the boys signed up for rooms, and at some places, the boys
waited all night in line so as to get certain rooms. Overcrowdedness was also prevalent in all the schools due
to increased enrollments.

The donor center will be open on Monday, December 15. In the past two donations, a free cut in ROTC
drill days has been scheduled for all donors. Also, the IFC will award the plaque for the highest donor percentage
among the fraternities. Richard Brubaker, IFC Secretary, is confirming information for the Barium Springs Orphanage Christmas Party. The date suggested
for the annual party is the last Monday of school before the holidays. Final arrangements will be made in conjunction
with the Orphanage administration. A maximum present cost was set by the IFC to standardize the fraternity gifts to the
children. The majority of the fraternities on campus have now been introduced to the United Fund Drive and are taking
action for blanket contributions. Several of the IFC members voiced a desire to have the United Fund representatives return, allowing
their fraternities to see the drive film covering United Fund work. President Anderson approved this measure and agreed to make
the necessary arrangements with the United Fund headquarters.

It was a dark winter night at Davidson and about as cold and damp as a night ever got in
the year 1892. The hour was late and most students had already turned in for the night. Across the campus,
one lone soul hurried back to his room. Suddenly, the heavy stillness that enveloped the ground was shattered by the
snarling scream of some animal. The boy halted in his tracks and listened as the beast continued his wail. The
walls of old Chambers resounded with the cry which now seemed to come from every corner of the campus. Satisfied
that he had heard enough, the boy continued his short journey with renewed interest. It must never be said that
he ran to his room out of fear—but that our friend was eager to make sure that his fellow students
were given the opportunity to hear what he was still hearing. An interested group soon gathered and decided that some
wild animal, possibly some wild cat, had roamed up to this civilized hill. But the visitor must have felt at
home here because he remained in the area to serenade the campus for many nights to come.

Mr. Charles Montgomery of the class of ‘93 goes on to relate this story as he personally observed it. He
says, “Something had to be done. Nim Hunter called his cohorts to his room. Voss, Darrow, and Lawrence Mills are
all heard about; there may have been more. No one having seen the beast, it wasn’t hard to fashion him,
so with rags, wire, and a long cord the cat took up existence. The fake animal was put on the
ground outside Mill's room on the second floor with a long cord running from the animal to a point across
the campus. It was still light enough to see outside and at a given sign Mills ran across the hall
to Morrison Brown's room, crying, “Brown, that wild cat is on the outside of my window; let me have your
gun, quick.” Mills knew that Brown had a gun, and knew also that he would not let him have it.
“No,” says Brown, “I’ll come and shoot him.” So across the hall they ran and peered out the window. Sure
enough, there the cat was waddling about. It took no time to shoot. Brown had only one more shell. He
let go with that one. The cat moderated his leaps. Brown and Mills had no more need of the gun,
so down the stairs and out the back door they ran. As they turned the corner, Brown ran into the
string Darrow was using to make the cat jump. Needless to say, Brown was in his room immediately. Two shots
at that time of day got everybody in Chambers out. They all gathered at Brown's room, which was locked. After
much persuasion, he opened up and lit into Darrow. (Continued On Page 4)

The Wildcat howls—a Davidson tradition in sports. Experts disagree as to the origin of this distinctive nickname for the Davidson
teams, but all concur in assigning it a unique place among college traditions.—(Photo by Rhyne)
