PAGE FOUR
The Davidsonian
The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

SIDNEY FALCO
EDITOR

DAN LaFAR
ASSOCIATE EDITOR

EDGAR LINKER
MANAGING EDITOR

GRANTLAND RICE
SPORTS EDITOR

Wise Trustees

The Trustee’s decision to increase the enrollment to 3,500 is one of the most progressive moves taken by the Board
this year. Not only will the increase bring to Davidson students of all types to give the college a university
atmosphere, but more importantly, Davidson will be hailed by the church leaders for permitting every loyal Presbyterian to come to
Davidson. The Davidson product will now be increased over four-fold by this new decision. Now we can look forward to
the day when 9 out of every 10 ministers are Davidson graduates, when 1 out of every 2 doctors is
an alumnus, and when 3 out of every 5 college graduates in the state is a Davidson man.

For too long now, Davidson has limited its superior production capacity to too few students. For too long now, we
have deliberately selected the best students from the best backgrounds to fill our college. The result has been that Davidson's
graduates have done the best of all after leaving college. It only makes good sense that we give every student
in the state a chance to receive the Davidson diploma. We commend the Trustees on their forthright and wise decision.

Man! Like They Aren't Very Cool!

I’m beating my gums about the new mating season ensembles in stock.

Five hundred and twenty new freshmen will enter Davidson in September, Mr. Hengeveld, Registrar, announced yesterday. These 520 freshmen, an
increase of 270 over this year’s class, is only the first step in the gradual increase in Davidson's enrollment as
ordered by the Board of Trustees. “We hope to be up to 2500 students by 1960,” he said. When asked
if he thought the number might rise even above this, Mr. Hengeveld commented that he could not predict what the
Trustees might do.

However, a telephone interview with Dr. C. McDowell Richards, chairman of the Board of Trustees, revealed that the Board “is
still considering the enrollment issue. We have appointed a committee to study the question and expect a report at our
next meeting.” One prominent Trustee, who asked not to be quoted, said that in his opinion the Trustees are so
enthusiastic about Davidson that the enrollment will probably be raised to 3,500. “We owe it to the church, to our
alumni, to our section, and to the country to give every qualified person the right to a Davidson College education,”
he said. “This tremendous increase in prospective students demands that Davidson share in the program to give young people a
college education.”

They Won't Get Me!

Fraternity Court To House Extra Frosh

The new half-million dollar fraternity court will be used to house the extra 270 new freshmen next year, Mrs. Moore,
Supervisor of Dormitories, said yesterday.

AND

If you can’t pony up the cold, green type-of folding stuff... put it on the cuff at... Wilson-Wright's, Inc. “COLLEGIATE
FASHIONS”

JUST ARRIVED — LATEST STYLES IN PEON ARMY UNIFORMS — COMPLETE WITH MASKS!

An hour ago the boy made a date— NOW HE’S GONE FOREVER

The date was cancelled—by death on the highway. Last year, 40,000 Americans died on our roads and highways. You can
help stop this senseless waste of life. Here’s how you can help stop traffic tragedies:
1. Drive safely and courteously yourself. Observe speed limits and warning signs. Where traffic laws are obeyed, deaths go DOWN.
2. Insist on strict enforcement of all traffic laws. Traffic regulations work for you, not against you. Where traffic laws
are strictly enforced, deaths go DOWN.
Support your local Safety Council.

“The fraternities have to wait,” she said in announcing the administration’s decision as she left the Treasurer’s office. “We have
discussed this thing completely and there is nothing else to do.” About 25 students will live in each house. The
kitchens will be converted into a study room, with the dietitian’s quarters, living room, and basement divided into cubicles for
25 single rooms. This is a temporary arrangement, she went on to explain. “We hope to move into the new
dorm within two years.”

Seven Students Honored

Harriman To Speak At Commencement

Averell Harriman, Governor of New York, will deliver the commencement speech, Dr. C. J. Pietenpol admitted today. “Davidson is indeed
honored to have Gov. Harriman visit Davidson. His liberal and pro-labor policies that have brought so much progress to the
Empire State qualify him to speak to us,” Pietenpol said.

HARRIMAN (Continued From Front Page)

son and heir of capitalist E. H. Harriman, who made his fortune from railroading, will arrive at Davidson on the
way north from his plantation in Georgia, where he recently entertained Harry Truman. Harriman, long an ardent supporter of organized
labor and civil rights measures, will speak on the subject, “Practical Politics and How It Works in the Big States.”
In commenting on his subject, Pietenpol said that the speech should have special significance to the young man just out
of college. He recalled that last June, John F. Kennedy, Senator from Mass., spoke at U.S.C. on the role of
the young man in politics. Both men are eminently qualified, Pietenpol said. An honorary degree will be given to Estes
Kefauver. The degree was originally offered to Gov.G. Mennen “Soapy” Williams of Michigan, but he declined because of a previous
commitment to speak at City College of New York on the same day. Kefauver will receive an L.L.D. from the
Sociology Department.

By Whose Zoo? Magazine

The national honor magazine, Whose Zoo?, recently named seven Davidson students to its illustrious list of honorees. Barney Regen, noted
lover and athlete, is an active member of Phi Delta Theta.

Do Even Your Best Friends SCODE?

Buckle in the back, don’t have a zipper on the front... trousers fit you like Bermudas... your suit looks like
you slept in it. Bring your clothes in for all repairs, alterations, and cleaning and pressing.

HATS STRETCHED FOR ELECTION WEEK!

Timothy, Tenn., alumni club, Timothy (near Nashville), Tennessee. The lanky senior hails from your levys with the... or your dating...
of Cleaners GULF STATION.

Carey Pickard, an active member of the Kappa Alpha Order, the Junior Riflemen of America, and the Wyatt Earp fan
club, which he is currently serving as Eminent Archon, hails from Macon, Georgia. Gilmour Lake, ex-junior class vice-president, noted card
shark and semi-professional golfer, was recently bid by ODK, but couldn’t foot the initiation dues. Ross Smyth, campus luminary, has
served in the capacity of student body president, soccer captain, and is currently a member of Phi Beta Kappa social
fraternity. Bob Blake, freshman, achieved recognition in his rookie year due mainly to his performance on the launching platform. Blake
is a top candidate for the Wernher von Braun missile award of 1958. Melton Tankersley, student politician extraordinaire, was awarded
recognition for his outstanding contribution to the social and religious life of the campus. Tankersley, an inconspicuous member of Phi
Delta Theta, was termed as “just coming into his own as a campus leader.” Bob Shoffner, assistant Student Union director,
was cited for outstanding service to student government through unrecognized media. The Raleigh, N.C., native was termed “the most underrated
student at Davidson.”

Issues of the magazine may be obtained by sending 25¢ in stamps and a self-addressed boxcar to: Whose Zoo?, Box
1, West Owl Creek, Delaware.

Course in any subject the said student desires so long as it is not covered by the previously mentioned courses
and does not violate Army Regulations as stated in the Officers Guide, a copy of which may be gotten between
1330 to 1630 hours on Saturday from the sergeant on duty, the sergeant being selected by a committee of cadre
and student leaders,” he said in announcing the new course. Applicants must apply for application form by filling out DD67
and DD68 forms which may be gotten from the Orderly Room between the hours of 1200 and 1600 each day.
Applications must be accompanied by a 2 1-5 x 8 1-9 photograph.

Oklahoma Added to 1960 Grid Schedule

Oklahoma and Texas A&M have been added to the 1960 Davidson College football schedule, according to athletic director Tom Scott,
who announced yesterday that Davidson has voted in a large-scale subsidization program. The College Trustees at their recent meeting voted
to provide for the raising of such money that Davidson might move into the circle of athletic powers in this
section of the country. The addition of Oklahoma and Texas A&M is the first step by the scheduling committee to
achieve opponents of caliber for the Wildcats. Coach Dole, commenting on the addition of these teams, stated, “Don’t be too
surprised if we lose to these teams in 1960. It may take a year or so for us to really
adapt to the big-time competition.” The University of Kentucky, SMU, and North Carolina have agreed to begin negotiations for joining
the Davidson basketball schedule. Plans are still incomplete, but Coach Scott stated that he hopes to see Davidson among the
top ten teams in the country soon.

ROTC Dept. To Offer New Elective Courses

TUESDAY, APRIL 1, 1968

The Trustees have voted to let the Davidson student body decide whether the above applicant shall be accepted, paving the
way for co-education. The applicant is a Southern white Protestant. Mark ballots “Yes” or “No” and deposit in boxes in
the Union lobby.

10-STORY DORM SCHEDULED

A new multi-million dollar dorm will rise above Davidson within the next two years. The college plans call for a
ten-story skyscraper to be built on the present site of Belk Dorm. Mr. D. G. Martin, in announcing the new
dorm, said, “We will demolish Belk since the cigarette burns on the floors make it unattractive to visitors. In its
place will rise the finest dormitory in the Carolinas—the new ten-story skyscraper.” The new dorm will have both elevators and
escalators, and each floor will have a lounge and TV room. A cafeteria is planned for the basement. “This is
a wonderful boost to our plans to increase the enrollment,” commented the treasurer. Although a name has not been decided
upon for the new dorm, Mr. Martin said that he thought the Trustees would probably name it after Davidson’s greatest
alumnus—Woodrow Wilson, who attended college here, was also President of Princeton University in New Jersey, Governor of New Jersey, and
served for two terms as President of the United States in Washington, D.C.

This Is No Joke...!

Spring Sale

JACKETS
SHIRTS
GOLF EQUIPMENT
GOLF SHOES
RAZORS
RADIOS
AND OTHER VALUES

Marked as Low as 1-2 Off!

Will Take Place April 1, 2, & 3 IN THE STUDENT STORE

It’s Spring Again...!

But have you looked at your Lightweight Jeans lately? Are they strictly out of it? Check ours over with the
little buckle in the back and the tapered legs! And what about your Shirts with little acid holes from Lab?
Again we can offer you the best even with a special button in the back of the collar. One more
thing—that rope has to be replaced with a belt. Surely you will want to impress the Southern Belle type young
women with CLOTHES OF DISTINCTION...

— FROM —

Jack Movd Ltd.
“It Costs No More To Dress Correctly”
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
