PAGE FOUR © THE DAVIDSONIAN

Alumni Association Announces Officers

President D. Grier Martin announced on Wednesday the new officers of the Davidson Alumni Association. They are as follows: Dr. Monroe T. Gilmour of Charlotte, president; and Patrick M. Williams, Jr. of Jacksonville, Fla., and William Y. Preyer, Jr. of Greensboro, vice-presidents.

Dr. Gilmour, a physician and holder of numerous professional offices, graduated from Davidson in 1929. He is active in civic and church affairs, serving on the Board of Directors of the Mecklenburg County Chapter of the American Red Cross, the Mecklenburg County Tuberculosis Association, the Mecklenburg County Heart Association, the Charlotte Chamber of Commerce, and the Community Chest. He is vice-chairman of the United Fund and vice-president of the Mental Hygiene Society. He is chairman of the Advisory Board of Health for the City of Charlotte and is president of the Medical Society of Mecklenburg County. He is a member of the Charlotte Country Club, the Charlotte City Club, Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity, and the Myers Park Presbyterian Church. He and Mrs. Gilmour, the former Mary Nash Keesler, have three daughters and two sons. One son, David, is a freshman this year at Davidson.

Mr. Williams, vice-president of the Moore Dry Kiln Company of Jacksonville, graduated from Davidson in 1947. He was originally of the class of 1943 but his education was interrupted by three years’ service in World War II with the U.S. Army. He is vice-president of the Jacksonville-Davidson Alumni Chapter and is a deacon in the First Presbyterian Church of Jacksonville. He is a member of the Forest Products Research Society, the Timuquana Country Club, and the Kappa Sigma social fraternity. He and Mrs. Williams, the former Dorothy Skinner, have two daughters and one son.

Mr. Preyer, vice-president and treasurer of the Vick Chemical Corporation, Greensboro, graduated from Davidson in 1937. He is a former president of the Davidson Alumni Association. He holds numerous civic posts and is at present a member of the Board of Directors of the Central Y.M.C.A., the First Presbyterian Church of Greensboro, the Interstate Committee of the Y.M.C.A.’s of North Carolina and South Carolina, and a member of the Greensboro Country Club. He was one of the organizers and half-owner of the Shamrock Corporation, Greensboro. He and Mrs. Preyer, the former Doris Mae Robbins, have one daughter and one son.

Nominations for offices of president and vice-presidents of the Alumni Association are made at the Commencement Association meeting and voting is done by mail balloting during the summer. Installation of the new officers will take place at a later date this fall.

Davidsonian photo—Roxe

Workmen are shown above putting the finishing touches on the interior of the main lobby of the Library. When the room is completed, the circulation desk will be placed at the left, opposite the only remaining front door to the building. In the background is the entrance to the reference room.

Enlarged Library To Be Completed This Month

By CHARLES ROSE

The newly enlarged Davidson College Library is expected to return to normal operation by the end of this month as promised by the Barger Brothers Construction Company of Mooresville.

The entire library has been equipped for air-conditioning. The old seminars on the second floor of the south wing have been replaced by a large reading room. This area will eventually be supplied with light reading matter. Carrels will now number sixty-five and study desks twenty-five. As before, honor students will hold private carrels, with those remaining divided among upperclassmen two to a desk. Freshmen are not eligible to hold carrels.

Reading rooms are now located at each end of the old library section on both floors. The two downstairs reading rooms will remain air-conditioned.

The central basement of the new wing will house a completely air-conditioned and air-filtered smoking and newspaper room. Four seminars and a typing room will open into this smoking area. Dr. Chalmers G. Davidson, library director, stated that the remodeled circulation desk should be in operation in a little over a week. The circulation of books until that time will be handled from a temporary setup in the south side of the new extension. The only entrance to the library for the present is also located on the south side of the new section.

When completed, the library will be doubled in book capacity and offer many new and improved study areas.

Dr. Davidson said that the library now contains around 73,000 volumes, and that he hopes to see this figure increased to 100,000 within the next five to ten years. Books are added to the library annually as requested by the various departments of the faculty. Dr. Davidson feels that 100,000 volumes will provide the school with a good working library for such a liberal arts institution.

“We are very proud of our new facility and know that it will be put to good use,” Dr. Davidson said with a smile.

Davidsonian Freshmen Reporters’ Meeting Sunday, 2:30 P.M. Student Union

Sack Wood Ltd. “It Costs No More To Dress Correctly” 300 S. Tryon St. Charlotte, N. C.

Do You Think for Yourself?

Do you believe you could fool a lie-detector machine if you put your mind to it? Do your emotions ever lead you to do something that seems unreasonable, even to yourself? Do you believe society should adopt new ideas at the expense of old traditions? Are you completely at ease when people watch you at work? Do you judge your parents as you do other people? If your roommate suddenly inherited a million dollars, are you sure your relationship would remain the same? Can you honestly say you pay more attention to political issues than to the personalities of the candidates? Do you try to plan ahead rather than make snap judgment decisions?

The Man Who Thinks for Himself Knows ONLY VICEROY HAS A THINKING MAN’S FILTER... A SMOKING MAN’S TASTE!

One more question: Do you think about the filter cigarette you choose or just smoke any brand? If you're the kind of person who thinks for himself, you use judgment in your choice of cigarettes, as in everything else. Men and women who think for themselves usually smoke VICEROY. Their reasons? Best in the world. They know the difference between fact and fancy. They know that only VICEROY has a thinking man’s filter and a smoking man’s taste.

IF YOU HAVE ANSWERED YES TO 6 OF THESE QUESTIONS, YOU ARE A PERSON WHO THINKS FOR HIMSELF!

Alpha Tau Omega received the Interfraternity Scholarship Cup for having the highest scholastic average for the past year, Vernon Anderson, IFC president, announced recently. As this is the third consecutive year that ATO has won the cup, the trophy will remain in their permanent possession. This cup is awarded each year to the fraternity whose membership attains the highest scholastic average for the year. The trophy is furnished by Mrs. W. H. Belk and plans are being made to install it in the Charlotte Memorial Hospital.late Mr. a central system of air-}War II as a first lieutenant in| Belk. ATO won this trophy with an average of 2.029. Sigma Chi and Beta Theta Pi followed ATO, ranking second and third respectively. The all men's average for the past year was 1.609. The all fraternity average was 1.610.

Bookstore Opens In College Union

The new Student Bookstore, under the management of Ted Dingler, will be a branch of the present Student Store in the Ovens College Union. The new bookstore will be located in the billiard room section of the Union. The store will feature Penguin, Pelican, and Modern Library paperbacks, as well as the College Outline Series. Ted also plans to make arrangements with Random House Publications for the store to handle Modern Library hardbacks and Modern Library Giants. At present, students cannot buy these in Davidson. The store will be of great value to the college in that it will be the agency through which professors may order parallel books. The store will also order books for individual students.

TAKE THIS TEST AND FIND OUT!
Yes [ ] No [ ]
crush-proof box. Yes [ ] No [ ]
Familiar pack or

Professors’ salaries could be increased easily.

Question: What about strengthening particular departments? Is anything being done about that?

Answer: A physics professor has been added. We will be seeking to strengthen departments which need it. Chemistry and physics are particular problems.

Question: Is anything going to be done to enlarge the one-man departments in philosophy, sociology, and political science?

Answer: I don't know of any plan for that at present.

Question: Is there any plan for revamping the curriculum?

Answer: No, but the Curriculum Committee is giving consideration to such possible changes.

Question: What about increases in faculty salaries?

Answer: There have been consistent increases for several years. There will be such as long as I am at Davidson. I don't think we can have the kind of people we want, or keep some of those we have, if we don’t.

Question: What are we doing about putting out business leaders? Haven't the business and economics departments dropped behind the sciences? Shouldn’t we encourage pre-business and discourage pre-med?

Answer: You have raised two problems of great magnitude. There is a question in some people’s minds as to how far to go in training businessmen by teaching business methods. I am opposed to any idea which would make Davidson a vocational school turning out students trained in specific business methods. The things a person gets in a broader education are transferable from one industry to another. The departments should be strengthened. We don’t want to be a “pre-med prep school” only.

FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 1958

Martin Interview [Construction Work On (Continued From Page One) Campus Nearing End

Work on the new library wing, fraternity court, and post office is nearing completion. The remodeling of the library, which is scheduled to be completed on September 29, has greatly altered the floor plan of the building. The front lobby can now be entered only through the center doors, and it is dominated by a large, semi-circular main desk. Reserve books will be stored in an alcove behind the main desk. The card catalogue will be behind the main desk, and the office of the Circulation and Reference Librarian will be located on the left of the lobby.

The most important change is the addition of three new floors of stacks in the new wing. This brings the total book capacity of the library to 200,000 volumes. The new wing also contains several offices and enough carrels to bring the total number to 107. The center basement has been converted into an air-conditioned smoking room, and the new seminar rooms are adjacent. The walls between the old seminar rooms have been knocked out, and the resulting room will be the reading lounge. The north end of the second floor will eventually become the reserve book reading room.

Final construction connected with the new post office will be the laying of a new sidewalk. Following the policies of modern landscape design, the new walk will not be laid until the student body has worn out the grass on whatever proves to be the most convenient route to the new building.

Landscaping of the fraternity court will begin immediately after Rush Week. All grading, seeding of lawns, and initial planting of shrubbery will be financed by the college. However, each fraternity will be responsible for the installation of floors and ceilings in the basements. The road will be paved shortly after Rush Week ends.

Pledges

Sigma Nu Bleeds (Continued From Page One) To Capture Plaque

Sigma Nu placed first among Davidson's fraternities in the blood drive held last spring. Vernon Anderson, President of the IFC, announced that Sigma Nu will receive a plaque in recognition of this accomplishment. The plaque has been in the possession of ATO for the last two years. A list of how the fraternities rated follows:

Sigma Nu 85%
ATO 63%
Sigma Chi 46%
Beta Theta Pi 39%
Phi Delta Theta 39%
Pi Kappa Alpha 30.2%
Kappa Sigma 27.4%
Phi Gamma Delta 26%
Pi Kappa Phi 20%
SAE 18.6%
Sigma Phi Epsilon 15%
Kappa Alpha 13.2%

COLLEGE OFFICES
Treasurer 2-3071
Alumni and Publicity 2-4091
YMCA 2-7311
Athletic Department 2-3111, 2-7151

DORMITORIES
Belk—1st floor 2-9354
2nd floor 2-9324
3rd floor 2-9327
4th floor 2-9383
Cannon 2-9391
Duke—East side 2-9308
West Side 2-9373
East 2-9322
Little 2-9315
Watts 2-9303

FRATERNITY HOUSES
Alpha Tau Omega 2-8476
Beta Theta Pi 2-8152
Kappa Alpha 2-7506
Kappa Sigma 2-8259
Phi Delta Theta 2-7851
Phi Gamma Delta 2-4941
Pi Kappa Alpha 2-8273
Pi Kappa Phi 2-7211
Sigma Alpha Epsilon 2-6881
Sigma Chi 2-4691
Sigma Nu 2-5386
Sigma Phi Epsilon 2-6151

FIRE AND POLICE 2-131

Shop As This Is One Of Many Good Looking Cardigan Sweaters We Have This Fall. PRICED FROM $10.95 to $17.95

Wilson-Wright's Inc.
“Collegiate Fashions”