Lanin To Play For Spring Frolics

Following this trend of informality, the Saturday night dance will be a Bermuda affair. There will be no intermission, and refreshments will be provided at the dance. The Friday night dance will be formal. Saturday afternoon an outdoor concert will be held on the lawn by Phi Hall. Also that afternoon will be a tennis match and a baseball game.

Lester Lanin and his All Stars, who have made their reputation chiefly from playing at debutante balls and other society affairs throughout the country, will play for Spring Frolics, April 18-19, IFC President Bob Jones announced tonight. Jones commented that the IFC is particularly interested in providing a weekend with the emphasis on informality; for this, he said, the IFC felt Lanin was the best orchestra available.

He also provided the music at Princess Grace’s wedding reception. He has two currently best-selling LP’s: music recorded at Gale Vanderbilt Whitney's coming out party, and at the Tiffany Ball at Newport. Lanin has been contacted to play at the World Debutante Ball next July in connection with the World's Fair.

All of Lanin’s many orchestras play exactly the same music, and no written scores are used on the bandstand. Music is played continuously throughout the dance, without an intermission.

A Charlotte firm has been contacted for providing new ideas and planning the motif. “After eleven dances of pretty much the same thing, the seniors on the IFC," Jones commented, "want to make this dance weekend one that will be remembered long after we're gone.”

Davidsonian
The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College
VOL. XLVI

JOHN KUYKENDALL

Martin Says Skits Key To Situation
By GERALD WILSON
Davidsonian Assistant Editor

“The key to the whole thing was the skits,” stated College Treasurer D. Grier Martin. Mr. Martin was placed in the character of the student body at the DAVIDSONIAN press luncheon Wednesday noon. The first question dealt with the faculty-student “crisis” of last week and asked if the present student conduct problem is any more serious than in past years.

To the latter part of this question Mr. Martin said simply, “I don’t think so.” However, further questioning revealed that he does feel that Vesper conduct has worsened, and that something on the line of the resolution submitted by the Y.M.C.A. cabinet should be the solution.

Mr. Martin indicated that the Student Council had asked to handle the situation in Vespers, and that it is generally understood that if they cannot relieve the situation, then the faculty or administration will take action.

BLACKBOARD JUNGLE?
Q. One person connected with the College has characterized the situation with the student body as a “Myers Park blackboard jungle.” Do you feel that what he characterized as the student body has deteriorated?
A. “There has been no major change in the type of student here. However, times, patterns of life, and family life have changed.” There will be changes, he added, but in the basic overall pattern, the boys are neither better nor worse than when I was a student here. The moral fiber is essentially the same.

Chorus Announces Spring Tour Plans
The 1958 Spring Tour of the Davidson College Male Chorus will begin on the 27th of this month with a concert at the First Presbyterian Church in Asheville, North Carolina. The tour will then continue for 13 days, during which the 36 members of the group under the direction of Donald B. Plott will give a total of 12 concerts. The chorus will give one performance each in North Carolina, Tennessee, Kentucky, Texas, and Louisiana in addition to three in both Missouri and Oklahoma.

Each performance will feature a group of southern spirituals as well as the works of the masters. This will be the 24th consecutive Spring Tour.

Q. Has the Trustee’s Committee seeking a new President asked you to take the job?
A. “No.”

HOUSES READY?
Q. Will the new fraternity houses be ready by next fall?
A. “Yes, sir.”

Q. What is the latest report on the progress of the new science building?
A. We don’t have the money yet. It will take about $500,000. The proposal calls for a separate three-story building, behind the present one, facing east. It will house the biology and physics departments, leaving the present building for the chemistry department.

Q. When will the library addition be finished? Will there be additions in the number of books?
A. The library addition is expected to be completed by next fall. Yes, there will be an increase in the number of books.

Smith Claims Skits Can Be Acceptable
“We can have skits that are acceptable, funny, and clean,” said C. Shaw Smith in a brief interview earlier this week. To prove his point, Mr. Smith has appointed Bob Shoffner chairman of a committee to present such skits during the Wednesday chapel periods. “The students can present clean humor and be just as funny, and even funnier, than some of the skits presented on Skit Night."

“On the Waterfront” will be shown tonight and tomorrow night in the Ballroom. It won an Academy Award for being the best picture of 1954. Marlon Brando and Eva Marie Saint star in this classic film.

Students Pass 3 Amendments
The three proposed amendments to the constitution were passed by the student body in chapel Wednesday morning by the necessary two-thirds majority. The first two amendments, voted on as a unit, passed by a vote of 320 for and 154 against. The second amendment passed easily by a vote of 427 to 50. The amendments read as follows:

ARTICLE 13, SECTION 2
Each of the three upper classes shall elect a President. The Senior Class shall elect a Vice-President and Secretary-Treasurer, under the provisions of Article III, Section 1.

ARTICLE III, SECTION 1
There shall be a Student Council which shall be composed of fifteen (15) members. These shall be the President, 1st and 2nd Vice-Presidents, and Secretary-Treasurer of the Student Body, the Presidents of the three upper classes, and seven (7) councilmen, four of whom shall be elected by the senior class, two by the junior class, and one by the sophomore class; and the freshman adviser. The two senior councilmen having the highest and second highest votes shall serve as Vice-President and Secretary-Treasurer of the Senior class, respectively.

SECTION 4 OF BY-LAWS
Student Body elections shall be run off in the following order: Student Government, YMCA, Publications, Class Officers, Freshman Adviser, Student Council, Cheerleader, and Athletic Council.

Davidsoniana Room
It is very interesting to see some of the changes that have come about through the years which point out the difference between the college of old and today's “much more liberal" institution.

STUDY BELL
One of the more surprising regulations that was stressed in the original charter was found in the section on student regulations. In 1872, the Davidson student was required to remain in his room from the “study bell,” after supper, until breakfast the next morning. There was also a study period from 2:00 p.m. till 5:00 p.m. enforced by the same bell (or some other force).

No games of chance, sleight of hand, theatrical or equestrian performance or natural or artificial curiosities are permitted on the campus. It is also stressed that no student should issue any challenge to fight a duel; neither may a student be allowed to accept such a challenge.Eva Marie/ act as second in a duel of any Saint, the stars, also won nature. Academy Awards for Best Actor, This rule is still in the chart- Sen required to attend. Morals are also stressed in the original charter (and the second charter that is still in and Best Supporting Actress, respectively. as it has never been amended. “Placement interviews will continue to be held next week,” added Mr. Smith. “The Colgate-Palmolive Company representative will be here Monday and the Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance representative will be here Tuesday. Also, Joe Williford, a student, will be in the Private Dining Room No. 1 from 2 to 5 pm Monday for those desiring work with the Ware-ever Company during the summer.”

Win Student Body Posts
DABNEY STUART 2nd Vice President
DAVE ROBINSON 1st Vice President

DUELS ALSO PROHIBITED — College Charter Outlaws Alcohol Within Two Miles
By HENRY RAMSEY Davidsonian Feature Writer

Among the many interesting articles of Davidson's past one finds in the library is a copy of the original charter of the college with its various amendments and innovations. Many of the amendments to the document deal with the size and the length of term of the board of trustees. Originally the board was to consist of not more than 49 members, but in 1928 a clause was added that allowed up to 100 members on the board. The students were also prohibited from mistreating any of the servants who were employed by the college in 1872. Students who were found guilty of disguising themselves in any way when committing an offense were subject to immediate expulsion.

The majority of these regulations can be found in the original charter which has been amended many times since the founding of the school. A good number of these rules are still in effect today. For example, students are still required to attend chapel and morals are still stressed. Another article pertains to the question of alcoholic beverages near the campus. The article states that any person or establishment which has or sells any alcoholic or “spirituous” liquors within two miles of the college is liable in any legal Court of Records for a $200 fine. One half of the fine is for use by the informer and the other half by the college. Another article states that no student shall have on campus any “guns, pistols, dirks, or other deadly weapons.” No student was allowed to visit a “tippling house” or place of “ill fame” nor could they use any profane language or be found guilty of any other “grossly immoral conduct.”

It is evident that the college charter has changed through the years, but in the future changes will continue to be made which would seem drastic now but will seem humorous to the student of the future.

Kestler Awarded MBA Scholarship
Bill Kestler, Jr., a senior, has been awarded the Davidson-University of North Carolina Business School Scholarship. The award of $1000 annually was given for the first time this year. Dr. Charles Ratliff, chairman of the Department of Economics and Business, remarked that “Davidson is indeed honored to be able to select from its graduating class each year an outstanding student for an MBA scholarship at Chapel Hill.” Kestler, a native of Concord, is the holder of an A.K. Phifer Scholarship. He is a member of Sigma Nu social fraternity. Davidson, which had sole authority and responsibility for determining the winner of the award, based the selection chiefly on the students’ collegiate records and potential for managerial responsibility.

Dr. Davidson Takes Part in Symposium
Dr. Chalmers Davidson was a member of the Panel on Education at the recent University of North Carolina Symposium. The Panel was composed of Dr. Katherine McBride, President of Bryn Mawr College, who represented the all-women’s college, Dr. Davidson who represented the all-men’s college, Dean Wm. C. Archie of Wake Forest who represented the co-educational colleges, and Dr. Marguerite Roberts, Dean of Westhampton College of the University of Richmond who represented the coordinate college. The Panel was held in Carroll Hall at the University, was open to the public, and was tape recorded for preservation.

NO. 20 Wins Tap Office In Light Vote, 223-207
The big one is over. John Kuykendall won a closely fought battle with Roy Gilbert for the Presidency of the Davidson College student body. Dave Robinson and Dabney Stuart were elected yesterday to serve as first and second Vice-Presidents, respectively. Verner Stanley outpaced Jim Bootle in the final round yesterday to become Secretary-Treasurer of the Student Council. The most salient fact of the whole election story was the light vote cast in all of the elections. Voting in Chapel and in the Union ran about the same numerically. Generally speaking, about 50% of the student body, and sometimes less, elected student body officers for next year. A summary of the entire election story follows: In the Presidential race, leading the field in previous elections, Tom Cutting was eliminated. Kuykendall and Gilbert ran neck and neck, with only five votes separating them. Early in the counting Friday, it became evident that Kuykendall was holding his vote, plus picking up most of the former Cutting votes. Gilbert picked up a few more votes, but not enough. The vice-presidential story was quite another thing. Dave Robinson picked up a strong vote in the early counting, and in the final tally was less than a dozen votes behind Robinson. Verner Stanley was elected in the final vote over Jim Bootle.

Otts Lecturer Urges Missions
Dr. Charles Ranson began the 1958 Otts Lecture Series, Context and Calling: a New Setting for the Missionary Task, at the Vesper Service Sunday. Speaking on “Trends and Tensions,” he compared the technological unity achieved in the world today with the effort that is being made through world missions to unite the world in Christ. He pointed out effectively that this progress in communication and transportation has come before man developed far enough spiritually to use them to tell the life-giving truth of Christ to the many who have not heard it. It is undeniable that the Protestant Reformation caused a severe schism between the Church and missions, which was opposed only by the Roman Counter-Reformation. The breakdown of feudalism caused a nationalism which tended to destroy the idea of world-wide Christendom and the ecumenical character of the Church. Missions began to be revived.

FACTS AND FALLACIES
In his Monday morning lecture, Ranson spoke on the subject, “Facts and Fallacies,” applying the two terms to various attitudes about the Church today. One of the most important “facts” is that Christ must be preached because of the command to do so and his prayer that all might be one, rather than such pragmatic reasons as the need to combat Communism. One “fallacy” is the opinion that missions is not an integral part of the Church today.

CHURCH AND MISSION
“Church and Mission” was the subject of Ranson’s Monday evening lecture, in which he pointed out that it is necessary to examine the relationship of the Church to missions in its historical perspective before it can be understood today.