Che Bauidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, APRIL 18, 1958

(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

BILL REDDING

We have lost a friend, and Davidson College has lost one of its most likable and promising students. It is impossible to comprehend fully the tragedy of Bill Redding’s death. It is even more difficult to answer the inevitable “Why?”

We are reminded of the words of Dr. Cunningham on another occasion of sorrow to the College community. He spoke of the “equation of eternity” and of the “reason of God,” and explained that these cannot be understood by the human mind, for the understanding would make us men no longer.

Our sincerest sympathies go out to Bill's family. With our sympathy goes an understanding of their feeling of loss, for Bill will be sorely missed by his friends at Davidson. Yet, with a sense of loss there comes to us a sense of remembering and appreciating our having been associated with him here. We place a value on the smile, the friendly greeting, and the word of encouragement which we received in the past, and we are reminded of the qualities which made him a gentleman in the finest sense of the word.

Finally, our sympathy goes to the other person involved in the tragedy. This kind of accident has a way of often taking two lives rather than one. It is our hope that a spirit of Christian love can prevent such a double cost.

Words have a way of seeming inadequate on such occasions as this. But they are all that we can use to express a feeling of loss that many of us will have throughout the years to come.

Firearm Rule Change Urged

With the exception of the Honor System, the general attitude among students concerning most of the College’s rules has been one of laissez-faire: to regard violation of them on the part of others as really of little consequence, and (perhaps) even to break them occasionally oneself. Coupled with this attitude is an underlying feeling of resentment toward the faculty, the source of and final authority for these rules, for many of us have fallen into the habit of regarding most of the faculty regulations concerning student conduct and dormitory life as unnecessary, annoying restrictions on trivial matters, as part of the red tape involved in any bureaucracy.

This attitude has (within the memory of the present Davidson generation) been strengthened by a cessation of enforcement by the faculty of some sections of the Student Conduct Regulations and the Dormitory Regulations, and by the fact that the regulations concerning matters other than honor offenses and drinking are little emphasized during Freshman orientation week and are presented to the students in such a way that prohibitions against playing ball between the dormitories and going barefoot on campus receive as much emphasis as rules governing the use of deadly weapons.

This general nonchalance has resulted in widespread violations of the rule (contained in the “Regulations for Students” handbook and posted in the Dormitory Regulations notices in every room) that “students are not permitted to keep firearms except by special permission from the Dean of Students.” This practice has been condoned by all of us, nothing whatever has been done about it, and as a result, a boy has been killed.

We begin to ask how this came about and what can be done to ensure that nothing of this sort will happen again. The answer seems clear: the rule against having firearms on campus must be made a part of the Student Body Regulations, and must be backed up by penalties that are clear, definite, and severe, preferably suspension from college.

Such a move would bring the firearms rule under the jurisdiction of the Student Council, and council members would then be honor-bound to report offenders and bring them to trial. Then, perhaps, the student body—and future college generations—will understand and guard against the tragic consequences of handling guns irresponsibly.

—C.H.C.

Seeking, Losing, Keeping, Casting

There is, according to Ecclesiastes, “a time to seek, and a time to lose, a time to keep, and a time to cast away,” and here at Davidson we are in the middle of our own seasonal round of seeking, losing, keeping, and casting away: Spring Elections. But when this process is at an end, we well may finally ask with the Preacher, “What gain has the worker from his toil?” For dissatisfaction with the political order one has just willingly established, although an inevitable concomitant of a democratic system, has been more widespread than usual this year, and perhaps not without justification.

On a campus regarded by its more sophisticated inhabitants as being without “movement” of any kind, a hardened observer of election promises might scoff at everything said in election speeches as cynical but highly strategic maneuvers in a perennial game. However, when a candidate proposes to make (or even to “consider” making or to “investigate”) basic changes in the most important feature of student government, the Honor System, he deserves careful attention, faithful support if he is elected, and strong reproach if nothing is done. And, this year at least, nothing—or next to nothing—has been done, either in Honor System revision or positive action of any kind, for that matter.

This year the initiative and foresight demonstrated by the L.F.C., the Elections Board, even the Union Bookshelf Committee, all of them bodies with no campaign promise commitments and usually the recipients of little attention or publicity, has thrown a shadow of doubt over the Student Council and its leadership.

Once again, though, we have elected a young man as President of the Student Body who states his intentions of establishing, contingent upon student body agreement, an Honor Council for enforcement of the Honor System and the student body regulations, and in addition to this a somewhat vaguer but no less admirable plan for bringing about greater rapport between the Students and their Council. His proposals for putting both these ideas into effect have been worked out in detail, appear acceptable in principle, and take knotty practical matters into account as well.

Our congratulations, then, go to John Kuykendall on his election, along with renewed hopes for his Council’s work next year.

—C.H.C.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
W. Laurens Walker

ASSISTANT EDITOR
William L. Patton

BUSINESS MANAGER
Henry Samuels

Associate Editors
Charles Chastain
Bob Lathan, George Ramsey

Managing Editors
Ed Armfield
Dick Smith

Sports Editor
Jim Hamilton

Feature Editor
Pete Kellogg

News Editor
Bruce Brooks

Assignments Editor
Tom Colvin

Copy Editor
Spiro Macris

Cartoonists
Bross, Cole

Photographer
Charles Rose

Advertising Manager
Dave Gillis

Circulation Manager
Greg Grana

Ass’t. Business Manager
Bob Wynne

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879

Secrets Of Success At ‘Do You Know’ Game Revealed To Liven Weekend Introductions

By TOM KERNAN

“You look beat, Fetlock,” I said to my young friend, as we sat in the Union humoring our stomachs and watching the usual philosophers and “Y” executives guzzle coffee.

“I’ve been routed,” he said dejectedly. He had the look of a man who had just crawled out of a philosophy review. “Hogwell’s date came early and I had to go into Charlotte to meet her plane. All the way back we played ‘do you know,’ and I feel like an idiot.”

I nodded sympathetically. “I've only known one man who had that part of dance weekends licked. That was good ole Charlie Hartug. He seemed to have a radar-like sense for picking out ‘do you knowers’ at the dance; this always let him get in the first blow. Charlie would spot one and the conversation would go sort of like this—”

Charlie: “Oh, so you go to Swineford. Do you know Sheila Slime? No? How about Portia Pig—you know, the South Carolina ‘Pigs.’ No? That's too bad; how about Cathy Clutch?”

Girl: (counter attacking vigorously) “Oh. I've heard of her—”

Charlie: (with a suggestive leer) “Who hasn't?”

Girl: (feeling uncomfortable) “Oh really—hah, hah—Oh yes, now I know. Yes, she has quite a reputation.”

Charlie: “Yes, I imagine so, that wreck left her crippled for life.”

Girl: (in a real sweat) “Oh—” followed by nasty silence for about a minute.

“Usually, though, Charlie would get his opponent to rattle on before sinking the harpoon.”

Girl: “Do you know Roderick Raunch? He lives in Clodsborough, too.”

Charlie: “Oh really, no I can’t sayHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

that I do, but then people are always accusing me of being class conscious. I imagine I really am too choosey about friends.”

Girl: (obviously one of the duller sort) “He has a sister named Belle—”

Charlie: “That's musical!”

Girl: “Pardon.”

Charlie: “Belle—a lovely name; so—lame.”

Girl: “D’you know Sam Skoad? Oh, you should meet him if you haven't, he’s the sweetest thing! He was such a big man at State—football, baseball—three years on the ‘Students for Moral Earnestness Committee,’ everybody at school was just crazy about him. But they say he married a perfectly horrible girl.”

Charlie: (in an icy tone) “My sister.” (Girl—exit off stage, resembling badly wounded moose.)

“If Charlie was in a hurry he'd cut the contest down a few innings and go in for a quick kill.”

Girl: “Oh, so you know Clara Clagg; my, but she’s a lovely girl. Have you ever noticed what a beautiful smile she has—perfect teeth.”

Charlie: “Yes, they do fit rather well, don’t they?”

“Ah yes; there aren’t many like good ole Charlie around today, they just don’t make ’em like that anymore,” I said.

“He sounds okay, but I never heard of him,” said Fetlock.

“What,” I said, “maybe you know his brother Havegun, No? Well, let me tell you about the time—”

ON CAMPUS ADVICE FROM ANN
By C. G. H. and C. G. D.

Dear Ann,
I am a Queens girl and I have a problem. I wore a strapless gown to our Club 58 dance but it kept falling down all night. I was so embarrassed. What should I do?
30-23-36

Dear 30-23-36,
Don’t worry, if you're from Queens that’s not the only problem you have. Just remember—when you grow up to be a big girl you won't have to shoulder the responsibility any longer.

Dear Ann,
I went to the Queens dance last night and boy, was I ever disappointed! Girls put up such a false front these days that a poor guy just doesn’t know what he’s up against.
David Gent

Dear David,
You have evidently been dating some girls who just don’t stack up. But don’t back away from your problem. Try approaching it from another angle; put on the whole armour of Ivy League tweed and try Randolph-Macon.

Dear Ann,
I am a Davidson Freshman and I went to my first Queens dance last weekend. Boy, was I surprised! This girl took me over to a dark corner and made love to me, but she swore she had never been kissed before. She was pretty and those kisses spoke volumes. What should I do?
Frenzied Frosh

Dear Frenzied,
Beware of dark corners and just remember—a kiss that speaks volumes is seldom a first edition.

Dear Ann,
I am a Queens girl and my roommate wrote you about one of her problems. I wore a chemise to the same dance. It was supposed to be the last word in women’s clothes, but all the boys laughed at me.
Sad Sack

Dear Sad Sack,
It is a well-known fact that the last word in women’s clothes is often a gasp. Just remember—Confucius say: “Queens girl in sack look like pig in poke.”

COFFEE BREAK
Students Must Merit Freedom
By JOHN BERNHARDT

What is the position of leadership on the Davidson campus at present? “T. Paine” in his recent and very well-written letter in the DAVIDSONIAN suggested that the real problem at Davidson is the “maternal attitude,” and that it is because the students are not allowed to act as mature individuals that they develop what is the Davidson attitude today. This reasoning is generally held, and theoretically it makes sense. However, practically it does not seem to fit the facts. Both in participation in student control and in the intelligence of this participation, we do not always justify the freedom we have already been entrusted with.

We have a very tightly knit world here in the Davidson community. Thus, we can judge ourselves only by comparison with how we were recently; only a few exceptional individuals are able to get outside the system to judge it objectively. Recently the faculty gave the students a mandate to improve their attitude and conduct. The objection to Skit Nite and all the other disturbances was not directed so much at the actions as at the underlying attitude. The faculty apparently felt the students could correct this themselves, and left it with them. Will the students now show that they merit this confidence?

We must soon begin being as objective as we can about various “traditions” which have grown up with us. At present, our true leaders seem to be the loud and vocal students who mold our opinions into acceptance of the coughing and the fudging on legalities. If this type of leadership is maintained, there is no grounds for complaint when the faculty takes control, for this is diametrically opposed to what the faculty and others outside our system believe to be good.

We must do two things: participate actively, and participate with enlightened objectivity. When we do this, we shall show that we are mature and merit further freedom. Until we do, someone must control our blind little system, even the faculty.

---

This cleaned text maintains the original meaning and punctuation as requested.