Si.

“Bobtail Davidsonian

WELCOME

SYNOD MEETS HERE TODAY AND TOMORROW

The 145th Session of the Carolina Synod meets today. Over 500 Synod Commissioners are expected for the two-day session.

On behalf of the College Administration and the Student Body, the following words of welcome are extended.

Mr. A.R. J. Willstad, Assistant to the President and in charge of College arrangements for the Synod meeting:

"The Students and Faculty of Davidson's 1958 Summer School extend their warmest wishes.

"It is our sincere hope that every Commissioner and guest will have an enjoyable visit to Davidson. Please let us help make your stay a pleasant one. If you have a question, ask a student. We'll do our best to assist you."

Ray Atkinson, President of the Student Body:

"On behalf of the Student Body, I extend a sincere welcome to the Synod. We have looked forward to your arrival. Many of us know you in your capacity as our ministers and friends. We hope your visit to our campus will be a very pleasant and inspirational one. If any of the Student Body can be of any assistance to you, please remember we want you to call on us. Best wishes for a successful and enjoyable meeting."

Mrs. Martin, daughter of this French family, visited Davidson at the home of Dr. and Mrs. Marshall, a family friend. Dr. Marshall is Mr. Martin's pastor in France. Mr. Martin returned to his administrative duties here at the college.

SYNOD PRESIDENT RETURNS

The President of the College returned to campus after conducting the first part of a European tour—the Bromell 1958 Southern Colleges Tour. Composed of college students (among whom are five Davidson students), the members of the tour number 30. The touring party embarked from New York on June 11 aboard the SS United States.

Dr. Marshall and his party arrived in England on June 19. Two days later, they sailed to the mainland aboard a night steamer.

The group obtained by special arrangement in England, a French Historical Society speaker, who addressed them on the significance of their visit. They visited places of historical interest, including Buckingham Palace, Westminster Abbey, Windsor Castle, the Tower of London, and Oxford and Cambridge Universities. The schedule included a changing of the guard and other activities.

In Cambridge, they visited three colleges, including King's College.

Mrs. Vavalcom, a native of Rhode Island, is the wife of Dr. J. O. Vavalcom, Professor of Theology and President of the Board of Trustees of Davidson.

Other countries on the tour itinerary include Germany, Austria, Italy, France, and others. In each country, the party is met by a qualified and distinguished guide who remains with the group while they are in that country.

In Vienna, the group left to return to the United States, bringing back memories of their European adventure.

(Continues in column 1)