M0 het pr Ay. JL

August 19, 1958

(In the absence of an editor, the following were stolen from magazines in file...)

Algernon (reading joke): "Fancy this, Percy. A chap here thinks a football coach has four wheels."

Percy: "Yeah, and how many wheels has the silly thing?"

We hear from our usually reliable sources that these Montreal weekends have become infected with the bop mania. For instance,
one night in Howerton Hall, a crazy cat was practicing that type of music until the wee hours of the
night. One of the girls, wanting to get some sleep, got up and walked down to the lobby where the
cat sat with his frantic trombone. She urgently asked, "Don't you know the housemother is sick and she can't get
any sleep?"

The trombonist put down his trombone and replied, "I've never heard of it, doll, but you hum the melody and
I'll fake the break."

"I heard you picked up some French when you were there on vacation this summer."

"I sure did."

"Well, let's hear some words."

"I didn't learn any words."

"Why did the professor flunk you?"

"Well, the professor is the man who sits around and watches the others work."

"Yes, but why did he flunk you?"

"He got jealous. A lot of fellows thought I was the professor."

Paul and Homer went down to Florida over the Labor Day weekend and had remarkably good luck on a fishing
vacation. Towards the end of the day, Paul said, "This is a good spot. I wish we had some way
of finding it tomorrow."

"Why don't you put a mark on the boat?"

"That sounds reasonable," said Paul, "but how do you know that we'll get the same boat?"

Student: I'll flip a coin. If it's heads, we go to the party. If it's tails, we go to the
movie, and if it stands on edge, we study.

He: Why do the most important men on campus always get the prettiest girls?

She: Oh, you conceited thing.

Teacher: How old would a person be who was born in 1920?

Brain: Man or woman?

As the regiment was leaving and a crowd was cheering, a recruit asked: "Who are all those people and why
are they cheering?"

"They," replied a veteran, "are the people who are not going."

Turn backward, turn backward, O time in thy flight.
I've thought of a comeback I needed last night.
