Professor’s Quote
“The secret of Davidson is the caliber of students here.”
—Lt. Col. William L. Adams

VOL. XLVI

NEWS CONFERENCE

COL. ADAMS PLANS FLIGHT TRAINING

“I hope to get us a flight detachment,” stated Lt. Col. William L. Adams in an interview with Davidsonian reporters. “We are on the approved list (for a detachment), but we must see first what Congress does with our budget. This training would be limited to seniors.” Elaborating on this flight training, Col. Adams said that it would, in civilian terms, give a man the equivalent of a private license. A man who participated in this program would naturally incur the obligation of three years’ service, the Colonel added. He hopes to have this program by next year.

Q. “Did you originate this idea?”
A. “No, Col. Sapp started working on it about a year or a year-and-a-half ago. One thing about the Army, when you start something, you rarely ever see it finished.” He went on to explain that usually a man begins something, is moved on, and it is left for someone else to finish the job.

Q. “What other plans do you have for the future?”
A. “We want to go into the battle group set-up. The regiment is on its way out of the Army. We want to align our set-up with the Army's.” He mentioned further that there would probably be two BG's, with companies as needed. Also, the number of Cadet Colonels would probably be increased from one to three.

When questioned about rumored changes in the selection of MS3 students, Col. Adams replied: “We have no firm plans yet. In some cases, I feel that it is not necessary for a man to appear before the board. My recommendation is that a man should appear before the board only if there is some question about his qualifications.”

(Continued On Page 4)

Student Council Elects Board
By BOB LATHAN
Davidsonian Managing Editor

Legislation at Monday night’s Student Council meeting consisted of the election of the 1958 Elections Board. Members of the board, all seniors, are to be responsible for the maintenance of spring elections. One member and one alternate from each fraternity and four independents were selected. They are: ATO, Don Carmichael, Maurice Ritchie (alt.); Beta, Gerald Wilson, Charles Woods (alt.); KA, Jim Morris, Ned Payne (alt.); Kappa Sig, Mike Martin, Ken Forrester (alt.). Also, Phi Delt, John Johnson, LT. COL. ADAMS (alt.); SAE, Ned Hedgpeth, Jim Jones (alt.). Also, Sigma Chi, Roger Bates, Charlie Helms (alt.); Sigma Nu, Bob McRae, Jim Sell (alt.); SPE, George Kemmerer, Henderson Rourk (alt.); Independents, Curtis Patterson, Ben Farley, Dee Roper, Stewart Bridgman, Ralph Bassett (alt.); Phi Gam, Henry Griffin, Bob Sloan (alt.); Pika, Charlie Drummond, Harry Paschal (alt.); Pi Kappa Phi, John Adkins, Gil Grossman (alt.).

CAMPAIGNING?
Councilman Bernhardt, (Continued On Page 4)

Faculty Gets Big Salary Boost
By Laurens Walker
Davidsonian Managing Editor

By a unanimous vote Wednesday afternoon, the Board of Trustees increased tuition for the College from $500 per year to $600 per year. Funds resulting from this increase will be primarily used to raise faculty salaries. The new salary schedule is printed on page two. The Trustees, however, took a long step to guarantee any qualified student an education at Davidson by increasing the funds available for grants in aid by $24,000 annually. This brings the total money available for scholarship aid each year to $150,000.

RICHARDS APPROVES
J. McDowell Richards, President of the Board, stated after the meeting that he “felt the tuition increase to be a good thing, in the light of the increase in student aid.” He continued, “No boy should be barred from Davidson College by finances.”

The Presidential Nomination Committee reported to the Board that they had no name to present at this time. Dr. Richards, when interviewed, commented that the committee was making definite progress, and had contacted several candidates.

Professor Explains Freezin’ Season
Professor H. E. Fulcher, in an interview earlier this week, compared the recent cold wave with that of 1937. The physics and astronomy professor noted that the current weather patterns were similar to those experienced in the late 1930s.However, that. | pledged Kappa Alpha. He was a junior at U.S.C. this year and was en route to Columbia when the accident happened. Funeral services are tentatively scheduled for 11 a.m. tomorrow in the chapel of M. L. Ford and Sons Funeral Home in Clover.

Professor-Student Forum Announced

Davidson’s YMCA has announced the inception of a professor-student forum series which will begin on March 2, and continue to the end of the semester. Under the plan, Davidson professors will conduct meetings in their homes, discussing a wide range of topics of local and international importance. The program, with sophomore Jim Richards at the helm, will be administered by a standing committee of over 25 students. Faculty members will discuss (Continued On Page Four)

He explained some of the less complicated aspects of the weather. “It is true that the weather goes in cycles and that these cycles are multiples of the sunspot cycles, or about eleven-year intervals. Therefore, each eleven, twenty-two, thirty-three, etc., we have extreme weather. The atomic explosions have no effect on the weather. The only possible relation weathermen know of is that atomic explosions might introduce new particles into the atmosphere to serve as nuclei for raindrops, hail, and snow. Otherwise, no correlation has been discovered. An average increase in the atmospheric temperature would be disastrous, inasmuch as icebergs would melt and the level of oceans and seas would rise and inundate coastal lands.” He added, “For the long-range thinker, the best real estate investments are in the piedmont and not the coast!”

He mentioned that the cold spell in '37 was longer and that he felt that the College would have a President by mid-spring.

NO OFFICIAL CONTACT

“No one has yet been officially contacted, though several men have been unofficially sounded out as to their possible feelings should they be selected by the committee.” Richards was asked what seemed to be the major problem in finding a suitable nominee. “Thus far," he answered, “the committee has not been able to get together on a single name.” He continued that both men “known on the campus,” and men “not known at all” were still in strong contention for the position vacated by Ex-President Cunningham some nine months ago. Board President Richards had high praise for the work of Acting President Pietenpol and Treasurer Martin during the months since the resignation of Dr. Cunningham. He felt that the college was not only holding its own, but moving forward under their leadership. (Continued On Page Four)

Eta Alpha To Become Member Of Sigma Nu

Mr. William L. Pittman, Assistant Executive Secretary of Sigma Nu Fraternity, was on the campus Thursday and Friday, February 13-14, to meet with the members of Eta Alpha Fraternity in making final plans for the formal installation of the Chapter. Working with the local group, Mr. Pittman, who is also editor of the Delta, official fraternity publication, set up a tentative schedule which covers a period of six weeks. In order to receive a charter as a Chapter of Sigma Nu, the fraternity must receive a three-fourths affirmative vote by the 124 active chapters of Sigma Nu. This vote, based upon a formal petition sent in January to the chapters by Eta Alpha Fraternity, should be received by March 15.

BUSY WEEKENDS PLEDGING IN MARCH

On March 22 a formal pledging ceremony, in which each member of Eta Alpha Fraternity will become a pledge of Sigma Nu, will be held on the campus. Four weeks of intensive pledge training will follow with a formal installation of the Eta Alpha Chapter on April 26. The pledging ceremony will be conducted by a team from Gamma Chapter (Duke). Pledge training is to be held under the supervision of Division 8 Commander Charles F. Vance Jr., of Winston-Salem, and conducted by Sigma Nu Chapters at N.C. State, U.S.C., and Presbyterian College.

Should the vote be received before the date set, the pledge training period will be extended. Most of the training will be done on Saturday, with the exception (Continued On Page Four)

Phi Bete Chooses 10 Seniors And 2 Juniors

Ten seniors and two juniors have been tapped for membership in Phi Beta Kappa, national honorary scholarship fraternity. The ten members of the senior class are D. S. Bradford, W. C. Colston, F. P. Cumming, G. H. Gilmer, J. M. Martin, S. C. Patterson, R. J. Smyth, W. E. Thompson, T. F. Thrailkill, and W. W. Wolfe. Juniors who were tapped are R. F. Brubaker and W. L. Walker II.

David S. Bradford, senior from Charlotte, is a Pre-Med major and is editor of Quips and Cranks. He is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon Fraternity and ODK. William C. Colston, a senior from Rocky Mount, N.C., is a Pre-Med major and a member of Pi Kappa Alpha Fraternity. George H. Gilmer is a senior Physics major from Hampden-Sydney, Virginia. Fairman P. Cumming, a senior from Nashville, Tennessee, is a Biology major. Mike Martin, of Davidson, is a History major and a member of Kappa Sigma Fraternity, and has played varsity basketball and tennis. S. C. Patterson, senior from Cramerton, N.C., is an English major and a member of the Male Chorus. Ross J. Smyth, senior from Charlotte, an English major, is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon and ODK. He is president of the student council and has served as captain of the soccer team. William E. Thompson, senior from Spencer, N.C., is an English major and a member of Sigma Chi Fraternity. He is a Baker Scholar. Thomas F. Thrailkill, senior from Hapeville, Georgia, is an English major and a member of Alpha Tau Omega. Willard W. Wolfe, senior from Gainesville, Florida, is a History major and a member of Sigma Phi Epsilon. Richard F. Brubaker, junior from Macon, Georgia, is a Pre-Med major and a member of Alpha Tau Omega. W. Laurens Walker II is a member of Beta Theta Pi and is taking Honors in English and History. Both juniors are Baker Scholars.