PAGE THREE THE DAVIDSONIAN

Cross Country Team Sees Better Season

As another school year opens, the Cross Country Track team appears a lot stronger with many of the runners returning.

Sports All That By JIM HAMILTON

Captain and leading runner on Coach Whittie’s team is Angus McBryde, who may be a leading contender for the conference
title. McBryde was the winner of the mile run in last year’s Southern Conference Meet here at Davidson. Other returning
lettermen are Graham George, King Cole, Jim Alexander, Henry Brown, Roger Beebe, and Dan McAllister, all experienced trackmen.

This is a hard column to write since when most of you read it, the Catawba game will be history.
Therefore, if I turn prognosticator, I may appear a poor second guesser or an idiot. This, however, (especially the latter)
has happened before, so here goes. I base my guesses on the Newberry scrimmage held last Saturday that was kept
as much under the veil of secrecy as the Cape Canaveral tests. However, I walked up to the dressing room
door, knocked three times and asked for Sandy, and, after passing through the red tape, secured admission.

Competition opens with Pembroke on October 5, followed by the Wake Forest Meet on the 17th. On the 24th, a
triangular meet will be held with Furman and the Citadel. Other meets include Richmond, Washington and Lee, V.M.I., N.C. State,
and the big Southern Conference meet which will be held at Greenville, S.C., on Nov. 17. Coach Whittle said that
the team would be a much better team, more balanced, and experienced than last year’s squad. He also added that
McBryde had a good chance of winning the Southern Conference Cross Country Crown.

Eventually, a good many students came in, finding the fences not an insurmountable barrier, but the first two teams were
through, and Coach Dole’s secret weapons remained that way.

CRAIG WALL (right) and CHARLIE JAMES (left), Captain and Co-Captain of the Davidson Wildcats, lead their team into battle tonight
as the Cats tangle with Catawba in Charlotte.

This was my impression. Davidson has a good team, a fast, big, and smart team. They should win a lot
of ball games, including the Catawba game, if—and someone has said that “if” is half of life—if they don’t throw
the ball away.

Soccer Team Opens Practice On Monday

Even though the Cats patched enough good plays together to outscore Newberry by several touchdowns, they lost many opportunities with
untimely laterals that went astray and fumbles. The style of play was wide open and the gains were good, but
the desire to get a few more yards by a lot of razzle-dazzle frequently found the Cats suddenly on the
defensive.

Dr. Coach Dole has had a week to smooth out the material ruts and his squad should take Catawba by
two or three touchdowns, but I believe that though the fancy stuff will net yardage, its best purpose will be
to open the defense up to give his fine collection of backs, primarily Barbee, Wall, and Hart, a little running
room. And of course, remember Charlie Benson, who's sure to connect with plenty of his left-handed tosses.

Davidson again plans a rugged nine-game schedule, meeting three Atlantic Coast Conference teams and Washington and Lee twice. Among the
outstanding veterans returning this season are Gordon Neville, “Koogie” Kwon, and Claude Finney.

Dole’s line should collect as many press clippings as his backfield seems destined to do. Paul Biggers, at 250 pounds,
may be one of the toughest men in the conference. Anyway, to hear him growl, you’d think so. Charlie James
at guard, Scott Lacy, and John Watwood at tackle, and Dave Warden at center form a center wall that nothing
short of a bulldozer should get through. The average weight in this group is around 220 pounds.

McCutchan stated that there is promising soccer material among Davidson’s new crop of foreign students and that lettermen are returning
to add depth to the newest varsity team. Neville will captain the ‘58 edition of Davidson’s kicking team. Kwon, a
native of Korea who transferred from Warren Wilson College last year, is expected to be among the team’s top stars.
Finney, chosen All-Southern Conference goalie in ‘57, will guard the Cat goal again this season. The team will miss Ross
Smyth (‘58) who captained last year’s squad and scored six of Davidson’s 16 goals.

Flankmen, Westervelt and Bloomfield round out a highly competent line. Both should catch a lot of passes this year. And
the Catawba game? 30-15 in favor of Davidson.

PAUL BIGGERS, 250-pound Wildcat guard and a strong contender for All-Conference honors, will be in the line-up as Davidson faces
Catawba tonight in Charlotte.

THEY SAID IT COULDN’T BE DONE

“More taste, less tars” GIVES YOU—DON’T SETTLE FOR ONE WITHOUT THE OTHER. CHANGE TO L&M AND GET ‘EM BOTH.

Such an improved filter and more taste! Yes, today’s L&M combines these two essentials of modern smoking enjoyment—less tars and
more taste in one great cigarette. L&M’s patented filtering process enables today’s L&M to give you, puff by puff, less
tars in the smoke than ever before. And L&M gives you more taste, better taste than any other cigarette.

“Couldn't be done.” That’s what they told Mr. Bell back in 1876. But where would three million college students be
without the telephone ... especially on a Saturday night? Today you can make a date, or talk to your folks,
from practically anywhere ... even from your own car.

Light into that Live Modern flavor!Hinging on the outcome of tonight's opening game with the Catawba Indians is the answer
to a big question posed by this year’s Davidson football squad: Will the wide-open offense work? Loaded with more experience,
speed, and size than he has seen in a long time, Coach Bill Dole lets loose his Wildcat eleven into
Charlotte’s Memorial Stadium for their first big test of the year.

BENSON DIRECTS
As a transitory measure this year only, freshmen will be eligible for varsity as well as freshmen competition. The two
squads will practice together and varsity line coach Tom Stevens will serve as the freshman mentor. Several freshmen have shown
up well enough in pre-season workouts to merit places on the varsity. Coach Bill Dole has designated second team slots
for Booker Clark, a six-foot, 187-pound end, and Sonny Fraley, a six-one, 194-pound tackle, both from Statesville. Other outstanding first-year
men are end John Packer, 6’ 6", 203 pounds, and Duncan Morton, 5’ 11", 163 pounds, halfback Lyn Mallard, 5’
10", 170.

CAT LINE
With only one non-letterman starting in the forward wall, the 'Cat line will have plenty of experience in addition to
its hefty size. Dave Warden at the center position has shown that he is well able to hold down this
vital post which was left open by last year’s captain Bill Price. To flank Warden are a pair of big,
fast guards in Charlie James and Paul Biggers. Operating from the T-formation and directed by junior quarterback Charlie Benson, the
‘Cats will pull the cover off one of the most wide-open games ever played by a Southern Conference team. The
success of this open, professional-type offense has been the big question faced by Coach Dole and his team. One tackle
position is manned by 225-pound John Watwood, while sophomore Scott Lacy will start at the other. Though Lacy lacks experience,
he is big, fast, and does his job well. Although he has plenty of material to work with, Coach Dole
has not been sure that the squad really knows the new system and stated, “I hope the boys have grasped
enough of the new offense to make a credible showing.”

ENDS GOOD
At the end positions, which promise to be plenty busy with the new open attack, are Harold Westervelt and Jim
Bloomfield. Both boys are sticky-fingered and know their way around the defensive secondary. In spite of the fact that two
points are now given to a team which scores its point after touchdown by running or passing, Coach Dole plans
to go for the single point by place kick, unless the two points are necessary. Improving quarterback Butch Rodgers will
be the man kicking the PAT along with freshman Bruce Usher. Guard Buddy Rives, 6’ 0", 170, Bruce Usher, a
center, will be used for extra point and field goal placements. When questioned on the effect that the freshman eligibility
measure will have on football at Davidson, Bill Dole stated that the legislation would definitely hurt us in the long
run. “We'll be all right this year but we can't afford to compete with the larger schools on the two-squad
basis.” Dole also said that no additional scholarships had been awarded this year.

In addition to first-rate direction from the quarterback slot, the Wildcats have a fast and hard-hitting backfield. Transferred from his
last year’s position at end, Captain Craig Wall will make his debut as a ball carrier from halfback and will
be backed by veteran speedster Paul Barbee at the other half. Two more lettermen will be alternating at fullback, Dave
McCullough and George Hart are dividing time at this position, which was vacated when plunging ace, Dave Warden was moved
to center.

FRESHMAN FOOTBALL SCHEDULE
Sept. 26—Furman at Greenville
Oct. 3—Fork Union Military Academy at Davidson
Oct. 9—The Citadel at Lancaster
Nov. 1—Gardner-Webb at Shelby

The freshmen on the team this year, though allowed to play on the varsity squad this fall, have a four-game
schedule of their own which includes contests with the first-year players at both Furman and the Citadel.

Both John Francis and Russell Cotton are pushing for halfback spots and are vastly improved from last year.

Freshmen Compete In Cake Race
The Class of ‘62 will compete for fifty culinary masterpieces in the annual Freshman Cake Race this Monday at 4:30
p.m. One of Davidson's oldest Freshman traditions, the Cake Race has been run for the last quarter of a century.
The course has been renovated in the last two years and the best time was recorded in 1956 by Jim
Alexander who ran the 1.6-mile distance in about 8:25. Last year’s winner was Verner Stanley who finished in 10:26.5 minutes.
The race is run over approximately half the cross-country course and has its starting line on the lower athletic field.
It winds through the woods near the R.O.T.C. firing range and cuts to the right up Erwin Lodge Road. Those
who are able to master this grueling uphill grind follow the route past the old fraternity court on Concord Road,
turn past the Union, and finish on Richardson Field track. All Freshmen are required to compete except those excused for
football or other special reasons. Along with his choice of cakes, the winner will doubtless be subject to the solicitation
of cross-country coach Heath Whittle.

The Emblems, $1.00
The Socks, $1.00
BE SURE TO REGISTER FOR FREE BACK-TO-SCHOOL CLOTHING WARDROBE
Also get your FREE Little Blue Book

TATE-BROWN’S DAVIDSON EMBLEMS AND SOCKS
Handsomely woven emblems, easily attached to sweaters, blazers, jackets, etc. Also white ribbed, cotton socks with Davidson colors in two
stripes at the top.

Football Schedule
*Sept. 19—Catawba at Charlotte
Sept. 27—Open Date
Oct. 4—The Citadel at Charleston
*Oct. 11—Presbyterian at Clinton
Oct. 18—Carson-Newman at Davidson
Oct. 25—V.M.I. at Davidson
Nov. 1—Wofford at Spartanburg
Nov. 8—W&M at Williamsburg
Nov. 15—Richmond at Davidson
Nov. 22—Furman at Charlotte
* Night Games
