Craig Wall Named Grid Captain (See Page Three)

The Davidsonian
The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

Campus Issues Reiterated
Editorial On Page Two

VOL. XLVI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, MARCH 4, 1958 NO. 18

Prexy Nominations Began This Morning

The weekly meeting of the elections board was seriously handicapped by the absence of a quorum. Only eight of the
members were present Thursday morning when the chairman of the board, Don Carmichael, reported on the action of the Student
Council concerning recommendations made by the board.

It was decided that students nominated this morning in Chapel have until 1:00 p.m. tomorrow to signify their willingness to
run for office. Balloting for Student Government offices will begin on Tuesday, March 11. Depending on the outcome of the
early balloting and eliminations, a designated Friday will be devoted to speeches in Chapel by the major candidates. The following
Monday during the same time, a Forum will be held in the Ballroom of the College Union. Final balloting will
proceed on Tuesday, after the Monday Forum.

Student Council action Thursday included approval of a Forum as noted above. The Council rejected, however, the board's recommendation that
the election of the editor of the Scripts 'n Pranks be taken from the hands of the student body and
chosen by the Publications Board. Carmichael asked if there were any sentiment on the elections board for pushing an amendment
on the election of this editorship, even without the approval of the Student Council. There was no such sentiment displayed.

Sample comments by members of the board on this amendment included a pessimistic statement that “I doubt if the student
body would go along with it anyhow.” In one other action, the Council approved a recommendation that all Publications editors
be elected at the same time. Hence the election cycle has been reduced to seven separate elections.

Bowen Preaches At Vespers Sunday

The Rev. Claude B. Bowen, D.D., will speak at Vespers March 9, on “Learning How To Live.” For the past
twelve years, he has been pastor of Greensboro’s First Baptist Church. A native of Mississippi, Dr. Bowen attended Southwestern at
Memphis and Southern Baptist Seminary in Louisville. He held pastorates in Opelika, Alabama, and Jackson, Mississippi, after service as educational
secretary of the Southern Baptist Foreign Mission Board. Dr. Bowen is currently serving as vice-president of the North Carolina Baptist
Convention. He is also a trustee of Southern Baptist Seminary at Wake Forest and of Cone Hospital in Greensboro.

Greek Week Follies

Greek Week Follies 1958 will be held Wednesday, March 12, at 8 p.m. in Chambers Auditorium, George Kemmerer, chairman of
the IFC committee on the Follies, announced today. Pledge classes of each of the twelve fraternities will present five-minute skits,
and the class giving the best skit will win a golden loving cup. Judging the competition will be an impartial
group of faculty members. Winner of the last Greek Week Follies, held in 1954, was Sigma Phi Epsilon.

Local Barber Shops Are DC Tradition

By HENRY RAMSEY
Davidsonian Feature Writer

A major aspect of the typical well-dressed Davidson gentleman is a good haircut. On the day before ROTC drill each
week and for several days before dance weekends and holidays, one can see hordes of students migrating to either Hood
Norton’s or Johnson’s barber shops for their beautifying trims. Each of these shops is traditional on the campus. Hood Norton’s
shop was founded in 1908 as Norton Brothers’ barber shop; when one of the brothers had a stroke in 1944,
it became Hood Norton and Son. In 1908, there were but two chairs in the shop. Now he has four
chairs with he and his son operating two of them. All four of his barbers are registered in the trade.

EQUIPMENT CHANGE

Norton remarked that the atmosphere has changed considerably since the early days. (Continued on Page Four)

Bible Department Announces Change

With the inclusion of four new courses under the Bible Department, freshmen next fall will be allowed a large degree
of choice in the fulfillment of their obligation to take two years of Bible, Dr. L. B. Schenck of the
Bible Department announced today.

Prerequisite to the three other new courses will be Bible 11S, “Introducing the Bible,” a literary and historical introduction to
the Bible with special emphasis upon the major themes of Biblical revelation and their relevance for today. Only three sections
of this will be offered the fall semester of 1958. Students entering Bible 11S must also take three hours selected
from Bible 14, 16, 18; three hours from Bible 21, 22; and three additional hours selected from any other course
in the Department, for their total of twelve hours of Bible.

Bible 14, “The Prophets,” is a study of the prophetic literature of the Old Testament with special attention upon the
political and social contributions of the times. Bible 16, “The Wisdom Literature of the Hebrew People,” is a study of
the growth of Hebrew wisdom and an inquiry into the great abiding issues of existence, suffering, and death as presented
in such books as Job, Proverbs, Ecclesiastes, and Solomon. Bible 18, “Post-Exilic Judaism,” is a study of the rise of
Judaism after the Babylonian Exile based upon the canonical and intertestamental literature, with special emphasis upon its relationship to early
Christianity.

Program Planned

The ROTC department has received invitations from Wake Forest and the Citadel to visit them. Col. Adams hopes to send
a delegation to each institution.

Coach Dole Discusses Changes In Athletics

“An old witch’s tale,” was Coach William E. Dole’s answer when asked if he thought that some professors deliberately flunk
or grade-down athletes. “I have never known that to be true,” he added. The head football coach was the subject
of a luncheon interview with members of the DAVIDSONIAN staff Wednesday at noon.

When asked about the change in the student body’s attitude towards athletics in the last six years, he said that
the morale of both has been lifted. The students are no longer as critical and the faculty as a whole
feels that the present athletic program is wholesome.

LET FRESHMEN PLAY

Dole stated his opposition to a Southern Conference proposal that freshmen be barred from participating in varsity sports. In his
words: “Freshmen should be allowed to compete, especially in a small college like Davidson. Then the whole program can be
more inclusive and beneficial.”program will suffer. Freshmen can do the job academically.”

Q. “Do you favor putting Davidson in a conference with no scholarship aid?”

A. “No.”

Q. “Would you be in favor of increasing football scholarships?”

A. “I would like to see them increased, but not to the point where they are top-heavy. That is not
the philosophy of the school.”

Q. “If you had all power in the world to change the scholarship program, what would you do?”

A. “I would increase it (scholarship aid) slightly.”

Elaborating further on the awarding of athletic scholarships, Coach Dole pointed out that no boy is considered for such a
scholarship until he has first been approved by the admissions committee. He also pointed to the fact that in scouting
for talent he first looks at the boy's transcript. As a result, Coach Dole stated that Davidson graduates 94% of
her athletes, which is higher than any other school in the South.

Q. “How do you stand on the question of increased enrollment?”

A. “I think that our enrollment should go up to the point where they are top-heavy. That is not the
philosophy of the school.”

(Continued on Page Four)

Q. “Would you be in favor of increasing football scholarships?”

A. “I would like to see them increased, but not to the point where they are top-heavy. That is not
the philosophy of the school.”

Q. “If you had all power in the world to change the scholarship program, what would you do?”

A. “I would increase it (scholarship aid) slightly.”

The YMCA cabinet met last Tuesday night and appointed a committee, headed by Gerald Wilson, which drafted the following resolution:

“In view of the increasingly deplorable student conduct at Vespers, the YMCA cabinet strongly recommends that unless the administration is
willing to take disciplinary measures to regulate such conduct, Vespers be abolished.”

This resolution is to be presented to the Board of Directors next Tuesday night. The decision to make this resolution
came, not as a direct result of the incident on February 23, when Dr. Anderson spoke, but chiefly from other
examples of misconduct, such as whistling or expressing other reactions to announcements, which have occurred in increasing number recently.

Other business which came before the cabinet included the appointment of a committee to study a reorganization of the Davidson
YMCA. This committee, headed by Dave Robinson, will present its report to the new cabinet when it is formed. The
purpose of this reorganization is to place a new emphasis on the individual, to bring the functioning of the Y
more up-to-date, to work on the problem of failing to use those who are interested, and to bring in a
greater sense of dedication.

Tentative dates for the visitations are either 14 or 21 March, and to Wake Forest, 15 April. The visits would
also permit our cadets to evaluate other ROTC units and then make recommendations to improve our department.

A nominating committee was appointed to nominate a slate of officers for next year’s Y cabinet. This committee is composed
of representatives from Davidson, Queens, Converse, and several other schools.

The Presbyterian Book Store, which held its grand opening on March 3rd, is having a special open-house tonight from 7
to 9 p.m. for students from Davidson, Queens, Converse, and several other schools. Two representatives from the Board of Christian
Education in Richmond, Betty Curry from the Youth Department, and Margaret Duckwall from the Adult Education Department, will be at
the store this evening. Refreshments will be served.

Mrs. Kluttz, the manager of Charlotte's newest book shop, was particularly anxious to have Davidson students come in and browse
around. She has just received a new selection of paperbacks which should be of interest. Any book not in stock
can be ordered either by phone or by coming in. No mail orders can be accepted. Charge accounts are welcome,
but no discounts can be given. The store is located at 118 West Fifth Street and the telephone number is
FRanklin 7-5365.

The Council empowered the Elections Board to set up this type of forum and to conduct it as they should
see fit.

(2) That the Editor of the Scripts and Pranks be selected by a board consisting of two members of the
English Department and the senior members of the current Scripts and Pranks Staff. This proposal was defeated by the Council
by a vote of six to seven, and will come up for no further consideration this year.

(3) That all publications elections be held simultaneously. As the enactment of this proposal would require a change in the
Student Body Constitution, the Council, by a vote of eleven to one, moved to propose to the Student Body that
such a change be made.

(4) That either the offices of Secretary-Treasurer and Vice President of the Sophomore and Junior Classes ought to be eliminated
or combined into a single office. Councilman John Kuykendall moved that an amendment be presented to the Student Body calling
for the elimination of all class officers other than the President, and that the two Senior Class members of the
Council at large who receive the highest number of votes in the election perform the duties of the Senior Class
Vice President and Secretary-Treasurer. This motion was passed by a vote of seven to six.

SEMESTER BREAK

Councilman Roy Gilbert reported to the Council that 77% of the Student Body that voted on the semester break proposal
favored the four-day holiday, but that the administration had doubts as to the feasibility of such a proposal. He added
that a future vote would probably be held to see if the Student Body would be willing to accept the
two-day break, as outlined at the time of the first vote.

Phi Beta Kappa is a national honorary society with chapters in 170 sheltering institutions. Each of these chapters elects members-in-course
from the student body under the Membership Rules of the institution. Membership qualifications are expressly stated in the by-laws of
the chapter. Also, these qualifications vary according to the length of time the student has spent in residence at the
sheltering institution. One minimum level is required at the end of five semesters, another at the end of six, and
a third at the end of seven or eight semesters. Every student must meet a minimum scholastic average in order
to be eligible for election at any one of these periods in his college career. Furthermore, the chapter is never
permitted to elect more than 12% of any one class to membership. By-laws of the chapter explicitly set forth the
methods employed by the chapter in determining a student's scholastic average.

(Continued On Page Four)

A mystery blaze in room 223 Belk Dormitory on Tuesday was cited as “ineffective” by some of the bystanders who
put out the fire.
