PAGE FOUR

DYING DEMAGOGUE

Nell Padgett Heads ‘Nimbus’ Gets Cash, Kappa Alpha Order Takes Off For Greens

By JOHN BERNHARDT

Friend of the Deceased

Preparing to sail off from Cloud 9, we have today our dying demagogue. A scholar, an athlete, a lady's man, and also a hopeful senior, he will soon wander out from Davidson's portals to go somewhere or other. It is to remember him now, before he is completely gone, that this obituary is written. The scion of an excellent line, unfortunately, the line got crossed, they got the wrong number, and the result was our hero.

ONTO THE LINKS

Today, our demagogue is enjoying his final semester at Davidson. The snow melts; the sun comes out; he leaves the confines of the card table, and wanders out onto the links. Where he will go after these links, no one knows, but in the succession of cards and golf, golf and cards, wandering from one green to the next without knowing why or where. For this is a man of exceptional talents, unconscious of the world of other men but living on a higher plane. This is Nimbus.

FIND OUR DEMAGOGUE

Our world today is in need of a prophet, in need of a guide. Someone must lead us out of our turmoil, and get back on the smooth path. When this world leader appears to us, do not direct him immediately to the Communist crisis. First, let him find our demagogue and help him get out of the rough.

Once when he was only five and a half years old, he got his head caught in the bars of his baby crib. He struggled for several hours until his mother came and turned him on his stomach instead of his side. His head slipped out easily then, but the incident so unnerved him that he never fully recovered, and his head has been slipping ever since.

TEACHER'S WONDER

In one town, where the family lived for a time, he was the wonder of all his teachers. However, one day as he wandered forth to enjoy his usual afternoon of golf and poker he missed his course and wandered too far. Straightway his parents were flushed with worry, but, knowing the mind of their young son, and the habit his head had of slipping, they picked up their full house of sister and golf clubs and passed on to the East in pursuit.

In another town they finally found him, playing golf at the country club. He said he was glad to see them, but to wait a minute while he sank his putt. He made it, from three feet out. Then he asked where they all had been. There was only one solution for his wanderings: send him to Montreat, where he would never get a game again. So off he went. Two months later, he wandered back home with pockets bulging, and Montreat has been corrupted ever since.

TO THAT ‘SAFE PLACE’

In desperation, the family sent our hero to that “safe place.” There, the young man settled himself down to his books. Unfortunately, book-making wasn't very profitable, and he acquired a lost and uncertain outlook. As he seemed to look to the sky for direction, some one, noting his habit of having his head in the clouds and nothing in his pocket, compared him to a cloud. The comparison was apt, and thereafter he was known as “Nimbus.” (Ed. Note: there is a less poetic explanation of the origin of this name. Someone suggested he might be a bit foggy. Another suggested he had no mind, and was off in another world. A compromise was reached in the name “Nimbus”).

Frats Report Fund Raising Campaigns

Several fraternities have reported goals for furnishing their new fraternity house. These estimated costs range from $5,000 to $15,200. This variation in estimated cost is due in part to the fact that some fraternities plan to use some of the furniture and equipment that they already have, while other fraternities plan to buy most of the furnishings for their houses. Also, some fraternities will have to purchase kitchen equipment, while others will not have to bear this additional expenditure as they already own the kitchen facilities they plan to use.

The fraternities plan to raise most of their money by solicitations from alumni and friends. Many of the fraternities have already taken steps toward raising money and have found the results of their efforts to be satisfactory.

BREAKDOWN

An individual breakdown of estimates for the various fraternities follows: $15,000—KA, Beta, and SAE; $12,000—SPE; $10,000—ATO, Kappa Sigs, Phi Delts, Pikas, Pi Kapps, and Sigma Chis; $7,000—Eta Alpha; and $5,000—Phi Gams. Most of the fraternities refused to comment concerning the funds they have thus far raised. This is due to the fact that many of them got a late start on their fund raising and some groups have not yet sent a letter out specifically asking for money although they have sent out letters introducing the alumni to their needs. However, the K.A.’s report that they had raised over $6,000, $850 of which was donated by the chapter. The Phi Delts have raised $1,800 within the chapter not including alumni help.

The Latest In Spring & Summer Wear

Dacron-Wool Suits $55.00-$59.00
Dacron-Cotton Suits $39.75
Sports Coats (cotton) $29.50-$39.50
Dacron-Wool Slacks $14.95
Dacron-Cotton Slacks $10.95
Batiste, Batiste Oxford, Oxfordaire, and Oxford Short Sleeve Dress Shirts $4.95
Madder Print Short Sleeve Sport Shirts $4.95
Challis Tie and Belt Sets $5.00
India Madras, Bermuda and Water Shorts

WILSON-WRIGHT'S, Inc.
“COLLEGIATE FASHIONS”

Neil Padgett was elected to serve as Number One of Sigma Chapter of Kappa Alpha Order. Padgett will hold this office for the year 1958-59. He is a pre-med major from Maxton, North Carolina. Dee Durant, a sophomore from Winter Park, Florida, was chosen as the chapter's representative to the Interfraternity Council. Green is an active member of the College baseball team. Howard Persinger of Williamson, West Virginia, was chosen as vice-president. Bob Austin, who was his fraternity's Rush Chief this year, was elected secretary.

Stacks Desires Improvements

By ERWIN DUGGAN
Davidsonian Feature Writer

An ambitious proposal for improvements to the college laundry was set forth by laundry supervisor Clyde W. Stacks in an interview this week. Stacks, terming the present facilities “obsolete,” has appealed to the administration for a minimum of $10,000 for work on the laundry.

Stacks, an officer of the Charlotte Launderer’s Club, returned last week from a launderer’s convention in Chicago and renewed his plea for improvements. “Our present processing system is the same that has been used here for thirty years,” he said. “We're operating with equipment that is obsolete by anybody's standards — war surplus machines which were bought after World War II.

QUICKER SERVICE

The improvements supported by the laundry supervisor would institute a process which would cut laundering time and reduce the work force by half. Under the plan, called the Key-Tag method, laundry bundles would be placed in individual nylon net bags identified by metal tags for processing, thus eliminating the time-consuming job of sorting after washing. The Key-Tag method would call for new machinery and a re-arrangement of the present laundry floor plan at a minimum cost of $10,000. But, according to Stacks, it would be “a one-hundred percent improvement.” The plan would provide individual shirt-wraps and more efficient processing of small articles such as socks and handkerchiefs. Stacks called the present work on small articles “terrible” and

Hell Week

(Continued From Page One)

The proposed ban on further “Hell Week" activities was announced at a meeting of the Executive Committee of the faculty to which were invited all fraternity presidents and the members of the Interfraternity Council. The ban was presented as a punishment for “Skit Night” activities, termed by the Committee to be “unbecoming of a Davidson Gentleman.” In further establishing its position, the Council passed, by a vote of 10 to 4, the following three-point motion:

(1) That the Council favors, as a matter of principle, the abolition of Hell Week.
(2) That it be recommended to the Executive Committee that the fraternities be allowed to continue certainPre-initiation expressed surprise at the relatively small number of students subject to complaints received by the laundry. He voiced concern over the seeming opposition to improvements that he has encountered. “There's resistance to change here,” he said. “You can see that.”

OBSOLETE EQUIPMENT

The present laundry facilities are used machines which were bought shortly after the Second World War. Since their purchase, the laundry has handled an average weekly workload which includes over five thousand shirts. Of the five large washers, two are obsolete machines with internal washing cylinders made of wood. Asked how Davidson's laundry compared with those at other schools, Stacks replied that both Clemson and the University of North Carolina have facilities which are “far more modern.” He said that the proposed changes would make Davidson’s laundry “one of the most modern in the country.” With the aid of a laundry worker in Jacksonville, Florida, Stacks has prepared a revised floor plan and list of needed improvements, which has been presented to the administration. So far, says Stacks, he has gotten little support. He attributed the lack of interest to “resistance to change” and a reluctance to spend the money which would be required.

STUDENT SUPPORT

The supervisor asked for student support in his campaign for renovation of the laundry. College treasurer D. Grier Martin queried the possibility of future improvements, said, “I can't tell you what Mr. Stacks wants me to say—that we’ll start right away. All I can say is that we hope to make improvements, though no definite answer can be given.”

For QUICK Service And GOOD Food —TRY— SCOTTIE’S DRIVE-IN RESTAURANT Salisbury Drive — Mooresville, N. C. IN SALISBURY 836 S. Main St. — Making Salisbury Famous

Of the ten seniors who were questioned, only one stated that he would not send his son to Davidson. Seven out of ten juniors said that they would send their sons here, if possible, while six sophomores thought that they would encourage their sons to come to Davidson. The “down-trodden” freshmen seemed to doubt the qualities of the school as only four of them desired to send their sons here. Ross Smyth, (Charlotte, N. C.) one of the seniors who was questioned, stated that he would send his son here because it is a school where one can get a “well-rounded education” and can “develop his character as well as his intellect.” John Trask, (Beaufort, S. C.) said that he would want his son to come here for the same reason that he came: It is a “small, Southern, liberal arts college with high standards and is one of the few left that emphasizes moral ideals.” Jim Jones, (Richmond, Va.) wants his future sons to come here because he thinks that Davidson is the “finest liberal arts college in the South.” And he “agrees with the principles which the college maintains.”

These three graduating upperclassmen were also asked what they thought were the chief reasons that make Davidson's reputation as one of the South's liberal arts colleges so strong. Trask said that its chief assets lie in the fact that it is a small school (under 1000 high-caliber students) where the students know each other. He also stated that it has “top-flight” facilities. Smyth thought that the size and the quality of the student body and faculty were the chief assets of the college.

LIFE SAVING

All those interested in taking Senior Life Saving who missed the meeting last night report to the pool at 7 p.m. Monday.

SOCCER MEETING

All students interested in playing soccer are reminded of the meeting next Monday afternoon at 3:30 in the balcony classroom of the gym. Spring practice will be held for two weeks beginning on Monday.

Fraternities (Continued From Page One)

A more concentrated program in other fields. The ATOs, in keeping with a local and national understanding, proposed the biggest project of those offered. Their pledges will go to a nearby church and build a stone wall. Once again, field trips have been made illegal. Road trips, however, are planned for several fraternities to various parts of interest.

FRIDAY, MARCH 14, 1958

D. C. Should (Continued From Page One)

Be as a unique mediator of the Word of God. Religion is also essential to a liberal arts education, it is not just one subject among many. “Also, there are certain basic theological presuppositions in line with Protestant heritage. In the Bible, there is the Word of God to man, not just facts. By taking Bible, the student can find political, economic, and social applications to this Word.”

WHY NOT FOUR YEARS

Q. “If this is so important why not four years of Bible?”
A. “Two years is actually a compromise because the other alternative, a one-year survey course, cannot be dealt with on a level that benefits Davidson College.”

Q. “Do you feel that new changes in the Bible curriculum will be the most significant in the last decade?”
PROF. MALONEY: “Wait and see. They should be significant in student attitudes toward required Bible. There is something negative or deadening to the students in required courses, and it is equally deadening to the professors who have to teach the same routine each year. The new elective setup should solve this problem and stimulate the professors to new and varied study.”
DR. SCHENCK: “An advantage of the new changes would be that a really interested group should normally take the elective courses.”

RELIGION OVER HISTORY

Q. “Is there more justification in requiring two years of Bible rather than say, two years of history?”
PROF. MALONEY: “Yes!”
DR. SCHENCK: “There is a distinctive character and uniqueness and the self-revelation of God through the Scriptures. For leaders of the contemporary world, men who know God are needed.”

Q. “Has the number of pre-mins declined in recent years?”
A. “We have no way of keeping track of this. Some that we didn’t know were pre-min turn up in the seminary.”

Q. “How long has Bible been required at Davidson?”
DR. SCHENCK: “For quite some time. In the old days, they didn't even get to the Prophets in the first year. Students had to know the number of tent pegs, etc. Then after World War I, a survey course was decided upon.”

You'll be sittin' on top of the world when you change to L&M. Light into that L&M FILTERS. Only L&M gives you a filter with this filter fact—the patent number on every pack is your guarantee of a more effective filter on today’s L&M. LIGGETT & MYERS TOBACCO CO. Live Modern flavor. Best tastin’ smoke you'll ever find! Put yourself behind the pleasure end of an L&M. Get the flavor, the full rich taste of the Southland’s finest cigarette tobaccos. The patented Miracle Tip is pure white inside, pure white outside, as a filter should be for cleaner, better smoking. ©1958 Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.