The Davidsonian
THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE
PAGE FOUR
(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

Thanks For A Job Well Done

With his resignation Tuesday morning, Dr. Clarence J. Pietenpol terminated a period of several years’ service as Davidson's Dean of the Faculty. During this time he worked under two presidents of the college, and for nearly a year and a half he headed the administration as Acting President. Along with his administrative work, he carried the additional burden of acting as chairman of the Department of Physics and of teaching both freshman and advanced physics courses. For most of this time he was the only Ph.D. in the department.

Although it is not known to very many of us, Dr. Pietenpol held similar positions at another school before he came to Davidson in 1946. At Washington and Jefferson College, in Washington, Pennsylvania, he was successively Professor of Physics, Director of Defense Activities, Dean of the Faculty, Special Assistant to the President, and finally Acting President. This administrative career amply testifies to his talents. And further evidence of this is available if we examine his record at Davidson, for, although much of the activity of a Dean of the Faculty is of necessity concerned with purely routine tasks, he has played a large part in planning the future of Davidson's intellectual and academic life.

When a man who has served the college long and well is forced by sickness to give up many of his activities, we of the student body can only extend to him our personal sympathy and our gratitude for a job well done. Wednesday the Delta Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa adopted the following resolution, which it presented in a letter to Dr. Pietenpol:

“We the members of Delta Circle, Omicron Delta Kappa, hereby commend Clarence John Pietenpol for his years of loyal service as Dean of the Faculty, Davidson College, and for his time of selfless devotion as Acting President during the year 1957-1958. The ultimate benefit of such dedication to the students who pass through Davidson's doors, and the sacrifices Dr. Pietenpol made are deeply appreciated.”

In addition to this formal resolution, the letter stated: “It is our hope that the near future will bring you renewed health, enabling you to continue your contribution to Davidson in your ever important role as a teacher.”

The DAVIDSONIAN feels that this accurately reflects the feelings of the entire student body.—C.H.C.

A Tragic Climax

The closing of public schools in certain areas of the South has brought the segregation-integration battle to a tense and tragic climax. In 1954 the people of the South were presented, so they thought, with the choice of integrated or segregated schools. The Supreme Court ruling of that year was generally regarded by Southerners as a prod toward eventual integration; yet it was understood that many years would ensue before that stated aim would be approached. The essential element of the Southern attitude was that, for many years, there would be a choice between integrated and segregated schools.

Events of recent weeks plainly show that the choice is an entirely different one. A people who have traditionally regarded education as the primary requisite for the “good life,” an area which produced America’s greatest champion of public education as the rock bed of democracy, Thomas Jefferson, is now faced with the choice of integrated schools or no schools at all. The previous question—integration vs segregation—gave room for valid arguments in both corners. A knowledge of the “Southern situation” gave real cause for worry over the prospect of immediate integration. The Christian ethic and the democratic ethic lent ample support to those favoring integration. These arguments, both arguments, are now drowned out by the slam of school doors across our land. The choice is integration or the complete breakdown of the public school system, to say nothing of utter disregard for the law of the land.

Such a choice is unfortunate, but it must be made and lived with. There can be only one choice under the circumstances. The value of education, whether it be integrated or not, far exceeds the value of having an agreeable social environment during the educational experience. If education is to be preserved as an inviolable right of all, it must be done. Integration seems to be our only alternative. The problems will be great, requiring the deepest understanding on the part of all involved; but it can be done.

Feet On Floor

With the shift to the new Patterson Fraternity Court, at least the physical movements of the Davidson Greeks have been channeled in a new direction. This year the ideal, if not the only, opportunity for these fraternity men to start off in a different direction in what might be termed the ‘spiritual’, or intangible realm, for this has been well tagged “the year of the precedent” in fraternity life. With homes that better accommodate the sizes of fraternities, let us assume a maturity that better fits the nature of the college men we are. This intangible spirit of maturity can be partially achieved by changes in certain tangible fields. It is time we left behind certain inane crudities which crop up among fraternities, but serve no purpose. It is time to leave behind the barnyard eating habits of years gone by. It’s time to learn a due respect for manners of the home. Right now the Greeks’ feet are on the floor rather than the furniture, but how soon will the reverence for the new, and probably mortgaged, furniture wear off?

Within recent years the attitude toward pledges has proceeded well along the road of maturity. With continuance of this trend these neophytes can be instilled with the respect and courtesies befitting the Davidson Gentlemen which we and they supposedly aspire to be. This can be one of the most important lessons they will learn and pass on to succeeding generations. Better that they learn this than the shortest distance between dorm room and Stud.

G.W.R.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Charles Chastain

ASSISTANT EDITOR
Bob Lathan, George Ramsey

BUSINESS MANAGER
Ed Armfield

Associate Editors
Dick Smith
Sports Editor
Tim Hamilton
Pete Kellogg
Bruce Brooks
Feature Editor
Laurens Walker
News Editor
Bill Patton
Henry Samuels
Tom Colvin
Spiro Macris
Assignments Editor
Copy Editor
Cartoonists
Bross, Cole
Photographer
Charles Rose
Advertising Manager
Dave Gillis
Circulation Manager
Greg Grana
Ass't. Business Manager
Bob Wynne

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879

RESULT OF INCREASED ENROLLMENT

Vespers Condition Brings Opinions Forward

By JACK TAYLOR

Friday morning a week ago President Martin admitted to the student body that Vesper Services, like the dormitories and lab schedules, had become a bit crowded. Hearts lifted in hopeful prayer, but vespers were not abolished. Juniors and Seniors did receive one free “cut,” though. The resolution which allowed the “cuts” was adopted by the Religious Life Committee and was approved by the Executive Committee of the Faculty as a temporary solution to the problem of extremely crowded vesper services. The temporary measures were to allow more time for serious consideration of possible long-term solutions, which were listed in the committee’s resolution.

ABOLITION

What did public opinion have to say about the committee's action and about the suggested solutions? Many students were indifferent. As one junior put it, “I don’t really care. I've only got to attend four more vespers anyway.” Others had devoted some thought to the problem and were strongly opinionated. Suggestions ranged from “knocking out a wall and putting more seats in the church” to the abolition of required vespers.

Probably the most popular of the proposed solutions was vesper attendance credit for Sunday morning church, either in Davidson or elsewhere. This would give the student more freedom than he now enjoys, allowing him a choice of time, place, and faith. Drawbacks of this plan are, first, the approval of the various church bodies and the townspeople must be gained; some feel that there might be resentment among local church groups towards a “captive audience working off an obligation.” Many townspeople would rather keep their morning services pure in spirit. Also, as Dave Robinson pointed out, if the locale were limited to Davidson, it might not alleviate the number of students attending the night vesper service; the majority of students would probably sleep through Sunday morning services rather than attending. Those who did attend the morning church services would possibly desire to hear the evening speaker. Therefore, the number attending evening vespers would not be appreciably decreased.

SENIOR EXEMPTION

Another suggestion was a blanket exemption for Seniors, or first semester exemptions for Seniors and second semester exemptions for Juniors. Antagonists of this plan believe that under such requirements students would look forward to the time when they would no longer be required to attend the services, and would come to think of Vespers as something they outgrew. Thus Vespers would “lose one of its essential values—that of training the personality in the habit of church-going.” Conversely, Dr. Staples, who is a strong advocate of Senior exemption, feels that “if we haven't established certain value patterns by the time they (students) are Seniors, we aren’t going to.”be able to do a whole lot beyond that point.” A solution very similar to the temporary action undertaken by the Religious Life Committee would give Seniors free cuts on the Sundays with the heaviest attendance, the first four, and on dance weekends. Combined with their already allowed seven cuts, this plan would practically give the Seniors a blanket exemption.

DOUBLE SERVICE

A variation on the idea of church attendance credit is a double service, whereby the vesper speaker would conduct two services in the evening, or possibly, the Y.M.C.A. might conduct one of the services. Attendance at either service would count toward a student's obligation. This plan would eliminate any exemptions and is favored by those who are afraid that the problem of crowds might be used as a mechanism to phase out compulsory vespers. The exponents of this plan feel that compulsory vespers should be judged on its own merits, and not by the fact that increased enrollment has crowded a limited seating area.

THE SPECTATOR

Runaway Frosh Finds No Escape From Court's Wrath

By TOM KERNAN

I was in my room the other night, counting the laundry's latest ventilative efforts on my personal apparel, when I heard a frenzied pounding on my door. Opening it, I found the shivering form of Winston Small, member of the class of '62.

“Quick,” he panted, “Let me in. Please, they'll find me!”

“Rush Week is over, Winston,” I said. “Go home.”

“No,” he said, “you don't understand; the Court of Control is after me.”

Even as he spoke, my ear detected the faint baying of hounds coming from the confines of East. I intended to leave him to his fate, but the imploring look in his eyes melted my resolve, and I let him into the room.

“What are they after you for?” I asked.

“I forgot to speak to an upperclassman,” he moaned, wringing his hands. “What am I going to do?”

“Hmmm, that reminds me of good old Charlie Hartug,” I answered. “When he was a freshman, he came up before the court for not speaking to an upperclassman. It was the very first meeting, too, and Marvin Maul, Davidson’s greatest tackle, was judge of the court that year. Well, he finally called Charlie’s name and, sure enough, there came Charlie walking down the aisle, looking just as solemn as an owl. He took off his cap and stood there while Marvin read the charge against him for not speaking to this upperclassman. Then Marvin kind of roared out—‘How do you plead, Freshman?’ Charlie just stood there, not saying a word. Marvin asked him again, only louder—same result, not a sound. Finally, Marvin kind of inflated himself and this time he yelled it so loud that one of the older janitors in the back of the auditorium got the hiccoughs and had to be taken out of Control.”

Then Charlie looked up at Marvin, with a sad little smile on his face, and started gesturing with his hands and making guttural noises in the back of his throat. It got so quiet, you could have heard a grade drop. Marvin turned sort of white in the face and mumbled something about being sorry. One of the other members of the court came down off the stage and escorted Charlie up the aisle, Charlie still gesturing with his hands and making those kind of slobbery noises in his throat. Of course, they caught up with him after a while, but he sure fixed them for that meeting. Give yourself up, boy; nobody, not even Charlie Hartug, escapes the Court.

Winston thanked me for the advice and, squaring his shoulders, marched manfully into the night.

Alternatives Suggested For Curriculum Needs

By DABNEY STUART

Any purposeful change in curriculum involves initiative on the part of both faculty and student. Two general methods possible to each group present themselves out of the probable mass of alternatives. First, the faculty as a body could impose structural change upon the existing composite of students, primarily by the addition of new courses to the curriculum, or by substitution of revamped courses for old ones. Second, individual faculty members could work experimentally and pragmatically with individual students and/or classes. If a tentative change, which is what such an approach would embody, is successful, propose it; if not, discard the idea. In other words, in the second instance, precede formal course change with informal (individual) experimentation.

The student's main organ for stimulating change is his mouth. He may verbally agitate for change in curriculum that he believes is necessitated by either his own perceived need, or by knowledge of curriculum offered at other institutions. Secondly, companion to the second option of the faculty, a student may experiment with specific programs and undertake to evaluate the results of his work. Again pragmatic principles are employed. Probably a combination of all these possibilities is the most advisable manner in which to approach the problem. The uniting of them into directive policy requires time, a considerable amount of it. The present period of transition in the Davidson College administrative area necessitates not only an acute awareness of a need for patience, but also a renewed study of the curriculum from the ground up. However, the fact that immediate action cannot be expected should not offer itself as an excuse for no action at all.

One suggestion for approach would be to allow some member(s) of the faculty time off from teaching duties to devote their entire energies to the problem. The present Curriculum Committee is unable to offer consistent concentrated attention that the problem demands. (Of course, this opens the need for men to fill the faculty vacancies thus created.) Obviously, the situation requires patience on the part of the student, a quality difficult for a man whose four years are once and precious to him to incorporate. However, patience does not imply passive waiting. It means partially to replace the verbal expression so widely abused with more persistent dedication to the immediate work at hand, to that which the words too often replace instead of symbolize.

LOOK OVER THE SEA

Exchange Student Writes On German, U.S. Athletics

Editor's Note: This is the first in a series of articles by the new foreign students at Davidson.

By Ernst-Helge Schoenfelder

As I found out after my first two weeks on campus, sports play a significant part in the lives of many students at Davidson College. I was especially impressed by the excellent equipment the college can offer to every student in any sport which he may choose. I wonder why under such splendid conditions it is necessary to activate the students’ participation in sports through college authority.

FIRST FOOTBALL GAME

Last week I saw the first American football game in my life. As I did not know anything about the rules of this game, I felt like a newborn baby, watching a funny spectacle; two gaily jumping teams in warm winter dress, falling down onto their knees and suddenly running one into the other, forming piles of human bodies which were lying one on the other. A very kind fraternity man sitting next to me made fruitless attempts to explain the sense of all the trouble to me with the only success that I came to understand: in the end, Davidson had lost the war! However, I do hope that from my personal stupidity you will not conclude that all Germans are such feeble-minded individuals.

FUSSBALL

We also play “Fussball” in Germany, but you would have to translate it with “soccer.” Unfortunately, I don't take any interest in soccer, and therefore consider myself to be a very bad representative of my country, since in Germany soccer takes indisputably first place in popular sports. In West Germany alone there are some 13,000 soccer clubs, with a total of about 900,000 active players. You may remember that in 1954 the West German soccer team succeeded in winning the world championship in Switzerland, thus sending hundreds of thousands of Germans into a state of delirious enthusiasm.

The cake race last week also was a terrific experience for me. Although the foreign students are not classified (but range from freshmen to seniors as occasion demands), I felt like a freshman who should not shirk this outstanding event. Halfway, already being rather exhausted, I felt very much like giving up. But an undefinable feeling that in this competition I was running not only for Germany, but for Europe, kept me going. The cake, however, repaid such exertion and, in a solemn ceremony, was unanimously consumed by the assembled representatives of Europe and Latin America.

To conclude, I would encourage all the readers of this up-to-date newspaper to bring forth their questions and wishes they have concerning our countries and to make suggestions as to the subjects and kind of articles they would like to read under this headline. Thank you very much for your attention! Until next week then...

Birth of a Gentleman ....... by Cole

I REMEMBER THAT FIRST NIGHT WHEN THEY BROUGHT ME HOME...

THE PHILOSOPHES

By Schulz

THEY PUT A CLOCK IN MY BED TO KEEP ME COMPANY... GUESS ITS TICKING WAS SUPPOSED TO SOOTHE ME

IT SURE SOOTHED ME ALL RIGHT...WHEN THAT ALARM WENT OFF, I ALMOST HIT THE CEILING!