PAGE FOUR ~ Graham Allison (left), Bob McAllister (center), and John Packer (right) anchor the freshman end of the rope
during the tug of war, as part of the annual Freshman-Sophomore Field Day last Friday. Freshman Advisor Tom Cutting (right
background) urges on the Class of '62.

Sophomores Triumph In Annual Field Day

The sophomore class successfully quelled upstart freshman attempts at superiority last Thursday by defeating the freshman class 27-22 in the
annual six-event Freshman-Sophomore Field Day.

Freshman hopes rallied with a 5-3 win over the sophomores in the tug of war and another victory in the
shuttle hurdle relay. Sophomores Ed Garrett and Robert Kizer led their classmates to an 8-1 lead in the initial 100-yard
dash. Anderson Sherrill dragged freshman hopes behind him by placing third. In the 880-yard relay, the sophomore group continued their
winning pace, downing a slower freshman team 5-3.

Entering the volleyball contest, sophomores held a decisive 19-14 lead over the underdog freshmen. In the best two-out-of-three volleyball match,
freshmen collected a third 3-3 win over the sophomores but fell to final defeat under a one-touchdown sophomore win in
the flickerball event.

NEAR RIOT

John Nix expressed concern over the one unpleasant occurrence of the day, a near riot between freshmen and sophomores caused
by the appearance of a large homemade “class of '62” flag on the field immediately after the freshman win in
the tug of war event. Though nothing serious developed, Nix quoted, “the disturbance could have gotten out of hand and
seriously endangered future freshman-sophomore games being held.”

LARGE TURNOUT

Court of Control Judge John Nix stated at the end of the Field Day that he was quite pleased by
the spirit displayed by the class of 1962, although it did not win the contest. “The large turnout of freshmen
and their support of their class at the Freshman-Sophomore Field Day is a sign that the freshmen can unite as
a group when they want to,” Nix said.

Freshmen were required to wear coat and tie on Monday as punishment for losing in the Freshman-Sophomore Field Day. John
Nix remarked early this week that he was pleased to see that the freshmen observed this regulation in a mature,
respectable manner.

Martin Announces New Guide Service

President D. Grier Martin announced on Wednesday, October 15, the institution of a new guide service for campus guests which
will be conducted by Mrs. Harold Westervelt of the President’s Office. Fifteen or thirty-minute tours can be provided to prospective
students, their families, and to other guests of the faculty and staff. Tours will include buildings and other features of
interest on the campus. It does not replace those courtesies which are already available but makes it possible to extend
hospitality in a larger number of situations. The guide service will be available to guests of the students if, under
certain conditions, the student himself is unable to extend this courtesy to a guest. Those persons interested in arranging a
tour should get in touch with Mrs. Westervelt at the Office of the Assistant to the President.

Student Council Holds Forum On New Court

A forum for further discussion of the proposed Honor Court was held Tuesday night, November 4, at 7:30. John Kuykendall,
President of the Student Council, and senior members Richard Brubaker and Roy Gilbert led the discussion. Kuykendall outlined tentative plans
for the creation of the Honor Court, and discussion centered around advantages of the proposed Court and certain mechanics such
as elections. Since the Honor Court is to be a separate body from the Student Council itself, separate elections for
positions on the Honor Court should be held. Regarding changes in election procedure, an amendment to the constitution would be
necessary. Honor Court elections would be first since they would be the most selective nominations and elections of the Davidson
student body. Twelve members would be elected this year, with six to twelve in years to follow. According to one
proposal, a member of the Honor Court would be required to resign before he ran for another office. If defeated,
he would run for Honor Court again in a succeeding election. Another proposed plan would allow a man to run
for another office without resigning from the Honor Court until he be elected to the other office.

Prints from the collection of Mr. and Mrs. Owen Lewis will be displayed in the foyer of Chambers Building from
November 7th-21st. Included in the collection are lithographs and etchings by such artists as Honore Daumier, Joan Miro, Georges Rouault.
Also on view will be woodcuts and etchings by young regional artists, among them Ann Carter Pollard and James Bumgardner
of Winston-Salem.

The exhibit is made possible by Mr. and Mrs. Lewis and Mr. Edwin Shewmake, head of the art department of
Salem College. Mr. Lewis is head of the purchasing department of the “Winston-Salem Journal and Sentinel.” He is also president
of the Winston-Salem Gallery of Fine Arts. Mrs. Lewis was the director at the time of its founding three years
ago.

Scabbard and Blade Inducts Nine Members

The annual fall tapping of the National ROTC Society of Scabbard and Blade fell Tuesday afternoon and nine senior ROTC
cadet officers came from their posts to join the National Society. The silver sabre of Cadet Colonel Sam Clarke, Jr.,
“Captain” of the Davidson College chapter, known as B Company of the Fifth Regiment of Scabbard and Blade. He further
stated that invitations for joining the society are issued on the basis of scholastic standing and military proficiency.

Those invited to join the society were: Cadet Major Sam McGuirt of Monroe, North Carolina. McGuirt is the Corps S-3
officer, in charge of Operations. Cadet Major John Bennett of Charlotte. Bennett is the Executive Officer of the First Battle
Group. Cadet Captain Bruce Wilder of Kingsport, Tennessee. Wilder is the commanding officer of B Company, Second Battle Group. Cadet
Captain A. T. J. Morrison, who is the commander of A Company in the Second Battle Group. Morrison makes his
home in Hartsville, South Carolina. Also invited to join were: Cadet Captain Pat Henderson. He is commander of D Company
of the First Battle Group and hails from Maxton, North Carolina. Cadet Captain Ritchie King from Greensboro, North Carolina. Cadet
Captain Vernon Anderson of Union, South Carolina. Anderson is the Second Battle Group S-1, in charge of Personnel of that
group. Completing the list are Cadet Captain Roy Gilbert and Cadet First Lieutenant Bill Patton. Gilbert heads D Company of
the Second Battle Group and makes his home in Birmingham, Alabama. Patton commands the Honor Platoon and is from Brownsville,
Tennessee. Clarke stated that the initiation of the new men into the society will take place in two weeks.Here is
the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Reviews in their class because of practice. Dance Festivities I believe that Homecoming this year was one of the most
successful that Davidson has seen, said IFC President Vernon Anderson at a DAVIDSONIAN interview recently. He added, “I was afraid
at first that the band would not be up to our expectations, but after things began to shape up, I
was very enthusiastic and pleased with the weekend.”

After the poor performance at Spring Frolics last year, Lester Lanin’s reputation on the Davidson campus was at stake. President
Anderson was convinced, however, that “the music both nights lived up to Lester Lanin’s nation-wide reputation.” He further stated, “The
members of the band were very cooperative and showed no signs of ungentlemanly conduct.”

Further questions: “President Anderson, do you feel that Lester Lanin was a satisfactory investment financially?”

A. “For the reduced price, we are sure that we got our money’s worth. He sent his best musicians and,
I think, put on an excellent performance. The IFC plans to use these Homecoming savings in the purchase of other
big-name bands or vocalists for Mid-winters and Spring Frolics.”

Q. “Why did the IFC decide not to have a concert on Saturday afternoon?”

A. “With the football game ending at 5:00 and with the fraternity open houses following, we felt that having the
concert would overcrowd the afternoon.”

HI-FI COMPONENTS At Wholesale Net Prices Across From Ivey's 5th St. Entrance 126 West Fifth St.

Daily Pit-Cooked BARBECUE... Hickory Pit-Cooked Steaks Country Ham and Chicken-In-Basket COMPLETE MEALS “Take Home Service” All Kinds of Sandwiches... Thick
Milk Shakes The Connoisseur “MOORESVILLE’S FINEST RESTAURANT” — Buck Mills NOrth 3-2861 Completely Paved Parking Facilities

“As of this year,” Kuykendall stated, “there are eight men in Student Council positions who will return next year, five
juniors and three sophomores. We can count on their 100 percent participation in one of the two bodies. The members
interested more in the judicial than in the legislative affairs of the Student Council will run for the Honor Court.”

The forum brought out the idea that the proposed Honor Court would help the Student Body overcome their periods of
great activity followed by lulls, and it would give the Council more time for participation in National Student Association work.

Board Of Visitors (Continued From Page One) board members, the executive committee of the college trustees was also to participate
in today’s session. Members of the board are elected to three-year terms and are subject to reappointment. The basic requirement
for membership is an interest in Davidson and an ability to initiate ideas and serve in an advisory capacity.

Besides the annual full board meeting each fall on the college campus, the group is broken down into smaller numbers
for area sessions throughout the year. The board also assumes three public relations functions according to the proposal governing the
formation of the body. First, it serves as an “opinion moulder” to interpret the college to specific groups. Secondly, it
reports to the college the reactions of the general public and individuals, and in the third aspect, it helps Davidson
achieve its objectives “by saying the right thing at the right time to the right people.”

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 1958 Davidson Students LOOK OVER THE SEA Study In Capital (Latin American Happy) This year, Davidson will
again have students participating in the Washington Semester Program of The American University. For several years, Davidson has been one
of a number of colleges which has been invited to participate in this program, in which a limited number of
students can have first-hand contact with the national capital’s personalities, institutions, and source materials.

The students who are selected for this work will attend the School of Social Sciences and Public Affairs of the
American University, receiving credit toward their Davidson degrees for the work done. This program is usually taken during the junior
year.

The principal course is a seminar in which the student meets with officials of the White House, the Congress, and
other governmental agencies. Based on subsequent study and personal contact while in Washington, the student prepares a thesis on some
subject which combines his Davidson major field of study with some aspect of national government or politics.

In addition to this seminar, the student generally also chooses nine hours of regular course work at The American University.

Application forms for this program may be obtained from Dean Johnston and must be completed and returned by November 15.

Donald Russell (Continued From Page One) were, as well as if a manner of thy friends or thine own were;
Any man’s death diminishes me, because I am involved in mankind; And therefore never send to know for whom the
bell tolls; it tolls for thee.”

We all have our responsibility, our own separate part in the challenge of life. We need it wisely and courageously
in order to hand on to our posterity the whole idea of smoking Charlotte 2, N. C. G. 9, REYNOLDS
TOBACCO CO., WINSTON-SALEM, N.C.

Up front in Winston is That’s why WINSTON TASTES GOOD, like a cigarette should!

Stuart Mill says, “Men are men before they are lawyers, physicians, or manufacturers, and if you make of them capable
and sensible men, they will make of themselves capable and sensible lawyers and physicians.” This, of course, is only possible
through a sound, sensible and practical education. A young fellow in order to become a sensible man needs not only
hard study; he must know all aspects of life. American schools, I believe, give us this opportunity. I want to
live and associate among the people to get to know their virtues and weaknesses, their problems and points of view.
I am happy I came to Davidson. Among these friendly fellows who know how to smile and sing Dixie, who
study hard during the week, but know how to date on Saturday nights, I will learn, better than in many
other places, how true Americans behave, what their dreams and aspirations are.

Within one year I will be leaving this campus. I will say good-bye to those faces, trees and voices. New
students will come. There will be other smiles. The years will pass. But still deep inside of me the happy
memories of Davidson and all of you will stay.

A watch is to tell time but without hands... A cigarette is to smoke but without flavor—you miss the whole
idea.
