Che Davidsonian
THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE
PAGE TWO FRIDAY, OCTOBER 24, 1958
(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

Faculty Religious Requirements Should Be Changed For Academic Improvement

In view of the recent concern over the religious requirements pertaining to the Davidson faculty, and particularly in the light of the great variety of opinions expressed by the faculty on this matter, the DAVIDSONIAN wishes to present the following proposals:

1. The rule requiring the President of Davidson College to be a Presbyterian should be modified. It is reasonable, and we believe, generally acceptable to faculty, students, and alumni, that the president of a Presbyterian college should be a Presbyterian—in most cases. Certainly, it is not very likely (in the foreseeable future, at any rate) that the Board of Trustees would pick a non-Presbyterian to head a school controlled by the Southern Presbyterian Church. Nevertheless, there are conceivable circumstances in which a man would be otherwise acceptable to the Trustees but might not be a Presbyterian. To provide for such a case, we recommend that the rule be changed from an inflexible requirement in the Trustee’s Charter and By-Laws to a statement of general policy that could be waived on appropriate occasions.

2. The rule requiring seventy-five per cent of the full professors to be Presbyterians should be done away with completely. As a check on the content of teaching (if it is intended to be such), this rule is a failure. To require that three-quarters of the top jobs on the faculty be held by Presbyterians does little to control the content of teaching in the school as a whole—for this purpose, the distinction between full professor and the lower faculty ranks is a useless one. Furthermore, such a requirement would tend to make some men become Presbyterians in response to economic and social pressures, not out of personal conviction. Finally, this rule can act as an impediment to the promotion of able teachers, perhaps even causing them to leave Davidson altogether. And many non-Presbyterians who might otherwise take jobs teaching here are deterred by the knowledge that they would be, in a sense, ‘second-class citizens’ of the college community. At a time in which qualified teachers are increasingly harder to find, we wonder whether Davidson can afford to handicap herself in this way.

3. The rule setting up special doctrinal requirements for teachers of Bible and Philosophy, and requiring them all to be Presbyterians, should be revoked. To limit the content of these courses to Southern Presbyterian Bible and Southern Presbyterian Philosophy, which is clearly the aim of the rule, is out of place, even in a Southern Presbyterian college. It would be better to have these courses oriented in a generally Protestant framework (as they are now, in practice), and better still to have such courses taught objectively, without any particular doctrinal slant, by a staff that would include men of varying religious viewpoints. We feel that it would be of great educational value to let Davidson students, as part of a liberal education, choose for themselves between conflicting opinions in matters of such importance.

4. The religious oath required of all professors should be done away with. This requirement is similar to the seventy-five per cent rule, in that it makes a distinction between faculty ranks that has no relevance to the content of teaching in the classroom. It looks as though the purpose is to keep the top rung of the academic ladder in “safe” hands—certainly not very commendable from the viewpoint of academic freedom. At least one man now on the faculty has repeatedly refused promotion to full professor because of conscientious scruples against taking such an oath. Others may take it “with their fingers crossed,” simply to obtain promotion, making the oath itself an empty formality. Such an oath is a standing barrier to many well-qualified men who otherwise would come to Davidson.

5. The rule requiring all members of the faculty to be members of “some evangelical Church” should be modified and made more flexible. In addition to the fact that Davidson is automatically excluding a great many capable teachers by this rule, there is a powerful educational reason for such a change. The present policy prevents the Davidson student from having any direct intellectual contact with intelligent, well-trained men who have a religious outlook different from the one to which they have been exposed in their childhood. This means that, as far as the college is concerned, the student’s viewpoint is to be kept permanently narrow in certain areas. Such a situation, in which certain types of ideas are kept off the market and an intellectual monopoly established, is incompatible with the basic aims of a liberal education. We realize that Davidson is a college in the Protestant tradition, and that most of its teaching staff should be Protestants under any circumstances, but we urge that this rule be modified to allow, in special cases, the hiring of teachers with a different religious orientation in order to remedy difficult personnel shortages and to broaden the intellectual horizons of the student body.—C.H.C.

Davidson Sabbath - 1850

The recent discussion concerning overcrowded conditions in Vespers, and the possibility that, from time to time, certain classes may be exempted from required attendance brings to mind the question, how was the Sabbath observed at Davidson a hundred or more years ago? The following letter written by Stephen D. Ramseur, a Davidson student, to his sister on October 17, 1853 gives an interesting and factual answer:

“You asked me how I spend the Sabbath day here. In the morning at sunrise I go to prayers in the Chapel, from there we go to breakfast, and then there is about an hour until Sabbath School, which time I spend in reading my Bible. It is about 11 o'clock when Sabbath School breaks up, and then we listen to a sermon from one of the members of the Faculty. After the morning sermon, I read some good book (I am reading Doddridge’s “Rise and Progress of Religion”) which I hope may prove of lasting benefit to me. At three o'clock all of the students go up to the Chapel and recite a Bible lesson to Dr. Williamson which is very interesting and instructive, and we have another sermon Sabbath night. Yes, Dearest Sister, I try to spend the Sabbath in a way as I think will please my Father in Heaven, and will be beneficial to my never dying soul.”

Ramseur left Davidson in 1855 to enter West Point. He became a Confederate general in the War between the States, and was killed in that conflict.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Charles Chastain

ASSISTANT EDITOR
Bob Lathan, George Ramsey

BUSINESS MANAGER
Ed Armfield

Associate Editors
Dick Smith
Jim Hamilton
Pete Kellogg
Bruce Brooks

Managing Editors
Laurens Walker
Bill Patton
Henry Samuels

Sports Editor
Tom Colvin

Feature Editor
Spiro Macris

News Editor
George Rhyne

Assignments Editor
Dave Gillis

Copy Editor
Greg Grana

Cartoonists
Bross, Cole

Photographer
Bob Wynne

Advertising Manager
Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879

PISTOLS MORE DANGEROUS THAN BOURBON

President Kuykendall Reverses Opinion On Firearms; Student Councilmen Favor Constitutional Amendment

By ED ARMFIELD
Davidsonian Managing Editor

Last week The DAVIDSONIAN asked President John Kuykendall and the Student Council a vital question. That question was: Which is more dangerous in a dormitory room, a bottle of bourbon whiskey or a .38 pistol? Partly as a result of this article there has been a move on campus to prohibit the possession of firearms in dormitories by including this in the Student Body Regulations. Last week President Kuykendall appointed a committee to look into the possibility of such a rule. Members of this committee are John Huie, Dee Green and Charlie Rutherford.

CHANGE OF HEART

Several weeks ago in an interview with The DAVIDSONIAN, Kuykendall opposed such a move, saying that he thought this would be “spreading the Council too thin.” Now he has had a change of heart and is in favor of bringing enforcement under the Council. Kuykendall explained this by saying, “It is my firm conviction that firearms must be kept out of the dormitories. Originally, I did not feel that it would be necessary to enact an amendment to the Student Body Regulations because of the strength of student opinion on the matter. It has become apparent, however, that we are still faced with the problem. Therefore, I am in agreement with the proposed move to bring about student legislation in the form of an amendment to Article IX.” John went on to say that there was a very good chance that such an amendment will be discussed at the regular Council meeting, Monday, October 27. A formal amendment could be offered to the Student Body on the following Friday.

USE OF ARMORY

One of the solutions as to where guns could be kept for students wishing to have them for hunting purposes lies in an offer from the R.O.T.C. department. This was mentioned by Tom Cutting who said that along with a Student Body Regulation, “a place should be provided for firearms... a plan of putting them in the R.O.T.C. armory is now being developed.” Kuykendall, in discussing this possibility, stressed the fact that Colonel Adams wants the “gun club” to be as autonomous as possible, a feature which would be practical with responsible leaders. The idea of keeping weapons in the armory seems to have found favor with quite a few Council members who recognize the value of a gun for recreational uses. Sophomore Verner Stanley thought that such anArrangement “would not seriously inconvenience sportsmen and would insure the safety of our college.” Several Councilmen were in favor of amending such a Student Body Regulation on the grounds that the present rule, supposedly enforced by the faculty, is confusing and ineffective. Dee Green, Junior Class president, favors student enforcement because, “We have rules with teeth in them against drinking and, to me, this matter of firearms is a much more serious issue.” John Huile recognized that while “this rule will not eliminate the possibility of another accident, it certainly is a step in the right direction which seems essential.” Councilmen-roommates, Charlie Rutherford and Sam Sloan both spoke out in favor of a new Student Regulation, Charlie saying, “The most effective way to prevent future accidents is through a Student Body Regulation” and Sam adding, “With a new rule... the individual and the Council will both know where they stand.”

RUMORS OF WEAPONS

Sophomore Spiro Macris added that, “Even though such a new rule may reflect on the Student Body’s sense of responsibility... in the light of rumors that some students have weapons in their rooms this year—this in spite of requests by both Administration and Student Council not to do so—a definite rule is necessary.” Bob Livingston's comment was that, “An amendment to Article IX... would be structurally simpler than the present confused situation, practically desirable, and should be incorporated at this time.” The lone dissenter of those members contacted was Richard Brubaker, and he with qualifications. Although not in favor of a Constitutional amendment, Richard advocated “such action by the Student Council which would impress upon the Student Body the feeling that firearms are not wanted in the dorms.”

LETTER TO EDITOR

Complacent Faculty Reprimanded For Missing Political Program

Dear Editor:

This Tuesday night I saw three Davidson professors sitting in the middle of four politicians who had come to the campus to speak on current events and their party platforms, domestic and foreign. Some Davidson professors would avoid association with “politicians.” I have had the privilege of being taught by each of these professors. Last year was the first year at Davidson for two of these men, and I believe that they are the best thing that has happened to Davidson since I have been here. In addition to being good instructors, these three men really think for themselves, something that is unusual at Davidson, even (or especially) on the part of professors. But they also are very well informed and have facts at their command.

Almost all of our other professors were conspicuous by their absence. Perhaps they would say that they are disinterested rather than uninterested, but the fact remains, they were not there, which implies that they are not concerned. I believe that it would be a very good thing for Davidson, and its students, if the majority of its professors would show more concern, if not interest, in current events and international relations.

LACK OF INTEREST

This lack of interest in the rest of the world on the part of the administration is evident even in the curriculum of the school. For many years the Political Science Department has struggled along with one (1) professor, even after Dr. Ford left. The course, “History of American Foreign Policy,” although a history course (83) was dropped this year, even though it is carried in the catalogue, for this reason: Dr. Spencer, the former professor of the course, left Davidson, and the History Department had no one who would (or could) teach the course. But it refused the offer of the Political Science Department (one man) to teach the course, for purely departmental reasons.

WEAK IN AWARENESS

This school is strong in History, Bible, and (Classical) Greek; but this strength is almost a weakness, when it is not counter-balanced by more modern courses. This school is strong in tradition, but weak in awareness and concern about what is happening today, and may happen in the future. At the risk of being considered a free thinker, I would advocate that the administration and faculty be a little more “progressive,” or, more simply, “interested.”

Bob Hoagland

SALMAGUNDI

But We Call It (Eh, Eh) ‘The Stud’

by JOHN TOUMARAS

Belk disgorges its inhabitants... The girls arrive—good dates, bad dates, easy dates, sophisticates... Pinned couples renew old friendships; freshmen become seemingly articulate and smooth... Everyone moves to the Houses for supper; the Lonely Shadow walks to Hattie’s... “Hi”, “Hello”, “My, this is a lovely house!” “Um, the food’s good,” “You're just a freshman!” Insipid: Lae To quarters for a change of clothing... “For my next number I shall strum the guitar with my toes”... The Lonely Shadow offers himself another drink... Another change of clothing... Intricate designs amid teachers and barbells. Lester and the Fellows gush forth. “May I cut?” “Certainly (you snake)” “It must be nice to have alcohol-free dances.” “Yeah”... Figure. Intermission. Back to the Houses... “This is a song we always like to sing...” “Will you have a coke?” The Party... smoke-filled, cold, bare, barn-like building... howling combo... this rhythm straight to you from Africa... “Where’s the ice?”... “Drink?” “No thank you.” “Smoke?” “No.” “No vices?” “I didn’t say that.” “Oh!”... The Lonely Shadow throws himself in bed... Meanwhile, in a quieter place... “Harvey’s had it”... muffled conversations in the restrooms... Another drink, dance, giggle, gurgle The early-to-bedders become the early risers... grand tour of Campus... “Now this is Chambers; this is the Union, but we call it (eh, eh) the Stud”... “There’s the carrel where I study (sleep)”... heavy eyelids crack open in the dorms, weary feet shuffle to the Head... Shave, shine, cool refreshing shower... Lunch: “Where did you all get to last night?” no reply... blah, blah, blah... To the Game... afternoon suit, tight-rolled umbrella, mirrored shoes... tweed suit, fur jacket, heels, perfume... Neat... Ball game? “Oh we just come to talk and see who's here.”... The Lonely Grand... Bridge, small talk, buffet for returning Alumnus... really small talk... Some to the dance, impeccably attired... Others to Hattie’s... Still others leave for the party... The Lonely Shadow seeks a change of scenery; he goes to the Anchor... The Party... same as the night before... Sunday morning... awakened by faraway hymns... pack up, dress up, eat... one last look, one last Thank God she’s gone.

THE PHILOSOPHES

Needed: A New View Of Vocation

By DAVID ROBINSON

The fall of each year witnesses the parleying of enlister and enlistee, of businessman, research expert, foundation representative, or graduate school devotee and the Davidson junior or senior. Conversations between the forces center upon the subject of occupation and occasionally deepen to border upon vocation.

A portion of the emphasis of the recent visit of the Rockefeller Brothers Institute to Davidson illustrates the mood of a majority of such conversations. They, as others, would like to harness to their Program or industry a talented, somewhat open-minded, and relatively uncommitted group of students for experimental participation with a view toward continuation. Commitment is promised as well as livelihood, vocation as well as occupation. Necessary in the spiritual attitude of the student is a willingness to consider; the hardening of willingness into devotion to job is theirs to perform.

Proponents and participators in the professions of ministry, teaching, and similar occupations of high psychic value justly feel the need of compensating for the lack of lucrative attractiveness found therein in their publicity to the coming generation. This sentiment leads to the founding of fellowship programs offering opportunity for the pondering of entrance into the particular occupation.

Vocation means calling, a variously-administered insistence from above by an entity other than the one called, implying almost explicitly a third dimension, the voice of God acting in history; it means a response in deepest subjectivity to highest objectivity. Enlister and enlistee have alike perverted such a doctrine, by removing the all-important participation of God and by enmeshing themselves in an often even unhumanistic competition.

We at Davidson—at some time ourselves to be approached for enlistment—share in the poverty of the concept of vocation. We gain our willingness to consider from many sources: the appeal of an established firm, the influence of a physician father, and the opportunity for advancement, to mention but a few. Such willingness to consider obliterates our willingness to commit, for that into which the Davidson student proceeds can involve no commitment, or, at most, that partial hardening of the years which renders man gently insensible to other than egoistic value.

Our responsibility lies along a refiningly-defined narrow path. A consciousness of abilities and limitations, manifested in self-criticism, and an ever-deepening awareness of need must be combined with a constant openness to the “voca” of God in order to restore meaning to the experience of vocation.