Weather Forecast: Fair and partly cloudy, high of 60 degrees.

VOL. XLVI

Broyles Elected To Presidency Of YMCA

Vernon Broyles defeated Melton Tankersley for president of the YMCA in an election held last Friday after both candidates had
presented their platforms to the members of the Y during the chapel period. The YMCA also elected Smitty Smith as
vice-president, Tom Colvin as secretary, and re-elected Bob Livingston as treasurer.

Broyles, a rising senior and a Union Carbide Scholar, is a member of Phi Delta Theta Fraternity and of Philanthropic
Literary Society. As chairman of the Committee on the Mission of the Church, Broyles took part in various YMCA activities
this year.

Smith, a rising junior, is also a member of Phi Delta Theta Fraternity. During this past year he has served
as chairman of the Committee of Deputations. He is at the present serving as chairman of the Southern Region of
the YMCA. Smith is also a member of the swimming team.

VERNON BROYLES

Next year Colvin will be Assignments Editor of the DAVIDSONIAN. Livingston, a Baker Scholar, is a member of Alpha Tau
Omega Fraternity and of the Student Council. A rising junior, he will serve as treasurer for the second year in
succession.

Colvin, a rising sophomore, is a member of Beta Theta Pi Fraternity and of Philanthropic Literary Society. This past year
he has served the Y on the staff of the Student-Christian.

Student Lawmakers Study Honor Council

At the meeting of the Student Council Monday night, discussion centered around the proposed Honor Council. The Honor Council Committee
recommended that there be 11 members on the Honor Council. This would mean that at every trial there would be
9 voting members, a prosecutor, and a defense. This Honor Council would necessarily include some members with previous trial experience.
The rising sophomore class would elect two permanent members who would be on the council for three years. Next year
the class would choose two additional men to serve for two years. This would make a total of four men
from the junior class. The following year one additional member would be chosen for a total of five. Distribution of
councilmen according to class would be sophomore class, 2; junior class, 4; and senior class, 5.

There was a discussion on whether the president of the Student Body should be on the Honor Council. The committee
decided that the Student Body President should be on the Honor Council in the capacity of a non-voting member. There,
then, would be complete separation of the legislative and judicial branches of the Student Body. The President would act as
a liaison between the Student Council and the Honor Council, and he would be able to help iron out the
difficulties.

Prompted By Recent Events, Says Jones

The Interfraternity Council this week announced passage of a resolution declaring traditional Hell Week activities at Davidson permanently abolished. IFC
President Bob Jones, in explaining the council action, remarked that the resolution was “precipitated by what happened to Hell Week
this year.” Jones said that the IFC would promote “a more constructive program” for fraternity pre-initiation ceremonies next year. He
expressed approval of widely popular “Greek Week” festivities or a Help Week similar to that sponsored by Alpha Tau Omega
fraternity at Davidson.

The IFC resolution was passed in a meeting shortly before spring recess and was presented to the fraternity faculty committee
and the entire college faculty for approval. The faculty, while taking no formal legislative action, concurred with the IFC. The
Interfraternity president announced that another IFC meeting will be held to define what pre-initiation activities will be considered illegal and
to begin forming plans for the new program to be instituted next year. He remarked that money from fraternity fines
collected recently will be used to undertake a study of Greek Week festivals and to formulate plans for next year’s
activities. The Hell Week ruling, said Jones, is in keeping with the policies of national offices for fraternities.

Prospects Visit College Campus

Fifty-five high school juniors and seniors participated in the first High School Weekend here last Friday and Saturday, April 11th
and 12th. The purpose of the weekend was to give high school students who are considering attending Davidson and who
had never visited the campus a chance to do so. All of those who attended met entrance requirements and had
been accepted by the college. While on the campus, the students visited classes and saw several Wildcat teams perform. The
fraternities provided meals for the visitors. The participants had to pay only for their transportation. The administration and the fraternities
sponsored the weekend. There are plans to make this an annual event.

ROTC Cadet Officers Go To Wake Forest

Seven Davidson ROTC cadet officers were guests of honor of the Wake Forest College ROTC unit for a drill and
parade Tuesday, April 15. Cadets were greeted by Col. W. M. Peyton, PMS&T of the Wake Forest regiment, and by
the student Commander Roland Thomas. After meeting cadet officers, the guests observed company drill and then reviewed a parade in
their honor. Those cadets making the trip were: Col. Charles Stowe, Major Gary Maynard, Major Ken Forester, Lt. Col. Tim
Teachey, Major Graham McKinnon, Captain Bob Baker, and Captain Dave McClain. Cadre Captain John Mitchell accompanied the students.

ROTC Makes Good Showing

Following the completion of the annual ROTC Federal Inspection April 1, Lt. Col. William Adams, PMS&T at Davidson, stated that
General Crump Garvin and the inspecting team seemed very favorably impressed with the local unit. Traditionally such teams are non-committal
due to the nature of their work, but Col. Adams said during informal talks the visitors had spoken highly of
many phases of the regiment’s operation.

In addition to General Garvin, Commander of the Third Army Reserve Command, and Col. Thomas Keithly, Commander of the North
Carolina Military District, the inspecting team included Col. Walter Sewell, PMS&T of Mercer University, and Major Felix Moss from the
University of Alabama. The inspection is conducted every year to determine the status of the local regiment, its operation, instruction,
equipment, and general proficiency. Col. Adams said that General Garvin had been particularly impressed by the physical facilities and the
extremely good relations between the ROTC Department and the administration. Garvin said that this was one of the best physical
plants that he had seen. His own command includes over 30 colleges in seven states. None of the inspectors knew
of another school that had an outdoor rifle range as Davidson does. They felt that the use of this range
must give the cadets a definite advantage for their firing at summer camp.

In investigating the reasons for the excellent relations with the college, General Garvin was interested in the fact that Col.
Adams had presented to the Trustees at their last meeting a statement of the financial contribution of the ROTC to
the college. Through payments to junior and senior cadets at Davidson, the government provides approximately $30,000 a year with a
monthly payroll in excess of $2,500.

The Davidsonian
The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C.
FRIDAY, APRIL 18, 1958
VOL. XLVI, No. 23

MEET THE PRESS — New Student Council President John Kuykendall answers questions of Davidsonian staff at luncheon meeting.Week Completely Abolished
Must Establish Closer Student Relations

By DICK SMITH
Davidsonian Managing Editor

“Formation of the Honor Council, I am afraid, is impractical this year, but it will be instituted at the beginning
of next year.” These were the words of student body president-elect John Kuykendall at a luncheon with members of the
DAVIDSONIAN staff early this week. He went on to explain, “A committee appointed by this year's Council made several recommendations
to the Council last week. The main point of the report was that since the Honor Council is to be
a separate body from the Student Council itself, separate elections for positions on the Honor Council should be held.” Kuykendall
asserted that this spring's elections had gone too far for an Honor Council election to be held this year with
the priority to which it is entitled.

Q. How did the committee arrive at its recommendation?
A. Mainly by writing other colleges such as UNC, Duke, and Elon, which already have Honor Councils in action, and
asking their advice and opinion.

COUNCIL FORMATION

Q. What is your plan for the formation of the Council?
A. I think that the formation should take place in three steps. The first would have the Honor Council sitting
in on Student Council trials. The second would let the Honor Council try the cases, with members of the Student
Council sitting in as advisors. The third would be the complete assumption of trials by the Honor Council, with the
president of the Student Body present at all trials as a non-voting member.

Q. What would be the appeal procedure of a student convicted by the Honor Council?
A. The procedure would be exactly as it is now. The student could appeal to the Faculty Committee on Appeals.
If the committee rejects the conviction, the trial would be brought before the faculty as a whole for further action.
If the committee upheld the Honor Council's decision, the student would have the right to appeal the case directly to
the faculty. No appeal could be made to the Student Council.

Q. How is trial procedure determined?
A. In the past, the procedure has been based solely on past trials. I would like to see a written
procedure available to the Honor Council, and this is one thing I plan to do in the coming year.

VESPER CONDUCT

Q. What is your opinion on Vesper conduct?
A. I define deplorable Vesper conduct to be that conduct which hinders the worship of others. In the two main
offenses this year, the conduct was definitely deplorable. However, I would say that in the last month or so the
conduct has improved considerably. If it again becomes bad, I think that it is the Student Council's responsibility to punish
offenders, although I don't have a definite plan in mind. I shall say, though, that if the need arises again,
the Student Council will take action on it.

Davidson Students At NSA Conference

Tommy Colvin, Ervin Duggan, and Bill Bondurant recently attended the Regional Conference of the National Student Association held at Randolph-Macon
College in Lynchburg, Virginia. As delegates to the conference, they took part in a number of discussion meetings concerning the
theme of the conference: student responsibilities in higher education. The discussions dealt with ways and means of developing student interest
in such areas of education as student counseling services, honors courses, curriculum evaluation, and recruitment of future teachers. Delegates from
schools which do not have educational facilities such as our own student counseling service were encouraged to set up student
committees in their schools to arouse student interest in the need for these facilities. The delegates also discussed means for
creating student interest in the intellectual potentials of college life. The student council has appointed Tom Colvin to serve as
chairman of a committee which is to encourage that intellectual development in the Davidson student body.

Q. Can you evaluate this year's Council?
A. Because of the manner in which the large amount of responsibility has been handled, I think that this year's
Council has done an excellent job.

Bermuda Story Ends At Davidson

Bermudas will be in vogue this weekend. It is therefore entirely fitting and proper that a summary of the history
of Bermudas be set down. After reading this summary the sophisticated Davidsonian can thrill his date with his extensive knowledge.

The noted historian Chalmers Davidson, in his latest book, An Historian’s Approach to the Bermudas of the Pithecanthropi, says: “Bermudas
were first used by the Pithecanthropi because of the usefulness of the buckle for dangling from and swinging back and
forth on limbs. The Pithecanthropus also found the buckle useful for dragging home his mate after the annual spring frolic.
It is well to note, however, that the Bermudas of this time consisted of only the buckle.”

But, as man progressed, so did Bermudas. There was great tumult in Rome the day Julius Caesar stood up in
a smoke-filled Senate and uttered those immortal words, “Alenda Lux Ubi Orta Libertas.” It seems that Julius was setting the
style by wearing the first of the skirt-type Bermudas. Prior to this time the Bermudas had been ROTC brown to
blend with unwashed skin. Cleopatra, in one of her revolutionary moods, suggested that Caesar wear white skirt-type Bermudas. Julius, unlike
the virile Davidsonian, bowed to her wishes and decreed that only the emperor could wear them. It was for this
reason that Brutus killed him. Caesar’s famous “Et tu Brute?” was said when he saw Brutus approach him wearing white
Bermudas.

The skirt-type Bermudas were worn until the time of Napoleon Bonaparte. When Napoleon reached Moscow in the 1812 campaign, he
decided that he should sew legs into his skirt, since the cold Russian wind created a very unpleasant draft. (The
reader should note that the Scottish kilts are descended from Caesar’s Bermudas. The wind of Scotland has not proved as
drafty as the Russian wind.) Peter Stewart Ney, “a mysterious Frenchman respected for his learning,” carried so many documents to
prove that he was Napoleon’s Marshal Ney that he had to sew containers onto his Bermudas before he reached Davidson.
These containers developed into the side-pockets of the present Bermudas. Slick John Cunningham, noted numismatist, added the rear pocket in
order to carry around endowment papers and other useful objects he acquired.

Thus the Bermudas have developed to what they are today. There will be a variety of colors, sizes, and shapes
loose on the Davidson campus this weekend, some of which may prove interesting to behold. But, if the Davidson weather
is consistent, many legs will flee from the discomfort of our local version of short-shorts.

Pictured above are the newly elected editors of Davidson’s publications for 1958-59. Bob Cole will edit the “Scripts and Pranks,”
John Caldwell the “Quips and Cranks,” and Laurens Walker “The Davidsonian.”
