- Princeton Theological Seminary, 1800 Total Subscribers Nearly 800 people outside the College receive the Davidsonian every week. VOL. XLVI OTTS LECTURE SERIES Dr. Charles W. Ranson will deliver the Otts Lecture Series at Davidson March 16-18. RANSON TO DELIVER The Otts Lectures were founded at Davidson sixty-five years ago when the Rev. J. M. P. Otts, D.D., LL.D., gave Davidson an endowment, the income from which was to be used to bring outstanding lecturers to the campus. Dr. Ranson is the son of a Methodist minister born in Ireland. He was educated at the University of Belfast and Oxford University, holding the Doctor of Philosophy degree from the latter. INDIA MISSIONARY He was ordained to the Methodist ministry in 1924, and served as a parish minister until 1929, when he went to India as a missionary. He spent nearly twenty years there, several years of that time being spent as Secretary of the National Christian Council of India, Burma, and Ceylon. In 1947 he was unanimously elected secretary of the International Missionary Council, with headquarters in New York City. He is widely regarded as one of the best-informed persons on Far Eastern affairs in the Christian movement. He is the author of several books, the most recent being “That the World May Know.” He has lectured on endowed foundations at Drew University, and the Pacific School of Religion. Dr. Ranson makes his home with his three children in London. The lectures, delivered every two years, are published in book form. Dr. George Buttrick of Harvard University delivered the lectures in 1956. CHAPEL CHANGE Following a custom of long standing the Executive Committee has shortened the four morning periods on Monday and Tuesday, March 17 and 18, by five minutes each in order to lengthen the chapel periods by 20 minutes. It was also decided that chapel will be held on Monday, March 17, instead of Thursday, March 20. Literary Societies Initiate Members At recent meetings, the Philanthropic and Eumenean Literary Societies elected officers and initiated new members. For the Philanthropic, the officers are as follows: Charlie Drummond, president; Carter Daniel, vice-president; Preston Faggart, secretary; and James Dabbs and Lee Hand, critics. Bobby Morrison continues as treasurer. F. C. Yarboro, Bob Gant, John DeVries, Lucus Harriman, C. T. Burns, Claude DeShazo, H. W. Zimmerman, J. L. Allen, J. T. Anderson, Edward Johnson, Erwin Duggan, Thomas Colvin and Richard Lilly were among the new members. Also initiated were Sam Pope, E. E. Wilson, A. P. Werts, John Talbert, W. Frank Taylor, Robert Schacter, George Blalock, F. A. Wells, David McCarty, David Atchinson, Dick Hodel, Otis Warr, Louis Metts, John Hendry, Clifford Thomson, J. E. Vaughan, William Turner, and Henry Ramsey. The Davidsonian The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 1958 Ready To Move In The new post office shown above should be ready for use in the near future. The building is completed, but not all equipment has been moved as yet. Built by Davidson College the new building has been leased to the federal government. Dr. Anderson Gives 4 Addresses At Davidson By WILLIE THOMPSON Davidsonian Staff Reporter In four addresses this week Dr. John F. Anderson, Jr., pastor of the First Presbyterian Church in Dallas, Texas, outlined the Christian answers to perplexing questions which are asked by Job. The Winter Services were sponsored by the YMCA. NATURE TO CHRIST Sunday evening at the college vesper service, Dr. Anderson attempted to answer the question, “Where Can I Find God?” He explained that a man knows God in the same way he knows any human friend—by association. In order to reveal himself God has spoken faintly in nature, more revealingly in Scripture, and forcefully in the person of Christ. Man cannot find God by scientific analysis. He can only find God by surrendering to the revelation which is given in Christ. On Monday afternoon prior to a general discussion period, the Texas minister presented the Christian view of life after death in an address entitled “What Happens to Me When I Die?” He said that the individual self is a continuing soul which is only temporarily housed in a human body. Physical death of this body is not to be feared unless the essential self is already separated from God. If this self is on a plane of association close to God, then the moment of physical death will not disturb the continuous life. Only Christ, who was God, has had the power to demonstrate this, but it is a process which we are assured we can also live to experience. SELF AND SOCIETY That evening in Chambers, Dr. Anderson centered his remarks on answering the problem, “When Do I Know Enough to Get Along?” Basing his remarks upon the verse, “The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom and to depart from evil is understanding,” he said that the Christian faith is a divine imperative which must be followed. God’s specific purpose was to reconcile the world unto himself. DIVINE IMPERATIVE In his concluding address in chapel on Tuesday morning, Dr. Anderson centered his remarks on the problem, “When Do I Know Enough to Get Along?” He said that the Christian faith is a divine imperative which must be followed. God’s specific purpose was to reconcile the world unto himself.Evil is understand- Auditorium he dealt with the ing," he said that a man is question, “How Can I Make as really educated only when he Go of it?" Dr. Anderson stated knows what God wants him to that the thoughtful person will do and has the training and dis- always realize the presence of cipline to do it. sin in himself and his society. This sin is present regardless cover God's will of one’s religious faith. Man may ignore its presence; he may strive to do something about it himself; he may seek outside help. The Christian finds this aid We have an imperative to dis- by common sense, through examining our circumstances and by an inner conviction that comes from the advice of friends and from the development of our own spiritual perception.

New Bidding Setup Clarified
By BOB LATHAN
Davidsonian Managing Editor

The subject of preferential bidding has generated much debate, pro and con, on campus. A few of the fra- The invitation is being ex- ternities have held “straw votes” on the issue with the result clearly shown: that the student body is generally tended in conjunction with Fed- eral Inspection, scheduled for the same day. The inspection will include the usual review and parade, staged by the entire Cadet Regiment. In addition to the parade, there will be guided tours for the guests, and either a reception or luncheon to allow parents and friends to get together with cadets and with faculty members. The parade will begin at 2 p.m. at Richardson Stadium. Tours of the ROTC Department are scheduled for noon, followed by a luncheon at 1 p.m. Scabbard and Blade Fraterni- mediately following the inspection and parade.

Bradford Reports Annual Progress

Dave Bradford, editor of the Quips and Cranks, has announced that this year’s annual will come out earlier in the year than the 1957 annual. The first half of the annual has already been sent to the printers and engravers, and the last half is scheduled to be submitted on March 3. Quips and Cranks will contain more informal snapshots and campus pictures; also more space will be dedicated to athletics. Bradford also stated that this year’s annual will be larger due to the innovations and revisions.

uninformed on the process After conferring with IFC President Bob Jones, it is my intention to present here a general sketch of the idea together with a typical hypothetical case. Jones explained that a preferential bidding system operates at W&L, Dartmouth, and Princeton, among others, but that the proposed quota pledging system limiting the size of the fraternities, if effected here, would be unique at Davidson although it is commonly used by sororities today. Among the few schools around the nation which have quota systems are the University of Arkansas, Washington and Jefferson, Denison, University of Maine, and University of New Mexico. The IFC would control both bidding and pledging. Each rushee would list his preferred fraternities in order, and each fraternity, in this reciprocal relationship, would list its preferred rushees. However, if the quota of a fraternity was set at say 16, then the first 16 or “top boys” it really wanted are to be listed in no order of preference. The rest of the rushees — the “second, third, etc., string”— are listed in order. An impartial and disinterested group would then determine the highest correlation between the two lists. This would involve a tremendous amount of computation and an IBM machine is used at Dartmouth for this purpose. of the proposed innovation. Each fraternity would be assigned a set quota based on the size of the fraternity in September before Rush Week. Jones stated that “60 should be the limit set for the total number of members in a given fraternity and 45 would be ideal.” By limiting the size of the pledge class and thus, too, the total aggregate size, over a period of say 4 or 5 years, the fraternity size would become stabilized. As a result the big fraternities would maintain quality while sacrificing quantity; the smaller fraternities would build up to the size of the larger. Let us consider the case of Joe Smith, a typical freshman beleaguered with the usual Rush Week problems. Joe lists his choices as 1) Alpha, 2) Lambda, and 3) Iota, in that order. Now Alpha's quota, e.g., is 20. Alpha lists Joe as number 24. Lambda, Joe’s second choice, whose quota is, say 18, has him down as number 27, while Iota, his third choice, names him in its first group.

Joe Smith’s Choices:
1. Alpha
2. Lambda
3. Iota

Fraternities’ Lists:
Joe Smith—
Alpha 24th
Lambda 27th
Iota In 1st group

Now if Alpha has to go to its 24th choice to fill its quota, (Continued On Page Four) cording to financial resources H. Culp of the Business- formal recognition of Dr. John and qualifications of applicants.

CHARLOTTE GROUP

Economics Department. Professor Culp will terminate Four of the finalists are from his service at Davidson with the Charlotte: Graham Allison, Bob, Closing of the 1957-58 academic Bradford, John Chiles, and Bob- year. He has asked for his re- R. Cunningham as President- Emeritus. Also significant were the changes in salary ranges for the various faculty ranks, UP TO 890. Pietenpol, commenting on the by Hill. Two are from Asheville: lease so that he can continue enrollment issue, disclosed that James Davis and Bob Sevier. Two also came down from the Ed Clarke and David Jordan. per, Lenoir; Lee Kirby, Leakes- ville; Alden Miller and Bill Pierson from Raleigh; Bill Pruitt, Spindale; Jerry Rich. Huntersville; Leonard Richardson, Jr., Monroe; Tommy South- alt, Jr., Statesville; Harrison Wellford, Matthews; Bob Rankin, Jr., Durham; and Ros Whedbee, Ahoskie. Two South Carolina candidates are Joe Martin, Columbia; and William Dillingham from Lancaster. Five boys from Georgia are finalists: Philip Arnold from Decatur; Louis Burton, Cartersville; Jimmy Long, Atlanta; Dan Neely, Sparta; Lowry Reid, Columbus. Three Tennessee boys are included: Richard Callaway, Maryville; Bill Shasteen, Clarksville; and John Werth, Kingsport. Two from New Jersey. Francis Drake, Jr., Maplewood; and Don Saunders, Upper Montclair. Three mountaineers from West Virginia are among the (Continued On Page Four)

Fraternities Launch

Most fraternities have launched fund raising campaigns to take care of furnishing the new houses on Patterson Court. Generally, the estimates for furnishing the houses run between $10,000 and $15,000. The variation results from the differences in expenses connected with the kitchen equipment. While several fraternities are planning to use their present equipment, others are having to install new kitchen facilities. The fund raising campaigns consist of an initial letter sent to all alumni of the chapter, this letter explaining the plans for furnishing the house, the available finances, and the amount needed by the chapter to complete its plans. These letters are being signed by prominent alumni and members of the faculty who are members of the different fraternities. Following these initial letters, appeals are sent for donations, while progress reports are issued at certain intervals to let the alumni know the results of the campaign. These campaigns last through the semester. The new houses are scheduled to be ready for occupancy in the fall.

work on his doctorate. the enrollment will be increased A spokesman for the Business- from 870 to 890 next year, the capital of Byrdland, Richmond: Economics Department has indi- reason being that “a vacant indicated that the college is al- house next to the Martins’ has Other Tar Heel boys include: ready considering applications been secured. John Frye, Hickory; Ian Hap- to fill this position.

Willa Cather Award Announced

The Willa Cather Award for creative writing is offered for original work submitted by a member of the Blue Pencil Chapter of Sigma Upsilon. Manuscripts for this award must be turned in to the president of Sigma Upsilon or to any faculty member of the organization by Thursday, March 6. This award is given by Professor Emeritus William C. Doub Kerr, a founder of the chapter at Davidson. The prize this year consists of a number of volumes, including sets of the works of two well-known authors in special library editions.

DISCREPANCY

“As long as the Trustees suggest that we ultimately go to 1000, we must work in that direction. But we just can’t go out and build a new dorm like that. “We must go at it gradually rather than one big jump for if the enrollment were increased to 1000 for next year the admis- (Continued On Page Four)

Discussion Groups Will Meet Sunday

The first meetings of the YMCA discussion groups will be held this Sunday night, March 2, at 9 o'clock. The YMCA will continue these meetings with topics of interest to the Davidson student body. Topics to be discussed are “Christ and Literature” by Prof. Lloyd; “Prospective Presidential Candidates” by Prof. Marrotte, and “Preferential Bidding—Pro and Con” by Dr. McGavock. The discussions led by Professors Lloyd and Marrotte will be held in their respective homes, while the “Preferential Bidding” group will meet in the Union Green Room.

Phi Beta Kappa Bids Discussed
By PETE KELLOGG
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Several students have been asking about the system used in issuing Phi Beta Kappa bids. Here are the answers There is an obvious discrepancy between the scholastic ranking of the senior class as interpreted by the Registrar and published in the Dean’s list and the ranking used to determine the recipients of Phi Beta Kappa bids. The Registrar computes a weighted average; that is, a student making a B on a two-hour course and on a four-hour course will receive twice as much credit for the four-hour course. The credit given is, then directly proportional to the grade and the number of hours. Although official information is not available, it is believed that Phi Beta Kappa recognizes no the Davidsonian has been able to secure. difference between three and four hour courses. If this is true, a student taking four four-hour courses receives 25% less credit than one taking five three-hour courses, although he is carrying the heavier load. Phi Beta Kappa is an honorary fraternity whose membership is by invitation, and scholastic achievement is not the only membership requirement. Nevertheless, would not a clarification of the discrepancies between the public scholastic ranking and the Phi Beta Kappa rating promote greater understanding?