FRIDAY, OCTOBER 24, 1958 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

Keydets, Cats Vie In Homecoming Tilt: Davidson Tops Seagulls 12-0

By “B” MILLNER

Davidson's high-riding Wildcats meet the unbeaten Keydets of Virginia Military Institute tomorrow in a Homecoming spectacle which could be the
game of the year for both teams. Last week the ‘Cats thundered over Carson-Newman defenses for 334 yards in a
41-12 shellacking. A rock-ribbed defensive line led by Craig Wall smothered the Eagle ground attack, allowing them only 43 yards
rushing. A fine running attack was keyed by halfbacks George Hart, Paul Barbee, and Wall, who were often sprung loose
by fullback Dave Warden's timely blocking. This, combined with the thread-needle passing of Tee Redding and Charlie Benson, made up
a balanced attack that completely befuddled the Carson-Newman defense.

Tomorrow’s contest with VMI, Southern Conference Champs last year, is apt to be a different story. The Keydets have not
lost in their last 14 games although they have been tied twice. Coach John McKenna lists a letterman in all
but one position on his first two units. All-Southern tackle Jim McFalls spearheads a solid, experienced line that has limited
opponents to less than 200 yards a game. Geared by senior quarterback Bill Nebraska, the VMI backfield is without a
doubt the fastest in the Southern Conference. Nebraska is third in Conference total offense standings, averaging nearly ten yards a
play. Fullback Pete Johnson, a 195-pounder who does the hundred in 9.7 seconds, has adequately filled the shoes of All-SC
Sam Woolwine, VMI's main loss from last year. Another 9.7 sprinter, halfback Sam Horner, is the conference’s leading ground gainer,
marking up some seven yards a carry. Other backfield aces on Coach McKenna's sleeve are halfbacks Johnny Engels and Art
Brandiff, and fullback Vern Keefer. Second unit quarterback Bobby Roos is just about as potent as Nebraska.

If statistics are any indication, Benson and Redding throw up a better passing attack than do the Keydet field generals.
Redding has completed nine of sixteen passes for a .600 percentage which is tops in the conference. Benson has seen
more action and has connected on 23 of 46 attempts. The Cat flingers have an eager receiver in sophomore end
Danny House who has gobbled up twelve passes in four games for 156 yards.

Coach Bill Dole, as usual, was close-mouthed about predicting an outcome. He seemed to be optimistic, however, especially in view
of the fine showing in the Carson-Newman game. “All in all, I'd say it was our best game this year,”
he remarked. Dole went on to say that his boys were in fine shape physically and would be ready mentally
also. Defense has been stressed in practices this week with emphasis on the fundamentals. Dole stated that the “no-huddle” play
would not be used, nor would there be any other new plays.

PAUL BARBEE, shifty Cat halfback, is pictured shooting through a hole over left tackle for a T.D. in the Carson-Newman
game.

Belmont Abbey, Pfeiffer Succumb To Soccer Squad

By PETE WYRICK

After dropping two close matches to Duke and W&L, the Wildcat soccer team redeemed itself in its last two contests
by defeating Belmont Abbey and Pfeiffer. Last Friday's game with Belmont Abbey reversed the procedure of the past two tight
contests and turned out to be a scoring spree for the Davidson squad. The Abbey managed to score two goals
on penalty kicks but were unable to gain control or crack the Davidson defense. Probably the most outstanding individual performance
was that of a new foreign student, Wiecher Bergsma, who personally accounted for five goals.

PFEIFFER GAME

Tuesday afternoon Davidson was host to Pfeiffer for a return match. The local team had won the first match at
Misenheimer by a score of 4-0. The encounter was another one-sided affair. Davidson controlled the ball most of the time.
At the half, the Wildcats had a 1-0 lead. This was increased during the second half as they went on
to win by a margin of 4-0 again. The Davidson offensive was led by Bergsma with two goals and by
Newt Quantz and Tom Johnson who each scored once.

STATE TODAY

Today's action should once again revert to the close, hard-fought match such as the Wildcats encountered with W&L and Duke
as the Davidson team runs up against an Atlantic Coast Conference foe, N. C. State. Davidson will be seeking its
first victory over State, having lost their two previous encounters. With more experienced men on the Wildcat squad this year,
this Homecoming tilt may see the red and black emerge on top.

Tough Line To Challenge VMI

One of the prime reasons for Davidson's so-far-successful season has been the outstanding performance of the Wildcat line. With ability
and determination motivating the play, the Davidson linemen have knitted into a solid forward wall. Competition for the top spots
has been so close that there are three men who could be listed as regulars for the two end slots.
Sophomore Danny House has perhaps been the outstanding performer in this half-season at end. House is the leading pass receiver
in the Southern Conference. Jim Bloomfield and Harold Westervelt are vying for the other end position. Bloomfield, a rising junior
who lettered as a sophomore, has performed with a great show of ability. Alternate captain Charlie James and Paul Biggers
have given much solidity to the line at guards. James, a four-year letterman, is a versatile lineman who is good
on both offense and defense but is considered better on offense. Biggers, like James a senior, is a three-year letterman.
His 240 pounds have helped him to become a top-notch defensive pillar. Johnny Crute, a sophomore, is considered by Dole
as an indispensable replacement at guard.

“WESTY” WESTERVELT and an unidentified Carson-Newman player go up in the air for a pass.Here is the cleaned OCR text,
preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

In Saturday’s action, Frosh Top Myers Park. This afternoon the Davidson varsity and freshman cross country squads met Furman University
and The Citadel in a triangular meet in Greenville, South Carolina. Fifteen ‘Cats traveled to Furman for the meet.

At the end of the first years, he has written Dr. Scott wishing the team luck. Westervelt, the senior football
guard, Park High School last week and requesting a copy of one of the game programs signed by Dr. Scott,
Coach Dole, and some of the players. Harold Bynum, sophomore letterman, has stepped into the center spot very capably. The
Frosh squad was the only runner out. Coach Whittle commented earlier in the week that he was expecting the freshmen
to down the opposition, but the varsity was counting on tough competition from the Hurricanes and the Bulldogs.

It seems that this fellow, who was once an athlete himself, is now disabled and in this way keeps in
contact with sports. Walter got his program complete with the autographs of everybody on the squad. I don’t know how
he heard of Davidson, but it’s sure he didn't see us on a coast-to-coast television hookup.

—Tribulations of a small-town football coach—

Saturday afternoon after the ballgame, Coaches Dole, Tucker, and Walthall went south to scout the Wofford-Furman game. The trio arrived
home in the early hours of Saturday morning. An undoubtedly well-meaning neighbor remarked at Sunday School, undoubtedly intending no harm—undoubtedly—that
he didn’t know where Coach Dole went last night, but he didn’t get in until three o’clock in the morning.
If the Wildcats beat V.M.I. tomorrow, the coach may well stay out until three celebrating. “If we lose,” he said
jokingly, “I may leave town for good.”

At tackle, big 6’3”, 225 pounds John Watwood, a regular last year, has turned in quick, aggressive play all season.
Scott Lacy is, to quote Coach Bill Dole, “improving with every game.” Alex Porter, a former end, is also considered
one of the regular tackles.

Bruce Usher has been Dole’s top man in the field goal and conversion departments and has also shown adeptness on
defense. Thus far this season, the freshman squad is undefeated. The fleet-footed “kittens” rolled to an easy victory over Myers
Park High School last week, accumulating 186 yards on 13 pass receptions. Bill Coffee of the Frosh squad was the
only runner out, with newly elected captain David Gilmour setting the pace. The Frosh captured the victory 18-43. Coach Whittle
commented earlier in the week that he was expecting the freshmen to down the opposition, but the varsity was counting
on tough competition from the Hurricanes and the Bulldogs.

“Our freshman team has a good chance of being state champions. I'm priming them for it anyway. I'll match this
freshman squad with any freshman team in the Carolinas,” said Coach Whittle.

Do You Think for Yourself?

(SEE WHAT THIS TEST TELLS)

By BOB GREENE

The ATO’s and the Kappa Sig’s each posted wins this week, bringing their records to 6-1 as the IF flickerball
race continues to tighten. The Kappa Sig’s took two one-sided contests, stunning the Phi Gam’s in a 38-0 match and
whipping the Pika’s 32-8. The ATO's beat the PiKapp's and the Sigma Chi’s to match the Kappa Sigs in the
won-loss column.

In other games this week, the Beta’s topped the Phi Delt's 20-12, while the Phi Delt's edged the SAE’s 19-12.
The Ka's slipped by the Phi Gam’s, scoring two touchdowns in the final period to win 25-21.

Davidson's infamous monsoon season seems to have struck this week with Tuesday’s and Wednesday's games being rained out. As round
nine in the flickerball tournament opens Monday, the top six teams are closely grouped and the championship appears wide open.

The soccer story continues to be brightened by the playing of two new foreign students, Hermann Laimer from Austria, and
Wiecher Bergsma of The Netherlands. Laimer is one of the main clogs in the Cat defense. The ease with which
he manipulates his big body and the ball are a constant source of delight to Davidson fans. Bergsma has been
outstanding in the scoring and passing departments. In his last two games, he has scored no less than seven goals
and is credited with several assists.

ATO THE TOP SIX
6-1

KS
6-1

Beta
5-2

KA
5-2

Phi Delt
5-2

Delt
5-2

IFC SCHEDULE For OCT. 27-30

Monday
Phi Gam vs Pi Kapp
KA vs KS
Phi Delt vs SN
Pika vs Pi Kapp
SPE vs Phi Gam

Tuesday
SAE vs ATO
Beta vs SN

Wednesday
Phi Delt vs Phi Gam

The fact is, men and women who make up their own minds—who think for themselves—usually smoke VICEROY. Their reason? Best
in the world. They know only VICEROY has a thinking man’s filter and a smoking man’s taste.

Free Literature Upon Request

Distributed by Familiar pack or box.

THE WORLD'S FINEST RECORD CHANGER

Free Literature Upon Request

126 West Fifth St. Charlotte 2, N. C.

---

Would you turn down an unusual opportunity if it would alter a preconceived plan for the future?
YES [ ] NO [ ]

When introduced to important people, do you act a role which is quite different from the real you?
YES [ ] NO [ ]

Do you feel your education would suffer if books and notes were allowed at examinations?
YES [ ] NO [ ]

Do you instinctively feel a qualm when you walk under a ladder?
YES [ ] NO [ ]

Would you feel that you should leave a formal affair if you found you were wearing clothes that were different
from everybody else's?
YES [ ] NO [ ]

Can you honestly say you enjoy a game or sport as much whether you win or lose?
YES [ ] NO [ ]

Do you let other people tell you what filter cigarette is best for you, rather than making up your own
mind?
YES [ ] NO [ ]

If someone wanted to hypnotize you, would you refuse to let him try?
YES [ ] NO [ ]

Do you think that a public official should do what the voters want him to do, even though he personally
may feel it is wrong?
YES [ ] NO [ ]

*If you have answered “NO!” to six of the above questions—you are a man who thinks for himself!

© 1958, Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp.

---

ONLY VICEROY HAS A THINKING MAN'S FILTER... A SMOKING MAN'S TASTE!
