Weather Report
TONIGHT: Partly cloudy with rain near midnight.
TOMORROW: Occasional rain — High—42; Low—34. Some snow in the mountains.

The Davidsonian
The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College
“Crisis In The North” (See Page 2)
VOL. XLVI

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C.
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 1958

Nearing Completion

Over six hundred dates arrive today, along with Buddy Morrow and his Orchestra, for the Mid-Winter Dances which begin tonight
with a formal dance from 9-1 in Johnston Gymnasium. Ralph Marterie and his Orchestra will arrive tomorrow to play for
a concert in Chambers Auditorium at 3:30 and the informal dance from 8-12 in the Gym.

Intermission tonight will be at 11:30 and tomorrow at 10:30. The figure tonight will be presented at 11 p.m. Belk
dormitory, the Infirmary, the President's House, and a number of local homes are full as the prospect of over 600
dates descending on the Davidson campus threatens to set a new attendance record for Mid-Winters.

Jimmy Jones, chairman of the decorating committee, announced that decorations for the Gym would be centered around a Valentine theme.
In order to get two nationally-famous bands to Davidson for the same weekend, the IFC has arranged an exchange program
with the Germans Club of V.P.I. Most fraternities are planning after-dance parties for either Friday or Saturday nights.

Dr. Davidson Speaks Out Against Expansion Trend

“We would be in effect throwing away what we have and what Harvard and Yale have spent millions of dollars
to obtain.” This statement brought applause from the student body.

STANDARD FOR SIZE

He offered us a standard for determining the relative values of varying sizes of student bodies, two hypotheses formulated by
Dr. J. L. Moreno, authority in Sociometry: “If not at least one third of the members of (the) group know
each other the body of students is under the saturation point of a co-existential group; if not at least fifty
percent of those who know each other also like each other, the body of students is under the saturation point
of a cohesive group.”

At Davidson, he continued, “we know each other well enough to elect the respected and like each other well enough
to...”

BOOKS ONLY

Quoting a statement from the Headmaster of Lowell House at Harvard, after their recent conversion to small college units, Professor
Davidson revealed the dangers of expansion as well as a universal trend in higher education: “In both places (Yale and
Harvard) we were getting an increasing number of students who derived nothing but the benefits of the formal curriculum for
their time at college. There were men who spent three, and sometimes four, years, without making any friends, and the
friendships when made were increasingly matters of small groups. The primary object then, was to provide architectural forcing beds (the
small colleges or houses) for extra-curricular effects which had come without conscious effort when these two places were small colleges
in small towns dominated by the college.”

“You who are to be future trustees think on these things to see if there be any value in them.”
With such a request Dr. Chalmers Davidson closed his Tuesday chapel address emphasizing the virtue in continuing the smallness of
this institution. Stressing the intangible values resulting from Davidson’s tradition as a small college, the librarian and history professor saw
the advantages of a closely-knit campus outweighing any formal, professional, or monetary benefits of the large university.

New Post Office Nears Completion

Mr. D. Grier Martin today gave a favorable report on the new post office. He stated that it is complete
except for the paving and certain fixtures. The paving is being delayed by unfavorable weather conditions. The fixtures are supplied
by the federal government and will probably arrive around the middle of March.

A Winter’s Tale:

Once upon a time in a charmed region, a land of birds and butterflies and other winged creatures, there dwelt
a noble race of men, fathered by wisdom and mothered by prudence. They surmounted the turrets of knowledge and faith—the
tops of their temples tangent with heaven. Into this fair vale crept unrest and discontent. Something had to be done.
A proclamation was sent forth whereby the fairest damsels of all realms were summoned to appear. Gay nights of dancing—soft
morns of slumber—joviality prevailed.

Time To Retire

There came a time when these noble men tired of the strain of play and were ready to retire to
the peaceful seclusion of their daily toil. The trumpets were sounded to summon the flock from their pastoral whims and
the maidens were dispersed again throughout the land. Reluctant was this parting and so there was declared an an...

Thirty Leave At End Of First Semester

Thirty students have left school after the first semester of the 1957-58 session. This list released by Dean Bailey this
week shows a marked increase over the twenty-one withdrawals of last year’s first semester. In addition to those who have
withdrawn for various reasons, five students completed the requirements for graduation.

Dean Bailey also noted that fifteen students have entered the college for the second semester and that of these fifteen,
nine are former Davidson students. Two significant increases may be noted. The number of juniors who have withdrawn voluntarily has
jumped from zero to five, and the number of sophomores who...

Dr. French Directs Course In Russian

Davidson College, after persistent pressure from members of its student body, has taken a step forward in the effort to
erase the language barrier between the United States and Russia.For the first time, Davidson now offers a non-credit course in
Spoken Russian. The course is directed by Dr. Howard French, who meets with the class on Tuesday for one hour.
The majority of the student's work time is spent in the new language laboratory, working with tapes and a book
designed for the U.S. Armed Forces Institute. Although the course is not an accredited one, Dr. French says that there
is a possibility that it might be fully accredited some time in the future; however, that decision rests with the
curriculum committee. The information concerning the student's participation in the course will be included on his record, however.

Student Council violations constitute none of the withdrawals. The Dean mentioned that some of those who have withdrawn have entered
other schools or the armed services. Although the Bursar's office keeps no record of the exact number of cars on
campus, about fifteen new auto permits have been sold for the second semester.

Voluntary Withdrawals at Close of First Semester:
1956 1957 1958
Freshmen 5 6 5
Sophomores 8 8 7
Juniors 2 0 5
Seniors 1 1 2
Total 13 15 19

Vernon Broyles will lead the vesper service commemorating the “Universal Day of Prayer for Students” Sunday night at 7:30 p.m.
in the College Church. Charlie Helms and Harry Paschal will speak on our identification with Christian students around the world
and the universal problems and demands of Christianity. The YMCA Commission on Mission of the Church planned the service, which
is the first one led entirely by students in several years. Fifty-seven countries are participating in the commemoration of this
universal worship program.

Work is being done as rapidly as possible on the new fraternity court and library. During good weather, which is
necessary for construction, the laborers are working overtime on the court in order to make as much progress as possible.
Mr. Martin commented, “I still believe that the fraternity court will be finished by fall.” There have been, however, a
good many difficulties, in addition to the weather, to delay progress. For instance, an underground spring was discovered upon digging
under the sixth house in order to place concrete footings.

As to the library, the schedule is being maintained. The new wing will probably be completed by fall, but there
is a great deal of work to be done other than the wing. The basement floor is to be renovated,
and an opening is to be made between the lobby and the wing. This inside work is scheduled to be
done during the summer. “But we are not at all sure that this work will be completed by fall,” added
Mr. Martin; “but the library will continue to be used while the changes are being made.”

NUMBER FIFTEEN

College Gets 16 Foreign Scholarships; Morrow Richardson Foundation Grants Total $76,500

A scholarship program which will bring as many as sixteen foreign students to Davidson College each year for four years
has been made possible by grants from The Richardson Foundation, Inc., and the Mary Lynn Richardson Fund, both of Greensboro.
These grants are subject to renewal. In addition to tuition, fees, room, laundry, and books, the Richardson Foreign Scholars will
receive a grant of $200 for travel in the United States during the summer following their year at Davidson. The
students will receive their board through arrangements with Davidson College fraternities and other student groups.

EIGHT GRANTS

Included in the program are eight tuition grants totaling $4,000 per year to Davidson College to help cover the difference
in the tuition paid by students and the actual cost of their education, from which the Richardson Foreign Scholars are
expected to benefit.

Selection of the students to receive the scholarships will be made on a competitive basis with the cooperation of selection
committees in each of the foreign countries and the Institute of International Education in New York. Final selection of the
winners will be made by the College on the basis of the recommendations of the selection committees. Vick Chemical Company,
operating in many of the countries, will also be involved.

Trustees to Meet Here Wednesday

Davidson College Board of Trustees will hold their semi-annual meeting here Wednesday, February 19, at ten o'clock in the faculty
room in Chambers. The Executive Committee will meet Tuesday afternoon before the Board meeting to discuss the affairs of the
College and will make recommendations to the full Board the following morning.

WAS THE NEWS RIGHT?

Brown Soothes Prexy Rumors

By GERALD WILSON
Davidsonian Assistant Editor

An athletic-looking man who appeared much younger than his forty-some years sat across the table eating the same type of
breakfast as the ten or twelve freshmen seated behind him were devouring. He was dressed in a neat ivy league
suit. As he turned his head slightly, one noticed a slight grey in the temples. As he finished breakfast, he
lit a Herbert Tareyton, one of the five that he was to light in the next half-hour. The Reverend Lynnwood
Brown, a rumored successor to Dr. Cunningham, was being interviewed. The hardest questions came first.

“Have you been approached by the committee? Trustee’s committee to select a new President of the College?”

“No. I have had a limited contact with the committee through my position as chairman of the Synod’s Committee on
Higher Education.”

Q. It has been rumored (Julian Scheer in the CHARLOTTE NEWS) that you have been under consideration for the position.
Are you aware of this?

A. “It would be a complete assumption on my part. An assumption which I haven't made."

A Time Of Joviality

Not to break with ancient tradition, we of this generation and time attempt to preserve some of the flavor of
days gone by. Still, the maidens make the pilgrimages, perhaps not quite so eager, but expectantly. No longer do the
paneled walls ring with the stately minuets nor does the revelation of a shapely ankle provide scandalous delight. Joviality still
staggers to the forefront as the festivities, not now so much in contrast with daily activities, reach their height.

Soon To End

Soon things must come to an end and once again we must withdraw from this carefree scene of festive days.
But now, on the verge of abandon, let our clarion call resound through the halls of learning, veil the statues
of pedantry, uncage the slumbering spirits of mirth... and hide.
