PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN

TIME FOR RELAXING

Be Students Again

“For 24 hours a student again!” This is the slogan of the Alumni College which the college will sponsor here
May 2 and 3. The Alumni College will be simply a two-day school consisting of refresher courses in various fields
and will be open to a limited number of representative alumni. These courses will have two purposes: to give a
representative group of alumni refresher experience in the framework of education, and to give the alumni an inside look at
the main business of the college.

Approximately 80 minutes in length, classes will consist of discussions on recent developments in various professors’ fields. Alumni will interpret
developments in these fields in the light of their own experience. Professors will also present material intended to motivate later
reading by the alumni.

Friday evening there will be a buffet supper in one of the houses of the new fraternity court, followed by
a band concert in the Union. After the concert there will be an evening with the faculty, at which time
each alumnus will be able to talk informally with small groups of faculty members.

Classes will be arranged so that each alumnus will be able to attend three or four of these “capsule courses.”
Places will be left open in each of the classes for seniors who wish to participate. This program will be
similar to other highly successful programs conducted in a small number of colleges. The administration hopes that the Alumni College
will become an annual event here at Davidson.

FRIDAY, APRIL 18, 1958

Retiring Davidsonian Editor John Trask takes it easy with a copy of his favorite magazine—U.S. News and World Report.

THE PRAGMATIST

Davidson Alumni To Kuykendall Plans

(Continued From Page One)

which the Council has faced the many crises this year, I would say that it has done a magnificent job.
The possible lack of concrete action is overshadowed by the way the Council has held together and done its job.

Q. What is the main problem facing the new student administration?

A. The gap existing between the Student Council and Student Body.

Q. What do you propose to do when you take office?

A. I have a number of plans. First, of course, is the progression toward an Honor Council. Second, a definite
representation of each student on the Student Council, perhaps alphabetically by classes. Along this line, I hope to hold forums
between the Council and the student body. I think the Freshman Council should be represented by non-voting members. And thirdly,
I plan to publicize the actions and meetings of the Council.

INTER-FRATERNITY COUNCIL SPONSORS

Beta KA KS ATO Phi Gam Phi Delt
Sallie McSwain Nancy Campbell Nancy Browning Sere Streeter Mary Archer Blount Mary Jane May
with with with with with with
Ron Lenford Charles Woods John Trask Charles Stowe Bob Jones Pat Woodard

Pika Pi Kapp SAE SPE
Marsha Caudle Vivian Feemster Carol Hughes Marie Rourk Alba Broach Gloria Hester
with with with with with with
Gray Lewis Dee Lide Jim Jones Jim Boyce Burwell Shore Vernon Anderson

ROTC Makes

(Continued From Page One)

turned over to the cadets. For the past four years Davidson has been one of the nation’s leaders in pioneering
this type

Trask: Toward A Better Davidson

By GERALD WILSON

Had the traveling fraternity cartoonist who so recently visited our campus drawn a caricature of John Trask, it would have
been accurate only if it pictured Trask, with his feet embedded solidly on an abstract South Carolina, his outstretched arm
draped with a Confederate flag, clutching tightly a sword labeled “States Rights.”

John Trask is primarily a man of strong convictions. And whether one agrees or disagrees with these convictions, he must
deal with them. No one ever has a doubt as to where he stands. In his political thinking, John is
what he terms a “progressive conservative.” He favors new ideas when they are compatible with the spirit of old ones.
But he has not fallen into the fallacy of letting his interest in national issues cloud out his concern for
local problems. Consistently, through the medium of editorials he has fought for a better Davidson. And this better Davidson to
him means no further increase in enrollment, maintaining the present honor standards with a new honor council, and a system
of preferential bidding.

Contrary to the perennial student occupation of knocking the College, Trask has been one of Davidson's biggest boosters. Trask is
a businessman, and he ran this paper like a well-ordered business. He kept up with everything concerning the paper, and
left nothing to chance.

Finally, John is a practical man. He is, in the philosophical sense, a pragmatist. If something works, then it is
almost certain to be good. He is not interested in abstract theory, but only in theory as it explains the
fact. No editor of the DAVIDSONIAN ever gave more of himself to the task. And when that task was finished
last month, Trask had only a full notebook, an overloaded filing cabinet with new redundant material, and the knowledge of
a job well done.

Major General Crump Garvin (left), Commander of the Third Army Reserve Command, confers with Davidson PMS&T Col. William Adams at
a reception held in the general's honor during Federal Inspection March 31 and April 1. Garvin commented favorably on the
operation of the local regiment.

SCHOLARSHIP RENEWALS

Assistant Dean of Students H. E. White has announced that applications for renewals of grants-in-aid and major scholarships will be
received no later than Monday, April 21. Students are reminded to make application immediately before this deadline. Application forms are
available at the Dean’s office.

Hell Week

(Continued From Page One)

all fraternities represented at Davidson. “The faculty fraternity committee has received a statement from all national groups represented on the
campus,” he said, “and all explicitly condemn Hell Week practices.”

Union Committee Holds Elections

College Union Committee Chairmen elected John Crawford, a rising senior, as presi-

THIS WEEK IN DAVIDSON

SATURDAY, APRIL 19
SPRING FROLICS
2:00—Tennis—Davidson vs. Miami—Here.

SUNDAY, APRIL 20
7:30—Vespers—The Reverend Randolph Taylor

MONDAY, APRIL 21
2:00—Golf—Davidson vs. Wake Forest—Myers Park Country Club.

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 23
2:00—Tennis—Davidson vs. Citadel—Here.

THURSDAY, APRIL 24
2:00—Tennis—Davidson vs. Furman—Here.
8:00—Movie — “Quo Vadis” — Chambers Dining Room.

FRIDAY, APRIL 25
2:00—Tennis—Davidson vs. N. C. State—Here.
2:00—Golf—Davidson vs. W & L—Here.
Track—Davidson vs. N. C. State—Myers Park Country Club.

Male Chorus Appears In Concert Monday

The Male Chorus will present its annual Spring Concert at 8:15 p.m., Monday, April 21, in Chambers Auditorium, as a
part of Davidson's 11th annual ‘Fine Arts Festival’ now in progress. The outstanding collegiate group has, in its 11 years
of activity, appeared in principal cities from Miami to New York City to Detroit to New Orleans and the “four
corners” of Texas, and has presented coast-to-coast radio broadcasts over all the major networks.

Sergeant Dudgeon presents a familiar piece of ROTC equipment (local sizes, run from 6A to 14B).

Sgt. Dudgeon Supplies Student Statistics

By DON STOWELL
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Down one of the long, dark corridors of the R.O.T.C. department can be founda specialist First Class James Dudgeon, assisting
military property custodian. This quiet supply sergeant, who spent three years at the USARCARIB School, Fort Gulick, Canal Zone, before
coming to Davidson in 1956, has as a hobby making charts of all the statistics in the Supply Room. His
latest chart, which consists of the sizes, from top to toe, of the seventy-three cadets attending R.O.T.C. camp this summer,
shows that the Davidson Gentleman is a bit larger than the average Army man. The cap sizes range from 6¾”
to 7¾”, with more wearing a 7¼” size. Sergeant Dudgeon slyly mentioned that the biggest head, that of Lou Spears,
is 5/8” larger than the Army average of 7¼”. Shirt sizes range from 17½x34” to 14x30”—15½x34” being the most popular.
The average trouser size is 34x33”, but the sizes range from 36x34” to the 27x28” pair of Henry Samuels. J.
O. Milner’s size 14B foot is by far the largest in our group, but Sergeant Dudgeon reported that last summer
at Fort Bragg he had to order a size 15EEE for a cadet from Chapel Hill. The smallest in our
group, a 6A, belongs to Henry Samuels.

While offering information on his background, Sergeant Dudgeon described himself as a “Mountain William!” Noting the bewildered expression on this
reporter's face, he added, “Just a high-classed Hillbilly from Boone County, Kentucky, a few miles from where the large Mammoth
skeleton was found.” On his desk he proudly displays pictures of his wife and their eight-year-old daughter, “a typical Army
brat!” His wife was born in Wales and had spent four years in the British service prior to their marriage.
Peering out from behind his glasses and a screen of pipe smoke, Dudgeon chuckled, “She outranked me then! She outranks
me now! I don't stand a chance.”

Lawmakers (Continued From Page One) be present. To convict a student of an offense a two-thirds majority would be necessary.
The above-outlined plan is only a proposed recommendation to the new council. There is a good chance that some of
it will be changed or modified by the new council. It was suggested that a recorder be secured for use
during the trials in order that an accurate record be kept. There was also a suggestion that a person who
is on trial be allowed to secure his defense from a student, professor, and even an outsider, no doubt referring
to a lawyer. This last point will be investigated further.

Ciardi Presents Literary Awards
The annual Vereen M. Bell Memorial Award for Creative Writing, a cash prize of $75.00, was awarded to Don Stowell,
a freshman, for his short story “Teacup Terrace.” Ed Spivey was named runner-up for his satirical essay, “Femmish” (the language
of women). The awards were presented Thursday morning in chapel by John Ciardi, Professor of English at Rutgers University and
Poetry Editor of “The Saturday Review,” who has gained a distinguished reputation as a poet and critic. Before presenting the
Vereen Bell award, he addressed the student body on the subject of creative writing and literary criticism.

The Cadet Regimental Staff gave the team a briefing on this phase of the operation. The method of issuing weapons
for drills also received favorable comment. Apparently, many schools do not have as effective a check on rifles issued for
weekly use, and others do not have as quick a system. The inspectors spoke highly of the caliber of students
that they met while on campus. They referred to the fact that this spring a Davidson sophomore made almost a
maximum score on the Army’s RQ-5 intelligence test. The two-day Federal Inspection was one of the most elaborate ever held
on campus. In addition to the normal extensive checking of records and equipment, the briefing, and the reviewing of the
troops during a parade, a reception was given for General Garvin. A luncheon for guests and families of cadets was
held just prior to the parade, and a reception for Col. Sewell was given after the parade.

Reverend Taylor Is Vespers Speaker
The Reverend J. Randolph Taylor, Ph.D., minister of the Church of the Pilgrims in Washington, D.C., will speak at Vespers
Sunday night at 7:30 p.m. in the College Church. Dr. Taylor was born in China and received his education at
Davidson, Union Seminary, and the University of Aberdeen.

Elections
Officers remaining to be elected are:
Freshman Adviser
Student Council Members
Cheerleaders
Athletic Council Members

Monday, March 31, for General Garvin, a luncheon for guests and families of cadets was held just prior to the
parade, and a reception for Col. Sewell was given after the parade.

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for... PIZZA
the famous OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead
Charlotte, N.C.

Absent-minded Professor
Not so absent-minded when you get right down to it. He remembered the most important item—the Coke! Yes, people will
forgive you almost anything if you just remember to bring along their favorite sparkling drink—ice-cold Coca-Cola. Do have another, professor!

SIGN OF GOOD TASTE
Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company by THE COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD
© 1956, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY
