Che Davidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, DECEMBER 19, 1958

(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

Unwritten Rules

Professor Goodykoontz’s clash with the “unwritten rules” was unfortunate. Equally unfortunate was the widespread rumor that Dean Bailey had attempted
to dictate to Dr. Goodykoontz’s specific teaching methods. There is, of course (see page one), no foundation whatever for such
a rumor. The widely circulated false story had the administration fitting easily into the role of the villain intent on
squashing the efforts of the professor to improve the quality of his courses. This was not the case at all.
But Dr. Goodykoontz was in fact squashed, not by the administration as supposed by many, but just as effectively by
a set of unwritten, nebulous rules.

We see no sound reason why he should not be allowed to experiment with a “free cut” system, or hold
his classes or any part of his classes as seminars, providing he is convinced that the ultimate result will be
higher quality academic work. As we see it, the purpose of any rule in a college should be to aid
in the learning process. If a rule, whether written or unwritten, fails to do this, or even worse, hinders this
process, which is the heart of any college, it should be junked immediately. We believe that any rule restricting the
conscientious efforts of a dedicated and imaginative teacher such as Dr. Goodykoontz falls in the “hindrance” category.

The DAVIDSONIAN urges the Curriculum Committee to get to work and find out just what the rules regarding seminars are,
if any exist, and then to make it possible for Dr. Goodykoontz to resume his forward-looking programs.

Meaning Of Gift Fund Vote

The real meaning of the overwhelming student vote on the Gift Fund is open to various interpretations, and it is
difficult to say just what went on in the minds of most students when they cast their ballots in favor
of providing scholarships for Negro ministerial candidates. Certainly a large part of the credit must go to Rev. Lawrence Bottoms’
very able presentation of the plan. He won the attention and respect of the student body in a way that
chapel speakers are rarely able to do.

However, the real interest of the matter is what it reveals of the underlying attitudes of Davidson students towards the
race issue. It cannot, of course, be construed as a full endorsement of the liberal view of the race problem
in the South; integration as such was not involved. But it is a hopeful sign that most students have indicated
their willingness to appropriate money to help meet the need for well-trained religious leaders in the Southern Negro community. Recent
events have shown that Negro ministers (such as the Rev. Martin Luther King in Montgomery) have been in the vanguard
of progress toward establishing the kind of race relations which will benefit both white and Negro communities. It is encouraging
that the generally conservative students of a Southern white college have taken a step which will help this movement.—C.H.C.

Agnes Scott Takes Stand

Since the statement by 250 Emory University professors deploring the closing of public schools in the South, faculty members at
another prominent Southern institution have taken a stand on this issue. Last week seventy-three faculty members (about ninety-seven percent) at
Agnes Scott College issued a public statement declaring that the cessation of public education in order to avoid racial integration
would be disastrous, resulting in the loss of “people qualified for work demanding special training,” as well as in the
spread of illiteracy. Ultimately, they said, “a great proportion of our people would have little or no education.”

The immediate occasion of both of these declarations was a local controversy concerning the public schools in Atlanta, but they
have attracted notice all over the South as courageous expressions of moderation at a time when the vision of many
has been clouded over by deeply ingrained prejudice and by the actions of irresponsible politicians. Intellectuals and academicians have often
been caricatured as being timid, impractical inhabitants of the ivory tower, unwilling or unable to act when action is required.
The faculties of Emory and Agnes Scott have shown that this generalization is a false one: at some colleges.—C.H.C.

Food Service Improvements

In past issues of the DAVIDSONIAN, certain criticisms of the Union cafeteria and snack bar food and service have appeared
in this editorial column. At the time they were made these complaints were fully justified, but since they appeared, distinct
improvements have taken place. We may mention particularly the increased cleanliness in the snack bar, and also the excellent Thanksgiving
and Christmas dinners given meal ticket holders in the cafeteria. Mr. Michael Stephanos, manager of the cafeteria and snack bar,
deserves the appreciation of the student body for his willingness to respond to criticism with solid improvements.—W.L.W. & C.H.C.

Being A Senior Comes Subtly

Old age and being a senior comes in subtle ways. During the conversation which accompanies the Wednesday night process of
creating a paper, the name “John Harmon” was mentioned. One sophomore member of the staff inquired with a puzzled expression,
“Who is John Harmon? Did he go to Davidson?” Amazed seniors gasped. How could anyone forget the man who introduced
the black umbrella, read five languages, turned down a Phi Bete bid, and nearly drove his Bible professor to atheism?
The realization came: the sophomore hadn't forgotten; he had never known. Worriedly, we searched for graying hair.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Charles Chastain

ASSISTANT EDITOR
Bob Lathan, George Ramsey

BUSINESS MANAGER
Ed Armfield

Associate Editors
Dick Smith
Jim Hamilton
Pete Kellogg
Bruce Brooks

Sports Editor
Laurens Walker

Feature Editor
Bill Patton

News Editor
Henry Samuels

Assignments Editor
Tom Colvin

Copy Editor
Spiro Macris

Cartoonists
Bross, Cole

Photography Editor
George Rhyne

Advertising Manager
Dave Gillis

Circulation Manager
Greg Grana

Ass’t. Business Manager
Bob Wynne

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879

WELL HERE WE GO AGAIN, JOE

Occupational Hazard.

Delegates To National IFC Convention Report Events

BY VERNON ANDERSON AND WARD McKEITHEN

At the National Interfraternity Conference held in Atlanta, Georgia on December fifth and sixth, the Davidson fraternity system was represented
by two members of the I.F.C. and Dean Bailey. This conference included undergraduate representatives from 48 states and Canada and
has been established as an annual international interfraternity workshop.

MUTUAL EXCHANGE

Its objective and purpose is to promote the ideals of fraternities and examine their problems through discussion and mutual exchange
of ideas. In addition to the undergraduate representation, there was also the graduate representation made up of the deans of
many of our leading institutions and all the national fraternity officers.

PERTINENT TOPICS

The first and most significant aspect of the conference was the atmosphere in which it was conducted. Throughout the conference
there seemed to prevail a sincere interest and enthusiasm in an effort to exchange as many ideas as possible. The
topics were all pertinent to the interfraternity systems, the problems encountered and the solutions throughout the nation.

The Davidson representation soon learned after several discussions of fraternity problems and policy that our system here at Davidson is
unique and favored with the absence of some basic problems. Among these national fraternity problems absent here at Davidson are
the anti-fraternity sentiments of some administrations, the struggle of fraternity systems as minority groups on some campuses and the management
of chapter-owned and occupied houses.

JUSTIFY POSITIONS

In addition, many fraternities arebeing forced to justify their position on the college campus in an effort to perpetuate their
existence. Among the topics discussed pertinent to the Davidson system were scholarship, fraternity ideals, Help or Greek Week, bidding systems,
rushing and social organization, and their promotion and organization from the interfraternity level.

BIDDING SYSTEMS
In regard to the bidding systems discussed, the Davidson delegates observed that many schools already have in practice the revised
system now under consideration at Davidson with minor adjustments. The discussion of Help or Greek Week also afforded the representatives
ideas which will help the I.F.C. this year in the introduction of its first Greek Week.

HELL WEEK OUT
It was interesting to find out that in most of the best schools around the nation, Hell Weeks have been
done away with for several years and Greek or indoctrination weeks have replaced them. The conference was indeed beneficial to
the Davidson I.F.C. by nature of the topics discussed and the manner in which they were discussed. With the ideas
obtained at the conference, it is felt that the Davidson I.F.C. will be better qualified in its work and activities.

Report From Hocsaks: “Money Gives Hope”
(Editor’s Note: The following letter was read to the Student Body, Tuesday morning. It is from the Steve Hocsaks, the
Hungarian family brought to the Davidson community by the Gift Fund two years ago.)

We have soon been living in Davidson for two years and we are happy to let you know of our
progress. We arrived here with only two suitcases and the clothing which we wore. But because of your concern and
benevolence, we have been much blessed.

DRAFTSMAN
I am working as an electrical draftsman and engineer with the J. N. Pease Construction Company in Charlotte. This job
I received through the help of Mr. Grier Martin. I am perfecting also several inventions on which I wish to
receive patents. My wife has received a job at Ivey’s Department Store. We now rent a small house on South
Thompson Street, which is comfortably furnished with furniture provided by the Gift Fund and Davidson College.

A NEW FREEDOM
America has been good to us, as we have warm clothes, good food, and jobs which we enjoy doing. But
more than these things, we appreciate a freedom which we did not know before in Hungary. We do not have
to ask the government where we can go or where we can work. We do not have to be afraid
that our neighbors or colleagues at work are spies for the police.

MONEY GIVES HOPE
Please remember as you give your Gift Fund each year that you do more than give money. For whatever cause
it is given, your money gives new hope. It aids someone to achieve a dream or an ambition which by
himself he could not do. So at this Christmas time, not only do we thank you for giving us a
new life in your town. We also ask you to give generously to the 1958 Gift Fund.

Steve and Rosa Hocsak
Steve, Jr.
Mrs. Rosalie Hocsak

NOTICE
There will be no DAVIDSONIAN on January 9, 1959. This will be due to the late arrival on campus of
several staff members. The next issue of the DAVIDSONIAN will be printed on Jan. 16, 1959. From all the staff
— Merry Christmas!

THE SPECTATOR
Yes, Euphemia There IS a Santa
By TOM KERNAN

The following letter came to me in yesterday’s morning postal delivery:

Dear Mr. Spectator,
I am 19 years old; I date a Davidson Man. The other night he told me that there is no
Santa Claus. At first, I didn’t believe him, but I can’t stop worrying about what he said. Please tell me,
is there a Santa Claus?
Sincerely yours,
Euphemia Bullard

Yes, Euphemia, there is a Santa Claus. Let me tell you of my own personal experience with him. The other
night as I lay asleep in my room, I was suddenly awakened by the sound of bells. “Chapel, clothes, can’t
go naked,” I mumbled to myself as I sprang from my bed; I paused. “Dark,” I thought, “no chapel at
night. What the—” (Here the door to my room flew open, revealing none other than old Chris Cringle himself.)

But me oh my, Euphemia, you would hardly have recognized him. He was dressed all in red, quite true, but
it was a neat, red flannel suit, the jacket being a darker shade of herring-bone scarlet and trimmed with tiny
bells. Instead of boots, he wore low-cut shoes, fastened with buckles.

“Pardon me,” he said, in well-modulated tones, “my name is Christopher Cringle. I’m terribly sorry to disturb you, but I’m
on my way to Charlotte and I’ve lost my way. Can you tell me how to get there?”

“I thought you were a myth,” I said, “but there really is a Santa Claus.”

“Yes,” he said, “if you must use the old, vulgarized term.”

“But where is your traditional outfit? You look so different from the usual pictures.”

“Dear me,” he said with a little laugh, “you are quaint, aren’t you. Of course, I used to be different;
but, my boy, in order for me to operate, people have to believe in me. I’ve changed; I'm a New
Santa for a Modern Faith.

“The Modern Mind has re-interpreted the meaning of Christmas, broadened its outlook; the old concepts served a purpose, but they
were rather crude and sentimental. You might say that we connected with Christmas have retrenched: we've produced a Modern Christmas
that will enable a man to reconcile his new ideas with a Yuletide Season. After all, there’s really no conflict
between Christmas and Materialism.”

Yes, Euphemia, I wish I had space to tell you more about him, but, my dear, I think you can
safely believe in him. Yes, there is a Santa Claus — and Merry Christmas, Euphemia.

THE PHILOSOPHES
In The Late-Day, A Look At Life
By DABNEY STUART

“Down on my knees, Lord, down on my knees, Prayin’ to Heavens to give m’po’ heart ease.”

She sang while she picked, and the juice from the strawberries ran like diluted blood from her stubby fingertips.

“That’s pickin’ some berries, sonny,” she said as she handed me a quart basket across the ankle-high row of plants.
“We’ll put ‘em all over on yo’ side so we won’t miss any pickin’ ‘em up in the wheelbarrow.” She
turned up a cluster of the red, bright berries in her hand and beamed, “Look at that. Ain’t they beauties?”
When I agreed with her, her smile broadened and the cluster was in the basket before I could blink good.

“All day ain’t easy, son, and they ‘spect me to give ‘em away. ‘You sellin’ too high,’ they say, them
doctors and people that got mo’ money’n they can ever use. An’ they’re 45 cents down ‘t the market.” She
rose slowly with one crooked hand on the top of her hip to help straighten her back. Off her knees
now, the knots in her sixty-year-old legs were visible, and the puffed-out veins. A tear in the bottom of her
dress, too. “Look at that: I’ll be nekked if I bend down much more.” But she didn’t get “nekked” and
her squat body did a powerful lot more bending.

“Picked 15 quarts off that row behind you in an hour yesterday,” she said proudly, “and Mr. Granger wouldn’t believe
me. He took me into town yesterday and brought me back.” She had no car, not even a wagon to
hitch behind her mule, which kicked impatiently inside the old rusted shed to the north of the strawberry patch. “Wants
to go to the spring,” she said.

The mid-afternoon wind made dry whirlpools out of the dust, and the smoke-grey soil cried for water. “Makes my heart
ache,” she said and looked behind her at the three more rows of berries she wouldn’t get a chance to
pick. “And things is tight on us ol’ folks out here. Gotta’ get that corn replanted in front the house,
too.” The house was weather-brown and old. “Gotta’ move November first — you don’t know where I can get a
trailer cheap, do you? If I could get me a trailer and an acre of land then they couldn’t make
me move.” She handed me another quart to put on my side and bowed her head back in her work.

Things were quiet for a while, and in the silence the slanting sun shone on the bent, short back. The
weather-brown house with kerosene lamps on the wood stove, and the rusted shed, and the rotting hand-plow stared mutely into
the blank sky.

One wonders about this academic and social maze in which we are trying to find a pattern. Can it fit
into a larger scheme of things, or are we separating ourselves from a wider and more challenging world?
