FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 1958

Sports

All That
By JIM HAMILTON

Davidson won’t make the Rose Bowl or the Sugar Bowl this year, but come Saturday they will meet Furman in
the first Carrousel Bowl. The affair has grown to considerable proportions. Many of the princesses and bands in the parade
will be at the stadium and will participate in the pre-game and half-time entertainment. There seems to be a lot
of interest in the game in Charlotte. At present, advance ticket sales are approaching 6,000. The distributor ordered a thousand
more over the original 5,000 he requested. In view of the support given the game by the people of Charlotte,
I think it is fitting that the students should also back this event which promises to be an annual affair.

I missed the Richmond game Saturday due to the press convention, but when I got back there was still blood
on the field. The injury list sounded more like the result of a free-for-all than a football game. John Watwood
and Danny Voigt were sporting big black eyes. George Hart and Danny House both had cuts that required stitches. Charlie
Benson had as many bruises as the bottom tomato in a bushel basket. Alex Porter, Lynwood Mallard, Jim Bloomfield, and
Craig Wall also were on the list, Wall with an intercostal tear in the cartilage between his ribs. Both Wall
and Mallard had to be treated at Durham.

Coach Dole, even though he retained his usual composed manner when I talked to him, was incensed. “We took an
awful beating,” he said. He cancelled all contact work scheduled for this week in practice. Dole had prepared a series
of photos that were printed in the Charlotte Observer Wednesday, showing in particular the rough house mauling of quarterback Charlie
Benson. “The game followed the same pattern as the Richmond game five years ago,” said the coach, “when Davidson quarterback
Johnny Gray had his shoulder torn up so badly he never played again. They were doing the same thing to
Benson, hitting him from the blind side after he had handed the ball off and was relaxed. He was just
luckier than Gray.” We've got one consolation, however. The Richmond team must have a sore bunch of knuckles and elbows.

Coach Scott has announced that family basketball season tickets are available in the gymnasium. The price of these tickets is
five dollars.

The All-Fraternity flickerball team was chosen this week with eight men on each of the first two teams. Donny McQueen,
who received the most votes, is honorary captain.

First Team
McQueen, KS
Armstrong, Beta
Killian, SX
Lide, Pi Kapp
Green, KA
Gilbert, ATO
Davis, Beta
Hellier, ATO

Second Team
West, KA
McGuirt, KS
Bentley, Phi Delt
Terrell, Ind.
Davis, Phi Delt
McEachern, KS
Lewis, ATO
Stafford, KS

Honorable mention: Mintz, Phi Delt; Bright, SAE; Neal, Pi KA; Patton, ATO; Ferguson, KA.

BUTCH LEDOYEN, SIGMA CHI PLEDGE, is the young man on top of Phi Gam Tim Cloninger. LeDoyen decisioned Cloninger and
went on to win the 167-pound division. (Photo By Rhyne)

Wall Kappa Sig Grapplers Capture Championship

The Kappa “Snappers” increased their lead in the I-F sports competition this week, scoring a decisive victory on the mats
Monday and Tuesday nights. The winners posted 63 points and were followed by the KA’s, Betas, and Phi Delts. Ervin
Funderburk (KS) pinned Butch Zimmerman (KA) and Pat Rush (Phi Gam) to take the lightweight honors in the 123-pound division.
The 130-pound class was dominated by the Beta's Mike Van Doeren, a very stylish and aggressive freshman who outpointed Tommy
Lucas (SAE) 6-2 for the championship. Wesley Weeks boosted the Betas point column, pinning John McQueen (KS) for the 137-pound
class in a very fast-moving contest. John Poindexter repeated his victory in the 147-pound division, beating Tommy Parker (SAE) and
pinning Joe Kelley (KS) in the finals. The 157-pound finals ended in a default ceding Forest Wilkerson (KA) the title
as his opponent failed to show. The 167-pound class surprised many fans as Bobby Street (KS), last year’s champion, was
eliminated by Tim Cloninger (Phi Gam) who in turn fell to freshman Butch LeDoyen (SX). LeDoyen pinned Dick Dalton (Beta)
in the finals. Freshman (KA) defeated Jennings Snider (Phi Delt) and Joe Weld (SPE) to lead his class. Perhaps the
most evenly matched event was the 191-pound contest between musclemen Graham Allison (Phi Delt) and John West (KA). Allison was
declared the winner on a referee's decision as the scoreboards showed a 2-2 tally. Quinton Boyd (Pi Kapp) outpointed Bob
Cenk (KS) 4-2 to win the heavyweight division.

Further discussing the controversial eligibility rules for inter-fraternity athletics, the Intramural Athletic Council Wednesday night revived the rule of last
year for this year’s swimming meet and added a qualification that in future years the swimming, wrestling, and track meets
will be held before the beginning of varsity and freshman practice in those sports. A student going out for swimming
will be eligible for the intramural swimming meet provided he has not lettered or participated in a meet this year.
This is to apply only this year.

Furman, Cats in Carrousel Bowl
By “B” MILLNER

Five Wildcat Seniors close out illustrious grid careers

Furman’s Purple Hurricane

Cats are still limping a bit from the no-holds-barred donnybrook with Richmond last week. The Spiders thwarted a Davidson bid
for the most successful won-lost record in its history as they tallied a pair of touchdowns in the final seven
minutes of play to pull ahead 27-22. The Cats broke the ice in the first quarter on a four-yard run
by Charlie Benson. Richmond came back with a TD and the extra point to make it 7-7. Davidson carried a
9-7 edge into the dressing room at the half on the strength of Bruce Usher’s 26-yard field goal. In the
second half, the Spiders scored first but a running attempt for the PAT failed. Davidson then pushed across two TD’s
in three minutes to open a seemingly comfortable lead at 22-13. Benson heaved a 25-yard pass to flanker Danny and
Craig snagged a “Tee” Redding pitch and slammed over two Spider defenders for the final Davidson score. Richmond took over
and drove 81 yards to a TD on the phenomenal passing of Dick Curl and Jerry Landers. The Cats bogged
down when they got the ball and were forced to kick, whereupon Richmond sliced out 80 yards in eight plays,
almost entirely through the air, to barge ahead by 27-22. Davidson came close to pulling it out, but the clock
caught up with them on the Richmond 11.

Coach Bill Dole maintains that the chief cause of the loss was that Davidson simply tired badly in the last
quarter. Benson was hit on virtually every play whether he handled the ball or not, and threw most of his
passes under hot pursuit. The injury rate was extremely high.Tomorrow afternoon at Memorial Stadium against in the Carrousel Bowl. Lynwood
Mallard, a freshman halfback, has undergone a knee operation at Duke, but Craig Wall, who sustained a rib injury, and
Jim Bloomfield, who was hospitalized with a slight concussion, will be able to start. Dole said, “We'll just have to
go with what we've got. Seniors playing their last games are Harold Westervelt, Paul Biggers, Paul Barbee, and captains Craig
Wall and Charlie James.”

Winter Sports Near: Basketball and wrestling are now rolling into high gear, according to Coaches’ reports.

PAUL BARBEE, CAT HALFBACK, takes a Charlie Benson pass on the Richmond 15-yard line. Benson (Number 17) is shown in
the background—(Photo by Rhyne).

“After this week's scrimmage with Lenoir-Rhyne, we'll have a much better idea of what we can do this year,” commented
Coach Scott concerning the Davidson basketballers. Joe Millner and Dave Hollingsworth have been chosen.

By BILL GODWIN

Coach Scott said that the open guard slot has not been filled, but John Huie will probably play in a
man-to-man defense and John Stafford in a zone defense. The Wildcats' first game is against Wake Forest on December 2
at Davidson.

Angus McBryde, who paced Davidson’s Cross-Country pack in the Southern Conference meet at Furman Monday morning, has been selected to
the All-Southern Conference team for the third straight year. McBryde, Wildcat captain, was chosen in a coaches’ meeting following his
third-place finish of 22:42 for the four-mile course. Selections were based on performance during the regular season and at the
conference meet.

The Furman game tomorrow looms as perhaps one of the toughest of the season. The Purple Hurricane has played such
teams as Penn State, Alabama, and South Carolina, and their poor 2-7 record is no indication of their ability. They
boast a potent passing combination in quarterback Billy Baker and end Ray Siminski. Davidson has not beaten a Furman team
in ten years, losing last year by a close 6-2 score. Dole hopes to have most of his players in
shape to play.

They said it couldn't be done! Only a few years ago, the four-minute mile seemed unattainable. But on May 6,
1954, the barrier was shattered, and since then, the feat has been repeated again and again. Last summer, five men
bettered four minutes in one race!

DON'T SETTLE FOR ONE WITHOUT THE OTHER! Change to L&M and get ‘em both. Such an improved filter and more
taste! Better taste than in any other cigarette. Yes, today’s L&M combines these two essentials of modern smoking enjoyment—less tars
and more taste—in one great cigarette. LIGHT INTO THAT LIVE MODERN FLAVOR! © LIGGETT & MYERS TOBACCO CO., 1968

After football practice is over, we will have all our boys out,” was Coach Parker’s comment on the Wildcat grapplers.
After seeing the inter-fraternity wrestling, Parker thinks there might be some good prospects for the team. As last year, “Westy”
Westervelt will be the stalwart for the ‘Cats. Davidson's first match will be with Pfeiffer on December 8.

The swimming team under the direction of new Coach George Tucker has been practicing since November 1. Returning lettermen from
last year’s squad are captain Bob Wynne, Tom Smith, John Scott, Tom Hudgins, Jack Rose, George Gabel, and Bill Heltier.
Promising freshmen out for the team include Herb Collins, Barry Branch, Bill Ambrose, Tommy French, Chase Hunter, and Stephan Young.

The Durham senior was accompanied in the “Top 25” by Larry McNeill, who also brought home a trophy. William and
Mary’s Oe-tombe took top honors, clocking 21:52.2. Behind him was John Brown of Furman. Davidson, copping fourth place in the
meet, was headed by champion V.M.I., West Virginia, and William and Mary in that order. Trailing the Wildcat harriers were
Furman, The Citadel, and Richmond. Filling out Davidson’s squad in the field of forty at Greenville were Loy McKeithen, Roger
Beebee, Bill Eckbert, Bill Thompson, and Fred Fileagle.

Commenting on the Wildcats’ showing in the meet, Coach Heath Whittle said that he wasn’t disappointed because he “knew what
we were up against. I thought William and Mary would finish first and was surprised when V.M.I. did.” “I expected
Angus McBryde to take it Monday,” he said, “but the boys were a little too good for him.”

The Wildcats won four meets while dropping three. Victims were Pembroke, Furman, Richmond, and The Citadel.

The Davidson Rifle Team met Wofford and Presbyterian here this afternoon in a triangular match. The Wildcat marksmen, led by
Captain Stan Gaines, fielded one of the best teams the college has had in recent years. Sergeant McCurry, Rifle Team
coach, stated, “We're looking forward to a good year.” The team may find trouble ahead though, since Freshmen team members
will not be permitted to compete in Southern Conference matches. Freshmen Bob Barringer, Henry Fonda, and Marvin Rozear will be
sorely missed in conference competition. The first Conference match will be held February 7 in Charleston, S.C., with The Citadel
Bulldogs.

This afternoon the Davidson soccer squad played host to Warren-Wilson in the last game of the season. Not too much
was known concerning the strength of the Aggies, but a good, tight game was predicted by Coach McCutchan. In earlier
encounters, Davidson beat King College 2-1, while Warren-Wilson was victorious by a score of 2-0.

This game with Warren-Wilson determines whether Davidson will have a victorious season. At present, the record stands at five wins
and five losses. Davidson has conquered Belmont Abbey twice, Pfeiffer twice, and King once, while losing to Washington and Lee
twice, North Carolina State once, Duke once, and Carolina once. Several seniors played their last game today. Among these were
Gordon Neville, Sam Smith, Sam Clarke, Pete Andrews, Hugh Campbell, and Jim Taylor. Coach McCutchan is hoping several boys will
be chosen All-Southern this year.

On Friday, November 14, the Davidson soccer team clashed with the University of North Carolina in what Coach McCutchan labeled
“the hardest game of the season.” The final score indicated a 4-1 victory for UNC, but the showing was anything
but discouraging. The exceptional passing and team coordination of the UNC team were hard to equal. Dave Irvin scored Davidson's
lone point on a dribble and drive in the first quarter. But UNC retaliated with two quick scores to lead
the Wildcats at halftime by a 2-1 score. In the second half, UNC picked up two more points, Davidson failing
to score again. Outstanding in the Davidson contingent were Finney and Lint Hopkins, in their respective positions of goalie and
halfback.
