See . . & & - interim Martin’s | ‘Administration 1931 Editorial Evaluated (Page Two) The News and Editorial Voice
of Davidson College (Page Two) VOL. XLVI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. THURSDAY, MAY 15, 1958 No. 27

College Treasurer Is Davidson’s New Chief

Mr. D. Grier Martin was elected President of Davidson College by the Board of Trustees in their regular semi-annual meeting
early this afternoon. Mr. Martin becomes the fourteenth president of Davidson after serving as Treasurer and Business Manager from 1951
to the present. President Martin will assume the duties of his office immediately.

President Martin Will Have Big Shoes to Fill

The fourteenth president of Davidson College, Mr. D. Grier Martin, will succeed Dr. John Rood Cunningham, who served from 1941
to 1957. Dr. Cunningham resigned last year at the age of 64 to become executive director of the Presbyterian Foundation.
Since Dr. Cunningham came to Davidson the endowment has increased from less than $4,000,000 to $9,000,000. The top faculty salary
has more than doubled, and the $130,000 awarded in the student aid program ranks Davidson with the top ten institutions
in the country on a per capita basis. On a per capita basis, Davidson leads the South with eleven Rhodes
scholars. Dr. Cunningham saw the construction of five major buildings, the renovation of two others, and the beginning of the
library addition. He secured for Davidson grants and scholarships from the Baker Trust, Union Carbide Company, Proctor and Gamble, Burlington
Industries, the Ford Foundation, and many others. During the last year, under the leadership of Dr. C. J. Pietenpol and
Mr. Martin, the college received $400,000 for a new science building from the Dana Foundation, $100,000 from the Given Foundation,
and sixteen foreign scholarships from the Richardson Foundation. A new fraternity court and a new post office are being built,
and the language laboratory and faculty housing project have been completed. Faculty salaries and tuition have been raised. Many of
these accomplishments have themselves been the work of Mr. Martin.

Military Honorary Chooses Twenty

Scabbard and Blade, honorary ROTC fraternity, selected twenty men for membership in its ranks at the tapping ceremony held during
drill Tuesday afternoon. Initiation and election of officers were held that night. Cadets invited to join were John Renfro, Laurens
Walker, John Kuykendall, John Nix, Sam Sloan, Sam Clarke, Henry Brown, Vernon Broyles, Pete Andrews, Ed Irvin, Duncan McCormick, Charles
McGowan, Graham McKinnon, Dave McLain, Jack Martin, Bill Price, and Van Wood. Faculty members elected to Scabbard and Blade were
Dr. C. J. Pietenpol, Dr. W. O. Puckett, and Captain John Mitchell. Pietenpol and Puckett will be initiated next year.
Officers for next year will be Sam Clarke, captain; Henry Brown, first lieutenant; John Nix, second lieutenant; Sam Sloan, first
sergeant.

MR. D. GRIER MARTIN

In As President

“Couldn't Believe They Weren't Crazy”

“‘I couldn’t believe they weren’t crazy!” Thus newly elected president Grier Martin summed up his reaction minutes after he had
been notified that he was to follow in the footsteps of John Rood Cunningham as President of Davidson College. Mr.
D. R. LaFar walked from the Trustees meeting room on the second floor to Mr. Martin's office to notify him
of his election. They both returned to the Trustees meeting amid the glare of flash bulbs and the grind of
movie cameras. Some thirty minutes later, Mr. Martin in an interview with the DAVIDSONIAN, stated that he had not had
time to develop a formal program for his administration. When questioned as to the status of the present deans, he
replied that both Dean Bailey and Dean Pietenpol would remain throughout this year. “There is a possibility of change next
year.” Asked about Mrs. Martin's reaction to the news, he said, “I haven't seen her. I suppose she's probably real
excited.” The new President walked to the front of Chambers to be greeted by the applause of students and more
TV cameras. President Martin's formal statement follows:

Council Clarifies Drinking Rule

Davidson's student council, looking toward the 1958-59 academic year, Monday night began a new discussion of the student body drinking
regulation. Interpretation and enforcement of the rule has in the past proved a besetting problem for the council. Attempting once
again to move toward a solution of the problem, the group heard extended discussion from members and adopted unanimously a
statement of intent drafted by outgoing councilman Bill Bondurant. Bondurant, head of a committee which last year dealt with interpretation
of the regulation, appealed to the council for unanimity in its work on the drinking rule. The statement adopted by
the council follows:

We firmly believe, individually and as a council body, that Davidson College cannot afford to let alcohol be brought upon
the campus or imbibed here. We further believe that the academic atmosphere and the reputation of Davidson College are impaired
by those who return to the campus intoxicated — as determined by standard.

The choice of President Martin was the culmination of nearly fifteen months of deliberation.by a five-man Trustees’ committee appointed to
choose a new president shortly after President Emeritus John R. Cunningham's resignation was announced on February 20, 1957. The nominating
committee, composed of Mr. D. R. LaFar, chairman, Mr. J. Spencer Love, Dr. James P. Hendrix, Dr. J. McDowell Richards,
and Rev. Fred Stair, announced its nomination to the Board of Trustees around two o’clock this afternoon. The nomination was
accepted by vote of the Board, after which their choice was announced publicly.

David Grier Martin was born November 11, 1910, in Covington, Georgia. He was educated in Covington public schools and at
Davidson, graduating in 1932 with a B.S. in History, cum laude. As a student, he was editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN
and a member of Omicron Delta Kappa. He was a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity and a member
of the Y.M.C.A. cabinet and board of directors. He lettered in basketball and track and was a captain in R.O.T.C.
For a year following his graduation from Davidson, Mr. Martin was a graduate student in history at Emory University. From
1933 to 1936 he served as Alumni Secretary and Publicity Director at Davidson. In 1935 he married Miss Louise McMichael
of Quitman, Georgia. They have three children: Mike Martin, a senior at Davidson this year; D. Grier Martin, Jr., who
will enter Davidson as a freshman next September; and Susan Martin, a student at Davidson School. From 1936 to 1951,
Mr. Martin was a business executive, first with the Campbell Coal Company of Atlanta, and then, from 1940 to 1951
with Grey Hosiery Mills of Bristol, Virginia, as a partner and salesman.

(Continued On Page Four)

An Editorial

The DAVIDSONIAN congratulates the Board of Trustees on its choice of D. Grier Martin as the next President of Davidson
College. Mr. Martin has proved during the past six years, and especially this year, that he has the ability, intelligence,
and affinity for forceful action that will be needed during the coming years if Davidson is to realize its real
potential. In many ways, Mr. Martin may be considered a unique choice to follow in the footsteps of John Rood
Cunningham. He is no minister and has no impressive string of academic degrees. Perhaps to some, this will make a
difference, but not to anyone who has known and worked with the new President. Ability has a way of making
itself evident, either with or without titles. The man who will sit behind the largest desk in Chambers Building for
the years to come will have a job to match the size of the furniture. A crucial time is upon
Davidson. The era of transition has begun. Of this, there can be no doubt. The only question that remains concerns
the future path which the College will follow. The path to national eminence and Southern predominance in the field of
liberal arts education lies open, perhaps as open as it has ever been. The decision now lies largely in the
hands of D. Grier Martin. The DAVIDSONIAN trusts that he will not long hesitate in his choice.

Mr. Martin will face one disadvantage in assuming his new office. He knows too many people here at Davidson. When
the inevitable pushes and pulls come between his administration and the faculty or Board of Trustees, we urge him to
stand his ground, despite past associations, and to step on a few time-honored toes, if necessary, to implement his program
for the College. Again, the DAVIDSONIAN congratulates Mr. Martin on his success and wishes for him the best of fortune
in his new venture.

The four-leaf clover was found in the campus grass.

Trustees Back Martin

“We are convinced that Grier Martin is the man for the job, although he does not fit into any of
the preconceived ideals of a Davidson College president.” So spoke Dr. J. McDowell Richards, chairman of the Board of Trustees,
today. He went on, “The committee contacted Mr. Martin about the job some two weeks ago and reached its decision
that same day. Although he is not a minister or an educator, the committee and the Board of Trustees felt
that qualifications were more important than degrees, and we feel that he will fulfill every expectation. He is of the
highest Christian character and has the highest educational ideals.”

The trustees accepted the committee’s report unanimously, by standing vote.

Mr. D. R. LaFar, chairman of the presidential committee, added, “We are proud to bring such an outstanding man before
the Board and before Davidson College.”

Dean Bailey: “I can say simply that I'm just delighted. I think Mr. Martin has personality and an outlook and
an appreciation of what Davidson stands for which will enable him to render fine service.”

Professor Beaty: “I am highly pleased that a man who knows Davidson College so well and who is one of
us has been chosen to succeed Doctor Cunningham.”

(Continued On Page Four)

Mr. D. Grier Martin, new president of Davidson College, is pictured going over the books of the college when he
came in as Treasurer. Also shown is former treasurer F. L. Jackson.

An informal picture of the Martin family shows him, his wife, and son at Fort Bragg, in the summer of
1957. Mr. Martin addresses the Alumni Association at Homecoming, 1956.
