PAGE FOUR

JUDGE WILLIAM R. POPE

Pope Sees D.C. With Outside Eye

Emmrich Elected

Manfred Emmrich, from Charlotte, North Carolina, has been elected President of Phi Delta Theta social fraternity for 1958-59. Emmrich, an
economics major, has served the fraternity this year as alumni secretary and Hell Week chairman.

Elected to represent the fraternity on the IFC was Angus McBryde, from Durham, North Carolina. McBryde served as rush chairman
and social chairman this year. George Ramsey, from Athens, Georgia, was chosen vice president. Ben Harris, of Mobile, Alabama, was
elected secretary, and Henry Brown, of Davidson, received the office of treasurer. All are rising seniors.

Other officers elected were: Tom Cutting and John Huie, Rush Chairmen; John Kimbirl, boarding house manager; Paul Erckman, Warden; Barry
Benton, chaplain; Harry Broome, pledge trainer; Brantley Burns and Smitty Smith, alumni chairmen.

By GORDON LeGRAND
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Considering the recent crisis in matters of student conduct and the problems from which they arose, the comments and convictions
of a person who, although presently engaged as a professor here, is relatively “outside” the college, should be of interest
to many.

A Davidson alumnus, Judge William R. Pope is taking time from his law practice in Mooresville, N.C., to teach a
course here in Business Law.

Mr. Pope was recently asked about the two current problems confronting the school—chapel conduct and the drinking rule.

In regard to conduct, he stated that he had attended one chapel program in which he had noticed “vocal reactions”
when good taste would have dictated that there be none. This reaction, he added, left an adverse impression on him
“... as it does on many people coming to the college.”

Mr. Pope had some very decided views on the drinking rule situation. He favored the present regulation against “returning to
the campus under the influence;” he said that he has heard criticism of student conduct away from school which was
the result of overindulgence. He, therefore, believed that a strict policy should be enforced until the situation “is alleviated”—even to
the point of making being seen “under the influence” anywhere, grounds for expulsion.

Judge Pope gave several reasons why he feels so strongly about this problem. He stated that the bad comments he
has heard hurt not only those who are now students, but also the college alumni, and Davidson's reputation as a
college that “instills” ideals of “gentlemanly conduct” into her students. Secondly, his experiences as a judge in the Recorders Court
have shown that most troubles in court stem either directly or indirectly from excessive indulgence.

To correct this problem, Mr. Pope feels that student organizations such as the IFC and Student Council should take the
first step before the faculty authority takes measures resulting eventually in working a greater hardship on the student body. Such
regulations, according to the Mooresville lawman, would be for the benefit of the student now, and when he is saddled,
in later life, with the reputation of being a Davidson Alumnus.

Gen. Garvin (Continued From Page One)

parade and to attend a reception given by Scabbard and Blade immediately following the ceremonies.

Following the afternoon inspection, the visiting officers will critique the two days’ events and the observed efficiency of the Regiment.

Know the answer? What’s an eight-letter word which reminds you of good taste, sparkle, lifts? The answer's easy—Coca-Cola of course.
No puzzle about why it’s so popular... no other sparkling drink gives you so much good taste, so much satisfaction.
Yes, when you're looking for refreshment, the answer's always Coke!

Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company by THE COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD

“Coke” is a registered trademark. ©1956, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Davidsonian Platforms Offered By Candidate

BOB LATHAN

“To think rightly, to think instantly, to think incessantly, to think intensely, to seize opportunities when others let them go
by—that is the secret of success in journalism.”—Pulitzer.

Having worked on newspapers in various capacities for the past eight years, I feel I am qualified in technical knowledge
as well as journalistic know-how. But writing editorials is only a small part of the editor's job. Besides being responsible
for the paper's appearance, he must also be the paper's representative.

NEWS

The essence of good news writing is to have something to say on a vital subject, to say it tersely,
and with punch and to make it a challenge to the reader to think about the world he lives in.
Extensive, informative news writing will be continued. Next year, promising to be eventful, offers a rich source of material for
coverage.

EDITORIAL POLICY

The DAVIDSONIAN will take a stand on all issues pertinent to the life of the college. Also, we shall comment
on major national and sectional issues in an effort to generate student awareness of existing problems. Not until college students
learn how to argue, deeply wonder, and be passionately concerned will America produce a great culture.

SPORTS COVERAGE

Another carry-over from last year will be predicting contests and statistics on the sports page. A greater emphasis on feature
stories, dealing with players and coaches “behind the scenes.”

ORGANIZATION

An interested, loyal staff of competent workers with duties clearly set, eliminating overlapping, is necessary to the accomplishment of these
goals. As Editor, I would endeavor to retain the established patterns and carry forward recent improvements, while introducing appropriate innovations.
I pledge to give the campus the best newspaper possible if elected.

GEORGE RAMSEY

If given the opportunity to edit the DAVIDSONIAN next year, I will try to present each week an inclusive, informative,
attractive panorama of Davidson College. This will include an alive, unbiased reporting of news on the front and back pages,
a provocative editorial page providing an open channel for expression of student opinion, and an accurate, readable sports department.

NEWS

The keynote of the paper will be clear, accurate concise news accounts that reach into every corner of the campus,
with the accent on coming events. I favor continuing the frequent luncheon interviews with prominent members of the faculty and
administration, a very pregnant source of real news. “A picture is worth a thousand words.” Through knowledge of photography, I
will try to make the paper more attractive and informative.Edgeable use of photographs by the newspaper editor can make the
difference between a “dead” page and one that jumps out at the reader. I strongly favor wide use of the
camera to report the campus scene.

EDITORIAL POLICY

On the editorial page, the DAVIDSONIAN will reflect a definite stand of the editors on vital campus issues, and on
those non-campus matters which warrant attention. The Letters to the Editor shall continue to voice the feelings of the student
body. I should like to continue a department written by at least two students in which they are whether they
be coincident or not. In the sports department, I favor continuance of the policy which I have tried to follow
this year, giving adequate coverage to all sports, with special emphasis on athletics, which concern the greater part of the
student body. If elected editor, I shall make every effort to effectively air “the news and editorial voice of Davidson
College.”

Current Events (Continued From Page One)

19 out of ten felt that the “A” stood for “Atlantic.” Less than 1 out of four knew Paul Tillich
or Davidson's own (could identify the latter). 35% placed Sukarno (“a Jap actor”), Lewis Strauss (“writes waltzes”), and C (“Inventor
of the Minnie Ball”). 14% identified David. 1 out of 2 pegged Adolph Rupp and Hussein. Fulgencio Batista (“King of
Spain”) and Igor Stravinsky (“invented Helicopter”) were identified by 60%, while 65% correctly tabbed Nathan Leopold (“King of Belgium”) and
John J. Parker. 16% knew that William Lee Davidson (“brother of noted professor”) had some connection with the college. An
equal number identified von Braun with the U.S. rocket program. Only 44% could name the past year’s Student Body Vice-Presidents;
several erred by indicating this year's newly elected men, but most of the 56% who missed actually put down the
wrong names. 75% placed Khrushchev in charge of the Communist Party in the USSR. The Sec. of Defense was identified
by 85% of the freshmen, 90% of the sophomores, 68% of the juniors, and a “rousing” 12% of the seniors
(“ROTC chain of command”). 56%, including a Phi Beta Kappa and 18 other seniors, did not know the names of
both of their U.S. senators, and 7 men did not know their governor’s name. As to the quotations, 62% recognized
the first phrase as being from the Constitution, while only 10% placed the second as having come from the Bible.
40% spotted the third stanza of the Davidson Alma Mater for the lines on number 3. In class knowledge, the
sophomores blazed away with a 56% average, the juniors and seniors tied with 52% accuracy, and the freshmen brought up
the pack with 45% — “Anyone for the newspaper room?”

LAURENS WALKER

There must be blood in the veins of a newspaper and air in its lungs before it can call itself
a good paper. A newspaper must be the informant, the companion, the advisor, the defender, and the confessor of its
readers. It must be alive and thinking. It must propose action and be willing to act on its own. Finally,
a good newspaper must be willing to stake its very existence on the belief that it has the right to
be heard.

A LIVE FORCE

The DAVIDSONIAN must be these things, and if elected Editor, I plan to do all in my power to make
it think, act, and be a live force on the Davidson Campus. Specifically, there are three areas in which the
DAVIDSONIAN must excel if it is to fulfill its obligation to the Student Body.

NEWS COVERAGE

First, news and sports coverage must be extended. Fraternity news such as social events and elections should be included, as
should reports on Faculty Committee meetings affecting the Student Body and interviews with Trustees on important matters. I will, if
elected, give more coverage to IFC sports and attempt to send a reporter to all “away” football games and important
basketball games so that both can be more accurately reported.

EDITORIAL POLICY

The second important area is the editorial policy of the paper. It is difficult for me to say what opinion
I might express about future situations, but generally, I feel that, scholastically, Davidson needs a better curriculum and a larger
faculty to improve our chances for getting a good education. Outside the classroom, the Student Body needs more freedom to
make up its own mind about campus problems and to act accordingly. Finally, the news must be attractively displayed with
larger and more effective pictures.

Unbeaten Phi Delts (Continued From Page Three)

The A.T.O.s and Betas tied for sixth place with five wins apiece, and the S.A.E.s took seventh place with three
wins in the play. The Pi Kapps, with one win, took eighth place while the Phi Gams and Sigma Nus
tied for ninth place with no wins to their credit. The softball tournament, which will probably decide the overall champion
in the program, will begin soon after the spring break is over.

Great buy! the trim-fitting ARROW Glen. It’s the shirt with the stand-out choice in collars — the regular, button-down, or
permanent stay Arrow Glen. Exclusive Mitoga® tailoring carries through the trim, tapered look from collar to waist to cuff. “Sanforized”
broadcloth or oxford in stripes, checks, solids, $4.00 up. Cluett, Peabody & Co., Inc. ARROW—first in fashion.

FRIDAY, MARCH 28, 1958

FINE ARTS FESTIVAL

The 11th annual Davidson College Fine Arts Festival will get underway on Monday evening, March 31, with a song recital
by Radiana Pazmor, contralto, of Converse College, at 8:15 p.m. in the Union Ballroom.

Tuesday, April 1—College Union Ballroom, 8:15 p.m.—A concert of chamber music with Kenneth Moore, clarinetist; Jean Moore, cellist, and Eunice
Plann Berg, pianist, as guest artists.

Friday and Saturday, April 11, 12—College Union Ballroom, 8:15 p.m.—Movie: “An American in Paris.” Tickets may be purchased at the
door.

Monday, April 14—Chambers Auditorium, 8:15 p.m.—Recital by Raul Spivak, Argentine pianist, sponsored by the Davidson College Artist Series.

Tuesday, April 15—Chambers Auditorium, 10:20 a.m.—Concert by the North Fulton High School from Atlanta, conducted by Robert Lowrance.

Tuesday, April 15—College Union Ballroom, 4:00 p.m.—In observance of Pan-American Day, Raul Spivak will lecture on “The Characteristics of Latin
American Music.”

Wednesday, April 16—College Union Ballroom, 8:15 p.m.—Painting demonstration of the encaustic technique by Philip Moose, Visiting Professor of Art at
Queens College. Mr. Moose will also discuss the use of other painting media, illustrated by examples of his work.

Thursday, April 17—Chambers Auditorium, 10:20 a.m.—John Ciardi, poetry editor of The Saturday Review, will speak on poetry and present the
Vereen Bell Award for Creative Writing.

Monday, April 21—Chambers Auditorium, 8:15 p.m.—Concert by the Davidson College Male Chorus, Donald Plott, Director.

Tuesday, April 22—Lecture on “Maps and Southern History” by Dr. W. P. Cumming, author of “The Southeast in Early Maps.”

Thursday, April 24—College Union Ballroom, 8:15 p.m.—M. Alfred Pouinard, professor of music at Belmont Abbey, will give a lecture-recital entitled
“Debussy, Poet, Painter, and Musician.”

Friday and Saturday, April 25, 26—Chambers Auditorium, 8:15 p.m.—Robert C. Sherriff’s play, Journey’s End, will be presented by The Red
and Black Masquers. Tickets may be purchased at the door.

Monday, April 28—Davidson College Presbyterian Church, 2:00 p.m.—Organ master class conducted by Fenner Douglass, a member of the Oberlin Conservatory
faculty.

Monday, April 28—Davidson College Presbyterian Church, 8:15 p.m.—Organ recital by Fenner Douglass.

Tuesday, April 29—College Union Ballroom, 8:15 p.m.—Dr. J. W. McCutchan will lecture on literary criticism, and student members of Sigma
Upsilon will read original short stories, poetry, and a play.

Friday, May 2—Chambers Auditorium, 8:15 p.m.—Concert by the Davidson College Concert Band, Franklin West, Conductor.

Sportstuff by George Ramsey (Continued From Page Three)

What kind of hand he’s holding. Dave Pearsall, John Poindexter, and Tom McCutchan on the crew that should rank second
to George Washington in conference combat. Davidsonians took time out Wednesday night to eye the Academy Awards presentation. With all
the pulchritude (that’s the esoteric name for it) on hand, it seems that there should have been some Anatomy Awards
handed out.

Look your best... the ARROW way. Nothing could be smoother than a Mitoga® tapered Arrow shirt. And we've got ’em
by the dozens in a broad range of collar styles and colors. Plus the newest stripes and checks. Pay us
a visit.

IVEY’S of CHARLOTTE
