Che Bautdsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 1958

(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

Honor Council Should Be Separate Body

The DAVIDSONIAN proposes a reorganization of the Student Government of Davidson College. Our proposal would separate the present system into
a Student Council and an Honor Council. The Student Council would deal exclusively in matters of legislation; the Honor Council
would serve as an honor court. This is a natural separation of powers.

As any organization grows, so do its duties and responsibilities. Davidson College is expanding both in numbers and in its
duties as an educational institution. Just as the Interfraternity Council has laid the groundwork upon which future growing fraternity importance
will be based, so we feel that the Student Government should prepare to meet Davidson's new future.

Advantages of Separation

The advantages of a separate Honor Council would be three-fold. First, it would free the Student Council from trial duties
and enable them to devote their entire efforts to legislation and to student body problems. Second, an appointed Honor Council
would be free from any political pressures which could and might be exerted on an elected officer, and would consist
of experienced capable men. Thirdly, since an Honor Council would be devoted exclusively to cases involving violations of the honor
system and of student body regulations, it could spend its entire time on improved investigation and trial procedure. Members of
this Honor Council would be ineligible to hold any other student body office. This would benefit both the Student Council
and the student body as a whole.

Again, if the much-discussed “drinking rule” is liberalized, then there will be a need for some special body to strictly
enforce the new regulations.

Make-up of Council

The Honor Council would differ in make-up from its parent body, the Student Council, in that its members would be
appointed to hold office throughout their entire college career, and could be removed only in instances where they might be
involved in honor violations themselves.

The members of the Honor Council would be nominated by a joint committee of faculty and students, with the Student
Body President serving as the chairman of the committee. The Student Council would approve the nominees by a two-thirds vote.

Membership

Two members would be appointed from the Sophomore class, three from the Junior class, and four from the Senior class.
In each case, we repeat, the members would hold office during their entire college career. Hence, in any given year,
after the third year of its operation, the Honor Council would consist of two men with two years' experience, and
three additional ones with a year’s experience. The chairman of the Honor Court would be selected from that body's membership
by the Student Council.

Need and Action

We believe that “new occasions teach new duties” and that such an occasion has arisen. This system, borrowed from others,
and improved, would in turn make our Student Government be emulated by other schools. We strongly urge the Student Council
to investigate the possibility and practicality of such a separation of powers.—G.L.W.

Phone Booth

The free, direct telephone exchange to Charlotte is one of the most convenient services offered to students. Its convenience, however,
is somewhat detracted by the lack of a private place in which a student can carry on his conversation. At
present, the TV room is often used, but this is not always a good arrangement because it interferes with those
who want to watch TV. What is needed are soundproof phone booths. Two regular booths could easily fit in the
space where the open telephone slots now are.

Sign Of Times

We noticed the other day where President Eisenhower had received a check for $369.60 for not growing wheat on fourteen
acres. His 1956 “soil bank” check was $1,540 for taking thirty-two acres out of corn. It is interesting to compare
this with President Herbert Hoover who has served for years in the government without accepting one cent. It must be
a sign of our times.

An Editorial by Abraham Lincoln

(February 12 is Lincoln’s birthday. In a time when government gets bigger and bigger, when pressure groups and minority groups
seek special privileges, and when individuals and communities look for federal assistance, these words by Abraham Lincoln have a special
significance.)

You cannot bring about prosperity by discouraging thrift.
You cannot strengthen the weak by weakening the strong.
You cannot help the small men by tearing down the big men.
You cannot help the wage earner by pulling down the wage payer.
You cannot further the brotherhood of man by encouraging class hatred.
You cannot help the poor by destroying the rich.
You cannot keep out of trouble by spending more than you earn.
You cannot help men permanently by doing for them what they could and should do for themselves.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
John Johnson

BUSINESS MANAGER
Bob Lathan

ASSISTANT EDITOR
Laurens Walker

Associate Editor
George Ramsey

Managing Editors
Bill Patton
Jim Morris

Sports Editor
John Trask, Jr.

Assignments Editor
Pat Henderson

Feature Editor
Gerald Wilson

Julian Aldridge
Copy Editor

News Editor
Bruce Brooks

Cartoonists
Bross, Cole

Photographer
Ed Stevens

Henry Samuels
Lee Mayfield

Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

SCHEDULED FOR ‘58?

Students: Pro And Con On Preferential Bidding

By ANDY BLAKE

The Interfraternity Council is currently considering a proposed system of “Preferential Bidding” for Rush Week of 1958. Because the fraternity
system is such a vital part of life on the Davidson Campus, a change in the bidding system is, of
course, a matter of great interest to the Student Body, and more particularly to the fraternity men.

As proposed, the system includes a maximum number of pledges, a list of rushees from each fraternity, and a list
of preferred fraternities from each rushee. For example, suppose the quota is set at seventeen. Each fraternity lists its first
seventeen choices, in no particular order, and then lists alternates in the order of preference. Each rushee lists in order
of preference the fraternities to which he will accept bids. Next, an impartial group studies the lists, and decides which
fraternities receive which rushees.

We present here a representative cross section of student opinion on this proposed change.

Ross Smyth: I am in favor of the principle of the preferential bidding system, but I am not sure that
the plan will work well when first instituted here. I believe, however, that the plan of preferential bidding can be
made acceptable to the fraternity system at Davidson.

Charley Drummond: I am opposed to the system because I feel it should be a function of the fraternity to
regulate its own size. It seems a violation of the fraternity idea to impose limitations on the size of the
pledge class.

Pete Andrews: I feel that the present size of the average fraternity is too large to capture the true fraternity
spirit, and that the new system may be the solution to this problem.

Roy Gilbert: I am in favor of the present system because the preferential bidding system is too idealistic and impersonal.
The happiness of the rushee might be sacrificed to control the sizes of the various fraternities, and it would be
extremely difficult for the fraternities to list rushees in any order of preference.

Tenney Dean: I think that the new system would strengthen the small fraternities, and put our fraternity system on a
more even basis.

Stuart Nickles: I am in favor of preferential bidding. It should eliminate a number of the rush week headaches, and

Crest la Vie
By Bross

BRITISH ECONOMY Seeks Markets, Not Loans

Ed. Note: The following is the second part of a three-part series written by Spencer Mitchem. The series is a
condensation of a paper originally prepared for the International Relations Club.

Britain’s economy, like that of many nations, was wrecked by World War II, and she has been slow in recovering.
With loans and other help, mostly from

LETTER TO EDITOR

‘Ain't No Dere

Editor:

I would like to complain about some letters written to you in the last “DAVIDSONIAN”. First, in answer to Mr.
Van Sant I would like to take this chance to set him straight on one thing. Davidson College ain’t no
Country Club! I know, cause Country Clubs got women in them and Davidson sure ain't got no women, least ways
I ain't been able to find any.

WHISKY HILL

I believe that Mr. Van Sant has got Davidson mixed up with the U. of N. C. at Whisky Hill,
N. C. My Paw told me when I left home, “Son, if ya can’t go to college, goto Carolina.” Last
of all, Mr. Van Sant, what’che want a Phi Beta Kappa Key for? A church key is just as effective
in the long run.

MR. BELL

Now turning to Mr. Bell, I would say that he has committed what Lt. Brooks would call a “thumping defeat"
or worse, a violation of security. Mr. Bell has left himself open to attack on all sides and has left
himself no way to retreat. I also object to Mr. Bell claiming that I would be better off somewhere else.
And last to Mr. Bernhardt, who says there isn’t enough playing of the Stock Market. Who wants to play with
some dirty old cows anyhow.

RAW DEAL

Seems to me that if you “gentlemen” were going to fuss, you’d fuss about something useful, like this toilet paper.
We have been promised a better grade when the present supply runs out, but Treasurer Martin tells me that Davidson
at present has more toilet paper on hand than Hattie’s has beer. It is time the Davidson gentlemen rose up—uh,
I mean sat down—and demanded their rights. We have been getting a raw deal long enough.

Sincerely,
Bill Armstrong

OH YES... I FINALLY GAVE HIM ONE OF THOSE REAL CHEAP ONES...

must take two steps: one, she must increase her production and exports; two, she must limit her rapid wage increases.
Britain’s economic system, built up through the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, is such that she cannot live without foreign
trade. She has a highly diversified industry and must seek markets all over the world, opening up new ones as
old ones are blocked up by the Iron Curtain or the industrialization of newer countries. Britain must sell her goods
and services abroad to buy food and essential raw materials.

The United States, however, is a continental power with immense resources. The foreign trade of the United States, great as
it is in total, is but a small part of her industrial activity. The need for markets is one of
the major problems that Mr. Macmillan discussed with President Eisenhower. What Britain wants from the United States is not loans,
but a market for her products. It seems that everything Britain designs to sell to the American consumer is immediately
put under a high tariff once its popularity is seen in America. One can see this in the English Fords
and English Bicycles. As soon as these products showed that they would sell, American business interests put pressure on the
government to impose a high tariff on these products so that we might profitably produce them for ourselves. Even though
we understand that the British need more markets in the United States, it seems unlikely that the United States is
going to lower its tariff appreciably.

WAS HE WITH IT:

distribute the freshmen more evenly among the different fraternities.

Willy Thompson: Any fraternity system will foster arbitrarily set associations. No one is so idealistic as to see it otherwise.
We need to recognize, however, that fraternities strike a personal note of cold reality, and they often hurt the development
of some people just as much as they help others. Many personalities are profoundly set by certain traumatic events of
rush week. I sincerely believe that if any semblance of good in our fraternities is to be maintained, then preferential
bidding must be exercised.

ON CAMPUS

John Trask: Preferential bidding means limiting the fraternities, thus killing the overcrowding problem. The new system will make more boys
available to small fraternities, and help larger fraternities by allowing more selection of pledges. The interviews point out the definite
assets of the proposed system, and also problems which must be overcome before the system could realize its greatest potential
value. They also make clear that the Student Body is thinking positively about what system would be best for the
fraternities and the College. This is a firm step in the right direction.

In Doubt? Quit!
By CHARLES G. HELMS

(Ed. Note: We regret to announce that Phil Lewis, former author of this column, has been forced to retire from
his post, due mostly to a recent campus publication which revealed what he did “when in doubt.” Deciding that we
had better “join 'em,” we asked Charles Helms to take over the column. Charley, doubtless because of the higher pay
and increase in prestige, graciously consented to change his allegiance, and go to work for the DAVIDSONIAN.)

Phil Lewis finally decided what to do “when in doubt”—he quit.

Slates Clean

Exams are over and our professors are admonishing us to keep our slates clean during the new semester. It’s still
first semester for one unfortunate (none other than the editor of “The Poor Man’s Playboy”), however. He has gotten an
extension on one of his courses and will have to spend the first month of the new semester to complete
it. The wages of procrastination...

Re. Exams: Henderson Rourk, one of Davidson’s leading pre-meds, showed us his exam for Organic Chemistry (which is notoriously hard);
here’s one question:

Annihilation

“By the Slovonovitchnikoffcakowsky annihilation of Neon including the Ellison (C.A. activation of the benzene method: Prepare 1, 2, 4, 6,
8, chloro, 3, 7, 9, 10, 11 butanic 13, 14, 15 di bromo cycling, galloping, gasping propo-tetra heptane ester. Starting
with 1, 2, 3, 4, dinitro triargonic ethene ether.”

And Willard Wolfe told us of a question on his History of Philosophy exam: Relate the philosophy of the Pre-Socratics,
Plato, the Atomists, the Stoics, Augustine, John Scotus, Thomas Aquinas, The New Testament and Reinhold Niebuhr to Aristotle; being sure
to give a complete account of the metaphysics, physics, psychology, ethics, politics, and aesthetics of each. (1644 minutes for this
question).

Notoriously Difficult

Here’s a question from another course which has a notoriously difficult exam:

1. How many men are on a-
(a) football team
(b) baseball team

Overheard concerning the Lotte Goslar Circus: “everything from Cornelia Otis Skinner to a May Pole Dance.” Had some clever spoofs
on mankind though. Only 7 more shopping days left... (for dullards, this refers to Mid-Winters).

COFFEE BREAK

From Riches To Rags
By BOB JONES

The approaching meeting of the Board of Trustees brings to mind again their regrettable decision to increase the student enrollment.
All who are concerned with education are mindful of the enormous increase in college enrollments that is anticipated in the
immediate future. Facilities of American colleges must be expanded greatly to handle the predicted one hundred percent increase by 1970.
Certainly the Davidson Board of Trustees was deeply impressed with the facts and figures of this tidal wave of college
students and the corresponding need of providing the adequate facilities. One assumes that this was the motivating factor in their
decision. But there is much more to the situation which would give pause, and ultimately lead to the conclusion that
the action was based only on the most superficial of reasons. For Davidson to maintain its numerical proportion of students
compared with state universities and technical schools in this crisis is an impossibility. It would require financial means far beyond
the college’s resources. But in reality, there is no reason for Davidson to maintain this quantitative proportion when it is
on the very verge of increasing its qualitative advantage. Davidson can make a genuine contribution to education by taking the
lead in raising its standards and providing a first-class liberal education. There is nothing to warrant the opinion that even
the present standard could be maintained with an enrollment of 1000. The crying need in education today is not so
much for mass college education, as for genuinely intelligent graduates who possess a solidly grounded body of knowledge and a
mind that can use this information creatively and discriminatingly. There is not a men’s college in the South that can
boast of graduates consistently possessing these qualities. Davidson, it would seem, is going to pass up the opportunity of making
such a witness in education in favor of a quick and superficial analysis of the educational crisis. How regrettable it
is that a church school forfeits such a marvelous opportunity in favor of following the lead of the country’s secular
colleges and universities.
