PAGE FOUR FARMER — Otts Lectures (Continued From Page One) by the German Pietists in 1706, which inspired the Wesley
brothers in their great Methodist revival. The Presbyterians followed suit, but the Anglican Church and the other great European churches
still consider missions as secondary. William Cary’s heroic Baptist Society and the Moravian Church also made missions an obligation in
service.

FAITH AND SOCIETY
Tuesday morning, Ranson spoke on “Faith and Society,” showing the new setting of Church world missions. Faith always has social
consequences as it did in changing the early Greco-Roman world to Christianity, which it had considered crude and irrelevant. Although
a change has been made from early missions, which consisted of individual white men, like Livingstone, going to Africa and
Asia, these early missions had a great impact.

DR. W. O. PUCKETT
Dr. Puckett is on society, armer at heart, culture, relief, and medicine.

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Cole and Kernan See Magazine
By BOB COLE
As Kernan sits in the bawdy company that can only be so regularly obtained at the Anchor or Westminster Fellowship,
his giant literary mind rumbles to the room of his opponent for editorship of the school humor magazine — Cole.
There he sits surrounded by “Mad” and “Playboy” picking out his most original effort of the year. Cole must be
defeated. His election will mean a magazine with the same brash rudeness that Cole characterized the humor in this year’s
magazine. Cole’s election will mean a satirical cartoon.

Editorship
By TOM KERNAN
Once again the time has come for me to present a small case (not incurable—or drinkable either) for my candidacy
for editor of “Scripts 'N Pranks.” As soon as Grier gave me the news of my nomination and I gave
him his fee, I trotted off up the hill to find an “average Davidson Man.” Hearing the faint rattle of
buckles, I turned about and spied what I was looking for. It was “Toad” Cole, master of the toon and
renowned athlete of the Davidson-to-Mooresville Marathon. I asked him what he liked best in the magazine. He stood there lost
in deep contemplation, stroking his jowls and scratching his head, the dandruff gently floating in the March breeze. I moved
upwind and started to explain the choices—“You can have anything — Mother, home, and the fire-side policy, or tragic adolescent
fiction or feminine pulchritude and humorous anecdotes.” “I like funny pictures an’ grubby jokes,” he said in a husky voice.
He darted away, obviously embarrassed. “Simply shocking,” I said to myself. Magazine ought to serve a more purifying purpose on
campus.” I was so disillusioned that I ran back to my room and read “Playboys” all night to dispel the
gloom.

By EDDIE ARMFIELD
Davidsonian Feature Writer
About three miles down Highway 21, near the motel, there is a farm of some one hundred and thirty-five acres.
Here at Davidson, there is a professor who wishes he had more time to spend on that farm. He is
Dr. Olin Puckett of the Biology Department. Dr. Puckett has been interested in farming and gardening since he was a
boy, and he lists these two activities as his hobbies. He used to play a good deal of golf, but
with only one free afternoon during the week, almost all of his spare time now is devoted to his farm
and garden. Dr. Puckett, with the help of a tenant, raises mainly small grains, cotton, and corn. “Of course,” he
adds, “I've got some cabbage, reel onions, and cantaloupes.”

YARD WORK, TOO
All of the results of Dr. Puckett’s green-thumb are not to be found on his farm, however. When he and
his family moved into their new home, there was plenty of grass to be sown and a good many shrubs
to be set out. Dr. Puckett still tries to divide his limited spare time between his agrarian activities and keeping
his yard in handsome shape. As far as other hobbies are concerned, Dr. Puckett is quite an avid sports fan
and tries not to miss any of the local athletic contests. That is, unless there’s work to be done at
the farm.

Kuykendall
Tuesday night was on the subject of “Strategy and Action.” He stated that personal action is more needed today than
all planning and thought in missions. We need a broader missionary initiative; the element of personal work must never be
lost. The task today is more complex than ever before and requires greater service.

STRATEGY AND ACTION
Ranson’s concluding lecture was on the bases of this weakness and the ministry of the young training in theology everywhere.
Much of the resources of missionary work today were accomplished, and the Scriptures have been translated into over 1000 languages
and dialects. But still greater work is left undone. For instance, one out of 200 in Japan are in the
church, less in Siam, 2% in India, 1% in Pakistan, and less than 1% in China. This figure for the
Belgian Congo is 25%; Africa may be the Christian continent of the future. The younger native churches today bear the
greatest responsibility in missions. They are significant also because they make the people aware of history as the story of
God's revelation. The new churches abroad need to be also active in mission work. A beginning has been made along
the lines of the “Presbyterian Survey.” Worst of all, Cole is planning to publish a trilogy of these crude books,
one each dance weekend, with a Christmas issue thrown in. Kernal shudders as the bleak vision of this titanic venture
eclipses his brain. But hark! How swift Kernal’s mind turns. Now the dynamo stops to consider the most pressing problems
at hand—much more important than the election—how to clean off the bullseye painted on his mirror. Too many sweets, no
doubt. Western enterprise needs all the support the West can give, and that of the rest of the world as
well. The new churches abroad need to be also active in mission work. A beginning has been made along the
lines of the “Presbyterian Survey.”Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Missions is not merely a mission in Africa, but there is great progress that has been made in this work,
as shown by the North Indian missions in maintaining the young churches, which should be taught self-government, self-support, and propagation.

MAJOR IN LEADERSHIP with the Advanced ARMY R.O.T.C. course

If you are a sophomore Army R.O.T.C. student, there are three important reasons why you should accept the challenge of
applying for the Advanced R.O.T.C. course. As an advanced R.O.T.C. student, you will:

1. Learn to Lead
Leadership—a course that will prepare you to think on your feet for an executive position, whether in military or civilian
life. In addition, you will get practical experience in command responsibilities.

2. Attain Officer’s Rank
As an R.O.T.C. graduate, you will fulfill your military obligation as an Army officer. You will not only enjoy the
rank, pay, and privileges of an Army officer, but will also have the satisfaction of serving your country in an
important capacity.

3. Receive Extra Income
With the Advanced R.O.T.C. course, you will qualify for a subsistence allowance which comes to around $535 for the two-year
course. You will also be paid $117 for your six-week summer camp training and receive a travel allowance of five
cents per mile to and from the camp.

ROTC Announces Inspection Plans

Major General Crump Garvin, the Deputy Commanding General of the 3rd Army at Ft. McPherson, Georgia, and Colonel Thomas G.
Keithly, the Chief of the U.S. Army of the North Carolina Military District, will be on campus for part of
the Federal Inspection on March 31 and April 1. They will attend the cadet briefing in conjunction with the Federal
Inspection and have a conference with Dean Pietenpol during their stay here. However, they will not be on hand for
the parade at 3:00 p.m. on Tuesday. Colonel Walter E. Sewell, the PMS&T at Mercer University in Macon, Georgia, will
lead the inspection team. Parents and guests of cadets are cordially invited to a luncheon on Tuesday.

IFC Levies Fines on Ten Fraternities

The Interfraternity Council wishes to make public acknowledgment of its regret for objectionable portions of various skits given during the
course of Skit Nite. We feel that the overall tone of the evening was satisfactory and in accord with the
standards of the college; however, those extremes which dealt with indecencies and sacrilege we feel are to be condemned. In
accord with this position, fines have been levied on ten fraternities in amounts proportional to what we have agreed were
degrees of offense. Future Skit Nites will have all scripts previewed by the Interfraternity Council before their presentation.

WATCH FOR THE FOOLIES FRIDAY, MARCH 21, 1958

Cumming's Book Now Published

By LARRY SMITH
Davidsonian Staff Reporter

Dr. William P. Cumming’s new book, “The Southeast in Early Maps,” was officially released February 21, 1958. The Princeton University
Press in Princeton, New Jersey, published the book, which sells for $12.50. The book contains 52 pages of text (Introductory
Essay), 25 pages of footnotes, 153 pages of List of Maps. It also includes over 30 pages of miscellaneous indexes,
appendixes, and information, making a total of 275 pages, not counting the 64 additional pages of maps.

In his book, Cumming does a study and descriptive bibliography of the historical cartography of the southeastern portion of North
America during colonization and discovery, before the American Revolution. By analyzing manuscripts and printed maps from that area, he shows
expanding geographical knowledge through periods of exploration and settlement, relating primary documents to other reports and records of the time.
Prof. Cumming discusses early explorers’ misconceptions of the continent, the frontier growth, history of imperialistic efforts of France, Spain, and
England, Indian tribe locations, boundary surveys, and changing political divisions. Prof. Cumming does not include World maps or North American
continent maps, but makes an exhaustive check of all sectional maps of southeast and local maps between Virginia and Florida
peninsula.

During academic vacations of over twenty years, Prof. Cumming collected for this study the data, examined personally in libraries from
Massachusetts to California and in two European countries. A past president of the North Carolina Historical Society, he received grants
for his work from the Social Science Research Council, Carnegie Foundation, and Southern Fellowship Fund.

Eta Alpha Becomes Sigma Nu Chapter

Word was received today that Sigma Nu Fraternity has approved by a three-fourths affirmative vote the petition of Eta Alpha
Fraternity for a Charter as Eta Alpha Chapter of Sigma Nu. A formal pledging ceremony to Sigma Nu will be
held in the Union Ballroom on Saturday, March 29, 1958, at 2:30 p.m. with Psi Chapter (UNC) conducting the ritual.
Mr. Richard P. Loester, Assistant Executive Secretary of Sigma Nu, will represent the General Officers of the Fraternity.

Martin Says (Continued From Page One)

A. Martin indicated that the new section of the library will be ready for partial use by next fall. He
also said that plans are now being made for the setting up of a $500,000 book endowment, the income of
which will be used to buy about 500 new books each year. Also, the library has a $25,000 bequest now
to be used to buy books. The new library will have an approximate book capacity of 200,000.

Mothers Promote Interest In SAE

On Wednesday, March 19, the mothers of the members of Sigma Alpha Epsilon met for a luncheon in the College
Union. The purpose of the meeting was to form a Mothers’ Club in order to bring the mothers together and
promote interest in various undertakings of the fraternity. The Club was formed and officers were elected. It was decided that
small yearly dues would be paid by each mother, and this would be given to the fraternity as a contribution
for house decorations and furnishings.

You’ll be sittin’ on top of the world when you change to L&M

Light into the patent number on every pack... Your guarantee of more effective filtration on today’s L&M. Only L&M gives
you this filter fact—Smokes that taste better, cleaner, fresher! Best tastin’ smoke you’ll ever find! Put yourself behind the pleasure
end of an L&M. Get the flavor, the full rich taste of the Southland’s finest cigarette tobaccos. The patented Miracle
Tip is pure white inside, pure white outside, as a filter should be for cleaner, better smoking.

©1958 LIGGETT & MYERS TOBACCO CO.
