Wildcats On Road (Page Three) Ch VOL. XLVII By BOB BRADFORD Davidsonian Staff Writer The newly organized elections committee, with
the primary objective of revamping Davidson's present inefficient and inadequate system of elections, has discussed several needed alterations during its
first two meetings. Davidsonian Feature Editor Commanding authority in this effort, the committee, organized by John Kuykendall, will act in
an advisory capacity to the Student Council. The committee will recommend certain changes to the Student Council, which, in turn,
will discuss them and take the necessary action to effect them if sanctioned.

FACULTY POLL Poll Indicates Cut System Does Not Please Faculty By PETE KELLOGG This week THE DAVIDSONIAN polled the faculty
in an effort to find out how they felt on possible changes in the class cut system. Of the twenty-eight
professors responding to the poll, thirteen favored some form of unlimited cuts; seven favored the present system; three preferred fewer
cuts than the present system allows; two preferred letting each professor determine the cuts for his class and one favored
no cuts at all. Two professors wanted still a different system. From the thirteen who favored unlimited cuts, five were
for them only for students with a specified average; four for members of certain classes with a specified average; and
four for all students. According to the remarks made, those professors favoring unlimited cuts only for students with a specified
average or in a certain class would give them to sophomores, juniors and seniors with a B average. One professor
suggested giving cuts according to grades received in each class: A-nine, B-six, C-three, D-one. One professor who preferred unlimited cuts
for all students commented, “This assumes that we have a faculty which is willing to have small classes but classes
which are interesting to both students and faculty alike. It assumes that the faculty gives sufficient material in class to
make class attendance very desirable. It assumes that the faculty is ready to let the chips fall where they may.”
Another who checked 6.b said, “The present system is absurd in principle, and even all possible amendments and reservations must
lead inevitably to abuses and inequalities. Students should not be penalized for absences from courses in which they are doing
outstanding work; nor should they be permitted any unexcused absences from a course in which they are not keeping up
with the rest of the class.” Said one professor, “In theory I favor 6.d, but obviously (at least to me)
Davidson students as a whole are not ready for unlimited cuts.” On the other side of the fence, a professor
who favored the present system felt, “Unlimited cuts would increase cramming for tests and exams because most of the cutting
is done by the fair or poor students. Why pay good money to (Continued On Page 4)

Please mark your preference for one of the following systems: 1. the present system 2. fewer cuts than the present
system allows 3. no cuts at all (except excused absences) 4. letting each professor determine the number of cuts allowed
in his class 5. more cuts than the present system allows, but not an unlimited number 6. unlimited cuts If
you are in favor of unlimited cuts, please indicate under which of the following systems: a. unlimited cuts only for
members of certain classes b. unlimited cuts only for students with a specified average

Elections Committee Studies Possible Changes By JIM HAMILTON Davidsonian Sports Editor The newly organized elections committee, with the primary objective
of revamping Davidson's present inefficient and inadequate system of elections, has discussed several needed alterations during its first two meetings.
The committee, organized by John Kuykendall, will act in an advisory capacity to the Student Council. The committee will recommend
certain changes to the Student Council, which, in turn, will discuss them and take the necessary action to effect them
if sanctioned. The members of the committee represent a wide diversity of opinion, some advocating radical basic changes with others
preferring only slight procedural alterations. The primary concern has centered on the apparent indifference of the student body towards elections
and the inordinate length of time which it takes to complete the elections procedure each year. The committee has discussed
the advantages and disadvantages of grouping various elections together. It might be advisable, for example, to complete the elections of
the YMCA officers, publications officers, athletic council and cheerleaders simultaneously. Some members advocate block elections for all members of the
Student Council except the four major offices of President, 1st and 2nd Vice-Presidents, and Secretary-Treasurer and the office of Freshman
Adviser. Under this system the remaining ten members would be chosen from the three upper classes in the same number
ratio as presently employed, but the council member with the most votes in each respective class would become President, the
one with the second highest Vice-President without any separate elections for the class offices. Some members of the committee advocate
allowing a person to accept nomination for only one office. Others prefer that a student may be a candidate in
each of the three realms of legislative, judicial, and publications. It has been suggested that the relocation of polling areas
from Chambers Building to the fraternities or the Student Union might increase the number of voters.

Linda Wilder Reigns Over First ROTC Military Ball Lt. Col. William L. Adams escorts Mrs. Bruce Wilder, Honorary Cadet Colonel,
through a sabre arch formed by members of Scabbard and Blade, honorary military fraternity. The occasion was the first Annual
Military Ball, held at the Barringer Hotel. Dancing to the music of Billy Knauff, junior and senior cadets and their
dates initiated the Davidson ROTC Military Ball as an annual affair. The Dance was held on Saturday, November 22, in
the ballroom of the Wm. Barringer Hotel in Charlotte. Beginning at 8:00 p.m., the Ball was highlighted by the selection
of an Honorary Cadet Colonel from among the girls escorted by MS IV cadets. Mrs. Billie Wester, sponsored by Cadet
2nd Lieutenant W. H. Wester, was chosen for this position by the Davidson Cadre, who also selected an Honorary Staff.
During the intermission, the Scabbard and Blade gave a sabre arch for the Honorary Colonel and her Staff, and presented
Mrs. Wilder with a bouquet. Among the visitors attending the Ball were Colonel Campbell, the PMS&T of Furman University, Professor
Puckett, and Dean Bailey. Credit for the success of the Ball goes to the cadets and their dates who made
it a memorable event.

IFC Considers Revision Of Bidding System Passage Of Proposals Predicted By Anderson Interfraternity Council President Vernon Anderson, facing the firing
squad of DAVIDSONIAN interviewers, announced Wednesday morning that the question of revision of the fraternity bidding system will be brought
before the student body again this year. “We are studying it again,” Anderson said, “and are trying to work up
a suitable proposal. National fraternities and local chapters even after the opposition of last spring have indicated interest in a
change. The new plan will propose a not so accelerated system as was suggested by the council last year.” Anderson
also commented that he would personally support such a change. He was queried further on the subject, Q. Will the
plan be approximately the same as last year? A. Yes, essentially I plan to get some new ideas at the
National Interfraternity Council Convention I will attend in Atlanta. We are presenting it earlier so it can be thoroughly hashed
out and so suggestions can be made and considered. Q. When do you plan to present the proposal? A. Probably
not until February. Q. Do you think, given time, the proposal will pass? A. I don't want to stick my
neck out, but I believe so. Last spring there was not enough time to go over it and work out
the flaws. Anderson was also quizzed on other fraternity matters. Q. Looking back on rush week, are there any changes
being considered by the council? A. Yes, we are considering the handling of re-dates by the council. This presented the
greatest cause for concern in this year’s Rush Week since some freshmen did not receive their re-date cards till late
in the afternoon. We are also working on a new set-up for Hell Week. Q. Has the council definitely defined
the extent of Hell Week activity? A. Yes, that was done last year. It includes such stipulations as no unnecessary
loss of sleep and so forth. However, the week will not pass without some activity. I have several suggestions I
wish to present, perhaps a banquet for all pledges and a skit night. Q. Are any fraternities in danger of
losing their charters? A. I don't know any more about this than anyone else; however, there are rumors. Q. Is
the cause of this the lack of a preferential bidding system? A. Probably so. Q. What was the council's opinion
of Lester Lanin? A. We feel he did a very good job and that we got our money's worth. I
doubt, however, if there will be a popular band for the next dance.Cadet Cap- cess of the Military Ball goes
largely to Cadet Colonel T. I. Deane, chairman of the dance committee, and to Captain John. Do you think that
having it at the first of school during orientation period is the most suitable time? demand for him to play
at Spring Frolics.

Q. Are the bands lined up for the coming dance week?
a. a combination of both of the above (a and b)
b. unlimited cuts for all students

The Student Union might induce more students to vote. Money, Money some fear, however, te Sailstad Reports Twice each year
every Davidson student pays a fifty dollar “general fee.” Why do we have such a fee, and where does the
money go? A few years ago there were all sorts of small incidental fees such as library fees, laboratory fees,
and health fees. There were even small charges for the DAVIDSONIAN, Quips ‘n Cranks, and Scripts ‘n Pranks. Aside from
the extensive bookkeeping entailed by these numerous small fees, some groups received more money than they needed; others, insufficient amounts.
In order to reduce the accounting complications and to provide adequate and equitable financial support, the general fee was introduced.
Its function was to provide funds for those items which had been previously covered by special fees. During the 1957-1958
school year, approximately $85,000 was received from this income source. The only specific expenditures from this income were for those
organizations which keep their own accounts.

These were the student activities (the publications, the Artist Series, the Red and Black Masquers, Forensic, and the student body).
The total expenditures of these organizations were $18,537, which was broken down as in the chart below. At first glance,
there seems to be a wide disparity in funds between such similar publications as the annual and the magazine. However,
upon closer inspection, it is clear that the annual must have more money than the magazine. Current prices of photographs
are one dollar each (except, of course, class pictures). In addition, the costs of engraving are high. Besides these expenses,
the annual is far larger than the magazine. As for the rest of the income from the general fee, it
is indistinguishable from the income listed under tuition. The remainder of the general fee is put on the credit side
of the account along with income received from tuition, gifts, income from the endowment, etc. These funds are used to
meet operating expenses as they come due. These operating expenses may range from athletic equipment to nurse’s salaries.

A sum of $1,829,812 has been pledged or given to Davidson College’s long-range Ten Year Development Plan, Robert J. Sailstad,
assistant to President Martin, revealed this week. The final goal of the Plan, inaugurated in February 1957, is to raise
between 11% and 12 million dollars by 1967. The Ten-Year Development Plan is a program designed to provide facilities for
the growth of Davidson College over the period 1957 to 1967. These facilities include additions to the college plant, increases
in faculty salaries, increases in the endowment and scholarship programs, and improvements in the scholastic curriculum. Sailstad emphasized that the
growth of the college will be due largely to the trustee’s decision to boost present student enrollment to 1,000, and
that the Development Plan is designed to meet the requirements of the enlarged student body. Included in the $1,829,812 already
contributed are $60,000 in cash gifts for a Fine Arts Building and a $400,000 gift by Mr. Charles A. Dana
for a new science building and 130-room dormitory. Ground was broken for the Dana Science Laboratory in October, and plans
for the new dormitory are now being drawn. Approximately half of the present sum of $1,829,812 has gone into endowments
for faculty salaries, student scholarships, and the instructional program, Mr. Sailstad said. The recently completed $250,000 library addition and the
new Jervay Memorial Language Laboratory are both part of the building program of the Ten-Year Development Plan, he added.

Mitchell of the Davidson Cadre discussed it with faculty members and fraternity men. The seniors and the juniors seem to
like the present system; however, there is some difference of opinion among the freshmen and sophomores. One alteration I would
like to see is the elimination of Sunday night parties, thereby necessitating the beginning of Rush Week on Monday night.
I think the confirmation system this year worked very well.

Q. Are any other changes to the system planned?
A. Yes. I like the idea. I have been pleased with the progress of the IFC so far this year.
The representatives from the various fraternities have been exceptionally good. The cooperation in Rush Week was also good in regard
to dirty rushing and confirmation. In fact, cooperation has been good all during the year.

Student Financial Aid Hits $173,500 Yearly
By ED ARMFIELD
Davidsonian Managing Editor

Davidson College awarded $173,500 in financial aid for the school year 1958-59, Assistant Dean H. Edmunds White told the DAVIDSONIAN
in an interview this week. The chart above this story itemizes the grants according to their uses. The largest single
amount goes toward athletic grants, some $58,000. This amount is divided between football and basketball, the only subsidized sports, with
football grants receiving $47,000, the remaining $11,000 going to basketball grants. The average athletic grant is worth $918. Scholarships awarded
for the present school year are worth $54,530, with an average of $462 going to each of one hundred eighteen
students receiving them. Grants-in-aid comprised the next largest group with $40,270 being granted in this area. The average grant-in-aid is
$387. Sixteen students receive awards in two categories. Twenty-three students have honorary scholarships and are not receiving a stipend because
they do not need financial assistance. Two hundred seventy-four students actually receive a financial award or stipend.

The firing, given for the faculty, administration, and their families, was a tremendous success. Eighty-two people fired the .22 caliber
rifles in competition for the prizes; sixty-eight children were entertained by the movie “Wild Life Adventures.” The prizes, twenty-nine in
number, were donated by twenty-six Davidson merchants.

Prizes were available for all ages and skills. There were prizes for the oldest man and the oldest lady attending,
for the best score on the range, for the worst score on the range, and one for guessing the closest
weight of a live turkey in a cage at the door. There were door prizes for the children.

One of the most unique contests was firing at the “mystery bird.” The “mystery bird” was a painted target of
a turkey, and the contest was a matter of shooting closest to the turkey’s heart. The heart, however, wasn’t on
the painting. When all contestants had completed firing, Captain John W. Mitchell placed a transparency, on which the heart position
was noted, over the target. The closest shot was then determined.

TURKEY WINNERS
For their winning scores on the range, Professor S. B. McLane and Mrs. H. S. Goodwin took home a turkey
apiece. As low man, Professor W. L. Robinson won a carton of cigarettes, and low lady Mrs. W. A. Thompson
received a pair of hose. Mrs. J. B. Evans won a turkey for shooting closest to the “Mystery Bird’s” heart,
and Mrs. H. E. Fulcher received a free automobile oil change for missing the heart by the greatest distance. A
pair of ladies’ gloves went to Mrs. W. L. Lingle for being the oldest lady, and a penknife, the corresponding
men’s prize, was won by Professor J. E. Alexis.

SPECIAL COMPETITION
Those contestants admitting to being over fifty years old tried for special prizes. As high man in this category, Mr.
T. A. Johnston won a turkey, and the high lady laurel went to Mrs. J. W. McCutchan. Rogers McLane, by
guessing the number of bullets in a jar, won a box of candy, the children’s door prize. Members of the
rifle team were on hand to assist in the firing, and MS II and MS IV cadets served refreshments.
