ture. Sports All That By JIM HAMILTON

As I sit down to write this column, I can still hear the sound of the newspaper called the DAVIDSONIAN crackling between my teeth as I ate the words of my last article. And ringing in my ears and dancing before my eyes like a mystic taunter out of the past, I perceive the words “30-15 in favor of Davidson” — the words of my first and last prediction.

A defeat is a hard thing to analyze. You can’t put your finger on any specific mistake or weakness. It’s a mixture of things that combine to produce the final outcome. Last Friday it was a heterogeneous, but a fatal mix. They all added up — several intercepted passes, booming punts that kept the Cats back against the wall, a defense that made the ends easy to circle, a dropped pass in the end zone, poor pass defense in the flats, a hard-running opponent named Gildersleeve, a team not too used to their new offense never before tested under pressure, an opponent touchdown in the closing minutes of the first half — it all adds up.

But before we shrug our shoulders, shake our heads, and slip into the apathy or disgust so many football fans are guilty of after their team has been upset, particularly in the first game of the season, let’s think a moment. Only one game has been played this season. And just because our team had one of those nights, it’s no reason to forget them. There's a heck of a lot of potential on this team, perhaps as much as any in the history of Davidson. They just need a little time to adjust to this new style of ball; and when they do — watch out.

There are two weeks between the Catawba and the Citadel game, plenty of time to correct the mistakes, and plenty of time to brood over the wounds inflicted by Catawba that will make the Cats a team with a purpose when they take the field next Saturday in Charleston.

David Gilmour seems to have upheld the athletic honor of the freshmen class by handily winning the cake race last Monday afternoon. Dave covered the 1.8-mile course in 9:45.7, a new record. But what I want to know is what about the rest of the class. It seems around 50% flunked the freshman physical exam. Maybe their athletic ability is confined to throwing buckets of water. Anyway, it appears that the sophomores will have a pretty easy time of it in the frosh-sophomore field day, if the physical test proves anything. Well, freshmen, does it?

Students are requested not to play on the stadium field. Due to the expense of getting grass to grow, even the football team doesn’t practice there.

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... PIZZA

the famous OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead
Charlotte, N. C.

MONDAY AFTERNOON saw Coach Bill Dole’s Wildcats out on the practice field working on the mistakes that cost them the Catawba game last Friday. After an open date tomorrow, the Cats journey to Charleston to meet The Citadel next Saturday. (Photo by Rhyne)

Hunt, Tucker, Walthall Join Athletic Staff

The departure of coaches George Thompson and Ernie Wiggins along with increased athletic activity has caused the appearance of several new faces in the vicinity of Johnston Gymnasium. These faces belong to Joe Hunt, George Tucker, and Jim Walthall, who have been added to the Davidson coaching staff.

JOE HUNT

A graduate of Appalachian College in 1950, Joe Hunt took over the job of coaching baseball and basketball at North High. Uncle Sam interrupted his work there for two years, but Joe returned as soon as his service was completed and has produced more than a few winning athletic teams for the North Mecklenburg school. Hunt will serve as assistant basketball coach here this year, as well as coach of the freshman hardwood team. In addition to his capacity as a basketball coach, Joe will teach three Physical Education classes and help with the intramural sports. He is presently living in Huntersville with his wife and six-month-old baby and has been working on his master’s degree at Appalachian during the summer.

JIM WALTHALL

Jim Walthall, a graduate and outstanding athlete at West Virginia University, is presently working as backfield coach for the Wildcats' football squad. Jim will also assist Coach Stevens with the baseball team next spring as well as teach in the Physical Education program. Before coming to Davidson, Walthall coached football at Beaver High School in Bluefield, West Virginia and was also head coach at his hometown of Princeton. As a golf enthusiast, Jim will probably be visiting the local links quite often this year during his free time. He is married and lives here in Davidson with his wife and their two-year-old son, James.

GEORGE TUCKER

Also working with Coach Bill Dole this fall is George Tucker. He joined the football staff in August and has taken over duties as line coach. Tucker graduated from East Carolina College in 1955, and then served as head football, baseball, and track coach at Wingate Junior College for two years prior to coming to Davidson. His football team last year compiled a 9-1 record and won the state and conference championship. In addition to his job with the football team, Tucker will take over the reins as head swimming coach and also instruct several classes in Physical Education. The 28-year-old native of Monroe, N. C., just completed work on his master’s degree this summer at Eastern Carolina College.

Coaches George Tucker (left), and Jim Walthall (right), two of the three new additions to the Davidson coaching staff are shown at practice Monday afternoon. The other new coach, Joe Hunt, was not available when the picture was taken. (Photo by Rhyne)

For real, down-to-earth smoking enjoyment, there’s nothing else like Camel. No other cigarette brings you the rich flavor and easygoing mildness of Camel’s costly blend. More people smoke Camels than any other cigarette of any kind. Best tobacco makes the best smoke. Rise above fads and fancy stuff... have a real cigarette — have a CAMEL.

Today as always, the best tobacco makes the best smoke. R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., Winston-Salem, N. C.

Coach J. W. McCutchan opened soccer practice last Monday in preparation for the first game against Pfeiffer on October 7. Pfeiffer is fielding a team this year that should be vastly superior to its contingent of last year. Last year’s Davidson team won handily in two contests. Pfeiffer has dropped football, however, and is making soccer its major fall sport. This fact along with the fact that they will have much more experience may make them hard to handle.

FOREIGN PROSPECTS

Coach J. W. McCutchan seems to be well pleased with the progress made by his charges thus far. He showed special delight with three new foreignProspects, and said that these men, Bergsmer, Schoning, and Lanier, should help a lot. These new faces added to a team that lost only two lettermen by graduation points to a good showing against all their opponents. Coach McCutchan declined to give a probable starting line-up saying that it is too early to tell. Starting positions on the team are still hotly contested. However, McCutchan feels that regardless of the starting line-up the Cats will field the most powerful squad in the team's brief history at Davidson. He seems to be enjoying the role of the fortunate coach who has two capable men at every position.

Soccer Schedule
Oct. 7—Pfeiffer at Misenheimer
Oct. 10—Duke at Davidson
Oct. 13—W&L at Davidson
Oct. 21—Pfeiffer at Davidson
Oct. 24—N. C. State at Davidson
Nov. 1—W&L at Lexington

FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 1958

Upstart Catawba Stuns Wildcats, 22-15
Tired Davidson Lags
By “B” MILLNER
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Last Friday night the hustling Catawba College Indians upset Davidson 22-17 for their first win over a Southern Conference team. Led by racehorse halfbacks Larry Gildersleeve and Sam Morrow, the Indians turned the Wildcat ends with relative ease, steering clear of the ponderous Davidson line. Morrow topped off a 65-yard drive with an eight-yard burst to put Catawba ahead 6-0 in the initial period. The ‘Cats took over and moved 70 yards in nine plays, Paul Barbee pitching to soph end Danny House for 45. A Charlie Benson to Craig Wall pass play went for the score, and Bruce Usher converted.

OFFENSE WORKS
It appeared as if Coach Bill Dole’s vaunted “pro” offense was bewildering the Indians as Barbee raced eight yards for the second 'Cat score early in the second period. Usher again converted to put Davidson out in front 14-6. The Indians failed to move again as big Alex Porter smothered a fumble and Davidson plowed down to the three where the stubborn Catawba line threw up a stone wall. Freshman Bruce Usher then angled his third successful placement over the crossbar for a field goal to complete Davidson's scoring at 17-6. Catawba took the following kickoff and blasted 60 yards on the ground to score, also running for a two-point conversion which made the score 17-14. The Indian momentum continued in the second half as Jim Worthington put them ahead on a four-yard TD dash. Gildersleeve passed to Ray Oxendine for two extra points and a 22-17 lead. From there on out it was desperation vs. conservatism as Davidson repeatedly fizzled and Catawba kept them at bay with booming punts. Finally, the end came late in the fourth quarter when Benson lobbed a pass right into the hands of the Catawba safety man.

The question “what happened?” to the Wildcats’ much-publicized razzle-dazzle offense is a ticklish one, but Dole makes no bones about it. “Davidson died in the third quarter. An athlete who is physically exhausted can’t do a good mental job either.” He went on to say that lack of sleep during Rush Week was a serious factor in the loss and that, in view of recent publicity, there had been a feeling of overconfidence present. When asked if he would continue the pro-style offense Dole replied “very definitely.” He said that there had been no de-emphasis of defense, that in fact, defense had been stressed more than ever before.

CHANGES
Some changes have been made, however. Dave Warden, the center, will shift back to his old fullback slot for some plays; fullback Dave McCullough will also play defensive tackle and Craig Wall will go back to his old end position on defense. Two freshmen, halfbacks Grant McRorie and Lynwood Mallard will also be used more. Davidson plays Citadel next Saturday.

Freshmen Highlight Harrier Practice
“The team has looked very good in practice. We have a much better balanced team than last year, but the first meet will reveal how good we are,” commented Coach Heath Whittle concerning the Davidson Cross-Country Team. Whittle has been surprised and very pleased with the Freshman team. “All of them are really terrific.” The Freshman squad is composed of Floyd Walters, R. P. Shaffner, Al Cowan, B. R. Page, David Gilmour, H. M. Jones, Larry Kinney, and Mack Brownlee. The Coach does not think the team will be completely ready for the first meet. Yet before the ‘Cats get into the tough part of their schedule, they should be at top performance.

The first meet will be held with Pembroke College at Davidson on October 3 at 4:00. There will be two races. The Freshman teams will start at 4:00. They will compete on a two and a half mile course. Immediately following, the varsity teams will compete on a course of four miles.

Nov. 7—King College at Davidson
Nov. 14—Univ. of N.C. at Chapel Hill
Nov. 21—Warren Wilson at Davidson

1-F Athletic Council To Revamp Program
A progressive era was launched in the intramural sports program last Wednesday night when the first meeting of the new Intramural Athletic Council was held. The Council will assume the responsibility which in the past fell on Coach Heath Whittle alone. Ralph Wilson, ATO, who has been working for several months on a suitable framework for the Council was elected president of the new council. Joe Millner, Sigma Chi, was elected to the vice-presidency, and George Ramsey, Phi Delta Theta, was elected secretary. Coach Whittle was elected a voting member of the group at the Wednesday night session. Each of the twelve fraternities plus the Independents will have a representative on the Council, which will have regular meetings scheduled on the Honorary Fraternity calendar.

TENTATIVE PLANS
Tentative plans for the Council include an immediate revamping of the Intramural By-Laws, a rules and regulations committee, and a judiciary consisting of the entire Council. Thus the responsibility which in the past fell on Coach Whittle will now be shared by a representative group of fourteen or fifteen members. Coach Whittle, commenting to the Council, remarked that he was sincerely behind the group and that he earnestly hoped the Council would justify its existence in making achievements in which it could take pride.

Members of the Council other than the elected officers named above are: Billy Davis, Beta Theta Pi; Sherrill Parks, Pi Alpha; Quinton Boyd, Pi Kappa Phi; Waller Taylor, Phi Gamma Delta; Tom Kernan, Sigma Nu; Dave Reuter, Sigma Phi Epsilon; Henry Goodwin, Sigma Alpha Epsilon; John Stafford, Kappa Sigma, and Forrest Wilkinson, Kappa Alpha.

SPORTS MANAGERS
The sports managers of the various fraternities held their organizational meeting on Tuesday night to initiate action of the 1958-1959 I-F year. Actual competition will open next Monday, with four flickerball contests kicking off the schedule. Sports managers for the year are: Gordon Neville (Beta), Harry Shaw (Sigma Chi), K. W. Ballantine (Pika), Art Werts (Sigma Nu), John Poindexter (Phi Delt), Tom Kersey (ATO), Bobby Thompson (Phi Gam), Jack Milstead (SAE), Fred Streetman (KA), Ed Hall (SPE), Gordon Swaim (Pi Kapp), and Bob King (Kappa Sig).

Winners Of Freshman Drawing
Sport Coat: Bruce Usher
Slacks: Randy Austin
Sweater: Richard Callaway
Dress Shirt: Gene Adcock
Sport Shirt: Joe Jackson
Belt: Don Sanders
Tie: Jim McCaslin
Tie: David Gilmer

Wilson-Wright's, Inc.
“COLLEGIATE FASHIONS”