’ Professor's Quote “idealistic conceptions must realize pragmatic consequences.” F. W. Johnston

VOL. XLVI

The Davidsonian

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 1958

Ratliff, Cunningham, speak out this week. Interviews Pietenpol No. 14 Explorers of Electronics World

Duke Power President Is Graduation Speaker

Physics Department Shows Improvement

With the beep beeps of Sputniks and the di-dahs-dits of the short wave radios sounding in their ears, the physics
departments of most schools are placing increased emphasis on their electronics courses. Davidson’s department has included an electronics program in
its catalogue for the past six years and in that time has grown extensively. A former photographic darkroom in the
basement of Chambers Building has recently been reworked into a modernized electronics laboratory. New fluorescent lights, refinished tables, and a
battery of new equipment have been added. Professor George Crawford states that the original electronics laboratory was equipped by “the
sweat of the physics department and Heathkit. However, alumni and others have become more generous since then and the electronics
lab has grown to a respectable state.” Several new oscilloscopes, a square wave generator, and an audio oscillator are among
the newest arrivals. Professor Crawford went on to say that as long as the professors and students in the department
continue to assemble kits, collect army surplus, and receive generous gifts, the electronics laboratory will grow on this system. —Cape
Canaveral, Look out.

90% WANT VACATION

Student Council Talks Legislation

By LAURENS WALKER
Davidsonian Managing Editor

The Student Council combined comfort with legislation, Monday night, at its by-weekly meeting. The Council met in the Faculty Lounge
of the College Union instead of the Blue Room, usual scene of Council activities. The chief consideration of the highly
informal session was the report on the suggestions of Tom Colvin concerning the function of student government at Davidson. Much
has been done in the rewiring of the entire department and the construction of a new direction of Professor S.
Brooks McLane is now complete.

SIX SUGGESTIONS

Bob Livingston, Chairman of the committee, recommended that the Council committees appointed study the suggestions, submit the committee's findings as
follows:

Suggestion 1: That a person be required to turn himself in for an honor offense. The committee felt this to
be inconsistent with the present system.

Suggestion 2: that all trials receive full publicity. The committee here ruled this to be unfair to the innocent.

Suggestion 3: that a campus judicial system be established. The committee reported that it saw no significant advantage to this
proposal.

Suggestion 4: that Davidson students speak at local high schools on the importance of education. This proposal met with the
strong approval of the committee.

Suggestion 5: that the Student Council investigate the possibilities of taking more interest in the activities of national student organizations.
This also met with approval.

Suggestion 6: that the “drinking rule” be revised. The committee recommended that the Council discuss this matter further.

ADOPT REPORT

The Council adopted the committee’s report by a unanimous vote. At this point, councilman Kuykendall asked that he be appointed
to investigate the possibility of setting up a group to visit high schools to speak on education, as recommended in
the Colvin report. Kuykendall received permission from the Council to take such action.

Dr. Ratliff Lauds Course Changes

Members of the DAVIDSONIAN staff met Monday afternoon with Dr. Charles Ratliff, Chairman of the Economics and Business Departments of
the College. This was the first in a series of interviews which will take place with the heads of the
various departments. When questioned about changes in these departments, Dr. Ratliff emphasized the great number of changes that have been
made in the past few years. A few years ago the whole business program was revised to put it on
a functional basis. Other changes include the introduction of three new courses: Intermediate Theory, Economic Systems, and the History of
Economic Thought. Also, Money and Banking was reduced to a semester course. This year a seminar was re-instituted for seniors.
Future plans include some more eliminations and combinations. Surveying the situation in the departments generally, Dr. Ratliff reported that 36
seniors are majoring in economics, and twelve in business administration, the latter figure representing a decrease from former years. He
explained briefly that the two departments are listed separately in the catalogue, but that there is overlapping in the staffing
of these, and consequently they meet and work together as one department. One reporter asked if he felt that at
least one year of economics should be required of every student. Dr. Ratliff: “Personally, I’m prejudiced, I think that everyone
ought to know about economics.” But, he added, rather than require a year of economics for every student, he would
suggest a required semester (Continued On Page 4)

Companies Offering Job Placements

Companies will be coming to the college during the next two months to discuss job placements with interested Davidson students.
Although the majority of the companies are interested primarily in permanent employment, a few of them are also open to
summer employees. Students interested in job interviews may contact the different company representatives through the Placement Office of the Student
Union. In order to be eligible for an interview, students must first fill out interview forms requested by the companies.
These forms are obtained through the Placement Office. Applicants are also urged to take the Vocational Battery in Dr. Ostwalt’s
office before their interview. Listed below is a schedule of companies who will have interviewers on campus during the coming
week (February 7-14). Vick Chemical is the only one of this group interested in summer recruits as well as permanent
placement.

Friday, Feb. 7—Deering-Milliken Corporation.
Monday, Feb. 10—Vick Chemical Company, Cities Service Oil Co., and Insurance Company of North America.
Tuesday, Feb. 11—Vick Chemical Company, Trust Company of Georgia, U. S. Atomic Energy Commission (Oak Ridge).
Wednesday, Feb. 12—National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics.
Thursday, Feb. 13—Irving Trust Company.
Friday, Feb. 14—Lehigh Portland Cement Company.

Pietenpol Announces New Engineering Plan

Dean C. J. Pietenpol announced that the Commencement speaker for the June graduation will be Norman Atwater Cocke, President of
Duke Power Company. Mr. Cocke, who is also Chairman of the Board of Trustees of the Duke Foundation, will receive
from the College an honorary LL.D. degree. This is the only honorary degree being given by the College this year.
Mr. Cocke is a leading lawyer and businessman of Charlotte.

‘THREE-TWO’ WITH DUKE

Dr. Pietenpol also announced that the faculty has approved the “three-two” engineering plan with Duke University. The set up, the
Dean added, will be substantially the same as the prior agreements with Columbia University and North Carolina State College. The
student would study at Davidson for three years and then go on for two years in technical study at one
of these three schools. The Dean also stated that the faculty has approved a new plan for the financing of
the College. The Dean explained that the College is in need of more money to meet the rising costs of
education. This money will have to come from an increase in tuition, because the resources of both the College endowment
and gifts to the college have been used to the maximum amount. This created the problem of many boys being
discouraged from entering Davidson because of the higher and prohibitive tuition. The Trustees do not wish to see the College
become a “rich man's school.” The Dean has offered a proposal to remedy this situation. Along with an increase in
tuition will come a proportionate increase in the grants-in-aid given to students. Students whose families can afford the higher tuition
will pay, students who cannot afford the increase will be given a grant to cover the difference.Smyth commented on the
recent decrease in incidents of campus thefts. He urged all councilmen to do their best to see that this trend
continues.

The meeting was adjourned after several minor announcements. Absent were Ferguson, Huffaker, and Rutherford.

Wednesday Chapel, Committee Considers: Election Changes

A Student Council committee met Tuesday night to discuss possible improvements or changes in the present elections procedures. The members
of this Committee are John Bernhard, Bob Huffaker, Charlie Rutherford, and Pat Woodward.

There will be no chapel exercises on Thursday, February 27 or on Thursday, March 6. There will be chapel programs
on the Wednesdays preceding these dates. On February 19, Dr. James Godfrey, Dean of Faculty at the University of North
Carolina, will speak at the dedication of Davidson's new language laboratory. Dr. Godfrey’s subject is “Communication in Our Day.” Around
forty trustees and a number of language teachers will be present. Dr. Homer Dodge will speak about Soviet Education during
Chapel on Wednesday, March 5.

Faculty Adds New Members

Davidson has recently obtained four new men for the faculty. Dr. Thomas F. Clark is in the field of Bible;
Judge William R. Pope, commercial law; Ernest Wiggins, assistant basketball coach and instructor in physical education; and Joseph Conarroe, instructor
in English.

Clark is a native of Elizabethtown, North Carolina. He graduated from Davidson in 1949, then served as a youth director
in Burlington. He received his divinity training at Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, Virginia, and since then has held an
assistant pastorate in Bluefield, West Virginia. He recently completed the course of study for the Ph.D. in New Testament at
Aberdeen, Scotland, and traveled in Palestine and other countries before returning home.

Judge Pope, of Mooresville, North Carolina, a past president of the Iredell County Bar Association, is a visiting professor. He
is the first man to teach commercial law at Davidson.

The committee was appointed to study the arguments raised last spring in discussing the Peden amendment to the student body
constitution, legalizing campaigning for elections. The points in favor of the amendment were that it might stimulate some interest in
an apathetic student body, that only students sincerely interested in student affairs would participate, and that poor records of incumbents
would be brought to light, thus eliminating deadwood or scaring it into working during its term.

The objections were that it would create more hard feelings than interest, that the present policy put very good men
into office, and that public speakers rather than good boys would be elected. Campaigning would bring out into the open
some of the subtle popularity-building which is practiced at present, but the fear was expressed that it would increase the
competition in all forms. If any compromise form of campaigning were allowed, it would perhaps work best to have merely
debates or speeches by the candidates, under supervision of the Elections Board.

NO POSTERS, SLOGANS

Having no posters or slogans or fraternity pressure would perhaps lessen the commercialism and underhanded dealings without destroying the stimulation
which was offered by the Peden amendment. The committee was split as to the value of these proposals, and voted
to refer them to the entire council for discussion at the next meeting. Any students who have considered opinions on
the matter were strongly requested to speak to the members of the committee, or any other member of the council.

In response to the news, Dr. Clarence J. Pietenpol, Dean of the Faculty and Acting President of Davidson, expressed gratitude
of Davidson's faculty for the scholarship and indicated that a growing number of Davidson graduates complete their graduate school work
in business, law, medicine, and other fields each year at Chapel Hill. Davidson College will have the sole responsibility of
selection of the winner of the award from one of the graduating seniors. The award, based chiefly on the student's
collegiate record, is the highest both in monetary value and overall recognition offered by the School of Business at UNC.
The fact that the University will offer this scholarship on an annual basis is indicative of the high esteem it
holds for the Davidson graduate.

The Masters of Business Administration program was begun at North Carolina in 1951 and has expanded to an enrollment of
a class of from sixty to seventy students.

Music Guild To Give First Music Concert

Davidson's first chamber music concert will be presented Tuesday evening, Feb. 11, at 8:15 p.m. in the ballroom of the
College Union. The program is being presented by the Intercollege Chamber Music Guild. Participating artists will be violinists Betty Gehring
and William Tritt; pianists Lucille Epperson and Philip Gehring; and flutist Dale S. Higbee. The program will include three trio
sonatas for flute, violin, and piano by Quantz, Loeillet, and Telemann, played by Miss Epperson, Dr. Higbee, and Mr. Tritt.
Edward Grieg’s “Sonata in G Major for Violin and Piano” will be played by Professor and Mrs. Gehring.

Dean Pietenpol was then questioned on the proposed increases in faculty salaries. He indicated that this problem is being worked
on, but that there are several difficulties involved. Any salary increase would require a grant-in-aid to cover the increase.

DOUBLE-EDGED PROBLEM

Davidson College faces a “double-edged problem,” as the Dean sees the situation. We must increase salaries if we are to
keep our present highly-qualified faculty. On the other hand, we must not raise our tuition to the point where many
qualified students will be eliminated for financial reasons. Dean Pietenpol believes that his proposal will effectively remedy the situation.

CURRICULUM CHANGES

DAVIDSONIAN reporters then inquired about work being done by the Curriculum Committee. Besides the Duke three-two plan, the committee has
been busy working on changes to be included in next year's catalogue which will go to press shortly. Referring to
important curriculum changes, the Dean said that nothing definite has been decided, but that “there are a few things in
the works.”

State Raises Limit To 60 On Route 21

Mr. D. Grier Martin announced today that the State Highway Department has put out an order increasing the speed limit
on certain North Carolina highways to sixty miles an hour. One of these highways is the new section of route
21 between Charlotte and Statesville. Mr. Martin pointed out that the sixty mile per hour speed limit is being more
strictly enforced than the previous fifty-five mile per hour speed limit.

Cunningham Gives Comment On Times

By WILLIE THOMPSON
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Davidson College’s own “elder statesman,” Dr. John R. Cunningham, former president of the college and currently the Director of the
Presbyterian Foundation in Charlotte, was interviewed this week concerning his opinion of the contemporary world problems, his observations of life
at Davidson, and his new position.

In commenting on the recurring international crisis and singular events of universal importance, Dr. Cunningham recognized the gravity of the
times and the particular effect these events are producing in the fields of education and religion. These two areas, key-stones
of the formal pattern of life at Davidson, should be assuming a new importance to this student generation, according to
Dr. Cunningham. He acknowledged that the guided missiles and satellites were concentrating the attention of the nation upon the field
of science, and he believed that this was an imperative step in order that we all might survive.

DANGER OF IMBALANCE

“However, a scientific education should not be overemphasized,” he cautioned. “There is a danger of imbalance when we think only
of outdoing Sputnik.”

“I still feel that our main responsibility in colleges and universities is to concentrate on the better and broader total
education of our citizenship.” He also stated that he be...
