FAGE FOUR

PROFESSOR’S HOBBY

DR. BEVAN

Dr. Bevan's Hobby With Teaching

"the odds we're up against."

Dr. John M. Bevan's special interests outside of teaching are closely related to his vocation. Perhaps his chief outside interest at present is the supervision of market research surveys, which are published under the title 1958 (or whatever the year of the current survey happens to be) Home Inventory, Charlotte, N. C. (or whatever the area surveyed is).

PROGNOSTICATIONS

Dr. Bevan’s first survey work was a predictive survey of the Taft-Ferguson Senate race in Ohio. He explained that progressive polls, one every two weeks, were taken until two weeks before the election, when three polls were taken. On the basis of the results of these polls, the election was predicted within a .6% margin of error. In Mecklenburg County in the ‘52 Eisenhower-Stevenson race, a similar survey resulted in a prediction that was off only .8% for that county.

In his market research surveys, in addition to acting as general supervisor, Dr. Bevan does all the planning and groundwork. He designs the format to be studied, maps the area to be covered, and selects the samples. After his assistants have completed a house-to-house survey, Dr. Bevan prepares the statistics for tabulation by IBM machines. Dr. Bevan stated that his survey work has been an aid to teaching his course in industrial psychology.

Local Barber Shops

(Continued From Page One)

Since he first went into business, one of the most striking changes, he noted, has been the introduction of electric lights and equipment for the disposal of sewage. He remembers having to use the old-style hand clippers and wash out his towels by hand, as well as cutting hair by lamplight.

Although Johnson's barber shop is not quite as old as Norton’s, he has still been here for a good many years. He opened his shop in 1921 and moved to his present location in 1924. Having only two barbers in his shop at first, he has added to the shop steadily and now has five chairs, each operated by a registered barber.

STUDENT CHANGE

The price of haircuts when Norton’s opened in 1908 was fifteen cents; when Johnson's opened in 1921, it had risen to twenty-five cents. A shoe shine, which cost a nickel then, costs twenty-five cents now.

Both Norton and Johnson stated that there has been a marked change in the appearance and personality of the Davidson student since the turn of the century. They said that the public dress of the Davidson man has gotten considerably worse. Neither man can remember the Davidson student of old ever appearing in public without a coat and tie.

IFC Proposes Pro Decorators

The Interfraternity Council has announced plans to call in professional decorators to prepare the gymnasium for this year’s Spring Frolics Dances. Under the IFC proposal, the plan would provide a change from what one member called “hanging the same paper on the same wires for the last twenty years.” There would be no increase in dance ticket prices.

The professional decorator proposal is the latest in a series of innovations effected by the council during the past year. Among others are the revised Hell Week schedule and a plan to hold Rush Week during next year’s orientation period.

At its Wednesday night meeting, the group confirmed plans for Hell Week, which will begin on March 12 at 8 p.m. with pledge-class skits in Chambers Auditorium. Hell Week activities will continue until midnight March 16 under IFC supervision.

Further plans for Spring Frolics are not yet complete, pending the conclusion of Hell Week activities and fraternity initiations. IFC members expressed interest in an orchestra-exchange plan for Spring Frolics similar to the arrangement with V.P.I. which brought two orchestras instead of the usual one to the campus for the recent Mid-Winters dances. Dance weekends will be held at Washington and Lee during Davidson’s Spring Frolics weekend.

The group discussed declaring the Saturday night dance completely informal and abolishing the traditional Saturday night intermission to serve refreshments in the gym.

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... PIZZA

the famous OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead
Charlotte, N. C.

Coach Dole

(Continued From Page One)

Q. “Do you think that the main reason for this increase in enrollment was to help athletics?”

A. “No, that is not the motive. The alumni of Davidson College are fine men ... who are interested in the College.”

SOUND POLICY

Surveying the situation at Davidson generally, in respect to athletics, Coach Dole said that “If you coach at Davidson College, you have to readjust your whole philosophy of athletics.” He explained that practice sessions are scheduled around academic requirements, such as labs, etc. Coaches in other schools have commented to Dole to the effect that in view of the emphasis on academic requirements they don’t see how he fields a team at all. Summarized Dole: “We have a healthy situation here at Da-vidson. We don't expect championship teams because we realize Phi Beta Explains (Continued From Page One) it is quite possible that in any institution sheltering a chapter of Phi Beta Kappa there may exist differences between the methods employed by the chapter and those employed by the Registrar of the institution in computing scholastic standing within any one class. Students who have reason to believe that they are within or near the range of scholastic eligibility to Phi Beta Kappa may discuss their academic qualifications with any officer, normally the secretary, of the local chapter at any time. Such students are strongly urged, however, to be sure that the information they receive comes directly from an officer of the Phi Beta Kappa chapter sheltered by the institution in which they are currently registered as students. coat and tie on and well-polished shoes as well. Johnson stated, however, that the student of today seems to be much more serious-minded than the student of old who always had some prank to play on the barber or anyone else who left himself open for attack. For QUICK And GOOD Food —TRY— SCOTTIE’S DRIVE-IN Salisbury Drive — Mooresville, N. C. pause of your life. Shall we? Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company by THE COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD “Coke” is a registered trade-mark. THE DAVIDSONIAN IFC Discusses High School Day, Frolics At the last IFC meeting, progress on the polio vaccine campaign was reported. Of the seven fraternities reporting, about one-third of each group had not yet had the shots. Approximately 75% of these high school students seriously considering Davidson would visit the campus. The fraternities would furnish several meals and some entertainment for them. With an earlier rush week, this would be advantageous for the fraternities. Several plans of Spring Frolics were also discussed. Some feel that a less formal dance on Saturday night would be better. This was brought up only as a tentative suggestion. For the Spring Frolics Dance, it is still within the realm of possibility that there will be a different band each night. There will probably be more elaborate decorations in the gym for the spring dance. The IFC discussed and further defined several of the Hell Week regulations. students for employment. On Monday, men will come from the Prudential Insurance Company, Atlas Supply, the United States Departments of Justice, Immigration and Naturalization. On Tuesday, representatives from the First National Bank of Atlanta and the Borden Company will join these. Men from Marine Midland Trust Company will come later in the week. Derring Milikan Company will send representatives here to talk of summer employment in their textile mills if student interest is sufficient. The placement office invites all students interested in permanent employment to stop by. Those desiring only terminal jobs or summer employment can check with the Y.M.C.A. office. FRIDAY, MARCH 7, 1958 "Y" Cabinet (Continued From Page One) posed of the six seniors on the present Y cabinet. A study is being made of the possibility of affiliating the Davidson College YMCA with the National YMCA. The cabinet will communicate with a group at Washington and Lee, to obtain information concerning independent campus Christian organizations. Dr. Abernethy will speak to the cabinet at its next meeting on the affiliation program. The cabinet decided that the offering at Vespers March 16 will be donated to the Madras Christian College in Madras, India, to aid them in student deputation work. SUPER-WINSTON PRODUCTIONS PRESENTS THE DANGEROUS DAN McPHOO STORY A Stirring Saga of Slush and Mush- (Achooo!) ALRIGHT, DAD, I’LL TAKE OVER Service IN RESTAURANT Smokes “CONE” IS A REGISTERED TRADE-MARK, COPYRIGHT 1956 THE COCA-COLA COMPANY, gustibus non est disputandum”—and, quite literally, there’s no question about it- when it comes to taste, Coca-Cola wins hands down. In Latin, Greek or Sanskrit, “Have a Coke” means the same thing— it’s an invitation to the most refreshing SIGN OF GOOD TASTE to L&M today! © 1956, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY TY SA-A-AY. WINSTON TASTES GOOD! You’ll be sittin’ on top of the world when you change to L&M. Only L&M gives you this filter fact—the patent number on every pack.......... your guarantee of a more effective filter on today’s L&M. The patented Miracle Tip is pure white inside, pure white outside. L&M smokes cleaner. Tastes best. So Live Modern — change SHOULD! Free up...freshen up your taste! Put yourself behind the pleasure end of an L&M. Get the flavor, the full rich taste of the Southland’s finest cigarette tobaccos. LIKE A CIGARETTE SHOULD! THE NEW CRUSH-PROOF BOX IS A REAL DISCOVERY, TOO! EVERYTHING WE HAVE WE OWE TO WINSTON THE CIGARETTE WITH THE FRESH DELIGHTFUL FLAVOR! Live Modern flavor L&M