PAGE FOUR

Poll Rates Current Rushing Program

By ANDY BLAKE

This week the DAVIDSONIAN, in cooperation with the IFC, issued questionnaires concerning rush week. Almost 200 freshmen and upperclassmen replied
to the attempted evaluation of our rush program. The questionnaire included nine direct queries and space for remarks. After assimilation
and study by the DAVIDSONIAN, the campus opinions were turned over to the IFC for consideration.

Question number one asked, “Are you in favor of continuing dorm rushing as it was this year?” Nearly 150 fraternity
men are. This was defended as the most effective means of getting to know rushees. However, there were complaints about
the mobbing of freshmen halls and camping in rushees’ rooms. A number opposed dorm rushing after classes have begun.

The third question, “Do you favor any revision in the rushing regulations? If so, what?” was principally for the IFC's
consideration, but we will mention that here dorm rushing was suggested for modification or abolition. Most students felt the present
regulations adequate. About 60% agreed that nine “first date” parties were sufficient, while a third felt that twelve would improve
the system. Of this third, less than 25% wished to return to afternoon parties (question 5); the large majority desiring
an additional night of parties. Only one student out of five desired longer rush parties in answer to question six.
Those wanting longer parties often mentioned thirty additional minutes as about right.

The last two questions concerned fitting rush week into the college schedule to cause the least conflict with other student
activities. Only 40% of the students were completely satisfied with this year’s placement of rush week, but only 4 of
the two hundred wanted to defer the rushing period. Several persons wrote suggestions too lengthy to appear here; these will
be read by the IFC for possible alteration of the present setup.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

West Praises Band Practice

“It was the best first rehearsal we've ever had,” is the rating Mr. Frank West ascribed to the Davidson College
bands under his direction. With organization nearing completion, the bands, according to Mr. West, have, along with the experience of
the upperclassmen, an unusually good talent in several of its freshmen. The concert band, which this year started practice two
months earlier than ever before, is composed of forty members who practice in Shearer Hall from 7:00 until 8:30 on
Monday night and on Thursday from 4:30 until 6:00 in the afternoon. The concert band has been invited to march
in the Carousel parade in Charlotte and is planning a concert for November 4, featuring Tchaikovsky’s 1812 Overture.

The marching band, a combination of the football and R.O.T.C. bands, consists of over fifty sophomores and freshmen. This band
marches during drill period on Tuesday and from 4:30 until 5:30 Friday afternoon in formation on Richardson Field. The Davidson-Citadel
game on October 4 will bring this band to the public with perhaps one other trip to be scheduled other
than the home games at which the band will entertain. The schedule also includes playing at the dedication of the
new science building on October 2, 1958. Although these bands are almost complete and have a full schedule well under
way, there is still a need for clarinet players. Those interested are requested to see Mr. West at the earliest
opportunity.

Students To Apply For Graduate Aid

Dr. Fredson Bowers, regional chairman of the Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Foundation, will visit Davidson next Wednesday, October 1. At
2:15 p.m. he will meet in the Green Room of the College Union with juniors and seniors who are interested
in competing for Woodrow Wilson National Fellowships for graduate study. The 1958-59 program of the Foundation will distribute fellowships among
future college teachers in the humanities, the natural sciences, and the social sciences.

Gilmour Breaks Record In Frosh Cake Race

Dave Gilmour, an easy-running middle-distance track star who hails from Charlotte, N.C., set a new record in the annual Freshman
Cake Race, Monday afternoon. Gilmour covered the distance in 9:45.8, breaking a two-year-old mark established by Jim Alexander in 1956.
Pacing himself well, Gilmour was never seriously threatened, finishing several hundred yards ahead of his nearest competitor. The winner, who
holds the state prep school mile mark of 4:29, was followed across the tape by Mack Brownlee, Bill Coffee, and
Wyche Fowler. Others finishing in the top ten were Ran Shaffner, Mike Jones, Jerry Bussell, D. G. Martin, Dave Page,
and Larry Kenny. Gilmour received first choice from an impressive assortment of sixty cakes, donated by wives of the faculty,
townspeople, and several fraternity housemothers. Court of Control Judge John Nix estimated the number of cake race participants who began
the approximate two-mile course this year to be two hundred and twenty; of these, about two hundred completed the race.

At 4:00 p.m. the frosh started east from the soccer field running along the dirt path toward Erwin Lodge.

For Court

On Monday, October 6, the court will have its first trials. The following trials will take place every other Monday
night. Judge Nix addressed the upperclassmen in chapel today, urging them to support the Court. “We need to make the
freshmen realize that they are freshmen. They have been given the feeling that they are on a high pedestal,” he
said. He expressed the earnestness of this year’s Court to do a good job, but reminded the upperclassmen that it
would only be as effective as the student body wished for it to be. If an upperclassman desires to bring
charges against a freshman, he should contact a member of the court and give him the freshman's name and the
charge. Each member will keep a supply of charge sheets. Members of the 1958 Court, in addition to Nix, are
recorder Pat Henderson, Craig Wall, Harold Westervelt, George Hart, Larry McNeil, Scott Lacey, and Jerry Cole. They were appointed by
the student council. “In regard to the freshmen riots, the Court would like to...

Kuykendall Briefs Student Council

President John Kuykendall presided over the first meeting of the Student Council last Monday night. This was an unofficial meeting
in which the chair duties and plans for the ‘58-'59 school year were discussed. The first official meeting will be
held next Monday at 7:00 p.m. in the Student Union. In this meeting, President Kuykendall emphasized the importance of the
newly-established Theft Committee. This committee has taken measures which it hopes will prevent new occurrences of theft.

Another new project of the Student Council is sponsored in conjunction with the National Student Association. During the year, the
Council will issue questionnaires which will give the student government and the administration a better idea of where and how
they both are falling short in serving the needs of the school.

In closing, President Kuykendall...

Stereo Headlines Union Activities

The College Union will present a program of stereophonic sound in the Union Ballroom Sunday afternoon. The time of the
presentation has not been announced. Freshmen Danny McRight and Frank Weaver are setting up the necessary equipment for receiving the
program from radio station WSOC in Charlotte. This station broadcasts four to six hours of music with this special effect
every Sunday afternoon. The stereophonic effect is achieved by using AM and FM radios.

The Union has added to its book collection a library of college and graduate school catalogues. These catalogues were formerly
in the office of Dean...dall announced that all students! C. J. Pietenpol.

FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 1958

Nix Urges Support of Control

The 1958 Court of Control, headed by John Nix, judge, will hold its first meeting in chapel next Friday when
freshmen accused of violating the regulations will be brought before the student body.

"Go on record as definitely frowning on them. Every effort will be made to discover the leading instigators and put
them on trial. The school will make assessments for property damage from water or any other accident, billing the culprit
if he can be determined, otherwise assessing the entire hall,” Nix explained. “The decisions and sentences of the court will
be in accord with the seriousness of the charges. Freshmen are expected to abide by all the Court prescribed regulations.”

Layout Completed For 1959 Yearbook

By the time that most Davidson Gentlemen were getting set in summer jobs or starting off R.O.T.C. Camp, the layout
for the 1959 Quips and Cranks had already been completed. Editor John Caldwell started work last May and is now
choosing his staff. Although staff positions will be open only to experienced upperclassmen, freshmen will be used in meeting deadlines.
These deadlines will be met promptly from December to March with the finished product coming off the press early in
May. Concrete work will begin in the middle of next month when individual pictures will be taken. Editor Caldwell promises
an annual that will be “different without being radical.”

YMCA Starts Annual Membership Drive

Thirty-three students, under the direction of YMCA Membership Chairman Scott Puckett, yesterday began the annual drive for the purpose of
soliciting upperclass members for the Young Men’s Christian Association. For two weeks solicitors will visit the dormitory rooms in an
all-out effort to enroll all interested persons in the program of fuller personal dedication to Christian service on the campus.
All students who may contribute in any way to one or more of the Y’s varied fields of endeavor are
encouraged to make their time and talents available through membership in the Y. Working with these leaders will be solicitors
John Bennett, James Moore, Walter Edwards, Pat Henderson, Bill Hull, Don Lamm, Bob Shoffner, John Stafford, Ed Stevens, Chet Alexander,
Chris Bremer, Gus Burgdorf, Graham George, Craig Ray, Bob Croom, Jerry Cole, Ed Kizer, Sam Clarke, Kay Kilpatrick, Eb LeMaster,
Bob Jones, Dan McAlister, Woody Morcock, Pete Sterling, and Gordon LeGrand.

Those who, due to curricular and certain other extra-curricular activities, feel that they cannot give sufficient time to the Y
are urged to join the regular members in pledging financial support. Puckett, regarding this facet of the drive, said, “Stewardship
is effective in two areas—time and money. Those who can contribute only their financial support are, in a way no
less vital, aiding in making the Y more effective.” The budget for the Y this year is the largest in
history, and therefore, the wholehearted support of the student body is needed and encouraged. The opportunity to make pledges for
1958-1959 will be given to students by the solicitors during the drive. Emphasis during the coming year will be on
personal contact between the members of the Y Cabinet and those students who express an interest in working in the
activities of the respective Cabinet posts. Because of this increased individual interest, it is particularly desirous that only those students
who are interested and willing should become members. In order to efficiently carry out the drive, Puckett has employed eight
students as “group leaders,” in charge of heading up dormitory visitation. These students are John Huie, Tom Ridenhour, Joe Wearn,
Tom McCutcheon, Thad Kelly, Steve Edwards, Larry McNeill, and Ray Atkinson.

Graham (Continued From Page 1)

or not it is good to force religion on people.

Q. Why do you think there is a tendency among college students to suppress a great many of their religious
beliefs, and what would you say to them?

A. You know one of the first things the disciples did after they were filled with the Spirit was to
become bold. I think that with a complete knowledge and dedication this boldness will come. The great men of history
are those men who have dared to step out. Conformity is one of the great sins of our times. I
think that what the South really needs now is for a great school like Davidson to lead the way and
have a great spiritual awakening. Much could be done to help us solve the race problem if we had true
love in our hearts. Yale has had a great spiritual awakening, as have Oxford and Cambridge. There is a movement
now starting at Amherst, and Vassar is also having such an experience. Now the South needs just this, and there’s
no reason why Davidson can't lead it.

Your Tweedy Wardrobe

Ward right on the road. They began the taxing uphill climb. Continuing their pace, the potential Davidson cindermen turned right
past the old fraternity court and the Union before circling the track. Several hundred spectators were on hand to witness
the event. The annual cake race, made possible by the many donors of cakes, is carried out under the direction
of Coach Heath Whittle and the Court of Control.

Vag (Continued From Page 1)

prove to be more acceptable to the faculty, is still in doubt. It is likely that this morning’s action will
soon be followed by further meetings of the Religious Life Committee, the Executive Committee, and possibly the full faculty.

Don Stowell, a member of the publicity committee, reports that the Union is now compiling data received on “interests and
abilities” questionnaires sent to all Davidson freshmen. This information will be available to the various interested organizations on campus.

The library is located in the cloakroom of the Union lobby. Students may ask for these catalogues at the main
desk of the lobby. The schedule of movies to be shown at theaters in Mooresville, Statesville, and other nearby towns
has been placed on the desk of the cloakroom in the Union lobby. The Union plans to maintain this list
throughout the year.

Wilson-Wright's, Inc. “COLLEGIATE FASHIONS”

TAKE THIS TEST AND FIND OUT

Do you believe you could fool a lie-detector machine if you put your mind to it?
Do you believe society should adopt new ideas at the expense of old traditions?
Are you completely at ease when people watch you at work?
Do you judge your parents as you do other people?
Do your emotions ever lead you to do something that seems unreasonable, even to yourself?
Do you try to plan ahead rather than make snap judgment decisions?
If your roommate suddenly inherited a million dollars, are you sure your relationship would remain the same?
Can you honestly say you pay more attention to political issues than to the personalities of the candidates?

ONLY VICEROY HAS A THINKING MAN'S FILTER... A SMOKING MAN'S TASTE!

One more question: Do you think about the filter cigarette you choose or just smoke any brand? If you're the
kind of person who thinks for himself ... you use judgment in your choice of cigarettes, as in everything else.
Men and women who think for themselves usually smoke VICEROY. Their reasons? Best in the world. They know the difference
between fact and fancy. They know that only VICEROY has a thinking man’s filter and a smoking man’s taste.

“IF YOU HAVE ANSWERED YES TO 6 OF THESE QUESTIONS, YOU ARE A PERSON WHO THINKS FOR HIMSELF!”

Familiar pack or crush-proof box.

©1958, Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp.

FOR QUICK SERVICE AND GOOD FOOD TRY Scottie’s Drive-in Restaurant Salisbury Drive — Mooresville

FRIENDLY SALES AND SERVICE PONTIAC-BUICK-ENGLISH VAUXHALL - JEEP Ed Stallings, Inc. Davidson Hwy. — Concord, N. C. 14th YEAR OF
DEPENDABILITY

You are cordially invited to see the NEW ’58 BUICKS on display in our showroom.
