PAGE FOUR

“Westy” Westervelt settles down to domestic life with his bride in the old ATO house, now refurnished for married students and their wives. Other houses in the Old Fraternity Court are used for professorial offices and lodgings for college employees. (Photo by Rhyne)

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Eumenean Journal Wildcats Open To Students

“A lyric cry in the wilderness” — this is the motto of the new issue of “Euphony,” the magazine of the Eumenean Literary Society. This magazine will be published in December and will be available to all students. Several changes have been made in “Euphony” this year. First of all, it will be open for contributions by the entire student body. In the past, “Euphony” has been a journal of liberal opinion, but it is now widening its scope to include poetry, fiction, and drama by the students. Co-edited this year by Frank Nye and Don Stowell, “Euphony” hopes to meet a great need of the school: an outlet for creative writing, which the Eumenean Society feels is very important. The deadline for contributions is December 5. All copy should be typed, double-spaced, and have a word count. It can be given to Frank Nye in 134 Duke, or Don Stowell in 20 Duke.

Freshman Council Has Important Functions

By BOB BRADFORD
Davidsonian Feature Writer

During the freshman orientation period of every school year, the members of each of the twenty freshman groups elect a representative. These men together compose the Freshman Council. This council has no legislative authority in itself, but its effectiveness is derived from personal or group influence. The council stands as a link between the freshman class and existing authority. Its initial purpose lies in assisting the class in becoming an integral part of the student body of Davidson. Since its founding in 1954, the council has been approached to act as an instrument in carrying out various projects. Perhaps primary among these is the management of Freshman-Parents’ Day, an annual affair held sometime around the middle of November. Yearly the response to this event increases, this year the council acting as host to 321 persons, 258 of whom were freshman parents. The annual freshman-sophomore field day under the coordinate directorship of the Court of Control and Freshman Council is a primary concern of the committee. Freshman participation in the Field Day leadership has a dominating, positive influence on the other members of the class as to response. The council also activates open discussion groups on matters pertinent to the general life of the freshman at Davidson. This council acts as an exploratory opportunity for freshmen, as through it the class can express individual and collective opinion on various matters. The council can then relay these thoughts to persons concerned, thus acting as a mediary. Its purpose is not to engender revolt, or to encourage unwarranted criticism of existing traditions of the college but to offer an outlet for constructive criticism by freshmen. The council members themselves are by no means distinct from the class. They are not asked or expected to behave in a manner contrary to normal freshman sentiment. They do, however, try to act as a beneficial influence by invoking thought among the class concerning unnecessary outbursts of resentment against authority, whether it be represented by administration or upperclassmen. The council, composed of fresh, open minds, uninfluenced as of yet by Davidson tradition, is in a position to question the necessity of some of these traditions and relate in an unauthoritative fashion the results of these findings to those concerned. One of the major projects of the council this year is to provoke thought among the freshman class concerning chapel conduct. It will approach upperclassmen in an effort to make them conform to freshman standards of conduct, but the council hopes that the positive influence of the freshman class towards this problem will affect the attitude of the entire student body. Acting as president of the council this year is Harrison Wellford. Mr. C. Shaw Smith and Tom Cutting act in the respective positions of faculty and student advisors. Arthur Booth is vice-president and Joe Robinson is secretary-treasurer of the council. Other members include Jim Alexander, John Chiles, Pat Currie, Bob McFarland, Sandy Newland, Bill Forbis, Wendel Merritt, Bob Rea, Buddy Kemp, Ed Grimsley, Worth Williamson, Ed Sims, Bob Stone, Phil Brown, Jim Jamison, and Bob Hord.

Dr. James S. Purcell, Chairman of the English Department announced today that English 131, “The European Novel,” will be offered the spring semester of this year and will be taught by Dr. J. Wilson McCutchan. A study of selected continental novelists, this course is usually taught in the fall by Dr. W. P. Cumming, who is currently on leave.

Union Delegation Attends Conference

Four Student Union committeemen and C. Shaw Smith attended the annual conference last week of Region Four, National Association of College Unions. The conference, held at the University of Kentucky in Lexington, Kentucky, was dedicated to the exchange of ideas and to the understanding of the philosophies behind the college union. Noted college union officials and students led discussion and seminars on various phases of union operations. Juniors Woody Morcock and Jim Black, sophomore Don Stowell, and freshman Fred Wright represented Davidson at the conference. The D.C. contingent figured prominently in the activities; Morcock was elected president of the group and C. Shaw Smith delivered the keynote speech. Region Four of the association is composed of thirty-two colleges in eight states, Cuba, and Puerto Rico. Member colleges in North Carolina are Davidson, East Carolina, Duke, and North Carolina State. Next year’s convention will be held at North Carolina State College in Raleigh.

Next Monday, November 24, at 6 p.m. the management of the College Union Cafeteria will present a Thanksgiving Dinner in the Old Dining Hall in Chambers Building. All students holding cafeteria meal tickets are requested to wear coat and tie for the occasion, and a number of faculty and administration members and their wives will be present.

Sharpshooters Vie In Turkey Contest

The ROTC Department and Scabbard and Blade will jointly sponsor their annual Turkey Shoot next Tuesday, November 25. The shoot will be held in the indoor firing range of the ROTC Department in the basement of Belk Dorm. The Turkey Shoot is being given for the faculty, administration, and anyone else who is, or has been, connected officially with the college, and their families. The shoot will be conducted from four to six o'clock in the afternoon. .22 caliber rifles will be used. The prizes, all of which have been donated by Davidson merchants, include frozen turkeys, coffee pots, free haircuts, dry cleaning, and nylon hose. There will be thirty prizes in all given away. There will be refreshments, entertainment, and special movies for the children. There is no admission charge. “You don’t have to be a marksman to win a prize. Practically speaking, all you have to do is be there,” said Captain John W. Mitchell of the ROTC Department.

Currie Announces New Dorm Plans

Robert Currie, Davidson Business Manager, outlined preliminary plans for a new dormitory as part of the Dana Challenge. The projected building will house 135 students, and will raise Davidson's capacity to 1000. This structure, to be erected behind Belk Dormitory, will be about fifty per cent larger than Little, and will cost approximately $375,000. The exact location has not yet been decided, but awaits careful study of the topographical map of the area which is to be finished next week. Architectural work will be done by Luther Lashmit of the firm of Lashmit, James, Brown, and Pollock from Winston-Salem. This firm designed the new fraternity court and the new dormitory.

(Continued From Page 1)

They had a nice fight, but were soon pulled apart. Those who would forget were not permitted, so the cat stayed around D. C. until the athletes needed a name, and the next I knew the “Wild Cats” were leading the athletes.” This is one possibility as to how the traditional “WILDCATS” got their name. In the 1917 “Quips & Cranks” the football team is referred to as the “Presbyterians” or the “Red and Blacks.” However, in the 1918 annual the “Wildcat” name is used to refer to the team. An old clipping from the DAVIDSONIAN states that after the Georgia Tech-Davidson football game of the '17-'18 school year, the term‘Wildcats’ came into use. The story relates that after the bruising battle, which Tech won by 32-12, an Atlanta Journal sports writer exclaimed how “The Red and Black fought like a bunch of Wildcats.” The local press picked up the expression and since that time all of Davidson’s athletic teams have carried the title. Mr. Albert S. Potts, ‘19, claims to have begun the nickname himself. He says: “At that time, Davidson teams had no definite nickname, and the newspapers referred to our teams as the ‘Preachers’ and other random nicknames which did not seem to suit the fighting qualities and high spirit of Davidson teams (No disparagement meant). So I began using ‘Wildcats’ as a term for Davidson teams in the stories I was writing, and so far as I know, that was the beginning of this usage, and it has continued ever since. Maybe there are more authentic stories, but this is mine and I'll stick to it.” Professor Henry T. Lilly has this to add to the meaning behind our nickname. He says: “I feel it is that little Calvinistic, Presbyterian, fire-eating, Bluestocking, Covenanter, dissenting, Scotch-Irish school down in the wilds of upper Mecklenburg County. Believe me, they are the TRUE WILDCATS. They are the real WILDCATS.”

Phi Delt, Sigma Nu Hold Parents’ Day

Two of Davidson's fraternities, Phi Delta Theta and Sigma Nu, were hosts to alumni and parents during the past weekend. Brothers of Phi Delta Theta served as hosts for the fraternity’s first Alumni-Parents weekend. Alumni representing classes from 1924 to 1958 were in attendance, and parents of numerous brothers and pledges were present.

The highlight of the weekend was the house dedication ceremony at 12:15 p.m. Saturday. Following the invocation by Dr. L. I. Stell of Charlotte, fraternity president Manfred Emmrich welcomed the guests of the fraternity. Alumni Secretary Brantley Burns then presented to President Emmrich and the fraternity a plaque recognizing those persons whose significant contributions helped make the furnishing of the new house possible. A dedication litany was led by Mr. Bill Rembert, class of 1939, from Dallas, Texas. Following the dedication and luncheon, the guests attended the Davidson-Richmond football game. Saturday evening a banquet was held in the College Union ballroom, at which College President and Mrs. Grier Martin and the fraternity’s Faculty Advisor, Dr. J. Y. Causey, and his wife were honored guests. Mr. Sam McKenzie, a member of the fraternity’s General Council, was the featured speaker of the evening, talking on the accomplishments and aims of Phi Delta Theta.

Sigma Nu Fraternity also invited the parents of its members to Davidson for the Davidson-Richmond game and for a buffet supper, which was served at the chapter house. Following the supper, the mothers met in an organizational meeting. Officers elected by the Mothers’ Club were as follows: President, Mrs. C. J. McGehee of Charlotte, Vice President, Mrs. C. C. Cutts of Conway, South Carolina, Treasurer, Mrs. A. P. Werts of Charlotte, and Secretary, Miss Mary Jane Burleson of Davidson.

Fraternity Officers, 1958-1959

Alpha Tau Omega
President: Roy Gilbert
Vice President: Ed Stevens
Secretary: Pete Kellogg

Beta Theta Pi
President: Laurens Walker
Vice President: Sam Clarke
Secretary: David Robinson

Kappa Alpha
President: Neil Padgett
Vice President: Howard Persinger
Secretary: Bob Austin

Kappa Sigma
President: Craig Wall
Vice President: Paul Biggers
Secretary: Bob Croom

Phi Delta Theta
President: Manfred Emmrich
Vice President: George Ramsey
Secretary: Ben Harris

Phi Gamma Delta
President: Gene Long
Vice President: Joe Williford
Secretary: Bob Pate

Pi Kappa Alpha
President: Dick Hodel
Vice President: K. W. Ballentine
Secretary: Dan Turner

Pi Kappa Phi
President: James Yarbrough
Vice President: Robert Wilson

Sigma Alpha Epsilon
President: Sam Smith
Vice President: Sam Zimmerman
Secretary: Arthur Lesesne

Sigma Chi
President: Joe Cline
Vice President: Johnny Bennett
Secretary: James Dabbs

Sigma Nu
President: Walter O'Briant
Vice President: Greg Grana
Secretary: Ed Wilson

Sigma Phi Epsilon
President: Sam Plyler
Vice President: Bruce Brooks
Secretary: Jere Starling

Deutscher Verein Birth Anticipated

Delta Phi Alpha early this week announced plans for the formation of a new German club, Deutscher Verein. A formal proposal for the birth of Deutscher Verein will come before an open meeting of the fraternity to be held Tuesday night, November 25, at 9:15, in the ballroom of the Student Union. The new organization will open its membership to all students interested in any phase of German culture. Delta Phi Alpha has requested that those persons wishing to join the club attend the open meeting Tuesday night.

The activities of Deutscher Verein for the coming year will include films concerning German culture, current events, and panel discussions led by the three foreign students who are now members of the honorary fraternity. If the interest from the membership is great, Delta Phi Alpha plans also to ask a member of the German Embassy in Washington to speak to the club.

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for... PIZZA

the famous OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead
Charlotte

Do you suffer if you feel it is you win Familiar pack or crush-proof box. Can you honestly say you enjoy a game or sport as much whether you win or lose? Do you let other people tell you what filter cigarette is best for you, rather than making up your own mind? The fact is, men and women who make up their own minds—who think for themselves—usually smoke VICEROY. Their reason? Best in the world. They know only VICEROY has a thinking man’s filter and a smoking man’s taste.

If you have answered “NO!” to six of the above questions—you are a man who thinks for himself!

Aspirant Writers Find Opportunities This Fall
By DON STOWELL
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Outlets for the creative writing of Davidson students are more numerous this fall than ever before. Cliquishness has been eliminated and quality substituted as the criterion for recognition, thereby offering more actual possibilities for the serious writer.

Wednesday is the deadline for the Red and Black Masquers’ Sigma Upsilon Playwriting Contest, which has a first prize of twenty dollars and a second prize of five dollars. The winning play will be considered by the Masquers for later production.

One-act manuscripts must be typed, double-spaced, and turned in to Dr. Tyson, 134 Chambers, before noon on November 26, to be eligible. Also, the name of the author must not appear on the manuscript itself, but sealed in an envelope to be turned in with the play.

Also of interest to serious writers is a new magazine published at New Haven, Connecticut entitled PROTEST. The editors state, “We felt that there was a need for a magazine to which any undergraduate in an eastern college could contribute, a magazine which would reach an important audience, publishers and others interested in new writing.” They are interested in essays and parodies and will put out the first edition early in December. Charles Cornwell, 260 Belk, is the campus representative and has all the necessary information.

There is no reason now for anyone to feel that Davidson is lacking in the field of creative writing. No reason, that is, if the students participate actively in the publications available to them.

Rara Avis

It’s a rare bird indeed who doesn’t care for the good taste of Coke! In fact, you might even call him an oddball. After all, 58 million times a day somebody, somewhere, enjoys Coca-Cola. All these people just can’t be wrong!

SIGN OF GOOD TASTE

Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company by THE COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD

“Coke” is a registered trademark. © 1952, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY

SEE WHAT THIS TEST TELLS YOU ABOUT YOURSELF!

Do you instinctively feel a qualm when you walk under a ladder?
Yes [ ] No [ ]

When introduced to important people, do you act a role which is quite different from the real you?
Yes [ ] No [ ]

If someone wanted to hypnotize you, would you refuse to let him try?
Yes [ ] No [ ]

Would you feel that you should leave a formal affair if you found you were wearing clothes that were different from everybody else's?
Yes [ ] No [ ]

Would you turn down an unusual opportunity if it would alter a preconceived plan for the future?
Yes [ ] No [ ]

Do you feel your education would be better if books and notes were allowed at examinations?
Yes [ ] No [ ]

Do you think that a public official should do what the voters want him to do, even though he personally may feel it is wrong?
Yes [ ] No [ ]

Do you enjoy a game or sport as much whether you win or lose?
Yes [ ] No [ ]

Do you let other people tell you what filter cigarette is best for you, rather than making up your own mind?
Yes [ ] No [ ]

The Man Who Thinks for Himself Knows... ONLY VICEROY HAS A THINKING MAN'S FILTER... A SMOKING MAN'S TASTE!