Is Davidson “Beat”? (See Editorial Page 2)

VOL. XLVI

Firearms Amendments Receive Overwhelming Student Support

ADAMS INTERVIEWED

Col. Keithly: Davidson Corps Tops In The State

By DICK SMITH
Davidsonian Managing Editor

“In a private meeting with his superior officers, Colonel Keithly of the North Carolina Military District stated without reservation that
the Davidson College ROTC Corps was the best in North Carolina. He said, ‘It has always been good; this year
it is even better.’” So replied Lieutenant Colonel William L. Adams, PMS&T, to a question put to him by members
of the DAVIDSONIAN staff last Wednesday. He further stated in regard to the quality of the unit, “We don't stress
quantity, but quality. Even this year, with a larger unit than last year, none of our cadet officers placed below
the 70th percentile in the National Officers’ Qualification course, but we're ready to go as soon as we get the
word.”

Further questions were as follows:

Q. Colonel Adams, what do you think of the college rule that Military Training is compulsory for the first two
years at Davidson?

A. I think that it’s a good thing. Any student, whether he plans to go into the Advanced Course or
not, should appreciate the training he receives in his Freshman and Sophomore years. If he does not go on into
Advanced, he’s got a tremendous jump over other men in his unit when he enlists or is drafted. If he
does go on, it’s by his own choice. Then there is the consideration that not all our Advanced students would
have taken the Basic course had it been voluntary. If the first two years had not been compulsory, we would
not have some of the top cadets that we do.

Q. Do you anticipate any further changes in the department?

A. Well, of course there's the flight detachment we're working on. We also hope to have the new green uniform
for the basic students in 1961, maybe in ‘60.

Q. What do you think about the band this year?

A. I think it’s one of the best bands I've heard this year. We've done everything we could to make
it attractive, and I think a real esprit-de-corps is developing. The Honor Platoon is also tops this year.

(Continued On Page 4)

Publications Staffs Travel To Chicago

Seven members of the staffs of campus publications arrived by plane at Chicago Thursday to attend the National Intercollegiate Press
Convention to be held at the Conrad Hilton Hotel. They will return Sunday night. Laurens Walker, DAVIDSONIAN editor, Jim Hamilton,
sports editor, Ed Armfield and Dick Smith, managing editors as well as Bob Cole of Scripts 'n Pranks and John
Caldwell and Chris Bremmer of Quips and Cranks will attend the conclave. The program of the conference will include lectures,
seminars, and short courses on various phases of journalism. The DAVIDSONIAN staff has been asked to participate in a panel
discussion on the editing of news Friday morning. The panel will be moderated by the DAVIDSONIAN editor. Al Capp, noted
cartoonist and satirist, will speak at the banquet which closes the meeting. The convention, which is sponsored by the Associated
Collegiate Press annually, was held last year in New York City and was attended by eight Davidsonians and nearly 1000
other students representing over 300 colleges and universities.

IFC Suggests Revisions Of Rushing Regulations

Proposed revisions and amendments to the Rushing Regulations were voiced at the IFC meeting, Monday, November 10. The discussion resulted
in seven changes or additions to the 1958 regulations. These were tabled until voting at the meeting next Monday, 10:00
a.m. in the Green Room of the Union. The proposed changes are by section as follows:

(1) Rush Week will begin Sunday night, at 8 p.m. and will continue through Thursday. There will be a period
of silence from 10:15 p.m. Thursday until 4:30 p.m. Friday, during which time no man having any official connection with
a fraternity shall be allowed to influence or contact a rushee.

(8) The period of silence will begin at 12:00 p.m. on Saturday night and last through confirmation which ends at
10:00 a.m. on Sunday.

(9) Confirmation will begin on September 14, Sunday morning, at 9:00 and last until 10:00 in Chambers Auditorium under the
direction of the IFC. All dates will be final.

(11) Upperclassman contact with freshmen during Orientation Period up to the period of silence prior to confirmation shall end at
11:45 p.m. During Rush Week all contact between fraternity men and rushees must end by 10:15 p.m.

(13) All rushing shall be limited to the town limits of Davidson from the first day of Orientation through the
time of official pledging. No fraternity member or pledge shall make any derogatory remark directed toward another fraternity with the
express intent of slandering or degrading said fraternity in the eyes of a rushee. Rushees should report violations of this
section to the Inter-Fraternity Council for its consideration.

(14) Rushees will not enter the fraternity houses after the first day of Orientation except to attend rush parties.

(15) No upperclassmen other than hall counselors and freshmen advisors will enter freshmen dormitories on the first day of Orientation.

IFC President Vernon Anderson urged the representatives to have their groups make preparations for the fraternity Open House this Sunday.
All members of the Davidson community are invited to visit any of the houses on Patterson Court between 3:00-5:00 p.m.,
November 16. The fraternities will have members on hand to escort the guests through the new houses. In addition, the
IFC discussed plans for projects during the rest of the year. The band for Mid-Winters has been chosen and the
contract is now being negotiated. President Anderson also cited the possibility of a vocal group for the Saturday concert and
dance. The United Fund has sent representatives to the fraternities and an organized plan of contribution within the twelve fraternities
was discussed. Each fraternity is to set its own gift assessment. The Barium Springs Christ.

(Photo by Rhyne)

Davidsonian

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 1958

NO. 10

R.O.T.C. Dept. Furnishes Lockers For Weapons

By DAVID JORDAN
Davidsonian Staff Writer

The Davidson student body Tuesday approved by an overwhelming majority constitutional amendments making the possession of firearms in the dormitories
an offense of the Student Body Regulations, punishable by suspension from school. The two proposals now officially become part of
Article IX of the constitution. The first amendment, listing the offense, passed by a 426-68 vote. It stated — “No
student shall be guilty of keeping firearms in the dormitories.” The penalty for not abiding the regulation, which reads —
“Students found guilty of violating the regulation will ordinarily be suspended from the College” — was endorsed by 409 students,
while opposed by 86.

“Looking to the future, the new setup for keeping any weapons should be an ideal one, especially pleasing to the
many students who supported the amendments,” commented John Kuykendall, student body president. “The new facilities for easily accessible and adequate
storage should be pleasing to students concerned.”

STORAGE LOCKERS

The ROTC Department is furnishing the area for keeping the weapons. A room is being partitioned and caged in which
will be used for that purpose. Storage lockers have already been shipped and are scheduled to be ready in the
next two or three weeks. In addition, the department is transferring furniture to the new room from the ROTC lounge
which is being redone. They will also continually furnish cleaning and preservative materials for student use on weapons.

“The actual details of the locker assignments and the storage room schedule have not yet been planned by the council,”
Kuykendall explained. “They will be announced in a week or so.” Students using the new facilities are assured of a
double safeguard. Weapons will be kept under two locks, one of each individual locker.P#ne! and one on the entrance to
the room. Each student will probably have his own separate locker unless the number of weapons to be stored necessitates
some doubling up. The Student Council particularly wished to thank Lt. Col. Adams and the ROTC Department for their aid
on this matter. They have co-operated fully on the entire project,” Kuykendall said.

NO EXCUSE
Lt. Col. Adams stressed to the council that no storage of firearms will be very; the general safety of the
student body concerning firearms will definitely be more insured, which was the primary purpose of the amendments. For those who
do desire to keep weapons on campus for various reasons, the new facilities will surpass anything available in the dorms,”
Kuykendall summarized. “Under the new arrangement, no student should have any excuse for bringing a weapon into the dormitories. The
fear of a firearm being stolen has been eliminated.”

Cabinet Discusses Schedule Of Programs
Key matters discussed at the Tuesday night meeting of the YMCA Cabinet included the extended organization of study groups, the
representation to the National Student Assembly of YMCA’s and YWCA’s, and summer work opportunities. The study group began discussion following
the report of Scott Woodmansee, chairman of the Spiritual Life committee. He said that a number of self-contained groups had
been organized around the campus in which the participants were reading various books, plays, or other literature and following this
reading up with a discussion of topics arising from the reading. Dr. J. M. Bevan, faculty visitor from the YMCA
Board of Directors, commented on the programs scheduled each semester at Franklin and Marshall College, in which an outstanding book
of current interest, such as The Organization Man or The Hidden Persuaders, is read by a majority of the student
body. After which the author is brought to the campus to highlight a series of talks and discussions concerning the
book. Committees were appointed to look into the possibilities of (1) scheduling such a program at Davidson next semester, and
(2) creating study groups to be coordinated with the faculty study groups which meet monthly to discuss a certain book.

The Sixth Quadrennial National Student Assembly of the YMCA and YWCA is to be held December 28 through January 3,
at the University of Illinois in Urbana. Several members of the Y Cabinet plan to attend the assembly, at which
Davidson is entitled to some fifteen voting delegates. An attempt will be made to increase interest among the student body
and encourage non-Cabinet members of the Y also to represent the local organization. Topics of discussion at the assembly will
be: Men and Women in the 20th Century, Work and Vocation, In Search of World Community, and Our Concern for
Inter-racial Relationships.

Jim Richards, chairman of the Effective Citizenship Committee, stated that a concentrated program was being planned for the near future,
in which the various summer work opportunities for students will be publicized and brought to the attention of the student
body. A December 3 publication listing all such opportunities will be released.

Who's Who Lists Sixteen Senior Students
Sixteen members of the senior class have been nominated to appear in the 1958-59 edition of “Who’s Who Among Students
in American Colleges and Universities.” The purpose of Who's Who has been to provide public recognition to those students who
seem most worthy and to provide a student placement service for interested members. Nominations were submitted by a committee of
faculty members and administrators on the basis of scholarship, leadership, campus activities, and general service. The following, along with their
activities for this year, were selected for membership in Who’s Who.

Vernon Trippe Anderson, Jr., from Union, S. C., is a member of Sigma Chi Fraternity, YMCA, and the Business-Economics Association.
He is a member of the Honorary Fraternity Council and president of the Inter-Fraternity Council. A captain in ROTC and
member of Scabbard and Blade, he has been designated a Distinguished Military Student. He is also a member of Phi
Delta Theta Fraternity and is here on a Union Carbide Scholarship. He is president of the YMCA and a member
of a freshman orientation counselor. Other than being Judge of the Court of Control, he is vice-president of the Student
Council.

Peter Newton Andrews from Orange, Va., is a member of Phi Gamma Delta Fraternity, an IFC representative, and a member
of Sigma Delta Psi athletic fraternity. An ROTC battle group commander, he is a member of Scabbard and Blade. His
soccer performance gained him a place on the All-Southern Team of ‘57-'58. He is on the Dan I. McKeithen Award.
A captain in ROTC, he is also treasurer of Scabbard and Blade.

Richard Fretwell Brubaker from Macon, Ga., is a member of Alpha Tau Omega Fraternity and a Baker Scholar. He is
president of Alpha Epsilon Delta, president of the Honorary Fraternity Council, secretary of the Inter-Fraternity Council, and secretary-treasurer of the
Senior Class. He is on the Student Council, a member of Omicron Delta Kappa, and has achieved Phi Beta Kappa
membership.

Roy William Gilbert, Jr., from Birmingham, Ala., is a Cadet Lt. Col. in ROTC, he is a member of Scabbard
and Blade. Other than being a freshman orientation counselor, he is on the Student Council, project chairman for Omicron Delta
Kappa, an elected member of the YMCA Board of Directors, and president of the Senior Class. Commander of the Corps;
he is also president of the Philanthropic Literary Society and a member of the soccer team, the D Club, the
Classical Club, and the YMCA. He is also in Omicron Delta Kappa and Delta Phi Alpha and has attained Phi
Beta Kappa. This year he is president of the Davidson student body.

Samuel Clarke, Jr., from Columbia, S. C., is vice-president of Beta Theta Pi fraternity. He is also the trainer of
the Corps; Senior Class. Commander of ROTC and Captain of Scabbard and Blade. A member of the soccer team, the
D Club, the Classical Club, and the YMCA, he is also in Omicron Delta Kappa and Delta Phi Alpha and
has attained Phi Beta Kappa. This year he is president of the Davidson student body.

Robert Anderson Huffaker from Charlotte, N. C., is a member of Phi Delta Theta Fraternity. He is president of Alpha
Tau Omega Fraternity. He is also a member of the Business-Economics Association and on its Board of Directors. He is
also Editor of the DAVIDSONIAN.

Edwin Craig Wall, Jr., from Conway, S. C., is president of Kappa Sigma Fraternity. A captain of Scabbard and Blade,
a member of Omicron Delta Kappa and the varsity soccer team.

Tom Alfred Cutting from Ft. Smith, Ark., is a member of Phi Delta Theta Fraternity. He is a freshman advisor
and on the business staff of Quips and Cranks and a freshman orientation counselor.

John Wells Kuykendall from Charlotte, N. C., is a member of Phi Delta Theta Fraternity. He is here on a
Union Carbide Scholarship, as well as an Agnes Sentelle Brown Scholarship. A Phi Beta Kappa.

John Beals Howard Caldwell from Louisville, Ky., is a member of Alpha Epsilon Delta, Gamma Sigma Epsilon, and Delta Phi
Alpha honorary fraternities. He is a member of the Philanthropic Literary Society and a member of Scabbard and Blade. He
is also a member of Omicron Delta Kappa.

Sam Henry McGuirt, Jr., from Monroe, N. C., is a member of Kappa Sigma Fraternity. On the Corps Staff of
ROTC, he is in Scabbard and Blade and was selected a Distinguished Military Student. He is a student trainer for
the basketball team and football manager, other than being on the Board of Directors of the Business-Economics Association.

John Arthur Nix from Tucker, Ga., is vice president of Phi Delta Theta Fraternity. He is a member of Omicron
Delta Kappa, and Eta Sigma Phi. A captain in ROTC, he is an intelligence officer for the First Battle Group.
Secretary of the Intramural Athletic Council, he is also publications chairman of the YMCA Cabinet. Associate Editor of the DAVIDSONIAN,
and Sports Editor of the Quips and Cranks.

William Laurens Walker, II, from Spartanburg, S. C., is president of Beta Theta Pi Fraternity.

Harold Arthur Westervelt from Athens, Ga., is a member of Sigma Chi Fraternity. He is on the Court of Control
and the Athletic Council, and captain of the Wrestling team. Here on a C. F. Stowe Memorial Scholarship, he is
a member of Alpha Epsilon Delta and Omicron Delta Kappa and is president of the D Club. He has also
gained membership into Phi Beta Kappa.
