Che Davidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO ~ FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 1958

(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

Davidson Splits Its Seams

The cots in the gym are a sore subject in Chambers Building. Nobody in the Administration is quite sure just
how Davidson happened to turn up with some 915 students to begin the new year. Mr. Martin blames it on
a long series of circumstances. (See Page 1). Others use the clichés “poor guess” or “bad luck.” Actually, the cause
is not half as important as the fact that Davidson is bursting its seams. Students returning from first day classes
reported rooms packed. One history class met with 95 present, an English professor called a roll with 60 names on
it, and men sat on the floor in a Bible class which numbered over 50. It would be unfair to
make too sweeping a generalization from these random instances. However, the men sleeping in the gym, the crowded classrooms, and
the size of the freshman class, are indicative of a trend which seems unstoppable. Even now the traditional picture of
Davidson as a small college offering much individual attention in the classroom is fast fading.

The crux of the entire problem is the Trustees' decision, made in 1957, to increase the College’s enrollment to one
thousand. At the time of that decision, the governing body of the College made it clear that the new students
should not be added until the facilities were available to adequately take care of them. Obviously, this has not been
done. Not a single student above the present number should be added until the size of the faculty has been
increased and at least one new dormitory built. According to the Administration's long-range plan to gradually increase enrollment, the College
will open its doors to 930 men in 1959. This would be an increase of fifteen or twenty over the
1958 initial enrollment. The DAVIDSONIAN urges the Admissions Committee, President Martin, and other members of the Administration to junk this
plan and close the doors to any increase in size until the facilities are available.

Good Intentions, But No Plans

Educational planning at Davidson, to be distinguished from the collection of money and the erection of buildings, has been at
a standstill since Dr. Cunningham resigned in 1957. Leaving aside the question of its condition before then, we may legitimately
ask whether it has begun again. In his Tuesday morning interview with the DAVIDSONIAN staff (see front page), President Martin
went on record in favor of an adequate faculty, a good curriculum, and increased faculty salaries. He did not unveil
any concrete specific plans for getting us to any of these destinations. It could not have been otherwise, and no
one can blame a man who has just stepped into a job for not immediately making changes that would require
months of careful planning, especially at an institution that resists any real reforms with stubborn tenacity.

Furthermore, deficient leadership, past or present, is not the only element that goes to make up the Davidson version of
“dynamic conservatism.” Our king-size Board of Trustees is by its very structure incapable of giving more than semi-annual attention to
the college’s problems. Our faculty and administrative staff are nearly one-half Davidson graduates, many of whom think mainly in terms
of the school as it was twenty or thirty years ago. And the regional community of parents and alumni voices
no demands that cannot be satisfied with assurances that Davidson will continue to be “a safe place.”

In short, the people who are responsible for the future of the college are set firmly in an attitude of
“no sweat.” This is perfectly sensible—as long as we can remain convinced that we have reached perfection. Despite occasional maladjustments,
we are organized and equipped to operate from day to day on such a policy. But for anything better than
retention of a stale status quo, we had better start planning now, or we will end up with a campus
crowded with beautiful new buildings in a country club atmosphere, but lacking in any educational advantages.—C.H.C.

YMCA Begins New Year

“Worship, study, and positive action” — these are the three paths which the Davidson College Y.M.C.A. has set out to
pursue in its dedication to a fuller personal commitment to Jesus Christ. It is the third of these that must
receive the greatest concentration of attention relative to previous years if the 1958-59 program is to be a vital force
in the college community.

This positive action will be most powerfully accomplished only by personal employment by the chairman of each Cabinet post of
each student who has indicated an interest in the work of the respective post. Never in the memory of the
present college generation has this facet of Y activity been exploited to a degree to even justify membership solicitation. The
leaders of the Y have always been quite capable, and the signal callers for this year should rank with the
best. The capabilities of these men will lie dormant, however, unless they are borne out in actions whereby these leaders
serve as the coordinators between the core of the Y and every man who desires to contribute his time and
ability to the program.

To say that the effectiveness of the Y is dependent on the participation and stewardship of the college community is
but repetition of an old truism. But this truth speaks to the Davidson community in that not only must the
Cabinet members personally seek to reach out for the service of interested students, but these students must put themselves within
reach by fully accepting the responsibility which they assume when they “pledge up” with the membership solicitors, and respond to
the call for their service.

There is a great challenge here to every person affiliated with the college community in his capacity as “chief” or
“Indian.” The DAVIDSONIAN will reserve any due praise until the challenge has been accepted and a vibrant program of dedicated
effort and worthy achievement overcomes Apathy.—G.W.R.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Charles Chastain

ASSISTANT EDITOR
Bob Lathan, George Ramsey

BUSINESS MANAGER
Ed Armfield

Associate Editors
Dick Smith
Jim Hamilton
Pete Kellogg
Bruce Brooks

Managing Editors
Laurens Walker
Bill Patton
Henry Samuels

Sports Editor
Tom Colvin

Feature Editor
Spiro Macris

News Editor
Charles Rose

Assignments Editor
Dave Gillis

Copy Editor
Greg Grana

Cartoonists
Bross, Cole

Photographer
Bob Wynne

Advertising Manager
Dave Gillis

Circulation Manager
Greg Grana

Ass't. Business Manager
Bob Wynne

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879

NEXT FALL

Orientation Week Should Profit From Experience

By JAMES HERLONG

This past week almost 260 freshmen began their orientation in the life at Davidson. The modes of conduct and the
regulations of the Davidson student in general. This Orientation Program, planned by the Office of the Dean of Students in
conjunction with the Freshman Adviser, introduced the class of ‘62 to the academic, social, spiritual, and physical life of the
Davidson student.

In a series of tests administered by Dr. Ostwalt, the abilities and potentialities of each student were determined. This testing
program was set up in 1948 by Dr. Ostwalt. The American Council on Education Psychological Examination was a mental test
used to appraise what has been called scholastic aptitude or general intelligence, with special reference to the requirements of most
college curricula. A Co-operative English Test, which consisted of two sections on grammar and one section on reading, was given
to each student. The results of this test were used, along with other results, in conjunction with the results from
the Advanced Composition Test to determine which students were capable of taking the Humanities course.

These tests have a number of academic and administrative uses. They are used to spot men who score in the
lowest quarter according to national standings, to aid the faculty advisors in registering the freshmen, to aid professors in dealing
with problems of individual students, and to aid the Dean of Students in his counseling of students.

In Cold, Cold Gym

By TOM KERNAN

My good friend, Godfrey Cringe, and I were aggravating our palates with Slater Service coffee the other day when that
well-known gentleman-dandy, Roger Tweed, hove into view. “—and even squirrels, but not me, a gentleman and a scholar,” he was
mumbling in an aggrieved tone.

“What’s your gripe about Davidson’s rodent population?” I asked.

“I was saying,” he replied, “that even the squirrels have a place to live, but not Roger Tweed, friend of
fashion and good taste. Those fiends have placed me in the gymnasium; it’s like being in the quarantine ward on
Ellis Island. Yes, they can’t find so much asa hole for 2 fellows to room in.” “I room in Watts,”
said Godfrey. “They found one for you, eh,” said Roger. “Well, you're very fortunate. You should see what that steamy
atmosphere in the gym has done to my shirts and cravats; my tailor would weep from shame if he could
see my wardrobe now.” “How are the other fellows down there getting along?” I asked. “Oh, we're a plucky lot,”
he answered, “but I don’t know how long we can stand it. People have been quite helpful, though. The Y
sent a team down the other night to lead us in a prayer meeting and they left some helpful tracts
for us to read. The administration sent each of us a form letter about the situation; we’re quite hopeful that
something can be done.” “I hear that the—the (here Godfrey paused apologetically, searching for the right word)—the, uh—aroma down there
isn’t too pleasant.” “Don’t,” begged Roger in a weak voice, “don’t mention it, please.” At that moment, a small freshman
approached our table, weeping hysterically. “Why it’s Wilson Quiver,” said Roger, “he lives in the gym too. What have they
done to you, Boy?” “Look,” wailed Wilson, and he tore open his shirt, revealing his narrow chest to our horror-stricken
gaze. Across the upper portion of his abdomen was stenciled the following poignant message: PROP. D.C.A.A. “No,” I gasped, “how
could they.” “They did it while I was asleep,” he moaned and broke into another fit of crying. “This is
too much,” said Roger, “this time the Athletic Department has gone too far.” And he strode toward the door with
the air of a man intent on making heads roll, or as might befit a gym dweller, making them bounce.

Rush Week
By ED ARMFIELD
Davidsonian Managing Editor

The Davidson Rushing System, despite the fact that the IFC, under the leadership of Vernon Anderson, has run it with
a minimum of snags and inconveniences, has been the subject of much discussion, pro and con. One freshman, somewhat dazed
by it all, called the system, “the most unfair and unreasonable way possible to force a premature and often unwise
choice.” Others have defended it just as vigorously as this man condemned it.

INSINCERITY
The most obvious disadvantage of the early and very short rush week is the almost impossible task of learning the
true character of a boy or group of boys in such a short time. It is a system which leads
to insincerity often to the point of misrepresentation. Those arguing for a rushing system stretched out over a longer period
of time feel that a “front” could not be maintained for an entire semester. Another disadvantage in the present system
is that it promotes a “hometown fraternity” situation, in that freshmen often join a fraternity already having boys from their
hometown not necessarily because he is sure it is the best, but merely because he is not yet well acquainted
enough with others.

PHYSICAL STRAIN
Also, the physical strain of a solid week of meetings for upperclassmen members and “bull sessions” for freshmen lasting late
into the morning is quite unnecessary. Those speaking in favor of the present system point out that the first week
rushing interferes at a minimum with academic work, which is paramount here at Davidson. It is also thought by some
that the present system “equalizes” fraternities to a certain degree. However, this line of thought seems difficult to defend, although
it may well be true.

SOCIAL LIFE
As far as the rushee is concerned, the main advantage to the present system is getting into a fraternity early
and thus bolstering his social life. No matter how we feel, every fraternity man has a voice in fraternity affairs
through his IFC representative which should be exercised, as the majority opinion will dictate what course future Rush Weeks shall
follow.

Each year we profit from the past year’s experiences. Innovations this year included a better-scheduled Orientation Week, an activities fair,
and fewer speeches. Improvements for next year call for better organization during the physical proficiency tests to aid everybody in
finding his way from station to station in the gym, restricting the number of upperclassmen at the Davidson-Queens Dance, and
a program whereby the freshmen can become better acquainted before the upperclassmen arrive.

Salmagundi
By JOHN TOUMARAS

Now that rush week's over and classes have gotten underway, I suppose that Davidson will settle down to its traditional
norm of lethargy, apathy, and indifference. But it need not! We upperclassmen have an obligation to attempt to create a
better Davidson and to make ourselves heard by the trustees and administration. The freshmen have an obligation to themselves to
sharpen their imagination, become more aware, and strengthen their personality. Although Davidson College is a fine institution, it has its
problems. If you upperclassmen will bear with me, I would like to enlighten the freshmen about some of them.

One primary trouble spot is the recent decision to increase the enrollment. This one decision has led to a host
of problems, among which are inadequate dormitory facilities, overcrowded classrooms, overworked professors, and inadequate library facilities. A new dorm is
being planned, but when will it be ready for occupancy? The library addition will be ready soon, but do we
have enough books? We need more professors! The history department has been shy a man for two years. The philosophy,
sociology, and political science departments each contain only one professor. They need help! The Spanish and psychology departments have only
two professors. One history class contains as many students as a professor's load would normally be. Every department is overworked,
and every student will suffer.

There are other problems, however. The curriculum needs further overhauling. Higher salaries are still in order. Stealing, drinking, and after-dance
parties must be dealt with. The administration and the faculty are working very, very hard on these problems. We must
aid them, and, at times, goad them, too. But, one thing we can all be grateful for is the Union
coffee—it’s a little better this year. During a recent rush party, one freshman kindly remarked that he had seen many
fine-looking kitchens around the Court. On behalf of the student body, I would like to extend to the Trustees and
their families a cordial invitation to Homecoming on October 24-26. I am sure that ample accommodations can be found for
them in the gymnasium. Martin’s Manor has been made the depository for last year’s rough toilet paper. Belk sends its
sympathy.

This column is happy to announce that it has been honored by being made the official news agency of the
Peon Army. Its first bulletin: Save Your Masks. We Will March Again.

LETTER TO EDITOR
Reader Sees Irony In Local Rush Week

Dear Editor:

This has been religious emphasis week. It goes under another name, but it has all the characteristics of a real
religious observance. What other week brings out such sacrificial service from such a large number of students; calls forth so
many hours of allegiance to a single cause? For a full week the uppermost thought in all our minds has
been fraternity. Everything has been done for, or at least in the perspective of, “the good of the brotherhood.” More
work, talk, thought, and enthusiasm have been devoted to this concern than will be given in any other month to
any of the so-called religious activities on campus. What is a person’s god but that to which highest allegiance is
given? Who are we kidding when we say that we are devoted first to the church, when our time and
efforts say that the fraternity is number one on our list? Perhaps we should not be surprised at the situation,
for what is it but a manifestation of our deep self-interest? The fraternity is designed to benefit primarily its own
members. It is not outgoing. The church, though admittedly far below its own professions, is intended to be concerned with
those outside itself. So naturally we are more interested in the fraternity. We “get the most out of it.” It
is ironic that a “church-related” college has a fraternity-related student body. After this week, who can deny it?

Fraternally,
J.H. Cooley
