“We're going to play wide open football. No more of this control stuff.” These were the words of Coach Bill Dole as he described the 1958 version of the Davidson Wildcats who open next Friday against Catawba in Charlotte. Coach Dole is patterning his offense after the pros down to the last degree. Each player has a notebook full of plays, formations, X’s and O’s that resemble something out of higher calculus. Dole has the squad to play this brand of ball both from the standpoint of brains as well as brawn.

Calling the signals at quarterback will be junior Charlie Benson, one of the league’s leading passers last year. On the other end of his tosses at the ends will be Jim Bloomfield and Harold Westervelt. At tackles will be 225-pound John Watwood and 212-pound Scott Lacy. Alternate captain Charlie James will hold down one guard, while 240-pound Paul Biggers will man the other. At center is converted fullback Dave Warden. Dave seems capable of replacing all-conference center Bill Price, who graduated.

The halfback positions will feature Captain Craig Wall, who was one of the leading pass receivers in the conference last year at end, and shifty Paul Barbee. The fullback position sees a nip and tuck battle between George Hart and Dave McCullough with Hart holding the upper hand at the moment, but not even Coach Dole will say who'll start next Friday. Other returnees who are looking good are Tom Redding at quarterback, Harold Bynum at center, Dan House at end, Johnny Crute at guard, and Alex Porter at tackle.

Coach Dole seemed pleased with his new crop of freshmen. Freshmen Duncan Morton, John Pucker, and Booker Clark look good at end while Bill Whitlington and Sonny Fraley have shown up well at tackle. Dole said Cecil Holcomb, Durant Vick, and Buddy Reeves have stood out at guard, and singled out Bruce Usher for his play at center. He said that freshmen Brant McRorie, Lynwood Mallard, and Jerry Sheffield have all played well at halfback. A real battle for top frosh fullback is shaping up between Graham Allison and Bob McAllister. Sam Jackson appears to have gained the quarterback position on the freshman team. The coach declined to comment on his team's chances, but the sly grin on his face gave warning that the Cats will be worth watching this year.

---

Pictured above are three outstanding Wildcat offensive backs. From left to right, Craig Wall, halfback and team captain; Dave McCullough, junior fullback; and Paul Barbee, senior halfback and punting specialist. The Wildcats’ first game will be with Catawba in Charlotte Friday, September 19.

---

Davidson College, Davidson, N.C. Thursday, September 12, 1958

---

Ready For 1958 Action

---

Davidsonian

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

No. 1

---

270 Frosh Crash College Doors; Largest In Davidson History

By ERVIN DUGGAN / Davidsonian Staff Writer

Davidson College opened its doors Thursday to 270 freshmen, the largest single class admitted to the school in its 125-year history. The new students, representing nineteen states and nine foreign countries, will complete a week-long period of orientation and fraternity rushing before classes begin on September 17.

---

Seventy-one Davidson ROTC Cadets used a six-week stay at Fort Bragg to prove to the Army that they and their department are among the best in the nation. Approximately two thousand cadets from thirty-seven colleges and universities throughout the eastern United States checked into the ROTC camp on June 21. Six weeks later when the dust had cleared and the firing on the rifle range had subsided, Sam Clarke, a Davidson senior from Columbia, South Carolina, was selected as the outstanding cadet among the two thousand in camp. He had previously been selected as top man in his platoon and company. Three other Davidson men took top honors in their companies. Pete Andrews, Tom Morrison, and Sam McGuirt, along with Clarke, gave Davidson exactly one-third of the camp honor men. John Bennett and Tenney Deane won first place selections in their platoons, while Bruce Wilder, Laurens Walker, and Roy Gilbert claimed number two positions in their respective platoons.

Each day a group of approximately fifty cadets was detailed for guard duty. From each group, one cadet was chosen as the outstanding cadet and named colonel’s orderly for the next day. Of the thirty-six colonel’s orderlies chosen, six were from Davidson. Cadets Clarke, Deane, Morrison, Reddock, Chandler, and McGuirt were chosen for this honor.

Sam Clarke, commander of the Davidson ROTC Cadet Corps, is shown at Fort Bragg, where he was honored by being chosen outstanding cadet among the two thousand ROTC cadets at Fort Bragg this summer.

College President D. Grier Martin, in a letter to Colonel William L. Adams, Davidson PMS&T, had this to say about the performance of the cadets at summer camp: “Not only does it speak well for Davidson...College students, but it indicates the fine training being given to them by the personnel of the ROTC Department. There are ten houses now, including eight which are being converted into living quarters.

Old Fraternity Row Converted To Homes

The old fraternity houses are going to be put to constructive use. There are ten houses now, including eight which are being converted into living quarters. The Phi Delt house is at present empty, but considerations are being made for using it as a meeting place for faculty and student committees, honorary societies, and other college groups requiring more space than can be found in the Union or elsewhere.

APARTMENTS

Three of the old houses — those of the Kappa Sig, Beta, and ATO fraternities — will be used as apartments for married students and their wives, to house, at present, Joe Williford, Jimmy Ellis, and Harold Westervelt, respectively. The KA house will be used by Dr. Clark of the Bible Department. For Miss Elizabeth Mayhew, the Order and Reference Librarian, the Sigma Chi house will be made available. Mr. John R. Horton, the Acting Director of Alumni and Public Relations, is to live in the SAE fraternity house. Phi Gam will be used by Miss Della Shore, the Library Cataloguer. The houses to be used for apartments will receive hot water heaters and bathtubs, their floors will be polished or refinished, and kitchen cabinets and counters, as well as partitions, will be installed.

Freshmen Learn Rules In Orientation

Tests, examinations, conferences, assemblies, tours. These are the activities that met 270 freshmen Thursday morning and will continue through next Tuesday. For five days the class of '62 will be instructed in the history and organization of the college plant, and the habits and duties of her men. However, Freshman Advisor Tom Cutting does not plan to stop here with the informal education of Davidson's new men.

FUTURE PLANS

Using the freshman council as a nucleus, Cutting hopes to conduct discussion groups for an “extended orientation.” The discussions will be used to answer and clear up questions that may arise during the year. Attendance will be entirely voluntary.

Tomorrow morning the Dean of Students, Dr. John Bailey, and Student Body President John Kuykendall will talk with the freshmen about the “Government of The College.” In the afternoon, the newcomers will hear Colonel William L. Adams discuss the “military situation,” then hear a panel discussion on the subject of “Fraternities.”

FAIRER SEX

At 6:45 Saturday evening, buses will take the entire class of '62 to Queens College for their first brush with the fairer sex, college variety. This dance is an annual affair for the two schools. Sunday will be devoted to worship and rest after the concentrated activity of the first days of Orientation. Reading tests, registration, a tour of the library, and a discussion of the College's music program will fill the schedule for Monday. The final day of Orientation, Tuesday, September 16, will be devoted to Davidson's Religious life, including the YMCA, the College’s athletic program, and the business phase of the College operation.

STUDENT LEADERS

Student leaders for the Orientation period include: Walter O’Brient, Dabney Stuart, John Nix, John Kuykendall, Joe Cline, Sam Smith, Pete Andrews, Dick Hodel, Joe Verrault, Dave Robinson, Pat Henderson, Sam Sloan, John Caldwell, Richard Brubaker, Jim Hurlong, Jim Williams, Charley Rutherford, Roy Gilbert, Vernon Broyles, and Bruce Wilder.

Corps Commander Sam Clarke, a senior from Columbia, South Carolina, has been named Cadet Corps Commander of the Davidson College ROTC Corps. Cadet Clarke was named the outstanding cadet at the Fort Bragg ROTC Camp earlier in the summer. He is a member of the soccer team and serves as Vice President of Beta Theta Pi. Also released today were the names of the new Corps Staff and Battle Group Commanders for the coming year. Cadet Henry Brown of Davidson was named Corps S-1 Officer. Cadet Laurens Walker of Spartanburg, South Carolina, Corps S-2 Officer. Operations will be handled by Cadet Sam McGuirt of Monroe. John Renfro of Spartanburg will round out the staff as Corps S-4 Officer. Cadets Tenney Deane of Safety Harbor, Florida, and Pete Andrews of Orange, Virginia, will be Battle Group Commanders in the new cadet organization. Clint Patton of Brownsville, Tennessee, will lead the Honor Platoon, and Vernon Broyles of Atlanta, Georgia, will serve as Band Captain.

Shown above are Dr. Clarence Pietenpol, Dean of the Faculty, and Cadet John Renfro, as they prepare a land mine at Fort Bragg. Dr. Pietenpol visited Fort Bragg along with thirty-six other representatives of the colleges whose cadet units were present for ROTC training this summer.

Broyles, Publisher, Dies Suddenly

Horace Clinton Broyles, Jr., founder and publisher of the Mecklenburg Gazette, died suddenly in a Mooresville hospital, August 30. He had been ill for about a week, but there had been no indication that his illness was so serious. Mr. Broyles was born in Nashville, Tennessee in 1911. He moved to Davidson in 1947 and established the Davidson Printing Company. Funeral services for Mr. Broyles were held Sunday, August 31 at 4:30 at the Davidson Methodist Church. The Reverend Jerry D. Murray, former pastor and friend of the family, officiated, assisted by the Reverend Don Beatty, pastor of Fair View Church at Mount Mourne. A graveside service was held Monday, September 1, in Nashville, Tennessee.