The Trustees finally came through! Dan S. LaFar, '57, currently assistant Alumni and Publicity Secretary, is the new President of Davidson College, Mr. Dan R. LaFar, Chairman of the Presidential Nominating Committee, announced today. The vote was extremely close, Big LaFar admitted, between LaFar and President Emeritus ‘Slick John” Cunningham. The committee recently learned that “Slick” was dissatisfied with his setup at the Presbyterian Foundation and desired to return to the Hill. “However,” Big LaFar said, “we were looking for a young man and evidently got what we wanted. Johnny was strongly considered but we felt his money-getting days are over and that young Dan has potential for being even slicker.”

PAST GRAND WIZARD

LaFar was prominent in student affairs here, serving as Grand Wizard of the Student Council and widely recognized as the foremost bridge player ever to compete in the College Union.

Others considered by the Committee for the job were Wally Pharr, Jr., likewise a graduate of the Class of 1957; Orvil Faubus, Charles Ellison, Willard Wolfe, James Hoffa, and Mike Todd. Of the latter Big LaFar commented: “He would have made us a lot of loot but unfortunately he didn’t listen to Liz.”

LaFar will be formally inaugurated at Commencement this June and will replace C. Jerry Pietenpol, effective September 1. At the inauguration ceremony, C. Shaw Smith will invest him with the Woody Wilson Seal of Approval while Sam Spencer will return to present the crown and scepter.

‘PRETTY GOOD DEAL’

When informed of his promotion LaFar had this to say: “It sounds like a pretty good deal. Hope I'll have time for it.” It is reputed that one of the first actions LaFar will take during his reign will be the abolishment of the Executive Committee. “‘We do not intend to submit to faculty domination,” he has been known to have said, “and all the Trustees from Cape Canaveral to h— can't make us submit to it.” LaFar plans to use Edgar N. Linker as Dean of Students when the new regime takes over in September. Linker was cited for his exceptional work with students in the past.

Quote of the Week

Advice to Candidates

“I know of no other science as beautiful as organic chemistry.” —Old Sanskrit Proverb —James M. Frederickson

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

VOL. XLVI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. TUESDAY, APRIL 1, 1958 No. 22

Student Head Interviewed ‘They Won't Get Me’---K'dall

I found myself standing outside the student government office, wondering whether president-elect John Kuykendall was really inside; if he was, this was the end of a long search. I tapped gently on the door—absolute silence—then, following the sound of rattling chains, he let me in the room and slammed the door, locked and bolted it. The curtains were drawn tight; the air was heavy with the odor of stale Union cigarettes.

“What's all this?” I asked.

The door opened about half-an-inch. A solitary, crimson eye peered out. “You from the DAVIDSONIAN?” a hollow voice inquired.

“Why aren't you out leading your people, building telephone booths, and rapping knuckles?”

“Ever hear of a guy named Garfield?” he asked, his unshaven chin quivering tremulously. “Well, they won't get me!”

“Tut, tut,” I said, “who would want to assassinate you, Mr. President?”

“Lots of people,” he said. “This place is crawling with office seekers and favor-hunters; they’ve already made one attempt. Someone put a rattlesnake in my laundry; when I opened it, there he was!”

“Heavens to Betsy,” I said, “How did you deal with him, sir?”

“Well, he’d evidently been through the laundry—folded rather badly too—but there was a note about finding the other one; must have thought he was part of a pair of walking socks. I say, you don’t happen to have a bite to eat with you, do you? I've been living off this collection of old Vesper sermons—not too much nutritional value.”

“Sorry, I haven't a thing,” I said, “unless you'd care for a few Booker T. Washington Cen- (Continued On Back Page)

Presley To Kick Off 1958-59 Artist Series

Elvis Presley, eminent entertainer, has been named as the first attraction in the 1958-59 Davidson College Artist Series, according to Mr. C. Shaw Smith, chairman of the series. Miss Lili St. Cyr, another outstanding show business figure, has also been secured for the series. She is scheduled to appear in a ballet especially arranged for the Davidson performance.

Mr. Presley has made several tours across the country, attracting huge crowds at all his public appearances, and has had experience on TV and in the movies. Currently serving in the Armed Forces, Presley will visit Davidson next fall during a tour of the state in conjunction with the Better Schools for North Carolina drive. Further attractions on the 1958-59 program will be announced at a later date.

Lanin Chickens Out; Lawrence Welk Hired

Lawrence Welk and his famed orchestra will replace Lester Lanin for this coming Spring Frolics dance weekend, April 18-19, IFC President Bob Jones announced recently. Lanin had heard reports of the student body's conduct and was afraid of being hissed and booed. Welk, the well-known television personality, canceled a contract to play in Carnegie Hall that weekend in order to make the trip to Davidson. When asked what he thought of the engagement, Welk replied, “Wonderful, wonderful. Ever since I began taking mail-order music lessons, I have dreamed of playing a dance for the Davidson students. My chance has come.”

The emphasis for the weekend will be placed on formality, dignity, and revelry, the IFC president revealed. Welk has agreed that all efforts should be made to carry out this theme to the fullest extent. He stated, however, that he would tolerate no drinking on the dance floor, no matter how formal it may be.

IBM System Set For Davidson In 3 Years

The International Business Machine Corporation has been granted a contract for the installation of a centralized teaching device to beInstalled in all classrooms at Davidson within the next three years, the new device will provide for all teaching to be done mechanically from a central control center, to be located in the dome of Chambers building. Complete details on the IBM Master-Teach System, as it is named, were unavailable at press time, but it is expected to do away with the need for the majority of the faculty. The IBM salesman has stated, “A sixth grader could operate the thing.” Installation of the new device is in keeping with the move to keep Davidson a step ahead of its competitors in the education field, and with the increased enrollment situation. Through this new set-up, four times as many students will be able to receive instruction in a given course. The chairman of the Trustees Committee, when contacted, said, “This is great! We can now increase the enrollment for 1860 to 2500!" The IBM Corporation expressed genuine joy in having this opportunity to install their system in another of the country’s large schools. Such systems are already in use at UCLA, Illinois, Michigan State, and Cal. Tech.

Television personality, cancelled his hesitantly agreed to this stipulation in order to ensure Welk's enthusiasm during the weekend, although certain revisions will have to be made in the present plans for the dance in order to carry out the agreement. Jim Jones, the Dance Committee Chairman, stated that the decorations will vary slightly from the traditional pattern used often in the past. The formal dance will be held in the Ballroom of the Union rather than the gymnasium where it has traditionally been held. This will add to the formality of the occasion, Jones announced, and will also render the decorating, which will be done by a well-known Charlotte firm, much easier.

It was learned that some time back 13 squirrels from the King's Game Preserve nearby came in and devoured the 13 acorns planted on the 2-acre plot reserved for the forest.

HUNTERS GET SQUIRRELS
But noted game hunters T. K. Anderson and C. O. Pickard came to the rescue, confiscating the naughty squirrels. Pre-med Ray Atkinson performed a duodenal incision in biology lab and recovered the swallowed acorns, which have been returned to their proper position. Said Atkinson: “I learned this technique in the Navy.” Plans are being effected for a faculty committee to promote solicitations for the Forest project. Forest “Egghead” Wilkerson is the student representative on the committee. “Nimbus” Lake has been contacted to investigate the possibility of making some rain to end the drought supposedly impeding the growth of the forest.

Three Additions To the Faculty Next Year
Several new additions were named to the faculty of 1958-59 recently. Number one on the list was the appointment of Elizabeth Taylor, former star of motion pictures, who will instruct a new course, Philosophy 53, on Emotional Conflicts. Miss Taylor is the author of the recent book, “Perils of Married Life.” At present she is working on her doctorate at Chicago University. The History Department announced the appointment of Georgi Malenkov to assist in the Russian History courses. He is on the new exchange program. Col. W. L. Adams, PMS&T, notified the DAVIDSONIAN that Mr. D. D. Eisenhower has been added to the ROTC staff as small arms instructor. Mr. Eisenhower formerly served as European Commander of the Allied Forces, President of Columbia University, and President of the United States.

Robert M. Shoffner, who leads the junior class scholastically with a perfect 3.500 average, commented on the project: “It’s super.”

W.W. Memorial Forest Shaping Up Nicely
“Progress on the Woodrow Wilson Memorial Forest is coming along fine,” F. D. Hobart, Supt. of Buildings and Grounds, reported today. “However, we would like to see some tangible evidence in the near future.”

Committee Decides Four Frats Must Go
Four fraternities must go! That was the word from the joint IFC-Executive Committee study of the Skit Nite-Preferential Bidding-Snowball situation. Chairman of the joint committee, Prof. Tom Daggy, announced today that after extensive study of the situation, the only plausible solution to the problem is to revoke the charters of four fraternities on campus. This will not only serve to increase the Independent group on campus and make for more select fraternities, which are two aims of the preferential bidding, but it will show the students who the real boss on the campus is. Daggy went on to say that, again after much study, the only logical and fair way to determine which fraternities must leave the campus was to have a completely disinterested party draw the names of four fraternities from a hat. This drawing will be held in the Union ballroom next Wednesday at chapel period.

ROTC Federal Inspection Called Off; Adams Calm
IT’S ALL OFF! A spokesman for the ROTC high command announced today that the 1 April Federal Inspection has been cancelled. He reluctantly stated that several circumstances have arisen to prevent the exercise. Two MS I’s have writs the next day and need the time for study. There are no uniforms available due to a slight mix-up in the laundry. Mr. Stacks got them mixed up with another order and they were sent to Greyhound lines in Charlotte.

MISPLACED KEYS
Rifles cannot be issued since Sgt. Crump seems to have misplaced the keys to the rifle. Captain Lonnie Lumsden is reported missing. He fell in a manhole in front of Belk while demonstrating to several MS II's the art of closing a tank hatch. Search parties are combing the sewage disposal area behind the tennis courts.

Austin Promoted To TV Guide Mag
That noted DAVIDSONIAN TV columnist, Bobby Austin, reports that he is now on the editorial staff of TV Guide. Austin gave this press comment: “The prime factor in landing this job was my excellent column, ‘Court of Austin Critics’." Austin has served with other famed publications such as Teen, Gem, Nugget, and Secret Romances.

WHAT? ME WORRY?
Sgt. Lindsey, not appearing to be too upset, informed the DAVIDSONIAN that he needed another week to get his chain of command down pat anyway.

BRAWL
It was later learned that the inspecting party was at Carolina last week and somehow became involved in a brawl over a woman, and did not feel up to the trip anyway. When asked for a statement, PMS&T Adams replied, “What, me worry?”

Above is “Exhibit A” in the trial of Lloyd Chapin, dismissed from school for the “possession and use of illicit beverages on the Davidson campus.” Chapin was caught operating a distillery in Erwin Lodge. The ever-watchful E. N. “Dondi” Linker was the “bird-dog” who discovered Chapin’s recent orgy one night in the Lodge. Student Body President Ross Smyth said this was the largest cache of booze ever uncovered on the Davidson campus.