Summer '58 Edition - Number 3

July 1, 1958

— The Davidsonian

HOLIDAY

Friday and Saturday, July 4 and 5, will be a holiday period in the summer session of the college. As
we prepare to celebrate this period and commemorate the occasion that made it possible, remembering the rich and meaningful history
associated with it and the implications it still holds for us today — may each and every one of us
have a happy and joyous holiday in a real and sincere manner.

There are three aspects pertaining to this holiday in which we are directly concerned. Our absence from classes and studies
will afford us a time of relaxation and refreshment. A few days at home, at the beach, in the mountains,
or wherever we choose to spend this time, will help to renew our minds and bodies.

But that is not the most important thing to consider at this time. Our thoughts must also include the real
meaning behind this celebration. To help prepare us in this manner, we would like to share with you the following
thoughts of J. Edgar Hoover, Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation.

"The year was 1776. The Continental Congress, meeting in Philadelphia, adopted the Declaration of Independence. In that moment, the affirmation
of freedom from tyranny for the New World was recorded. In signing the document, the 56 American patriots also knowingly
accepted the risk inherent in winning freedom.

"On freedom's altar, they — in Jefferson's words — pledged, '...our Lives, our Fortunes, and our sacred Honor.'

"The action of those men made government of the people a reality. It also made each one of us accountable
for the continuation of free government.

"Since that beginning, no one, I think, has set forth the responsibility of the individual more plainly than did that
vigorous patriot, Theodore Roosevelt:

'...we are the government, you and I,'

(continued on page 2)

CAR THEFT

On Saturday night, a member of the student body drove his car into the parking lot adjacent to the College
Union. He went into the Union and watched television for approximately an hour. Upon returning to the parking lot, he
discovered that his car was no longer there. He had left the keys in the ignition.

With the help of the local Police, a search for the car was made, but with no immediate results. The
vehicle was finally located Monday evening, abandoned in a field.

It is understood that many students have the practice of leaving keys in car ignitions. This is an extremely high
compliment to our honor system here at Davidson. We live here in this atmosphere of education and culture, and trust
each other to the utmost; but, as incidents have proven, our fair campus seems not to be immune to inhabitants
of the outside world. Perhaps in the future, we should not allow temptation in its most evident form to remain
before the eyes of everyone.

AT THE UNION

NIGHT AT 9:00

The results of the pledge in chapel on Thursday pertaining to the mid-summer dance activities were very encouraging.

Of the one-half of the student body polled, only five did not promise monetary help. The other half of the
students will be polled today.

RIDDLE OF THE WEEK

Those we caught, we threw away. Those we could not catch, we kept.
What is it?

(Answer next week)

This publication is for YOU. We would like for you to have a real part in it. Your ideas and
contributions will be greatly appreciated. You may submit such ideas and material for publication at the desk in the College
Union. See your own composition in circulation!!

Joe - Say, Jim, have you heard the joke about the blind man who picked up the hammer and saw?
