PHE BOBTAIL DAVIDSONIAN

Summer '58 Edition - Number 3

Page 2
HOLIDAY
(continued from page 1)
"'You and I.' Those words hold the key.

You and I, as individuals, are responsible for the successes and failures of America. What we do, or fail to do, as citizens, will add up to the strength or the weakness of our nation."

A third thing to consider at this time is our own safety. Holidays always seem to have related to them a note of sorrow. Post-holiday headlines shout with bold figures the tragic toll of those who did not live to enjoy and benefit from the holiday season. "A Motorist's Prayer," by David J. Quill, from the Religious News Service, is something that should demand a few moments of our thought and meditation before we drivers begin our campus exodus and return.

"Lord, impress upon me the great responsibility that is mine as I take the wheel of my automobile. As I need Thy guidance in all things, so now especially do I when I have life and death in my hands. Give me always a deep reverence for and desire to protect human life. When I would be careless, remind me of homes where there is sorrow and loneliness, of hospitals where broken suffering bodies lie in anguish because someone forgot. Write indelibly upon my conscience that each time I take the wheel of my car, I am a potential murderer; that in a few careless moments I could be face to face with dire tragedy for my own family as well as for others. Give me grace to practice the Christian virtues of patience and thoughtfulness at all times. Help me to show the same courtesy and kindness to other motorists that I want to expect from them. When others exceed the speed limit or otherwise break the law, let me not be tempted to do the same. Forgive my stupidity if ever I think it is permissible to violate traffic laws, so long as I do not get caught. Remind me often that I am responsible to Thee as well as to the state to obey the ordinances of the highway; and when I do not, I sin against Thee as well as against my fellowmen, even though nobody else may be watching and no accident may result. Lord, grant me control of my car and of myself at all times. Help me to live lawfully and peaceably, to save life and not to destroy it, and so by example to lead others to do the same. Amen."

HAPPY HOLIDAY!!
HAPPY HOLIDAY!!

MOVIES

Listed below is the movie schedule for the remainder of the first session of summer school. Each movie is tentatively scheduled to be shown twice during the interval of the dates specified. Watch the daily schedule board in the College Union for the exact day and time.

"View From Pompey's Head" - July 7-
Richard Egan - Dana Wynter
Cameron Mitchell

"Mogambo" - Clark Gable - July 15 - 18
Ava Gardner - Grace Kelly

"The Racers" - Kirk Douglas - July 22 - 25
Gilbert Roland

"The Thing" - Kenneth Tobey - July 28 -
James Arness August 1

Johnny - Mother, why do I keep going around in circles?

Mother - Shut up and be quiet, before I nail your other shoe to the floor.

It is not possible to nourish a man's mind with a single sermonic discussion of a half-hour a week. The body cannot be sustained by a single meal, and it is very difficult to have tutored men when the average minister has only "thirty minutes a week in which to raise the dead." Now the food for the soul is a good deal like the Old Testament manna; it only lasts for a day. You try to gather up enough to last for more than that, and it sours on your hands. Our Bible reading, our prayers, and our devotional life must be a daily exercise or they are insufficient.

- Louis H. Evans, Sr.

A holiday wish:

May the happiest days of your past
Be the saddest days of your future.

Going to the mountains for the holiday?

On every mountain-height is rest.
- Goethe

The ragged cliff has a thousand faces in a thousand hours.
- Emerson

A proud heart and a lofty mountain are never fruitful.
- George Eliot

Without mountains, the air could not be purified, nor the flowing of the rivers sustained.
- Ruskin