Che Davidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, OCTOBER 31, 1958

(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

Davidsonian Re-Affirms Confidence In D. Grier Martin As President

Almost two weeks before the Board of Trustees elected Grier Martin President of the College, the DAVIDSONIAN, in the issue
of May 2, 1958, named him as the only man for the job. On May 15, the date of his
election, the DAVIDSONIAN had this to say about the new President:

“The DAVIDSONIAN congratulates the Board of Trustees on its choice of D. Grier Martin as the next President of Davidson
College. Mr. Martin has proved during the past six years, and especially this year, that he has the ability, intelligence,
and affinity for forceful action that will be needed during the coming years, if Davidson is to realize its real
potential.”

Five months after his election our attitude has not changed in the least, except to gain assurance as the months
go by that the decision of the Trustees was the best possible.

Perhaps it seems ridiculous to mention again our attitude toward Mr. Martin. However, conversations with certain members of the Student
Body and Trustees have led us to believe that some of our readers have misconstrued criticism of various aspects of
Davidson as personal criticism of Mr. Martin and his policies. Nothing could be further from the truth. The overcrowded conditions
which greeted us on our arrival at Davidson were none of the new President’s doings. In fact, he is on
record as opposing any further increase in the size of the college. The faculty religious regulations were written long before
he was born, and our weak departments have been weak far longer than five months. Only in the general sense
that as President of the College he is responsible for all phases of its operation is he responsible for these
conditions which we have attempted to criticize. In this capacity, we have every reason to believe that the study which
he is now applying to such matters will result in a sound, reasonable program of improvement. Every Trustee, student, parent,
and alumnus can rest assured that Davidson is in the very best of hands.

The DAVIDSONIAN believes one of its duties to be the pointing out of existing problems and the suggestion of possible
solutions. Every editorial is written with the full realization that the magnitude of the problems discussed is such that every
facet of them cannot be squeezed into the space of two columns. Often in considering these questions, we are relieved
that no member of this staff or of the Student body, but a man of the maturity and judgment of
Mr. Martin is charged with the ultimate decisions involved in each.—W.L.W. & C.H.C.

Constitutional Amendments

Today might well prove to be the red-letter day of 1958-1959 Davidson College student government. Two proposed amendments to the
Student Body constitution were presented, about which much has been said within the past year and particularly in recent weeks.

The amendments concerning the Honor Council and the firearms regulation have been “chewed over” on these pages too much for
anything vitally new to be added concerning their content and purpose. The Honor Council question poses only one dilemma—not whether
it should be adopted but which of two methods of nomination should be employed. Several issues ago this paper urged
its readers to vote for nomination by a joint student-faculty committee, with additional nominations from the student body at large.
The introduction of the faculty element in no way takes the matter out of the students’ hands, but rather adds
the mature insight of a group which is removed from the popularity-smoked reaches of the student body. Too, the proposal
asserts the right of the Student Council to select those members of the faculty who will serve on the nomination
committee.

Tragedy that seems to bear out the claims of empiricism that experience is the most valid source of knowledge points
its finger in only one direction for the prudent. If there is to be no unnecessary noise and no gambling
in the dorms, it is only necessary that all firearms be forbidden therein. It would be much the better thing
to do to gamble for lucre than for lives.

Much thought and effort has gone into the amendments set forth today. They are not the bid of the Kuykendall
Council for the Woodrow Wilson Great Achievement Award or for immortality among Davidson College Councils. A group of representative students
chosen by the students has produced two new flagstones to be added to the walkway of progress. The DAVIDSONIAN commends
the Council for its foresight in the one case and hindsight in the other, and urges the Student Body to
vote affirmatively for the Honor Council, with student-faculty committee nominations, and for the addition to the Student Body Regulations, forbidding
possession of firearms in the dormitories.—G.W.R.

New Court Makes A Big Difference

The 1958 version of Homecoming is now all over but for its inevitable aftermath, and from many reports it was
one of the most successful dance weekends in history. To be sure, in one respect, this one was unique in
that our set-up in the new fraternity court made a difference. Gone are the old days of mass confusion: the
days when an alumnus was handed a coke and forced to stand up; the days when an adventurous “soldier-of-fortune” could
not get his privacy in the confines of the “little hut”; the days of packed TV rooms with floor-sitting a
necessity; the days of comparatively worse boarding house food. One could elaborate much more completely the virtues of our present
layout in contrast to the “old way.” Surely the numerous alumni who returned, many for the sole purpose of eyeing
the new Court, were impressed and regretted that they were born too soon.

In short, the new Patterson Court just made for a better overall weekend for those who chose to spend at
least some time on campus. Our only complaint is that the parking and traffic situation around the Court was bad.
Couldn't this problem be worked out more suitably for Mid-winters?—S.R.L.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Charles Chastain

ASSISTANT EDITOR
Bob Lathan, George Ramsey

BUSINESS MANAGER
Ed Armfield

Associate Editors
Dick Smith
Jim Hamilton
Pete Kellogg
Bruce Brooks

Managing Editors
Laurens Walker
Bill Patton
Henry Samuels

Sports Editor
Tom Colvin

Feature Editor
Spiro Macris

News Editor
Bross. Cole

Assignments Editor
George Rhyne

Copy Editor
Dave Gillis

Cartoonists
Greg Grana

Photographer
Bob Wynne

Advertising Manager
Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879

HAMILTONIANS VS. JEFFERSONIANS

Student Leader Explains New Constitutional Amendment, Describes Council Sentiment On Honor Court Proposal

By BOB LIVINGSTON.

The proposed Honor Court is at the same time the most logical and simple, and also the most visible and
far-reaching improvement to the structure of our honor system ever proposed. It would endeavor to ensure an even greater student
control and thought behind honor policy decisions. And, subsidiary to this, it would open up a broad field of operations
for the legitimate activities of the Student Council.

What it would do very simply stated would be to separate the legislative and judicial functions from the existing Student
Council. For several years, the burden of the combined responsibility has been felt from within and noticed from without. Last
year's Student Council felt this in particular. Matters that were standard affairs for student governing bodies elsewhere, it could not
undertake. There were two primary reasons given for this, both of which have been considered and accepted in the current
proposition.

First, the press of other duties, in some large degree extra-curricular. This has been met by the stipulation that the
members of the Honor Court resign from it before running for any other major campus office.

Second, the lack of experience was observable. This the Honor Court proposal would meet by having its members serve “for
good behavior,” that is until graduation or conviction of an offense against the student body constitution, whichever came first.

Half of the Student Council would say that a semi-restrictive method of nomination would further enhance the amelioration sought here.
No man can serve two masters, last year’s Student Council decided. Therefore, after preliminary discussion of the matter, they appointed
a committee which prepared a report on the issue. This report was accepted by Student Council as a recommendation to
the new by a vote of 13-0. Over the summer a preliminary draft, embodying this report was prepared. The present
Student Council studied this, the general idea, and appointed a committee to do further work. The draft of this committee
was accepted 14-0. The value and labor effected on the proposition are evident in its wholehearted approval by the bodies
most intimately connected with its object.

The only serious division arose over the method of nomination. Here the student council was evenly split, 6-6. The advocates
of semi-restricted nomination (the Hamiltonians) offer a compromise between two extremes: fully closed nominations and fully open nomination. The proposal
would have official nominations of twice the number of vacancies tobe filled with an additional opportunity for free nomination from
the floor. The objects of this are these: that a closed committee making the official nomination could be more objective
and less subjective in their choice, that the better men would be chosen by this committee more consistently than the
student body has chosen the better men for the ordinary Student Council. Thus, they feel that this outweighs the strict,
traditional principles of the present system. The opponents of this (the Jeffersonians) feel that the seriousness of the office to
the individual student asks that this same individual student be given free selection of his possible judges. They further feel
that the caliber of the Student Councils in the past has been sufficiently high to justify this.

Another unique feature of the proposal which might bear some explication is that the Honor Court is to be subsidiary
when in conflict with the Student Council. The Student Council will create the policies under which the Honor Court will
sit. For example, the interpretation of the drinking rule will rest with the annually chosen Student Council. The jurisdiction of
the Honor Court will thus rest with the individual, not making its own rules of procedure.

THE SPECTATOR

BMOC Backs Big Issues Campaign
By TOM KERNAN

Entering the cafeteria, yesterday, I found my friend, Godfrey Cringe, enthroned before a piping-hot bowl of acorn extract (another of
Slater's 13-cent bargains). Godfrey was enveloped in a dun-colored overcoat of doubtful origin and a pale blue muffler. Behind his
horn-rimmed glasses, his eyes, on the verge of a deep scarlet, peered moistly at me.

“Hab a chair,” he announced thickly.

“You look a bit under the weather,” I said.

“Cold,” he said, vaguely pointing in the direction of his nose. “No sleep last weekend—darned cold weather.”

This highly illuminating bit of conversation was interrupted by the arrival of our mutual acquaintance, Bert Stalwart, Davidson’s most well-rounded
student.

“Good afternoon,” he said, “thought I'd have a chat with you fellows. Have to make it fast, though, got a
meeting in ten minutes. No, ten and three-quarters,” he said, peering at his own watch. “That clock on the wall
is fast. See!” He shoved his wrist to within an inch of my face and added proudly, “Naval Observatory time.”

“FROWWW?”—a violent sneeze from Godfrey punctured Bert’s paean to his watch.

“Oh,” said Bert, “you have a cold, don’t you? You know, Godfrey, if you took a little more care of
your body, you wouldn’t have trouble like that. Get out in the air, man, get out in life. What most
people around here need is a more vigorous approach to life. I hope you fellows have been going to hear
the Big Issues talks. Congressman Trump spoke last night on the evils of the fig-newton tariff and showed how it
was all a ‘Commie’ plot. Barton Bloat, retired inspector of coal mines for the Department of the Interior, is going
to talk tonight—something about our foreign policy. Have you fellows been going to hear the Big Issues?”

“I’ve had a cold,” said Godfrey, apologetically.

“What!” said Bert, turning red in the face, “why I know what you are, Godfrey Cringe, you’re apathetic!”

“I am not,” said Godfrey, blushing furiously, “you take that back. I’ve been sick. You just wait till I get
my health back and you'll see—”

Bert had already gone; it was time for his meeting.

THE PHILOSOPHES

Council To Assume Role Of Observer?
By DABNEY STUART

The current problem with which the Student Council is faced points to a basic dichotomy between approaches to a philosophy
of student government. On the one hand there is the representative theory, on the other that of leadership. The alternative
methods of nominating members of the proposed Honor Council give illustration of each of these avenues of approach to action.

NOMINATION SYSTEM

The point at issue is the question of whether or not the members will be nominated popularly or whether this
popular nomination will be preceded by a committee nominative process. The latter alternative is actually a compromise position between the
extremes of total popular nomination and total committee nomination. Total committee nomination, the approach favored by the majority of last
year’s Student Council, has been scrapped, which offers an even more graphic insight into the principle involved.

Said principle involved, as manifested by the discussion that has surrounded this particular problem, is that of the conception of
both the function of this body and the best execution of this function. Should the Student Council act as merely
a mirror of student opinion, an elusive nebulosity, or should it clamp the bit between its teeth and act in
possible contradiction to the general feeling of the student body? Is it, as a representative instrument, to wield or be
wielded? Should it lead or represent?

Barry Golden, in the May-June (1959) issue of the “Carolina Israelite,” speaks of the same problem, deploring the lack of
leadership in crucial areas of our political culture. Instead of offering leadership, Mr. Golden maintains, the elected officials “wait to
see what the Gallup Poll says, and the diplomat takes a taxi ride to find out what the people are
saying.” While the analogy may be a little strong for the particular problem expressed in this article, Mr. Golden's pointing
to St. Paul as leader par excellence is vivid. “If St. Paul had been a ‘sampling man’ instead of a
leader, he would have packed up and gone back to Palestine.”

At the outset of the development of the proposed Honor Council there were two basic reasons for its support. One
was the obvious separation of legislative and judicial functions of the present Student Council.

MATURE PROCEDURE

The other, and more fundamental, objective was to eliminate in some way the aspect of popularity from the nominational procedure.
It seems that the latter reason, originally entwined with the concept of Honor Council, has itself been discarded, because such
disruption of the democratic right of the student body would not be met sympathetically by the students. The question at
hand indeed begs itself, and, at least by the actions of the present Student Council, has been temporarily answered. We
have gone to the taxi stand.

Cole Student And Squirrel Speak
By Tenney Deane

Friends, alumni, and students of Davidson College were surprised and amused last weekend when, during the half-time festivities, a voice
broke through the public address system announcing the following: “...and now the band will play our Alma Mater, ‘O Hell,
O Davidson.” Davidson then went on to win a very important moral victory.

For the past several weeks, the lack of grass around the new fraternity court has caused some concern to quite
a few fraternities. However, since Homecoming, our long-awaited grass has finally decided to do a little growing. As a result
of this, the faculty has organized another committee to investigate the possibility of the “spirit” of Homecoming as the cause.

One of the most elaborate decorations for last weekend was evidently overlooked by the judges on Saturday. The big “BEAT
V.M.I.” sign in the front yard of Martin’s Manor was the only evidence on Main Street that anything was happening
at the college. However, overlooking this fact, the Manor wishes to announce that it is holding second semester rush in
the spring. All interested are asked to see Ray Spangler for information regarding rush parties.

Overheard during the dance weekend: When a certain student and his wife were presented in the I.F.C. figure at the
formal dance on Friday night, one very attentive date, noticing the similarity of their last names but missing her title
of matron, remarked to those standing around her, “Isn't that tacky, bringing his sister up here.”

Vote Dixiecrat!

Rosco

Hooray for you, your editorial on guns—firearms, that is—was very appropriate, but why haven’t the students been informed of a
recent faculty meeting that put suspension as the penalty for having weapons in the dorms? A good question, yes. Hooray
for Chastain, who has the guts to suggest that Davidson would be better if it were less of a conservative
arts institution. Hooray for Mrs. Moore; how any one person could do as much for you students in so short
a time is beyond me. Hooray for Barger Builders; they are undoubtedly the slowest library builders in the world. They
have spent six weeks correcting the mistakes of the summer. I’m sure the students are very grateful that they don’t
have to use the library anymore since they can’t. Hooray for the architect; he was clever enough to not leave
a space for the card catalogues, so now Barger has to tear out shelves to put it in. Hooray for
the wild one-hand book; it clearly shows the lack of humor, originality, cleverness, and just plain squirrel sense among the
gentlemen at Davidson. Hooray for all the students who don’t throw nuts—acorns, that is—at me when I am around.
