The Davidsonian — THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO

(An Unsigned Editorial by the Editor)

Let's Move Into The New Court With Problems Solved

With our new fraternity court’s construction well under way, we must now turn our attention to perfecting the mechanics of
our fraternity system. In short, we must prevent the ill that causes us to move in the first place.

One of the main reasons for moving to the new court is that we have simply outgrown the present facilities.
The houses on the old court were designed to accommodate 35 or 40 members. Some chapters now have twice that
number.

Prevent Reoccurrence

It seems imperative, therefore, that we make some provision to prevent a reoccurrence of the overcrowding problem. It also seems
logical that now is the time to take some action—before we move into the court. Now is the time to
shut the barn door.

How can this best be done? The so-called preferential bidding system is a good answer to the problem.

Preferential Bidding

The actual mechanics of the preferential bidding system can vary in degree to meet our specific situation. Basically, the system
would match up the bids from each fraternity with the expressed desires of each rushee to achieve the highest correlation
of wishes.

Such a system means that first of all there must be a reliable and disinterested agent to carry out the
mechanics. Perhaps the Dean of Students or a faculty group would be suitable. Secondly, the fraternities must agree voluntarily upon
a reasonable number at which to limit the membership. Certainly seventy or eighty men are too many for an effective
fraternal organization. A more satisfactory number would be fifty or sixty—that is, a pledge class of twelve to fifteen new
members each year.

Model System

Every fraternity man should acquaint himself with the features of this system. The Interfraternity Council, moreover, should set up a
program to familiarize the student body with its advantages. A forum at which students could explore the system would be
helpful.

The fraternity system at Davidson can be a model for other colleges to follow. It has already taken three steps
in that direction. The first, of course, is the new half-million dollar court. An earlier rush week was the second,
and a more mature Hell Week was the third. The IFC deserves congratulations for the fine work that it has
already done this year.

Preferential Bidding would round out the progressive changes.

Sputnik And Education

Like gunpowder changed the science of war, so Russia’s Sputnik is causing American educators to change their way of thinking
about Johnny and the three R’s. Sputnik, it seems certain, has been a blessing in awakening us to the fact
that high school education should be more than club meetings, homeroom periods, the Friday night football game, and a wide
range of elective subjects.

For some time now our high schools have been emphasizing personality development more than the traditional subjects of reading, writing,
and arithmetic. Furthermore, all students are usually taught the same basic course regardless of their educational plans after high school.

The present public high school curriculum in many instances is missing the boat when it comes to preparing students for
their particular needs after high school. Roughly speaking, there are two groups of high school students: those who plan to
go to college and those who will go directly to work after graduation from public school.

For this reason, high school education should be divided into two fields: a pre-college course and a skilled trade course.
The latter group would of course be the larger. To these students should be taught some practical skill like woodworking,
plumbing, electricity, mechanics, or secretarial work. Naturally, it would be wise to expose them to a survey of history, basic
arithmetic, spelling, and a civics course. But their primary emphasis should be upon learning some skilled trade.

The pre-college group, on the other hand, should be given several years of foreign language, higher mathematics, advanced English, more
history, and perhaps a taste of the non-essentials (for high school, that is) like hygiene, psychology, music appreciation, and typing.

It is clear that not all students should go to college. Not everyone is suited for it either emotionally or
mentally. A dual system of high school curriculum would take into account this reality that exists among our teenagers. In
the long run, this dual system would do a service to our society by giving the pre-college student a better
foundation for further study, and by preparing the non-college student to make a better living and to contribute more to
society by his individual skilled knowledge.

If Sputnik as it travels its orbit is able to make American educators take a new look at our present
set-up, perhaps Johnny Jones of 2058 will be a better educated man than his granddaddy of 1958.

More From The Music Dept.

Davidson College prides herself on the well-rounded program she offers, both in the curricular and in extra-curricular activities. One place
in which the school can be justly proud is in the achievements of the Music Department.

THE DAVIDSONIAN wishes to commend the Male Chorus, the Chapel Choir, and the Bands for their many and varied performances
of the past. But we would hasten to point out that recently we have not heard enough from these groups.
We realize the time and practice that is required in order to present good performances, and it is precisely for
this reason that we urge more performances. That is, any group that works as consistently hard as these groups do,
deserves to be heard from more often.

This is our suggestion. We believe that the musical talents of the school should be displayed more often, notably and
preferably in the morning Chapel Services. We believe that this would benefit the groups themselves, as well as be a
source of enjoyment for the student body generally.

—G.L.W.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
John Trask, Jr.

BUSINESS MANAGER
Pat Henderson

ASSISTANT EDITOR
Gerald Wilson

Associate Editor
John Johnson

Copy Editor
Julian Aldridge

Managing Editors
Bob Lathan
Bruce Brooks
Laurens Walker

Cartoonists
Bross, Cole

Sports Editor
George Ramsey

Photographer
Ed Stevens

Assignments Editor
Bill Patton

Advertising Manager
Henry Samuels

Feature Editor
Jim Morris

Circulation Manager
Lee Mayfield

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

FRIDAY, JANUARY 17, 1958

By DABNEY STUART

“Allow a man to return to the campus under the influence of alcohol providing he goes straight to his room.
His conduct after his return will be covered by the ‘gentlemanly conduct’ clause. (See 1, Art. 9)”

This has appeared to be the prevalent suggestion for a workable drinking rule by those who favor the deletion of
the present one stated in Section 3, Article 9 of the Student Body Constitution.

IMPLICATIONS

It is upon this assumption that the following remarks and questions are based. What are the implications inherent in the
position itself?

First, the issue seems to be: Under the proposed replacing rule the conditions of choice are shifted. The law would
require “gentlemanly conduct” on the student's return to campus after he has become influenced by alcohol. He must choose how
to conduct himself after he has been affected; He must make a choice when he is not in as complete
control of his faculties as he would be when he was sober.

INTERPRETATION

Secondly, there would still exist the problem of interpretation. What is “gentlemanly conduct?” Where would the line be drawn? Again
there seems to be a shifting, this time of the problem of interpreting a phrase on which the spirit of
the law depends. One would be demanded to decide whether a student affected by alcohol was acting as a gentleman
instead of whether he was affected.

Thirdly, would this new...

I Didn’t Know George Was Giving An Exam

LETTER TO EDITOR

‘Drawn, Squeezed, Pushed’

Dear Editor:

The great myth about Davidson College that predominates as far as does its sphere of influence, is that it is
hard. It is not so in comparison to the state schools whose curriculum is designed to weed out all non-college
material before the Junior year.

PRESSURES

Before you throw this down in disgust, reflect on just why Davidson provides rough-going for you. Is it not because
of unwarranted pressures to which you are subjected?—not merely from the standpoint of extra-curricular work, but extended also into the
classroom.

This is no less than the backbone of instruction at Davidson. Through the years it has shored up its mold
around the student with new reforms...and modifications, until now there exists an almost completed machine comprised of these stopgaps and
supplementary cogs alone. The mechanism stands ready to knead you from sides, top, and bottom should you not fill every
pocket of its mold. This machine comprehends only the precision of another machine.

MARTINIS

The high school graduate coming to Davidson with stars in his eyes and a plan in his head dealing with
Phi Beta Kappa will journey well through Davidson to country clubs and martinis. However, be he an aspiring scientist with
a realistic view toward the need for a try club, a nice little cube—done up in a red and black
ribbon. Is Davidson’s product the achievement of its purpose? Has the Davidson graduate received a liberal view of the arts,
or an arty view of the liberals?

APATHETIC, INSIPID

Education in the arts of mankind at Davidson consists primarily of an apathetic doling out of an insipid portion of
facts made from the same recipe and dished from the same pot as twenty years ago, minus the spice of
opinion and the sauce of thought. The machine grinds on; the product wears red and black and bears the good-grade-keeping
seal of approval; it matters little if it thinks or just ticks. The distinctive lines in particular form of intellect
are erased and replaced by academic cubism.

—Bruce VanSant

A Plea For Negro Students

Dear Editor,

In the light of the segregation issue, a vital question to many of us is how long Davidson will remain
all-white (with the exception of a few Orientals). Most of the respectable and progressive Eastern schools now have Negro students;
and these are the institutions in whose class Davidson likes to consider itself. Many brilliant Negroes who cannot afford the
high cost of these schools are forced to go to the poor Negro universities of the South. These students would
jump at a chance to come to a school like Davidson.

INCONSISTENT

Davidson's present segregated status has no support in the position of the Church, and it is inconsistent with the purposes
of the school itself. If Davidson is to emphasize the quality of the education it offers, then students should be
selected on the basis of their ability to do the work. And let's face it, there are some boys here
who would be better off elsewhere.

SEEK NEGROES

It has been suggested that some of our better white students would leave if Negroes were admitted. However, my observation
is that only a few would do this, and the school can afford to lose those who would. The time
has come for Davidson College to seek qualified Negro students to fill the places now occupied by incapable and intolerant
whites.

—Joe Bell

One would be called upon to judge gentlemanly conduct more often than he is now obliged to judge alcoholic influence,
because he would see more students to whom he would have to apply the law.

CHANGE OF WORDS?

A final question. Does the majority who favors this particular change really want any restrictions at all? Is this merely
a change of words and not of practice? Is this proposal made with the tacit assumption that it will be
enforced no better than the present rule? We will find no perfect solution. We are seeking a problem of smaller
dimensions than the one we now have. We want a rule that “works” better, which has fewer loopholes. Does the
proposed change questioned herein fill this need?

COFFEE BREAK

Criticism

It seems that we have worked over rather thoroughly the shortcomings of the students here. Everybody is talking about conformity,
even if nobody is doing much about it. Let us now look instead at the shortcomings in what the school
itself offers the students. From the very start, however, it should be kept in mind that this is only criticism
with the aim of improvement; if we were genuinely dissatisfied with the school we would have left long ago.

OWN CHOICE

In coming to Davidson, we knowingly chose a small, Christian, liberal arts school as opposed to a state university or
a technical school. We should have understood that we were choosing a school with necessarily limited curriculum and small faculty.
In exchange for the lack in quantity, we expected greater quality, closer contact with the professors as well as the
students. The students have certainly failed to take advantage of the chances to know the faculty closely by visiting on
Sunday nights, and for this lack of social contact we are to blame. However, as for real intellectual contact with
the professors outside of class there is little push or inspiration. More integrated four o'clock coffee breaks at the Union
and planned, higher-level discussions on Sunday and even weeknights might help this situation.

BASIC SHORTCOMING

The basic shortcoming in the Davidson education is that it is all pointed to the rear. Past events and past
ideas are studied as things of the past, with no reference to the present. Although very definitely classical studies are
essential to a well-rounded education, the studies of the past might be related to present conditions or current interpretations. The
purpose of an education is to turn out a valuable citizen prepared for living on various levels. However, isolated courses
here are not necessarily related to the current ideas and problems of the outside world, even in full-year courses. How
many business and economics majors actually try to study the national budget or play the stock market? Do any English
majors understand the ideas behind the New Criticism? Logical positivism and linguistic analysis are vital today in creative philosophy, and
much of today's psychology is centered around behaviorism, but few students in these fields have really been faced with these
approaches. These are all topics which are being discussed today in the greater world outside, and educated graduates should be
able to talk intelligently about them. As everyone is agreed, the homogenized Davidson student is not likely to take the
first step alone and voluntarily.

UP TO FACULTY

Thus, it is the responsibility of the faculty to create in him a basic curiosity about these matters, created at
least partly by intelligent discussion of them. Higher-level contacts with the faculty on subjects more creative than mere mastery of
a body of facts from the past is needed to complete the Davidson education.

Relations

Actions in connection with both the Red Chinese and Suez situations have been excellent examples of economic necessity causing her
to adopt policies which did not coincide with those of the United States. The United States had taken the position
that the Western World should not recognize the Red Chinese government and should refuse to trade with it. Britain needed
markets so badly that she decided that the Chinese trade was important enough to risk incurring the displeasure of the
United States. Britain recognized the Red Chinese government and began to trade with China. This damaged relations between the United
States and Britain, but the strain was not as great as that caused by the Suez Crisis. Confronted by Nasser’s
nationalization of the Suez Canal, Britain could foresee a great increase in her economic and military problems. Britain and France
then decided that control of the Canal was so vital to their interest that they should join with Israel in
military action against Egypt.

VIOLATION

This decision strongly displeased the United States because it was a violation of the United Nations Charter, and led to
a severely strained relationship between Britain and the United States. Due primarily to this development, Sir Anthony Eden resigned and
was replaced by Mr. MacMillan as the British Prime Minister.
