ALL TAKE MIDDLE-OF-THE-ROAD STANDS

Presidential Hopefuls Quizzed On Views

With the possibility of a very tight race shaping up, and in accordance with the DAVIDSONIAN'S previous campaign to let
the students know the views of the candidates for major offices, we sent out questionnaires to the three remaining candidates
for student body President. Tom Cutting, John Kuykendall, and Roy Gilbert answered on paper the following questions.

Q. What one thing do you consider to be the most important item facing the Council, and/or what thing as
President would you like most to accomplish?

A. Generally speaking, none had any concrete platform. All three wanted to see more student participation and interest in student
government. Kuykendall: “the gap between the student body and its elected representative body...,” Cutting: “(make) the student government representative of
student opinion...,” Gilbert: “A greater voice for students is my aim.”

THREE MAJOR ISSUES

Q. List the three most important (in your opinion) issues in this campaign?

A. All three listed the proposed Honor Council, and the drinking rule. Gilbert listed increased enrollment; Cutting, keeping the present
honor system; and Kuykendall said either revision of election procedure or preferential bidding.

Q. Do you favor a separate Honor Council?

A. Gilbert: “I am in favor of an Honor Council which would be appointed by your elected student body officers.”
Kuykendall: “Yes,” but he added that we should investigate what other schools are doing. He also suggested a gradual plan
whereby the two bodies would sit together, first the Honor Council as an advisory body, secondly, the Council as an
advisory body, and in the third stage, the Honor Council “would assume full and lasting responsibility for trial procedures.” Cutting:
“I favor the honor system as it now is.”

PREFERENTIAL BIDDING

Q. Do you favor preferential bidding?

A. Kuykendall and Cutting said “No.” Gilbert wants more study of the question.

Q. Do you favor relaxing or changing the present drinking rule? Exactly what is your solution to this problem?

A. None offered any solution but gave the following answers:

Cutting: “I am against returning to the ‘on the breath’ interpretation... a man (should) be convicted for being visibly under
the influence of alcoholic liquors on the campus.” Kuykendall: “I am not in favor of relaxing the drinking rule (nor)
the under the influence definition. Reactionary movements... are not the answer. I would prefer to see further work in the
way of definition and mode of enforcement.” Gilbert: “The drinking rule is a faculty rule enforced by the Student Council.
The rule at the present is considered in the eyes of the faculty as sufficiently liberal... My proposal is to
clarify the rule and to apply it to the best interests of the student body.”

DRINKING ON CAMPUS

Q. What is your firm conviction on drinking on campus?

A. Cutting: “I favor an alcohol-free campus.” Kuykendall: “I am opposed to drinking on campus.” Gilbert: “I don't feel that
drinking on campus is what the Davidson student prefers.”

Q. What is your conception of the office of Student Body President?

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

VOL. XLVI

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, MARCH 14, 1958

Hell Week Threatened; Student Council Elections Postponed

ATO pledges climb tree, eat outside boarding house, etc., before drill Tuesday.

Fraternities Maintain Hell Week Tradition

By BOBBY LIVINGSTON
Davidsonian Feature Writer

The Davidson College Hell Week opened officially Wednesday night. Skit Night was a mighty contribution to the local culture scene.
The SPEs won, the Pi Kapps placed, and the SAEs showed respectively. But it was hardly because the other pledge
groups defaulted or missed the point. The well-attended (faculty wives and brothers’ girls) audience was introduced to the general theme
of the evening in the first skit, a Phi Gam Fiji Party. The pervading mood was perhaps sex (with various
adaptations) and its relevance at Davidson. The ATOs, Sigma Nus, Pikas, and Betas stuck pretty closely to the straight approach.
The SAE approach was rather unique.

A second subject was the foibles of Davidson College, an ivy-league school of the South. The Phi Delts and Sigma
Chis dedicated different things. The Sig Eps won with a satire on Mr. and Mrs. Stacks. The KAs cut assorted
professors. And the Kappa Sigs went over the dance weekend structure. Various secondary themes kept recurring. Drinking was recognized as
a social evil. Certain respected female occupations were revealed in all their uplifting aspects. Queens College contributed much to the
success of the humor. Cop Linker was apparent twice.

C. Shaw Smith, Master of Ceremonies, found it possible, having an audience, to demonstrate several feats between skits and while
waiting for the judges’ decisions. Individual standout actors were numerous. Steve Maxwell, ATO, sold a fine product. But probably the
convincers of the evening were Ted Quantz’s and Shan Wiley's wholehearted portrayals.

Following the Skit Night, most of the pledge classes met for pre-Hell Week instruction which ended by 11 o'clock. Thursday
was the first day of the severely restricted schedule. Each fraternity utilized individual and collective approaches in an effort to
make its traditions and values real to its pledge brothers.

From Friday morning at 7:00, the longest sustained period began which will last through Sunday evening, vespers excluded. The major
activities of each fraternity will be concentrated in this time. The Hell Week projects, which had been growing in numbers
and ambition, were noticeably absent this year, gone probably in the interest of rousing better pledge spirit through (Continued On
Page Four)

Dr. Drake Publishes Sociological Work

Dr. Joseph T. Drake, Professor of Sociology, has written a book “The Aged In American Society” which goes on sale
in bookstores this week. The 445-page volume contains 14The text has been cleaned up while preserving the original meaning and
punctuation:

---

Tables present a needed synthesis of pioneer work on all the pertinent aspects of old age. The material was scientifically
selected and objectively interpreted by Dr. Drake so as to be presented within an easily understandable sociological framework. In analyzing
the socio-cultural environment of the aged, Dr. Drake helps to explain current attitudes about older people in terms of our
cultural heritage. He discusses the problem of the older worker and job seeker in our society, the economic and financial
position of the retired person and his dependents, and the efforts of society to help older persons to continue as
functioning human beings.

Y Board Supports Disciplinary Action

The Board of Directors of the Y.M.C.A. approved the Y Cabinet resolution calling for the College administration either to take
disciplinary measures in stopping the misconduct during Vespers or to discontinue compulsory Vespers entirely. The Board of Directors of the
Y.M.C.A. consists of the College president, treasurer, dean of students, and three other elected members of the faculty. Also included
are Dr. Newell, Dr. Staples, the officers of the Y.M.C.A., two non-officer “Y” members, and Mr. Gant, a non-faculty resident
of Davidson. The March 16 Vesper offering will go to the Student Christian Association of Madras Christian College in Madras,
India. The entire offering is given to be used for their missionary work for the coming year.

Tobacco Company

TOM CUTTING ... One of these will be the next president

Placement Interviews Continue Schedule

The Placement office of the Union continues to sponsor company representatives coming to interview students for employment. Representatives come from
the Arkansas Fuel Oil Corporation, March 18, R. J. Reynolds, March 19, and the Acme Steel Company, March 20-21. The
following week, Colgate Palmolive Company, March 24, Northwestern Mutual and Devoe and Reynolds Company, March 25, will send men here.

Mrs. Pfohl Presents "Sonata Recital"

On Tuesday evening, March 18, Louise Nelson Pfohl, a member of the Davidson College Music Department faculty, will present a
“sonata recital” in the ballroom of the David Ovens College Union on the Davidson campus. The short program is being
sponsored by the Gamma Kappa Chapter of Phi Mu Alpha Sinfonia Fraternity of America, national honorary music fraternity, at its
regular meeting.

Q. What is the most important function of an effective leader or coordinator?

A. Gilbert: “An effective leader and coordinator.” Cutting: “Most important function is to be a coordinator.” Kuykendall: “Two major factors:
a coordinator, a mixture of his own personal principles added to the needs and the desires of the student body
he serves.”

Q. Evaluate this year’s Council.

A. Cutting: “I think the Council has been a good council, composed of capable and conscientious men; but I feel
that we have failed to offer effective leadership at certain times.” Kuykendall: “Good, good leadership, met needs partially, passive at
times, too few persons participated or showed interest.” Gilbert: “I would say that this has been an excellent year for
the Council. Realizing, of course, that the drinking problem is yet to be solved, new ideas of the nature of
the proposed Honor Council have materialized which are cornerstones for the future.”

Letters

Readers give views in flood of Letters to the Editor. (See Page Two)

NO. 19

Acts: Council Votes 10-4 Against Hell Week

By LAURENS WALKER
Davidsonian Managing Editor

The Student Council, meeting Thursday night until the early hours of the morning, worked to hammer out a stand on
the Executive Committee's proposed ban on “Hell Week” and the administration movement to clamp down on disciplinary problems. The Council
instructed President Ross Smyth to go before the faculty this afternoon and state clearly the Council’s feeling that the proposed
ban was too harsh for the alleged offense. He was further instructed to request an explanation to the Student Body
by the faculty of the action taken and the procedures involved.

ROY GILBERT
JOHN KUYKENDALL

DC Should Educate Churchmen Of Future

By BOB LATHAN
Davidsonian Managing Editor

“Davidson College is in a unique position to educate those future leaders of the Church in a knowledge of Scripture
in order to create enlightened leaders,” said Professors Maloney and Schenck in a luncheon interview with Maloney and Dr. Lewis
B. Schenck Wednesday. The questions largely centered around the proposed changes in the Bible department as announced in last week’s
DAVIDSONIAN. The new changes would provide for a one-semester introductory course, 118, “Introducing the Bible,” two additional required semesters, one
from the Old Testament and one from the New Testament, with a fourth semester course to be chosen on an
elective basis from Church History, Contemporary Theology, The Reformation, etc.

Q. What is the purpose of Student Conduct?

In an Executive Committee Meeting to which Ross Smyth, student council president, and Lloyd Chapin, YMCA president, were invited, it
was decided that the question of Vespers conduct would be handled entirely by the student council. Action taken by the
council is in the form of a warning outlined in a letter to the student body from Ross Smyth. According
to Dean C. J. Pietenpol, “the Executive Committee will back the student council’s action.” Pietenpol continued, “We believe that most
of the fellows here have not thought through this thing and how they are ruining Davidson's reputation. We believe that
once they see that, this problem will be licked. The diploma you get from any college is worth something in
direct proportion to the reputation of the college.”

Q. How do you justify four required semesters in Bible?

DR. SCHENCK: “The fact that Davidson College is a Presbyterian College means it is committed to a serious treatment of
the Bible, in line with the Reformed emphasis upon the Bible as the Word of God. The 118 course will
be offered to give a prospectus of the Bible as a whole in the light of current literary and historical
scholarship. No new courses other than this one will be offered next year to the pilot freshman class. However, this
is not final, only an experiment.”

---

The program will begin at approximately 8:45 p.m., following the concluding Otts’ Lecture on the Davidson campus Tuesday evening by
Dr. Charles W. Ranson of London.
