Hocsaks End Second Year Of Freedom
By DON STOWELL
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Almost two years ago Stephan Hocsak, his wife, Rosalie, their son, Stevie, and his mother escaped from revolution-torn Hungary. Shortly after arriving in the United States they came to Davidson under the auspices of the YMCA. Although they could speak very little English, the DAVIDSONIAN ran a series of articles describing their part in the Revolution and their subsequent escape.

Last year the DAVIDSONIAN went back for a first-year report and found that they had become assimilated to a great degree into the American way of life. This week I returned to visit them on their second anniversary in the United States.

My knock on the door of the modest white house on North Thompson Street was answered by a lively little lad in bright blue pajamas and a brilliantly colored Indian headdress. This was four-and-a-half-year-old Stevie Hocsak who wanted to know who I was and what I wanted in his little-boy way. “We're following the leader, the leader, the leader,” blared ironically from the phonograph in the corner.

In a moment Rosalie, a very attractive lady of twenty-five, came from the next room to welcome me. “Chippic” (Stevie's nickname) was given instructions in both English and Hungarian to go to bed, which he was not in a hurry to do. He answered in Hungarian and in his southern accent, but finally went to bed, leaving Rosa and me to talk.

Although Steve's hostility towards America for not coming to their aid in the Revolution is censored from the letters, any correspondence is now very carefully written so as not to offend the Red regime. Rosa seemed to have no information on the present situation either to give or learn.

Rosa said that she studied practically every waking hour not spent in class because she realized that that was the only way she could get ahead. She became treasurer of the square dance club. Rosa laughed as she set the money on the table and said, “Well, we have money for groceries tomorrow!”

Rosa explained that “it is as though your best friend hurt you unintentionally. You don’t stop liking them, but it still hurts deeply. I can’t understand how the Americans can help the Chinese (Nationalists) and not aid a country that thinks like the West and that is being invaded by barbarians (Russia).” It is evident that the Hungarians feel very strongly about their thousand-year history of defeat.

Rosa believes that the Russian educational system has improved greatly in the past decade. However, she mentioned that during the Revolution, a girlfriend of hers at Moscow University wrote that there were even spies among the students.they were not vocal. From this fact, Rosa believes that the educated Russians will not accept the complete domination that Communism has to offer. Many Hungarian sympathizers say, Steve has been collecting jokes, which he is more than willing to tell. While relating one, he reached for a dictionary to search for a word. I learned that he has been memorizing it and has gotten to “E” so far. It was time for me to leave. He was proud to be able to offer me a ride back in their now-paid-for Chevrolet. Except for a slight language difficulty and a store of memories of inconceivable terrors, the Hocsaks have become much like any other American family who enjoy the television programs and never seem to have quite enough time to do everything. 

About that time, a car drove into the driveway and steps were heard on the porch. Stephen burst in with the news that he had been elected treasurer. The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College.

DR. GRAHAM
Billy Graham Plans Visit To Davidson

On Wednesday morning, October 22, at 10:20, Dr. Billy Graham will speak to the Davidson College student body in Chambers Auditorium at a voluntary chapel program. Five hundred seats in the front half of the auditorium have been reserved for Davidson students, while the rest of the building will be open to students, faculty, and the public. Dr. Graham has also been asked to remain after his speech to talk with and answer the questions of those students who may wish to see him. If this arrangement can be made, he will be in the Student Union during the third period.

Dr. Graham last spoke at Davidson in December of 1956, when he gave the sermon at Vespers. This trip will be his second visit to the campus. For more than four weeks, he has been involved in his Charlotte Crusade, attended the first three weeks by over a quarter of a million people from several states. Over one hundred and eighty television stations have carried his Saturday night programs from the Charlotte Coliseum. Last week, the committee of the Charlotte Crusade unanimously decided to ask Dr. Graham to extend his Crusade beyond the originally scheduled four-week period. This extension will terminate the Crusade on Saturday night, October 25.

Male Chorus Sings Over Television

The Male Chorus under the direction of Mr. Donald Plott will appear on television channel 3, Monday night at 9:15. The thirty-one members of the choir will be singing for the United Appeal in a special telethon originating from Charlotte. Numerous other groups from this area will perform in the fund-raising drive.

The Davidsonian
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C.
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 17, 1958
No. 6

Honor Council Leaps Hurdle; To Student Body
Student Council Gives Plan Hearty Approval
By ERVIN DUGGAN
Davidsonian Staff Writer

In a history-making session Monday night, Davidson's student council voted to submit to the student body a proposal for constitutional amendment which would establish an honor court on the Davidson campus. The amendment resolution, passed unanimously by the group, will be presented to students “as soon as possible,” according to council president John Kuykendall. The honor court proposal, until this week only a studied possibility, took definite shape in the hands of a council committee headed by Richard Brubaker. If approved by student vote, it will authorize the institution of an honor court as a body separate from the student council, handling all judicial functions of student government.

STUDENT APPROVAL

First suggested last year as a means of relieving the increased responsibilities of the student council by legally dividing legislative and judicial duties, the court idea gained momentum after wide student approval was expressed. Kuykendall, after his election in April, stated that he favored the proposal and hoped to see action taken during the 1958-59 school term.

The plan adopted by the council calls for a twelve-man court, composed of representatives from the three upper classes and serving from election until graduation. Six seniors, four juniors, and two sophomores would sit on the court, conducting all trials and performing all judicial duties now administered by the council. Under the plan, the student council would retain its usual legislative function, with no council members eligible for court membership. The student body president, however, would serve as a non-voting ex-officio court member. Court members would not be eligible for student body offices or for executive positions in classes or larger organizations such as the YMCA. A release clause in the proposal would permit court members to resign court positions in order to run for campus offices.

ALTERNATE PLAN

An alternate plan for election of the court will be presented to the student body by the council. One alternative suggests nominations by a student council-faculty committee and subsequent nominations by the student body; another suggests nominations by students-at-large. The choice of one system of nomination will be made by the student body after discussion.

“There is a real need for separation of powers and there is a need for a very select group to execute the all-important decisions of a judicial nature,” said Brubaker, chairman of the committee which drafted the proposal. “I feel that the addition of an Honor Court would be a great step forward in Davidson student government.”

A series of forums and student discussions are planned to familiarize the student body with the plan. No definite date has been set for student body action on the court plan.

Frosh Hurl Haughty Challenge at Sophs

Thursday, October 23 is the day the class of ‘62, under Pat Currie, will take its revenge on the sophomores, led by class president Jimmy Bootle. Freshman class spirit, somewhat questioned previously, will stand its major test in a series of six athletic events scheduled to commence at 4:00 p.m. on the football field.

The contest, officiated by members of the Court of Control and officers of the Student Body, will lead off with three track events: a 100-yard dash, an 880-yard relay, and a shuttle-hurdle relay. It will then climax with three team events: a flickerball game, a tug-of-war, and a volleyball game. Five points are to be awarded to the winner of each event, three to the second-place men, and one to the third. The sophomores, who were victorious in their contest day last year, are requested to sign up with Jimmy Bootle if interested in participating. Likewise, interested freshmen should see Pat Currie, the member of the Freshman Council in charge. Coach Whittle has suspended all flickerball games on the big day. If the freshmen should lose, all regulations will be enforced until Thanksgiving vacation. This includes Homecoming weekend.