The Davidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, OCTOBER 17, 1958

(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

Success of Honor Council Depends On Election Procedure Adopted

After a good bit of legislative pushing and pulling, the Student Council has come up with a workable plan for an Honor Council. There seems to be little ground for disagreement on the fact that a separation of the present Council into a judicial and a legislative body should result in distinct benefit to the Student Body. Each group could concentrate activities in their particular field, and not have to be spread, as is now the case, over a wide range of duties. The permanent status given to elected Honor Council members would relieve them of any pressures that a representative, elected annually might feel. This permanency could further ensure a number of experienced hands on the Honor Council at all times.

Too often in the past, due to inexperience, an unsatisfactory understanding of purpose, or too many duties, the Student Body has suffered with an inept and incompetent Student Council. This measure could spell deliverance from such burdens in the future.

On one point of the proposal the Student Council could not decide—just how to elect the members of the proposed Honor Council. Herein lies the inevitable flaw, for the election of this group is the key to its success or failure. Two proposals will be submitted in regard to election procedure. One will provide for a committee of faculty and Student Council members which will make nominations to the Student Body, to which list the Student Body will have an opportunity to add any names desired. The second plan provides only for nominations from the Student Body.

It is imperative for the success of the entire plan that the first proposal be adopted. It will thereby be ensured that many hours of careful thought will go into the selection of nominees. The adoption of the direct nomination system can only mean that we will be furnished with another popularity contest in which campus politicians can flex their vote-getting muscles. It should be pointed out that the committee system of nominations will not preclude nominations by the Student Body. It will ensure that much careful thought will go into the selection of men for positions in a body of such great importance as an Honor Council.

The DAVIDSONIAN urges the Student Body to accept the proposed Honor Council plan, and to accept it with the committee system of nominations.

Frat Retreats

Arising from recent discussions around campus has been an idea that could develop into a very fruitful device for increasing the values and meaning of brotherhood in the Davidson fraternities. Much discussion was devoted to the subject at the YMCA Retreat last weekend, and the representatives of all fraternities present wholeheartedly agreed that the idea of fraternity retreats might well be a medium through which the Greeks can better tackle their problems with mature insights.

Although the seed for the idea was sown primarily in YMCA gatherings, that by no means is to be the cue for anyone to ball the idea right off the bat. A typical retreat would require around twelve or fifteen sincerely interested brothers in a fraternity devoting a weekend during the year and going to a spot away from the scholastic run-around of Davidson where they could better deliberate. A portion of the weekend might be set aside for individual study of school work if the brothers so desired. The primary portion of the retreat would be devoted to dissecting, illuminating, and attempting to solve critical problems of the chapter, which might include pledge training, higher regard for the Ritual, alumni relations, conduct at social functions, and the like. Other portions of the retreat may be devoted to general bull sessions and discussion of miscellaneous matters.

As participants in the Y Cabinet retreats have discovered, a weekend away from the pressures of the campus provides a perfect atmosphere for a group to grow closer together in understanding and mutual accomplishment, an atmosphere which is conducive to mature endeavors toward mature goals. Only through active participation in such a retreat can a student fully appreciate the benefits reaped. All those who have experienced this in the past would urge a sincere inquiry into such a project by every fraternity on campus.

—G.W.R.

Campus Firearms And Alcohol

By recent action, the faculty has attempted to beef up its rule prohibiting the possession of firearms in College dormitories. This action is commendable, but lacks any suitable means of enforcement, and this is one rule, at least, which must be enforced. Student opinion must be brought around to an attitude which will discourage anyone risking the keeping of a weapon in his room. The most feasible method for effecting such an attitude, and of ensuring proper enforcement is the fashioning of a Student Body Regulation prohibiting the possession of firearms in a dormitory or in an automobile.

The adoption of such a regulation would make all members of the Council “honor bound” to report all violators, and call on members of the Student Body at large to feel “duty bound” to report men who persisted in keeping weapons in their possession. The DAVIDSONIAN realizes that there are some students who are interested in hunting, and thereby have a reason for keeping firearms at school. Some arrangement should, and we think could, be worked out to provide a place in which to lock their weapons when not in use. However, not even the hunters should, under any conditions, be allowed to keep guns or rifles in their possession, except when off campus and engaged in hunting.

Some Student Council members, including President Kuykendall have protested, when asked about the possibility of Council action in this matter, that it might result in “spreading the Council too thin.” At present, the Council is required to report student possession of only one item — “alcoholic liquors.” We ask President John and the Council one question: What is more dangerous in a dorm room — a bottle of bourbon whisky or a .38 pistol? Tragic experience provides the only possible answer.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Charles Chastain

ASSISTANT EDITOR
Bob Lathan, George Ramsey

BUSINESS MANAGER
Ed Armfield

Associate Editors
Dick Smith

Managing Editors
Jim Hamilton

Sports Editor
Pete Kellogg

Bruce Brooks

Feature Editor
Laurens Walker

News Editor
Bill Patton

Henry Samuels

Assignments Editor
Tom Colvin

Copy Editor
Spiro Macris

Cartoonists
Bross, Cole

Photographer
George Rhyne

Advertising Manager
Dave Gillis

Circulation Manager
Greg Grana

Ass’t. Business Manager
Bob Wynne

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879

No Heresy On The Hill

Scriptures . . . Only Infallible Rule Oath Required Of Professors

Since Davidson is owned and partially supported by the Presbyterian Church in the United States, since about half of its students and a very large number (perhaps a majority) of its alumni are Presbyterians, and because of its peculiar history and traditions, it is inevitable that the Davidson faculty should consist mainly of Presbyterians, and that the rules and regulations governing the faculty should reflect these conditions and be slanted in this direction. But the exact nature of these rules, important as they are, is largely unknown to students and alumni. Their importance in determining the quality and characteristics of the faculty, along with their indirect influence on what is taught in the classroom, merits close examination of them as they now stand.

To begin with, the President of Davidson College must be a Presbyterian, and if he is not already a Southern Presbyterian he must change his membership before he takes office permanently. As it is stated in the Charter and By-Laws of the Trustees of Davidson College (with revisions to February 19, 1958), Part I, Article IV, Paragraph 81, this rule reads: “No person shall be eligible for election as President of Davidson College unless he is a member of the Presbyterian Church and he shall not be eligible for inauguration unless he is a member of the Presbyterian Church in the United States.”

“EVANGELICAL”

In this same section it is stated that “No person shall be eligible for inauguration as professor unless he is a member of some evangelical church and all instructors, assistant professors and associate professors who have not been inaugurated must be members of some evangelical church.” The major denominations are included, but such groups as the Unitarians, who deny many of the doctrines regarded as “evangelical,” are ineligible to teach at Davidson. Jews, and believers in other religions, as well as atheists and agnostics, are, of course, excluded. That a heavy majority of Presbyterians will occupy the positions on the faculty with the highest pay and the most prestige is insured by the next rule: “At no time shall there be more than one-fourth of the inaugurated professors who are not members of some branch of the Presbyterian Church.” An additional requirement exists for two particular departments: “The professors of Bible and Philosophy shall in all instances be members of some branch of the Presbyterian Church . . . . And inasmuch as the departments of Bible and Philosophy deal with matters which are directly related to the doctrines of our Reformed Faith, the Trustees of Davidson College affirm their conviction that professors in the departments of Bible and Philosophy, in addition to the vow of commitment to Evangelical Christianity, enter into agreed commitment to the doctrines of the Reformed Faith as they are set forth in the standards of the Presbyterian Church in the United States . . . . If any person, not an elder or a deacon in the Presbyterian Church, be elected professor either in Bible or Philosophy, he shall have put to him the same questions required of candidates forordination as elder.”

INAUGURAL VOWS

Finally, it is stated: “Inasmuch as Davidson College, which is an institution of the Presbyterian Church in the United States, regards itself and is regarded as a teaching arm of the Church, the Board of Trustees has reaffirmed the conviction that all teaching be done ‘in the light of the Christian faith,’ and that commitment to evangelical Christianity be publicly affirmed as a part of the inaugural vows of a professor at Davidson.” This “commitment to evangelical Christianity” required of each full professor during the annual Commencement, at which time the professor being inaugurated “shall be required to give affirmative answers” to the following oath, to be administered publicly by the President of the Board of Trustees:

a. “Do you acknowledge Jesus Christ as Lord and Savior and do you believe in the fundamental teachings of evangelical Christianity?
b. “Do you believe the scriptures of the Old and New Testaments to be the word of God, the only infallible rule of faith and practice?
c. “Do you promise in humble reliance upon the grace of God, which comes by the Holy Spirit, so to live and teach as to give expression to the Christian faith?”

The Spectator

Oath or Orthodoxy: A Timely Fable

By TOM KERNAN

I was sitting on the library steps the other day, idly smoking and observing a team of landscapers at work on a new memorial grape arbor, when my scholarly classmate, Harvey Drudge, joined me.

“I’ve run across a fascinating bit of history,” he said. “Found it while doing research on a paper; I'd like you to hear it.”

I was hardly overcome by wild enthusiasm at the prospect but I could tell that Harvey was excited (like the time he thought his average was up to 3.6) and that there was no escaping him. Oddly enough, I found his tale appropriate in the light of certain current issues and have decided to share it with the rest of you.

“It chanced that in the days of King Kautious, called Kautious the Kraven, the high priest, Prejudiced VI, learned of certain disloyal subjects who went about preaching heresy against the great god Dogma. The high priest went to the King and said, ‘My Lord, certain evil men in the land are going about uttering slander against our god, Dogma. Soon the land will be filled with heretics who no longer follow the faith of our fathers, and then they will turn upon thee and destroy thee, yea down to the last hair on thy chinney-chin-chin.’

“Upon hearing this, King Kautious waxed exceeding wroth and smote his breast and that of the high priest as well. And so it came to pass that the King called a council of the Trustiest, so named because it could always be trusted to propagate the wishes of the great god Dogma.

“Now this was a council of the wisest and wealthiest men (although wealth was no factor in their selection, but only their wisdom since, being men who lived at a great distance from the kingdom, their minds were uncluttered by facts or proximity to the kingdom and were filled only with thoughts of an abstract nature.)

“And thus it came to pass that the council devised a method to stop the tongues of heretics. Messengers of the King went throughout the kingdom, and, upon finding a heretic, they would force him to eat a noxious substance which so deformed his tongue that all he could say thereafter was the name of the great god Dogma. And this substance is known as ‘Oathmeal’ and is the most noble of all the foods because of its service to the god.”

THE PHILOSOPHES

Every pearl cast is strung on a different necklace. Every nugget refined is dropped again into a different mine, to be reprocessed. Each thought transmitted from an individual to a group is fitted into a different pattern by each one who hears. This is one of the chief difficulties faced by any speaker who endeavors to deliver a speech to any audience.

MISCONCEPTION

A word, a thought, which is but an aspect of a larger pattern, spoken out of a more complex whole, when expressed without a precedent delineation of this whole, may become disproportionately conceived by those who hear it expressed. An aspect tends to be magnified at the expense of the whole out of which, for the moment's purpose of communication, has been extracted. This is another danger with which a man speaking to the public must contend.

EASIEST TO IGNORE

There are more than these (truisms), but these seem to be the easiest to ignore. Their importance and gravity are bulbously enlarged when the speaker is a preacher, the audience a congregation, and the matter of thought and communication religion. A preacher today must speak out of at least the unity of conscience to a diversity of individuals, among whom those concerned about religion and the quest after a meaningful one are concerned in as many manners as there are individuals. Thus are the two initial precipices made more sheer, the task of the preacher more severe.

DR. NEWELL

On Sunday, October 5, in the Davidson College Vesper Service, Dr. S. W. Newell was acutely faced with these difficulties. In seeking to deal with man’s making of God in man’s own image, Dr. Newell assumed a structure of complexity the explication of which is too vast for one man to undertake in the course of a single sermon. The particular interpretation of God, the particular “image of man,” that Dr. Newell presented and refuted was not necessarily the only one available for man’s artifaction. While Dr. Newell's approach left the middle-class deity no chance to par the eighteenth hole, there were still questions unanswered, gods unshattered. And this is my point.

NOT ALL ANSWERS

It seems that we must not look to one sermon for all the answers, we ought not expect to discover with facility what men have been searching for in the agony of faith for centuries. (Nor should we, in recognizing this, discard the value of the cumulative possibility.) Just as the man behind the collar must strive daily to communicate what are probably to him still flexible messages, so it seems must we seek to thread the beads, instead of swallowing one bead at a time under the illusion that in so doing the change is made, the “overwhelming questions” answered.

Members Defend ‘Y’ Budget Against Critic

Dear Editor:

Last week one of the focal columnists did in writing what others may have been doing behind the scenes—he questioned some figures in the Y budget. Perhaps the query was out of sincere interest; perhaps it just provided readable copy for a previous void in the column; nevertheless, the Y budget invites closer inspection.

The purpose of the Y budget is not the standard one to which common budgets are dedicated: setting up a costs and receipts equation for maximum and most efficient operation. It is rather more a suggestion than a limit to various expenses. There are particular comments about several items which are necessary to explain their budgeted allowance.

Membership and Gift Fund ($250)—these expenses are for mailing the handbooks to freshmen, buying and mailing Orientation copies of the INTERCOLLEGIAN, printing membership cards and solicitation cards.

Automobile Depreciation ($475)—this figure may look high, but it was only by the provision of the same figure in years past that the Y was able to buy a replacement for the car totally wrecked a year ago. This should be a yearly adjusted figure, but this past year, having no money in the depreciation account, it was felt proper to continue the figure supported in the past.

Literature and the INTERCOLLEGIAN ($70)—Much of this can be laid to the operation of the activities of the spiritual concerns of the YMCA, and its figure is legitimately a part of the Spiritual Life and Fellowship programs.

Discretionary Fund ($250)—There are two uses of this fund. The first is the standard one of anticipating some Y departments spending more than their budget, as occurred this year when Wildcat Handbook expenses exceeded the allotted amount by about $70. The second is to anticipate the immediate opportunities which arise, but are not in the budget, such as last year’s offering to Madras Christian College, which included an entire Vesper offering.

Social Life ($100)—This is lower than it has been in past years, but by its nature it incurs several traditional obligations, such as the expensive Davidson-Queens freshman dance, which more properly are legitimate responsibilities of other organizations. Its program (freshman dance, exchange days, dance weekend social functions, etc.) is such that its $100 is a minimum.

The Spiritual Life and Fellowship Commissions ($100 together) are new in responsibility this year. They are charged with implementing a core group challenge that the YMCA has accepted. Their probable expenses are undefined, but probably low, since much of their material will be covered by the budget of other items.

Such inquiries into the expenses of the Y are very worthwhile, that the Y member may know how his money is being dispersed. In this limited space, all the facets of the Y budget cannot be outlined, but it is hoped that this has provided a better insight into the operations of the second biggest body on campus. (Incidentally, Dr. C. E. Ratliff, who has been known to display some knowledge of economics, is chairman of the YMCA Board of Directors.)

Bob Livingston
George Ramsey

By Schulz

PEANUTS

LOOK AT THE PICTURE OF THIS MOVIE STAR...

OH, I SUPPOSE YOU THINK I DON'T HAVE NICE HAIR? WE CAN'T ALL BE MOVIE STARS, YOU KNOW!

I CAN'T HELP IT THE WAY I LOOK! I CAN'T HELP IT THE WAY I WAS BORN!

TOUCHY!