PAGE FOUR

Foreign Interest Needs Stimulus

By HUGO MISLE
Davidsonian Staff Writer

The end of the Second World War marked a definite turn in the international life of the U.S. Since 1945,
the world has looked to the U.S. for leadership. In some areas, this new role has been criticized from many
points of view. Lack of understanding and immaturity in facing troubled areas of the world are among the major faults.
Bringing the issue a little closer to home, our student body has been criticized for its lack of interest and
complacency, and, in some cases, apathy towards the affairs of the “outer-Davidson world.”

However, in the courses offered at Davidson, a student interested in the world situation could get a broad understanding of
the world and our troubled age. The History Department offers courses in 20th Century World, Russia since the 1917 revolution,
and United States History to the present. Nevertheless, there is no course in the Middle Eastern Countries, an area which
plays an important role in today's affairs.

The Political Science Department, although understaffed, offers courses in problems of American foreign policy and the Communist world. A course
in comparative governments might be a desirable addition. Comparative Economic Systems and International Economics are offered by the Economics Department.

Outside the classroom, organizations such as the I.R.C. try to develop the awareness of the student body. However, lack of
funds has made it difficult for the clubs to bring speakers of high caliber to campus. During the year, through
the cooperation of the YMCA, the Round Table Committee, and Sigma Delta Pi, two outside speakers were heard on campus.
A third speaker came with the Artist Series. It was the administration's only effort to stimulate student body interest in
this aspect of education.

The coming of sixteen new foreign students to Davidson will give a new atmosphere to the campus. With the many
ideas that they will bring, they will expect a better understanding of their problems, customs, and way of thinking. Here
is a chance for the student body to broaden its own outlook while trying to meet the needs of our
visitors.

Literary Societies Elect Marshalls

Monday night the Eumanean and the Philanthropic Literary Societies elected their Commencement Marshalls. Bruce Brooks and Jim Overall were elected
as the two marshalls from Eumanean. Addison Bross and Edward “Scotty” Wilson were elected from Philanthropic. Addison Bross will serve
as Chief Marshall.

Bross, a Sigma Nu, is chairman of the Union Publicity Committee and cartoonist for the DAVIDSONIAN. Overall, a pre-med, has
previously served as secretary and vice-president of Eumanean. He is in Alpha Tau Omega Fraternity and is a member of
Alpha Epsilon Delta.

Bruce Brooks, an English major, is News Editor of the DAVIDSONIAN and is the newly elected vice-president of Sigma Phi
Epsilon. “Scotty” Wilson, a language major, is Recorder for Philanthropic Society and a member of Sigma Nu Fraternity.

At Commencement, Bross and John Bernhardt, President of the Senior Class, are responsible for the arrangement of the parades of
Class Day Exercises, Baccalaureate, and the Graduation Exercise. Bross leads all student processions. Overall, Brooks, and Wilson give out programs
and usher for all Commencement exercises. Bross will wear either a white or a blue sash and will carry a
gold cane which has been in use at Davidson since the first college Commencement in 1840. The other marshalls will
carry smaller canes and will also wear sashes.

KA Fund Raising Hits $7,000 Mark

Kappa Alpha Order approaches the half-way mark in its $15,000 Fund Raising Campaign, announcing a total of $7,158 collected as
of today. Out of a total of nearly five hundred alumni, 127 have made contributions, representing each class since 1912
with the exception of two. Thirteen alumni have given $150 or more, eleven $100, with individual donations ranging from $1
to $500. Gifts totaling $1,600 given by Charles and Frank McCrary, both of Asheboro, and of the brothers of Kappa
Alpha, have been designated for furnishings in the Chapter Room as a memorial to William A. Redding.

Davidsonian Takes National Award

THE DAVIDSONIAN has been awarded an All-American rating by the Associated Collegiate Press. The 1957-58 edition, edited by John Trask,
was one of 7 papers of the 49 entered (enrollment of 751-1250) to receive the top rating. The rating is
even more significant by virtue of the fact that Davidson is only a hundred students above the minimum enrollment figure.

I.F.C. Discusses '58-'59 Changes

The Interfraternity Council met Wednesday night in an extended-discussion session, moving toward the implementation of changes in Davidson’s Fraternity system.
The council, headed by IFC president Vernon Anderson, dealt in an hours-long meeting with the major considerations facing Davidson fraternities
in the coming year—the new fraternity system.

Duane Andrews, public relations staff, Minneapolis Honeywell, formerly on staff of Minneapolis Star and Tribune, judged the editions. Cited as
“excellent” by Andrews were news sources, treatment of copy, vitality, and creativeness. Other comments follow: style, “very bright;” features, “a
pleasure to read;” editorials, “excellent variety;” sports coverage, “you touch all bases;” and “you do an exhaustive and complete job
with limited thinking, “the student mass with its compelling and molding atmosphere,” and the absence of students “who really enjoy
the pursuit of knowledge.”

Four mentioned such things as Davidson's isolation, provincialism, narrow-mindedness, lack of liberal thinking among the faculty, conservatism, and over-reliance on
tradition. Faculty policies on such matters as student conduct and social life were criticized by three students, and two students
said that some departments among the faculty were inferior. The lack of challenge to “higher-level” students and over-emphasis on grades
were named by two. Other disadvantages cited were faculty hypocrisy about drinking and cheating, the semester system, “too many extracurricular
activities and too few social contacts (women),” and “the pitiful sacrifice and compromise of Christianity, for the sake of a
supposed all-sufficient cultivation of the mind.”

4. Are you satisfied with the caliber of student Davidson attracts?

Six students answered this question in the affirmative. Fourteen replied negatively.

5. If you had to make the choice again, would you come to Davidson?

Twelve students said that they would come to Davidson again. Four of these were freshmen, and four were seniors. Four
students stated that they would definitely not come to Davidson again, and four students were undecided.news coverage and then present
it in a readable, attractive fashion.” All-American rating indicates distinctly superior achievement.

Wall, Cutting, and Caldwell Head ODK

New members of the Delta Chapter of Omicron Delta Kappa elected Craig Wall to serve as president, Tom Cutting as
vice-president, and John Caldwell as treasurer, at a meeting in the Blue Room of the Union after the tapping ceremony
on May 1.

Wall, a rising senior from Conway, South Carolina, is a member of Kappa Sigma Fraternity. Cutting, from Fort Smith, Arkansas,
is a Phi Delt. Caldwell is from Louisville, Kentucky.

The group heard a proposal for a cooperative plan by fraternities to finish chapter rooms and the “great innovation,” a
revised bidding system. President Anderson named two committee chairmen for the next year. Angus McBryde, representing the fraternity court, constitutional
revision, and a changed Rush Week.

Broyles Names (Continued From Page One)

Charlie Roberts will be chairman of the Religious Emphasis Commission, conducting work on the special religious emphasis programs sponsored by
the Y, such as the Fall and Spring Services. The new Cabinet and the new Board of Directors were installed
on Wednesday morning at chapel period in Lingle Chapel in a special service led by retiring Y President Lloyd Chapin.

Outstanding (Continued From Page One)

The winner of the C. T. Stowe Memorial Athletic Scholarship award was Harold Westervelt, a junior from Athens, Georgia. Dr.
Chalmers Davidson presented the Willa Cather writing award to Tom Kernan, a junior from Richmond, Virginia.

AIR-CONDITIONED
FULL BATHS
INDIVIDUAL HEAT
FAMILY ACCOMMODATIONS
RATES: Single $5.00 — Double $7.00
Extras $1.00 Each
15 Minutes From Davidson
The Oaks Motor Court
344 South Main Street
Mooresville, N. C.
Owners and Managers: Bill and Hazel Sprinkle
Phone NOrth 3-5693

Just rely on the good taste of Coke. Put in a big supply today!

“Coke” is a registered trademark, copyright 1950 THE COCA-COLA COMPANY

BMOC—Big Man On Campus—yeah man! He treats the gals to Coke. Who can compete with charm like that? So if
you're 5'0" and a little underweight, remember—you don't have to be a football hero to be popular.

Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company by THE COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD

J. S. AIR FORCE AVIATION CADET PROGRAM

PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS

Responsibility for finishing the interiors of the basement rooms has been left to individual fraternities by the college; the suggested
plan would give a finishing contract for all chapter rooms to one concern. The major item of business—a revised bidding
system—was discussed at length by all council members in an effort to clearly define the system and consider all problems
before presenting it to fraternities for a vote. Anderson called for “a preferential system” and urged councilmen to familiarize themselves
with the new plan.

Board Of Trustees To Meet On May 15

On May 16, the Board of Trustees will hold its regularly scheduled semi-annual meeting. The Executive Committee of the Board
will meet during the afternoon of May 14. At this meeting, the Trustees will formally grant the faculty the privilege
of conferring A.B. and B.S. degrees on the graduating seniors. The faculty has already given the responsibility of determining eligibility
for graduation to the registrar and the two deans. This formality is carried out automatically every spring.

In an interview Wednesday, Dr. Pietenpol reaffirmed the plan of the Trustees to raise the enrollment of the college to
one thousand. The method of increasing the enrollment has been left to the administration. Dr. Pietenpol said that the administration
plans to admit some twenty extra freshmen next year. The Admissions Committee must deal with so many variable factors, such
as a student's failing to enroll after acceptance, that it will be difficult to admit this exact number. Before the
enlargement program is completed, the college will need a new dormitory, but as yet there are no plans for one.

WIRE FLOWERS TO MOTHER
MOTHER'S DAY — MAY 11
Through SMITH'S FLORIST SHOP
CORNELIUS, N. C. — PHONE TW 2-4131
ORDER NOW!

TENNIS BALLS — TENNIS SHOES
WHITE ATHLETIC SOCKS
50c Pair 2 For 90c
Go in with your roommate and get a dozen for $4.50
Available At THE STUDENT STORE

The Air Force pilot or navigator is a man of many talents. He is, first of all, a master of
the air—and no finer exists. In addition, he has a firm background in engineering, electronics, astro-navigation, and allied fields. Then,
too, he must show outstanding qualities of initiative, leadership, and self-reliance. He is, in short, a man eminently prepared for
an important career in the new Age of Space. As a college graduate, you will be given priority consideration for
the Air Force Aviation Cadet Program. While openings are limited, you will be tested and advised immediately of qualification status.
Find out if you measure up. Paste the attached coupon on a postcard and mail it now.

FRIDAY, MAY 9, 1958

Revised Bidding System (Continued From Page One)

The group involved will be completed. This list of men will receive bids to join the fraternity in question. If
a fraternity fails to fill its quota by this method, it will be allowed to issue bids on its own
volition in order to fill its quota of 20. If a fraternity fills its quota, it will not be allowed
to issue any further bids during the first semester. At the beginning of the second semester, each fraternity will be
allowed to pledge 3 additional rushees by issuing bids on its own volition. By the end of the year, no
fraternity will have been allowed to pledge over the original quota plus these three additional men.

IN SALISBURY
Di Mizio's PIZZA
Italian & American Restaurant

Summer Is Just Around The Corner...
CHOOSE FROM OUR SELECTION OF —
Swim Wear
Bermuda Shorts
Light-weight Suits
Straw Hats
Light Blend Shirts
Formal Wear Accessories
BE WELL ATTIRED FOR EVERY OCCASION
Jack Wood Ltd.
“It Costs No More To Dress Correctly”
CHARLOTTE

GRADUATE THEN FLY
MAIL THIS COUPON TODAY
Aviation Cadet Information, Dept. 0-2
Box 7608, Washington 4, D. C.
Please send me details on my opportunities as an Aviation Cadet in the U. S. Air Force. I am a
U. S. citizen, between the ages of 19 and 26½ and a resident of the U. S. or possessions. I
am interested in ☐ Pilot ☐ Navigator training.
Name: _______________________
College: ______________________
