Comment On Studied Elections Changes (Page Two)

VOL. XLVI

Christmas Festivities

Ninety-two children, ages six to fifteen, will arrive on the Davidson campus this Monday evening at 5:30 for an evening of Christmas festivities. This will begin a night of fun and merry-making for a group of children who come here each Christmas season from the Presbyterian Orphans Home of Barium Springs, North Carolina. This annual event is again being sponsored by the Interfraternity Council with the close cooperation of each of the twelve national social fraternities on campus.

Academic Rating Attracts Freshmen

The results of a poll taken during orientation week have been released by Dean White. In questionnaires handed out to freshmen, they stated their motives for choosing Davidson. Of 240 questionnaires filled out, 219 indicated academic rating was a reason. Second in importance with 182 "votes" was the fact that Davidson is a small school. Some 137 freshmen indicated the quality of Davidson students played a part in their decision.

MUSIC AND MAGIC

Soon after their arrival they will be divided into twelve groups according to age, with approximately eight to a group, each group being the guest of a fraternity. The guests will be ushered to the Union Ballroom where they will be entertained by various members of the college. There will be a jazz combo with Tommy Colvin, Larry Baggett, Tenney Deane, Dave Hall, and Tom Greene playing various selections. They will be followed by Doug Orr and Pete Wyrick who will entertain with their "Everly Brothers" styled music, and then Mr. C. Shaw Smith, College Union Director, with some feats of magic.

At 6:15 the different groups will be taken to the various fraternity houses, where they will be guests of the brothers. A Christmas dinner will be served by each fraternity, and a party will be given immediately afterward.

GOODIES

During the course of the evening, ol' Saint Nick will visit the party, bringing along the usual array of gifts and goodies for the children. Dave Warden will play the role of Santa. Most of the fraternities are planning similar programs of entertainment, with the usual Christmas dinner and party. Most of the party entertainment will be provided by various members of the Greek letter groups. The festivities will terminate at approximately 8:15.

Davidson Students Attend Legislature

Four Davidson students arrived in Raleigh Thursday to attend the North Carolina Student Legislature Assembly to be held in the State Capitol Building on December 11-13. Juniors Scott Puckett, Fred Morris, and sophomore Finley Lee, freshman Bob Bradford are representing Davidson.

During the assembly, bills will be submitted to the Student Legislature to be discussed and voted on. The Davidson delegation is presenting a resolution calling for a bi-partisan commission to be appointed by the governor to study the problem of North Carolina's legislative representation on a state and national level and to recommend remedial legislation. If this bill is passed by the Student Legislature, it will be presented before the State Legislature for consideration.

Dr. Clarence J. Pietenpol Accepts Army Citation

Major General F. S. Bowen, Commanding General of the 12th U. S. Army Corps (Reserve) in Atlanta, Georgia, presented Dr. Clarence J. Pietenpol of Davidson College with the Department of the Army Certificate of Appreciation Citation Tuesday afternoon at a review of the Davidson College Cadet ROTC Corps. General Bowen made the award to Dr. Pietenpol in recognition of his support of the mission of the Reserve Officers’ Training Corps at Davidson during the period 1953-1958. During this time, Dr. Pietenpol served as Dean of the Faculty, '53-'58, and as acting President of the College, '57-'58. Dr. Pietenpol was commended for contributing materially to the development of a superior Cadet Corps and ROTC Department.

In addition to this award, Dr. Pietenpol was congratulated for his display of loyalty, patriotism, cooperation, enthusiasm, and sincerity of exceptional character in making these contributions, thereby adding prestige to the Davidson ROTC Department. The Review of the Davidson Cadet Corps by General Bowen was made in conjunction with his visit to the College following his recent assumption of command of the 12th U. S. Army Corps (Reserve). General Bowen was accompanied by Colonel Thomas G. Keithly, North Carolina Sector Commander, and Colonel C. A. Lichirie, Deputy for the ROTC, 12th U. S. Army Corps (Reserve).

COMMENDATION

Also during the Review, letters of commendation from Colonel William L. Adams PMS&T of the Davidson College ROTC Department, were presented to the Cadet Corps Band and the Cadet Corps Honor Guard. These letters were in recognition of the outstanding performance of these two units, since their organization the first of this year, and for their extra work in preparation for recent performances.

Dr. C. J. Pietenpol was, last Tuesday, presented with an Armed Forces Certificate of Appreciation by General Frank S. Bowen, Commander of the Twelfth Army Corps, on an acquaintance tour of his new command. The certificate, signed by Secretary of the Army Wilbur M. Brucker, was awarded to Dr. Pietenpol in recognition of the contributions he made to the ROTC program at Davidson while Acting President of the College.

An Editorial

All is not right at the Snack Bar. The "waste land" pictured above is far short of being either especially sanitary or conducive to the enjoyment of Snack Bar food. During rush hours, as pictured above, coffee cups, spilled cokes, bits of doughnuts, cheese crackers, and the like sometimes remain on the tables for an hour or more. Many times we have had the unpleasant experience of having to clear away the debris in order to make an area large enough for our coffee cup. There is no excuse for this kind of situation.

The Davidsonian

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C

FRIDAY, DECEMBER 12, 1958

The Waste Land At The Snack Bar

YMCA To Launch Speaker Program

The YMCA has launched a wide-scale program for next Tuesday, November 16, second semester special monthly meetings of the YMCA Board of Directors and the YMCA Cabinet on Monday and Tuesday respectively of this week. The YMCA has scheduled for lecture series entitled "The Complacency on College Campuses." At that time Dr. George Buttrick will be on hand for the week of February 22-27 and will result. The sixth national student assembly of the YMCA, every four years, will take place December 28 through January 3. At least six students from Davidson will attend. 

At present two boys are hired to keep the kitchen clean, run the grill, and clean up the tables. No matter how hard they work, the size of their tasks prohibits the completion of all three. The tables seem to be the most easily ignored of the three, so we scrape away our own junk. The DAVIDSONIAN would like to suggest that the Snack Bar hire at least one and possibly two more bus boys to keep the tables clean.Tables clean, especially during the evening rush hours. Many students have complained, and we think justly, that the service on short orders is slow, and that at times the wait is not altogether justified by the product. Further, during chapel hour and in the evenings between ten and eleven-thirty there are far too few attendants behind the bar to serve the masses which grab for nickel cokes or, after a while, anything edible. We would therefore suggest that the management study the situation and arrange to hire as many competent additional attendants as necessary to offer good service. The total picture could be brightened considerably by a stricter supervision of the entire operation to ensure that the best service practical was being offered at all times.

IMAC Plans Revision

The Speakers Committee is at present mapping out plans for procuring speakers to deliver book reviews. The committee advocates not necessarily limiting the subject to religious material. It is thought that each speaker would be on campus for several days, during which time he could discuss the particular book at length. To limit the large financial obligation of such a program, the YMCA plans to sell the books to be discussed with a ticket to the lectures included.

This Sunday evening at 9:00 the YMCA is presenting the second in a series of discussion groups. Dr. Bevan will discuss “The Psychology of Mass Conversion” while Dr. Davidson will center his theme on “The Small Male Liberal Arts College vs. the Large Coed University.” It is hoped that a large attendance will be present.

Of Athletic Program

A system has been arranged whereby the student, the YMCA, and Davidson College each pay one third towards the total cost of the trip. The members of the YMCA Board of Directors and Cabinet discussed the Gift Fund and the Christmas Vespers Program, both of which are mentioned at length in other articles. The Cabinet also decided to throw its meetings open to the public. The meetings are held the first Tuesday of each month in the Blue Room of the College Union at 7:00.

Members of the college administration are conducting a thorough investigation of circumstances concerning the recent Davidson appearance of Dr. Frank Monaghan. Dr. Monaghan, a representative of American Viewpoint, Inc., was on campus last Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday, December 3-5, speaking in chapel Thursday morning. A complete statement concerning this investigation will be made in next week's DAVIDSONIAN.

Stell, a Davidson Senior, and the Rev. Morton Kurtz, executive secretary of the North Carolina Council of Churches, introduced the needs of the University Christian Center and Men's Hostel, University of Beirut, Lebanon, where he recently spent his Junior year abroad. Some of these specific needs are for such things as folding chairs, hymn books, and expenses for a station wagon. The program of the Ministry to Migrants in North Carolina was presented by the Rev. Kurtz. The need in this area is for money to be used at the discretion of the personnel in charge of the program. Additional staff personnel is needed for seasonal work, and they also have need of a station wagon. The Drive will be initiated and will continue probably until the exam period in January. The solicitors will make personal contributions.

Warden Captains 1959 Football Team

Captain and co-captain of the 1959 varsity football squad were chosen recently through a secret ballot of the varsity grid squad. Craig Wall, this year’s captain, will be succeeded by rising senior Dave Warden, a pre-med major from Bluefield, West Virginia. Warden, star fullback, has held a first-string position for the past three years and called defensive signals this season. He seized All-Southern Conference honors as a sophomore, as well as maintaining a high scholastic average. Dave is a member of Kappa Sigma social fraternity. He is also a member of Alpha Epsilon Delta national pre-med fraternity and president of Sigma Delta Psi national athletic honor fraternity. Charlie James, this season's co-captain, will be succeeded by rising senior Charlie Benson, an outstanding quarterback and signal caller from Maitland, Florida. Benson has also been on the Davidson varsity for the last three years and was chosen for All-Southern Conference honors last year. He is a member of Alpha Tau Omega social fraternity and is presently majoring in history.

Bar-Ilan Impresses

Ralph Wilson, president of the Intramural Athletic Council, explained the purpose and aims of this new organization in an interview with DAVIDSONIAN reporters this week.

What is the purpose of the IMAC?

“Its purpose is to improve the Intramural Athletic System here at Davidson, to revise it where needed, make it more efficient, give fraternities equal representation, and have student control over it.”

How is the IMAC working to carry out this purpose?

“We have a representative from each fraternity, the independents, and two representatives from the athletic department. All are working to coordinate the intramural program and increase its efficiency through a cooperative effort of students and athletic faculty.”

How was the IMAC organized?

“Coach Heath Whittle has been the one-man coordinator of intramurals in past years. At the first of this year, he instigated the formation of the Council on a trial basis. Representatives were selected by the fraternities and the Independents. These thirteen elected Coaches Whittle and Hunt to be the two faculty Councilmen.”

Of what importance is the IMAC to the Davidson Student?

“Athletic participation is essential for most people and the original spirit of intramurals is for those students who don't participate in varsity sports either for the lack of ability or time. On our campus, the most convenient outlet for these students is through the fraternity system. Notices to inform the Independents are posted at Mrs. Copeland’s and at the Union.”

Are Davidson students taking advantage of the IMAC program?

“Oh, yes! All you have to do is go down to any of the intramural games. One barrier, however, to full student participation is how far to restrict the varsity athlete. The council is still toying with this.”

Who are the officers and members of the IMAC?

“I, representing ATO, am president; Joe Milner, Sigma Chi, is vice-president, and George Ramsey of the Phi Delts is secretary. Other members are Bill Terrell, Independents; Forrest Wilkinson, KA; Billy Davis, Beta; Ed Hall, Sig Ep; Waller Taylor, Phi Gam; Sherrill (Continued On Page 4)

Campus With Artistry

By PERRIN WRIGHT
Davidsonian Music Critic

David Bar-Ilan, undoubtedly the best pianist that Davidson has heard in a number of years, was presented last Friday night in an Artist Series concert in Chambers Auditorium. Bar-Ilan is a native of Israel, who has come to be recognized in America as a very talented and rounded pianist, although some facets of his art seem better rounded than others. In general, his playing indicated a high degree of artistry and taste, which few enough people ever obtain. He proved himself realistic at any rate by securing his own piano for the concert, which saved him the embarrassment of having to retune after each number.

His program was Chopin-heavy in spirit as well as in number, with the exception of the opening “Gavotte and Variations” by Rameau, which were played well and then gone forever. An early Beethoven sonata, and a scherzo and barcarolle by Chopin completed the first half. The second part began with a suite by Robert Starer; it is a modern composition inspired by Israeli folk music. During the performance of this number the balcony group, a reliable gauge of student interest, noticeably thinned out. This was a reluctance to believe, rather than an overt display of anti-Semitism; the piece is easily interesting, and probably enduring as long as Bar-Ilan is concertizing. The program ended with a Schumann sonata, and a few encores, mostly Chopin.

Virtuoso

His performance was geared (Continued On Page 4)