June 20, 1958

WELCOME

(Editor's Note: By this time, you have already received a welcome to summer school by the college officials, your instructor,
and your many friends. Since this is the first edition of our summer newspaper, may we extend the following hand
of friendship—perhaps belated, but nevertheless equally sincere.)

As the Davidson summer session rolls into action for another warm twelve weeks, we would like to extend a word
of welcome to all concerned—Pre-freshmen through "graduate students."

We hope that this little bit of journalism will serve in a small way to help you keep up with
campus news and activities while you study, and perhaps to add a laugh occasionally on the ride. Any suggestions, news,
or contributions in general will be met with sincere appreciation and sighs of relief.

A special word of greeting is in order to the large group of charming members of the legendary opposite sex
who will grace our campus for a while. This is almost enough to bring a Davidsonite back to school without
the usual gripes about assignments, the weather, infirmary antihistamine prices, and Union coffee—or any other coffee that comes along. Welcome,
Ladies, to the renowned ranks of the Davidson gentleman!!

- James Moore

ADVICE

by Ed Slanders

Dear Mr. Slanders:

I am one of a few co-eds at a college summer school where the odds are 12 to 1. When
I decided to go there, I thought it would be loads of fun and that I would have lots of
dates, but as yet I have not had a date. Can you help me?

LONESOME

Dear Lonesome:

Having been here since June 12, I have found that my decision to come was a good one. The classes
are small, the hours are not bad, the faculty is friendly, and the student body is small and congenial.

There are eleven students in my Math 11 class—two of whom are not actually in college. With such a small
group, relations between students and professor are more informal than in larger classes. This informality creates a greater desire to
study.

My class is at eight o'clock with a two-hour break between first and second periods. All the first period's homework
may be done before the second class period, which allows an ample amount of leisure time in the afternoon or
evening and leaves a little life in the student.

The faculty is friendly and is well qualified.

Even though I have not met many of the boys outside of my math group, they seem to be congenial
with each other. Their number is small enough to get to know most of them before the first session ends.

I have no gripes—only praises—about Davidson College. It is surely a grand privilege to go to school here.

- Robert Davidson

Advice (continued)

How can a person stop drinking too much?

A SOT

Dear Mr. Slanders: Don't get thirsty.

(For a personal reply to your personal problems, write Ed Slanders, Box 1368, Davidson.)

MOVIE: "Bad Day at Black Rock" Spencer Tracy and Robert Ryan

Odds 12 to 1? No date? To home! Union Patio: Friday, June 20, 8:30 p.m.
