Change in Football Line-Up (Page Three) VOL. XLVI Les Will Play For Homecom ‘New De ter ———— oh DAVIDSON COLLEGE,
DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, OCTOBER 10, 1958 The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

Advocates “Quality, Not Quantity”
By ED ARMFIELD

“The first day I came in and sat down at the desk of the Dean of the Faculty, I said
to myself, I wonder what I’m supposed to do here? The next day I didn't wonder anymore.”

This was the way Acting Dean of the Faculty Frontis W. Johnston characterized his reaction to the first few days
in his new position. When asked by members of the DAVIDSONIAN staff if he would try to characterize generally the
Davidson Curriculum, and also the curriculum with regard to other prominent schools such as Haverford and Swarthmore, Dr. Johnston replied,
“We shouldn't ever be satisfied with the total program at any time. I do not, however, feel that we should
scrap our present program merely for the sake of a change. I would be in favor of conducting surveys and
studies into what we do have, in order to decide what is good and what is weak.

CURRICULUM CHANGE
“I also feel that alteration of the curriculum is not the job for one man, rather that it is my
job to suggest and lead, then the faculty should make the decisions. I am sure they, too, would favor more
studies into our present set-up. The question of curriculum changes requires a thorough evaluation, and any fundamental changes should be
a result of this.”

In reply to a query about immediate or pressing problems, Dr. Johnston said, “Since I have been in this office
for only a few days I can’t say. I don’t want to beg the question. I just don’t have the
information yet. As for overcrowded classes, Mr. Hengeveld will have that material ready for me this week. In order to
make a move you must know where you are.”

QUALITY, NOT QUANTITY
Asked of his opinion of an article that appeared in last week’s DAVIDSONIAN and which quoted a member of the
Board of Trustees as saying he favored going over the present one thousand man limit as soon as possible, Dr.
Johnston answered, “No, I wouldn't favor going over one thousand students. I don't foresee the resources to go over one
thousand. To keep growing would be to water down the product. Davidson's greatest service will be to keep the quality
as high as possible, rather than add quantity.” Dr. Johnston's opinion as to whether we can now take care of
the proposed one thousand enrollment was that, “we can take care of them in a good fashion, but not in
the best. We are on the margin now.”

(Continued On Page 4)

Cast For ‘Ghosts’ Begins Rehearsals
“Ghosts,” first production of the Red and Black Masquers, will be presented Thursday and Friday, November 13th and 14th, President
Warren Womble has announced. This play, already in rehearsal, is the first of three dramatic productions planned by the group
this year. “Ghosts,” by Norwegian playwright Henrik Ibsen, is a deep, heavy drama involving a controversial subject: inherited venereal disease.
It centers around a young artist's discovery that he has the dread disease, and his attempts to find out the
reason. Director of the play will be Ray Atkinson; Sam Peters will be the producer. The cast includes: Engstrand, George
Johnson; Mrs. Alving, Miss Mimi Schuler; Regina, Mrs. Sally Goodman; Pastor Manders, Warren Womble; Oswald, George Kemmerer.

Y Cabinet Goes On Weekend Retreat
The Y.M.C.A. Cabinet left this afternoon for a two-day retreat at Montreat, N. C., where they will study matters relative
to the Y program and make plans for the coming year. At the last Cabinet meeting President Vernon Broyles opened
the meeting with a short devotional, after which each of the several Commission chairmen made reports. Dave Hollingsworth, Community Work
Chairman, spoke of the work being planned by interested students as coaches at the local Negro high school later this
year, primarily during the basketball season. Membership Chairman Scott Puckett informed the Cabinet of the progress of the Membership Drive.
Spiritual Life Chairman Scott Woodmansee announced that Hall Counselors had been contacted and were to start Hall Prayer Meetings regularly.
Interested upperclassmen on other halls will be chosen to lead such meetings in the upper-class dorms. Charlie Roberts announced that
his Religious Emphasis Commission had arranged for Dr. George Buttrick to speak during a planned Religious Emphasis Week, and that
several other prominent theologians were being contacted. Five issues of the Student Christian will be published this year, according to
George Ramsey, Y Publications chairman. He also made financial reports on the Student Christian and the Wildcat Handbook. Social Life
chairman Melton Tankersley announced the proposed Exchange Days with several neighboring girls’ schools for forthcoming weekends. Announcement was made concerning
the quadrennial YMCA convention to be held this Christmas, and the possibility of the school and the Y sending several
delegates was mentioned.

MS IV Cadets Face Assignment Board
All MS IV ROTC cadets are being interviewed this month by a faculty board concerning their branch assignment preferences submitted
last week. Major B. K. Hufford is the president of the board, and is assisted by Captain L. H. Lumsden.
Also on the board are four faculty members, one of whom sits on the board for one meeting out of
the scheduled four. Professor G. W. Crawford, Dr. J. M. Bevan, Dr. R. R. Bernard, and Dr. J. H. Ostwalt
are the four faculty members. The purpose of the board is to recommend to the Department of the Army branch
assignments for each of the MS IV cadets. Each cadet lists five branches in the order of his preference. He
is required, if physically able, to include three combat arms in his list of five, such as Infantry, Artillery, Armor.

THREE FACTORS
The board's duty is to even out preferences as much as possible. Its recommendation is the result of three factors.
The first factor is the cadet's preference, and the second factor is the cadet’s curriculum and course of study at
Davidson. For instance, a man majoring in Business Administration would be most suited for the Quartermaster Corps; a language or
liberal arts major would contribute most to Army Intelligence. The third factor considered by the board is its evaluation of
the cadet's military aptitude and leadership ability. Captain J. W. Mitchell of the ROTC Department emphasized that “the board’s recommendation
is not final by any means. The final decision as to assignment rests with the Department of the Army and
its need for men in the various branches.”

INTERVIEWS
The interviews are usually ten to fifteen minutes in length. During this time, the board verifies the cadet’s choices, discusses
his major and minor subjects, and inquires about his future plans. The cadet is then asked why he listed the
preferences he did. One meeting has been held. Three more sessions are scheduled on October 10, 13, and 15. The
board's recommendations are to be sent to the Department of the Army by the 25th of October. Captain Mitchell added
that “we expect to hear the final assignments from the Department around the first of February.”

Currie To Address Economics Group
Mr. James S. Currie, North Carolina Commissioner of Revenue, will speak at the first meeting of the Business-Economics Association, to
be held Tuesday, October 14 at 7:30 p.m. in the Ballroom of the Union. Before becoming Commissioner on September 15,
1957, Mr. Currie was director of the Department of Tax Research in this state. A native of Clarkton, North Carolina,
Currie grew up in Clarkton and later lived in Davidson, where he was graduated from Davidson High School and later
attended Davidson College. He received three degrees from the University of North Carolina: B.S. in Commerce, 1939; LLB, in 1948;
and M.S. in Economics in 1949. While at Chapel Hill, Currie served as an assistant in the School of Business
Administration and went from there to employment as a securities analyst in Greensboro. Later he practiced law in Chapel Hill.
Currie served in the United States Army for four years during World War II, entering service as a private and
completing his active duty as a major. Currie is a member of the National Tax Association and has been Chairman
of the National Association of Tax Administrators.

Baptist Author Is Vespers Speaker
Dr. Carlyle Marney, minister at Myers Park Baptist Church in Charlotte, will conduct Vespers on Sunday. Dr. Marney received his
education at...Southern Seminary in Louisville. Before assuming his pastorate in Charlotte in September, he was for ten years minister for
the First Baptist Church in Austin, Texas, the University of Texas. Two recent books, “Faith Conflict” and “These Things Remain.”
See Lanin Editorial (Page Two).

No. - Lanin Tries Again! Return Engagement For October 24, 25

Dance music for Davidson’s 1958 Homecoming, October 24 and 25, will be provided by one of the orchestras of Lester
Lanin, IFC President Vernon Anderson announced this week. There is a possibility that Mr. Lanin himself will be on hand
as band leader.

DISSATISFACTION

One of the Lester Lanin Orchestras played at Davidson during Spring Frolics last year. At that time there was some
dissatisfaction expressed among the students concerning the quality of the performance. After a formal complaint by last year's IFC President
Bob Jones, Mr. Lanin stated that he wished to play for Homecoming, this time on a continuous playing basis (no
intermissions), with a fee covering costs only.

In a letter to the IFC last April, Mr. Lanin’s manager stated that “should you and the interfraternity council grant
this opportunity to send another orchestra to your campus, the contract be drawn up to read that in the event
that the president or any member of the interfraternity council or any member of the student body voice any objection
to the musical ability and the dances, you do not pay one penny.”

Facilitates Advances

Thursday, October 2, saw the beginning of the new Charles A. Dana Science Building at Davidson. Why is this new
science building needed? When the Dana Science Laboratory is completed, how will it better Davidson's science program? What interesting advantages
will the Dana Building add to the college?

First, the need for a new science building is caused by both increased enrollment and an increased number of science
students. The chemistry department’s crowded conditions demand expansion, and the better use of floor space will improve the facilities of
the biology and physics departments. At present, one large room is used for six biology classes, causing it to become
cluttered with the equipment used in different courses. The new building will accommodate numerous classes.

ADVANCED COURSES

Second, concerning the general improvement of the biology and the physics departments, we find that the many new labs will
better facilitate the teaching of advanced courses. These laboratories include a sound lab, a glass blowing shop, an advanced research
lab, and the inclusion of sound equipment in a sound and optics lab. In both sciences, there is an increase
in office space which will be necessary with the departments’ growth. The entire physics department will be given a new
look by its much-improved facilities on the first floor and basement level of the Dana laboratories. The room will accommodate
twice the capacity of the present one. A physics seminar and a workroom for students in biology honors are each
included in the embryology-histology laboratories. The new building divides this amount of space into three smaller rooms which will more
suitably contain the equipment for the music.

As in past years, this year’s Homecoming will include a formal dance Friday night, a football game with VMI Saturday
afternoon, and an informal dance Saturday night.

CANNED SOUP

The Lanin band which will play for the dances is only one out of twenty-two musical units of various sizes
maintained by the Lanin Organization. Despite this large number of orchestras, Lanin’s music is the same all over the country.
“My orchestras are like canned soup,” he states. “The contents are the same wherever you buy it.” Although last spring
was his first engagement at Davidson, Lester Lanin has played for college and university dances in both North and South
for a number of years.

Horton Takes Over In Alumni Relations

Mr. John B. Horton has just taken over the office of Acting Director of Alumni and Public Relations at Davidson.
Mr. Horton has replaced Mr. John L. Payne, who held the office for seventeen years. A native of Albemarle, North
Carolina, Horton graduated from Davidson in the class of 1938 with a BS degree in Business Administration. He did graduate
study in personal management at Ohio State.

Mr. Horton has had a great deal of experience in the field of college publicity. Prior to coming to Davidson,
he was connected with the Stewart Howe Alumni Service at Purdue University. He has also served as the National Field
Secretary for Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity. As acting director of Alumni and Public Relations at Davidson, Horton is responsible for
coordinating the alumni program and for informing the alumni about the current events at Davidson. Horton will also represent Davidson
at many alumni meetings away from the college.

Although Horton has been at Davidson in his new capacity for only a few days, he says that he can
already feel “the spirit of the college” which he knew as a student. He invites all students to visit his
office and learn how the alumni of the school are kept in contact with the school.

After-Dance Parties Face Serious Crisis

After-dance fraternity parties during Homecoming this year are expected to be noticeably different from those in former years, primarily due
to the bad reputation Davidson has incurred because of the conduct displayed at some of these parties. Joint fraternity parties,
in particular, were voted out by the fraternity presidents last spring.

Last spring, several committees met to discuss this matter in detail. The Board of Trustees, in order to look into
the matter more thoroughly before coming to any decisions, set up a Faculty-Trustee Committee made up of three trustees: Mr.
Frank Hall of Belmont, chairman; Mr. George King of Bristol, Tennessee; and Mr. Harold McKeithen of Winston Salem; four members
of the faculty: Mr. D. G. Martin, Dr. McGavock, Dr. Pietenpol, and Dean Bailey; and three members of the student
body: John Kuykendall, Don Carmichael, and Ross Smyth. At the same time, the Fraternity Presidents Laurens Walker, Neil Padgett, Craig
Wall, Dick Hodel, Jim Yarbrough, Gene Long, Sam Smith, Joe Cline, Walter O'Briant, Sam Plyler, and Roy Gilbert, under Chairman
Manfred Emmrich, met with the Faculty Fraternity Committee of Chairman Dr. McGavock, Dr. Davidson, Dr. Goldiere, Dr. Maloney, and Dr.
Workman. The Presidents gained permission from the Committee to try to work out a way themselves of making the parties
more acceptable and orderly. The trustees were then informed of this plan, and they agreed that the Fraternities should be
given a chance to work it out themselves.

The pledge which previously read: “I attended the party described above during the hours indicated. To the best of my
knowledge and belief, the party was conducted in a manner acceptable to the standards of gentlemanly conduct and there was
no profane or abusive language, indecent dress or gestures, conduct unbecoming a lady's escort, or any other similarly gross ungentlemanly
conduct on the part of the students present. My fraternity and I understand that the signing of this statement in
no way abrogates the faculty rule, which states: ‘A student will ordinarily be suspended if he is found guilty of
drinking, possessing or being under the influence of alcoholic beverage while within the town limits of Davidson or while attending
any off-campus event sponsored entirely or in part by Davidson College.’”

It was signed by the Fraternity President and two other officers, but was then revised with the addition of a
clause stating that there was no time during the party when at least one of the officers was not present.
Manfred Emmrich said concerning the pledge, “We are not against parties, we're for them. This restriction we're putting on parties
is not going (Continued On Page 4).”

In addition to his pastorate, Dr. Marney served as Professor of Christian Ethics at the Austin Theological Seminary, and as
Fownes Professor of Bible at Carson-Newman College. Dr. Marney is the author of numerous classes.
