Che Davidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 1958

(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

Does The Honor System Need Some Mechanical Changes?

Through the years, Davidson's honor system has proven itself by the clear fact that it has worked. Because it has
worked, we have been able to present a solid front to all critics. In some other colleges and universities, the
honor system is a mere tool that the administration uses for propaganda. At Davidson, fortunately, the honor system is a
reality. It is put to practice and it works. It is a student institution, run by students, respected by students.
Basically, our honor system is: I will not lie. I will not cheat. I will not steal. I will report
the one who does so. Honor never changes. Honor today is the same honor as in 1837 when Davidson opened.
While it is true that honor today is the same as a hundred years ago, we here at Davidson tend
to take our system for granted—mainly because it works so well.

THE DAVIDSONIAN feels, therefore, that in the light of recent trends that something be done to revitalize the honor system.
We, therefore, propose the adoption of the following four-point plan:

1. Creation of an Honor Council separate from the present student council. This would involve a separation of powers now
vested in the student council. This new Honor Council should be composed of nine students, appointed by the student council
with the advice of a faculty-student committee. (See editorial in DAVIDSONIAN on February 7.)

2. Little interference from the faculty and administration in the decisions of the Honor Council. If the honor system is
going to be a student affair, then let the students make the final judgment upon the accused. On the other
hand, since the faculty must reserve the right to reverse decisions, then let them do it in the light of
tremendously important new evidence.

3. More conscious emphasis should be placed upon the system. This could be done in three ways: by the individual
professors in the classroom; by the president of the Honor Council before the entire student body at the beginning of
each school year and by citing case histories to make the point; and by a thorough indoctrination of new students.

4. The strengthening of secrecy surrounding trials and witnesses. At present, it is not difficult to pick up in the
halls or bull sessions many details concerning a trial. Often these rumors are false and serve to do harm. Stricter
secrecy is absolutely necessary to gain the active cooperation of the students.

We're Missing Something Big

Osmond Barringer returned to the campus last week to make a talk to Sigma Pi Sigma physics fraternity. The fascinating
vigorous man of 81 years is credited with making the first experiment with X-rays in the United States in 1896
while a student at Davidson.

The witty old man was full of stories and facts about the college's history, and he made it very clear
the formal, frozen-faced pictures appearing in dusty annuals are no indication of the actions we cannot afford to make —
enemies of near-by residents. And yet, in spite of all this, anyone listening to Mr. Barringer would have difficulty in
concluding that this “modern generation” was very malicious or even very full of mischief as compared to some times in
the past. As a matter of fact, he would cause one to think, somewhat nostalgically, that these youngsters might be
missing out on something.

—J.R.J

Discussion Groups

By ED ARMFIELD

A recent survey of Davidson students with regard to the present Honor System revealed many different opinions and evaluations of
the system. This group, judged to be an accurate cross-section of campus life and opinion, agreed to the man with
the principle of the Honor System, but beyond that, it would be difficult to make other generalizations.

Pete Kellogg, rolling over in bed, seemed to sum up the campus feeling by saying, “It is the best way
to run the Student Government ideally—if it is enforced.” Pete went on to suggest that “what the Honor System really
means should be put over to the Student Body more clearly.” As did some of the others interviewed, he felt
that the majority of the students do not have a clear idea of the Honor System now.

Bob Shoffner was also emphatic in stressing the need for student enlightenment on this often misunderstood issue. “While the Honor
System is now strong enough, I believe that a clearer understanding by the Student Body is needed. More interest in
Student Government would help to bring about this greater understanding.”

There was a great deal of difference in the opinions of those interviewed when speaking of the penalties meted out
under the present system. “The penalties for violations of the Honor System are not too harsh because the individual knows
what is expected and what the consequences for violations will be,” was Chris Bremer’s opinion of a controversial point. John
Poindexter, supporting the modification of penalty, presented his argument that, “the Honor System should help the boy, but in college,
where the only penalty is dismissal, it hurts the boy immeasurably. Also, a lesser penalty (extended campus) would make the
student feel more prone to ‘come clean’ on all matters.”

Just as sure of his feelings was freshman Charlie Hunter, who said of the Honor System, “I'm proud of it
myself. If anything were done to lower the standards, it would hurt Davidson College. Because our Honor System is one
of the strongest points of the school, I would be opposed to any change or modification of its present form.”
A mathematician might think of Charlie's evaluation as a rule that says “the standard of the college is directly proportional
to the standard of the Honor System.”

Marshall LaFar was just as enthusiastic in supporting the present set-up. “I think it is effective, so long as it
is enforced,” he said. Marshall then pointed out that the Honor System is good as long as no innocent persons
are hurt. His opinion was that secret trials strengthen the system while protecting the individual.

This matter of secret trials was another point of disagreement within the Student Body. Gregory Grana looked up from his
books long enough to speak out for an official outlet of the facts in the trial of a violation so
that idle gossip over a cup of coffee will not falsely persecute or ostracize an individual who is in fact
innocent. Bob Shoffner also felt that the student body was entitled to more particulars during the actual trials.

“Although rumors will circulate briefly, the truth will eventually get out,” was George Hart's rather philosophical viewpoint of this problem.
George stressed the value of a working Honor System in the building of sturdy character. “Within the limits of my
experience,” he said, “the Honor System has proven itself successful.”

Dave Garvin pictured the system as “workable—but not working.” Although he was reluctant to suggest a remedy, he thought that
a Student Government with a Party System might tend to put an end to the apathy which handicaps the situation
now.

Newly elected Phi Beta Kappa David Bradford recognized the present system as “workable” and urged the retention of secret trial
and maximum protection for individuals, even in cases of suspensions in which there is a shadow of a doubt.

There are, this survey showed, a great number of misconceptions in the Student Body regarding our Honor System. One person
characterized it as a reversal of our country's judicial system because, “contrary to United States tradition, at Davidson a man
is guilty until he proves himself innocent.” In conclusion, it seems that the student body is pretty well satisfied with
the “status quo.” The problem is that too few of us have a working understanding of just what constitutes this
“status quo.”

ON CAMPUS

Coons On Trial

By CHARLES HELMS

There aren’t supposed to be any pets in the dormitories, but there have surely been some coons and possums kept
in Duke. This coon in the telephone booth scared the willy out of several people (yours truly included), and the
word is that Charlie Massey didn’t care for Cop's possum. Who would at 1:00 A.M.?

Sunday night’s vespers sermon was characterized by Gerald Wilson thus: “twenty minutes of Berle, and six minutes of Barth.” But
Barth was never so fond of proof by analogy. One of the speaker's analogies was certainly unfortunate (maybe naive), but
how could he know how capable was his audience of flagrant irreverence and bad taste during a worship service? And
then there are some rather unoriginal fellows who still think it is funny to whistle at everything.

There are still some hard feelings toward the P.T. department; one student complained: “it took me three years to get
into shape to pass the test, and then they lost it; guess I'll have to take it for three more
years.”

A sophomore (who had better remain anonymous) remarked recently, “there’s only one thing consistent about Davidson College, and that’s the
bookstore—it’s never open.” But it ought to be said that we think this is really more amusing than just.

The student council, the executive committee, theJudiciary committee, and the entire faculty were not the only ones who had trials
this week; the Phi Delt pledges also had one, and Don Lamm and Milton Tankersly were found guilty. The Sigma
Chi and Phi Gam pledges have also been active in meting out “justice;” remarkably enough this includes George Hart and
Dave Fagg who were overpowered and sentenced. They say it was quite a sight: walking into the head and finding
Heg Anderson asleep in his bed. Said one senior after going through several placement interviews: “Yes, they have been helpful,
I’ve decided I want to be employed.” One more word: beware the Tuesday Knights on Tuesday evening.

COFFEE BREAK

Spring Brings New Politicos

Spirited life that accompanied them. He told of one boy who robbed a grave on a wager with a fellow
student. He told of a group that greased the railroad tracks causing the train to remain in Davidson for a
full day. In that venture, they carried a boy with a broken leg down to do the dirty work from
a stretcher because they guessed rightly that he would never be suspected of the crime. He told of breaking into
the Carolina Medical College one night to cut off the finger of a cadaver to use in the X-ray experiment.
He also revealed that the famous experiment was for a long time kept secret lest the experimenters get thrown out
of school for using the lab without permission and, worst of all, on a Sunday night.

As Mr. Barringer reeled off anecdote after anecdote about past life and times it was almost impossible to keep from
making comparisons with today’s scene, particularly since the snowball incident is fresh in the memory. No one with an objective
point of view can condone such mob action as there was in the snowballing. Nor can such flaunting of the
authority of the police and of the college be approved. Such injury to property is senseless, and the danger involved
in obstructing a driver’s view can be great. For the sake of public rela-

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF: John Johnson
BUSINESS MANAGER: Bob Lathan
ASSISTANT EDITOR: Laurens Walker
George Ramsey, Bill Patton, Jim Morris
Associate Editor: Managing Editors
Sports Editor: Assignments Editor
Feature Editor: Julian Aldridge
News Editor: Bruce Brooks
Cartoonists: Bross, Cole
Photographer: Ed Stevens
Advertising Manager: Herry Samyels
Circulation Manager: Lee Mayfield

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

BEFORE SPRING ELECTIONS

Election Reforms Proposed

By DON CARMICHAEL

Premised on the “happy family” view of the student body, often characterized by apathy and determined more by personal popularity
than by a consideration of the candidates’ qualifications and positions, our elections should be changed in many ways and can,
we feel, be changed in several ways this year.

OPEN FORUM

We plan to initiate an open forum which will allow presidential candidates to defend and clarify their platforms and to
present themselves informally to the student body, while it avoids such disadvantages as being of expense to the candidates or
doing violence to the “happy family” myth by the sordid process of campaigning.

The two primary factors influencing elections at Davidson are objective considerations, such as the qualifications and positions of candidates, and
the popularity of the individual candidates. In all student publications elections, but especially for our purposes, in the Scripts 'n
Pranks election, the personal popularity of the candidates should be an inconsequential consideration. This office can and should be determined
by a consideration of qualifications. We feel that this does not occur.

SET UP BOARD

We suggest that for the purpose of electing the editor of the Scripts 'n Pranks a board be set up
consisting of the senior staff members of the magazine and two members of the English faculty. Rising seniors would submit
themselves as candidates for the editorship, setting forth their qualifications for the job in terms of past writing experience, stating
their views of the purpose and composition of the magazine, and submitting a sample of their creative work. The board
would then evaluate the qualifications of the candidates and select an editor. Such a board would be distinctly more qualified
to make the selection than is the student body. It would have had past experience with the level of interest
of the candidates. It would have a more accurate opinion of their talents. It would know the candidates on a
more equal basis than does the student body, composed of seniors, and it would be more disinterested in matters of
fraternity prestige.

COMBAT APATHY

Finally, much student apathy, especially that late in the election period, is due to the seemingly endless string of elections.
The Student Government By-Laws specify ten election cycles, several involving three or more candidates. Due to the restriction of nominations
of editorial candidates for the publications, there is never a duplication of candidates, and these elections could well be run
off simultaneously, thus reducing the number of election cycles to seven, without endangering the endeavors of the perpetual runners. The
offices of Vice-President and Secretary-Treasurer in the Junior and Sophomore Classes seem to be honorific and might well be combined
without any effects. This combination should strengthen interest in class elections, an especial point of apathy.

VITAL FACTOR

It is our hope that these changes will be seriously considered, for we feel they will promote a larger, better
informed, more interested student body vote, the vital factor in a meaningful election process.

By JOHN BERNHARDT

“Well, I just learned something, Charlie Brown.”

“Now, just what do we want for this job? Do we want to elect somebody who is active, or do
we want somebody with some ideas?” The voice fights through the confusing smoke in the room. And the practical politicians
meditate over the aspiring campus big wheels whose futures will be decided by the answer to this question.

“There’s no question about it,” Joe says finally, exhaling a dense cloud of smoke. “Everybody knows him, and thinks he's
a good guy. Nobody else has a chance.”

“But, don't you see, he’s already giving up meetings to go to meetings? If he takes on any more, he'll
never get anything done on the jobs he already has.”

KNOWS EVERYBODY

“There’s nobody else in the fraternity that has the chance he has. He knows about everybody in school by name,
and who he’s pinned to, and what courses he's having trouble with.” Another cloud of smoke from Joe. “He's working
hard at that, all right. I don’t think he ever worked that hard on any of his committees. All fall
he takes life easy and gets a reputation for being a good guy. Then, come spring and he seems to
be nothing but concern over the school. I guess you've got to hand it to him—he's a smooth politician.” The
voice fades away into the haze.

ELECTION SEASON

This is Davidson today, ready for the charge through the haze down some uncertain road. Grab your coonskin caps, boys,
and follow the crowd; election season is about here. A wise word to the freshman novitiates might be appropriate here.
They should be made to understand that now is the time to bring in all the concern and the constructive
activeness that they have not evidenced for half of their school year. They should be shaped into yes-men who agree
that we are all out for our own prestige, and that usefulness is only a facade thrown up around two
months of the year.

FIRST TASTE

But I can't do this cynical clarifying, for I have been too much a part of this to be anything
but a realist about activities here. I drifted, accepting anything interesting that came my way. Today, finishing out my senior
year I am spending more time on extra-curriculars than I am on studying or enjoying life. From this I am
gaining very little for the time spent, and to this I contribute nothing more than my inert form as a
plug in the massive machine which is Davidson.

SERIOUS FRESHMEN

Two suggestions I will make here to the serious freshmen. Plan your work so you can get well into something,
to concentrate on it and do it justice. Don't spread yourself too thin. So you can’t do anything constructive. In
other words, don't make the mistakes I have. The elections board has some excellent plans for cutting out superfluous positions
on the campus. If fraternity politics and Machiavellian subterfuge can be eliminated, if the clear voices do not fade out
completely, the haze about our elections may be removed.
