FRIDAY, DECEMBER 12, 1958

THE DAVIDSONIAN

By JIM HAMILTON

An outdated rule cost the college thirty dollars last weekend. Bill Shinn, high-scoring Cat forward, was forced to fly from
Bristol Friday night and back again the next day in time for the King game. And why? Because the archaic
cut rule in effect here prevented his missing two Saturday classes. It is my understanding that Bill was not in
grave academic danger in either of the classes, but was forced to attend only because of the prevailing system limiting
cuts in any three-hour course to three a semester. Any student who has taken the maximum number of cuts is
not permitted to miss the class for a school-sponsored trip. Bill had no reviews or papers due but had to
be in class only because of the rule. This is not meant to alibi for Bill but to point out,
along with the criticism already leveled in the editorial column of this paper, the fallacies in the present system. I
can remember when a Phi Beta Kappa was not allowed to take an athletic trip for the same reason.

Coach Tucker was smiling broadly as I approached for an interview, wading through the puddles on the “pool room” floor
and dodging the splashes of Catfish still celebrating the victory over favored William and Mary. “Well,” I asked, “What about
this upset Saturday night?”

“Hell,” Tucker growled, “Wasn’t any upset. Those boys didn’t go out there to drown. We were in shape — been
practicing since way back in football season. They showed an awful lot of heart in winning this one. Why last
week they worked out afternoon and night.”

Swimming Meet

By “B” MILLNER

The Phi Delts, paced by record-breaking Barry Branch, splashed to a decisive victory in the Inter-Fraternity swimming meet Wednesday night.
The winners took five of eight events to run up a total of 37½ points, a 13½ point spread over
the Sigma Chis, who came in second. The Kappa Sigs won third place with 12 points while the Betas edged
the SAE's 5-4 for fourth. Sixth place in the meet was taken by the KA’s with 3 points, just edging
the ATO’s who had no score.

Branch, a lightning-fast freshman from Atlanta, began the night with a record-smashing win in the 75-yard free-style. Joe Kelly, KS,
was second. The Phi Delts then put the icing on the cake with a first place in the 200-yard relay.
Branch swam anchor man as the fourth meet record fell.

The Sigma Chis, who had won the initial race, the 150-yard medley, failed to score, thus pulling the Phi Delts
ahead 9½-5. Herb Collins beat out the KA’s Stefan Young in the 50-yard breaststroke to push the Phi Delts into
a 14½-5 lead. Craig Ray and Brownie Thurman then boosted the point spread with a one-two finish in the 50-yard
free-style.

The Sigma Chis tried to make a battle of it as Tommy French and Chase Hunter swept the 50-yard backstroke,
and George Kirkpatrick broke a record in the 25-yard free-style, beating Phi Delt pledge Bob McDonald. This pulled them within
5½ points of the leaders, but Branch knocked off Chase Hunter in the following 75-yard individual medley. Branch had set
a record in this event in his qualification heat.

LASH ZEMP, Sigma Chi swimmer, prepares to dive into the pool on his lap of the free-style relay in Tuesday
night's action. (Photo by Rhyne)

Wrestlers Swimmers In The Spotlight

PAGE THREE

Varsity Sinks Favored William & Mary

Saturday's victory over William & Mary was somewhat of an upset since the Indians had defeated the Davidson squad in
last year's encounters and were expected to be strong again this year. In commenting on the meet, Coach Tucker readily
praised his team for “their great amount of desire and spirit.” An important factor in the win was the effort
of John Scott who won the breaststroke, defeating an opponent he has met for the last three years, but losing
each time by a slim margin.

CLEMSON TOMORROW

Tomorrow the tank squad visits the Clemson Y.M.C.A. pool. Davidson defeated Clemson in last year's action, but will be hampered
tomorrow by the loss of Scott who has a Christmas job obligation. Filling his spot will probably be Jim Hill,
a sophomore who finished third in last week's meet. Jack Rose, who came out of the infirmary last Saturday to
win the diving, has been back at practice and should be back in top shape for tomorrow’s action.

FRESHMEN PRAISED

Coach Tucker also had a great deal of praise for his freshman team and added that if any more freshmen
are interested in coming out they should do so. Tucker said, “I expect to see some of these boys break
several records before they leave Davidson.” A final note of praise was directed at team captain Bob, whom Tucker determines
a terrific leader and definite boost to the general team effort.

Wildcats Complete First Postal Match

The Davidson rifle team again gave evidence of its improvement over last year by shooting for a score of 916
in the annual Randolph-Hearst postal match. Sgt. McCurry says that this score, which is 38 points higher than last year’s,
should move the team from twenty-eighth place to somewhere in the top ten places in the Third Army Area. Captain
Stan Gaines was the leading scorer for the riflemen with 188.

“They really wanted this one. John Scott beat a boy that had whipped him for the last two years. Jack
Rose was in the infirmary Saturday morning, but came out and won the diving that night. They’ve come a long
way since last year, as his record confirms.”

Coach Charlie Parker is looking forward to a “good match” with North Carolina next Thursday in Chapel Hill as a
result of “Westy” Westervelt and company’s 27 to 5 wrestling win over Pfeiffer here Tuesday night. For Westervelt, Southern Conference
wrestling champion, it was the 28th consecutive win of his college career. He pinned Keith Young in 2:30 in his
167-pound class match. It was the last wrestler to stop Westervelt before the latter’s long winning streak began during his
sophomore year.

“I expect him to whip Atkinson this time,” Coach Parker said. Parker also praised the performances of several other Wildcats,
who captured seven of eight decisions, with only Glenn Weltborn, who won over Lewis Wyche in the 157-pound class, salvaging
a win for Pfeiffer.Three of the top two places in each individual event were won by upperclassmen. This should mean
a successful season for the freshman swim members of the Wildcat squad.

"Dave Irvin, out for practice only three days before the Pfeiffer match, handled himself very well. And Alex Porter looked
good, just as Jimmy Allen and Milton Gee did."

"And that relay team! It was the last event and if we lost it, there went the meet, but they
really came through. Our anchorman, Tom Hudgins, looked like a motorboat on the last go-round."

Then I asked the question the world wants to know: "Will married life hurt Captain Bob Wynne?"

"Nah," said the coach, "With that good-looking wife on the side he just swims better. A lot of credit goes
to that boy. He worked those guys during Thanksgiving and got them in shape — a good leader."

"One more thing," said Tucker as I started to leave. "We haven't got very much depth. It would sure help
if some of the upperclassmen who have had previous experience could come out. We'd really have a team then."

Well, anybody willing to get his feet wet?

PE COMPANY
At Wholesale Net Prices
Across From Ivey’s Sixth St. Entrance
196 West Fifth St.
Charlotte 2, N.C.

Buy That Gift For Dad And Brother Before Going Home For The Holidays
We Have A Nice Selection Of Gifts To Choose From
Wilson Wright's Inc.
“Collegiate Fashions”

Davidson other upperclassmen for their swimming squad this year. Coach Tom Scott's varsity cagemen, favored to win after chalking up
a 2-2 record this season, face Pfeiffer College here tomorrow night. Led by Captain Stan Gaines, Joe Wearn, and standouts
Dave Hollingsworth and Semi Mintz, the Wildcat five play a favored role with fine help and encouragement to the freshman
prospects. The team, which is hoping to win three-fourths of its shoulder matches, is pointing to its February 9 meeting
with The Citadel.

Previous rifle team victories were over the Wofford Terriers and the Blue Hose of Presbyterian. The Cats hold an even
won-lost record — two and two. Top win on the list was over Catawba 79-55 last week. Husky Alaskan Dave
Hollingsworth scored 22 points to become the Davidson team's season high scorer with a total of 67 points in four
games, an average of 16.7 points per game.

Do You Think for Yourself?
1. If the salaries were equal, would you rather be a college professor than a movie star?
2. Would you rather borrow money from a bank or institution than from a friend?
3. Would you rather have tests sprung on you than be warned about them in advance?
4. Do you think it's foolish to daydream?
5. Do you believe it unwise to eat at irregular hours, even though you're hungry?
6. If you actually saw a “flying saucer” land, would you run for your life?
7. Would you be inclined to follow the latest style in clothes regardless of how it looked to you?
8. Would you feel badly if you thought nobody at all knew where you were?

If you have answered Yes to two out of the first three questions, and No to five out of the
last six... you think for yourself!

Are you confused by the clamor of conflicting claims so many filter cigarettes are making these days? The fact is,
thinking men and women don’t let themselves get pushed and pulled by all those filter claims. They know what they
want in a filter cigarette. And they know only VICEROY gives it to them. A thinking man’s filter... a smoking
man’s taste.

Should you smoke VICEROY? If you think for yourself—chances are you do already!

ONLY VICEROY HAS A THINKING MAN'S FILTER... A SMOKING MAN'S TASTE!

SMITTY SMITH, Junior backstroke specialist, shows the form that helped him cop his event in Saturday night’s victory. Look closely;
he’s under the water. (Photo by Rhyne)

Sophomore Bill Shir-was top scorer than ever pack cv freshman, WA RALFORD er in a fact Jo. Henry game Avidkittens,
iii. with 17 points. Wildcat cagers Dust we've Hed-at-& ec in! Tire soccer was a 5 outscored Uw ir “pnonents
he. cal Gods Oo sit ‘not! Wexperio iced, but enthe or we { wy ti oy ’ {0 voints for
. & of win. ey fie prove | ter: Bas- of. the | fou Th Yeo k aa LS OrQ
Marring the 1 ot record 1 Martin Ragarce AM queted tu “apurate 1 ti) grate at caivid- a 60-43 Ise
b “Ring ollegc. pees mdb ‘son. ‘The propusal incl with favordble res atk Havidson, favored lo win met ou Sanding
performs cae Met Nite . “oh aa eit ti carpriaing’ creme King teom fessor McCutchan wa: asked 10 coaei te
tear Three seasnns peed 4 cored geowing enthusin a las FP, HERES A TEST at | contributed Ereat! ia the
KS [THAT WILL TELL YOU!) cross c «* tcam. Professor ; MeCutdian oa umntiringly teoaehed the tcam for the past
| three yeurs, but bowed out as | iead coach after this past sea- son. Said Professor fAcCutchan. “After long
consideration and ' with genuine reluctance, | | have decided to tender my ' resignation as varsity soccer | coach,
effective at the end of | the season of 1958. A. variety of professional re- |. vonsibilities and increasing de-
.mands on my _ personal time have led me to take this action. “My three years of close as- sociation
with the Department of Athletics and especially with the members of the var- sity squad have been enjoy- able and
instructive ones for | me. “T am confident that soceer {has e.rned its niche as a var- sity sport at
Davidson and that interest in itewill be sustained.” ' ! This past season McCutchen’s squad posted a 6-5 record with
double wins over Belmont Ab- {bey and Pfeiffer and single triumphs over King College and : Warren Wilson. Weicher Bergema
of the Netherlands wa-s high point | man with 17 goals and Tom ‘ fohnson had 6. Pfofessor Paul Marrotte
was essistant coach.
