PAGE FOUR

GENERAL BOWEN

General Bowen Plans ROTC Corps Review

Major General Frank S. Bowen, Jr., commanding general of the XII Army Corps, will visit Davidson College and its cadet corps next Tuesday. He will conduct a routine inspection of the ROTC Department and the cadet corps. The XII Army Corps, disbanded for some time, was reactivated on November 1, 1958, and General Bowen was named its commander at that time. The new corps is a division of the United States Third Army. The Davidson ROTC Department is therefore a unit under the distant command of General Bowen, and the purpose of his trip next week will be to acquaint himself with his command.

TO MEET STAFF

General Bowen will arrive on campus early Tuesday morning. He will meet with President D. Grier Martin and later with PMS&T Colonel William L. Adams, Jr. Cadet Colonel Sam Clarke and his staff will then brief General Bowen as to their specific duties and accomplishments this year. Reports will be made by Cadet Major Henry H. Brown, Corps Adjutant; Cadet Major W. L. Walker, Intelligence Officer; Cadet Major Sam McGuirt, Operations Officer; and Cadet Major J. F. Renfro, Supply Officer. The staff will then conduct General Bowen on a tour of the Davidson ROTC facilities. He will visit freshman and sophomore ROTC classes that morning.

WILL INSPECT DRILL

After lunch with the President and Deans of the College, he will inspect the ROTC Corps at its drill that afternoon. The standard review procedure will be used by the corps for the general. Born in the Philippine Islands, General Bowen graduated from West Point in 1926. He served in the Pacific Theater during World War II and in Korea. He has numerous decorations, including the Distinguished Service Cross, the Distinguished Service Medal, the Legion of Merit, the Silver Star, the Bronze Star, the Air Medal, and the Purple Heart. He has held his present rank since 1955.

Financial Aid (Continued From Page 1)

The average grant-in-aid is worth an average of $387 to each of the one hundred four students to whom they were awarded. This year fifteen foreign student scholarships were awarded at an average of $846 each. These scholarships are worth a total of $12,600. Under the faculty children tuition exchange program, there are twelve students getting $600 tuition grants from Davidson College.

Although there are three hundred and thirteen students receiving some sort of grant or scholarship, only two hundred and seventy-four actually receive stipends, either because of honorary scholarships or because of the fact that some students receive awards in two categories. In answer to several questions asked by members of the DAVIDSONIAN staff, Mr. White gave the following answers:

Question: Where does this sum of over $170,000 come from?

Answer: A good percentage

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Johnston Reviews Book By Byrnes

On November 18 at Ivey’s in Charlotte, Dr. Frontis Johnston reviewed the new book, “All in One Lifetime,” by ex-Governor James F. Byrnes of South Carolina. A crowd of several hundred people including Governor and Mrs. Byrnes attended the review. Dr. Johnston spoke for about 45 minutes and then Governor Byrnes commented for about 10 minutes on what Dr. Johnston had said. Dr. Johnston spoke mainly on what the book covered and what he wished it had covered. The book spans the entire period of Byrnes’ life and it is intended to be an autobiography rather than history. The main part of the book, however, covers the period from 1942-1947 during which Byrnes served as War Mobilization Director and Secretary of State. The book, although not highly controversial, does conflict with the memoirs of Truman on the policy of dealing with the Communists, especially at the Moscow Conference. Dr. Johnston brought out that even when Byrnes presents his side of the case, he is not bitter and there is a sort of detachment and philosophical mood which is very noticeable. He said the book was well written and it displayed a good sense of humor about public service and politics.

Poll (Continued From Page 1)

The professor who preferred no cuts at all had this to say: “The problem is basically how to get the students to do more (quantity) and more difficult (quality) work. It is difficult to see how absence from class facilitates this. If courses are poorly taught or pitched at too low a level, the remedy lies in administrative action and not in weakening class attendance.” If the whole faculty feels as do those (a little less than half the faculty) who answered the poll, about three-fourths favor some system other than the present one and approximately half would favor a more liberal cut policy.

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a PIZZA

the famous OPEN KITCHEN 1318 W. Morehead

LOOK OVER THE SEA

German Describes Life Under Communist Rulers

By ULRICH SCHOENING Davidsonian Feature Writer

At the present time Berlin is in the headlines of the newspapers throughout the world. But even before the present crisis, Berlin was a city of paramount importance, due to its division into two parts. Berlin has often been called a front city, a place where the hardest battles of the cold war are fought. But it is also a city of meeting. Many people from East and West Germany who cannot cross the zonal border have met in Berlin.

For me, too, Berlin has become a meeting place. I went there twice this year, with a group of other students, to visit the Evangelical Student Parish (a Christian youth organization) of the Humboldt University in East Berlin. We wanted to know more about the situation of the students over there, and we wanted also to live with them for some days as a sign of fellowship with the Student Parishes of the “Free German Youth” and in private talks.

PERMISSION DENIED

Unfortunately, we had to live in West Berlin, since the Communist authorities did not give us permission to stay in East Berlin. Thus we traveled each day across the sector border into the Russian sector. What we learned there was both depressing and encouraging. To begin with, the economic situation of the students is not too bad, compared with other parts of the East German society. Almost every student gets a scholarship from the state. The price to be paid for this scholarship, however, is very high. The students are expected to give full support to the East German “Workers’ and Peasants’ State.” They are expected to be active members of the Free German Youth (the Communist state youth organization) and to profess the Dialectical and Historical Materialism (the official Communist ideology).

STUDENTS COMPROMISE

Since Communism is indissolubly linked with atheism, these exigencies put a considerable amount of stress on each Christian student. In a good many cases, some students try to reach a compromise. They support the Communists in those activities which do not conflict with Christian principles (e.g., in summer and fall they usually help readily to gather in the “socialistic” harvest) and they oppose the Communists when the values of Christianity are in danger. Too bold a stand, of course, would lead to a clash with the authorities. The usual practice, therefore, is to say as little as possible in public.

In private talks, however, you realize what they really think. So most of the students are forced to double-think. They are different people in a meeting of the “Free German Youth” and in private talks.ch ie | either to serve God or the Cir: In this distress TL dropping over to the dorm and is the man for us that are compatible with Chris- downing a sparkling Coke or two with the boys. The man who’s for Coke.

Balentine Hoping | Elections For Large Turnout

An organizational meeting to pursue the ideas presented by Doug Balentine in a DAVIDSONIAN article two weeks ago will be held Monday night at 10 o'clock in the College Union. At that time interested students will establish a continuing program of debates and discussions on religious matters as related to many various topics. The meeting was originally scheduled for this past Monday, but only eight persons were present. “Many others are interested, I’m sure,” stated Balentine after the small turnout. “Poor planning accounts for it and we hope to remedy that.”

Balentine set forth his general idea in this paper's Letter to the Editor column. With no other publicity, questionnaires were distributed after chapel on Tuesday before the holidays. Although many did not know their significance, seventy showed an interest in the proposed program and thirty-four indicated they would attend the meeting.

“We definitely hope to accomplish more on Monday night, with the advantage of more publicity,” Balentine said. “I feel this program, when organized by active participants, can develop into a large, worthwhile endeavor.”

Gosh frosh! how'd you catch on so quick? Catch on to the fact that Coca-Cola is the hep drink on campus, I mean. Always drink it, you say? Well—how about SIGN OF GOOD TASTE Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company by Charlotte N.C. “Coke” is a registered trademark. THE COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD ©1933, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY.

Do You Think for Yourself?

When going “off the factual and concise? 5. When writing a letter applying for a job, would you try to make it (A) original and off-beat, or (B) SEE WHAT THIS TEST TELLS YOU ABOUT YOURSELF!

A large part of it comes from annual giving. This is done primarily by alumni, but also from other friends such as parents of students and other interested parties. Also, a part of this sum comes from corporations such as Proctor and Gamble, and Union Carbide.

Question: Are all grants based on the need of the student?
Answer: Most of the major scholarships awarded by Davidson College do have need as a basic criterion. This also applies to the grants-in-aid. By tradition, sons of Southern Presbyterian ministers are entitled to one-half tuition. Athletic grants and foreign student scholarships are not awarded on a basis of need.

Question: Isn't there some inconsistency in the fact that academic scholarships are based on need and athletic grants are not?
Answer: Well, this is a result of the recognition by the Trustees that we are competing with schools that spend much more money than we do for athletic endeavors, and that in order to continue competing with these teams we must follow this course.

Question: Who determines what percentage of the scholarship fund goes toward athletics?
Answer: This is determined by the Trustees.

In a heated discussion would you rather (A) be the “moderator,” or (B) jump in on a side using any argument to win?

Before making a complex decision, is your first move (A) to marshal the facts, or (B) to ask the advice of a respected friend?

Do you (A) try to figure out ahead what each day will bring, or (B) face problems as they come along?

The Man Who Thinks for Himself Knows

If you were getting furniture for a room, would you look first for (A) something comfortable, or (B) something colorful and unusual?

Would you prefer a job (A) in an old established firm offering security, or (B) a small company which could expand rapidly?

Would you rather be known as a person who (A) works well with others, or (B) accepts responsibility on his own?

When you step up to a cigarette counter, are you (A) confused by all the conflicting filter claims you've seen, or (B) sure of what you want because you've thought things through?

You will notice that men and women who think for themselves usually choose VICEROY. Why? Because they’ve thought it through—they know what they want in a filter cigarette. And VICEROY gives it to them: a thinking man’s filter and a smoking man’s taste.

*If you have checked (A) on 3 out of the first 4 questions, and (B) on 4 out of the last 5... you think for yourself!

© 1958, Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp.

Familiar pack or crush-proof box. ONLY VICEROY HAS A THINKING MAN'S FILTER... A SMOKING MAN'S TASTE!

FRIDAY, DECEMBER 5, 1958

C. Shaw Smith At SCPOA Meeting

C. Shaw Smith, Co-ordinator of Student Activities, is attending the Twelfth Annual Convention of the Southern College Placement Officers Association in Hollywood, Florida, December 3-5. Mr. Smith is Chairman of the Association's Constitution Committee this year. As Davidson's Director of Placement, he is in charge of assisting students and alumni in locating positions in business and industry.

The theme of the convention is “Taking Stock.” Keynote speaker of the meeting is William T. Bess, Jr., assistant to the President of Union Bag-Camp Paper Corporation. Sessions have included other speakers and pertinent panel discussions.

The present committee, under the directorship of John Kuykendall, includes John Toumaras, Jim Richards, John Cooley, Scott Puckett, Erving Duggan, Tom Colvin, and Joe Eifort. This committee is separate from the Student Council and at present contains only one Student Council member. The committee meetings are held in the Blue Room of the College Union, the next one scheduled for December 17 at four p.m.

(Continued From Page 1)

The committee also is considering the advantages of opening our elections to party politics and allowing the candidates to campaign. At a banquet Thursday night, December 4, awards for last year were presented. At the business meeting today, the officers for 1959 were to be elected and the convention brought to a close.

Goin’ home over vacation? GOING BY GREYHOUND IS BASIC ECONOMICS!

Lowest fares of all public transportation! Frequent departures! Quickest time to many cities!

Compare these low, low fares!
Winston-Salem 1.90
Charlotte 60
Atlanta 7.75
Richmond 7.65
plus tax

Air-conditioned comfort; picture-window sightseeing; fully equipped restroom; on all Scenicruiser Service® schedules!

IT’S SUCH A COMFORT TO TAKE THE BUS... AND LEAVE THE DRIVING TO US!

WHITE DRUG CO.
C. S. GOODRUM, Agent
Davidson, N. C.

OUR DISTINGUISHED TRADITIONAL TOPCOAT

Every detail is traditional: the fly front, the distinctive set-in welt sleeves, the slim lines, the natural shoulder. Its fabric... worsted cheviot... has long been a continental favorite. For you who demand complete fashion authenticity, the Madison is the “natural” topcoat choice. $65

Wilson-Wright’s, Inc.
“COLLEGIATE FASHIONS”
Davidson, N. C.