Che Dauvidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 1958

(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

Welcome To Men Of '62

The DAVIDSONIAN wishes to extend to the Class of 1962 a hearty welcome to the campus. From all reports available, it would seem that this new class has the potential of being one of Davidson's finest. It is our hope that this new class accept quickly its responsibility to become intelligent and interested citizens of the College community. If this hope is realized, they can have a real part in shaping Davidson of the future; a Davidson of “Southern predominance and national eminence” in the field of liberal arts education.

It is unfortunate that this class must be faced with the problem of a crowded campus. We think that someone owes them an apology for living conditions which at this writing find some thirty boys sleeping barracks style in the gymnasium. It is even more unfortunate that many of them will be studying a curriculum which, despite signs of possible revision, in many instances remains outmoded and stale. However, even considering these problems and many others, we must congratulate them on their choice of a college. They will find in time that though there is a lot wrong at Davidson there is also a lot very right here. It will be their problem and responsibility in the years to come to see that the “wrong” is reduced to the absolute minimum.

Thanks To A Friend

The DAVIDSONIAN lost one of its most valuable advisors and closest friends when Mr. Horace Broyles, owner and publisher of the “Mecklenburg Gazette,” passed away several days ago.

For many years Mr. Broyles, in addition to his other duties, printed the DAVIDSONIAN and acted as the paper’s advisor in regard to makeup and printing. This paper’s three consecutive “All American” ratings speak well for his ability. The Davidson community, and in fact, all of Mecklenburg County will feel the loss of Mr. Broyles. He was a member of that vanishing breed of men who, almost single-handedly, run small weekly newspapers. From start to finish his paper, “The Mecklenburg Gazette” was his own work. He solicited ads, looked for news, wrote a large number of the stories, and supervised the printing. Of prime importance was the fact that in everything he did, he expressed an interest in the College, the community, and his county.

The entire DAVIDSONIAN Staff wishes to express to Mrs. Broyles our deepest sympathy in the death of Mr. Broyles and to say “Thank you" to a patient and talented friend who will be sorely missed.

Both Lose By Association

The other day we happened to be looking through the famed “Faculty Red Book” of rules and regulations governing the activities of the Davidson student. On the inside cover of this publication there is printed an interesting statement made several years ago by the late Dr. Walter Lingle, for years President of Davidson. It reads something like this: “There is only one rule necessary for a Davidson student, and that is that he be a gentleman.”

Immediately following this distinguished gentleman’s quote can be found some thirty-nine pages of various and sundry rules and regulations. Now we like the quote. It has a nice atmosphere about it. We also think that the largest part of the rules are necessary for the smooth functioning of a college, but we think that neither profit by their close association. Perhaps next year either the quotation or the rules could be omitted.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Laurens Walker

ASSISTANT EDITOR
Bill Patton

BUSINESS MANAGER
Henry Samuels

Associate Editors
Charles Chastain
Bob Lathan, George Ramsey

Managing Editors
Ed Armfield
Dick Smith
Jim Hamilton
Pete Kellogg, Bruce Brooks

Sports Editor
Tom Colvin

Feature Editor
Spiro Macris

News Editor
Bross, Cole

Advertising Manager
Charles Rose

Dave Gillis
Circulation Manager
Greg Grana

Ass't. Business Manager
Bob Wynne

Assignments Editor
Copy Editor
Cartoonists
Photographer

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879

Sport Coats - $45.00
Dress Shirts - $15.95
Sport Shirts - $12.95
Pants - $5.95
Shoes - $5.95

Freshman And Transfer Days
Fri. & Sat. Sept. 12 & 13

WILSON-WRIGHTS, Inc.
COME IN AND REGISTER
REFRESHMENTS ALSO
DRAWING SATURDAY EVE
Wilson-Wrights, Inc.
NEXT DOOR TO BANK

Foreign Students Well Impressed

“Uli, what has impressed you most so far about the U.S.?”
“The high prices.”

The half dozen foreign students already on campus have made it plain that Davidson is going to be a different place for their having been here. Fifteen boys from eleven foreign countries will attend Davidson this year on Richardson Foundation scholarships. All of them on campus now are friendly, enthusiastic and fascinating individuals.

A pre-ministerial student from Bochum, Germany, Uli Schoening made this remark about American prices in what he thought was an off-the-record comment. His reaction to Davidson after only a day here was, “I’m amazed that the school provides everything for the student.” Uli was particularly impressed by the dormitory rooms and the fraternity houses. He thought the campus very beautiful and liked the opportunities for such activities as sports and music. Apparently European universities do not provide dorms or any recreational or cultural activities outside the lecture room.

Helge Schoenfelder of Wuppertal, Germany, home of the world’s only overhead monorail, was quite enthusiastic about Davidson, even after getting here at 2 a.m. that day. “My first impression is that I like very, very much." He was very surprised by the friendly attitude of everyone on campus and was impressed by the great number of student-owned cars, especially the Mercedes. At his school, the University of Goettingen, he says only about ten of the six thousand students own cars. Helge is an English major and hopes to teach in schools outside Germany.

Toni Diaz, a seventeen-year-old pre-med student from Panama City, Panama, likes Davidson so much he hopes to spend four years here. Like most of the Richardson Scholars, he hadn’t seen a football game and enjoyed watching the team scrimmage. He didn't think it was as tough as it looked and thought it funny to see players coming out of practice limping or holding a shoulder. He is interested in sports and hopes to participate in some at Davidson. In Panama much of his spare time was spent in farm work. Toni’s only complaint is that there are not enough people around who can speak Spanish with.

Herman Laimer of Salzburg, Austria (Oesterreich, auf deutsch), has spent a year at the University of Commerce in Vienna and will study business administration here. His first reaction was “First of all I have to say that I am most impressed by the friendliness of all the people.” European students, he says, tend more to be individualists and associate only with high school or regional groups. Here we “don’t care if he’s from Mississippi.” Ebbe Justesen plans a chemistry major and hopes to become an engineer. If he receives a degree from Davidson, Ebbe, who is now twenty, will study eight and a half more years to complete his engineering training and four years study of business. His school was in a city with no dormitories or campus, so he likes the “great park” that constitutes our campus.

Pierre Wyss-Chodad of Geneva, Switzerland, will study politics, history, and English in preparation for a career in diplomacy. He thinks student life here seems more pleasant and likes the part played by sports. He spent fifteen days in Cape Cod with Dr. Watts before coming to Davidson. Of Dr. Watts he says, “He's a very good teacher.”

These six are only the first arrivals of the foreign students. The whole group promises to be a real source of interest on campus.

Lettermen Brighten Soccer Chances

With twelve top lettermen returning, Coach Wilson McCutchan’s soccer squad shapes up as the strongest team to wear the hard shoe in the sport's brief history at Davidson.

Back at forward are Captain Gordon Neville, Frank Holt, Dave Irvin, “Koogie” Kwon, John Keiter, and Mike Laughlin. Returning at halfback are Pete Andrews, and Sam Clarke, while John Kuykendall and Henry Pharr are back at fullback. All-Southern Sam Smith is also back.

Claude Finney, All-Southern goalie last year as a freshman, promises to be an even bigger rock in the ‘Cat defense than last year.

Coach McCutchan also has plenty of experienced reserves: McKeithan, Lint Hopkins, Joe Bob Dulaney, Don Follmer, Hoagland, Peter Howell, and others should provide depth.

Currie Clarifies New Parking Rules

Mr. Robert A. Currie, business manager of the college.has clarified the parking rule concerning Patterson Fraternity Court. “There will be no parking permitted on the paved surface of the court,” he stated. As Davidson starts Tuesday, there have been parking areas furnished on the outer rim of the court, but this area will not be paved. It will be hard-packed rock. The paved area will be lighted by fixtures similar to those in Belk parking lot. Two-way traffic will be permitted on the court itself, and stop signs will be erected on the base of the “U”.

Since parking will not be allowed on the court itself, car washing might present a problem, but Mr. Currie stated that two washing areas have been provided just south of the electrical transmission lines on the outside of the court. There is room for two cars in each area, and the college is providing spigots for the purpose.

The pedestrian entrance to the court will be located near the laundry in back of Belk Dormitory. The administration has figured roughly on four thousand road crossings a day in back of Belk and has installed features to reduce the hazard. The first of these is a pair of fences at the laundry bump to provide students with a clear view of traffic. Another bump will be constructed, and stop signs on either side of the bump will lessen the hazard even further.

A path down to the court is to be made and steps provided where necessary. All other areas above the court will be fenced in to encourage use of the path, which, along with the two drives, will make three accesses to the court.

Tom Price, McBryde Captains Whittle’s Harriers

Coach Heath Whittle, with several experienced hands returning, will open the cross-country season with the first practice next Wednesday. The harriers, headed by Captain Angus McBryde, appear stronger than last year. Other returnees are King Cole, Harry Brown, Jim Alexander, Bill Deane, Larry McNeill, Graham George, and Al MacKay. Whittle announced that there will be a freshman team, and all interested freshmen are invited to report for practice. The schedule is as follows:

Oct. 3—Pfeiffer and Pembroke
Oct. 8—Wake Forest
Oct. 18—Citadel
Oct. 24—Furman
Nov. 1—University of Richmond
Nov. 5—W&L, VMI
Nov. 10—State Meet (Raleigh)
Nov. 17—Conference Meet

College Initiates Court Rental Fee

With the opening of Davidson’s new fraternity court, a special rental-fee system has been initiated by the college. The system will stretch payment of construction and maintenance costs over a series of semesters, lightening financial burdens for both students and the college. After the basic cost of fraternity houses and their expected life have been estimated, the necessary amount to be recovered each year will be determined. Rental fees will be determined based on the number of fraternity members on the campus. Upperclassmen will pay an initial fee of twenty dollars for the first semester and a later second semester fee which is yet undetermined. Fees are payable at registration. Freshman pledges will pay ten dollars for the first semester and twenty dollars for the second. Robert Currie, college business manager, stated Wednesday that the college anticipates success for the system if it “goes along according to estimates.”

Tryouts for cheerleaders will be held Monday and Tuesday at 5:00 p.m. in Johnston Gymnasium. All interested are asked to report to Bob Shoffner then.

Twelve New Men Join Administration

Mr. E. Bryan Gillespie is an instructor in English. He holds a B.A. degree from Wake Forest and an M.A. from Duke University. Mr. Gillespie was an instructor at Davidson before entering the U.S. Army and is, therefore, no stranger to the school.

Mr. Glenn C. Lindsey is an instructor of business administration and received an M.B.A. degree from the University of Georgia.

Major Berle K. Hufford will be an assistant professor of military science and tactics. He holds B.A. and M.A. degrees from Yale University.

Captain Robert W. Fleming, Jr. holds a B.S. degree from the University of Maryland. He will be an assistant professor of military science and tactics.

NEW COACHES

Coach Joe B. Hunt will assume the duties of assistant basketball coach. He was formerly coach at North Mecklenburg High School.

Coach George Tucker holds B.A. and M.A. degrees from East Carolina College. He will serve as assistant football coach.

Coach James Walthall obtained an A.B. degree from West Virginia. He will also be an assistant football coach.

The music department will have two newcomers: Dr. J. P. Schinnan, visiting instructor of organ, and Mr. Paul Langston, visiting instructor in musical theory.

By JIM HAMILTON

I sat in the training room of a large southern university. The mist rising from the steam table dotted the new tile walls with moisture. There was moisture also on the brow of the chef behind the long table. It was spring outside, but inside thoughts were all of fall, as the school’s football team straggled in from the afternoon's practice. Winter's fat hung on their huge bodies. Many were too tired to utter more than a grunt. They took their trays, which overflowed with food that was the envy of the common students in the large dining room behind the training room walls. They sat down and began the almost mechanical process of eating—speaking little, grunting often.

Then in swaggered a short, stocky lineman almost as broad as he was tall. His hair was long on his neck and he grinned a toothy grin. Conversation arose, but it was an ugly kind. He was the center of attention and all remarks, cutting remarks, were directed at him. It was verbal play and he was the toy. But he didn’t realize. He was the fool, the butt of the jokes, the plaything. But he didn’t know it. Finally, in a moment of glee, he exclaimed, “Gee, you guys must think I was born in the jungle.” I wondered.

In this group of college students, there was no apparent intellectual interest, no desire to learn anything but football plays. Just the life of an animal earning his food—or his scholarship. “Out of the jungle came the cry of the bull ape.” Out of the training room came the pathetic cry of the fossils, but on the gridiron.

But listen, Freshmen! This isn’t what we consider the Davidson athlete. The Davidson athlete is only here because he had a high enough academic average to get in and Davidson is proud of this. Coach Dole, for instance, has several potential Phi Beta Kappas on his first team. And the whole football squad average is usually higher than the all-men’s average here on campus. This is why Dole is using pro plays this year. His boys can learn them.

I don’t want to create the impression that Davidson athletes are gods on earth, nor do I wish to intimate that all athletes at big schools or even at the school above fit into the picture I have drawn. But the fact remains, the Davidson football player or basketball player or what have you, has to be a scholar as well or he won’t be here very long. And that to me is more important than having teams in the top ten.

Welcome FRESHMEN & TRANSFERS

We Hope Your Stay At Davidson Will Be A Pleasant One. We Are At Your Service.

OPPOSITE THE GULF STATION

Special Clearance

40 Were $32.50 to $39.50 Now $15.00

30 Pair Bermudas Were Up To $9.95 Now $4.95

Wilson-Wrights, Inc.
“COLLEGIATE FASHIONS”