FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 1958

Davidsonian

SPORTS and VIEWS

PETE WYRICK & “B” MILLNER

Ed. Note: While the staff is in Chicago, the management of this page has been turned over to the two budding sports writers, “B” Millner and Pete Wyrick. This column is also their work.

Nov. 1 marked the opening day of practice for winter sports, with basketball, wrestling, and swimming teams officially beginning afternoon drills. Before attention completely turns to prospects of the indoor season, perhaps we should take a receding glance at the fall scene.

Congratulations are in order for David Gilmour who took individual honors at the State Cross-Country Meet, freshmen division in Raleigh last week. Gilmour finished first to lead the Wildkittens to a second-place finish behind strong Carolina. Angus McBryde also turned in a tremendous performance as he placed fifth in varsity action.

The 'Cat soccer squad invaded Chapel Hill today, seeking its first victory over the ACC foes. Victories in their two final matches against Carolina and Warren Wilson would give the soccermen a fine record of seven wins and four losses. Bergsma continues to lead the scoring and we shall be waiting to see if some of the Wildcats take All-Conference honors again.

An appeal for support: Two final victories against Richmond and Furman could give the Wildcat football team a possible tie for the Southern Conference title. Be there!

Nomination for pun of the week: “It looks like Coach Dole has Ushered in a new era in field goal importance.”

ROUNDBALL NOTES—

Coach Tom Scott’s veteran Wildcats will open their season December 2 against one of the better teams in the ACC—Bones McKinney’s Wake Forest Deacons. Last year the Deacons, composed mainly of sophomores and juniors, came on near the end of the season to scare the wits out of some of the ACC powers. Much of their success this year will depend on how well Jerry Steele, a 6’ 8”, 240-pound center, can move around in the pivot. Last year’s fine pivot man, 6’ 7” David Budd, has moved over to forward.

Dr. Scott rates the ’58 freshman crop a shade better overall than last season’s squad which ran up a very successful record with the now defunct Jay Vee team. The Kittens, coached by Joe Hunt, play home-and-home games with Wake Forest, Furman, the Citadel, and Pfeiffer, plus several contests with junior college varsity squads. Hunt's boys are big and the speed is provided by a cat-quick guard from Indiana named Jerry Bussel.

Perhaps the Intramural Sports Council should take another look at their ruling that athletes out for a sport for more than twenty days are ineligible to participate in that sport for their fraternity. In several sports, particularly basketball, the coaches often do not cut excess players until after practicing a month or more. Thus, if a boy is cut from the team after the 20-day limit, he cannot play fraternity ball. This seems to defeat the council’s objective of participation for all those who cannot play on a varsity team.

Davidson Stops Stiff W&M; Spiders Invade Wildcatland

By BILL HELLIER

Tomorrow afternoon's contest with Richmond University will be the Wildcats' last home game on Richardson Field this year. The Spiders from Virginia's Capital will be fielding a fine team that promises plenty of trouble for the 'Cats who dropped William and Mary last weekend. Although Richmond only has a 2-6 record thus far, they have a tough schedule and have shown a lot of strength by whipping the Citadel 20-0 and losing to V.M.I. by only six points.

Led by the sharp passing and quarterbacking of Charlie Benson, the Wildcats upset William and Mary 16-7 last weekend in Williamsburg. The left-handed junior from Florida connected with Craig Wall on a short pass for one of Davidson's touchdowns and then ran over on an option play from five yards out for the other six-pointer. Freshman Bruce Usher again proved his worth by booting a field goal when a 'Cat drive stalled on the Indian 23-yard line. His try was set up by a short W & M punt which bounced out of bounds on the Indian 39-yard stripe.

Fumbles hurt the Indians, in particular one recovered by halfback Craig Wall on the William and Mary 29. Wildcat backs Benson, Dave Warden, and Jerry Sheffield then teamed up to score for the 'Cats in seven plays. In the third period, the Indians turned on the steam and scored with apparent ease, riddling the Davidson defense for 49 yards in twelve plays. On two subsequent marches, the 'Cats held, however, and W & M was able to do no more than approach the Davidson goal.

The Davidson line played alert ball the entire game with only a few mistakes marring their performance. Coach Bill Dole remarked that the win over William and Mary was a fine one and he was generally pleased with the way the team played. Davidson, by winning its last two games with Richmond and Furman, would be in a position for at least a Southern Conference Championship tie, should V.M.I. lose or tie either of its two remaining games with the Citadel and Virginia Tech.

Fall Sports Teams Improve In Drills

As the football season draws to a close, the wrestling and basketball seasons are ready to take its place. Coach Parker expects the Wildcat grapplers to have as good a season as last year. As far as practice goes, Parker says the team looks good. Jim Allen, Ed Houser, and Milton Gee have looked especially good. The team will be weak in the lower weights. One reason for this is the loss of Charlie Lampley by graduation and Bobby McIntyre, who has a shoulder injury.

BASKETBALL

“We should be greatly improved from last year, but a lot depends on our center, Joe Milner,” commented Coach Scott on the Davidson basketeers. With Bill Shinn, Dave Hollingsworth, and Semi Mintz back, the team will have its leading scorers on the floor. One of the guard positions is open, and John Stafford and John Huie are both good prospects for it.

Dave Gilmour Races To State Freshman Title

David Gilmour, smooth-striding freshman from Charlotte, is North Carolina's new freshman cross-country champion. Angus McBryde was fifth in varsity competition. The young frosh, last year’s North Carolina prep mile king, copped the state crown Monday at Raleigh with a winning time of 12:07 for the 2.5-mile distance over the N. C. State course as he led the Wildkittens to a second-place finish behind North Carolina. He defeated freshman runners from Duke, N. C. State, North Carolina, Wake Forest, Pembroke, and Pfeiffer.The runner-uppers, Phi Delt and Beta, with 146 points each for 10 wins and 2 losses. This marked the end of a four-year famine for the champions in regard to the flickerball title. With the flickerball race out of the way, wrestling is now the sport in the spotlight. The Inter-Fraternity wrestling meet is scheduled for November 17 and 18, with a swimming meet proposed for December 10 and 11. This year’s wrestling meet should prove highly interesting in that a strong battle between the Kappa Sigs and the Betas, respectively first and second last year, is expected. A victory for the Wooglins would ensure an even tighter point race. A team may enter only one man in each of the nine weight divisions: 123, 130, 137, 147, 157, 167, 177, 191 lbs., and heavyweight. In all classes having more than eight entries, winners of the first bouts will wrestle a second bout on the second night of competition. Winners in the classes with less than eight entries shall be determined during the first night.

Wednesday night, the IMAC adopted a new eligibility rule which states: “Students going out for freshman or varsity sports shall not be eligible for any intramural sports from the opening day of practice until the conclusion of the schedule of that freshman or varsity sport, with any competition or other postseason contests to be considered in this case as part of the schedule.”

An 11-1 record gave the Kappa Sigs the title, with the runner-up being Phi Delt and Beta, each with 146 points for 10 wins and 2 losses. This marked the end of a four-year famine for the champions in regard to the flickerball title. With the flickerball race out of the way, wrestling is now the sport in the spotlight. The Inter-Fraternity wrestling meet is scheduled for November 17 and 18, with a swimming meet proposed for December 10 and 11. This year’s wrestling meet should prove highly interesting in that a strong battle between the Kappa Sigs and the Betas, respectively first and second last year, is expected. A victory for the Wooglins would ensure an even tighter point race. A team may enter only one man in each of the nine weight divisions: 123, 130, 137, 147, 157, 167, 177, 191 lbs., and heavyweight. In all classes having more than eight entries, winners of the first bouts will wrestle a second bout on the second night of competition. Winners in the classes with less than eight entries shall be determined during the first night.

Wednesday night, the IMAC adopted a new eligibility rule which states: “Students going out for freshman or varsity sports shall not be eligible for any intramural sports from the opening day of practice until the conclusion of the schedule of that freshman or varsity sport, with any competition or other postseason contests to be considered in this case as part of the schedule.”

Gilmour's cross-country career this fall has literally been a record-breaking one. He set a new time in the annual “Cake Race,” the freshman class run held each September. He broke the existing record of 9:57 held by Jim Alexander with a new clocking of 9:45.8. Against Myers Park, Gilmour clipped off the 2.7-mile course in 13:59 and turned in a new time of 10:55 for the 2-mile trot in the triangular meet with East and West High. He finished second in the three-way meet with The Citadel and Furman with a time of 16:32 for 2.8 miles and against VMI did a very fine 16:18 for the longer three-mile test.

Captain of the frosh harriers this year, Gilmour led his team to eight wins for one of the most successful freshman seasons on record. Bill Coffey of Davidson was next in line for Davidson, winning sixth place. Brownlee, who defeated Gilmour once this season, was hampered by illness and came in 16th.

Davidson’s soccer team, moving toward season's end with a 5-4 record, is “looking good as usual” according to Coach J. M. McCutchan. With a 2-1 win over King College last week, the Wildcats today faced a strong UNC team on the opponent’s field. McCutchan expressed hope despite a blank record against the Carolina team—no scores against UNC in all years of Davidson play. “We may be minus a couple of men,” he said. “But we're optimistic.” He referred to regular players out due to injuries. The 2-1 victory over King saw outstanding performances by regulars Johnson and Bergsma. The coach praised what he called an outstanding Cat performance against the “dangerous” King outfit. The soccer season's last game will be played at Davidson on November 2, when DC will meet soccer-men from Warren-Wilson College. McCutchan praised junior Newt Quantz and senior letterman Pete Andrews. “We're hoping to have Andrews back in play for the Carolina game,” he said. “He’s been out for a couple of games.”

The champs of the flickerball league, Kappa Sigma, are shown in last week's game against the Sigma Chis. The Kappa Sigs won this one and won the title with an 11-1 record. The boy with the ball is Bobo McEachern, Richard Rieger is defending.

Going home over vacation? Going by Greyhound is basic economics! Lowest fares of all public transportation! Frequent departures! Quickest time to many cities! Air-conditioned comfort; picture-window sightseeing; fully equipped restroom on all Scenicruiser Service schedules! Compare these low, low fares! Winston-Salem, Charlotte, Atlanta, Richmond. It’s such a comfort to take the bus... and leave the driving to us!

Davidson's ROTC rifle team will host Wofford and Presbyterian here next Friday in its opening match of the 1958-59 season. H. Set J. McCurry, team coach, has announced Davidson's six starters: Stan Gaines, sophomore captain; Don Harper, sophomore co-captain; freshmen Bob Barringer and Ronald Fonda; junior Joe Wearn and senior Dan Neubauer. Other team members include junior Al Ruggles, sophomores James Ratchford and Bob Schacter, and freshmen Chase Hunter, Bob Porter, Marvin Rozear, and Gilbert Rosenberger. The complete shoulder-to-shoulder match schedule is as follows: Nov. 21—Wofford and P.C. at Davidson, Feb. 7—Charleston, The Citadel, Feb. 10—Furman at Davidson, Feb. 11—W&L at Davidson, Feb. 13—Furman and Wofford at Wofford, Feb. 20—Clemson and P.C. at Clemson, Mar. 6—Southern Conference at West Virginia, Mar. 13—P.C., Furman, and Wofford at Furman, Apr. 4 & 11—N.C. State Invitational Tournament at N.C. State.