**The Davidsonian**

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, MARCH 7, 1958

(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

Here Are The Issues: Campus Politicians Should Take Stands

Elections are about to begin on campus again. Every year we hear the same old story that there are no
issues here at Davidson. This may have been true in some past years, but it is not true today. We
have several problems that affect every student on campus. It is the duty, therefore, for all men who aspire to
any student body office to express publicly and clearly how they stand on the important issues.

The DAVIDSONIAN has taken stands on many issues this year—both local and national questions. Below we summarize what our stand
has been on the local campus issues in hope that election candidates will familiarize themselves with the issues and arrive
at their own particular views.

This year, the DAVIDSONIAN has stood for:

1. The formation of an Honor Council separate from the student council, and appointed by a student-faculty committee.
2. The elimination of collection at Vespers. Furthermore, we favor making Communion Vespers a voluntary service, but reaffirm our support
for required Vesper and Chapel services which are in keeping with the traditional policy of Davidson College.
3. The adoption of a preferential bidding system. The primary purpose of this new system would be to limit the
number of men in each fraternity.
4. The removal of fraternity interference in the mechanics of confirmation of rush week dates, the beginning of rush week
a week earlier than last year, and a more mature policy toward Hell Week. The IFC has approved all three
of these actions.
5. The modification of the drinking rule to allow students to come back to campus “under the influence.” Upon further
consideration, however, it seems clear that any relaxing in the drinking rule would eventually result in breaking down Davidson's high
standards of an alcohol-free campus. For this reason, we feel that if any change is to be made, it should
be in the direction of strengthening the present rule rather than in relaxing it.
6. The revision of the college curriculum to make it more stimulating and vital. This could be done by the
elimination of many dead-wood required courses, and the consolidation of others.
7. The placing of phone booths in the Union to permit more privacy when making a call.
8. The establishment of a Parents Day for upperclassmen.
9. The fraternity system as we know it here at Davidson, its necessary policy that supports the American tradition of
freedom of association, and the single unit fraternity houses which have now become a reality.
10. The reversal of the Trustee’s decision to increase the enrollment. We believe that Davidson College can best serve its
own people by remaining a very small Southern liberal arts college. At the same time, we do support the increase
in faculty salaries and look forward to the day when they will be on a level with the eastern schools.

These then are some of the issues that election candidates can take a stand on. These are issues that affect
the student body and the college.

Pay TV Seems Worth The Try

Proponents of pay television have charged that the anti-pay TV campaign is one of the most misleading drives ever launched
in this country for the purpose of fooling the public and protecting a special interest. As we understand the situation,
pay television is simply an additional entertainment service. It is entirely separate from the present arrangement of programs and would
not, as we understand it, have any effect on the present programs that viewers are accustomed to see. In other
words, pay TV would be a new innovation whereby people who want to could put in their quarters and see
top-rate movies, Broadway plays, and better quality entertainment than is now offered by the national networks.

It is clear that the quality of programs on TV today ranges from the most terrible to the very excellent.
The average program is really not worth the time it takes to view it. There are, on the other hand,
many good television programs—particularly the live sports, political, and musical activities.

At present, the Federal Communications Commission has voted to consider whether or not pay TV should be permitted to make
a try at the new system. If subscription television is allowed to be tried, it seems fair to predict that
two things will happen. First, it would force the national networks to improve the quality of programs to regain the
audience lost by the high-quality pay TV programs. Secondly, it will give those people who are willing to pay the
opportunity to see programs that they would not otherwise be able to see. The only possible loser in the whole
game would be those individuals and corporations who are willing to risk their money in promoting the new system. The
public, it seems, has nothing to lose. If pay TV is approved by the FCC, television viewers can take their
choice. It is worth a try.

Election Changes Another Hurdle

The Student Council should be congratulated for approving the needed election reforms which it passed at its Monday night meeting.
We support, moreover, the Council’s action in voting down the proposal to have the Editor of the Scripts and Pranks
selected by a board rather than by student body election. In future years, the students should resist all attempts to
eliminate student body election of the various editors. Too often candidates for the editorships are equally qualified and to allow
a board to select them would be unfair and at the same time take away a feeling of responsibility to
the student body.

It will now be up to the students to pass on the amendments to the Constitution which the Council has
approved. These three (see page one) amendments would help to streamline our elections as well as to acquaint the electorate
with the candidates. They deserve the support of the student body.

John Trask, Jr.
Pat Henderson
Gerald Wilson
Copy Editor
News Editor
Cartoonists
Photographer
Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager

Julian Aldridge
Bruce Brooks
Bross, Cole
Ed Stevens
Henry Samuels
Lee Mayfield

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

DECISION SOON

YMCA President Favors National Affiliation

By LLOYD CHAPIN

In April 1957, the YMCA Board of Directors instructed the newly appointed Cabinet to conduct a year-long study of our
affiliation with the national YMCA. This study, a “high priority project,” was to examine the advantages of separation in addition
to those resulting from continued membership in the national movement. For the past seven months, the Cabinet has been laboring
over this problem and the task is not yet over; however, it is now possible to outline several considerations which
make it desirable to remain within the framework of the national “Y”.

First of all, our student body with its homogeneous economic and geographic background is naturally inclined toward a narrowly provincial
viewpoint. Connection with the national “Y” offers opportunities for broadening our outlook through state, regional, and national conferences, as well
as through guest speakers and printed materials.

STUDENT BODY

If we have failed to derive benefit from these sources in the past, the fault lies largely with ourselves. Membership
in the campus “Y” movement forms a bond between students all over the United States and abroad, and to sever
the link would be one more step toward shutting out the world around us. Our “Fair Share” paid yearly to
the central office is $275, approximately three per cent of our annual budget. Are we getting our money’s worth? I
think so. Whenever a local association needs professional assistance in conducting membership drives, program planning, or counsel of any kind,
it is entitled to an expense-free visit from “Y” personnel. In our case, this usually means an annual visit by
a staff member from the regional headquarters in Atlanta. This money also finances “Y” publications, such as the Intercollegian and
devotional booklets. It subsidizes conferences, program materials, workshops, and numerous other smaller items.

LONG RUN LOSS

It is true that this $275 might be invested in a project which would produce more direct and obvious benefits,
but in the long run the losses incurred by breaking with the national organization and its resources would probably so
weaken the effectiveness of our local association that it could not discharge any of itsResponsibilities adequately. Another consideration is the
rapid growth in recent years of denominational fellowships for college students. These organizations have an important function to perform in
the realm of religious education and inspiration, but their existence and influence make it all the more important that students
have available a non-denominational lay group in which they may study faith and life in an environment free from the
boundaries of tradition, canon, or rubric. In addition, we find that in college, even in a church-supported one, most students
find it difficult to relate the fragments of truth and partial insights received from books, teachers, and friends into a
unified and coherent view of life. The YMCA, a bias-free and pressure-free movement primarily concerned with the intellectual and spiritual
welfare of young men, is thus uniquely fit to help students formulate an intelligent and workable faith.

Disturbed by the liberal social policies of the national “Y,” particularly regarding race relations, many Davidson students fear that membership
demands support of these views. This fear is unnecessary. Each local association is autonomous. We are neither coerced nor even
urged to support national policy. On the contrary, we are constantly urged to criticize and evaluate it. Racially integrated conferences
are part of the “Y” program, but these have been occurring since the twenties.

NO ALTERNATIVE
From a purely negative standpoint, it might be observed that if we should withdraw our affiliation, we would have no
other place to go. There is no sensible alternative available except complete independence and this would entail the disadvantages outlined
above. In conclusion, it should be pointed out that affiliation is not the real problem facing Davidson’s “Y.” Poor internal
structure, a lack of movement consciousness on the part of members, and general student apathy are the issues with which
the “Y” must come to grips if it is to be a dynamic religious force. Severing connections with the national
YMCA is not the answer.

ON CAMPUS
PLEDGES REBELLING
By CHARLES HELMS
The K.A. pledges had their fling, (lifted the brothers’ mattresses during fraternity meeting, “stored” them in Bill Pomeroy’s room), but
their triumph was short-lived. The actives made monkeys out of the ringleaders; Jim Richardson and Hardy Wylie ate their lunch
in trees. And even as this column is being written, the cries of rebellious S.A.E. pledges out for blood are
heard across the campus. Despite the fact that the Colonel was disturbed because the crusaders “demoralized” his fighting forces, most
people agreed that Tuesday’s maneuver was a success. As one professor said when it was suggested that the peons might
be brought before a firing squad, “We’ve had peon’s armies for twenty years; this one was just more successful.” If
the old farmer hadn’t needed the peon general’s steed to plow with, the appearance would have been grander.

A Queens student, Laura Prince, once had the misfortune to sit toward the back of the Davidson church during vespers.
This poem, read at a joint Davidson-Queens Sigma Upsilon meeting, expresses her impressions:

THE WORSHIPPERS
“They are writing letters in defiance of the song;
And above the murmurs of the crowd,
I hear the sound of tainted penny thrown in jest,
Collecting laughs from each false face.
The sordid ends of jokes reveal to me
Detested reverence slain by open eyes;
Leaving the prayer unfelt, unheard,
While the lamb flees—vanquished in mirth.”

The most important things that happened “on campus” this week were the sending of a resolution by the Y. cabinet
and a delegation by the student council to the Dean. The recommendation by both was that if the administration was
unwilling to take disciplinary action it would be better to drop vespers.

COFFEE BREAK
What Manner Of Banner?
By BOB JONES
Davidson’s interpretation of the popular slogan “Get rich quick,” is “Get wise quick.” While this may be overdrawn, in light
of Dr. Dodge’s remarks on Wednesday, it may be fruitful to consider just what should be the aim of a
Davidson education, which is commonly (and generously) termed “a liberal education.” A liberal education in the first place is not
one which gives the ideal techniques for making a living. It is orientated to the present, for the purpose of
imparting meaning to the whole of an individual's experience. The ultimate aim in liberal education is in the synthesis of
our knowledge and experience. The major problem of modern education lies in our educational pluralism: the unrelatedness of our special
disciplines and the artificiality of their unifying ties. Our synthesis must seek an understanding of an underlying unity of meaning.
A major factor in reaching any synthesis lies in the examination of those given to us by thinkers throughout history.
In the critical evaluation of others and ourselves, we may, perhaps, reach a synthesis which gives meaning to our experience,
and which is worthy of the dedication of our lives to its principles.

Such a noble ideal as we have set for ourselves will not result from those motivations presently dominating our activities
at Davidson. Davidson will make a difference only when an atmosphere of inquiry is created by the interest of enough
people who are convinced that “the unexamined life is not worth living.” Then Davidson can proudly carry the banner “Liberal
Education,” which at present is but a wishful symbol.
