PAGE FOUR

Belk To Be Filled Up To Capacity

Again this year Belk Dormitory will be filled to capacity with an influx of girls during the Homecoming weekend, October 24-26th. Two big reasons account for this overcrowdedness: the increased enrollment and the large number of alumni, with their wives and dates, coming for the weekend.

Mountains Cabinet For Meeting Attract

For two days last weekend the YMCA Cabinet hied away to the mountains of western North Carolina for the annual Fall Retreat at Montreat. Primary topics on the agenda were discussion of the proposed “core” organization, reports from various Commission chairmen, and a brief rundown of the plans for the quadrennial National Student Assembly of YMCAs and YWCAs at Urbana, Illinois, during the coming Christmas vacation.

Belk residents will get first choice as to whose date will occupy their individual rooms. They must register the name of the person whose date will occupy the room, whether he is a Belk resident or not. Belk residents will register in Mrs. Moore's office on Monday, October 20, during chapel period, from 2:00-4:30 p.m. and from 7:00-8:00 p.m. They may also register on October 21, from 2:00-4:30 p.m. Other students may sign up on Wednesday, October 22, during chapel period, from 2:00-4:30 p.m. and from 7:00-9:00 p.m. Girls must pay for their rooms as required by state law. The charge will be $3.00 for two nights and $2.00 for one night.

Poll (Continued From Page One)

Another commented that “it is not unreasonable for the controlling body to insist upon conditions which guard its own position... The U.S. Military and Naval Academies are under no obligation to appoint Communists to their staffs.”

A man who opposed the rule stated that the “primary objection to limits imposed by the Trustees is that it will probably become increasingly difficult to obtain qualified teachers—any such restrictions as these might very well make it impossible to fill vacancies with qualified men.”

2. Would you be opposed to having any non-Christians (either adherents of some other faith, or of none) on the Davidson faculty, if they were otherwise qualified as teachers?

A slight majority indicated that they would not be opposed to having non-Christians on the Davidson faculty, with twenty answering “yes” and nineteen “no.” One man was undecided, and two made qualifications to their “no” answers: “Jews, perhaps,” said one, and another indicated that he would accept only those who believed in some other religion. One professor said, “I believe that the school community would profit by association with those who are not like themselves. The ostrich tradition is post only to the extent of suggested subjects for discussion.”

Dr. George Buttrick, Otts Lecturer of several years ago, to “CORE” GROUP

The Spiritual Life Commission, under the direction of chairman Scott Woodmansee, will assume primary responsibility for the initiation of the “core” organization, built around small, voluntary study groups which will be directed by the Spiritual Life Commission only to the extent of suggested subjects for discussion. Many of the ideas for these core groups and possible fraternity retreats were suggested in discussion with Jack Lewis, speaker at the initial Y Membership meeting last week. Lewis is director of the Christian Faith-and-Life Community in Austin, Texas.

OTTS LECTURER

Charlie Roberts, supervising the Religious Emphasis Week program, stated plans to bring Dr. George Buttrick, Otts Lecturer of several years ago, to the campus for the first two days of Religious Emphasis Week, set for February 22-27, 1959. Several other eminent theologians are being contacted at present for possible appearances that week.

100TH YEAR

Tommy Smith, Vice-President of the local Y, Southern Regional, and National YMCA organizations, reported on the observance of this, the Y’s 100th anniversary, and then outlined the program for the Quadrennial Convention, which provisions are being made for a number of delegates from the local Y to attend.

Other Y news this week concerns the latest report on the Membership Drive. With two returns yet to be tabulated, chairman Scott Puckett announced that a total of 607 members appeared the nearest possible approximation based on figures already in. Also based on present returns is the $2,716.00 amount of pledges via direct contribution and weekly offerings. This amount will be augmented throughout the year with loose Vesper offerings.

Advanced Courses

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Cadets Earn Salary Of $47,986 Yearly

Davidson ROTC cadet officers receive an annual salary of $47,986, according to figures recently released in a letter from Lt. Col. William L. Adams, Jr. to President D. Grier Martin. “To have this amount of student aid, it would require a gift to the college of $960,000 invested at five per cent,” the Davidson PMS&T told Mr. Martin. The cadet pay is part of a yearly staff payroll of approximately $98,000. The local ROTC department has $170,000 in government property.

The letter gave a class breakdown of cadet pay for the 144 students taking the advanced course. The 74 seniors receive a monthly salary of $27 for one year, totaling $23,976.00. For the 70 juniors, pay is broken into two categories. The nine months of the school year, they also earn $27 monthly. The estimate for summer camp pay, based low to cover absences when pay is lost, is $7,000 for the group. The average Davidson advanced cadet is paid $700 during his two-year period with the ROTC department, according to Lt. Col. Adams. The latest figures on this year’s enrollment in the ROTC basic and advanced courses show 609 students in the military department as compared with 550 last year.

Available To Frosh

Advanced courses in several departments are open to freshmen who have the necessary preparation and ability in these fields. The courses are Humanities, Physics 11-A, and several math sections.

GREAT LITERATURE

Dr. H. T. Lilly is teaching the Humanities class this year. The course is designed for the freshmen who are ablest in composition and literature. Admission is based on scores of a test given to all interested freshmen during Orientation Week. There are fourteen men in the class this year. Dr. Lilly defines the course as an attempt to offer a sampling of the greatest literature of the Western world.

The class is given this fall to students who were interested in a major in physics or engineering. Dr. Pietenpol invites all students who took this test to talk with him about the results. The Mathematics Department allows freshmen who show outstanding preparation and ability on a test given during Orientation Week to take sophomore math. There are 15-20 freshmen in these classes this year. They will take up analytical geometry and calculus.

Political Parties

(Continued From Page One)

drafted the state Democratic platforms. In Chapel Tuesday morning, each man will speak briefly, setting forth his conception of the in- terests of the society's members.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

importance of political activity. At eight p.m. in the Union Ballroom, each man will speak for fifteen minutes, followed by a panel discussion, in which Professors W. P. Minter, Paul Marrotte, and Ernest Patterson will ask them questions about the opinions they present.

PARTY ROLES
Mr. Cobb will speak on the role of the Republican Party in North Carolina, and Mr. Wilkinson will discuss the Republicans on a national level. Mr. Wilson will talk about the state activities of the Democrats, while Mr. Ramsey will present the national Democratic viewpoint. After the panel dis-

The Court of Control, under the leadership of John Nix, meets out punishment to recalcitrant freshmen during its session last week. This scene could pass until another year if the Freshman Class succeeds in defeating the Sophomores at the annual “Field Day.”

ANNUAL PHOTOS
Penrod To Address Honor Platoon (Continued From Page One)
Pre-Med Society

JUNIORS were selected from this year’s sophomore class on the basis of their willingness to work. The remaining five cadets are freshmen, who were given a chance to be in the platoon, because

Mon. & Tues. 12:00-5:30
SENIORS
Wed. & Thurs. 12:00-5:30
ALL CLASSES

this political program, planning for which was directed by Pete Sterling, is only the first in a projected “Great Issues Series.” Other subjects which the organization hopes to present this year are economics and international relations.

Dr. Kenneth E. Penrod of Duke Medical School will speak at the A.E.D. meeting Tuesday, October 21. For the first meeting of the year, the society has invited the 56 freshman pre-med majors as guests. A banquet dinner will be served at 7:00 p.m. in the ballroom of the Union. The banquet will be followed by a business session and introduction of the chemistry and biology department members. Davidson's pre-med advisor, Mr. William O. Puckett, will speak to his counselees; then the evening’s program. Dr. Penrod is a member of the Physiology Department at University Medical. His address, entitled “Pre-Medical Education,” is aimed at the in-

High morale and hard work have been outstanding thus far and Cadet Lieutenant Patton is quite pleased with the progress of the platoon. The desire to look sharp is evident from the neat dress and well-polished brass and shoes.

On the schedule of appearances for the Honor Platoon this year are the Charlotte Carousel Parade, a half-time show for the football game with Richmond, and several other performances.

CAROUSEL PARADE
15 Minutes From Davidson and guests.

of the honorary pre-med society, has announced the programs for the remaining months of the semester as follows: initiation of Junior Class candidates for membership; a ten-hour Red Cross series in first aid instruction; medical films on surgical techniques; and discussion of various topics of interest to the pre-med members.

Students Free With Parents
The Oaks Motor Court
344 South Main Street
Phone NOrth 3-5693
Mooresville, N. C.
Richard Brubaker, president
Owners and Managers: Bill and Hazel Sprinkle

one of man’s greatest handicaps, and most group crimes are the result of it.” Another said that non-Christians would not be opposed “especially if it is part of an educational policy and a solution to difficult personnel problems.”

3. Are you in favor of the present rule that requires the President of the College and each full professor to take an oath stating certain religious beliefs during their inauguration at Commencement? (A copy of the oath was included with this question.)

A slight majority favored this rule, with twenty-two answering “yes” and eighteen “no.” One professor who answered in the affirmative qualified his opinion with the statement that the oath “could best be handled at a faculty meeting or a joint Trustee-faculty group, and not before a general group or at Commencement.” Another, who opposed the rule, said, “these questions could be put to a man at the time of initial employment. They certainly do not belong at a Commencement exercise before a strange audience.”

4. Are you in favor of the Board of Trustees rule that “no person shall be eligible for election as President of Davidson College unless he is a member of the Presbyterian Church and he shall not be eligible for inauguration unless he is a member of the Presbyterian Church in the United States?”

Faculty members answering the poll came out in favor of this rule, with twenty-three answering “yes,” sixteen “no,” and one undecided. One man in favor of the requirement said that “since the President must work rather closely with Southern Presbyterians I believe that he should be of this denomination, for practical reasons only.” Another professor, who opposed the rule, said, “I agree that the President should be a member of some evangelical church, but to insist that he be a member of the Presbyterian Church at the time of his election seems unreasonably restrictive and might, under certain conditions, penalize the college.”

In addition to these questions, each man was asked to indicate whether he was a Presbyterian, a full professor, or a teacher of either Bible or Philosophy. Upon comparison of this information with the answers to the six questions, there did not appear to be any significant connection between the faculty members’ opinions and their status as Presbyterians or non-Presbyterians, full professors or men of lower ranks, and members or non-members of the Bible and Philosophy departments.

Are you in favor of the

BRING YOUR TUX SUITS AND TUX SHIRTS
JACKSON CLEANERS
TO FRESHEN

Jackson Cleaners
26 West Fifth St.
Charlotte 2, N. C.

Across From Ivey's 5th St. Entrance
OPPOSITE THE GULF STATION

THE WORLD'S FINEST RECORD CHANGER
Free Literature Upon Request
Distributed by
Winston-Salem, N.C.

Winston puts its FILTER-BLEND up front... fine, flavorful tobaccos, specially processed for filter smoking

WINSTON TASTES GOOD LIKE A CIGARETTE SHOULD!