PAGE THREE — FRIDAY, OCTOBER 10, 1958 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Wildcats Whip Citadel Davidson Plays P.C. At Clinton Tomorrow

By PETE WYRICK

A strategic shift of position and capitalization of the new 2-point rule were important factors in Davidson’s 8-6 victory over the Citadel Bulldogs last Saturday night.

yard line and gave the tired and muddy Wildcats their first victory of the season. Coach Bill Dole praised his squad by what he determined a real “team effort.”

SECOND HALF

The Bulldogs came back hard after halftime and late in the third quarter culminated a long march downfield with a short plunge by halfback Hemingway for the six-pointer. A ground conversion was attempted, but was stopped cold by the stubborn Wildcat line. Then Davidson succeeded in driving to the Citadel three-yard line and from there big Dave Warden crashed over for the touchdown. Warden, who had been converted from fullback to the center position at the first of this season, had been alternating at fullback in preparation for this game and proved his worth at his former position.

Following Warden's touchdown, quarterback Charlie Benson took advantage of the new two-point ground conversion rule as he swept around the left side into the end zone for the points which would later prove to be the winning margin.

Tomorrow night at eight p.m. the Wildcats will be in Clinton, S.C., to meet Presbyterian College.

Last Friday afternoon, the Davidson frosh fell to powerful Fork Union Military Academy by the one-sided score of 34 to 0. The freshmen play Citadel at Lancaster, S.C., on October 9.

Tom Price, Newt Quantz, Mike Laughlin, and Lint Hopkins, (left to right) set their sights on the bounding ball in Wednesday's practice session. All four boys saw plenty of action in Tuesday's 4-0 victory over Pfeiffer.

Davidson Downs Pfeiffer In Soccer Team’s First Outing

PRICE, KWON, JOHNSON, AND QUANTZ SCORE IN ONE-SIDED TILT

The Bulldogs threatened again in the closing minutes of the final quarter, but a determined Davidson team and lack of time halted their advance at the 14.

Sports All That

By JIM HAMILTON

It’s nice to see Coach Dole smile again. When I walked out on Richardson Field last Monday where he had fourteen of the fifteen boys that played against Citadel working out, I found a cordial coach instead of the moody mentor of the post-Catawba-pre-Citadel era. I wanted a story and he was ready to give me one.

“The boys had an awful lot of desire. Fifteen of them played the whole game. They were tired, and like last year’s win over Wofford, this one can be chalked up to desire.”

The coach complained a little about the game weather, and the slushing in his shoes when he was walking, but considering the outcome, I gathered that it hadn't worried him very much.

THE WARDEN SHIFT

I asked why Dave Warden had been shifted back to fullback.

“We decided that we needed a better defense and this shift put Warden at linebacker and Harold Bynum, a good tackler, at center. Then we had the best tacklers on the team in there. Bynum played 60 minutes, an unusual feat in this day and age.

“We passed four times on our first drive and completed two of them, but the ball got too slippery to throw so we went to the belly series. The straight stuff won the ball game for us.”

Warden shouldered most of the load on the touchdown drive, gaining about six yards almost every time he carried the ball. The coach plans to alternate Warden and hard-running George Hart at offensive fullback and use Warden on defense at linebacker. Dole added that even though power football won the Citadel game, he was going to use his pro-type offense against P.C. “We'll use what works,” he said.

HOUSE-WESTERVELT

I asked about the House-Westervelt battle for end. “House did an awfully good job last week. He may start again in place of Westervelt if we receive. Westy will probably start if we kick.”

When quizzed about P.C., he answered, “Presbyterian has the best team they've had in my seven years at Davidson. They’ve probably got the best offense of any team we'll play this year.”

As I left, Dole was grinning as he watched his fourteen stalwarts running signals up and down the field, full of pep and shouting, “Beat Presbyterian.” Yep, it’s nice to see the coach smiling. I hope the events of the morrow will keep him that way.

ANNOUNCEMENTS

Coach Scott wishes to inform all boys interested in going out for the basketball team to meet in the gym Wednesday night at 7:30 p.m. Also, there will be a meeting of all boys planning to come out for swimming in the classroom above the basketball court at 7:00 p.m. on Wednesday.

Cats Boast Versatile Backfield Ensemble

By “B” MILLNER

Coach Bill Dole has selected a highly diversified backfield to execute his much-publicized razzle-dazzle 1958 model offense. This versatile group boasts an old-fashioned bulldozing fullback who can play center, a halfback who was the Southern Conference’s leading pass catcher at end last year, a quarterback who has completed over 50% of his passes and is tied for second on the team in rushing, and topped off by a halfback who runs and punts and does both very well.

When All-Conference center Bill Price graduated, leaving a gaping hole in the middle of the line, Coach Dole shocked fans by plugging the gap with highly-touted fullback Dave Warden. Warden shored up the line with his size and mobility but due to inadequate defensing at the linebacker posts and the emergence of soph Hal Bynum as a competent lineman, Dole elected to shift Warden back to fullback and Bynum to the regular center slot.

RUINED CITADEL

The move paid off in the Citadel upset as Warden gained consistently with his explosive bursts up the middle and scored the winning TD. Bynum was a standout at center, playing the full sixty minutes.Minutes of playing time. Last year end Craig Wall set new conference records.

Dave Warden Back At Full Chis
By BOB GREEN

The J-F sports program TF competition. In the first round, the Sigma topped the PikKaps, the ATO’s downed the Phi Gams, and the Kappa Sigs whipped the SPE’s. The SAE's outpointed the Pikas and the Betas took the Independents. The Phi Gams downed the Sigma Nus and the Sigma Chis whipped the SPE’s in the second round. Results of other second frame contests are: Kappa Sigs over Phi Delts, SAE’s over Independents, and KA’s over the Betas. The ATO’s dropped the Pikas to end the round. In Wednesday’s games, the McBryde, Gilmour has gotten off to a fast start. The SPE’s beat the Pikaps, the ATO's topped the Independents, the Pikas won over Sigma Nu, and the Phi Delts outscored the Sigma Chis.

The I-F Athletic Council has elected its officers and will hold its first official meeting next Wednesday night. Ralph Wilson (ATO) will serve as council president with Joe Milner (Sigma Chi) and George Ramsey (Phi Delt) acting as vice president and treasurer respectively.

COMMITTEES
The constitution committee of John Stafford, Tom Kernan, and George Ramsey met Wednesday night as did the Rules and Regulations group. This committee is composed of Joe Milner, Quinton Boyd, and Walter Taylor.

By BOB WINSOR
The Davidson soccer team opened its 1958 season on October 7 at Pfeiffer, winning their first game of a tough eleven-game schedule, 4-0. The Kappa Sigs have won two games to none to lead with three rounds of flickerball play completed to date. Pfeiffer, a much-improved team from that of last year, was not strong enough to contain the more experienced Davidson squad that lost only two men due to graduation from the 1957 aggregation. Newt Quantz, playing for the team for the first time, got the first Davidson score in the second quarter and was followed closely by “Koogie” Kwon's score on a penalty kick. Other scoring took place in the third quarter as Tom Johnson and Tommy Price each added a goal.

FINNEY RESTS
Claude Finney, All-Southern Goalie, didn’t see much action on his end of the field as Pfeiffer threatened only four times. The Davidson offense was hard to stop as they controlled the ball most of the game. The previous games with Davidson saw Pfeiffer lose both times. Two years ago they won 9-0, and just nipped the “Cats last year 4-2.

WASHINGTON AND LEE
On Monday, October 13, Washington and Lee will meet Davidson here in a conference match. Last year the two teams split, each team winning their home game. Today the Cats meet Duke on the local field. Duke has won both games.

Outstanding players were John Keifer, Lint Hopkins, and the foreign members of the team, Hermann Laimer and Wiecher Bergsma. Ulrich Schoening played a good first half but had to leave the game after receiving a slight injury.

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... PIZZA
the famous OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead
Charlotte, N. C.

Lead The Harriers
Last Friday afternoon the Davidson College varsity and freshman cross country teams overwhelmed the Pembroke runners. Wednesday, the ‘Cats journeyed to Winston-Salem to meet Wake Forest. The varsity lost a close meet 25 to 30. Angus McBryde was third. David Gilmour led the freshmen to an 18 to 48 win as he placed first. Mac Brownlee was second.

“All the freshmen looked great, especially Gilmour. He is a fine runner. Angus McBryde,” commented Whittle, “ran as expected, but Larry McNeil and Bill Eckbert turned in surprising performances. I think the boys are getting better every day, but I won't know how good we are until we have better competition. As far as the Southern Conference is concerned, I have no comment. I will have to wait and see the results of their meets before I can form an opinion.”

In Friday’s meet against Pembroke, the freshmen took the first seven places. First place went to Dave Gilmour with Brownlee second. Angus McBryde ran as expected, but Larry McNeil and Bill Eckbert turned in surprising performances. McBryde was the only Davidson runner to take first place in the varsity competition. He was followed by Oxendine of Pembroke. Two other Davidson men, Larry McNeill and Bill Eckbert, were third and fourth.

WHITTLE PLEASED
Coach Heath Whittle was well pleased with the results. “I was very satisfied with the outcome of the meet, but Pembroke was not as strong as I thought.”

AIR-CONDITIONED
FULL BATHS
INDIVIDUAL HEAT
FAMILY ACCOMMODATIONS
RATES: Single $5.00 — Double $7.00
Extras $1.00 Each

for most passes caught (24), and most caught for touchdowns (six). He also established five new school marks. With an abundance of fine ends on hand this year, Dole decided to utilize Wall’s heft and speed at halfback, thus providing an inside-outside threat with shifty Paul Barbee. Quarterback Charlie Benson, as a sophomore, had the unenviable distinction of following two of Davidson's finest field generals, Dick Belton and Dyke Little, who graduated in 1958. Benson performed admirably, utilizing the ground and air with equal facility as he kept among the conference total offense leaders. A powerful runner, he is also an adept defense man noted for his pass interceptions. Benson is tenth ranked in total offense in the conference. His fifty yards rushing ties him with Wall for second in team rushing statistics.

BARBEE TOUGH
Halfback Paul Barbee is currently ranked third in net rushing yardage in conference standings. He is fifth in punting with a 36.9-yard average. Barbee is also a threat with the running pass. The Asheboro speedster, a three-year regular, is seventh in total offense.

Winston puts its FILTER-BLEND up front...fine, flavorful tobaccos, specially processed for filter smoking.

15 Minutes From Davidson
Students Free With Pass
The Oaks Motor Court
344 South Main Street
Phone NOrth 3-5693
Mooresville, N. C.

WINSTON TASTES GOOD LIKE A CIGARETTE SHOULD!
Owners and Managers: Bill and Hazel Sprinkle