FRIDAY, DECEMBER 5, 1958 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Wildcats In Tennessee? Courtmen Play Weekend Games With Emory And Henry, King

By BILL HELLIER

Davidson's basketball squad hit the road today seeking its first win of the season, after a disappointing opening game loss to Wake Forest on Tuesday. The ‘Cats travelled to Tennessee to take on Emory and Henry tonight and meet King College in Bristol tomorrow.

Holding a lead against Wake Forest for most of the first three quarters and part of the last quarter, the Wildcats slowed up in the final few minutes and let a thrilling game slip through their fingers. The 56-52 score gives little indication of the ability of the home team, who meet their opponents in a return match in Davidson on January 10.

The starting buzzer of the Wake Forest game Tuesday night kicked off the '58-'59 basketball season for Davidson. It was a good start. The gym was packed, the fans were spirited, and, more important, Davidson was playing ball.

Led by Dave Hollingsworth, Semi Mintz, and Bill Shinn, the team has what Coach Scott believes are the “makings of the best squad he has had while here at Davidson.” Against the Deacons, Hollingsworth and Mintz were high scorers for both teams, dropping in 20 and 17 points respectively. Mintz continued his phenomenal free throw percentage of last year by hitting 7 out of 7 charity tosses, and also led the team in rebounds with ten.

Lack of experienced depth stands out as one of Davidson's big problems, although Coach Scott hopes this will be ironed out as the season progresses. Also apparent was the Wildcats' tendency to foul too much and Wake Forest took full advantage of this by connecting on 20 of their 25 free throws.

The Cats are being named among the contenders in line to take the conference crown away from less potent West Virginia, but the success or failure of this year's team depends on the performance of certain key men. The scoring Tuesday night, with the exception of two points, was shared by only three men, Semi Mintz, Dave Hollingsworth, and Bill Shinn.

The fence rail Mintz will control the play on the court this year as floor captain. Possessor of a deadly outside shot, Semi will also be the playmaker of the squad. Defense is another one of his strong points. Hollingsworth, who played one of the better games of his career Tuesday, will be a consistent scorer with his hook and jump shots. Dave may also lead the team in rebounding. Bill Shinn, fifteen pounds heavier than last year, should also be tough on the boards. Bill has possibly the best shot on the squad in his long jump one-hander, but needs to shoot more often.

The performance of men in the other two positions will make the difference this year. At center will be Joe Milner. Milner’s height, six-six, gives the team a definite psychological advantage and if he continues his recent improvement, he should be a valuable member of the club. He played well against Wake Forest even though he didn't dent the scoring column, and Scott commented that his loss via the foul route hurt us considerably. Scrapper Joe Markee, a six-four soph with a good shot, will see action at center, but will make some unavoidable sophomore mistakes.

The other guard position is still a question mark. Red Fergeson got the call Tuesday since Wake Forest used a small man in Charlie Forte. The “Bug” possesses a tremendous amount of court savvy, and has a fine one-hander but is hampered by his relatively small stature. Breathing down his neck for a starting position are John Stafford and John Huie. Stafford, a high jumping six-footer, has a good outside eye and handles the ball fairly well. Huie, perhaps the best hustler on the team, is a good driver, but lacks a consistent long-range weapon.

Scott plans to use Huie primarily against a man-to-man defense and Stafford against a zone.

After returning from their Tennessee trip, Davidson’s quintet will host Catawba College on Monday and then travel to Salisbury to meet the Indians again on Wednesday.

Even though Coach Scott thinks this year's squad is much improved over last year, he holds that the team as a unit still has a lot of work ahead in order to attain their maximum effectiveness.

Davidson's hard-luck gridders lost to Richmond and Furman by heartbreakingly close margins in their last two games and saw dreams of the school’s best football season go up in smoke.

In spite of a so-so 5-4 record compiled the ‘Cats were not without their moments of glory. Freshman Bruce Usher won the Wofford game with a last-second field goal and set a new conference record for most field goals kicked with four.

Charlie Benson rated All-Conference recognition as second-string quarterback on the A.P. poll. Benson was third in total offense in conference standings. Sophomore end Danny House was among the top three leaders in pass reception throughout the season. He had snagged 23 going into the Furman game. Halfback Paul Barbee led the loop in punting with an average of 40.6 yards a kick.

The Davidson Rifle team snapped a long losing streak by defeating Presbyterian and Wofford in a triangular shoulder meet. Davidson scored 1857 points to 1312 for PC and 1309 for Wofford. The double victory gives the Wildcat riflemen a 2-0 record for the season in shoulder meets.

Results will soon be forthcoming from the Randolph Hearst postal meet against the other ROTC teams in the Third Army Area held last night. This is one of the most important postal matches of the year with individual and team awards to be given. The team, with a traveling squad of three freshmen, two sophomores, and a junior, should show a marked improvement over last year. The freshmen will contribute greatly to the team showing except in Southern Conference meets where Carey Pickard and Topper Ruggles will fill the vacancy.

In a recent meeting of the soccer team, Tom Johnson and Warden McKeithen were elected co-captains for next year's team. The soccer team wound up this year’s season with a 6-5 record, however, the statistics do not actually show the strength of the team. Three of the five games lost were dropped by one point, and two of these games went into overtimes. Coach McCutchan stated, “I've been extremely satisfied with this past season; we had a very good team. We have a good nucleus for next year; with the exception of one fullback spot, there’s a returning letterman for each position.”

Davidson's swimming team will open its season tomorrow in a meet with William and Mary’s tankers in the Davidson pool at 7 p.m. Coach George Tucker expects to counter the freestyleMost dependable runner was big Dave Warden, who lost only five yards rushing during the entire season. Recently elected captains for next year’s squad are Warden and Benson.

SOCCER
Dr. Wilson McCutchan bowed out as head coach following his tremendously improved soccer squad's most successful season. The ‘Cat kickers won six and lost five. Led by high-scoring forward Weicher Bergsma and Tom Johnson, the Wildcats employed an offensive type of play which averaged more than three goals a game. Bergsma accounted for nearly half of the team scoring with 17 goals. Coach McCutchan stated that the outlook for ‘59 is good, with a letterman returning at virtually every position in spite of the loss of all foreign players, who are on one-year scholarships.

By JERRY RICH
Efforts of the W & M splashers with the water prowess of team captain Bob Wynne, Bill Hellier, Tom Hudgins, George Gable, and Jack Rose. Rose will also team with Jennings Snyder as the Wildcat diving entries. Gable will handle the butterfly stroke event. John Scott and Jim Hill will be Tucker’s entries in the breast-stroke events, while the threesome of Tom Smith, John Francis, and Gordon Le Grande are to handle the back-stroke races. Hudgins will be the main hope in the freestyle. William Strong, experienced squad, comprised of nearly the same men who beat Davidson last year, 53-42. Coach Tucker commented that this would definitely be to the visitors’ advantage. He also said that “the Thanksgiving lay-off has hurt us. We have practiced afternoon and night in order to get back into shape. The fact that we have only eleven men on the varsity squad will force us to enter some men in the maximum three events. Though freshmen are not eligible for varsity competition, we still have a nice-looking freshman squad. There will be four or five freshman meets after Christmas. We still have openings for any freshmen who are interested in coming out.”

Cat Swimmers Splash In Opener Here Tomorrow

Wrestling Schedule
Dec. 9 Pfeiffer at Davidson
Dec. 18 Univ. of North Carolina at Chapel Hill
Jan. 9 NIC, State at Davidson
Jan. 17 Citadel at Davidson
Feb. 3 Pfeiffer at Misenheimer
Feb. 6 Emory at Charleston
Feb. 13 Wake Forest at Winston Salem
Feb. 20 V.M.I. at Lexington, Va.
Feb. 21 V.P.I. at Blacksburg
Feb. 25 Washington & Lee at Davidson
Mar. 6 & 7 So. Conf. Meet at Charleston

Sigma Delta Psi Leads Local Chapter
By BILL GODWIN
The bright spot in Davidson's chapter of Sigma Delta Psi this year is occupied by Chris Bremer, who as a sophomore last year broke the record in bar vaulting. His outstanding effort of seven feet, five-and-three-quarter inches supplanted the old mark of 7' 3½". The local Alpha Upsilon chapter, under the supervision of Coach Heath Whittle, is composed of students who have mastered the 10 tests required for admission. As soon as a student passes these tests, he is authorized as a member of the national athletic honorary fraternity to wear its key and to obtain a membership certificate.

DOZEN ATTEMPTS
About a dozen have attempted the events this year, according to Coach Whittle. He urges all interested boys to contact him at any time. Davidson is one of 104 colleges and universities throughout the United States which compose Sigma Delta Psi. The highlight of each year's activities is a spring national championship contest, which is not restricted to members. Each college selects the records of ten men who have passed at least five of the tests and places them in national competition. By a point basis, trophies are awarded to the best team and to the superior individual in each test. Davidson last won the team championship in 1938.

SINCE 1930
Sigma Delta Psi was organized in 1912 and Davidson College joined in 1930. In every year since then, Davidson's chapter has been supervised by Coach Whittle, who graduated in 1929. Two of the chapter members who belong from last year are Dave Warden, who completed the requirements as a freshman, and John Heath West.