Che Davidsonian
THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE
PAGE TWO FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 1958
(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

“Soft Sell” Or Leadership
Quo Vadis YMCA?

Monday's interview (see page one) with YMCA President Vernon Broyles left us with the impression that a once effective campus organization now falls far short of its standards of old. President Broyles answered questions continually in vague generalities which revealed, tacitly, that his leadership of the YMCA was mostly general in nature. No organization can function well with this type of leadership. From what we can learn, the Y is scarcely functioning at all. The membership drive is not completed, only one membership program has been held — in short the “soft sell” and the casual touch seem to reign omnipotent. If membership drops much further, as it probably will if the “soft sell” is continued, and the lack of dynamic leadership continues, the YMCA could, within this student generation, become “just another organization.” Nothing could give us more cause for concern. No other organization on the Davidson campus is as needed as a well-run Y with a meaningful and fruitful program.

Having worked previously with the YMCA, we realize the difficulties involved in keeping it in “high gear.” However, even considering these difficulties, we do not feel that even a good effort is being made to overcome these problems. If the effort is not made this year, and made soon, the YMCA will be in something worse than a poor position. Fortunately, the picture is not totally bleak. The “Great Books Program,” mentioned elsewhere in these columns, is a step in the right direction, if it reaches fruition. The YMCA has good potential leadership, both in its cabinet and at its head, if it will take strong hold of the situation and act. We can only watch and hope, but we believe that the present situation and future of the YMCA is the most important problem currently facing student leadership. Something must be done. We trust that it will be.

A Modest Proposal

A venerable Davidson institution which we greatly admire—but which, we fear, has fallen into hard times — is the library’s Permanent Reserve shelf. Except for a number of dusty, crumbling volumes published a century ago (which would fall apart if exposed to public handling), only a very few books are kept there as a part of the staff’s policy of vigilantly defending student morals. Included on our Index Librorum Prohibitorum are the Kinsey Reports, James Joyce's Ulysses, James Jones’s From Here To Eternity, Philip Wylie’s Generation of Vipers, and Boccaccio's Decameron, plus several more whose titles we must refrain from mentioning in these pages.

Considering the amount of dangerous material in the stacks which is still directly accessible to the libidinous student mind, this list is embarrassingly short. Any high school library has a better-enforced system of protection. Indeed, there are signs that the library's resistance to literary lewdness is about to collapse completely. Only recently, an order was sent in for a copy of the notoriously salacious novel Lolita, after improper coercion by certain teachers of literature. The DAVIDSONIAN feels that a reversal of this trend is imperative. The Permanent Reserve shelf should be enlarged to fill the new wing, and the stacks should be combed for contraband writings, which could then be kept under lock and key. Only by such drastic measures can we maintain our reputation and shield the student body from the temptations of the world, the flesh, and the devil.
—C.H.C.

Great Books A Needed Program

At present several members of the YMCA Cabinet are looking into the possibilities of initiating on this campus a program that promises much potential in the realms of intellectual stimulation, understanding, and sheer enjoyment. The program would be patterned after that which is scheduled each semester at Franklin and Marshall College. In this series, the members of the student body who wish to participate — and for the program to be successful, a majority must take part—read a selected contemporary book. Several such selections have been Whyte's The Organization Man, Packard's The Hidden Persuaders, and James McBryde Dabbs' Southern Heritage. Following this reading, the author of the book is brought to the campus. He then gives talks on his work, participates in panel discussions, and is generally open to questioning concerning his ideas.

Such a program would provide the Davidson student an opportunity to shed the shackles of required reading for a while and pursue to a greater degree than is normally possible the study of a subject of contemporary importance. As mentioned above, the participation of a large section of the student body is essential to make this program vital. By such widespread participation, variant views will focus on a single subject and the possible conclusions which may arise from such concentrated effort are almost unlimited. Too often, among the required reading lists and parallel assignments, we fail to find the relaxation and pleasure that is abundant in reading. As it is put by a writer in the freshman literature text, “One forgets the delight in the obligation, the eloquence in the remembered pressure.” Several groups on the campus have already found the pleasure to be derived from unrequired reading and discussion. In the program here outlined is an opportunity for the entire student body to enjoy this pleasure. The DAVIDSONIAN soundly endorses this Contemporary Author program, and urges the students to prepare for an adventure which might have fruitful consequences in the discipline of the mind for unrequired reading throughout life.
—G.W.R.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Charles Chastain
ASSISTANT EDITOR
Bob Lathan, George Ramsey
BUSINESS MANAGER
Ed Armfield
Associate Editors
Dick Smith
Managing Editors
Jim Hamilton
Pete Kellogg
Bruce Brooks
Sports Editor
Feature Editor
News Editor
Laurens Walker
Bill Patton
Henry Samuels
Tom Colvin
Spiro Macris
Bross, Cole
George Rhyne
Assignments Editor
Copy Editor
Cartoonists
Photography Editor
Advertising Manager
Dave Gillis
Circulation Manager
Greg Grana
Ass’t. Business Manager
Bob Wynne

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879

LETTER TO EDITOR
Calls For Debate Of Ideologies

(Editor’s Note: Letters to the Editor should be typed, double-spaced, and addressed to the DAVIDSONIAN, Box 218. Space limitations make it imperative that writers limit their letters to two hundred words.)

Dear Editor:

I, a “most sensitive come to the edge of the bottomless pit” fellow wish to present an idea, which if followed up, will result in a program which will bring out some of the hidden criticisms of those of us who are not religion, philosophy, or English majors and will provide a medium through which various existing schools of thought on religion and life may meet for serious discussion and debate.

TWO SCHOOLS

I think that there are at least two general schools of thought existing here at Davidson, “liberal” and “conservative.” I consider the “liberals” to be those who have offered the “what does it matter anyway?” question, those who are profoundly concerned with the general problems of man but who are not sure that Christianity is the only answer, and those that are considered either by themselves or others to be “hell raisers.” I consider as “conservative” the Biblical fundamentalists, most of the Davidson pre-ministerial students, and those who consider themselves to be good and righteous before God but as superior and chosen among men.

SINCERE INTEREST

My idea is to form two groups, liberal and conservative, and have them meet in unaccredited seminars and debates. Each group will be responsible for its own organization, the only requirement for membership being a sincere interest in the program and a willingness to participate actively in one of the groups. It would be the duty of each group to present its side of the issues debated in an intelligent manner, which would involve research by some of its members. Perhaps interested professors could participate and suggest material to study.

Frankly I feel that we here at Davidson have formed little bands of thinkers which have been non-communicative with each other. We call each other hypocrites and are intolerant of each other. Consequently, when we leave school, we go our own ways without knowing what the others have said. We blind ourselves to those people and ideas from which we could learn much. Each of us is incomplete in the experience of life. Each of us has a part which he can contribute to the other.

ALL CAN BENEFIT

I don't think that we will solve the tremendously profound problems of the world, nor do I believe that we will always end in compromise, if we follow through with such a program. Yet I firmly believe that all can benefit by coming to a more intelligent understanding of our own positions and the positions of others. I think that the pre-ministerial student willcome to understand more reality, and consequently learn more about the nature of a great number of the problems that he will be facing in his ministry. I think that we will eliminate much pedantry and prejudice which impede genuine faith and true understanding. I realize that my presentation above is certainly not a masterpiece and that my definitions of liberal and conservative are perhaps too radical and misrepresent those who would be conservative in some issues and liberal in others. I am sure that there are other problems also. However, I think that the general idea is explicit, and with my idea open for revision, I await a response.

Doug Balentine

by Cole

Unlimited Cuts Proposed; 1958 Labor Victory Cited

Allen Wells
Joe Markee

Dear Editor:

In principle, we agree wholeheartedly with a recent DAVIDSONIAN editorial recommending unlimited cuts. In fact, we think this principle should include vespers. In the earlier part of life, one must be controlled and coerced by his parents because he is not yet able to know what is best for himself. He must get a foundation for the later years of life when he is completely on his own. In this later phase, he will have no parental reclusion. The whole world will give him advice, and he must use what of that advice he deems best, guided by his background and past experience. However, between these times there must be a phase of gradual transition. Emphasis should be placed on guiding him (positive), but not paternally coercing him (negative). In this period, he must be mature enough to respect leadership and to think for himself. If a college man must be forced to go to class (or church), he shouldn't be in college, and there are plenty of eager students who could use his place to advantage.

Sometimes, though, one observes the Davidson man in chapel or vespers and wonders if the student has reached the age of maturity, of which the simplest criterion is decent conduct. It seems that the faculty and students at Davidson are at an insipid stalemate. The administration will not relax some paternal regulations because the student demonstrates his immaturity; the student is sometimes frustrated by this fatherly attitude and acts immaturely. Where the “original sin” lies, we don't know, but think we do know who must take the initiative. If we act as men, we may demand a man's prerogative.

Allen Wells
Joe Markee
Allan Edgar

Dear Editor:

I should like to respond to your editorial in the November 14 DAVIDSONIAN on the outcome of the recent election. This election was not a victory for liberal Democratic policies, nor was the outcome due to any “obsolete” Republican policies. It was clearly a labor victory. Of the thirty senatorial candidates who were backed by labor, twenty-three of them won. The unions convinced the masses of people that the cure-all economic policies of labor will make everything bright again for the working man. I do not think that the results of this election have caused any “sober thoughts among Republicans about the future of their party.” For it remains to be seen how the people of this country will feel after a few years of labor control.

Allan Edgar

SALMAGUNDI

Conflict: A Tale Of Strife At The Stud
By JOHN TOUMARAS

“Hello, Fernirino, this is the Frog . . .”

What really did happen in Chicago?

Overheard Conversation on Procuring a Grilled Cheese:

“I was over at the Stud the other night. All I wanted was a grilled cheese. It wasn’t crowded, only two of us; the other was waiting for an order. There were two countermen. One was busy. He was filling the milk machine. The other? I’m not sure what he was doing. Something to do with counting coffee cups. I didn’t want to bother him while he was concentrating, so I waited.

“And I waited and waited and waited. Finally, I walked over to him and said ‘Hey, gimme a grilled cheese, no mayonnaise, lightly toasted,’ feeling awful about disturbing his cup-counting ritual. He looked up at me with glassy eyes, reached for an order pad and a pencil, and threw them at me. ‘Here, you want it. You order it.’ And I wished then that the gods would smite him.

“But I was hungry, so I wrote, very neatly, my order, spelling out each word fully so that there would be no mistakes. I hate mayonnaise and mashed-flat cheese sandwiches. Again I waited, and waited, and waited. Finally, he took my order and rang for the cook. Feeling indignant, I said, ‘If it’s not like I ordered, I’m not going to take it.’ He replied, ‘A cheese sandwich is a cheese sandwich. You ordered it. You'll take it.’

“Meanwhile, in the kitchen, the cook, oblivious to all this, was busily making my sandwich. I saw him make a well-known movement (well-known to mayonnaise haters). I yelled, ‘Hey, no mayonnaise!’ He looked up sheepishly, then crumpled a piece of bread in his hand, and murmured an apology. Ten minutes later, an anemic looking grilled cheese, no mayonnaise, lightly toasted was placed before me. I inspected it carefully. ‘Is it to your liking, sir?’

“But I was hungry. I paid for the sandwich. I ate it.”

No kidding, fellows, this really happened.

Latest Communique from Peon Headquarters:

The Drill Team Marching Unit will assemble behind the gym at 0830 hours tomorrow morning prior to moving out for the Carrousel Parade. We will definitely march in front of the horses.

THE PHILOSOPHES

Fraternities Are Now Meaningless
By DAVID ROBINSON

“I'm certainly fond of your new house.”

“We like it, too, sir. Sorta keeps down that hollowness we used to feel. Why now we've got this thick carpet which hides the bareness of the floor, ceiling sound-proofing to muffle the roar of wind in soul, all this massive, important-looking furniture to fill every corner, and these newly-shined trophies to catch your eye and dull your heart. We’re mighty happy, as you can see.”

And a dimly-sensible disturbing echo shrugs irresistibly around the room, midst trophy and chair, creating a cool draft beneath the richness of the rug, enveloping each who dares to intrude with a demand of his birthright in return for ornamentation and prestige.

Fraternities are a uniquely consistent feature of the Davidson campus, with their obvious lag of the spiritual to the physical, and the smoking flax seemingly only awaits the acolyte’s snuffer. And yet we speak of spirit, we spend a whole Rush Week speaking of spirit, we claim to be more than the sum total of our member entities. But we cultivate the use of outward compulsions to maintain our togetherness rather than promote the exercise of that inward liberty of expression which we fear would bring about the disintegration of that which we are trying to build up, but which is nonetheless integral in the end product which we conceive as our goal.

Our activities as fraternities are so intertwined in externalism and so-called biological drives as to render us virtually incapable of ever coming to understand those with whom our initial empathy is not too strong, or of engaging those factors which make us men in meaningful relationship with others. What we do speaks more loudly than what we say, and yet what we say bespeaks dualism, failure, hope, and hypocrisy. If we would eliminate this particular dualism, if we would fulfill that hope which must rather widely reside in us, let us move into the establishing of activity and opportunity in which brother will come to understand brother. Let us risk outward failure by resting enterprise upon the freedom of man to freely participate with a large portion of his total self, as we endeavor to gain more of the involvement of the total self in fraternity. Then the spiritual will accompany the physical in a group significantly more than the sum of its isolated parts and yet existing in its parts and never prior to its parts.

A dualism such as that to which we have committed ourselves by past action demands our best efforts towards its resolution because of the violence it does to man and to man created in the image of God. In shedding this particular hypocrisy, we may abolish Rush Week and its garble and use an alphabetical apportionment system to perpetuate our twelve eating clubs. Or, significantly better and truer to the nature, needs, and desires of the Davidson student, we may display that capacity which we implicitly claim for ourselves during Rush Week in establishing opportunity for meaningful interchange. More specifically, we may examine the idea of fraternity retreat as a means by which to involve those faculties of men which, with exercise, will create a spiritual dignity equal to and supporting our physical prestige.