FRIDAY, MARCH 28, 1958

TRACK COACH WHITTLE discusses matters with six of the key members of the team. (L-R), distance runner Jim Alexander, javelin
artist Stuart Nickles, sprinter Marvin Bentley, sprinter Al McKay, javelin thrower Frank Cenegy, and weight man Dale Gramley.

Dear folks,

The weather continues its eternal combat with the Davidson athletes, and only the calendar assures us that the curtain is
up on spring. Wildcat coaches are frantic to get a good practice in edgewise. Now the elements have taken up
the issue with the ROTC department too. War games have been forced indoors of late, and, with the big one
coming up next Tuesday, coach Stowe has his fingers crossed that his men can go the distance.

The Kappa Sigs, who picked up twelve fraternal headpieces during the recent I-F hoop campaign, found the master hatchet wielders
of the other teams ganged up on them Wednesday night. The long and the short of the matter was Dave
Bradford and Bill Ferguson. Ferguson popped in 23 points, and Bradford picked the backboard clean to pace a 48-39 win
for the All-Stars.

Speaking of I-F sports, it seems to have become the fashion to win the intramural titles with perfect records. The
Betas started it all with a perfect handball mark, followed by the Kappa Sigs’ unblemished basketball title. Now the Phi
Delts have slipped safely past all the others in volleyball and ping pong. Should either the Kappa Sigs or the
Phi Delts win the I-F sports trophy this year, it will mark the seventh straight year that one of the
two has carried it home.

Coach Dick McKee, knee-deep in tennis wealth, traveled with his boys down to South Carolina this weekend to cross racquets
with Furman and Wofford. McKee looks to these matches as an opportunity to see just (Continued On Page Four)

FROM OUR FLOOR FOR MEN AND UNIVERSITY SHOP

they're great!
Cardigan Sweaters
Cotton Cord Slacks
Alligator Knit Shirts
Polished Cotton Slacks
Short Sleeve Dress Shirts
Wash ’N Wear Slacks
Wash 'N Wear Suits
Cotton Cord Suits
Knee Length Raincoats
White Dinner Jackets
Formal Trousers

From every angle... Dress Right . . . You Can’t Afford Not To

Unbeaten Phi Delts

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Friday afternoon, had a good fight against Citadel, but the Bulldogs proved to have excellent depth as well as a
very strong team and downed the ‘Cats quite handily. Paced by their sprinting wonder, Jim Pugh, who won the 100
and 220 yard events and the low hurdles, Citadel took all but three first places in the dual meet. The
Wildcat firsts: Dale Gramley took another in the shot put, plus a second place in the discus, and Ray Antley
won the mile event.

By HENRY RAMSEY

The Phi Delts ended their volleyball schedule Tuesday afternoon with a perfect record of eleven wins and no losses, giving
them the championship in the tournament and a rather comfortable lead in the overall running for the cup. Bill Patton,
Barney Regen, and Dave Hollingsworth stood out as the mainstays of the team throughout the tournament; their “spiking” ability proved
a menace to many of their victims. Sonny Ferguson, Bill Ferguson, and Eddy Stuart led the K.A.s to second place
while the Kappa Sigs, sparked by Ken Owen, Donny McQueen, and Ot-ty Lynn, captured third place in the race. This
puts the Kappa Sigs in second place in the overall race and the K.A.s in third. The coming softball tournament
will probably decide the champion.

Dominating the scene, the Phi Delts also walked away with the table tennis championship as they finished up their schedule
this week. Dave Hollingsworth, the inter-fraternity champion, led them to another perfect record, of eleven wins and no losses. In
second place, the Pikas’ Bob Crittenden won nine and lost two matches while the K.A.s took third with eight wins
and three losses. Seven wins in the tournament.

15.95 to 21.95
5.95
8.50
4.95
5.00
11.75
39.75 & 45.00
21.75
19.75
29.50 & 35.00
2.95

Three Visit Davidson Diamond This Week

In Charleston last weekend, the Wildcat cindermen put up a good fight against Citadel, but the Bulldogs proved to have
excellent depth as well as a very strong team and downed the ‘Cats quite handily. Paced by their sprinting wonder,
Jim Pugh, who won the 100 and 220 yard events and the low hurdles, Citadel took all but three first
places in the dual meet. The Wildcat firsts: Dale Gramley took another in the shot put, plus a second place
in the discus, and Ray Antley won the mile event.

By HENRY RAMSEY

The Phi Delts ended their volleyball schedule Tuesday afternoon with a perfect record of eleven wins and no losses, giving
them the championship in the tournament and a rather comfortable lead in the overall running for the cup. Bill Patton,
Barney Regen, and Dave Hollingsworth stood out as the mainstays of the team throughout the tournament; their “spiking” ability proved
a menace to many of their victims. Sonny Ferguson, Bill Ferguson, and Eddy Stuart led the K.A.s to second place
while the Kappa Sigs, sparked by Ken Owen, Donny McQueen, and Ot-ty Lynn, captured third place in the race. This
puts the Kappa Sigs in second place in the overall race and the K.A.s in third. The coming softball tournament
will probably decide the champion.

Dominating the scene, the Phi Delts also walked away with the table tennis championship as they finished up their schedule
this week. Dave Hollingsworth, the inter-fraternity champion, led them to another perfect record, of eleven wins and no losses. In
second place, the Pikas’ Bob Crittenden won nine and lost two matches while the K.A.s took third with eight wins
and three losses. Seven wins in the tournament.

15.95 to 21.95
5.95
8.50
4.95
5.00
11.75
39.75 & 45.00
21.75
19.75
29.50 & 35.00
2.95

TRACKMEN MEET DEACONS

After traveling to Richmond today for their season’s second meet, Davidson's track team will play host to Wake Forest in
their first home contest on Monday.

By BILL HELLIER

His twelve high and broad jumps and the high and low hurdles, Marvin Bentley took third places in the 100
and 200 yard sprints, while Stuart Nickles hurled the javelin for a third in that event. Though Coach Heath Whittle
has potentially a very good team this year, wet weather has cut down on their practice sessions, and injuries to
several key men have hurt the overall team strength. Al McKay and Angus McBryde in the sprints and middle distance
races, Graham George in the longer runs, and Cenegy in the javelin have all been sidelined temporarily by various injuries.
Although Coach Whittle doesn’t expect to do extremely well against a strong Richmond team today, he is looking forward to
a very good meet with Wake Forest on Richardson Field’s revitalized track. He is also hoping to have the team
at full strength and in top shape for the triangular meet with N. C. State and Clemson after the spring
holidays.

Lafayette Net Squad Tests Cats Monday

Tennis Team Travels To Furman, Wofford For Opening Matches

Local fans will be treated to their first taste of Davidson tennis this season when the Wildcats meet Lafayette on
the home courts Monday afternoon. Coach Dick McKee, knee-deep in tennis wealth, traveled with his boys down to South Carolina
this weekend to cross racquets with Furman and Wofford. McKee looks to these matches as an opportunity to see just
how his team stacks up against some of the better competition in the region. The Wildcats are expected to field
a strong team this year, with several returning players and some promising new talent.

By BOB GREEN

The Wildcat diamond nine opened its 1958 season by welcoming three teams to Davidson during the past seven days. Tomorrow
the Cats will meet the Generals of W&L in a scheduled double-header. Davidson’s baseballers opened the season against Lenoir-Rhyne last
Friday on the local ball field and slammed out 10 hits for a total of 13 runs. The Cats committed
two errors and spaced three Lenoir-Rhyne hits to keep the visitors scoreless. Handling the mound duties for Davidson were Al-Len
Moore and Dave Page. Moore gave up two hits in four innings and Page one bingle in three trips to
the mound. Shelbourne Wallace, senior centerfielder and team captain, collected three hits to lead the Wildcats at the plate. George
Hart drove in three runs on two hits, and Don Killian cracked out two safeties, also. Catawba played Davidson to
a 6-6 tie in a seven-inning duel Monday. The Wildcats produced 8 hits and two crucial first-inning errors which gave
Catawba two runs. Coach Tom Stevens stated that he was very pleased with Pat Henderson's pitching performance. Henderson blanked the
visitors in the initial 4 innings of play. Dee Lide relieved him in the fifth and allowed three hits in
2 1/3 innings. Moore finished the seventh inning, giving up one hit.

Dave Pearsall, a steady letterman from Charlotte, will open in the number one position against the first opponents. The stocky
Pearsall should have his best season yet, according to coach Dick McKee. Dabney Stuart drove in three runs on a
bases-loaded double, and Killian connected twice to lead the Cats in the batting column. The game was called at the
end of seven innings due to cold weather and darkness.

Playing number two will be John Poindexter, another junior, who has "as much potential as anyone on the team." Poindexter’s
serve and net game have been strengthened to make him a more valuable man on the courts. Tom McCutchan, whose
prime value lies in his doubles ability, will play number three. Another junior, McCutchan has come up fast; his game
is highlighted by a potent overhead. McKee noted that none of these top three positions is by any means permanent,
and that these three boys promise a tooth-and-nail fight for the top spot.

Holding down the fourth position for the early matches is Dick Hodel, the southpaw whom McKee terms the most improved
all-round man on the team. Hodel’s ground strokes were cited as a key improvement, and the mentor also said that
he was hitting the ball harder. Harry Broome, a sophomore of great promise who failed to letter last year due
to an arm injury, is slated for the number five slot. Broome, the most eager player on the squad, rates
with McCutchan as the top doubles team.

Doug Orr, a freshman from Greensboro, and Jim Hamilton, a sophomore from Chester, S.C., will share the number six spot
in the early matches. Orr, the top courtman in the freshman class, "moves like a greyhound," and has looked very
good in practice. Hamilton, who saw action on the junior varsity last season, has improved, and has shown a great
deal of confidence thus far. McKee terms the slender soph a bit short on experience, which he is balancing with
great determination.

Next Wednesday and Thursday Cornell, one of the Eastern powers, will visit the Wildcat courts in what should be the
first good test for Davidson.

Volleyball Standings:
1. Phi Delt 10-0
2. KA 10-1
3. Kappa Sig 9-2
4. Si Chi 6-4
5. S.P.E. 5-4
6. A.T.O. 4-4
7. Beta 4-5
8. Sigma Nu 3-5
9. Pika 2-6
10. S.A.E. 1-8
10. Phi Gam 1-8
11. Pi Kapp 1-10

The match set for tomorrow with The Citadel has been called off. There will be a match this Monday between
Davidson, Furman, and Babson Business Institute. Coach Scott hopes that the Wildcats will come into their own in this match
and show their real power. In the near future, the jayvee team will meet the linksmen from Gastonia High School.
This team is composed of Bill Purks, Johnny Mackorell, Gilmour Lake, Bob Baker, Eb LeMaster, and Andy Agett. With improvement,
Scott looks for these men to be contenders for varsity positions.
