FRIDAY, MAY 9, 1958

Davidsonian

All That By JIM HAMILTON

The Southern Conference Rules Committee delivered a stiff blow in an unprotected place in the Wildcat hide last week when
it ruled freshmen ineligible for varsity competition come December of this year. It hurts because, as any coach in the
athletic department will tell you, freshmen are needed at a school this small. Lest any doubt remain in your minds
consider the contributions as freshmen of Bill Price, Craig Wall, Don Killian, George Hart, Angus McBryde, or closer home, present
frosh, Bill Shinn, Tom Hudgins, Claude Finney, and Verner Stanley. Or what about the varsity tennis team of ’56 when
four of the top six were freshmen. The list could easily be lengthened, but I think the point is proven.
The Davidson representation saw this point and argued, along with Washington and Lee, against the resolution but to no avail.
And when the heated debate was over there were only these two dissenting voices against the rest of the league.
Finally, even they gave in to make it unanimous. But most of the teams in the league, with the exception
of West Virginia and V.P.I., are comparatively small. Why would they vote for such a measure? It seems to me
the reason is that the schools in this conference can't or won’t buck the N.C.A.A., which declares freshmen ineligible. West
Virginia, who participates in numerous N.C.A.A. tournaments, went so far as to threaten to leave the conference if the motion
was defeated. In our own situation, a Davidson conference title, say in baseball, would mean that neither freshmen nor seniors
in their fourth year of varsity competition would be eligible for the regional play-offs. The N.C.A.A. is a good organization,
but its rules are sometimes favorable only for the big schools, and when a rule declares over 25 percent of
a relatively small student body ineligible, it sprains the athletic sacroiliac to bend over backwards to please.

ODDS AND ENDS

Thanks to George Ramsey, who helped send this page to press last week while I was up in Virginia. It
appears an apology is in order. Several weeks ago I promised to include the conference standings for all varsity sports
on this page. Well, with the exception of baseball, it seems as if nobody keeps them for spring sports since
the championships in golf, track, and tennis are all decided in tournaments. Any standings that are available will be printed
on this page. It’s the balmy month of May, the sun is shining, the birds are singing, and white-shorted youths
flock to the tennis court in droves for an afternoon of recreation. But still one court stands unused. Why? Because
it is still filled with pebbles, without sufficient lines, and still minus a net. The next “why” would be much
harder to answer. Due to the fact that softball results have not been turned in to Mr. Howard regularly, we
are unable to print the I.F. standings this week.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Cat Linksters Tie For First; In Conference Tournament

Bucky Dennis Takes Laurels as Medalist

By “B” MILLNER

Davidson tied with George Washington University for the Southern Conference Golf Championship at Danville, Va., on Wednesday. Wildcat Bucky Dennis
was medalist with a fine 145. The top four of Davidson's six-man squad slushed over the water-soaked 6,147-yard Danville courses
in 303 strokes on Tuesday and 306 Wednesday, for a total of 609. George Washington led off with a 309
score on the first day and added a fine 300 in Wednesday's playing. Third place was taken by Virginia Tech
while Furman came in fourth. The Wildcats had placed third in the 1957 tournament which was won by George Washington.
This year a toss of the coin decided that they would take home the trophy. A duplicate cup will be
presented to Davidson. The Cats entered the tournament with a not-so-spectacular 4-5 record. The five losses, however, were suffered against
such golf powers as Wake Forest, Duke, N.C. State, and North Carolina. On the other hand, Davidson had trounced powerful
Ohio State 22-5, and South Carolina Champion, del. Bucky Dennis, who has played steady, but not spectacular golf this year,
came through in the clutch carding a 70, 75-145 score. Verner Stanley recovered from a first-round 78 to shoot a
73 for a 151 total, winning a place among the front runners. Ned Payne carded a 78, 76-154. Other Wildcat
scores were Gary Heeseman 81, 78-159; Sut Alexander 84, 76-160; Sam Sloan 77, 83-160.

Tennis Team Vies For Top Honors

By BOB GREEN

Davidson's net squad journeyed to Williamson Tuesday holding its best season record in over five years. Washington and Lee and
William and Mary both defeated the Cats last Wednesday and Friday respectively, both by a 5-4 score. The Wildcat sextet,
minus Semi Mintz, left Davidson Tuesday afternoon for William and Mary for the Southern Conference Tournament. Mintz, number three in
the Wildcat line-up, was ineligible to make the trip. The last four men each moved up one notch, putting Tom
McCutchen at number three, Harry Broome at number four, Doug Orr at five, and Dick Hodel at six. The doubles
teams will be composed of Poindexter and McCutchen, and Pearsall and Orr, playing in that order. Broome and Hodel. Coach
Spencer said that our chances for a high finish have been reduced by the loss of Mintz from the line-up.
He added that our main hopes lie in the four through six singles and the two and three doubles play.
The drawings have paired Davidson’s top player, Dave Pearsall, with George Washington's Jim Tarr, the leading contender for the singles
crown.

VIRGINIA TRIP

Neither Mintz nor Broome made last week’s Virginia trip and the team was definitely weakened by their absence. Every match
which the Cats have lost this year except with Miami have slipped by at 4-5. The two hundred participants present
represent nine of the Southern Conference schools, George Washington being the only absentee. With the completion of the elimination trials
this afternoon, the Southern Conference Track Meet swings into high gear tomorrow on Davidson's Richardson field.

ANGUS McBRYDE, Davidson's main hope in the distances, is shown above warming up for the conference meet. —(Photo by Rose)

S.C. Declares Frosh Ineligible“COLLEGIATE FASHIONS”

DON KILLIAN, fine sophomore shortstop, rates as a good chance to walk off with all-conference honors. Killian is one of
the team’s leading hitters.—(Photo by Rose.)

For Baseball Title

“It was one of the best ball games I've seen,” commented Coach Stevens on Davidson’s 3-2 victory over Furman last
Saturday in the first game of a doubleheader. The nightcap, however, went to Furman by a score of 12-7. The
first game was a thirteen-inning affair with Charlie Moore pitching for Furman and Dave Page for the Wildcats. The game-winning
run came when Dabney Stuart singled and stole second. Then first baseman George Hart doubled to bring the run across.

FURMAN GAME

In a loosely played second game, Furman combined Davidson’s errors and eight hits for the one-sided win. Coach Stevens remarked
that he thought it was the worst game played by the Wildcats since the Citadel game. The doubleheader with V.P.I.
scheduled for last Tuesday was called off because of bad weather. It has been rescheduled for Tuesday, May 12, at
Blacksburg, Va.

The Wildcats now hold down second place in the Southern Conference with a record of seven wins and two losses
and an overall record of eleven victories and only four defeats. In first place is Richmond, but they have seven
conference games remaining. This means that Davidson has a good chance of coming out with the top laurels in the
Southern Conference.

PAGE SHINES

One of the most outstanding players for the ‘Cats so far this year is Dave Page. He is the leading
pitcher with a four-win and no-loss record and an earned run average of 1.66. Dave also leads in hitting with
a .327 mark. Other players who have starred for the Cats are Shelbourne Wallace and Don Killian. Coach Dick McKee
stated that our hopes for a second place squad have turned in this season.

Phi Gams Lead Field In I-F Softball Race

By HENRY RAMSEY

Rain, rain, rain. The few softball games that have been played between rains in the last few weeks account for
only a small portion of the schedule of games that should have been played by now. The Sigma Chi—Phi Gam
game on Monday proved to be one of the best so far this year. The Phi Gams edged out the
Chis in overtime innings with a packed house of students observing the heated action.

PHI GAMS IN FIRST

This victory secures the Phi Gams in first place with a 9-0 record while the Pikas are in second place
with a 6-2 record. Five wins and two losses give the Sigma Chis third place while the fourth place K.A.'s
have won four and lost only one. In fifth place, the Phi Delts have won three and lost four; sixth
place is held by the Betas with two wins and two losses. A 2-3 record gives the S.A.E.s seventh place
while the Independents and A.T.O.s have won two and lost four apiece. This gives them a tie for eighth place.
The S.P.E.s are in ninth place with a record of three wins and five losses and the Kappa Sigs are
in tenth place with a 1-3 record. A record of two wins and five losses gives the Pi Kapps eleventh
place while the Sigma Nus are in twelfth place with a record of no wins and seven losses.

TENNIS TOURNAMENT

The rain has played with the tennis tournament also, but the boys have been out there plugging all the way
in spite of the weather. In the singles tournament, Hight Redmond, K.A., will play Finley Lee, Sigma Chi, for the
championship as soon as the weather permits. In addition to the singles play, a doubles tournament is now in progress.

Southern Conference Ruled Freshman Ineligible Next Year

In its spring meeting at Roanoke, on May 2, the Southern Conference ruled that freshman athletes would be ineligible for
all sports except football. The ruling will be effective this fall. The status of football is temporary, in that freshmen
will not be able to play varsity football in 1959. The ruling will necessitate freshman teams in all sports, which
will involve a great deal of expense. Not only will additional coaches have to be obtained, but expenses for equipment,
uniforms, and transportation will cut a tremendous swath through the athletic department budget.

Football coach Bill Dole commented on the action: “It won't have much bearing on us next year, but we will
be hurt in 1959. I think that it will hurt all of our sports.” Dole said that freshmen playing varsity
football next fall would probably have several scrimmage games, although there would be no freshman team as such.

Heath Whittle was a little more optimistic. Due to the fact that the sports turned in many of the results,
he reasoned that first-year boys who would not ordinarily go out for varsity athletics could participate on the freshman teams,
thus offering a greater range of prospects than before.

CAT HOPES

Davidson's hopes for conference points will be carried for the most part by Dale Gramley, one of the favored contenders
in the shot put and discus, Angus McBryde in the distance races, and Chris Bremer in the jumping events and
hurdles. Coach Heath Whittle is also expecting John Huvie to turn in good performances in the pole vault and high
jump.

Among the highlights of the meet should be the pole vaulting of Tork of West Virginia, who has cleared the
bar at over 14 feet during the regular season. Also of interest will be the shot putting of Muse of
V.P.I., who has come close to the 50 ft. mark several times throughout the year. Tomorrow: finals in the field
events are scheduled to start at 2:00 pm, with the running finals beginning at 2:30.

FILTER WINSTON AMERICA'S BEST-SELLING, BEST-TASTING CIGARETTE!
