FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 1958

Cats Enter Conference Tourney With 9-14 Mark

~~ Sportstuff ~~

BY GEORGE RAMSEY

Comes the spring of each year, and man bursts from his winter hibernation into the great outdoors. So the annual
ritual finds man transferring his athletic endeavor to the great expanse of nature. Tennis fans are high in their hopes
of the Wildcats regaining the Southern Conference title held in the days of Corky Clark, Lacy Keesler, and Co. Coach
McKee lost only one member of last year’s squad which finished in the runner-up slot in the loop tourney. Back
again for another season with the netters are Dave Pearsall, Bob Huffaker, Semi Mintz, Dick Hodel, Harry Broome, John Poindexter,
Mike Martin, Tom McCutchan, and Sam Zimmerman. From this crew plus some promising freshmen, McKee should mold a crew well
worth watching.

Meanwhile, out on the oval track of Richardson Field, Coach Whittle busies himself with his varied track and field participants.
Prime candidates for glory should be sprinters Marvin Bentley, Brownie Thurman, and Ed Kiser, hurdlers Scott Woodmansee and Chris Bremer,
jumpers Bremer and John Huie, distance runners Jim Alexander, Henry Brown, Angus McBryde, Al Mackay, and Graham George, with Dale
Gramley, the ‘Cats ace in the shot put and discus throw, backed up by Stuart Nickles.

Davidson baseball, after a rather poor season in 1957, will attempt a comeback this year. The verdict will be heavily
dependent on the results turned in by the pitching staff and the rate at which the young guard develops. Returning
for another season of mound duty are Dave Page, Allen Moore, Pat Henderson, and Scott.

Wofford Bumps Off Davidson Hoopsters In Finale, 64-62

By PRENTICE BROWN
Davidsonian Sports Writer

The final act of Davidson basketball play comes to a close next week as the ‘Cats travel to Richmond for
the Southern Conference Tournament. Coach will put his quintet through ten hard days of drilling in final preparation for the
climax of the 1957-58 season. A loss to Wofford last Friday gave the Wildcats a 9-14 record going into the
tournament. The locals overcame a 14-point deficit only to drop a 64-62 decision to the Terriers.

MINTZ HITS 14.3

Semi Mintz, for the second straight year, led the Wildcat scorers with a 14.3 average, nosing out Dave Hollingsworth, who
finished with a 14.0 average. At the free throw line Mintz hit a phenomenal 97 out of 111 attempts for
an 87.3 percentage, which should figure among the nation’s top five.

The Wildcats’ opponent in the tournament depends on the outcome of the Furman-Citadel contest played last night. Should The Citadel
win, Davidson will finish seventh in the conference and will play runner-up George Washington. If Furman wins, they will earn
a seventh place tie with the ‘Cats. However, if the Paladins defeated the Wildcats by a greater margin than the
'Cats beat them in the two-game split, Davidson, therefore, would finish eighth and face the rugged Mountaineers of West Virginia
in the opening round. As Dr. Tom Scott says, “the sweat is on.”

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Husky Hollingsworth Cleans ‘Cat Boards

By JIM HAMILTON
Davidson Sports Writer

With a quick maneuver, he slides into the foul lane. The ball bounces high off the boards. A long arm
goes up. The flick of fingertips meeting ball, the swish of the net, and Dave Hollingsworth has added two more
points for the Davidson Wildcats. For three campaigns now, big Dave, who stands 6 ft. 4 inches and weighs 200
pounds, has been scoring points and grabbing rebounds for the ‘Cats. However, Dave almost ended up at another school. Three
years ago the former Alaskan came down from the frozen north to enroll at Carolina. But cagey Danny Miller, head
cage mentor at Davidson, lured Dave down to look over the campus. Dave liked what he saw and stayed.

HUSTLE

Since then he has contributed greatly to the team with his hustle and aggressiveness on the boards and offensively,” Coach
Tom Scott stated it. Dave, a member of Phi Delta Theta social fraternity, the “D” Club, and the YMCA Cabinet,
has been on the starting quintet for all three of his years at Davidson. His five-point per game average of
his frosh year jumped to 13 his sophomore season, and rose again to 14 per contest for this past year.
This season he connected on 138 of 354 shots for a point total of 323 in 23 games, second only
to Semi Mintz, who compiled a total of 14.3 per game average. But it is with rebounds that Dave comes
into his own. The big forward, who resembles somewhat an Alaskan caribou, has added two more points for the season.
In both points and rebounds, his high was scored against Furman, and his rebound high was scored against the College
of Charleston. When questioned about his biggest sports thrill, Dave listed two events. One was a triple overtime victory for
the championship of Alaska while he was playing on the Juneau High squad. The other was the close defeat by
West Virginia in the Southern Conference tournament two years ago when the ‘Cats succumbed only in the final minutes of
play to the powerful Hot Rod Hundley-led outfit.

It might be added, however, that Dave’s contributions to the team go beyond just points and rebounds. His leadership and
determination have been invaluable assets to the Wildcats.

Betas Grab Handball Title

KA’s First In I-F Hoop Play

There'll be a bad day on the hardwood when the KAs and Kappa Sigs meet soon. Each of these teams
has six wins and no losses apiece, giving them a tie for first place in the Inter-Fraternity basketball tournament. Close
behind the leaders, the Sigma Chis have five wins and only one loss on their record. Pushing them from the
third slot are the Pi Kapps, who have won five games also but have lost two. In a tie for
fourth place, the Phi Delts and ATOs each have a 4-2 record. The SAEs have won three and lost three,
giving them a hold on fifth place. Three wins and four losses at that time emerged with five wins and
six losses apiece, giving them a position in the ladder. The SPEs and the Pikas are in a tie for
seventh place with 1-5 marks, while the Independents are in eighth place with no wins and six losses. The Sigma
Nus have won none and lost seven, placing them ninth in the running.

In the latest game, Davis hit 28 for the Kappa Sigs to a 56 to 26 victory over the Pikas,
while the Sigma Chis, led by Patterson, downed the Independents, 72 to 42.

Hudgins, Scott Pace ‘Good’ Tank Season

“We have had a good season,” says Coach George Thompson in commenting on the 1957-58 edition of the Wildcat swimming
team. Coach Thompson said that the team won the meets they should have won.and with the exception of the loss
to William and Mary in the first meet of the year, lost those which they had expected to lose. Led
by freshman Tom Hudgins and breaststroker Johnny Scott, the Davidson mermen lost 40 to 33, with Hopper leading the winners’
scoring. Hudgins, who set new school records in the 220- and 440-yard freestyle events, led the team in scoring with
101 points, followed by Scott’s 66-point total.

After a hard-fought game, the ATOs pulled ahead in the last quarter to win over the Phi Gams by a
score of 49-34. Jack Rose, freshman driver, has shown great improvement during the year, and though the diving could be
rated only fair this season, Coach Thompson looks for a brighter future. Ned Gwathmey and Jim Reynolds, the Inter-Fraternity handball
champions, have led the Betas to their first championship in the IF sports program. Eleven wins and no losses put
the Betas in first place with the KAs, Phi Delts, and ATOs tied for second place with nine wins and
two losses apiece. The Sigma Chis are in third place with seven wins and four losses. There are several more
games to be played before the remaining standings will be determined.

The Southern Conference meet is now being held at Lexington, Virginia. Thompson noted that he looked to Hudgins, who should
show well in his specialties, as Davidson's best chance to make a good showing. Gazing into the future, the tank
tutor foresees a better season next year. With the loss of only two seniors, Captain Fritz Russell and Bob Jones,
from this year’s outfit, and the constant improvement shown this year, Thompson expects a much better squad in ‘58-59.

Dave Green, who collected 203 rebounds for the season, far beyond the total grabbed by any other member of the
squad, gave plenty of Davidson sports fans a real thrill with his jump shot in the last five seconds of
play that edged Furman, 72-70, in their first meeting this year.

SCORING LEADERS

For QUICK Service And GOOD Food —TRY— SCOTTIE'S DRIVE-IN RESTAURANT

Coach Tom Scott's golf team, hoping to improve its 5-7 record of last year, finds returning seniors Johnny Mackorell and
Ned Payne, juniors Sam Sloan, Bucky Dennis, and Bill Furks, and sophs Bobby Street, Gary Heesman, Sut Alexander, and Ed
Armfield. Notably missing from this lineup are graduates George Scott and Stuart Vaughn, two of '57’s standouts. Freshman Verner Stanley,
former Myers Park star, is expected to add lustre to the scene.

Prophecy so often fails, so it behooves us to keep prediction at a minimum and hope at a maximum. Anyone
of these athletes mentioned may blossom into a headline-grabber, and some not mentioned may well surpass the efforts of these.
At any rate, for the next three months, Wildcat sporting eyes will be trained on the spring sports, fervently waiting
for a rich harvest.

Star Performers! the ARROW pin-tab and tabber shirts, already the smoothest shirts anywhere. And both are yours in a barrel
cuff as well as French and Link Cuff, British stripes, miniature checks, solid colors. Thank exclusive Arrow Mitoga tailoring for
their subtly trim lines, collar to waist to cuff. “Sanforized”-labeled. From $4.00 and up. Cluett, Peabody, & Co., Inc.

Just in... a glittering selection of ARROW “tabs” Be the first to add this new pacesetter to your wardrobe. And
don’t miss out on the Arrow “extras” that come with these stripes, checks, and solids: trim Mitoga®-tapered lines and the
“Sanforized” label, to mention two. See us soon.

IVEY’S of CHARLOTTE

AWRIGHT, DAD, I'LL TAKE OVER NOW

WAIT A MINUTE MR. McPHOO, LET'S TALK THIS OVER. HERE, HAVE A WINSTON

SAY, WINSTON TASTES GOOD! SHOULD! LIKE A CIGARETTE SHOULD!

EVERYTHING WE HAVE WE OWE TO WINSTON! THE CIGARETTE WITH THE FRESH DELIGHTFUL FLAVOR

© J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO. WINSTON-SALEM, N.C.
