Che Davidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, MARCH 28, 1958

(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

Davidson Does Make a Difference—Is Worth Protecting

Among the many Davidson traditions is the persistent tendency for students to criticize the college. Good criticism is necessary for
growth, but we have heard some sincere and genuinely interested students look at their Davidson and sadly lament that after
all, Davidson College makes hardly any difference—that is, it makes little impact on society. We feel, however, that there is
a great deal to be said for the other side—for the Davidson College as a living ideal, for the Davidson
College as manifested by the men she produces, and for the Davidson College as the place where outstanding young people
spend four free years in the grand experiment of life.

Davidson College, it has been said, is a way of life. It is a tradition—a fine heritage built by long
generations of successful alumni who have left their mark in almost every Southern community. Its purpose has been to educate
men for the business of living an abundant life. It does this through its liberal arts curriculum, through its reliance
upon a dedicated faculty, through a small student body, through its belief in Christian values, through the private support of
those who have faith in its future, and above all, through the high caliber people who make up the whole
college.

The proof of the college is manifest in the honor roll of alumni—the leading ministers of the Southern Presbyterian Church,
many skilled medical specialists in the nation’s best hospitals, loyal doctors in local communities, prominent lawyers, businessmen, bankers, merchants, teachers,
farmers, and labor relations experts throughout the South, and particularly the plain, solid, steady layman that strengthens any community. These
men have made a difference.

As a small, Southern, liberal arts college, Davidson's primary concern is with the youth of the Southeast. We should remember
that Davidson’s first loyalties are to her section and to her own particular people. We are not a university, drawing
from all kinds and sending to all parts. We do not wish to be. Davidson is one of the very
few outstanding small liberal arts colleges. Its intangible assets are its fundamental strengths. Its heritage and its background give it
character. To destroy these is to destroy Davidson. Here we must be especially careful to protect it from the cunning
plans of those whose ideas and loyalties are foreign to Davidson's way of life.

No doubt the best years of our lives are those that we spend here. Certainly the whole experience has been
a real luxury for every student. For about two decades now, we students have been thriving on what others—our parents
and our college—have provided for us. When we leave Davidson as alumni, the time will come for us to be
the producers—to travel the road we hope will lead us to the position where we can repay more than was
given to us—just as others before us did.

What Davidson College stands for is worth preserving for others, worth protecting against all who would change it, worth supporting
by whatever means we can, worth being proud of. The Davidson tradition is a wonderful reality that has made a
difference in the lives of her alumni and all others associated with them. It will continue to make a difference
to those who follow after.

Action Needed

It seems certain that this year's IFC is not going to take any action on instituting preferential bidding. It seems
awfully foolish to move into a half-million-dollar fraternity court without making any provisions for solving the problem that caused us
to move in the first place. The new IFC can do what this year’s IFC has failed to do. It
can contribute significantly to wrapping up fraternity problems by inaugurating the preferential bidding system.

On Drinking

In the next few months the faculty will tackle the whole problem of drinking, after-dance parties, and related matters. The
fundamental question to be decided is just what kind of college Davidson is going to be. We have got a
good thing—a thing that is easy to lose, impossible to get back once it is gone. As the next few
months bring students and faculty together to discuss this problem of drinking, we hope that the result will be a
reaffirmation of the college’s stand for the traditional high principles that have guided Davidson over the years.

In short, we hope that any “rules” or “regulations” relating to drinking will not be modified, will not be relaxed
from their present level. Not only does relaxation and modification of the drinking rule mean moving from one ambiguity to
another, it also means retreating to a position farther from the standard that we know is the best for Davidson
College. Down deep in our minds, we know the type of college we really respect and want is the type
that Davidson has always striven to be. It is the duty of everyone who is interested in Davidson to make
sure that it stays that way.

Coats and Ties

By moving into an all-new fraternity court we have solved only half of the problem—that is, we have solved the
material problem. Now, what about the other half, the fraternity members? Since one of the main features of our new
set-up will be adequate eating facilities, would it not be a good idea for the fraternities to initiate the practice
of making supper the special or main meal of the day at which time members would dress in coat and
tie? Wearing coat and tie to meals makes the situation more conducive to fine eating. It is a practice that
works in other schools, and it could add much to our fraternity life here at Davidson.

On Socialism

“Socialism is the confiscation of human liberty. It is serfdom under a new formula.”—Alexis de Tocqueville.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
John Trask, Jr.

BUSINESS MANAGER
Pat Henderson

ASSISTANT EDITOR
Gerald Wilson

Associate Editor
Julian Aldridge

Managing Editors
Bruce Brooks, Bob Lathan, Laurens Walker

Sports Editor
George Ramsey

Assignments Editor
Bill Patton

Feature Editor
Jim Morris

Cartoonists
Bross, Cole

Photographer
Ed Stevens

Advertising Manager
Henry Samuels

Circulation Manager
Lee Mayfield

Copy Editor
News Editor

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

By BOBBY LIVINGSTON

We are at a stage in our history when the present relationship of our student Christian association with the various
affiliations of YMCAs must be revised or eliminated. There are conflicts to this. There are valid reasons for withdrawing, and
while it may be hard to justify remaining in the YMCA, it is impossible to suggest any practical alternative organization.

COMPROMISE

Here is a proposed compromise to this dilemma:

1. Make definite our position with the YMCA. Today our position is all confusion. This could be done by creating
a cabinet post to be concerned with YMCA activities, and by eliminating the misleading initials, YMCA, from our Davidson organization.

PER CAPITA

2. Have our financial support with the YMCA put on a per capita basis. Today we pay a collective 39%
of our budget, $275, for a “fair share.” There is an alternative method, and that is 50c per member. We
should adopt this process, rather than the present one. This would give every member of the Davidson Student Christian Movement
an invitation to join or not to join the regional YMCA.

HIGH INCOME

It would also prompt the regional YMCA to interest itself far more in our local situation in an effort to
maintain its present high income from us. It would further give those interested in the program of the YMCA definite
opportunity to force its advantages into conspicuous display. Now as it stands, there is no one who can definitely state
its value. This would force the YMCA to prove itself to us.

There are internal and external reasons suggesting this change. There are pressures within the YMCA that some of us do
not like, and that very definitely weaken the internal position of the Davidson student Christian movement. The most obvious consideration
is the acknowledged primary interest in the race issue. Directly or indirectly this is a factor. The direct implications are
to be answered for each one personally. Indirectly, the emphasis on this issue destroys any relevance for the major portion
of the program of the YMCA at Davidson College.

PREJUDICED

The Southern Region YMCA to which we owe our sole support is prejudiced. So say its officers. It is a
regional organization. Therefore, participation in its activities cannot give us, as is often offered, opportunity for a full range of
opinion or a meeting ground with representatives from other regions. Externally, the program of the YMCA.Here is the cleaned OCR
text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

and our obligatory heavy financial support invite a re-evaluation of our situation. Internally, this would give our organization impetus to
a much-needed new emphasis. As it stands now, we are in the rather hypocritical position of having our emphasis turned
outward rather than inward.

DEBATE

We can see this in the fact that so many Davidson students debate the very place of the Y in
their college. We can see this in the hard LETTER TO EDITOR Parent Says ‘Be Revised or Eliminated at Present
Time to explain observation that we place our emphasis upon external relationships rather than internal obligations. Shouldn't it be the
other way around? That our external responsibilities result from our internal obligations? Our primary responsibility is to the Davidson student.
To promote within him insofar as we are able a personal religious response. We have been neglecting that, our single
responsibility.

80%

There is a lot more that should be said in support of these contentions. This is a problem of such
profound significance as to suggest that the entire student body be given a voice in its determination. Beyond the fact
that 80% of the student body are members of the Davidson YMCA is the very real issue that the philosophy
of the movement is on trial. If it is felt that the average student is not yet adequately prepared to
be given his choice, then let us postpone for some definite time the question.

There's Magic in College's Name

Dear Editor:

“I enjoy the DAVIDSONIAN and read every word of each issue. I have been very interested in some of the
proposed changes and thought perhaps you might like the reaction of a parent who has been simply amazed by the
Magic of the word Davidson.

MAGIC WORDS

When we were children there were many Magic words, but as we grew older we found there were very few
words that are really Magic. I had to grow up, get married, and have a son enter college, before I
found again a word that was truly Magic. You all know the word but how many of you realize the
Magic that goes with the word Davidson?

PAY LATER

I was in a large store a short time ago talking to one of the owners. We both had boys
and the conversation got around to colleges and to Davidson College. This very successful businessman told me that any student
of Davidson College can come in here and buy anything that he wants and pay for it later at his
convenience. We do not need to establish his credit. All we need to know is that he is a student
at Davidson.

A group of college girls came in our store a few weeks ago buying materials for spring dresses. Again the
conversation got around to colleges and I told them I had a boy at Davidson. The change that came over
those girls when I mentioned the word Davidson was amazing. A change from just polite conversation to one of intense
interest. Eventually, the girls told me they would date a Davidson boy in preference to any other college boy. In
fact, for a first date all they needed to know about the boy was that he is a student at
Davidson.

A few months ago I was in the office of a well-known doctor. He was very busy and I was
just another patient. During the conversation, I told him I had a boy starting his pre-Med at Davidson. As with
the girls, again the change was amazing. He had an office full of people but he took fifteen minutes telling
me what a fine school Davidson is and all about his associates and instructors that were Davidson graduates.

OPEN SESAME

The name Davidson is sheer Magic. In business, in the professions, in the Church, and in your social contacts it
will open doors for you like the Open Sesame of Ali Baba in the Arabian Nights. Someone planned wisely and
well to create all the Magic that goes with the word Davidson. Perhaps the original plans of Davidson College are
old in years. Also old in years are the Constitution of the United States or the teachings of Christ. However,
the fundamental truths of all three of these are as new as tomorrow. I would go very slow with any
radical changes that might destroy some of the Magic that you as teachers and students now have in your hands.

George Blake
Abbeville, S. C.

---

Home for Aged; Poor Chapel Conduct, Stir Interest

Dear Editor:

Grandma B—— fluttered her fan absently and noted with satisfaction the ladies assembled on the lawn around her. They were
engaged in one of grandma's latest projects designed for the more elderly ladies. They were embroidering doilies; some with Bible
quotations, others of poetry, and Grandma herself and her aged coterie were occupied with depicting the Seven Deadly Sins. Grandma
set aside her fan and put another stitch into her “Envy.”

Ever since Dr. John and young Sam left last year, the management of the Christian Home for the Aged had
become a problem. Because Grandma had been a member of long standing, of impeccable Christian principles, and because she appeared
to be one of the lingerers, the directors of the Home placed her in the administration rather than facing the
problem of procuring another Dr. John, which would have been difficult indeed.

Now and then the ladies on the lawn would glance nervously up from their work to a window in the
house which, while open to the summer heat, had its shade drawn.

“I was sorry to hear about Mrs. Jones’ illness this morning,” said old Mrs. D—— to Grandma, and she couldn't
resist peeking up at the window again.

TOURNAMENTS

“The Lord giveth and the Lord taketh away,” allowed Grandma. With this, she pursed her lips, looking up to the
window. Grandma remembered how Mrs. Jones had been one of the main sponsors of the Bridge players who had formed
cliques at the Home and upset the serenity that Grandma loved by holding tournaments. Bridge playing! All they do is
get together and gossip about one another, spreading discontent. Besides, as Grandma said to the directors, cards are a work
of the Devil!

That was two weeks ago, and she was glad the directors saw things her way, for since Grandma put her
foot down you hardly saw anything of the women who used to clutter up the recreation room with their gossipy
Bridge games. If the Lord meant for us to know another’s private life, he would have them tell us about
it, Grandma always said.

“I understand her children aren't even coming to see her,” Grandma said to Mrs. D—— with a knowing nod. The
other ladies in Grandma's confidence, the ones working on the Seven Deadly Sins, nodded also, and looked in agreement to
the blank window.

“Is it true her husband left her a large inheritance?” queried Mrs. D——?

Grandma didn't know, but frowned up at the window as if looking for the answer to this interesting question. From
the open window floated the muted answer: “. . . bid two hearts.”

b. w. van sant

Dear Editor:

Inconsideration and thoughtlessness permeated the tone of chapel this past Tuesday during the band concert. This cheap, or may I
say vulgar, form of derisiveness came only from small groups, but let me add that this is a small school
and many of its students have proved themselves to be just as microscopic by such meaningless contribution to campus life.

It is my belief that when a group of students such as our concert band has given both of their
time and talents to presenting an example of their personal as well as their collective efforts in the form of
a concert, this program should be accepted graciously and humbly. We of the audience should certainly recognize the fact that
we are among those unfortunate individuals who are almost utterly lacking in any form of musical talent, even so much
as whistling to the Colonel Bogey March, better known to the musical sophisticates of “The Fabulous Forty” as the song
from the River Kwai.

In conclusion, I would like to add that a little joking is good at the proper time and place, but
such uncouth actions are leading this school toward stagnation in a pot filled with cynicism. In a small school such
as ours a student must find outlets for his own personal satisfaction and peace of mind. These endeavors must continue
to be pursued by those who enjoy them, preferably without the scornful condemnation of fellow students, filled to the spilling
point with selfish pride.

Robert M. Shoffner

By Schulz

I KEEP GOING BETWEEN THEM!
