FRIDAY, OCTOBER 3, 1958

Sports

All That

By JIM HAMILTON

Friday night I walked out of the library and headed toward the Union. Then the quiet night air was pierced by an unfamiliar voice on a loudspeaker that observed, "Der he go's, fo five yards around da end." What it was, was football, one of the local colored high school games that Davidson is fortunate enough to have played on her field. I bypassed the stud and, aided by a push, scrambled over the fence around Richardson field.

Biggest Fan

The announcer, undoubtedly the biggest fan in the stadium, was giving a running account of the game, complete with a personal touch. "Der quarterback is goin to pass, tosses it to der end. Uh oh, he dropped it. He don't want no part of dat all." The quarterback on the white team faded back and threw a short pass down the middle. Number 42 for the blues intercepted and legged it toward the sidelines. After a brief jaunt, he was halted by an unnumbered player in white who grabbed him by the shoulder pads and the chin strap. After 42 hit the ground, the boy in white let go of the shoulder pads, but not the chin strap. An extra jerk and off it came. A quick sleight of hand that Mr. Shaw Smith would have been proud of, and the chin strap was in his pants. 42 held the game up for a minute prodding around in the grass looking for his strap, then with a quizzical expression, walked back to the huddle.

Cheerleaders

The cheerleaders, twelve of them, took this opportunity to admonish their team to "fight, fight, fight." A younger group of students, only half interested since their team was ahead by twenty points, gathered in a far corner and began serenading the audience with everything from "Rocking Robin" to "It's me, it's me, it's me, oh Lord, standing in the need of prayer." Play was back in progress and the blue team attempted an end run. The down marker bearer, seeing twenty-two players rampaging in his direction, proved he was the fastest man on the field by grabbing his marker and outrunning all of them to safety. Attention again shifted from the playing field as the above-mentioned group of choraleers leaned over the edge of the stadium to watch big Joe Milner pull his extensive anatomy over the barbed-wire fence. The biggest cheer of the evening went up when he finally gained entrance.

No Time For Football

Play was still in progress, but the clock had ceased to operate. "Hey, referee," the announcer quizzed, "You got yo watch, der clock done stopped." Just then a player in white caught a long pass and the announcer exclaimed, "Who dat, who dat with der ball. Uh-oh, five yard penalty against der white team. What's dis, five yard penalty against the blue team—that's five fo five, not five by five, but five fo five." The whites scored and the game eventually ended after what amounted to about a twenty-minute fourth quarter since nobody really knew how much time was actually left. The players streamed off the field, and I walked toward the gate. As I looked back, the last thing I saw was Number 42 looking for his chin strap.

However, an important step was taken toward a better clarification of many aspects in the intramural program for the year. Tuesday night, at a meeting in the gymnasium of representatives from the fraternities and independents, the Intramural Athletic Council (IMAC) was established. This was principally an organizational meeting and several committees were formed which were instructed to begin functioning immediately. These committees of the IMAC will be concerned with writing a constitution, rules and regulations of intramural competition, a calendar of the year's intramural activities, and record of intramural standings. It is the council's intention to have the constitution and the body of intramural rules outlined within the next two weeks and ready for presentation to the fraternities at their Oct. 16 meetings. Coach Joe Hunt was elected a voting member of the IMAC and his term will be determined in the new constitution.

The flickerball title, last year by the KA's, should be a wide-open race this year and a large number of close contests are anticipated. At the end of the flickerball season, there is a prospect of a game between the champions of the league and an all-star team composed of top players from the other participating teams. Members of the student body are reminded to check the bulletin boards outside of Chambers and in the Union for the schedule of all intramural activities. This week's flickerball schedule was:

Tuesday
SX vs Pi Kaps
ATO vs Phi Gam
KS vs SPE
SAE vs Pika

Wednesday
KA vs Phi Delt
Beta vs Ind.
SN vs Phi Gam
SX vs SPE

Thursday
ATO vs Pika
KS vs Phi Delt
SAE vs Ind.
KA vs Beta

THE DAVIDSON COLLEGE FOOTBALL TEAM, shown above in their official squad picture, journey to Charleston Saturday determined to soothe the wounds of the Catawba defeat with the healing balm of a win over Citadel.

Davidson Opens Soccer Season Against Pfeiffer

By JERRY RICH

Davidson's soccer team will open its season on October 7, when the 'Cats meet Pfeiffer at Misenheimer. This contest will kick off a rugged eleven-game schedule for the Wildcats.

Whittlemen Run Pembroke Indians

Davidson's cross-country squad opened their season this afternoon, meeting Pembroke College on the local circuit. The 1958 jaunters are captained by lanky Angus McBryde, a senior veteran from Durham. McBryde won the mile run in last spring's Southern Conference track meet. Other members of the varsity squad are: Loy McKeithan, Graham George, Bill Eckbert, King Cole, Larry McNeil, and Bob Thompson. The freshmen met the Indians' junior varsity squad in their initial outing of the year. David Gilmour, freshman cake race record breaker, is the Kittens' top prospect on the two and a half mile circuit. He set a state record in last year's prep meet, reeling off the mile in 4:29 at Chapel Hill. The frosh squad also includes Mack Brownlee, H. M. Jones, Dave Page, Ran Schaffner, F. J. Walters, Larry Kinney, and Bill Coffey. The Wildcats travel to Wake Forest next week to meet the Deacons on Wednesday, October 8. Davidson's lineup then will probably be the same as today's.

More people are loyal to Camels than any other cigarette today. It stands to reason: the best tobacco makes the best smoke. The Camel blend of costly tobaccos has never been equaled for rich flavor and easygoing mildness. No wonder Camel is the No. 1 cigarette of all brands today! Fads and fancy stuff are forthe birds... Have a real cigarette — have a CAMEL R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., Winston-Salem, N.C. Coach J. W. McCutchan commented, “Pfeiffer is stronger this year, with more experience and some promising material. They have dropped football and have put major emphasis on soccer. It will be a good hard game but we hope to bring back a victory.”

The team is rounding into shape and, according to Coach McCutchan, the veterans are looking very good. There is a possibility that captain Gordon Neville will be shifted to halfback for the Pfeiffer game, pending the return of Pete Andrews. Andrews, halfback last year, is out temporarily due to illness, but is expected to be back in action soon. New foreign students, Ulrich Schoening, Wiecher Bergsma, and Hermon Laimer are showing up well. McCutchan added that Tom Price and Ward McKeithan will greatly bolster the line with their experienced play and that the return of Tom Johnson should give added strength to the team. Lint Hopkins and “Koogie” Kwon also were mentioned by Coach McCutchan as having evidenced excellent form in practice. With only two losses by graduation and with a bevy of experienced players returning, the coach expects to have an above-par season. Already he is looking ahead to the Duke game here on October 10. He expressed the opinion that Duke always has a strong game and that this first home game should be a thriller.

Scott Turns Down Position In Haiti

The little country of Haiti came close to receiving the services of Davidson's Athletic Director, Dr. Tom Scott. The State Department requested Coach Scott to go to the Latin American country to become General Sports Organizer. The duties of this position are to organize basketball and track teams to represent Haiti in several athletic games held around the world. The first of the events would be the Caribbean games held in South America in November. Next, the teams would represent Haiti in the Pan-American games held in Chicago in the coming year. Also, the team would go to the Olympic games held in Rome, Italy in 1960. The work that went along with the position would have taken a great deal of time. Due to this, Coach Scott had to decline the offer. “I greatly appreciated the offer,” Scott said, “but due to other commitments here at Davidson I had to decline. It gives me a good feeling to know that I was considered for the position, and I would have liked to have seen the Olympic games.”

PAGE THREE

Bulldogs Beware! Cats ‘Up’ as Davidson and Citadel Clash In Charleston

By “B” MILLNER

A prepared Davidson takes on one of the toughest teams in the Southern Conference when they meet Eddie Teague’s veteran Citadel Bulldogs tomorrow afternoon in Charleston. The ‘Cats will face virtually the same team that ground out a 21-7 victory over them last fall on Richardson Field. The only major loss from the Bulldog ranks is that of All-Conference quarterback Bobby Swarze, who has been replaced by able Dick Guerrierri. The man who almost single-handedly beat the Wildcats last year, Barry Thomas, a 6’3”, 220-pound junior fullback, will also be on hand. As a sophomore, Thomas rampaged up the ‘Cats middle for 85 yards in twelve carries and scored two touchdowns.

CITADEL VETERANS

The Citadel squad is composed mostly of three-year veterans recruited by Coach John Sauer for a gridiron program which gave out some seventy scholarships. They are big, fast, and have a wealth of reserves. The Wildcats have had ample time to correct mistakes incurred in their 22-17 loss to Catawba two weeks ago. Coach Dole has greatly emphasized individual defense, a weak spot in the Catawba game. Dole feels that his team is up for the Citadel and “should be ready for a good game.”

COMMON OPPONENT

The two teams have played only one common opponent, Newberry. Davidson had an edge over Newberry in a pre-season scrimmage, but the Citadel was upset by the Indians in their first game. Dole, however, puts little faith in comparisons and does not regard the comparative outcomes as having any bearing on the Citadel's team ability. The Davidson starting line-up is as follows: LE—Lester Bloomfield, RE—Danny House, LT—John Watwood, NT—Scott, C—Dave Warden, QB—Charlie Benson, LHB—Paul Barbee, RHB—Craig Wall, FB—George Hart. Others who are expected to see a lot of action are Harold Westervelt, end; Alex Porter, tackle; John Crute, guard; and Harold Bynum, center.

Wild Kittens Succumb To Furman Freshmen

The Freshman edition of the '58 Wildcats played their only home game here this afternoon against Fork Union Military Academy. Coach Stevens had said earlier in the week that he did not know what to expect from them although he did know that they had always fielded a fine prep school team. The young ‘Cats made their debut in an 18-9 loss to Furman at Greenville last Friday.

POOR SECOND HALF

Davidson was knocked out of the scoring column in the second half after leading 9-6 at the end of the second quarter. Davidson led off the scoring with a field goal by Bruce Usher. Furman failed to move the ball and the ‘Cats took over again. Quarterback Sam Jackson then hit Duncan Morton, an end, with a pass to make the score 9-0. The conversion attempt was no good. The Purple Hurricane frosh cut down the lead to three points with a touchdown just before the halftime break. The second half was all Furman as they scored a touchdown in each of the two final quarters. They failed to make a conversion. Coach Tom Stevens mentioned the line play of center Bruce Usher and guard Buddy Rives as being particularly outstanding and was also pleased with the running of halfbacks Grant McRorie and Lynwood Mallard. Stevens’ twenty-eight man squad used the same offensive and defensive patterns initiated by head football coach Bill Dole.

VARSITY ACTION

A number of Stevens’ men have seen and are expected to see varsity play. End Booker Clark and tackle Sonny Fraley from Statesville, Bruce Usher of Bennettesville, McRorie from Rutherfordton, and Mallard and Morton from Charlotte are considered to be rich in potential.

Gosh frosh! How’d you catch on so quick? Catch on to the fact that Coca-Cola is the hep drink on campus, I mean. Always drink it, you say? Well—how about dropping over to the dorm and downing a sparkling Coke or two with the boys. The man who's for Coke is the man for us.

Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company by THE COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD

“Coke” is a registered trade-mark. ©1956, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY