THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE FOUR

LOOK OVER THE SEA
Panamanian Misses Girls, Tropical Climate
By TONY DIAZ
Davidsonian Feature Writer

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 1958

Critic Reviews Rankin’s Artist Series Concert
By PERRIN WRIGHT
Davidsonian Music Critic

Student Council Holds Contemplative Meeting

The Student Council, meeting last week in what one member called a “contemplative meeting,” heard a report on increased theft
on campus and made plans to review election methods and the Court of Control before the year’s end.

The Davidson College Artist Series presented Miss Nell Rankin, mezzo-soprano, in a concert last Friday night in Chambers Auditorium. Miss
Phyllis Grandy provided the piano accompaniment.

I wish I could be able to write well, to be able to place accurately my feelings on paper and
transform the sheet in front of me into a mirror of my feelings. But I do not think it will
take a lot of effort to write something about your own country and in my case about my trip and
my impressions at the campus of Davidson College.

David Robinson, chairman of the council committee on theft investigation, reported an increase in the value of stolen articles. According
to Robinson, thefts are reported too late for effective council action and the work of the group is hampered because
of slow reports from students who find articles missing from rooms. Council members expressed disapproval of a plan for a
campus search for stolen goods as “contrary to the spirit of the Honor System.”

PRESIDENT’S SECRETARY
(Photo by Rhyne)

PERSONALITY ENHANCES THE PRESIDENT’S OFFICE

It was a Wednesday afternoon, my girlfriend could not make it to the airport. I found myself in the airplane,
sitting down, it was raining, my seat happened to be right above a wing so I missed the whole view,
and it sure did not fade slowly for we ran into a fog storm after we took off.

Four hours later the glittering lights of Miami gave me the first impression of good old U.S.A. Of course, Miami
City is not the prototype of an American town and I was warned about it. Nevertheless, I could not say
I was badly impressed at all. Another four hours and then Charlotte, finally Davidson and ever since every morning I
have to pinch myself to see if I am not dreaming.

Do I miss Panama? Sure I do. Am I homesick? Maybe I should be but I always thought of homesickness
as something that brought along sadness, and I am not sad. I guess it is that here in Davidson you
do not have time for being homesick. I should be homesick for a little country roughly the size of South
Carolina; a tropical climate. If there is something that impresses a lot, it is the friendliness of the people, in
this particular point I am talking for all the foreign students, we have been warmly received and treated in such
a way that we cannot offer any complaint. Starting from the faculty, students individually and as a group in fraternities,
everybody has been just “the most.”

I had the privilege of being pledged by a fraternity and until now I do not regret it; I have
found there the brotherhood, understanding, and help I would with difficulty have been able to find somewhere else. In a
word, this has been and still is a very interesting and profitable experience. I am sure Davidson will not improve
with my presence on its campus, but I sure will learn and gain a lot by being here among “amigos.”

STUDENT COMMITTEE

President Kuykendall will head a student committee on elections which will begin deliberation and investigation concerning campus elections next semester.
The committee, composed of council members and students-at-large, will study the present elections system and perhaps propose changes before spring
elections.

COURT OUTMODED

One council member said, “Some members of the council feel that the Court as it stands is outmoded. As times
change, the value of the Court has changed, too. Through changing its structure and procedure, it could be altered for
the better without losing effectiveness.” A considerable number of councilmen expressed an opposing view, seeing the present Court system as
adequate.

Kuykendall announced that the outcome of a vote on the proposed firearms amendment and honor court amendment will be announced
as soon as possible. A council committee will be appointed to effect the revisions if the amendments are passed. Freshman
Council officers were invited to observe all council meetings as non-voting participants and Kuykendall emphasized his desire that students attend
council meetings.

Miss Rankin had sung in Boris Godunov at the Metropolitan Thursday night, and had left for Davidson at 4:30 Friday
morning with only a celebration party and a few hours’ sleep intervening. In spite of this, her vocal quality and
freshness remained undisturbed for the entire concert, with the exception of one sly cough toward the end, which was not
at all consumptive. It became obvious, however, that the festivities were telling on Miss Grandy; her performance constantly betrayed a
spiritual, if not a physical, hangover.

Miss Rankin began with a short aria and a short song from the Baroque period, then launched into a group
of Brahms and Schubert Lieder. She sang “The Erl King” of Schubert more dramatically, or more operatically, than usual; the
casual listener might have detected that Miss Grandy turned in her most devastating job of the evening on this one.
The first half was closed with “O Priests of Baal” from Meyerbeer’s “The Prophet.”

After intermission Miss Rankin returned to sing the mezzo-soprano’s war-horse, perennial audience-squirmer, the “Habanera” from “Carmen” by Bizet; this was
followed by “Les Tringles des Sistres” and “La Seguedille” from the same opera. These comprised probably the most successful group
from the standpoint of audience appeal, as usual. Again, Miss Grandy came in a valiant second on “Les Tringles.”

The program was concluded with a group of five American songs, the most tasteful of which turned out to be
an old North Carolina folk song, “He’s Gone Away.”

Col. Adams
(Continued From Page 1)

Q. Colonel Adams, would you hazard a guess as to how much of the charm of the President of Davidson
could be attributed to a woman, the President’s secretary?

Among a generation of Davidson students there has been a rumor, partially jestful, partially serious, that much of the charm
of the President of Davidson could be attributed to a woman, the President’s secretary.

Perhaps there is a group of Davidson undergraduates who know little more of the administration’s office staff than they see
in the union after chapel. I am in this group, yet I have listened to no small number of compliments
to Mrs. J. D. French, who was Dr. Cunningham’s secretary and who has continued in her position, now working for
President Martin.

“WOMAN BEHIND MAN”

A record of four years as secretary to the President of Davidson College is a record of four years of
answering the telephone, typing letters, doing stenographic work, and meeting visitors. In a very short time, it became evident why
Mrs. French is so highly regarded: her personality is a precious asset to Davidson’s public relations.

As we talked I learned how much Mr. Martin’s secretary enjoyed receiving, welcoming, and working with people. She praised Davidson
students as “past masters of hospitality,” and coming from such an apt hostess, I felt this was a real compliment.

Big Turnout Expected For Frosh Parents’ Day

Tomorrow morning 400 parents of this year’s freshman class will converge on the Davidson campus for the annual Freshman Parents
Day. As of last Tuesday, 370 had confirmed their coming. These early figures indicate that this year’s event will be
well attended. Reserved seats will be issued to them. Other members of the family may purchase reserved seat tickets for
$2.50. High school students may sit in a different section during the game.will be a coffee hour in the dining
hall of the Chambers Building. This will be immediately following the scheduled activities of the day.

A. As you know, last year, we had eighty-five per cent of our men receive their first choice. I'm afraid
it won’t be as high this year, because of the large number requesting Military Intelligence and Army Security. Those are
very limited fields, as you know. We can hope for the best, of course, but we can't really expect a
large percentage.

Alpha Epsilon Delta, the pre-med honorary fraternity, recently added thirty-one Davidson juniors and seniors to its membership. The new members,
who must be in the top third of their class, were inducted last Wednesday, November 5. The new members consist
of six seniors and twenty-five juniors. They are:

Seniors: Douglas Balentine, Hugh Campbell, B. K. Kwon, John Poindexter, J. W. Reid, and Larry Walter.

Juniors: Jim Alexander, J. W. D. Atchison, R. Y. Baldwin, A. H. Bracey, C. C. Bremer, J. W. Carruth, R.
D. Croom, C. A. Hunt, W. S. Farabow, E. W. Kersey, Fred C. Price, N. G. Quantz, Craig Ray, D.
W. Rhame, C. F. Rich, G. E. Richmond, John Scott, Dave Warden, J. H. Wearn, and J. H. West.

Miss Rankin offered several encores which met with even more determined applause. If her third encore, “Vilia,” was evidence of
her strong desire to call it quits, the next evidence was irrefutable. She sang “The Lord's Prayer”; no one closed
his eyes, and several still tried to applaud. Her voice was a definite pleasure to hear, and an excellent control
and technique supplemented her fine quality to a truly professional degree.

Daily Pit-Cooked Barbecue... Hickory Pit-Cooked Steaks, Country Ham, and Chicken-In-Basket. Complete Meals “Take Home Service.” All Kinds of Sandwiches... Thick
Milk Shakes. The Connoisseur “MOORESVILLE’S FINEST RESTAURANT.” Roy Church — Buck Mills, Salisbury Drive, North 3-2861. Completely Paved Parking Facilities.

The Secretary to the President hinted to me that the proverbial “woman behind the man” might be a “woman behind
the men,” and I became anxious to learn something of Mrs. French's service to Davidson’s recent chief administrators. A visit
with Mrs. French caused me to be more than well pleased with Mr. Martin’s front office personality. The charming hostess
to visiting dignitaries and to anyone calling on the President made me comfortable and was such an interesting conversationalist that
I found myself straying from the topic of my quest.

We did, however, discuss Mrs. French’s work in the President’s office. She immediately denied any responsibility in Davidson’s administration or
any advisory work for the President. She explained that her job is maintaining an orderly schedule for the college's head
administrator, doing general secretarial work, and answering questions most frequently asked by parents.

Mrs. French has studied here at Davidson, and she did personnel work in Charlotte prior to March 1953. Then, because
Davidson was her home and because she was interested in the college, she began working in the Student Union. In
August of the following year, Dr. Cunningham saw the potential value of having her personality in the President's office. Since
that time, she has been Secretary to the President of Davidson College.

Her charm has made her not only a capable secretary but one of the most popular members of the Davidson
staff.

Rushing (Continued From Page 1)

A conflict of the Spring Frolics and the Male Chorus tour is being investigated. There is a possibility of re-scheduling
the Frolics a week later than now planned. The IFC voted to grant a refund of half of the dance
ticket to the football players in training Friday night, thus being unable to attend the first dance. Each IFC member
will contact the members of his fraternity affected by this refund.

Cabinet (Continued From Page 1)

Announcement was made of the Thanksgiving conference at Pfeiffer College, to which the Y desires to send two delegates from
Davidson to study with some one hundred representatives from other colleges and universities, the racial problem. Each individual at the
conference is to represent his own personal viewpoint, with his only obligation to his school being that of reporting the
relevant topics and conclusions of the conference.

Treasurer Bobby Livingston reported that Vesper offerings during the month of October had increased each Sunday, although the contributions continued
to be made by a small percentage of the attending students.

A program on Near East relations is planned for the near future, according to Ed Stevens. This program tentatively includes
several distinguished foreign figures as well as local personages.

Before leaving, I learned that both from the inhabitants of the Canal Zone as from the hundreds of tourists that
arrive at our shores. I guess that is why it has not been so much of a change in what
concerns clothes, movies, food, music, etc. What I do not know if I will survive is the weather. Though everybody
tells me it is not cold yet, I cannot help but ache for my 76 average tropical climate.

Out of this world! Space travelers—be on the alert! Make sure there’s a cargo of Coke tucked away in the
rocket! You may not be able to buy your favorite sparkling drink on the moon... but that's just about the
only place you can’t. So when you're ready for the big lift, be sure the cheerful lift of Coca-Cola goes
along! Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company by THE COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD.

“If he should get by you, Emma, double back for the Camels!”

More people keep going back for Camels than any other cigarette today. The Camel blend of costly tobaccos has never
been equaled for rich flavor and easygoing mildness. Today as always, the best tobacco makes the best smoke. By-pass the
fads and fancy stuff... Have a real cigarette—have a CAMEL. R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., Winston-Salem, N. C.

HI-FI COMPONENTS At Wholesale Net Prices. Across From Ivey's 5th St. Entrance, 126 West Fifth St., Charlotte 2, N. C.
