FRIDAY, MAY 2, 1958 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

Cats Are Darkhorse Threats In Net Meet
By “BY” MILLNER

Davidson’s high riding Wildcats will be dark horse threats for the team championship in the Southern Conference Tennis Tournament next
week. The nine team meet is scheduled for Thursday, Friday, and Saturday at William and Mary. The tournament drawing will
proceed according to the “Big Ten System” which allows for one champion to emerge from each team position. In other
words, all of the number one men would play each other, number two men would play in their group, and
so on down the line. By this method, much depends on the luck of the draw.

Coach Dick McKee was confident of at least a second place finish. “We can beat Washington. If we don’t draw
too many G. W. opponents in the first round, we could go all the way.”

McKee added that George Washington's brother combination of Jim and Jack Tarr would be hard to cope with but that
Davidson's depth in the lower positions would give them a definite advantage over most teams.

Davidson's line-up will be the same one used in most matches this year. Dave Pearsall, recovered from a pulled groin
muscle, will play number one. John Poindexter, Semi Mintz, Tom McCutchen, and Harry Broome follow in the next four positions.

A possible challenge match between Dick Hodel and Doug Orr, who has played mostly as a doubles partner, leaves the
number six slot temporarily vacant. McCutchen has been the team’s most successful player record-wise, having lost only one match (to
Miami's Allen Quay), while winning fourteen.

The ‘58 Wildcats have possibly the best won-lost record ever compiled by a Davidson College tennis team. They have won
thirteen matches while losing only three. They have a spotless 3-0 conference record.

TENNIS, TRACK, GOLF
SEMI MINTZ AND JOHN POINDEXTER, two of Coach Dick McKee’s tennis aces, are shown above, prior to entering the Southern
Conference tennis tourney next week. (Photo by Charlie Rose).

League Trackmen
The 1958 Southern Conference Track Meet will be held next Friday and Saturday on Davidson’s renovated track and field. Elimination
trials in all events except the pole vault and high jump will be run off on Friday. The championship events
begin at about two o'clock Saturday afternoon. Nine of the ten Southern Conference schools will be represented.

W&M, VMI, CITADEL
Defending Champion William and Mary and VMI are expected to wage a stiff battle for first place. The Citadel may
make it a three way dog fight. VMI is slightly favored.

Coach Heath Whittle and the college maintenance crew have been at work all winter getting local facilities in shape for
the meet. In addition to the reconditioned track, a high jump pit, pole vault and broad jump runways, and a
concrete shot and discus circle have been constructed.

The Wildcats remain in good physical condition, with John Huie and McBryde now off the injured list. Davidson goes into
the meet having won four meets and lost three. They decisively defeated Washington and Lee last week at Lexington, Virginia.

Coach Whittle was not too optimistic about his squad's chances. “We have some fine individual performers but not a great
deal of depth.” He went on to name Angus McBryde, Dale Gramley, and Chris Bremer as his top point makers.
McBryde runs in the two mile event and Gramley has won consistently in both shot put and discus. Bremer, a
jack-of-all-trades, is a threat in the high jump, broad jump, and hurdles.

It’s tournament time on campus and anyone in some way associated with athletics can feel it. There’s something strange about
tournaments. They affect you in funny ways. Sometimes it’s loss of appetite or sometimes an inability to get to sleep
at night or maybe just a general nervousness. I guess the best phrase to describe it is an air of
expectancy. But more feelings are aroused than these outward signs of tension exhibit. The desire to win quells up within
to the highest pitch of the season. There’s the yearning to make every shot, stroke, or stride count. You want
to win for yourself, but, more than that, for the fellows back at school, and probably even more, for the
coach who has brought you this far along the line.

The golf team that steps out on the Danville course Monday has the most potential in years. With Verner Stanley,
Sam Sloan, Ned Payne, Gary Heeseman, Bucky Dennis, Sut Alexander, Eb LeMaster and Johnny Rucker, the team enters the tournament
with a season average 15 strokes lower than the score that won last year’s championship. Besides that they have soundly
defeated the strongest team in the league, Furman, twice, despite the fact that Furman’s golf team is on scholarship. Looks
like we're going to win this one!

Eastward across the state of Virginia at Williamsburg the Cat netters will be making their strongest bid in several years
for the conference crown. The team to beat is George Washington, whom the Cats have not faced this year. However,
the line up this season has been arranged from the beginning with George Washington in mind, and McKee’s boys are
ready for them. Everybody else may think the Tarr boys and the rest of the scholarshipped squad have the edge,
but this year there are nine individual tournaments, six singles and three doubles, and Davidson is strong down the line.
I may be out on a limb, but I'll predict that the cup will be in Richardson gymnasium come next
weekend.

Due to injuries the picture is not as bright for track, but coach Whittle always has a few aces up
his sleeve. Don't be surprised to see a Gramley win in the discus and a McBryde triumph in a distance
run. Other men that probably will be in the running are Chris Bremer in the hurdles and Dave Warden in
the weights.

Phi Gams, Sigma Chis Lead Softball Loop
With only a few games having been played this week, the Phi Gams are still in first place in the
Inter-Fraternity softball tournament, with the Sigma Chis pushing them from the second slot. Wet fields on Monday and an ROTC
rain on Tuesday held the tournament to a standstill until Davis, Redmond downed the tournament to a standstill untiland Barger
defeated Irvin on Wednesday of this week. As a result, K.A.s have two men in the semi-finals and the Phi
Gams, Phi Delts, and Sigma Chis each have one. Gayle and Redmond of the K.A.s target the Phi Delt, and
Lee is Sigma Chi. After the singles matches this week, the doubles will begin next week. A six and one
record gives the Pikas third place, while the K.A.s hold fourth place, each having won one-two-three. In sixth place, the
Betas, with a 1958 record, and the ninth place Kappa Sigs having a one and three record. In tenth place,
the Independents have won one and lost four, while Pi Kapps have won one, lost five, and hold eleventh place.
The Sigma Nu have won none and lost five and are in twelfth place.

The singles in the Inter-Fraternity Tennis Tournament have reached the semi-final rounds with four men left in the running. On
Wednesday, Lee defeated Sterling, Gayle defeated Irvin, and Barger defeated Redmond. As a result, K.A.s have two men in the
semi-finals and the Phi Gams, Phi Delts, and Sigma Chis each have one. Gayle and Redmond of the K.A.s target
the Phi Delt, and Lee is Sigma Chi. After the singles matches this week, the doubles will begin next week.
A six and one record gives the Pikas third place, while the K.A.s hold fourth place, each having won one-two-three.
In sixth place, the Betas, with a 1958 record, and the ninth place Kappa Sigs having a one and three
record. In tenth place, the Independents have won one and lost four, while Pi Kapps have won one, lost five,
and hold eleventh place. The Sigma Nu have won none and lost five and are in twelfth place.

Spring Sports See Successful Seasons

The spring of the year is a time when the thoughts of the Davidson student are channeled in many directions,
but it is not a usual thing for him to cast too observant an eye on the sports scene. 1958
has proved different. It has impaled in a way to have come sneaking up on us without our realization. Spring
sports have enjoyed a most successful campaign on the Wildcat grounds. Coach Tom Stevens has taken practically the same team
that last year managed a 16-13 record and molded a baseball nine that has scrapped its way through to a
10-3 mark and has been consistently near the pinnacle of the Southern Conference.

A golf squad that was termed potent by coach Tom Scott prior to the opening of its schedule has fulfilled
the mentor's prediction. They have shown themselves to be the foremost contenders for the conference crown. Two days on the
links at Danville, Va., next week will determine whether the 'Cats can take it all.

Once again breathing the clear air of the upper reaches of Southern Conference tennis, Davidson's netmen set out for Williamsburg
next week with a good chance, under the new tourney arrangement, to bring home some hardware. Coach McKee has virtually
the same squad that finished runner-up to powerful George Washington last year in the conference.

It seems somewhat anticlimactic to the spring sports calendar that it closes next week with the local campus entertaining the
league's best in this season's weakest sport at Davidson—track. On the heels of a perfect season in 1957, coach Heath
Whittle was beset by one misfortune after another, with the result of a poor (for Whittle) 500 mark.

Meets Next Week Golfers Rate Good Chance In Tourney

By BOB GREEN

Davidson’s golfers traveled to Furman Tuesday and defeated the Paladins, 18½-8½. The Cats go to Danville for the Southern Conference
Tournament next week. Furman lost her first home match in over three years to Davidson's squad. Verner Stanley captured medal
honors with a two-under-par 69, and Ned Payne carded a 72. Eb LeMaster, in his second match, Stanley, Heeseman, and
LeMaster each collected three points while Payne earned 2½ from his opponent. Furman fell in the second match.

Davidson's six entrants in the Conference meet will play 18 holes Tuesday and Wednesday. The total score of each man’s
36 holes will determine the winning school.

ON DANVILLE COURSE

The rugged Danville course will be the scene of the Southern Conference meet Monday through Wednesday. Monday, Davidson will warm-up
in a triangle match with The Citadel and William and Mary. George Washington is defending its crown in this annual
conference contest, having won the 1957 meet with a team total of 608. This season, the Wildcats, who fired 630
last year, have averaged 594 per match. Ohio State won the Greenbrier Tournament earlier this season in which George Washington
placed sixth, and Davidson swept by Ohio State 22-5 in another match this season, giving a rough estimate of how
the Cats compare with the defending champions.

Coach Tom Scott stated that Davidson has a well-balanced team this season which should do well in the meet.

Wildcat Nine Nears 1933 Record of 12-5

The Davidson baseball team moved out of a first place tie in the Southern Conference when Washington and Lee defeated
Richmond and climbed into first place. The Wildcats, with ten victories and three losses, have a chance to break the
1933 record of twelve wins and five losses by winning three of their next four games.

Dee Green started the game and was relieved by Dee Lide, who was credited with the victory. Allen Moore finished
the game for the Wildcats, which was won in the last inning when the tie was broken by a three-run
Davidson rally. Tomorrow the team faces Furman in a double-header. Although the Furman team doesn’t have the impressive won-lost record
that Davidson does, they could prove to be troublesome. Good hitting and pitching will determine the outcome.

In the second contest, Moore relieved Dave Page and won a 9-4 victory. With two out and one man on
second in the last inning, Pat Henderson broke open the game with a double, which drove in the tying run.
Don Killian walked, and Dabney Stuart, Shelbourne Wallace, George Hart, and Dave Page followed with hits, earning six runs and
winning the game.

The last games of the season will be played with V.P.I. on Tuesday, May 6. Losing several close games this
season, V.P.I. will be trying to avenge their earlier defeats when they meet the Cats on their home field.

Summer Is Just Around The Corner...

CHOOSE FROM OUR SELECTION OF

Swim Wear
Bermuda Shorts
Light-weight Suits
Straw Hats
Light Blend Shirts
Formal Wear Accessories

BE WELL ATTIRED FOR EVERY OCCASION
