Che Davidsonian | THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE PAGE TWO FRIDAY, APRIL 25, 1958 (All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

Davidson Enters The Space Age

The gift of $400,000 to the College for the erection of a new science building signifies the entrance of Davidson into the space age. Mr. Martin and the other members of the Administration who were instrumental in the securing of this gift are to be congratulated on their success. The addition of the new science building should do much to bring Davidson into step with the recent, “Sputnik motivated,” trend in education to provide better facilities and courses of study in the field of science.

It would seem appropriate to consider the role of Davidson in the coming age, an age certain to think casually of space travel, and to see a flowering of science beyond present imagination. During the recent months, America has become fascinated with science and scientists as never before. The comments of missile expert Werner Von Braun are more avidly read than those of President Eisenhower. High school teachers are helping students build rockets these days, not the traditional jalopy. Math and science curriculums are being evaluated, and colleges and universities are expanding their scholarship programs with an eye to give greater opportunities to future scientists.

For the most part, this heightened interest in science is producing good results, especially in education. Yet, the chief problem remains not how to build better machines and bombs, but what to do with them. This world of technology, missiles, satellites, and H-bombs needs as never before men of intelligence, good judgment, and sensitivity. The space age role of Davidson College, and of similar institutions, then must be to produce men able to meet the challenge of a world revolutionized by science. If man ultimately triumphs over his creations and learns to live at peace with his neighbors, then Davidson and all of the colleges and universities of the world will have justified their existence.

By ED ARMFIELD
Davidsonian Managing Editor

“It was a matter of seeing the handwriting on the wall,” answered John Trask, Kappa Alpha’s IFC representative when asked why he voted for the abolition of Hell Week. “For the sake of student-faculty relations, it was better that the IFC take the initiative than for the faculty to have to abolish Hell Week.” This reply is typical of those received in a question posed to all IFC representatives to get their reasons for voting to abolish the traditional pre-initiation activities.

Other representatives indicated that their votes were cast against Hell Week because their national fraternity did not sanction any such week. Bob Jones, a Phi Gam and the old IFC President, said, “Hell Week has been strongly condemned by my fraternity and the National Interfraternity Council for years... I think Greek Week programs have proven themselves in fraternity systems all over the country. It can be a good thing at Davidson, too.”

Woody Woods, Beta representative, said that “If the purpose of a Hell Week is to make better fraternity men of pledges, the end does not justify the means.” Woody added that, “I also considered that no national fraternity on our campus sanctions a Hell Week or anything defined as such.”

Phi Delt, Pat Woodard, who missed the meeting because he was on the Male Chorus Tour, indicated that he would have voted in favor of the abolition of Hell Week. He stated that he is in favor of a Greek Week and that, “the main purposes of Hell Week, unification of the pledge class and the preparation of the pledge for brotherhood, can be accomplished more effectively by a more mature institution.”

LITTLE CHOICE

Jim Zeh, representing the Sig Ep’s answered by saying that while he voted to be consistent with his national fraternity, “The IFC had very little choice because Hell Week was being forced out by the faculty... we felt that the action would be better received by the Student Body if it were IFC originated. It was also calculated to help smooth out faculty-fraternity relations.”

Jim Jones, speaking for the SAE’s, gave both better results that should come from a Greek Week and student-faculty relations as his reasons. Jim commented that, “... the IFC has attempted to bridge the gap between fun-loving students and the more mature minded faculty.”

Gray Lewis spoke out for the Pi KAs and “... felt that the end of Hell Week would bring an end to certain liberalizations on the campus.”

OFF CAMPUS

It was the hope of Don Carmichael, ATO, that “the new Greek Week would accomplish traditional Hell Week values and make positive contributions to institutions off the campus.”

Dee Lide, Pi Kapp, recognized that the abolition of Hell Week was “... inevitable, it had been drawing to a head for a few years... In my opinion was a case of Hell Week vs. Nothing.”

Burwell Shore, of the Sigma Nu fraternity, hoped that the IFC’s action would give the Student Body “... the opportunity of retaining those parts of it which are constructive and which can be salvaged in a Greek Week plan.”

DISSENTING VOTE

Charlie Stowe, Kappa Sig, was the lone dissenting vote on the IFC. It was Charlie's position that, “a properly managed Hell Week has a very real place in a pledge training program,” and that, “in the light of present conditions, this move seemed to be an appeasement to the faculty for this year’s Hell Week rather than an attempt to improve the fraternity system as a whole.”

Vernon Anderson, a Sigma Chi and the new IFC President, realized “... the faculty frowned on this activity and planned to do away with it themselves... Hell Week was doomed... Actually, it was an appeasement to the faculty.”

By TENNEY DEANE

Now that Spring Frolics, 1958 edition, has come and gone, we can look back on it as being one of the few dance weekends at Davidson that has been accompanied by beautiful weather. Of course, clear skies didn’t exactly make the weekend but they did set the atmosphere. As one shy newcomer commented to an old timer: “I don't know why he wants to go to the river this afternoon, it’s too cold to go swimming!” The students weren’t the only ones to enjoy last weekend. As I understand it, Dr. Schenck brought back a nice string of fish from Linville River.

Spencer's Talk Recognizes Facts

In his recent installation speech as President of Mary Baldwin College, Dr. Samuel R. Spencer, former Professor of History and Dean of Students at Davidson, pointed out the many problems facing Southern colleges and concluded that the only way they can produce leaders with “real wisdom and flexibility of mind” is “by maintaining institutions of higher learning whose excellence is measured not by regional but by national standards.”

“Let us face facts,” he continued, “of the hundreds of colleges and universities south of the Mason-Dixon Line, not one is now recognized nationally as equal to the best in other sections of the country.” This, of course, is not news to most Southern educators. Indeed, it has become almost a truism that Southern colleges, as well as Southern elementary and secondary schools, are, as a whole, inferior to those of other regions, and that even the very best are on a lower educational level than the leaders of other regions.

However, we here at Davidson, both students and faculty (and especially members of the administration), somehow cannot bring ourselves to draw the simple logical conclusion which follows from this fact: Davidson is a Southern college; no Southern college is equal to the best colleges in other sections; therefore, Davidson is not equal to the best colleges in other sections.

Unfortunately, however, this conclusion is quite true, and it will force itself upon us whether we like it or not. We are, however, in a position which will enable us to make a fresh start, if we finally do remove the blindfold of tradition and see our position as it really is, for our new president, when we finally get one, will be in a position comparable to that of Dr. Spencer at Mary Baldwin. He will be able to—and, if we are not to lapse into permanent intellectual stagnation, he must—make certain basic changes in policy that can pull Davidson up into a position of equality with the finest colleges in the country.

There is no reason to suppose this cannot be done. We have a good phys-

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
BUSINESS MANAGER
Associate Editors
Charles Chastain
Bob Lathan, George Ramsey
Managing Editors
Ed Armfield
Dick Smith
Sports Editor
Jim Hamilton
Feature Editor
Pete Kellogg
News Editor
Bruce Brooks
ASSISTANT EDITOR

Entered as Second Class Matter atthe Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879. 

We have a basically good faculty, even though a few departments are weak and others understaffed. We certainly have a generally capable student body, although few of us are utilizing our abilities to the degree we would if we had gone to certain other schools. The main thing we lack is strong intellectual (in addition to financial and organizational) leadership, which will be, as Dr. Spencer puts it, “dynamic and imaginative in character.” Only a President who will provide this kind of leadership, who will face the facts of our present condition without attempting to hide anything behind our local mythology of self-congratulation, can make us an institution of national importance.
—C.H.C.

A Challenge To The New IFC

Davidson's best organization man, Bob Jones, turned over the reins of the IFC Wednesday night to his successor as President, Vernon Anderson. This year’s Interfraternity Council has made real progress toward strengthening the Davidson fraternity system. The abolition of Hell Week and the institution of early rushing should prove of lasting benefit to the campus.

But all is not yet done. The proposed system of preferential bidding has not been adopted. It appears that next year the newly built fraternity houses, designed for sixty men, will be occupied by thirty-five in some cases and eighty-five in others. This borders on the ridiculous. Rush Week needs to be further evaluated and a “Greek Week” would be a pleasant addition to campus traditions.

It would be sad indeed if the progressive measures of the present Council were not followed through by the newly elected group. The DAVIDSONIAN challenges President Anderson and his Council to take action immediately on a workable system of preferential bidding, Rush Week improvements, and “Greek Week” plans so that the newly founded tradition of progressive action on the part of the IFC will not be lost.

Laurens Walker
Bill Patton
Henry Samuels
Tom Colvin
Assignments Editor
Copy Editor
Spiro Macris
Cartoonists
Bross, Cole
Photographer
Charles Rose
Advertising Manager
Dave Gillis
Circulation Manager
Greg Grana
Ass't. Business Manager
Bob Wynne

LETTERS TO EDITOR

'57 Graduate Sends Advice From McCallie

Dear Editor:

Now concerning Davidson College and drinking I have a few things to say. First of all, in this age of conformity I would much rather choose to conform to the strength in puritanical ideals than to the confused conformity which breeds degeneration.

Some would argue that freedom to choose is each individual’s innate and Christian and necessary way of life. Others will say that this is not even practical because of the restrictions enforced by many methods, not the least of which is the immediate environment—the authorities of the school. The regulations that are established are not foolishly put together. The regulations are established by those who know through experience what ideals are best for those who are young in life.

MORAL COLLAPSE

The coach acts through concern for his team, especially because the coach loves the individuals on the team. Sometimes a player who disobeys or goes astray freely (and he can do so) without receiving punishment comes back of his own free choice, but sometimes he sees that he can get by (at least outwardly) in one breakaway (and so he wants to hog the ball) and he continues to stretch the cord until it is severed and he is lost in his own swirling world. He pulls others with him. This is pride. The good talents he had rot within and spread without. A fellow who breaks a training rule causes a moral collapse all around him rather than an immediate physical collapse to his make-up.

UNLEASHED

Should the coach let the player go his own way and should the coach take the blame for the boy? Could you accuse the player for running rampant when he finds himself unreprimanded, and could you blame him for blowing the news to his group? Unleashed, he forms a pack. This is what happens. A school can fall into this condition when it pulls a few bricks out of the foundation. The coach and the players have got to work together.

Think, too, of what you want to pass both around to your neighbors in the environment and down to your next generation. If you accept the guidance of those with experience, you will find a warm spirit reaching for your heart. If you accept the freedom of sober-minded fellowship, the discipline necessary to mind and body, and the faith of our fathers, you will find in a few years that you will be thankful at first, loving without, and respected through all.

“THE SHADOW”

In conclusion, “The Shadow” isn’t the only one who knows what evil lurks in the hearts of men, for men themselves know. But above that, men know and seek the good. They see the evil but they overcome it. I believe that college students are very close to being men and that within their hearts they realize that “knowing the best and choosing the second best is the beginning of moral and spiritual decay.”

William E. Gramley '57

Radio Free Davidson came back on the air last Saturday night for its Spring broadcast. Many have commented that it was a little overdone for the occasion. We have received word from the ‘Movie and Arts Committee for the Betterment of Culture on the Davidson Campus’ that it has met and assigned a rating of 4.385 to the 1958 ‘D-Club Foolies.’ Co-chairmen, Austin and Reed, both commented that with this rating, it has been placed in the upper division along with “Restless Gun,” “And God Created Woman”, and “The Steve Allen Show.” The committee also announced that two of its cast have been nominated for the famous “Woody” award Max Bryan for his performance as a leading man and Paul Biggers as the best supporting actor. Just remember it had the Tankersly seal!

Well, Spring is here at last; but along with it this year came ‘Frost! . . ’ Dean Pietenpol and the Executive Committee have just issued another word of warning to the student body —‘No Student shall be seen sunbathing on the Davidson campus except in areas prescribed by the faculty and trustees. The only authorized area is to be the roof of the southwest corner of Duke dormitory. Sunbathers wearing masks will be prosecuted.”

SALMAGUNDI

Elections Need Changes Now

By JOHN TOUMARAS

The various ideas, opinions, and criticisms which will be expressed under this by-line will not necessarily reflect the editorial policy of the DAVIDSONIAN, nor will they necessarily be the personal opinions, ideas, and criticisms of this writer. During its publication this column will be open to any relevant suggestions on the part of the administration, the faculty, and the student body, and it is hoped that contributions will be made.

Within the past few months there has been much talk about campus concerning the inactivity of the Student Council and the need of revision of the elections system. Criticism has been aimed mainly at the fact that elections are mere popularity contests, that candidates promise much but do little or nothing when once in office, that the Council does not always reflect the wishes of its constituents, and that there are no means within the Constitution by which inefficient officers may be removed from office. The long-lost “Peden Amendment” provided a solution to the first problem, by way of an “open” elections system, but did nothing more and was thus defeated.

It seems that our present difficulties could be resolved by the passage of two amendments to our Constitution—one providing for an “open” elections system and the other, for a recall of inefficient officers. The former would call for an elections board composed of a member from each fraternity and independent social organization which would govern all elections independent of the Student Council. Combines, combinations, conspiracies and rallies would be legalized. Campaign costs would be administered by the elections board with the funds provided by a nominal filing fee paid by each candidate. Candidates would sign a statement that on their honor, neither they nor any member of their political organization violated any election regulations (this is somewhat idealistic.) Penalties for infractions of the rules would consist of disqualification of candidates—or immediate removal from office.

The recall amendment would provide the means for removing from the Council inefficient officers. Upon the presentation of a petition of recall signed by at least two-thirds of the student body to the elections board, a plebiscite would be held for removal of the entire Student Council. Should it pass, by a margin of at least three-fourths of the total vote cast, another election would be held for a new Student Council. No student would be barred from running.