Hell Week Or Greek Week? (Page Two)

VOL. XLVI

The Davidsonian
The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, MARCH 13, 1959

Phi Bete Recognizes Six For Scholarship

The Davidson College chapter of Phi Beta Kappa, national fraternity honoring outstanding scholastic achievement, has issued invitations for membership to
six students, five seniors and one junior. Those recognized for Davidson’s top scholastic honor were notified by mail after the
local chapter made the final selections Wednesday afternoon. The six students have all accepted their membership bids.

The new Phi Beta Kappa members are:

CALDWELL
John Caldwell, a pre-medical major from Louisville, Kentucky. Caldwell is editor of the college annual, Quips and Cranks. He is
secretary of the Publications Board and treasurer of ODK in addition to membership in four honorary fraternities and societies.

CHASTAIN
Charles Chastain, philosophy and history major from Lakeland, Florida. Active in campus newspaper work, he is serving this year as
associate editor of the Spanish Club, Business-Economics Club, and Eumenean Literary Society.

RENFRO
John Renfro, an economics major from Spartanburg, South Carolina. Renfro holds the rank of Cadet Lt. Colonel in the Davidson
ROTC Brigade. He has been active in his social fraternity, Pi Kappa Phi, winning the pledge scholarship trophy and serving
as chaplain.

RUDISILL
Paul Rudisill, a psychology major from Hickory, North Carolina. Rudisill has been active in his social fraternity, Pi Kappa Phi,
winning the pledge scholarship trophy and serving as chaplain.

WALTER
Larry Walter, a chemistry and math major from Calhoun, Georgia. Walter has been active in YMCA and Westminster Fellowship work.
He played baseball one year.

STUART
Dabney Stuart, an English major from Richmond, Virginia. The only junior recognized, Stuart has served as secretary-treasurer and second vice-president
of the student body. This week, he was elected to the new Honor Court.

Thirteen seniors and Dr. D. Grier Martin, president of Davidson College and a graduate of the class of 1932, were
invited for membership during the chapter’s fall induction. They will be initiated with the six new members at the annual
spring banquet.

For Publication Editors Compete In Run-Off

Davidson freshmen whoop it up to the intonation of poetry, beatnik and otherwise, in “Cave Counterpoint,” the campus’s new poetry-jazz
center. From left to right: Larry Baggett, Tenney Deane, Bob Schoffner. (Photo By Rhyne)

Cultural Entertainment Planned For The Davidsonian Assignments Editor

For the past couple of weeks, there have been strange goings-on taking place in the ping pong room of the
College Union. These activities have been part of the preparations being made to open Cave Counterpoint, Davidson’s answer to the
Beat Generation. The grand opening of this unique student hideaway will be from 9:30 to 11:30 p.m. on Thursday, March
19.

Committee Announces Scholarship Winners

The winners of the 1959 Davidson Scholarship Competition have been announced by the Scholarship Committee. Of the forty finalists who
were on campus last week, thirty-two have been named as recipients of the various scholarships which the college offers each
year to outstanding prospective students.

The Davidson College Scholarships, which replace the Baker Scholarships of past years, are being offered this year for the first
time. These scholarships offer a stipend amounting to as much as $1,500 per year, depending on financial need. The recent
Baker Scholarships were awarded through the college with money given by the George F. Baker Trust of New York. The
source of the new scholarship will be the Davidson Endowment and the General Operating Fund.

The winners of the Davidson College Scholarships are:
John Day, St. Petersburg, Florida; Paul Duvall, East Point, Georgia; Peter Gold, Shelby, North Carolina; Miller Goss, Hendersonville, North Carolina;
Joe Knight, Norfolk, Virginia; Richard Hill, Sebring, Florida; William McDaniel, Rutherfordton, North Carolina; Robert Miller, Chapel Hill, North Carolina; Charles
Plaxico, Blacksburg, South Carolina.

The winner of this year's Procter & Gamble Scholarship is Wilson Wallace of Charlotte, North Carolina.

The winners of the C. R. Harding Scholarships are:
Daniel A. Carrell, Louisville, Kentucky; David Dillard, Abbeville, South Carolina; Jay Kirk, Clearwater, Florida; Dudley Salley, Tarpon Springs, Florida; Fred
Green, Leavenworth, Kansas.

Winners of the Curtis B. Johnson Scholarships are:
Allan Charles, Duncan, South Carolina; Ken Kelley, Jacksonville, Florida; John McElfresh, Ft. Lauderdale, Florida; John Webb, Oxford, North Carolina.

The Publications Board met in the office of Mr. R. A. Currie, College Business Manager, on Monday afternoon, March 9,
and drew up a list of nominations for next year’s publication staffs.

DAVIDSONIAN HEAD
Nominated for editor of the DAVIDSONIAN for the year 1959-1960 were: Ed Armfield, Jim Hamilton, and Dick Smith.

Ed Armfield, a member of Kappa Sigma Fraternity from Winston-Salem, N. C., is Managing Editor for the DAVIDSONIAN.

Jim Hamilton, a Chester, S. C., member of Beta Theta Pi, has written for the DAVIDSONIAN and the Wildcat Handbook
as sports and co-sports editor respectively.

Dick Smith, an Alpha Tau Omega from Jacksonville, Florida, is President of Sigma Pi Sigma, national Physics honor society, and
Managing Editor of the DAVIDSONIAN.

ANNUAL EDITOR
The nominations submitted for Quips and Cranks editor were Chris Bremer, John Glenn, and Bob Jones.

Chris Bremer, a New Bern, N. C., member of Phi Gamma Delta, is a pre-medical major in Alpha Epsilon Delta,
a member in Gamma Sigma Epsilon for chemistry recognition and Sigma Delta Psi, and business manager for Quips and Cranks.

John Glenn, a Beta Theta Pi member of the male chorus from Owensboro, Ky., has served on both the DAVIDSONIAN
and Quips and Cranks staffs.

Bob Jones, a Sigma Alpha Epsilon member from Richmond, Va., is Vice-president of the male chorus and has worked on
the staff for Quips and Cranks.

SCRIPTS ‘N PRANKS
The Scripts ’n Pranks nominations for magazine editor were Charles Cornwell and Ed Spivey.

Charles Cornwell, a Lattimore, N. C., member of Alpha Tau Omega, has membership in Sigma Upsilon literary fraternity and Eumenean
Literary Society and is an Assistant to the Editor for Scripts 'n Pranks.

The major attraction of Cave Counterpoint will be the varied cultural entertainment. Poetry-jazz will be the most novel item of
the evening’s informal program. This new art form, originating in the “beat cellars” of San Francisco, has recently attracted a
great deal of student interest. A number of students have been enthusiastically experimenting with this newcomer to American culture.

At present, among the readers are Laurens Walker, Jack Lohman, Mickey Thrower, Jim Hamilton, Ted Dingler, Dave Robinson, Larry Smith,
Tim Ray, and Don Stowell. Complementing the poetry readings will be the modern jazz of Larry Baggett, Bob Shoffner, Tenney
Deane, Dave Hall, and Tommy Colvin. These musicians will also perform a number of modern jazz selections. Perrin Wright will
present selections from the contemporary classical field.Playing compositions by such composers as Shostakovich, Prokofiev, and Bartok. Besides student interest, there
has been considerable faculty enthusiasm with Dr. Abernethy, Dr. Bevan, Dr. Goodykoontz, Dr. Trakas, Mr. Satterfield, and Mr. Smith voicing
their approval of the project. Ed Spivey, an honors student in English from Mt. Gilead, N.C., holds the office of
Secretary in Sigma Upsilon and is an Assistant Editor of Scripts 'n Pranks.

VOTING MARCH 24

These nominations were based on recommendations by the present publication editors and will be voted on during Chapel period on
March 24. The terms of office will begin for the newly elected staff of the DAVIDSONIAN with the April 10
issue of the paper. The staffs of Quips and Cranks and Scripts 'n Pranks will take charge at the outset
of the fall semester.

In after-chapel voting Tuesday morning, the senior class elected John Huie, Bob Livingston, and Dabney Stuart, and on Thursday they
added George Hart and Larry McNeill to the senior section of the Court.

In the news columns of The DAVIDSONIAN on February 27, April 21 was erroneously reported to be the date of
Dr. D. Grier Martin's inauguration. The correct date is the following day, April 22. Classes will be suspended on that
day as reported. The DAVIDSONIAN extends its apologies for this error to all who may have been inconvenienced by planning
for April 21 and urges readers to make this correction known to friends of the college who read the incorrect
notice.

"Our first duties will be evaluating the election system and working on the Court of Control. I feel that we
definitely need a Court of Control, but that it must be changed radically. The period might be shortened and changed
to begin functioning before rush week. The appearance of the culprits before the student body in chapel may be eliminated
and the freshman regulations could stand revising."

Baroque Is Theme For Arts Festival

Robert W. Schlageter, Director of the Charlotte Mint Museum of Art, will speak on “The Art of the Baroque” at
8:15 p.m., Wednesday, March 18, in the Davidson College Union Ballroom. Mr. Schlageter will illustrate his talk with color slides.
The informal lecture is the second event on the current 12th Annual Fine Arts Festival observance on the Davidson campus
and is open to the public free of charge. The Davidson Fine Arts Festival is using the theme of “The
Baroque” this year. Current art exhibitions on view include one of reproductions, prints, and paintings of Baroque art, a photographic
display of 17th-Century Dutch paintings, and a special showing of arts and crafts by World War II German prisoners of
war.

The latter exhibit is from the private collection of Professor George Crawford of the Davidson College Physics Department. Mr. Crawford,
following the cessation of European hostilities in World War II, had charge of administrative, supervisory, and disciplinary control of approximately
18,000 German prisoners located in Belgium and Holland. Many of the prisoners were artists or craftsmen by trade, and it
is representative work from this project on display.

He entered Davidson College in 1924 — as he says, “where else?” Dr. Davidson, a native of Chester, South Carolina,
graduated from Davidson in 1928, going on to teach History at the Chamberlain Hunt Military Academy the next year. At
Harvard the following three years, he did work toward his Ph.D., before the Blue Ridge School for Boys at Hendersonville
obtained his services. Dr. Davidson then accepted a teaching position in the History Department of The Citadel in Charleston.

Sitting in his swivel chair with his hands folded to his chin, Dr. Davidson went on to tell that while
at the Citadel he received his appointment as Professor of History and Director of the College Library at Davidson. At
the same time, he received a Rockefeller Scholarship in Library Sciences at the University of Chicago. The fall of 1936
was the first of some twenty-odd to follow that Professor Davidson was to spend at Davidson College. In the spring
of 1937, he was married to Miss Alice Graham Gage, his second cousin once removed. They have three children to
date: Robert, 19; Alice, 12; and Mary Gage, age 12 months. (Dr. Davidson made note of the spacing of his
offspring.)

In 1943 Professor Davidson became a part of the U.S. Navy — just how, he still isn’t sure. It seems
that he applied for a commission in the Navy shortly before his draft notice into the Army arrived. He was
accepted by the Navy and served in various capacities during the war.

Dee Green Calls For A Much Shorter “Big Bluff”

By JIM HAMILTON
Davidsonian Sports Editor

Dee Green, president-elect of the student body, met with members in the College Union Wednesday afternoon and voiced his positions
on student body government. In voting held on Tuesday and Thursday, members of the student body, voting by class, elected
two rising sophomores, four rising juniors, and five rising seniors as members of the new Honor Court, which will take
over all student judicial functions from the Student Council.

RUN-OFF

The remaining seat was run off this morning after chapel, in a three-way race between Larry Baggett, Joe Verrault, and
Dave Warden. Verrault was eliminated, and the final senior seat will be filled Monday, in a run-off between Baggett and
Warden. Voting will take place in the first-floor lobby of Chambers Building during chapel period, and at Little, Watts, Belk,
Cannon, and East dorms between 1:15 and 2:15 in the afternoon.

JUNIORS

The juniors elected Jerry Cole, Ed Kizer, and Scott Lacy in Tuesday's voting. In a Thursday run-off between Jim Anderson
and Wesley Weeks, Anderson was chosen to complete the junior representation. Harrison Wellford, who was elected Tuesday, and David Gilmour,
who defeated Graham Allison in the Thursday run-off, will fill the sophomore seats on the Court.

"It would still be a big bluff — but a shorter bluff."

The topic shifted to the Honor Court.

"I feel the trial procedure could be streamlined. This must first be discussed in the Court, but the Student Council
would have to make the final move in any change. I was surprised so many former student council members decided
to run for the court. However, I don’t think it will make a great difference."

After the final seat is filled, the Honor Court will elect its first chairman, who must be a Senior, and
a recorder, who may be from any of the three classes.

After the Monday run-off between Baggett and Warden, voting for the presidents of the three classes will begin. Nominations were
submitted this morning after chapel.
