PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN

Editorial Hopetuls

Charles Cornwell

The primary aim of a good college magazine should be to interest, to entertain, and to amuse its readers. There are various ways of achieving this goal, and I'd like to tell you the policy I would follow if you elect me editor of Scripts ‘n Pranks.

First, the emphasis would be on no one thing. An issue can be devoted solely to humor, or it can carry only literary articles. But I think this student body is varied enough to merit a varied magazine. By having the scope of its contents broadened, the magazine would include articles of every description. Then, I would hope, each of you would find something of interest in every issue.

Humor, most definitely, would not be neglected. Humor is a necessary part of college life and is vital to Scripts ‘n Pranks. The use of cartoons, humorous photography, and satire would be continued.

There is a second type of writing which has been somewhat overlooked. That is the article of opinion. These articles could cover such subjects as trends in thought, recent movies and books, local and national events, and other subjects of interest to you. The spice of a controversy would not detract from the merit of the magazine. Certainly, there is pleasure in watching a controversy as it sweeps along.

Short stories and poems which have something to say and which say it effectively would also be included. The college magazine should serve as an outlet for campus writers, but the primary aim of the magazine—to interest and entertain you—should not be abandoned in favor of a mere “publishing house” magazine.

I would favor opening the magazine to anyone who wishes to contribute to it. Selections would be made on the basis of quality and general appeal. To give you a varied and entertaining magazine would be my aim if elected editor.

Ed Spivey

What is the function of a student magazine, such as Scripts ‘n Pranks? This is very much an individual question; its answers would vary as widely as do the persons of whom it is asked. I don't propose to answer this question definitively; the best I can do is to try to make clear my own position on the subject.

In my opinion, a student magazine is just that: a student magazine. It arises from and is addressed to students. In this particular instance, it owes more than ordinary allegiance to this student body, as it is financed through fees paid by that group. This does not mean that the magazine should pander to the “primal instincts” alone. As an official publication of the college, it also has a responsibility to be worthy of that institution. It has a responsibility to those students who create as well as to those who consume, if it is truly a student publication.

Many of you may say at this point, “Oh ***! Another free-floating aesthete!” This is not true. I definitely intend, if elected, to publish a magazine which most students will enjoy. Humor will be a major factor in this, but it will be fresh humor; pertinent to this campus, but not along the worn-out lines seen in most campus magazines. It will try to free itself alike from staleness and Victorianism.

Above all, I feel, the magazine must be a student publication. Very little, if any, material will be lifted from other magazines. There are many students on this campus who are capable of producing excellent humorous as well as serious material, and this the magazine will encourage as far as it can.

Though Eddie Guest quotations may win elections, I shall be a non-conformist and give you only the sincere words of Eddie Spivey: “Far from seeking some compromise, I will do my best to unify two important persons: the writer and the reader.”

Chris Bremer

Having worked on the Quips & Cranks staff for the past two years, I have formulated ideas which I would like to see incorporated in the book. Color photography, always an attractive addition, should be used more extensively. Also, I should like to see a two-color scheme throughout the book and on the cover. An annual with these features is likely to be expensive. However, after serving this year as Quips & Cranks business manager, I feel that these things could be included in a budget of our size.

Working hand in hand with the editor, the printer, and the engraver has taught me what we can expect from our resources. With this knowledge, I feel that I could “get the most for my money” in producing from our budget.

In presenting an annual for a particular year, the editor must produce an accurate, readable, meaningful representation of that year. The nature of an annual is such that each edition is fundamentally the same. The editor, then, must offer through his own individuality and originality a book which will be exclusively different.

This fall I represented Quips & Cranks at the national convention of the Associated Collegiate Press in Chicago. There I was able to compare our yearbook with others, notice general trends of current annual design and composition, and attend instructive lectures and discussion groups. This valuable experience could be quite useful in producing next year’s annual.

Editorship of the annual, as with any privilege, entails tremendous responsibility—coordination of a staff, supervision of the planning, and selection and organization of a well-qualified staff. All photographs appearing in the yearbook should have something to say. The editor should plan these pictures with such a purpose in mind. Copy must also be well planned, for as we read this, it too, will take on a reminiscent meaning.

Green (Continued From Page One)

...ence in what the council will, or will not do. I hope the council and the court will be separate and equal bodies.”

Green commented on the suggestion that the Honor Court have the discretion to decide whether specific violations demanded expulsion from the college or merely suspension, depending on the nature of each case.

“I believe the rule must be either black or white. If you admit the shades of gray you invite confusion. There would be too many loopholes if the rule was changed.

“Our two main projects are relations between faculty and council, and students and council.

“In regard to the first, we are considering monthly supper meetings with members of the faculty to discuss campus issues. One such meeting was held this week.

“The council will be brought to the students by carrying out my plan of holding council meetings in the various fraternity houses. Few students have been coming to the council meetings—this way the council comes to the students.”

Green was asked to comment on his reaction to his election. “Relief,” he said.

Scholarships (Continued From Page One)

Winners of the Honor Scholarships are: Howard Keess, Belmont, North Carolina; Alec Morgan, Atlanta, Georgia; Robert Parker, Tallahassee, Florida; Marvin Quattlebaum, Bishopville, South Carolina; Emerson S. Robinson, Centreville, Mississippi; Thomas Ross, Maitland, Florida; Mitchel Simpson, Concord, North Carolina; Zach Smith, Winston-Salem, North Carolina; Cecil Wacaster, East Point, Georgia; James Wilkinson, Lugoff, South Carolina; Robert Wynn, Spartanburg, South Carolina.

The two winners of the Stanley Scholarship are Keith Brenner of Bethesda, Maryland, and William Harris of Logan, West Virginia.

Mr. H. E. White, Assistant Dean of Students, stated in an interview this week, “As is true every year, very capable boys will receive scholarships from other schools. Davidson students are urged to contact these scholarship winners if possible.”

HI-FI COMPONENTS At Wholesale Net Prices Across From Ivey’s 5th St. Entrance 126 West Fifth St. Charlotte 2, N. C.

SPRING SHOWING Men's Fashions Wed. & Thurs, March 18th & 19th Student Union Come In And Browse The Young Mens Shop MOORESVILLE, N. C.Advocate no radical change; but if honored by election, I will dedicate myself to the production of a distinctive annual book with national winners, for 1960.

Devoted Gentleman Continued From Page One

The Army arrived, and that in the confusion he got the Navy. Telling of his experiences at “Boot Camp,” he related an incident on one of the obstacle courses. He was running along the course and when he saw the next “obstacle” before him, he turned to the Instructor who was beside him and said, “Sir, I am old enough to be your father and I would be grateful if you would consider me as such.” He either had a sense of humor or realized his inevitable defeat for he graciously consented to let me run around, instead of over, the next few hazards.

In the end, Dr. Davidson received his commission, but the means still worried him, even when the war was over. “I dreaded every moment of the first two years after my return from the Navy to the College. I expected to see that officer any moment demanding that I recommend him for a position on the faculty as I had promised to do for his recommending me for my commission.”

In January of 1936, Professor Davidson returned to his position with the College, and has remained continuously ever since — no leave and no sabbatical. “I was supposed to get off a little last year,” he said, “but we got the money for the library and my wife had a baby. Two good reasons why I had to stay.”

A regional writer of worthy note, he has written numerous books, including “Friend of the People,” “Piedmont Partisan,” and a novel, “Cloud Over Catawba.” His other writings as well as many interesting additional events of his life are listed under his name in Who's Who.

During the Summer months, Dr. Davidson spends his time writing. His family spends their summers in Blowing Rock, as his wife has done ever since they were married. A cheerful personality to contact under all circumstances, Dr. Davidson can be easily spotted at a distance by his erect posture and brisk walk. The double-breasted pin-striped suit and the cigarette holder have become trademarks of his.

Still dusting the plaque he has just removed from the wall and commenting on the history of the student that made it for him, he handed it to me and said, “This is how I feel about this place.” And in his own words were: “Davidson College is a way of life. Based on the lines of the mind. Tempered manners and morality.”

MEET YOUR FRIENDS
While enjoying our Famous PIZZA and SPAGHETTI
In a Romantic Italian Atmosphere
GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. Morehead at Wilkinson Blvd.
Charlotte, N. C.

She's the queen of the campus and of course she favors you know what... the cold crisp taste of Coca-Cola. She knows that anytime, everywhere, Coke is the real refreshment. We don’t say that the secret of her success is Coca-Cola, but it helps.

BE REALLY REFRESHED...HAVE A COKE!
Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company by THE COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD
“Coke” is a registered trademark, ©1934, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY

John Glenn

The Quips and Cranks has become in the last several years a somewhat stereotyped publication, technically good, but relying too much on yearbooks of the past. There are, however, opportunities for innovation in each publication, without any radical change of the book as a whole. The editor must be able to recognize the need for originality in his book, for no one, particularly a senior, desires a publication that is a mere reprint of the book of the preceding year.

My ideas for the Quips and Cranks are not those of radical revision, but rather of innovation and modification where needed. One section of the book that deserves such consideration is the fraternity section. The possibility of a folio of informal shots selected to represent all fraternities, together with a longer copy, and presented in conjunction with the Interfraternity Council spread, would give a badly needed boost to the whole fraternity section. This could be constructed in such a way that it would portray a year's activities of a typical Davidson social fraternity, yet individual fraternities would still be given their own section for copy and pictures expressing programs applying specifically to them.

One of the prime requisites of an outstanding yearbook is that it conveys to the reader a logical and impartial account of a complete year’s activities, and is edited so that copy and pictures are carefully integrated in order that the reader may grasp as clear an understanding as is possible through words and photographs. The ideal yearbook should be designed with the interests of the students in mind, but should also be intelligible to one who is not a member of the college community.

Having had the experience of Business Manager of a yearbook a few years ago, I am familiar with the business aspect of annual production as well as with editorship. The editorship of the Quips and Cranks entails tremendous responsibility, and determined effort, all of which I am willing to accept if I am honored by election.

Bob Jones

Before anyone undertakes the task of producing a college yearbook, he must first decide the purposes of his publication and who its readers will be. There is some degree of controversy in this area — whether it is the duty of the yearbook to present the college to the interested public or to portray the student life, particularly that of the senior in his final year. There is no reason why both ideas cannot be used by any editor. In addition, it is my belief that the majority of readers of the college annual are the students and alumni of the institution. Such a publication is in theory dedicated to the Senior Class of the institution it represents and should accordingly endeavor to present to the senior a pictorial and verbal account of his collegiate career. Therefore, I would propose to design Quips and Cranks with these ideas in mind.

Because the faculty represents the real backbone of any college, I would like to see it depicted more thoroughly in the yearbook. The meager name and portrait coverage given faculty members now could be greatly improved by larger and less formal pictures and an accompanying brief history of the chairmen of the various departments. Other changes include better fraternity coverage and a student activity index.

Finally, it is my objective that the 1960 Quips and Cranks be designed in such a manner that it will serve both as a reference guide to activities of the college and as a portrayal of the life of the Davidson College student, so that in the future he may read the yearbook and accurately and vividly recall his career at Davidson. Only through the attainment of such goals can any editor publish a yearbook that will properly represent the students and the institution to which it is dedicated.

The whole is equal to the sum of its parts (But some of its parts are more equal than others!)

Even Euclid had to admit... It's what's up front that counts

Euclid proved that a straight line is the shortest distance between two points. And if you'll walk a straight line to the nearest pack of Winstons, you'll find it the shortest distance to a really enjoyable smoke. It's the tobacco up front that makes the difference and that’s where Winston packs its own exclusive Filter-Blend—a special selection of light, mild tobacco, specially processed for filter smoking. You'll find Filter-Blend gives Winston a flavor without parallel. In fact, it’s axiomatic that...

WINSTON TASTES GOOD, LIKE A CIGARETTE SHOULD!
R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO., WINSTON-SALEM, N.C.