The THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 1959

(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

Better Planning For Last Two Years

Dr. John Bevan has been granted a rare privilege among educators: to help build a new college from the ground up. His ideas concerning curriculum and educational policy are, to say the least, exciting. They are based on a recent personal survey of several outstanding small liberal arts colleges, plus several years of personal teaching experience. The result is a set of plans for the new Florida Presbyterian College that seems almost too good to be true, and certainly will appear Utopian to many. Nevertheless, the policies they contain have proved to be feasible in practice and highly satisfying in the way they contribute to the realization of liberal education in its ideal form. And not only are such “Utopian” policies important in planning a new college. They may also be used to advantage in re-examining an institution whose concept of liberal education has of late gone stale: namely, Davidson.

Previous remarks on Davidson's educational plan made in this column have mainly been concerned with apparently more “basic” aspects of the educational program, principally the required courses of the first two years. At least of equal importance, however, are the student’s last two years, consisting of the major and minor program, plus whatever electives he may choose to take. Here, of course, some departments are better off than others, with well-developed major programs in some subjects, and quite rudimentary ones in others. As a general rule, it is safe to say that Davidson is failing to take advantage of the cumulative effect of the courses her students take during their first two years. For example, students often find advanced courses little different in method, aim, or purpose from freshman or introductory courses in the same subject. In a university this situation does not usually arise, since advanced courses at a high school level for both graduates and undergraduates are available, but small colleges must guard against making the last two years a mere repetition of the first two.

The key to the last two years is the major program, and with regard to it there are two main problems: inadequate course offerings in certain departments, and a general failure to take advantage of the ability, interest, and previous training of students majoring in a subject. The only remedy for the first is to hire more professors to bolster up understaffed departments, and to replace incompetent teachers whenever possible (this, of course, is very difficult to do). For the second aspect of the problem, some changes can be made which, at least for a good percentage of the student body, are both practical in the long run and feasible in the near future. Certain features of the planned curriculum of the new Florida Presbyterian College could profitably be duplicated or even extended at Davidson: comprehensive examinations in a student's major and minor fields, enlarged honors program and seminar courses in all departments, and the requirement of a senior thesis in the student’s major. Administrative difficulties would be many, and the inertia that is part of the Davidson atmosphere would keep anything new from happening very quickly. But if we are to live up to the label of “one of the twenty-one good colleges looking for more good students” that Harper's Magazine has given us, we had better start thinking about changing things a little.

—C.H.C.

What Do They Know -- Your Name Or Their Jobs?

During the next week the Student Body is to be faced with its annual duty of selecting a man to serve in the office of Student Body President. Three men, Dee Green, Bobby Livingston, and John Huie will present their cases to the Student Body at Chapel on Tuesday. Students will do well to listen and judge with care as they choose between the three men. Next year will find the Student Council in an entirely new situation as the Honor Court is organized and becomes the campus’s judicial body. Without forceful and dynamic leadership the Student Council will be in danger of becoming a high-class debating club, and its President could become Davidson’s chief figurehead. A man who features a good smile and a name-catching memory, but little real leadership ability could very well bury the Council with a year of presidential inertia.

In past years too many Council Presidents have been the last men on campus willing to do original thinking about student problems. Such men were able to slip by on the strength of the Council’s reputation, but this will not be the case in the years to come as thinking students ask the old question, “Just what is the Student Council doing?” with new meaning.

Current President John Kuykendall cannot be put in this category. He has proved himself to be a leader willing to consider any solution to problems of the College and its students. Though success has not always been as full as the DAVIDSONIAN might have hoped for, President John has been more than willing to try, a statement which cannot be made for many of his predecessors.

The DAVIDSONIAN hopes all three candidates will make as clear as possible in their campaign speeches just where they stand on the pressing campus issues. We especially hope that they will express an opinion as to the future role of the Council as it ceases to be a judicial body and turns its efforts to the legislative field.

In short, we're not half as interested in whether the candidates know our names as we are in what they know about the Council.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Laurens Walker
Bill Patton
Associate Editors Charles Chastain
Assignments Editor Tom Colvin

Freshman Class Satisfied With Most Aspects Of Campus Routine

By ED ARMFIELD
Davidsonian Managing Editor

Last fall an exceptional freshman class entered Davidson College, exceptional in many ways. Their orientation tests showed them to be exceptionally well prepared for college work and their performance as a class during the first semester proved these tests accurate. Their high school records proved them well qualified for leadership on the college level and their record has again spoken well for them. But they were exceptional in another way; for just a few weeks after they entered Davidson, they showed a dislike for certain “established” traditions by overtly rebelling against the Court of Control. The DAVIDSONIAN thought it would be interesting to find out how these same freshmen feel about some of the institutions and customs that have constituted their environment for the past semester.

Pat Rush, speaking of the school in general, said, “I am well satisfied with my choice of Davidson. Compared to some other schools which my friends attend it may fall short in some ways, but overall the good points far overshadow the bad ones.” Pat continued, “I favor very much the liberal arts program. It is most important to have a basic knowledge of all things rather than a specialized one.”

When asked about the value of chapel, Bill Moss disagreed with school policy, saying, “It's pretty useless except for announcements and student business. If the speakers were good enough chapel wouldn't have to be compulsory. That would be better. Making chapel compulsory is to admit that it has little appeal to the individual student.”

Ran Shaffner, looking up from a desk piled highwith books, disagreed by saying, “I think chapel is worthwhile and that the speakers are good; and it’s not such a long period that it will hurt anybody.”

CLASS LECTURES

Bob McFarland, taking time out from the post-semester task of cleaning out his desk drawer, commented on the class lectures he was receiving. “Some lectures seem to be really well prepared. In others, the professor seems to be relying on past knowledge entirely, not on a prepared lesson for the hour.”

Interrupted while typing a story for the DAVIDSONIAN, feature writer Bob Bradford paused to give his views on the courses required of freshmen. “I don’t think much of them at all,” he said. “I think the new Bible program is a great improvement. While I don’t like required ROTC at all, I think some math is necessary.”

DORM LIFE

“I have found dorm life pretty interesting,” said Mark Hudson. “It is hard to study here, but I usually study in the library. The hall prayer meetings and having close friends in the dorms made the adjustment to college life a lot easier.”

Jimmy Giles and Bill Patterson were listening to records but took time out to comment on the DAVIDSONIAN. “We really like for the DAVIDSONIAN to take a stand on issues,” they agreed. “We think it should represent the student body and its opinion, and when it does, it impresses us. Also,” they added, “we would like to see more comment on events outside of Davidson, both domestic and international, in relation to the local situation.”

COURT OF CONTROL

John Thomas, an admitted rebel against the Court of Control last fall, turned his attention from a hand of bridge to say, “Although the Court of Control is a bluff, we still ought to have it. Our class gained a great deal of spirit from defying the Court. I think the school will regret it if the Court is abolished.”

So these are some of the impressions of freshmen after one semester. They seem to have adjusted well to new situations and have some sound suggestions for improvements that they may well institute during their stay here.

INTEREST SHOULD SHIFT

One of the most pertinent questions that will face the new Student Council will be that of expanding its field of interest and functions to replace those that will be absorbed by the Honor Court. The answer to this question may be divided into two parts: 1) a more thorough examination and exploitation of ideas that, for lack of time, past Student Councils have been forced to skip over lightly with little or no thought; and 2) the expansion into entirely different fields in addition to those already handled by the Council.

TIME ON HANDS

No one will deny that the problem of how and into what the Council will expand. The present Council, with final run-offs less than a week off, is evidently having trouble seeing itself in this jive. At their meeting Monday night (see article on page one) the question of World University Service, a new challenge in the Davidson circle of participation, was treated entirely in the light of the old Council system. Obviously, for such a project to get off the ground, it needs to...

This week general campus elections began, and today a vote was taken on certain amendments whose passage will expedite the elections procedure. Last year this column advocated certain fundamental changes in the elections system. Apparently, the word was heard by some for an Elections Committee was organized to make definite proposals for changes in the present system.

POPULARITY CONTESTS

Most criticism has been aimed mainly at the fact that elections are mere popularity contests, that candidates promise much but do little or nothing when once in office, that the Student Council does not always reflect the wishes of its constituents, and that there are no means within the Constitution by which inefficient officers may be removed from office.

The long-lost “Peden Amendment” provided a solution to the first problem by way of an “open” elections system, but did nothing more and was thus defeated.

“OPEN” ELECTIONS SYSTEM

Perhaps the Davidson elections system can be made more fluid, freer, and energetic by the passage of two amendments to our Constitution — one providing for an “open” elections system and the other, for a recall of inefficient office-holders. The former would call for an elections board composed of a member from each fraternity and independent social organization which would govern all elections independent of the Student Council. Combines, combinations, conspiracies, and rallies would be legalized. Candidates would sign a pledge that neither they nor any member of their political organization violated any elections regulation. Penalties for infractions of the rules would consist of disqualification of candidates — or removal from office.

RECALL BY PLEBISCITE

The recall amendment would provide the means for removal of an office-holder. Upon the presentation of a petition signed by at least one-third of the student body to the elections board, a plebiscite would be held for the removal of the officer. Passage of the plebiscite would require a three-fourths margin of the total votes cast. These proposals are not necessarily what should be, but are in essence what ought to be. A new Student Council is being elected. Will they take the lead in offering a new way?

THE PHILOSOPHES

Buttrick

We were quite fortunate in having the opportunity to feel the dynamic freshness of George Buttrick. Davidson would do well to strive in her total program for what is represented in the person of Dr. Buttrick, namely the whole spectrum of experience interpreted from the foci of Christian commitment and human freedom. “The earth is the Lord’s; pay your money and take your choice,” there'll be no apologies today. He revealed his integrity most fully in small, impromptu discussions; the fact that we cannot capture his personality by recording several of his remarks does not preclude the use of these remarks as aids to our memories.

Great Mind, Great Man

By DAVID ROBINSON

“Draw down from above the light and life, fire and truth, which can make of this existence a sacrament. If man cannot climb to God, God in his mercy can come down and visit him. God acts to give man the right to believe that his home is in another dimension.”

“Many a man, when confronted with Christian truth, replies, ‘What the hell?’, which is right: that’s where he is.”

Evolution is the basic principle of man’s life in the natural order. “But if we can see our pilgrimage as we make it, if we not only know we are going to die but can also write our own obituary notices, we can flout our evolutionary nature. There is no automatic evolution; we've already broken it.”

“This idea of the progress of the race is monstrous, and...”

In the contemporary age, “we just may be experiencing the turn of the tide in religion. We've doubted our beliefs, and now we're doubting our doubts. There's nothing left but our faith. But I don't...”

His departure increased the feeling of... and in...

“Any good, but you've done me a lot of good.”

“Thank you for coming, Dr...”