Che Davidsonian
THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE
PAGE TWO . FRIDAY, DECEMBER 4, 1959
(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

To Avoid Misunderstanding:

Dr. Abernethy’s statement (see elsewhere on this page) points up one of the principal things that we were afraid of when the DAVIDSONIAN published its stand on the cut question: that we might be misunderstood. Dr. Abernethy has spent a good deal of time on his criticism, but in the event that he and others have misunderstood the editorial stand, we would like to take this opportunity to clear up a few of the facts.

The big misunderstanding seems to be in Dr. Abernethy’s statement of the issue at hand. We do not wish to extend “unlimited cut privileges” to those students who are behind on quality points; our policy calls for optional attendance only for those students who have a C average or better. Since 124 hours and 124 quality points are required for graduation, those with a C average or better would not be behind, but would be ahead on quality points.

We wholeheartedly agree that “where these factors have failed to produce a mature student it is unlikely that unlimited cuts will succeed.” We have never contended that a liberalized cut system alone will produce a mature student. We merely feel that such a system would be another factor to add to the list encouraging maturity.

Furthermore, we do not say that “these factors have failed.” Indeed, such factors have no doubt put a certain degree of maturity into the Davidson student, and we feel that the Davidson student, mature as he is, is worthy of more responsibility.

“Maturity should also bring the recognition that much important work and even good teaching can be very dull and exacting.” We agree completely. Our motive in supporting a liberalized cut system is not to avoid hard or exacting work. On the contrary, a presupposition of our proposal is the contention that the faculty must not compromise its standards, even if it means the loss of lazy students. A more liberal cut system would not mean that the instructor must condone laziness; the indolent student should and would suffer for abusing the privilege. To ensure that lazy students would not “get by,” a solid program of classroom supplement to book material should be presented, and a thorough knowledge of material presented in these classes should be required.

Dr. Abernethy takes “a rather dim view of unlimited cuts for all students under our present conditions.” Again we agree. Had we wanted such a system, we would have proposed it as such. As it is, we ask the privilege only for those students who meet specified academic requirements.

One final note. Dr. Abernethy suspects “that most students would like to combine the advantages of two or three cut systems without the disadvantages of any of them.” We certainly would. We imagine that the faculty and administration would, too. This, however, is impossible. But we think that our proposal maximizes the advantages and minimizes the disadvantages. Only a trial of the system will give the college the answer.

R.C.S & E.M.A.

Loyalty Oaths And Education

Harvard and Yale have recently withdrawn from the federal student loan program because of a loyalty oath required in applying for the loan. The oath is:

OATH
I do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will bear true faith and allegiance to the United States of America and will support and defend the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America against all its enemies, foreign and domestic.

AFFIDAVIT
I do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I do not believe in, and am not a member of and do not support any organization that believes in or teaches, the overthrow of the United States Government by force or violence or by any illegal or unconstitutional methods.

The two universities regard the loyalty oath as a deprivation of an individual liberty. We can hardly agree with this. This statement is attached to an application for a loan. In every instance a loan applicant must divulge certain information he regards as his personal affairs. Certainly the State will not use its governmental power to lay taxes upon all the people and then use the money collected to subsidize those people who “believe in or teach the overthrow” of the very government that is supporting them. As another newspaper noted, “if the State is going to pay the piper, it is most certainly going to call the tune.”

The real right that has been denied, to our way of thinking, is the right of needy students to obtain funds in order to further their education because of the institutions’ refusals to accept the loyalty oath along with the funds.

Harry Golden: Self-Styled Sage

Harry Golden is one of America’s great storytellers. The tale of buying little Hymie’s suit on the east side is a bit of Americana worth relating, as Golden does so well. But despite the acceptance by the Charlotte Observer of Harry Golden as the sage of the South we do not accept his qualifications to speak for us. He didn’t come to us too highly recommended. His past record is not enviable. In fact, he kept it quite secret, to be sure, until the facts were bared to the public, at which time he availed himself of the American tradition to ‘come clean and face the music bravely,” just as Charles Van Doren has done recently, and just as eloquently.

Where does he get the authority to speak for the South? How is he qualified to tell others exactly what southerners want and what they think? We doubt his qualifications. He does not limit himself to telling what we should want or should do; but his syndicated columns, as well as his two best-sellers, spread across the country telling all their readers what the South is really thinking, after all.

To have widespread spokesmen is good for the South—providing they relay a message Southern in character. Mr. Golden should not be accepted as the South’s true spokesman because of his ability to spin a good tale.

Looking Into ‘60
“... the ascendancy of experience over experimentation, the realization of the possible over prophecy, things over ideology, and fact over fancy. We might consider this in our calculations for 1960.” Newsweek

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
ASSISTANT EDITOR
BUSINESS MANAGER
Associate Editor Jim Hamilton
Editorial Assistant Bob Livingston
Managing Editors Ervin Duggan, Bob Moore
Sports Editor B. Millner
News Editor Tom Colvin
Feature Editor Charles Rose
Ed Armfield, Dick Smith, Dave Gillis
Assignments Editor David Jordan
Copy Editor Dan Clemmer
Cartoonists Redding, Starling
Advertising Manager Charlie Rowe
Circulation Mgr. Albert McClure, Jr.
Asst. Business Manager Greg Grana

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

“A GOOD DEAL OF NONSENSE”
Professor Abernethy Opposes Liberal Cut Proposals
By G. L. ABERNETHY
Professor of Philosophy

Editor’s note: This article was written for publication last week. Due to lack of space it could not be printed until this issue, which we now do gladly. For a reply to this statement see the editorial column.

Some students have shrewdly observed that we have at present a cut system which provides for the students who are ahead on quality points most of the advantages of an unlimited cut system.

UNWARRANTED
The issue then, is whether these advantages should be extended to students who are behind on quality points and could least afford to miss classes. To say the least, such an extension of privileges would seem to be unwarranted. If such an extension were granted, the instructor ought to have the right to drop at any time from a course a student who has ceased to be a real participant in the work of the course.

There is a good deal of nonsense being tossed around about how a system of unlimited cuts for everyone would make mature men out of immature boys. Maturation is a complex process which is conditioned by personality structure, social and economic privileges, ethical standards, vocational objectives, family training, religious commitments, intellectual curiosity and study habits.

MATURE STUDENT
Where these factors have failed to produce a mature student it is unlikely that unlimited cuts will succeed; where they have succeeded in producing a mature student it is unlikely that a rigid cut system would undo the student’s maturity.

Some superior students advocate unlimited cuts for all students because they find some professors dull or the work required too elementary. A more mature and constructive attitude would be to bring pressure on the Administration and Faculty to raise qualitative and quantitative standards where they are too low.

Maturity should also bring the recognition that much important work and even good teaching can be very dull and exacting. Unfortunately somestudents will not achieve this level of maturity until they have had some graduate school experience.

DIM VIEW

Although I take a rather dim view of unlimited cuts for all students under our present con-

NOTICE TO READERS:

Editor’s Note: The editors of THE DAVIDSONIAN, realizing that some confusion has arisen concerning the use of the phrases, “unlimited cut system” and “liberal cut system,” wish to take this opportunity to clarify their position. THE DAVIDSONIAN, while using the phrases interchangeably, prefers the second, since our proposal (see Editorial Page, October 6) does not imply that we condone indiscriminate cutting or cutting for students who do not have creditable grades. We urge students and faculty members in their discussion of THE DAVIDSONIAN’S position on absence regulations to be sure they proceed from an adequate understanding of the college rules as they appear in the “Regulations For Students, 1959-60” booklet, and of this newspaper’s proposals as they have appeared in recent issues. It is only when all parties are well-informed that intelligent discussion may take place. THE DAVIDSONIAN regrets that misunderstanding has arisen concerning this issue. We do not feel, however, that misunderstanding has been due to lack of editorial clarity but to misinformation or prejudice on the part of readers.

LETTER TO THE EDITOR

Irate Correspondent Comments On Present Cut System Faults

Dear Editor:

In the article “Faculty Displays Interest in Unlimited Cut Policy” (Nov. 20), one professor is quoted as saying “upperclassmen who have their required quality points can cut one quarter of their classes.” I would like to call attention to the half-truth of this statement. From the Absence Regulations, paragraph II., D., pertaining to the loss of quality points by exceeding by two the number of unexcused absences allowed in a course, there is one further clause: “In addition, the instructor may assess any academic penalty he deems appropriate.” Apparently few professors use (or should I say abuse) this clause; but there are members of the faculty who give an automatic F to any student who overcuts, or lower grades to a lesser extent. Other forms of punishment include giving zeroes on pop quizzes missed because of unexcused absences. Although not all professors use this clause, a student who wishes to overcut can rarely be certain that he will be safe in doing so. Since, if any concrete steps are taken on this matter in the near future, they will probably be the smallest steps forward possible, I recommend (1) that this clause be removed from the Absence Regulations; (2) that the 25% rule no longer apply to excused absences; and (3) that the rule denying students who represent the college in athletics, etc., many of their cut privileges be deleted. I feel that these small changes would be a fairly effective beginning toward the eventual establishment of a cut system recognizing the maturity of Davidson students. They would, in effect, at least give students who are capable of fair work the right to cut as many as 25% of their classes.

REMEMBER HOW HE USED TO SWAT THE OL' HORSEHIDE LAST SUMMER?

Taking for granted that there will be no lowering of standards, which would be an extremely unwise move, students who abused their cut privileges—for instance, by losing quality points below the necessary levels for readmission into Davidson—would find themselves adequately rewarded. It is an absurdity if the proponents of required consistent attendance in class use as their argument the reasoning that absences will mean the student’s grade will fall, to impose additional “academic penalties” for overcutting. Rather let the student be his own judge of the necessity of attendance in class; I believe the vast majority of Davidson students are mature enough to use increased cut privileges wisely.

Hansford Epes

I can think of circumstances under which a system of unlimited cuts for all students might make sense. If we were to raise the average College Board scores of the Freshman Class by 100 points and to work hard at recruiting more students who were “hungrier” academically and economically and if we were to raise our course requirements and were to begin to make more use of independent study research and outside examiners, then a system of unlimited cuts could involve few, if any, problems.

“WEEK-ENDING”

It would of course involve some serious modification of our extra-curricular activities and our present folkway of “week-ending.” There is little evidence that our students and alumni would favor such a rigorous program. An alternative would be to set up an Honors College within the college where 150 students of superior ability and/or superior motivation would do independent study and research with no classroom attendance requirements. This would be an expensive form of education. There is as yet no evidence that the Administration wants to raise money to make such a program possible. I suspect that most students would like to combine the advantages of two or three cut systems without the disadvantages of any of them. Personally, under present circumstances I favor retaining our present system with the substitution of loss of hour credit for loss of quality credits, and the working for an increase in honors programs and seminars for superior and more highly motivated students.

TOIL AND TROUBLE

How Good Is Ike As Diplomat?

By JOHN STONE

Mr. Eisenhower left yesterday on an international jaunt to promote inter-allied and associated power relations. He will visit eleven countries, in the hope that he might foster good will and do some patch-work on the weak spots in the Western Alliance. While I wish Mr. Eisenhower every success, I do not see how the President can hope to accomplish much with personal diplomacy. Time is too short, and the President, carrying a full load in running the United States Government, is not nearly so well versed in the intricacies of foreign affairs as the professional diplomats. The significance of the trip lies not in attempts to solve problems, however, but in a demonstration of personal concern by the President for the problems which face the alliance. This is, if nothing else, of enormous propaganda value to the U.S. The peoples of the Western nations will have more appreciation of the program of defense, trade, and so on that the U.S. endorses. That this appreciation will be largely emotional is of little consequence, for public opinion is rarely based on realistic appraisal of affairs. The need for solidarity of public opinion is great. The thaw in the cold war has left people in a state of confusion as to the future. There are fears that we may be duped into some form of appeasement, and many people remember Munich. People, long conditioned to the tensions of the cold war, are bewildered by the present front of friendship. This is a mission the President can accomplish. His prestige, venerability, and personality make him most fitted for the task. If the government is prepared to make the most of this, Mr. Eisenhower's trip could easily be a brilliant success. But if personal diplomacy is to be the goal, this would be better left up to the professionals.

FROM WARING'S TEXT:

Davidsonian Publishes Excerpts From Speech

People cannot be handled like guinea pigs in a laboratory. Until some more scientific means can be devised, we must depend on experience and observation in reaching opinions about the behavior of races and what happens when different races meet.

Holmes Alexander, the newspaper columnist, recently quoted Edmund Burke as calling prejudice “the wisdom of unlettered men.” Alexander added the comment that without prejudice, the human race might never have emerged from the primeval slime.

If it is right to limit the concerns of this college to Christian education of males, why should anyone suggest something wrong with segregation by race? This analogy may not be free of holes and I shall not belabor it. I only mention it to illustrate that some kinds of segregation are willingly accepted. Why do Negroes object to association with their own race? It is a question I often ask and never hear answered satisfactorily. I am not defending slavery. It should never have happened. Everyone is thankful the slaves have been freed. But freedom from slavery does not mean freedom to impose unwanted associations, or interfere with the rights of others. Mixing of races can lead to nothing but discord and tragedy. The turmoil in the blackboard jungles to which I have referred is one aspect. Learning is impossible in such an atmosphere. In the South, Negro teachers maintain discipline among their own color without fear of being charged with racial discrimination. This is not the report of a biased Southern editor. It is the factual picture being drawn nowadays even behind the Paper Curtain that has covered for many years the racial conflicts of the North. Today the mess is bubbling over. Too many people are experiencing terror for further concealment.