FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 1959

SIDELINES ON SPORTS
By B. MILLNER

LAST WEEK, this columnist was subjected to the criticisms of a trio of irate cheerleaders who aired their views in the “Letter to the Editor” columns of this newspaper. Perhaps these criticisms were justified, perhaps not. In any case, this writer would like to offer some constructive criticism of his own. We sincerely hope that the readers do not misconstrue these suggestions and criticisms as a means of “hitting back” or of retaliation. This is not our intent.

FIRST, we feel that the cheerleaders, on occasion, have been inadequate. Only about half of the cheerleading squad was “in uniform” for the Lehigh game last week. Organized yells during the second half were sporadic and not a single effective yell was led during the fourth quarter goal-line stand in which the Wildcat line held Lehigh on the two-yard line for four downs.

Second, the cheerleaders have, at times, lacked organization. The pep rally before the P.C. game was superbly organized, but the “burying of the Wofford Terrier” just before the Homecoming game was not even seen by half of the spectators.

THIRD, an efficient public address system and a leader’s platform would make cheers twice as effective. This is one area in which the athletic department could, and should, help out. If modification of the P.A. system is impossible, hand megaphones should be provided.

Fourth, the procedure of selecting cheerleaders should be improved. Try-outs or “auditions” might be a solution. Perhaps the selection of the Chief Cheerleader should be done by student body election.

FIFTH, just because the final football game of the season was played today, doesn’t mean that the cheerleading season is necessarily over, too. The first home basketball game is Dec. 1 and we'd like to see a few yells led in the gym. The possibility of having cheerleaders at important home swimming and wrestling matches should also be looked into.

One thing must be clear by now: Cheerleaders, with microphones, platforms, mules, or what have you, can’t make a thousand people cheer who don’t want to cheer. We'd like to believe that most of the people who come to Davidson athletic events have at least a little of that intangible “school spirit.” We hope that, with some well-organized stimulation, some of it will someday come to the surface. We'd like to believe that the cheerleaders aren’t really wasting their time.

* * * *

THE DAVIDSON TENNIS TEAM brings down the curtain on fall practice tomorrow when they take on an “all-star” team from the Charlotte Tennis Association in a practice match at 2 p.m. on our courts.

Winter Sports Kick Off Dec. 1

Tom Scott’s green, but hustling, basketball teams will kick off the winter sports season Dec. 1, two days after the Thanksgiving holidays. Both the freshmen and varsity teams will face Pfeiffer Tuesday night in Johnston Gymnasium.

The Freshman team plays Duke here tomorrow afternoon, and the varsity will have a closed scrimmage with the Blue Devils tomorrow night. Pfeiffer boasts a veteran, tall squad, but are nevertheless, lightly regarded. The ‘Cats go from one extreme to the other, hitting powerful Tennessee Dec. 3 in Knoxville. The following Saturday night, Dec. 5, Davidson hosts King College here.

SWIMMERS

The Davidson Catfish, potentially one of the best swimming teams at Davidson, opens the '59 season here Dec. 3 with Clemson. Led by Tom Hudgens, mainstay on last year's fine team, backstroker Tom Smith, and sophomore record-breaker Barry Branch, the Catfish are a definite threat for a conference championship.

All but two regulars are back from last year’s team, which finished with a 7-3 record, took third in the conference meet, and broke six school records.

MAT MEN

Coach Charlie Parker’s mat men open the winter season with Duke at Durham, Dec. 9. Missing from this team will be Harold Westervelt, a three-year conference champion. Returning, however, is team Captain Milton Gee, who lost but once last year, and that due to a leg injury. Also back are Jim Allen and Alex Porter. Several promising sophomores should also see action this season.

Have a real cigarette—have a CAMEL

Davidson Suffers Worst Season Since ’53

GREENVILLE, S. C.—Davidson’s undermanned Wildcats stumbled to their worst loss of the season here this afternoon as Furman’s opportunistic Purple Hurricane erupted in the second half for a 35-7 win. Furman quarterbacks Billy Baker and Bob Cante ran and passed the Wildcats batty and took advantage of every Davidson blunder in turning the game into a second half rout.

HART SCORES

Davidson’s only score came in the second quarter. Tee Redding passed to George Hart for 32 yards to move deep into Furman territory. Hart plunged into the end-zone from the four-yard line. Bruce Usher kicked the extra point and pulled the ‘Cats into a brief 7-7 deadlock with Furman, which had scored in the initial period.

ALL SHE WROTE

Midway through the quarter a Duncan Morton pass was stolen on the Davidson 30 and Fowler scored for Furman. As far as Davidson was concerned, that was all she wrote. There were three long pass interceptions as both teams tried desperately to score before the end of the game.

In the 177-lb. class, the All-Stars clipped the Inter-fraternity champion Phi Delts by a score of 21-13. All-Star Ed Hines of the SALE’s scored all his team's touchdowns. Wrestling finals in nine weight categories Wednesday produced a foursome of Phi Gam winners. Heavyweight Jim Smith climaxed the evening by pinning John Cameron of the Phi Delts in 2:45. Other Phi Gam successes were: Tim Cloninger over Dick Voorhees (191), Dave Wilson over Joe Weld (177), and John Eggers over George Pepper (167). Individual winners in the five remaining weight classes included Sigma Chi Nowt Burns (157), Ben McCoy of the ATO's (147), Wendell Merritt of the Chi Psi's (137), Phi Delt Ed Peel (130), and Sigma Nu Tom Bad (147).First half. BAKER, CANTE STAR

After the rest period, it was all Baker and Cante. The latter pitched 17 yards to Taylor to boost Furman out in front 21-7, and Baker followed up with a 34-yard heave to Newman to make it 28-7. Hart intercepted a pass on the Davidson three, but the ‘Cats quick-kicked themselves right back into a jam as Furman partially blocked the boot and recovered on the 23. Cante took over and passed for the final Furman touchdown, making the final score 35-7. Davidson finishes with a 1-8 season record, the poorest since 1953, when the Wildcats could not win a ball game.

REVOLTIN’ SITUATION—ATO Tom Mainor strains to break out of a full-nelson applied by an unidentified opponent. (Davidsonian Photo by Wells)

Phi Gams Score Easy Win In I-F Wrestling

By BILL GODWIN
Davidsonian Sports Writer

In flickerball action Tuesday, Wright (123). After the third-place Sigma Chi’s, fraternities finished as follows (point totals in parentheses): Phi Delts (41), Kappa Sigs (24), Pi Kapps (20), ATO’s and Betas (16), Kappa Alpha's and Sig Eps (14), Pikas (7), Sigma Nus (6), and Independents (4). Opening eliminations were staged Monday night. By the time semi-finals had ended Wednesday, those grapplers still in contention were dead set to take it all and the finals were hotly contested. Featherweights Tom Wright and Greg Winkler led things off. Winkler, his strength nearly sapped from a previous match, stumbled all the way to the referee’s whistle, but Wright was a narrow winner. Dave Wilson pulled his opponent Joe Weld over his head three times and slammed him to the floor before Weld fell victim to a pin. Newt Burns (157-wt) happened into the finals on a referee's decision win over an obstinate Mike Jones. Burns’ last hurdle was Pete Jorgensen of the Phi Gams, and the two men twice swapped crushing holds before the points totaled in Burns’ favor.

The Phi Gams, on the strength of four first-place finishes, muscled their way to the Interfraternity wrestling championship Wednesday night. Mustering a total of 83 points, the Gams commanded a sizeable lead over the SAE's and Sigma Chis, who tallied 61 and 50 points respectively.

These Seniors Played Their Last Football Game This Afternoon

Cats Meet Emory In Soccer Finale

By AUBREY LANCASTER
Davidsonian Sports Writer

The Davidson Soccer team invades Atlanta tomorrow to face unpredictable Emory University in their final game of the season. The Wildcats of Coach Paul Marrotte will be going into battle at a little less than full strength. It is probable that All-Southern goalie Claude Finney will not be able to make the trip. Finney's absence will necessitate the shifting of Henry Pharr to the vital position of goalie in an effort to stop the potent offense of the defensively-weak Emory team. Much of the Wildcat hope is centered in the toe of high-scoring Mike Laughlin, who keys the Davidson offense. Five players will be playing in their last soccer game for Davidson in Atlanta. They are seniors: Captain Ward McKeithen, Tom Price, and Joe Delaney. Also taking the field for the last time will be two exchange students on the Wildcat squad: Glyn Hughes and John Reid. The Wildcats have combined a determined will-to-win and the fine leadership of their team Captain, McKeithen, to produce thus far a record of six wins and three defeats. In their last outing on Friday, the ‘Cats lost a hard-fought contest to North Carolina State by a score of 2-0. “The boys played a very good game,” said Coach Marrotte, “but just couldn’t produce the necessary scoring punch.” Outstanding in defeat for the ‘Cats were Finney, Pharr, McKeithen, and Dick Dalton. In commenting on the season, Coach Marrotte stated, “this team lacked the depth and overall potential of the teams of previous years, but they more than made up for this by the determined and spirited brand of soccer they played. If a team can be measured by fight and hustle then this truly is ‘Team Number One’ at Davidson.”

ECKBERT, GILMOUR MAKE ALL-S.C.

Ailing Harriers Take Fourth in Loop

Led by senior co-captain Bill Eckbert, the Davidson cross-country team ran to a fourth place in the Southern Conference meet in Richmond last Monday.

V.M.I. WINS

The meet was captured by V.M.I. (39 points); with West Virginia, second (71 points); William and Mary, third (79 points); Davidson, fourth (96 points); and Furman, fifth (101 points). Eckbert came home in third place with a time of 20:59, his best of the year, to head the Wildcat contingent. Dave Gilmour, a sophomore, was the ninth man across the line, his time being 21:16.

ALL-CONFERENCE

Both Eckbert and Gilmour were selected to the eight-man All-Conference team. Also included on this honorary squad were Willie Castagnola of V.P.I., who took home the title, Baldwin of West Virginia, Huddie of V.M.I., McDougal of V.M.I., Spelsbey of West Virginia, and Williams of V.M.I. Selection of the team was based on performance in the conference meet and also performance throughout the regular season. Davidson's chances of placing higher in the conference were hurt by the illness of Mac Brownlee, who ran in the meet despite his stomach ailment. Gilmour also was hampered, his trouble being a severe cold.

ECKBERT AMAZES COACHES

Coach Whittle said of Eckbert: “All the coaches were just amazed at Eckbert. He’s not a strong boy. He's just got a lot of intestinal fortitude. He's the most improved runner on the team.” Whittle felt that if Brownlee had been up to par the ‘Cats would have probably ended up in third or possibly second place. “However,” he said, “even with Brownlee, we would have had no chance to beat V.M.I.” Brownlee, also a sophomore, was consistently the third-running Wildcat during the regular season.