FRIDAY, MAY 8, 1959

With very little left on the sports agenda but conference meets in tennis and track, it’s time to look back on a year of varsity athletics at Davidson. As far as won-lost percentages go, the record hasn’t been too spectacular. The ’Cats won 53 contests while dropping 62 and tying two for a percentage of .453. In 1957-58 they broke even, 62-62.

In football, the old bugaboo of late-season injuries came back to plague Coach Bill Dole, and the gridders staggered out with a 5-4 record, a very presentable mark in view of the obstacles. The Wildcats lose only five men by graduation and the outlook for next fall seems to be favorable. Twelve lettermen return.

The cross-country squad, led by stellar distance man Angus McBryde, won three and lost three. McBryde graduates but King Cole, Larry McNeil, and David Gilmour should be able to take up the slack.

In its third year as a varsity sport, the soccer team produced an all-conference player for the third season in a row and finally amassed a winning (6-5) record. All-star Claude Finnel returns to help form a nucleus of veterans.

Coach Tom Scott’s basketballers struggled through another losing season, but nevertheless there were bright spots. The 'Cats at long last came through in the Carrousel Tournament, licking Clemson, an A.C.C. team. Davidson students also came through with their best display of school spirit in an awful long time, in cheering the Wildcats to a near-win against rough Wake Forest. As usual, the ’Cats played well against the top teams and were often uninspired against the weak sisters.

By far the most successful of the winter sports teams was Coach Tucker's swimmers, who ran up a 7-3 record and smashed eight out of ten existing school records. Tom Hudgins and Smitty Smith won conference championships as Davidson won third place in the loop meet. Losing only team captain Bob Wynne, the tankmen should be loaded for bear next winter.

Coach Charlie Parker's grapplers won four out of nine matches, their weakness being a lack of depth in the light-weight divisions. “Westy” Westervelt won his third straight conference championship.

The baseball team zoomed down from a conference contender in ’58 to a 4-15 record this spring. Pitcher Dee Green won all four games but couldn't bear the whole load alone. The outlook should be brighter next year.

The defending championship golfers, hampered by lack of practice, only won one match out of eight in running up a won-lost slate. The linksmen, however, somewhat atoned for the poor season with a second place finish in last Wednesday's conference meet.

Coach Heath Whittle’s cindermen had the finest record (6-2) of any Davidson team, losing only to the Citadel and Furman. They won most of their meets by large margins.

Finally, the Wildcat tennis squad, equaling last spring’s fine record, proved their mettle against probably the toughest opponents scheduled by any Davidson team this year. Coach Dick McKee and his boys are now in Norfolk trying to wrest the Southern Conference crown away from George Washington.

FROM WIRE REPORTS

George Washington’s golfers, bolstered by a second-day rally, edged Davidson by four strokes to win the Southern Conference Golf Tournament Tuesday and Wednesday of this week in Washington, D. C. Sam Sloan, senior co-captain of the Wildcats, fired a 74-79-153 to take second place in individual honors. The Colonials of George Washington were eight strokes back in second place behind the Citadel after the end of the first day, but picked up 23 strokes on the Bulldogs in the final round. The Citadel finished fourth in the overall standings, William and Mary was third. Medalist for the two-day action was Haywood Sullivan of Furman who carded a 73-77-150 to finish three strokes ahead of Sloan. Sullivan’s total was eight over par for the two rounds. Two competitors from George Washington were tied for third. George Washington's team total for the tournament was 632. Davidson had a 636. This marks the second year in a row that the conference championship was boiled down to a two-way contest between Davidson and George Washington. Last year the tournament ended in a tie between the two schools. Bucky Dennis, senior and co-captain along with Sloan, was defending conference champion.

Betas Win IF Softball: Stu Nickles, Davidson's ace javelin man, launches a practice heave. Nickles cracked a twenty-year-old record in last week's High Point Relays. (Photo by Millner)

Redmond Takes Singles By BILL GODWIN

In I-F sports this week, the Betas clinched the softball title while Hight Redmond took the singles championship in tennis and advanced in doubles to the semi-finals with his mate Julian Pleasants.

The Betas, with victories over the Independents and the SAE’s, wound up the softball season at 11-1. Their only loss was the first game of the season against the Phi Delts, who finished the season with one loss, however, continued through yesterday.Schedule as runners-up with a 10-2 record. The Delts walloped the Sigma Nus and the SPE’s this week. Tied for third place with identical 8-3 records Wednesday were the Phi Gams, the ATO’s, and the Kappa Sigs, all of which were one game shy of the season’s 12. In other softball games through Wednesday, the Phi Gams defeated the Sigma Chis and the Pi Kapps; the Independents won their first game of the season from the Sigma Nus; the Pikas clobbered the SPE’s and were beaten by the Pi Kapps; the Kappa Sigs took a couple from the Phi Delts and the KA’s; and the ATO's whipped the Sigma Chis. The regular I-F softball season was scheduled to wind up on Wednesday. Make-up games,

Prom trotter She’s the queen of the campus, of course she favors you know what... the cold crisp taste of Coca-Cola. She knows that anytime, everywhere, Coke is the real refreshment. We don’t say that the secret of her success is Coca-Cola -- but it helps! BE REALLY REFRESHED... HAVE A COKE! Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company by THE COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD © 1956, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY

BURNS FALLS IN THREE The I-F tennis singles championship was decided Wednesday as Hight Redmond, a KA, battled to a three-set win over Independent Newt Burns in the finals, 3-6, 6-3, 6-4. It was the second meeting of the two players in the double elimination tournament. Earlier in the semi-finals, Redmond had advanced to the championship match by defeating Burns. The Independent had then beaten Beta Ned Gwathmey in the consolation finals before meeting Redmond again on Wednesday.

DOUBLES ACTION In double-elimination doubles, players reached the semi-finals on Wednesday. For the KA's, Hight Redmond and Julian Pleasants teamed to take Lee Cory and Sandy Hattaway (SAE’s) by 6-1, 6-0 scores. Beta’s Ned Gwathmey and Ned Austell defeated Bill Terrell and Henry Neale for the Independents, 6-1, 6-1.

HIP, HIP, for the GREYHOUND to save money! Got the good word about Greyhound Scenicruiser Service®? It's the latest, the greatest way to go... with air-conditioning, picture windows, air-suspension ride, and complete restroom! You'll have a ball heading home on a Greyhound — it’s often faster than other public transportation, and always less expensive! BAGGAGE PROBLEMS? You can take more with you on a Greyhound. Or, send your belongings by Greyhound Package Express. They arrive in hours. IT'S SUCH A COMFORT TO TAKE THE BUS... AND LEAVE THE DRIVING TO US!

By BOB PAGE THREE DEADLINES Golfers Take Second In Conference Tour: Family Track Meet Finds Wildcats Ready GREEN Davidson's tracksters racked up 52½ points to win the first annual High Point Relays last Friday. The ‘Cats traveled to Williamsburg yesterday for the Southern Conference meet today and tomorrow.

FINE RECORD Coach Heath Whittle took a 6-2 season record and thirteen men to William and Mary, feeling that his team has a good chance to place near or at the top. Angus McBryde is competing in both the mile and two-mile runs. Bill Eckbert is also running in the two-mile race. The quartet of Chet Alexander, Roger Beebe, Ed Kizer, and Brownie Thurman should be in contention for first spot in the relays. John Huie and Henry Pharr are handling the pole vault chores and Huie is also high jumping. Hugh Murray has been steadily improving in the broad-jump and is representing the ‘Cats there. Paul Biggers and Dave Warden will heave the shot while Charlie Rutherford and Warden are entered in the discus. Stuart Nickolls, Davidson's javelin record-breaker, will be vying for first in that event.

NEW RECORD Stuart Nickolls broke Davidson's record in the javelin toss of 180’ 8¼" set by Johnston in 1939. Nickoll’s toss was 180’ 9"! The crack sprint quartet of Armstrong, Bentley, Kizer, and Thurman ran the 440-yard relay in 44.2 seconds to win that race. 3:45 was the winning time in the sprint medley with Beebe, Bentley, Armstrong, and McAllister teaming up.

1959 Gridders Play Rough Fall Slate Coach Bill Dole has released the varsity football schedule for next fall. The ‘59 slate includes Lehigh, a split-T Pennsylvania team which in 1957 won the Lambert Cup, symbol of Eastern small college supremacy. On the whole, the new schedule is considerably tougher than last year's, due to the improvement of Davidson’s Southern Conference opponents.

FOOTBALL SCHEDULE, 1959 Sept. 19—Catawba There Sept. 26—Presbyterian, Here Oct. 3—Citadel There Oct. 10—Richmond, There Oct. 24—V.M.I. There Oct. 31—Wofford Here (Homecoming) Nov. 7—William & Mary Here Nov. 14—Lehigh Here Nov. 21—Furman There

Coach Dick McKee’s Conference Contenders: John Poindexter, Dick Model, Harry Broome, Finley Lee, Tom McCutchan, and Semi Mintz. Missing from the picture is Doug Orr. (Photo by Blake)

‘Cats Lick W&M Twice; HURRAY UND’ way xxv... and Perfo a old } “ie @ COMPARE THESE LOW, LOW FARES: Winston-Salem 1.90 Charlotte 60 Atlanta 4.95 Richmond 7.65 “plus tax and cost you less! GREYHOUND

By JIM PRESSLY On their recent road trip, the Wildcats lost a game to W & L, but came back strong to beat W & M twice to close the season. In the game, Dee Lide went the route for the Wildcats, giving up seven hits and four runs.

GREEN WINS FIRST At W & M, the first game saw Davidson take a 2-0 victory. It was the first shut-out by a Wildcat pitcher since 1957. Dee Green went all the way and effectively scattered seven hits. Davidson scored its two runs in the first inning. Killian led off with a single and Bob Groome homered over the left-fielder’s head. Don Killian got the only other Davidson hit, a single in the fifth.

GREEN WINS SECOND In the second game, Green pitched again and gave up three runs on seven hits. The ‘Cats garnered nine hits and scored all of their runs in the same inning. In the big sixth, Bynum and Green led off with singles. Harold Reagan tripled to drive in two runs. Then Cole singled Reagan home. Swaim flied out. Cline was safe on an error and Cole scored. Cline scored on a sacrifice fly by Killian and Groome struck out to end the inning.

Wednesday, the team elected a captain for next year. A Most Valuable Player was also to be elected at the squad meeting. Coach Stevens had the following to say: “Killian, Cotton, and Green have been our outstanding boys this year.” He also pointed out the lack of coordination between hitting and pitching this year. “Some games we've had good hitting and some games good pitching, but seldom the two together.” Team captain and MVP will be announced at the athletic banquet on May 18.

CHARCOAL STEAK HOUSE 1806 W. MOOREHEAD ST. CHARLOTTE, N. C. Open Nitely 5-12 P. M. FOR RESERVATIONS CALL ED 2-2414 After 2 P. M.