FRIDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1959

SIDELINES ON SPORTS
By S. MILLNER

SOME THIRTY-THREE Wildcats left for Charleston this afternoon, a little worse for the wear from last week’s 25-21 loss to a hopped-up, hard-hitting Presbyterian College football team. The loss was no fluke. P.C. has perhaps the best halfback in South Carolina in the person of fleet Bobby Pate and a quarterback second only to Harvey White and Lowndes Shingler in Bob Waters. For the past three weeks, this duet has dominated the Associated Press poll for the Palmetto State Back-of-the-Week honors. Pate won it twice in a row, and Waters won last week for his performances against Davidson. When you consider that these two were chosen above the likes of White of Clemson, John Saunders of U.S.C., and George Usry and Doug Cline of Clemson, you realize how good they must be.

* * * * *

WE SAID last week that statistics often tell the story in the selection of players for honor teams. If this generalization proves valid, Davidson should have an undefeated football team and three all-conference players. The ‘Cats are first in total offense in the conference, first in passing offense, and first in pass defense. Standings in the other departments are not as spectacular, but passing: Fifth in rushing offense, eighth in rushing defense, and fifth in total defense. Benson leads in total offense, is third in passing, and seventh in rushing. He has completed 13 of 25 passes for 210 yards. Danny House has snagged all but four of those passes and leads the loop in pass catching with nine for 117 yards and a touchdown. George Harts is tied for the lead in the scoring race with 24 points. Jerry Sheffield is second in punting with a 43.5 average.

* * * * *

BOTH THE CITADEL and Davidson will be hurting for lack of practice this week due to the antics of a gal named Gracie. We assume that the Bulldogs have gotten in only about two good days of work. Coach Dole has had his charges out every day this week, but the going has been gooey.

* * * * *

QUOTE OF THE WEEK: “I believe after that Florida State loss that the Citadel team would rather have the hurricane get hold of them than ‘Pride Ratterree.” — Coach Dole.

* * *

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... PIZZA

the famous OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead
Charlotte, N. C.

* * * * *

Super Sub! It’s been said that the atomic submarine “Nautilus” stays submerged so long that it only surfaces to let the crew re-enlist. Perhaps for this reason, the Navy has taken valuable space aboard the “Nautilus” for the only soft-drink vending machine in the entire submarine fleet. Naturally (or you wouldn’t hear about it from us) it’s a Coca-Cola machine. And not unexpectedly, re-enlistments are quite respectable. Great Rugged lot, those submariners.

SIGN OF GOOD TASTE

Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company by THE COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Benson And Warden Doubtful Starters
By BILL GODWIN
Davidsonian Staff Writer

Against Tough Bulldogs

Coach Bill Dole’s Wildcats hope to take up tomorrow where Hurricane Gracie left off—by whipping The Citadel in its Charleston, S. C., stadium. But it may be rough going for the locals. The meat of their small squad, captain Dave Warden and quarterback Charlie Benson, are grounded with injuries sustained in Saturday's P.C. clash. “If Warden and Benson don’t play,” said Coach Dole this week, “we have a very slim chance of winning.” Tee Redding and Duncan Morton will share Benson's duties if he doesn’t play. At fullback, the Wildcats have, as replacement for Warden, Dave McCullough and Graham Allison. Bob McAllister may see action at Warden’s defensive linebacking post.

In tomorrow's game will be the two top pass-receivers of the Southern Conference: Davidson’s Danny House and Paul Maquire of the Cadets. The Citadel line-up also features block-busting fullback Barry Thomas, a 215-pounder; quarterback Jerry Nettles, working from the split-T; and mercurial halfback Bill Hughes. Bad weather held both teams’ practice sessions down this week. The Charleston hurricane left Johnson Hagood Stadium flooded, while more rains battered the Davidson campus. Coach Dole said offensive moves tomorrow “will depend upon the weather.” Dole’s main concern is Barry Thomas. “We've got to stop him,” he said. The Citadel carries a well-balanced attack. Wildcat-Citadel records this young season are identical: one and one. Davidson lost to Presbyterian here last week, 25-21, after trouncing Catawba, 42-6. The Cadets won their opener, 48-0, over Newberry, but were mauled last week by Florida State, 42-6.

Wildkittens Open With Able Wingate

The Davidson freshman football team will open its 1959 season at Kannapolis tomorrow night at 8 p.m. against the Wingate Junior College Bulldogs. The twenty-six man squad, directed by Coach Tom Stevens, will play its own three-game schedule. After the Wingate opener this week, the Wildkittens will play Gardner-Webb Junior College at Shelby on October 24, and the Citadel Freshmen at Charleston on November 5. Last year, under head coach Dwight Shoe (now line coach at Davidson),

WATERS, PATE RUN WILD

P.C. Triumphs On Late Onslaught

Mark down a splendid second quarter for the Wildcats in Saturday’s Presbyterian contest here—and let it go at that. The thrills were present, but not the scores, for Davidson, as the Blue Hose walked off with a 25-21 win. A 68-yard sprint by P.C. quarterback Bob Waters with nine minutes remaining overcame the Wildcats, who faltered badly in the second half. The main reason for their late game slump was injury. Quarterback Charlie Benson and fullback Dave Warden, Davidson's mainstays, hurt knee and ankle respectively. The ‘Cats were never the same afterward, though Benson saw scattered action in the final period.

P.C.’s Bobby Pate opening whistle for the game’s first touchdown. It was the visitors’ lone score till the third period. The Wildcats came on strong just before the half with 21 points. Halfback George Hart powered his way for two short touchdown runs. And, as time expired at halftime, the locals benefitted from a P.C. penalty, which gave them one more play from the one-foot line. Dave Warden scored. The Blue Hose opened fire in the third quarter, scoring twice and sidelining Benson and Warden. Fleet-footed Bobby Pate electrified the crowd with a 63-yard touchdown run. Fullback Hill, after one punt exchange, bulled over from the three to put the score at 21-19, Davidson. The Wildcats, however, could not add to their lead, because of three particular late-game plays, plus the fact that Benson was hurt. The plays were: a dropped-pass by Jerry Sheffield within the P.C. ten, a Presbyterian pass-interception in Wildcat territory, and Davidson’s failure to make a first down on the Blue Hose 20-yard line.

Hurricane Halts Flickerball Action

Hurricane Gracie halted Interfraternity flickerball after its opening day. Constant rains on Tuesday andThe Wingate team compiled the best record in the history of the school. Going undefeated throughout the regular season, their only loss came in a Texas bowl game at Thanksgiving. Coach Stevens said that not very much is known about this year’s Wingate team. “We do know that they lost last week College.”

By D. G. MARTIN
Davidsonian Sports Writer

PAGE THREE

Cats Take On The Citadel Tomorrow

GEORGE HART carries a Bluehose defenseman five yards and leaves the rest of the Presbyterian secondary on the turf as he bulls across for his second touchdown of the day. (Photo for the DAVIDSONIAN by Mario Acuna.)

Whittle Optimistic As Harriers Meet Pembroke

Coach Heath Whittle was pleased, but not satisfied, as he discussed his cross-country team before its opener at Pembroke today. “I don't expect too much from Pembroke,” Whittle said. “We beat them without very much trouble last year. Only one man, Oxendine, who placed second in our meet last year, looked good then and should be up for us,” he added. “Our real test will be here next Wednesday against Wake Forest,” he continued. “They’ve got a boy named Jorden who was fourth in the Atlantic Coast Conference meet last year. He's one of the best runners around and I doubt if we have anybody who will be able to stay up with him.”

Wildkittens singled out by Stevens as being outstanding in practices to date were halfbacks Bobby Cordle and Alex Gibbs, fullback Carl Hunt, guard “Spud” Stewart, and center Joe Ansley. Cordle and Gibbs are fast, breakaway runners while Hunt is a strong up-the-middle threat. Stewart and Ansley have been looking very good defensively. Cordle and Hunt will handle the punting chores, with the latter kicking off and booting extra points.

Rain on Wednesday made it impossible to resume action until the following week. However, in Monday’s action four games were played. The Phi Delts beat the Sig Eps 25-6, and the Pi Kapps withstood a late Independent rally to take a 34-20 win. The other games saw the Betas trounce the SAEs 40-0, and the Sigma Chis whip the Sigma Nus 44-0. Regular action will be resumed on Monday, with rained out games to be made up later.

I.M.A.C. NEWS

Intramural athletic council president Tyree Finch and advisor Heath Whittle have arrived at a master schedule for the year’s interfraternity athletic program. No major changes have been made in the overall set-up for this year, although Finch said that any suggestions for improvement in the program would be considered. He said that plans were in the fire for more All-Star games in the major team sports. The last All-Star game played was in basketball two years ago.

Soccer Sequence: Co-Captains Ward McKeithen and Tom Johnson move in on all-star goalie Claude Finney. McKeithen cocks trusty left toe, connects with the leather, and follows through as Finney smothers the ball. (Davidsonian Photos by Rose.)

The Davidson College Book-of-the-Semester Program presents VANCE PACKARD, Author of THE STATUS SEEKERS OCT. 21, 22

Davidson College Book-of-the-Semester Program
Box 1091
Davidson, N. C.

Name
Street
City
State

Please send me copies of THE STATUS SEEKERS ($4.50 per book), along with additional supplementary material to:

Please remit by check or money order to Book-of-the-Semester Program.