PAGE FOUR

Professor Bradley Thompson of the History Department reflects on a summer trip he and Mrs. Thompson took to interview applicants for Richardson Foundation Scholarships. (Photo by Rose)

SUMMER TRIP
Exchange Program Studied In Europe
By BOB BRADFORD
Davidsonian Feature Writer

The warm months at Davidson were traded by two of its residents, this summer, for a refreshing trip to the continent. Professor and Mrs. Bradley D. Thompson mixed business with pleasure during their visit to The Netherlands, Austria, Switzerland, Germany, France, and England. The pair sailed to Paris on July 25 and flew back from Scotland on September 7.

The primary purpose of the trip, from Dr. Thompson’s standpoint, was to contact agencies which would be interested in sending students to Davidson through the Richardson Foundation Scholarships. Professor and Mrs. Thompson also visited the homes of some of last year’s foreign students, but most of them had not returned home by that time. In every home he visited he found very high regard for the experience in the United States at Davidson. One lawyer in Germany stated that his year at Davidson proved to be the turning point of his life.

Council President Announces Plans
Dee Green, president of Davidson's Student Council, rapped the gavel for the first meeting last Monday. Among the topics of discussion was a proposal to center Friday chapel periods around discussions concerning various campus topics. On Fridays when little time is taken by announcements, important subjects such as curriculum changes, compulsory vespers, and facility expansions could be presented to the student body in a discussion-type program. This proposal is expected to be presented formally at next Monday’s meeting.

Other topics slated for the Council’s next meeting will be a discussion on Chapel and Vesper’s conduct and Student Council membership in the National Student Association. The Council stressed that no firearms will be permitted on campus unless they are stored in the cage provided by the ROTC department. Tom Hudgins will be in charge of the gun cage this year. Tommy Colvin will present an analysis of the pros and cons of continued affiliation with the National Student Association at the meeting next Monday night.

At last Monday's meeting various Student Council members were appointed to College committees with D. G. Martin, Fred Lane, and Tom Price being chosen to serve on the Financial Committee, and Bobby Avinger and Fred Lane being chosen for the Student-Faculty Committee. George Trask will serve on the Calendar Committee while Graham Allison will work with the Religious Life Committee. Selected to serve on the Athletic Council were Charlie Benson and Dave Warden. Tommy Parker will be Council Parliamentarian.

After Vespers Open House
Professors' homes which will be open following Vespers are:
Bryan
McGill
Sailstad
Calhoun
Mebane
Mitchell
Fulcher
Gallent
Mrs. Moore
Thompson
Goodykoontz
Patterson
Houchens
Polley
West
MacQueen
Reid
White

Col. Croom Designates Brigade Staff Officers
Cadet First Colonel Bob Croom has appointed an experienced quartet of senior officers as his Brigade Staff. Staff officers were selected on the basis of their college ROTC records and performances at Ft. Bragg this summer. Cadet Lt. Colonel Gus Burgdorf is serving as Brigade S-1 (Adjutant). His duties consist of maintaining records on all military personnel. Burgdorf, a president of the Business-Economics Association and is vice president of Sigma Chi social fraternity.

Supervising public information activities for the unit is Lt. Colonel Dabney Stuart, Brigade S-2. Stuart is a Baker Scholar and an English major. He is a member of Beta Theta Pi social fraternity, Phi Beta Kappa, Sigma Upsilon and is president of Omicron Delta Kappa. He has won a varsity letter in baseball and has served as student body vice president and secretary-treasurer. At present he is an Honor Court representative.

Cadet Lt. Colonel Joe Wearn, S-3, will co-ordinate Brigade operations. His duties include direction of preparation for drill and ceremonies. He is treasurer of Kappa Alpha social fraternity and has won a varsity letter on the rifle team. A pre-medical major, he is a member of Gamma Sigma Epsilon, the honorary chemical fraternity, and of Alpha Epsilon Delta, the honorary pre-medical fraternity.

Three Chorus Men in ‘Rigoletto’ Roles
The Davidson College Male Chorus will present ‘Rigoletto’ as its first production in this year’s choral program. The thirty-one member group is headed by “Koogie” Kwon, President, and Tom Mainor, Vice-President. Tom Covington, Jr. is Secretary-Treasurer, while Walter Clark is Chaplain. The First Tenors are: Walter Bost, Tom Covington, John Eggers, John Glenn, George Reeves, and Charles Rich; Second Tenors, Bill Deane, Charles Douglas, Bill Hedrick, Bill Kepler, Tom Mainor, Bill Pruitt, Bill Thompson, and Pete Wyrick. The First Basses: James Davis, C. L. Hardy, John Kepler, “Koogie” Kwon, Al MacKay, Jere Starling, and Bill Workman, Jr.; Second Basses, Walter Clark, Dave Dillard, Chuck Frew, Pierce Howard, Bob Jones, Joe Martin, Henry Otten, Ed Spivey, and Bob Wynn. Perrin Wright will act as accompanist.

Three members will have specific parts in “Rigoletto”. “Koogie” Kwon will take the part of Manullo; Bill Workman, Monterone; and Walter Clark, Ceprano. The opera will be sponsored by the Charlotte.

Selected Recollections Of An R.O.T.C. Camp Cadet
“Okay, everybody up.” My eyes opened to meet the harsh glare of the light bulb that had just come on directly above my bed. Outside the stars were still shining in the unillumined sky. “What time is it, Hecht,” I asked the rather obese Jewish boy that bunked next to me, at the same time pulling on his big toe that always extended from beneath his sheet, to make sure that he was awake. I sometimes wondered why one of Norm's legs always hung out. I guess that there was just not enough sheet to cover him all. “It's four-thirty,” he said. That was what I was afraid of — another day at Fort Bragg.

Time for the daily morning clean-up—Make the beds (don’t forget the hospital corners)—G.I. the latrine—wax the floor and buff it. Oh nuts, the buffer is broken. But for “men” with several weeks of military training behind them, this was nothing. Quickly our old friend Norm was paged. He lay down in a blanket spread on the floor while four of the huskier lads grasped each of the four corners. Then they proceeded to bump Norm’s spacious bay window along the floor giving it the best buff job it had had for many a year.

Things could have been worse and, in fact, were in the platoon next door where football co-captain Charlie Benson was residing. The sergeant in this particular outfit was so tough that he used Brillo for a toothbrush and Clorox for deodorant. One day Charlie was playing the radio and the sergeant decided that nothing this civilized would go on in his platoon so he proceeded to take it away. Charlie was a little peeved so the sergeant, perhaps experiencing a pang of conscience, said that he could have the set back if he would give him a hundred push-ups. So Charlie, despite a few grunts and groans toward the end, knocked out a hundred quick ones.

Halls Select Frosh Council Members
Members of the Class of 1963 will elect representatives to the Freshman Council in hall meetings next week. Each dormitory hall will elect two representatives; each basement, one; by Wednesday, September 30. The first meeting of the Council will be held immediately following the election. Officers will be elected at the end of the first grading period. The first meetings of the council will be devoted to acquainting the body with its duties and scope. In addition to its traditional responsibilities of planning Freshman Parent's Day and Freshman-Sophomore Field Day, the Council will provide for the design of the class flag and discuss campus issues. The new Council will discuss and evaluate the Fraternity System, Honor Code, Student Government, and required religious exercises. The group will plan Freshman Parent's Day, which will be held in early November, and will confer with the President of the Sophomore Class in setting an appropriate date for Freshman-Sophomore Field Day.Sarge, trying hard not to show his approval, immediately quipped, “That's pretty good, Benson, now give me fifty more and you can have the cord.” But despite the hectic parts, summer camp was a valuable experience. For not only did it equip the cadets that attended with the knowledge that we will need when we are commissioned, it also was an experience in living with people of different races, faiths, and backgrounds such as we will be associated with when we leave our beloved center of Southern Presbyterianism and venture out into the “real world.”

Governor Selects Hopkins, Alumnus

Dr. John I. Hopkins, associate professor of Physics, and J. Atwell Alexander of Stony Point, a Davidson graduate of the class of 1929, are newly appointed members of a 35-member Atomic Energy Advisory Committee, recently announced by Governor Hodges. The 1959 North Carolina General Assembly authorized the appointment of this committee, with the members appointed by the Governor. The Commissioner of Agriculture, the State Superintendent of Public Instruction, and the State Health Director will serve as ex officio members.

Dr. Hopkins is a former research physicist at the Oak Ridge Laboratory, employed by the Atomic Energy Commission. Before coming to Davidson last year, he was at Vanderbilt University where he was professor of Physics and was continuing research for the Atomic Energy Commission under a special research contract. Mr. Alexander, a prominent poultry farmer, has served a term in the N.C. State Department of Agriculture, and last summer was one of the Tar Heels chosen for the fifth “Farm Opportunities and Marketing Caravan,” an out-of-state farm tour to Iowa. Both of these members will serve two-year terms on the Atomic Energy Advisory Committee.

Supervising supply operations is Cadet Lt. Colonel Bobby Avinger, Brigade S-4. Avinger, of Columbia, S.C., is president of Beta Theta Pi social fraternity. He is majoring in history and economics.

Do You Think for Yourself?

Dr. Thompson, who is faculty advisor to the foreign students here on the campus, wanted an opportunity to explain first-hand to these agencies the type of college we have here at Davidson. By knowing more about Davidson facilities and purposes, these agencies would then be better prepared to present the best qualified applications to the scholarship committee. Normally each of these countries each year sends two or three applications out of which one is selected. Professor Thompson also visited a number of foreign students who previously had studied at Davidson. He wanted to visit these older men who had taken part in the foreign student program just after the war, believing that their crystallized attitudes would provide valuable insights.

Charlotte Minister To Speak Sunday

The Rev. Carlyle Marney, minister of the Myers Park Baptist Church in Charlotte, will be the speaker for Vespers this Sunday. Rev. Marney came to Charlotte from Austin, where he served as minister of the First Baptist Church there. In addition to his pastoral duties, he also served as a professor at Austin Presbyterian Seminary. He is the author of numerous theological works, the last of which is “Faith In Conflict.” Joe Verrault, a senior, will lead the vesper service for the Freshman Class in Chambers Auditorium.

Don't Be Half-Safe Get Chest X-Ray

A mobile X-ray unit, sponsored by the Mecklenburg Tuberculosis and Health Association, will be available for student chest X-rays next Tuesday and Wednesday, September 29-30. The unit, which will be located on Main Street, will be open during the hours 9:00-12:00 and 2:00-5:00. The administration urges all students who have not had chest X-rays within the past year to avail themselves of this opportunity. It pointed out that people of college age are particularly susceptible to tuberculosis, thus emphasizing the necessity of periodical examinations.

This year Davidson has eight foreign students under the Richardson Foundation program. There are several other foreign students on campus who entered under different programs before September 1958, and these men are regular degree candidates. Next year the student body at Davidson will include a student from Greece and possibly students of English or Dutch ancestry from South Africa. Eventually, most of Davidson's foreign students will be supported by the Richardson Foundation Scholarships. Under this plan, a student spends one year at Davidson and then returns to his own country. The purpose of just a one-year provision is that if men stay in this country for too long a period, they often want to become permanent residents. However, the Foundation does not want to strip foreign governments of their key high potential men. There are many more United States students studying abroad than foreign students studying in this country; so one of the purposes of the Richardson Foundation is to balance this exchange.

Professor Thompson did not find much time for serious personal study or research in history, but in their travels, Dr. and Mrs. Thompson did concentrate primarily on England and Scotland due to the abundant historical background of both countries.

ARCHER'S GULF SERVICE

Why Pay More? Lubrication $1.00 ALL BRANDS MOTOR OIL 24 HOUR WRECKER SERVICE Pick Up and Delivery Phone TW 2-9374

FROM TATE-BROWN’S

We want to welcome old friends at Davidson... and also extend a special welcome to the freshmen. We also invite you to come in and browse through one of the finest collections of authentic University styles ever. Ask for your free Davidson crest when you buy your blazer, car coat, or sweater.

BACK-TO-SCHOOL CLOTHING WARDROBE Value Over $200.00 You may win! Just register on our 3rd floor before Oct. 1st. You do not have to be present to win.

When You LOOK Your Best, You DO Your Best!

Would you say, (A) “Cold?” or (C) “The pool closed three months ago,” or (D) “Stay right here—I’ll get the guard!” Do you think the statement “It’s always darkest before the dawn” is (A) an astronomical truism? (B) a good reason for getting home early? (C) a piece of hopeful philosophy? (D) an argument for night watchmen? Do you think that a man who can pole-vault 16 feet but doesn’t like to, should (A) go out and do it anyway? (B) keep the whole thing to himself? (C) do a bit of self-analysis on why he doesn’t like to go so high? (D) have the bar set lower? When you choose a filter cigarette, do you (A) ask all your friends, and take their word for what’s best? (B) take the one that makes the loudest claim? (C) investigate the facts, then use your own judgment? (D) go for the filter that gives you taste plus filtering?

It’s a wise smoker who depends on his own judgment, not opinions of others, in his choice of cigarettes. That is why men and women who think for themselves usually smoke VICEROY. They know only VICEROY has a thinking man’s filter—the filter with more research behind it than any other... the filter that changed America’s smoking habits. And only VICEROY has a smoking man’s taste.

*If you have checked (D) in three out of four questions, you're pretty sharp... but if you picked (C)—man, you think for yourself!

©1959, Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp.