Che Davidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 1959

(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

A New Homecoming Can Revive Davidson Spirit

School spirit came alive last Saturday. Maybe it had never been dead for thirty years after all. Maybe the enthusiasm of the football team aroused the student body. Whatever it was, it was great to be there in Charlotte.

This is the year that we can have a real homecoming. In the past, it has been little more than a dance weekend with a ball-game stuck in for kicks. This year it can be different. The IFC is interested. The DAVIDSONIAN is interested. Many members of the student body are interested. Hog and Bear and the rest of the football team would be grateful.

What would a real homecoming include? Where would it begin? Most of us have to get our ideas from Chapel Hill or Durham, where our sister schools have long laid stress upon a good weekend stressing school spirit both among the students and among the alumni. It would have to be something looked forward to with eager anticipation. It would have to be distinctively ours.

Let’s begin with what we have, which isn’t much — to describe the band and the cheerleaders brutally. Both can be definitely improved. The cheerleaders in particular have the nucleus of an effective organization which, given a few decent yells, could do well. The band could do better if it had more morale and encouragement. We can and should work to improve what we have with us always. These organizations have an obligation to do their best which is akin to the responsibility of the football team.

What do we need that is new? Friday night is now the night of the artist series. What more incongruous introduction to a homecoming weekend. Who yells at Vincent Price? What we need, and need desperately, is to move the series back to Thursday, if possible, and have a genuine rally Friday night on the field. At the Wildcat rally, there should be stunts from each fraternity and contestants from each fraternity for a homecoming queen. Then the rally would conclude in a burst of spirit which would put the weekend into the proper perspective of spirit. This would draw the alumni to the campus who seem to be almost forgotten now, except for a dinner on Saturday. They seem to be generally excluded from the student activities. All this is wrong.

Saturday morning is not just a morning to sleep late. It should be utilized. Perhaps we could start this year by renewing the traditional Eumanean and Philanthropic debate series. Dressed in suitable ante-bellum Southern regalia, and addressing each other from the porches of their respective houses, this would add a distinctive pageant to our celebration.

In the future, there should be a committee to plan the homecoming celebration a year in advance: to invite dignitaries to share our spirit, to plan publicity and allied means of demonstrating to ourselves and to others, that spirit at Davidson is a real thing. The football team started it all with their enthusiasm. The student body will have to respond and reciprocate, or face the fact that it might be true that we’re too cool to know how to yell. Fight fiercely, Davidson! Give ’em hell, ’Cats.

—R.E.L.

New Horizons For Fraternities

U. S. Senator Sam J. Ervin’s visit to Patterson Fraternity Court this week opens new horizons to the social fraternities on campus. Senator Ervin’s informal lecture at the SAE house answers many questions that have been asked regarding fraternities during the past two weeks. His visit is an indication of one way in which the social fraternities can benefit both their members and the entire student body.

Most of the really worthwhile things that fraternities do at Davidson reach beyond the bounds of that particular group. We brag loudest about projects such as the Barium Springs Christmas Party, Greek Week Activities, and fraternity-sponsored Parents Days.

The possibilities that Senator Ervin’s visit suggests are exciting. Imagine the program of fraternity-sponsored visitors that could be developed under the coordination of the Great Issues Committee and the Interfraternity Council. This program could have a tremendous impact on the intellectual environment of the whole campus.

As a rule it has been left up to the honorary fraternities and similar organizations to bring outstanding visitors to the campus. Last year the Great Issues Series was started, and while it met with some success, it was hurt by a lack of truly interested students. Under social fraternity sponsorship such a lack of enthusiasm would not exist; surely each fraternity member would strive to see that his fraternity sponsored the most interesting program of the series.

Such a program sponsored by the social fraternities would probably be unique on American campuses. The fraternity series need not compete with the Great Issues Series — it would be the nucleus of the Series. If properly developed the fraternity visits will need more suitable facilities such as the Union Ballroom. The Great Issues Committee, with its larger budget, could afford to have one speaker of great national prominence to highlight the year.

The prospect of such a series of outstanding speakers, each having social fraternity support, to bring the big issues to us is exciting. It is our hope that this week’s precedent develops into a tradition. We recommend that the Great Issues Committee and the IFC investigate closely methods of supporting a program to keep Davidson informed by first-hand information in a world that demands awareness.

On States’ Rights

“The foes without are the Communist nations striving to erase all human dignity and freedom from the earth’s surface. The foes within pose a more serious threat to America than the foes without. It is certainly easier to devise a defense against external foes.

“The foes within are those who seek to destroy our “indestructible States” by reducing the sovereignty of the States to a maze of meaningless zeros on the Nation's map, and concentrating all government powers in the Federal Government.

“If they succeed in their objective, their success will sound the death knell of liberty in America. This is particularly true, because the States are the only bulwark against the ever pounding, encroaching surf which threatens not only to submerge the individual, but to destroy the only existing society in . . . which personality and individuality can possibly survive.”

—U.S. Senator Sam J. Ervin, Jr.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF ........ Jim Hamilton
ASSISTANT EDITOR ....... Bob Livingston
BUSINESS MANAGER ....... Ervin Duggan
Associate Editor ........ Bob Moore
Managing Editors ........ B. Millner, Tom Colvin
Sports Editor ........ Charles Rose
News Editor ........ Ed Armfield
Feature Editor ........ Dick Smith
Assignments Editor ........ Dave Gillis
Copy Editor ........ David Jordan
Cartoonists ........ Dan Clemmer, Redding Starling
Advertising Manager ........ Charlie Rowe
Circulation Mgr. ........ Albert McClure, Jr.
Ass't. Business Manager ........ Greg Grana

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

Anyone who has followed the trend of the upper-middle class diploma elite

SEEKS ACCEPTANCE

Meet Khrushchev The Status Seeker

By PETER STERLING

Anyone who has been delving into Mr. Vance Packard’s incisive book, The Status Seekers, on the international scale, much of what Mr. Packard says would serve to indicate why Mr. Khrushchev is in the U. S.; Mr. Khrushchev is a status seeker.

JUNIOR EXEC

Simply being present in the U. S. raises Mr. K’s personal status and tends to place Russia on an equal footing with the U.S., at least in the eyes of much of the world. The U.S. has arrived socially, so to speak, therefore, arduous striving is not so necessary as for many of the ‘‘Junior Executives” on the international scene.

“WE'LL BURY YOU”

Khrushchev’s stress upon the growth of Russian economy, and the refusal to admit any failures, are characteristic of one who attempts to gain social favor. Equality in international trade is one of his objectives. Repeatedly, he has stated that the U.S.S.R. is not “looking for handouts” and has not come “with hat in hand". “The time is not far off when we will be .. . ahead of you.” Does this sound like a man who is seeking emulation?

One will notice that Mr. Khrushchev has refused to comment about subjects such as Hungary or Tibet much as a status-seeking person would refuse to discuss the family’s “black sheep”. He is a master at propaganda, but his goal is not the American people, who he knows will not be dissuaded by anything he says, but the world population from whom he is seeking acceptance for Soviet policies present and future.

RESULTS

Mr. Packard affirms that one who is on the upward march has little regard for those he has to trample upon to reach the top. Similarly, Mr. Khrushchev is using the U.S. as a stepping stone to world acceptance. In such a situation, very few positive results will accrue from the Big Two Meetings simply because the Big Two are not thinking about the same things; they cannot be, since they are in different classes.

In The Aftermath Of Rush Week: A Look At Fraternity ‘Brotherhood’

By STU CHICHESTER

Now that the misty-eyed soliloquies and super-firm hand-clasps of Rush Week are past, it is perhaps time to give consideration to the real value of fraternity life. A fraternity generally purports to strive after Brotherhood, itsChief aim. During Rush Week, men touchingly confess to the rushee an inability to describe this elusive quality. Perhaps this Brotherhood is elusive because it so seldom exists. This notion is confirmed by the fact that the most sought-after rushees are those whose sophistication is so great that they are immune to the development of the intense personal relationships which must exist in a real brotherhood. The practice of bidding on appearances often leads to tragedy. The freshman who talks small and dresses ivy qualifies for a bid. He has listened to speakers extol the warm brotherhood within the group. He pledges. He naturally seeks to find the Brotherhood and is rebuffed. His advances mark him as one who is offensive and lacks taste. Suddenly, in disillusionment, the pledge finds he does not fit into a group which in reality is cultivating polish and not Brotherhood.

Our criticism can only be partially answered. The fraternity obliges the individual to broaden himself through association with men whom, if he were independent, he would not have the desire or opportunity to know. The fraternity man has both an opportunity and an obligation to become acquainted with varying types of people. If the men within the fraternity are indeed of varying types, and if there are no cliques within the group, this obligation may actually be carried out. Too often, however, the group becomes homogeneous when it could be broadened. The fraternity is, by its nature, a selective organization; yet, the Christian is a brother to all men, hesitating to judge anyone. The fraternal organization, then, not only requires that the Christian brother judge others on the surely subjective, almost irrelevant, basis of social acceptability; but also, excludes from the Constitutional Brotherhood those whom the Christian can best serve. As an agent of mystic secret symbolism expressed in abstruse ritual, the fraternal organization has no reason to exist. Another organization might provide a better boarding house. If the fraternity at Davidson is merely the expedient group to sponsor off-campus parties, then it should advertise this foremost. If the fraternity does indeed offer a unique opportunity for brotherhood, perhaps it is time to evaluate and find that Brotherhood. Did these boys pledge because they wanted to or because everyone else did? And, even more important, have they been sold short?

Suitcase School

BIGGER HOMECOMING?

McKeithen Promises Big I.F.C. Year: Calls Rush Week Success

A bigger and better Homecoming, new plans for Greek Week 1960, more appearances like that of the Kingston Trio last April, a re-examination of Rush Week traditions and fraternity retreats—all these are items on the Interfraternity Council agenda for the year 1959-60. In an interview this week, IFC president Ward McKeithen presented plans for the academic year, after discussing his reactions to the Rush Week and fraternity pledging just completed under the direction of the council.

“Rush Week was a real success,” McKeithen said. “From a standpoint of mechanics and freshman response it was very successful, and also from the angle of co-operation by rush chairmen and fraternities with the IFC. The two-day restriction on dormitory rushing, IFC name tags and a new method of mailing return dates were all good additions and greatly aided the mechanical workings of Rush Week, as did the new confirmation system introduced last year.”

NO VIOLATIONS

McKeithen stated that there have been no reported violations of IFC rushing regulations or of any activity which might be called “dirty rushing.” He expressed satisfaction that pledge classes seemed well-distributed among the various fraternities. Have you any suggestions for changes in the rush program for coming years? “Not specific ones, but Rush Week as it now stands presents three problems to me. The first is one of time: is Rush Week too early? Perhaps we can study some system of deferred rushing, although that seems now to have a great many disadvantages. Second, there is dorm rushing; it seems that there should be some smoother way of conducting this. Third, there is a problem surrounding the number of dates available.”

There has been talk recently of a bigger and better Homecoming for this year. What are your comments about this? “Well, the IFC will certainly entertain any ideas along these lines. A good band has been secured, and the IFC plans to emphasize the fraternity displays and give a trophy. We're hoping for a bigger halftime ceremony at the game — and greater school spirit through co-operation with the cheerleaders.

HOMECOMING QUEEN

“We're considering the possibility of having a Homecoming Queen and maybe a pep rally with fraternity stunts, though this at present seems unlikely because there is no available time. The dance orchestra will play a free concert after the game, and we're hoping to have some activity in Friday chapel.”

Has the IFC any plans for future appearances such as that of the Kingston Trio last April? “Yes. I have been in correspondence with agents in New York concerning this. Nothing definite has come up yet, but we hope to have at least one similar concert this fall.”

GREEK WEEK

What are your feelings about Greek Week, 1960? What changes do you hope to see made? “I have high hopes for Greek Week, and I think the students are ready for Greek Week. We're planning to promote a big Greek Week with fraternity projects of a constructive nature taking most of the week’s time. We'll have a skit night again this year, and we're planning as last year’s IFC suggested to give a Greek Week trophy to the pledge class judged most outstanding in spirit, skit performance, and so forth.”

Has any progress been made concerning the institution of fraternity retreats? “This must be done on the individual fraternity level, of course. The IFC will promote the idea of fraternity retreats and I’m hoping that we can get the interest of the fraternities. We will make booklets concerning fraternity retreats available to the fraternities, and Dave Robinson can get a man from the Y.M.C.A. who will help out in getting the thing across on the campus. The IFC will act as an interest-generating body, and work with the ‘Y’ in putting it through.”

NEW OFFICER

McKeithen announced that Tom Ridenhour will serve as treasurer of this year’s IFC; Ridenhour was elected recently to replace Bu Hunter, who left Davidson to study in Washington this year. The IFC president also stated that the council will publish a full financial report after each dance weekend of the 1959-'60 school year.

And Varied Program for the coming year. United Nations speakers, seminars, and mock sessions, work with World University Service, and the publicizing of opportunities for summer service will constitute some of the featured activities of the area of world relatedness. The voluntary chapel program, initiated during the last winter, began last Monday; the student-led services will be held each Monday and Wednesday in Lingle Chapel. Another new concern in the area of worship will be Easter and Holy Week services. Deputations work tentatively will involve a ministry at Barium Springs and in a local prison, in addition to its more traditional activities. In the area of community service the cabinet anticipates an expansion of its function to include weekend work camps and cooperation with some Charlotte service organizations. Most of these projects are new; they are the result of the thought and discussion of those who were elected and appointed to work with the Y last spring. The cabinet has continued and will continue the great majority of already established Y functions, such as the Handbook and the Gift Fund. On the basis of this program, the YMCA Cabinet is seeking both student participation and financial support.