‘Are Alumni Quarterbacks Ready For The Big Play?’ By JIM HAMILTON Davidsonian Sports Editor

Athletic Director Dr. Tom Scott commented that the members of the Wildcat Club may initiate a drive for an expanded athletic scholarship program. If so, the move may be made at the next meeting of the Athletic Council on January 19. A recent campus rumor that a move will be made for eleven additional football scholarships set off a DAVIDSONIAN investigation into the matter several days ago. 

An increased number of scholarships was launched by the members. There had been some agitation for an increased athletic aid program, but he added that the number eleven in connection with the football scholarships had been mentioned. Head football coach Bill Dole had this to say: “There has been some talk to this effect, but since I am not a member of the Wildcat Club and was not at the meeting, I cannot speak in any official capacity.”

However, a college official stated that Mr. Davis had informed him in a recent telephone conversation that he and Mr. John Belk, a prominent Charlotte businessman and well-known athletic booster, planned a meeting to confer on such a proposal. Dr. James P. Hendrix of Durham, recently retired after long years of service as secretary-treasurer of the club, declined to make a statement since he was no longer an active member.

The rumor developed after a Wildcat Club meeting earlier this month. The minutes of the meeting are not available, but it has been reported that a campaign for an increased number of scholarships was launched by the members. An inquiry of college officials on the matter added little real information. President D. Grier Martin said he had heard nothing about it.

Election Reforms (Page Two)

VOL. XLVI

EXAM SCHEDULE

WED. A.M. Sixth Hour Classes, Monday, Wednesday, Friday Jan. 21 P.M. 
THURS. A.M. Third Hour Classes Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday Jan. 22 P.M. Third Hour Classes Monday, Wednesday, Friday 
FRI. A.M. Jan. 23 P.M. Second Hour Classes Monday, Wednesday, Friday 
SAT. Jan. 24 
MON. Jan. 26 A.M. Second Hour Classes Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday A.M. First Hour Classes Monday, Wednesday, Friday 
TUES. A.M. First Hour Classes Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday Jan. 27 P.M. Fourth Hour Classes Monday, Wednesday, Friday 
WED. A.M. Jan. 28 P.M. Fourth Hour Classes Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday 
THURS. A.M. Fifth Hour Classes Monday, Wednesday, Friday Jan. 29 P.M. ROTC 11, 21, 31, 41 

Classes for the first semester close January 20—12:50 p.m. Morning Examinations begin at 9:00 a.m. Afternoon Examinations begin at 2:00 p.m.

SHORTENED PERIOD

Kuykendall Foresees Few Election Changes By ED ARMFIELD Davidsonian Managing Editor

“I foresee minor changes of a mechanical nature rather than radical ones in our election system,” Student Body President John Kuykendall told the DAVIDSONIAN in an interview Wednesday morning. “I can also predict that students will have more opportunity to meet the candidates and become more familiar with the issues.

“We hope that our present system of forums can be expanded. There has been the suggestion that we have forums in chapel right after the various candidates present their speeches; in this way the Student Body would already be together. We think that if the students know more about the candidates, their past records, and the issues, there will be better turnouts for voting.”

Some of the other questions asked by members of the staff along with the answers by Kuykendall appear below:

Question: When will this year’s elections start?
Answer: “They will begin about three weeks after the beginning of the second semester, at least the nominations will start then. That means that between now and then we will have to bring before the Student Body any changes we want to make.”

Question: What would some of these changes be?
Answer: “One of the big weaknesses of our present system is that the elections string out over a period of many weeks. We will propose a combination of elections that will not conflict.

“Another improvement could be made through closer screening of members of the Elections Committee. I plan to personally contact the fraternity presidents this week to find out just who has an active interest in student government affairs.”

(Continued On Page Four)

Dr. Frontis Johnson, who had attended a recent Wildcat Club luncheon, could verify only the existence of the rumor. Mr. Sam Malloy Davis (Class of ‘23), new president of the Wildcat Club, was contacted by phone. Davis declined to comment when confronted with the question, “Will the Wildcat Club promote an increased athletic scholarship program?”

Dr. Paul R. Maulden, '28 of Kannapolis, the new secretary-treasurer, however, was more informative than his contemporaries. Mr. Maulden said, “I am interested, as all the members of the Wildcat Club are interested, in raising the number of scholarships for both football and basketball. We think eventually this will be done. However, I would prefer not to comment on any prospective moves at the Athletic Council meeting on January 19th.”

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, JANUARY 16, 1959

Ecoforum Set For Second Semester

Beginning second semester there is to be a non-credit seminar in contemporary economic developments and problems, which will meet for one hour each week. The Ecoforum should be of particular interest to those students majoring in economics or business administration. This seminar will give the student a better knowledge of these developments and will also give him a means by which much of his theoretical learning in economics can be applied to particular situations.

The Ecoforum, which will be held Thursday from 4 to 5 o’clock in the faculty lounge of the College Union, will be of the round-table discussion type with faculty members of the Departments of Economics and Business Administration participating. The first session will be on the first Thursday of the second semester, February 5th. All interested students are invited to attend.

Trask, '58 Alumnus Returns To College

John Trask, a 1958 alumnus of Davidson College, is returning to Davidson to serve as Assistant Director of Alumni and Public Relations. Trask is to assist Mr. Horton with alumni and publicity and will also assist in the work and activities related to the Dana Challenge Program. He will also help in other activities planned for this spring and the next year.

Last year Trask served as the editor of THE DAVIDSONIAN and was president of the publications board. He is a member of Kappa Alpha Order and was their representative on the Interfraternity Council. Trask was a member of Omicron Delta Kappa, Who's Who in American Colleges and Universities, on the board of directors of the Business Economics Association, and a member of the International Relations Club.

JOHN TRASK

Dr. McGeachy, Mrs. J. B. Moore, Supervisor of Dormitories, and DAVIDSONIAN reporter Russell Shoemaker.The Athletic Council is composed of representatives from the Board of Trustees, Alumni Council, Wildcat Club officers, and two members of the student body. Trustees on the board are Dr. Tom Sparrow, Mr. Dan LaFarr, and Mr. J. I. Smith. Representatives from the alumni council include Dr. Johnston, Mr. McCutchan, Dr. Scott, and Dr. McGavock. The other Council member from the Wildcat Club besides President Davis and Secretary-Treasurer Maulden is Vice-President Dr. A. Lotte. Student body members are Craig Wall and Harold Westervelt.

“Citadel Day” (Page Three)

NO. 15

Billy May, Four Freshmen Swing During Midwinters ~ Gala Events Set For Valentine Weekend

By DICK SMITH
Davidsonian Managing Editor

NEW DORMITORY

Mrs. Moore Expresses Satisfaction With Plans

After taking a look at the preliminary sketch for the proposed new dormitory, Mrs. J. B. Moore, supervisor of dormitories, stated, “The architects apparently have the prospect of a much-needed dorm.” This preliminary sketch was received by the college recently from the firm of Lashmit, James, Brown, and Pollock of Winston-Salem, architects for the job. The plans have been circulated among the administration and will go before the Faculty Building and Grounds Committee shortly for approval by them. Very few changes are expected unless the cost of building exceeds expectations. Estimated cost is in the neighborhood of $375,000.

BEHIND BELK

The red brick structure is expected to be behind Belk Dormitory and face in a northwest direction on the road leading to the new fraternity court. This position will allow most of the trees in the block to remain. The new dormitory as proposed now will have a total of four floors plus a basement. There will be sixteen rooms on each floor with the exception of the first which will have only fourteen. This is due to a large lounge proposed for this floor at the front entrance. The basement at present will house no students, but can be easily converted for such if the need arises. There will be two students to each room, making a total of 124 capacity. On each floor there will be two restrooms with toilets and showers, one at each end of the floor. There will also be a luggage room at each end and at least one telephone booth per floor.

LARGER ROOMS

As seen now, each room will have a lavatory with a tiled recess and a medicine cabinet with a mirror above. On the other side of the room will be a dirty clothes bin with a shelf above for a record player or radio. The proposed rooms will be approximately four feet longer and somewhat wider than those in Belk Dormitory. Besides these single features, there will be a cabinet-type wardrobe which will include a clothes closet with sliding doors, four clothes drawers with a storage bin above, and also another bin near the ceiling. The door to the lower storage bin will probably have a large mirror on it. Also on each side, there will be a bed running lengthwise with a lamp and large bulletin board above. There will be an eight-inch deep shelf above the bulletin board and the bed can be doubled as a lounge in the daytime. Completing each side of the room will be a semi-private, built-in desk with lamp, cork paneling, and shelves above. Plans are that the new dormitory will be started by late spring of this year. Bids will be let as soon as definite plans can be drawn. The new building should be ready for occupancy at the beginning of the 1960 school term.

The Billy May Orchestra, featuring Frankie Lester, and the Four Freshmen vocal group will provide the music for Midwinters weekend, February 13 and 14. The double attraction, unique this year, was made possible by a special contract providing for such a “package deal.” IFC President Vernon Anderson, in releasing the announcement this week, said that “if the dances and concert don't appeal to the Davidson students this Midwinters, I just don’t know what we could possibly give them.”

The Billy May Orchestra is composed of some eighteen pieces and the vocalist-leader Frankie Lester. May himself is under contract with the Milton Berle show and does not travel with his band, but it plays his arrangements, and the music itself will be of exactly the quality heard in the Billy May albums. The vocalist of the band, Frankie Lester, is considered by some to be a main attraction of the band. His singing style is very close to that of Frank Sinatra, whose place, in fact, Lester took with the Tommy Dorsey band. He has sung with such groups as Hal McIntyre and Buddy Morrow.

The Four Freshmen, a familiar group to everyone, will sing the concert Saturday afternoon, and will make appearances at the Saturday night dance. Their popular songs include “Day by Day,” “Charmaine,” “Stormy Weather,” and “Julie Is Her Name.” Their method of presentation is a unique one, in that they provide their own instrumental accompaniment. Collectively, the Freshmen play trombone, bass, guitar, drums, and trumpet. They have won the “Best Vocal Group” category in the Metronome Magazine poll the last three years, and the Downbeat poll the last four years. Added Anderson, “We were lucky to get such a good deal. I just hope that it will be as big a success as I think it will.”

Above, “The Four Freshmen,” Ross Barbour, Ken Albers, Don Barbour, and Bob Flanigan, vocal and instrumental stars of Capitol Records who will appear at Davidson for “Midwinters,” February 13-14. This is the first appearance of the “Freshmen” at Davidson.