FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 1959

Curriculum Changes In Mathematics, Physics

A renovation in the Mathematics and Physics Departments will get underway next year. In a modernization of courses and methods
of teaching for which the departments have been gradually preparing in recent years, the new curriculum will abolish certain courses
and introduce several new ones.

PHYSICS CHANGES

The Physics Department, augmented by a new professor and by the return of Dr. Pietenpol to classroom instruction, will make
several major revisions. Beginning next year, there will be two courses in general physics: 21-22, for pre-medical students and for
majors in the humanities and the social sciences, and 23-24, for physics majors and engineering students. Other alterations will take
place in the organization of advanced courses, and an honors course will be offered for highly qualified physics majors. A
one-semester survey of Modern Physics, requiring the general physics course but no advanced mathematics, will enable liberal arts students to
understand contemporary developments in the subject.

In the Mathematics Department, the present courses in Math 10 (a non-credit introduction to basic algebra), Math 11 (college algebra),
and Math 12 (trigonometry) will all be dropped. The present course in Math 11S, an introduction to the foundations and
principles of mathematics, will become Math 11. Math 13, a survey of algebra and trig, will be changed to second
semester as Math 14, and the present course in analytic geometry, Math 21, will be eliminated altogether in favor of
Math 16, a unified introduction to analytic geometry and the calculus. Under this new plan, all freshmen would take Math
11 first semester. Those who did not plan to take any more mathematics would enter Math 12, a “liberal arts”
type of course similar to Math 11. Students with high school trigonometry and a grade of B on Math 11
would take Math 16, while all others who intended to continue in Math would first take Math 14.

Union Gets Exhibits On Army Nuclear Power

Army progress in the development of various nuclear power plants for military use will be unveiled to North Carolina residents
for the first time in an official U.S. Army exhibit in the Student Union at Davidson College, February 12-13. The
colorful exhibit depicts five varied nuclear power plant concepts now in various stages of development by the Army and shows
the operation and use of the first U.S. nuclear power plant designed solely for electric power production located at the
Army's Fort Belvoir, Virginia. The Army’s Belvoir plant, called the “Army Package Power Reactor, No. 1,” was developed by the
Army’s Corps of Engineers in conjunction with the Atomic Energy Commission. Completed in April 1957, the huge plant is now
supplying Fort Belvoir with electric power in a parallel operation with the local commercial supplier (Virginia Electric Power Company).

The exhibit emphasizes that tremendous savings in the taxpayer’s dollars will be realized due to the unique capability of nuclear
power plants to reduce the consumption of vital oil supplies, fuel transport and handling, and overseas fuel storage sites. The
exhibit shows that one pound of uranium—measuring one-and-one-half cubic inches—contains the energy equivalent of 2,215,000 pounds of coal, or 60,000
barrels of oil. Colorful three-dimensional cutaways of the various designs show how nuclear power will be utilized to meet the
vast power requirements of all branches of the service and how the Army’s broad research and development program is contributing
to our national progress in this vital field. The informative exhibit is on a nationwide tour with the Davidson College
showing marking its second appearance anywhere in the country. U.S. Army information specialists will be on hand at the exhibit
to answer questions posed by the viewing public. There is no charge for admission.

Golden To Lecture In Union Tuesday

Harry Golden, the Charlotte author whose "Only in America" reached the top of America's best-seller lists a few months ago,
will appear at Davidson next week. Announcement of Golden’s coming visit was made recently by Lamar Riggs, chairman of the
Union Roundtable Committee. Golden, noted as a lecturer, will speak at 8 p.m. on Tuesday, February 10, in the College
Union ballroom. His topic will be “Southern Urbanization and Industrialization.” His visit to the campus is sponsored by the Union
Roundtable Committee and the Business-Economics Association.

“THE CAROLINA ISRAELITE”

A native of Brooklyn who came to North Carolina in 1939, Golden won national fame prior to the publishing of
his book, as editor of “The Carolina Israelite,” a bi-monthly personal journal of short essays written solely by Golden. "Only
in America," published last year, is a collection of essays which have appeared in his newspaper in the past few
years. The book became America’s best-selling non-fiction work immediately after publication last fall, and is still listed near the top
of best-seller lists.

UNANIMOUS PRAISE

Reviewers were almost unanimous in praising "Only in America." Golden was cited by one reviewer as a writer with the
“gift of preaching without mouthing platitudes, of presenting inflammatory issues with such a human touch that the truth seems unanswerable.”
A second book of Golden's essays will be published in a few months. All students are invited to attend the
lecture by Mr. Golden. “We're fortunate to be able to draw on the experience of such a prominent figure as
Mr. Golden,” said Riggs. “His topic for Tuesday’s program should be of more than ordinary interest to all of us.”

Staples (Continued From Page One)

Freshmen will be exempted from Vespers on February 8 and Sophomores on February 15, according to a proposal of the
Religious Life Committee. This proposal was adopted by the Executive Committee of the Faculty on Wednesday afternoon, February 11. These
measures have been taken to avoid overcrowding at the Sunday evening services which caused the Committee to exempt Juniors and
Seniors at the beginning of last semester. Vespers on February 22 will be held in Chambers Auditorium since the service
will initiate Religious Emphasis Week. Holding Vespers in Chambers will allow visitors and all members of the student body to
attend. No permanent measures for relieving the early-semester overcrowding caused by increased enrollment have been agreed upon by the Committee.
Alternatives under consideration have been the abolition of required vespers for Seniors, free cuts on Sundays of heaviest attendance, double
services, moving the services into Chambers Auditorium, or some combination of these.

Sports (Continued From Page One)

Dr. Grier Martin commented that he would be in favor of a raise out of proportion to the general fund,
but added that this was a decision for the Trustees. He also said, “This clearly indicates the direction of the
Wildcat Club’s thinking and what they want to do. The proportionate raise will not give them all they want.” Head
football coach Bill Dole declined to enter the controversy and issued the following statement: “As football coach of Davidson College,
I follow the policies set forth by the administration, trustees, and faculty.” Athletic Director Dr. Tom Scott felt that, “The
college is lenient in the percent they give to athletics, considering the amount of money they take in. Everyone would
like to have more, but we must be realistic about the situation and stick to good business practices. The general
fund is increasing every year, so the amount given to athletics is also on the rise. The solution is simply
to raise more money for the alumni fund.”Admission. Music Department Schedules Recital - John Fesperman, harpsichordist and organist, will play
the initial concert in the current Organ Recital Series at 8:15 p.m., Tuesday, February 17, in the Davidson College Presbyterian
Church. The series is presented annually without charge and is open to the public. A native of Kannapolis, Mr. Fesperman
is associate professor of music and college organist at Alabama College, Montevallo, Alabama. A graduate of Davidson College and Yale
University, he has studied organ with Dr. Robert Noehren and George Faxon, concert artists. He has also studied harpsichord at
the Mozarteum, Salzburg, Austria, with Anna Speckner. The recital will include the monumental Bach “Passacaglia and Fugue in C Minor,”
three chorale preludes by Brahms, and selections by Paul Hindemith and Gordon Crain, both contemporary American composers. An informal coffee
hour honoring Mr. Fesperman will be held in the student lounge of the church following the program.

Do You Think for Yourself?

1. If you were about to buy an automobile, would you (A) study the road-test reports in the magazines, or
(B) select the car that looks best to you?
2. When confronted with a menu with lots of foreign terms, do you (A) ask what is in each dish,
or (B) accept the waiter’s recommendation?
3. When invited to play an unfamiliar game, do you (A) refuse to play until you fully understand the rules,
or (B) pick up the rules as you go along?
4. When invited to a party, do you (A) accept, hoping to enjoy yourself no matter who attends, or (B)
try to learn who will be there before accepting?
5. In buying a radio, would you be influenced more by (A) low price, or (B) product features despite a
slightly higher price?
6. When deciding on what movie to see, do you usually prefer films that (A) are gay and diverting, or
(B) have a social message?
7. When you run into a foreign phrase in a textbook, do you first (A) head for a dictionary to
find the meaning, or (B) try to dope out the meaning yourself?
8. When reading the paper, do you (A) catch yourself concentrating on scandal stories, or (B) spend your time on
news and editorial matter?

The Man Who Thinks for Himself Knows — If you checked (A) on three out of the first four questions,
and (B) on four out of the last five, you really think for yourself! If you're the kind of person
who thinks for yourself and sticks by your decision, you use judgment in your choice of cigarettes, as in everything
else. Men and women who think for themselves usually smoke VICEROY. Their reason? Best in the world. They know that
only VICEROY has a thinking man's filter and a smoking man’s taste.

*If we were not able to guarantee them a large audience. The whole problem is one of comparing the advantages
and disadvantages of the two systems. Auditorium, or giving attendance credit for Sunday morning services in Davidson or elsewhere. Red,
Black Masquers Present ‘Room Service’ “Light and hilarious,” said director Ray Atkinson describing the three-act “Room Service,” which the Red
and Black Masquers will perform at Davidson during the Midwinters weekend, “It'll tickle them out of their tuxes!” The story
is about a group of bankrupt actors who have come to New York as a last chance to make good.
They are ready to carry deception, finagling, and outright dishonesty to any degree to get on stage. As a matter
of fact, they do, and the story grows progressively funnier as they sink progressively deeper into a hopeless tangle. Playing
the part of Gordon Miller, the director of the struggling company, is George Johnson. Earl Whatley plays the part of
Joseph Gribble, his spineless brother-in-law who tries his best to evict the company from their last stand, his own ramshackle
hotel-theatre. Gordon Swain plays Gribble’s tight-fisted inspector who wants to do nothing to help anybody out of the mess, only
the hapless “guests” out of the hotel. The play was arranged by the IFC and is scheduled for two performances,
8:15 p.m. on Thursday and 7:30 p.m. on Friday, February 13 and 14. The Red and Black Masquers will also
travel to Randolph-Macon, February 20 for a third performance during senior weekend. Others in the cast are: Tony Diaz as
Sasha Smirnoff; Malcolm Murchison, Harry Binion; George Rhyne, Faker Englund; Alice Hollister, Christine Marlowe; Sam Peters, Leo Davis; Shirley Granger,
Hilda Manney; Don Byrd, Timothy Howarth; Bruce Brooks, Dr. Glass; Louie Carrington, Bank Messenger; and Don Stowell, Senator Blake.

CHARCOAL STEAK HOUSE
1800 W. MOOREHEAD ST.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Open Nightly 5-12 P. M.
FOR RESERVATIONS CALL ED 2-2414 After 2 P. M.

Friday Comments On Educational Problems
By CHARLES CHASTAIN
Davidsonian Associate Editor

Following his recent chapel speech, President William Friday of the consolidated University of North Carolina answered the questions of a
DAVIDSONIAN staff member in a brief interview. President Friday, who is a member of the Davidson Board of Visitors, commented
on the problems confronting higher education in the South, especially with reference to Davidson and to the University of North
Carolina.

What would you say are the main problems which Davidson will have to face in the near future?
All colleges are faced with problems of enrollment, faculty, and finances, and the solutions to these are more or less
decisions that have got to be made by the individual institutions. As far as Davidson goes, I know of no
other four-year liberal arts school that enjoys the reputation that Davidson has. Its quality of work is widely recognized.

What would you have to say about the future of Southern education?
There is the problem we are all facing together—there are thousands of children being born, and many will want and
need a college education. I believe that in North Carolina we've got to have a healthy balance between state and
private colleges.

What are the state-supported colleges of North Carolina doing to maintain and raise the standards of quality of their instruction?
The University has instituted uniform admissions tests, on which a minimum score must be met. But the test itself is
not the sole criterion for judging applicants. They help a student find himself and help us evaluate where he can
start in math, English, etc.

Would you care to comment on the recent controversy concerning your decision to eliminate the non-Communist oath for University of
North Carolina faculty members?
The administration dropped the questions about prior Communist affiliation from the personnel form because we felt that the record showed
this procedure to be inefficient. In making this decision, the administration reaffirmed its decision that the oath to the United
States and to the State of North Carolina should be maintained.

What is the University doing to initiate honors programs and individual advanced work for undergraduates, as many smaller colleges have
already done?
The Carnegie Corporation gave us a grant of one hundred thousand dollars to develop a five-year experimental program at Chapel
Hill. We've been in it two years and are very pleased with the results.

HI-Fi COMPONENTS
At Wholesale Net Prices
Across From Ivey’s 5th St. Entrance
126 West Fifth St.
Charlotte 2, N. C.

Young Man With a Date
No matter what your educational background—the arts, the sciences, business or engineering—make a date to talk with a Bell interviewer
when he visits your campus. Wide range of job opportunities. Southern Bell representatives will be on the campus February 10
and 11 interviewing from 9 A. M. to 5 P. M. SEE YOUR PLACEMENT OFFICER @ Southern Bell Telephone and
Telegraph Company FOR AN INTERVIEW
