FRIDAY, MARCH 13, 1959 | Sports

All That C ) i
By JIM HAMILTON

Periodically during the year and especially in the last two weeks the IMAC (Intramural Athletic Council) has received criticism from various sources on campus. The most recent attack came as a result of their ruling on the eligibility of a participant in the Interfraternity track meet last week. This furor was heightened since the individual under question was the main factor in deciding the outcome of the meet.

The chief criticism directed at the Council is that the interfraternity athletic program lacks a codified set of regulations to govern the various sports. The rules used are vague, say the critics, and are full of loopholes and ambiguities that allow situations such as the one last week to arise. The present set of regulations do seem inadequate, but this is to be expected. The IMAC took over the reins of the sports program only last year and since then has been working with the old rules on a trial basis to see what works and what doesn’t.

Westy Captures Third Crown In Conference Tournament

Last weekend, at the Southern Conference Wrestling Tournament in Charleston, S.C., “Westy” Westervelt captured his third conference title and the Davidson squad took fourth place overall. The team championship was won by West Virginia, who upset favored V.P.I., the runner-up. V.M.I. finished third, with Davidson fourth and the Citadel fifth. Of the five Davidson wrestlers who participated, four placed in the meet. Besides Westervelt, who won the 177 lb. class, were Milton Gee, runner-up at 147 lbs., Cliff Thompson, 4th place, and Alec Porter, 4th place.

GEE HURT

Gee, who injured his knee on the way to victory in his semi-final match Friday night, was forced to default in the finals on Saturday. Coach Parker felt that Milton could have captured the title if the unfortunate accident had not occurred. Westervelt faced his hardest opponent in the opening round, but managed to win that match by a score of 4-3. He then went on to capture the title Saturday, defeating his V.M.I. opponent rather handily, 4-0. By so doing, he became the first Davidson man to win a conference championship three times.

Problems on eligibility and the like would have been almost impossible to avoid. The council, with a year’s experience under its belt, is now ready to propose a codified set of regulations that several of its members feel will greatly reduce the now-existing loopholes. President Ralph Wilson and secretary George Ramsey have prepared a new set of rules that will be presented to the council in several weeks, and which, if passed by the council, will subsequently be sent on to the fraternities for ratification. Perhaps some criticism is due, but it seems to me that on the whole the IMAC has taken, and is still taking, large strides towards a more efficiently run interfraternity athletic program here at Davidson.

* * *

It’s hard to keep Coach Tucker out of print: “Twenty minutes before he was to swim, Hudgins called me over and pointed to his leg. My mouth fell open; he’d cut a bone-deep gash in his knee on the bedspring.” “Must not have hurt him none, though, ‘cause he broke a conference record.” “When the meet was over, the V.M.I. coach (his team won) walked up to me and said, ‘Your boys might be dark horses next year.’” “Dark horses, heck,” I said. “We’ll be contenders.” And with 18 boys instead of nine (the number we took to the conference), we will be.”

Coach Parker was not so lucky with injuries. Redhead Milton Gee, a solid favorite to win his finals match in the 147-pound class, woke up Saturday morning with a sore leg and had to be carried down to the training room. The whirlpool did no good, and Gee had to forfeit. Said Milt, “I never saw any bunch of guys so interested in me as those V.P.I. boys. If I’d won my match against the fellow from West Virginia, it would have meant that V.P.I. won the tournament.” It’s nice to find altruistic sentiments among competitors.

* * *

The all-star I-F basketball team was chosen this week with five men voting from each fraternity.

FIRST FIVE
Player-Frat. Votes
Denham, Phi Delt 31
House, Phi Gam 24
Boyd, Pi Kapp 22
Killian, SX 21
Streetman, KA 11

SECOND FIVE
Player-Frat. Votes
Lide, Pi Kapp 18
McQueen, KS 16

Third Five: Hines, SAE—10; Packer, Phi Delt—10; Edwards, KS—8; Zirkle, Phi Gam—7;

Phi Delts Widen Overall I-F Lead
By BILL GODWIN

The Phi Delts, who ran up a winning total of 130 points in last week’s I-F Track Meet, hold a 104-point lead over the second place Kappa Sigs in Davidson’s Intramural program. Building up an already impressive overall margin, the Phi Delts now have a total of 736 points to the Kappa Sigs’ 632. With a victory in volleyball, which begins on Monday, the Delts would repeat as I-F champions in that sport. Continuing for about three weeks, volleyball will be followed by softball. Tennis action begins after Spring Holidays.

The Davidson College rifle team placed fifth in the Southern Conference meet held at Morgantown, West Virginia. The Citadel won the conference championship. The three top scorers for the Wildcats were Don Harper, Stan Gaines, and Joe Wearn with 280 points each.

The DAVIDSON TRACK TEAM got in shape this week for the indoor A.C.C. Open Division this weekend. Henry Farr is the young man vaulting the bar. Coach Whittle expected the A.C.C. meet to be the toughest the ‘Cats will participate in this year. The outdoor season starts March 21 against the Citadel. (Photo By Rhyne)

Hudgins And Smith Win Firsts In Southern Meet
By BILL HELLIER

Last weekend a small but determined Davidson swimming team came from behind to grab a third place in the Southern Conference Swim Meet at Lexington, Virginia. Carrying only eight swimmers and one diver to the meet, the ‘Cat tankmen had to overcome the lack of depth, especially in the lighter weights.

In swimming the Sigma Chis were runners-up, 98 to 130. In basketball the Phi Gams, the SAE’s and the Phi Delts tied for the lead with 157 points each. Wrestling honors were grabbed by the Kappa Sigs, who edged the KA’s, 130 to 110. The K.A.'s topped handball competition with a 100-92 margin over the second place ATO’s.

Today Davidson is competing at Furman. The Wildcats have six wins and no losses going into the meet, and have already received the championship trophy. Four members of the team are in contention for the highest scoring average honors in the Western Carolina League.Green, KA—7. Parker was optimistic about the prospects for next year, particularly boys moving up from this year’s strong freshman team.

Westy Wins Again

On April 4 and 11, the rifle team will compete in the North Carolina Invitational Tournament, which will be held at N.C. State College.

Overall Intramural Standings:
Ktnce sh es won aeeeeenne 736
KA's 507
SAE’s 520
Sigma Chis 484
ATO’s 444
Phi Gams 435
SPE's 368
Pi Kapps 351
Pikas 280
Independents 231
Sigma Nus 224

Against G. “Right now, we'll really have to scramble to beat G. W.,” said Coach Dick McKee. “We haven't worked much and they've been practicing all winter long.” The Wildcats make up the smallest tennis squad in years — there are only seven varsity players out this season; however, all but one, Finley Lee, are lettermen.

TARR BOYS

Do You Think for Yourself?

1. Can you honestly say that you’ve made an effort to understand modern art?
2. If you were to break a New Year’s resolution, would you renew it on the spot rather than wait until next year?
3. Would you be unwilling to play a single game of “Russian Roulette” for a million dollars?
4. Are you fully convinced that the saying “Money does not buy happiness” is completely true?

The Man Who Thinks for Himself Knows

5. Would you be at all hesitant to rent a desirable apartment where the previous occupants had died under mysterious circumstances?
6. If you were walking to town in a hurry, would you be unwilling to accept a ride in a garbage truck?
7. Would you be reluctant to participate in an important medical experiment which, though not dangerous, would cause some discomfort?
8. If you had an independent income sufficient for all your needs, could you be happy never to go to work?

ONLY VICEROY HAS A THINKING MAN'S FILTER... A SMOKING MAN'S TASTE!

Despite this handicap, the Catfish scored 64 points to edge out V.P.I. by 3 points. V.M.I. and The Citadel finished first and second with 101 and 75 points respectively. Davidson's two big winners were Tom Hudgins and Tom Smith. Smith captured 1st place in the 100 yd. backstroke.

Netters Open Season

By “B” MILLNER

Davidson’s veteran tennis squad makes its 1959 debut this Tuesday the 17th at Charleston, S.C., against George Washington, last year’s conference champs. They meet the Citadel on Wednesday on the same courts.

Powerful G.W. boasts conference title-holders in their top three positions, with brothers Jim and Jack Tarr playing the first two slots and Saul Leibowitz in number three. McKee stated that it was too early to post anything but a tentative lineup, but listed Semi Mintz, Tom McCutchan, and John Poindexter as his top three men, although he mentioned that Finley Lee was at present looking good enough to play as high as number two. Harry Broome is working hard and will press Doug Orr and Dick Hodel for one of the last two slots.

DOUBLES

Doubles teams are undecided, and the ‘Cats are still working on new combinations. McKee is pleased over his schedule for this season although it is a tough one, including Ohio State, Carolina, Duke, and N.C. State.

Baseballers Initiate Season Next Week

Davidson College formally opened practice for the 1959 baseball season on March 2 under the auspices of Coach Tom Stevens. Captain and catcher Harold Reagan had been directing informal workouts for pitchers for almost a month prior to this. Sophomore Jim Smith has been throwing well in practice. Coach Stevens noted this and also pointed out that he has three regular starters returning this year: Dee Green, Dee Lide, and Pat Henderson. In the infield, Don Killian, shortstop; Harold Bynum, 2nd base; and Jerry Cole, 1st base, have been outstanding. Hurry Shaw is a good defensive outfielder, but there is a definite lack of depth in this position as is pointed out by Stevens. Davidson opens its regular schedule on March 17 when the Wildcats visit Belmont Abbey.

Hudgins turned in two tremendous efforts in taking 1st in the 220 yd event, setting a new school record of 2:15.3 in the latter. After receiving a bone-deep cut on his knee 20 minutes before the 440, he jumped in and set a record-breaking pace to win that event in a time of 5:02.8.

Another outstanding performance was that of the medley relay team composed of Smith, George Gabel, John Scott, and Captain Bob Wynne. This team wasn’t even rated good enough for a fifth place, but, paced by anchor man Wynne, sprinted to a second place, touching out Citadel's highly regarded medley. Wynne, the team's only senior, turned the best time of his career on the last leg of this relay, covering the 100 yards.

Cal Linksfers Are Experienced, Able

Coach Scott’s golfers, co-champs in the conference last year, broke in their clubs for the new season Wednesday afternoon, matching the Myers Park Country Club. The top five players back from last year’s squad include conference medalist champion Bucky Dennis and a sophomore, Verner Stanley, Coach Scott's leading shooter. At the moment the team stands one man short: Probable candidates for the sixth slot are Eb LeMaster and Tom Johnson. In a couple of qualifying rounds, the ‘Cats will swing against the Myers Park and the Carolina country clubs next week in Charlotte. “Our main purpose in these rounds,” Scott said, “is to get ready for conference play.”

CHARCOAL STEAK HOUSE
1800 W. MOOREHEAD ST.
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
Open Nightly 5-12 P.M.
FOR RESERVATIONS CALL ED 2-2414 After 2 P.M.

HIP, HIP, HURRAY for the GREYHOUND way to save money! Got the good word about Greyhound Scenicruiser Service®? It’s the latest, the greatest way to go... with air-conditioning, picture windows, air-suspension ride, and complete restroom! You'll have a ball headin’ home on a Greyhound — it’s often faster than other public transportation, and always less expensive!

COMPARE THESE LOW, LOW FARES:
Winston-Salem 1.90
Charlotte 60
Atlanta 7.75
Richmond 7.65
*plus tax

BAGGAGE PROBLEMS? You can take more with you on a Greyhound. Or, send your belongings by Greyhound Package Express. They arrive in hours and cost you less!

GREYHOUND
TAKE THE BUS... AND LEAVE THE DRIVING TO US!

WHITE DRUG COMPANY
DAVIDSON, N.C.
Phone TW 2-2111