Che Davidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, APRIL 17, 1959

‘Y’ Must Attempt The Impossible

In theological terms, the YMCA is in its eschatological era. It faces the largest problem of any student organization next
year. Yet in Dave Robinson, it holds the best hope of ever realizing anything significant in our days.

The problem the Y faces is to communicate with the average student. There are numerous religious organizations for the spiritually
inclined, but the average student somehow finds little value in their efforts on his behalf. They incline to further persuade
those already convinced. The YMCA can become one of these. This is the easy way out. The YMCA can follow
its predecessors in building impressive figures of membership and activities, and look strong on paper. This is just bait for
freshmen. Or it can radically re-structure itself and provide a program that will honestly communicate with the students of Davidson
College. Judging from the past, and from the apparent nature of our students, this appears virtually impossible. The YMCA should
dedicate its efforts toward proving this not so.

It is easy to see how the Y can look good and be not good at all. It can continue
the hard-sell, which is self-defeating. It can continue the cabinet system, which is a modified caste system, a constricting structure.
It can keep its programs vague and unappealing. But it can, as an alternative, turn once again to the student
as its source of strength and as its primary field of emphasis. Specific, enduring programs offer themselves: the author series,
a truly effective religious emphasis. Above all, an attitude must develop which would result from the YMCA’s working within and
through its people. It must learn to speak for, as well as to, the student body. The YMCA must inherit
and work through our weakness and our strength. It must not divorce itself from reality by cloistering in a cabinet.
The YMCA must initiate a true dialogue between itself and the student, not a monologue from itself. The voluntary chapel
program is an instance in which this dialogue is being attempted already.

This has been the black night of the YMCA. The historical and psychological precedents are against its efforts ever being
worthwhile on the one hand and effective on the other. Still it can, perhaps, “realize the impossible.”

—R.E.L.

Partial Success Or Total Failure

As is the way of all changes, critics are quick to examine minute discrepancies and point out what an utter
failure the effort was. So it has been with Greek Week. But an examination of the facts will show how
really constructive the effort was. To be sure, there were shortcomings, but what system does not have them? The real
crux of the matter lies in the fact that the majority of the fraternities accepted the spirit of the change,
and while Rome wasn't built in a day, no one can deny that improvement was made. The greater part of
the faculty and student body should be commended in maintaining perspective and examining the changes for themselves instead of comparing
them to a perfect Greek Week. A real start has been made this year; to continue its growth Greek Week
needs level-headed support, not defeatist attitudes. The effort will die, however, if further strides are not made.

The chief complainants this year have maintained that while a spirit was present in the fraternities, some of it was
misguided through circumvention of the actual phrase "during Greek Week.” This may be understandable in the light of the strong
tradition of these fraternities, but is inexcusable so far as responsibility to the IFC and the rest of the fraternities
is concerned. This difficulty could have been averted if a more explicit “letter of the law” had been understood. The
spirit of the law has, for the most part, been realized. It is for the 1959-60 Interfraternity Council to clarify
the letter of the law, and for the 1959-60 student body to accept and approve the new Greek Week.

—R.C.S.

Again, We Say...

The student body will honor Dr. Martin at a reception in the gym at 6:15 Tuesday night. The occasion is
being given in appreciation of Dr. Martin’s contribution to the college in his first year as president.

President Martin's reign has begun as a success. During the brief time he has been at the helm, the college
community has seen the completion of the new wing on the library, the Patterson Fraternity Court, and the beginning of
construction on the Dana Science Building. This summer construction will start on the new dormitory. Also, the trustees have already
approved the proposed Fine Arts building.

The DAVIDSONIAN feels the students are already indebted to President Martin and urges a large attendance at the reception. We
also hope the student body will be on hand for the inauguration on Wednesday.

—d.H.

A Heavy Load

The brunt of the weight of Western diplomatic chores will soon fall on the shoulders of Acting Secretary Christian Herter
who will replace John Foster Dulles, in the opinion of most political observers. This load was carried remarkably well for
the past six years by the brave Dulles. But now his body has given way to the ravages of cancer;
we somehow think his spirit never will.

He leaves behind the most complex system of alliances that our nation has ever known. For the past six years
he has been the spokesman for freedom, the man who matched the power politics of the Communist world with an
equally powerful voice. Prime Minister Macmillan’s voice, despite all his efforts, has been but a whisper in the vacuum left
by the incapacitation of Dulles. The natural leader of the Western Alliance is the United States.

In less than a month the new secretary must meet at the pre-Summit Conference with Allied and Russian ministers. Because
the Summit Conference is, in itself, a victory for the Soviet, we will go at a disadvantage. The delay in
the appointment to the secretaryship has also detracted from his prestige in the eyes of European observers. His task is
a difficult one. But if he can take one virtue of his predecessor with him, let it be courage—the courage
to stand fast in the face of Russian demands and threats, the courage to lead, instead of follow.

—E.M.A.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
ASSISTANT EDITOR
BUSINESS MANAGER

Associate Editor ...... Jim Hamilton
Editorial Assistant — Bob Livingston
Managing Editors Ervin Duggan Bob Moore
Sports Editor B. Millner
News Editor — Tom Colvin
Feature Editor Charles Rose
Ed Armfield Dick Smith
Dave Gillis David Jordan
Dan Clemmer Redding Starling
Advertising Manager Charlie Rowe
Circulation Mgr. Albert McClure, Jr.
Ass't. Business Manager Greg Grana
Assignments Editor Copy Editor Cartoonists

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

THE HAWK’S NEST - Students Should Repeal Drink Ban

By JACK TAYLOR

Resent the dispositions of the Faculty. But opinions, thoughts, and attitudes within a social community occasionally change. With the changes
in disposition will come changes in the manner of conduct that is demanded by the society. When this happens, the
rules and regulations of that society must be revised in order to clearly define the new manner of conduct that
is expected.

Regulations that impose a manner of conduct which is no longer considered essential to the society's welfare must be repealed;
regulations defining the presently expected manner of conduct must be adopted. Failure to do this is to require prosecution for
violations against a code which, in reality, is no longer demanded by the society. Failure to revise the laws so
that they complement contemporary thought and attitude is to invite the destruction of the code.

When undesirable regulations are imposed on a society of changing attitudes as a result of static laws, it is only
natural that the society revolt against the code, for the code is no longer a manifestation of their attitudes and
opinions, but a manifestation of past ones.

Today, there are indications that a change is occurring in the general attitudes of Davidson students. Student enforcement of the
“under the influence” and the gambling regulations during the past three years was almost non-existent. In general, the trend seems
to be away from rules which would dictate morals, for they are considered to be matters of individual choice, and
toward rules which ensure the rights of the individual, such as the right to privacy, and the right to protection
against dangerous elements imposed by others.

If I have read these trends correctly, and a change in student attitudes has occurred, then the Student Regulations of
the Student Constitution should be revised. The “under the influence” and gambling regulations should be repealed; the regulations concerning personal
rights should be strengthened. Through revision, the Regulations would more positively serve the student society by defining a manner of
conduct which would more truly represent the opinions, thoughts, and attitudes of the Davidson Student Body. If otherwise, a student-imposed
code of conduct is of no value.

LETTER TO EDITOR: Former IFC President Criticizes Greek Week, 1959.

Dear Editor:

It has been somewhat disheartening to read in recent “DAVIDSONIANS” of the outcome of Greek Week. In the various comments
published on the matter, there seems to be an apparent lossof direction as to what the intention of such an
endeavor was, and also some rather misleading assertions which should be clarified in order to understand its hoped-for nature.

NO COERCION

In the first place, the statement unanimously adopted by the IFC last year concerning Hell Week was not dictated by
faculty coercion. The action was based on sound, mature reasons for which there need to be no apology. Secondly, the
statement was not “vague” with “loop-holes” for individual interpretation. In what it forbade it was as explicit as those who
drew it up could make it. It enumerated those practices which were henceforth forbidden. It recognized that the practices of
Hell Week were condemned by all national fraternities on campus and by the National Interfraternity Conference. It held that Hell
Week practices were inconsistent with ideals of brotherhood and mature conduct.

ATTEMPT NOT NEW

A third point to be noted is that this year’s attempt was not the first to get a working Greek
Week off the ground. The “DAVIDSONIAN” for the last decade has been reporting similar sentiments and results of pre-initiation activities
as appeared this year. The faculty went on record some time before 1950 as opposed to Hell Week and requested
the IFC to make more constructive arrangements. The patience of the faculty in this regard and its willingness to let
the students themselves solve the problems involved has been consistent with the prevailing policy of letting students manage student affairs.

TASK FOR IFC

The task, then, is placed upon the IFC to take responsible initiative in designing a worthwhile Greek Week. It was
my experience last year that intelligent student opinion was in favor of the action of the IFC and only needed
imaginative leadership to launch upon a really constructive Greek Week program. I suspect that the IFC did not call upon
all the available resources in planning its Greek Week. The IFC last year appropriated the $180 of Skit Nite fines
to be used in Greek Week ventures. At the time, ideas such as the possibility of a three-day program climaxed
by an official of the NIC were suggested. This is not so much to criticize the IFC, for pioneering a
really successful Greek Week confronts problems of inexperience and tradition-inertia, as the IFC hastened to point out. This is to
say, however, that the student body at Davidson is capable of engineering an imaginative and worthwhile Greek Week in which
not only the pledges profit, but the enthusiastic fraternity men have their enthusiasm constructively channeled, and the critics have their
criticism balanced by a renewed understanding of what a successful fraternity system is worth.

Bob Jones
Yale Divinity School

PEANUTS

PEANLES

IT SAYS HERE PEOPLE OF TODAY DON’T BELIEVE IN ANY CAUSES.

THAT’S NOT TRUE AT ALL! I BELIEVE IN A CAUSE. I BELIEVE IN MY OWN CAUSE!

By VERNON ANDERSON

I BELIEVE IN THE CAUSE OF GOOD OL’ ME! THAT’S THE CAUSE I BELIEVE IN!

By Schulz

“Davidson—Where’s That?”

Student government at Davidson is a system of laws wherein the students have defined a manner of conduct which they
consider essential to the well-being of the student community. This student-imposed code of conduct is entirely separate from the faculty-imposed
code. The Student code represents the opinions, thoughts, and attitudes of the student body; the faculty regulations represent the opinions,
thoughts, and attitudes of the faculty.

“Continued Effort” Necessary

The Editor-in-Chief has announced an opening on The DAVIDSONIAN staff for a student photographer, to serve the remainder of this
year. Applicants for the staff position must own flash photographic equipment and have some experience in news photography. A knowledge
of photographic developing and enlarging techniques will be necessary. In addition to technical skill, the qualities of imagination, originality, determination,
and perseverance will be desirable. Any student interested in serving on the DAVIDSONIAN staff as photographer is invited to contact
Editor Ed Armfield in the near future.

To Maintain High IFC Standards

The first and most widely discussed function of the IFC this year, as in the past, has been that of
sponsoring the three dance weekends. The Council decided to keep the cost of the dances on the previous basis of
twenty dollars annually per fraternity member despite the fact that the 1958-59 Council had the highest total expenditures for entertainers
of any recent Council.

ACCOMPLISHMENTS

We are exceptionally proud of the bands and the entertainers we brought to the campus. We feel that we gave
the student body the most and the best for its money. Rush Week had a new look this year. The
altered system began earlier in order to avoid conflict with classes. A new system of confirmation, handled entirely by the
IFC, was put into effect. In the field of service projects, the IFC again sponsored the annual Christmas party for
Barium Springs’ orphans. In addition, the IFC again co-sponsored the blood drive with the ROTC department. One of the most
noticeable changes effected by the IFC this year was the introduction of Greek Week. Constructive projects replaced many of the
useless practices of the past. The IFC appreciated the spirit of cooperation by the larger part of the student body.
The subject of preferential bidding was thoroughly investigated this year. After great efforts in presenting and pushing the idea, the
IFC decided to pigeon-hole the plan. For the first time in several years, the Davidson IFC was represented by two
delegates at the National Interfraternity Conference in Atlanta, Georgia.

TOUGH CHALLENGES

The challenge for the new IFC will be great:
(1) Greek Week—The new IFC will be called upon to continue and to improve the constructive basis of this year's
Greek Week.
(2) Rush Week—Much work and time will be required to ensure that the forthcoming Rush Week functions properly.
(3) NIC—Next year the National Interfraternity Conference meets in New York City. The Davidson College IFC should be represented at
this nationwide meeting.
(4) Constitution—The present IFC constitution is outdated and requires thorough revision.

CONTINUED EFFORT

The evaluation of the purpose and the nature of the fraternity system should be continued. Also, the door is wide
open for energetic leadership in the area of campus and community service projects. Constructive action has been undertaken and the
importance of responsible fraternity activity has been emphasized. A continued and sustained effort will be necessary if the fraternity system
is to be the credit to the college that it is capable of being.

Sweepstakes For The Presidency

By JOHN STONE

One of the interesting features of current news is the speculation devoted to the question: Who will be our next
President? Facing the Democrats is an array of choices, none of which is especially panacean in nature, although the Democrats
have excellent chances in the next election. Senator Jack Kennedy of Massachusetts is perhaps the top contender at present, although
he has “no Presidential aspirations” right now. Kennedy is young, and well-liked. Perhaps his greatest obstacle—and a serious one at
that—is his religion. The inevitable question is raised: can a Roman Catholic be elected President? Only one has been nominated,
Al Smith, and he was beaten. Kennedy's circumstances, however, have been mitigated considerably by at least two factors. One is
the noticeable rise of tolerance over the past thirty years. The other is a realization that the “Happy Warrior's” religion
was not so portentous as many believed.

From a Southerner’s point of view, the most comely choice might well be Lyndon Johnson, who has made quite a
name for himself nationally as majority leader of the Senate. He has also made a number of enemies, however, and
he has had a heart attack, although he now appears to be well. Senator Johnson, realizing that the term “Southerner”
is almost the kiss of death in national politics, has moved more and more over into the Western bloc in
Congress. Senator Johnson is “not running” right now either.

If the Democratic National Convention is badly split, any number of things might happen. Adlai Stevenson still has a great
deal of popularity despite the anathematizing effect of two defeats. Stuart Symington of Missouri has often been mentioned as a
contender, but he is not well known by the people. None of these men is overly liberal, although none is
by any means a conservative. Any one would probably continue the strong social welfare program typical of the Democrats.

Among the Republicans, Richard Nixon is a strong contender. He appears to be the personal choice of Mr. Eisenhower and
other party leaders. He also is popular with the party rank-and-file. Mr. Nixon has made a good name for himself
on several occasions. He is a professional politician. Mr. Nixon lacks appeal, however, to many independents. The other GOP contender
is, of course, Nelson Rockefeller. His election as Governor of New York in an off-year for his party has made
him a marked man. Popular with the independents, and showing signs of political astuteness, he is nevertheless a newcomer to
the game of politics. If the GOP wins, its candidate must run 5-6% ahead of his party’s normal vote. Mr.
Eisenhower has been able to do this, but few men have equaled Ike's personal popularity.
