FRIDAY, JANUARY 16, 1959

Davidsonian

SPORTS

Sports All That

By JIM HAMILTON

“Tempus fugit,” said Cicero. (?) “The lost weekend,” said Coach Scott. Both profundities describe the Cat-Furman melee in Greenville last Saturday night. Furman, holding a narrow lead, went into a deep freeze with seven minutes left, but a few surprisingly short moments later the scoreboard clock showed 2:47 remaining in the game. The announcer stopped play and questioned the time. (One of the two clocks, resembling those in the Charlotte Coliseum, had conked out early in the second half.) A long controversy ensued. The timer, a local product, said he hadn’t noticed anything peculiar. The Furman coach, Lyles Alley, naturally had detected no defect. And surprisingly enough, the announcer, good Baptist that he was, suddenly changed his mind. So the time on the board stood as official. Several persons including a Furman official commented later that the clock had jumped about three minutes. This seemed to be the general opinion of the fans. Mechanical difficulties were not over, however, despite the bevy of electricians that had been scurrying around all night long. The referee finally decided that the ball game would be over when the remaining working clock read 19:00. But when the clock reached 19:01 it skipped to 17:00. The Furman players decided that was it and walked off the court quite happy with a 68-64 win. Technically, by Davidson logic anyway, the game is not over. It would take 18 minutes for the clock to get back to 19:00. Back to Greenville!

The Interfraternity basketball league, if interest means anything, is the best intramural sporting event of the year. The evenness of the teams this year has increased the interest to a higher pitch than usual. However, without adequate refereeing, because of the racehorse tactics employed, the league will turn into a free-for-all. As usual, there have been some excellently called ball games, but some have gotten completely out of hand. The referees, not being strict enough at the beginning of the game, appear afraid to start calling the increasing number of fouls that come as the game degenerates.

In Monday's game with V.M.I.

THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

Courtmen Contest Bulldogs

Basketball Highlights Weekend Sports Activity With The Citadel

IT’S MINE

Davidson forward Dave Hollingsworth as he holds on tight to the ball. Dave had 23 points in leading the Cats to a 75-70 victory.

Citadel Splash In Local Tank Tomorrow

By BILL GODWIN

Davidson swimmers host The Citadel tomorrow in the last of their three meets this week. Here Monday, V.M.I. copped six of ten events to drub the Wildcats, 49 to 37. Captain Bob Wynne, Tommy Hudgins, George Gabel and Jack Rose led Davidson, each capturing a single match. The 100-yd. freestyle was Davidson's best race, Wynne was timed at 57.7 seconds and teammate Bill Hellier finished second. At this point, halfway through the meet, Davidson sported its biggest lead, 28-24. Earlier, Jack Rose and Jennings Snider outdived V.M.I.'s swimmers 6-3. Rose compiled a winning total of 148.8.

Continuing strong in the freestyle department, the Wildcats took the 50-yd. freestyle, with George Gabel timed at 25.5 seconds. The final event, the 400-yd. freestyle relay, gave Davidson a chance to redeem itself. Hellier, Gabel, Wynne and Hudgins, in that order, swam against a 42-37 deficit. But the Keydets scored a shutout and won the meet, 49-37.

D Club Initiates Thirty-Seven Men

On January 7, thirty-seven new members were “welcomed” into the “D” Club in an initiation ceremony in Johnston Gymnasium. The new members are: Jim Allen, Willi Barrenthin, Weicher Bergsma, Harry Broome, Tom Bruns, Johnny Crute, Jerry Cole, Russ Cotton, Joe Dulaney, Bill Eckbert, George Gabel, Jerry Gattis, Stanley Gaines, Bill Hellier, Pat Henderson, Bob Hoagland, Lin- lion Hopkins, Tom Hudgins, Scott Lacy, Hermann Laimer, Sam McGuirt, Art Miller, Hugh Murray, Ward McKeithen, Loy McKeithen, Larry McNeill, Tommy Price, Carrol Pitts, Newt Quantz, Richmond Rucker, Uli Schoening, Tom Smith, Gordon Swaim, Bob Thompson, Bruce Usher, Jim Yarborough, and John Huie. The “D” Club is active in gymnasium.

Coach Tucker expects Tommy Hudgins 2:20.6 in the 220-yd. freestyle, as Hellier finished third. Blacksburg Wednesday and met the Techmen of V.P.I. The Wildcats traveled to Georgia Tech in Atlanta during the next two days.

By MAC BROWNLEE

The tough Citadel Bulldogs invade Johnston Gymnasium tomorrow night to highlight “Citadel Day” on the Davidson campus. In the past two weeks the Wildcat cagers have tested the might of Southern Conference teams. On January 5, Davidson had only one conference decision, a pre-Christmas loss to William and Mary. After tomorrow night's encounter with The Citadel, the Cats will have finished its conference action before exams with six engagements to show for it. Narrow losses to William and Mary and Furman last week and a 75-70 triumph over V.M.I. brought the league record to 1-3 and the overall mark to 7-10.

WEDNESDAY

Wednesday night the squad met V.P.I, the team Coach Scott has said should knock off West Virginia in the conference tournament. V.P.I. who dumped Washington and Lee 105-24, went into the game undefeated in loop action. The Wildcats, a 31-point underdog according to the “Charlotte Observer,” were in need of a good game in this one. Furman was victorious in last Saturday’s encounter 68-64. After gaining the lead at 58-56 with 7:50 to go, the Paladins stalled for five minutes and then capitalized on desperation fouls to ring up nine points in the final minute and a half. Dave Hollingsworth scored 23, Bill Shinn 16, and Jim Nuchols 13 in the battle during which

THOMAS

Tomorrow the three freshmen athlete teams take on the Bulldogs in “Citadel Day” in Johnston Gymnasium. The Davidson freshman basketball team beat the Pfeiffer College freshman 85-68, Monday, revenging an earlier overtime loss. The Wildkittens have compiled a three won and three loss record so far this season. Led by their outstanding guards, Tom Harris and Jerry Bussel, the freshmen have steadily been improving. They have a well-balanced offense as shown by the widespread scoring. Their defense has also improved. The team has been greatly

I-F Basketball Play Ends SecondWeek After three rounds and 18 games of intra-fraternity basketball, the Phi Delts and the Independents led the pack each with three wins and no losses. Phi Delt victims included the ATOs, the Betas, and the Sigma Nus. In the scoring department, Ben Harris and Bob Denham were hot for the Phi Delts. The Independents, featuring Tee Redding and Allen Paul—also Mack Henderson and Bill Joiner, held their perfect record intact at the expense of the Pi Kapps, the Pikas, and the Sigma Chis. Deadlocked for third place in the standings were the SAEs and the Phi Gams, both with twin victories against no defeats. The Phi Gams idled during round three after outscoring the Sigma Nus and the SPEs.

We urge the I-F referees to assert their authority and perform their duties in strict fashion, and thereby keep it a basketball league and not a poor excuse for a wrestling match.

“I don’t mind your running out of gas—but Camels present they are operating the drink concession stand at all athletic events Saturday afternoon and night.”

The SAEs whipped the Sigma Chis in round one and mastered the Kappa Sigs in the third round. The Phi Delts and the Independents clocked three wins and no losses. In other round three games, the KAs, sporting a 2-1 record, topped the SPEs, the Independents took the Sigma Chis, the Sigma Nus bowed to the Phi Delts, the ATOs won their first game over the Pikas, and the Pi Kapps defeated the Betas.

The lead changed hands over a dozen times. Bob Moore, although a second stringer, has been pushing Ronnie Anderson for a starting berth. Moore has shown great improvement, especially in rebounding and defensive work. 

V.M.I. GAME

On Monday night, Davidson faced V.M.I. in the contest which dampened the Keydets’ hopes of making the conference tournament. The Keydets, perennial cellar-dwellers in the conference, have shown signs of progress this year under Coach Weanie Miller. Coach Miller said before the game that he wished the Keydets were playing at home because they were ready to win one. With familiar surroundings, however, the Cats came out victors in a hard-fought contest. Davidson increased a four-point halftime lead to twelve with less than 10 minutes remaining and then held off a late V.M.I. surge for victory. Hollingsworth with 23 and Nuckols and Shinn with 16 and 13 respectively led the scoring parade for Davidson.

SATURDAY’S CONTEST

The home game tomorrow night will give the Wildcats a big opportunity to fulfill the promise they have shown in several close losses this year. The Citadel’s young team has shown strength this year, but have been by no means invincible. They lost to Furman and had as much trouble with V.M.I. as the Wildcats.

DAVE IRVIN

137-pound grappler rides his opponent to the mat in last Tuesday's match with N.C. State. The Wolfpack were victorious over the Wildcats.

Davidson Wrestlers Meet Citadel On Home Mat

Tomorrow afternoon in Johnston Gymnasium, the Wildcat grapplers will be seeking their second win of the season when they entertain the Citadel team. Coach Parker will probably stick his usual lineup: Carrol Pitts, Dave Irvin, Waller Taylor, Milton Gee, John Poindexter, “Westy” Westervelt, Jim Allen, and Alex Porter into action against the Bulldogs. After an impressive opening against Pfeiffer, in which the Wildcats took seven out of eight matches, Davidson dropped its last two encounters against two Atlantic Coast Conference opponents. In the last match before the Christmas holidays, the Carolina team decisioned the ‘Cats at Chapel Hill and Monday night the visiting N.C. State team won five out of eight matches in handing the ‘Cats their second defeat. Milton Gee and Jim Allen managed to salvage two wins as they came out victorious in the 147 lb. and 177 lb. classes.

“WESTY” STALLED

In what was perhaps the feature match of the evening, undefeated “Westy” Westervelt was successfully stalled by his opponent’s defense in a contest which finally ended in a draw. As time ran out, Westervelt was going all out in an effort to take his opponent down, but was eluded until the buzzer sounded.

Experience, or lack of it, seems to have been a deciding factor in both the State and Carolina matches. The local team fared a little better against Carolina as Gee, Westervelt, and Porter won their respective classes.

CITADEL MATCH

The Citadel encounter will be the final one of the semester as exams call a halt to athletic activities until classes resume again. The next match will be on Feb. 3 when the team will travel to Misenheimer for a return encounter with Pfeiffer. Five more matches will follow before the journey to Charleston, S.C., for the conference meet on March 6, 7.