**INAUGURATION SPECIAL**

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

INAUGURATION SPECIAL

VOL. XLVII

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. WEDNESDAY, APRIL 22, 1959

Martin: Inauguration Is A Time Of Recommitment

"We are grateful to the trustees, faculty, students, and friends who have done so much to make this day a
memorable one in our lives." Such was the statement of Dr. Grier Martin to the DAVIDSONIAN in an interview yesterday
concerning today's inauguration. Since the Dana Science Building has been one of Dr. Martin’s greatest achievements, the interview conversation touched
on the Challenge Program. Said Martin, “More than $500,000 has been raised toward our goal of $700,000. The original estimate
for completion of the project, which will complement Mr. Dana’s grant of $400,000, was $600,000, but it looks as if
we're going to need more than that to complete the science building and the new dormitory.

“All these building projects, as you know, are part of the Ten-Year Plan, started by Dr. Cunningham in 1956. The
science building should be finished by Christmas of next year; work will start on the dormitory this July, with a
scheduled date of completion one year from then.

“The last major physical structure of the Ten-Year Plan will be the construction of a Music and Fine Arts building,
but we haven't made definite plans for it yet. From there we'll go into improvement and addition to the facilities
we have now.

“One of the biggest and most worthwhile projects, I think, will be the institution of an Audio-Visual Center. The Center
will have not only films and equipment permanently on hand, and a staff to operate and maintain it, but it
will keep a complete file with information on where to get special films wanted by professors. It should be a
real innovation.

“The library is a continuous project in itself. Recently we were extremely lucky to receive an anonymous gift of $50,000
for the library. The investment income from this gift will be more than $2000 a year, all of which will
go to the library.”

The interview switched to student enrollment and admission problems. “This year the admissions committee has been a bit more selective.
We have had more applicants with higher qualifications. We do give some extra consideration to ministerial students and to sons
of alumni, but we try to be as objective as we can. We don’t anticipate any increase in student body
size next year, but one can never tell who will come and who won't.

“Along the line of increased student enrollment, of course, we are increasing the faculty to take the extra load. One
of the good points in increasing student body size to a thousand is that certain advanced classes with four or
five students now could be taught just as effectively with ten or twelve. This will make for a more economical
use of faculty members, from all standpoints, I think.”

The whole of Dr. Martin's inaugural statement follows:

As the time for my formal inauguration has come closer, I have felt that it is an occasion which brings
together the people who are most interested in Davidson College for a service of recommitment to the ideals of the
institution. In this sense, it means a great deal more to me than the pomp and ceremony of the academic
procession and the formal installation service. It is, of course, the occasion for me to make my own commitment to
the College to carry out the duties and responsibilities to the best of my ability. It is perhaps fortunate that
I have had almost a year of service in the office of president and can therefore make this commitment with
a much better knowledge of all that is involved. This inauguration also brings together our families and friends and this
is a cause for rejoicing on our part. We are grateful to the trustees, faculty, students, and friends who have
done so much to make this day a memorable one in our lives.

Davidson Plant: A Symbol Of Dedication, Progress

If you are one of the many visitors who are at Davidson for but a short time, you are invited
to inspect the buildings—some new, some not so new—and look for a while if you will, at the framework of
Davidson College. Buildings, like most all structures formed by human hands, are certainly no better than the men and women
who manipulate them. Davidson can be proud not only of those who lead and instruct, but also the physical plant
in which its students live and learn.

DAVIDSON MOTTO

The truth that there is a right way to do everything is readily seen to be a Davidson motto when
one takes note of this campus. But to do a job right and right the first time often takes much
money. This Davidson knows; and this President David Grier Martin knows. Money has been needed and money has been obtained
and more money will be needed to help meet the increasing needs of education, quality education that will provide answers
for this changing world. Quality education as well as quality physical manpower go hand in hand with pleasant surroundings. Surroundings
that meet the need, surroundings that will last. This Davidson College knows; this President David Grier Martin knows. And through
the efforts of President Martin and his administration, alumni and friends of Davidson have been made to know and see
this, and the results have been—what you see about you today and what you will see here years from today.

TWO MILLION DOLLARS

Almost two million dollars have been invested in new buildings and equipment at Davidson since the appointment of Mr. D.
Grier Martin as president of the college. The Babcock Library Wing has been constructed at a cost of $27,000, the
Patterson Fraternity Court at a cost of $500,000, the New Dormitory to be located behind Belk Dormitory and to be
completed in 1960 at a cost of $350,000, and the Dana Science Building to be completed this year at a
cost of $675,000. All of these buildings plus the New Post Office across from the College Church have been started
since 1958.

TEN YEAR PLAN (1957-1967), a plan “to meet the space age challenge,” has been set up to help the college
in its efforts to plan wisely and on a broad scale. Much of this plan has been completed and much
remains to be done. A Fine Arts Building, a Meditation Chapel, Athletic Plant Additions, Faculty and Staff Housing and a
College Inn, all stand on the list of things to come. Davidson College is growing, it is making capital improvements.
Additions and improvements that will be needed to meet the expected one thousand student enrollment of the near future. Davidson
is proud of what it has, and it has confidence that when its students return to Davidson ten years from
now, they will be equally proud of those things which farsighted alumni and friends of Davidson have made possible.

PRESIDENT DAVID GRIER MARTIN

NUMBER 25

Delegates, Visitors Fill Campus Inaugural Ceremony Today

Dr. Martin To Become Thirteenth President

Dr. David Grier Martin will be inaugurated as the thirteenth president of Davidson College this afternoon in Chambers Auditorium. The
Inaugural Ceremony will be presided over by the Reverend J. McDowell Richards, D.D., president of Columbia Theological Seminary and President
of the Board of Trustees. Dr. Howard F. Lowry, Ph.D., president of The College of Wooster, will deliver the inaugural
address.

The ceremony begins at 2:15 with the academic procession from the college church to the auditorium. Included in the procession
are the marshalls, representatives from over 250 colleges and universities, representatives of various learned societies and professional organizations, the Davidson
College faculty, and the inaugural party. The Davidson College Male Chorus, under the direction of Donald B. Plott, will call
the assembly to worship with “Dearest Jesus, Draw Thou Near Me” by Schop. The Reverend Frank H. Caldwell, D.D., president
of Louisville Theological Seminary, will read the scripture from the Book of Job, after which the Reverend James A. Jones,
D.D., president of Union Theological Seminary, will lead the congregation in prayer. The chorus will then sing the anthem, “Praise
the Lord” as arranged by Whitehead. Dr. Frontis W. Johnston, Ph.D., Dean of Faculty, will introduce Dr. Lowry who will
speak on the topic, “Some Things To Some Men.” After the singing of the hymn “If Thou But Suffer God
to Guide Thee” by the congregation, the Reverend John R. Cunningham, D.D., President-emeritus of Davidson College, will conduct the inauguration
of Martin as the new head of the college. On the completion of the ceremony, Dr. Martin will make a
brief speech indicating his acceptance of the position. The college will then confer an honorary degree on Dr. Lowry. The
program will be concluded with the benediction by Dr. Richards, followed by the recessional. Immediately after the inauguration, a reception
in honor ofPresident and Mrs. Martin is to be held on the front campus. Martin’s inauguration comes almost a year
after he assumed the duties of president, having been named Dr. Cunningham’s successor by the Trustees last fall. Before his
appointment, Martin previously served as treasurer of the college.

TODAY’S SCHEDULE
9:30 A.M.—REGISTRATION, College Union
10:00 A.M.-12:00—TOURS OF THE CAMPUS
12:15 P.M—INAUGURAL LUNCHEON FOR DELEGATES AND SPECIAL GUESTS, Chambers Banquet Hall
1:45 P.M.—ACADEMIC PROCESSION FORMS, College Church
2:15 P.M.—ACADEMIC PROCESSION
2:30 P.M.—THE INAUGURATION, Chambers Auditorium
ADDRESS BY DR. HOWARD F. LOWRY, President, The College of Wooster
THE INAUGURAL CEREMONY, Dr. J. McDowell Richards, Chairman of Trustees
ADDRESS, President D. Grier Martin
Reception on front campus in honor of President and Mrs. Martin immediately following the Inauguration.

The Trustee’s Committee, headed by Mr. D. R. LaFar, began its arduous search to find THE man to lead Davidson
College through the rough and stormy days of a national educational crisis; the days through which we are now sailing
so smoothly. As the search stretched into the winter of 1958, there was impatience on the campus: we wanted, and
we needed a permanent president. But the Trustee’s Committee was not one to be hurried in such a vital task.
They continued on, looking for THE man.

In the spring of that same year, as rumors flew freely on the campus, the DAVIDSONIAN reminded the Trustees that
the four-leaf clover for which they were searching might be right here in the campus grass. Much to our joy,
they found him. When Mr. Martin left the Trustee meeting at which he was elected, he was met by the
student body, a cheering throng gathered on the lawn in front of Chambers Building.

We do not contend that student opinion was an important factor in Mr. Martin's election, but these events are indicative
of the high esteem in which we held him at that time. Since that day last May, he has far
surpassed our fondest expectations. He is our friend, our advisor, our president. He is going to make Davidson College the
best school for one-thousand men in the country. We believe that.

Today we congratulate our President, Dr. Grier Martin.

An Editorial
We extend a welcome to everyone who is visiting our campus today. To enumerate our guests in any way would
be impossible; however, we want each of you to know that the entire student body is honored to have you
with us on this special day. We also want to tell you how proud we are of the administration of
Dr. Grier Martin, who we see installed as Davidson’s president this afternoon at 2:30.

With the unexpected resignation of Dr. Cunningham, there was a great deal of speculation among the members of the student
body, as well as others, as to who would succeed him. Many spoke of “an outsider,” others expected an outstanding
minister, as tradition would seem to dictate.

The Academic procession, perhaps the most colorful event on today’s inaugural agenda, will begin its stately march toward Chambers building
at 2:15 this afternoon. The three groups will form in the College Church, wend their way between the two literary
society halls, and split into two lines just before entering Chambers building, as has been customary in Commencement exercises. In
case of rain today, the Procession will form in the wings of Chambers.

Dr. Howard Lowry, president of the College of Wooster, will deliver the principal address. Dr. Lowry graduated from Princeton in
1923 and received his Ph.D. from Yale University in 1928. He has been a Sterling Fellow at Yale and a
Guggenheim Fellow in foreign study. Researches in literature have taken him to England and Europe. He is a member of
Phi Beta Kappa and other honorary societies and recipient of honorary degrees from several colleges and universities. Dr. Lowry has
taught at Wooster, Princeton, Yale, Western Reserve University, New York University, and the University of Chicago. He was chairman of
Princeton’s committee on postwar education. He has written and edited several books besides contributing to various publications and periodicals. From
1935 to 1941, Dr. Lowry served as general editor and educational manager of the Oxford University Press, New York, while
maintaining his college affiliations.

A lifelong Presbyterian and active layman for many years, Dr. Lowry has served on the board of directors of seminaries,
the Board of Foreign Missions of the Presbyterian Church in the U.S.A., the China Colleges, and Presbyterian Life. He has
been a member of the executive committee of the American Council on Education, a member of the board of directors
of the Wenner-Gren Foundation for Anthropological Research, and, since 1948, a trustee of the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of
Teaching.

The faculty will lead the long suite and will be followed by the platform group and the official delegates. Dr.
George B. Watts is Chief Marshall and Chairman of the procession. Members of the College faculty will line up in
order of professional seniority. The platform group will include Dr. Martin, Dr. J. McDowell Richards, president of the Board of
Trustees; Dr. Howard F. Lowry, President of The College of Wooster and the principal speaker; Dean Frontis Johnston, and Dean
John C. Bailey. Each of the official delegates is to form in file according to the order of the year
that his institution was founded. Harvard University, in the United States, was founded in 1636 and heads the list. William
and Mary, and St. John’s were founded in the 1600s. The newest institution represented is Florida Presbyterian College, 1958, whose
delegate is Dean-elect Dr. John Bevan. By far the greatest majority of the institutions represented were founded in the 1800s.
Some twenty-five colleges and universities have named members of the Davidson faculty and administration as their delegates. Institutions range in
geographical distribution from the University of Maine to the California Institute of Technology and from the University of Miami to
Oregon University. Among the academic organizations will be the American Association of University Professors, the American Council of Education, Association
of American Colleges, and the United Chapters of Phi Beta Kappa.

A number of college presidents and other educational dignitaries will be on hand to represent their schools: William C. Friday,
president of U.N.C.; Carey H. Bostian, Chancellor of N.C. State; James A. Jones, president of Union Theological Seminary (Va.); Harold
H. Tribble, president of Wake Forest College; Edwin R. Walker, president of Queens College.

Student Reception Filled With Surprises For Martin
For a number of weeks, several committees made plans for this occasion. Student body president John Kuykendall headed the student
committee with assistance from Roy Gilbert. The activities started in the gymnasium at 6:15 with a buffet supper. Three chefs
were flown in from Philadelphia to prepare the meal. A large crowd from the Davidson College community was present. Immediately
after the dinner, the evening's program got underway. Ray Atkinson, who served as emcee for the program, announced, “This is
your life, Dr. Martin.” During the evening, over twenty-five surprise guests appeared before President Martin: the basketball coach under whom
he played as a student, acquaintances made during his work as a stoker salesman, the friend who introduced Dr. and
Mrs. Martin to each other, Navy friends, and employees.

Student marshalls, two from each literary society, will bring up the rear. Manfred Emrich and Ralph Wilson will represent Philanthropic
while Jim Overall and Bruce Brooks are the Eumenean delegates. They will be clad in the traditional pink and blue
regalia of the two societies.
