FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1959

PLAY SEQUENCE? » No, but it looks like it. Davidsonian lensmen caught three plays at different times — Left: Benson
rolls out on the option. Center: Pitches to Hart. Right: Hart is bulldogged from behind. (Davidsonian photo by Rose and
Wells)

TON SPORTS DELINES
By B. MILLNER

DAVIDSON FOOTBALL fans have had the dubious distinction of seeing the ‘Cats play some of the best small-college teams in
the South this fall and tomorrow they’ll get a chance to see one of the best in the North. For
those of us who had never heard of Lehigh before it appeared on the ‘59 football schedule, and for those
who just don’t know much about the Engineers, here's the lowdown:

LEHIGH IS a non-denominational, private institution with a male undergraduate student body of approximately 2700. It is located in Bethlehem,
in the heart of steel-producing Pennsylvania. The Engineers are members of the NCAA and play in the Middle Atlantic Conference.
They’ve been playing football since 1885 and have a respectable football tradition. In 1957 they won the Lambert Trophy, symbol
of small college supremacy in the East.

LEHIGH HAS a 48-man football team with only five seniors. Twenty-one of the squad are from Pennsylvania, 11 from New
York and 10 from New Jersey, with the remaining six from other Northern states. Although he claims to be rebuilding,
Coach Bill Leckonby has two capable quarterbacks, a big, fast backfield, a mobile, though young, line, and fine ends. Leckonby
was “Coach of the East” in 1957.

‘Cats Davidson opens a new football series here tomorrow with the lethal Lehigh Engineers of Bethlehem, Pa. Coach Dole’s Wildcats
are rearing to go in this last home game of the season, but it may take some pump priming to
lift the team past Lehigh. The Engineers, members of the Middle Atlantic Conference, accomplished last week what few teams have
managed to do the past two years — namely, hold the reins on VMI. Where the Wildcats were crushed by
the Keydets, 34-7, Lehigh gave them a scare, losing, 7-4. The Engineers also routed previously unbeaten Tufts College, 63-0.

The powerful Lehigh backfield features sophomore fullback Boyd Taylor, a 200-pounder who, according to coaches, could become Lehigh’s most exciting
runner in a long time. He is flanked at the halfback positions by another sophomore Al Richmond, who possesses a
rushing average of six yards, and Al Kovach, also a top-notch defensive man. Manipulating the Engineer attack is quarterback Bob
Scheu, a junior.

Davidson will be counting on its able, but physically fragile quarterback Charlie Benson to lead the Wildcats to their second
victory of the season. Coach Bill Dole sees a single offensive change. He'll start bullish Dave McCullough at left halfback.

Again this week the David-

Harriers Gun For Title In Conference Meeting
By D. G. MARTIN, JR.
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Davidson’s cross-country squad travels to Richmond Monday for the Southern Conference Meet. The ’Cats are hopeful of redeeming their performance
in the state meet Monday by bringing home the Southern Conference Crown. Davidson, with 105 points, placed fifth in the
nine teams entered in the State Meet last Monday, at Raleigh. Duke with 45 points, took the team honors. High
Point, with 67; N. C. State, 87; and North Carolina, 94, followed Duke. Individually, for Davidson, Bill Eckbert placed eleventh
and David Gilmour, thirteenth.

DANNY HOUSE, who has led the Southern Conference in pass receiving since the first game of the season, set a
new conference record last Saturday afternoon in the William and Mary game. The big junior end snatched six passes for
over 100 yards to bring his season total to 39. The old mark, 36, was set only last year by
Furman’s Ray Siminski. Though House has played in one game less than his competitors, he leads the Citadel’s great Paul
McGuire by 11 catches.

The Southern Conference Meet promises to be a four-way battle among Davidson, V.M.I., West Virginia, and Furman. As a result
of slim victories over Davidson and West Virginia, V.M.I. rates as a slight favorite. “I’m in hopes that we'll do
well in the conference. We certainly are capable of doing so,” Coach Heath Whittle said. Davidson carries a fine 7-2
regular season record into the Conference Meet.

THE POST-SEASON selections for the All-S.C. end position should be interesting to watch for. In the running for the two
first team slots will be House, Maguire, and V.P.I.’s Carroll Dale, who is the loop’s only All-Conference player back from
last year. Also in the honor voting will be Charlie Benson and Frank “Hog” Anderson. Benson, despite the fact that
he has played in only six games, and has been at full strength for only one of those, has climbed
into second place in total offense behind V.M.I.'s Howard Dyer and is still third in the league in passing. Benson
has rolled up a total of 783 yards, 622 of which were via the airlanes.

“V.M.I. will be the favorite, of course,” Coach Whittle continued. “But they just beat West Virginia by three points, and
I hear that West Virginia had a bad day. They beat us by only two points, too. V.M.I. has a
good reserve. They run as a team better than anybody else in the Conference. While we have three boys who
usually run together, and then have a gap, they have eight or nine boys running all together.”

Phi’s Clinch Flickerball; Mat Tourney Monday

The Phi Delts survived two near-upsets this week to clinch the 1959 flickerball championship. They edged the SAE’s 18-13 on
Wednesday and beat the KA’s 25-20 in a protested game on Tuesday.

The Interfraternity Wrestling Tournament will be held this Monday and Wednesday nights (November 16th and 18th) in Johnston Gymnasium. Participants
may weigh in Monday between the hours of 8:30 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. Drawings will be made immediately after weigh-in
deadline, and will be posted on the bulletin board on the main gym floor.

FOUR CHAMPIONS

Four of last year’s winners are eligible this year. Ervin Funderburk will defend his 123

NEAR-UPSET

On Tuesday, the League-leading PhiDelts were almost upset by the KA’s. The IMAC rejected a KA protest and allowed the
25-20 Phi Delt victory to stand. The Sig Ep’s downed the Phi Gams, and the Kappa Sigs defeated the Pikas.
Wednesday’s games saw the Phi Delts, Kappa Sigs, and Pikas take wins. After the game, the Sigma Chis defeated the
Pi Kapps. The All-Stars will play the Phi Delts Tuesday afternoon.

FIRST TEAM
Mel Armstrong, Beta
Ed Hines, SAE
Marvin Bently, Phi Delt
Bob Davis, Phi Delt
Don Killian, Sigma Chi
Al Elder, Phi Gam
Billy Davis, Beta

SECOND TEAM
Donnie McQueen, Kappa Sig
Harry Smith, SAE
Pat Curry, Kappa Sig
Eddie Richmond, Kappa Sig
Eddie Armfield, Kappa Sig
Quinton Boyd, Pi Kapp
John Harris, Phi Delt
Dee Green, KA (tie)

Whittle explained that Furman should also be counted as a contender for the championship: “We beat them by several points,
but both their first and second men had hard luck that day. They'll be hard to beat in the conference.”

Louis Castagnola is expected to take the conference individual honors easily. But for the positions after him, there should be,
as Whittle says, a “battle royal.” “Gilmour and Eckbert have a fine chance to take second and third,” he noted.

Wildcats Face Wolfpack Today
By BILL THOMPSON
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Davidson’s high-riding soccer squad journeyed to Raleigh this afternoon to play what may be their final game of the season.
As the DAVIDSONIAN went to press, the outcome had not been reported. State is the Wildcats’ third ACC foe this
year. Davidson's only two losses of this season came at the hands of the powerful, nationally-ranked University of North Carolina
team.

“The squad certainly is eager to beat State. There is no question about the desire,” Coach Paul Marrotte said early
in the week. “They want to take State to prove that the win over Duke was no fluke. They really
want to beat two ACC teams in one season.” Last year, State dropped the ‘Cats 2-1 in an overtime here
at Davidson. Marrotte said that earlier this year Duke beat State 4-0, but that it is not known whether or
not State was at full strength for that game. “I imagine that State is a lot stronger than that, comparatively,”
Marrotte stated.

“We hope that we can get the jump on them like we did Duke. We're ready for State and just
hoping for some breaks.” The State team is made up of foreign students. Most of the Wolfpack players are fast,
good ball handlers who are very shifty. Earlier this season, they were one of twenty-five nationally-ranked teams. However, the loss
to Duke may have eliminated them from NCAA tournament possibilities. The soccer team may have one other remaining game. It
is not known if or where the contest with Emory, scheduled for the 21st of this month, will be played.
Marrotte said that if the State match proves to be the last of the season, seniors Ward McKeithen, Tom Joe
Dulaney, and Milton Gee will be playing their last games.

AT WHOLESALE NET PRICES
Across From Ivey’s 5th St. Entrance

Davidson accent will be on passing—due to its remarkable toss-team of Benson and Danny House. Why have the ‘Cats added
Lehigh to their schedule? A well-supported explanation is that Davidson would like to be associated with the Ivy League schools.
Lehigh, in the role of middleman, has tangled this fall with Cornell and Rutgers.

Meet Potent Lehigh
The Indians, leading by one touchdown with less than six minutes to play, shattered the Davidson offensive attack on the
strength of two quick pass interceptions and sent the Wildcats reeling to their sixth straight defeat. Within a minute, W
& M halfback Jon Stephenson and fullback Jim Porach stole two Davidson tosses and sprinted 31 and 40 yards consecutively
for near-identical touchdowns. Their defensive unit, meanwhile, dealt out a scant 60 yards to the Davidsonians.

Alert W. & M. Tallies Twice In 55 Seconds
William and Mary used just 55 seconds of the fourth quarter here Saturday to manipulate a couple of stray Wildcat
passes into a 25-7 victory. Almost forgotten during the Southern Conference clash was the setting of a new conference pass-receiving
record by end Danny House of the Wildcats. The prime target of quarterback Charlie Benson, House held on to six
passes Saturday to surpass by three completions the old record of 36 in one season. House drew credit for most
of the Wildcats’ 175 yards gained through the air. Their touchdown, however, came on a 29-yard aerial from Benson to
halfback George Hart in the second period.

Dr. Johnson turns another elegant phrase: his dictionary up to date in terms of modern Winston usage. Taste (tast), n.
What decorators argue about and Winston smokers enjoy. Filter-Blend (fil'ter-blend), n. A happy marriage of art and science. Flavorful tobaccos
are artfully selected, then scientifically processed for filter smoking. Winston (win'ston), n. A cigarette with Filter-Blend on one end and
a wise man on the other. Sir, if it hasn't got it there, it hasn't got it! Old Dr. Sam
has done it again—brought in terms of Light, mild Slogan (slo'gan), n. (e.g., Winston tastes good like a cigarette should).
A statement of disputed grammar but unquestioned fact. Front (frunt), n. (used in conjunction with the preposition “up”). The section
of a filter cigarette where if it hasn’t got it, it hasn’t got it. Also, the section that counts, the
section where exclusive Filter-Blend is to be found. Boswell (boz'wel). Nickname for a guy who is always hanging around to
cadge Winstons from you. “There is nothing which has yet been contrived by man by which so much happiness is
produced ...” Boswell’s Life of Dr. Johnson, Vol. 1, Page 620.
