Sure, here is the cleaned OCR text:

---

Pah (Ge D | LA Y ROY BRIDGED

Davidson College, Davidson, N.C.

DORM PASS KEY BADLY NEEDED?

"Help, I'm locked out of my room!"

This is the cry heard of many after they have been out all night and cannot get into their rooms. With Mrs. Moore on vacation and everything, it would be oh, so nice if one could go to the Union and pick up the pass key, which is so badly needed at the worst times, and get into one's room in the wee hours of the morning or on weekends when all the staff is off. Can't somebody do something!?!

NEW DISPLAY

There is now on display in the Union Lobby a collection by Louis Orr. The display features famous North Carolina buildings and was arranged by Warren.

MOVIES

For anyone who is unlucky enough to have to remain on campus this weekend, there will be a showing of the movie "Magnificent Obsession" on Friday and Saturday nights at 6:00 P.M.

We have coming in the next two weeks "Away All Boats" and "The Cruel Sea."

August 6, 1959

Volume 7

APOLOGIES

The coeds would like to extend to the males whose just pride has recently received a rather shattering blow their sincere apologies for the misconstrued words, "We're practically ignored!" which were supposedly quoted from them. Just don't let it happen again, girls!

"THANKS, LUCIA"

The news staff would like to thank Lucia Lumms on behalf of the summer school student body for the job she has done in planning for and carrying out the work on The Wednesday Night Breaks.

Lucia is one of our summer coeds who is doing her part to make the Davidson summer campus a more pleasant place for the men.

FREE TICKETS

For anyone who has a night off, there are still tickets left in the office for the plays now being presented at the Tanglewood Barn Theater. "Summer and Smoke" is being presented through August 7, and "The Loud Red Patrick" August 11-16. These tickets are free and can be used on any weeknight.

LIBRARY NOTICE

Miss Shore has just sent into the office a notice concerning the books in the library which are now appearing on the best seller lists across the country. For those of you who like to read away those long hours between classes, the library can offer "Exodus," "The Ugly American," "Doctor Zhivago," "Celia Garth," and "Lady Chatterley's Lover."

---