SIDELINES ON SPORTS By B. MILLNER

BLOOD-SPLOTCHED

Ed Stewart arched the second of two free throws through the cords and a few seconds later the howlingest mob
of students seen at a Davidson athletic contest in a long time converged upon him and pushed big Ed up
on their shoulders. Stewart had scored 16 points and had pulled down 15 rebounds. It was a good night for
the rangy Senior from Kingsport.

Ed Stewart never made All-State or even All-Conference over in Tennessee. As a matter of fact, he only played basketball
for one year in high school. But somebody found out that he could just about reach the rim of the
basket with his elbow, so Davidson signed him up.

FOR A WHILE it looked like a bad gamble. Stewart could jump but his shots caromed like cannon balls. Ed
kept at it though, and toward the end of last year he began shooting the ball instead of throwing it.
Tuesday night against Catawba he was Davidson’s leading scorer. He shot eight times and only missed three. He also hit
six for eight free throws, including the two at the last that put the game on ice.

Joe Markee was the other hero of the Catawba game. He put the ‘Cats ahead for the first time in
the second half and sank the foul shots that gave them a three-point lead.

THERE WERE really eight heroes: Shinn, who actually won the game with a monumental jump shot with 45 seconds left
on the clock; Huie, who put them temporarily in the lead with a minute left; Bussell, who played a fine
floor game and got most of his points late in the game when they helped most; and Nuckolls, Martin, and
Bill Cannon, who gave the starters much-needed rest and proved that the ‘Cats are a much deeper team this year.

Davidson came from behind against a smart, well-coached team that was favored to win by five points. They proved that
they could run, hustle, and perhaps shoot better than last year’s squad. Maybe the loss of Hollingsworth and Mintz wasn’t
insurmountable after all.

By B. MILLNER
Davidsonian Sports Editor

Davidson’s upset hopes were smothered as powerful Wake Forest whipped them 90-55. Davidson played the Demon Deacons on even terms
for the first 10 minutes of the ball game but Wake Forest soon shot ahead and went to the dressing
room with a 51-24 halftime lead.

Giants Len Chappell and Jerry Steele, both 6-8, cleared the backboards for Wake Forest with relative ease. Chappell, dwarfing Davidson
defenders, scored 21 points. Jerry Bussell and Ed Stewart were high for Davidson with 12 and 11 points respectively. Bill
Shinn, who drew four costly fouls in the first half, scored 10 before fouling out.

Wake Forest stripped the cords for a 53% shooting percentage from the floor, compared to Davidson’s 23%.

CATAWBA

Last Tuesday night the ‘Cats kept a near-capacity Johnston Gym crowd on its feet throughout the second half in overtaking
highly regarded Catawba in the last minute of the game to win 67-62. A long jump shot by Shinn put
the ‘Cats out in front 63-62 with 30 seconds to go and Joe Markee added two foul shots to give
Davidson a three-point spread. As Catawba tried desperately to pull the game out, Ed Stewart was fouled and put the
icing on the cake with two more free throws. Stewart, who played an outstanding rebounding game in his first start
of the year, was also high point man with 16.

The ‘Cats won their second game of the young season last Saturday, 84-70, against virtually the same King College team
that upset them last year in Bristol. Shinn, Bussell, and Markee were high for Davidson, with 21, 17, and 17
points respectively.

LOUISVILLE

Louisville will undoubtedly be the tallest team, if not the best, on the rugged Davidson schedule. With (6-11) Fred Sawyer...

Wrestlers Whip Wildcats

DURHAM—The Duke Blue Devils handed an undermanned Davidson wrestling team a 22-10 defeat for the season opener here last Wednesday
night. Only Cliff Thompson and Jim Alexander could salvage wins against the tough Duke squad.

TOMORROW NIGHT the Wildcats play a team much better, a lot smarter, and above all, a lot bigger than Catawba
ever will be. Here’s what SPORTS ILLUSTRATED has to say about Louisville:

“Much of the time the Louisville offense looks like helter-skelter run-and-shoot, but the shooting is nearly always good, and if
it isn’t, Fred Sawyer is under the basket to tip the ball in, stuff it, or flip it out to
a teammate for another try. It's a great system.”

THE SPIRIT in the stands overflowed Tuesday night and gave you a good feeling when you left the gym. The
team especially appreciated it. Coach Scott said, “It meant a lot to the boys. They didn’t say anything about it,
but they were real pleased when those students came out and put them up on their shoulders.”

Cliff Thompson won Davidson's first points by pinning his man at 177, completing the Wildcat scoring with a pin. Alex
Porter, heavyweight, lost 5-4. Coach Parker said the loss of Captain John Green and Jim Allen hurt against Duke that
he didn’t know what to expect against North Carolina. “They'll be stronger than Duke, though,” he said. “They're like us;
they have a lot of sophomores. Their freshman team beat us bad last year.”

The 12” LP VINYL RCA Custom Record

A LISTENING MAN'S RECORD (A Listening Woman's Record, too) — brought to you exclusively by VICEROY—the Cigarette with A THINKING
MAN'S FILTER... A SMOKING MAN'S TASTE!

LOOK! 10 GREAT JAZZ NUMBERS
- Martians’ Lullaby
- March Of The Toys
- Royal Garden Blues
- Just A Mood
- Shine On Harvest Moon
- Erroll’s Bounce
- St. James Infirmary
- Ciribiribin
- Tin Roof Blues
- When The Saints Go Marching In

PLAYED BY YOUR FAVORITE ARTISTS
- Benny Goodman
- Louis Armstrong
- Erroll Garner
- Shorty Rogers
- Jonah Jones
- Duke Ellington
- Ben Webster
- Red Norvo
- Bob Scobey
- Buck Clayton
- Vic Dickenson
- Dukes of Dixieland

College and University Students! Yours at a special low price—with the compliments of VICEROY—the cigarette that gives you the best
filtering of all for full rich taste. “A Thinking Man’s Filter... A Smoking Man's Taste.”

Just Released by VICEROY CIGARETTES! The Greatest Jazz Album in Years! On a Specially Pressed RCA Custom Record Featuring Top
Artists.Favorite Jazz Instrumentalists in a national popularity survey of American jazz fans.

Please send me ____ postpaid record(s) of the Special VICEROY CAMPUS JAZZ FESTIVAL at $1.00 each (no stamps, please) and
2 empty Viceroy packs.

Parker plans to play at center, and Bud Olsen (6-8) and John Turner (6-5) at the forwards. The Cardinals play
a front line averaging 6-8. Buddy Leather and Ron Rubenstein or Roger Tieman make up a brace of guards who
are fine shooters. Because of Louisville's fine shooting, Coach Scott will have to send his boys out in a man-to-man
defense and hope for the best. “We'll play a very deliberate game on offense,” he said, “and try to get
some good shots. Those boys can really take the ball off the boards when you miss.”

The ‘Cats move from Louisville down to Clemson to take on Clemson.

Catfish Embark On Virginia Tour
By D. G. MARTIN
Davidsonian Sports Writer

Davidson's varsity swimmers make their big splash on the winter sports scene this weekend, as they travel to Virginia for
three big meets. In their only previous appearance this year, the team showed their tremendous potential as they drowned Clemson
56-29. Coach Shoe expected a close meet with V.M.I.: “I believe that we can beat V.M.I.,” he noted optimistically, “but
it will be close. They have a lot of depth and should be contenders for the Conference Crown. They lost
to Maryland, but Maryland is way out of our class. I don’t think that we will have trouble with them.”
Shoe expressed high regard for the team’s effort so far this year. “The boys have a good attitude and a
wonderful spirit.”

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE
WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

Coach Scott sees an upset in the making against Clemson, a hot-and-cold team. The Wildcats take on their second nationally
ranked opponent in a row tomorrow night in Louisville. Peck Hickman’s Cardinals are currently ranked eleventh. Last night in Winston-Salem,
the Wildcats had a good-shooting club.

Furman has only an eight-man squad due to injury and dropouts, running in the 20's. Maravich’s club has speed to
burn and fair shooting in George Krajack, Shemple, Larry Patterson, and Walt Gibbons.

Donald, Tommy French, and Coach Dwight Shoe were especially pleased with the work of veteran Tom J. and sophomore Barry
Branch. Branch will be a definite asset to the team this year: “He'll set a Davidson record in the freestyle
before the year is out,” predicted Coach Shoe. Shoe expects more help this weekend from divers, Jennings Snider and Bill
Whittington, who have been steadily improving.

MERRY CHRISTMAS and A HAPPY, HAPPY NEW YEAR
Let Us Help You With Your Gift Shopping
We Have Something Nice For PAL Or GAL
Bush Wilson Ltd.

Davidson Hits Eleventh-Ranked Cardinals; Hot Deacons Hand Wildcats Second Loss

BIG BILL JARMAN whirls off the post and goes up for one of his patented lay-ups. Jarman is averaging 28.6
points a game. (Davidsonian Photo by Wells)

Deacon Frosh Beat Wildkittens 64-32

Wake Forest's freshman team roared back in the second half to outscore the Wildkittens 68-46. Davidson held an eight-point lead
at halftime, but the Deaclets couldn't miss and the Kittens couldn't hit after the rest period. Jarman was high point
man for Davidson with 14, followed by Nat Harris and Heywood Evans, with nine and eight respectively.

The Wildcats won going away 12-0. Evans, a prolific scorer, is averaging 28.6 points a game going into the Wake
Forest contest. Jarman sunk 39 points.

THE DAVIDSON SWIMMING TEAM: First Row—Bill Whittington, Barry Branch, Stephan Young, George Gabel, George Kirkpatrick, Herb Collins, and Bill Hellier.
Second Row—Bill Ambrose, John Scott, Chase Hunter, Smitty Smith (Captain), Tom Hudgins, Seb MacDonald, Tommy French, and Coach Dwight Shoe.

SAE's, Phi's Pace Swim Qualifiers

The SAE’s, with 10 qualifiers, paced the Interfraternity Swim qualifying round Wednesday night. The Phi Delts, with nine men posting
times enough to compete in the finals, were second. The Betas, KA’s, and Phi Gams each placed eight men in
the eight-event tournament. The KA's had the most individual winners, three. John Sharpe won the 75-yard freestyle, freshman Mike Weeks
outclassed everybody in the 50-yard backstroke and 75-yard individual medley. For the Phi Delts, Butch Simms, another freshman, won the
50-yard breaststroke, and the Phi Delts won the 200-yard relay. Kappa Sigs Duncan Morton and Joe Kelley won the 25
and 50-yard freestyles, respectively. The Beta Theta Pi combination won a narrow victory over the Phi Delts in the 150-yard
individual medley.

Rifle Team Fires Against Conference Opponents Today

The defending champion Davidson College rifle team journeyed today to Spartanburg, S. C., where it met Western Carolina Conference foes
Furman and Wofford in a triangular match. The Wildcats, under the leadership of Captain Stan Gaines and Co-Captain Joe Wearn,
have fired three times previously this year. On November 6, the ‘Cats defeated Wofford by a score of 1356-1327; the
Davidson team was again victorious on December 4, this time over the Presbyterian team by a 1391-1366 margin. In their
only other outing, the Wildcats fell to both Furman and The Citadel in a triangular match on November 14. The
Davidson team fired on December 8 for the William Randolph Hearst Trophy. Coach Sgt. McCurry’s charges have been paced thus
far by Gaines and Don Harper, posting the highest averages. McCurry has also been exceptionally pleased with the fine showing
of the freshmen on the Davidson squad. After a brief holiday respite, the squad will resume its season with a
very tough schedule tentatively set. The Wildcats are in preparation to defend their Western Carolina Conference crown and improve their
fifth-place finish of a year ago in the tough Southern Conference.

Tickets for the Davidson-Clemson, North Carolina...
