pm delphia Athletics and returned to Davidson in 1915 as Athletic Director and football coach. He also coached a o
ry FRIDAY, MAY 15, 1959

Dr. Tom Scott has released next year’s basketball slate and it’s a real honey. Tennessee, Wake Forest, Clemson, V.P.I., and
Louisville (fourth in the nation). Dr. Scott: “You realize that the boys are playing over their heads.”

The Phi Delts have finally retired the I-F sports trophy. The trouble is, right now there isn’t any trophy to
retire. The Phi Delts don’t have it and nobody seems to know exactly where it is. Rumor has it that
some SAE pledges from Furman came up and swiped it. Maybe we could all chip in and give the Phi
Delts a little medal instead of that big heavy cup.

The 'Cats won another baseball game. A crew of freshman and varsity players, led by player-coach Dee Lide, overwhelmed Coach
Dave Hollingsworth’s team of colored all-stars, the Davidson Flames, by the score of 6-3. Both teams played barefooted.

Coach Whittle’s son, Heath Jr., pole-vaulted thirteen feet last week. The North Mecklenburg High senior holds the state record at
12’ 6”. The 13-foot leap was made in practice so it will not be counted as an official mark.

Older Davidson alumni and friends were saddened last week by the death of William McKinnon “Captain Bill” Fetzer, ’06, formerly
an athlete and coach at Davidson.

Davidson Takes Runner-Up

1959 Southern Conference Doubles Champs—Finley Lee and Doug Orr Beat G.W.’s No. 3 Team.

CONFERENCE MEET

’Cat Cindermen Come In Sixth

Coach Heath Whittle’s trackmen, only thirteen freshman strong, placed sixth in the Southern Conference track meet in Williamsburg last week,
totaling 61½ points to become the first non-Virginia team to capture the title in several years. Behind Citadel were Furman
(45½), V.M.I. (34), William and Mary (30), Virginia Tech (21½), Davidson (14), West Virginia (9), and Richmond (8½). George Washington
did not enter the meet. Davidson was unable to capture a first place in the two-day contest.

McBRYDE LOSES

Clocking a time of 4:24, but still could manage only a third place. Charlie Phillips of Furman captured the event
with a time of 4:20. McBryde was also third in the two-mile with a time of 9:54. In the discus,
Charlie Rutherford gained a third place while Dave Warden placed fifth. Stuart Nickles, who broke a school record in the
javelin throw at the High Point Relay last week, was fourth in his event. The Wildcat mile relay team, composed
of Brownie Thurman, Roger Beebe, Chet Alexander, and Ed Kiser, was also fourth in its race.

RECORDS

Only two records fell during the meet. Bob Storm of William and Mary broke his own mark by half an
inch in a leap of 6’ 3½”. Furman’s Ken Garrett topped the old mark in the shot put with a
throw of 52’ 2½”.

UNOFFICIAL STANDINGS (not including tennis)

Phi Delt
Kappa Sig

Phi Delts Win Third Title, Retire I-F Sports Cup

The Phi Delts have retired the interfraternity athletic trophy, presented to that fraternity whose teams accumulate the greatest number of
points in intramural competition. The cup has been won for three consecutive years by the Phi Delts, who thereby earn
the right to keep it. Throughout the year, they found themselves in a tight scrap with the Betas and the
Kappa Sigs, who finished two-three in the overall race. Kappa Sig power burst onto the scene early, as the greenies
took the flickerball championship (11-1 record), closely trailed by the Betas and Phi Delts. The wrestling tournament again found the
Kappa Snappers supreme, with the KA’s, Betas, and Phi Delts on their heels. Phi Delt strength showed in the swimming
meet, as the boys of blue and white stepped onto the tank throne for the third successive year, far outdistancing
their closest rivals. Perhaps the best balanced competition of the year was found in the basketball league. The SAE’s, Phi
Gams, and Phi Delts finished in a three-way tie for the title as they knocked one another off. KA handballers
Dee Green and John Heath West coasted to a 12-0 record, trailed by ATO’s Roy Gilbert and Richard Brubaker, to
compile the only perfect winning mark of the year. A Phi Delt victory in the track meet shoved them into
a lead of over a hundred points as the Greeks raced down the spring sports stretch. The Betas finished a
strong second to stay within reaching distance. An 11-1 mark in volleyball won for the Kappa Sigs another championship. They
finished a game ahead of the Betas, who held a similar lead over the KA's and ATO’s. The Phi Delt
margin was now narrowed to 70 points. A strong finish by the Phi Delts in softball gave them mathematical assurance
of retiring the trophy. Final standings found them a game behind the winning Betas, whom they defeated in the season
opener for the lone blemish on the 11-1 Beta slate. With several matches yet to be played in the doubles
division, the tennis tournament shapes up as a battle between the KA’s and the Betas. KA Hight Redmond took the
singles title in a final match with Independent Newt Burns, and the KA doubles tandem of Redmond and Julian Pleasants,
along with Betas Ned Gwathmey and Bob Shoffner are two of the remaining three teams in the doubles, the third
being Phi Delts Don Whitley and Bobby Davis... .. Beta x KA SAE ATO _W— severe Sigma Chi —..._..___--— Phi
Gam Sig EP _._... -___--_- PikKapp neers Pika _

908 SPRING SALE
Begins Monday Morning 9 A. M.
Stock Up Before Vacation
SUITS SLACKS SPORT COATS
Wilson-Wright’s Inc.
SPORT SHIRTS KNIT SHIRTS AND OTHER ITEMS
“Collegiate Fashion’s’

Citadel's victory climaxes a three-year building program in track, started by General Mark Clark. During the regular season, the Wildcats
compiled a 6-win, 2-loss record.

‘Cat Athletes

The Davidson College impending exam period. time, earned them. These include the Armfield Blocking Trophy and the George King Scholastic
Trophy in football; trophies for the most valuable and high point men in swimming; and one for the most valuable
golfer. Dr. McCutchen, retired soccer coach, will award the soccer team's most valuable player.

By FINLEY LEE

For the third consecutive year, Coach Dick McKee’s tennis team was runner-up to powerful George Washington University in the Southern
Conference Tennis Tournament. The meet was held at Norfolk last Thursday, Friday, and Saturday.

THREE TEAM FIELD

The field narrowed to The Citadel, George Washington, and Davidson. Seedings had been arranged so that these teams would not
play each other in the initial round. In the first round, The Citadel, winning all nine of its matches, jumped
to a one-point lead over Davidson and G.W., with eight points apiece. The ‘Cats had their best day in the
semi-finals on Friday as they defeated third-seeded Citadel in five straight matches. Mintz, at number one, beat Citadel ace Jack
Starling 6-1, 7-5. John Poindexter, number 2, after being behind 5-2, 40 love, in the first set, won ten straight
games for a 7-5, 6-0 victory. At No. 3, Tom McCutchan defeated Anderson 6-1, 6-4, and Finley Lee whipped Bernie
Freighdon 6-1, 6-3 in the fourth slot. Dick Hodel won the last two sets after dropping the first to Thurman
Bishop in the sixth slot.

NINE STRAIGHT

The ‘Cat No. 5 man, Doug Orr, played the only non-Citadel opponent as he defeated Richmond's Dick McKee to give
every Davidson singles player a berth in the final round. Three Wildcat doubles teams also gained the final round with
only the Harry Broome-Tom McCutchan pair being forced to three sets. George Washington, however, won all of their semi-final matches
to tie the score at 18-18.

FINALS

The final day proved to be a dual match with the Colonials, who had defeated Davidson twice in the regular
season 6-3, 6-3. This time G.W., led by the Tarr brothers and strengthened by service returnee Ken Garrison, swept the
singles and took the first two doubles matches. In the number three doubles match, Doug Orr and Finley Lee beat
Garrison and Fischman for Davidson's only conference championship. The final score was George Washington 26, Davidson 19.

FINAL SCORES

No. 1—Jim Tarr def. Mintz.
No. 2—Jack Tarr def. Poindexter.
No. 3—Saul Leibowitz def. McCutchan.
No. 4—Jim Whitehead def. Lee.
No. 5—Ken Silverstone def. Orr.
No. 6—Ken Garrison def. Hodel.
No. 1 (doubles)—Tarr-Tarr def. Mintz-Poindexter.
No. 2—Whitehead-Leibowitz def. McCutchan-Broome.

CHARCOAL STEAK HOUSE
1800 W. MOOREHEAD ST.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Open Nitely 5-12 P. M.
FOR RESERVATIONS CALL ED 2-2414 After 2 P. M.

CONGRATULATIONS AND OUR SINCEREST BEST WISHES TO THE GRADUATING CLASS OF 1959
The Oaks Motor Court
344 South Main Street
Phone NOrth 3-5693
Mooresville, N. C.

Athletic Banquet will be held Monday, May 18 at 6:00 p.m. in the old dining hall in Chambers. Dr. Tom
Scott will be toastmaster. The banquet is an annual affair held to honor all men participating in intercollegiate athletics. Dr.
George Staples will give the invocation after which President D. Grier Martin and Dean will each give a small talk.
The program will be short due to the impending exam period.

First-year certificates will be given to each man winning his first varsity letter. Seniors who have lettered four years will
also be honored. For the first time, individual trophies will be given to those athletes whose performances have earned them.
These include the Armfield Blocking Trophy and the George King Scholastic Trophy in football; trophies for the most valuable and
high point men in swimming; and one for the most valuable golfer. Dr. McCutchen, retired soccer coach, will award the
soccer team's most valuable player.

In tennis doubles, Maxwell-Taylor (ATO) won by default over Davis-Whitley (Phi Delt). They play Gwathmey-Austell (Beta) for the consolation championship.
The winner of this match will play Hight Redmond and Julian Pleasants. If the Redmond-Pleasants duo wins, it will close
out the tournament with a KA championship.

The Interfraternity softball race was completed last week. The only two games saw the Phi Gams down the Kappa Sigs,
and the SPE’s beat the SAE’s in makeup action.

FINAL SOFTBALL STANDINGS

Beta
Phi Delt
Phi Gam
ATO
Kappa Sig
KA
Sigma Chi
SAE
Sig Ep
PiKa
PiKapp
Sigma Nu

When School's Out

When you are out of school this summer and lazing about in casual clothes, don’t compromise your appearance and your
reputation for being a good and knowledgeable dresser by selecting your wearables from just any convenient shop. Or working like
blue blazes. Here is a new haberdashery that Mellon’s has planned expressly for you. In it is assembled all the
right merchandise, the traditional and accepted clothing, furnishings, and sportswear preferred by young men on the go... at play or
work or school. Your patronage is desired... your approval sought. We would like mightily your visit before school is out.

MELLON'S
In the heart of Downtown Charlotte

“...and two cartons of Camels for our leader!”

More people drop in for Camels than any other cigarette on earth. It stands to reason: the best tobacco makes
the best smoke. The Camel blend of costly tobaccos has never been equaled for rich flavor and easygoing mildness. Put
fads and fancy stuff in the past... Have a real cigarette — have a CAMEL.

Reynolds Tobacco Co., Winston-Salem, N.C.
