Che Davidsonian
THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE
PAGE TWO FRIDAY, MAY 8, 1959

A Matter Of Honor

At Davidson, we have honor. We can see it in our honor system, which works. This honor system works only
because each student holds as a basic principle that it must work. But honor is hard-put to be gathered into
a code. Sometimes we find that we have kept a system without honor. There are situations in which the law
can be avoided without breaking it. This is not honor. It is not honor when we regard only specifically pledged
work as applicable to consider under an offense of honor. This is system. We are all guilty of this as
individuals. There are also situations in which honor is not disturbed, but the law is broken. This is hard to
see, harder yet to illustrate. But when a decision must be made, this fact is present to those who must
judge. We are guilty of this as a school. Our honor system cannot be more than imperfect. Its imperfection rests
on us as individuals. We cannot hope to eliminate situations of systems without honor. But we must and can take
necessary steps to lessen the necessity of honor without system.

The DAVIDSONIAN recommends at this time that the student council, the honor court, the administration, and the trustees carefully consider
revising the absoluteness of the honor violation. This should be made retroactive to cover all cases ever brought before the
student council or honor court. Honor must be maintained. Breaking it necessitates the paying of a hard price. But it
is our duty to give those who have made the mistake of their lives the opportunity to redeem their honor
back at Davidson. Being permitted to return after a suspension of two years would give a man the opportunity to
prove to himself and to his school that in the final analysis he has found honor, not lost it, through
his mistake.
—R.E.L.L.

Court Stays, But Needs Improving

The Student Council has made its choice for Judge of the Court of Control. And Milton Gee has accepted what
many consider an unenviable position. Needless to say, last year was a hectic one for the court, but perhaps this
should have been expected. The overburdened regulations and upperclassman conduct could hardly be expected to impress a young group of
sophisticated future Davidson gentlemen. For better or for worse, the court is still with us. It is evident that a
reconsideration of the regulations must be made if the court is to reach even the threshold of success. The student
council has made their suggestions for next year’s court (see page one). The DAVIDSONIAN would like to recommend the following
regulations for next year.

1) The Freshmen will be required to wear hats.
2) The Freshmen will be required to wear name tags.
3) The Freshmen will not walk on the grass.
4) The Freshmen will speak to all upperclassmen and faculty members.

The DAVIDSONIAN feels that the regulations should be continued no longer than one month. Also, we believe that the program
should be initiated before the beginning of rush week when the first upperclassmen officially register. It is our opinion that
if the court is to have any meaning to either freshmen or upperclassmen, it must be conducted in some form
in chapel. As with every student organization, student support or lack of it will mean the success or failure of
next year’s court.
—J.H.

Brains, Brawn: A Repeat Request

Because of widespread student approval of last week’s suggestions, the DAVIDSONIAN makes the following proposals:

1. That the gym be opened from 2:00 until 5:00 p.m. on Sunday afternoons.
2. That the gym be opened from 7:00 until 10:00 p.m. on Monday through Friday nights.

It also seems that this is a good chance to provide much-needed student jobs on the campus.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Ed Armfield
ASSISTANT EDITOR Dick Smith
BUSINESS MANAGER Dave Gillis
Associate Editor Jim Hamilton
Editorial Assistant Bob Livingston
Managing Editors Ervin Duggan, Bob Moore
Sports Editor B. Milner
Tom Colvin, Charles Rose
News Editor David Jordan
Feature Editor Dan Clemmer
Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

With exams close at hand, The DAVIDSONIAN asks that these proposals be given immediate consideration. There comes, after long periods
of study, a fatigue which can be best combatted by a workout which leaves the student fresh to return to
the books, not hazy after a nap. We are sure that such a move to open the gym for student
convenience, only on an experimental basis, would meet with widespread student approval and appreciation.
—E.M.A.

Local Culture

During the last exhibition of paintings in the foyer of Chambers, one print was defaced with fountain pen ink. Luckily
the print was protected by a clear plastic cover, and the inkings were removed without damage to the canvas. The
pen impressions still remained, however, and the Fine Arts Department felt it had to buy the print, which was priced
at fifteen dollars. The amount of this needless vandalism has decreased considerably in the past few years, but every now
and then it crops up again. It is amazing to us that some student feels that his skill and prowess
as an artist are worth the price of an exhibited print. It also makes us wonder about the maturity of
the “college man.” The would-be artist could have picked another painting, however. Also on exhibition was a five hundred dollar
Rembrandt.
—R.C.S.

A Word To The Wise...

While browsing through the library we came across a little item which, while not of major import, is rather amusing.
In the Charter and By-Laws of the Trustees of Davidson College (with revisions to February 19, 1958) Section 7 states,
“It shall be unlawful for any person to set up or continue any gaming or billiard table, or any device
whatsoever for playing at any game of chance or hazard, by whatever name called or to exhibit any sleight of
hand...” For the sake of good relations (we do need office space somewhere), we're not going to throw any rocks
even in the general direction of the Union, don’t see any need to. And as long as the Union doesn’t
put any more red light-bulbs on the front porch, we think they're safe.

MA Ed Armfield
Dick Smith
Dave Gillis
David Jordan
Dan Clemmer
Redding Starling
Advertising Manager Charlie Rowe
Circulation Mgr. Albert McClure, Jr.
Ass’t. Business Manager Greg Grana
Assignments Editor Copy Editor Cartoonists

“LUST-AROUSING MATERIAL” Survey Shows

By HELGE SCHOENFELDER

Sophomores seem to be the most unrestrained group of students. They have finally left behind the humiliating status of freshmen
and are enjoying the freedom which the exalted status of upperclassmen permits. This feeling of freedom is expressed in the
above-average number of sex displays. Among juniors, the interest in sex has decreased a great deal, and among seniors even
more. Surely, it cannot be denied that seniors have been affected by some obscure process of maturation.

LATIN LECHERS

The alert reader will probably hesitate and show surprise at the high percentage of foreign students exposing sex interests. By
way of explanation, it can be said that first, sex ranks fifth or sixth among other categories, and second, that
20 percent means that two out of ten foreign students had sex items on their bulletin boards. It is significant
to note, moreover, that these two students are both from Latin America. If this survey has not revealed any scandalous
situations at Davidson, it has made clear one point: it disillusions any prejudiced observer who believes that sex items would
outnumber other pin-up items with which students try to lighten their spirits in the Davidson monastery.

Being a foreign student at Davidson, I became curious as to what percentage of students would have lascivious pictures and
other lust-arousing material pinned on bulletin boards in their rooms. So, I investigated the rooms of 390 students, more than
one third of the entire student body, in two of the six dormitories on campus: Belk and Cannon. Here is
a list of items found in the rooms: picture postcards, flags, military pictures, fraternity relics, religious pictures, tennis rackets, pictures
of nature, wild west scenes, space rockets, beer advertisements, etc.

No displays 14%
Art 11%
Maps 8%

JUNIORS
Information 10%
Humor 62%
Scrap 21%
Sex 7%
Maps 2%
No display 1%

SOPHOMORES
Information 9%
Sex 25%
Personal 21%
No display 8%
Maps- ns, ments and mugs, girls’ stock- FRESHMEN ings, and underwear such as Information. 89% panties, bras, and other things.
H. . umer 41% STATISTICS Personal 25% The survey yielded the fol- co 21% lowing results: Of the 390 stu-
Sex P 18% dents investigated, 75 had sex Maps 16% items in their rooms. 200 had Art ~e 10% humorous
items, 37 had art, 47 4, display —— 10% had maps, 98 had scrap ma- oT ThE , terial, 4
had personal pictures, FOREIGN STUDENTS 70%: 233 had informative material, Hamoe 40% and 37 had nothing on bulletin 4” -
30% boards. — n This survey reveals clearly guormation son that sex stands only in the fifth ¢. P- 20%
place on this list and thus can- 7, o not be said to play a dominant Ne display res a
oe role in students’ lives, provided that it is possible to draw such a conclusion from the display on bulletin
boards. Among the 390 students in- vestigated, there were 66 sen- iors, 81 juniors, 111 sopho- mores, 122 freshmen, and
10 foreign students. The distribution of interests (as derived from bulletin board display material) may be seen in the table
below: SEX: INTERESTS The survey as it has been made points out some interest- ing differences. Only five per cent
of sophomores, for in- stance, show an interest in art. On the other hand, sopho- mores seem to be more
interest- ed in sex than any other class. Looking at the four classes, we observe a peculiar develop- ment of
sex interests as they SENIORS . —— -.-. are revealed on bulletin boards Information 59% or walls. These interests are
Humor .. 52% distributed as follows: Fresh- Personal 36% men 18%, Sophomores 24%, Scrap 35% Juniors 17%, Seniors 15%, For-
Sex ow. 15% eign students 20%. LETTERS TO THE EDITOR: Irate Writers Hit Laundry, Scold ‘Davidsonian’ Editors Tom Mainor Dear
Editor: This letter is about a year overdue. However, I would like to take this opportunity to pro- test the
Davidson College laun- dry’s replacing new shirts with old. I would be most happy to donate a few old shirts
with buttons still remaining; per- haps those may be ruined, rather than newer ones which now seem sure to go
in the next few weeks. It seems to me that quality work is sadly lacking in our laundry. Although our
patroni- zation of this place of business is more or less involuntary, I can see no excuse for such con-
sistently poor work and care- less handling. We are still cus- tomers. Tom Mainor Floyd Walters Dear Editor: A recent
experience has had a rather disquieting effect on my confidence in our renowned Davidson College laundry. Operating under school subsidization
and a thirty-five dollar contribution from each student every semester, the laundry need have no fear of its business falling
off; con- sequently the laundry ap- pears to make a regular prac- tice of misplacing clothes and falsifying laundry tick-
ets. On the morning of Monday, April 27 I took by the laundry a bundle of clothes including sev- en
pairs of khaki pants. On Wednesday afternoon I re- turned to the laundry to claim the bundle; it lay unwrapped
on the counter, and on top of the pile lay the ticket. Among the items listed was the following: “7
Pants (Duck)” followed by a circled “1.” Upon an inquiry to the at- tendant at the dry cleaning counter, I
learned that this meant one pair of pants was missing; the bundle could not yet be taken. On Thursday afternoon
I picked up my laundry; among the items on the ticket was one which read: “6 Pants (Duck).” The numeral
“7” and the circle “1” were still visible under the erasure. I am curious to learn what is being done
with these clothes which have disappeared. Perhaps unbeknownst to us we are clothing the Davidson Boy Scouts, or the orphans
at Barium Springs, or perhaps some unfortunate refugees. Let us bring this laudable en- deavor to light. Until we are
enlightened, however, my clothes will remain soiled and undiminished in number. Floyd J. Walters, Jr. Fred Morris Dear Editor: The
Editorial Voice of David- son College has grossly mis- represented the financial policies of the college in con- nection with
the fraternity court funds. This was done unwittingly, perhaps, but it should definite- ly be corrected. I believe this college
was as open as any you will find about the finances for this particular project, although if it had known
the extent to which its information could have been misinterpreted, it might not have been quite so open. Saying that
the “debt (on the court), along with the five per cent interest each year on the amount still unpaid, will
be completely returned in seventeen years” is an ab- surdity. As anyone in Pro- fessor Griffin’s investments class will tell
you, the col- PEANUTS Landmark . Wanna sain 25 16 In a hurry 71 CT ap lege is not presently
realizing even its anticipated 4½-5% net return on the court. Normal rental investments (depending, of course, on the market) expect
about 11-12% gross return in order that a reasonable net return may be expected after subtracting in- surance premiums, mainte-
nance, depreciation, taxes, and custodial (e.g. landscaping) ex- penses. The gross return ob- tained by the college this year was
approximately 7%. It was lucky if it netted 4%. Even overlooking some mathematical errors, there were some unreasonable impli- cations.
Referring to “pure pro- fit” being made by the college seems ridiculous when you con- sider the fact that the
net re- turn obtained goes directly to operating expenses—thus less- ening the load on the students. The college is merely
try- ing to earn a substantial re- turn on its investment of en- dowment funds as it is legal- ly
and morally bound to do. If this source of income stops or declines, it simply means that tuition and other
stu- dent fees will have to be raised. Hearing a student blast the college for “having its cake and eating
it too” implies that the purpose of the college may be separated from its obligation to the student. The term
“the col- lege” includes the student, for whose benefit the institution exists. When the business office starts paying out dividends
to stockholders, but not before, can we start yelling about our exploited situation. Fred Morris “HE TURNED HIS HEAD SLOWLY.
” , owe ew ce). by Starling THE HAWK’S NEST "Under Influence’’ Rule Needs Review By JACK TAYLOR AS someone
suggested, let’s consider the “under the influence” regulation from a realistic standpoint. As the rule now stands, it serves to
prevent a student's returning to the campus if he is overly intoxicated, i.e., intoxicated to the extent of being obviously
under the influence of alcohol, despite efforts to “act sober.” Now, as I see it, the safest place for a
man in such a state is his dormitory room. Surely no one would sug- gest that the highways, a road-side
grill, or a strange motel room is a safe refuge for a person who does not possess complete control of
his mental faculties or his coordination. WEAKEST MOMENT Granted, students would be wiser not to get drunk, but the fact
remains that students do get drunk, occasion- ally. Facing this fact realistically, would it not be better for the student's
safety to allow him to return to his room quietly, rather than to force him amidst strangers during his weakest
moment? Agreed, having intoxicated students staggering in at all hours, singing and screaming of their recent ex- ploits, is not
desirable. But, though he can hardly walk to his room, a student who is under the influence is still quite
capable of silence. A regulation which would impose severe restrictions upon students guilty of creating a disturbance, especially if the
students were intoxicated, would serve very well to discourage any unnecessary noise. BROTHER'S KEEPER Also, when the different aspects of
the present reg- ulation are considered realistically, we see that the rule forces a student to choose between loyalty to
friendship and duty to authority. Loyalty demands that the stu- dent help an inebriated friend back to the safety of
his room, and that he forget the meaning of the word duty. This is usually the choice, for it is
the more natural. After all—we are our brother’s keeper. Thus, it seems that a regulation which would allow an intoxicated
student to return to his room, but would require that he do so quietly and immediately would be a much
more realistic and a much more desirable regu- lation. ELIMINATE HYPOCRISY It would allow a drunk student the best and
safest place possible for one in such a condition as his; it would eliminate the ambiguity and hypocrisy generated by
the present regulation. By Schulz "AND THERE, BEHIND HIM, WAS A VAMPIRE BAT!"
