FRIDAY, MAY 1, 1959 THE DAVIDSONIAN PAGE THREE

SIDELINES

THE FRESHMAN ELIGIBILITY CHALLENGE

Last spring’s Southern Conference ruling that freshmen would not be eligible for varsity sports was met with mingled distaste and skepticism in the Davidson athletic department. Criticisms of the action were strong:

“A small school with a limited athletic budget like yours is going to have trouble competing with larger schools having more liberal subsidization policies.”

“Hiring new coaches and buying more equipment will take a big cut out of our athletic funds.”

“It will not only hurt football, it will be harmful to all sports at Davidson.”

The athletic department has adjusted to the new situation in the only way possible—it has done almost nothing at all. Only one new coach, Joe Hunt, was hired for the specific purpose of coaching a freshman sport, and he doubles as assistant basketball coach.

Wherever possible coaches have doubled up on their jobs. Tom Stevens worked with the freshman football squad as the varsity line coach and spent extra time with the struggling frosh squad. George Tucker instructed both swimming teams in addition to serving as assistant football coach and freshman track mentor.

In tennis and golf, however, the “doubling up” solution is almost impossible. These are two sports in which a great deal of individual attention must be given to each player. Coach Dick McKee has neither time nor space to devote equal attention to both the varsity and freshman tennis squads. For this reason the frosh tennis team is almost nonexistent.

At present, not much can be done. Until more money is granted to the athletic budget, freshman teams will have to stick with overworked coaches and worn-out uniforms. The money is a long way off and it might not even get here.

Looking back over this transition year, we see that, in spite of obstacles, the Freshman sports program has come out pretty well. The frosh swimmers plowed over just about everything in sight, making a conference championship for next year seem not too unlikely. David Gilmour and Mack Brownlee led a fine cross-country squad to a 5-1 season, and the frosh track team has just finished.

By PETE WYRICK

On Sunday morning the Davidson golf team leaves for Orange, Va., en route to the Southern Conference Golf Tournament which is to be held in Washington, D.C., this Tuesday and Wednesday. The team will stay at Woodbury Forest School Sunday where they will practice that afternoon.

On Monday, they will journey to Washington and arrive in time for a practice round at 1:00 p.m. on the links at the Woodmont Country Club, the site of this year's tourney. The Davidson contingency will consist of Bucky Dennis, who was medalist last year, Verner Stanley, Sam Sloan, Sut Alexander, Gary Heeseman, and Tom Johnson.

Davidson and George Washington are defending champions, but G.W. lost several men last year and will not be as strong a threat this year. Coach Scott expects the teams from Furman, The Citadel, V.P.I., and William and Mary to be the strongest contenders for this year's title, but hastened to add that the Wildcat squad has experienced a particularly good season this spring, anything can happen in the tournament and Scott feels that his golfers have the ability to win.

G.W. will be going for its fourth straight conference championship. “They have a new boy, Ken Garrison. He swatted our ace, Dick Hodet at No. 6 earlier this season,” Coach McKee said.

The 'Cats, with a completed season’s record of eight wins (including three shutouts) against five losses, “will be in the finals anyhow," McKee said. “We're the best besides G.W.”

By BILL GODWIN

Davidson's tennis sextet shellacked V.M.I. 9-0 here Friday in preparation for Southern Conference tourney play next weekend in Norfolk, Virginia. William and Mary and Navy co-sponsor the tournament at Norfolk on May 7, 8, and 9.

The whole tourney will be dominated by George Washington,” said Coach Dick McKee. “They have beaten us twice this year, 8-1 and 6-3.”

Davidson’s tennis coach rated The Citadel as third. The Wildcats, with a season record of 5-1, can take matches in the No. 1 and 2 positions.

By DICK BROWNLEE

The Davidson track team entered the High Point Relays today with “a good chance of winning” according to Coach Heath Whittle. Other entries included Washington and Lee, High Point, East Carolina, Elon, Guilford, Catawba, Lenoir-Rhyne, Pfeiffer, Pembroke, and Presbyterian.

The 'Cats had little difficulty in a 90-41 shellacking of the University of Richmond last Friday; McBryde turned in a 1:54.6 in the 880, and the Davidson relay team turned the mile run in 3:30.3. The ‘Cats picked up ten first places.

John Huie high-jumped six feet for the first time, and Mike Laughlin broad jumped 21’ 9¾”, his best effort of the season. Ed Kizer ran a 51.2, 440 and the Davidson team took second in the javelin for 13 points.

Coach Whittle is planning to take about 14 men to the Southern Conference meet in Williamsburg on May 8th and 9th, and he feels that his golfers have the ability to win.

One of the favored contenders for individual honors will probably be Haywood Sullivan of Furman who has been shooting consistently sub-par golf this season. Dennis will be defending his medalist position, but all the Davidson contingency will be in the running.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

An undefeated season. The scheduled field events are the same as for a regular meet. The Beta and Phi Delt softball squads posted identical 8-1 records this week to head the I-F diamond race. On Monday this week, the KA’s defeated the Sigma Nus, while the hard-hitting Phi Delts dropped the ATO’s. The Betas belted the SPE's, the Phi Gams slipped by the KA’s, the SAE nine won over the Pi Kapps, and the Sigma Chis downed the Independents.

Tuesday afternoon saw the Phi Gams drop the Pi Kapps. The Betas kept up their winning streak on Wednesday by whipping the Sigma Nus 27-14; the ATO’s downed the PiKA’s 6-1; the Kappa Sigs eased by the SAE's 15-14; the Sigma Chis edged the Independents 5-4; and the Phi Delts were victorious over the Pi Kapps.

In the I-F tennis tournament, Gwathmey (Beta) defeated Cory (SAE) in the quarter-finals. Ned Gwathmey meets Newt Burns (Ind.) in the semi-finals, and the winner matches his skill against the tough Hight Redmond (KA) in the finals.

By JIM PRESSLY

They said it couldn't be done... They said nobody could do it... but William and Mary on Monday furnish the opposition. Dave McCullough and Freddie Pharr may tackle their first pitching assignments, as Coach Stevens plans to use his entire staff.

LOSE 9-5 DECISION

In the first game of the recent V.P.I. double-header, the Wildcats lost a 9-5 decision. The visitors scored two runs in the first inning on a walk, fielder’s choice, and a home run by Dick Snead. They added three more runs in the second. After this shaky start, pitcher Dee Green blanked the visitors until the ninth inning. In the last frame, they pushed across five runs to take the victory. Davidson's big inning was the fifth. The Wildcats scored three runs, with Green’s triple the big blow.

V.P.I. TAKES 2ND

V.P.I. took the second game 7-2. Pat Henderson started for Davidson and was relieved in the second by Dee Lide. Swaim pitched the final inning. The big man for the double-header was Snead of V.P.I. with three hits, including a home run and triple. Green's triple was Davidson's only extra base blow.

Coach Tom Stevens’ baseballers, sporting a 2-13 season’s record, will play two double-headers in Virginia over the weekend. Washington and Lee tomorrow and William and Mary on Monday furnish the opposition.

On Tuesday at Greenville, the ‘Cats lost a 1-0 decision to Furman. Both teams were hampered because of almost no pre-game hitting practice. Furman’s only run was unearned. With one out, pitcher Green walked two men and hit another to fill the bases. The next batter grounded to Green, who threw out the runner attempting to score.

HITS RUNNER

Trying for a double play, Catcher Reagan hit the runner going to first in the back. The ball bounced away and the man previously on second scored. Davidson was leading 1-0 in the second game when it was rained out.

In recent Frosh activity, the Wildkittens exchanged wins with P.J.C. Davidson won at P.J.C. by a 6-1 score with Jerry Shelton going the route. At home on Monday, the Freshmen lost 10-6.