+ Abolish Court Of Control (Page 2) VOL. XLVI The Davidsonian The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College DAVIDSON
COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 1959 Charles Dana, originator of the Dana Challenge Program, came to town this
week and the Davidson community turned out to greet him in grand style. Dana arrived Monday afternoon and left Thursday
afternoon after a busy three-day visit. Highlight of his stay was the presentation of a citation given to him by
the Trustees and Faculty expressing their appreciation for the service he is rendering to the college. The citation, composed by
Dr. Ernest Beaty, commended Mr. Dana on his many varied achievements and accomplishments, praising him as a lawyer, industrialist, philanthropist,
humanitarian, and politician, among other fields of endeavor. He was particularly recognized as a friend of the college, especially interested
in scientific and technological advances in the field of education. The cordial philanthropist’s visit began Monday afternoon with a meeting
in the college business office to discuss the progress of the science building. Present at the meeting were Dr. Martin,
Mr. Meetze, Mr. Zaccagni of Thompson and Street, contractors for the building, Mr. Turner of A. G. Odell and Associates,
the architectural firm employed for the construction, and Mr. Currie. The majority of Tuesday and Thursday afternoon during the Lenten
Season at 5:15 p.m., beginning on Tuesday, February 24. St. Alban’s Episcopal Chapel will hold Evening Prayer Services each Tuesday
and Thursday afternoon during the Lenten Season at 5:15 p.m., beginning on Tuesday, February 24. These services will last about
fifteen minutes each and will be over in time for students to go to supper. Dress is casual.

Philanthropist Charles Dana, visiting the campus to review progress on the Dana Science Laboratory, examines blueprints with Professor S. S.
McLane and Grover Meetze of the Physics Department.

LAB SUCCESS MEANS LEARNING “Bricks And Mortar” Not Enough, Says Charles Dana “Bricks and mortar don’t make a success. The
real success comes when the students can be seen in the labs, learning and appreciating the facilities to learn. Success
depends upon human beings, not bricks and mortar.” So commented white-haired philanthropist Charles Dana as he sat outdoors in the
warm February afternoon on a stone bench in front of the Guest House and conversed in an easy manner with
a DAVIDSONIAN staff member last Wednesday. The new Dana Science Building was his chief interest. “The contractors are doing a
very good job. The drainage and sewage are completed and the basement is almost finished. Soon they’ll be able to
start on the first floor. In about a week they’ll be able to hang the electric wiring after a few
more basic fixtures are laid.” “The next thing, of course, is getting the new dormitory under way. Then, there are
the details of furnishing each building.” Dana also expressed interest in the Cunningham Fine Arts Building to be erected near
Shearer Hall. Mr. Dana then gave his views on Davidson College. “I would say that Davidson is the equivalent of
any of the best schools in the South. Its faculty is superior to that of most schools in this area.”
By JIM HAMILTON Davidsonian Sports Editor “It is quite a privilege for a boy who can gain admittance to attend
a college with a history as rich as Davidson’s. The record of her graduates is excellent, and her men have
been outstanding in their various communities.” He was quizzed on the question of increasing the enrollment of the college. “Of
course no increase in enrollment can be considered until the units now under construction are completed. These new facilities will
bring the college capacity to a thousand. “If the admission of more boys would change the high standards of this
institution I would not be in favor of it. It wouldn’t be fair to the boys. The benefits to graduates
in later life are increased if they attended a college with high standards. “I feel the boys here are all
working toward an end. They want to cash in on their education and establish a stable home in their community.”
“The liberal arts education must precede the full scientific education. Before one can devote his whole life to science he
must have the liberal arts education. He needs the broadening experience.” Dana was rather amused at all the attention he
had been getting while on campus and joked that one day “a young freshman photographer took a picture of everything
I did but take a bath.”

Dr. J. McDowell Richards, Chairman of the Board of Trustees, said, “We were unanimous in our election of Dr. Frontis
Johnston as Dean of Faculty. We are sure that he is the man for the position and that he will
do a fine job.” In speaking of the entire day’s session with the Board, Dr. Richards added that, “It was
a good day. We were well pleased with President Martin’s report, which was well balanced and very encouraging.”

Unlimited Potential The town of Davidson, with its three stop-lights and some two hundred inhabitants, lies approximately 38 degrees north
of the equator and 80 degrees west of Greenwich, England, in the North Temperate Zone. By BOB BRADFORD Davidsonian Feature
Writer Davidson is governed by an extremely efficient mayor and city council and is proud of her excellent water system,
new post office, volunteer fire department, police department, and churches. Mayor F. L. Jackson, a former treasurer of Davidson College,
begins a day at his desk in Davidson's City office. Dr. Martin’s report was a general look at the overall
Davidson picture. He first explained to the Board the faculty situation at present and then told of some of the
problems faced in securing and retaining professors, including compensations and other areas of competition with other institutions for their services.
Also pointed out was the fact that as the school increases its enrollment to one thousand there will have to
be eight to ten new professors to keep the student-professor ratio at its present 14 to 1 figure. Classroom conditions
were also discussed by President Martin, who told the Board that while there were ten classes of over forty students,
there were two hundred and three with less than forty students. This, in Dr. Martin’s opinion, shows “that while this
is somewhat of a problem, it is not as large as some had imagined.” The Trustees heard reports that the
new Patterson Fraternity Court had made campus life much more pleasant this year, while the various services of the Student
Union were also outlined. Dr. Martin told the Trustees that the Admissions Committee was doing a “very good job under
difficult conditions.” As of February 10, he indicated, 467 full applications had been received for the entering class, of which
218 had been accepted. A report was given to acquaint the Trustees with the freshman class as a whole and
with their collective record as

Davidson.Ds- athletes and student leaders in Davidson for which service the high school. County government pays the In reporting on
the drive city. to raise $600,000 to meet Mr. The town has in its possession; Charles O'Dana’s challenge, (Continued On
Page Four) which will give the college As Permanent Dean By ED ARMFIELD Davidsonian Managing Editor Dr. Frontis W. Johnston
was elected permanent Dean of Faculty by the Board of Trustees at their annual winter meeting Wednesday afternoon. Dr. Johnston
has held the position since Dean Clarence J. Pietenpol was forced by doctors’ orders to resign last year. $400,000, Dr.
Martin said that some $325,000 had been raised. In other business Mr. Robert Currie, Business Manager, showed the Trustees plans
for the proposed new dorm which is to be ready for occupancy in the school year 1960-1961. The scholarship program
was discussed but no new football grants were added, although there was some Trustee sentiment favoring such a move. The
Trustees heard recommendations from Dr. Grier Davis’ Committee on Religious Life that there be freshman Vesper Services the first few
weeks each semester to alleviate overcrowded conditions until a more suitable solution can be reached. Trustee Dr. Clyde Fouchee, Executive
Secretary of Florida Presbytery, when asked to comment on the meeting said, “It was a very progressive meeting. We were
much pleased with President Martin's excellent report and are also pleased with him as a President.” Already neighboring school officials
are promoting the concert to be held on March 3 at 7:30. Interfraternity Council President Vernon Edward Russell enthusiastically reported
after the recent Midwinters dance weekend. “Never before have I been so well pleased by student response to an IFC-sponsored
program,” Anderson stated. “Practically the entire college turned out at the Saturday evening dance to hear the Four Freshmen sing.”
Missing their airplane flight from Atlanta to Charlotte because of unfavorable weather conditions, the Freshmen barely arrived in time for
the dance. They were forced to cancel a concert scheduled in Chambers Auditorium on Saturday afternoon and drive to Davidson
through heavy rain in order to make the evening appearance. “Since the Four Freshmen missed the afternoon concert,” Anderson stated,
“the IFC had to pay them only for the evening performance. The money left unused from Midwinters plus profit from
the forthcoming appearance of the Kingston Trio will therefore result in a substantial reduction in the price of tickets for
Spring Frolics,” he said.

By DAVID JORDAN Davidsonian Staff Writer Dr. George A. Buttrick will open the 1959 Winter Religious Services at Vespers Sunday
night in Chambers Auditorium at 7:30. The theme of the YMCA-sponsored Religious Emphasis Week is “Student Barriers to Christian Faith,”
highlighting complacency, indifference, and conformity. The services will be held throughout the week, concluding on Friday. Three noted theologians have
accepted invitations and each will handle a phase of the main topic. Drs. J. Davison Philips and Henry Russell will
deliver messages in addition to Dr. Buttrick. “We feel that we have speakers who will appeal to every member of
the student body. Also, under this year’s program, one can benefit even if one is not able to attend all
the services. Each one will be handled independently,” reported Charlie Roberts, chairman of the Y Religious Emphasis Committee. “With the
cooperation of the entire student body, this can really be a meaningful experience.” The initial message of the week will
be “The Christian and the Material World,” as Dr. Buttrick centers his address on complacency. After Vespers, a coffee hour
open to students and visitors will be held in the College Union. There will be a compulsory chapel Monday morning
which will replace the usual Thursday chapel. That morning, Dr. Buttrick will have breakfast with the Y Cabinet. His final
message will be “Assurance Through Commitment.” Dr. Philips will speak on Tuesday. The mid-week services are devoted to consideration of
conformity. Beginning the series, Dr. Philips will speak on “Why We Conform” at chapel Tuesday and that night at 8:00
in the Union Ballroom on “When To Conform.” The concluding message, “How We Conform,” will be delivered Wednesday afternoon at
2:00, again scheduled in the ballroom. Dr. Russell, the last of the three guest speakers, will attack indifference. Thursday afternoon
at 2:00 in the ballroom, he will lead an informal discussion. (Continued On Page Four)

Dr. Johnston Elected

Dr. George Buttrick

Trio Ticket Sales Are ‘Phenomenal’

“The Kingston Trio ticket sales have been phenomenal,” stated President Anderson last Wednesday. “The IFC has been extremely lucky to
sell so many in about ten hours! When 100 sales were made on Monday right after the Midwinters dances, the
IFC's preconceived pessimism began to fade. By the conclusion of sales on Wednesday, 810 tickets had been sold. This greatly
overshadows the Council’s slim predictions of fifty percent student participation. In about ten hours the student body has purchased well
over half of the 1250-seat capacity of the auditorium. The remaining seats will be easily filled by the general public.

Elections Amendments Go To Student Body

The student council has proposed changes in the student body constitution which are designed to streamline elections procedure and boost
lagging student interest. President John Kuykendall, in a special student body meeting at chapel on Tuesday, outlined proposed amendments which
would authorize the grouping of elections in some areas, eliminating the long process of separate elections, and to make two
offices appointive rather than elective. The changes would establish a new five-phase order of elections. Student body officers would be
elected first, followed by members of the Honor Court, as in the present procedure. Following respectively would come three election
phases: class presidents in the third phase; freshman adviser, publications editors and YMCA officers elected simultaneously in the fourth phase,
and student council representatives in the fifth. Cheerleader and athletic council representatives would in the new system be appointed by
the student council. The recommended changes, which will be voted upon by students after a ten-day waiting period, were recommended
by Kuykendall earlier this month. Last fall, with the approval of the council, Kuykendall appointed a student committee to study
and recommend possible changes to make elections less time consuming and more efficient. The student committee, meeting bi-monthly with Kuykendall
until its work was finished this month, filed a report which was discussed (Continued On Page Four)

Trustees Cite Dana For Service

Wednesday afternoon was occupied with a tour of the land adjacent to the campus, including the site of the proposed
Cowan’s Ford Dam. Also, an interview with a Davidson representative was included in the afternoon activities. Thursday morning Dana again
attended a meeting in the business office, this time to discuss the new dormitory. Present at the conference were Martin,
Meetze, Currie, and Mr. Lashmit, architect for the new dorm. He left Charlotte for Toledo by plane Thursday afternoon. Dana
plans to return to the campus next in April for the inauguration of Dr. Martin as President of the College.
