Che Davidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, JANUARY 16, 1959

(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

Athletic Policy Facing Crossroads?

Where there’s smoke, goes the old adage, there is usually more than a little bit of flame. In recent days clouds of smoke have rolled from the direction of Davidson’s athletic department. According to Sports Editor Hamilton’s story (Page One), alumni athletic boosters, under the leadership of a new “Wildcat Club” hierarchy, are laying plans for a determined push for more athletic grants for the Davidson program. At this point, no one is sure just how much they want or how they intend to go about getting it. One thing is certain, they will try for increased funds.

On “The Hill,” the grind of knives can be heard as faculty opponents of subsidized athletics prepare for another round of what has thus far been a losing battle. If current plans go according to schedule, the Board of Trustees will settle the matter, for the time being, at its February meeting.

After talking with Coach Bill Dole several weeks ago, we can easily understand the motivation behind this drive for new scholarships. At that time, Coach Dole explained quite frankly that under present conditions, it was growing well nigh impossible for Davidson to compete with any degree of reasonable success in the Southern Conference. The present alumni attempt for increased aid for Davidson’s athletic fortunes is their answer to this problem, now reaching the critical stage.

There are other obvious answers. This is the one that advocates of a strong athletic program will propose. Perhaps controversy over an increase in athletic grants will cause a thorough analysis of Davidson’s entire athletic policy. At any rate, future developments will bear careful attention by all genuinely interested in Davidson and her future. Perhaps it would be too much to say that a decision by the Trustees in this matter will mark a turning point; it will most certainly indicate a direction for the years to come.

Voting Proposals To Crush Apathy

Davidson's traditional apathetic elections cannot be entirely blamed on a lack of student interest. Much of the trouble lies with the outmoded election methods which cause the voting period to string out for weeks, and with poor luck, months. Something must be done now about this system if the old bugaboo of student apathy is to be conquered.

In a Wednesday interview Student Body President John Kuykendall talked of minor changes. In general, we agree with his suggestions, but they scarcely go far enough. For the Council’s consideration, we would like to present the following proposals:

(1) The election of the editors of Davidson's three publications should be held at the same time as the elections for Student Body officers. A conflict here is highly improbable. If that circumstance should occur, special provision could be made for that particular year. As a rule, there is no reason why these votes could not be held at the same time.

(2) YMCA elections should be conducted by the “Y” and removed from the Student Body election system. The logic for this move should be evident. The YMCA is not an official organization of the Student Body, and not all members of the Student Body are members of the “Y.” Why then should its elections crowd the already heavy election schedule?

(3) No separate elections should be held for class presidents. All classes should vote for Student Council representatives, and the representative who receives the highest vote total should be automatically designated president. As class presidents are members of the Council, it is assumed that the same qualifications are required for Council representative as class president.

(4) The Athletic Council, traditionally elected last, should be appointed by the Student Council.

(5) Head Cheerleader should be either appointed by the Council or elected at the same time as Student Body officers and publication editors.

The DAVIDSONIAN believes that all of these proposals are both reasonable and practical. Details will have to be worked out by the Council and President John, but if they are adopted, we feel that the only result can be speedier and more interesting elections.

Ease Exam Schedule Policy

The forthcoming examination week will elicit many moans from the students about their exam schedule. For some it will be that their toughest two fall on the same day; some will cry that they could be through with exams after the first three or four days if they didn't have to wait until the last day for R.O.T.C.

The DAVIDSONIAN would like to enter a plea for a more lenient policy on the part of the administration for examination schedules. As it stands now, there is little a student can do except take this exam when the period of his class falls. In freshman and sophomore courses particularly, where courses are taught in several sections, many students would welcome the opportunity to take the exam with another section of the same course. Why not relax the stipulation requiring a student to take the exam with his section?

A rather radical proposal which has its merits would be for a professor to place the name of each student on a copy of the exam, and let the students pick up the tests and leave their finished exams at a designated point any time during the examination period. (This method might be more regulated by each professor setting aside only a portion of the exam period during which the student might take the exam.) A student, given the opportunity to take an exam when he feels he is best prepared, will be under less tension, and a truer picture of each individual’s abilities can be gained when each has had the benefit of adequate preparation.

Almost any proposal will present problems, and many suggestions which students make will include points which conflict with other ideas. The DAVIDSONIAN suggests a student-faculty committee be set up to accept ideas and study possible methods of altering the examination schedule system, with an eye toward making it easier for the student to consolidate a semester’s work thoroughly and demonstrate his capabilities at their best—G.W.R.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Charles Chastain

ASSISTANT EDITOR
Bob Lathan, George Ramsey

BUSINESS MANAGER
Ed Armfield

Associate Editors
Dick Smith
Jim Hamilton
Pete Kellogg
Bruce Brooks

Sports Editor
Laurens Walker

Feature Editor
Bill Patton

News Editor
Henry Samuels

Assignments Editor
Tom Colvin

Copy Editor
Spiro Macris

Cartoonists
Bross, Cole

Photography Editor
George Rhyne

Advertising Manager
Dave Gillis

Circulation Manager
Greg Grana

Ass’t. Business Manager
Bob Wynne

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879

KREMLIN ULTIMATUM

Free World Must Meet Communist Challenge in Berlin

By ED ARMFIELD

The Eisenhower Administration is to be commended for taking a strong position against the Russian ultimatum that we withdraw from Berlin within six months. The criticism of the past that the administration of the “Captive Hero” has been characterized by the absence of firm decisions is not now of primary importance. The fact is that the United States, under the leadership of a proven military genius, has made a sound decision, both militarily and politically.

The experience of our nation with the principle of appeasement during our lifetimes has been all but pleasant. World War II resulted after unsuccessful attempts to appease Hitler in the ‘thirties. The attempts to avoid warfare by bargaining away principles proved to be only futile pipe dreams after Munich in 1938, when the Czech Sudetenland was turned over to Nazi domination. It was only a matter of months after Prime Minister

Academic Nightmare . . .

LETTERS TO EDITOR

Correspondents Hit Mud, Library Noise

Dear Editor:

Though I would not at all pretend to criticize the weather at this most glorious of educational institutions, it is nevertheless true that for some reason Davidson has a quite generous supply of mud. As a matter of fact, I have unearthed a fabulous deposit of it between Duke dorm and the Union: enough, I believe, to supply Helena Rubinstein for twenty years. Unfortunately, right through the center of this, there is and has been for many years a path from Duke to the general vicinity of the Union; a path which supports a volume of traffic sufficient to make U. S. No. 1 look like a squirrel track by comparison. By some accident it seems to have escaped the notice of the administration that this veritable highway is unpaved.

Having grown fearful of the homicidal glances of my janitor whenever I would bring half this path into the dorm on my shoes, I decided to inquire as to the reason for the rustic nature of said thoroughfare. I was informed gently but ever so politely that “You

Dear Editor:

For some reason Davidson students are hesitant to tell each other to be quiet in the library. Whether that is a weakness or a virtue, it is a fact. They do, however, report the inconvenience tothe library staff. Since the reports have become fairly numerous, we are adopting this method, and the “reminder signs” in the stacks, to call the condition to the attention of the student body. A major disturbance seems to be talking in the carrel area. We had hoped to remedy this difficulty by eliminating the halls beside the carrels and by making them more private. Without your consideration, architectural improvement will go for little. The Library Committee has voted that there will be no conducted tours through the Library. We are proud of the building and would like to show it off, but its primary purpose is study. Conducted “tours” are defined as groups of three or more persons. Students are welcome to take their parents through at any time, with due consideration for others at work. The doors to the large reading rooms were added to cut down the noise from the main lobby and the stairs. We believe we have done everything possible to make the library a convenient place to study short of acting as policeman. The dormitories weren't designed primarily for study. The Library is. It’s up to you. The Library Staff

“Wouldn’t want a concrete walk right through the lobby of the proposed new dorm, would you?” However, since it now appears that the new dorm is to be behind Belk, I heartily agree that such a path would be somewhat of a detour. I once heard a prominent lady on campus suggest that the whole campus be paved and painted green. I am totally opposed to this, however, as it would frustrate future Freshman classes to have no grass not to walk on. I wish, though, that someone would at least put some gravel on that path. Ed Spivey

PEANUTS

HOW ABOUT IT? ARE THERE ANY DOG FANCIERS AROUND HERE? ANY REAL DOG LOVERS? HOW ABOUT IT?

Chamberlain’s “peace in our time” statement before Panzer divisions flooded into Poland with the assurance of no attack from the rear guaranteed by the Nazi-Soviet treaty of non-aggression of only a month before. Appeasement as a national policy was clearly a failure. The more we learn of conferences such as Yalta, Tehran, and Dumbarton Oaks, the more we can see that appeasement has failed again and again. Now we are faced with an ultimatum from the Kremlin to withdraw from Berlin. There are those who contend that Berlin is not worth the risk of a nuclear war. But there is then the question: Will Soviet demands end at Berlin? History says no. The Communist Manifesto which calls for the “forcible overthrow of all existing social conditions” seconds this answer. Demands of this nature which are met will be followed by more ultimatums until, as an end result, we will be forced to take a stand just that much closer to our native soil. Our policy in Berlin must be one of stern resistance and strong support of principle. When one bargains with principles the terms will be met with blood. The allied system of regional alliances is the only force capable of putting an end to Soviet imperialism. Only through a unified stand, and not through the unsuccessful principle of appeasement, can we maintain a balance of power with the Soviet.

SALMAGUNDI

By Bross

Dear Editor,

Mr. Ray certainly made an ass of himself, didn’t he? How could anyone possibly doubt the virtue of jock scholarships in the light of the effervescent school spirit the team engenders? I have heard that playing is just as much a job as working in the stud or in the library, only the players receive more glory. Granted, they work hard for their subsidization, but so does the male chorus. Without any actual fact, I believe that Plott’s songbirds spend at least as much time and energy as the team without any scholarships whatever. What they need, I think, is the same kind of supporters that the athletes have. I must close now since it is supper time and I have several more nuts to crack.

Rosco

WHAT DO YOU SAY? ANYONE AROUND HERE LIKE DOGS? HOW ABOUT IT? HUM? WHAT DO YOU SAY?

Compulsory Course = Burden Too Great

By JOHN TOUMARAS

During the past few years, there has been much discussion concerning Davidson’s curriculum. Most of this discussion has revolved around the advantages and disadvantages of adding new courses and of modifying basic courses. Although many improvements have been made, one basic problem or question remains to be answered. Suppose hundreds of new courses are added and basic ones are revitalized, when would a student have the time to take them? At present, one must have 124 hours and a like number of quality points in order to graduate. Of these 124 hours, 64 are required hours in basic freshman and sophomore courses of English, Bible, history, science, math, foreign language, and ROTC. Add to this 36 hours consumed by a major and a minor and 12 hours of Advanced ROTC and you have a grand total of 112 hours. Thus a student is given the opportunity to choose 12 hours of electives at his own discretion. Is this a liberal education? One need not question the importance of most of the basic, required courses, although improvements in the subject material covered and teaching methods can always be made. Bible and ROTC, however, allow for some changes. It seems to me that an adequate knowledge of the Bible can be taught in two semesters instead of four if less time were spent in memorizing kings and in explaining the first few chapters of Genesis. No credit should be given for ROTC, especially the Advanced courses. Since a cadet is paid for two years of ROTC and is rewarded for his efforts with an Army commission, no other compensation need or ought to be made. If such a policy were pursued, a student would have 18 more hours of electives to choose at his discretion. Would this not make for a more liberal education?

THE PHILOSOPHES

The new Dana Laboratories is climbing impressively from its foundation. Its growth may be rendering us insensible to the threat which the acclaim it receives symbolizes for the balance and breadth of liberal arts education at Davidson.

OBVIOUS FACT

About the most obvious fact of our present life as a college is our commitment to expansion. The increasing popularity of the pre-medical major (they constitute almost 30% of the present senior class) coupled with the designated gift of Mr. Dana and recent losses in faculty strength, as in the history and psychology departments, make greater the temptation to overbalance one phase of the expansion. A larger college of 1000 students with high academic standards and of high integrity can be realized at Davidson only through the combined and coordinated growth of all aspects of the institution. One possible principle for guidance during such growth is the fact that the emphases, objects, and methods of teaching of arts and natural sciences are quite different. An increase in the physical plant which would be of great benefit to one might not appreciably affect the progress of the other. The nature of the subject matter creates the essential distinctive qualities of the arts: man with his aspirations and failures is vitally involved and cannot easily be made to fit general and universal laws.

CLASS SIZE

The size of the class needs to be smaller and the professor-student ratio more favorable. The relation of student with professor needs to be stressed to communicate that portion of a body of knowledge which logic is unable to do. Class discussion and seminar work are important; interdepartmental study should complete the work of the arts major, for the subject with which he deals cannot be confined in any one field.

RELATED

Another possible guiding principle for expansion is the concept that the arts and natural sciences are related and both contained within a complete intellectual and moral education. This is uniquely true at Davidson. The increase in physical facilities for natural science is likely to continue the trend towards pre-medical work rather than some sort of pre-research major. The nature of the experience of the doctor demands a great deal more than a knowledge of instruments, chemistry, and biology; he deals with people as people as well as with people as functional organisms. Acting upon such a principle, the institution would give the liberal arts major a grounding in at least the basic theory of natural science and would establish the encounter of the pre-medical student with the challenge of the arts and the study of man as man. Such guiding principles, if valid, would demand an organic and natural expansion of every phase of the total college spectrum and a corresponding synthesis of the whole. They would say that, if we must grow, we grow with wisdom.