Che Davidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE — PAGE TWO FRIDAY, MAY 15, 1959

Labor: An End, Not A Means?

One of the problems that it is necessary for a Davidson student to have an opinion on is labor. Most of us don’t. Therefore it is within the context of the accomplishment of the Great Issues program that we speak. Their final series of what has become a successful institution on campus after one year of work speaks well for it. The conflict between such men as Mr. Dillard and Mr. Payton is not personal. It is on the higher plane of what one man has learned from life versus another. The DAVIDSONIAN wants to speak only for itself in this matter, but it feels a deep need to give a statement on labor-management relations. It must speak within its environment, which obviously colors its opinion. We side with Mr. Dillard.

The points which were adequately represented, if not completely developed, by Mr. Payton are, nonetheless, essentially valid. Labor Unions have historic (if not present) justification. The present labor movement is clearly valid in urging consideration of what it supports. We do not argue this. In our days, organized labor has become an end in itself rather than a means to the greater good of the worker. The situation in the steel industry today reveals this. An independent, respected surveyor has found that the steel worker does not want a strike under any conditions, that he would rather keep his present wages than go on strike. But the Steelworker’s Union is demanding in New York more money or a strike.

The export situation of the United States is deteriorating, because of its high-wage costs and constrictive labor practices which have torn apart the railroad industry and could strike others. The pendulum has swung back reversing the historic roles in labor-management disputes. Management is now the underdog. The general public is the not-too-infrequent loser. Mr. Dillard speaks not for destroying organized labor, nor for freezing it arbitrarily. He speaks for creating a situation in which higher considerations than the immediate moment can be the concern. The textile industry is internally and externally competitive. A monopolistic union of the same stature as the autoworkers could dictate more than policy. Perhaps the TWUA does not aspire to be such, but this it must prove for our comfort before it has the opportunity, not after.

Labor has done much in the past for its workers. Despite the Hoffas it is not essentially sick today. It is not without fault, however, and it is necessary to see and eliminate this. Progress, however, is not always labor’s most important product.

—E.M.A. & R.E.L.

Redemption

Last week THE DAVIDSONIAN proposed that a man dismissed from school for an honor violation could be considered for readmission after a period of two years. The Honor Court met Thursday morning to consider a detailed proposal by Dean Bailey which is very similar. The Court heartily approved the plan and it went to the faculty this afternoon for further discussion.

Under Dean Bailey’s proposal a man who is dismissed from school for an honor violation could apply after two years for readmission. A faculty committee would investigate the nature of the offense and the conduct of the applicant since his dismissal. Any recommendation left by the Court which tried the case would also be given careful consideration. It would then be the faculty’s decision as to whether or not the student could return.

The value of such a plan would be to give another chance to a man who, although he broke the letter of the law, did not intend to violate its spirit, in the opinion of the Court. Such cases do arise. To allow a man the opportunity to return and prove himself better for his experience would be in the spirit of a church school.

—E.M.A.

A Helping Hand

We note with interest and approval that philanthropist Charles A. Dana has again extended a monetary helping hand to the South. His $360,000 challenge gift to Queens College, similar to the one he gave here a year ago, carries the same stipulation: that it be matched with an equal amount to be raised by Queens officials and friends.

Although not for as explicit a purpose as Davidson’s science hall (half of the Queens grant is to go into general endowment), the donation shows another contribution to the trend that Northern philanthropists have enough interest and confidence in the growing Southern educational system as to consider such a grant a good investment. We hope that the trend will continue.

—R.C.S.

Davidson 500?

It appears that some of our students, fascinated by the powers of automation, have decided that the drive around Patterson Fraternity Court sufficiently resembles the Darlington Speedway so as to be used for the same purpose. Especially at meal times many of the proud owners of the various automobiles on campus (usually those who are fortunate enough to possess newer models or some make of foreign car) decide to show off their mechanical prowess and zoom around the court. It has been reported by one proud “driver” that he “can hit sixty miles an hour in front of the Beta house.”

We would like to remind our student drivers that it has been college policy to erect speed bumps in areas in which there has been excessive speeding. So unless some students desire a bevy of these man-made mole hills scattered inconveniently around the court, we suggest that some of the local dare-devils trade in their checkered flags for safer speeds.

—V.J.H.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Ed Armfield

ASSISTANT EDITOR
Dick Smith

BUSINESS MANAGER
Dave Gillis

Associate Editor
Jim Hamilton

Editorial Assistant
Bob Livingston

Managing Editors
Ervin Duggan
Bob Moore
B. Millner
Tom Colvin
Charles Rose

Sports Editor
News Editor
Feature Editor

Assignments Editor
David Jordana

Copy Editor
Dan Clemmer

Cartoonists
Redding Starling

Advertising Manager
Charlie Rowe

Circulation Mgr.
Albert McClure, Jr.

Ass't. Business Manager
Greg Grana

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

PLAYING FAVORITES?
By ED STEVENS

(Editor’s note: The material in this article is adapted from a lengthy statistical survey made recently by Senior Ed Stevens. A set of statistical tables supporting his findings was omitted because of lack of space.)

An investigation of THE DAVIDSONIAN reveals strikingly the extent to which one’s fraternal affiliations affect his ability to rise to positions of leadership on the Davidson College Campus. Nine times during the past eleven years the Editor-in-Chief has been from one of four fraternities—Pi Kappa Alpha, Beta Theta Pi, Kappa Alpha, or Kappa Sigma. Thirty-three percent of the fraternities have furnished eighty-two per cent of the Editors-in-Chief. The odds against this occurring merely by chance are far above one hundred to one.

PAST YEARS

In the period from 1948-52, seventy per cent of the staff offices were filled by members of four fraternities—Phi Delta Theta, Kappa Sigma, Pi Kappa Alpha, and Kappa Alpha. Over an eleven year period there was a tendency for the figures to balance out, as power switched from fraternity to fraternity. Even so, we find that fifty-four per cent of the key posts were filled by men from four fraternities—Kappa Alpha, Kappa Sigma, Beta Theta Pi, and Phi Delta Theta. When we consider the above data, we readily see that five fraternities have dominated the

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR:

Queens, Converse Girls Reply To Recent Jibes

(Editor’s Note: A recent article by freshman George Trask, on the attitudes of Davidson students to surrounding girls’ schools, brought angry replies. Below are printed two letters: the first attacking the statement that “most Queens girls are pigs,” and the second answering the charge that “all Converse girls are country girls.”)

Dear Editor:

In view of a recent article in the DAVIDSONIAN'S Spring Frolics Issue, we find it necessary to set the ‘Davidson Gentlemen” straight on a few matters. Sitting smugly in the middle of Queens, Hollins, Salem, Converse, Sullins, St. Mary's, Sweet Briar, Randolph-Macon, W.C., Mary Baldwin, and Agnes Scott, Davidson men seem to think they are God's gift to women and can sit in judgment on these schools. It is time this smug little school got the other side of the story and took a look at itself.

The “Wildcats” (and I use the term loosely) are composed of emaciated boys with crew cuts or stocky-looking oafs left over from high-school football. They consider themselves naughty and “earthy” when they manfully get softy (sic—Ed.) on a few beers or tell of all their adventures with the opposite sex—the source of these adventures coming from cheap newsstand magazines. They consider themselves worldly and well-traveled when they have gone as far as Mooresville. Yet these same creatures, holding their black umbrellas, graduate not knowing a thing of life and continue their simple, innocent way atUnion Theological Seminary or at some “wild” med school. To centralize these complaints let us discuss the matter of the “pigs” at Queens: Several of the whitewashed Davidson gentlemen must want to gain experience by wallowing in the pig pen with the pigs. At any rate, a fair number of them travel the road to Charlotte on weekends. These dates are given out of the kindness of the Queens girls’ hearts because West Point, Annapolis, Princeton, Yale, and Harvard can’t manage to come down for weekends. (sick—Ed.) To the immature, childish behavior of the fairy boys at Davidson, Queens, and the other above-mentioned schools reply: Primly they carry out their “wild, college life” by hog calling in chapel to prove their manliness. They call themselves gentlemen, yet they have no converse manners, no sense of dignity, nor any concern for anyone but themselves. They are little boys who think they are being terribly manly.

Dear Editor:

After reading your choice comments of the different girls’ schools in the DAVIDSONIAN, I was compelled to respond to the PEANUTS publication which we claim is the voice of all students.

KEY POSTS

We might also note that over the eleven-year period, twenty-eight key posts have been filled by men of the Editor’s fraternity, while only one hundred and five have come from all other groups. If mere chance were responsible, this would occur less than one time out of one hundred. Similarly, we see that a great preponderance of any one fraternity’s members who filled positions did so when a member of their own fraternity was Editor-in-Chief. Thus there seems to be little ground on which to base an argument denying that Editors-in-Chief pick underlings at least partially because they are of their own fraternity, rather than solely on the basis of merit.

OBJECTIONS

At this point, it seems proper to introduce and discuss some objections which might be made to my argument. First, there is the objection that, since fraternities differ in size, one cannot arbitrarily say that one-twelfth of the key staff members would be from each fraternity by chance. This objection is valid, but only to a point. Investigation reveals that the size of fraternities varied over the eleven-year period, but that differences in total membership over a period of time tended to be small.

FRATS VARY

Second, some will argue that fraternities vary in regard to the all-around capabilities of their members; that some fraternities tend to have more leaders in all phases of campus life. This argument is also valid, but again only to a certain degree. While it may partially explain the preponderance of offices held by members of a few fraternities, it cannot do so completely. If it were true that the preponderance of leaders are to be found in one or two fraternities, we would find that the same fraternities dominate nearly all groups. But we have seen from our examination of THE DAVIDSONIAN that this is not the case: the fraternities whose members were so powerful on the DAVIDSONIAN staff have had few members on the Scripts 'n Pranks staff. (It may be here noted that in the past six years, fifty-six of the total ninety-three key staff members of Scripts 'n Pranks have been from two fraternities—Sigma Chi or Phi Gamma Delta. Five times during the last six years, the editor has been a member of Sigma Chi. This could almost never come about by pure chance.)

NATURAL ATTRACTION?

Third, it might be suggested that those who are capable writers are naturally attracted to the fraternities which already have many writers. While this may be true in some cases, I do not feel that (1) this has too widespread an effect, or that (2) anywhere near all of those who work on the DAVIDSONIAN Staff are at all sure during Rush Week of their freshman year that they will do so. If the odds in support of my position were only ten to one, or even fifty to one, I would admit that there was considerable room for doubt. Since, however, the odds are around one thousand to one, I feel justified in concluding that fraternity allegiance plays a significant role in the selection of staff members for THE DAVIDSONIAN.

“TOIL AND TROUBLE”

Henderson Strike: What Will Happen?

By JOHN STONE

Labor strife has figured prominently in North Carolina lately. Workers have been on strike at Henderson for several months now. Violence and charges and countercharges have been rife. Attempts to mediate have gotten nowhere. And the strike goes on. The strike began when the management refused to renew an arbitration clause in the contract. The clause had been in the contract for 14 years, and there was apparently no reason given at the time for the refusal to renew it. Most of the sporadic violence connected with the strike has consisted of rock throwing and the like, although some of it has been more serious in nature. The mills are back in partial operation now, due to the employment of outside workers, but the strike is by no means broken. All prolonged strikes are something of a tragedy. Workers are out of jobs, and their families suffer. On the other hand, the owners are certainly losing money. In this case, the taxpayers are losing something too, as the National Guard was called out Tuesday in an attempt to prevent further violence. The important thing about the Henderson strike, however, is that it may possibly set some sort of precedent, especially if it continues. As the industrial economy of the South grows, it is almost inevitable that labor unions will try to keep pace, and many of our laws and regulations favor them. If the Henderson strike does grow into a big issue, the attempts of labor to organize further will be affected. And the strike could conceivably come to represent even more than this. The union has been at Henderson for years, and until now there have been few outward manifestations of disharmony. The attitude of management toward labor is hardening, which means, if management wins at Henderson, unions already in existence may be in for some difficulties. If labor wins, it may be in a somewhat better bargaining position than previously. The final results remain to be seen.

Bottoms Thanks Y’ For Fund Donation

Gentlemen:

This morning it was my privilege to lead staff devotions. While I was sitting there waiting to begin, Dr. Miller came in and placed before me a check. I realized immediately that it was the check from the Davidson College student body which was to be used for the Davidson College Fund for Graduate Study. I knew that we had an added blessing for which we could give thanks to God.

Let me express again my grateful appreciation for the interest of Davidson College student body and to you and the other leaders who were instrumental in getting these funds for the training of Negro youth as they pursue at the graduate level their seminary training. This money has already been set aside in our treasurer's office as the “Davidson College Fund for Graduate Study.” We will endeavor in every way to administer these funds so that they will be a credit to the College and so that the Kingdom of God might be advanced through youth who have dedicated themselves to His service in the ministry.

With deep appreciation and again thanking you for the very pleasant experience I enjoyed at Davidson, I am

L. W. Bottoms
Negro Work Department
Board of Church Extension