First 59 Session (Continued from Page One)

Some of the ideas presented on Wednesday to the legislative body are an outgrowth of the Elections Committee, which has been discussing Davidson elections for several weeks. The other suggestions of this committee will not necessitate constitutional amendments.

STUDENT INTEREST

The problem of student interest and response has especially concerned the council in its consideration of elections changes. Members of the student committee offered a precinct system of voting to the council Monday as a possible boost in interest.

President of the Board Dr. J. McDowell Richards will preside over the meeting. Reports from Dr. Martin and Mr. E. A. Currie, College Business Manager, are scheduled. A routine docket is expected. Dr. Martin commented that the business of the meeting would be “nothing sensational.”

Under the plan, students would vote at established polls rather than in the Union as has been the custom in the past. Four precincts would be utilized. Residents of Duke, East, and Cannon dormitories would vote in East; Belk residents in Belk; and students who room in Watts, Little, and Martin’s Manor at Watts. A precinct would be open in the Union for students who live off-campus. Details of when the polls would be open and for how long were not specified.

Regardless of possible action next Monday, the council has set Friday, February 20, as the approximate opening day of elections.

Actually, roughly one-fifth of all places in entering college classes go vacant every year. A number of these empty places are at the many Podunk U’s where an able student would find himself several cuts above the faculty in intelligence and general information.

Old Chambers Building, for many years the center of the college, appears above in a Daguerreotype taken shortly after its construction in 1858. This building was destroyed by fire in 1921. The newly planted trees along the drive in the foreground now tower over the Davidson campus. (Photo by Rhyne)

Davidson Claims Rich Century-Old Heritage
By BOB BRADFORD
“Davidsonian” Feature Writer

William Lee Davidson gave much of his life to the founding of a college in Mecklenburg based on Presbyterian principles. His father had fought equally hard for the Presbyterians’ right to Queens College in Charlotte, but this had failed. However, the congregations of the Catawba and Yadkin valleys still had hopes of founding a college.

In 1820, a group of men met in Lincolnton to consider the foundation of a school to be known as “Western College,” but the plans never materialized. Nevertheless, this college is the connecting link between Queens College and Davidson. They selected for the institution a tract of land lying partly in Mecklenburg and partly in Iredell, a few miles to the east of Beattie’s Ford. The tract contained 469 acres, consisting of the Jetton and Lynn tracts of 269 acres. On August 26, 1835, the Concord Presbytery gave the name Davidson College to the institution about to be built. This act was done in memory of General William Davidson, father of William Lee Davidson, the previous owner of the land.

Davidson's architecture has consistently adhered to one particular style, excluding, of course, the unsightly Shearer Hall. The old fraternity court is in perfect keeping with this style, while Chambers bears a previous owner of begun in 1858, and first classes were held in the impressive edifice in 1860. It was a gift of Maxwell Chambers of Salisbury who left Davidson a quarter of a million dollars, thus making her the richest college south of Princeton. The old inn across from Eu Hall was built the same year the college opened, 1837. Under its balcony, the South Carolina students decided in a mass meeting to leave college when their state seceded from the Union in 1860.

Harper’s Magazine Commends Davidson

Davidson College is recommended in the February issue of Harper's Magazine as a good school for even the most talented high school student. No student should consider Davidson a ‘second choice” to such “prestige” institutions as the Ivy League colleges, says an article titled “Good Colleges That Are Not Crowded.” Author Martin Mayer lists the school along with twenty other “good private colleges that are looking for more good students.” None is actually “hungry” for applications, he says, but at most of them, “a good student will receive the kind of rousing welcome that nobody not a potential Einstein can get from the top-prestige colleges.”

“Most of these colleges receive three and four applications from qualified candidates for every vacancy in the freshman class,” he continued. “And the fact that these twenty colleges must reject more good students than they accept has created the myth of an ‘admissions problem’ in American higher education.

To avoid this danger, we must be prepared to mix the student pot more thoroughly, to encourage a greater migration of first-class Eastern students to the South and Midwest, as replacements for those whom the prestige schools have siphoned off.”

A Dejected Damsel

It seemed as if poor Cinderella wasn’t going to get to go to Davidson, but her kindly roommate, Linda Godmother, solved her problems by lending Cinderella her new Thunderbird. Away Cinderella went, driving the Thunderbird and reminding herself that she must be back by 12 Sunday night. What a gay time she and Clyde had at the dances and elsewhere (mostly elsewhere). Before Cinderella could realize it, the weekend had slipped away and it was Sunday afternoon. Bidding Clyde a tearful farewell, she got in the Thunderbird and started back to Miss Pinkham’s Select Academy. She had driven but a few miles when she remembered that she must be back by 12 Sunday night.

Sociologists Visits

In Oedipus Rex, Sophocles...handles the legend of the downfall of a great but ill-fated King, Oedipus, who, learning of the prophecy that he is to slay his father and take his mother for a wife, exiles himself to Thebes to prevent the tragedy. Oedipus Rex relates the ironic incidents of Oedipus’ gradual discovery that the prophecy has been fulfilled.

OEDIPUS COMPLEX
It was from Oedipus Rex that Sigmund Freud drew the background and name for the Oedipus Complex, the theory that some men desire incestuous relations with their mothers and bear antagonistic feelings toward their fathers.

7861, Oak Row and Elm Row were built in 1836-1837. In 1910 Carnegie Library, presently the Guest house, was built. The south wing of present Chambers was built in 1924-1925 and the north and central wings in 1928-1929. East and West Dormitories were built in 1922 with Watts. Queen City, which burned February 25, 1923, was rebuilt in the summer of 1923. Richardson Stadium was erected in three successive stages: the central portion in 1926, the South side in 1931, and the East side in 1936. 1939 saw the appearance of Duke Dormitory on the campus.

Guest tickets costing $2.00 may be purchased by mail from the Department of Music or at the door. Coming attractions of the Artist Series include Vincent Price, the Eastman String Quartet, and Mati and Hari.

ROTC Cadets Obtain Branch Assignments
Seventy-one Davidson ROTC MS IV cadets have received their army branch assignments which will become effective following graduation and their commissioning as 2nd Lieutenants. Captain John Mitchell released figures this week on the branch assignments for senior cadets, which were made by the Department of the Army in Washington, D.C., following approval of the applications by a local board. Of the seventy-one local applicants, sixty-nine percent or forty-nine seniors received their first choice. Another eleven percent or nine cadets were granted their second preferred branch. Eleven men or sixteen percent were assigned to their third selection, and assignments to a fourth or fifth choice were made to only two men. According to available figures, a higher percentage of cadets received their first branch choice this year than did last year’s class when approximately sixty percent fell in this category.

Twenty-two cadets, the largest number in any one branch, will serve in Army Intelligence, while twenty seniors will concentrate their active duty in the Artillery division. Army Security will receive twelve Davidson graduates. Assignments to the other branches were more scattered: Adjutant General Corps, four; Armor, three; Quartermaster Corps, two; and Chemical Corps, Transportation Corps, Ordnance, and Medical Service Corps, one each.

“We are quite fortunate to have the number of cadets assigned to Intelligence and Security that we did,” Capt. Mitchell reported. “They are more selective; for example, Army Security has a national yearly quota of approximately one hundred and fifty newly commissioned 2nd Lts. and Davidson, a comparatively small school, had almost ten percent of this quota.” The local board recommended twenty-three for assignment to Intelligence with twenty-two being accepted and fourteen cadets for Security with twelve receiving approval. “Actual orders indicating when and where the Davidson cadets will report should be received before March 1. Under present anticipated policy, all cadets assigned to Intelligence and Security will be ordered to active duty for two years. Other branches will vary according to the needs of the service and the individual’s preference,” Capt. Mitchell explained.

FOR QUICK SERVICE AND GOOD FOOD TRY
Scottie’s Drive-in Restaurant
Salisbury Drive — Mooresville
Across From Ivey's 5th St. Entrance
126 West Fifth St. Charlotte 2, N. C.

More people want America’s real cigarette than any other brand today. For 20 straight years, Camel has been the top-selling cigarette of all. The reason is clear: the Camel blend of costly tobaccos has never been equaled for rich flavor and easygoing mildness. Today as always, the best tobacco makes the best smoke. Cast off the fads and fancy stuff... have a real cigarette - have a CAMEL.

“I'd walk a mile for a Camel!”
R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., Winston-Salem, N. C.

SUITS
Michael-Stern and Our Own Label
Regulars — Shorts — Longs
$65.00-$69.50......... $45
$42.50-$47.50

SPORT COATS
Michael-Stern, Seven Seas, Our Label... Again these coats are regular stock. Newest patterns and models $35.00-$37.50

SPORT SHIRTS
Mooresville Wash ’n Wear by Enro, Form Fit $3.95 -- $6.95

SLACKS
Berle, Seven Seas, Hubbard
All wool, wool dacron, some wash and wear, Ivy and Regular models, Received in November
$22.50 - $18.00 - - $14.00

BUY 1 AT REGULAR PRICE, GET 1 FOR... $1.

ALL JACKETS 1/2 PRICE
ALL SWEATERS 1/2 OFF

The Young Men’s Shop
Paul S. Corriher
Ben L. Holland
“Exclusive But Not Expensive”
222 NORTH MAIN ST.
DIAL NOrth 2-2371