1. Announce his engagement the same weekend. The Davidson men’s more accurate slams cap if not mid-season form and pushed conference champ.

FRIDAY, MARCH 20, 1959

STUART NICKLES sets to hurl a javelin in field practice. (Photo by Rhyne)

All That By JIM HAMILTON

“President Ralph Wilson and his twelve council members have done a splendid job so far,” Coach Whittle said. “And next year they'll try to work out an even better program for the intramural sports.”

Coach Charlie Parker dropped a problem in the lap of Milton Gee last week when he asked him to participate in the National Intercollegiate Wrestling Tournament in Iowa. Parker figured Gee merited the opportunity by his showing in the conference tournament. Gee was forced to default because of a leg injury in the finals to an opponent Parker is sure he could have defeated. “Westy” Westervelt, who won his division, is ineligible for the Nationals since he wrestled as a freshman and the N.C.A.A. forbids four years of varsity competition.

The problem for Milt was that he planned to announce his engagement the same weekend. Providence came to the rescue, however, and Gee re-injured his leg making his participation in the tourney doubtful thereby saving him from having to make the decision. It’s an ill wind...

The lack of suitable courts and good weather that reduced pre-season practice to a minimum had tell-tale effects on Dick McKee's netters in Charleston this week. First match jitters were also present as the ’Cats dropped their opener to George Washington, 6-3. Crafty Semi Mintz, however, had on his mid-season thinking Jim Tarr to the limit before losing in three sets. The next day he out-smarted tough Jack Sterling for a three-set victory. Showing the best form at this early date along with Mintz were Finley Lee and Dick Hodel. Lee was a little tense in his first match, but managed to win after going the three-set limit. The next day it was a different story as he won easily. He also teamed with Doug Orr for two doubles wins, the second one being the deciding match in the victory over Citadel. The tenacious Hodel mechanically punched out two straight-set victories with the return-everything style that won him the conference championship at six last year. The oddest match of the trip was the number two doubles fracas against the Citadel as Mintz and newly elected captain John Poindexter defeated the lob-happy Bickus and Jeffery. Nicknamed the “Cape Canaveral Boys” because they poop the ball so high, they fed Mintz and Poindexter over 200 lobs, but finally succumbed.

Davidson's five-man squad rang up a total of 1375 points to be edged by P.C.’s 1379 in the final match of the current season. Furman posted a 1334 for third place with Wofford last at 1315. Joe Wearn led the ’Cats with a 282 while Don Harper and Ronald Fonda fired 281s. Harper received the Western Conference trophy for the highest individual season average of 277. The marksmen will travel to Raleigh April 4th and 11th for the ROTC match.

By BOB GREEN

The Wildcat riflers wound up a successful season Friday, placing second to Presbyterian College in a Western Carolina Conference meet at Furman. Davidson will host six schools, including N.C. State, Wake Forest, U.N.C., Duke, and A and T. A and T State will have an ROTC team as well as an ROTC squad. This match will include the sitting position and scoring will be based on a five-man total for both stages. Davidson has not fired against any of these schools this year, but captured second place in this match last year with a 3571 out of a possible 4000. Wake Forest posted a 3627 in winning the event last year. Sergeant James McCurry, ROTC rifle team coach, stated, “The team is much improved over last year and right now our chances to win the match are as good as any of the other teams participating. It will take at least a 3700 to win this year,” he concluded.

McBRYDE LEADS

Angus McBryde in the mile, 880 and javelin, and John Huie in the pole vault and high jump should be picked as key factors in the Wildcats’ hopes. McBryde is the Southern Conference champion in the mile. Mel Armstrong should make the dashes another strong point. He, Marvin Bentley and Ed Kizer will give these events a depth unusual for Davidson teams. Coach Whittle seemed optimistic as he discussed these events and several others. He is counting on Roger Beebe in the 440 and Hugh Murray in the broad jump to come through this year. “They have been coming along fine and should really help us out,” Whittle said.

HURDLES WEAK

He seemed to be confident of a good showing in the discus.

Dole Is Satisfied With Drill Results

Spring football drills ended Tuesday and Coach Dole said, “They're the best we've ever had." Thirty-eight players reported for practice, of which 12 were lettermen. Until about a week ago, starting guards and halfbacks had not been decided upon. But Wednesday Dole tentatively named 195-pounder Alex Porter and 190-pounder John Crute as his right and left guards, respectively. Leading the left halfbacks is Dave McCullough, 200 lbs. and at right half Dole’s choice is Grant McRorie, 160 lbs. Coach Dole particularly emphasized the fine work of rising sophomores. “The biggest surprise was the way Duncan Morgan performed after we converted him from end to left halfback. Our sophomores will play a lot of football next fall.”

Davidson Host To Citadel

Davidson’s track team opens its 1959 season at home tomorrow against the powerful Citadel runners. The 'Cats are expected to be generally the same type of team as last year's with many of the same weaknesses.this year who can put it close to 130 yds.” Veteran Dave War- den is the main threat here. A main weak spot will be the hurdles, where Chris Bremer will be sorely missed due to an injury. “He got a lot of points for us last year; we have nobody now who is really good,” Whittle commented. Another weak spot could be the 880, where McBryde may plug the gap. Success in the two-mile run will rely on continued improvement by Bill Eckbert and Graham George.

Netters Clip The Citadel:

DAVIDSON’S DICK HODEL appears to be in deep concentration following through in tennis practice. The southpaw is one of Coach McKee’s chief hopes in Southern Conference matches this season. (Photo by Rhyne)

Bow To Tough Colonials

Davidson’s tennis team traveled to Charleston, South Carolina, this week and split in a couple of early season meets with George Washington and The Citadel. On Tuesday, the ‘Cats were dropped by George Washington University, 6 to 3. G. W. won four of six singles matches and two of three in doubles. In singles, Southern Conference champion Jim Tarr defeated Semi Mintz, 6-4, 4-4, and 6-2. His brother Jack dropped Davidson’s John Poindexter, 6-2 and 6-4. And in doubles, the brothers teamed to top Harry Broome and Tom McCutchen 7-5, and 6-2. For Davidson, Finley Lee and Dick Hodel dominated wins in singles and doubles. Lee outswatted Ken Silverstone, 6-3 and 6-3. Hodel quickly stopped Dick Fischman, 7-5 and 6-1. The Wildcats' lone doubles victory came as Lee and Orr took two 6-3 sets from Silverstone and Fischman.

Davidson's netters captured three singles and two doubles victories as they edged the Citadel Bulldogs, 5 to 4. Semi Mintz, Finley Lee, and Dick Hodel all won singles matches. It took Mintz three sets to win over the Bulldogs’ Jack Sterling, 6-2, 4-6, and 6-2. Lee knocked out Jim Jeffery, 6-2 and 6-1, while Hodel defeated Lyons Williams, 7-5 and 6-3. Wildcats' singles losses went to John Poindexter, Doug Orr, and Tom McCutchen. In doubles, Semi Mintz cooperated with Poindexter to take 7-5 and 6-4 sets. Lee and Orr shorted the Bulldogs, Bickus and Jeffery, in three sets, the last one at love. Harry Broome and Tom McCutchen dropped sets to Sterling and Anderson. The Wildcats returned to Davidson Wednesday night to get ready for a trio of meets next week. They go against William and Mary on Wednesday, Washington and Lee on Thursday, and Ohio State on Friday.

Golfers Look Forward To A Winning Season

By TOMMY NEAL

Coach Tom Scott and his golf team are on the links again, readying themselves for the coming season. Having lost only one letterman from last year, the team stands a good chance of finishing with a winning season and a high rating in the Southern Conference. This year’s drive will come from five returning lettermen: seniors Bucky Dennis and Sam Sloan, juniors Gary Heeseman and Sut Alexander, and sophomore Verner Stanley. Dennis and Sloan are beginning their fourth year on the team, Dennis being a medalist in last year’s Southern Conference Tournament. Fighting for the open position on this year's team are Eb LeMaster, Tom Johnson, William Perks, H. B. Bellamy, Claude Finney, and Donny McQueen. As for the year's outlook, Scott states that the team will be starting the season with a lack of practice. However, they should be able to make a good showing at the Southern Conference Tournament in Washington, D. C., May 5-6. The Davidson linksters finished last year with a winning season and tied George Washington University for first place in the Southern Conference. The team will have to fight hard to defend this crown, but Coach Scott believes they have a better than average chance. The season will begin during the Spring Holidays as the team travels to White Sulfur Springs, West Virginia, for the White Sulfur Tour at Greenbriar Country Club, home of Pro Sam Snead. Opposing teams will be George Washington, William and Mary, Pitt., Ohio, and Cornell.

Abbey Tames Wildcats In Baseball Opener, 4-3

By PETE WYRICK

The Davidson baseball team journeyed to Belmont Tuesday to meet the Crusaders of Belmont Abbey in the season opener. The Wildcats, led by hard-hitting shortstop Don Killian, picked up one run in the fifth frame and rallied in the seventh for two more before they succumbed 4-3.

NINE STRANDED

The Wildcat sluggers managed to connect fairly well but left nine men stranded on the bases during the course of the game. Gordon Swaim and Killian were strongest at the plate, each getting two for three. One of Killian’s hits was a home run in the seventh. On the mound for the Wildcats Tuesday were three of Coach Stevens’ five pitchers. Pat Henderson started and went three innings, followed by Dee Lide and Dee Green, who split the remaining four innings. This being early in the season, Stevens is breaking his pitchers in slowly.

SEASON LINEUP

Tuesday's lineup will probably be Coach Stevens’ choice for the season. It included Harold Reagen at the plate, Jerry Cole at first, Harold Bynum at second, Russ Cotten at third, and Don Killian at shortstop. In the outfield were Gordon Swaim at right, Harry Shaw at center, and Bob Gromme at left. Stevens said that Henry Goodwin should see a lot of action in the infield, as should Joe Cline, Quinton Boyd, and Ed Garrett in the outfield. Captain Reagen The team traveled to meet Catawba this afternoon and will play host to them in a return game Monday afternoon. On Wednesday and Thursday afternoons, Davidson will meet the traveling teams from Connecticut University and Ohio University, who are ranked among the top in the east and Mid-American conferences respectively. On Friday, the team leaves for its spring trip. All regular season matches will be shot in April. Home meets will be against The Citadel and Furman. The ‘Cats also tangle with these two teams there. Other games away will be at Raleigh — N. C. State, and at Chapel Hill — North Carolina. Two matches will be played with Wake Forest, but the dates have not yet been set. Plans for the freshmen team are also underway. Four matches have been scheduled with Myer's Park and Gastonia High Schools beginning April 2. At present, only two candidates for the team have come out for practice.

“Excuse me, honey. The lady wants a Camel.” R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., Winston-Salem, N.C.