Gee Evaluates Court of Control (See Page Two)

VOL. XLVI

The Davidsonian
The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, OCTOBER 16, 1959

IFC Moves Toward Unique Homecoming
By BOB MOORE
Davidsonian Managing Editor

“I am very happy with the progress of the Inter-fraternity Council in making Homecoming a better dance weekend,” IFC president Ward McKeithen stated early this week. “The council wants to promote a Homecoming weekend directed toward more student participation and is taking steps to make it unique from the other dance weekends.”

The IFC announced its plans for a “bigger and better” Homecoming several weeks ago, when it indicated that the Tommy Dorsey Band under the direction of Warren Covington had been secured for the two dances. “We feel they will add a great deal, for the band’s style is definitely different from previous dance weekend bands,” McKeithen continued.

HOMECOMING QUEEN
One of the new additions to this year’s Homecoming will be the presentation of a Homecoming Queen at the half-time ceremonies of the football game. Each fraternity will select a representative to compete for the crown. The queen will be selected at the formal dance Friday night by Warren Covington and members of the faculty and student body. The presentation of the fraternity queens will replace the traditional figure of the IFC members and their dates.

The IFC is placing more emphasis this year on the fraternity Homecoming exhibits. The fraternity with the best exhibit will receive a trophy and $25. Second prize will be $15 and third prize will be $10. The exhibits will be judged Saturday morning.

GIRL CHEERLEADERS
A special addition to the Homecoming will be four girl cheerleaders, who will represent nearby girls’ colleges. The council feels the presence of the girls will add much enthusiasm to the student cheering section.

The council is still trying to find someone to serve as the Davidson Elder for the football game. If anyone is interested, he should apply to the IFC. Prior to the football game, the Honor Platoon will give a precision drill performance. During halftime, the ROTC band and the Lenoir High School band will march.

The IFC is sponsoring a special chapel program the Friday of Homecoming. The exact nature of the program cannot be announced at this time, but it will be in keeping with the light atmosphere of the weekend. A pep rally is also planned for Thursday night.

DORSEY CONCERT
The Dorsey Band has requested that it be allowed to present a concert following the game Saturday afternoon. The IFC had originally planned to eliminate the concert to avoid excess expenses. The concert will be held in Chambers Auditorium.

The IFC plans to recommend to next year’s council to investigate the possibility of having a fraternity stunt night on Friday before the formal dance. If a stunt night is not possible, the Council hopes to have an Artist Series program of a light nature.

This year’s Artist Series program for the Homecoming weekend features Harrison Salisbury, Pulitzer Prize-winning correspondent-journalist of the New York Times. He will speak on the subject “A New Look at the Soviet Challenge”.

Student Describes Stay In Korean Prison Camp
By BOB BRADFORD
Davidsonian Feature Writer

In July of 1950, Nam Young Park, occupying a prominent position on the Communist “Wanted” list, fell into the hands of the enemy. This nineteen-year-old South Korean, co-chief of the anti-communist movement in his hometown of Mokpo, had been studying at the University of Korea in Seoul for only one month when the North Korean invasion began.

Nam Young had relatives in Seoul and was hidden in the home of friends of his grandparents when the Communists captured him. He was kept at a prison in Seoul where he was subject to constant questioning, carried on primarily at night. Questioning would begin at about 10:30 p.m. This would last about fifteen minutes; the prisoner would then be allowed to go back to bed, only to be wakened about an hour later. This continued every night. Any time there was any conflict in stories, physical and mental torture resulted.

The prisoners were given only one meal a day, consisting of very poor barley. New prisoners were unable to stomach this horrible diet for the first few days of their tenure. However, they soon came to the realization that it was barley or nothing. Many prisoners died as a result of the poor food.

After a month in this prison, Nam Young, along with other prisoners, was ordered to march to a prison across the town of Seoul. During this march, American planes scattered shot throughout the area, stirring up dust, and sending everyone to foxholes. Nam Young knew if he returned he would be shot for breaking ranks; so he decided he might as well try to escape. He was successful and, after holing up in Seoul for a day, returned to Mokpo. Communication between Seoul and Mokpo had ceased; so Nam Young was not sought for a time. He acted as an American interpreter for about ten days and then joined the South Korean army.

In 1956 Nam Young was able to leave the army and shortly afterwards his passport and visas came through, enabling him to come to the United States. Since 1956 Nam Young has been a member of the Davidson College student body on a Davidson scholarship.

The anti-communist movement in Mokpo centered around the YMCA student organization of which Nam Young was president. Through the YMCA of Mokpo, Nam Young heard of Davidson. Mokpo, one (Continued On Back Page)

Tommy Colvin, heading this semester's Program, has expressed approval in the book’s “ready and enthusiastic acceptance by the Davidson students and alumni.” A Louisiana alumnus epitomized the program's appeal by saying, “It’s good to see the Y instigating such a significant and relevant program. May his (Packard’s) ideas continue to stir and disturb us.”

The author will arrive this Wednesday at noon. At 2 p.m. there will be a filmed WBTV television interview which will be shown from 5:45-6:00 p.m., Sunday, October 25. The interview will include a brief statement about the program and Packard's comments about his book.

At 4 p.m. there will be a press interview with newspaper men from surrounding cities. At 6:30 a small banquet is planned with the author for those who have planned and made major contributions to the program. That evening at 8 o'clock, Dr. Frontis Johnston, Dean of the Faculty, will lead a panel discussion directed toward Packard’s book, THE STATUS SEEKERS. Among the panelists will be Martha Evans, who recently ran for mayor of Charlotte, and Donald Davidson, president of the multi-million dollar Jack’s Cookie Company. Also participating will be Dr. M. M. Shrader, minister of the University Baptist Church of Chapel Hill. Dr. Shrader is the author of two Life articles, “Why Our Ministers Are Cracking Up”, and “Sunday School, The Week’s Most Wasted Hour”. At 9:30 that night, there will be a question and answer period in the Union Ballroom.

Thursday morning, the author sociologist will attend several classes, and make a brief appearance in chapel. A reception will be held afterwards in the College Union. Packard plans to leave after lunch Thursday.

Preceding his visit both literary societies plan an open discussion of his book in the Union this Monday night. On the following night, “Status Styles Esquire Show” will be presented, showing the styles of various status. Rush Wilson Ltd. will furnish fashions for the event. There will be a combo, free cokes and coffee, and the student body and interested persons are invited.

Staff Interviews Discouraged
Dole (See Page Three)

NUMBER FIVE

Dana Announces Further Grant For New Cunningham Building
Fine Arts Structure
By ERVIN DUGGAN
Davidsonian Managing Editor

Charles A. Dana, the largest living donor in Davidson College history, ended his visit Thursday and left in his wake a flurry of plans for a new Dana Challenge Fund, this time for the construction of the new John R. Cunningham Fine Arts Center.Committees helping Colvin in the Program are: Arrangements, Dan McAllister; Local Publicity, Russ Showalter; Charlotte Publicity, Hardy; Panel Chairman, John Denton; Book Sales, Malcolm Johnstone; Shipping, Don Saunders; and Supplementary Material, Allan Gravely.

Mr. Charles A. Dana stands at the podium while the student body accords him a standing ovation. During his visit, Mr. Dana announced a gift of $200,000 toward the construction of the John Rood Cunningham Fine Arts Building. Standing behind Mr. Dana, from left to right, are Dr. Cunningham, President Martin, Frank Voss, public relations director for the Dana Foundation, Student Body President Dee Green, and Professor John Evans. (Photo by Rose)

Vance Packard's Arrival Highlights Book Program

Vance Packard, with his second best seller in as many years, arrives on the Davidson campus Wednesday, bringing to a climax the YMCA’s first Book-of-the-Semester Program.

Prof. McCutchan Has PMLA Article

Dr. J. W. McCutchan, Professor of English, is the author of a three-hundred and five-page article in the current (September) issue of PMLA (Publications of the Modern Language Association of America). The title of Professor McCutchan's article is “A Solempne and a Greet Fraternitee.” Writing about the five burgesses whom Chaucer describes in the General Prologue to The Canterbury Tales (ll. 361-378), Professor McCutchan argues that the fraternity whose livery these citizens wore was more likely a craft brotherhood than a local or parish fraternity, as many Chaucerians have hitherto maintained. More specifically, he suggests that Chaucer might easily have had in mind the Drapers' Fraternity (or Brotherhood of St. Mary of Bethlehem). Professor McCutchan is careful to point out that no one can with finality state that this was so.

Dana, with trustees of the Dana Foundation and members of his family, came to the campus to review progress on the Charles A. Dana Science Laboratories and the new dormitory made possible by his original $400,000 gift. While on the campus, he announced the award of another $200,000 to the college, again to be matched by more funds from friends and alumni of Davidson. In a special Wednesday morning chapel convocation, President Martin announced the award of the gift and expressed the appreciation of the college to Mr. Dana, referring to the proposed new building as “a most appropriate tribute to President Emeritus Cunningham."

The new building, already in the preliminary drawing stage, will be located on the present site of Shearer Hall. It will house Music and Art Departments and provide space for conferences and seminars held during the summer months. Tentatively planned with a columned central structure and one-story wings, the Cunningham Building will feature a seat theatre classroom flanked by studio sections. Garden courts in the center of each wing will serve as display areas for sculpture and as practice and performance areas for small musical groups. Full parking facilities and space for receptions will be provided. Wide halls will serve as exhibition space, in addition to several special exhibit halls. Erection of the Cunningham Building will complete the proposed Fine Arts Quadrangle of the college, made up of the College Church, the literary society buildings, and Oak and Elm Rows which will be converted into individual practice halls. Completion of the Quadrangle will include accommodations for the speech department in the literary society halls and a special repertory auditorium featuring a movable platform stage which will enable the fine arts departments to present concerts and theatre-in-the-round productions. The new building, to be built at an estimated cost of $600,000, will provide 25,000 extra square feet of floor space including offices, practice halls, reception facilities, classrooms, and studios.

“This building will be designed not just for aesthetes but for all the students,” said Robert Sailstad, Assistant to the President. “It will be a center made for the enjoyment of art, both for the student community and for a large number of visitors from off campus.” Planned for conference use in the summer months, the Cunningham Building will be fully air-conditioned, as is the Dana Laboratories building which will be ready for occupancy in February. Estimated completion date for the Cunningham Building is not yet set, but construction is tentatively scheduled to begin in late spring or summer at the earliest, according to Business Manager Robert A. Currie. “This building will require special acoustical engineering,” said Mr. Currie, “and this may prolong our planning time. But it’s conceivable that the building may be in use during the 1961-62 year.”

Mr. Dana, contacted on his departure Thursday, expressed satisfaction with the progress of the science building and dormitory, and expressed his conviction that the new building would complete Davidson's Fine Arts facilities for all departments of liberal arts instruction.

“Scripts ‘N’ Pranks” Adopts New Policy

On October 27, the first issue of this year’s Scripts ‘n’ Pranks will appear. The magazine will offer a brand of humor new to the Davidson student body, just in time to charm the girls over Homecoming. In addition, this will be the first issue after the policy changes made by editor Charles Cornwell. According to this change in policy, all members of the student body are invited to write material for Scripts ‘n’ Pranks. Editor Cornwell stated, “It is essentially my belief that this is a student publication and that the students should be given every opportunity to contribute.” Editor Cornwell pointed out that all types of material are welcomed: essays, short stories, poetry, and anything else, with the possible exception of five-act dramas and Medieval epics. “Our basis of selection for what is published will be quality and readability,” he summarized.

The deadline for material to be published in the Christmas issue is noon, Thursday, November 5. By that time, all contributions from the student body should have been handed in to one of the staff members. The editor reiterated his desire to publish in Scripts ‘n’ Pranks as much student writing as possible. He further stated, “It is my hope that the Christmas issue will be filled with material from contributions outside the staff.” In reply to a question about the rumored “questionable” contents of this first issue, Cornwell said, “There have been some slight grumblings, but the Publications Committee has approved the October 27 issue. Let me say that this Committee has in no way acted as an arbitrary censorship board, but has been most helpful to us in every respect.” Cornwell stated that the details of the freshman contest would be announced in the first issue. Urging all interested freshmen to contribute, he said, “Last year we had about six articles from the entire class. We hope that this year will bring us more and better material.”

Davidson College Hosts Conference

This past Tuesday, Davidson played host to a conference on problems of student life. Representatives of eight colleges in this area met in discussion groups and exchanged ideas in six different fields of interest. The fields of interest were campus rules and regulations, campus governments, orientation programs, multiple campus organizations, religious programs, and student newspapers. The eight colleges represented were Atlantic Christian College, Catawba, Davidson, Elon, Lenoir-Rhyne, Pfeiffer, Salem, and Western Carolina. Representatives from Davidson were Ed Armfield, Dee Green, Ward McKeithen, and Bob Moore. Dean of Students John C. Bailey and John Trask of the Office of Public Relations acted as leaders for two of the discussion groups.

Vespers Speaker Discusses Status

Dr. B. Frank Hall of Wilmington, North Carolina, will deliver the sermon at vespers this Sunday night. His subject will coincide with the YMCA’s Book of the Semester Program; he will base his talk on The Status Seekers. After graduating from Davidson in 1929, Dr. Hall went to Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, Virginia to prepare for the ministry. He received his Bachelor of Theology degree in 1932 and subsequently his Master and Doctor of Theology degrees from the same institution. He also holds a Doctor’s degree from Westminster College. At present, Dr. Hall is the pastor of Pearsall Memorial Presbyterian Church in Wilmington. He was previously pastor of the Central Presbyterian Church in St. Louis for eleven years. Recently, he was elected as a member of the Board of Trustees of Davidson. Dr. Hall has traveled widely in Israel and the Arab states and is very interested in these areas. He has done much to promote understanding between these countries and the western nations.