Ghe Davidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO — FRIDAY, OCTOBER 30, 1959

(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

Student Council: “A Weak Sister’’?

What has happened to the Student Council? In the past, it has been the most active, most influential student organization
on campus. Right now it has, by its own inactivity, relegated itself to a position below its traditional “weak sister”
the YMCA. The Student Council will soon find itself the “weak sister” in the eyes of the student body if
it does not move. We are quick to judge. The fact that honor cases are no longer under the jurisdiction
of the Council is no justification for inactivity. This was innovated, in fact, to release the Student Council from this
time-consuming function and allow more time for communication between the students, faculty, and administration.

We face too many problems that need to be resolved, or at least discussed in open forum, to remain aloof.
Last year President Green proposed to hold meetings in fraternity houses to gain greater participation. His proposal recognizes a need,
even if it does not satisfy it. We favor well-publicized forums of a vital nature held in the Union Ballroom.
We need more than anything else to develop a liberalism of thought and action that will permit open criticism of
a positive nature without hesitation or fear. The student body cannot now be condemned for seeming indifference. We wait for
the Student Council to provide the impetus that will enable students to have a voice in the solution of all
problems.

The Necessary Evil

The sudden tendency toward the lackadaisical things regarding scholastic and the pleasant urge to daydream more than usual reminded us
this week that Homecoming was drawing near—if, for some peculiar reason, we might have forgotten it. In a way it
brings disquieting thoughts, for it also reminds us that we, despite the security fostered on the hill, are disturbingly dependent
on something from the outside world, namely the opposite sex. Sometimes we hate to admit it, girls, but we guess
you’re pretty important to us. You must be, for you change our whole mode of existing. You change us from
unshaven lads in dirty khakis and wrinkled sweaters to immaculately attired Davidson Gentlemen, robed in the latest Ivy League fashions.
You change us from sincere idealists, dedicated to academic inquiries, to devout hedonists dedicated to... well, you know what we
mean. You change our campus from a Georgian monastery into a Garden of Eden. Yes, we’ve got to admit it,
girls—you are important to us. So give us a good time this weekend, girls. We need plenty of pleasant memories
to help us face Monday morning.

J.H.

Salesmen Of Sloth

In dispute after labor dispute this year, companies have tried to get at the problem of union featherbedding. And important
though this problem of pay for no work is, it seems to us to reflect an even more serious matter.
That is the apparent acceptance by many Americans of the idea that they don't need to work very hard, their
apparent preference to get by with the least effort and indeed to demand progressively higher pay for progressively less work.
We realize that statement is subject to the perils of any generalization. We also realize that part of this country’s
high material standards is this ability of individuals to live comfortably on the basis of relatively few hours of work.
We further realize that many men nonetheless do work extremely hard and that some, or so it is said, thereby
drive themselves to early graves.

Throughout American industry, there is a discernible employee apathy. Throughout the American economy, there is featherbedding—railroad firemen paid to tend
non-existent fires, musicians paid for not playing, farmers paid for not farming, pilots paid for not flying, everywhere men paid
for watching machines that do not need watching. At this point, it might appropriately be asked: If all this is
so, how come the productivity of labor is said to be constantly increasing? The plain answer is that the rising
productivity of labor is largely a misnomer. Capital investment in ever more productive machinery is the answer. It is impossible
not to wonder about the attitude of people who accept pay for no work, year in and year out, or
who do the least possible—a form of inactivity that might be called unofficial featherbedding. It is impossible not to wonder
what has happened to their self-respect. Here again there is an answer. Union leaders not only sanction and encourage all
forms of featherbedding; they defend the practices. Immorality exalted, it appears, ceases to be immorality. And the union example is
followed elsewhere. Conspiring with and reinforcing this union attitude is the governmental philosophy fashionable in our time. This would remove
from the individual many of the cares of dealing with life, and most particularly remove his sense of responsibility; in
a word, spare him the bother of being a human being with inherent dignity and self-respect. It is not so
surprising if many people are willing to do little when Government presumes to do all.

So much for causes. The effects are also evident with increasingly painful clarity. Frequently shoddy workmanship. Crippling strikes for whimsical
reasons. Disdain for the contract. The enormous economic toll of featherbedding which is rapidly turning this into a high-cost economy,
as reflected in the inability of U.S. products to compete as once they did in world markets. Perhaps most important
of all, the erosion of values once held high. We are not calling for some nebulous national moral resurgence, though
the problem is a moral one. We are saying that if there is softness in America today it is not
primarily inferior education or “inadequate” public spending but this union and Statist-sponsored philosophy of indolence. There are other countries, some
friendly and some otherwise, where that philosophy does not obtain. And we are saying that a little moral indignation ought
to be directed at the salesmen of sloth that weaken our society.

(The Wall Street Journal)

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
ASSISTANT EDITOR
BUSINESS MANAGER
Associate Editor Jim Hamilton
Editorial Assistant Bob Livingston
Managing Editors Ervin Duggan, Bob Moore
Sports Editor B. Millner
News Editor Tom Colvin
Feature Editor Charles Rose
Ed Armfield, Dick Smith, Dave Gillis
Assignments Editor David Jordan
Copy Editor Dan Clemmer
Cartoonists Redding Starling
Advertising Manager Charlie Rowe
Circulation Mgr. Albert McClure, Jr.
Ass't. Business Manager Greg Grana

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879.

A SPECIAL DAVIDSONIAN POLL

Seven College Girls View ‘The Davidson Gentlemen”

Randolph-Macon

There is so much that could be said in praise of Davidson. This definition only illustrates a few of the
examples which distinguish Davidson, to a girl, from some other schools.

gentleman — (jen-t’l-man), n. 1. Davidson

a. Polite. The girl on a weekend feels that she is respected by her date and his friends. Upon entering
a room seats are offered, and everyone is immediately introduced to her. Most important, at parties she feels at ease!

b. Natural. No “airs” or comments by her date to prove how sharp he thinks he is are found. Because
he is such a great person anyway, this isn’t necessary. Especially is this important when her date is someone she
doesn’t know very well or a blind date. There is none of the tension which would otherwise have occurred, and
the girl soon feels as much at ease as she would if he were a boy from home.

c. Friendly. This word describes the whole atmosphere of the school and the weekend; and the boys create the atmosphere.
Upon arriving she feels welcome and upon leaving she feels missed.

Anna Bair

Sullins

I, as one of the wild, untamed, young animals of Sullins (from Scripts and Pranks) consider the Davidson Gentleman quite
fascinating—whether I understand him or not. He is well-mannered, good-looking, and intelligent, so I am told, since my psychologyTeacher said
the average I.Q. at Davidson is 145 — but I wonder. However, he is quite special and his ability for
planning dance weekends is certainly an indication of intelligence and good taste. The spirit of the Davidson Gentleman is high
and I can see his true self emerge on these big weekends. He always seems to have a blast, especially
traveling here and there without “here” knowing he’s going “there” and vice-versa. He is quite friendly, and to a girl,
Davidson College would be “the place.” I like the Davidson Gentleman as do so many of the Sullins girls who
have been lucky enough to date him and luckier still to keep him around.

Suzanne Daniel
Salem

My opinion, I’ve heard, you desire. About Davidson gentleman you inquire. Why you have chosen me from all the rest,
I'll never know, but here’s my best:
-Webster says gentlemen are high-born, well-bred; And in my opinion, this is very well-said. Under this definition not all can
be placed; In a group so large, some must be erased. To this small minority we'll not give heed, but
only to those who are “gentlemen” indeed.

A Davidson “gentleman” does it up right: He acquires two dates for the very same night. He picks you up
at half-past eight— That's fine, but seven-thirty was the hour for your date. Transportation with twelve others in a borrowed
car? As you know, “togetherness” can be carried too far. Mountain Springs is our destination, of course, and there we
watch the boys drink with much remorse. Return to Salem—quite regrettable; A week's restriction—however, inevitable. All joking aside: I agree
with the rest—— Davidsonians are surely among the best!

(Name withheld by request . . .)
W.C.U.N.C.

What’s he like? A gentleman in the true sense of the word: kind, courteous, thoughtful, generous, capable — unless we
get obnoxious about the whole thing. He is a thinking man—without the filter. The Davidson Gentleman is an individual. When
a girl is dating someone from D.C. she feels that it is a distinction, for he embodies all characteristics of
a good date and few of those which would deem him, shall we say, less desirable? The Davidson College Gent,
along with his campus, has a certain intangible air, a magnetic something which says, “Why settle for less than the
best?” He has a certain handshake, a manner of walking, of talking, a special way of saying, “I'd love to
have you down for Homecoming.” What more can you say about him? He’s a gentleman and he’s from Davidson, isn’t
he?

Elizabeth Wildman
Converse

We at Converse may be stereotyped as ‘status seekers,” but our focal point of appeal for the Davidson man is
the recognizable traits in him that distinguish him as a “gentleman.” We refer, tongue in cheek, to our appellation “Converse
ladies,” but in truth this concept has a significance for us and sets a standard for ourselves and likewise a
criterion by which we judge the men we date. These qualities which we seek are found in the Davidson “gentleman.”
As our space is limited, we are unable to elaborate fully on the exceptional qualities of the Davidson “gentleman.” However,
this is not such a misfortune, as you undoubtedly are as well aware of your finer points as we are.

Betty Lake
Hollins

I have taken a brief survey among the Hollins students concerning the question at hand; however, I do not feel
that I can give an accurate, yet personal, account of the “Davidson Gentleman” until I have visited your campus and
actually have made the acquaintance of more than just a few of its representatives. It is so hard to accumulate
data on such short notice; however, I would be more than happy to comply with your request at a later
date.

Cynthia Simmons
Queens

As a Queens young lady, I’m curious about you Davidson gents’ intent: Why do you seek my opinion and ask
me my feelings to vent? Now some of you fellows are fine with me, but some I don’t like at
all. Like the Queens ladies, you vary a bit: You are fat; you are short; you are tall. To select
a D.G. of my choice, I'd choose an amiable fellow, but in the bargain I’d surely get a dreadful black
umbrella. Your plea was sent in such earnest haste by airmail ‘cross twenty miles— Have you suddenly found your tactics
unfound? For us, are you changing your style? In these four years I’ve never heard of Davidson Gentlemen who sought
opinions from GIRLS of the Davidson man; they knew without asking (they thought). Do your egos need boosting? Is there
a crack in that smooth veneer of assurance? I doubt it. You're starting another war of the sexes—to prove YOUR
endurance.

Ann Carmichael
U. of N.C.

Back in the woods, away from it all, Davidson gents stand proud and tall; Their pride stems from a tradition
old of scholarship, honor and courage bold. A heritage he protects and defends so the glory of Davidson never ends.
The Davidson Gent stands out in a crowd, but not because he’s flashy and loud; Rather because he has qualities
rare with which few others can compare. He's certainly all that any girl could want: Scholar, athlete, and “bon vivant.”
Now that you've read our little verse and know our point of view, we hope that the “Go” bug will
get the best of you. And you will head to Chapel Hill (It’s not too far away) so we can
show “the others” the truth in what we say.

Dee Smith
SELMA AND GRUNDY

Attend Homecoming Armed With Bible, Eng. Lit

HOME IS ICUMEN IN

Home is icumen in. Lewd sing, cuccu. Groweth sed and quaffeth med and springeth the wude thru, Murie sing cuccu.
Ewe bledeth after lami, Sow panteth after ram, Car sterteth, date verteth (turneth greene) Murie sing cuccu. Cuecu, cuccu, Wel
workest thoy, hu-hu (hoo-hah) Cease thou never, nu.

As we were diligently searching the Scriptures for inspiration, a nightly practice which we’ve developed recently, we came across a
passage that was a little too meaningful to be avoided. A little research on the subject showed that the passage
is found in the Protestant Liturgical Year under Halloween. We'd like to point out some glaring parallels to demonstrate that
even our founding fathers really founded the dance weekend on high principles. Guilt feelings tend to be reduced when one
realizes that his actions have a scriptural basis (no reference to Lot intended). The application of high criticism to this
otherwise innocuous passage brings out its modern meaning for all of us: A man appears, so possessed by nasty evil
spirits that no man can subdue him. When asked his name, he replies that his name is called Legion, because
he is not one but many (but not to exceed one thousand). With the aid of a masterful stroke of
psychology, the evil spirits are cast out of the man into neighboring herds of swine. The swine, now similarly possessed,
join in a great stampede and converge on the scene, make a frenzied ascent to the heights of Belk, and
fall off the roof.

GOOD...I WOULDN'T WANT TO BE ACCUSED OF TAKING PART IN A RUMBLE!
