A Challenge To Candidates (Editorial, Page Two)

VOL. XLVII

Sam Smith, chairman of the Elections Board (left), and Charles Chastain tally the results of the elections for the vice-president
of the student body. The percentage of students who voted was the highest recorded in Davidson history.

Contenders For Top Post Air Their Views

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 1959

The Davidsonian
The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

Swimmers Meet South Carolina (Page Three)

NO. 19

Bootle, Stanley Win Vice-Presidential Race

Davidson To Prepare For TV College Bowl

By ERVIN

Davidsonian

Plans have begun for an appearance by a group of Vice-Presidents of the Student Body, respectively, in this morning’s after-chapel
voting. The balloting was the second run-off in the race, the first run-off having narrowed the field down to Bootle,
Stanley, Spiro, Macris, and Ervin Duggan. College authorities announced this week that technicians have already visited the campus to examine
the possibility of broadcasting live from Davidson.

“College Bowl” is a network educational feature appearing on Sunday afternoons. Competing four-man teams selected from two outstanding American colleges
or universities are quizzed each week on the program. The winning panel receives a scholarship fund for their college, plus
an opportunity to meet challenging teams on their home campus each week until they are defeated.

“I think this is the best opportunity for national publicity we've had in many years,” said College President O. Grier
Martin. “Of course we're all excited.”

A faculty committee has begun work toward selecting the four Davidson representatives. After faculty nominations are received, a series of
eliminations will be held until four students believed to have a superior background of factual knowledge are chosen. Panels on
the network program are questioned in categories ranging from classical mythology to political events.

Indication that Davidson College might be invited to appear on the nation-wide broadcast, according to Dr. Martin, first came from
John Dillon, a former assistant alumni and public relations director for the college, now employed by Charlotte’s WBTV. A folio
of information concerning Davidson

This week the three candidates for the office of student body president were quizzed by a DAVIDSONIAN staff member concerning
their views on current campus issues. Below are printed the answers of candidates Green, Huie, and Livingston.

What is the outlook for next year’s student council, now that the judicial function has been removed? What do you
feel the general function of the council and the president should be?

Green: The main interest will be implementing the new Honor Court. This can be a great step forward. Since the
council will be removed from the judicial function it will have a lot more to do along the legislative line.
My idea of the office of president is that he should work to bring the students closer to the faculty
and administration on matters of curriculum and so forth. I feel that the council should work to maintain the interest
of this year’s council, to carry forward the fine work done by John Kuykendall and his council.

Huie: I feel that the student council should broaden its scope, find areas in which other organizations haven't done an
adequate job. My purpose as president would be to lead the council in a more active role. Specifically, this could
be in the areas of investigations, recommendations, and studies by student committees on such things as the cut system, curriculum,
vespers and chapel, or any subject of student interest. I favor anything which would give the student more opportunity to
participate in student government.

Livingston: The council's role has heretofore been negative—a sort of check. Now it has an opportunity to become positive, to
create situations as well as handle them. Next year's council will be precedent-making rather than precedent-breaking. There are three broad
areas of interest: the council as a supervisory and organizational body; as a body which will probe deeper into matters
such as stealing, drinking, school spirit and attempt to relieve present tensions; and as a body to find and express
the voice of the student body to faculty and administration.

NSA-WUS AFFILIATION

What are your views concerning the student council’s affiliation with the World University Service and the National Student Association?

Green: As for WUS, it could be good at Davidson if enough interest could be stimulated, but I don’t think
it should be under the student council. This could give the YMCA a shot in the arm. The “Y” could
do a good job with it. NSA has a tendency to be left-wing, radical, as shown by the legislation passed
at Chapel Hill last year. Since it does have a shaky reputation, I think our relation should be formal and
nothing more.

Huie: Affiliation with NSA and WUS would broaden the scope of Davidson Student Government. The council is studying N.S.A. now.
I do favor council participation in bringing speakers on current affairs to the campus, so long as it can be
done without overlapping similar efforts by other groups.

Livingston: I feel that the council should maintain affiliation with NSA in order to strengthen our own position, which is
in disagreement with NSA. The WUS should be established on the campus as a way of keeping the students aware
of world problems; but we must remember that the student council is a legislative body and not a service club.
The council should try to participate in all organizations of this kind which we are able to adapt to.

What is your conviction on the present student body drinking rule?

Green: I am for no liberalization of the rule on alcohol as it stands now. I think that just because
we have a new fraternity court is no reason for liberalization.

Huie: I favor continuation of the “under the visible effects” interpretation which we used this year.

Livingston: The council must try to find some way to keep its members from becoming practicing hypocrites. It will be
very difficult but essential to find an honest answer to our present tension.

ATHLETIC GRANTS

Do you favor athletic subsidization?

Green: I think we'd do well to offer other scholarships in minor sports, such as tennis, golf, and swimming. Athletic
scholarships should not in any way lower the standards of the school. I feel that if we give minor scholarships
we'll be able to maintain standards and compete with anybody.

Huie: I would favor non-subsidized athletics if the teams we compete with do not subsidize. But if we remain in
the southern conference, I favor the present set-up.

Livingston: Athletic teams are vital to generating school spirit and not a service club. The council should try to participate
in all organizations of this kind which we are able to adapt to.

Florida Presbyterian Selects Bevan Dean

Dr. John M. Bevan, Professor of Psychology, was officially selected as Dean of Students of Florida Presbyterian College last Friday.
Dr. Bevan will assume his duties this July 1. Thus far no one has been named to fill his position
on the Davidson faculty.

This newly conceived institution is the culmination of joint plans begun in 1956 by the Boards of Higher Education of
both the Southern and Northern Presbyterian churches. Studies were made of many outstanding colleges throughout the country and many of
their qualities are being incorporated into the Florida institution. It will be put into operation in the fall of 1960
at St. Petersburg with a co-educational student body which will have an ultimate maximum of 1200.

Dr. Bevan is highly enthusiastic about the educational goals of the school. “The emphasis is on the individual,” he said.
“We will try to give the student an education tailor-made for him. There will be no pre-med or pre-law set
up.”

The school will be on a three-semester program. The middle semester, which is only one month long, will be used
exclusively for concentrated work on a research paper. Seniors, however, may use this period to prepare for a comprehensive exam
in their major or begin work on a thesis.

An Honors Course system comparable to the one at Davidson will be an integral portion of the curriculum for the
junior and senior years. Freshmen will take a required course in “Western Civilization” which is to be taught by eleven
professors from the fields of History, Philosophy, Art, Music, etc.

Martin Reports On

Davidson alumni and friends have passed the halfway mark in their program to raise the $600,000 needed to claim a
conditional grant to the college from Charles A. Dana of Wilton, Connecticut. Already $325,000 in gifts and pledges have been
tabulated and committees in Charlotte and elsewhere are organized to secure the additional $275,000 needed during the near future, according
to President D. Grier Martin’s report to the Davidson Trustees on February 18.

Of this total $151,000 has come from alumni and friends of the college in Charlotte and Mecklenburg County, he said.
The second report meeting for the area is scheduled for Tuesday, February 24.

In his annual report to the trustees, President Martin said that the college needs a minimum of $200,000 in annual
“living endowment” gifts. He pointed out that alumni, parents, and friends have increased the annual gifts total for operating purposes
from $138,547 in 1957 to $156,662 in 1958 as another systematic step.— and so is student participation every year by
1960.” Total gifts to Davidson for both capital and current purposes totaled $927,506 in the 1958 calendar year and showed
a slight increase over a similar total in 1957. Mr. Robert J. Sailstad, Assistant to the President in College Development,
said that these figures are encouraging because 1958 was the first time we received a grant for faculty salary endowment
from the Ford Foundation. These special grants increased our annual capital gift total by about $250,000 in both 1956 and
1957. (Continued On Page Four)

Davidson students on the CBS network television program, “College Bowl,” late this spring.

Martin Tuesday night the 20th, rows will include a pageant. The college will pay all the dinner expenses, but the
nature of the pageant is still undecided. A report was made to the Council concerning the last meeting of the
Religious Life Committee, and the progress made on solving the overcrowded Vespers situation. This committee has proposed as a temporary
solution, depending on the success of the plan, the institution of separate Vespers services for the Freshman class on the
first three or four Sundays in the school year. This service would be distinct from that of the upper classes,
but the two would be combined after the four-week period, when the crowded condition has slackened off.

The remainder of the meeting was spent in discussion of the World University Service, an organization concerned with international student
fellowship and contact. The question of WUS, which was organized after World War I, was proposed to the Council by
President Kuykendall, who suggested a possible plan of action. The immediate phase of the plan would be to suggest to
the YMCA that this group be considered for next year’s Gift Fund, and the ultimate phase would be to provide
a student group at Davidson with such international interests in mind. The Council could not agree if it should take
the responsibility of organizing such a group. Several members thought that this question would be better suited to the YMCA,
and that such a project would help the Y. Further discussion was postponed until a later date.

The Council reported that nominations for Honor Court positions have been made, but that the names will be withheld until
the completion of Student Body elections, since, in several instances, conflicts between the two exist.

DUGGAN Staff Writer

Rising juniors Jim Boo and Verner Stanley were elected first and second in the race for Secretary-Treasurer of the Student
Body, two rising sophomores, O. G. Martin and Harrison Wellford, were the survivors of the second run-off, edging out David
Gilmour and George Trask. This contest will be decided in after-chapel voting on Tuesday.

As a result of the first balloting for President of the Student Body this Tuesday, three rising Seniors, Dec Green,
John Huie, and Bob Livingston, will make campaign speeches in chapel Tuesday. A question-and-answer forum in the Union Ballroom is
also planned, to enable the presidential candidates to present their programs for next year’s Student Council activities. Voting in this
race, with a run-off if necessary, will follow the speeches and the forum.

College Suspends Classes On April 21

The Student Council, in its regular meeting last Monday night, announced that the administration has suspended classes on Wednesday, April
21. This is the day of College President Dr. Grier Martin's inauguration. In connection with the inauguration, the Student Council
will sponsor a reception for Dr. Martin Tuesday night the 20th, followed by a dinner in the Union. The college
will pay all the dinner expenses, but the nature of the pageant is still undecided.

Two amendments to the Student Body Constitution will come up for approval or rejection by the student body Tuesday morning.
The first amendment would change the present order of voting for student body elections. As at present, student body officers
would come first. If the amendment is passed, however, they will be directly followed by voting for the members of
the Honor Court, and then by elections for class officers, and the freshman adviser will be chosen simultaneously, and in
the final phase of the election members of next year’s Student Council will be elected. If these amendments are passed,
the voting for President and Secretary-Treasurer will be immediately followed by the Honor Court election.

Besides these “official” candidates, students may place additional names in nomination by contacting members of the Elections Board as soon
as the President and Secretary-Treasurer have been elected. The nominations made by the faculty and Student Council will not be
released until then.

Publications editors, YMCA officers, and the freshman adviser will be chosen simultaneously, and in the final phase of the election
members of next year’s Student Council will be elected. If these amendments are passed, the voting for President and Secretary-Treasurer
will be immediately followed by the Honor Court election.

Ask any person, whose opinion you respect, what he feels to be the most vital element of a college, and
he will tell you that it’s the professors.

Far be it from any earthly soul here ever to attempt the task of holding a measure to the worth
of a Davidson professor; however, after satisfying your personal doubts as to what is a good professor and after learning
some of the past experiences of the staff member, the difficult chore of realizing the present status of the gentleman
may not be so difficult. In other words, I hope this article will help you to become acquainted with another
Davidson Professor.

PHI BETA KAPPA

Mr. Charles E. Lloyd, a native of Asheville, N. C., is an Instructor in the English Department. At the age
of fifteen, he completed his High School studies and entered Biltmore College in Asheville. Having attended Biltmore only one year,
Mr. Lloyd taught at the college the next year then going on to finish his second year of studies. In
1933, he entered the University of North Carolina to study for an A.B. Degree and a Major in German. Mr.
Lloyd was elected to Phi Beta Kappa at U.N.C. and participated in dramatics. After his graduation in 1935, he remained
in Chapel Hill, continuing first as a teaching fellow in German and lastly as a teaching fellow in English.

Returning to Asheville in 1937, Mr. Lloyd was employed for a time as a school welfare officer. The University of
Mississippi now offered him a position as Instructor in German and French which he accepted and filled until his induction
into the U. S. Army in 1940.

STATE DEPARTMENT

Drafted as a private, Mr. Lloyd began his service with the Government which was to last twelve years. In 1943,
he was sent to Europe for work with the Army and later promoted to the rank of Captain and to
duties with the U. S. Department of State. Commenting on his duties with the State Department, Mr. Lloyd stated, “I
was a policy advisor to the U. S. High Commissioner for Germany. My job was to tell the Commissioner how
the common German was reacting to the U. S. Policy he was implementing.” The High Commissioner (Continued On Page Four)
