‘Cats Nip Spiders On Comeback Trail

Davidson Out To Even Slate At Richmond In Second Loop Tilt

SIDELINES ON SPORTS
By B. MILLNER

Coaches are strange people. So are sports writers. And when the two breeds get together, you can expect some trying moments. From the viewpoint of a sportswriter, coaches may be pigeonholed into several distinct categories on the basis of their contributions to the world of journalism via the sports columns.

The bane of the writer’s existence is the mentor who wouldn't venture a guess on the outcome of a contest even if his team was playing Mrs. O’Grady’s Bridge Club. “Well, I just can’t say. They might score more than we do, but then it might be the other way around. It's just the way the ball bounces.”

Then there’s the type that gets a little flustered when he finds out that his words will be preserved in newsprint: “For the paper, huh? Well, yeah, I guess you can say if it rains tomorrow, we'll play a doubleheader today.”

Some coaches must have a little book in which they jot down every banquet sobriquet and post-game comment they run across: “Well, as the immortal Knute Rockne put it, we went out there and did it for ol’ Slobbovitz.”

The most productive interview always comes from the coach who has a jargon all of his own and doesn’t mind using it. Casey Stengel is a prime example but Coach George Tucker, swimming coach here last year, was pretty good in his own right. An actual quote: “Why, I wouldn’t of give us a snowball’s chance against Georgia... we’ve got a helluva good team... I got throwed in the pool three times.”

The coaches give us a fit, but we got to admit—if it weren't for them, we’d be hard put to get the news across.

* * *

Coach Dole maintains that a poor call on a rather routine play cost his Wildcats the game against the Citadel. Halfback Jerry Sheffield was defending against a Citadel pass and was called for interference late in the game. This put the Bulldogs in scoring position but the staunch Davidson defense gave the ’Cats the ball on downs. Then, at the most inopportune moment, a Sheffield punt was smothered on the three-yard line. The Citadel scored the deciding touchdown on a short line buck soon after. Dole says that game films show that Sheffield was behind the intended receiver on the interference play and making a play for the ball, not the player—an obvious mistake in officiation.

* * *

Dr. Tom Scott requests that all students interested in playing varsity or freshman basketball meet in the gym at 4 p.m., October 15.

* * *

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD.
CHARLOTTE
WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

Salem’s amazing new HIGH POROSITY paper “air-softens” every puff. Invisible porous openings blend just the right amount of air with each puff to give you a softer, fresher, even more flavorful smoke.

By BILL GODWIN
Davidsonian Sports Writer

“The best team we'll play all season”—Bill Dole. That’s his quick description of the Richmond Spiders, who play host to Davidson. An important game for the Wildcats, who hold a 1-2 record after Saturday’s loss to The Citadel, the match tomorrow should break a deadlock in the continuing Spider-’Cat series. As it stands each team has won seven, lost seven, and tied one against the other. The 1958 score was 27-22, Richmond.

Davidson's starting line-up will show two changes. Coach Dole said that Booker Clark would start at left end and Grant McRorie at halfback, as a result of “terrific performances” in last week's game. Both men are sophomores. At left guard will be Frank Anderson, who shifted to that position from tackle in the Citadel game and considerably strengthened Davidson's inner line. Starter at the fullback slot is doubtful as team captain Dave Warden continues to nurse an injured ankle. Bob McAllister may get the assignment.

The last two weekends have seen Davidson play its heart out, only to be edged by Presbyterian (25-21) and by Citadel, the Wildcats' first Southern Conference foe, (13-7). Saturday in Charleston, S.C., the Cadets, held scoreless for nearly three periods, capitalized quickly on a couple of Wildcat blunders to tally 13 points and a victory. A blocked Davidson punt was recovered on the Wildcat five, and two plays later, Cadet fullback Belton Dykes scored. Then, just 58 seconds later, a Charlie Benson pass fell into the hands of guard Bill Johnson, who raced 35 yards for the touchdown. The Wildcats, continually driving into scoring range, finally produced a touchdown late in the fourth quarter when halfback George Hart followed his blockers for 13 yards and the score. With time running out, Davidson powered to the Citadel 16 but lost control on downs.

Category Players
Total Offense: Benson
Rushing: Hart
Passing: Benson
Pass Receiving: House
Punting: Sheffield

Total Offense: Davidson
Rushing Offense: Davidson
Passing Offense: Davidson
Total Defense: Davidson
Rushing Defense: Davidson
Passing Defense: Davidson
Punting: Davidson

An important breakthrough in Salem’s research laboratories brings you this special new High Porosity paper which “breathes new freshness into the flavor. Each puff on a Salem draws just enough air to bring out the rich tobacco taste with menthol fresh flavor and a modern filter, too. Salem refreshes your taste.

Bulldogs Nip ‘Cats On Breaks

There’s something about those South Carolina football teams that confounds the Wildcats. Richmond, which sports a bigger and faster team than Davidson, ran all over V.M.I. last week but was held to a 14-14 tie. On the season the Spiders are 0-2-1. Narrow margin losses were to Dayton and West Virginia. Richmond meets the Wildcats tomorrow night in one of the fall’s top Southern Conference football clashes.

Quarterbacking will be either Frank Gagliano or Joe Rossetti, both three-year veterans. Rugged fullback Pat Lamberti, who doubles as a tackle, will be flanked at the halfbacks by Dave Ames and Earl Stoudt. Co-Captain Fred Caravetta, a 230-pound, 6-5 behemoth, will anchor the line at tackle. The Spiders, according to Coach Dole, run well to the outside and throw a heap of passes. They’re strong defensively.

Coach Bill Dole this week held “it’s a shame a team can put on an exhibition like that and still lose.” The game action backed his statement: Davidson yardage—182, to The Citadel’s 140. First downs—Wildcats 16, Cadets 9. Davidson, under quarterback Charlie Benson, completed 13 of 28 passes, while Citadel could manage only 4 of 12. George Hart, brawny halfback, scored his fifth touchdown of Davidson's first three games. Usher converted after the Davidson touchdown, his tenth extra point this season in as many tries.

The ‘Cat attack will center again this week around the potent passing combination of Charlie Benson to Danny House. Powerful halfback George Hart will be gunning through the line. Frank “Hog” Anderson, moving from tackle to guard, strengthened Davidson’s line against fullback Barry Thomas. And the leading touchdown-pass receiver in the nation with four, Citadel’s Paul McGuire, was checked.

The 1959 edition of the Wildkittens showed promise of things to come as they edged Wingate Junior College 10-7 at Kannapolis last week. The week before, in the only other activity this season, the Phi Delts beat the Sig Eps, the Pi Kapps nosed out the Independents, the Betas trounced the SAE’s, and the Sigma Chis whipped the Sigma Nus. This Monday found the Kappa Sigs beating the KA's in an important contest. In other games, the SAE's.knocked off the ATO's, the Phi Gams beat the Pikas, and the Independents whacked the Sigma Nus. On Tuesday, the Betas, Kappa Sigs, and Phi Delts continued their winning ways with victories over the Sig Eps, Phi Gams, and Pikas, respectively. The KAs beat the Pi Kapps.

By BILL THOMPSON
Davidsonian Sports Writer

washed away along with the SAE-SPE game and the Phi Gam-Pi Kapp battle. With sixteen Interfraternity contests played, four teams remain unbeaten. The Betas, 3-0, are led by Mel Armstrong and Billy Davis. The Kappa Sigs, 2-0, have outstanding players in Donnie McQueen and Bo Bo McCather, while Marvin Bentley and Bobby Davis pace the Phi Delts, 2-0. Don Killian sparks the Sigma Chis, also 2-0.

GUNNER—Bill Hellier, ATO field general, picks out a receiver against the SAEs. (Photo by Rose)

Four Teams Undefeated In First Full Week Of Action

After an interruption by Hurricane Gracie, the 1959 Interfraternity flickerball action was resumed last Monday.

THE UNOFFICIAL STANDINGS

| Team | W | L | Pet. |
| Beta | 3 | 0 | 1.000 |
| Kappa Sig | 2 | 0 | 1.000 |
| Phi Delt | 2 | 0 | 1.000 |
| Sigma Chi | 2 | 0 | 1.000 |
| KA | 2 | 2 | .666 |
| SAE | 1 | 2 | .500 |
| Phi Gam | 1 | 1 | .500 |
| Pi Kapp | 1 | 1 | .500 |
| ATO | 1 | 1 | .500 |
| Independent | 1 | 2 | .333 |
| SPE | 0 | 3 | .000 |
| Sigma Nu | 0 | 3 | .000 |
| Pika | 0 | 3 | .000 |

HOME SOCCER TILT
Davidson Hosts King

Wednesday saw the Betas trounce the Pikas, the Sigma Chis beat the Independents, and the ATOs whack the Sig Eps. The KAs moved up with a win over the Sigma Nus. Thursday came and so did the rain. Two important contests, Phi Delt vs. Kappa Sig and KA vs. Sigma Chi, were postponed.

By D. G. MARTIN
Davidsonian Sports Writer

These figures are compiled to include all games through the Citadel contest. Some interesting facts: Danny House has caught twice as many passes as his nearest competitor... George Hart is among the national scoring leaders with five touchdowns... Davidson is second in team total defense—behind West Virginia... coaches will tell you that statistics don’t win ball games—the ‘Cats are on the short end of a Rank. Yds. Average or Ptg. week.

Speedy halfback Alex Gibbs latched on to a Wingate aerial and romped 63 yards for the initial Davidson score. Carl Hunt kicked the extra point, and later booted a field goal to end the Wildkitten scoring. The action slowed as both teams began to tire late in the first half.

Created by J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, fresh air in through the paper to make the smoke taste even softer, fresher, more flavorful. If you've enjoyed Salem’s springtime freshness before, you'll be even more pleased now. Smoke refreshed, smoke Salem!

Davidson's soccer team meets tough King College here tomorrow afternoon. The King squad, composed mostly of foreign students, lost to the ‘Cats 2-1 last year. Outstanding in the line were end Dick Voorhees, center Joe Ansley, and tackle Eddie Crutchfield. Bob Cordle played the entire game at halfback and fullback.

Harriers Race At Charleston

After two victories in two outings, Davidson’s cross-country team travels to Charleston tomorrow to meet the Citadel runners. The ‘Cats will host a triangular meet with V.P.I. and Catawba next Wednesday.

The harriers are fresh from a 22-37 win over Wake Forest last Wednesday. Jordan, of Wake Forest, one of the top ACC runners, took first place with a time of 22:19 minutes. He was followed by David Gilmour of Davidson with a time of 23:32 minutes. Bill Eckbert, hampered by a strained muscle, finished third in 23:49. Mack Brownlee was fourth, Bloodworth of the Deacons fifth, and Larry McNeil, Bill Coffee, and Bob Thompson finished sixth, seventh, and eighth respectively.

PEMBROKE

At Pembroke last week, Davidson runners defeated the Indians 17-44. On a perfect running day, Bill Eckbert, Wildcat co-captain, set a new course record of 21:49 minutes, besting the old record by twenty-two seconds. David Gilmour followed Eckbert across the finish line in 22:50 minutes. Brownlee took third, and Oxendine of Pembroke fourth. Coffey, McNeil, Locklear of Pembroke, and Thompson rounded out the first eight men.

The Wildkittens trounced the Deacon frosh 22-42 in Wednesday's freshman meet. Sterling Martin of Davidson won the event with a time of 11:17 minutes. Dorett of Wake Forest (time-11:25), Leafer of Davidson (time-11:38), Mitchiner of Wake Forest, and Scales of Davidson finished in the top five.

Coach Whittle said that The Citadel had two or three outstanding runners but was hurting depth-wise. In the triangular meet next Wednesday, he expects a tough fight with Catawba, a team bolstered by some fine freshman runners.

STATE THEATRE
MOORESVILLE

Friday & Sat. Afternoon
3 Stooges in “HAVE ROCKET WILL TRAVEL”

Sat. Nite — Tues.
KIRK DOUGLAS
ANTHONY QUINN
“LAST TRAIN FROM GUN HILL”

Wed. — Thurs.
MAMIE VAN DOREN
PAUL ANKA
“GIRL’S TOWN”

Davidson played an outstanding game on defense. However, especially after the loss of Johnson in the second quarter, they lacked any strong offensive punch. After the Belmont game on Wednesday, Coach Paul Marrotte said that he was “encouraged” with the development of the team’s offense since the Carolina game. He explained that much of the practice time had been devoted to offense this week.

“Of course, the Belmont Abbey defense wasn't a real test for our offense,” he explained, “but I was encouraged. That's about all I can say about it. We should get our test when we play King this Saturday.”

Marrotte was somewhat disappointed with the margin of victory in the Belmont game. “We should have scored four or five goals,” he said. “But that is the way a soccer game goes. One team will control the game ninety-five percent of the time. Then the other team will break through the other five percent of the time.”

Marrotte said that the team would work primarily on pass work and goal kicking in preparation for tomorrow's game with King.