PAGE FOUR THE DAVIDSONIAN FRIDAY, MAY 15, 1959

Professor Meetze inspects plans for the new Dana Science Building. (Photo by Rose)

AEC May Furnish Aid To New Science Lab
By R. G. BRADFORD
Davidsonian Feature Writer

Each day as more bricks are added to the Dana Science Building, dreams of modern science facilities on the Davidson
campus come closer to reality. Concrete supports three stories high, with more than hopes being supported, can now be seen.
Santa Claus is scheduled to put the final touches on the building with classes beginning in the new locale second
semester of next year.

Biology and Physics will move to the new building, allowing chemistry classes to breathe freely and solely in the Martin
Science Building. The evacuation of the North end of Chambers by the Physics Department will open more classroom space for
those who still place their faith in the humanities.

An advanced physics lab for work in nuclear physics and $11,000 for nuclear measuring equipment. It is believed that the
A.E.C. will give most of the desired amount. Biology facilities will include eight labs and four offices, along with classrooms
seating thirty, sixty, and one hundred students, the largest classroom to be shared by both biology and physics departments. The
biology department will occupy the entire third floor with some labs on the lower floors. There will be a limited
amount of new equipment in the biology department; most of the equipment presently in the Martin Science Building will be
transferred to the new building.

The Physics Department will transfer all of its old desks and equipment to the first and second floors of the
Dana Science Building, but new, more complete electrical services will be installed at the individual desks. The nervous system of
the building will be quite complex with facilities for instantaneous release of oxygen, natural gas, air, and water of varying
temperatures. It is uncertain whether closed circuit television installations will be included. The entire building will contain air-conditioning. A coaxial
cable will connect the church and Chambers with the Dana Science Building, this audio cable enabling lectures to be heard
in all three buildings simultaneously.

There will be an advanced lab for radioisotope training in biological and chemical research, but there will not be major
innovations as far as electronics and engineering are concerned. The Atomic Energy Commission has recently announced a program in Radioisotope
Education through which it gives institutions financial aid for the establishment of such facilities. Davidson has applied for $20,000 to
equip an advanced physics lab for work in nuclear physics and $11,000 for nuclear measuring equipment. It is believed that
the A.E.C. will give most of the desired amount.

A new course in physiology will be open to students next year with the addition of a fourth man, Dr.
T. W. Lammers, a recent graduate of Emory, to the Biology Department. It is hoped that a physiology lab will
be possible in the new science building and if so there is a need for new equipment in this field.
A special student research room will be added for the purpose of encouraging independent research.

Soldiers Will See
and North Carolina. Cadets attend the camp following their first year of advanced ROTC. During the six weeks, they undergo
practice exercises in various phases of Army life and duties, including mine warfare, tactical training, compass courses, and actual firing
on an outdoor range with the M-1 rifle, carbine and crew served weapons. A special phase of the training is
a one-week bivouac in a selected area. Campers will live in pup tents under simulated conditions of actual encampment. During
the session, cadets are in competition for awards as outstanding members of their platoons, companies, and battle groups. Last summer,
Sam Clarke, Davidson Brigade Commander, was recognized as the “Most Outstanding Cadet of the 1958 Summer Camp,” winning the distinction
over 1900 other cadets.

Cal. William L. Adams, Davidson PMS&T, is in charge of the plans and training division of the summer camp. Col.
Adams has already made several trips to Fort Bragg to outline the program for this year. Other personnel from the
local department will also attend the session.

AFTER VESPERS OPEN HOUSES

Quips and Cranks
Davidson Laundry
Is Due Next Week
(Continued From Page One)

John Caldwell, yearbook editor, expects the 1959 Quips and Cranks next week, possibly by Wednesday. The annuals will be distributed
from the “check room” of the Union information desk when they arrive. Each student will be responsible for securing his
own copy. The editorial and business staffs, who will distribute the annuals, are not permitted to give copies to students
for their roommates or other individuals. If anyone has been asked to secure a copy for someone who has withdrawn
from the college, the staff requests that he wait until normal distribution is completed.

“The staff is proud of its effort this year and hopes that the student body is pleased with its work,”
Caldwell said. “Readers will note that the 1959 annual is geared in many respects for people not directly connected with
the student body, as well as for students and especially seniors.”

Shirts, underwear, socks, and other small apparel are shaken out and placed on tables. The pants are pressed by Gertrude
Long and Ophelia Harris. These two experienced workers, each handling three presses, can iron an average of forty pants per
hour. In spite of the efficiency of this department, there is an evident need of more equipment for the rising
demand. Since the laundry’s establishment in 1922, employment has dropped from 65 to 36 workers, and yet the amount of
laundry has steadily increased.

At the present time, between forty and fifty thousand pieces of laundry are cleaned every week. During the week after
Spring Frolics 5900 shirts went through the washers, contributing to the eight-ton total laundry that week.

After the above processing, the clothes are reassembled on tables, wrapped and checked out. “I think the Peakness in our
system can be found here,” Stacks said. “When you look at those numbers all day, they begin to run together.
(857 becomes 875, or 589 reads 859.) This Key-tag system would keep each customer’s laundry separate (on a rack of
ten net bags) from beginning to end, instead of the present method of washing 40 bundles together and then sorting
them. I saw Mr. Martin about this system two years ago, but he figured it would cost $10,000; and with
other more important needs, the idea was dropped. With the new Control System that I’ve been pushing for some time
now, this flaw could be eliminated altogether.”

Cornwell Decides On Magazine Staff
Primary work for next year’s issues of Scripts ‘N Pranks will fall on Charles Cornwell, editor, and Al MacKay, who
has been named associate editor. John Chiles, Ed Spivey, and Don Stowell will be assistant editors. Charles Ringe and Jerry
Bussell will serve as assistants to the editor, and C. L. Hardy will be assistant business manager. Hutton Barron is
to be business manager and Frank Inansell will be assistant business manager. Jimmy Richardson has been named circulation manager. Photographers
will be Bob Blake and Gaines Grantham. Doug Ackerman has been chosen as chief cartoonist, and Bobby James will serve
as chief illustrator.

SUBSCRIPTION FORM
Renew your subscription now so that you may receive all next year’s DAVIDSONIANS beginning with the Orientation Issue next September.
Don’t miss important campus news. Only $2.00

Name
Address
—I Enclose Two Dollars
—Bill Me Later
The Davidsonian
Box 218
Davidson, N. C.

Military Fraternity
Scabbard and Blade
Company D, Fifth Regiment of Scabbard and Blade elected its new officers and initiated a new member Tuesday. Heading Scabbard
and Blade next year as Captain of the Company will be Woody Morcock.Morcock. Don Coffey and Roger Dewhurst, Scott will
serve as First Lieutenant; Lacy. Harry Broome will be Second Lieutenant; and Marvin Bentley will be First Sergeant. The newly
initiated member is Captain Lonnie Lumsden. He joins the twelve cadets who were initiated two weeks ago. They are Marvin
Bentley, Harry Broome, Don Coffey, Bob Croom, Dee Green, George Hart, John Huie, Ward McKeithen, Larry McNeill, Woody Morcock, Tom
Ridenhour, and John Wilsey.

Larry Meyer has been elected to serve as president for the coming year. Spiro Macris is the new vice-president and
Scott Lacy, the new secretary. Dr. Causey will continue to act as treasurer and Dr. Trakas as faculty advisor.

Woody Mereeck, the President of next year’s College Union Board, announced the Committee Chairmen for 1959-60 at the recent Union
Banquet. They are — Bookshelf, Perry Grant; Displays, Alden Miller; Film, George Reeves; Games, Sim Black; House, J. B. Doss;
Public Relations, Don Stowell; Record and T.V., Dave Nash; Roundtable, Mike Laughlin; Social, George Kirkpatrick; and Travel, Wyndell Merritt. Howard
Henry, Director of the Graham Memorial Union at the University of North Carolina, spoke on the topic, “The College Unions
Prepare for Citizenship.”

The Senior Class has decided to give $500 worth of books to the college library. A committee composed of Hugh
Campbell, Manfred Emmrich, John Toumaras, and Laurens Walker has been appointed to select the books to be presented. Although no
final decision has been reached, there is a good possibility that some field of study will be selected in which
the library is especially weak. The committee has considered the possibility of buying $300 worth of books now, leaving the
balance of $200 to be spent as good books on the subject are published.

“If we do this—build up a particular area—we hope it would set a precedent for other classes,” commented Laurens Walker.
“We plan to meet with Dr. Chalmers G. Davidson and other members of the faculty before we make our final
decision for the class. If we carry out this plan, we hope these books can be kept in one section
so that class members can see what they have given, although this may not be possible.”

Seventy-one ROTC cadets will attend the annual six-week summer camp session at Fort Bragg, June 20-July 31. They will be
among over 1700 cadets from schools in states of New York, Ohio, and North Carolina.

The spring meeting of the Trustees of Davidson College, to be held next Thursday, May 21, will have a special
innovation. President D. Grier Martin is arranging four informal student-faculty-trustee discussion groups which will explore major phases of Davidson life.
Dr. Frontis Johnston will lead the discussion on curriculum at the Pi Kappa Alpha house. The chairman of the group
on religious life will be Dr. George Staples, with the meeting at ATO house. The Ten-Year Plan forum, headed by
Dee Green, will be at Sigma Chi. A leader has not been assigned for the admissions group at Phi Delta
Theta house.

“This represents quite a change,” Mr. Robert Sailstad, Assistant to the President, reported. “We feel that it will have a
very definite effect, though perhaps not immediate. All three groups are interested in the same things and this program will
offer an opportunity for exchange of ideas on key issues.” The groups are open to any interested members of the
student body and faculty, and the administration urges those whose schedules permit to attend. A detailed announcement concerning definite topics,
and meeting places will be distributed to the students and faculty on Wednesday, May 20.

Continuing an effort for a closer relationship with students, the trustees will lunch with the twelve social fraternities. In the
past, there has been only a large general luncheon. The IFC has given complete approval and endorsement to the program.
The trustees will have a general session preceding the discussion groups at 10:00 and another in the afternoon at 2:30.
A trustee from each forum will summarize the discussion and report on any results.
