1959 FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, Wildcats who passed and ran the Indians out of Charlotte’s Memorial Stadium last week, and veteran
P.C. tosser Bob Waters. Waters led the Blue Hose through a 6-3-1 season in 1958, including a heartbreak 7-6 loss
to Davidson. And 'Cat Coach Bill Dole described him this week as “definitely the best passer our team will face
this season.” The principal subjects will be southpaw Charlie Benson, Gym Schedule The DAVIDSONIAN learned this week that there is
a possibility that the gym will be open on Sundays in the near future. A qualified lifeguard is being sought
after so that the swimming pool will be available. The gym is open weekdays from 2 to 6 p.m. and
on Saturdays from 2 to 5:30 p.m. If the building is used on Sunday, the hours will probably be from
2:30 to 5 p.m.

"A thundering herd of freshmen stampedes at the gun... as one doesn’t make it...”

The Wildcats literally ganged up on Catawba Saturday night as they registered an opening game 42-6 slaughter of the Indians.
In Charlotte's Memorial Stadium, it was sweet revenge for Coach Bill Dole’s footballers, all of whom saw action. The game
was a reversal of 1958's upset by the Indians, 22-17. Sophomores poured through the Davidson line-up in droves as Catawba’s
hopes dimmed late in the second quarter. The 'Cats led 21-0 at the half.

Quarterback Charlie Benson, utilizing his running as well as passing abilities, had a hand in every Davidson touchdown but one.
That score, an 86-yard punt-return in the third period, was by sophomore halfback Jerry Sheffield. The Wildcats amazed some 3,000
fans, gaining 185 yards by air. Benson, Tee Redding, and soph understudy Duncan Morton, got away 23 passes—one a 17-yard
touchdown toss to end Danny House just after the half. The southpaw Benson also ran over from the three to
pace the Wildcat score. Sophomore placement specialist Bruce Usher kicked all six extra points.

Continually amazed by the work of his second-year men, Coach Dole took special pride in a third-period punt-play. Grant McRorie,
back to kick, watched the snap from center roll into Davidson's end-zone. Not panicking, he decided against running the ball
and booted all the way to the 38-yard line.

The lopsided game was not dull.

Offensive punch will depend greatly on the performances of sophomore guards, Billy Ogden and Don Bridges, and Sonny Home. Benson
and Waters Lock Horns In Quarterbacking Duel Here Tomorrow By BILL GODWIN Davidsonian Sports Writer All eyes will be on
the quarterbacks tomorrow as the Wildcats, fresh from a 42-6 victory over Catawba, engage Presbyterian’s Blue Hose at 2 p.m.
on Richardson Field.

Dole: The Sophs Came Through

Sterling Martin takes top cake in 10:07. (Photos by Rose)

SIDELINES By B. MILLNER

A WEEK BEFORE the Catawba game, Coach Dole posted a sign in the dressing room under the Richardson Field Grandstand.
The sign read, BEAT CATAWBA, MOVE THE BALL. The day after the game, a couple of alterations had been penciled
in. The sign now reads, “we BEAT CATAWBA, we MOVED THE BALL.”

THE CHEERLEADERS are due some congratulation for the response they got from the Davidson section during the Catawba thrashing. Several
of the players have commented about the stronger traces of school spirit. The cheering squad has a long way to
go, however. Several years ago, when Wildcat fortunes were low but spirit was high, the cheerleaders chugged out onto the
field atop a firetruck or on other occasions, an ancient jalopy. Props and such help, but when you get right
down to it, the only thing that can make a crisp fall afternoon and a football game sound right is
the crowd.as it should be, is the roar of a few hundred male voices raised in unison. The cheerleaders can’t
do it all—we have to help out. And a good time to start would be tomorrow afternoon.

* * * * * * *

Mac Copeland: “We're looking for a rugged battle with Presbyterian,” Coach Dole commented. Then, including the Blue Hose in his
season prospectus, he said, “We could win them all. We could lose them all. It’s that close.”

Center is secure with DuBose.

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a...

PIZZA
the famous OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead
Charlotte, N.C.

On the one hand, you have Thirsty G. Smith. Good taste to him means zest and zip in a beverage,
sparkle and lift and all like that... On the other hand, T. Gourmet Smythe perceives good taste as the right,
fit, and proper refreshment for a Discriminating Coterie. So... Have it both ways! Coca-Cola... so good in taste, in such
good taste.

Et vous? SIGN OF GOOD TASTE!
Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company by THE COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD

President D. Grier Martin announced Wednesday morning the appointment of Edward Y. (Ted) Keesler, Jr. as tennis coach and instructor
in Physical Education at the college. He fills a position left vacant by Dick McKee in the middle of the
summer. A graduate of Davidson in 1950, Keesler was an outstanding tennis star, one of four brothers who attended Davidson
College. He is the son of E. Y. Keesler, Sr. of 1139 Providence Road, Charlotte. He is a former Charlotte
Country Club singles tournament champion, and he teamed with another Charlottean, Bob Spurrier, to win the Charlotte City Wide doubles
tournament. In the late summer, Coach Keesler teamed with Tommy Holder of Charlotte to win the Greensboro closed tournament.

At Davidson, Keesler majored in economics and business. He played varsity tennis for four years, serving as captain of the
tennis team. He also played football and was a member of the D Club and the Kappa Sigma social fraternity.
Keesler comes to Davidson after having served as recreation director for the City of Salisbury, where he also assisted in
the recreational program for the Veterans Administration Hospital. Dr. Tom Scott said, “We are happy to welcome Ted Keesler back
to Davidson as a member of our coaching staff. We feel that he will soon provide for Davidson the same
Conference Championship team which he himself captained as an undergraduate.”

STATISTICS MAKE All-Conference ballplayers. If Charlie Benson makes the grade this year, it will be largely because the members of
the Southern Conference Sports Writers Association got together and figured out who was leading what department. Of the four backfield
stars who made the ‘58 honor team, three were at the top of some department. Bill Claw of V.P.I. led
in total offense and was second in forward passing. Dick Longfellow, West Virginia, was second in total offense and first
in passing. Sam Horner, the third man, was first in rushing and punting. Ray Siminski, All-S.C. end from Furman, was
first in pass catching while Carroll Dale, V.P.I., at the other terminal was third.

If individual statistics could be kept on linemen, the results would be the same. Benson is due to move up
in the statistic popularity poll if he has a good year. He is hampered by the fact that Davidson only
plays nine games as opposed to the 10 contest slate played by most of the schools in the conference. Benson,
in spite of this handicap, was third in both total offense and forward passing last fall. His main rivals for
the honor post this season are Furman’s Billy Baker, G.W.’s Ed Hino, Frank Gagliano of Richmond, and Jerry Nettles of
The Citadel. The rugged ‘Cat field general has already been getting the press notices. The most effusive was from the
Charlotte Observer, which hailed him as a “passing legend in the Carolinas.”

Coach Predicts Even Season

“We're trying to work the inexperienced men into the line-up. These men compose about two-thirds of the squad. Forty percent
of the team will never have played a game of soccer when we play Carolina next Friday.” After presenting this
disturbing picture, soccer coach Paul Marrotte went on to predict a break-even season for his green team. But will the
Wildcat head-and-toe men be as good as last year’s team which was only one win over the .500 mark? “Frankly,
no,” Marrotte said. “Dr. McCutchan and I figure that in the nine players who graduated last year, we lost 25
years total experience. We can’t measure up to the A.C.C. teams this year. Last year we played them to overtime.
Carolina and State are in a class with the strong eastern teams like Maryland. They always have good material, they
are well-coached, and they go in for soccer in a big way.”

Marrotte’s big problem is the fact that the sophomores were unable to schedule a match against freshmen last year, which
has hurt. Many of them have never played in a regulation match. The foreign students, who proved themselves invaluable in
1958, have departed for their homelands and their ‘59 counterparts simply do not have the same soccer know-how and talent.
Marrotte, however, singled out Englishman Glyn Hughes as a definite starter and a potential star. The ‘Cats open up with
U.N.C. a week from today at Chapel Hill and play their first home game on Oct. 7, with Belmont Abbey.
Tom Johnson, who was severely kicked in the shin, is at present the only player not at full strength. His
loss will be costly against the Tar Heels.

He said that candidates for the freshman team would be called for in two weeks and that a game may
be scheduled for them.
