Davidson Admissions Standards Examined (See Page Two)

The Davidsonian
The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

‘Cats Citadel Weather Report: Meaner Than Gracie (See Page Three)

VOL. XLVIII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1959 NUMBER THREE

Johnson And Davidson Write Books On South

The South during the Civil War is the general topic of two books now in preparation by members of Davidson’s
faculty. Dr. Frontis W. Johnston and Dr. Chalmers G. Davidson are both at work on specific aspects of Carolina history
during the middle of the last century.

Dr. Davidson spent this past summer conducting research for his study of the agrarian leadership of South Carolina in 1860.
He is interested in establishing the contributions of the large planters in the political, cultural, and economic fields.

COURTHOUSE SEARCHES

His first step in obtaining material was to visit the courthouse in South Carolina towns to read local records. He
often checks burial grounds and family cemeteries to discover exact dates of birth and death. Old newspaper files frequently yield
valuable information. “Sometimes,” said Dr. Davidson, “the man’s descendants can reveal amazing scandals about life in the ante-bellum days —
all off the record of course.” The up-country counties were covered this summer, and Dr. Davidson hopes to do the
low country during the next two summers.

JOHNSTON ON VANCE

Dean Frontis W. Johnston has long been at work on the Papers of Zebulon B. Vance. He is also writing
a biography of this important political figure in North Carolina history. Vance was three times governor of the state, and
served fifteen years as U. S. Senator. He played a great part in the history of the South during the
Reconstruction era and following. Dr. Johnston's first volume of Vance’s Papers is now in page proof and is scheduled for
publication early in 1960 by the State Department of Archives and History in Raleigh. It includes selected letters through the
year 1862, and will be followed by subsequent volumes covering other correspondence written prior to Vance's death in 1894. About
600 pages of the biography proper have been written. Dr. Johnston has not yet finished research for the last part
or the condensation of the already-written section.

Director of the College Union C. Shaw Smith talks to the Freshman Council at an organizational meeting held last Wednesday.
Freshman Advisor Bill Whitesell (seated left) listens.

By BOB MOORE
Davidsonian Managing Editor

IFC Proposes Changes In Rushing Regulations

Gentleman's Agreement Will Limit Dorm Visits

The Interfraternity Council passed three recommendations concerning Rush. Concerning dorm rushing, a fraternity will be limited to fifteen minutes at
any one time in the room of a rushee during the challenge Mr. Smith presented to the Council. The Council
members were elected by the members of their dormitory halls.

Frosh Pick Top Twenty; Council Meets, Confers

The newly elected Freshmen Council met Wednesday in the Private Dining Room of the Student Union. The 20-man council is
composed of representatives from each freshman hall. Elected to the 1959 Council are: Pat Ward, Tommy Tuttle, Dick Vorhees, Richard
Lowry, Jim Hamilton, Jason McDaniel, Bill Boyd, Tom Wright, Tom Ross, “Spud” Stewart, Danny Carrel, Pierce Howard, Alec Morgan, Don
McQueen, Joe Martin, Roger Durham, Mike Owen, Ken Kelley, Bob Marshall, and John Killian.

COUNCIL RESPONSIBILITIES

In their first session, Wednesday, the group learned about the Council and its responsibilities. After congratulating them upon their election,
Mr. C. Shaw Smith informed them that they would (1) represent their class to the College family, (2) represent the
College in communicating with the Freshmen, and (3) represent the potential of the Class of '63. Mr. Smith challenged them
to realize this responsibility by discussing campus issues. “The campus is your province,” he summarized. “It is your responsibility to
challenge the present ideas of Davidson.” He reminded them, however, that they had no power to put any of their
ideas into effect, except through setting an example in their own conduct. Commenting further, he said that the faculty and
student leaders would be more than willing to meet with them and discuss pertinent questions. In fact, some leading student
officials will attend the next meeting of the Council. These will include Dee Green, student body president.

Bill Whitesell, freshman adviser, is serving as interim-president of the Council until after the six-weeks grading period. By their ballots,
the Councilmen will select a president, vice-president, and secretary-treasurer. Whitesell will preside at meetings until the officers are installed.

TYPICAL TOPICS DISCUSSED

The secretary-treasurer of last year’s Council, Joe Robinson, read from the minutes of the Council to give the Freshmen some
idea of typical discussions.

Dr. Cumming Reveals European Treasure

By CHARLES ROSE
Davidsonian Feature Editor

People who attend a class for fifty minutes three times a week seldom have the opportunity to see the secret
joys and accomplishments of the professor that stands before them. Time does not wait, the course must be taught and
the professors' extra activities usually have to come out over a cup of coffee or during some Sunday night visit.
Yet many have written books, magazine articles and chalked up scores of other seldom known accomplishments.

Professor William P. Cumming sat near the window in his book-filled office slowly packing his pipe. Shelves reached the ceiling
and a ladder rested near one corner. “Now you wanted to know about my trip to Europe,” he said, bringing
a flaming match from the sole of his shoe. A trip that took the professor and his wife away from
Davidson for one year and eleven days, over fourteen thousand miles and through ten countries of Europe. “Before I get
started, let me show you something I brought back,” he said reaching into his back pocket and producing a thin
plastic billfold. From one compartment he carefully removed a small plastic box containing a tiny black object. “This is the
smallest book in the world,” said the professor proudly holding it up for a closer look. The minute volume was
covered in blue hand-tooled morocco leather and contained parts of the New Testament in seven languages. Professor Cumming said it
was published by the Gutenberg Museum, Frankfurt, Germany, to commemorate printing of the Bible.

Minter, McAlister Encourage I. R. C.

Today in chapel an announcement was made concerning the reorganization of the International Relations Club (IRC) for the '59-'60 school
year. This organization was dormant last year but has been active in previous years. Under the direction of Dr. W.
P. Minter, associate professor of Political Science, and led by President Dan McAlister and his associate John Denton, the club
will have its organizational meeting Monday, October 5, at 7:30 in the Green Room of the College Union. “The first
program will be presented the following week,” said McAlister. “We hope to hold informative debates and discussions by the faculty
and outside speakers on contemporary problems in international relations. Dr. Minter has contacted an organization of international relations information which
has for their theme this year ‘Africa’. We might decide to adopt this theme also.”

In a statement, John Denton said, “In past years the IRC has tried to sponsor speakers but has lacked the
funds.” But McAlister plans “to get one speaker through the International Relations Service — per- continued

Di Giogia Display Set For Chambers

Oil paintings and watercolors by Frank Di Giogia, a distinguished New York artist, will be displayed in the foyer of
Chambers Building from October 5th through the 15th. Mr. Di Giogia will visit President and Mrs. Martin during the first
week in October. The paintings brought from New York will be supplemented by those belonging to the Martins and to
Ovens College Union.

Mr. Di Giogia has painted and studied extensively in Europe. He is also noted for his scenes of “Little Italy”
in New York’s Greenwich Village. The artist's work is represented in many museums and private collections, including that of New
York's former mayor, Fiorello La Guardia, and that of the same city’s former governor and wife, the Averell Harrimans. Mr.
Di Giogia is a protégé of Walt Kuhn, a famous American artist.

400 Join YMCA In Large Increase

Over 400 Davidson students, or about 45 percent of the student body, have joined the YMCA this past week as
a result of the membership and financial drive, headed by Wesley Weeks. YMCA members are now contacting each Davidson student
as a part of thefinancial drive, and are receiving either cash donations, or pledges to give weekly at the vesper
services. It is hoped that the financial drive will supply half of the $4,600 budget for the YMCA’s program.

The membership is greater than last year, especially among the freshmen. Last year 10 per cent of the Freshman Class
joined, while 50 per cent joined this year. The increase is mainly attributed to the change in the time of
the membership drive, which was previously held during orientation, but was not conducted until after Rush Week this year. A
special chapel program for upperclassmen on the proposed YMCA program is accredited with the increase in membership among the upper
classes. Thirty per cent of the Sophomore Class joined, 38 per cent of the juniors, and 20 per cent of
the Senior Class. Members are now being contacted by the area chairmen of the YMCA program, in the process of
getting the program underway.

The first three days of Rush Week. This ruling was passed to prevent any one fraternity from continually occupying a
rushee’s room for an entire afternoon. It will be a gentleman's agreement among the fraternities to abide by this regulation.
During the last two days of Rush Week, dorm rushing will be limited to two hours in the afternoon with
no one fraternity occupying the room of a rushee for more than thirty minutes at any one time. The idea
of shortening the pledging period on Saturday afternoon was discussed, and the council recommended that the pledging period be shortened
thirty minutes and be between the hours of three and four o'clock. Rush chairmen next year to be certain that
all rush parties end within the limitation. This recommendation is made as a result that many of the rush parties
this year ran five or ten minutes over the prescribed time and, therefore, delayed the start of the following party.

The possibility of having Rush Week later in the year was discussed, and the council unanimously decided that the present
time of Rush Week is most suitable for everyone concerned. IFC president Ward McKeithen placed six members of the council
in charge of various aspects of the Homecoming dance weekend. The following appointments are: Jim Anderson, rooms in Belk; Jerry
Croom, of fraternity houses; Bob Moore, publicity; Tom Cole, Homecoming exhibits in front of fraternity houses; Tom Ridenhour, tickets and
invitations; Don Rhame, IFC figure; and Quinton Boyd, flowers. The council also urges all hour, tickets and invitations; nades have
also been secured. Week during its regular meeting on Monday night. The recommendations will be submitted to next year’s IFC
for approval.

ROTC Department Issues New Gear

Sgt. Patrick Gregory, supply sergeant for the local R.O.T.C. brigade, reports that a total of 569 new uniforms have been
issued to MS. I, II, and III students for the 1959-60 school year. The uniforms are the standard Army green
and are being used by Basic cadets for the first time. Ninety-one of the uniforms have been designated for MS.
III use. First-year advanced cadets were also issued service “flat hats.” Sgt. Gregory said that the M-1 rifles had been
re-blued and parts were obtained for the older pieces. New field telephones and a variety of demonstration grenades have also
been secured.

“Our guiding principle in admissions,” he said, “is that we are looking for the kind of boy that ought to
be here. There are three things that we are looking for: One—Enough ability to make a “C” average; Two—A high
school record that proves he has been using his ability; Three—Proof that he will be an asset to the college
and make a positive contribution as an alumnus. The procedure to obtain this type of boy may change but the
philosophy remains the same. For example—Three or four years ago we could not find enough boys academically qualified to make
up the freshman class. Therefore we did not pay much attention to extra-curriculars. The push came in filling the last
one hundred places in the class with men of the caliber that we wanted. Now, however, we have two hundred
qualified applicants for the last one hundred places. Consequently, we now look much harder at the extra-curricular activities in which
the prospective student has participated. But also the academic requirements have risen, after all, the primary reason for the existence
of a college is academic.”

The Dean stated that he believed that the emphasis on the scholastic was justified “since,” he said, “we want to
graduate every boy that we admit. And we feel that we are making strides toward this goal. As late as
1950 around forty boys flunked out after each semester. If the same rules had been applied to the student on
campus last year, the number would have only totaled fourteen, only two of this number being freshmen. The improvement can
be noticed even if one compares classes still in school. In 1957, twenty-seven students were placed on the doubtful list.
Fifteen of these have flunked out. However, in the present class, there are no such students that can be considered
doubtful. Also, we have raised the academic standards in order to be fair to the students applying. It is unjust
to take a student that we feel cannot make the grade scholastically. Ten or fifteen years ago, the dean could
call up almost any school in the south and place a boy that had “flunked out” of Davidson. Today this
is impossible since all schools are beginning to take better and better students. Since there are so many qualified applicants,
some good boys will naturally be turned down. However, the best we can do is to make our selections in
accord with our principles and hope that we get the best possible class.”

Several pamphlets have been published by the college dealing with admissions. These pamphlets, entitled “Admission to Davidson,” “Can Your Son
Get into Davidson,” and “The Problem of Admissions,” can be obtained by interested students or future applicants by contacting the
Dean's office.

Twenty-One Cadets Rate D.M.S. Rank

Twenty-one cadet officers were designated as R.O.T.C. Distinguished Military Students this week. Bases for selection include possession of qualities of
leadership and high moral character, exhibition of a definite attitude for military service, attainment of a military science advance course
standing in the upper one-third of his R.O.T.C. class, and attainment of an overall standing in the upper one-half of
his college class. Brigade commanding and staff officers receiving the award are: First Col. Bob Brigade Commanding Officer; Lt. Col.
Dabney Stuart, Brigade S-2; Lt. Col. Joe Wearn, Brigade S-3; Lt. Col. Bob Avinger, Brigade S-4; Col. Brigade Deputy Commanding
Officer; and Lt. Col. Tom Ridenhour, Brigade Executive Officer. Selected from the First Battle Group were Col. Larry McNeil, Maj.
Lamar Riggs, Maj. Dick Smith, Capt. Don Rhame, Capt. Woody Morcock, and Capt. George Hart. Selected as D.M.S. from the
Second Battle Group were Col. George H. Sutcliffe, who has completed his R.O.T.C. obligation but has not been the College,
also received.
