Protest Against Drinking Regulation (See Page 2) Spring Sports in Full Swing (See Page 3)

The Davidsonian
The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College
DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C.
FRIDAY, APRIL 17, 1959

Students, Distinguished Guests Prepare For Martin Installation; Nine Fraternities Make 1959-60 Officer Selection; Festivities Will Begin With Student Reception

“I’m overwhelmed that all of this is being done because of my taking this office. It seems to me to be a specific occasion for definite commitment. It is a time of thinking about what you're going to do and how you're going to do it.” So stated Dr. Martin when asked how he felt about his approaching inauguration as the thirteenth President of Davidson College.

For the last two months, numerous committees have been preparing for the April 22 inauguration. Dean Johnston, who is in charge of making all the preparations for the event, reported that “plans have gone along very well because of the cooperation of everyone involved.”

The inauguration ceremony will be conducted by Dr. J. McDowell Richards, after which Dr. Martin will deliver his inaugural address. A reception honoring Dr. and Mrs. Martin will take place immediately following the ceremony.

Nine fraternities on the Davidson campus have elected a full slate of officers for next year. Pi Kappa Phi, Sigma Alpha Epsilon, and Sigma Nu have still to select their leaders for the coming school term. Sigma Alpha Epsilon elects officers on a semester basis and has not chosen all of their officers for the fall semester. Those who have been elected are listed below:

ALPHA TAU OMEGA
President: Bill Hellier
Vice-President: Pete Kellogg
Secretary: Bob Livingston
Treasurer: Jim Owens
Rush Chairman: Joe Braswell
IFC Representative: Bob Moore

BETA THETA PI
President: Bob Avinger
Vice-President: Freddy Lane
Secretary: Bob Waugh
Treasurer: Tom

The other fraternities and their officer selections are listed below:

Sigma Nu has selected a nominations committee and this committee will present a slate of nominees in the near future. Pi Kappa Phi plans to elect their officers within the next few weeks.

Bowl Team Heads For DC-Minnesota Wrangle
By ERVIN DUGGAN
Davidsonian Managing Editor

“Twas brillig, and the slithy toves—” Before the question was finished, a light flashed and the answer came. “Sir, that’s from Lewis Carroll’s ‘Jabberwocky’ in ‘Through the Looking Glass.’ The poet’s real name is Charles Lutwidge Dodgson and the rest of the poem goes like this—”

So it went in the last practice session of Davidson's College Bowl Team Wednesday. The questions came, and the answers came fast. Right answers, too. After weeks of preparation, the team was ready. Numerous practice sessions were behind them. Hours of study in almanacs, textbooks, newspapers past. Now what lay ahead was a two-day period of rest and study in Spartanburg, S. C., then Saturday’s plane trip to Minneapolis and the big game before millions of viewers on Sunday afternoon.

“We're scared,” said team captain Bobby Livingston, “but the team has gotten together real well and worked hard. Tell everybody we're hopeful.”

The four top scholars left by car Wednesday night for a stay at team member Laurens Walker's home in Spartanburg. They will drive to Charlotte early tomorrow morning, where they will meet Professor Paul Marrotte and team alternate Monty Bracey and fly to Minneapolis. Eastern Airlines officials announced this week that they will sponsor a send-off ceremony at Charlotte airport tomorrow morning before the team leaves on the 9:30 a.m. flight to Minnesota.

The team will arrive in Minneapolis late tomorrow. After greeting their hosts on the Minnesota campus and visiting a Davidson alumnus who is on the University faculty there, the Davidson students will retire for a good night's rest before Sunday's activities. The group declined a telegraphed message from Minnesota’s team offering Saturday night dates (“Sounds like sabotage,” said one team member), asking the Minnesota team captain to arrange dates for Sunday evening instead.

On Sunday at 5 p.m. (EST) the contest between Davidson (student body: 900) and the University of Minnesota (student body: 26,000) will be beamed across the nation via the network facilities of CBS. “It’s like another meeting between David and Goliath,” said a faculty member. “I just hope the outcome is as satisfactory.”

Over thirteen thousand alumni, parents, and “friends of the college” this week received advance postal notices of the team’s Sunday appearance. In addition, students were urged to notify friends of the program, called by President D. G. Martin “the best opportunity for national publicity in the history of this college.”

Meanwhile, the team members attempted to remain as calm as possible. The Spartanburg trip was proposed and the college approved it as a way of protecting the team from last-minute jitters.

Kuykendall Calls For New Court Of Control

A presentation of a revised constitution and recommendations for changes in the Court of Control were passed into the hands of the newly elected Student Council Monday night. In its final meeting of the year, the 1958-1959 council concluded business on these items and prepared for the change of administration.

John Kuykendall, student body president, presented the suggestions for revising the constitution in chapel today. Mimeographed copies were distributed at the doors. The changes involve no amendments but only a rewording of misunderstood statements and sections affected by amendments passed this year. The student body will vote on the revision at a later date.

COURT INEFFECTIVE

In its written recommendations, the council expressed disappointment in the lack of effectiveness of the Court of Control and suggested considerable re-evaluation and modification of its program. It feels a shorter period of jurisdiction is desirable. Only four of the present regulations are advocated in the effort to streamline and shorten the present system. They are: 1—Freshmen required to uphold Davidson tradition of speaking to everyone they meet on campus; 2—must wear caps; 3—cannot walk on grass; and 4—must wear orientation name tags.

GREEN INSTALLED

Dee Green will be installed as the new Student Council President in chapel next Tuesday. At that time the new council will also take office. Abiding by the constitution, Kuykendall, as retiring president, and Roy Gilbert as outgoing head of the senior class will continue to serve on the new council through the remainder of the year. Richard Brubaker was elected Monday night as the Senior Council Member to serve with them. The three will have a similar position on the new Honor Court.

In closing, Kuykendall spoke gratefully to the council for its work and support in what he felt was “an auspicious year in council history.”

YMCA Cabinet Selects Hellier

Bill Hellier has been selected by the YMCA Cabinet as Editor of the Handbook for next year. Bill has since secured a printer and has chosen Pete Kellogg as Business Manager. Retiring Editor George Ramsey spoke highly of his successor: “He’s had a lot of experience in publications and is well qualified for the job.” Bill was Sports Editor of the Handbook this year. He has been on the DAVIDSONIAN staff since his freshman year. Bill’s other activities include statistician for Coach McKee, Spanish Club, Gamma Sigma Epsilon Honorary Fraternity, advanced ROTC, Alpha Tau Omega Social Fraternity, and swimming team.

The Handbook is primarily used to orient incoming freshmen in the ways of Davidson. The 1958-60 edition is to come off the presses by the third week in August.Johnson Tom Johnson Ward McKeithen Rush Chairman IFC Representative KAPPA ALPHA President - Marshall Dunaway Vice-President Don Rhame Secretary - Julian Pleasants Treasurer - Joe Wearn Rush Chairman Jim Richardson IFC Representative Bud Hunter KAPPA SIGMA President Tommy Price Vice-President Newt Quantz Secretary - Ed Kizer Treasurer - Ed Houser Rush Chairman Verner Stanley IFC Representative Jerry Cole PHI DELTA THETA President Dan McAlister Vice-President Tom Smith Secretary - Craig Ray Treasurer Bob Denham Rush Chairman Harry Broome IFC Representative Scott Lacy PHI GAMMA DELTA President John Watwood Secretary Jim Earnhardt Treasurer - Bob Pate Charlie Patterson Tom Ridenhour Rush Chairman IFC Representative PI KAPPA ALPHA President David Atchison Vice-President John Stone Secretary George Kundahl Treasurer Jerry Vaughn Rush Chairman Dan Turner IFC Representative Jim Anderson SIGMA CHI Rush Chairman IFC Representative President Vice-President Comptroller Secretary IFC Representative SIGMA PHI EPSILON President Kay Kilpatrick Vice-President Gus Burgdorf Secretary Marvin Parker Treasurer Noel McDevitt Spiro Macris Woody Morcock Dan Clemmer Quinton Cook Louis Fogleman Elwood Hartman Roger Dewhurst

DR. MARTIN TV Bowl Team Is ‘Ready’: Livingston

The Davidson College Quiz Bowl team, flying via Eastern Air Lines, will leave Charlotte at 9:30 tomorrow morning for Minneapolis, Minnesota. All expenses are being paid by General Electric, sponsor of the TV program. The panel, as team captain Bob Livingston put it, is “Ready.” The members of the team, Frank Nye, Laurens Walker, Charles Chastain, and Livingston, have been in Spartanburg, South Carolina, at Walker’s home, since last Wednesday night making final preparations for the contest, which will pit Davidson against the University of Minnesota at 5:00 Sunday afternoon. While in Minneapolis, the team, along with team coach Paul Marrotte, will stay at the Hotel Pick-Nicollet, and will return to Charlotte at 7:30 Monday evening.

The final phase of student body elections was completed this week with the election of Student Council representatives from the three upper classes. Elected from the rising senior class were Bob Avinger, Charles Benson, Fred Lene, and Tom Price. They will join class president Dave Warden on the Student Council. Avinger, having the highest number of votes, will hold the office of class vice-president, and Price, having the second highest, will serve as secretary-treasurer. The rising junior class elected Tom Hudgins and Pete Wyrick, who will serve with class president Tom Parker. Rising Sophomore George Trask will sit on the Council with president Graham Allison.

KA Order Honors Alumnus Of 1892

Dr. C. M. Richards, oldest living alumnus of Sigma Chapter of Kappa Alpha Order, has been nominated by the local chapter of the Order to a seat on the fraternity’s Court of Honor. He will receive formal recognition of the honor at a meeting of Sigma Chapter in several weeks. The Court of Honor of Kappa Alpha Order is an honorary organization giving special recognition to alumni members who have rendered meritorious service to the fraternity. Each chapter of the Order selects an alumni member to receive the honorary recognition each year. Dr. Richards was a member of Sigma Chapter of Kappa Alpha Order at Davidson from 1888 to 1892. After graduation, he entered the ministry and returned to Davidson as Professor of Bible. Now retired, he is Professor Emeritus of Bible at Davidson College.

STUDENT RECEPTION

Activities will begin this Tuesday evening at 6:15 with a student reception given in honor of Dr. Martin. Three chefs are being flown in from Philadelphia to prepare the special buffet dinner to be served on the football field. Following the dinner, the scene of activities will shift into the gym where a program including several surprises for Dr. Martin will be presented. Throughout the evening music will be offered by a student jazz group. On Wednesday morning tours of the campus will be conducted by various students for the benefit of the many visitors. At 12:15 there will be an inaugural luncheon for the special guests and the representatives from different colleges.

250 GUESTS

The academic procession, which will be made up of more than 250 representatives from colleges and universities throughout the country, will form at 1:45 p.m. in front of the college church. To the music of the Davidson ROTC band, the academic procession will weave its way up the sidewalks into Chambers Building and on into the auditorium. The inauguration itself will begin promptly at 2:30 p.m. immediately following the inauguration.

CLOSE CONNECTIONS

Dr. Martin, who was elected president by the Board of Trustees on May 15, 1958, has been closely connected with Davidson ever since being a student here. April 22, the day of President Martin's inauguration, has been declared a holiday. However, because of the holiday, double cuts will be in effect on April 21 and 23. As a student, Dr. Martin was editor of the DAVIDSONIAN. He served as a member of the YMCA Cabinet and Board of Directors and was on the varsity basketball and track teams. He was also tapped into membership in ODK and Scabbard and Blade. After being away for a year, he returned to serve as Alumni Secretary and Publicity Director from 1933 to 1936. He left to enter the business world, but returned in 1951 to serve as Treasurer and Business Manager until his election as President last year.

IFC Sets Plans For Informal Weekend

The Interfraternity Council this week announced plans for the informal Spring Frolics next weekend. These plans center around the Friday and Saturday night dances and a Saturday afternoon concert, with the music provided by Duke Ellington. Professional decorators are to provide a spring atmosphere for the weekend dances. The Council also hopes to use a new presentation of the traditional figure in keeping with the emphasis on informality. Friday night’s dance will be semi-formal with coats and ties and cocktail dresses the proper dress. On Saturday night, dress will be completely informal, with Bermuda shorts the prescribed wear. As in the past, the dance on Friday night will be from nine until one, and on Saturday night, from eight until twelve. The Council is enthusiastic over the prospects for the Saturday afternoon concert. It will be held on the front campus lawn and will be strictly informal. Ellington will begin at two-thirty p.m. and play for about an hour. The time and length of the concert were planned to enable couples who wished to leave the campus for the weekend to attend the concert immediately after lunch and still be able to leave for other events at an early hour.

Chorus To Present Baroque Concert

The Davidson College Male Chorus, with the Queens College Choir, will present Dido and Aeneas on Tuesday evening, April 28, in Chamber's Auditorium. Bill Workman, of Davidson, and Janice Hudson, of Queens, will sing the leading roles in this special concert arrangement of Henry Purcell’s Baroque opera. A performance will also be given at Queens on Monday night, April 27. This concert is part of Davidson’s annual Fine Arts Festival. Other programs scheduled for this Festival include a reading of John Webster’s Baroque play, The Duchess of Malfi, on April 27 in the Union Ballroom; and an organ recital by Paul Langston of St. John’s Baptist Church in Charlotte, on May 5. A concert of Baroque music will also be given by the Davidson College Chamber Orchestra on May 8. All these performances will start at 8:15 p.m., and are free of charge. Another highlight of the dance weekend will be an old-time minstrel show to be presented by the D-Club before Friday’s dance in the Chamber’s Auditorium. (Continued On Page Four)