Che Davidsonian
THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE
PAGE TWO FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 1959
(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

Changes Would Make Elections Meaningful

In past years, student body elections at Davidson have begun with a bang and ended with a whimper. Starting in glory with the race for president of the student body, over a period of several weeks they creep along to a muted finish with the election of the head cheerleader and the athletic council, obscure offices for which rarely more than one-tenth of the students cast a ballot. Student interest in the whole process of choosing officers of the student body, YMCA, and publications has generally been pretty stagnant, with only about sixty percent bothering to vote at any balloting.

It has become evident that something ought to be done to re-awaken the interest of the students in their elections. Student Body President John Kuykendall took the first step last fall when he appointed a special committee of students to study the elections situation. After wisely rejecting attempts by a minority to inject the issues of increased party politics and student campaigning, the committee decided upon a series of proposals which it submitted to the Student Council. Kuykendall also has drafted a list of recommended election changes for the Council and the Elections Board.

By these recommendations, the order of elections would be changed to: student body officers, the Honor Court, Student Council representatives, YMCA officers and publications editors, and the Freshman Advisor. Athletic Council members, instead of being elected by the student body, would be chosen by the Athletic Council itself. Class presidents would not be elected separately but would be taken from the highest men among council representatives in each class.

All of these proposals are sensible ones, and we feel that they should be adopted in time to cover the entire course of this spring's elections. The changes pertaining to the Athletic Council, the head cheerleader, and class presidents would require amendment of the student body constitution; this should be done as soon as possible.

However, the process of voting could be sped up somewhat if publications editors were elected at the same time as student body officers. It is unlikely that any individual would be running in both races or would want to wait for the outcome of one before entering the other. This would speed up voting, as well as bring up important offices at a time when student body interest is still high. YMCA elections could double up with the Freshman Advisor race.

The elections committee also proposed that three precincts be established for voting near the dormitories. We feel that this also should be put into effect, since it will allow voting on the non-chapel days at polling places closer to the center of student activities than the Union (where this took place last year).

The Council and the Elections Board should reject, as did the special Elections Committee, the notion of having non-chapel voting at the fraternity houses during meal time. This would tend to encourage bloc voting, and would set a dangerous precedent.

With the above changes, elections for student body offices will have a chance of becoming more meaningful to a greater number of students.
—C.H.C.

Our Valentine

Last year the DAVIDSONIAN selected Mrs. J. B. Moore as our “Valentine.” Again this year her charm and sincere interest in the welfare of the Student Body have easily eliminated all competition. During two and a half years of service as Supervisor of Dormitories, Mrs. Moore has consistently performed her duties with exceptional ability and efficiency, but she has gone beyond this. She has performed the greater service of being a campus “mother” to nine-hundred Davidson men each year. This is why we want her to be our “Valentine.”

No student has ever found Mrs. Moore too busy to listen to his problem, whether it be a disagreeable roommate or a broken date for dance weekend. She is always generous with praise, but gives it meaning with equally generous reprimands for messy rooms, cigarette burns on the floor, and excessive noise. Most of all we want her to know that her interest and efforts on our behalf are appreciated. The only way we can really say it is, “Thank you again, Mrs. Moore.”

A Healthy Sign

Mixing plain talk with shrewd humor, Harry Golden told a packed house of segregation-oriented Southerners that they were all wrong, and they listened to every word. The easiest way to conquer a foe is to make him look ridiculous, and that's just what Golden did to white supremacy. The audience roared with delight when he gravely asked, “Would you want your daughter to marry Orval Faubus?”

We could quote the best-selling author’s humor for columns, but the significance of his visit lies elsewhere. First, it is a sad comment on our culture when we have to wait for a frank-speaking New York immigrant to do any plain talking about a problem peculiar to our land. With the exception of Mr. James Dabbs, he is the only person in this section of the nation willing to poke fun at Southern myths, laugh at racists, “Citizen's Councils,” and all the rest. Intelligent Southern leadership must have failed somehow.

Secondly, the packed house that listened attentively to Golden attests to the fact that the educated youth of the South are no longer willing to hear only the red-necked demagogue. They want the fullest picture they can get of the problems facing their country; they are becoming more willing to make up their own minds. Certainly all that came to hear the “Israelite” editor did not agree with him; perhaps they left with their opinions not changed, but they did come, and they did listen, and they did think. We think it’s a healthy sign.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Charles Chastain
ASSISTANT EDITOR
Bob Lathan, George Ramsey
BUSINESS MANAGER
Ed Armfield
Associate Editors
Dick Smith, Jim Hamilton, Pete Kellogg, Bruce Brooks
Managing Editors
Laurens Walker, Bill Patton, Henry Samuels
Sports Editor
Tom Colvin
Feature Editor
Spiro Macris
News Editor
George Rhyne
Assignments Editor
Dave Gillis
Copy Editor
Greg Grana
Cartoonists
Bross, Cole
Photography Editor
Bob Wynne
Advertising Manager
Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879

OVER THE SEAS

On “Free Love” In Scandinavia

On the request of the Editor of the DAVIDSONIAN I will now attempt to describe what in the United States is known as “free love in Scandinavia.” As this term has been unknown to me up to now, you will have to excuse me if my opinion differs somewhat from yours. I have a strange feeling that the Editor has asked the wrong person to write this article, for I know practically nothing about the subject compared to most Americans, who during all these years have received accurate information which is unobtainable in my home country, and who seem to be duly shocked.

I did not understand this attitude, and this made me believe that I had come to a country with traditions similar to those in the Middle East. Did girls wear veils? Evidently not. I said to myself, “Since they don’t wear veils, perhaps they are goddesses.” My belief was strongly confirmed when I came to Davidson. Never in my entire life have I seen such an abundance of goddesses as on the walls in the rooms of the dormitories; from Brigitte Bardot in a bikini to Elizabeth Taylor in sunglasses...

I got a date. I was really looking forward to this event, because this, I was sure, would tell me the difference between a Danish girl and an American girl. Yet I was disappointed. The difference was the same.

By EBBE JUSTESEN

I went with my “beauty” to a drive-in. She was cold as a Frigidaire. (I thought that maybe we had a little more “free love” in Denmark after all.) It was raining. The wipers offered a very limited view of the movie screen, which was to the right of the car. I was double-dating. The girl in the front seat did not seem to be a Frigidaire; or at least her cooling system did not work. The result was that my poor date was not able to see anything because of the width of the two heads put together. I moved as far to the right as possible, and my date followed me. Now she could see — I could not, but all for the lady.

We had been at the movie for a quarter of an hour, I guess, when my Frigidaire began to melt. It was dark now, and maybe the defroster of the car did its job, too. I felt her shoulders resting against my breast. I started to think again, “Oh, she is so polite that she will say to me that I can come a little closer so that I can see, too.” I moved closer, and discovered that my date was not able to see at all from where she was sitting. She had moved too far to the right. I looked at her, she looked at me. I thought, “It is a tale told by an idiot.”

The next day I thought to myself, “God bless my wise chemistry professor, Dr. Lent.” He had told me about carbon tetrachloride, how it was able to dissolve different stuffs; and really he was right. The lipstick came off my shirt very easily.

This date did not satisfy my curiosity; the girl was like most girls I have met in Denmark. (And by the way, no later date has satisfied my curiosity.) The only difference I have found is that I have not seen many friendships between a girl and a boy here in the U.S.A. I believe that many of the American girls — and by the way, the boys, too — think that a memberof the opposite sex is only something one can make love with — it cannot be a good friend. A boy and a girl cannot have the same interests — it is acceptable if the only interest is the opposite sex. But this is the wrong point of view. I have had some of my most wonderful and enjoyable hours together with Danish girls, and I have never had to make use of Dr. Gallent’s wisdom after such hours. Maybe it is these meetings, so natural to us, which are called “free love.” Let me say it so: A Tete-a-Tete in Denmark is a meeting between two; a meeting where two can speak together. A Tete-a-Tete in America is a meeting, too; a meeting — but not for talking.

THE PHILOSOPHES

A Vital Message Is Taught Through An Old Arab Tale

The jackal half-ran, half-limped across the Arabian desert in the setting sun, exhausted from the afternoon chase. The nomadic hunters relentlessly pursued, increasing his terror with every bound. In the solitary tent ahead lay his only chance for survival. Wearily he stooped and crept in, only to be confronted by the startled tentsman.

“I seek refuge for the night from the hunters who follow.”

“You have protection and my bond,” the Arab responded, and the jackal slunk to the deepest recesses of the shelter.

The hunters approached in boisterous fashion, incensed with the coming conquest. Having seen their prey enter the tent they stepped boldly in and demanded him of the keeper.

“He's not yours to have,” the tentsman softly and firmly replied.

The thirsty hunters withdrew after vain argument to a nearby encampment, there to await the capture and kill.

The cool breezes of the night indeed did bring death — but death to the unsuspecting, sleeping tentsman at the hands and teeth of the ungrateful jackal, unconscious of the higher principles of his benefactor.

A steady stream of refugees flow from east to west in Continental Europe, men and women who have suffered for their Christian faith at the hands of communist regimes and who have only out of necessity left their homelands and families. They are welcomed and warmly enfolded by the members of the Church west of the Iron Curtain. Their benefactors hold the strange belief that the suffering church is the only real Church and that only as they, the materially blessed, sacrifice to receive their refugee brethren do they partake of the nature of this real Church.

The first account is a popular Arab legend; to our American ears it sounds at least unnatural, unreal, and uncontemporary, and perhaps frightening. It is told with intense fervor and spirit by the Arab, as representative of the fidelity of his people. It is believed by him and is true in the most real sense of belief and truth, for he practices it. It may be incomprehensible to us precisely because it speaks of the future and we of the present and past, because it speaks of a more enduring quality and our culture of a less permanent quality.

The second passage is a reality of much of the experience of the Christian Church of Western Europe. The tone of that experience, of a redemptively acting community, is often foreign to our ears as well. We may at least gather that the decline of America would mean neither the loss of moral values and meanings in the world nor the end of the life of the Christian Church.

SALMAGUNDI

Some Jottings On The Campus Scene By JOHN TOUMARAS

There’s something special about Mid-Winters. True, the world lies dormant and bare in the clutch of winter, and there’s neither the crisp air of Homecoming nor the cool, green grass of Spring Frolics, but at Mid-Winters one begins to become aware of the coming of Spring with all her attendant emotions. Some think of this as an “off” dance weekend. Is there anything “off” about a young man and woman spending a few, short days together enjoying one another's company and the company of other young couples? Is there anything “off” in taking time to seek the intangible wonders of life? Mid-Winters may be a weekend like all other weekends, but still there’s something special about it.

Many thanks to the Planning and Building Commission of the College for the lights on the fraternity court. Now that the parking spaces are lighted, one will be able to see the mud that he will have to walk through to get to the street. But would it be possible to place a light at the steps and path so one will not break his neck or trip over a tricycle or hula hoop?

Last week a notice was placed on all the official and unofficial bulletin boards stating that Vespers next week is to be held in Chambers Auditorium. That was all. Now, gentlemen, are we to sit in our assigned seats or be given a white card and allowed to sit wherever and with whomever we please? Is it really going to be a Vespers service or is it going to be a candlelight chapel service without the bell to tell the speaker when to stop? Why not just do away with Vespers altogether?

Statements which ought to be deleted when the next College catalogue is published: “Davidson is a liberal arts college . . . a small college . . . church-related without being narrowly sectarian . . . is primarily concerned with preparing its graduates not simply for making a living . . . has been furnishing men of sound intellectual training and strong character . . . adequate facilities . . . maintains a thoroughly modern cafeteria staffed by experienced personnel . . . maintains a modern laundry . . . the Union serves as more than a place to ‘meet and eat’ . . . students largely control affairs on campus . . . guest ministers drawn from the ranks of nationally prominent clergymen . . . democratic . . . life at Davidson is essentially . . .”

New Student Council Must Assume Duties By TOM COLVIN

As we are nearing the period of transition into the Student Council-Honor Council system of student government, perhaps we should pause to examine one of the biggest problems which has faced our student government in the past and the extent to which this new system will answer this problem.

INHERENT FAILURE

This failing, inherent in our student government setup of the past, has been its lack of identity with the student body and the subsequent lack of interest on the part of the students. The student feels no connection to the student government and looks on it with only passive interest. Is this as it should be? The logical answer is of course, “No.”

What has the Student Council lacked in the past which has kept it from arousing student interest? First, the very nature of our governmental organization bars interested students from participating in the functioning of the student government unless he is one of the few elected to such a job. For one to be truly interested in an organization, one must be able to take an active part in the activities of the organization. Second, the Student Council is devoid of enthusiasm. The duties of the Council are very stereotyped and soon become dull and monotonous. These two faults make the Student Council a very drab and uninteresting organization, quite incapable of arousing any active interest. It is only by an occasional legislative issue which stirs some limited controversy that the organization is saved from being completely dead.

NEW FREEDOM

If these are the problems, how will the new setup succeed in meeting them? In the past the judicial duties of the Council have generally accounted for the bulk of its labors. Because of the time limitations which these duties imposed, the possibility of developing programs which would build student interest in its activities were immediately excluded. The Honor Court will assume these time-consuming judicial duties. This new governmental plan will bestow on the Council a freedom which it has never known.

Now that the Student Council has obtained this newfound freedom, perhaps we would do well to re-examine its purposes. At present the purpose of the Student Council is conceived of as being purely legislative. However, shouldn't it be more than that? There are many other duties of campus-wide significance which should logically be assumed by the Student Council. The Student Council might well take over some of the present duties of the YMCA, the campus service club. Indeed, the purpose of the “Y” should actually be concerned with religion rather than simply service. (Perhaps, this confusion of purpose can account for some of the difficulty which the “Y” is presently encountering in establishing an effective program.) For example, the Student Council should quite logically take over the publication of the Wildcat Handbook. The Council might also establish a Lecture Series Committee, which would be a final development of the independent Great Issues Committee.

NEW COMMITTEES

In order to attend to such new duties, standing committees would be established, the membership being composed of a chairman from the Council and a number of interested students from within the student body. This new plan would allow students to take an active part in their student government and would enable the Council to maintain an energetic and interesting program.

The effect of such a governmental reorganization would be to increase student interest in the student government as more students would be actively involved in its activities. Also, the real potentialities of the student government organization would be fulfilled, and the YMCA might be rejuvenated by its realization of its true purpose.