Col Each & every Davidson student pays a $100.00 general fee. Where does this money go? Mr. R. A. Currie, Business Manager of the College, summarized the purpose of the single fee as follows: “Prior to 1956, students paid various fees toward the costs of student activities, health and physical education, laboratory courses, the College Union, the library, etc. 

“Because of the extensive bookkeeping involved and other factors, this system was changed and a $100.00 general fee per year was charged. This single payment finances student activities and contributes to the operating requirements of the College.”

“Up to $21.75 of this can be used for student activities; the remainder of the general fee along with income from tuition, from endowment and annual gifts to the College is used to meet operating requirements of the College.”

Exactly what will the student get for his $100 this year? The $21.75 student activities fee purchases all publication issues of the DAVIDSONIAN, SCRIPTS 'N PRANKS, and QUIPS 'N CRANKS and admission to the Artist Series and performances of the Red and Black Masquers. This fee covers the operating expense of the student government and the cost of forensic teams, when they are active. 

Secondly, the student contributes $78.25 or more to the maintenance and operating expense of the College. Before 1956, the student paid numerous fees covered by this category—laboratory, student health, library, gymnasium, student union fees, etc. This second portion of the general fee which is Total 1959-1960 (PER STUDENT) covers the cost of admission to the Artist Series backed by endowment dollars and other sources to meet operating requirements of the College.

The total fee is $100.00. Remaining $78.25 goes into the general operating fund. The student activity fee is, however, divided each year and allocated to the various organizations which it supports. “Article XVIII of the Constitution of the Student Government of Davidson College,” stated Mr. Currie, “designates a Financial Committee which has the annual duty of allocating the total student activities fees available. The Committee is composed of the Business Manager of the College, two members of the faculty, the Secretary of the Student Body, and two senior members of the Student Council.”

“At the beginning of each school year, student organizations submit to the Committee requests for funds with detailed estimated budgets. Allocations are made on this basis. Any unspent funds at the end of a year remain in trust and may be used for student activities in the following year.”

This year's allocations total $18,216 for the following six student activities: Quips and Cranks—$7500; DAVIDSONIAN — $4700; Scripts and Pranks—$2050; Artist Series — $4300; student government — $216; Red and Black Masquers — $450. No budget was submitted this year for forensic. The Red and Black Masquers were appropriated funds in case interest crystallized among the students, enabling plays to be presented this year as in the past.

The total income from this year’s general fee cannot be determined now because refunds will be made to students withdrawing during the first 10 weeks of this semester and because the enrollment for the second semester is unknown. The general fee in 1958-59 amounted to approximately $88,600.

Letters To Editor Pour In (See Page Two)

VOL. XLVI FRIDAY, OCTOBER 23, 1959 NUMBER SIX

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C.

Crippled ‘Cats Face V.M.I. (See Page Three)

Book Program Brings Packard Students Seek Status Solutions Salisbury Opens Series With Lecture

Pulitzer Prize-winning Harrison Salisbury, journalist and correspondent for The New York Times, will inaugurate the 1959-60 Davidson College Artist Series on Friday, October 30. Mr. Salisbury will speak at 8:00 p.m. in Chambers Auditorium on the subject: “A New Look at the Soviet Challenge.”

A member of the United Press corps of reporters for many years, he covered the Al Capone income tax evasion trial, the assassination of Huey Long, World War II North African campaigns, and the Big Four meeting in Teheran among other major news events.

RUSSIAN TRIP

He accompanied Eric Johnston, then head of the U. S. Chamber of Commerce, in 1944 through Soviet Russia. In 1949 Salisbury joined the staff of the New York Times and for five years served as the special correspondent in Moscow. He has traveled extensively in the Soviet Union. Mr. Salisbury expanded an original series of articles on Russia into a book, “American in Russia,” published early in 1955. He is also the author of the book, “The Shook-Up Generation,” dealing with juvenile delinquency.

When Vice-President Richard Nixon made his history-making visit to Russia, Mr. Salisbury was one of the newsmen who accompanied the statesman throughout his stay in the Soviet Union.

ACCOMPANIED KHRUSHCHEV

Harrison Salisbury was also chosen by the New York Times to accompany Soviet premier Nikita Khrushchev on his recent visit to the United States. Season tickets to the Davidson Series are now on sale to the general public. Tickets to the seven individual programs will also be on sale. There are no reserved seats. Address inquiries to: Artist Series Box 856, Davidson, N. C.

Other celebrated performers appearing on the Artist Series include Vincent Price, noted actor, November 13; the famous Pamplona Choir from Spain, November 23; the David Tihmar Dance Theatre, January 12; Donald Gramm, bass-baritone of the New York City Opera, February 19; Anton Kuerti, young American pianist, March 16; and Dr. Hubert Alyea, atomic scientist, April 12.

Packard Shows Campus He’s No Status Seeker

By JIM HAMILTON Davidsonian Associate Editor

He came in a wrinkled old blue suit, purchased at a discount, a hastily tied faded blue bow tie, and a dilapidated felt hat that was caved in on one side. Vance Packard is a humble man. He acts nothing like a man who has had two books skyrocket to the top of the best seller list in as many years. He bounced playfully on the thick carpet of the plush WBTV conference room. He shifted uneasily while he was being photographed, and thanked the photographers for taking his picture. He continuously voiced his appreciation to college officials for affording him “the great privilege” to come to Davidson.

Vance Packard is no status seeker. He drives a ‘55 Chevrolet. “The motor broke down a couple of years ago but we decided it was cheaper to buy a new motor than a new car.” He attended Penn State, his home town college. “My Dad moved there so he could send my sister and me to school for only seventeen dollars a year.”

Vance Packard, author of the best selling The Status Seekers, does own a dog, a Weimaraner, a breed valued at six hundred dollars, but “My family insisted on having a dog around the house. I bought this one, since I’m allergic to dogs and this breed has short hair and therefore doesn’t irritate me as much. Anyway, I got it for a discount.”Ninety bucks.” Vance Packard is interested in people. He talked enthusiastically with students, frequently taking notes on what they were saying. He laughed at examples of status-seeking advertisements presented to him and made copies of some of them. He visited the DAVIDSONIAN office late into the evening after his talk Wednesday, chatting with staff members and answering their questions about newspaper work. Vance Packard was impressed with Davidson. He liked the students and the physical aspects of the college plant. He said that he considered “The Book of the Semester” a wonderful idea that has the whole publishing industry excited. And, he added humorously, as shown in an interview Wednesday. He appeared in connection with the Book-of-the-Semester program sponsored by the YMCA. Program Chairman Tommy Colvin is shown in the background. (Photo by Rose.)

Vance Packard came to Davidson as unpretentiously as a plumber arriving to fix a leak. He likes publishers especially. “It’s one of the greatest honors of my life to be invited here to speak for this program.” He repeated this several times. Vance Packard is a man vitally interested in American society. He doesn’t claim to be a sociologist spouting dogma, just a reporter presenting the facts. However, he has done a good amount of independent research. “Sociologists feel that I have given the public an insight into the social structure in which they exist. None have ever objected to my use of their works.”

“People who have read my book seem to feel that it has a liberating effect on them. It has helped them to realize the things they have been doing in terms of striving for status and how that striving has produced feelings of anxiety and frustrations.” Vance Packard, in the spring of 1957, wrote STATUS SEEKERS, a work of research and an analysis of the status and class structure of American society. It was chosen by the YMCA because of its present pertinence and far-reaching appeal.

FIRST PROGRAM

This fall semester's Book-of-the-Semester Program will be the first of many such programs in which a book will be chosen for the perusal of students, alumni, and faculty, followed by the visit of the book’s author to the campus for discussion and elaboration. Tommy Colvin, head of this semester’s Program, stated that he felt its inauguration was met with much enthusiasm and success.

PACKARD’S INTEREST

Packard also displayed interest and enthusiasm in the Y’s program as something new to be found on a college campus. He expressed his enthusiasm by saying, “This is one of the greatest honors that has come to me,” and later complimented the college by saying that “Davidson is one of the great schools of America.” Packard arrived at Davidson Wednesday after a filmed television interview in Charlotte. The interview will be shown this Sunday from 5:45-6:00 p.m. on WBTV. At 6:30 that evening, a banquet was held for Packard and those who had made major contributions to the Program.

PANEL DISCUSSION

That evening at 8 o'clock, the book became the subject of a panel discussion, moderated by Dr. Frontis Johnston of the Faculty. Directing questions and comments toward Packard were Mrs. Martha Evans, recent candidate for mayor of Charlotte; Mr. Donald Davidson, vice president of the multi-million dollar Jack’s Cookie Company; Dr. W. Shrader, author and minister of the University Baptist Church of Chapel Hill; W. F. Koontz of the Davidson English Department; and Dr. Goodykoontz. Dave Robinson, president of the Y, closed the discussion by expressing his gratitude to Tommy Colvin for the superb job he had done as head of the Program.

On Thursday morning, Packard visited various classes. Later he spoke in chapel to the student body concerning some of the problems presented in his book and how they have and will continue to affect America. After his chapel talk, Packard held an informal discussion in the Student Union.

Gov. Hodges Speaks On Soviet Challenge

North Carolina's Governor Luther Hodges will speak in Chapel on Tuesday, October 27. His address will concern his Russian tour last spring as chairman of the State Department commission of governors appointed to study first-hand Russia's challenge to the Free World. A potential Democratic nominee for the vice-presidential race in 1960, Governor Hodges has proved his ability to grasp a wide range of facts, ideas, and attitudes by successfully directing the fortunes of North Carolina in its role as a leading industrial power of the New South.

Reflecting on Hodges’ visit to Davidson next week, Dr. Martin stated that the college has been trying to secure a place in the governor’s schedule of addresses for almost a year and a half, and that “Hodges is truly a national figure who knows what he’s talking about and who is worthy of our serious attention.” Evidently having talked with Hodges personally since his return from Russia, Dr. Martin stated that “Hodges and the commission found conditions in Russia radically different from what the State Department had prepared them for.”

“One lady in Pittsburgh said, reading the book was like taking off a girdle for the first time in years since it freed her from societal pressures.”

Governor Hodges further observed that Russian schools are essentially like those of any advanced European nation, with a great deal of emphasis on science. Incompetent students are eliminated from the educational system after the sixth and twelfth grades and usually become laborers. Teachers and scientists are in the top status and salary brackets. Following his appearance Tuesday, Governor Hodges will be entertained at a coffee in the Union Ball Room where he will be available for questioning and discussion.