THE DAVIDSONIAN
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 1959
PAGE FOUR

Improvements Begin Here Tomorrow

The remodeling and improvement of the president's home has begun, according to Mr. R. A. Currie, College Business Manager. This
culminates a series of actions that began with recommendations made by Dr. Cunningham at the end of his term of
service as President of Davidson College.

It was his hope that the present location of the home could be retained both from a practical standpoint and
from a historic, traditional, and sentimental consideration. He felt that a great deal of remodeling and restoration was needed in
the house. He also thought necessary a considerable restudy of the exterior to bring the home up to the level
one would expect at Davidson College.

Shortly after the announcement of the election of our new president, the Buildings and Ground Committee of the Trustees initiated
action to arrive at a recommendation. Two members of the Committee visited the campus to inspect the house while President
and Mrs. Martin were in Europe. President Martin was contacted by the Committee and informed that the Trustees were in
the process of deciding on action to provide a satisfactory house for the president. At that time President Martin stated,
“The house which has been used as the president's home during the last three administrations would meet quite satisfactorily the
personal requirements of my family.”

Next, the Committee engaged Mr. Luther Lashmit, Winston-Salem, N. C., architect, to study the alternatives. Based on his plan for
a one-story addition which would extend the reception room and for certain other changes to the existing house, the Executive
Committee of the Trustees decided to proceed along this line.

Here is an architect’s conception of the completed exterior renovation of Davidson's historic President's home. Work has begun on the
addition of a new facade and a first-floor wing.

A two-story front portico will replace the old front porch, primarily to properly balance the new addition and also to
correct the appearance resulting from different sized front windows. A flagstone terrace will be added on the south side with
entrances from both the reception room and dining room. The back porch will be enclosed and the house will be
weather-conditioned.

Philosophers Meet Here Tomorrow

The Sixth Annual Conference of Philosophy Students will convene in the Student Union of the College Church. Students from Davidson,
Emory, and Sewanee will read papers on the subject of empiricism.

After a welcoming address by Allan Smyth, student chairman, John Davis of Sewanee will present his essay on “Empiricism and
Reality,” followed by the Davidson paper, “What is Historical Knowledge?” read by Charles Chastain.

After a coffee break, Hong Koo Lee of Emory will read a paper “On Certain Aspects of Process Philosophy,” and
a brief discussion will follow, in which the arguments of the papers may be clarified by questions from the floor.

At 6:30 p.m., President Grier Martin will welcome the visiting students and professors at a dinner in the Union Ballroom.
At 8:00 p.m., a panel discussion with representatives from each of the schools will discuss and criticize the papers, and
the remainder of the evening will be devoted to informal discussions among the students present. There will be a business
meeting in the Green Room of the Union at 9:15 Sunday morning.

About thirty or thirty-five students from Emory, Sewanee, and Agnes Scott are expected to attend, along with several faculty members.
All Davidson students interested in philosophy are invited to take part in the meetings.

March 16 Deadline For Bell Contest

Monday, March 16, 1959, is the deadline for manuscripts to be submitted for the Vereen Bell Memorial Award. This year’s
award carries a cash prize of $75.00 for the winner. The winner, together with honorary recognition to other ranking contestants,
will be announced in chapel in conjunction with the annual address provided by the Memorial Fund.

The rules for competition involve:
1. Any regularly enrolled student of Davidson College is eligible to compete.
2. All entries must be the original work of their respective entrants and may fall in any recognized category of
creative writing: viz. essay, short story, drama, poetry, etc.
3. A student may submit entries in as many different categories as he wishes, but he may submit one entry
only in each category with the exception of poetry. In poetry, the student may enter one poem, or a sequence
or group of poems; if he submits more than one poem, he must designate them as one unit and so
enter them.
4. All entries must be typed, double spaced, and appear on one side of the paper only.
5. Name of the writer must be enclosed in an envelope bearing the title of the entry and attached to
it. No name should appear on the manuscript itself.
6. All entries must reach some member of the Department of English on or before 12:00 noon, Monday, March 16,
1959.

DAVIDSONIAN FEATURE

Seminar Writing Course Sharpens Student Wits
By DON STOWELL
Davidsonian Feature Writer

As proof of the effectiveness of the seminar system, Dr. W. F. Goodykoontz’s Creative Writing 142 course has already become
a stimulating factor to those seriously interested in writing. Since this class is primarily concerned with writing and criticism by
the members, its success depends upon the interest of those taking part.

The class is divided into two sections of about twelve students each. Group One, which meets on Wednesday afternoon, is
composed of students whose interests lie mainly along the line of expository writing, such as the essay and the argument.
Group Two consists of those interested mainly in the short story, poetry, and other forms of creative writing.

The professor is present mainly to guide the thinking of the group and adds criticism only if a point has
not been brought out by the members of the class. However, he stands behind the author if the criticism offered
is unmerited.

Each week, one student reads his work to the class. The chief critic has already read it and comes prepared
to make comments and criticisms on the overall effect of the work as well as any of the finer points
he cares to mention.

Elections
(Continued From Page One)

The recommendations adopted by the council and read at the Tuesday chapel meeting embody many of the Kuykendall committee recommendations.
“This is a modification by the council of some of the recommendations submitted by myself and the committee,” said the
student body president. “It was felt by the council that this would be the most workable plan to improve elections
and maintain student enthusiasm throughout.”

Asked whether the council hoped to pass the amendments in time to effect them by the coming elections season, Kuykendall
replied, “Yes. The elections procedure as presently designed would not be changed by the proposed amendments.”

Bross's Diffusion Pulls Down Award

Addison Bross, a Davidson senior, has been notified that he is the recipient of an honor award in a Columbia,
South Carolina, Art exhibit. Word was received this week that Bross was a top winner with his painting, “Diffusion.”

The University of South Carolina and the Columbia Museum of Art sponsor a yearly “Art Annual” exhibition whose purpose is
to assess the comparative talent of advanced art students in a two-state area. The exhibition, which is customarily judged by
a professional critic, was this year reviewed by Clinton Adams, head of the Art Department of the University of Florida.

Of thirty-six paintings accepted for judging in the exhibition, three were by Davidson students. All Davidson students submitting work were
accepted. “Diffusion,” by Bross; “Objects in Window,” by Morrison Brown; and “German Oncra” by Charles Chastain.

Dr. James C. O'Flaherty, professor of German at Wake Forest College, will be the guest speaker at Tuesday's meeting of
Deutscher Verein. Dr. and Mrs. O'Flaherty spent most of this past summer in Germany, where they traveled extensively and where
Dr. O'Flaherty did research on Germany’s resistance movement during the Second World War. Dr. O'Flaherty’s lecture to the German Club
will be on the subject of his research.Fiction, and meets on Thursday afternoon. The sessions begin at 1:45 and end
at 5:00, with a twenty-minute coffee break at 3:15. Students are trained not only to write, but to criticize as
well. Each person writes a paper and reads it to the assembled class. However, before the paper is read to
the entire class, another student designated as the critic reviews it. This is a good method of teaching not only
this type of course, but others as well.

In a brief interview with Dr. Goodykoontz earlier this week, he stated that although it was too early to really
tell, "I think that it is working out better than I had expected. This is the changes." The amendments, if
passed by a majority student vote, will effect a second major constitutional change for the 1958-59 year. Earlier in the
school year, students overwhelmingly approved a council proposal to establish an Honor Court which will next year assume the judicial
functions formerly held by the Student Council.

Deutscher Verein will meet at 8:15 p.m. Tuesday in the Green Room of the College Union. All interested in hearing
what should prove to be a very entertaining lecture are invited to attend. Deutscher Verein will concern his travels and
various phases of his research, including interviews with some important figures of Hitler's reign.

Repairs will be made to some of the floors and the interior will be redecorated. A new roof will be
installed. The College will do its own contracting during the construction period with Mr. Grover Meetze handling the project. Mr.
Floyd Ballard will act as superintendent of the job.

The award to Bross was one of five $25 honor prizes given by the exhibition officials to students judged as
displaying work of outstanding merit. The Columbia exhibition, still in progress, will continue until March 6. "Plant in Window" by
Thomas Spence were works representing Davidson's art department in the contest.

Council Forms New Nominations Board

Student Council has formed a new nominating board whose function is to compose a list of student nominees to be
presented to the student body at election time. The faculty group, assisting a student nominating committee from the council, will
consider potential court members, draw up a list of candidates from each rising class, then submit the list to the
student body. Students will be free to nominate candidates for the council from the floor as in other elections, after
the basic list is presented for student approval.

Faculty members invited to serve with the council on the nominating committee are Professors John Evans of the Bible Department,
Bruce Jackson and W. G. McGavock of the Mathematics Department, W. O. Puckett of the Biology Department, and Charles Ratliff
of the Economics Department.

The Honor Court, first in the history of the college, will be elected in the spring and will take charge
of all judicial affairs of student government next fall. Institution of the Court was made possible by a constitutional amendment
voted by Davidson students earlier in the winter.

Critic Rings No Bells For "Room Service"

By FRANK NYE
Davidsonian Drama Critic

On the nights of February 12 and 13, the Red and Black Masquers presented "Room Service," a comedy by John
Murray and Allen Boretz. Ray Atkinson was the director. This undertaking of the Masquers was a distinct disappointment after their
very good presentation of Ibsen's "Ghosts" in November.

First, the play itself was a bad choice. It is concerned with a penniless Broadway producer, Gordon Miller, who is
housing his entire cast at a hotel managed by his brother-in-law until he can find a backer for a play.
The manager’s superior, Gregory Wagner, discovers that the actors are being housed with rather uncertain chances of the hotel's being
paid and orders Miller to pay or get out.

The only really funny line in the play is Davis’ scream of "Ex-Laxi." The actors managed to add some successful
ad libs, however, such as the name of the backer, John B. Fitztipton, and a reference to the food being
a Slater product.

The second disappointment was in the acting, which was decidedly inferior on the whole to that of "Ghosts." It was
not without its bright spots, however. George Johnson, as the producer, tried valiantly to pull the play together and was
most successful of the principal actors in portraying his role. Inexperience was the main fault of the other actors. Tony
Diaz’s Russian accent, as a former actor turned bellboy, was sometimes too heavy to be understood. Alice Hollister and Shirley
Granger gave adequate performances as the love interests. Earl Whatley made the hotel manager a little too nervous to be
convincing.

Davidson (Continued From Page One)

Davidson has a large number of churches within her limits. Besides the Presbyterian Church on the college campus, there is
the Calvary Presbyterian Church off campus, a Methodist church, St. Alban’s Episcopal Church, and a Baptist Chapel. Along with these
white churches, there are Presbyterian, Methodist, and Baptist Negro churches in Davidson.

The recently completed Post Office, owned by the college but leased to the U.S. Government, adds new color and beauty
to Main Street, along with the attractive City Hall building.

Davidson has its own water plant which services the town of Davidson, the college, and the town of Cornelius. The
water comes from Cathey’s Creek, located about six or seven miles from the city, but this system will soon be
replaced by one operating from the new lake to be built between Davidson and Charlotte by the Duke Power Company.

Davidson has a public library which is operated by Mecklenburg County. There are two grammar schools, one white and one
Negro, but there are no high schools. The students travel to North Mecklenburg High School in Huntersville.

Appointive positions in the town are town clerk, held by Mr. M. W. McGill, and municipal accountant and tax collector,
held by Mrs. S. A. Thompson. Mr. Rufus Reid fills the capacity of superintendent of lights, streets, and water. The
city has its own police force, which operates around the clock, each man working an eight-hour shift. The town also
has two fire engines and one police car.

Buttrick (Continued From Page One)

Dr. Buttrick, who opens the series, was born in England and there attended Victoria University and Lancashire Independent Seminary. All
his ministry has been conducted in America, however. The author of seven books, he is also the general editor of
"The Interpreter’s Bible."

Dr. Russell has traveled widely, and numerous magazines and newspapers have carried his reports of the trips. At present, he
is serving as pastor of the Second Presbyterian Church in Memphis, Tennessee.

Dr. Philips is pastor of the Decatur Presbyterian Church in Decatur, Georgia. In addition to his pastoral duties, he is
a member of the Board of Trustees of Agnes Scott College, Presbyterian College, and the Presbyterian Home.

The 1959 services conclude on Friday with the message "Profit of Proper Participation" or "How To Be Clobbered But Good."
During their stays on campus, Drs. Philips and Russell will be available for individual sessions with interested students in the
Guest House.

For the first time, the Y has established an Evaluation Committee which will attend all services and evaluate the speakers,
messages, interest, attendance, and other relevant aspects of the program. Headed by Charlie Benson, the committee will welcome pertinent student
comment.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS
While enjoying our Famous PIZZA and SPAGHETTI
In a Romantic Italian Atmosphere
GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. Morehead at Wilkinson Blvd.
Charlotte, N. C.

They said it couldn't be done...
They said nobody could do it...
But...

IM is truly low in tar. IM is kindest to your taste because IM combines the two essentials of modern
smoking," says TV’s Jack Lescoulie.

LOW TAR: IM’s patented filtering process adds extra filter fibers electrostatically, crosswise to the stream of smoke... makes it truly
low in tar.

MORE TASTE: IM’s rich mixture of slow-burning tobaccos brings you more exciting flavor than any other cigarette.

Live MODERN... CHANGE TO MODERN IM
