Midwinter’s Edition VOL. XLVI THE COMPLEATE GENTLEMAN A Dolorous Dissertation On A Dejected Damsel By TOM KERNAN Davidsonian Feature Writer

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 1959

Davidson students may elect campus leaders in a different order and manner when voting for next year's officers begins in the next two weeks. Present proposals will call for a revision of constitutional articles on elections if these proposals are passed. President John Kuykendall outlined his suggestions to the council Monday night, and he hopes to conclude discussion and action on these matters at a call meeting next Monday in order to get any possible amendments in motion. These amendments would then go to the student body for final consideration.

(This story is designed especially for those Davidson gentlemen whose dates are wont to complain at great length about the difficulties of getting to our sacred grove. Its high moral tone, however, should serve as a tonic to the souls of all who need.)

Once upon a time, there was a young girl student named Cinderella Gummidge. Cinderella was a student at Miss Pinkham's Select Academy for Young Females, located in Carolina’s beautiful and spacious Swamp and Bog Belt. Cinderella wanted to attend a dance at Davidson, where her sweetheart, Clyde Whiffle, was enrolled. Insurmountable difficulties seemed to lie in her way, but having read in the “Queen City Clarion” the advice given to “those with problems” by a Miss Eden Blight, she sent the following letter, hoping to find an answer. Here is the letter and the reply:

Dear Miss Blight,
I have a problem. I want to go to Davidson for a dance. The wicked old dean of my college has gotten all my professors to give me a lot of homework to keep me too busy to go. Also, I can’t find a ride. Please help me, cause if I don’t go, my sweetie, Clyde, is liable to shaft me.
CRUSHED BY FATE

Dear Crushed By Fate,
Honey, you sure do have a problem. Anybody who wants to go to Davidson for anything has a problem. See a psychiatrist.

“Rats,” said Cinderella when she saw the answer, “this isn’t any help.” So she wrote to Dr. Norton Vimple, who also gave people advice. He replied as follows:

Dear Miss G.,
Where there’s a will there's a way. The first thing to do is pray about it. Often, prayer can move mountains, and great big ones, too. Every day, close your eyes and repeat to yourself, “I want to go ever so much.” I'm also sending you a copy of my latest pamphlet, “Mountains I Have Moved,” which includes a nifty index to the Seven Deadly Sins. Good Luck.
N. V. Peel

This was all very nice, but Cinderella didn’t have any mountains she wanted moved; she wanted to go to Davidson. Besides, she couldn’t.

MAJOR CHANGES

The major changes advocated by Kuykendall affect the order of elections. He supports the following sequence of balloting: student body officers, Honor Court, Student Council, YMCA and publications heads, and Freshman Advisor. Members of the Athletic Council and Head Cheerleader would become appointive offices by the student council whereas they are at present elected by students. Under his plan, Kuykendall has class presidents selected by the five newly elected council representatives instead of in an open election. Kuykendall believes that any man under serious consideration for that office would be among the five elected to the council.

He also suggested an expansion of the time allotted the student body presidential candidates for their campaign speeches, from five minutes to seven. He particularly mentioned a possible second chapel period to be devoted to questions directed at the candidates. This would be in addition to the traditional Union forum.

Sophocles Visits Campus On Feb. 20

Players Incorporated will present the Sophoclean tragedy Oedipus Rex on Friday, February 20, at 8:15 p.m., in Chambers Auditorium. This presentation of their adaptation of the classic Greek drama will mark the second appearance of the group in the Davidson College Artist Series. They previously appeared in Shakespeare’s King Henry IV. The members of the company, who are graduates of the Speech and Drama Department of the Catholic University of America in Washington, D. C., are under the direction of the Rev. Gilbert V. Hartke, O. P.

ANNUAL TOURS

Starring in Oedipus Rex is Dolores Viola as Jocasta, wife of Oedipus who is played by Robert Milli. The company tours annually from early Fall to early Spring. This is their...

Saturday’s Forecast Warm and Rainy NO. 17

Girls Swamp Campus For Glittering Weekend

Billy May’s Orchestra And Freshmen Swing

The plans for the Midwinters Dance weekend are now completed: and as this Friday the 13th comes to a close, “over six hundred girls will be staying on or near the Davidson campus,” according to Mrs. J. B. Moore, Supervisor of Dormitories. Belk Dormitory, with a normal capacity of 209, has been furnished to house four hundred and seventy-five girls, and the Guest House, the Preyer Infirmary, and various homes in and around town will accommodate girls also.

The activities for the Valentine weekend will officially begin with the formal dance at 9:00 tonight. However, as an added attraction, the three-act comedy “Room Service” will be presented...

“We have tried this year to get a different group to give the concert, instead of featuring the same band that plays at the dances,” explained Ver...

Kingston Trio Tickets Go On Sale Monday

Tickets for the Kingston Trio concert will go on sale to the student body Monday in the Union. The concert will be held in Chambers Auditorium at 7:30, March 3. Ticket sales will be opened to the general public Thursday with several distribution points in Charlotte. The IFC advises that all interested students purchase their tickets before sales are opened to the public. The advanced price for the tickets is $1.50 on the Davidson campus and $1.75 in Charlotte and at the door. The IFC plans to send letters to schools in this area and will also publicize the concert through both radio stations and the newspapers.

President Anderson also gave a progress report on plans for Greek Week, thus opening a lively discussion among the IFC representatives. The IFC is split into two main groups regarding their role in Greek Week, one favoring tight regulation of fraternity activities, the other opposed to any regulation which might be interpreted by the fraternities as dictatorial. Anderson’s report was based on a meeting with the pledge trainers of all fraternities. This group recommended emphasis on a competitive Field Day to be held between the pledge classes, and a discontinuation of the traditional Skit Night. In the IFC meeting, however, the faction opposed to close regulation and IFC participation opposed even the Field Day idea. When asked by President Anderson for positive suggestions regarding a Greek Week program the representatives had none which prompted Anderson to remind them that “in this, the first Greek Week, we have a great responsibility to make it a success. The IFC has the ball now and if we fumble it, we may lose control of Greek Week to the faculty or lose Greek Week entirely.” Thus far the only regulations...

“History Did It” Says Israelite's Harry Golden

“There are twelve million Negroes in the South, one-half of whom are illiterate and one-third more semi-literate. These people have not made a single mistake. The only thing comparable is when Mr. Gandhi walked from Karachi to the sea. Their houses are bombed, and they say, ‘Let’s go to church and pray for the fellows who bombed our houses.’ This is fantastic.” So spoke Harry Golden on the racial crisis in the South. The editor of “The Carolina Israelite” commented extensively on the race question in connection with the announced topic of his speech Tuesday night: “Industrialization and Urbanization in the South.”

At the present time, he told an audience of about 250 students and faculty members, the civilization of the South “has come to a standstill. They’re preoccupied with whether eight Negro school kids are going to go to school or not. That's what they are concerned with — whether a Negro kid will go to public...school or not!” The cause of this situation is industrialization, Golden said, “What did it was history. History did it. Cogwheels. Industrialization. If you want to blame anyone, I think it would be Buck Duke. The day Mr. Duke built the first dam on the Catawba River, he sounded the death knell of segregation. It could exist only in an agrarian civilization, which is gone.” The result of this industrialization was resistance to integration was “a matter of myth, legend, and semantics. ‘Equality’ they take this in a way that can't ever happen. There’s no such thing as equality. What there is is acceptance of man.” Intermarriage of the races would be no problem, he stated. “The rate of intermarriage has been extremely low. Marriage is a gamble anyway and a difference of race on top of this gamble makes it extremely likely. In New York a mixed couple will still draw attention. “In any mixed marriage both partners find themselves separated from their own social group — where race is added, it’s almost completely impossible for them. It could happen only in a self-sustaining culture — artists or sculptors, who don’t care if they have to cut themselves off. No, there'll be much less intermarriage now.” The South must choose “between the memory of the past and the reality of the cogwheel. We must address ourselves to the question whether we will permit twenty percent of the population to enter the industrial age of the twentieth century, or to keep them in the agricultural age of the nineteenth century.” In the end, Golden stated, the Negro “will be very lonely. He will lose all of his friendships with whites, which were based on paternalism. The white man will no longer be able to get his favorite Negro out of jail. But it will be better that way, much better.” After his speech was over, Mr. Golden consented to a brief interview by a DAVIDSONIAN staff member. When asked whether he thought that the racial crisis would impede the progress of American education, he replied that “I think this will settle itself eventually. When some of the boys now in closed schools send applications to Stanford and Harvard, the Southern people will be in for a big shock... The Negroes will in many ways pull down the standards of the schools — but they'll catch up. To use this to perpetuate segregation would be an evil thing.” As to his own plans for the future, “The Carolina Israelite” comes first — to the exclusion of everything else if necessary. I have two other books coming out: For Two Cents Plain and a book on Carl Sandburg.”

KUYKENDALL

“My proposals do not necessarily have to be accepted or rejected in full,” Kuykendall said. “After discussion, pass certain aspects of the recommended changes while defeating others.” He anticipates little opposition in the matter of cheerleader and Athletic Council but expects considerable discussion on the class presidents and Freshman Advisor.

Seniors Appointed To Election Board

The 1959 Elections Board, newly appointed by the Student Council, began its work Wednesday night in an organizational meeting with Student Body President John Kuykendall. This board will supervise the elections schedule, planning, and balloting, which will begin in the next two weeks.

The sixteen seniors who compose this body were determined by the council Monday night. There is a representative for each of the twelve social fraternities on campus and four members from the independent element of the class. This year’s Elections Board is comprised of: Jim Overall, Alpha Tau Omega; Richie King, Beta Theta Pi; Julian Aldridge, Kappa Alpha; Tom McCutchen, Kappa Sigma; John Kimbril, Phi Delta Theta; Bill Hull, Phi Gamma Delta; Dick O'Dell, Pi Kappa Alpha; Dee Lide, Pi Kappa Phi; Sam Smith, Sigma Alpha Epsilon; Joe Cline, Sigma Chi; Bruce Brooks, Sigma Phi Epsilon; Graham Reed, Sigma Nu; John Caldwell, Don Byrd, Charles Chastain, and Doug Stewart, Independents.

Special effort was made by the council to select board members who were especially interested in the matter of student elections. Fraternity presidents were requested to indicate the relative interest of seniors suggested by the council before it took final action. At Wednesday’s meeting, the new board discussed its general duties and reviewed the articles of the student constitution affecting them. Provisions were made for future meetings, and members held a brief discussion of election change proposals now before the council.

Sergeant Penley Visits Arabia, Dines With King

A “Veteran of Foreign Wars” is a good way to describe the person of Master Sergeant Louis H. Penley of the Davidson ROTC Department. Sgt. Penley, a North Carolinian from Weaverville, has seen almost eighteen years of Army service since 1941. He has been stationed at Fort Bragg, to Gulfport, Miss., to England, back to Gulfport, to McPherson, Ga., again to Fort Bragg, to Germany, to Ft. Jackson, Miss., and in March of 1950 to Davidson College. Sgt. Penley stayed at Davidson until he was sent to Korea. After fifteen months in Korea, Penley returned to Davidson for the second time and remained here until October of 1957. In October, he was assigned to serve with the Tiaf Detachment in Saudi Arabia. The Tiaf Detachment was composed of U.S. Army personnel acting as military advisors to the government of Saudi Arabia. While there, Sgt. Penley did everything from going on a hunting trip in Ethiopia to eating dinner with King Saud. On the hunting trip, the Sergeant claims they brought back over a thousand pounds of meat. Gazelle, wild pigs, wild turkey, guinea fowl, and hyena composed most of the catch. “It was just by accident that I got to meet King Saud,” Penley said. “We were in the capital at this particular time as advisors to the king’s troops. We were helping them with tactical problems they were working up as a demonstration. The King was going to give a show for the kings of Iran and Iraq and Jordan.” Penley said that just by chance the King was giving a banquet that day in honor of the opening of a new Pepsi-Cola plant, and that the American troops were invited to attend. Sgt. Penley said that Saudi Arabia is a dry country not only as far as the climate is concerned but also in respect to alcoholic beverages. It seems that the government has forbidden the use of any alcoholic drinks within the country ever since an incident which took place at a banquet of years past. British troops were in Saudi Arabia on a training mission and the King gave a banquet in their honor. The story goes that one of King Saud's brothers got drunk during the course of the meal and fatally attacked one of the high-ranking British officials present. Ever since that time, drinking or even possessing alcoholic beverages has been a prison offense in that country. Penley said that when someone is put in prison in Saudi Arabia he is usually forgotten. After a nine-month stay, Penley returned to this country and in July of 1958 he returned to the Davidson College ROTC Department for the third time. Sgt. Louis Penley makes his home at Mount Ulla, a community on the other side of Mooresville. He is the father of two children, Janie and Gary. His wife, Lillian, is from Mount Ulla and she has remained at their home there ever since they were married in 1942.

Sergeant Penley dons a souvenir of his recent tour of duty with the United States Army in Saudi Arabia. The highlight of Penley’s visit was a banquet given by King Saud.