IFC Promises Big Year (See Page Two) The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College ‘Cats Up For Home Debut (See Page Three) VOL. XLVI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 1959 Can Senator Ervin's Visit Give New Life To Great Issues? Senator Sam J. Ervin, Jr. On Patterson Court—speaks on latevetiell creed at the SAE fraternity house. The meeting was well attended by faculty and students. A large field of topics was discussed freely in the informal atmosphere. Much interest has been expressed in obtaining more outstanding speakers for similar programs. (Photo by Wells) Senator Ervin Visits; Talks Labor, Rights, K By R. G. DAVIDSON U.S. Senator Sam J. Ervin, Jr., from North Carolina, former trustee of Davidson College, and member of the McClellan Committee, informally discussed political questions at the Sigma Alpha Epsilon Fraternity house Wednesday night. The event, sponsored by the fraternity, was planned with the idea that “a fraternity house is a good sounding board for informal discussions.” Upon arriving at Davidson the Senator and Mrs. Don Coffey, President of the Minerva Club, were honored at a banquet. To get the group in the proper mood the Senator began “I know there is not a school in the country that gives a better education than Davidson College. The faculty is responsible for this; you are very lucky.” Some of the subjects discussed and Senator Ervin’s comments follow: The President's veto—was it used too much during the 86th? “His veto only deterred a small housing plan. All major bills were passed.” HOFFA Mr. Hoffa—how does he stand? “I could talk about him a long, long time. He is only looking out for himself and his friends; the Teamster’s Union has to suffer as a result.” Dave Beck—What did he reveal? “Dave Beck gave his name, where he was from, and 150 Fifth Amendments!” KHRUSHCHEV Khrushchev’s visit—what should our response be, what should he see, and what will its effect be? “The President invited him, so I think all Americans should treat him with utmost courtesy. He should be shown some of the industrial might of the U. S. This might deter a Third World War.” About the visit’s effect on the world Senator Ervin stated, “I’m like the jury who saw the split 6 and 6 and cannot give a verdict.” STATES’ RIGHTS Centralization of Federal power—is it a threat to state sovereignty? “The closer home your government is, the better you are; you can control your home governments. With centralization of power the government can almost get out of control. It is one of the serious problems we have. We can’t curb centralization unless people want to curb it.” Appropriations—was Congress too extravagant? “The 86th Congress is supposed to be very extravagant yet the Budget Bureau requested we spend many more dollars than were actually passed.” Civil Rights legislation—what will the Northerners pass in the next Congress? “The worst bill is the Douglas Bill. If it is passed the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare will have the right to force integration in all Southern schools. The Department would possess more power than the state governments, and the Attorney General could back up the Department's rulings.” YMCA Launches Membership Drive Monday saw the Davidson YMCA launch its yearly membership drive differently than in previous years, with the financial drive being a totally separate arm of the overall campaign. Tense Fraternities Relax As 226 Freshmen Pledge For Saturday Afternoon Zach Smith, L.F.C. On Saturday afternoon 226 freshmen pledged the fraternity of their choice. Some 87.6% of the Class of '63 took the “long walk” around Patterson Fraternity Court to accept the bid of a fraternity. Official pledging was scheduled from 3:00-4:30 on September 19. When 4:30 arrived PiKa led numerically with 28 pledges. ATO was second with 24. Tying for third were Beta and KA, each with 23 pledges. ATO Ben McCoy, Richard Calloway, Bob Leslie, Paul Duvall, Steve Butler, Ip Roberts, Pat Ward, Charles Clark, Spud Stewart, Carl Rust, Chuck Mitchell, John Mitchell, Sam White, Steve Arthur, Dave Dillard, John McElfresh, Tom Abernathy, Ed Gorham, Bob Parker, Walt Underwood, Tom Ross, George Sledge, Pierce Howard, and Neil Nichols. BETA Bobby Austell, Osborne Bethea, Bill Boyd, Avery Burns, Steve Clark, Ham Cooke, Penn Craver, Gist Farr, Tom Hamilton, Carl Hunt, Bob Keiter, Phil Kraemer, Jamie Long, Frank McPhillips, Alec Morgan, Mike Owen, Schley Rutherford, Forrest Goodrum, Bob Gregrath, Hal Todd, Bill Gregory, Jack Hand, Richard Hill, Wallace, Jimmy Williams, Bob Wynn, and Jim Gibbs. KA Wallace Boyd, Duke Bumgardner, Dick Eberhardt, John Eichelberger, Bucky Harris, Bill Jarman, John Killian, Ronnie Lewis, Joe Martin, Kim Ferguson, Malcolm MacDiarmid, Bill Pettys, Earle Russell, Tom Adams, Charles Safley, Charles Trask, Mike Weeks, William Adams, Perry Ayers, Porter Halyburton, Eddie Jackson, Lawrence Leafer, Frederick Loppe, Lewis Martin, Robert Morrison, James Perry, Thomas Rivers, Thomas Robinson, Mims Rogers, Jackson Sherrill, Michie Slaughter, Francis Watson, and James Young. PHI DELT Joe Ansley, Henry Austin, William Bankhead, Samuel Brown, John Cameron, Duke Davis, Wiley Dees, William Denham, Haywood Evans, Alexander Gibbs, Augustus Harris, N. P. Harris, Kendrick Kelley, John Kiser, Bob Marshall, Marce Pearson, Claude Perry, William Plunket, Harvey White, and Russell Williams. PIKA Augus Baker, Robert Bent, Edward Bivens, David Breiten, Sam Clark, Cameron Davis, Keith Fraser, Claude Godwin, Gene Wells, Miller Goss, Bill Cocke, Robert Bailey, William Blakely, John Boylin, Boyd Begg, Neal Campbell, William Clingman, Thomas Ellis, Donald Fuller, D. C. Gilley, William Hagen, David Hedrick, Bruce King, Aubrey Lancaster, Tim Powell, Robert Scales, Ben Trotter, Henry Waters, and James Young. KAPPA SIG Johnny Almond, Robert Cordle, Eddie Crutchfield, Malloy Davis, Tommy Green, Winley Hall, Hank Hawes, Jimmy Hendrix, Thad Jones, Lawrence Kimbrough, Robert Rivers, Johnny Rogers, Charles Sasser, Charles Stokes, Frank Tullock, and Dick Voorhees. PHI GAM Harry Brown, John Bourdeaux, John Eggers, Frank Lyon, George Brewer, Pat Douglas, Olin Simpson, Bill McMillan, Tommy Tuttle, Mike Morton, Ed Willer, Mac Hines, Mac Gerald, Greg Winkler, Don McQueen, Paul Reynolds, Gary Lane, Jamie McCutchan, and John Satterfield. Trakas Tender Resignations By TOM COLVIN Davidsonian News Editor Dean Johnston announced today the resignation of professors P. N. Trakas and John Satterfield from the faculty effective next school year. Both men are taking positions on the faculty of Florida Presbyterian, the newly formed college whose Dean of the Faculty is ex-Davidson professor Jack Bevan. The college’s first classes will begin next year in temporary headquarters. Four years will be necessary before the college reaches full operation, a class being added each of these years. Professor Trakas, who is professor of Spanish, will be put in charge of setting up a language laboratory at the new institution. He expresses great interest in this project. Trakas, who has been at Davidson for 11 years, added that he hated to leave the college and his many friends and acquaintances. He stated, “It will be a unique experience to be associated with a college which is beginning its first classes.” Weeks went on to say, “This year we are not placing emphasis on numbers, but on what we can do to utilize those who have joined in the Y program throughout the year. However, the membership drive drew a fine response.” Davidson will hold its third annual “Wildcat Day” tomorrow with activities fineResponse from the student centered around the Wildcat Day Plans

Kent Tucker
SIGMA CHI
Carter Mebane, Frank Thompson, Ed Dountz, Lenox Baker, George Pepper, Fred Vetter, Bud Robinson, Jim Glenn, Tom Wright, Mike Body, and a number of areas by ball game with Presbyterian College, scheduled for 2:30. A number of alumni and friends of the college are expected to participate in this athletic booster program.

SIGMA NU
Yesterday the overall Y program was presented to the student body by Y leaders. This chapel program marked the end of the membership campaign and brought to light the forthcoming financial drive which will begin next Monday. The five areas of YMCA work were presented—YMCA forum, world relations, spiritual life, deputations, and community work. Such things as the Book of the Semester program, fall and spring symposiums, Universal Day of Prayer, hall prayer meetings, and Negro community work were among the areas of interest that were presented in chapel.

Wildcat Day is especially designed to acquaint the public with Davidson’s coaches and their respective athletic teams. During the special Wildcat Booster Lunch, set for 11:45, these men will give a preview of the 1959-1960 sports look. The college welcomes the entire public for the lunch and the other phases of the one-day program. Members of the Wildcat Club will be in attendance for the election of seven new club directors. Malloy Davis, a graduate of 1923 and current Wildcat Club president, will make a report at the lunch. President D. Grier Martin will also speak. Special entertainment has been planned for the ladies in the form of campus tours, with particular interest focused on the literary halls and the newly renovated President’s Home. The tours are scheduled from 10:30 to 12:15.

New Mail Schedule
The Davidson Post Office has released the schedule for mail dispatch and arrival. The Highway Post Office picks up mail from the street mailbox at 9:53 P.M. and 2:50 A.M. After 5:30 P.M., all mail should be deposited in the street mailbox. Mail dropped in the Post Office after 5:30 P.M. will be dispatched the following day. Postal matter deposited before 1:00 P.M., 4:45 P.M., and 5:30 P.M. will be dispatched promptly by Southern Railroad. Mail from all points is received at 2:50 A.M. and is in the boxes by 8:15 A.M. At 9:30 A.M. mail is received from the north and east; 1:35 P.M., from all points; and 5:18 P.M., from Statesville and western areas. On Sundays there is only one receipt of mail, at 6:30 A.M. and only one dispatch at 10:15 A.M.

Pres. Martin Queried On Admission Policies
By DICK SMITH
Davidsonian Assistant Editor

College President D. Grier Martin leaned back in his chair and thoughtfully considered the question put to him by members of the DAVIDSONIAN staff early this week. “Admissions?” he said. “This is a controversial subject, to say the least, but I think that our Admissions Committee is doing a creditable job. When you consider the tremendous amount of work done by members of the Committee, only to look at the high quality of each year’s freshman class to arrive at this conclusion.”

He spent some time discussing the committee in general. There are six members on the committee, including four professors elected by the faculty, and two, the Director of Admissions and the Dean of Students, who hold a place by virtue of office. The President is not included on the committee, although he is called from time to time for his opinion on certain policies. He was asked, “Since the President is the one man who is responsible for the reputation and welfare of the College, would you like to have appointive authority for this committee?” His answer was that since the committee was doing its job as expected, he saw no reason to want to change the system. He added, “There have been many times that I have been asked to look into the record of boys who were turned down. This type of request usually comes from alumni and close friends of the college, who feel that a certain boy had been slighted. Each time I have done so, and so far have found no case in which the committee made a decision inconsistent with our policy. Quite often, the alumnus or friend does not know the boy’s record as we have it from his transcripts, scores, recommendations, and other information.”

This answer was followed by a question concerning compulsory personal interviews with all admission applicants. Dr. Martin stated that he knew of several colleges which have used this system, only to find that about as many mistakes were made with the interviews as without them, and consequently, the system was discarded. He said, “Because of this, I feel the time and effort required for such a system would not be justified. This is not to say, however, that this door is closed. We are always open to suggestions and at present we are planning to experiment with the use of dependable alumni to a limited extent to interview and evaluate applicants in their areas, and to help persuade them to come to Davidson.”

Dr. Martin secured 1980 admissions data for publication in the DAVIDSONIAN. There were 912 completed applications for places in the incoming class. 343 of these were rejected. As he put it, “We ‘bid’ 413 applicants and 155 went elsewhere. The remainder constitutes our freshman class.”

Concert Slated By DAVID JORDAN
Davidsonian Assignments Editor

The Tommy Dorsey Orchestra, under the direction of Warren Covington, will furnish the music for the Davidson Homecoming Dances and a Saturday concert, Ward McKeithen, IFC president announced to the DAVIDSONIAN today. The orchestra is noted for its “swing” music. Covington, who assumed the leadership of the orchestra at the death of Dorsey, is also known in his own right as the composer of the recently popular “Tea for Two Cha-Cha.”

Don Coffey has been appointed chairman of the Dance Committee which is now formulating plans for the decoration of the gym, the IFC dance figure, and other aspects of the dance weekend.

Beta Cops Trophy With Top Average
Beta Theta Pi received the IFC Scholarship Trophy in chapel today from Ward McKeithen, president of the Interfraternity Council. The trophy, received by Beta president Bob Avinger, is a gift of the W. H. Belk family of Charlotte. It is awarded annually to the fraternity with the highest academic average. The Betas boasted a 1.900 after last spring’s exams. Runners up this year were the A.T.O.'s, first place winners of the scholastic contest for the previous three years. For this reason, the Tau’s have retired the first Belk trophy. Their average was 1.830. In third place with a 1.708 was Phi Delta Theta. The remaining fraternities had the following averages: Sigma Chi, 1.704; Kappa Sigma, 1.669; Sigma Nu, 1.619; Lambda Chi Alpha, 1.589; Pi Kappa Phi, 1.525; Phi Gamma Delta, 1.514; Pi Kappa Alpha, 1.462.

IFC PLEASED
“We had originally planned to eliminate the concert in an effort to save money and thus cut the student expense,” McKeithen explained. “But Covington requested permission for the orchestra to present a concert following the football game.” During the big weekend, the orchestra will make a total of three appearances. Friday night, following the Artist Series, they will play for the formal dance. They will return Saturday night for the informal affair. The other appearance will be at the Saturday concert.

“The Interfraternity Council is very pleased to have secured this orchestra in the light of its national popularity. We feel they will play a big part in the Homecoming festivities and we hope that the student body will be equally pleased,” McKeithen continued. The IFC plans to continue its investigation of possible additions to the Homecoming program and hopes to have some definite proposals for an always open to suggestions.