PAGE FOUR

340 Freshmen Parents Will Register Tomorrow

Under the direction of the Freshman Council, the Class of '63 will entertain over 340 parents and relatives during Freshman Parents’ Day tomorrow. According to Freshman Counselor Bill Whitesell, this group represents the largest percentage of parents ever to visit the campus in the five-year history of Freshman Parents’ Day. Says Whitesell: “We have received replies from the parents of 201 freshmen of which 148 were positive. Less than one-fourth who have been heard from did not accept. Among the 340 scheduled to have lunch here Saturday are persons from as far away as Houston, Texas.”

DAY’S SCHEDULE

The Freshman Council, under the leadership of recently-elected President Alec Morgan, has set up the following schedule for Freshman Parents’ Day:

All morning — Registration at Ovens Union.
9-11 a.m. — Guided tours of campus leaving Union at five-minute intervals.
11-12 a.m. — Assembly, Chambers Auditorium: Dean Bailey speaks on Frosh problems; Chapel Choir sings; questions and answers.
12-1 p.m. — Buffet-style luncheon, Chambers Banquet Hall.
1-2 p.m. — Free time; Freshman dorms open to parents.
2-4:30 p.m. — Football game with Lehigh.
4:30-5:45 p.m. — A coffee (place to be announced) for freshmen as well as their parents; freshman professors and faculty advisers will be in an alphabetically arranged receiving line.

President Morgan has been assisted in planning for Freshman Parents’ Day by seven fellow members of the Council; these seven and their committees are Tom Ross, tours; Bob Marshall, publicity; John Killian, invitations; Ken Kelley, entertainment; Spud Stewart, program; Pierce Howard, registration; and Bill Boyd, housing.

MEET THE FACULTY

In commenting on the opportunities afforded freshmen as well as parents by Freshman Parents’ Day, Morgan stressed the particular point of opportunities to meet the faculty: “I urge all freshmen to come themselves and to bring their parents to the coffee immediately following the Lehigh game. This is a good chance for the parents to meet their son’s professors and to observe first-hand some of the differences between high school and college.”

Twenty-five freshmen have been appointed as guides for campus touring groups Saturday. The guides, headed and organized by Tom Ross are Bill Boyd, George Sledge, Claud Perry, Tom Wright, Nichols, Sam White, Richard Lowery, John Cameron, Bob Cordle, Alec Gibbs, Jim Hamilton and David Dillard. Also, Carl Rust, Pat Douglas, Joe Martin, Mike Owen, Billy Bankhead, Johnny Rogers, Buddy Kemp, Miller Goss, Dick Voorhees, Bob Leslie, Bob Murdock, Jim Hendrix and Winn Hall.

Extension Of Tour Granted To Adams

Lt. Col. William L. Adams has been granted a year’s extension in his tour of duty as PMS&T here. His stay at Davidson, originally scheduled to end next summer, has been extended to the summer of 1961. “I'm very happy with the extension,” Col. Adams said. He explained that he had not applied for the additional year. He was asked to remain at Davidson by the Army. “I’m a little reluctant to ask the Army for anything,” Adams smiled, “but I’m very delighted that things worked out as they did.” Adams said that, as the situation stands now, he will be moved to South America at the end of his Davidson tenure. He is expected to serve as military attache in Caracas, Venezuela.

Prior to his moving to Davidson nearly three years ago, he was senior artillery advisor to the Royal Thai Army in Thailand.

After Vespers Open Houses

The houses of the following faculty members will be open to students Sunday night, November 8, after Vespers:
Brown
Currie
Daggy
Evans
Fleming
French
Griffin
Kelton
Labban
Lilly
Lloyd
Lumsden
Marrotte
McCutchan
Ratliff
Scott
Staples
Watts

Drinking Forum Set For Monday

At 7:00 p.m. on November 16 the student council will conduct an open forum on the drinking problem. Held in the ballroom of the College Union, it is hoped that the meeting will attract many members of the student body and faculty. “The purpose of this forum,” commented Dee Green in an interview Monday night, “is to get some kind of liaison between students and faculty on this problem. It will give students an opportunity to ask faculty about after-dance parties, to learn what they’re thinking; and faculty can see what students are thinking about it.”

The Board of Visitors will open its fourth annual meeting Friday night, November 13, at 8:00 p.m. in the college chapel. At that time the new members of the board will be introduced to the student body, and Mr. John F. Watlington, president of Wachovia Bank and Trust Company, will speak on “Opportunities in the South.”

French Club Adds 17 New Linguists

Le Cercle Francais held its second meeting of this year on November 10 at the home of Dr. and Mrs. Ghigo. The meeting, which was conducted entirely in French, was opened by the singing of “La Marseillaise” and “Reste Avec Nous.” The program included a debate on the question “Resolved: That gentlemen prefer blondes to brunettes” by Harry Richardson and Al Jones. The affirmative side won after Richardson reinforced his argument with a picture of Jayne Mansfield.

Robert Lord Initiates College Organ Series

Robert Sutherland Lord, recently appointed college organist and professor of music at Davidson College, will give the initial program on the current Organ Recital Series at Davidson. The recital, open to the public free of charge, is scheduled for 8:15 p.m., Monday, November 16, in the Davidson College Presbyterian Church. A native of Marblehead, Massachusetts, Robert Lord began his musical studies at the age of five and was appointed to his first church position at the age of twelve years. He received his undergraduate work at Dartmouth College and holds degrees in music from his alma mater and Yale University. He is now a candidate for his Doctor’s Degree in History of Music. The program will include works by Johann Sebastian Bach and give the southern premier hearing of Jean Langlais’ “Three Modal Pieces.” The recital will follow a supper meeting of the Charlotte chapter of the American Guild of Organists in the student union.

Dana Creates

The program will “help encourage the student who has a broad range of abilities and interests in many fields rather than the student who merely demonstrates an unusually brilliant high school scholastic record or high achievements in extra-curricular activities alone.” Under the plan, all members of Davidson's present freshman, sophomore, and junior classes will be candidates for 74 or more grants up to $700 to finance their costs during each of their remaining years at the college. The announcement of the first 75 awards will be made during the spring months of 1960.Classmen are aware of the fact that they can cut up to 25% of their classes without any real loss if they have maintained a fairly good average over a period of about two years. Here we have already an implicit “free cut system.” Accordingly, I favor continuation of the present system for freshmen and a more liberal, but not necessarily unlimited, system for qualified upperclassmen.

DABNEY STUART

“I agree essentially with the statements made by Dean Johnston in the November sixth issue of the DAVIDSONIAN. A student should be faced with the responsibility a free cut system would place upon him. Whether or not the student is ‘mature’ enough to handle the situation seems to me secondary. Few students are so mature when they enter college, but placing responsibility upon a man is sometimes the best way to teach him to cope with it.

“I suggest that those who say a free cut system ‘won’t work’ really mean that it isn’t commensurate with their own methods. The ‘work’ such a system should do, I think, is to confront men with the fact of responsibility. How they react to this is their own business. Wording what is already in our power would not really prove anything.

“Further, some of us actually prefer to use our cuts around the holidays, and the recommended changes would circumscribe rather than advance the consequences of our taking off two or three days early. Those of us who live so far away that we can only get home twice a year or less would prefer the present system, I feel, which only gives double cuts—rather than setting up a campusing situation as the DAVIDSONIAN recommendations propose.

“This has been a careful survey by our paper, but I do not think (1) that it will improve upon the present situation, but that rather, (2) it will make it harder for us to cut before holidays.”

GO GREYHOUND (for out-of-this-world savings!)

No, there's no Greyhound Scenicruiser® Service to outer space—yet. But if you're rocketing home for the holidays, there’s no better way to go! It costs less than driving your own jalopy, too. With this exclusive Greyhound Service, you get more—pay less. Get in orbit... go Greyhound.

COMPARE THESE LOW, LOW FARES:
Atlanta, Ga. 8.45 plus tax

BAGGAGE PROBLEMS? You can take more with you on a Greyhound. Or, send your belongings by Greyhound Package Express. They arrive in hours and cost you less! It’s such a comfort to take the bus... and leave the driving to us!

WHITE DRUG CO.
Davidson, N. C.
Phone TW 2-111

GREYHOUND

The board acts as an “opinion molder” in interpreting the college to various groups. It reports on public reaction to the college, and helps accomplish the long-term objectives of Davidson College.

WASH and WEAR LONDON FOG
The main coat you need

The weatherman may be wrong, but you're always right in this lightweight LONDON FOG all-weather coat. Smartly tailored of Calibre Cloth, an exclusive super blend of Dacron and fine combed cotton... wind, rain, and wrinkle-resistant. Washes in machine or tub... drip dries overnight. Colors: Sizes: Rush Wilson Ltd. DAVIDSON, N. C.

Point that this is an opportunity for anyone who has a thought on the matter to express it. Showing some misgiving that the faculty will be well represented, Dee expressed the hope that a good many of the faculty will attend. “The more the merrier,” he concluded.

The next forum will be held next month and will involve the seventeen new members which have been selected this fall for membership in Le Cercle Francais: M. D. Davis, D. P. Gilmour, W. M. Grant, A. C. Jones, T. L. Lucas, R. M. McFarland, J. B. Martin, R. C. Pease, W. H. Pruitt, John Reid, H. B. Richardson, O. L. Richardson, W. E. Roberson, A. A. Vance, Z. B. Vance, S. J. Williams, and W. G. Workman.

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... PIZZA

The famous OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead
Charlotte, N. C.

New 1960 LM brings you taste... more taste... More taste by far... yet low in tar! New, free-flowing Miracle Tip unlocks natural tobacco flavor! That’s why LM can blend fine tobaccos—not to suit a filter... but to suit your taste!

FILTERS
LIGGETT & MYERS TOBACCO CO.

Only the 1960 LM:
- Frees up flavor other filters squeeze in!
- Checks tars without choking taste!
- Gives you the full, exciting flavor of the world’s finest, naturally mild tobaccos!

More taste by far... yet low in tar... And they said “It couldn’t be done!”
©1960 Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.