FRIDAY, MARCH 6, 1959

===SPORTS===

Sports All That By JIM HAMILTON

“Conference champs this year!?!?” Thus spoke tennis mentor Dick McKee in a half quizzical — half emphatic manner as he
pondered the Wildcat tennis fortunes for the coming season. “We'll know where we stand early this year. We play George
Washington, the defending champions, on the 17th of this month, so the big test is right around the corner.

“The material is here — best I’ve had since the conference winners of '55. The top seven will probably be
Semi Mintz, John Poindexter, Tom McCutchen, Dick Hodel, Doug Orr, Finley Lee, and Harry Broome. Then there’s Rick Aderholt and
— and — uh (I coughed slightly as a subtle hint) oh yes — Aderholt and Hamilton on the Goon
squad” (I was sorry I'd coughed).

“Our main problem,” McKee continued, “is getting in shape before the George Washington match. We just got on the courts
this week and there are only about nine days between now and the 17th that I'll be able to work
with the team.”

The coach is again faced with the perennial bugaboo of Davidson tennis — unprepared tennis courts. As late in the
week as Thursday, only three courts were suitable for play. “There’s also the problem of getting these boys who've been
playing other sports conditioned for tennis,” joked the coach. “Semi Mintz has been putting the ball in the net all
basketball season — now he’ll have to relearn to knock the ball over the net. And John Poindexter has been
out on the wrestling mat. You can imagine what that does for your tennis; he'll be so tight he won't
be able to get the racket back.

“Our doubles ought to be strong this year. I plan to use either Orr and Lee or Mintz and Poindexter
at number one and McCutchen and either Hodel or Broome in the third slot. Orr and Lee ought to be
the best two players in the conference their senior year if Lee can strengthen his endurance.”

The success or failure of the squad this year may well rest on the doubles combinations. With teams like North
Carolina, George Washington, Duke, M.I.T., and Ohio State on the schedule, more than one outcome will be decided in the
last three doubles matches.

“But right now,” McKee concluded, “it’s condition I'm worried about. We play The Citadel the day after George Washington, so
we’ve got to be in shape or we might get knocked off twice. By the way, have you done your
running yet today?” I muttered no, sheepishly, and went out and jogged around the track to get in shape to
carry water buckets.

===

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Tankmen Travel North For Rugged Final Test By BOB GREEN

Davidson's record-busting tankmen, boasting a 7-3 season slate, invaded Lexington, Virginia, today for the Southern Conference swim meet. A 51-35
win over South Carolina on February 19 closed out the regular season of Davidson's best team effort in the sport's
eight-year history here.

Six school records fell this year, two of them going to Sophomore standout Tom Hudgins. In the 220 freestyle he
set a new time of 2:20.2, breaking his own school record of 2:23.2 set last year. In the 440, he
clipped off seven seconds from the former mark for a new clocking of 5:10.7.

John Scott was outstanding in the 220 butterfly, bettering his own time of 2:35.5 with a 2:34.7. Two relay records
were broken in addition to a 200 backstroke mark of 2:23.3 set by Tom Smith. The old time was 2:29.9
splashed out by John Ed-wards in 1957.

The ‘Catfish hit their stride on February 5 against Georgia, dunking the Bulldogs 46-41. Georgia had stopped the 'Cats last
year, 56-30. Next day, Emory went down, 47-39. A tough Georgia Tech squad was shocked 52-34 as Davidson wound up
its season.

Coach George Tucker, successful in his first season as swimming coach, feels his team could surprise in the coming conference
affair. He stated earlier this week that The Citadel would be the 'Cats toughest competition.

“We lost a very close meet to V.M.I. We are training diligently for the test at Lexington, and I am
confident that we will make a good showing as we have three men on our squad capable of taking first
place in their events. These boys did a tremendous job all year and could be a conference championship team next
season,” he stated.

===

Football Continues at Davidson

Coach Dole commented earlier this week that the coaching staff is well pleased with the way the boys are working
in spring practice. He added that the team was showing good spirit, and that the coaches are quickly reaching a
conclusion as to who will be playing at the guard and halfback positions for next year.

Next year’s offense will be centered around Captain Dave Warden and Co-captain Charlie Collins, Bob MacDonald, Tom French, Chase Hunter,
and Stephan Young will give the ‘Cats needed depth in the coming seasons.

Coach Marrotte stated, “We lost a very close meet to V.M.I. We are training diligently for the test at Lexington,
and I am confident that we will make a good showing as we have three men on our squad capable
of taking first place in their events. These boys did a tremendous job all year and could be a conference
championship team next season,” he stated.

===

Rough Outing Looms Ahead For Wrestlers By PETE WYRICK

Today marked the beginning of the Southern Conference wrestling tournament and Coach Charlie Parker left for the matches, to be
held in Charleston, S.C., with five of his top wrestlers.

WILDCAT HOPES in the conference tournament rest on the shoulders of the men shown here with Coach Parker. Left to
right they are Milton Gee, Jim Allen, Alex Porter, and “Westy” Westervelt. Allen will not participate in the meet due
to an injury.

===

Basketball Season Ends With Tournament Play By FRED LANE

The Davidson College basketball team wrapped up its season last Thursday, February 26, losing to West Virginia by a score
of 100-65. The Wildcats ended the season with a 9-15 record.

When questioned on the team record, Coach Scott was quick to reply, “This squad is the best here in the
past several years, even though the record doesn’t show it. We improved but the opposition in the conference has also
improved. We lost 7 games which could have gone either way.

“The big weakness was the lack of a center. We also had to rely too much on three boys for
most of the scoring punch.”

===

HI-FI COMPONENTS At Wholesale Net Prices Across From Ivey's 5th St. Entrance 126 West Fifth St. Charlotte 2, N.C.

===

Do You Think for Yourself?

1. When your friends impart confidences, do you feel (A) uncomfortable, or (B) complimented?

2. Do you prefer a task which demands (A) the organization of complex details, or (B) a constant flow of
ideas?

3. Would your first reaction to a committee appointment be that you had been (A) “stuck,” or (B) honored?

4. If you were a contestant on a quiz program which of these question categories would you prefer: (A) popular
songs of today, or (B) current events?

5. When you are taking a course, do you prefer (A) the instructor, or (B) the subject matter of a
course?

6. Do you think that most opinions are (A) usually sound, or (B) often false?

7. Which would weigh more heavily in your choice of filter cigarettes: (A) the opinions of friends with similar tastes,
or (B) your own considered judgment?

It is usually the case that men and women...Who really think for themselves come around to VICEROY as their brand
of filter cigarette... for two very good reasons: VICEROY is the one cigarette that gives them a thinking man’s filter
and a smoking man’s taste. *If you checked (B) on any six of the nine questions... you really think for
yourself! © 1959, Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp.

1. Do you find that you work or study more effectively (A) under supervision, or (B) on your own schedule?
2. Is it your feeling that close friendships with superiors would be (A) a great help, or (B) actually a
hindrance to your career with a firm?
3. Which, to your mind, has the greater influence on you in making a good grade:
4. Do you believe that the saying “haste makes waste” is (A) always true, or

Quiz OFF!

The subject for the 1958-1959 season were seniors Semi Mintz and Dave Hollingsworth, who averaged 13.6 and 18.6 respectively for
the regular season. Sophomore Bill Shinn averaged 12.7 and will be back to lead the Wildcats next season. Coach Scott's
speculation on next season is: “Even though we lose 6 good boys we will have equally as good a team
next year because of the fine freshmen who will be moving up and the returning lettermen. We still need that
big strong boy though.”

Accompanying Coach Parker were Ubi de Frietas, Milton Gee, “Westy” Westervelt, Cliff Thompson, and Alex Porter. Exchange student de Frietas,
who wrestles in the 123 lb. class, lacks the benefit of the experience some of his teammates have, but is
a strong competitor and may do quite well.

GEE READY

One of the best prospects for individual honors is Milton Gee. Gee, who wrestles at 147 lbs., was defeated only
once during regular season action and could well go through the tourney undefeated. “Westy” Westervelt, at 167 lbs., is practically
a sure bet to capture his third conference title. Westervelt, who is also a Carolina AAU champ, was undefeated during
the season. Sophomore grappler Cliff Thompson, who is replacing injured Jim Allen, also lacks some experience, but should be strong
at 177 lbs. Allen, who was injured during the VMI match, hasn’t been able to wrestle since then, so Thompson
took over and closed out the season with a win in the final match with Washington & Lee.

ALEX PORTER

Alex Porter, who finished a very successful season wrestling in the heavyweight division, is classified along with Gee and Westervelt
as one of the top individual title seekers. Coach Parker says that Porter has an excellent chance to make the
finals. Asked about team prospects, Coach Parker said that V.P.I. would be the team to beat and will probably take
the team title for the second year in a row. He went on to say that West Virginia will also
be very strong and should finish in the runner-up position with Davidson possibly third.

Veterans Pace Cat Baseball Squad

Hopes for this year’s baseball team rest squarely upon the shoulders of a handful of last year’s veterans. Although men
were lost from several key positions, early indications point to a successful season. Dee Lide, Dee Green, and Pat Henderson
will handle the brunt of the pitching duties. Drew White, Jim Smith, Tom Covington, and Ken Lawsing are also counted
on for mound duty. Returning to infield positions are most valuable player Don Killian at shortstop and sophomore Russell Cotton
at third base. Expected to fill out the infield are Henry Goodwin or Harold Bynum at second base, and Jerry
Cole at first. Captain Harold Reagan will be behind the plate, with Mac Henderson backing him up. In the outfield,
Harry Shaw, Gordon Swain, Bob Groome, Rich Cline, Ed Garrett, and Martin Boyd are battling for starting positions.

Phi’s Take Track Meet

The Phi Delts edged the Betas 26 and 2-5 to 30 and 1-5 in a down-to-the-wire battle for the LF
Track Meet laurels, Wednesday afternoon. This marks the third year in the last four that the Phi Delts have been
champions. The meet was won last year by the Kappa Sigs. Following the Betas were the Sigma Chis in third
place with 16 and 1-5 points, Kappa Sigs in fourth with 15 and 1-5, SAE's with 15, ATO’s with five,
KA’s with ten, and the Sigma Nus with one point. The remaining fraternities failed to score. With two events remaining
in the meet, Beta Theta Pi had a slim 28 and 1-5 to 27 and 2-5 lead over the Phi
Delts, who promptly jumped into the lead with a one-two finish in the 660-yard run by John Harris and Dan
McAllister. Fred Lane came in third for the Betas. The Phi Delts iced the cake with a third place in
the 880 relay, which was won by the Kappa Sigs. Beebe and Laughlin won two events apiece, scoring ten points
but were pushed by Billy Davis, who won 8 1-5 points, for individual honors. The stocky Davis entered four events,
tied for first in one, and took second, third, and fourth in the other three.

In other I-F activity, the KA's vanquished the Betas Thursday afternoon and went on to compile a perfect 12-0 record
to capture the handball title. The ATO’s were second with an 11-1 slate. The basketball race ended in a three-way
tie between the Phi Delts, SAE's and Phi Gams. All had 11-1 records. The Phis completed their season with a
44-40 win over the Kappa Sigs Thursday and the SAE’s finished up with a victory over the Pi Kapps on
Monday. Fred Lane hit 24 for the Betas against the SAE’s Monday night to win the scoring title with a
22.3 average.

Conference Shoot Next For Riflers

Although the Rifle Team had no matches this week, it remained busy preparing for the Southern Conference Meet which will
be held March 6 at the University of West Virginia. Eight of the nine conference teams will be present at
the meet. Davidson will be represented by team captain Stan Gaines, Joe Wearn, Don Harper, Dan Neubauer, Don Phame, and
James Ratchford. Although Davidson will face such strong teams as The Citadel and VMI, Captain Mitchell, the team coach, hopes
to make a good showing. The last meet of the year in the Western Carolina Conference will be held April
4 in Greenville, where Davidson will fire against P.C., Wofford, and Furman.

ONLY VICEROY HAS A THINKING MAN'S FILTER... A SMOKING MAN'S TASTE!

CHARCOAL STEAK HOUSE
1800 W. MOREHEAD ST.
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
Open Nightly 5-12 P.M.
FOR RESERVATIONS CALL ED 2-2414 After 2 P.M.

By BILL GODWIN

With the opening meet of Davidson’s track season slated for March 21, Coach Whittle commented this week on the team’s
prospects. “We're hurting in the hurdles,” he said. Chris Bremer, top jumper last year, is out for the season with
a bad knee. To replace Bremer, Coach Whittle has already found Al Mackay for low hurdles and Walter Bishop for
the tall ones. Also from last year, Whittle has miler Angus McBryde and Marvin Bentley in sprints. Sprinter Mel Armstrong,
back from a year in service, should strengthen the Wildcats. Before his time in service, Armstrong didn't lose a single
100 or 220 yd. dash in dual competition. The ‘Cats, holding a 4-3 record from last season, will run an
eight-meet schedule, five contests to be at Richardson Field. Prior to the regular slate, next Saturday at Chapel Hill, Davidson
will participate in the ACC Open Division Indoor Track Meet, the “Classic of the South.” The sixth annual meet will
feature Atlantic Coast Conference teams, but Southern and Southeastern trackmen will tangle by invitation. Against such schools as Georgia Tech,
Florida and Tennessee, Whittle expects not too much more than extra practice for his varsity. The non-ACC teams will compete
in seven events Saturday afternoon and evening.
