PAGE FOUR

The Kansas City Trophy, awarded to the best chapter of Phi Delta Theta in schools under 1500, is the center of attraction as President Martin, Province President Moss Salley, Chapter President Dan McAlister, Advisor James Causey, and Tom Smith join in the recent presentation to Gamma Chapter. (Photo by McRight)

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Twenty Attend IRC African Discussion

The problems of the Union of South Africa attracted the attention of twenty students who attended the third meeting of the IRC this year. President Dan McAlister introduced the subject under discussion for the evening.

The program centered around the discrepancies between actual conditions in Africa and those publicized through the propaganda of the South African government. Professor Polley, Professor Drake, and President McAlister presented the actual conditions now prevailing in Africa through the medium of a panel discussion.

The first topic covered during the discussion was the history of the Union of South Africa. The present political machinery of the country was next analyzed. The panel then explained the methods through which the government manipulates its organs to continue the policy of apartheid or racial segregation.

After Vespers Open Houses

The houses of the following faculty members will be open to students Sunday night, November 22, after Vespers:

Bryan
Houchens
Patterson
Trakas
Calhoun
MacQueen
Polley
Tyson
Causey
McGill
Reid
West
Fulcher
Mebane
Sailistad
White
Gallent
Mitchell
Thies
Goodykoontz
Mrs. Moore
Thompson

"Y" Gift Fund Launches Bankok Hospital Drive

By LEE KIRBY
Davidsonian Staff Writer

The YMCA Gift Fund Committee will launch its Christmas, 1959 Financial Drive with a meeting of approximately fifty solicitors on Wednesday night, December 2 in the Ballroom of the College Union. Lt. Col. William L. Adams will orient the student workers on the facts and figures of the Bankok Christian Hospital, recipient of the 1959 funds.

The Bankok Christian Hospital makes a significant contribution in offering medical aid to these refugees, in addition to serving the needy of Bankok and all Thailand. In an effort to raise over $4,500, the drive will be conducted during the two weeks following Thanksgiving holidays. The largest part of the solicitations will take place during the first few days of the drive and the whole campaign will be wrapped up before Christmas Holidays.

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 1959

Placement Annual Is Job Opportunity Guide

The recruiting picture for 1959-60 promises more opportunities for more people in more varied fields than ever before, according to the new edition of the College Placement Annual, recently released by Davidson's Director of Placement C. Shaw Smith.

The ANNUAL is an official, non-profit publication listing the job opportunities normally made available by the more than 1,700 participating companies. Davidson is one of nearly 600 colleges and universities throughout the United States and Canada where it is being distributed. Copies for personal or reference use are available at the Placement Office for placement registrants.

In 1959-60, as in most years in recent history, engineers will be in demand among the recruiters. Close to two-thirds of the companies listed in the ANNUAL are interested in hiring some type of engineer, and cumulative totals show more than 3,600 company openings for engineers of various types.

Koogie Kwon, bass soloist for the Davidson College Male Chorus, will appear in two Charlotte musical presentations, Rogers and Hammerstein’s “The King and I”, presented by the Charlotte Opera Association, and Handel’s “Messiah”, sponsored by the Charlotte Music Club.

In “The King and I”, he will play the role of the lover, Lun Tha, and he will sing “We Kiss in a Shadow” and “I Have Dreamed”. The musical will be presented Monday, November 23, at 9:15 p.m., at Ovens Auditorium in Charlotte. This will be the only performance. Student tickets are $1.50.

In the “Messiah”, which will be presented by the Charlotte Music Club on December 6, at 4 p.m., in the Ovens Auditorium, Koogie will sing the bass solo.

Fields with futures, as measured by the number wanting personnel in those categories, are: selling, specified by 613; accounting, 516; chemical engineering, 472; and business administration, 449. Industrial engineering, 472; and business administration, 449. Mechanical engineers may be the most popular—some 800 companies list openings for them—but the twin specialties of electrical and electronic engineering are close behind.

The third most desirable man, in the eyes of the recruiters at any rate, will be the chemist. In the most startling jump in demand revealed by the ANNUAL, the number of companies offering openings in that field went from 396 in 1959 to 672 this year.

Phi Delt Chapter Wins Highest National Award

Gamma Chapter of Phi Delta Theta Fraternity has won the Kansas City Trophy for 1958-59. This award is made yearly to the best all-around chapter at schools with under 1500 enrollment. President of Delta South Province, Mr. Moss Salley, awarded the trophy to chapter president Dan McAlister at a dinner last week.

To be eligible for this award, a chapter must have a “C” over-all scholastic average, all accounts paid and certain other financial requirements, no unexcused delinquencies in any phase of obligations to the national organization, and a community service program.

Gamma chapter met these basic requirements. Its community projects consisted of building a playground for the Alexander Home in Charlotte, and painting a local church. Above these requirements for eligibility, points are awarded for campus participation and leadership by campus members. In this field, Gamma chapter has won the trophy three times in the past ten years.

McAlister, in accepting the award, commented: “The fact that we have won speaks well for Davidson College and each individual chapter member. We who have known nothing but our American way of life cannot imagine the conditions of privation under which this hospital must carry on its work. The Gift Fund will do more and be more appreciated than we perhaps realize or can understand.”

YMCA Will Present Week Of Segregation Discussion

During the week of November 30-December 6, the YMCA will sponsor a program of discussion and debate on the issue of segregation versus integration. Particular emphasis will be placed on the issues of segregation of religion in the United States society.

The program is of special interest to Davidson, pointed out, not only because of its spiritual, ideological, and humanitarian aspects, but because so many alumni and friends of the college have served there. The present head of the Church of Christ in Thailand, Davidson's Dr. Horace Ryburn, is a graduate of Davidson.

Professors Purcell and Calhoun present “Historical Background of Selected Twentieth Century Problems” is covered by Professor Johnston. Capitalism is dealt with in Professor Patterson's division, “Some Aspects of the Economy of the United States.” Professor Drake presents the problems concerning minority populations such as the Negro situation in “Current Population Problems in the United States.” The phase concerning educational methods and problems, “Practice in Education,” is directed by Professor Ostwalt. The second semester deals with the cultural aspects of United States society. Professors Polley in “Religion, the Church, and the State.” Professor McGavock’s subject is the “Impact of Science on American Culture.” Music: folk, popular, and classical, is covered by Professor White.Forum stated, “The Literature of Twentieth Century America” will begin this phase of the curriculum. The place will be at the door of the operating room. L. Adams, who served as a military advisor to the Royal Thai Army for several years, commemorating engineers, though still sought-after, found the demand for their services falling slightly, from 481 last year to 431. And, smaller in number but reflecting changing occupational trends, the number of firms seeking mathematicians grew from 177 to 193, and the number seeking physicists increased.

Koogie has been a member of the Davidson College Male Chorus for three years after having transferred from Warren-Wilson Junior College. He had a role in “Carmen” last year until he was forced to withdraw because of illness. He also appeared in a leading role in Verdi's “Rigoletto” this fall.

Four long-term missionaries to Thailand, Dr. and Mrs. William Harris, their daughter, Mrs. Harding Kneedler, and her husband Dr. Kneedler, are now permanent residents of Davidson. The great need of the Bangkok Christian Hospital was pointed out by Lt. Col. W. The Canterbury Club will sponsor a discussion led by the Rev. J. L. Kellermann, Director of the Alcoholism Information Center in Charlotte, on the topic: “Moral and Religious Implications in the Use of Alcohol and Alcoholism.” The meeting will be held at 4:00 p.m. in the Green Room of the College Union, Sunday, November 22. All students are welcome.

Phi Delts at Davidson were particularly strong last year. Delta South Province includes North and South Carolina. It has the distinction of being the only province in which all three of its chapters, at Duke, Carolina, and Davidson, are active. The appearance of Mr. Thomas Waring, editor of the Charleston, South Carolina, “News and Courier,” on Thursday, December 3, will be one of the high points of the week.

Mr. Waring, an ardent states' righter, segregation advocate, and political conservative, will speak at chapel Thursday morning, hold seminars and lead discussion groups on Thursday afternoon, and face a panel of faculty members and students Thursday night. Mr. Waring is a prominent debate foe of Mr. Harry Golden, well-known editor of “The Carolina Israelite.” Recently, Mr. Golden and Mr. Waring appeared on a televised debate in Charlotte, which gained widespread interest throughout this area. Mr. Waring has traveled widely, speaking to civic and college groups on the race issue. He has appeared as far north as Toronto, Canada, in televised debates and interviews on the issue.

Watlington listed numerous statistics that supported his contention that “in the Carolinas and the Southeast, we have the greatest potential for growth and development of any section of the United States, and with the exception of the far Southwest, we have made greater economic progress in the post-war years than any other area.” The records quoted showed greater gains in manufacturing, wholesale trade, total business volume, per capita income, construction, and electric power production as compared with the rest of the U.S. Watlington emphasized the tremendous growth in Southeastern textile, tobacco, and furniture industries and the wide diversification in electronics, chemicals, machinery, paper, glass, and food processing plants.

Professor Satterfield in “American Music.” Professor Houwsown certainly is one of the most articulate speakers that we know of. We're looking forward to Mr. Waring’s visit and we hope everybody will find this week of debating and discussion stimulating.

In addition to Mr. Waring's visit, the YMCA hopes to have Dr. Waldo Beach of Duke speak in favor of integration. Plans for his appearance, however, have not been completed. It is also the hope of the YMCA that the literary societies will cooperate by presenting programs on the integration issue at Davidson during the week.

“You, the young men of the South,” Watlington concluded, “have a wide choice before you. The door of opportunity is open to you, men with broad educations, men willing to serve their fellow man, men who will be our leaders. The Southeast has much to offer young men. It is your good fortune to already be here and to be in the front ranks of the march of progress.”

STARTS WED. NOV. 25
“PILLOW TALK”
Doris Day
Rock Hudson

SWANEE
TODAY & SATURDAY
“NATCHEZ TRACE”
Also “LOUISIANA HUSSY”

SAT. LATE SHOW
MONDAY & TUESDAY
“LIBEL”
Olivia DeHavilland

STARTS WED., NOV. 25
“THE BAT”
Vincent Price

HI-FI COMPONENTS
SHOP AT WHOLESALE NET PRICES!
Across From Ivey’s 5th St. Entrance
126 West Fifth St.
Phone ED 40936

What Makes Corn Pop?
Popping corn contains water. When the water gets hot enough, the kernel explodes. Result: popcorn. We're not passing this information along as a public service. Actually, we're up to the same old game. Drink in the SIGN OF GOOD TASTE. Bottled under the authority of The Coca-Cola Company by THE COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD. “Coke” is a registered trademark. ©1956, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY. You see, popcorn makes most people thirsty. Fortunately, when most people get thirsty they hanker for the good taste of Coca-Cola. Wouldn't you like some popcorn right now? C’mon now, wouldn’t you?

LOOK! 10 GREAT JAZZ NUMBERS
March Of The Toys
Just Released for VICEROY CIGARETTES!
The Greatest Jazz Album in Years!
ON A SPECIALLY PRESSED RCA CUSTOM RECORD

Featuring Top Favorite Jazz Instrumentalists — winners in a national popularity survey of American College and University Students! Yours at a special low price — with the compliments of VICEROY — the cigarette that gives you the best filtering of all for full rich taste. “A Thinking Man’s Filter... A Smoking Man’s Taste.” Yours for Only $1.00 and 2 empty packages of VICEROY Cigarettes.

Royal Garden Blues
Just A Mood
Shine On Harvest Moon
Erroll's Bounce
St. James Infirmary
Ciribiribin
Tin Roof Blues
When The Saints Go Marching In
Martians’ Lullaby

PLAYED BY YOUR FAVORITE ARTISTS
Benny Goodman
Louis Armstrong
Erroll Garner
Shorty Rogers
Jonah Jones
Duke Ellington
Ben Webster
Red Norvo
Bob Scobey
Buck Clayton
Vic Dickenson
Rex Stewart
Dukes of Dixieland

BROWN & WILLIAMSON TOBACCO CORPORATION
Louisville 1, Kentucky

Please send me postpaid ___ record(s) of the Special VICEROY CAMPUS JAZZ FESTIVAL. Enclosed is $1.00 (no stamps, please) and 2 empty Viceroy packages for each record ordered.

Name: ______________________
Address: ______________________
City: ______________________
State: ______________________

Offer good only in U.S.A. Not valid in states where prohibited, taxed, or otherwise restricted. Offer expires Dec. 31, 1959.