PAGE FOUR

Visiting Inspecting Officer Col. C. A. Lichirie (right), Cadet First Col. R. O. Croom (center), and PMS&T Col. W. L.
Adams, review the troops at ROTC Drill Federal Inspection last Tuesday.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Colonel Lichirie Lauds Davidson’s ROTC Unit

The Davidson ROTC cadet corps and its facilities were highly praised last Tuesday by Col. Lichirie, inspecting officer from XII
Army Headquarters in Atlanta. PMS&T Lt. Col. Adams said that Col. Lichirie was impressed by the entire Davidson ROTC department
and particularly in the spirit of cooperation between students, faculty, and the ROTC department. The inspecting officer commented on the
special briefing presented Tuesday morning by the cadet brigade commander and his staff: “It was the most outstanding that I’ve
ever seen. I don’t know of any other college that can compare with it.” Lichirie was also pleased with the
parade of the cadet corps, remarking that it was especially effective considering that 250 freshman cadets had never marched until
this fall. Col. Adams said, “By the end of the year this should be the best cadet corps we’ve ever
had here.” He praised the local setup as “occupying a unique position in the school and local community.”

Faculty Reaffirms (Continued From Page One)

parties. “(3) Our attempt to answer the question is a modification of the present system. First, we would do away
with the entire pledge and substitute the following: “I attended the party, described above during the hours indicated below. To
the best of my knowledge the party was at all times conducted in a manner acceptable to the standards of
gentlemanly conduct on the part of the students present. There was no time during the party when at least one
of the undersigned was not in attendance. “Secondly, we would change a portion of Part Five, section two, of the
Red Book which comes under the heading of ‘social functions.’ We would like to see each fraternity held individually responsible
for what goes on at a party sponsored by that organization. “In conclusion, we would certainly appreciate the opportunity and
the responsibility of carrying out our solution to the after-dance party problem.”

The Faculty voted to give further study to the report and recommendations presented by Dee Green.

CLARIFICATION

Dr. Clarence J. Pietenpol, Chairman of the Faculty-Fraternity Committee, stated, “The Committee thought it ought to clarify how the faculty
feels about the present ruling on drinking; that is why the Faculty was asked to reaffirm it.” He concluded, “Now
we will go on to the question of after-dance parties and see what the Committee and students will be able
to work out together.” No further actions having to do with alcoholic beverages were taken by the faculty at this
meeting.

Over As a 100 per cent red-blooded American boy (age 17) I can’t possibly tell! Your whole family will go
stark, ravin’ mad with joy when we come a-tearin’ from 2 years as a Broadway musical smash-hit—right into the movies!
in Technicolor and VistaVision®—natchelly!

Who’s Who Selects

Dave Warden was captain of the 1959 football team and comes from Bluefield, W. Va. This year he is president
of the Senior Class and is a member of Kappa Sigma social fraternity. Bill Whitesell, of Galax, Va., is freshmen
adviser for the class of 1963. He is a member of Alpha Tau Omega social fraternity and is active in
Methodist student work. Perrin Wright, from Radford, Va., is a scholar and a member of Alpha Tau Omega social fraternity.
Wright is president of the Davidson Concert Band.

(Continued From Page One)

a music major is a Merchant

HI-FI COMPONENTS AT WHOLESALE NET PRICES

Across From Ivey’s 5th St. Entrance 126 West Fifth St.

FOLLY WOOD EVER WHOMPED UP! With Hollywood’s most exciting cast of NEW FACES AND (gasp!) FIGURES!

Phone ED 4-0936

IN THE (gasp) BIGGEST AND (grr!) FUNNIEST

COMING SOON TO YOUR FAVORITE THEATRE! Watch For It!

After Vespers: Drake Lester

After Vespers Open Houses

The houses of the following faculty members will be open to students Sunday night, December 13:

Alexis Ghigo
Lord Bailey
Horton McGeachy
Brooks Hufford
Minter Cumming
Johnston Plott
Crawford Lammers
Purcell Schenck

Santa Claus’ Visit Highlights Parties

Ward McKeithen, president of the Interfraternity Council, has announced that the annual party for the Barium Springs Orphanage will be
held on Monday, December 14. The evening’s program will begin when the approximately eighty-five children, ranging in age from five
to fifteen, will be treated to entertainment in the College Union. Those members from the individual fraternities, who have been
designated to pick up the children and take them to the fraternity houses for supper, are requested by the IFC
to be present to their particular groups of children after supper. Following the separate fraternity programs, there will be a
visit by Davidson’s version of Santa Claus. He will hand out presents to the children. Earlier this week, McKeithen stated,
“The party is always eagerly anticipated by both the children and the fraternities, and this year is no different.”

The administration reminds students that double cuts will be in effect December 18 and 19, and January 4 and 5,
two days before and after the Christmas holidays. On Friday, December 19, no chapel will be held. Classes will run
straight through, with fourth period ending at 12:10. No afternoon classes will be held.held. No Friday labs or aft-

Christmas Vespers Filled With Music

The annual Christmas Vespers program will be presented this Sunday night, sponsored jointly by the YMCA and the College Department
of Music. The service will begin with a selection of Christmas music by the Handbell Choir of the Selwyn Avenue
Presbyterian Church in Charlotte. Donald B. Plott will direct selections by the Chapel Choir. Music will also be provided by
the Brass Ensemble, under the direction of Mr. Satterfield, and by the Woodwind Ensemble, led by Mr. Soloist on the
program will be Robert S. Lord, who will play the organ. General arrangements for the service are under the direction
of Jim Richards, who is also in charge of church decorations.

ONE DAY OF SERVICE

For Your Holiday Cleaning and Pressing We Offer ONE DAY Service

JACKSON CLEANERS
Across From Gulf Station — Main St.

GO GREYHOUND (for out-of-this-world savings!)

No, there's no Greyhound Scenicruiser® Service to outer space—yet. But if you're rocketing home for the holidays, there's no better
way to go! It costs less than driving your own jalopy, too. With this exclusive Greyhound Service, you get more—pay
less. Get in orbit... go Greyhound.

BAGGAGE PROBLEMS? You can take more with you on a Greyhound. Or, send your belongings by Greyhound Package Express. They
arrive in hours and cost you less! It's such a comfort to take the bus... and leave the driving to
us!

COMPARE THESE LOW, LOW FARES:
Columbia, S.C. 3.45
Richmond, Va. 8.35

FRIDAY, DECEMBER 11, 1959

Sport Ivy League Fashion

Editor’s Note: This article was written for English 142 last spring. The DAVIDSONIAN will present other articles of interest from
this course in coming issues.

Recently, as I was making a purchase in one of the Charlotte department stores, a salesman said to me, “You
go to Davidson College, don’t you?”

“Yes,” I said, “But how did you know?”

“You look like a Davidson student,” was his reply.

This answer interested and puzzled me. Then I realized that it is the clothes that the Davidson student wears that
make him so easily recognized. Probably the most characteristic feature of the so-called “Davidson Gentleman” is his necktie. It is
almost black or a dark color with a conservative stripe or other design. This season the challis or foulard fabric
with a hand-blocked pattern is especially popular. The knot for the tie is usually the four-in-hand or the half-Windsor that
emphasizes the simplicity of the tie. The tie fits around the traditional shirt of the Davidson student. It is made
of white or pin-striped oxford cloth. Without starch, the collar is soft and is buttoned rather than being held by
cufflinks, and there is a single pleat in the back.

The Davidson man sometimes wears a suit, but more familiar is the dark sport coat harmonizing with black pants. The
sporty coat is of wool tweed skillfully cut with narrow lapels, three buttons in front, and little or no shoulder
padding. An important accessory is the fraternity monogram pinned through the buttonhole of the lapel. Slim in the legs, the
pants are of wool flannel and do not break over the shoes. There are no pleats in the front, and
the straps and buckle are in the back. The belt worn with these pants is of a dark leather of
the same fabric as the tie. The shoes are of two kinds, shell cordovans or loafers in black or brown.
They are kept shiny by the pledges of the fraternity to which the Davidson man belongs, and contrast well with
the white socks that are worn on all but the most formal occasions.

The Davidson gentleman is usually hatless on even the coldest days. His hair is trimmed short and is styled to
be brushed rather than combed. This is an influence of the requirements for close-cut hair of the ROTC brigade. Therefore,
clothes make the man and the correct clothes make the “Davidson Gentleman.”

Facility Changes (Continued From Page One)

The music classrooms will also be set up there. The banquet hall of Chambers will serve as the practice hall
for the band, and instruments will be stored in the old kitchen annex in the rear of Chambers. At present,
the annex is being employed as storage space for a 200-bed Civil Defense emergency hospital. This equipment will be transferred
to Cornelius within the next month.

“We still hope to have the final plans by March 1 and to let the contract for construction by April
1,” Currie said. “We have been corresponding with other schools about the auditorium. A committee recently visited several schools in
the state to observe similar facilities. Provisions for initiating radio and television broadcasts from the auditorium are also under consideration.

Workmen will install fixtures in the science building during the holiday break and will move in larger items. The biology
and physics departments are also in the process of packing their equipment for transfer to the new building.

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a...

the famous OPEN KITCHEN
1318 W. Morehead
Charlotte, N.C.

All filter cigarettes are divided into two parts, and...

“Veni, vidi, Winston!” Thus did Caesar (a notoriously poor speller) hail the discovery of Filter-Blend—light, mild tobaccos specially selected and
specially processed for filter smoking. He knew that a pure white filter alone is not enough. To be a complete
filter cigarette, it must have Filter-Blend up front. And only Winston’s got it! That’s why Caesar would never accept another
brand even when it was offered gratis. In fact, history tells us he’d glower at the extended pack and sneer,
“Et tu, Brute?” In a stirring peroration to his legions, Caesar put it this way: “For the Numeral I filter
cigarette—for the best-tasting filter cigarette—for the noblest filter cigarette of all—smoke Winston!”

“Winston tastes good like a cigarette should!”

P.S. to bachelors, If you're lucky enough to find a gal who'll keep you in Winstons, Caesar!

R.J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO., WINSTON-SALEM, N.C.
