Winter Sports In Full Swing (See Page Three) VOL. XLVI

By ERVIN

Waring Outlines Views On Crucial Race Issue

DUGGAN Davidsonian Managing Editor

Thomas R. Waring, one of America’s most vocal crusaders for segregation and states’ rights—“the Conservative southern viewpoint”—ended his Davidson College
visit today. Waring, after a full day's round of debate and discussion Thursday, granted DAVIDSONIAN editors an interview concerning his
racial and political views.

Explaining his mission as a Southern editor, Waring said, “What I try to do is this: express the conservative Southern
viewpoint, which I believe is a majority viewpoint. I’ve made an effort to present to the best of my ability
the majority opinion of the South. My effort is to encourage lawful and decent resistance to the Supreme Court’s 1954
decision in the hope that we can eventually get rid of this evil thing (integration).”

Do you favor industrialization of the South, realizing the possible social changes which may come with it?

“I’m in favor of finding additional ways to give employment to displaced farmers, to replace some of the lost agricultural
income. I’m certainly in favor of industrial development. The South of course will benefit from greater prosperity of the Negro
as a market for its products. The more Negroes who can be removed from relief rolls, the less taxes the
white man will have to pay.”

What is your opinion on the current dispute concerning the required loyalty oath for recipients of federal defense scholarships?

“I’m not able to get excited about it. I don’t see why anyone would mind denying he was a Communist.
Most oaths anyway are a sort of ritual thing like taking off your hat in an elevator or saluting the
flag. Besides, a banker asks you personal questions when you apply for a loan: you sacrifice privacy for money then.
It’s the same thing here, and I will say that students who lose money because of administration cooperation in the
oath are taking a great disadvantage.”

What is your opinion concerning the integration of an institution such as Davidson College?

“I’d say this: you have a pretty good college now, why change it? You’d run the risk of losing North
and South Carolina boys whose families oppose this thing, and contributors from Southern states would surely fall away.”

In view of your support of total school segregation, what is your reaction to the failure of “massive resistance” in
Virginia?

“I was disappointed to see massive resistance fold up, though I can’t say I was surprised. Virginia got right up
to the sticking point there, then backed down. Of course, I feel that any integration, token or otherwise, is undesirable.
Virginia was being watched by the South for encouragement and comfort, and she failed. Of course, we applauded the Prince
Edward County action, where they closed their schools, as a lawful and decent resistance to the Supreme Court’s 1954 decision
in the hope that we can eventually get rid of this evil thing (integration).”

Professor C. A. Baylis of Duke University, Beidler of Queens College, and Dr. Eugene Luschei of the University of North
Carolina.

Prof. Beidler of Queens College, and Dr. Eugene Luschei of the University of North Carolina.

Doug Clark's combo, popularly known as the “Hot Nuts,” will make its first formal appearance on the campus. The popular
combo will entertain dancing in the ballroom of the union until 11:00 p.m. In the cafeteria downstairs, checkered tablecloths and
candies will set the scene for jukebox dancing in the area provided for those who favor music of their own
choosing. Cave Counterpoint will provide a third dancing area with Tom Colvin’s band furnishing the beat and the bar open
for refreshments. The first-floor lobby will specialize in black and white caricatures. These profiles will be drawn free of charge
by two artists who will devote their time to this part of the evening. Upstairs in the Blueroom, “Blackie,” a
magician and professional card shark from Charlotte, will confound his viewers with diverse techniques in sleight of hand. The Greenroom
will be furnished by a Charlotte hobby shop with innovated games accompanied by free prizes for the excessively talented or
more fortunate players. Free refreshments may be held.

Hold Fall Meeting

Cool Rhythm Highlights Holiday Soiree

On December 17, the Thursday before the holidays, the College Union will sponsor a Christmas party for the student body.
With activity flourishing on all three floors, the varied program will get underway at 8:00 p.m. For the main feature
of the evening, George Kirkpatrick has contracted Doug Clark's combo, popularly known as the “Hot Nuts,” which will make its
first formal appearance on the campus. The popular combo will entertain dancing in the ballroom of the union until 11:00
p.m. In the cafeteria downstairs, checkered tablecloths and candies will set the scene for jukebox dancing in the area provided
for those who favor music of their own choosing. Cave Counterpoint will provide a third dancing area with Tom Colvin’s
band furnishing the beat and the bar open for refreshments. The first-floor lobby will specialize in black and white caricatures.
These profiles will be drawn free of charge by two artists who will devote their time to this part of
the evening. Upstairs in the Blueroom, “Blackie,” a magician and professional card shark from Charlotte, will confound his viewers with
diverse techniques in sleight of hand. The Greenroom will be furnished by a Charlotte hobby shop with innovated games accompanied
by free prizes for the excessively talented or more fortunate players. Free refreshments may be held.

A free marshmallow roast should attract couples to the shuffleboard court on the south side of the union adjacent to
the ballroom. In the private dining room at the north side of the ballroom, students are invited to try their
luck at free bingo. Among the many prizes offered at this attraction will be a sport coat from Rush Wilson,
Ltd. As the ninth attraction, Wyndell Merritt has contacted over thirty girls from Woman’s College in Greensboro and others from
Queens as hostesses for the night. “These plans are not completed yet,” commented Merritt, “but if coordination is made, we
should have more than anticipated.” The trend is toward bringing a date, but those who are without are encouraged to
come. Woody Morcock, President of the Union, commented, “We hope to turn this into an annual event.”

Davidsonian

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

(Liberalized Cuts: Pro and Con See Page Two)

Colorful

Thomas R. Waring

Yesterday Mr. Waring appeared before the student body at chapel, held discussions over coffee at 11:00 and in the Blue
Room at 3:30. Concluding the campus appearances at 8:30 p.m., he led an open forum in the Ballroom of the
Student Union.

CHAPEL ADDRESS

In his chapel address, Mr. Waring pointed out that science has as yet failed to formulate fully the differences among
the races. Thus he contended that one must look at the race question without a sociological or political slant, but
must consider only the factors which are familiar and which can be declared as facts. He enumerated records of violence
under integration, medical facts, and other background knowledge defending the Southern tradition.

Mr. Waring pointed out that Davidson College was founded as a Christian, male institution for whites. There have been no
comments as to the legality of the first two requirements, but the third is not to be questioned.

“Segregation is not the problem today.” The beehive concept of society and “togetherness” cause increased interest in the group and
minorities at the cost of the individual. He stated, in addition, that it would be very foolish not to recognize
the Negro as a valuable asset to the South.

Last night's open forum attracted over 100 students. To open, Mr. Waring threw out the question: “Can the Negro make
advancement without association with the Whites?”

CHARLES JONES

Mr. Charles Jones of Johnson C. Smith College responded to point out that many things are denied the Negro which
are a vital part of the Southern way of life—education, social rights, and other opportunities. Tom Hudgins asked Mr. Jones
if fraternities had the right to restrict membership along racial lines as a part of their selectivity. Mr. Jones answered
that any suggestion that one was “different” was derogatory and insulting.

The discussion jumped from topic to topic: moral factors in segregation, hypothetical situations, discrimination even with “equal facilities,” in voting,
and so forth.

SCHEDULE

WED. A.M. ROTC 11, 21, 31, 41
Jan 20 PM... First Hour Classes Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday
THURS A.M. First Hour Classes Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday
Jan. 21 PM... Fourth Hour Classes Monday, Wednesday, Friday
FRI. A.M. Fourth Hour Classes Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday
Jan. 22 PM... Fourth Hour Classes Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday
SAT. A.M. Third Hour Classes Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday
Jan. 23 PM... Third Hour Classes Monday, Wednesday, Friday
MON. A.M. Fifth Hour Classes Monday, Wednesday, Friday
Jan. 25 PM... Third Hour Classes Monday, Wednesday, Friday
TUES. A.M. Second Hour Classes Monday, Wednesday, Friday
Jan. 26 PM... Second Hour Classes Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday
WED. A.M. Second Hour Classes Tuesday, Thursday, SaturdayThursday, Jan. 27 PM

Dr. Abernethy questioned the effectual basis of the Southern defense to segregation. “The lack of Southern defense,” stated Mr. Waring,
“is quite deplorable. I agree with you on that.”

THURS. A.M. First Hour Classes Monday, Wednesday, Friday

Jan. 28

Aims At $4500 Total

Collecting for the YMCA Christmas Gift Fund began this week. Colonel Adams met with the fifty solicitors Wednesday night to
discuss the program and make plans. Contributions can be obtained at the table in the second-floor hall during the evening.
The solicitors hope that everyone will assist in any movement that may come up.

N. C. Philosophers

The North Carolina Philosophical Society will hold its Fall meeting in the Green Room of the College Union on Saturday,
Dec. 5, announced Dr. George L. Abernethy, Professor of Philosophy. Papers will be presented by Professor William Baylis at the
morning session which begins at 10:30, and the two other papers will be presented at the afternoon session beginning at
1:30. Philosophers from a number of North Carolina colleges and universities will be in attendance and the sessions will be
open to all interested persons.

White Discusses Changes In Scholarship Program

By JIM HAMILTON
Davidsonian Associate Editor

“Due to the addition of the newly created McConnell and Dana Scholarships, we have been able to completely revise our
scholarship program,” said Assistant Dean of Students H. Edmunds White in a DAVIDSONIAN staff interview Wednesday morning. The Revised Financial
Program at Davidson College, a pamphlet on available scholarships prepared by the college, lists forty-eight scholarships that can now be
awarded to incoming freshmen. Thirteen of these scholarships are for the full four years. Included in this number are ten
Joseph Moore McConnell scholarships valued up to fourteen hundred dollars per year. However, thirty-five available freshmen grants are only for
a one-year period. The students receiving these grants will now have the possibility of receiving Dana scholarships in their sophomore
year if they can meet the qualifications set up by Dana and the scholarship committee.

The pamphlet on financial aid states that the Dana Scholars will be selected on the basis of academic proficiency, character
and good citizenship, evidence of leadership potential, and effective participation in the activities of the college community. White simplified this
statement commenting that the scholarships will be given on the basis of “scholastic ability and leadership potential.”

The Dana Scholarship offers a “variable stipend” up to seven hundred dollars. “The term variable stipend indicates that the amount
given will vary in accordance with the need of the individual student,” said the Dean. Dana has given a minimum
of seventy-five scholarships of up to seven hundred dollars to the three upper classes for the balance of their college
career. This means that a sophomore awarded one of the scholarships would be allowed to keep it for the rest
of his time at Davidson provided he continued to meet the specified qualifications. “We probably will have more than seventy-five
students on Dana Scholarships at one time since not everyone will be granted the full seven hundred dollars,” said White.

“The responsibility for financing the freshman year still rests with the college, and the family and friends of the student.
If these students maintain their high standards, we now have the Dana program to aid them in continuing their education.”

“The present program will last for five years. At the end of three years, Dana will decide whether he wishes
to perpetuate the program. We feel that by his generous gift our whole scholarship program has been greatly strengthened.”

Delegation Attends Area IRC Meeting

A delegation of the Davidson International Relations Club will attend the South-East Division conference of the Association of International Relations
Clubs at the University of South Carolina. The conference, which will be held December 10-12, will be based on the
subject “Diplomacy in the Cold War.” The students who will attend the conference are Dan McAllister, Scott Puckett, Pete Sterling,
Clint Schaum, and Billy Stanton.

Next semester, the I.R.C. will tentatively base its programs on Communist China. There are also plans to attend the United
Nations model assembly to be held at the University of North Carolina in January.

This past Wednesday, Mr. Charles Jones of Johnson C. Smith spoke to the I.R.C. on the Vienna Youth Festival. Mr.
Jones led an American faction at the festival, which accused the other American delegates of being communist-sponsored. He then toured
Poland and, on Castro's invitation, visited Cuba.

P.M. Sixth Hour Classes Monday, Wednesday, Friday

Classes for the first semester end January 19—12:50 p.m.
Morning Examinations begin at 9:00 a.m.
Afternoon Examinations begin at 2:00 p.m.

(Continued On Page Four)

The collection conveys the diversity of Thailand which ranges from emerald Buddhas to outcast-filled leper colonies. Like all Asian peoples,
the Thai have scarcely been affected by the industrial revolution and are poor in relation to the West. A thermometer
chart will be placed by the Publicity Committee on the bulletin board in Chambers to show the progress in reaching
the $4,500 goal. Furthermore, leaflets will be distributed this week and next week to explain the Gift Fund Program's aims
more clearly.

Scripts 'N’ Pranks Scheduled Dec. 17

The Christmas edition of SCRIPTS 'N’ PRANKS will be a “jumbo issue, full of little surprises.” Editor Cornwell stated his
regret that little student interest has been shown in submitting manuscripts and for this reason, this December 17th edition will
be only sixteen pages long. The staff, he stated, is conserving its efforts for a mammoth spring edition.

This edition will feature the following student works: “Platteye,” by Alex Porter; a poem by Dabney Stuart; and Bill Armstrong
has produced something in keeping with the Christmas spirit. Also featured will be an extensive study by John Chiles of
the “dub-dub” of The Three Men In A Tub. This article, “The Tale of the Dub-Dub” should be extremely interesting,
especially to students of a Presbyterian institution. Cornwell also made a plea for more student manuscripts for the spring edition.
These must be turned in by March 14, 1960.

Effort, Chairman of the Committee, is being aided by Colonel Adams, Greg Grana, Bert Keller, Tom Patrick, Sam Pope, Pat
Douglas, and Lee Kirby, YMCA Publicity Chairman. As a part of the publicity for the Gift Fund, the YMCA has
displayed in the Student Union a collection of artifacts collected by Dr. and Mrs. Kneedler and Reverend and Mrs. Harris,
who were missionaries to Thailand. The exhibit ranges from common household objects such as a dipper and a betel nut
chew- er to the delicate Thailand Neillo silver inlay work. Also included are two rare examples of ancient Thai painting.
The collection has been exhibited in the Mint Museum in Charlotte.

“We have established a direct correspondence with Dr. Marshall Welles, director of the Bangkok Christian Hospital. We know approximately how
much money will be needed for the operating room equipment. About $3,000 will be needed to purchase an operating table
and lights for surgery. The major part of the fund will be used for these two items. Of course, this
will not completely equip the surgery room so any amount over the $3,000 will be used to purchase instruments,” stated
Charles Cornwell. The gift fund committee and the solicitors will co-operate with the surgical program. We want to end the
drive by the eighteenth if at all possible so the money can be sent to Bangkok and put to immediate
use. Accurate records will be kept of all the receipts. Contributions to the Fund are sent to the hospital. None
of the money collected will be used for administrative purposes, printing costs, or other expenses.”
