Che Bauvidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

PAGE TWO FRIDAY, MARCH 6, 1959

(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

Should Davidson Admit Negroes?

It is inevitable that the students, faculty, and trustees of Davidson must face the question, “Will Negro students be admitted to the College?” The final decision of this matter may have to come this year, or it might be delayed for ten years, but it will certainly have to come. During our four years on campus such a possibility has been discussed only in a low voice, and then behind locked doors. As is the case throughout the South today, concerning the race question, both students and faculty have seemed afraid to face the question openly and express opinions. We think the time has come to end such ostrich-headed attitudes. Why not consider the possibility? Why not honestly try to find out what effects there might be if a qualified Negro student enrolled at the College?

As we consider the problem, our first emotional reaction is to recoil from the thought, but when we search for a reasonable excuse for not admitting Negroes, we find ourselves at a loss. The College would not collapse. Instruction would certainly go on. If the student were fully qualified, academic standards would not suffer. Actually, no one at Davidson would know the difference. The most serious problems would come to the Negro student himself. His social life would be cramped, finances strained, perhaps, to meet the high cost of a Davidson education. It is, frankly, rather difficult to understand just why a Negro would want to come here. However, if he did, and if he were qualified, we cannot see any legitimate reason for not admitting him as a student with all privileges and opportunities for acquiring an education.

Such action would meet with the full approval of the General Assembly of the Presbyterian Church, the ultimate policy-setting organization of the College. Our attitude on the subject of Negroes at Davidson may be the highest type of heresy, and we would be the first to admit that our natural inclination is to disagree, even with ourselves. Yet, any defenses erected to keep qualified Negro students out of Davidson must be based on such flimsy arguments that they seem to be rationally untenable. At any rate, now is the time to begin to think about the issues involved. It would be better to know something about the matter when the time comes to face a decision than to have to act blindly, using subjective emotional beliefs as our only materials for action.

The DAVIDSONIAN does not wish to suggest that we have presented all the aspects of this matter, or that we have the final answers. No one could when such intricate issues are involved. Therefore, the pages of this paper will be open to anyone wishing to express an opinion on this issue, regardless of what that opinion may be.

Kuykendall’s Record: A Challenge To The New Administration

The students have made their choice, and Dee Green has been elected President of the Student Body for 1959-60. He faces the most challenging and demanding year in the recent history of the Student Council, and the effect of his leadership next year will help determine the place of the Council in student life for some time to come. Furthermore, his actions as head of student government will inevitably be held up for comparison with those of this year’s president. John Kuykendall’s record as Student Body President will not be an easy one to match.

He has been the main force behind constitutional changes that will remain on the books for a long time to come, and as a result of his efforts, an entirely new branch of student government is about to come into being. Not only has Kuykendall steered the Honor Court, the elections amendment, and the abolition of firearms through the devious channels of student approval — he has also set an example for future presidents by his quiet, unostentatious, but purposive and determined way of handling the business of the Student Council.

Kuykendall’s successor will have a high standard to measure up to, and he will also have to face wholly new and unfamiliar demands rising out of the nature of the situation in which next year’s Council will find itself. In the past, the Student Council’s judicial function has to a large extent defined its general purposes and the attitudes of its members. This judicial function now will reside in another organization, and the Student Council is in imminent danger of becoming a figurehead on campus, a refuge for “good guys” who can get elected to office but whose positive contribution to student life is nil. Whether this happens or not will be the responsibility of President Dee Green, his fellow officers, Jim Bootle, Verner Stanley, and D. G. Martin, and their colleagues on the Student Council. — C.H.C.

Other Side Of The Coin

So much has been said about the great god Conformity, who received a few more punches during the recent Winter Services, that another of the ‘Barriers’ on which the speakers for the Service spoke has been built on the foundations of Conformity. We hear so much about conformity that we are very willing, yea, even desirous, to go along with the crowd. “Everybody’s doing it,” so, if we can attain the standard of the masses, we are ‘in.’ So we suggest that critics shift their blows from conformity to complacency. As Dr. Russell chose to put it, we might say “Don’t Park Here.” Press beyond your present attainments; press on beyond the crowd. Dare to be different. This sounds like the other side of the coin that says “Don’t Conform,” but at least it will have a different ring. — G.W.R.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
Charles Chastain

ASSISTANT EDITOR
Bob Lathan, George Hamsey

BUSINESS MANAGER
Ed Armfield

Associate Editors
Dick Smith
Jim Hamilton
Pete Kellogg
Bruce Brooks

Managing Editors
Laurens Walker
Bill Patton
Henry Samuels

Sports Editor
Tom Colvin

Feature Editor
Spiro Macris

News Editor
George Rhyne

Assignments Editor
Dave Gillis

Copy Editor
Greg Grana

Cartoonists
Bross, Cole

Photography Editor
Bob Wynne

Advertising Manager
Dave Gillis

Circulation Manager
Greg Grana

Ass't. Business Manager
Bob Wynne

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879

EUROPEAN FREE TRADE MAY BE ANSWER

Foreign Student Comments On Scandinavian Economics

By WILLI BARENTHIN

An economic cooperation between the Scandinavian countries seems to be quite natural for geographical reasons alone, but also considering the common historical background and the strong cultural relations. In recent years serious efforts have been made to realize this project. In 1952 the Nordic Council was established, sponsored by the governments in the countries concerned: Denmark, Norway, Finland, and Sweden. According to the Council’s Report from October 21, 1957, the Scandinavian common market should embrace 80 per cent of the Nordic trade, thus excluding agricultural commodities and those produced by the fishing industry and by the textile and shoe manufacturers.

The Nordic market, according to the Report, should be a tariff union with a common customs tariff to protect the area from other countries. A close collaboration is desired in the production of iron, steel, automobiles, electric power, machinery, and construction materials and also in the fields of research and education.

EUROPEAN PLAN

At the same time, however, similar forces began to work on the European continent. Institutions like the European Council, the OEEC, and the Coal and Steel Union, soon to become the Euratom, attempted to unify Europe — or parts of it — economically and politically. Countries with trade interests on the Western European continent watched this development with anxiety, Great Britain in particular and quite naturally the Scandinavian countries. Great Britain in 1956 proposed the establishment of a general European free-trade area, keeping the different...

IT EVEN SMILES

German Writer Describes And Criticizes The Campus “Beast”

By Ernst-Helge Schoenfelder

Have you seen it? Can you recognize it? The ever-present phenomenon that surrounds you, dominates you, links you with your fellow beings and gives you external security. To you it is the perfume that sweetens the daily life just as you sweeten the pickles to escape their sourness. To others it is like the stench of a skunk that sticks to you, an odor of which only a few of you have been capable of ridding yourselves.

Changing its colors according to the demand of the situation, thus forming a perfect mimicry, it still remains the same beast, lounging in the warm moisture of complacency. You will encounter it wherever you go. You may be made to accept it with a shrugging of...Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Your shoulders, LETTER TO EDITOR Unsatisfied or it may arouse your opposition, piling up tension after tension within you. And yet, the beast is so friendly, it even smiles, and greets you with a “Hi” and “How are you?” It is personified in two little straps held together by a piece of metal; you may call it the embodiment of the beast. You may find it in the rhythm descended from African tribal concerts and in the schmaltz music that fills the dormitory or fraternity house like stinking sulphuric fumes, stifling the occasional visitor and inevitably stimulating abrupt muscular reactions and jerking limbs of those who live in these melodious sulphur clouds. I have often asked myself how you can stand the odour of this beast of gregariousness except that you love it. Freshman, I have come to believe that this, in fact, is true. You support and feed it whenever you can, and it blooms under your care. You sacrifice your thoughts, ideas, feelings, words to it without realizing that, at the same time, you are giving up the qualities that make you an individual. You always dedicate your words and thoughts to the same subjects, to the sweet-sour reactions of candy and lemon that girls can arouse in you, to the mass consumption of dry pap before exam days, the jelly-like vanity produced by grades, and the intoxicating incense of success. These are only a few of the fares with which you keep your beast alive so that it may continue to guide you through the little beloved beast—Conformity.

Call For Girls And ‘New God’

Dear Editor:

Your article on the “satisfied freshmen” in last week's DAVIDSONIAN is a complete farce. I am probably the most unsatisfied freshman east of the Catawba River. With your permission, I would like to voice a few suggestions which might satisfy me.

WANTS GIRLS

I was overjoyed to hear about the construction of a new dormitory. However, I was sorry to hear about the occupants—males. Davidson has been unoriginal before, but this beats all. Every dorm on campus at present is crammed with males. It's about time we did ourselves a favor and put Davidson in the headlines of national and international papers at the same time. Let’s put girls in that new dorm. Just think of the tremendous boost in morale; the student council wouldn’t have to worry about student body spirit anymore. This would also eliminate all the extra trouble of getting girls here for dance weekends. In fact, we could have dance weekends every weekend. Our academic accomplishments might plunge to unprecedented depths, but grooming and manners on campus would reach a new height. Also, if girls attended classes, there would be no desire for unlimited cuts at all.

APPOINT A GOD

Finally, I wish somebody would appoint a new God for Davidson. Thus far, acts of our God have prevented the Four Freshmen, Vincent Price, and the Kingston Trio from fulfilling their obligations to our culture-starved campus community. With all student council elections over, a campaign for the office of God would keep the vote-hungry big wheels busy with another election. I will expect immediate results.

Robert “Unsatisfied” Jackson

Countries’ national tariffs toward outside nations. This plan was supported by Denmark, Norway, Finland, and Sweden. So far, however, no final reconciliation has been made possible.

SWEDEN'S ROLE

Sweden has been actively engaged in the work of the OEEC, since 70 percent of its exports go to Western Europe. The productivity of this action is of vital importance to Sweden, as a third of these exports would go to the Euratom area and would be met by high tariffs. The free-trade area would include about 300 million people in 17 countries with a high total industrial capacity. Will the Nordic union become part of it by abolishing the remaining 20 percent of restrictions? It is hard to tell. It certainly would not be very popular among Swedish farmers, who are dependent upon high tariffs. It might, though, prove advantageous to the Scandinavian countries to join the free-trade area, since the Nordic union—which would not be deserted—would increase the competitive power of the four nations involved in it by being a separate force within the great unity.

Occasionally, even the Davidson gentleman longs to leave his lair, our own dear pinnacle of collegiate perfection, and thus it happened that Godfrey Cringe, Boris Treadway, and I sallied forth to the Queen City the other night to view the cinema. “The Old Man and the Sea” was our choice. I had my apprehensions as to Hollywood's ability to refrain from re-writing Hemingway, half-way expecting to see Jayne Mansfield inserted into the story as a Cuban mermaid, but I was agreeably surprised. Except for a few technical hitches in the scene where the Old Man battles the marlin, the film was a masterpiece, capturing enough of Hemingway’s artistry to make it so. Just as entertaining were the reactions of a few fellow citizens who sat near us in the theatre. I am thinking specifically of a small, rather moist and vocal child who had journeyed in from Suburbia with his parents. For the greater portion of the performance, he was content to sit quietly imitating B-29’s, but he grew tired of this and decided to widen his repertoire to include skylarks and Russian wolf-hounds. His mother held him in check with annotative comments such as: “Look, Georgie, the man is going to catch a fish” or “see the man’s hands bleeding, Georgie!” Near the picture’s end, when the Old Man was going home at night through the streets of the village, he stumbled and fell in front of a church; at this disturbance, a rather degenerate looking alley-cat was shown fleeing from a garbage can. With the insight of a true scientist, Georgie shrieked, “Kitty!” “That’s right,” his mother said proudly and she elbowed her husband in the kidney to notify him of his son’s keen mind. Apparently overcome by his own brilliance, Georgie was content to spend the rest of the time gnawing on the arm-rest of his seat. Despite these minor disturbances, everyone seemed to have enjoyed the movie, except one woman whom I overheard complaining about the lack of dancing and pretty costumes. We stopped for milk and pretzels before coming back to school, and I decided that the Spectator should recommend the movie to other Davidson gentlemen. I thought about how good the book was, clean and hard, and wondered if the Army would hit the moon with a rocket and what it would prove if they did.

THE PHILOSOPHES

Modern Preacher Calls For Funds

By DABNEY STUART

It was the Sunday before Every-Member-Canvass Week and the preacher was kicking it off. Up there in the pulpit, sweeping the air with his black sleeve, he talked about stewardship, and the need to tithe. “Where your treasure is is exactly where your heart is going to be. Put the bulk of your money in the country club and the bulk of your interest, energy, and time will be spent there, too. “Invest the major portion of your income in the stock market and you'll read the stock report sheet in the morning paper instead of the Bible. “Wherever you put the fruit of your labor, there you will find the root of your concern.” He filled the pauses between his phrases and examples with piercing looks and surging motions. The very wind of spirit seemed to swell the sails of his urgency. His manner was in sharp contrast with that of the chairman of the drive, who had delivered the layman’s plea just before the preacher had mounted the bridge. “I ask you to consider the place of your church in your life. If it isn’t at the center, then one way of helping to place it there is to be certain of your tithe. “I do not ask you to tithe for the sake of your church, but for the sake of yourself. The church needs your tithe to exist, of course, but that is the by-product of the tremendous good you can do for yourself. “Put yourself in the center of the church, and the church in the center of your life, by putting your treasure in the church.” The sermon was liberally sprinkled with illustrations of men who had given large portions of their incomes to the church of God, and had felt the corresponding resurgence of life. Some had even gone to the extreme of giving every penny. “Fill yourself with giving,” the preacher said, and closed with a prayer. As the congregation rose to sing God's praise, the sun slanting through the stained-glass windows glinted on one of the diamond earrings the preacher’s wife was wearing.

---