The Davidsonian

THE NEWS AND EDITORIAL VOICE OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE — PAGE TWO FRIDAY, MARCH 20, 1959

(All Unsigned Editorials by the Editor)

Davidsonian 1958-59: Our Policy

Now that the 1958-59 DAVIDSONIAN is officially a thing of the past, we who have edited it can look back over the last eleven months and evaluate the policy of editorial opinion that we have tried to express in these pages. Both in our proposals for concrete, immediate action on specific matters, and in the general principles we have set forth concerning issues of long-range importance, we have tried to frame our editorial policy according to an over-all conception of what is best for Davidson, now and in the future.

DEFINITE STAND

In so doing, we have not tried to fit into the existing mold of student, faculty, administration, or trustee opinion, but have called the shots as we saw them. This is not the way to elicit universal agreement, but we have felt that a vigorous policy that took a definite stand and did not hesitate to criticize was preferable to one which straddled the fence, attempted to please everybody, and ultimately said nothing.

In student government activities, we first advocated making the firearms rule a part of the Student Body Constitution and enforcing it by suspension from college; this was subsequently voted into the constitution. We supported John Kuykendall’s Honor Court plan, which is now a permanent part of student government. We have also called for the end of the Court of Control.

In fraternity and IFC matters, we have called for a system of preferential bidding, a re-evaluation and revision of Rush Week, and a Greek Week to replace Hell Week, and we have supported and encouraged the present IFC in its efforts in these areas. However, only the Rush Week modifications can be said to have worked successfully, and a preferential bidding system and a really Hell-less Greek Week should be the first order of business for the new IFC.

STRENGTHEN, NOT DESTROY

We have attempted to point out weak leadership where it existed, not to destroy organizations but to strengthen them. We hope that next year’s YMCA President and Cabinet will work vigorously to restore the “Y” to its former position of respect and usefulness. Such ideas as the book-and-author program, which failed to get off the ground this year, would be a step in the right direction.

In athletic policy, we have opposed any attempts to increase the proportion of the scholarship fund used for football and basketball scholarships, and have proposed, as an ultimate ideal for Davidson, a league of schools operating on a completely non-subsidized basis.

Moving out of the sphere of student life, we have advocated a consistent, progressive policy to strengthen Davidson’s educational position in the future. Specifically, we have urged that “not a single student above the present number should be added until the size of the faculty has been increased and at least one new dormitory built,” that the present religious requirements for faculty members should be relaxed, that the “unwritten rules” restricting a professor’s freedom to experiment and make innovations in his teaching methods should be done away with, and that some system of unlimited cuts for students should be adopted.

QUALITY EDUCATION

Much of our concern about the quality of Davidson's education has centered on the question of the curriculum. We have stated before, and still believe, that much dead wood could be cut out of the required freshman and sophomore courses, and that the junior and senior years could be strengthened by such devices as comprehensive major tests, a senior thesis requirement, and more honors work.

Finally, we have called for serious study of the question of admission of Negro students to Davidson. “Any defenses erected to keep qualified Negro students out of Davidson must be... rationally untenable,” we said. This is a problem that will continue to cause confusion and uncertainty until brought out into the open and decided according to the standards of religion and morality which the college officially professes.

WHAT SHOULD BE

In all of this, we have been motivated not by a desire merely to criticize what is, but to recommend what should be. We think that Davidson is a college with great promise for the future, greater than many here imagine; but that her present achievement is sadly below what some think it is. The means for improvement exist, however: an able and forward-looking president, a basically good faculty, adequate financial resources, and a generally capable student body. All that is lacking is a certain awareness of what Davidson could really accomplish as a leader among American liberal arts colleges.

The ultimate purpose of this year’s editorial policy has been to stimulate more thoughts leading toward decision and action among those who are finally responsible for the future of Davidson.

—W.L.W. & C.H.C.

A Word of Sincere Appreciation

It is with difficulty that we realize the DAVIDSONIAN appears for the last time with the current masthead. The new Editor will be selected next week, and he and his new staff will publish their first issue following Spring Holidays. Space will not permit the naming of every man who has contributed to the DAVIDSONIAN of 1958-59, but the Editor wishes to express to each of them his deepest appreciation for time, talent, and effort unselfishly given.

At the risk of sounding unduly sentimental, we must say that the most valuable experiences gained from three years with this paper are the friendships made in association with members of the staff. No campus organization offers more opportunities for thoroughly getting to know individuals and appreciating their abilities than work on this, or any college paper.

A word of thanks goes also to the administration, the Publications Board, and our faculty advisor who have all co-operated in giving us both the resources and the rein to allow the creation of the type of paper we felt present needs called for.

Finally, we can state without qualification that next year’s paper will be in good hands, and should equal and probably excel the quality of our product. All three of the candidates for Editor have proved themselves to be extremely dependable, talented, and fully able to edit this paper in a superior fashion. With this note we shall become, as we began, an avid reader of the DAVIDSONIAN.

EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
ASSISTANT EDITOR
BUSINESS MANAGER
Associate Editors
Charles Chastain
Bob Lathan, George Ramsey
Managing Editors
Ed Armfield
Dick Smith
Jim Hamilton
Pete Kellogg
Bruce Brooks
Sports Editor
Feature Editor
News Editor
Laurens Walker
Bill Patton
Henry Samuels
Assignments Editor
Tom Colvin
Copy Editor
Spiro Macris
Cartoonists
Bross, Cole
Photography Editor
George Rhyne
Advertising Manager
Dave Gillis
Circulation Manager
Greg Grana
Ass’t. Business Manager
Bob Wynne

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office at Davidson, North Carolina, under Act of March 3, 1879

It’s Tough Wood, Boy...

IFC Replies To Newspaper’s Statements On Greek Week

Dear Editor:

It is evident from some opinions and statements that appeared in last week's DAVIDSONIAN that there is a vast gap between the interpretation by the Interfraternity Council and by certain students of what a first attempt at a Greek Week should be in order to be termed a success. Admittedly, the resolution made last year which this year’s IFC supported was very vague in nature and left a lot of loopholes of interpretation which could be turned into abuse of the ideal of Greek Week. More concrete rules need to be made and shall be made for next year. However, the IFC does not wish, and has never wished, to outlaw anything simply for the sake of practicing legislation.

As the representative body of the fraternity system, the IFC has attempted to do two things in Greek Week: 1. To establish the tradition of the use of community projects to help build pledge class spirit and, as a by-product, create favorable relations with the rest of the school and community, and 2. To remove those traditions which are not justifiable on the basis of the good of the practice per se or the spirit they create, which practices may be substituted by more suitable, acceptable, and effective means.

Among the list of unacceptable practices are such things as all-night vigils, road trips, the eating of very unpalatable substances, egg throwing, and sack wearing. It is true that some of the unacceptable traditions made their appearance in Greek Week. But to say that the presence of a vestige of Hell Week is logical grounds for the conclusion that the first attempt at Greek Week was an utter failure is either to forget the matter of degree or to define utter failure as the failure to attain one’s ultimate goal in a single attempt. What upperclassman,having gone through Hell Week in the past, cannot admit that many, and perhaps virtually all, of the most odious pre-initiation practices were absent in Greek Week? Besides, the positive side has not been considered. Many projects were successfully carried out, both from the standpoint of real accomplishment and from the standpoint of building pledge class spirit. This fact should not be forgotten. In evaluating Greek Week, a few other factors should be kept in mind also. First, in many cases spontaneous actions by pledge classes and other individuals led to situations which evoked criticism. It would be very difficult to curtail such spontaneity completely, especially when it originates with the pledges themselves. As for the long infirmary list, it will probably always be with us, enlarged by a few “freeloaders,” of course, but others really sick or injured. One should be careful about blaming it all on hazing, however. Is not the trampoline still in use? Finally, it might be good to realize that neither Rome nor Davidson were built in a day. Change will take time, if for no other reason than that fraternity men must learn how to handle and lead a Greek Week. The experience of one year will be valuable to the next. Was Greek Week such a failure after all, then? The IFC, as the representative of fraternity opinion, says “no.” This is not by any means to say that the goal of the Greek Week idea has been reached. It is to say that a step has been taken in the right direction, be it ever so faltering, as its critics may portray it.

The Interfraternity Council

Senior Defends Greek Week As “Real Step In Right Direction”

Dear Editor:

I read your editorial of last week with great interest. I cannot say that I agree with you.

NEW GENERATION

Certainly, you saw traces of Hell Week in the Greek Week just ended. Did you really expect an entirely different generation of offspring when three-fourths of the original parents are still around to raise this new generation? Is the IFC to act as a police force for over 900 people? I think not! The individual fraternity member must govern himself, for, to use an analogy, “a chain is only as strong as its weakest link.”

HELPFUL PROJECTS

While you were looking around during Greek Week did you overlook the smiles of joy and gratitude of those helped through various fraternity projects throughout the community? Did you see boys going without sleep for almost three days? Did you see boys keeping fires burning all night, boys wearing the exact same clothes and croaker sack for a week? Did you see one or even two pledges coming in from road trips Sunday? My own advice would be for you to keep in mind a statement that Theodore Roosevelt made fifty some odd years ago. He said, “It is not the critic who counts, not the man who points out how the strong man stumbled or where the doer of deeds could have done them better. The credit belongs to the man who is actually in the arena; whose face is marred by dust and sweat and blood; who strives valiantly; who errs and comes short again and again; who knows the great enthusiasms, the great devotions and spends himself in a worthy cause; who, at best, knows the triumph of high achievement; and who, at the worst, if he fails, at least fails while daring greatly, so that his place shall never be with those cold and timid souls who know neither victory nor defeat.” I think all of us here at Davidson can use this advice. If we fail, whether it be in sports, campus activities, or in the classroom, we will have the consolation of knowing that we failed “while daring greatly.”

DeVane Lide

by Cole

THE SPECTATOR

"This Is Goodbye, Chief": Kernan

By TOM KERNAN

I trudged up the steps to the second floor of the Union and fought my way through crowds of copy-boys, ad-men, stool pigeons, and ambulance chasers, all engrossed in the task of getting out this week’s DAVIDSONIAN. I made it to the editor's office, sneaked past the armed spearmen at the door, and located the sheet’s genial editor, “Larns” Walker, engaged in thrashing a young reporter with a copy of Webster's Unabridged.

“Hello Chief,” I said.

He released the reporter, told him to stand in the corner, and offered me a seat on the edge of his desk.

“What have you got for me this week, Boy Hack?” he asked.

“Nothing, Chief,” I replied, “absolutely nothing. Out of ideas. This is our last stand, though; the elections will cleanse this journalistic temple and you and I will be free-lancers again.”

He smiled nostalgically and leaned back in his chair. Patton came through the office, passing out cigars. (This is done every time a new DAVIDSONIAN is born.) “Larns” and I lit up our stogies, but Chastain started unravelling his with philosophical detachment until only a pile of shreds was left.

“Nothing there,” he said, smiling bitterly, “I suspected it all along.” He sighed, took out a pencil and pad, and started jotting down notes about the condition of the cigar.

“Fine analytical mind, that Charley,” Larns whispered to me. “Been a great help to me this year.”

“Yes,” I said, “it’s been a great year, Chief. You've been the dynamic leader of a fine staff, and —” I paused. Tears were rolling down his cheeks. I choked up with emotion.

“Damn cigar,” he gasped. “Patton, these *!”* cigars make my eyes water. Go get some nickel ones; hang the expense.”

“Who's the kid you’re punishing?” I asked.

“That’s Clark Salem,” said Larns. “He keeps running into closets and stripping down to his red underwear and a cape. Can’t break him of it.”

“Never make a journalist,” I said gloomily. “Well, this is goodbye, Chief.”

We shook hands and I left. I spent the rest of the night at the local nautical restaurant in the company of such notables as: Godfrey Cringe, Boris Treadway, Harry Ferlips, Clyde Whiffle and Cinderella Gummidge, Winston Small, Euphemia Bullard and many more who enjoyed performing for you this year in “The Spectator.”

THE PHILOSOPHES

“Only Deadline Is Getting Dead”

By DABNEY STUART

Robert Frost said some of his poems in Chapel Hill last Friday. On Sunday I received the following letter:

“His last poem was ‘Reluctance’ and the last words were the ones: ‘. . . bow and accept the end of a love or a season.’ He said that he likes to study trees and the way branches go off into the sky in so many directions, and then he read about the tree at my window, window tree.

“He said that he likes to go out at night after twelve o’clock to get the house and the books out of his head and then he read about the dog Sirius who came into the house as he was opening the door to go out to look at the constellations — and about the meaning there that he was supposed to seek, and finding wasn't supposed to speak.

“When he was young, he said, he admired old people very much, especially old ladies.

“He read the one about being and not being alone and when he finished he went back and read the words ‘. . . from sheer morning gladness at the brim . . .’ because this is why poems are written. This is even one definition of a poem, he said.

“He read ‘Stopping by Woods’ and said that it wasn't about death, but about reluctance, like the one by that name — he said, ‘You've got to watch out these days about symbols — you know, everybody's . . .’ and then trailed off.

“And he read ‘The Death of the Hired Man,’ stumbling often, hesitating after he had repeated a long section by memory and lost his place. ‘I’m not seeing too well,’ then he put on his glasses.

“He talked about education a lot and said that the particular thing about his theory of education was (he'd just thought of this tonight, he said) that there was no call for thoughts of a deadline, in his system anyway.

“The way he teaches a class is to just start talking about something and have his students sit on a piece of paper, and when they thought of an idea ‘as is an idea’ to take out the paper and write it down.

“He doesn't believe in forcing anything, he said — about five of those pieces of paper during the year would be enough. And he never uses a red pencil. If he ‘responds’ to what has been written he turns the paper over and writes on the back of it. ‘That defines my idea about the education thing.’

“He said there was no deadline in his life except ‘getting dead.’”