PAGE FOUR

Davidson’s Cites Church Plans
By BOB BRADFORD
Davidsonian Feature Writer

There is a Negro Presbyterian Church in Davidson with very interesting and commendable aspirations. This church, a member of the United Presbyterian Church, U.S.A., is launching a drive to build a $12,000 educational building. Founded in the 1890s, this Presbyterian Church, located behind the Southern depot, now has a membership of 130 and has as pastor the Rev. Frank M. Beaver. Construction plans call for a two-story concrete building consisting of an assembly room and kitchen on the first floor with a library and six classrooms on the second floor. The proposed building is to be employed as a Sunday School in the winter and a vacation Bible School in the summer. At present, the Sunday School of the church includes 65 members divided into six classes which meet in one main room. Better facilities are a must if the educational aspect of the church is to function properly.

For the past three summers, there have been approximately 200 students from the three Negro churches in Davidson attending the Bible School. At present, these churches—Presbyterian, Methodist, and Baptist—do not have any building in which to hold the Bible School. Previously, the elementary school at Mock Hill was used for this purpose, but last summer the county school board passed a ruling which prohibits the churches’ use of the elementary school for a vacation Bible School. Furthermore, the community center is too small to accommodate such a large group. Consequently, last year the churches were unable to sponsor such a Bible School.

Dr. Staples, Davidson College chaplain, is working on the possibility of having the Bible School in the elementary school again this year, since next year the churches will probably be able to manage the program themselves, but no positive results have been announced. Last year, the Negro Presbyterian Church invested $1000 in purchasing three lots located on Depot Street across from the Carolina Asbestos Company. This land is to be used for the educational building. This year, the church has as a project that of making a down payment on the building. Membership pledges to date total $2000, all payable by December 1959. The church officials feel that $4000 will enable them to begin construction. The Presbyterian Church, U.S.A. will possibly finance the remainder of the building if the individual church can show sufficient interest unaided.

James W. Howard, operator of the science stock room of Davidson College, provided the above information about the project of the church in which he is an elder and assistant superintendent of the Sunday School. He commented that the educational building will be a definite asset not only to the specific members of the church but to all members of the Davidson community. James Howard states with unparalleled conviction, “I believe that this time next year we will have an educational building.” James has been associated with Davidson College for ten years, operating the science stock room, receiving telephone calls and messages, and giving professors a helping hand when needed. He is known as “James” to students and professors alike. James has a wife Cassandra and two daughters Brenda and nine and four years old respectively. He owns a home on Catawba Road just outside the city limits.

Bi-annual Bleeding Scheduled Monday

On April 27, Monday, the Red Cross Bloodmobile will begin operations at 11:00 a.m. and close its doors promptly at 4:30 p.m. Those students donating will receive a free Physical Education cut on Monday and Tuesday, April 27 and 28, and a free ROTC drill cut on May 12. “We did not have a very good showing last fall,” remarked Capt. Mitchell, “but we’re hoping for a better turnout this spring. Our goal is four hundred pints and we fell short with approximately two seventy-five last fall.”

The blood donated will be used by the American Red Cross for blood transfusions in all hospitals of this area participating in the Red Cross program. Each donor is given a credit card which entitles him and his immediate family to receive blood through any participating hospital for a period of six months. The Gallon Club has been set up to make an individual's card valid for one year if he has given a gallon of blood over any length of time. For those who have given as much as two gallons, the card becomes permanent for the duration of this program. The IFC will award the Blood Donor trophy to the Fraternity with the largest percentage of donors in relation to its membership. Those out for varsity sports at this time, even though they cannot give blood during training, are encouraged to sign the list and count on the Fraternity credit. Donors must be eighteen years of age, and those under twenty-one and not married, must have parents' consent. Releases are available in the ROTC department.

Scripts ‘N’ Pranks Stresses Humor

The final issue of Scripts ‘n Pranks by this year's staff was given out in chapel today. “It's our greatest effort,” said Editor Bob Cole as he commented on his final issue. “The whole staff really gave all it had to make this the best issue ever.” Cole went on to explain that the fourth issue, usually entirely composed of literary works, had been dropped this year. “Not many students read it, so we decided to use the money usually used to put out the literary issue into the one published this week,” Cole continued. “We believe that most of the students want a magazine with a lot of humor in it. They also want a local touch to it. That's what we've tried to give them,” Cole concluded.

Scene at rise of curtain: The gymnasium, filled with music, dancing couples, blank smiles, and smoke. Bill and Catherine are seated at a small table, DOWNSTAGE RIGHT. She sits erect, smoking. Only her face is turned towards Bill, who sits with his arms stretched across the table. He stares at the empty cigarette box, which he flips constantly.)

Catherine: Don't you just adore the Duke? I think he’s the greatest!
Bill: (Looking up, smiling) He’s great all right, but you should have heard the Kingston Trio. Now, there's a cool bunch of guys! Smooth, man!
Catherine: Oh, YES, I saw them when they were at Fancy Dress. Remember the one that played the banjo—the middle-sized one? (Bill nods, he remembers) I think he’s the cutest thing that I have ever seen. (Bill smiles) He and Rock Hudson could have me anytime! (Bill laughs).
Bill: Did you see Hudson in “Torrid.” (Shaking head in amazement) Boy, he was sharp! Remember that scene where he and Kim were on the mesa alone? (Catherine smiles, she remembers) WOW!
Catherine: (Her face bright with awakened interest) Did you see “The Sound and the Fury”? (Bill nods) What did you think of it?
Bill: (Hesitantly) Well, I liked it, but it was hard to understand. I think Faulkner was trying to say something in that deaf-mute uncle, but I couldn't catch it. (Grinning) I guess I should have studied English more than I did. (Obviously he doesn't believe this)
Catherine: What are you studying, Bill?
Bill: Pre-med, I guess. I like chemistry a lot. And besides, you've got to do something worthwhile if life is to have any meaning. I think being a doctor is one of the best ways to, you know, serve your fellowman.
Catherine: (Gazing intently at Bill now, her face fairly glowing with interest) I think that's terrific, Bill. It’s really great. So many people just sort of don't want to be like that. (The soft strains of “Tenderly” float through the haze.)
Bill: (Rising) Let’s dance. (He escorts her to a relatively uncrowded portion of the dance floor. They dance, silently. Bill's eyes are closed. His expression is that of a man ascending to Heaven through clouds of Chanel No. 5. Suddenly Catherine pushes away from him and dashes across the room toward the exits.)
Catherine: Oh! I can't stand it! I think I'm going to die! (Another girl, her face swallowed in a gaping grin, runs toward Catherine. They meet and fondly embrace. Bill waits a moment, irritated, then walks over to where the two stand.)
Catherine: Jayne, I want you to meet my date, Bill Gunch. Bill, this is Jayne Compson. (Bill nods acknowledgment; Jayne gapes)
Catherine: Sweetlins, Bill. (To Jayne) Bill’s a Zeta Deke.

Examination Schedule — Second Semester
Friday, May 22
A.M. ROTC—12, 22, 32, 42
P.M. Sixth hour classes; Monday, Wednesday, Friday
A.M. Fourth hour classes: Tuesday, Thursday, SaturdaySaturday, May 23
Monday, May 25
Tuesday, May 26
Wednesday, May 27
Thursday, May 28
Friday, May 29

Classes for the second semester close on May 21, 12:50 P.M.
Morning examinations begin 9:00 A.M.
Afternoon examinations begin 2:00 P.M.

A.M. Third hour classes: Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday
P.M. Third hour classes: Monday, Wednesday, Friday
Second hour classes: Monday, Wednesday, Friday
Second hour classes: Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday
First hour classes: Monday, Wednesday, Friday
First hour classes: Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday
Fourth hour classes: Monday, Wednesday, Friday
Fifth hour classes: Monday, Wednesday, Friday

During the past week, Sigma Nu fraternity elected officers for the coming year. Greg Grana was selected to be Commander, with Frank Mansell as Lt. Commander. Hansford Epes will serve as Recorder, and Pete Bethea will be Treasurer. W. H. Carr was chosen to be I.F.C. Representative.

Jayne: Oh! Then you must know Bobby Broadwell. He’s a Zeta Deke up here.
Bill: Yeh, real well. He and I date together sometimes. Where did you meet Bobby?
Jayne: Oh, he's from my hometown — Petersburg. (pause. Jayne's eyes dart nervously between Bill and Catherine, who only stare expectantly.) Well, I'd better find my date before he leaves me. (She has a shallow laugh) Catherine, you be sure to come down to my room in the morning. O.K.? (Catherine nods assurance) (Turning to leave) Don’t y'all do anything I wouldn't. (She winks at Bill.)
(The music has stopped. Bill guides Catherine back to their table.)
Bill: What was her name?

Interfraternity Council Sponsors
ATO
BETA
Linden Spann with Elizabeth Cronquist
Jane Rosten with Evelyn Vincent
Richard Brubsker with Suzie Cabaniss
Sidney Farabow with Marshall Dunaway

UAR's A. Hassan: ‘We Want To Be Left Alone’
Mr. A. M. Hassan, a distinguished U.N. delegate, spoke in chapel yesterday on the United Arab Republic and the United Nations. Mr. Hassan is currently the director of the Press Bureau of the Permanent Mission of the Arab Republic to the U.N. Sponsored by the YMCA, Mr. Hassan spoke to interested students in the Union on Wednesday night and was available for questions concerning his work.

“We don’t know how to please you,” concluded Mr. Hassan. “Before the UAR is formed, you agree that Syria will become Communist unless she joins with Egypt. Now you decry and criticize the union.”

“The Iraq question is most pathetic and saddening,” he continued. “There is no doubt its being under Communist regime. They dropped a curtain last July 14 and we've known little since.”

Mr. Hassan spoke at some length about the relation of foreign aid to the young, building nations of the world. “The essential item determining and indicating the effectiveness of aid is the appreciation it receives. If the United States had given aid to the peoples of Asia and Africa from the end of World War II rather than spend it upon an ungrateful Franco, the present results of your aid might be more positive. Russia has extended help with the particular objective of penetration: they have achieved greater success because of a better-defined policy, but have failed where they expected a committing response.”

The Israeli question was recurrent throughout the discussion. “Israel lives on money from your nation, receiving aid equal to the help given to 10 Arab nations with a population of 50 million. It cannot be a growing concern since it is not self-sufficient. It is only a supposition, and has failed to show the elements of boundary, homogeneity, government, and productivity necessary to constitute a state.”

When asked if he felt the Arabs might ever compromise, Hassan responded with a quick and emphatic “No. But we don’t need to drive the Jews out of Israel; they’ll drive themselves out. Without aid, Israel will bury itself.”

Throughout the discussion ran the spirit of nationalism of the Arab world, and Hassan impressed it once again upon the often stubborn and resistant American and Davidson minds at the evening’s close. “We just want to be left alone. People want to be in their home, to live with their history, their heritage, their whole being.”

KAPPA SIG
PHI GAM
DELT
Judy Adams with Sam Sloan
Angus McBryde with Tom Ridenhour

PIKA
Pl KAPP
SAE
Sane Nabors with Flo Denny
Laura Connerat with Agnes Atchison
Devane Lide with Don Coffey

SIGMA CHI
SIGMA NU
SPE
Gloria Hester with Vernon Anderson
Alba Broach with Burwell Shore
Virginia Bopp with Roger Dewhurst

Festival To Feature ‘Dido And Aeneas’
The Davidson Male Chorus and the Queens College Choir will combine groups this Monday and Tuesday night to present a concert version of Henry Purcell’s Baroque opera, “Dido and Aeneas.” The music program is part of the twelfth annual Davidson Fine Arts Festival. The two choirs will sing in Belk Chapel at Queens on Monday night. They will repeat the performance at 8:15 Tuesday night in Chambers Auditorium. Both performances are open to students and the general public free of charge.

Janice Hudson, a soprano from Queens, and Bill Workman of the Male Chorus will sing the roles of Dido and Aeneas. Jane Frazer Rolandi is cast as Belinda, another prominent character. The choral groups are under the direction of John Holliday and Donald Plott.

Foolies Take Form Of Minstrel Tonight
The Dapper “D” Minstrels, this year's production of the D Club's traditional Foolies Show, will be held this evening in Chambers auditorium at 7:30. “The Melodious Monarchs of Minstrelsy is the biggest and best Foolies Show ever put on by the D Club,” says Ray Atkinson, one of the directors. “The production is not simply a variety show, but an authentic reproduction of the traditional minstrels of the late nineteenth century. The D Club guarantees an hour and a half of good entertainment, laughs, and merriment.” Mr. Interlocutor, Dave Warden, and the five end men will provide most of the humor, jokes, and noise. The Minstrel will include also dancing and singing by Queens girls.

The entire cast, consisting of the traditional Minstrel number of fifty persons, will be in black-face. The producers are Sandy Grey and “Westy” Westervelt. Ray Atkinson and Tom Kernan did the research on minstrels. The music director is Larry McNeill. The actual script was written by Tom Kernan and Jack Lohman. Tickets have been sold during the week by D Club members, and are being sold at the door for seventy-five cents.

Brigade First Colonel
Sam Clarke leads his staff (Cadet Colonels Brown, Emmrich, Watker, Persinger, Renfro) and the Cadet Brigade in a salute to the ranking inspecting officer, Colonel Carl E. Hill, and his inspecting side, Major W. D. Underwood, at the annual Federal Inspection last Tuesday. Colonel Hill is PMS&T of the University of Georgia, and Major Underwood is from the XII Army Corps. Also in the reviewing stand as a special guest of the college was Major General Frank S. Bowen, Jr., commander of the XII Army Corps. Inspection of the Brigade in ranks and a parade on Richardson Field climaxed the day, which also included critique and evaluation of the ROTC classes.

The Male Chorus returned from its “Silver Anniversary” Spring Tour last Saturday. In addition to rehearsals for the concert, this past week they have sung at the inauguration luncheon and ceremony and for a program in Charlotte.

CHARCOAL STEAK HOUSE
1800 W. MOOREHEAD ST.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Open Nitely 5-12 P.M.
FOR RESERVATIONS CALL ED 2-2414 After 2 P.M.

More buxom blondes with shipwrecked sailors insist on Camels than any other cigarette today. It stands to reason: the best tobacco makes the best smoke. The Camel blend of costly tobaccos has never been equaled for rich flavor and easygoing mildness. No wonder Camel is the No.-1 cigarette of all! Leave the fads and fancy stuff to landlubbers... Have a real cigarette—have a CAMEL.
R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., Winston-Salem, N.C.