‘Cats Meet Tough Lehigh Tomorrow (See Page Three)

VOL. XLVI

The News and Editorial Voice of Davidson College

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C. FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1959

Dana Creates Scholarship For 75 Grants Totaling $262,500

Two Year Experiment

Students Pick Hospital For Christmas Gift Fund

Student voting this morning selected the Bangkok Christian Hospital for the Christmas Gift Fund Project. The YMCA will begin receiving
student and faculty donations the first of next week. Joe Eifort, chairman of the 1959 Gift Fund, urged student support
of the drive: “Solicitation will begin on the 16th or 17th (of November). All soliciting will be done by students;
both students and faculty will be approached. We hope to receive all contributions by Wednesday the 25th, before Thanksgiving.”

As in past years, the student body selected the recipient of the annual Christmas Gift. Two proposals were presented to
the student body in chapel programs. These were: aid to Hong Kong students and a contribution to a Thailand hospital.
Mr. Leon Marion of the World University Service spoke Thursday about the need for support of student refugees in Hong
Kong. There are at least 1,000 student refugees in the city, who are but a part of the one million
political refugees in Hong Kong. The students need assistance in order to continue their schooling. Their needs include food, clothing,
housing, medical facilities, and books. These are but a few of the many needs of these refugee students.

Col. Adams presented the second project Friday. He spoke on the need for support of the Bangkok Christian Hospital. Opened
in Thailand after the close of World War II, it is presently headed by Dr. Marshall P. Wells, a Presbyterian
Medical Missionary. Even with limited facilities the hospital treated 58,400 patients in the first seven years of operation. With tensions
along the border of China, the flow of Christians into free Thailand is very heavy. Thus the treatment of refugees
is a great problem.

Commenting on his association with the hospital, Lt. Col. Adams related many stories from his period of active duty in
Thailand. Among them is a narrative about a servant boy named Thep, who worked for him. Through the ceaseless efforts
of the hospital staff, Thep had a maimed foot restored to usefulness. He was both cured physically and restored socially,
for such an infirmity casts a shadow of prejudice against any native living under a religious system of reincarnation.

“The problems in Thailand are great both for Christianity and for the medical profession. The missionaries work hard hours with
limited facilities.” At present two Davidson families have been in the Thailand mission fields: Dr. and Mrs. William Harris and
Dr. and Mrs. Harding Kneedler. The Harris family has had some member in the Thailand mission for over 100 years.
“My abiding interest in this hospital makes much more than a passing interest for me,” stated Col. Adams.

Mr. Leon Marion, who spoke for the first project, is from the Regional office of the World University Service. The
organization is international with headquarters in Geneva, Switzerland. It administers to student needs throughout much of the world. In this
country it is supported by various Church related movements: YMCA, Universal Christian Youth Movement, etc.

Eifort commented on the goal set for this year's fund. “Last year we raised only $2200, as compared with $3900
in 1957. We hope to far surpass last year’s total by setting a goal of $4500.”

Dr. Martin Serenaded On Birthday

At the crack of dawn last Wednesday morning over 100 representatives of the Davidson R.O.T.C. cadet corps and about 30
shivering students gathered under Dr. Grier Martin’s bedroom window and honored the president with the strangest birthday party since the
days of Marshall Ney. The highlight of the early morning proceedings was the dedication of the Davidson College Honor Guard
as The Martin Honor Guard. The name “Martin” over the past 90 years has been prominent in the history of
Davidson College and its ROTC program.

At 6:30 a.m., a bleary-eyed band and Honor Guard formed at the ROTC department and snuck up to the president's
house. At a little before seven, the band burst forth with a salvo of “Happy Birthday” and a bleary-eyed Dr.
Martin ventured out onto his front porch to see what was going on. Col. Adams, representing the ROTC department, and
Dee Green, representing the student body, greeted Dr. Martin and explained just what all the music was about. Cadet Brigade
Commander Bob Croom then read the official proclamation which re-designated the Davidson College Honor Guard as The Martin Honor Guard.

The prominent Martins recognized in the proclamation were Col. William J. Martin, who served the college from 1869 to 1888
as Professor of Chemistry, vice-president and acting president; his son, Dr. William Joseph Martin, who became president of the college
in 1912 and was president during the foundation of the Davidson College ROTC program in 1919. Also recognized, his son,
W. J. Martin, Jr., M.D., who has actively supported the college; his grandson, Second Lieutenant William J. Martin, II, who
was a Distinguished Military Graduate of the Davidson Cadet Corps, Class of 1957, who died on active duty; and finally,
Dr. D. Grier Martin, thirteenth president of the college and an active supporter of the Cadet Corps.

Following the reading of the proclamation, Croom presented the Honor Guard, under the command of Cadet Capt. John Wilsey, to
Dr. Martin for inspection. Wilsey then presented a gigantic birthday cake topped off with the emblem of the Honor Guard
to the President, who is 49. Dr. Martin, clad in a bathrobe and pajamas and clutching a morning newspaper, seemed
genuinely surprised by the whole thing. “I'm sorry you all had to get up so early, but I really appreciate
it,” he smiled. The dedicatory ceremonies were covered by Charlotte newspapers and television reporters.

Suggested plan for the John R. Cunningham Fine Arts Building

Fine Arts Building Near Final Drafting Stage

“During the next month we will attempt to draw together the planning details for the Cunningham Fine Arts Building,” stated
Mr. R. A. Currie, College Business Manager, as he released the above sketch.

Mr. Robert Porterfield, associated with the Barter Theater in Abingdon, Virginia, visited the campus Thursday and Friday. Noted as a
consultant on drama and drama facilities, he discussed plans for the 300-seat theater, which will be a major construction factor
in the new building. “All too often, lack of foresight permanently ruins a theater or auditorium. There are many technical
problems involved, and budget skimping creates even more,” Porterfield said during a discussion with several faculty members and two representatives
of Red and Black Masquers.

PLAN PRECAUTIONS

He recommended certain general precautions in planning a stage. “A stage should always be as flexible as possible. There must
be facilities for many and varied lighting effects, and good arrangements for each of the many events for which the
auditorium will be used.” In meetings held with Mr. J. B. Lashmitt, college architect, Mr. Porterfield and the administration were
able to present recommendations for plan changes in the interior. No major construction changes are foreseen at this time. The
college will attempt to fit the suggested changes into the exterior plans already envisioned. However, should drastic changes become necessary
in the future, the outside will be changed accordingly. The above sketch was prepared before this week’s conferences with Porterfield
and Lashmitt.

MULTI-PURPOSE BUILDING

So stated Mr. R. A. Currie, College Business Manager, “sometime within the next month.” Currie also declared that the plans
are on schedule at this moment. Razing of Shearer Hall will begin within the next ninety days, and the building
should be completed by September 1961.

Louis Orr Displays Historical Etchings

Etchings by Louis Orr, portraying historical sites in North Carolina, will be displayed in the foyer of Chambers Building from
November 13 through November 21. The public is invited to see this exhibit.

Stated Currie: “It is both an advantage and a disadvantage that the building is to serve so many purposes. Members
of many departments have made important recommendations, but there is bound to be disagreement on details.” He stressed, however, that
no final arrangements have yet been made. By visiting several new buildings similar to the type Davidson will construct, Currie
and others hope to gain further information in the next few weeks. Said Currie, “After all this, we expect to
be able to arrive at more definite plans sometime next semester.”

During World War I, Louis Orr was commissioned by the French government to do several etchings of Rheims Cathedral. Orr
was born in Hartford, Connecticut, and studied at the Art Students League in New York. He later went to Paris,
where he met Jean-Paul Laurens with whom he worked for many years. Orr resides today in Paris.

Showalter, who was in charge of campus publicity for THE STATUS SEEKERS, remarked, “We are interested in finding another book
which will stimulate a lot of interest and encourage the excellent student participation which the Book of the Semester program
had this fall. The YMCA is working with the faculty to make plans for the spring program and we will
announce the committee members sometime next week.”

“Many books are under consideration,” he added, “and the committee is open to suggestions. We are trying to find some
book that will...”which presents issues that can be thought about and discussed. We are also looking for a book that
is fairly well-known in its field, and which contains thought but is readable.” Tommy Colvin, this semester’s program, and Showalter
will spend the Thanksgiving holidays in New York meeting with publishers to investigate having an author at Davidson in the
spring. “We hope to announce the book choice shortly after Thanksgiving,” Colvin stated. “The books under consideration right now include
CATCHER IN THE RYE by J. D. Salinger, GENERATION OF VIPERS by Phillip Wylie, THE SANE SOCIETY by Erich Fromm,
OUR SOUTHERN HERITAGE by J. M. Dabbs, THE HOLY BARBARIANS by Lawrence Lipton, and others.”

Showalter Will Undertake 1960 Book Of Semester

Russell Showalter has been appointed chairman of the YMCA’s Book of the Semester program for next semester. Other schools are
considering similar programs. Over four hundred copies of THE STATUS SEEKERS were sold this fall at Davidson, and $2400 was
spent by the YMCA. “The committee is now searching for the funds to finance the second semester program,” Colvin said.
“The scope of the program next spring will depend in part on the funds we have available.”

Louis Orr, an officer of the Legion of Honor, is the only living artist to have etchings in the collection
of the Louvre. Examples of Orr’s work are also in the Metropolitan Museum, the Smithsonian Institution, and the Library of
Congress Print Collection. In addition to the series on display at Davidson, he has made etchings of Yale University, Dartmouth
College, and Duke University. He was commissioned to do the official etchings of the United Nations Headquarters in New York
City. Davidson College is represented by an etching of historic Eumenean Hall, although originally there was also one of Philanthropic
Hall.

Born in 1879, Louis Orr studied at the Art Society of Hartford and on his first trip to Paris in
1906 he...

Study Reveals Library Weakness (See Page Two)

NUMBER NINE

Fund Program Starts In September

President D. Grier Martin announced this afternoon in an exclusive DAVIDSONIAN release that Charles A. Dana has established and financed
a special scholarship program for the college. The program provides that more than twenty-five students, about one-tenth of each rising
sophomore class, will be awarded three-year scholarships worth up to $2,100 to finance tuition costs during their last three years
in residence at Davidson. The plan is designed to encourage able students to finance their first or freshman year themselves
or by means of help from family and friends together with special one-year scholarship grants administered by the college on
the basis of their potential achievements and financial need as college students. Then, at the end of their first year,
twenty-five or more men will be selected as “Dana Scholars” for the balance of their three-year course in the liberal
arts at Davidson. By means of five annual grants totaling $262,500, Dana will finance the program for a period of
five years on a trial basis. According to the announcement from President Martin and Mr. Dana, a decision regarding the
continuation of the program on a permanent basis will be made by January 1, 1963. The program will actually help
educate seventy-five or more students each year during the five-year trial period beginning in September, 1960. As the donor of
the program, Dana believes that the freshman year is an ideal period for a student to demonstrate that he has
the abilities and personality traits necessary to achieve a well-rounded success both in college and in his later business or
professional career.

Heralded as an important and unique step forward in higher education, the Dana Scholarship awards at Davidson will be administered
on the basis of demonstrated success at the college level. They will serve to motivate students to high achievements in
all areas of campus life — academic proficiency, character and good citizenship, evidence of leadership potential, and effective participation in
the activities of the college community. According to the description of the program released by Mr. Dana and President Martin,
the awards are available to encourage...

(Continued On Page Four)

Campus Wheels Want Voluntary Attendance

During the past week, the DAVIDSONIAN polled various campus leaders in an effort to determine their feelings toward the class
cut policy as it is found at Davidson. The following are short statements concerning their views.

TOM RIDENHOUR

“A system of unlimited cuts for Davidson? Why, you must be joking. That would make the students more mature in
their class attendance and place responsibility upon them. The professors would not have a ‘captured’ group, and some of them
would have to discard outdated notes and ideas. That in itself would almost be blasphemy.

“However, the system would bring a small change in the intellectual life of the campus. I believe it would make
some of us a little more sensitive to our opportunity for self-education and intellectual development. It would certainly wipe away
part of the ‘mother’ complex of the present system and many ‘dead heads’ could and would be weeded out.”

DAVE ROBINSON

“A more liberal cut policy would, I feel, be a positive contribution to the Davidson program if accompanied by other
reforms. Higher quality lectures and more intensive and independent student work could well result from an unlimited cut program approached
in several steps from our present system.

“However, I feel that the DAVIDSONIAN's campaign is too narrow in scope; a more liberal system with regard to class
attendance should be accompanied by a curriculum more responsive to student needs. Thus, I think that the DAVIDSONIAN should campaign
equally intensively for such things as more seminar opportunities, additions to one-man departments, interdepartmental work, a Christian ethics course to
replace one of the present offerings of the Bible Department, increased attention to the problems of modern culture, and comprehensive
examinations at the end of the senior year.”

DEE GREEN

“I am certainly in favor of a more liberalized cut system at Davidson. We talk a great deal about the
‘responsibility’ that is given to the Davidson student and here is an opportunity to see exactly how much faith can
be placed in the maturity of the kind of men now at Davidson.

“I believe that this would be a real step in improving and vitalizing the quality of instruction and also the
learning process on the part of the student. I think that the very fact that many other top-flight schools having
much the same type of...

(Continued On Page Four)

Vincent Price Here, Quiets Quiz Query

Vincent Price, well-known dramatist and art connoisseur, spoke tonight in Chamber Auditorium. His topic was “Three American Voices: Walt Whitman,
James McNeill Whistler, and Tennessee Williams.” Coming to Davidson from Raleigh, where he spoke at N. C. State last night,
Mr. Price arrived this afternoon after a press conference in Charlotte. He spoke informally with students at a coffee hour
after the 8:15 program.

Mr. Price appeared on the “$64,000 Challenge” last year, during which time he was able to overcome all contenders with
his knowledge of art and painting. He has thus far refused to make any comment about the possibility of his
being coached or aided in any way while a contestant on the show. The DAVIDSONIAN attempted to ask Mr. Price
about this matter in a telephone interview last night. Called while in Raleigh, Price said he was in “a great
rush” and unable to answer any questions.

New Debating Team Attracts Twenty-Two

Twenty-two students turned out for the organizational meeting of the Davidson debating team, Monday, November 9, in Chambers Building. This
was the largest such group in the past seven years, according to Debate Coach R. W. Tyson. The group will
meet on Monday, November 16, at 6:30 p.m. to select the name for what is to be a fresh, new
organization on campus. Officers will be selected at a later time.

The group is composed chiefly of freshmen and sophomores, with one junior and one senior participating. There will be no
intercollegiate competition this semester, but next semester the group hopes to attend several tournaments and to participate in dual meets.
There are prospects of dual debates with Wake Forest, Duke, Carolina, Lenoir Rhyne, and Catawba. In addition, the group is
considering attending tournaments at Agnes Scott and the University of Florida. Training will begin with a series of short speeches
on various subjects, particularly the national debate question: “Resolved, that Congress should be given the power to reverse decisions of
the Supreme Court.” The time of the speeches will be gradually lengthened to the full ten minutes of regulation debate.
Later in the semester, practice debates will be held.

“I think that this appears to be the beginning of a renewal of a healthy and significant interest in forensics
at Davidson,” Coach Tyson observed. “I am highly optimistic. Of course, we may lose some boys, but if we can
hold ten or twelve, boy we have a big thing here!”
