PAGE FOUR | THE DAVIDSONIAN

MS Ill’s Observe After Vespers Open Houses Fort Bragg, Citadel

MS III ROTC cadets were visiting Fort Bragg and the Citadel today as part of the annual spring program for McGavock McLane Maloney Martin Abernethy Col. Adams Bernard Clark ODK Members (Continued From Page One) secretary-treasurer and second vice-president of the student body. He is an honors student in English.

FRIDAY, MAY 1, 1959

Projects

The Y Cabinet met Tuesday night and continued that class. Approximately sixty students toured the army post while ten others are guests of the military Davidson Pietenpol Puckett Sailstad Woods Warden will serve as president of the senior class and captain of the football team for Fredericksen Goldiere Hopkins its plans and preparations for the forthcoming year. One of the main topics of discussion was membership policy. The present policy of conducting both the interest and financial drives at the same time, along with two Waiting at the ramp for the next load of mail are three employees of the local Post Office, Carson Knox (left), Gilbert Cashion (center), and Clyde Griffin. There are four more employees, including Postmaster Mayhew who serve the Davidson community. college today and tomorrow. The Fort Bragg trip is an annual excursion designed to give the cadets a picture of life on an army post for a regular army unit. Guests of the Special Warfare Center, the group saw displays and demonstrations of the activities of that center, including the special forces, radio broadcasting and leaflet groups. Captain Lumsden accompanied the cadets. Each year the Citadel invites outstanding MS III cadets to observe the military system at Workman Jackson Sigma Upsilon Abolishes Black-Ball Bidding System Sigma Upsilon literary fraternity has broken with tradition by abolishing the black-ball system of issuing invitations. The following resolution was presented to the group at its meeting place (or at some other place to be agreed upon) no next year. A pre-med student, he has been active in YMCA and D Club. Col. Adams is the PMS&T of Davidson ROTC Department. He is an active participant in community, campus, and church affairs. 60 IFC Considers New Football Social At a meeting of the IFC on One plan calls for only an interest drive with the financial support to come entirely from the Vespers offering. Special emphasis was placed on a third plan which would call for an interest drive which would be followed in about two weeks by a financial drive. Further plans were also made for the retreat on May 8, at Erwin Lodge. All interested students are invited to attend this meeting, which will be primarily held so that the old and new Cabinet officers and project chairmen can get together. The Author Program, which would present three or four contemporary books to the students each year, was also discussed. Under this plan, after each book is read, either the author or some authority in the field would be brought to the campus to lead discussion on the book. On the local scene the Y hopes to increase its work in the Negro churches and to do more for the sanatorium at Huntersville and the Berium Springs Orphanage. It also hopes to help with high school orientation. On the international level, plans are being made for cooperation with the World University Service. This is an interfaith organization which endeavors to promote closer ties among the world intellectual circle. Next year, possibly replacing the present Religious Emphasis Week, the Y hopes to have two sets of services. One will possibly be a comparative study of delegation. Cadet Colonel Sam Clarke and Cadet Captains Roy Gilbert and Sam McGuirt are the seniors on the trip. The ten juniors are Cadet Sgts. Bobby Avinger, Charlie Benson, Marvin Bentley, Gus Burgdorf, William Davis, George Hart, John Huie, Al MacKay, Ward McKeithen, and Larry McNeil. Local Post Office Is A Busy Place By CHARLES ROSE Davidsonian Feature Editor Long before the town and college of Davidson begins to stir each morning, a group of men are busily at work keeping the wheels of this community rolling. These men are employees of the Federal Government, and their work day begins at about five-thirty almost every morning of the year. Rarely seen, unless you have to buy some stamps or pick up a package, but nevertheless on the job, these seven men run the Davidson, North Carolina Post Office. are run through the cancellation machine. This canceled Name Post Office and deposits an average of twenty-five hundred pieces of mail each morning. Address Taken from the truck in sealed canvas bags, the mail is dumped onto sorting tables inside the building and the job of working it into the various sections is begun. Papers and packages are removed from the regular mail and put up separately. Letters and small packages are sorted into one of thirteen sections, each section representing a particular block of personal boxes. After being placed in these sections, the mail is carried to a ledge just behind its respective section of boxes, and the final task of placing the mail in the right slot of 1310 similar slots, is begun. Whether you make your morning trip to the P.O. before or after breakfast, the mail is up. Before and after breakfast and supper and during the chapel break, seem to with brown string and marked for regional destinations. Into the canvas bags and soon off on the mail truck, letters and packages from this community reach their destination in the fastest manner available. The trucks which carry mail to and from Davidson are not property of the Government, but are owned by private parties who work on a contract basis with the Post Office Department. These trucks make up a nationwide fleet of mail carriers that is known as the Star Route. The business of the Post Office may be the last thing you think about when you go by to pick up your mail. It is one —I Enclose Two Dollars —Bill Me Later The Davidsonian Box 218 Davidson, N. C. Professor Thies (Continued From Page one) Five Hall Of May Under his control are the Student registration for next steam plant and the entire year’s classes will be conducted Registration Set For three students each donated a pint of blood. Considering the fact that Monday was not the most satisfactory time to have the campaign, both Captain Mitchell, of the ROTC department, and the Red Cross representatives regarded the turnout as a success. Ward McKeithen, the IFC president announced Wednesday the results of the inter-fraternity competition. In first place were the Sigma Nu’s, retaining their first place plaque won from last fall's blood campaign. Seventy-five percent of their fraternity turned out to donate forty-three pints. In second place was Beta Theta Pi. electrical system of the college. Whenever new buildings are constructed on campus, much of the detail electrical work is in the hands of Mr. Thies. After an interview with Pro- work," he stated. "They ed between May 1 and May 15, Seventy percent of the Betas Mr. F. W. Hengeveld announced gave forty pints of blood. Alpha today. Omega was third with thirty-two pints donated.by “We have been waiting on 1+ percent of their mem- the booklet “Courses of In- struction” before we begin lent. McKeithen also gave a word of explanation con- cerning the unsatisfactory date of the drive, which directly fol- lowed the dance weekend. He explained that the bloodmobile schedules its route a year in advance. It was, therefore, im- possible for the date to be changed.

Professor Thies one can readily see why he fits so well into the position of college engineer. This man whom his wife calls a “na- tural born engineer” combines his chemical and mechanical knowledge to combat any engi- neering problems which may arise on the campus.

These booklets will be avail- able in the Registrar’s Office for any students who wish to procure copies. They furnish a complete list of courses avail- able at Davidson next year. As soon as the booklets are available, students will be asked to register with their faculty counselor or the professor in their major department. Efforts will be made to complete the registration before exams be- gin.

The Red Cross has assured the College that blood would be made available to those in- dividuals in need whose names were suggested by a number of the student donors.

Lachicotte Zemp received the Vereen Bell Memorial Award for creative writing in Thursday's chapel. The announcement followed an address in verse by Dr. Gra- dy D. Eggers, chairman of the English Department, Duke Uni- versity. Dr. Eggers judged the entries and Mr. Zemp received $75 prize money. Tom Kernan received Honorable Mention.

Each year creative writing is submitted by the students wish- ing to compete for the award. The English department con- ducts the annual contest, set- ting the prize and selecting the judges. The prize money is drawn from a fund of $3944.12 established by friends of Vereen Bell, Class of 1932. Vereen Bell established a rep- utation as a writer on Southern life. He gained fame even be- fore his death in the Second Battle of the Philippine Sea (1944). He was the son of Georgia Chief Justice and Mrs. R. C. Bell of Thomasville, Georgia.

The College Chamber Orches- tra will present its concert of Baroque music on Friday eve- ning at 8:15 in Chambers Audi- torium, under the direction of Frank West. Robert Snyder of the Queens College Music faculty will be the guest soloist, playing the Concerto for Violin in B-flat by Pergolesi with the orchestra. In connection with the con- cert, a special art exhibit as- sembled by Professor Douglas Houchens will be shown in the Chambers lobby and the Col- lege Union Ballroom. Prints and creative work by Davidson students and members of the Community will be displayed.

All Charlotte Calls Direct Line In July

The Southern Bell Telephone Company has announced that it will incorporate the exchange of the town of Davidson into the Charlotte Exchange on the night of July 11. At the present time the col- lege has two direct lines to Charlotte: one in the Union, with regularly scheduled times for student use, and one in the Business Office which may be used for business calls. All tele- phones in the town will be- come in effect direct lines when the planned change is made. There will be an increase in all phone service rates in the College Fraternity Court, and in town. How much long-dis- tance rates will be affected is not known. There will be no change in the “TWin Oaks” ex- change name. In addition, Southern Bell Telephone Co. is conducting a survey for the college on its need for a switchboard. If the efficiency of service can be in- creased, and the cost reduced, a switchboard may be installed before the changeover to the Charlotte exchange.

Dean Bevan Plans WESPEFS Address

Dr. John M. Bevan, Associate professor of Psychology, will be the speaker for the Vesper ser- vice Sunday evening, May 3. After seven years on the Da- vidson faculty, Dr. Bevan will leave in June to assume his new duties as Dean of the new Flori- da Presbyterian College at St. Petersburg, Florida. Dr. Bevan received theological training before he en- tered the field of psychology. He attended the Evangelical and Reformed Theological Seminary, and graduated from Duke University Theological Seminary in 1945. He then did graduate work in Arts and Sciences at Duke University and received the M.A. degree in 1948, and in 1952 completed work for his Ph.D. degree. During 18-months service in the Naval program at Duke University, he was chaplain of the Duke cadet corps. In his years of teaching, he has filled numerous pulpits as well as other speaking engagements. He is a member of Phi Beta Kappa, Pi Gamma Mu, Sigma Psi, and Alpha Kappa Pi hon- orary fraternity. He is a mem- ber of the American Psycho- logical Association and of the American Association for the advancement of Science, and is president of the North Carolina Psychological Association.

Dr. Chalmers Davidson will be the guest speaker at the joint meeting of the Philan- thropic and Eumanean Literary Societies on May 4 at 8:30 p.m. in the Ballroom of the College Union. Dr. Davidson will trace the histories of the two societies from their early days when they were the center of almost all extra-curricular activities on the campus. These historic in- stitutions are modified descen- dants of their past organiza- tions, since the campus social fraternities have gradually tak- en over many of their activi- ties. The minutes of the societies, from their founding in 1838 to the present, have been pre- served. Dr. Davidson has been able to trace the history in de- tail by studying these valuable records and about fifty old let- ters which contain references to the two groups. The societies will also elect their officers for the next semester at this meeting.

At eight o’clock the business department of the Post Office opens and customers rush in to buy stamps or pick up pack- ages. Each year the Davidson Post Office takes in about forty thousand dollars for the sale of stamps, box rent and money order fees. At nine o'clock the first ship- ment of mail leaves the Post Office. Mail also leaves at one, five and seven o'clock. All out- going mail goes first to Char- lotte except the one o’clock mail which travels to Greens- boro. When a letter is placed in the out of town box, it re- mains there until the next outgoing batch is prepared. All of the stamps are turned the same way and the letters are stacked neatly.