PAGE FOUR

Davidson Admissions Find Qualified Students

By BOB BRADFORD
Davidsonian Feature Writer

The problem of determining whom to accept into Davidson College has become a major concern to all in administrative capacities of the college. This problem was virtually unknown ten or more years ago when the college eagerly sought more applications. I hesitate to use the word “sought,” as there is always a search for applicants who are very well qualified. However, even as late as 1953 only 64 applications for admission were rejected. In 1958 Davidson rejected 307 applications for admission, and all trends seem to indicate an even greater number of applications in the future.

This problem is by no means limited to Davidson. Every good school throughout the country has experienced the same upturn in the number of applications. Davidson has developed a very detailed system for evaluating each prospective student. This system witnesses alterations every year and is relatively accurate in estimating a boy’s ability to do Davidson work. The admissions committee, composed of Mr. Hengeveld, Dean Bailey, Mr. White, and Professors Labban, Reid, Ostwald, and Workman, base their selection of incoming freshmen on both tangible and intangible qualifications.

The tangible qualifications involve a student’s high school record, the recommendations he receives from his principal and teachers, and the results of his college boards. Last summer Mr. White and Dr. Ostwald devised an intricate system for evaluating what a boy would do scholastically at Davidson based on his high school record and college board scores. This predicted average is by no means infallible as shown by the first semester grades of the present freshman class, but there is a striking correlation between the predicted averages and the actual averages. The two are particularly accurate in predicting the averages at the middle of the grade scale. This raw score is by no means interpreted literally, as the score of two equally qualified boys will vary from high school to high school.

All recommendations are kept strictly confidential, and the teachers and principals are very reliable in giving an accurate account of a student's qualifications. The admissions office keeps records on the reliability of various schools concerning recommendations. The rank of a student in his class is very indicative of what he will do at Davidson. Generally, more gravity is placed on the high school records and recommendations than the college boards, as the college boards can vary as much as fifty to one hundred points when taken more than once, and the college boards in no way indicate a student's initiative and desire to learn. They only indicate raw ability, which is by no means the only requirement for success both in college and the business world.

The intangible qualifications also weigh heavily in considering a boy. These include whether or not he is well-rounded, is emotionally stable, shows characteristics of leadership, and is qualified in other ways to carry a Davidson course of study. Also, extra consideration is given to sons of alumni and boys contemplating the ministry as their life work. All boys considered for admission under the athletic program of the college must conform to the same academic requirements as the other applicants. The admissions committee does attempt in the process of selection to consider these boys as early as possible.

In 1958 there were approximately 950 applications for admission to Davidson, and this will show an increase for 1959. Of the 950 applications, approximately 150 were incomplete, meaning 800 completed applications were considered. Of these, 300 were rejected, and 500 were accepted. Approximately one half of these five hundred withdrew their applications after having been accepted, and the other half entered the freshman class. Because of students applying to more than one institution, it is necessary among all of the first-rate colleges of the country to accept approximately twice as many students as there are places. This appears to be a very dangerous process, but it cannot be helped, and it is amazing how closely the number of actual withdrawals corresponds to the number of predicted withdrawals.

A certain number of applications which obviously involve students who should do Davidson work satisfactorily are accepted by Mr. Hengeveld around the middle of January. Others, which need further consideration by both Mr. Hengeveld and the admissions committee, are withheld, a final decision made known the latter part of March. As one can readily see, processing the applications for admission is no easy task and becomes more involved each year. 1958 was the first year any effort was made to mathematically calculate a cold correlation of college boards and high school record against the actual accomplishments of students here in the past, and, even though this system is by no means flawless, it is a definite aid in determining what a student will produce at Davidson.

Robinson Announces

THE DAVIDSONIAN Scripts ‘N Pranks Announces Contest

Cartoonists and illustrators interested in a position on next year’s staff of Scripts 'n Pranks are invited to submit samples of their work to Don Stowell, 20 Duke, no later than midnight Saturday, May 2. Any number of drawings and cartoons may be submitted, but they must be signed.

Entries should be turned in a manila envelope with the name of the artist enclosed in a sealed envelope. Entries will be judged by Professor Houchens, Addison Bross, Charles Cornwell, Al McKay, and Don Stowell. The winner or winners will be announced by May 9.

Gen. Bowen Leads ROTC Inspection

Col. Carl R. Hill, PMS&T at the University of Georgia, and Maj. W. D. Underwood, Headquarters, XII U.S. Army Corps (Reserve), Atlanta, Georgia, will inspect the Davidson Cadet Brigade next Monday during the annual Federal Inspection.

The Brigade review and the parade on Tuesday afternoon at three o’clock on Richardson Field will climax the two-day inspection of the local ROTC unit. Parents of cadets and guests of the college are welcome to attend the parade.

GEN. BOWEN A GUEST

Maj. Gen. Frank S. Bowen, Jr., Commanding General of the XII U.S. Army Corps (Reserve), will also be a guest of the ROTC department for the inspection. He will remain on campus for the inauguration of President D. Grier Martin Wednesday.

In addition to reviewing the Brigade in ranks, the inspecting officers will also observe cadets in the classrooms on both Monday and Tuesday. Monday’s schedule includes a tour of the local facilities, conference with Lt. Col. William L. Adams, PMS&T, meeting with President Martin and the two Deans, and introduction of the Brigade staff.

The College Union Book Store is offering a prize of ten dollars worth of books for the best poem written and read by the author at a special Cave Counterpoint meeting next week. Poems must be submitted to Tom Colvin, 151 Belk, as soon as possible, in order that suitable musical accompaniments may be arranged. The poetry will be judged by a committee composed of faculty and student members. The winner will be announced at the Wednesday night program.

Foolies Announces End-Man Changes

The “D” Club will present their annual Foolies production at 8:00 Friday night, April 24, in Chambers Auditorium. The performance will be a reproduction of an old-time stock minstrel show.

Tom Kernan and Jack Lohman are the authors of this year’s show. The script includes the jokes, music, and noise found in the traditional minstrel. Ray Atkinson, the director of the Foolies, disclosed Wednesday a number of last-minute changes in the cast. The five end-men, who will present much of the comedy, will be Paul Biggers, John Watwood, Frank Anderson, Dave McCullough, and Gordon Swain. Dave will be Mr. Interlocutor, the emcee. Admission to the performance is free.

Sandy Grey, the stage manager, announced a special tour for parents and other college visitors will be conducted on Tuesday morning at 10:30. Col. Hill and Maj. Underwood will be the guests of the college officials at a luncheon Tuesday.

The oldest unit of the collection is a Latin work printed by Jacobus Modernus Lugduni entitled Andrea Aciati, Emblematum libellus: this manuscript is dated 1544.

GREEK TRAGEDIES

Tragoediae selectae: Aeschy-Before the parade, they will make a brief call on President Martin following the review also. In past years, the Davidson unit has received very high ratings during federal inspection. This year, a rating of either satisfactory or unsatisfactory will be given.

Informal Weekend (Continued From Page One)

According to Interfraternity Councilman Richard Brubaker, the date of the dance weekend was set with special consideration for those who may have planned other special activities. The producers have not yet determined the price of admission. “The dances are usual,” he said, “and the effect of the spring weather will be just about at its peak. The moon should be just about full, too. That should help things.”

Sophocles, Euripides, a collection of Greek tragedies, is another of the unique set. It belonged to the great Latin scholar Basil L. Gildersleeve of Johns Hopkins University and later to Dean J. C. Bailey, who presented it to the library. The publication date of this book is 1567. An English translation of Plutarch’s The Lives of the Noble Grecians and Romans is also on display. This volume was printed in London in 1603. A very valuable 1668 edition of Paradise Lost is also included in the collection. The print of this copy is in all respects identical with that of the British Museum's copy of the first edition. The title page stands as the only difference between the two. A certain S. Simmons of London was the printer of Davidson's copy.

UNIQUE WORK

One of the unique works in the collection is The Theory of the Earth by Thomas Burnet. This contains the 17th-century conception of the earth and the general changes which have already taken place since the creation. This particular volume is the second edition dated 1697. Undoubtedly, the pieces of most value are those of the French Encyclopédie. The thirty constituent volumes of this work contain an unsurpassed collection of knowledge concerning science and art up to the middle of the 18th century. Davidson’s copy of the Encyclopédie was compiled in Paris by Braisson in 1751-1765. It is the original Diderot edition.

FRIDAY, APRIL 17, 1959

Roger Dewhurst, Watts Auman, and Wesley Weeks examine rare books display in the DAVIDSONIANA Room of the college library.

Stacks Yield Treasures In Bibliophile Collection

A unique and interesting collection of the rare books which belongs to the college is on display in the DAVIDSONIANA Room in the library. Dr. Chalmers Davidson placed the valuable pieces in the showcase as a point of interest for the many visitors who will attend the inauguration of Dr. Martin next Wednesday. These and the many other pieces of the collection will be on display through next week.

Davidson Releases Inauguration Plans

Editor Ed Armfield and retiring editor, Laurens Walker, represented the DAVIDSONIAN at a public relations dinner held in the Union Monday. The event gave radio, television, and newspaper men an opportunity to obtain the presidential inauguration plans. Mr. James J. Harris, Chairman of the Board of Visitors, was host. Mr. Bob Sailstad briefed the public relations men. He was followed by Mr. John Horton and John Trask, of the Alumni and Public Relations Department, and Dean Frontis Johnston, head of the faculty Inauguration Committee. Dr. Martin also made some remarks. Following a brief question and answer period, a motor tour of the campus was conducted.

YMCA Area Chairmen

David Robinson, newly-elected President of the Davidson College YMCA, released this week the membership of his cabinet and the plans for next year’s government and activities. These innovations were proposed by Robinson in his recent election speech and were developed by the Executive Committee. Area Chairmen for 1959-60 are Bill Hellier, Publications; Tom Ridenour, Community Work; Jim Richardson, Deputations; Jim Richards, Spiritual Life; Joe Bell, International Concern; and Ervin Duggan, Effective Citizenship. The Executive Committee is composed of Robinson, Wesley Weeks, Bob Moore, and Bob Denham.

Vespers Features Bishop And Sullins

Bishop Nolan B. Harmon of the Charlotte Area of the Methodist Church will be the guest minister at Vespers Sunday evening, April 19. Musical portions of the service will be presented by the Sullins College Choir, Bristol, Virginia, under the direction of Leon Fleming. A native of Mississippi, Bishop Harmon received his training at Millsaps College, the Candler School of Theology, and Princeton University. After a period of service in the pastorate, he was editor of the Abingdon Press for 16 years. He was elected a Bishop of the Methodist Church in 1956. Bishop Harmon has long been active in educational affairs, serving as a trustee of Emory University, Drew University, and the United Board for Christian Colleges in China. He is the author of a number of books and a frequent contributor to religious magazines and newspapers.

Westminster Talks "Ethics And War"

The Davidson College Westminster Fellowship elected officers and planned for a joint meeting with the Queens Fellowship at its recent meeting on April 8. Dave Mullen was elected President; Henry Shue, Vice-President and Program Chairman; and Bert Keller, Secretary-Treasurer. The group will discuss the topic “Christian Ethics and Atomic War” at its meeting with the Queens Westminster Fellowship on Saturday, April 18. The discussion will be held at Myers Park Presbyterian Church and the Davidson group will leave from behind the College Church at four o'clock. A panel of three Davidson and two Queens students will be moderated by Lt. Col. William L. Adams, PMS&T of Davidson College ROTC Department. A meal prepared by the Queens girls and a period of fellowship will precede the discussion.

The importance attached to the Cabinet previously will be replaced by the spiritual core of the Voluntary Chapels. The Cabinet’s duty will now be to meet monthly to co-ordinate YMCA activities and to make decisions on policy. The total work will be done on a more personal and voluntary basis than before. The Cabinet will be composed of the four executive officers, the Area Chairmen, representatives from denominational youth groups on the campus, the Freshman Advisor, the two student members of the YMCA Board of Directors, and Smitty Smith as a national officer.

The Membership Drive will be conducted by Wesley Weeks and a committee of five throughout the year in an effort to relate the interests of individuals to the total program. The emphasis of the campaign will be to place members in areas of work in which they are interested rather than only to solicit funds. YMCA programs planned for the coming year include a panel discussion by Davidson’s international students, a speaker from the United Nations on an issue of political importance, a clothing drive among the student body, and a retreat on the weekend of May 9 for both the old and new cabinets.

SPRING FROLICS!

“Freshen The Impression”

Let us clean your white dinner jackets, tux pants, tux shirts, and suits for the weekend.

At Jackson Cleaners

Across From the Gulf Station on Main St.

W. Morehead at Charlotte, N. C.

Wilkinson Blvd.

Lucky us... today is the modern ice age. Lots and lots of it in refrigerators ready to ice up the Coke. And what could be more delicious than frosty Coca-Cola... the real refreshment. With its cold crisp taste and lively lift it’s always Coke for The Pause That Refreshes!

BE REALLY REFRESHED ...HAVE A COKE!

Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company by THE COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD

UNIVERSITY SHOP

You'll like the style, the tailoring, the light weight.

After Six white Tux Jacket $29.95 and $35.00

After Six Tux Trousers $12.95

When you look your best, you do your best!