PAGE FOUR

HONOR GUARD

After Vespers

The houses of the following faculty members will be open to students Sunday night, November 8, after Vespers:

Alexis
Hufford
Minter
Bailey
Johnston
Plott
Brooks
Jackson
Purcell
Cummin
Lammers
Robinson
Crawford
Lester
Schenck
Drake
Lord
Smith
Horton
McGeachy

Features

Artist Series

Vincent Price, star of stage, screen, radio, and television, will appear on the Davidson College Artist Series at 8:15 p.m.,
Friday, Nov. 13, in Chambers Auditorium. He will present a program on “Three American Voices: Walt Whitman, James McNeill Whistler,
and Tennessee Williams.” Mr. Price has become famous for his roles in such films as “The House of Wax”, Cecil
B. DeMille's “Ten Commandments”, “Champagne for Caesar”, Maxwell Anderson’s “The Eve of St. Mark”, and “Laura”. In the theater, he
has given memorable performances in “Victoria Regina”, “The Shoemaker’s Holiday”, and “Angel Street”. On TV, he has appeared on Alcoa
Hour, G.E. Theater, and Playhouse 90.

ON A DARE

Oddly enough, Mr. Price, a graduate of Yale, was studying for a master's degree in art at London University when
he first seriously considered acting. On a dare, he auditioned for a part in the play “Chicago” and got it.
He then studied acting as intensely as he had studied art. Although acting now comes first, he avidly pursues art
as an avocation and is an authority on the subject. He holds an honorary doctor’s degree from the California College
of Arts and Crafts; he is a member of Yale’s art council; he holds the position of art juror for
the Saturday Review.

Tickets for guests of faculty members and students can be purchased at the Union desk for $1 each. Others can
obtain tickets for $2 at the Union desk or by writing: Artist Series, Davidson College, Davidson, N.C. Students are, of
course, admitted free. There are no reserved seats.

Students Vote

(Continued From Page One)

tem for the three upper classes. Forty-four favored unlimited cuts for members of these classes regardless of grades. The remaining
139 felt that cuts should be given dependent on grades, with the same three divisions again appearing.

Question number four caused much comment: “I would like to see an unlimited cut policy except for the days before
and after a holiday. The penalty for cutting these classes should be suspension of all cut privileges for a specified
length of time.” Sixty-four students indicated that they would favor the system described, while there were numerous comments stating a
contrary opinion.

DOUBLE CUTS

Precision Drill Practice Perfects ‘59 Honor Guard

It’s Friday afternoon and once again on the football field we hear the sound of marching feet and the unison
click of rifle bolts. This year Cadet Captain John Wilsey leads the Honor Guard of the Davidson College Cadet Brigade—a
full company strong—through the intricacies of precision marching. Cadet First Lieutenant Jerome Herring is the executive officer of the Honor
Guard, and the two platoons are led by Cadet Second Lieutenant Henry Otten and Cadet Second Lieutenant Ken Pless.

Honor Guard cadets train intensively at drill in order to bring pride to their unit and to the college when
they parade as the showpiece of the cadet brigade. They are identified by their white helmets, gloves, and leggings. The
Honor Guard is continuous from year to year in that its cadet officers and sergeants are chosen from among the
cadets who served in the honor guard in their freshman and sophomore years. Because of his experience for the past
two years, Captain Wilsey has chosen A. T. Quantz to be first sergeant of the Honor Guard. Bill Deane and
Charles Rowe will serve as platoon sergeants, and D. M. Orr and H. S. Redmond will be the platoon guides.
Some of the MS-I’s and MS-II’s have already proven themselves to be highly adept at drill and at leadership. For
this reason, Phil Patrick, T. L. Brown, and Nat Harris have been chosen squad leaders in the first platoon and
Pat Currie, D. M. Calhoun, and Tommy French have been chosen squad leaders in the second platoon.

The Honor Guard marches annually at Homecoming and at the parade in Kannapolis. So far this year, there are no
other scheduled appearances, but the Honor Guard will be ready for any opportunity.

Homecoming

(Continued From Page One)

fraternity court. They showed a great deal of effort and much originality, in spite of the rain.” In the judging,
PiKA placed first, followed by PiKapp and Sigma Chi. McKeithen commended Don Coffey, chairman of dance decorations, for his work.
The gym decorations successfully carried out a Halloween theme. Then he continued in a more critical vein: “Future Homecoming weekends
could be improved by having an artist series in keeping with the Homecoming spirit.” As examples, he mentioned Dave Brubeck
and Louis Armstrong. “Also, the Friday chapel could be fully developed by the IFC to provide entertainment for the students
and dates.”

When asked to enumerate the unique features of this weekend in the opinion of the IFC, President McKeithen cited the
Homecoming Queen competition, the Friday chapel program, school spirit, and an emphasis on originality. The Homecoming Queen was a special
innovation for this year’s Homecoming. In the contest, Furman Ivey representing SAE was selected as Davidson's first Homecoming Queen. Runners-up
were Linden Spann for KA and Virginia Bopp, SPE.

Concerning Mid-Winter’s prospects, McKeithen stated, “I promise that Mid-Winter’s will be THE dance. The IFC is now in the process
of making definite plans. We are anticipating a Mid-Winter's which will be unique among all dance weekends.” The appeal of
two attractions for a single weekend (as the special appearance of the Four Freshmen last year) was mentioned. “I think,”
McKeithen responded, “that the student body definitely desires attractions as much or more so than a big-name orchestra. The IFC
will try to fulfill this desire for one of the weekends.”

“One disappointment of this Fall has been that we (the IFC) have been unable to...

Numerous Guests Arrive Tomorrow

The first annual Charlotte-Mecklenburg Day will be held on the Davidson campus tomorrow. The purpose of the program is to
acquaint the residents of the two areas with Davidson. The college has issued invitations and information to the civic clubs,
alumni, parents, and church groups in the area. It will be host to the guests who will be registered in
the Union from 10:30 to 1:00. Mr. Robert Sailstad, Assistant to the President, reported, “We are expecting between five hundred
and a thousand guests here Saturday. We want them to see the campus, the buildings, and the students, in addition
to attending the football game.”

Following registration, the guests will be served a box lunch in the College Union Ballroom, and will attend...

Student Council

(Continued From Page One)

voiced agreement. Bill Whitesell, this year’s Freshman Advisor, expressed the opinion that the Court was perhaps not a good idea,
since it attempted to press the boys into a mold. Tommy Price pointed out that he did not believe that
the right boys were always helped and Charlie Benson added that other schools did without the system. Gee suggested that
the period of the Court be shortened to one month and that it begin at the very first of the
Freshman year. President Green commended Gee for the job that he had done this year. He pointed out that this
year’s Council could...Engage a group for a special concert” as the Kingston Trio performance last year. “We are definitely planning
a Spring concert of some sort.”

KANNAPOLIS’ LEADING THEATRES

GEM
Today and Saturday
“THE WONDERFUL COUNTRY”
Sat. Nite. 8:40-10:35
Mon., Tues., & Wed.
“CRY TOUGH”
Starts Thursday
“HOUND DOG MAN” in Technicolor
ROBERT MITCHUM
JULIE LONDON
JOHN SAXON
In Color
FABIAN
CAROL LYNLEY

Terrace from 1 {boxes will be $1.25, and cokes and coffee will be furnished by the college. In event of
rain, the picnic will be moved to Johnston Gymnasium in the afternoon. The guests will attend the Davidson-William and Mary
football game. In addition to these guests, about 100 key representatives of the Charlotte City Council; the Mecklenburg Merchants Association
will be guests of President and Mrs. Martin. Open House will be held in their home at 11:00, after which
the group, escorted by ROTC cadets, will be given a tour of the campus. They will be served a luncheon
at 12:15 and the football game in the afternoon.

SWANEE
Today and Saturday
“BATTLE FLAME”
Also “SURRENDER HELL”
Sat. Late Show
Mon., Tues., & Wed.
“THE WORLD, THE FLESH, AND THE DEVIL”
Thurs., Fri., & Sat
“THE WILD AND THE INNOCENT”
“THE HAUNTED STRANGLER”
Also
HARRY BELAFONTE
AUDIE MURPHY

FRIDAY — TUESDAY
November 6-10
“ANATOMY OF A MURDER”
November 11-13
WEDNESDAY—FRIDAY
“A WOMAN LIKE SATAN”
JAMES STEWART
LEE REMICK
BRIGITTE BARDOT

appointed to consider such recommendations.

WASH and WEAR GOLF JACKET by LONDON FOG
It’s all the jacket you need! Water and wind repellent... wrinkle resistant. Tailored of Calibre Cloth, an exclusive super blend
of Dacron and fine combed cotton. Unconditionally washable... drip-dries ready to go. With convertible English collar that buttons up for
rough weather. Color: Sizes: Rush Wilson Ltd.

Los Angeles County Museum; and he is an official of the West Coast Institute of Modern Art. He is also
the patron of several outstanding contemporary artists.

$64,000 CHALLENGE
Mr. Price was unveiled as a connoisseur and collector of fine art when he appeared on the former television quiz-show,
$64,000 Challenge.” On this program he met successfully all comers who pitted their knowledge against his.

Ed Armfield, Editor of the DAVIDSONIAN, said, “I am sure that the opportunity for the exchange of ideas afforded by
the Convention in the past will be as challenging this year.” “The experience of our annual Convention is always beneficial
to our staff members. Ideas and innovations picked up from others are always instrumental in presenting up-to-date journalism and maintaining
our high national rating.”

In Charlotte, Davidsonians meet at the Famous Open Kitchen for a... the famous OPEN KITCHEN at 1318 W. Morehead

They kept warning me this would happen if I didn’t think of some super way to describe that absolutely unique
good taste of Coca-Cola. So who's a Shakespeare? So no ad... that’s bad! But, there’s always Coke... and that’s good!

Charlotte, N. C.

SIGN OF GOOD TASTE
Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company by THE COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF CONCORD

Several students were very much opposed to the double cut policy before and after holidays. Several students included statements explaining
their views. One explained: “I feel that a college student of sufficient calibre to enter this school is mature enough
to regulate his cuts according to necessity. It has always been difficult for me to function under a rigid system
of restrictions. If a student cannot regulate his cuts so as to retain his scholarship, he should not be a
student of Davidson College.”

FACULTY POLL
There were 39 replies to the faculty poll. Of these nine favored the present system; nine favored a stricter policy;
and 21 were in favor of a more liberal policy. Fifteen of the professors who favored a more liberal policy
felt that some sort of unlimited cut system would be desirable. The remaining six professors thought that more cuts should
be granted to students, the number of cuts being determined by grades. One professor who favored a stricter policy stated,
“Students show poor stewardship of cuts.” Another professor, who felt that the present system is adequate, wrote, “I have worked
under a liberal cut system. It is not satisfactory.”

The statement “Experience is the best teacher" is (A) the faculty's confession of failure; (B) a dogmatic way of saying
you can learn by doing; (C) an excuse for trying anything once.

If someone called you a beatnik, would you (A) insult him right back? (B) ask him if he knows what
a beatnik is? (C) thank him for the compliment?

If you saw a dinosaur roaring around the campus, would you say, (A) “Who is he?” or (B) “Is the
movie playing?” or (C) “This place is sure out of date!”

Do you base your choice of a cigarette mostly on (A) what your friends say they like? (B) what your
own judgment tells you is best? (C) what the makers say about their product?

It’s a wise smoker who depends on his own judgment, not opinions of others, in his choice of cigarettes. That
is why men and women who think for themselves usually smoke Viceroy. They know only Viceroy has a thinking man’s
filter and a smoking man’s taste.

Endowment Fund Sets Higher Goal In 1959
“While contributions such as the Dana gift help build the College, the Living Endowment Fund runs it,” said Mr. Robert
J. Sailstad, Assistant to the President. The Living Endowment Fund is a program by which alumni, parents, and friends give
annual monetary gifts to the College to insure continued operation. Slightly over one thousand alumni have given $48,639 to the
1959 Fund. This, in conjunction with the $33,866 presently received from non-alumni parents, friends, corporations, and foundations brings the total
on hand to $92,495, short of the $175,000 goal set for this year.

SALARIES RAISED
College faculty salaries and student-aid budgets have been raised for this year with the hope that this goal of $175,000
will be reached. “Last year,” as stated by Robert M. Vance, Chairman of Regional Solicitation, “about 3 out of 10
Davidson men gave. This year, we are hoping to make it 5 out of 10!” Last year only 29.9 per
cent of college alumni contributed. This year over 7,000 alumni have not yet given. All gifts for the 1959 Fund
must be received and pledges paid by December. A Century Club honors a donor’s gift of $100 or more, and
an Underwriter Club recognizes a donor of $200 or more.

LETTER TO PARENTS
In a letter to parents from President Martin a statement reads, “If past and present contributors had not generously provided
funds for buildings, endowment, salaries and student aid, every student at Davidson would be required to pay about $900 every
year in additional fees. Last year, gifts from parents totaled almost $20,000 and were a key factor in keeping the
college budget in the black.”

“In increasing student aid funds from $119,000 in 1956-57 to $186,000 for this year,” the letter continues, “and in voting
a five per cent salary increase for our faculty and staff, it was our belief that our total ‘Living Endowment’
gift fund for current operating purposes could be boosted from $158,000 in 1958 to at least $175,000 in 1959.”

HI-Fi COMPONENTS AT WHOLESALE NET PRICES
Across From Ivey’s 5th St. Entrance
126 West Fifth St.
Phone ED 4-0936

Do You Think for Yourself? (TEST YOUR WITS ON THESE QUESTIONS*)
If you checked these questions, you're a high-test character — you think for yourself!
