FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 1959 PAGE THREE

‘Cats Meet Catawba In Grid Opener
Davidson Gridders Out To Avenge ’58 Loss

SIDELINES ON SPORTS
By B. MILLNER

THE CATAWBA GAME tomorrow night is not just another opener with a pushover North State Conference humpdy dumpty. The Indians
are a good, sound ball club—not as good as V.M.I., Richmond, Lehigh, or the Citadel—but good, just the same. Furthermore,
this game assumes an importance that can be associated with no other contest on the schedule. If the Cats have
the desire and talent to get by Catawba, they’re on their way. If they don’t, we might as well throw
in the towel.

The coaching staff seems to have done a fine job in bringing the Davidson team along for this game. Injuries
are at a minimum in spite of two-a-day contact workouts since Sept. 1. Perhaps most important, the players aren’t selling
Catawba short; they have a good mental attitude according to Coach Dole. The abstinence on the players’ part of Rush
Week indulgences on sleep and rest should prove valuable. They were bleary-eyed before last year’s game and “disintegrated” in the
fourth quarter. This is a big one for the ‘Cats. We'll just have to wait—and hope.

* * * * *

Dole, who was openly enthusiastic about his much-publicized “pro-type” offense at this time last year, is close-mouthed about tomorrow night’s
game, which will be played at 8 p.m. in Charlotte's Memorial Stadium. “We're further ahead now than we were at
this time last year,” he admitted, and guardedly said that the Wildcat defense would be better this season. “We've been
working for balance in practice. I just hope the sophomores come through.” If the sophomores come through, the Davidson gridiron
future will look considerably brighter.

DICK McKEE was probably the most widely-liked member of the Davidson College faculty and administration. The little man, whose face
is a patch of wrinkles just from grinning, has headed for greener pastures and we’ll miss him. When McKee accepted
the Furman offer to teach tennis and head the sports publicity department, Davidson lost its most successful coach. His teams
here were consistently at the top of Southern Conference standings. His reputation as a teacher is known all along the
Atlantic Coast. McKee will have some scholarship aid at Furman. He will also serve as teaching pro at the Greenville
Country Club. We’re sorry he left, but we can’t really blame him. A prediction: Furman will take home the Southern
Conference Tennis Championship within four years.

COACH CHARLIE PARKER spent eight weeks at Camp Lejeune this summer training a 16-man All-Marine wrestling team. In late July
he took his boys up to Michigan State for the Pan American Games tryouts. Eight of his pupils made the
American team. Parker is a member of the Olympic Wrestling Committee. Also at the gigantic Pan-Am show in Chicago were
Dr. Tom Scott and Coach Joe Hunt, who went up to watch the basketball championships.

* * * * *

SEVERAL IMPROVEMENTS have been made on the athletic facilities here. Additional dressing quarters have been added under the west stadium
seats and a watering system has been installed in the centerfield area of the baseball field.

* * *

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT WILKINSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE

WHILE ENJOYING three freshmen and several of them play 10 or 12 quarters.” With inexperience the byword at guard and
halfback, what is the outlook for '59? Will the ‘Cats crumble if injuries should shift the load from the capable
shoulders of seniors Charlie Benson and Dave Warden? Will this be Bill Dole's first losing season in six years or
will it be his best? Only time can answer these questions but a look at the opposition might at least
provide a basis for some educated guessing.

PRESBYTERIAN—at Davidson. The Blue Hose have talent and depth at quarterback, a superior halfback in Bobby Pate, but are otherwise
inexperienced in the backfield. The line will be tough on the inside, green at tackle and end. Coach Frank James
has 16 lettermen returning to bolster his wing-T offense.

THE CITADEL—at Charleston. Lost 11 lettermen, including Dick Guererri, Joe Chefalo and Dick Cleveland, all top stars. Offense will be
led by slick Jerry Nettles at quarterback, bulldozing fullback Barry Thomas and end Tom Hemingway. The Bulldogs could be the
surprise team in the conference, should certainly better last year’s disappointing record.

W&M—at Davidson. The Indians are rebuilding and face a murderous schedule. They list experienced lettermen at each first team position
but lack depth. Halfbacks Roger Hale and Jim Porach spearhead a very fast backfield. Hale averaged 12 yards a carry
for the freshman team. Fred Caravetta, a 6'5", 230-pound tackle, anchors one of the biggest lines in the conference. Frank
Gagliano returns at quarterback to make the Spids potent offensively.

V.M.I.—at Lexington. Coach John McKenna lost 18 fine lettermen but still has the best back in the Southern Conference in
fullback Sam Horner. The Keydets will be green and shallow in places but will still be the fastest team in
the loop and one of the toughest.

FURMAN—at Greenville. Loss of Tom Avery and All-conference Ray Siminski at ends may make Billy Baker's potent passing arm a
little less effective. Furman, hurt by graduation and the freshman eligibility rule, may not be as good this year.

WOFFORD—at Davidson. The Terriers are plagued by the thinnest line in seven years, the lone bright spot being guard Ron
DiBuono.

Cake Race Set For Monday

Coach Heath Whittle announced last week that the traditional Freshman Cake Race will be run Monday afternoon at 4 p.m.
All freshmen, with the exception of football players and those excused for medical reasons, will be required to participate. The
race will be run over a portion of the cross-country course.Afternoon Benson is backed up by Tee Redding, a wiry,
pinpoint passer. Senior Dave McCullough teams with Sheffield at halfback and may see some action behind Warden at fullback. Catawba
may have trouble getting used to Coach Pres Mull's new style of play. Mull replaces Clyde Biggers, who was strictly
a split-T man. Returning for the Tribe are the two players who engineered last year’s stunning upset. Elusive Sam Morrow
turned the ‘Cat ends with astonishing ease while bullish fullback Ray Oxendine made plunging forays up the middle. Pres Mull
is likely to start a letterman at every position but the sub units are filled with green personnel. The starting
line is likely to be fast and tough. The backfield, staffed by Jean Worthington and Morrow at half, Oxendine at
full, and veterans Ron Ball and Paul Folmer alternating at the helm, is no pushover.

WILDCAT CAPTAINS—Alternate captain Charlie Benson hands off to fullback Dave Warden, who is team captain. Both are top candidates for
All-Southern Conference laurels. (Davidsonian Photo by Rose)

Dole plans to run a standard “T” against Catawba’s tough play, pretty much the same style of ball that they
stuck to late in '58.

Probable Starting Line-ups:
CATAWBA
DAVIDSON
LE — Bloomfield
RE — House
LT — Anderson
RT — Mucke
LG — Blaine
RG — Porter
C — Bynum
QB — Benson
FB — Warden
LH — Sheffield
RH — Worthington

Twelve Soccer Veterans Return
By BOB GREEN
Davidsonian Sports Writer

The Wildcat soccer squad rolled into action Tuesday with twelve lettermen and five new foreign students highlighting the opening practice.
Thirty players, led by co-captains Tom Johnson and Ward McKeithen, turned out for rugged practice sessions this week. Wingmen Tom
Price, Tom Bruns, Dave Irvin, and Mike McLaughlin lettered last season. Newt Quantz returns to the line while Henry Pharr,
Lint Hopkins, John Keiter, Joe Delaney, and Dick Dalton will give the backfield experience and depth. Claude Finney, ranked third
in the Southeast, is expected to defend the Wildcat goal with his outstanding ability again this season.

No Replacement For McKee Found; Shoe In Swim Post

A successor for Dick McKee, who resigned his position as tennis coach and publicity director, has not been secured. Dr.
Tom Scott acknowledged this summer. Clark, who replaced George Tucker as assistant football coach and head swimming coach, resigned in
the mid-summer to accept the Furman post soon after. Dwight Shoe comes to Davidson from Wingate Junior College, where he
was head football coach. He also coached at Myers Park High School. A graduate of East Carolina College, he is
a native of Salisbury. He is married to the former Anne Osborne of Salisbury and has three children.

NINE Lost

Nine of last year's top players graduated or returned to their homelands. Pete Andrews, Gordon Neville, Sam Clark, Sam Smith,
and John Cane, along with foreign students Barenthin, Bergsma, Laimer, and Schoening took many years of soccer-playing experience with them.
Promising sophomores for the coming season are David Dakin, Joe Kelley, George Kundahl, and Richard Morgan. Five foreign students, four
linemen and a backfield man, are out for practice. The linemen include Acuna of Argentina, Hughes and Reid of England,
and Balgaad of Sweden. Granell of Finland will play in the backfield.

PROSPECTS

Commenting on the prospects for the coming season, Tom Johnson said, “We are expecting great things this year with five
new foreign players, several promising sophomores, and many returning lettermen.” “Everyone is very enthusiastic and there's a lot of spirit
and hustle on the field. We are opening against North Carolina in about two weeks and we hope to give
them a good game,” commented Ward McKeithen. The ‘Cats travel to Chapel Hill October 2 for the season opener which
will probably be their toughest competition of the year.

Whittle's Best? Harriers Boast Talented Squad
By BILL GODWIN
Davidsonian Sports Writer

The sky’s the limit as far as Davidson's Cross-Country squad is concerned this fall. Coach Heath Whittle’s four returning lettermen
— co-captains Bill Eckbert and Larry McNeill, Bob Thompson, and Al Elder — will be strongly backed (or challenged) by
a foursome of last year's amazing freshmen runners. Leading the sophomore crop are David Gilmour and Mack Brownlee. Only Brownlee
could defeat Gilmour in meet action last fall as the latter was unbeaten in regular play, 7-0. Gilmour, who ran
the 1.7-mile trek in 9:34.8 minutes, went on to become freshman State champion.

The 1.7-mile trek will be run on the Davidson cross-country course. It starts on the soccer field, where all freshmen
are expected to report, continues across a footbridge on the trail to Erwin Lodge, meets a long, uphill paved road
which finally joins the Concord highway. The course runs on past the old fraternity court, cuts back toward the College
Union. Those still on their feet will battle it out down the homestretch on the Richardson Field cinder track, where
some fifty cakes will be on hand as prizes for the leaders.

WELCOME BACK TO DAVIDSON THIS FALL

WE HAVE THE FINEST SELECTIONS OF

COME IN AND LET US HELP YOU WITH THE SELECTION OF YOUR FALL WARDROBE

Rush Wilson Ltd.

Court of Control Judge Milton Gee said that they should wear their beanies to gym but leave them in the
lockers there. He emphasized that the freshmen will be required to wear identification cards pinned to their T-shirts. Runners winning
the top 10 places in the Cake Race usually become prime prospects for Coach Whittle’s cross-country squad.

Coach Whittle, reviewing the first days of practice, singled out Eckbert as looking “pretty good” but said all his players
were close together in the runnings. “They'll all have to scrap,” he added and declined to group his top players.
Other squad members are Bill Coffey and Larry Kinney, sophomores, and Tom Martin, Charlie Bridges, Fred Fleagle, and John Lund.

Season’s opener is Friday, Oct. 2, away, against a slow Pembroke squad. Home meets will pit the Wildcats with Wake
Forest, V.M.I., and Catawba, in triangular affairs. Davidson will play host to V.P.I., Furman, High Point, and Richmond.
