PAGE FOUR

Dam Work Started At Cowan’s Ford Site

BY DON STOWELL

Governor Luther B. Hodges setting off a dynamite blast on the east bank of the Catawba River Monday afternoon marked the beginning of a new era in the history of the Catawba River valley. Not a stone’s throw from where the Governor stood is the spot where on February 1, 1781, Colonel William Lee Davidson was killed. His heart was pierced by a small rifle ball fired by British forces in the battle for Cowan’s Ford. Lord Cornwallis was not stopped, but our thirty militiamen delayed his advance long enough to let General Daniel Morgan get away to the Yadkin.

When completed, the dam will cover the identical place where Colonel Davidson died. Log cabins and block houses were the only type buildings in the area at that time, but by the mid-1880’s, many of the biggest and most wealthy cotton plantations in the country were to be found in the Catawba valley. About a dozen plantation mansions and over a hundred farm houses dotted the region. Besides the land owners, overseers, house-keepers and from 4 to 5 hundred slaves lived in the valley. Many of the landowners were trustees of Davidson College and their sons attended either Davidson or the University of North Carolina. Their daughters studied at Salem College in Winston-Salem.

After the Civil War and the decline of agriculture the area took a severe economic setback. Most of the old plantation homes have since been torn down, burned or have fallen down. Elmwood Plantation, now the old Graham house and one of the few homes still standing, is believed to be the only one to be inundated by the lake water.

A Duke Power Company representative stated that the number of people to be moved out of the lake area would be “negligible,” because the company has owned most of the land for thirty years. Since the Cowan's Ford plant is the first the company has built in some years, the number of workers to be employed at the site is as yet unknown. However, a “construction village,” consisting of trailers and pre-fabricated houses is being planned. A mess hall is already at the construction area.

In his address Governor Hodges called the development “a great event in the life and economy of this vast Piedmont region...” and stated that as he understood, “with the completion of the Cowan's Ford project the Catawba will ... be delivering its maximum hydro-electric potential.” Six to ten access areas to Lake Norman are being contemplated for water sportsmen. With its 33,000 acres of surface area, extending into Mecklenburg, Lincoln, Catawba and Iredell Counties, the lake will provide ideal conditions for boating, fishing and other water sports. This development will, in the words of Governor Hodges, “contribute to the building of a better Piedmont, a better North Carolina and a better way of life for all our people.”

THE DAVIDSONIAN on FRIDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1959

The field is deserted by coaches and players, the game over; littered bleachers stand in the shadows. Remaining: a lone workman, a broom, a pile of refuse. Rose Px.

Sigma Delta Psi
Eumenean Literary Society Mon.*
Philanthropic Literary Society Tues.**
Sigma Pi Sigma
International Relations Club (3rd only)
“D” Club (1st only)
YMCA Cabinet
Camera Club
Intramural Athletic Council
1959-1960 Honorary Fraternity Council Schedule
Freshman Council (Continued From Page One)

Joe mentioned several issues as being “crucial” last year: the Court of Control, vesper overcrowding, and others. Many were perennial topics of campus debate: compulsory religion, lack of participation, the Honor Code, and so forth. In closing Mr. Smith reminded the men of their influence on the freshman halls, as they were elected in the hall meetings. He urged them to use this influence for the best interests of both their class and the College.

Reference Book Sale Announced

The library has announced that it plans to sell two sets of encyclopedias, each one to the highest bidder. For sale are one thirty-volume set of the 1950 printing of the Americana Encyclopedia and one twenty-four volume set of the fourteenth edition of the Encyclopedia Britannica. Interested students may leave their name and offer with Mrs. Davis, circulation librarian, by October 5. It has also announced that several items still remain unclaimed.

Dr. Cumming Reveals (Continued From Page One)

Gutenberg Bible. The 5 3/2 inch high volume was just a dot on the surface of another of the professor's valued treasures, a set of the original 18th century engravings of Hogarth: “Hogarth’s Works” which are bound into an elephant folio volume. Professor Cumming began telling of his Sabbatical year’s leave and the Guggenheim fellowship awarded him. The trip was concerned with a search for documents, chiefly maps, concerning early explorations along the east coast of North America. An expert author on the subject of maps, Professor Cumming told of his approach to the problem of finding new material for study. “Many post-Columbus sailors sailed along the east coast, I just attempted to revere...The direction of discovery, crossing the Atlantic to explore European archives for “buried” documents about these early voyages of discovery.” Professor Cumming said that the British Museum, the Library of Congress, the University of California, and other libraries have asked for copies of photographs of maps found during the study.

Responsibilities of the Freshman Council include planning the Freshman Parents’ Day, conferring on the Freshman-Sophomore Day, and designing a class flag. The Council will soon be underway with these projects said Bill Whitesell.

Owners may reclaim them by identifying them and paying the cleaning bill on them. The items of clothing include one blue zip-up jacket, two sweaters, three coats, and one overcoat.

The Math Seminar 9:15
Omicron Delta Kappa
Business and Economics Association (2nd only) 7:30
Seabbard and Blade
Sigma Delta Pi (2nd only)
YMCA Cabinet
Le Cercle Francais (2nd only)
Deutscher Verein
Student Council 7:15
Beaver Club (2nd only)
Social Fraternities
Gamma Sigma Epsilon
Red and Black M. 8:15
Eta Sigma Phi
Red and Black Masquers
Union Board (4th only)
Sigma Upsilon
3rd Tuesday 6-8 P.M.
Student-Faculty Conference Committee
IFC 10 P.M. on Mondays

Dr. Minter Pilots (Divinity Professor) Conducts Vespers

Dr. Winfred P. Minter, professor of Political Science, is currently conducting an “action course in practical politics” for citizens of the Charlotte area interested in a better understanding of the mechanics of the democratic process as they operate on the levels of state and local politics. Sponsored by the Charlotte Chamber of Commerce, the nine-week course will include a two-hour workshop each week during which Dr. Minter will present non-partisan discussions distinctly associated with civic and state units.

The series will include such discussion topics as “the role of the individual in politics,” “the organization of political parties,” “the precinct,” “the campaign,” “political clubs,” “problems of a political leader,” and “the significance of the political meeting.” According to Dr. Minter, the course is non-partisan and is not concerned with political issues. “It is an attempt,” he says, “to afford an opportunity for interested citizens to better understand the processes and mechanics of democratic government at the local and state levels.”

The speaker for Upperclassman Vespers on Oct. 4 will be the Rev. Dr. John Oliver Nelson, Professor of Christian Vocation at Yale University Divinity School. The speakers for Freshman Vespers, which will be conducted in Chambers Auditorium, will be David Robinson and Joe Verreault. This is the last Sunday that Freshman Vespers will be held separately. Communion service will be held in Lingle Chapel Sunday night at 8:45 in observance of World Wide Communion Day. Students may sign attendance cards either at regular Vespers or at this Communion service.

Dr. Nelson graduated magna cum laude from Princeton, and he has earned his B.D., Ph.D., and Litt. D. degrees from the University of Edinburgh, Yale, and Westminster College, respectively.

Professor Cumming’s work with maps has been distinctly associated with civic and state units. Even on his recent trip, he was in search for ancient maps wanted by the United States Government. With his wife and their foreign sports car, the couple explored Medieval and Renaissance castles throughout Europe. Among the most interesting libraries which were examined were the August Herzog Bibliothek, Wolfenbuttel; the abbey-castle of Hoxter-Corvey; Prince Wolfegg zu Waldsee’s library in Wolfegg Castle, Swabia; the Correr Museum, Venice; the Vatican Library, Rome; the Palazzo Castiglione, Mantua; the Museo Naval, Madrid; and the Bibliotheque Nationale, Paris.

Professor Cumming found one map collection which contained the oldest remaining map of explorations in the New World. The map has been valued at half a million dollars and is very much wanted by this country. The trip is ended officially for the professor, but he will probably retrace it many times from the easy chair in his office. At present, he is writing an article for a European journal about an early explorer’s map which he found in Spain. The map throws new light on French explorations and settlements in the sixteenth century.

ATTEND THE CENTER AT CONCORD NOW SHOWING
"Hole In The Head" With FRANK SINATRA
STARTING SUNDAY
"Day Of The Outlaw" With ROBERT RYAN

When asked how an English professor who teaches Nineteenth-Century Prose, the English and European Novel ever found time for cartography, he said, “Much of the material I collect and places visited apply very closely to the courses that I teach. What really is funny to me is to think that my hours be held separately.”

ANNAPOLIS’ LEADING THEATRES
TODAY & SATURDAY
MON., TUES., & WED.
"The Blue Angel" With MAY BRITT
THURS., FRI., & SAT
"Girls Town" With MAMIE VAN DOREN
SWANEE SAT. LATE SHOW
MON. — THURS.
"That Kind Of Woman" SOPHIA LOREN TAB HUNTER

Student Tickets May Be Purchased By Presenting I.D. Cards.

MEET YOUR FRIENDS AT THE GONDOLA RESTAURANT
W. INDEPENDENCE AT W. INSON BLVD. CHARLOTTE
WHILE ENJOYING THE BEST PIZZA and SPAGHETTI

The best tobacco makes the best smoke! R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., Winston-Salem, N. C.
Have a real cigarette - have a CAMEL

LEW BURDETTE MILWAUKEE BRAVES PITCHER